
Tuesday, October1, 2002 
Cabinet
THE looks at laptop plan 

page 3 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 25 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Exhibit traces ND Latino history 
By JUSTJN KRJVlCKAS Assi5cam News Ed.1ror 
i\n 1'xhibit titled '"Tim Latino Stud<~nt at Notre llarne: l·rorn Early History to thP Modern Expcricnce, 1864-200 l" is now 011 display in tlw Galerf;i America at the lnstitut<' f'or Latino Studies in l\frKPnna llall. It rcaturns oral ilistoriPs from graduat<is from 11)12 to 2001, photographs, artifa<'.IS and inwrartivn dis­plays pntaining to Hispanic rulllirP at NotrP Danrn. 
In 18(>4. !\l('xandro PPr<'a lrncanw tlw l'irst Latinc, stu­dPnt to attend '.\iotrn Dame, and h<' began the lngacy of thr Latino heritage at the University. Arlifacts in the Pxhibit includP Fath<'r John Zahm's diary t'rom his 1882 l!ispanir rer.ruitment trip, a 1906 y1~arbook that fraturcs tlw Lalin Club of Mexico and itPms about tlw La Haza Club which was founded in 1928. 
Senior Crystal '\1artinez said. "The fact that this exhibit <'xists is a truP testa­ment to how far Latinos have rnnw.... If it was not for the hardships they endured in the past. I don't think many of us would be hert~ today." 
Today, tlwre are 155 Latino frnshrnen enrolled in the Univnrsity. 
From Early History to the Modern Experience, 1864--2001" in the Institute for Latino Studies. 
Tlw t>xhibit was researched by archivist Tracy Grimm. a letter to Hispanic alumni alumni. Second, by gathering Thirty-eight alumni partici­Galerfa Amfaica has a chang­regarding the exhibit and oral histories from graduates, pated in the oral history pro­ing exhibit for every season requesting they lend objects we're contributing to the gram for the exhibit. Video but will house "The Latim} that are significant to the University's historical record interviews with alumni were Student at :'lotre Dame" Latino heritage at Notre in a unique way. Third, we taken and then edited into a 
recording that plays on a
through Jan. 13 because it is Dame to the exhibit. hope the exhibit will educate computer screen at either end
an extensive project by the Carmen Macharaschwili, the Notre Dame community ­
of the exhibit.
Institute for Latino Studies program and public relations and particularly non-Latinos ­
Prominent Notre Dame
that took a year to compile. coordinator for the Institute about the presence and con­To obtain all of the items in said, "First, we want to honor tributions of Latinos to the the exhibit. the Institute sent and recognize our Hispanic University over the years." see EXHIBIT/page 4 

Saint Mary's celebrates Pride Week 
Jablonski-Diehl, student ries about Saint Mary's," homesickness during this 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN body vice president. said Dorbish. "This year we week because they see how 
N:ews Writer 
The week will consist of are having ghost tours well Saint Mar/s women favorite where get along and realize that 
Th<' Saint Mary's commu­activi­groups they are in a close-knit nity gathered on the t i e s "I think it will be great of peo­environment at Saint Library Green Monday for fr o m for [the council] to see ple will Mary's," Dorbish said. 
an all-campus picnic to kirk years be taken The College also hosts the
their daughters celebrat­

off Pridn Week. which will past and tu vari­Parents Council. an organi­foaturn fostivitins celebrat­w i I I ing a place that they hold o lI S zation designed to create a ing the unity and spirit of include spots on link between the parents
dear to their hearts." 

the Collcgf'. o I d the cam­and students. on campus 
Pricl(i Week is planned activi­pus and during Pride Week. undr~r the direction of ties with Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl then told "l think it will be great for Adrienne Dorbish. presi­a n Saint Mary's t h c [the council] to see their dent of the Student updated ghost daughters celebrating a
student body vice president

Activities Board. The hoard spin. s t o r y place that they hold dear to plans the events in conjunc­Ghost about their hearts," Jablonski­tion with many student Stories, one of the most that particular place." Diehl said. leaders to allow for a popular events in years past Through events such as Pride Week Vlill conclude diverse array of activities to will be returning this year the ghost stories, student with a co-sponsored pep unitu the rommnnity. with a revised structure. leaders hope Pride Week rally Friday at 6 p.m. at 
"SAB has done an amaz­"We normally have ghost will engage the freshmen in Notre Dame. ing job cuordinating activi­stories where the student the Col!Age community. ties for this ypar's celebra­body gets together and "1 have seen a lot of Contact Shannon Nelligan tion." sai~I Elizabeth shares their own ghost sto-freshmen get over their at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Ne-w SYR gets ntlxed 
•

rev1e-ws 
. Rectors notice less alcohol-related incidents at dances 
By MIKE CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council on Monday discussed task force developments and reflected on last weekend's hall dances. 
Council members shared experiences regarding last weekend's residence hall dances. On Friday and Saturday nights, 13 dances were held involving 17 men's and women's residence halls. 
Many council members agreed that an unusually small percentage of first-year students attended the dances. Some noticed less excitement among freshmen about the dances, possibly as a result of this f'all 's alcohol policy changes. 
"When I was a freshman, dances created a sense of excitement, everyone knew that the dances were cool," said Stephen Christ, Student Union Board manager. "Now that doesn't seem to be the case." 
Comments on the atmos­phere at the dances were gen­erally positive. The no-leaving rule seemed to foster an envi­ronment conducive to dancing and fun, CLC members said. 
"I thought it felt great," said Brother Jerome Meyer, Knott 
see DANCE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, October 1, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Follow Peg 
Two years ago I arrived in the Dublin 
airportjetlagged and confused. Twenty­
six other students and I wandered 
aroru1d the busy airport, collecting lug­
gage and trying to regroup as we 
searched for 

Ireland Program Nellie Williams 
Director Peggy 
McCarthy. 

Although we had Photo Editor 
heard stories about 
Peggy, who has 
been the director of 

the program for the past 25 years from 
past lreland students, nothing would 
have prepared us for our experience 
with her that year. 

Loaded down with purses and bags filled with books and dressed for cold, rainy weather, 27 students followed Peggy from the airport to the bus that would take us to our new homes. Although she briskly walked in front of us, we could hear her low chuckles of laughter as she wannly greeted the Saint Mary's direct.or who had brought us over. 
The bus drove us out ofDublin, past tl1e small villages of Celbridge and Lex.lip and into Maynooth where we stopped in front of an apartment cluster. 
"OK everybody-meet the bus back here at 8 a.rn. tomorrow morning for a shopping trip in Dublin," Peggy said as our cue to exit the bus. 
Everyone was silent. What? We were to get off the bus alone? What were we supposed to do? Where were we sup­posed to go? Twenty-seven ofus exited the bus slowly and silently into the damp Irish morning mist and looked around. Peggy waved as the bus pulled away. 
Needless to say, we quickly settled into our apartments and found our way to the pubs. 
For the next eight months, we followed our energetic, strawberry-blond, Irish leader around the lreland countryside on "Peg trips." These trips always promised a crazy adventure. We never knew what to expect as Peggy would tromp around in castles, climb over stone fences, and tell us stories that we never knew whether to believe. On tllese long bus adventures, we would doze off, passing the rolling green countryside and grazing cows, as rain pelted down on our windows. We would dread the sound everyone knew was coming ... 
"Aheem .. .Is this on? In 1836 .... ," Peggy would begin on ilie bus micro­phone as we entered another village. I actually learned a lot as my dreams melted into Peggy's history of Ireland. On my trips around Ireland wiiliout the group, I missed Peggy's stories. She cre­ated Ireland for us in a unique way that we would never have read about in a book. 
Today, I am picking Peggy up from the South Bend airport. Although I am the one who is picking her up this time, I have a feeling I will still be following her out of the airport. She leads and it only feels natural to follow her. Who knows where we will end up? 
It is a rare and special occasion when we have Peggy back on Saint Mary's campus. 
Ifyou see an lrish lady, loaded down with bags, wearing dark glasses and red hair flying in the wind this week on cam­pus, follow her. Chances are you'll get the experience ofa lifetime and maybe 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nellie Williams at wiU6 I76@saintmarys.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please aimacc us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
ND students discuss moral ethics at conference 
Two Notre Dame students presented papers focusing on practical applica­tions of life ethics. 
page6 
WORLD& NATION 
Weapons Inspectors demand free access in iraq 
U.N. officials begin talks with the Iraqis Monday to discuss the return of inspectors to the country. 
page 5 

BUSINESS NEWS 
New York sues five Telecom executives for fraud 
The N.Y. attor­ney general's office alleged executives took millions in profits from IPOs without disclosing conflicts on interest 
page 7 
Institute 

12:30 p.m. llcsburgh Center Hoom C-1O3 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 

. 
Mathematics Department Open Ilouse 5-7:30 p.m. Dining llall North Wedge Boom 

. 
Minority and Women Business Development Council 6:30-8:30 p.m. Madeleva llall Boom 247 

. 
Senior Board Meeting 9-10 p.m. Haggar College Center Hoom 304 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Four-grain soup, Texas Chili, pepperoni french bread pizza, corned beef, cabbage, peas, carrots, apple crisp, chicken macadamia, cheese strata, Italian risotto, steamed spinach, grits, scrambled eggs, sausage patties, cinnamon bread french toast. potato triangles, taco sticks 
Today's Dinner: Texas chili, four-grain soup, penne with gorgonzola, pepperoni french bread pizza, southern-fried chicken, collard greens with ham hocks, corn, apple crisp, quiche lorraine, beef chop suey, rotini with spring vegeta­bles, baked herbed zucchini, baked sweet potato 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDA 
0:: 
La.I 
::c 
!ii 
La.I 
~ 
..I 
<
(.) 


...I 0 HIGH 83 HIGH 78 HIGH 75 LOW 64 LOW 59 LOW 57 

SCENE SPORTS 
Ryan Adams' Womens Demolition soccer loses rates five two Big East stars games 
Adams' new The women's album provides !is-soccer team loses in teners with innova-close games on the tive lyrics and a road against sense of humor. Villanova and 
Georgetown. 
page 12 page 28 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Bike stolen outside of 
Bond Hall 

A student reported that his unlocked bike was taken from outside Bond Hall on Thursday between 1-3 p.m. The case is ponding and there are no suspects. 
Alcohol arrest made 
near Post Office 

A visitor to campus was arrested by NDSP early Friday morning near the Post Office for public intoxi­cation. 
Complied from NDSP crime blotter 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Campus Bible Study 
7-8 p.m. 114 Coleman Morse Center 
VIEWPOINT 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's fail to teach faith 
A Saint Mary's graduate says the campus communi­ty lack adequate opportunities to grow in Catholic faith. 
page 10 

. 
Lecture with Hubert Seiple. former U.N. ambassador for 

rnligious freedom 3 p.m. at Ilcsburgh Center Auditorium 

. 
Lecture with Shannon Speed, visiting fellow at the Kellogg 


South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Basil-pepper-tomato mostaccioli, three­pepper linguine, three-pepper sauce, four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, herbed noodles, sugar-snap peas, lemon­lime chicken breast, haddock with herbs, roast turkey breast, curried vegetable rice pilaf, stuffed cheddar pota­toes, sloppy joes 
Today's Dinner: Four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, peas, pearl onions, vegetable rice casserole, grilled redfish, broccoli-rice casserole, Italian-blend vegetables, chicken­fried steak, rotisserie chicken, couscous with vegetables, apple crisp, French dip sandwich, crinkle fries, soft pretzel 
THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 


Atlanta 80/ 67 Boston 79 / 67 Chicago 84 / 66 Denver 67 I 38 Houston 91 / 70 Los Angeles 69 / 56 Minneapolis 67 / 50 New York 80 / 65 Philadelphia 83 / 64 Phoenix 88 / 67 Seattle 64 / 43 St. Louis 87 / 68 Tamp_a_ §g{7'!~~~~!ngt<?~ §3 I 66 

Tuesday, Ocrober 1, 2002 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

EXECUTIVE CABINET 


Students debate proposed laptop plan 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Wrirer 
UndPr a plan t!w Office of thn Provost is currently con­sic!Pring implPnrnnting. stu­dPnts coulrl hP rc•quired to havP laµtops on <'.ampus. 
At Monday's StuclPnt (;ovt>rll IHPll t '~ l(xpcutive Cabi,rnt mcPting. memb,1rs discussPd thP viability of a plan the Office !'or Information Tec:hnologies is cu1Tcntly considering. 
OTT has been evaluating tlw possibility of crnating a program which would make laptop computers mandatory l'or all studnnts. The comput­crs \VO tlid b11 standardizcd. allowing f'or easier and rhmqwr t('chnical support. 
t\ t th ,, me Pt i n g. m any Cabirwt nwmbcrs raised con­rPrns about the plan. Senior class president Vlatt Smith raisPd qw'stions about the necessity of the plan. "What's the genesis of the problem?" said Smith. 
Pam Ronson. co-chair of' tlrn llall Presid1mts Council, of'fernd a similar sentiment. "When, arc !officials] going with this?" Ronson asked, adding that the µrogram's goals appear to be poorly defined. 
Hough numbers raised at the meeting ostimated the cost of the program to be in excess of $14 million. The plan stipulates that OIT would absorb part of the cost of issuing laptops to every stud1mt and the funds would come from anticipated sav­ings in support costs. 
Cabinet members disliked 
DAME 
COMMUNITY 

Without you, Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer........ . 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition of the Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visi~ our new website today/or information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 


http://www.nd.edu/~prayers/ 
the idea of tuition increases, "It would just be one more which would be necessary in complication," he said. order to cover the rest or"the program's expected cost. In other Cabinet news: 
The specifics of the pro­. SUB will sponsor "The gram also were also points of Tent" before the Stanford speculation. In one version. game this weekend. The OJT would sell the laptops to Tent. which will be set on students while an alternate South Quad, will feature per­plan would establish a lease formances by Notre Dame system. Student body Vice student groups, including President Trip Foley dis­Troop ND, the Bagpipe Band missed the lease plan as and the World Taekwondo unnecessary and trouble­Association. The Tent will be some. open from 10am-lpm. 

. SUB is also conducting a lottery to allow students to purchase tickets to the Florida State game. The lot­tery will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom from 7­10 p.m. on Oct. 3. A trivia contest will be held and the winner will receive two tick­ets to the game as well as an Anthony Travel gift certifi­cate. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


JIJliffHENJGAN 
Music from the British Isles ,, , : 
Friday October 4, 2002 Little Theatre 
7:30 p.m. 
IM8,=1~'J<;,_~ THE ARTS 
~NOTRE DAIIE, IN 
For ticket information call the Saint Mary's Box Office 
574/284-4626 
Candidate to visit cainpus 
Tht Observer Staff R,port 
The Democratic candidate for state clerk of Courts will stop at Notre Dame today during a col• lege tour to persuade students to vote. 
Jon Bond, a 27-year-old Patriot, Ind., native, is running against Republican candidatl: Brian Bishop and Libertarian candidate Lisa Tennies in the Nov. 5 general election. 
Rond, who currently serves as the manager of operations for the Indiana Economic Development Council, wants to increase tlrn number of young voters. The trip comes a week before the last day of voter registration, Oct. 7. 
"We're touring colleges because the largest percentage of voters are 18-year-olds to 25­year-olds and they're not voting," said John Sicbeking, Bond's cam­paign manager. 
Along with Notre Dame, Rund will travel today to Indiana University at Kokomo and Purdue University in West Lafayette. 
"We're trying to get the mes­sage out why it's important to vote," Siebeking said. 
As a state clerk, Bond would tend to the paperwork that pass­es through the state Supreme Court. 
Siebeking said Bernd plans to push for updated technology in the Supreme Court, moving to computers instead of microfilm and photocopies. Bond will also address the issue of minimum wage, he said. 

-----·-·· -·--1 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 1, 2002 
Exhibit 
continued from page I 
leaders such as Presidents rheodore Hcsburgh and Edward Malloy as well as Father Timothy Scully, University executive vice presi­dent, help complement the oral histories portion of the exhibit with videotaped inter­views regarding their involved interests with Latino students. 
On Friday, a reception in honor of the opening of the exhibit was held for Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame and the Latino Leaders Council. Several contributors to the gallery were 
St. Edward's [University] in Austin, Texas." After two years at this school. Gonzalez decid­ed to transfer to Notre Dame and was accepted. At the time, he was one of six flispanic stu­dents on campus. 
To get to South Bend, Gonzalez used an unorthodox methnd and hitr.hhiked over 1,500 miles from Laredo, Texas. to South Bend each spring and fall. 
He recalls a time when he was stranded in Des Moines, Iowa, in the fall of his senior year. With half of the trip still ahead of him, Gonzalez found himself stranded on the out­skirts of Iowa capital. Gonzalez reflected that the hours were 
passing by one 
also present after the other to see how 'The fact thal this and he could 
their memen­exhibit exists is a true not get a ride 
tos helped all day. Holding
testament to how far
complement his "Laredo to the exhibit. Latinos have come." Notre Dame" "In viewing sign, Gonzales this exhibit," began to worry
Crystal Martinez
said Manuel because he was
senior
Chavez, a too far outside 1987 gradu-of the town ate. "I am walk back and catch a bus to 
reminded of getting on a plane the next city on his journey.for the first time at the age of 
At midnight, after standing18 on my way to Notre Dame. 
on the roadside all day,
Seeing snowfall for the first 
Gonzalez began to pray for a
time was amazing.... Being a 
ride: No more than 30 minutes 
part of the H.A. [Hispanic 
passed after this episode whenAlumni] of Notre Dame gives 
he began holding his signme the opportunity to bring 
again as a black sedan passedother Latinos and Latinas the by him. He merely thought that
opportunity to attend this 
it was another car passing himgreat university." 
by when it stopped up the roadPepe Gonzalez, a 1950 alum­
and pulled over. The driver
nus, flew in for the opening asked Gonzalez which dorm he
from Texas to view the exhibit and a picture of himself hitch­had been in that year. He told 
hiking on his way to campus. the man it was Sorin Hall and After high school, because of that his rector was Father the onset of World War II, he Peter Paul Forester. The man had enlisted in the military in in the car decided to give him 1942 and spent 34 months in a ride -he was a Notre Dame service. alumnus. 
"After the war came to an Also on display is the desk end," said Gonzalez, "I went to used by noted Notre Dame 

sociology professor Julian two children Geoff and Samora. He is the first known Carmen, speaking of the Mexican American to receive a achievements their father 
U.S. doc-made for torate in Latinos at sociology "It's great to see how past N o t r e a n d Dame.
generations ofLatino Darners 
anthropol­Senior
have opened the way for
ogy, and Ysmael Samora today's and future Latinos." Fonseca focused wrote on his work a reflec­
Ysmael Fonseca 
on civil t i o n s 
senior
rights, dis­b o a r d c rim in a -posted in tion, pub-the exhib­lic health and rural poverty. it, "It's great to see how past He also co-founded the generations of Latino Domers National Council of La Raza. have opened the way for Next to his desk, an oral histo­today's and future Latinos. ry video runs with Samara's With their continued support 


University ofNotre Dame 

International Study Program at 

Trinity College 
Dublin, Ireland 
Information Meeting 
Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2002 126 DeBartolo 7:00 PM 
with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs and Katie Keogh, Associate Director, Dublin Program 
Application Deadline: Dec. I, 2002 All Year 2003-2004 Applications submitted on-line: www.nd.edu/~intistud 

and our hard work, Notre Dame will continue to serve as a home fur Latinos; Notre Dame will continue to be a cornerstone in the lives of Latinos. I am proud to form part of this family and hope I can contribute in some way to its future success." 
The exhibit is open from 8 
p.m. 
to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. On Saturday at 5: 30 

p.m. 
the Institute will hold an opening for Latino students, Hispanic Alumni, faculty, staff as well as friends of the Institute and the media. 


Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 




WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
AUSTRIA 
Inspection talks debate access to restricted sites 
Associated Press 
VlENNI\ 

U.N. wPapons inspPctors drm,mcied the right to roam frndy armmct Saddam llusse.in's palacns and other susprct sites when they opened talks with the Iraqis MondRy on the logistics of a p<Jssi­blc rd.urn to Baghdad. 
Chir.f inspcr.tor I I ans Hlix. lead­ing tlw dosrd-door meetings vvith an Iraqi delP.gation. said the inspPctnrs wPre operating under tlw assumption they would be abl(\ to go anywhnn~. anytime if thry return to Iraq for a frnsh assessment of the country's nuclf:ar. biologieal and chemi~al programs. 
Thr, dispute came to a head after thr Rush administration rPµoawdly accused Iraq of bla­tantly violating U.N. resolutions requiring Baghdad to disarm. Washin}-.rton thrratrnwd to unilat­1•rallv rPmovt' Saddam from powt~r breausP mtHP than a dr\cade or intl'rnational pressurr had f"ailt,d to win Iraqi compli­am'.P. 
\Vhen l'rnsident Bush made an impassiorn'd plra for tougher U.N. a<'.tion al tlw GPneral Assembly last month. Saddam switched course and pledged unconditional access to sites across Iraq. But in recent days Baghdad has rejected any nrw U.N. resolutions to broaden and toughen the insprc­tion reginw. Iraqi resistance has thrown into question whether the eight sprawling pn~sidential palaces -up to now off-limits Lo surprise visit.s -would be open to rcnnwPd inspections. 
"We're telling the Iraqis we don't want any limitations on our access," a senior diplomat close to the talks said on condition of anonymity. 
The issue of palace inspections ancl some other contentious mat­ters would require amending the most recent U.N.-Iraq ag-reement on inspPctions. \\/bile the Vienna nrnetings have addressed those topics. a dedsion on changing the sanctions regime would have to be made by the U.N. Security Council one!' Rlix report.c; back on Tirnrsday. 
Under a deal U.N. Secrntarv­General Kofi Annan cut with Baghdad in early 1998, the insp1>ctors · access to eight so­called presidential sites encom­passing a total of 12 square miles was rcstrictnd. 
The deal prevented inspectors from carrying out surprise visil'i to the sites, which include Saddam's palaces. The deal also created a team of international diplomats to accompany inspectors when they did enter. 
The United States and the rest of the Security Council endorsed that plan, which remains in effect. However, the Bush administration is pushing for a resolution that would nullify the Annan deal. 

Iraqi Vice President Taha regime. Ramadan said Saturday. Yassin Ramadan, whose govern­"Our position on the inspectors Issues to be decided in the cur­ment denies it has weapons of has been decided and any addi­rent talks focus on ensuring that mass destruction, has rejected tional procedure is meant to hurt Iraq will provide access to other any changes in the inspections Iraq and is unacceptable," so-called "sensitive sites." 
Iraq began biol-Veapons progratn l-Vith help frotn U.S. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
lraq's bioweapons program that President Bush wants to eradicate got its start with hnlp from Uncle Sam two dr.cades ago, according to government records getting new scrutiny in light of the discussion of war against Iraq. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sent samples directly to several Iraqi sites that U.N. weapons inspectors determined were part of Saddam Hussein's biological weapons program. CDC and congressional records from the early 1990s show. Iraq had orclcrnd the samples, claiming it needed them for legitimate medical research. 
The CDC and a biological sample company, the American Type Culture Collection, sent strains of all the germs Iraq used to make weapons, including anthrax, the bacteria that make botu­linum toxin and the germs that cause gas gangrene, the records show. Iraq also got samples of other deadly pathogens, including the West Nile virus. 
The transfers came in the 1980s, when the United States supported Iraq in its war against Iran. They were detailed in a 1994 Senate Banking Committee report and a 1995 follow-up letter from the CDC to the Senate. 
The exports were legal at the time and approved under a program admin­istered by the Commerce Department. 
"I don't think it would be accurate to say the United States government deliberately provided seed stocks to the Iraqis' biological weapons pro­grams," said Jonathan Tucker, a for­mer U.N. biological weapons inspector. 
"But they did deliver samples that Iraq said had a legitimate public health purpose, which I think was naive to believe, even at the time." 
The disclosures put the United States in the uncomfortable position of possi­bly having provided the key ingredi­ents of the weapons America is consid­ering waging war to destroy, said Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. Byrd entered the documents into the Congressional Record this month. 
Byrd asked Defense Secretary Donald 
H. Rumsfeld about the germ transfers at a recent Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. Byrd noted that Rumsfeld met Saddam in 1983, when Rumsfeld was President Reagan's Middle East envoy. 
"Are we, in fact, now facing the pos­sibility of reaping what we have sown?" Byrd asked Rumsfeld after reading parts of a Newsweek article on the transfers. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hurricane Lili hits Cayman Islands: 
Hurricami Lili riµped roofs from apartment build­ings in thP Cayman Islands on Monday and forced l 00,000 people to flee their homes as it threatened Cuba. The storm had killed eight people so far. Lili's eye tllre across Cayman Brae, punishing the cast­m·nmost of tlw Cayman Islands with torrential rain and violent winds. It grew· from a tropical storm Monday as its winds topped 74 mph. About 300 peo­ple headed to emergency shelters in Cayman Brae and Little Cayman. 
Brazil candidate says Brazil will pay debts: 
In yet another atlempt to soothe anxious markets. pres­idential front-runner l.uiz Inacio Lula da Silva said Monday that he ½ill not halt payment on Brazil's for­eign debt as a means of bolstering the flagging econo­my. "\Vp made it dear in an open letter issued in June that a Workers Party governmrnt would honor all of its international commitments." Lula. as he is popularly known. told a nows contcrence. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
New Jersey candidate drops out of race: 
Dogged by questions about his ethics and falling in the polls, Democratic Sen. Robert Torricelli abruptly dropped his bid for a second term Monday, throwing a twist into the battle for the Senate just five weeks before Election Day. Democratic officials said they would announce a new candidate within 48 hours. The Republicans said they would file an immediate court challenge to block any attempt to replace Torricelli this close to the election. The embattled incumbent, who has been in Congress for nearly 20 years, was severely admonished over the summer by the Senate ethics committee after it found he accept­ed lavish gifts from a campaign contributor. He has denied any wrongdoing even as he apologized to voters. Torricelli, 51, fought back tears as he announced his decision, noting that he had become an "issue" in the fight for the Senate, where Democrats hold a one-seat majority. 
Airport suspect may face federal charges: 
Pederal charges were filed Monday against a Bulgarian student who allegedly tried to pass through airport security with a pair of scissors and two boxcutters, the FBI said. Tho man apparently had no ties to terrorism, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Stigall. "The government has no evidence that the defendant's activities were part of any ter­rorist plot," Stigall said. "It appears to be an isolat­ed incident." Nikolay Volodiev Dzhonev, 21, was charged with attempting to board an aircraft with a concealed weapon, a felony, said FBI spokeswoman Sandra Carroll. Dzhonev was being held on $100,000 bail, but Stigall said he would likely be released on his own recognizance. "He seems like a real sweet kid, not your archetypical terrorist," said public defender Christopher O'Malley, who first met his client late Monday afternoon. Dzhonev was arrested Sunday as he was about to board a flight to Myrtle Beach, S.C. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 1, 2002 

TvVo ND students talk ethics 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

Two Notre Dame under­graduates were among the philosophers, theologians and ethicists chosen to present papers at this year's "From Death to Life: Agendas for Reform" conference, spon­sored by the Center for Ethics and Culture. 
The conference, which ended Saturday, focused on practical applications of ethics in contPmporary cul­ture, in keeping with the moral encyclicals of Pope John Paul II. 
Junior Tom Feeney jointly presented a paper with his father .lohn Feeney. The elder Feeney is a French and Latin teacher at a Jesuit high school in Detroit. 
Their paper focused on the father-son relationship from a classical and modern perspec­tive. 
"We're going to show Old Testament stories of fathers' blessings to their sons," said Tom Feeney. 
Feeney also proposed a sys­tem of parish-based retreats for fathers and sons. "We hope to start this summer," Tom Feeney said. 
He also applauded the work of the conference. "I was impressed by all these voices with original things to say," said Tom Feeney. 
Senior Kaitlyn Dudley's paper, which focused on how Catholic parishes can build the culture of life, was also presented at the conference. Though Dudley herself was unable to attend the confer­ence, her brother. sophomore Sean Dudley, presented her paper. 
Dudley's paper also dis­cussed practical application. as did the rest of the confer­ence. 
Before the conference, Dudley said that work in this area must focus on the prayer life of the parish. 
"Without grace, nothing's going to happen," she said. 

ALLISON NICHOLS/The Observer 
Emily Chin settles into her position as the new secretary for the Office of the Student Body President during Monday's Campus Life Council Meeting at Lafortune Student Center. 
reported to the council on last week's task force meetings
Dances 

and described ideas that had continued from page 1 been brought up and issues 
that might serve as points of Hall rector. "Even the police­focus. man remarked that he had The leadership task force never seen people having such considered the possibility of a good time at a danCfl." one-credit leadership courses. 
Accordong to residence hall Both the communications and rectors, the leader­cases or ship task excessive forces
"When I was a freshman, 
drinking expressed were rare dances created a sense of interest in over the creating
excitement, everyone
weekend. Web sites
knew that the dances 
Father Paul containing Doyle, Dillon were cool. " information Hall rector, for students. said two "One of
Stephen Christ 
women left our long­
the Alumni­Student Union Board manager term goals Dillon dance is to develop e a r l y a Web site because they were heavily that. students can access intoxicated. where all leadership opportu­"There were less than a nities are listed," said Rick dozen cases, all except one Harris, leadership task force involving off-campus students chairman. "Right now it's kind who had been allowed to of ambiguous to students what attend," Pangborn Hall rector the opportunities arc. Heather Rakoczy said of Saturday's Pangborn-Carroll dance. Contact Michael Chambliss at Task force chairmen also mchambli@nd.edu 

_

"Parishes are part of a living 
I 
r
whole." The conference was the last 
in a triennial series dealing I 0 Expanded seating I 
with Pope John Paul !J's description of the culture of I I
OFaster lunch service
death in the modern world. The conference was made 
I I
possible by a grant from the 
Olnternational cuisine 
Maas Family Excellence Fund. 
I I

ONew decor
I I
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


I I I I 
I 



Jlnt-mditcing. . . I 
In your Internet browser type "food.nd.edu"
I I
Makt S3W Week! 

Click on "Daily Specials & Coupons"
Sunchase Ski and Beacn Breaks. 

I 
View current coupons and the daily lunch specials!
Sales Rep. positions available now. 

I
Largest commissions. Travel 

I DpenMonday-Friday 7:00am-2:30pm, call.631-8578, ........ ' 
Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext123 

==-_,.,,) I
Greenfield's International Cafe is located in the
WWW.SUNCHAS-6.COM 

I Hesburgh OmterJqr International Studia ~~ r,..,1, I 
,, '1~. i,. e~c 
.,______________, I across the streetfrom the Hamffl8S Bookstore Domer. _,. ,1...-1 .• d C.J ,.i ..;., ..I 


Tuesday, October 1, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 30 
Dow Jones 

7,591.93 • -109.52 
N4SDAQ 

I, I 72.06 • -27.10 
S&P500 

8 15. 2 9 • -12.08 
AMFX 

827.28 ~ +2.97 
NYSE 

445.44 • -4.79 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -6.69 -0.75 10.48 
NAS0AQ~100 tNDEX.··(QQQ)\]@}{f jj~}~:~:f~}ig 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -4.99 -0.73 13.89 SPDR MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -3.34 -1.51 43.74 

IN BRIEF 
American consumer spending slows 
Consumer spending slowed in August from a sizzling July pacP, and even with rising anx­icti<~s about a war with lraq and further declines on Wall Street analysts said they believe there is plenty of demand to keep the economic recovery steaming ahead. 
The Commerce Department reported that consumer spending, which accounts for two­thirds of total economic activity, rose by 0.3 pcrcenl in August after surging by 1 percent in .July. 
Meanwhile, Americans' incomes rose by a solid 04 percent in August after showing no change in July. It was the fourth strong gain out of the past fiw months. 
Wal-Mart reduces sales prediction 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. reduced its sales fore­cast for September. as the world's largest retailer struggles with disappointing results at both the discount chain and its Sam's Club warehouse division. It shares sank. 
During a pre-recorded call, the company said Monday it now expects sales at stores open at least a year, known as same-store salt-s, to be up by bctwei,n 3 pMcent to 4 per­cent. Last week, it said that September sales would be up at the low end of an original forncast of a 4 percent to 6 percent gain. 
Same-store sales are considered the best 
indicator of a retailer's health. 
U.S. says Enron execs could be liable 
The Labor Department has filed a court brief that says Enron Corp. executives could be personally liable for retirement plan losses by workers who are suing the company. 
The Labor Department's friend of the court brief. filed Aug. 30 in federal court in llouslon. says if officials should continue to offer company stock as an investment option in its retirement plan with knowl­edge of Enron's problems. "They are per­sonally liable for the losses." 


New York sues telecom officials 
. Execs allegedly took millions in IPO allocations 
Associated. Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. 
Tho New York attorney general sued five former and current top telecom­munications executives Monday for allegedly tak­ing millions in profits from initial public offerings of stock without disclosing potential conflicts of inter­est. 
Attorncv General Eliot Spitzer alfeges that Qwest Communications International Inc., WorldCom Inc., Metromedia Fiber Network Inc. and McLeodUSA Inc. steered underwriting busi­ness to Salomon Smith Barney in exchange for giv­ing the exec11tivos access to lucrative !PO shares. Once the IPO share prices soared in trading. the stocks were often sold to result in mil­lions of dollars of personal profits for the executives. Spitzer said. 
"The CEO ... was person­ally bought off by being given IPO allocations." Spitzer said at a Monday news confenmce. "Small shareholders were left holding the bag," he said. 
Spitzer also said the deal presumed that Salomon late 1990s. Anschutz return telephone calls ing the suit "unfounded Smith Barney would deliv­allegedly made $5 million seeking comment. Garofalo and absolutely without er favorable stock ratings in profits in the deals, didn't immediately respond merit." Anschutz also did for the executives' compa­McLeod netted more than to a request for comment. not personally receive any nies as an inducement and $9 million, Garofalo made Nacchio's attorney, !PO allocations, nor did reward for obtaining the $1.5 million and Nacchio Charles Stillman, said his Qwest's board select investment banking busi­took in more than $1 mil­client would be vindicated. investment banking firms, ness. lion, according to the suit. "The claim that Joseph the company said. 
The suit accuses former Spitzer wants the money Nacchio steered business to McLeodUSA spokesman 
WorldCom chief executive provided to investors, but Salomon Smith Barnev in Bryce Nimitz said the com­
Bernard Ebbers. Qwest was unsure how ihat would return for personal ·1po pany had no statement to 
chairman Philip Anschutz, be done. allocations or favorable make regarding the law­
former Qwest CEO Joseph "The executives received research reports is totally suit. 
P. Nacchio, Metromedia huge perks from a vendor false," he said. "There was Clark McLeod, who has a Fiber chairman Stephen who sought their business," no special relationship home in Cedar Rapids, Garofalo and former Spitzer said. "This clearly between Qwest and Iowa, has an unpublished McLeodUSA CEO Clark was unjust enrichment, Salomon Smith Barney. In number and could not be McLeod of failing to dis­and it violated the disclo­fact, the most important reached. close their companies' sure requirements of state transaction in Mr. The suit is part of underwriting relationship law. Uninformed share­Nacchio's business life, the Spitzer's investigation of with Salomon Smith holders, meanwhile, lost acquisition by Qwest of US conflicts of interests at bro­Barney as required by state millions of dollars when the West, Salomon lined up kerages that sought invest­law. stocks in the defendants against Qwest and repre­ment banking business 
Ebbers allegedly made companies crashed." sented Global Crossing." from companies while pub­more than $11 million from Representatives for The Anschutz Corp. lishing inflated ratings of several dozen IPOs in the Ebbers did not immediately released a statement call-their stocks. 

Ford, Canadian workers reach deal 
ments at a news conference in to close the truck plant as part of a Associated Press 
Toronto. $4.1 billion cost-cutting plan to DETROIT Hargrove said the new contract eliminate nearly 21,500 jobs in 
Ford Motor Co. and the Canadian includes wage increases of as much North America. Auto Workers tentatively agreed as 13.5 percent over three years The plant was scheduled to close Monday on terms of a new thrne­and assurances that 900 of the in late 2003 or early 2004, but year contract, averting a strike that 1,400 workers who will lose their Hargrove said Ford has agreed to could have severely hampered jobs at an Oakville truck plant will keep it open until July 2004. Soon Ford's North American operations. be hired at the minivan factory. after, the 900 workers will be 
In addition, Ford said it would The closing of the plant, where retrained and move to the minivan invest $402 million in one of its Ford makes the F-150 pickup, was plant, which already employs some Oakville. Ontario assembly plants to the biggest hurdle in negotiations 3,200, ready it for production of Ford's that began last Monday. The contract must be ratified by next generation Windstar minivan "It was one of the toughest issues union members. and a new Mercury minivan. we've ever faced in our collective The CAW had said its 13,000 Ford 
CAW President Buzz Hargrove bargaining with Ford," Hargrove workers in Canada would strike if and Alain Batty, Ford's Canadian said. the sides didn't reach an agreement president, made the announce-Ford announced plans in January by midnight Tuesday. 

page 8 ne o&si:1V~ . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October l, 2002 
Center Concerns 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


rtM .$ Mh 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 

EL PASO/ IUDAD JUAREZ ORDERS ISSUES SEMINAR 
This one-credit (THEO 371) seminar over winter break, January 2-8, examines immigration and related issues that surface between the United States and Mexico border. Participants will have the opportunity to stay at different shelter homes on both sides ofthe border, meet with refugees, help with daily chores at the homes, visit maquilas and border patrol posts, and discuss policy issues. *Information Session October 8, 5:30-6pm, Coffee 
House (CSC) 

*Applications are available at the CSC and are due October 14 
*For more infomation, contact Melody Gonzalez at 4­1715 or eonzalez.76(a),nd.edu 

--------------,
' Senior Transition 1
'lnternationa Summer 
Programs :
Service Learnina 
Do you want to bring educational I Pro8ram excellence to children in the most I Sites in 13 developing under-served communities? 
I countries around the world Senior Transition Programs I I Application due date Join the Inner-City Teaching Corps. I November 1st Information meetings Wednesday, l October 2 I
It's never too early to 
4:30 and 7:00 p.m. I
explore and consider the 
Center for Social Concerns I 
possibilities ... 
I www.ectc-chicago.org I ~ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ;;r;(y" C~~~~-Ui~~i~~ ¦ i;;Pl~~~ti~~¦ s~~i;;~~ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ~ r.:"====e=m=a=il=:t=e=a=ch=@==ic=t=c=-c=h=ic=a=g=o=.o=r=g==~) : Immerse yourself in the educational mission ofNotre Dame's Holy Cross priests to a largely Hispanic : ..iJL'-.;;.•~,.o,.,,~s·.,cernm_ent

.. ... 
population in Arizona's Valley ofthe Sun. You'll participate in the creative programming of St. John • ~~ ,•. h~CeSSIOff Vianney grade school and experience Phoenix's well-known Andre House ofHospitality. Local fami-:,-j/;t;; \_. ;=J;..._,.
1 .=..;;;;....;a...~.a..­

lies love to host you, and you'll explore some ofthe region's natural beauty. Ideal for students consid-:\-~TbeCall ofthe Catholic Social ering ACE! >~:Tradition in Decision-making 

• •_>;. ...~..... :;.-'}. i. 
Et::J>re~eµter: Dr. Margaret Pfeil 
,.i .-;-'.,·f"':,: tJijhSi .
*January 3-9, 2003 

,';'flti · .· ·" .. 
:.':1~tk-M'ednesday, October 2
*Info session Oct 8, 5-5:30pm, Coffee House 
:·-:.,·r.·~~!. :~~ • . •
ft :"';'' ~1egfned Hall Chapel 
·f-' .....,
*Applications due Oct. 14 
·~-7 pm, simple supper included .<'.RSVP by email or to 1-5779
*Contact Kevin Sandberg, CSC (1-4147 or sandberg.6@nd.edu) 



CURRENT VOLUNTEER NEEDS
Special Needs: 

*Volunteers are needed to go swimming with adults Mentors: Tutoring Programs: who have disabilities during a Pool Carnival Party. A male mentor is needed for a 13 year old, His­Greater Holy Temple is looking for tutors for It is on Monday, October 28 from 6:30-8pm. panic, 8th grader at Navarre Middle school. Meet­children grades 1-12 on Tuesdays, 7-8. It is lo­Contact Marissa Runkle at 289-4831 or ings would be only one day a week, 1: 10-2:45 cated at 710 Napolean. Contact Jean Cane at marissa@logancenter.org. (home room time). Provide own transportation. 631-5685 or home: 243-9435. 
*
A woman with a serious illness needs to be taken Contact Shannon Stackhouse at 283-7367 be­to her doctor's appointments. Most ofher appoint tween 7:30a.m.-2:4Sp.m. Learn.Fun is an extended learning program for ments are in the morning, but that can be flexible. kids k-6 at Jefferson Elementary School. They Ifyou can get to her place in Mishawaka, she has A mentor is needed for a 14 year old boy who was are looking for tutors M-F from2:40-3:30 or4:30­a car that you can use. Contact Carol at 256-physically handicapped in an accident. He uses a 5:30. Contact Tomeka Jones at work: 283-8700 9319 before 7pm. wheelchair and needs someone to spend time with from 11-6 or at (574) 514-8713. 

*
A woman with physical and learning disabilities him and hang out. Contact Sandy Krowsky at needs help typing and editing her books. She would 237-7860. Holy Cross Grade School is looking for tutors like to meet 2 times a week in the afternoons. for kids in grades 6-8 for their after school Math Contact Rose Anne: 277-4341 or 287-3891. A male who has a sibling with a disability is needed Help program. It runs on Wednesdays from 3-4. 


to mentor a young boy who has a sibling with a Contact Colleen O'Brien at school: 234-3422 Elderly: disability. Approximately only four hours per or home: 287-3006. A volunteer is needed to assist an elderly couple month. Contact supersibs@nd.edu. with paper work that they are no longer able to Believers After School Program is looking for handle on their own. It would be for one hour a A person who is a sibling oftwins, triplets or qua­tutors/mentors for teenagers ages 12-18 one day week, preferably Monday afternoons. Provide own druplets is needed to mentor to a girl who is the a week, T/W/Th 3:30-6:30. Contact Tera Barnes transportation. Contact Mrs. Grady Thompson sister to quadruplets. Contact Marissa Runkle at or Jackie Davis at 233-3353. at 234-0300. 289-4831. 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Lilly promotes giving 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary', News Erliror 
To encourage monetary gifts to Indiana colleges and universities, including Saint Mary's, the Lilly Endowment approved an initiative in June 2002 that doubles donor's con­tributions. Thf! College's challenge is to raise $3.5 million, which will be matched dollar-for-dollar by ihe Endowment. 
The program. named "The Special Initiative to Strengthen Philanthropy for Indiana Higher Education Institutions," will encourage new and past donors lo contributt> to the College. 
The initiative is broken down into two separate categories. The first stip­ulates that the Board of Trustees can raise a maximum of one million and tbe second stipulates that alumnae, faculty, µarnnts. studelltS and friends can raisf' a maximum of $2.5 million. The deadline for the Board of Trustees' initiative is Dec. 2002 and the philanthropy initiative has been given a Dec. 2003 deadline. 
"The lnitiativf' to Strengthen Board Commitnrnnt as well as the Initiative to Strengthen Philanthropy for Indiana Higher Education are creat­ing amazing opportunities for Saint Mary's College." said Kay Ball, direc­tor of development at Saint Mary's. "Both are generating enthusiasm, cre­ative planning and renewed commit­ment. We are grateful for the gen­erosity of the Lilly Endowment." 
As of Sept. 15, approximately $450,000 towards the $1 million Board of Trustees matching maxi­m um has been raised. 
Communication with faculty, 'staff, alumnae, parents and students has only begun, but the slogan, "Every one dollar for Saint Mary's equals twu dol­lars in change," has h<'en adopted. 
"With alumnae and parents, our communication vehides have included and will continue to include announcements and features in the Courier [alumnae magazine], direct mail, personal visits and telephone conversations about giving opportuni­ties," Hall said. "Tho Senior Leadership Campaign will feature opportunities both for students and their parents to become involved. Facultv and staff arc currently partici­pating in discussion groups· to offer advice and guidance about how to design the most effective faculty [anrl] staff campaign possible." 
In order for the Endowment to match thP funds donated, they must be tovrnrds academic purpose, includ­ing permammt endowment, academic programs, buildings and equipment, student scholarships and curriculum development. The Fndow-ment does stipulate that donations for athletic purposes are not eligible. 
"Already we have seen significant interest by alumnae and parents to consider gifts such as student scholar­ships and acceleration of their current pledge payments," Ball said. "In addi­tion, several faculty and staff mem­bers are also considering endowed student scholarships as well as other academic areas of interest." 
Saint Mary's will primarily use the endowment match to enhance cam­pus facilities and student scholarships. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

Report: HIV cases on rise 
Associated Press 

McLl:iAN, Va. 
The spread of HIV is expected to accelerate in Asia and Africa over the next decade with 7 5 million cases likely in five of the world's most populous countries by 2010, a U.S. intelligence report predicts. 
The rapid gmwth of HIV as well as AIDS cases will heavily tax the economies and public health systems of such countries as China, India. Russia, Ethiopia and Nigeria, according to the report. prepared by the National lntolligence Council, a group of senior analysts who report to ClA Director George J. Tenet. 
Those countries -which have 40 percent of the world's population among them -are estimated to have between 14 and 23 million cases of HIV now, says tht> report t>ntitled "The Next Wave of HIV/AIDS." 
"Their governments are at a critical phase of deter­min ing their response,'' said David F. Gordon, a principal author of the report, during a briefing at CIA headquarters on Monday. "The disease is building up a significant momentum in each of the five countries." 
The growth in the five countries is expected to outstrip the number of 
cases in central and south­ern Africa, where the dis­ease currently is most widespread, according to the report. 
The report says the gov­ernments of Uganda, Thailand and Brazil have made HIV and AIDS aware­ness a priority and have slowed the disease's spread. In contrast, South Africa, beset with other issues, did little, and infec­tion rates skyrocketed in the 1990s. 
Because so many people in those countries are already infected and dying, the net number of HIV-pos­itive people in the region is only expected to increase from 25 million to 35 mil­lion. 
The report projects each country will see a signifi­cant increase in HIV cases in the next decade. 
India 

The country is expected to have between 20 million and 25 million HIV-positive people by 2010, the highest estimate of any country. India's public health insti­tutions have taken some steps to combat the dis­ease. 
Heterosexual activity is the key driver of the dis­ease in India and Indians have little awareness of the disease, said the report. In Bombay and some other areas, as many as half of the prostitutes are believed to be infected. 
China 
The government has raised its official estimate of the number of HIV cases in the country to one million, but some experts say the total is likely twice that. The report projects, China, the world's most populous nation, will have between 10 million and 15 million people infected by 2010. 
In rural areas, the prac­tice of blood brokering is spreading the disease, although the government has ordered a stop to the practice. In the cities intra­venous drug users arc they key problem. 
Russia 
Sharing infected drug nee­dles is the main cause of spreading HIV in Russia. where drug use is wide­spread. Experts estimate Russia may have as many as 2 million HIV-positive people now. The number is project to between 5 mil­lion and 8 million by 2010. 
Nigeria and Ethiopia 
The disease is already tak­ing hold in the general pop­ulation. Family breadwin­ners, as well as key leaders in government and indus­try, are at substantial risk, and their loss could devas­tate the two countries' economies. Heterosexual activity are driving the spread in both countries. 


Information Meeting 
Fre01antle, Australia 
Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2002 Room 102 DeBartolo 5:00 PM 
For Students in the Colleges of AL & BA 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/,-intlstud 
. --. ------·. -.. ----. 
O
THE
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, October l, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box <.,/, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Somh Dining H,11. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EfllTOR IN CHIEF Jason Mcfarler 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Kare Nagengast Kevin Ryan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPEllATI0NS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VJEWl'0INT EDITOR, Lauren BeLk SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE Eorrmi: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie M£Kenna 

ADVERTISING .MANAGER: Macr Lutz Ao DFSIGN MANAGER: Mcghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Todd Nieto CONTRO!LFR: Lori L~wal,ki 
CONTACT Us OmcE MANAGERIGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.ed~ EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT, ME....................63 I -4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT...............................................631-5303 observer .viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE............................................·•·•· ........631-4540 ob.server.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISIBAT0RS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!obseroer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the L:niversiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advenisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represenc the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que,tions regarding Ob.1ervrr policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chiefjas(Jn McFarley. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
TheOl:Hcrvrr !USPS 51)') 2-4011~ putili~htd \.t,m.J,,1• ch rough Frid.av eut:pr timing u:~m ,md \~Kamll1 p-enml~. A mbc'ief1pnuu w, ThcOb'-C'rvl'f IS $100 foronc.:i<:.ul,:,mtc Ye"~r; SSS fut on<" '<:m('"<of-l"t 
Th~ O~n~f 1~ rc1bli~hcd J! POSTMASTER 024 Souih Oin1r1g I till !-icnd ,,JJr.,~) corrl'ction!\ tu: ~uirr Damc. lN 4fl"ll(1-077'J lhcOh•,.:-rv.:r ruio<lial pu,1~, p.11i.l M Nt1rrc ()aim l'.0. & ... Q ,m,! .t~l,linon.il mJilmfoflicn Nouc Drni<·-IN 4GSSG-07?'9 
Tl,, ()ll½"'l"'i:r I?> ,I rncmhcr rifthe A,~si.1ftJ l'rc-,~. All rcprmlucta:m r1~11~ .ire rocrvc,1 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame family built on more than cellular service 
I call my mother and my friends once a week. I call them, not on my cell phone. but sitting down in a chair and in my room. While we talk, I'm rnally listening to them. I am not wandering around campus or the mall. I am giving them my undivided attention. Since being sepa­rated, our relationship has never been stronger. 
In his Sept. 26 leltfir, "Peaturns help PflSonal rnlation­ships," Jeremy Sony wrote that cell phones strengthen personal relationships. While coll' phones do change per­sonal relationships, they do not strengthen them. Sony says that cell phones are 1me of tlrn few ways left to con­tinue personal relationships. The day lhat my relation­ships become dependent on a little gadget, I will pity my social life. I hope that my relationships, based on love, loy­alty and longevity, can withstand the test of time. Certainly, without a cell phone, my friends and I go days without talking. Ytit, when we linally do talk, it is that much more meaningful. I realize how valuable every minute is with them. If my relationships could not survive without a cell phone, I don't know if' I'd call that a rela­tionship at all. ConveniencP is onp thing. Depemlencc is entirely another. 
Take the Notrn Dame family. In his SPpt. 26 letter, "Another way to follow football." John Morris made it seem like the Notre Dame family's extension was depen­dent on cell phones, writing that "it didn't matter that we were so many milns and states away ... we had our cell phones." I agree -Notre Dame has a great family. llowever, that family is based on years of' tradition, not cellular service. Alumni talk about Notre Dame's family from years ago, when cell phones did not even exist. Yet, the family still existed. 
And take m11. Am I excluded from the family because I do not have a cell phone? The reason that it doesn't mat­ter that we're miles apart is not because the majority of us are financially secure enough to invest in Sprint PCS. The reason our distance doesn't matter is bncause we have somr~thing much deeper than ttichnology. We have a feel­ing in our hearts, true to the Golden Dome. 
Amy Chambers 
Junior Pasquerilla East Hall Sept. 26 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame fail to teach true Catholicism 
After reading the Sept. 26 article, "Group discussion analyzes Catholic identity at SMC," I was dismayed, but unfortunately not surprised. to learn of the comments of the participants at this discussion of Saint Mary's Catholic identity. Many of the panelists were leaders in the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame administration and faculty. When the question of what the hall­marks of an "ideal Catholic" are, such phrases as "inclusiveness," "resisting frozen ideas" and "making a just world" filled the air. 
Nobody, apparently, thought to men­tion Jesus Christ. Or, for that matter, His Mother, for whom both schools are named. 
Inclusiveness and social gospel are nice things, but at the core of the Catholic Church lie our catechism, liturgical traditions, beliefs and dedi­cation to the Word of God -in short, our singular Catholicism. 
Hopefully these attributes were mentioned and simply didn't appear in The Observer article. but I have a sinking feeling that such unimportant and, apparently, politically incorrect aspects never entered into the conver­sation. 
After 16 years of Catholic education at varying institutions, the only con­tact I had with catechism or the histo­ry and pillars of the Church is what I learnf'd through my own initiative. 
Religious Studies professor Terrance Martin. whose primary job is to pre­sent the Church ancl rrligious issues to the young women who como to him for a Catholic education, stated that being Catholic means that we must "place an emphasis on what we have in com­mon, not on what makes us distinct." 
I lean on and strive to grow in my Catholic faith largely because it is dis­tinct from what any other religion has to offer. I love that we believe that Jesus Christ is present in the Eucharist. I love that we turn to the Blessed Mother for guidance and com­fort. I love that we are given the opportunity to completely wipe our sins away with the sacrament of Confession. Why are the men and women of this educational community not taught to celebrate what sets the Catholic faith apart? Or, for that mat­ter, the roots of' what we really believe at all? Such an education need not denigrate or exclude other faith tradi­tions, but it should emphasize the nucleus of what it truly means to be Catholic. 
Perhaps most saddening were Jo Ann MacKenzie's comments: "I am an educated lay person, wife, mother and sexual being, not really somebody the Catholic Church is interested in hear­ing from." I do not have the honor of being a wife or a mother, but I am educated and active in the laity, and it seems to me that the Church wel­comes any and all who wish to know God. Indeed, great respect is afforded to sanctity of childbearing and the importance of the family unit. It makes me wonder whether those who fr.el "excluded" have truly stopped to listen to what tlrn Catholic Church has to say to them, rather than struggling so mightily to democratize it. By no means is the Church perfect, but the ancient foundations on which it rests are spiritually sound and command respect. 
I chose Saint Mary's because I want­ed an education at a Catholic women's school. Although some of the dearest memories I have were formed over those four years and I received an excellent education, I never found an opportunity to foster my faith on cam­pus -not in a place in which the main chapel, the Church of Loretto, features a plaster, shoved-out-of-the­way tabernacle shaped like a stunted tree. 
If I wanted to truly learn about Catholicism, I had to escape to my brother school, where I finally found satisfaction in the Basilica and at Knights of Columbus events. 
While working in community events and as an altar server -all outside the orbit of the classroom, dorm chapels or either school's Campus Ministries -I grew a great deal as a Christian and experienced an intense­ly deepening sense of' what it means to be Catholic. 
It is my continuing prayer that all members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community strive to know Christ and llis Church. 
Mary Beth Ellis South Bend. Ind. class of'99 Sept. 26 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Teresa Fralish Maureen 
Reynolds 
Helena Payne 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemm 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 

Sports 
Joe Hettler Lauren Dasso Christine 
Armstrong 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does the new honor code, which provides for the use of the Web site turnitin.com, diminish trust between students and professors? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Technology ... the knack of so arranging the world that we don't have to experience it." 
Max Frisch Swiss author and architect 
.--------------------------------~-------------­
O
THE 
VIEWBPROINT 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 page 11 

GUEST COLUMN 
British intelligence backs case for military action against Iraq 
LOS ANGELES British intelligence or Iraqi intelli­W'n<:e: Which do you trust'' The answer to that question has sig­nificant implications for the United 
States because if  
wn believe the  Ian Eisner  
British, war is in  
our future.  
Given the lraqi regime's history  Daily Bruin  
of lies. ma<;s  
murder and  

more lies. the prudent policy is to back the Brits. So when British Prime Minister Tony Blair cites evidence indicating Saddam's weapons of mass destruction program is "active, detailed and growing," the interna­tional community should not doubt the veracity of Blair's case for disarma­ment. 
The groundwork was laid in a speech delivered before Parliament on Sept. 24, in which Blair provided strik­ing evidence that Saddam Hussein is continuing lo expand his stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons, in addition to doggedly pursuing nuclear capabilities. According to Blair and the British Joint Intelligence Committee, there has been an "11-year history of lies told by Saddam about the exis­tPnce of his chemical, biological and nuclear weapons programs. The one common consistent theme, however: The total determination of Saddam to maintain the programs." 
The British findings were nothing short of a smoking gun. According to British intelligence, the Iraqi regime has tried to acquire "significant quan­tities" ol' uranium from Africa -a material with no use in Iraq except as material to construct a nuclear weapon. 
Since the departure ofU.N. inspec­tors in 1998, Saddam has "bought or atlrmpted to buy specialized vacuum pumps of the needed design for the gas centrifuge cascade to enrich ura­nium." Once again. there is no civil program that woulrl require such instruments. The British Joint Intelligence Committee concludes that if left to its own devices, Iraq may only bti "one or two years olT from building a nud,,ar weapon." 
In addition to a burgeoning nuclear weapons program. Blair also cited evi­dence of Iraq's menacing chemical and biological weapons capabilities. 
According to the British .Joint Intelligence Committee, Iraq has rPtained many pre-Gulf War weapons stocks in addition to producing new chemical and biological weapons by rnabsorbing pre-Guff War sciPntists. Blair indicates these weapons could be activated within 45 minutes of a launch order. 
Ofcourse Iraqi officials deny the charges. Culture Minister Harned YousifHummadi, speaking at a news conference, argued that "Mr. Blair is acting as part of a Zionist campaign against Iraq.... All of his claims are baseless." 
He goes on to suggest the Iraqi regime is seeking anthrax, uranium and nuclear vacuum pumps solely for "legitimate purposes." There is no word, however, on what those purpos­es are or what Iraqi officials consider "legitimate purposes." 
While this may be all the convincing other Arab nations need, the rest of the international community would be reckless to disregard Britain's find­ings. As Blair shrewdly stated in his speech. "there is no way [Saddam]. in this region above all regions, could not begin a conflict using his weapons and not engulf the world." 
If the United Nations cares to keep its credibility intact. it must recognize the clear and present danger oflraq, as well as the necessity of Iraqi disar­mament. It must hold accountable a regime that has treated U.N. resolu­tions with nearly as much disdain as its own people for a decade. 
While Blair and President Bush could certainly force Iraq to comply with unfettered inspections and disar­mament bilaterally, they are giving the United Nations a chance to carry the big stick -to bolster its own legitima­cy by doing the right thing. They ask only that the United Nations trust their intelligence and not the utterings com­ing from Baghdad. 
With Iraq's track record, this should be self-evident. But the United Nations has caved to Saddam before, and it may well cave again. If such a circum­stance arises, there is little doubt the United States along with Britain will use necessary force to ensure disar­mament, regardless of the U.N. posi­tion. 
As Blair and Bush have both stated, diplomacy not backed by force will never work with a dictator. Those men understand that Saddam cannot be trusted. 
Let's hope that on the heels of Blair's speech, the United Nations also gets the picture. 
This column.first appeared in the Sept. 26 issue ofThe Daily Bruin. the campus newspaper ofthe University of California-Los Angeles. fl is reprinted here courtesy ofU-ltVIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Striking Iraq betrays 
U.S. morality 
The facts do not justify the United States in launching a pro-emptive strike against Iraq. 
There is no doubt that Saddam Hussein is the embodiment of pure evil. Saddam's brutal history of eliminating political challengers and using chemical weapons against Iraqi minorities (Kurds and Shiite Muslims) is well documented. Moreover, Saddam has menaced neighboring countries in tho past (Iran, Kuwait, and Israel). However, Saddam does not currently constitute a "clear and present" danger to America. which I believe can be the only justification of a pre-emptive strike. 
The recently announced "Bush Doctrine" of embracing pre-emptive strikes can be at:ceptable only if it is narrowly restricted to eliminating a "clear and present dan­ger " While Iraq is a danger to its neighbors, the facts arc unclear that Iraq poses a "clear danger" to the United States or its oil interests given alternative sources of oil in Russia, Mexico, Venezuela and elsewhere. 
Furthermore, even if Iraq was preparing to endanger the United States in the future, it is quite unclear that Iraq is currently a "present danger." President Bush has yet to suggest that Iraq is poised to strike the United States as the Arab coun­tries were poised to strike Israel in 1967. To strike Iraq under these dubious cir­cumstances would put us in the same immoral boat as Japan when the latter pre­emptively attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941. 
Moreover, if the United States launches a pre-emptive strike against Iraq, then China will feel justified in launching a pre-emptive strike against Taiwan, and Russia against Georgia, and so on. America, the "shining city on a hill," will have lost its moral authority for opposing such actions by China, Russia or any other supposed world power. By launching a pre-emptive strike against Iraq, we will also be launching an assault against our nation's soul. 
David S. Maquera third-year law student South Bend, Jnd. Sept. 27 
ESPN misrepresents Willingham's demeanor and Irish character 
ESPN was up to its old shenanigans 
during an interview with Coach Tyrone 
Willingham on Sept. 27. While dis­
cussing Notre Dame's early 
success, Willingham pre­
sented himself as a 
calm, reserved, pro­
fessional and family 
man, who with 
this weekend off 
is planning to 
watch his 

daughter com­
pete in an 
athletic 

event. However. ESPN decid­ed to show a series of Notre Dame highlights, including Willingham's reaction after touchdowns. The reaction showed was that of Willingham. with­out expression on his face. holding up his hand displaying the number one with his index finger. This number one. which ESPN showed sev­eral times, was Willingham indicating to his team to kick the point after and not go for the two-point conversion. 
ESPN falsely attempted to represent 
Willingham as signaling, like an over­zealous freshman in the crowd, that his team was number one. ESPN mis­represented coach Willingham, who was most likely unaware of what highlights were being 
shown, to millions of viewers. ESPN is in the hot-dog atti­
tude and show­boating business and could not 
let the opportu­nity pass to exploit coach 
Willingham and Notre Dame foot­ball. 

The Fighting Irish have worked dili­gently to 
_ achieve what ;/ they have this A' season and _.-restore glory to Notre Dame foot­ball. ESPN 
attempted to take away from that hard work and dedication for 
a cheap production moment chest thump. One last thing, Go Irish! 

Tom Caulfield Painted Post, N.Y. Sept. 28 
THF 

OBSERVER 

page 12 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Adams demolishes on Demolition 
By LIAM FARRELL Scene Music Critic 

The word prolific can only begin to describe Ryan Adams. For some peo­ple, writing is a chore, and writing songs can hardly be described as an easy task for anyone. For Byan Adams. though, writing music is like breathing, an extension of himself. The creator of the brilliant Heartbreaker and the equally impressive Gold, Ryan Adams seems to take every moment of his life and make it into a song. 
As the frontman of alt-country giant Whiskeytown, Adams made a name for himself with confessional and heart­broken songs streaked with melodies combining every worthwhile influence of the past fifty years. Country, blues, rock. folk, the Rolling Stones, Johnny Cash, Hank Williams, Bob Dylan and the Replacements all get equal billing on an album by Ryan Adams. He is reportedly holding enough material for three more albums while working on a play and recording a side project with another rock band, the Pinkhearts. His most recent release, "Demolition," is a compilation of outtakes and rarities from his recent sessions. 
With such constant writing, one would expect a considArable lag_ and overall inconsistency on each album, and this does happen occasionally in Adams' work. 
Gold was a weighty compilation with some weak moments, but Adams' abili­ty to create a holistic vision of tortured artistry trumps any drawbacks created, including some extras. 
Ryan Adams. howevAr, has received numerous compliments regarding his work ethic. In the days of over-involved record companies and marketing pack­agPd as artistic achiPvement, Adams remains a true voice of creation. Some may question his originality in song­writing and call him a simple culmina­tion of the history of rock and roll. It is true that he wears his influences on his sleeve. But he is less a culmination of such forces than he is a realization of them, a product not only of popular music but a singer-songwriter with a unique voice emheddPd in old tactics. Ryan Adams may not have invented the wheel, but he is certainly taking it to interesting places. 
Demolition opens at a rocking pace with "Nuclear," an outtake from the Gold sessions and a well-fashioned country-rock song. Although Adams has his lonesome cowboy image, the electric guitar forms an integral part of his work. His pleas of "gimme an answer" are passionate and earnest, the sound or a singer not only taking himself seriously but believing, right­fully, in the power of his music. 
"Hallelujah" and "You \\'ill Always Be the Same'' show some shades of Whiskeytown work, and the former has additional influences of gospel, not a surprising direction considering the relatively close marriage of country and gospel music. "Desire" tackles a simple enough subject, and although not an entirely interesting song, it fits well into tlrn album's overall tonA. 
The strongest song on the album is easily "Cry on Demand," a heart-rend­ing plea from a broken Adams. Most of his songs arc admittedly written in the throes of personal heartbreak and rela­become his own break-up anthAms with their intensity and agility. Adams could make Queen's "We Are the Champions" sound like anguished begging for a lover to stay, and his trnmbling tenor sounds on the verge of giving out. "Cry on Demand" is such a strong s·ong that it is incredible it was nut included on any pre­viously released work. 
Adams, though, is not with­out a sense of humor, as evi­denced on the gently groaning "Tenuessee Sucks." For some­one who spends half his life recording in Nashville studios, his belief that "TennessAe sucks in the summer" is fairly convincing. Adams has a tAn­dency to use places as personi­fications of emotions, such as Gold's "La Cienga Just Smiled," a· reference to La Cienga Boulevard in Los Angeles, and of course the singlA "New York, New York." Demolition's Dear Chicago is essentially a sequel to that single, as hA says "New York City you're almost gone/ I think I've fallen out of love with you". Even cities are not safe from his pain. 

The album, however, never gets dragged down into melan­choly sludge. Around each cor­ner of tears there is a rock song to get your feet and heart moving. "Gimme a Sign" is pure ruck fun, a driving testa­ment to inserurity with women. "Chin Up, Cheer Up" showcases Adams' remaining adeptness at country and blue­grass numbers and lets some sunshine into a rather dark musical picture, showing admiration that nothing "can bring you down." Perhaps there is some sarcasm here, a sort of wrv 
acknowledg·­ment of' the overall emo­tional heavi­ness of the pre­ceding tacks, but it certainly provides some needed con­trast. 
Ryan Adams has an af'finity for ending his albums with music influ­enced more by Pink Floyd than Willie Nelson, especially noticeable on Ileartbreaker's "Sweet Lil Gal." Here, it is "Jesus (Don't Touch My Baby)." an interesting reli­gious turn for someone whose music rarely has direct reli­

gious refer­ences. The song is in essence a prayer for the safety of his lover. Themes of loss 

turns his life seems to take in his songs. Even when he has inspiration from security and happiness, the echo­ing guitar and wash of strings form the picture of 

Adams writ­ing songs by himself in a room, feeling safe only in the words that he pens. 

Only one track is prob­1em atic, the overly intense "Starting to Hurt," a rather tired piece of music that recalls less inspired pop artists. The listener already knows that Adams has more pathos in a singlA day than most emo artists and quite a few Greek tragedies; his angry asser­tions that "this is starting to hurt" come across with less punch than his other refer­ences to personal sadness. This is the 
hear his performance. 
Most collections of unreleased recordings are unfocused and patchy, with some gems but mostly just residue left from too many nights in the studio. Such albums can, at moments, sound burnt out, the last gasp of a day's inspiration or just an attempt to fulfill a label's release requirements. 
That's not the case with Demolition. Adams remains true to himself and to his work, and instead of rnleasing a loose collection of songs, he chose 13 tracks to form a singular whole, and succeeds in making an album of songs originally not meant to go together. Overall, the album is a strong testa­ment to his ability to present a full pic­ture to his audience, a commitment to not selling either himself or the listener short. 
In spite of the depression dripping from these songs, it is impossible to lis­ten to Adams and not become excited. He is genuine in every sense of artistic expression, and one can only wonder how he keeps up such intensity and quality of songwriting. When placed next to Heartbreaker and Gold, Demolition is another strong statement to Adams as a solo artist as he joins the ranks of other distinguished alumni. such as Wilco. of the alt-country scene. It is exciting to think about where his overf'lowing mind will take him and and to realize that America can still produce the best singer-songwriters in the world. Now let's just hope he never does another Gap ad. 
tionship problems, and it would bA arc not far away even when Adams has only Adams song where the listener 
Contact Liam Farrell at 
amazing if Adams' songs did not found someone, wary of the sharp wants to medicate him rather than 
Liam.J.Farrell.50@nd.edu 
·----­
THE 
OBSERVER ­

-
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Sleater-Kinney gets punky on their latest 
By DA\1D HARTWIG 
Scene Music Critic 
Music snobs love to predict what the uext hig hit hand or hit song will be. But some­tinrn8 this bragging is justified. This is the case with the band Sleater-Kinney. A music critic can't help but brag about them. OnC(• desf'ribed as a cross he,tween Metallica and Urn Indigo Girls, this indie hand's latest album One Beat just plain rocks. 
Probably the best-krpt secret to come out of tlw "grunge rnck-Seattle-coff'fie shop­garage band-Generation X" music move­ment or tlrn f'arly 1<J90s, Slealer-Kinnev plays on the littlP--known Kill Rock Stars rncord label. With eight-plus years of expe­rience tog(·ther and five previous albums, this is a female punk band that shows true maturity (Rlink-182 was also once said to be maturing as a group. but "maturity" when used to describe Sleater-Kinney is not meant to bP a hyperbole.) 
In the two vears since the their last album, members of the trio have had a baby, gone back to school and recorded u side project with a husband. And they are also pushing the limits of what punk can really be, taking the genre beyond whining about corporatn rnckrrs selling out and the troubles of white suburban Americans. There are still plenty of in-your-face, anti­sexist, non-conformist. lyrics, but there are also punk-ballads like0 "Faraway," which expresses the bond between a mother and her new child, while simultaneously tack­ling evrry artist's favorite new subject: Sept. 11. 
The rockin' ladies experiment on a few 
One Beat 

tracks with differ­ent instrumenta­tion, but they retain their two guitar and drums sound and feel throughout most of the album. Loyal fans who fear change will be pleased. They also test out some slightly new sounds, going soft­er on some songs and as hardcore as ever and then somr:i on others. 
There is a little llarnones influ­ence on songs like "Oh!" and a good deal more classic metal influence reminiscent of The Who and Led Zeppelin's earlier stuff. And there isn't a better trib­ute to Janis Joplin than the lead vocals on this album. There's even some Motown influence in the back-up vocals. 
Sleater-Kinney is Carrie Brownstein on lead vocals and guitar, Corin Tucker on gui­tar and back-up vocals and Janet Weiss on the percussion instruments. They still live in the Paciiic Northwest, and ifthe Midwest is lucky. they'll tour through here at some 

-
point soon. 
Buy the album soon and it comes com­plete with a limited edition release of an EP with two additional songs "Off With Your Head" and "Lions and Tigers." 
Contact David Hartwig at David.W.Hartwig.4@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
I 
I 
I 
(
Things are looking bright for Bright Eyes 
By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Cricic 
From Omaha, Neb., a place not exactly known for producing rock singers and musicians. comes the band Bright Eyes, a very flexible collection of musicians led by tlw· 22-vear-old Conor Oberst. Oberst has bm~n receiving loads of' print for both his solo work and his side project, Dcsaparecidos, even managing to land the politically charged band an unlikely plug on MTV News. Since he was 14 vears old, Oberst has been making musicil waves, and Lifted is the newest and fourth release from Bright Eyes. 
Oberst may be the headliner and the recognizable one, but the mob of musi­rians on the album and currently on tour with him make the most out of their 73­minute album. 
Along with Dashboard C:onfessional, Conor Oberst has been grouped into the emo songwriting style, with lyrics marked by sdf'-loathing, humiliation and pain usu­ally limitrd to tlrn journals of depressed high school students. The classic erno image is basically a kid playing his guitar and writing songs alone in his room while everyone else goes to the prom, and there certainly arP shades of such a tradition on LiftPd. 
At om~ point, Oberst laments that "all I do is just lay in bed and hide under the covers," and near the alLum 's end he notns that tlw "ambition I've found can lead onlv to failure." There is a sort of inner helplessness. disgust at the rei1ec­t.ion in the mirror that prmides a driving force and inspiration. 
But like Dashboard Confessional's Chris Carraba, perhaps being labeled as an umu artist limits the notion of where Bright Eyes' music is going and what its true influences are. Even if the lyrics sound like therapy sessions, Oberst's music col­lection does not necessarily contain only Fugazi records. Use of the emo category has created more misunderstandings and artistic problems than it should have. This is especially true considering Jimmy Eat World, who if they ever were emo, cer­tainly are not anymore. The genre label­ing is problematic in that it limits both 
artistic expectations and audience reach. It is not surprising if a fan of the Promise Ring buys Lifted. But how about a Velvet Underground fan? Or a Smiths fan? 
Even among the slightly overpro­ducfld nature some songs take, with exaggerated and unnecessary intros like the sounds of car rides and foot­steps, there is an unmistakable roots and folk element to what goes on in the 
album. "Waste of Paint" is reminiscent of early Springsteen recordings with its hard strumming and 

fast poetry that does not quite fit the music it surrounds. To traf'e this type of music even further, Oberst's style of writ­ing greatly mirrors that of Dylan and even Guthrie, taking lines that do not flow and forcing them into music, somehow fitting them together in the process. 
This is not to say that Oberst, lyrically or musically, is anywhere near as talented as Dylan or Springsteen. Although cursed with the "New Dylan" label, he is a pale imitation at best. As with all confessional music, the lyrics eventually begin to just sound like prolonged whining, and with­out strong words, poetry and images to sustain the momen­tum, the songs 
innate talent for 

country rhythms and vocals, with great musical composition. When Oberst and his band lose their flair for the dramatic and melancholy and 
instead play like they are in a bar, their music takes off. "Nothing Gets Crossed Out" is a great song with infectious melody, making it one of the best tracks. The last song "Let's not S-Ourselves (To Love and Be Loved)" is a 10-minute opus attacking everything from music critics to a "cowboy president" and provides a qual­ity, upbeat ending. One thing is for certain, and that is that Oberst's earnest approach and resolve cannot be questioned. The album hangs dangerously close to being too pretentious and over the top, with songs and titles too long and too in depth. As he matures as a songwriter, he will have to learn that being too ambitious is sometimes as harmful as having no ambi­tion. Not all five-minute pop songs are soulflss and not all eight-minute, rambling poems are artistically genuine. There is a balance that has to be reached somewhere down the line. Interesting territory is traveled here -"Lover I Don't Have to Love" is a decent dark rock song, and "False Advertising" is practically a waltz, showing shades of Tom Waits. The problem for Oberst is not one of ability ­it's one of focus. But at the end of the day, what do critics know'? Oberst signs in the finale that "I do not read the reviews/ no I am not singing for you". He's singing for the dispossessed and angry, the high school kids who can never seem to form functional relation­ships. And if in the end this music pro­vides them comfort, perhaps that is all Oberst has to be.  --­ I I ( I I I I I I I I I I I I I i  
Contact Liam Farrell at Liam.J.Farrell.50@nd.edu  


Lifted or The Story is in the Soil1 Keep Your Ear to the Ground 

drown under the pressure of intro­spective resentment. After a while, for someone not going through similar emo­iional problems, th<' album simply stops being an enjoyable listen. 
That is not to say that this album is not intriguing or without its benefits. Much like the strongest songs on the White Stripes' White Blood Cells, the amateurish punk/country songs by Bright Eyes res­
onate well. Songs such as "Make War" and "You Will. You'? Will. You? Will. You? Will" showcase an 

-page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October I, 2002 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBAU 
Sorin easily handles St. Ed's en route to 20-0 win 
By LISA REIJUlA, JUSTIN SCHUVER and ERIK POWERS 
Sports Writer 

In its first game, the Sorin offense managed just two field goals and hung on for a tense victory over Knott. 
It was a different story Sunday against an under­manned St. Ed's, as the Otters exploded for a 20-0 win at Riehle Fields. 
The teams were evenly matched for the first quarter, as neither offense was able to generate any substantial drives 
.. 
or yardage. 
As the game progressed, Sorin's defense tightened up. Several big stops, including two sacks of St. Ed's quarter­back Dan Tarsha, gave Sorin momentum. The Otters blocked a field goal attempt to end the first quarter. 
Sorin quarterback Greg Carney soon took charge as the Otters moved quickly offensive­ly and relied heavily on pass­ing. The senior was 7 -17 for the game. 
-
Carney and the Sorin offense controlled the second quarter. Carney threw for a touchdown, and then successfully convert­ed a field goal attempt to put the Otters in the lead. 
After their first offensive touchdown of the season, Sorin's defense was more vocal and confident on the field. The St. Ed's receivers were covered tightly and had trouble gaining yards. 
The Steds opened the second half with energy, but the offense still failed to score. Tarsha was replaced at quar­terback for stretches, but noth­ing resulted. 
Sorin continued its offensive charge, as senior Dave Knesek ran for a touchdown and Carney connected for another field goal. 
The Otters were pleased with the result. 
"We had a better idea of what we were doing [this week] and our line was making blocks when they had to," junior lineman Bill Phillip said. 
Both units of Sorin's team worked together to produce the victory. "The key was that the defense put the offense in position to score touchdowns," junior Michael O'Malley said. 
The Otters have a bye onSunday, while St. Ed's will face Zahm. 
Dillon 20, Stanford 8 
A trio of running backs made up for an ineffective passing game as Dillon knocked off Stanford 20-8 in mens inter­hall football action Sunday. 
Quarterback Mark Zepf did not complete a pass in the game other than a successful 2-point conversion, but it didn't matter as the Big Red running backs ran rampant over the Griffins' defense. 
Dillon running back Kevin McCarthy amassed 116 yards on eight carries, including a 74-yard touchdown. Ray Denis, who shared running duties wixth McCarthy, collected 67 yards on nine carries. Dominic Eck, the third Dillon running back, added to the rushing offense with a touchdown of his own. 
"I think we played a lot bet­ter this week,,. Big Red captain Patrick Esper said. "A lot of it centered around a challenge we made to the offensive and defensive lines and they stepped up and that was the difference in the game." 
The Big Red (1-1) got on the scoreboard in an electric way near the end of the first quar­ter, when Zepf handed off to McCarthy on the Dillon 26­yard line. Zepf broke several tackles on his way to scoring the first touchdown. The 2­point conversion was success-
Morrissey, playing its first game of the season, appeared out of sync on its opening drive. On first down, quarter­back Rick Ysasi fumbled a snap. The Manorites recovered the loose ball, only to have Ysasi throw an interception on the next play. Keough's Nick Dobbertich returned the pick 46 yards for a touchdown. 
"I always keep one eye on the receivers and one eye on the quarterback. [The ball] was right there," said Dobbertich, who finished with two interceptions. "I'm just happy that I was fast enough to beat everyone to the end zone." 
The Morrissey offense recov­ered from their inauspicious start, establishing an option running game led by freshman Nick Kline who had nine car­ries for 42 yards. The Manorites tied the score in the second quarter when Ysasi connected with receiver John Mulligan on a 35-yard fade pass for a touchdown. 
"The ball was kind of put right up there," said Mulligan, who finished with two catches for 51 yards. "I kind of had to just reach up and get it, then fall into the end zone." 
The Manorites drove deep into Keough territory twice, yet failed to score for much of the second half. The Kangaroos' defense bent but did not break. recovering a fumbled field goal snap and blocked another field goal in order to end Morrissey drives. A tie seemed inevitable until Werger's controversial game-ending field goal. 
The win snapped Morrissey's two-game losing streak to the Kangaroos. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu, Justin Schuver at jschuvernd.edu and Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 
ful. 

Stanford's answering drive was extinguished when run­ning back Mark McNamee fumbled and the ball was recovered by Dillon's Tim Feldman on the Stanford 4 7 ­yard line. 
The Griffin defense respond­ed and forced a Big Red punt. On the ensuing drive. Griffin quarterback Rich Whitney engineered a touchdown drive that included a 52-yard pass to wide receiver Colin Walsh. Whitney completed a short 2­yard pass to Walsh for the touchdown, and the 2-point conversion was successful to tie the game. 
The next score took 
disciplined football." 

Keough 10, Morrissey 7 
The week before their game against Keough, Morrissey established a simple strategy for knocking off the Kangaroos. 
"We really want to stop the long plays and force [Keough] to drive against us," Morrissey inside linebacker John Caver said. 
Sunday, the Manorites (1-0) stymied the big-play capability of Keough (1-1). limiting the Kangaroos to a long play of 15 yards during their 10-7 win. Keough had only 50 net yards of offense and failed to score 
an offensive 
touchdown.
"We had a better idea of
place midway Yet the through the what we were doing [this game still third quarter, came down
week] and our line was
when Whitney to a contro­fumbled a snap making blocks when they versial end­and Feldman had to.,, i n g recovered the Morrissey ball. The blocked its
Bill Philip

touchdown was s e c o n d controversial, Sorin lineman Keough punt 
with Dillon electing to go for it on fourth down. 
Running back Eck was hit just as he reached the goal line, and the referees ruled that the ball crossed the plane and awarded Dillon the touch­down. The 2-point conversion failed. 
"It looked like his knees were down," Stanford captain Adam Oyster said. "But that's part of the game and there's nothing we can do about it. We just have to do better next week." 
The Big Red scored their third rushing touchdown near the end of the game, with Denis rumbling 33 yards for the score. Again the conver­sion failed, leaving the final score 20-8. 
"We came out," said Oyster. "We played really hard but we didn't execute. We didn't play with 49 sec­
onds left and gained possession on the Kangaroo 10-yard line. After three unsuccessful attempts to reach the end zone, the Manorites' Matt Werger attempted a 31-yard field goal. 
Both teams held their collec­tive breath as the ball sailed toward the uprights -and continued holding their breath after the ball landed and the four referees glanced at each other in confusion and indeci­sion. The kick appeared to pos­sibly be short and to the left, but the back judge refused to raise his hands in either a pos­itive or negative signal. A few moments later, the umpire, who was 40 yards downfield and behind Werger when the ball was kicked, shocked Keough by signaling that the fieJd goal was good. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Chick-Iii-A at University Park Mall is  ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT ­ N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  Give adoption a chance...we are  
NOTICES  LOST & FOUND  currently seeking high caliber indi­victuals to fill Leadership roles days  WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES  check our prices. 273-3911.  happily married and need your help in starting a family. Will provide a  
& nights. Flexible schedule, no  UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL:  lifetime of love, laughter and end- 
Sundays, free meals, $9 per hour.  leopei@hotmail.com  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  less opportunities. Call our attorney  
CJs Pub See whats happening  LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold  Contact Kathy Wonderly @ 272­ GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593.  toll free at 866-215-2229.  
www.cjspub.com  initialsJME, size 103/4; engraved  2247.  Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential  
space reserved.  within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9!14  (Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call  Buy!Sell N.O. football tickets. 289­ SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
Michigan game, stadium student  Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607­ 8048 or astrog999@aol.com  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
Attention Spring Breakers Travel  section or on field. Jon Mack 309 Zahm, 634-1090.  FOR SALE  723-7363  WANTED: ND tickets· HIGHEST  Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free lnformation!Reservalions 1-800­ 
Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals  LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 112 mile from  PRICES PAID 251-1570  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  ND. Basement, garage, safe and  
Most Reliable www.sunsplash­tours.com 1-800-426-n10  WANTED  FOR SALE ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD- private. $640/mo. Great location ­1122 Woodward Ave. Call 360­ ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  Brazil is the greatest country in the world.  
ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  2500  PRICES 289-9280  
#1 Spring Break VacationslMexico,  $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd edu  That Hansel is so hot right now...  
EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY -The  Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas!  BED & BREAKFAST Football  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  
 
deadline to reserve space for dis- Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices.  weekends for ND parents. Two  SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  Sunday night sex show and fat  
play advertising is 3 pm two pub­lishing days prior. The ad copy  Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com  FOR RENT  nights minimum. 10 min. from cam­pus. 272-5640  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT•  dolphin bOy... now that's entertain­ment  
needs to be in by 12 pm the day  ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  
before the ad 1s to run. THERE  I'm glad I brought my tuberculosis  
- WILL BE NO EXCEPTIONS!!! If ad  Make $320 Weeki Sunchase Ski  All size homes available for 2003­ LEASING FOR 2003-2004  2 tickets "YES" at Morris Oct. 27,  with me to the Observer tonight...  
1s received after the noon deadline,  and Beach Breaks. sales Rep.  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN•  7th row, great seats. Face value.  
the ad WILL NOT RUN and the  positions available now. Largest  www.mmmrentals.com  T ANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM- Wanted: single GA Stanford or Pitt.  I'm very upset that I do not have  
advertiser will be billed for the  commissions. Travel Freel 1-800­ PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED- Jim 234-7228.  any Buger King right now...  
space reserved.  SUNCHASE ext 123. WWW.SUN·  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT  
CHASE.COM  RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS.  NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY  Hi, Adrienne!!!  Keep that pride  
PIT SALES WOMENS BOUTIQUE RETAIL EXP PFRD. $8/HR 10-20  Earn ex1ra money evenings sched•  CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS•  PERSONAL  alive;)  
HRS/WK. SEND RESUME TO  uling appointments and making  CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING  Whoa! Geez ....  
NOELLES 2500 TOPSFIELD RO  customer calls for local State Farm  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
#207 SOUTH BEND, IN 46614  agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights,  has space available for football/par­ (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 ­ not go it alone. If you or someone  Wow, I can't handle the new Real  
you choose from Tuesday­ ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  (574)674-2471  you love needs confidential support  World....  
Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must  hot breakfast, $80-$115,  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
$250 a day potential/bartending  be enthusiastic with great telephone  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  Hiiiii, this is Kathy.  Is Candle there?  
Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556  presence. Fax resume to 574-232­9984.  Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487.  TICKETS  more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  Tag team back again  

Tuesday, October I, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Bye week hurts Notre Dame in latest index 
This was not tho most exciting week on nir:ord in college foot­ball and not just because Notre Dame didn't play. DcspitP tho absence of a marquee matchup, srveral inturnsting upsets pro­vided a reason to watch college football 
instead ol' Saturday aft<'rrnmn infom0r­
cials. Don'L 
gill us wrong, though; WP. love 


devices that 
Eric 

let us seal 
Chanowich 

our food in 
air-tight bags or sol­.'·,ports vents to Columnist miraxu­lously n'move stains just as much as the next guy. 
A big day in Iowa 
The state of Iowa rnjoiced as lmva and Iowa State both knocked off major college foot­ball powerhouses on Saturday. 
Iowa blew a 22-point fourth­quarter lead. only to pull out a gritty 42-:15 overtime win in llappy Valley against former No. 14 Penn State. The I lawkeyes moved up 13 spots to No. 32. 
lo'vrn takes on Purdue, Michigan State and Indiana in its next three games and may enjoy a 7-1 record heading into back­to-back showdowns against \1ichigan and Wisconsin. Don't be too surprised if the llawkeyes arn battling for a Hose Row! bid later this season. 

Let's try the usually ineffective transitive property out here: Penn State beat Nebraska. Iowa beat Penn State. Iowa State should beat J\iehraska, right? You got it. 
Iowa State also scored the seconu major victo­ry of the weekend for the state of Iowa, as the squad defoatcd Nebraska in Ames. The Cyclones took a 19-7 lead into the locker room at halflimc and never 

looked back. With the 36-14 win, lovva State made a huge leap from No. !'i3 to No. 28. Iowa State Heisman hopeful Seneca Wallace looked less than impressive passing, going 19-32 for 222 yards, one touchdown and two interceptions. When his arm failed. his legs made up for it, as he rushed for 50 yards and two touchdowns and avoided taking a sack. 
Seminoles slip in slop 
In monsonn-Iike conditions on Thursday night, Florida State was not exactly the football equivalent of a "mudder" in horse racing. 
Despite less than favorable passing conditions, Louisville's Dave Ragone managed to com­plete 15 of 27 passes for 182 yards and two touchdowns as the Cardinals defeated the Seminoles 26-20 in overtime. After Louisville intercepted Chris Rix on the first overtime series, Cardinals running back Henry Miller countered with a 25-yard run to give Louisville the upset victory. 
Florida State fell only one spot to No. 3. Because Florida State has previously beaten Iowa State. the Cyclones' big win against Nebraska helped to miti­gate the effects of the Seminoles loss in the S(mdwich Index. 
In their next three games, the Seminoles face No. 23 Clemson, No. 1 Miami and No. 8 Notre Damf'. 
Irish update 

While the Irish did not play this weekend, they fell four spots in the Sendwich Index to No. 8. Other teams were able to make up ground with quality wins this weekend or improvement by teams that they had previously hcaten. 
Ohio State. Oklahoma, Georgia and Wisconsin all leaped over· the Irish in the rankings. Perhaps Notre Dame's current No. 8 ranking is more realistic than last week's No. 4, as the Irish are ranked No. 9 in both the AP and coaches' polls. 
The views expressed in this are ofthe authors and not neces­sarily those ofthe Observer. Contact Eric Chenowich at echenowi@nd.edu and Eric Sendlebach at esendelb@nd.edu. 

Restatement of Advertising Policies: 
The Observer would like to remind all advertisers of the policies that are helpful to both the client and the staff of the newspaper. 
All advertising MUST be reserved by 3pm, two days prior to its run date. No advertising can be reserved after this deadline, except for birthday ads. 
All advertising MUST be received by the Observer office no later than 12pm the day prior to the ads run date. For instance, if an ad is to run on Tuesday, it must be received by Monday at 12pm. 
>If an ad is reserved and does not arrive, the organization can and will be billed for the reservation of that ad. All ads must be cancelled two days prior to the run date by 3pm. 
>Corrections or new ad material must be submitted 2days prior to the advertisement's appearance. 
>The advertiser agrees that the Observer will be free of responsibility for any errors that do not decrease the value of the advertisement. 
Any questions about these policies can contact The Observer's Advertising Department at 631-6900 and can be answered by any staff member. We apologize for any inconveniences that these policies may cause, but these policies will benefit both the staff and the advertiser. 

Uniwrsify (}{Noire Damt 
SUMMER LONDON 2003 and 2004 
ORIENTATION -INFORMATION MEETING 
For all newly admitted Summer 2002 participants and those interested in Summer 2003 and 2004 
page lG 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles host MIAA, Calvin takes meet 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spores Ediror 
Saint Marv's had thP honor of hosting the M.JAA Jamboree for men's and women's cross country Saturday, but all the glory went to Calvin College in the meet. 
The Knights finishnd with runners in the top five spots, easily winning the race by 48 points over their nearest com­petitor, Hope College. 
Calvin ·s Jessie Lair took home top honors, fir1ishing tlrn course in 18 minutes, 34 sec­onds -20 seconds ahead of teammate Sarah Hastings. 
The Helles finished at the bottom of the seven \11AA schools in attendance with 176 points. just one spot behinrl Adrian College in sixth place. 
The meet marked only the second time in school history that the Belles have held a meet on their home course. The team relished the oppor­tunitv. 
"I think it was really exciting [to be able to host] because we had a lot of students come out to participate either in watch­ing or running the meet," Belles junior Jackie Bauters said. "It's nice to have every­one on our turf one time in the season. 

Bauters was the top finisher for the Relles in ~0th place with a time of 20:55. She was followed by teammates Laura Ficker in 35th, Jessica Kosco in 54th, Jennie Buehler in 62nd and Risa Zander in 67th. 
The Belles showed consisten­cy through their front five, as only l:ll separated the first and fifth place runners for Saint Mary's. 
"Most of our team ran per­sonal bests in the meet, so I think we are very happy with how we finished as a team," Bauters said. "This gives us something positive to huild on for the next MIAA meeting at the end of the season.•· 
In addition, Belles' juniors Jessica Millanes and Jennifer Bartalino finished 77th and 83rd, respectively. 
The Belles race again Saturday at the Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational at Loyola at 10 a.m. 
Note: 
. The men's MIAA cross coun­try meet was also held at Saint Mary's Saturday. The men's race was won by Calvin College with 19 points, 49 ahead of Albion in second. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 1, 2002 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Salas, Stastny win tourney 
. Doubles team knocks off pair from Northwestern in final 
By MARK ZAVODNYIK 
Sports Writer 
Junior Alicia Salas lcrl the Notre Dame womens tennis team this weekend at the adi­das Invitational in Peachtree City, Georgia. Salas and her doubles partner, freshman Kristina Stastny, won the R flight championship. 
The pair began lhe tourna• ment with a tough match against Duke. It 
would "Lauren Connelly had a playPr prove to good weekend. She advanced past 
be the the first round
played real aggresil'e." 
toughest in the A f1ight. match of In the first the week­Jay Louderback round, fresh­
e11d, said 
coach

Stastny. 
After a h a r d fought vic­tory, the pair rolled into the finals with an easy victory over Tennessee's Erin Cohn and Claudia Farace. In the final, Salas and Stastny cruised to an 8-4 triumph over Northwestern's Jaime Peisel and Kristi Romer. 
There were two flights of both singles and doubles, and the players were split up according to skill into either the A or B !light. Neighbours both advanced to 
The Invitational featured the quarterfinals. Freshmen some of the best teams in the Jenni!'cr Smith and Kelly nation, including Duke, Nelson also won matches in 
Tennessee, Florida, and Northwestern. The Irish felt the strength of the other teams in singles action. 
Salas, the 86th ranked player in the country was 

upset ·by Northwestern's Andrea Yung in straight sets, 6-0, 6-3. It was Salas' fifth sin­gles loss in her last 36 match­
es. 

Only one Irish 
man Lauren Connrlly played well and earned an upset win 
o v e r Northwestern's Jessica Rush. Connelly beat Hush, the 52nd ranked player in the country, 6-3, 6-4. 
"Lauren Connelly had a good weekend," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "She played real aggressive. Lauren just out-hit her." 
In the B llight of the singles draw, sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly and junior Emily 
straight sets in B
"We felt very 
flight.comfortable. We have fun F o r Salas, it
playing to_qether." 
was the second Krsitina Stastny time in as doubles partner m a n y 
weeks she 
advanced 
to the final of an event. Last week, Salas fought her way to the Gnal match in the singles draw of the Prince Cup Invitational in Columbus, Ohio before los­ing to Eastern Michigan's Lisa D'Arnelio. 
Stastny said that she was really confident playing with Salas. 
"We felt really comfortable," Stastny said. "We have fun playing together." 
Drspite their success. it has not been decided if Salas and Stastny will remain doubles partners. The team will keep trying different combinations of players to see which players play best with each other, said Louderback. 
The Irish do not play again until the Omni Hotels Midwest Championships in East Lansing, Mich. on Oct. 24-29. 
Contact Mark Zavodnyik at rnzavodny@nd.edu 

Wed: OCT. 2, 2002 at 7:00pm 136 DeBartolo Hall 
Or call Summer London Office at 1-0622 for application and information 
Tuesday, October 1 , 2002 Thi' Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Lyons' defense provides only score in 7-0 win 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spom Wmer 
Dcfonsive back Becky Wynne may wear number eight for Lyons Hall (2-1-ll, but she sum plays like No. 34 of the Irish. 
\Vith two interceptions, one rcturnrd fhr the only toui-hdown of' the game, Wynne had the kind of gam<\ Sunday that resPmbled one of Notm Dame's Vontez Ouff 
On Wynne's first interception, lhe intended McG!inn r<!ceiver rleflectf'd the errant pass, and Wynnn instinctivnly caught it and ran it back Crom her own 20 yard !il1(~ 
"I did what I had to do," said Wymw. "Our defense is working togrtlwr n~ally wrll, and we are rnally coming along well. The dcfl'llSP played great today." 
The I.ions had to play well on drfonse to stop a spread out Mr.Glinn attack that featured On'Kay Wong at wide receiver. Al 5'2", Wong played bigger than lrnr height, catching almost every ball that came her way. 
I!ow<wer. once in the red zone, the Shamrocks had trouble pulling points on tbr board. AltPr Tuesday's solid 13-12 victo­ry ovnr L!\Wis. l\lcGlinn was dis­appoinl!id with the loss. especial­ly bPcaus<i thnv were unable to scorP. On a" positive note. McGlinn did not give up an offen­siVP touchdown to the Lions. who feature big play receiver Holly Law. Law caught a ten-yard out, and turnrd it into a 40 yard gain. 
This Week in 

breaking three tackles on her way to the !'vtcGlinn 20-yard line. The Shamrock defense. led by Jessica Fedor, stopped the Lions short of the goal. 
Regardless, f.yons Hall showed a little bit of Irish in them, as their offense let their defense do the scoring. It was enough, how­ever, and Wynne was glad to have scored to win the game. 
"I think our defense has gotten a lot better, and we totally play as a team now. But I'm not going to say what we arP doing differently, because that's a secret that we don't want anyone to know." Wynne said. 
Walsh 12, Farley O 
That was what Farley team captain Nikki Parker wanted from her team heading into Sunday's matchup against the Wild Women of Walsh. 
"Hight now we're really look­ing for consistency and to work togPther," sairl Parker, whose winless team was hungry for a big win. 
Unfortunately, the losing streak continued as the Finest were never able to find their rhythm, suffering a 12-0 loss and giving Walsh Hall its first win of the season. 
The scoreless first half saw both teams struggling to gain an edge. Tight coverage on the long pass kept the Farley team alive, preventing the Wild Women from capitalizing on an early intercep­tion. 
Yet the Wild Women came out ready in the second half, reveal­ing their offensive strength with a nifty sPqrnmcP of reverses and options. Quarterback Carrie Campbell showcased her fine decision-making skills as well as her running abilities, putting her team on the board first and never looking back. 
Plagued by offensive miscom­munication, Farley managed to hold off a Walsh r.harge at the goal line late in the second half, but after Walsh's Amanda Borys returned an interi-eption for a touchdown, the Finest seemed shaken. Walsh would later add another intrrcrption with time winding down to cap off their win. 
"Carrir Campbell did a really great job running the offense today," said Wulsh team capitain Alison Troy. "It fepJs so great to get our first win." 
Badin 26, Pasquerilla West 6 
The Badin Bullfrogs came out hopping on Sunday afternoon against Pasquerilla West (1-3), scoring a touchdovrn ,-vithin min­utes of the first whistle on their way to victory over the Purple Weasels. 
"We just didn't come out fir­ing," said Pasquerilla. West cap­tain and quarterback Leslie Schmidt. 
But the Bullfrogs certainly did, relying on the strong offensive and defensive play of former var­sity soccer player Jen Carter to lead the team to its third win of the season. Although unable to capitalize on an early intercep­tion, Badin's passing game allowed the Bullfrog's to make long gains that left them with a comfortable 13-0 lead at half­time. 
The Purple Weasels remained persistent, however, and an interception P.arly in tho second half sparked an offensive charge that would result in a Pasquerilla West touchdown. 
Taking advantage of the poor defensive coverage that plagued the Weasr,Js all afternoon, Badin responded quickly with a touch­down of their o-wn and preceded to dominate the rest of the gamr,, adding another touchdown to make the finul score 26-6. 
"Our team has great spirit, but unfortunately, we're lacking in experience," Schmidt said. 
Captain Katir Bears. on the other hand, saw only positives for her Badin team, now 3-1 in the lcagul'. 
"Our offensive just keeps get­ting better and better, and we also have really strong 'D'." Bears said. 
Howard 7, Pangborn O 
Pangborn's last-minute drive came up two yards short and 1loward secured their first victo­ry of the season, 7-0. 
In the battle of two winless teams, Howard (1-2), held on for the victory, as Pangborn (0-3) continued their offensive strug­gles. They have yet to score a touchdown this season. 
Howard scored on its first pos­session of the game on a pass 
Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 
Coleman-Morse Center or
www.nd.edu/~ministry 
check with your Rector. ·
¦L-..da-,------­
ML_d_a-,------­
spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. 

Freshman Retreat #43
oany Mass Zahm Hall Chapel 
12:00 p.m. -every day Retreat Date: November 8~9 Malloy Hall Chapel Law School Mass Sign:-UP dates: Septemer 30-November 4 
5:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse· Center · Campus Bible Study Law School Chapel 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. .Notre Dame Encounter.Retreat #73.~ 
114 Coleman-Morse Center MBA Mass 
Retreat Date: November ~5:17 · 
7:00 p.m. 

.$igifup d~tes:,Qctober !-Octo~r.11: _:
Confirmation Session #2 Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
Hi1~!eirlan_rMqr$f};Qe~ter., · · · 
7:00 -8:45 p.m. 
' ·..: <. ,··:.. ,·,•., -· ' -' ·,' -~· \ 
Siegfried Hall Chapel RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge

Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. 
Rejoice! Mass

St. Edward's Hall 
10:00 p.rn. Coleman Morse Chapel ·. Campus Ministry Retreats• '631-6633 
.;. • •, •,• M 
Celebrant: Fr. J. Steele, csc 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
WITHOUT YOU
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer Contribute a prayer to the new Campus Ministry Prayer Book! 
10:00 -11:00 p.m. 
Get details online at www.nd.edu/~prayers
Morrissey H all Chapel t..-.. ' 

Retreats 
807 Mass 
sign
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge 
Coleman-Morse Center 

from quarterback Sheena Ketchum to Meghan O'Keefe. 
Ketr.hum was ecstatic about the Ducks' first victory of the sea­son. 
"It really foels great to have finally won. We gained a lot of experience in the first two games, and we have really calmed down. It paid off today," she said. "On offense, we made a lot more plays, and the defense just played awesome." 
The stellar performance of the Howard defense included four sacks of Pangborn quarterback Charlotte Troupis. The Ducks were also helped by a strong spe­cial teams effort that pinned the Phoxes on the 5-yard line at the beginning of the second half. 
Just when it looked like the game was over, however, the Phoxes decided they weren't quite ready to lose their third game. With a little more than a minute remaining. Pangborn went to a no-huddle offense and began driving up the field. Aliya Riddle caught three consecutive passes to keep the Phoxes' hopes alive. 
Troupis, however, was forced out of the pocket during the next play but still found an open Riddle downfield. The ball was spotted at the 2-yard line, and just as the referee set it down, the clock expired. Riddle was obviously disappointed after a great individual effort. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarten at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
1 


page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 
REC SPORTS 

Water polo performs well at round robin 
whilP John Marchl'tta and Pat Macalesler, 13-6, and St. Olars, Dioni Rey. Shiel proved to be
Special to The Observer and was unavailable. Watts also whistled home 13-4. The Irish bli>ndi>d experi­the club's best disc handler The Irish expect to be at full goals. The stage was now set enced players with an equal while Hey was an exceptional strength when they next playfor the showdown with defend­
number of rookies. Newcomers cutter all weekend, getting October 19-20, hosting
Mens water polo 
ing champion and top ten Patrick \,lerrrll and brothers huge separation on evory cut ~orthern Michigan.
The mens water polo club nationally ranked Grand Valley Chris and Scan O'Neil rose to and making the long cuts for gave notice that they are again State. 
the occasion on defense Shicl's money throws. Juniors 
one of the premier teams in the The Grand Valley ganrn had Sailing
throughout the tournament. Reth kub and Jill Scarborough
Great Lakes f.onference by been circled on Irish calendars Jack Gaither led the sailing
Next up for the Irish was displayed intensity and scoring
sweeping thP first conference and lived up to its advance club into regional qualifiers a-t 
Kansas, and the Irish won con­ability as well, giving promise
round robin, at the UnivPrsitv billing. Grand Valley jumped the MCSA Single-handed
vincingly 13-6, advanciug the l'or rest of the year.
of Toledo. in dominating style.· out to an early 1-0 lead, but the Championships this weekend at 
club to the showdown with
In the opener, the Irish Irish stormed back behind Northwestern University. Final 
Minnesota. Mistakes by veter­Womens ice hockey 
whitewashed Ball StatP, 16-0. goals from Krouse anrl Prmilla results will not be posted by the Tri-captains Jay Deimel, John to hold a 2-1 lead at the quar­ans in three situations would In its inaugural games this MCSA until Wednesday after all I'enilla and Keith Rauenbuehler ter. Momentum swung against eventually prom the difference weekend as a member of the protests and appeals are ruhid each had two goals. while Greg the Irish as Grand Valley as tlrn Golden Gophers won tho WCHA. the women's ice horkev upon, but it appears at this Krouse and Greg Szewczyk scored four straight goals to championship l :~-11. The Irish club was shut out twice by time that the Irish did not qual­added two and three goals then dropped a consolation Western l\lichigan. A tightly ify anyone for nationals in this
open the second quartrr, only
respectively. Devlin McCormick to see Rauenbuehler, Grow, game to St. John's, as tho club contestrd first period 1mded 0-0 event. 
and Penilla shared goaltending and Deimel knot the score at turned the game ovnr to their in Saturday's game, and then duties in blanking the five. The second half was just rookies to gain some valuable the floodgates opened as the Field hockey
Cardinals. experience. Broncos found the back of the
as close •with each team match­
The Field Hockey club 
In tlrn second round. Lewis Despite some standout indi­net repeatedly in posting the
ing the other's heroics until in opened play by hosting Lake University played a fast up­the end. the Irish held on for an vidual performances, the wom­10-0 victory. Goalie Anne Shore of Chicago at the Riehle tempo game hoping Lo outshout exciting l 0-8 victory. The two ens squad dropped matches to \Venger played well, making 
Field on Saturday. The club 
the Irish in a game featuring all four opponrmts during the save after save, but the Irish
teams are likely to meet again dropp<)d a 5-1 decision to Lake 
little defense. The strategy rainy and cold event. Timid were unable to mount a sus­
for the conference champi­Shore, a co-ed club comprised
backfired however. as the Irish onship. play by several rookies resulted tained attack or keep posses­
of former collegiate players
stornH'd to a 2(1-11 victon'. The Irish are back in action in an oprning round <J-4 loss to sion of the puck l'or long. 
from throughout the lVlidwest. 
Penilla and Deimel paced tl1e Macalastcr. In the second On Sunday, the Irish were
rrnxt weekend at Kalamazoo, An enthusiastic crowd clrnered 
attack with five goals apiece, and will host the Great Lakes round. the Irish wern much much more competitive in the young Irish squad on whilP 1\1ikc Ciro\\ splaslwd in Conference Championships OcL morn competitive but fell to St. dropping a 4-0 game. Wostern against a very experiencedthree more. 18-20 at Rolfs Aquatic Cimter. Olaf' by an 8-6 score. The Irish Michigan scored sixteon sec­opponent, and was rewarded 
"You always worry about a came closest to victory in the onds into tho game, and later 
with the lone Irish goal in the 
let down when playing weaker third round before losing a sud­added a pair of power play final period. Colleen Harkin's
Ultimate
opponents, but we came out den death 9-8 thriller to goals. Wenger again had a deflected Kathy Zeidler's hit
The Ultimate rlub's mens and

,vith good focus and intensity, Kansas. The Irish lost some key strong game in goal. posting 22 from the top of the circle for a
womens squads stepped up to
and beat two teams we should players to injury in this game. saves. De!'onscrnen Nell Ryan, short corner goal. Backs Maura
face some of the midwest's best
have beaten," Deimel said. and put up little resistance to Liz Klimek and Colleen Bell Kennedy, Chris llettel and
competition this weekend at
The Irish displayed their Minnr1sota in an 11-2 loss. played well under pressure Katie Schuster, midfieldPr
Minnesota's Exit 69
depth in the third round, Despite the losing record, the without any relief. Two Irish Katie Butler, and goalie
Invitational.
defeating the host Rockets 15-1 Irish did take comfort in the starters missed the conl!ists Summer Shea all turned in as the bench saw significant The mens squad finislwcl :-Hl combination of Saint Mary's due to injuries, while a third strong defensive efforts as Lakr, playing time. Greg Krouse led in pool play on Saturday, freshman Lizzy Shiel, a former competed for Saint Mary's var­Short kept up the attack the scoring with three goals defeating Carleton, 13-8, junior national player, and sity golf team over the weokend througout the contest. 
Information Meeting 
Perth, Australia 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 
5:00 PM 
For Students in the Colleges of Science and Engineering 
Application deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/,..,intlstud 

Tuesday, October I, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pangborn, McGlinn meet for first time 
By ERIK POWERS and 
HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spom Writers 
A majority of the womens intrrhall football grrmris fea­turn a bit of history, underly­ing animosities resulting from past wins and losses or impm·­tant rivalry games. 
Tonight's game between Pangborn and McGlinn will be devoid of any pre-manifested drama, as the neighbors from the South Quad meet for the first time in the regular sea­
son. 
At 0-3, Pangborn has yet to experience victory. but Charlotte Troupis kno~s what the team needs to do m order 
QUALITY Service • Student Discounts • Gift Certificates
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------,I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
to not1,;h its first win. Shamrocks. "We're trying to work as a "We like tn put a lot of pres-team," said Troupis. "We have sure on the quarterback, no 
amazing offensive talent. but 
we're not w o r king together as a team. Our 0 r f e n s e nerds to be put togeth­
er. T h e Phoxes run 
a West Coast offense, relying on Troupis to make short passes to leading receivers Aleah Riddle and Liz Galezio. Bul Troupis will have to make quick decisions if she hopes to elude the rush of the 
"We like to put pressure 
on the quarterback. no matter who it is." 
Jessica Laux McGlinncaptain 

Lewis and Lyons. A fluke touchdown on a tipped pass accounted for Lewis's lone score last game. McGlinn hopes to parlay this defensive strength into helping quartn­back Julie Kremer and the 
• Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
matter who it 1s, said McGlinn's mid-
die linebacker Jessica Laux. T h e Shamrocks (1­
l) have played strong defense in their first two games, allowing a total of 19 points to 
: I un;vers;ty Location: S.R. 23 & Ironwood : Corner of Grape & McKinley : Corner of Ireland & Ironwood 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------J 
I I I r.': 1965 FUNT ,i,N lftlC I I 
272-7653 
256-9656 291-2000 , 
steadily improving offense. 

"We want to have quick three-and-outs to give the offense bAtter field position." said Laux. · 
Laux is also not afraid to show her confidence when the Shamrocks face the l'hoxes. 
"We're going to have no problem with Pangborn, and we'll win pretty handily," said the McGlinn captain. 
Pangborn and McGlinn play at 9 p.m. at the West Hiehle fields. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Howard 
Howard will have its hands full in tonight's game against the red-hot Pyros of Pasquerilla East. 
Pasquerilla East (3-1) has not played a game in a week, 
..,.,. Tu6day -Friday 11-7 ., • Noelle's Double Saturday -11-5 ,~ for purchasesClosed: ~ 
over $100
Sunday and 11onday 
·--------------­

while Howard (1-2) is fresh off its first win of the season. 
Pasquerilla East is led by quarterback Abbey Coons, who clearly outplayed Pangborn's defense last week. Coons has had great protec­tion thus far this season, cour­tesy of an offensive line that features senior Lindsay Terifay. Coons, whose favorite target is Kathryn Lent, is excited to get back on the field after a week off. 
"I don't really think that not playing a game for a week will be a disadvantage. We had a lot of games in a row, so it was nice to have a break. We have really had a chance to rest and recuperate for Tuesday's game." 
Meanwhile, Howard looks to build on the confidence they gained with their first victory. Wide receiver Meghan O'Keefe scored the only touchdown of the game last Sunday, and quarterback Sheena Ketchum was very positive about the upcoming game. 
"In the last game, we really executed our plays, and I think we need to do more of the same in the future," Ketchum said. 
Pasquerilla East's defense is led by defensive backs Kelli Krimmel and Stephanie Yahn. Both will need to play well if Pasquerilla East wants to stop the Howard offense. On the other side of the ball, Howard's defense is coming off a shutout as well, and they look to put out Pasquerilla East's offensive fire today. 
Coons and the Pyros, howev­er, are not worried. 
"We just need to execute like we have all season," Coons said. "We have to make the passes and continue to drive up the field. However, for us to be successful, we have to convert those drives into scores." 
Contact Erik Powers at 
epowecs@nd.edu and Heather 
Van Hoegacden at 
hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Unique women's 
clothing & accessories 
for the classy, chic-You! 
• Any one item:
\00!~

1723 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN Edi,on 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 1, 2002 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles toppled by conference leader Alma 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spores E<liror 
The Belles took on the top team in the MIAA. 13-4 Alma College, and gave the Scots all they could ask for. 
Alma. who is 7-0 in confer­ence play, knocked ofT the 3-14 Belles -0-7 in the MIM -in three games but escaped with narrow victories in the last two of the match. 
"Alma is first in our confer­ence. and I thought that our players did extremely well play­ing against them even though we didn't win the match," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Bick said. "With them being first and us being last in the conferenrn at this point. I think we played very well against them." 
The Scots doubled up Saint Mary's in Game 1 30-15 but barely nipped the Belles 30-26 and 30-27 in the following two games. 
"The first game wasn't as well as we could play -we started out so slow," Schroeder-Bick 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
which relies on a complicated computer formula primarily emphasizing won-loss records and the ranking of an opponent when a given team playRd them. is one of seven computer polls used by the Bowl Championship Series. 
Computer polls count for 25 percent of the BCS rankings, which are first released on Oct. 
21. The worst individual com­puter ranking for each team is discarded and the other six are averaged to !ind a team's over­all computer ranking. At best, the Times' ranking counts for about 4.2 percent in the total BCS standings. 
Other factors that influence BCS rankings include the AP and coaches' polls, strength of schednle and won-loss record. 
For the first time in BCS his­tory, margin of victory is not included in any of the comput­er polls. Criticism arose last year when Colorado embar­rassed Nebraska late in the season, yet the Cornhuskers still sneaked into the champi­onship game against Miami ahead of Colorado and Oregon. 
To determine strength of schedule, the Times ranking calculates opponents' won-loss records excluding the games the two teams played against each other. In Notre Dame's case. its four opponents ­Maryland, Purdue, Michigan and Michigan State -are a collective 13-3 under the Times' system. 
On the other hand. Texas· 
four opponents -North Texas, 
North Carolina, Houston and 
Tulane -are a collective 6-8. 
But the Irish shouldn't get too 
excited over the high ranking, 
especially this early in the sea­
son. 
"It usually bounces around early in the season," Connelly said. "When the database expands and more information is available, the rankings inevitably sort themselves out." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
said. "We finished strong, but 
·that game just wasn't our best. The other two games could have gone either way. It was frustrat­ing that we didn't pull it out, but 1 saw a lot of good things out of people." 
about the only thing I was disap­pointed in -that we didn't put into play our quickest olfonse." 
The Belles now have a week off from MIM competition. They will play non-conference match­
es at 
Sophomore middle hitter Elise Rupright led the Belles  ''This is a week away from conference, and I'm really looking forward to  Manchester College Tuesday and at h o m o  
in kills with 103 while  this week of competition."  Thursdav against Tr(­ 
libero Jenny  S  t  a  t  e  
Wilkins paced  Julie Schroeder-Beck  University.  
the  team  in  Belles coach  "This  is  a  
digs with 13.  week  away  
Many Relics  from  confer­ 

saw playing time in the match. ence, and I'm really looking l'or­as the team used the game as an ward to this week of competi­opportunity for gaining experi­tion," Schroeder-Bick said. ''I'm ence against a strong opponent. hoping that the players will feel 
"[Freshman] Julianne Miller, confident enough to PXpPriment who is normally our middle hit­and come out of their comfort ter. didn't play because she has zone, because I've seen such been iJl, but other than every­huge improvement in this team body played," Schroeder-Biek over the past two weeks." said. "It was a good group effort. The sets were mixed around well. We are working on a Contact Chris Federico at quicker offense, and that was cfederic@nd.edu 

>mtWJivticiE!iilii ii ii 
SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL" INSTANT MESSENGER'" seivice TWO-WAY MESSAGING JAV4'" GAMES & 4PPLICATIONS 
DIGITAL CELLULAR 
i'lOc 

,oJ..,.,y tl,.e J.i~H-.,.,1 w....l~ie-t-..,.,1\:.ie WOV\:.S oyev seve.-....11-\l.l.\\.?.Ve.?. \'o\aes, A\\.A l:-ov-\ovvow, ""'Hol\wi.?.e. 
NEXTEL: 

Ycv.. \\evev \N\iss "'-"'-y+-l,;i....,:,; wL-.y sh".v+ \\Cw? t-te>Ctel's .Ai:,H-"'l wt'l.l\de-t"'l~ie .PeO\tv..ve lets yolA :,et viBl,..t tL-.vov..Bl,.. witL-. tL-.e plAsL-. 
o.P °" b1Atto\\. Tu"'-t \N\e<l'\\\S \\O 1Misse.A c"'-lls, v..\\cL-.ecke.A vcice ""'°"H cv pl-\o\\e t"'B· 1CG11.v.Se wl-\c l-\0\S ti1Me .Pcv "'-11 tl-\0\t wl-\e\\ ycl.\ C0\\\1t eve\\ .Aed~e wL-.G11.t tc weO\v? Now yc1A'..,e ..,e"'J..y-Bvi\\:, It. 
Now's °' ~..,e°'i-til••,e to Bet Ne>Ctel: .,,.11 1-!oi-ve t).,.,~e shvAe\\ts ~et .,.,\Oi('" d\lSCOL\\\i-o\\ "'-\\Y ...,.,te pl"'\\ "'-\\.A$too• a# "'-....y pho-....e. 
-ro 't,l.\y: 

# :,c tc \\e:><tel.ccl-\\/lv'is~-stl..\~e\.\t. 
# c.,..n tcll~vee l-871-s-0,-2.12.,. # cc\\tc:'\d-JDtvt Co!A-\IA-\1...\\\tC"'t-io\\s 
"'t ')74-24'3-,8' 18' 


Tuesday, October 1, 2002 Th/Observer . SPORTS 
I
• 


Columbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Arizona Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Wednesday, October 2 
7:00 pm 116 DeBartolo 
representatives from Biosphere and past participants from ND will be at this meeting 
sponsorecl h_1· the Centerfor E11viro11111e11tal Science & Tecl111o!ogl' at tile U11iversiry ofNotre Dame 

--IL­
Saint \!a.1;s Colle~ 
\O:RE D,\IE · [\):-\\., 


.fonday, October 7, 7:00 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Madelev Hall. SMC 
or 

Wednesday, October 9, 6:45 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India. 5courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Onen to all ND/S,1C students 
I\FOR'1ATIO\ A\D APPLICATIO\S AYAILABLE \ IOEO HIGHLIGHTS ALDI\I TO A\SWER QlESTIO\S 
ltinerm: Tokyo, Kyoto, Hong Kong, Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Lhasa (Tibet), Singapore, Bangkok, Saigon, Bali, Delhi, Agra, Jaipur, Ajanta, Ellora, Bombay, '.\lahabalipuram, Pondicherry, Tanjore, Trichy, '.\ladurai, Perirar, \lunaar, Cochin. More travel opportunities in Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 

Semester .-\round the World Program (574)284-4468 or 4473. Fax (574)28~-4866 Email: pu!lapil a1ai11t111arn.edu: http://lnn1..1aintrnarys.edu/law 

page 21 

-
Soccer 
continued from page 24 

teammate Brittany Hunsacker for the goal. One minute later, the Wildcats struck again on another set play. Battista sent a left side corner kick to Candice McDonald, .yhu passed the ball over to Johnson. Her shot from 15 feet on the left side of the goal landed beyond the reach of Irish goalie Erika Bohn, giving the Wildcats a definitive 2-1 lead. 
For the rest of the game, the Irish failed to capitalize on any 
of their scoring "On Sunday we were Irish will opportunities. host last­
good offensively, but
To make mat­
p l a c e

defensively we were
ters worse, Irish Pittsburgh.defender Melissa shaky." Two daysTancredi, who 
later, the was moved from 
Irish will hit

Randy Waldrum
her customary the road to forward .posi­Irish coach take on the 

"We had injuries, but that is not an excuse. We knew the injury situation before the game. The other team is not going to care if you have injuries. The fans are not going to care. They want to see results. We seem to be mak­ing the same mistakes over and over. It's my responsibility. I've got to find a way to get consis­tency from the players we have available." 
Although the Irish fell to fourth place, they could still win the Mid-Atlantic Division, but they must win their last two games and hope that Villanova, Georgetown, and West Virginia each lose two games. 
T h i s 
Friday, the 

tion, left the game with a knee injury. Tancredi did not return to play for Sunday's game against Georgetown. Her status for next weekend's games are still unknown at this time. 
Sunday proved to be another heartbreaker for the Irish. Jessie Beers-Altman's goal in the final minute of the game gave the Hoyas a 4-3 victory. Despite Amy Warner's hat trick, the depleted Irish defense simply could not contain Georgetown's star for­ward, who registered three goals of her own. 
Notre Dame scored first with Warner's goal just seven min­utes into the contest. Georgetown responded with two unanswered goals by Nicole DePalma and Beers-Altman. With five minutes left in the first half, Warner knotted the game at two with her second goal of the first half. 
The Irish reclaimed the momentum at the beginning of the second half with Warner's third goal of the game in the 60th minute, but the Hoyas refused to quit. With ten minutes left to go, Hoyas forward Sarah Colone sent a long thru-ball to Beers-Altman, who proceeded to tie the game once again. With 25 seconds left in regulation, Beers­Altman ended the game on a leaping header to secure the 4-3 victory. 
"On Sunday, we were good offensively, but defensively we were shaky," Waldrum said. 
first-place 

W e s t Virginia Mountaineers. If the Irish somehow win the division, they will earn the right to host the first round of the Big East Tournament. 
"We've put ourselves in a hole," said Waldrum. "These next two division games are almost like playoff games. We need to really work on our defense in training this week, and we need someone else to 
-
step up for us on offense other than Amy Warner. She has car­ried us all season, but we are going to need more than her to get it done." 
Notes: 
.The 
Irish again played without starting defenders Vanessa Pruzinsky and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir. Pruzinsky has only seen action in one game all season. Her availability for the rest of the season is still in doubt. Gunnarsdottir will be out at least another week with a stress fracture in her foot. 

. 
The Irish also played without senior captain Ashley Dryer, who injured her ankle the week before in the Irish's victory over Rutgers. Her status for next weekend's games has yet to be determined. 


Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 






-
AROUND THE NATION 
page 22 COMPILED FH0M THE OBSEHVEH WlllE SEHVJCES Tuesday, October I, 2002 

tl:iam New Yoric 
80.S!Oll Ta~nlo lla!lfmore 

nm11a Bay 55406. ,342 .>Mh, 
Atneticart te~e C~ntr~t 
t(:)'Mtd W!f'\ last Ht Minnesota• ~-ti1• / Ji84 .. 5-4\ C!Jit:11110 6Nl1 ···•· ,500 ·!F5 
c1eve1aiid .. · Rea •. \;3~j)4sf ·.<· 4•& \
Kansas City 62~100 tt Oftrlilt .55:;1®\ <342 ~qr r 
American League We$t 
foam•· 
O,illalld 
Aiiahetm· · 
Sealtle 
Tetat 

·.·. iJarn·
=~:al 

.. t~;::lphia .:::; <.::)=~ :•I :::::: •.· •.·•.•.•·•·········•·:.••. 
:.·.•···•.···••.••.•·.•.~.t.•.c.~'..;.·.·.•.·•.···••.•·-•·.•.••.'·•···.•····

ltewJQtlC ••• W+t6 : AS6 $;:':f: "'It u. 
-
I 
I 
L___ ­
.·record per~> 1&.5rro J;~; >i: 
103·5B :640 IH ~-69 ·.$74 1-3 ni.tl4 · ,461 IH · 
recoru .~;ttX last to\ 
1Cll•~~> ''ltiS&• 1H /99•63 • ) )d.)1 itd( 93·69 \J:i'?if ··· ·•··•5•5•\ ... 
72."~ID · ::)4~4, .. :J-7. 
. . . a.fj ' 
Nath,h~l c~ijiit• Ea$l/ \• •·i> ·· 
.··1•~;ra.:;;~~t.i;..1~(1Jt .•v&/•+··
·• .:i9;: :!I~~~f Jj;;: , .t4:tt· 
·•.·.·•.··•·.•··•.·.•.•.t ..•·.·,.•.•.•.··.••.·•.··.·•.·.•.·.•.··...·...·
.,,, .,
·•·· Ji/ ' •···• 
. 4 

········•]tJ·\·•••: 
•00' > •· 
.;'.;:) > 
·1iff5< 
...·.o.'·.:.~•...•.c..' 


around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Minnesota at Oakland 4 p.m., FOX Anaheim at NY Yankees 8 p.m., FOX 
NFL 


API Photo 
Baltimore's Jamal Lewis (31) breaks a tackle by Sam Brandon (42) of the Denver Broncos and then goes into the end zone for a second quarter touchdown. The winless Ravens stunned the Broncos with a 34-23 victory. 
Ravens upset Broncos in 34-23 win 
Associated Press 

BALTIMORE 
Winless no more. the Baltimore Ravens made a mockery of the unbeaten Denver Broncos long before Chris McAlister taunted them during the longest play in NFL history. 
McAlister returned a missed field goal 108 yards to put an exclamation point on an incredible second quarter, and the Ravens cruised to a 34-23 victory Monday night. 
Outscored 35-7 in its first two games, Baltimore (1-2) set a team record with a 31-point second quarter. The topper came on an 
IN BRIEF 

Knicks forward arrested on assault charges 
New York Knicks forward Kurt Thomas was arrested on charges of assaulting his wife, and he did not accompany the team to training camp Monday. 
There was more bad news for the Knicks: A broken bono was discovered in Latrell Sprnwell's right hand. lfo will have surgery Tuesday and will be out at least six WP.c~ks. 
Thomas was arrested at his home in Greenwich, Conn., for third-degree assault and risking injury to a minor. Bail was set at $1,000, police said. No other details were roleascd. 
Tho Knicks said "tho organization is going to be as helpful as possible to the Thomas family during this di11icult time." The team didn't release any other information on Thomas' status. 
The Knicks arc coming off their worst season in 15 years and now facf1 the prospect of beginning their season without at least one expected starter. 
Thomas is New York's starting cen­alert play by McAlister and yet another gaffe by the Broncos' special teams. 
With one second left in the half and Baltimore up 24-3, Denver's Jason Elam came up short on a 57­yard field goal try. McAlister caught the ball deep in the end zone, then hesitated before bringing it out. 
Following a crushing block by Ray Lewis on Keith Burns at the Baltimore 5, McAlister broke to his left and easily outran the coverage. lie began waving the ball over his head at the Denver 25 and high-stepped the rest of the way into the end 
ter, while Sprewell -the team's sec­ond-leading scorer last season -is the starting small forward. 
Sprewell told Knicks trainer Mike Saunders that he injured his hand sometime during the summer, although he was not sure exactly when or how. Tflsts revealed a dis­placed fracture of the fifth metacarpal on his right hand. He will be in a cast for a month. 
Jordan also has plan to help
him last the season 
Michael .Jordan isn't ready to give up his spot in the starting lineup just yet. 
Jordan said Monday he'll keep an ''open mind" about the possibility of playing this season as a backup for the Washington Wizards, but Im would prefer to be on the floor at tipoff. 
Speaking for the first time since last week's announcement that he would play this season, .Jordan also outlined a new plan to help him last the sea-zone. 
"That's the way we prac­tice it," McAlister said at halftime. "I watched and hung in the end zone and let my guys set up the wall. All I saw was purple jer­seys and green until I hit the end zone." 
McAiister's 108-vard romp topped the reco~d of 106 yards, set three times previously on kickoff returns. The last time it happened was when Roy Green of the St. Louis Cardinals took a kickoff all the way against Dallas in 1979. 
McAlister's second career touchdown all but spelled the end for the 
son: He's overhauled his workout regi­men, and he probably won't play in any exhibition games. 
The Wizards open training camp Tuesday in Wilmington, N.C. 
During the summer. Jordan and coach Doug Collins discussed the pos­sibility of No. 23 coming off tho bench to save wear and tnar on his knees. 
"Obviously there's been some con­versation in terms of what my position will be," Jordan said. "I think even Doug at this moment has determined that. I do have an open mind in terms of making some adjustments. 
"But for the most part I go in with the idea that I want to play minutes, important minutes. If Doug feels. aftnr seeing me play and seeing how the development of our team is, that I can possibly support the team bntter com­ing off the bench, I will (mtertain that thought." 
"Then again," he added, "if I'm playing well enough to start, hopP-fully I can get to that point, too. Nothing's been determined." 
Broncos {3-1). who were victimized as much by their own mistakes as they were by an inspired Baltimore team looking for redemp­tion. 
Brian Griese was inter­cepted three times, Tom Rouen had a punt blocked and Pro Bowl cornerback Deltha O'Neal was ejected in the second quarter for bumping head linesman Tom Stabile while protest­ing a pass interference call. 
The Ravens' Robert Tate took the second-half kick­off 64 yards to set up a field goal to make it 34-3. The Broncos fought back, but it was too big a hole. 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 711e Observer . TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLDCLARE O'BRIEN 

JUMBLE

SCHOOL DAZE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJCtJM®Ibfil 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FLOTY 

I I I b
Cl2002 Tribune Media Serviees. Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
NOTIX 

I I I lu 
URQUOM

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
THIS WIL-1... MAKE

[J I b 
5UMME::R WORl<eRS
www.jumble com 
0l5APPE=AI<. 

tLAMAMM I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise af\swer, as
I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: rX I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: KINKY IDIOT BETRAY CRAVAT Answer: What Mom resorted to when the dog needed a bath -A "DIRTY" TRICK 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 30 • To ord8f, sand your name, address and S5.9S end make check i;1ayable lo Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
-------=-=-=-=============================================----=----=-=----=-=-=----=-=-=-=-=--=-=-=--=----=-=--=-=-=--=-=-=-=-=-=--=-=-=--=-=-=--=-=--=--=----=-=--=----=--=--=----=-=--=-­





CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 Regal 61 Joanne of headdresses "Abie's Irish
1 Bil of street art Rose·3-4 Social misfit6 Taken wing 62 Guys' prom36 Pentium maker 

11 Toast topping attire, informally 14 Japanese 63 Continental
38 Fivescore yra. 
automaker 39 Enter, as data divide? 15 Part of a TV 64 Shade tree 
40 No longertransmission 

working: Abbr. 65 Minute _ (thin 16 Have_at cut)
41 Singer Twain 17 Character actor 66 Down and out
43 Numberin the Cowboy cruncher, for
Hall of Fame 

short DOWN 19 Modern: Prefix 
44 Boo-boo 1 Moonshiner's 20 Mand\ikova of mixture
47 Cultural values tennis 2 Bruins' sch.
48 Big inits. on the
21 A.A.A. 

Net 3 Totally trash
suggestion: Abbr. 49 like a habanero 
4 Gardin rival 

pepper s Pool distance 22 Redecorate 
24 Actress Long or 51 Nabokov novel 6 It's the truth Peeples 53 Agenda, for 7 Gospel writer 26 Jelly fruit short 8 Poetic homage 27 Alter-hours pool 57 Dory need 9 They start use, maybe pitches
58 Panhandler's 30 Most of "The 41 Decathlon event 51 Square mileage 32 "Phooey!" request 10 "Uh-uh!" Wizard of 0-z:' 
42 Stem or Hayes 52 Place to won.
11 15th-century 
31 Beaabby

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Flemish painter 45 Halloween 54 "Trick" joint
32 Gone bearer characters


-.-r~T~E~D:=i 12 Pulitzer winner 55 Dated expletive RV A James 
35 Kind of 46 _-Lorraine "fingerprint" 56 Refuse 
49 Took a tram, 18 Farsi speaker 
37 Designer Head e.g. 59 Woodcutter's C A E E D 13 Drop anchor tool
r-=+::.~:­

23 Like Doily the 39 Green Hornet's 50James clone sidekick Carter 60 Snookums 
25 Part of IHOP: Abbr. Answers to clues in this puz.zle are available by touch-tone 26 Designer 
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Versace Annual subSCfiptions are available for the best of Sunday aosswords from lhe last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
27 Trig figures Online subscriptions: Today's puz.zle and more than 2,000 
F L -:+.:+,+:-E Y 28 Orchestra past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). R I L =+,,,+,,+.,,-N s percussion Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, 0 B E ~~-L T O 29 Pleasure craft nylimes.comlleaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of informatfon on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

... 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julie Andrews. Walter Matthau. Jimmv 
Carter, Stella Stevens · Happy Birthday: This will be a fast-paced year for you. You will be given opportunities that mosl people can only dream about. You will have the chance lo reach whatever goal you set for yourself. You will have terrific idea~ that will put you ahead of your peers. You will face competition with class and this will resull in greater popularity. Your numbers are 12. 19. 27, 33. 35, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Strive to make alterations 10 your domestic 
scene. You will want to avoid disputes. Some family members may be difficult to 
deal with. Keep the whole family busy working. ***** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will make new friends if you get out and mingle. 
Your communication skills and your intelligence will be attractive to those you come 
in contact wilh. ** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your inclination to overdo things and to avoid 
situations could be your undoing. Don't give in to your escapist tendencies. Pace 
yourself. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Pay attention to your intuition. You are more 
perceptive than you think. Your partner may not be completely honest with you. Do some investigating.*** tEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Deception is probable. Don't take anyone into your 
confidence or reveal your personal secret~. Search for diverse groups. !l's necessary 
for you to become a memberof aclub or organization. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): You may be confused about whether you are supposed 
to get logether with friends at a particular lime. Be conscientious when making 
purchases. Do not overextend yourself financially. *** 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): Be ready lo make concessions. Focus your attention 
on a real estate investment Take adrive through area, where you'd like to live. **** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can release a lot of pent-up energy with 
outdoor activities. Be sure to look after the needs of loved ones. Look in10 wavs of 
improving your sUJIDundings. ** · 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Discard useless worn-out concepts and 
explanations. You have to motivate yourself. Take charge of your affairs. It's time to 
initiate new programs. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Steer clear of comment, thal will come back 10 
haunt you. Your partner will be easily hurt if you don'Lshow them lhat you care.*** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't neglect any problems you have with skin. bones 
or teeth. Your positive altitude will bring you respect from others. Don't be afraid 
to say what you think at social galherings. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Entertaining in your home will be successful. Your 
wannth and generosity will attract members of the opposite sex. Romantic interaction 
will be productive. *** · 
Birthday Baby: You will be sure of y011rself and have the discipline and creative ability to follow through with your plans. You will always wanl lo be sure that you are doing what's best for everyone. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at aslroadvice.com, eugeniala,1.com, a,tromate.com COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
·­
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name -----------------------------­Addr cs s ----------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
... 

PORTS 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

NYThnes poll ranks Irish No. 1 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

It's doubtful the No. 1 on top of Grace Hall will light up anytime soon, but the Irish football team garnered its first No. 1 ranking of the season. 
In the first New York Times poll of the season, which was released Monday, the 4-0 Irish are the top-ranked team, slight­ly ahead of second-ranked USC, who the Irish close the 2002 regular season with. 
But Times officials say lit­tle can be determined at this point in the season. For example, Texas, ranked second in both the Associated Press and coach­es' polls, is ranked 29th on the New York Times index. And Miami, No. 1 in both subjective polls, is No. 4 according to the New York Times. 
"The rankings take into account a team's improve­ment over the course of the season, especially when it begins playing conference games where, theoretically, the competition gets tougher," Times' ranking supervisor Marjorie Connelly told the New York Times. 
The New York Times poll, which relies on a complicat­ed computer formula pri­
see IRISH/page 20 
WOMENS SOCCER 
. Soccer loses two Big East games over weekend 
Sinking fast 
ByJOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
Close but not close enough was the theme for the Notre Dame womens soccer team over this last weekend. 
Playing without four starters, the injury-plagued Irish suffered two consecutive one-goal road defeats to Villanova and Georgetown. These losses have suddenly put the Irish in unfa­miliar territory. 
Prior to this weekend, Notre Dame had never lost consecutive games in the Big East Conference. With the losses, Notre Dame's record fell to 6-4 overall and 2-2 in the Mid­Atlantic Division. For the first time since joining the conference eight years ago, the Irish are not currently in first place of the Mid-Atlantic Division of the Big East. 
Friday night's game against Villanova was an extremely frus­trating affair. The Irish con­trolled the entire game for all but 72 seconds, which conse­quently resulted in a 2-1 defeat. The Irish dominated the Wildcats, outshooting them 24­12 but couldn't come away with a victory. 
"Offensively, we played better and created more chances than we had in the three previous weeks," Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum said. "It was just a one minute span where we did not defend two-set plays. If you take that away, I'm pleased with our performance. It's just game, the referees called Notre Dame for a penalty just outside the goalie box. Villanova's Laura Johnson's penalty shot deflected off of an Irish defender right into the feet of the Wildcat's Julie Battista, who sent a pass to 

see SOCCER/page 21 
disappointing that we did not put the game away. We had at least three chances to put them away, and we didn't get it done." 
After a scoreless first half, for­ward Amanda Guertin put the Irish on top in the fifth minute of the second half with her third goal of the season. Midfielder Candace Chapman, who was shifted out of her customary defensive position in an effort to jumpstart the Irish offense, pro­vided the assist. Five minutes later, Chapman nearly scored a goal of her own, but her shot struck off the right post. 
In the 64th minute of the 
SMC GOLF 
Belles break school record, win weekend golf title 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Editor 
There was a dogfight for the MIAA Jamboree golf title this weekend at the Winding Creek Golf Club, and the Belles came away with the bone. 
Saint Mary's shot a team score of 323 to edge Albion by four strokes and take the MIAA Jamboree title, its second in as many weeks. Host school Hope College finished third, 31 strokes off the pace at 354. 
The team's total of 323 shaved 15 strokes off its previous record mark of 338, set two weekends ago when the Belles won the MIAA Jamboree hosted by Calvin College. 
"On Saturday, everyone came through," Saint Mary's sopho­more Stefanie Simmerman said. "We had our top four golfers play extremely well." 
The Belles placed three golfers in the top five spots, led by fresh­man Meg Mattia in second with a 
78. One stroke behind Mattia was classmate Julia Adams in third with a 79. Simmerman fin­ished tied for fourth, one stroke behind that at 80. 
Senior Liz Hanlon also made it into the top 10 in a three-way tie for 10th place with an 86. 
"I was able to play very well on the front nine and ended up with a good round," Mattia said. "I think we've all worked very hard on improving our swings and our play, and it all just came togeth­er this weekend." 
The Belles followed their victo­ry Saturday with another first­pl ace finish in the Baldwin­Wallace Yellow Jacket Invitational at Sleepy Hollow Golf Club with a team score of 344. 
Simmerman and Mattia led the team with respective rounds of 81 and 83. 
The three consecutive victories for the Belles should provide some momentum heading into this weekend's MIAA Championships hosted by Kalamazoo College at Tri-State University's Zolner Golf Course. 
"It shows how much we're practicing and how much time we're putting in to winning the conference championship," Simmerman said. "We've won two of the three MIAA Jamborees, so hopefully that puts us at the top of the MIAA 
this weekend, and we want to go to it and get a win." 
The Belles will have to be con­sidered one of the favorites for the conference title heading into play Friday. The team is playing as high as it has all season. with team scores dwindling each week. 
"The momentum of the two victories this weekend should help us a lot [in the conference tournament] with our confidence level," Mattia said. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

....... 

COLLEGE fOOTBALL  INTERHAU FOOTBALL  SMC VOLLEYBALL  
Sendwich Index  Alma 3  
Saint Mary's O  
The Irish moved down to No. 8 after a bye week in  Find out how campus dorms did this weekend in  Saint Mary's battled first place Alma tough in  
the index created by Notre Dame students. Miami  interhall football and look for previews of upcoming  losing a three-set match. The Belles narrowly lost the  
(Fla.) remains the only unchanged team in the top 10  games this week.  last two games 26-30 and 27-30.  
at No. 1.  
page 15  page 14, 17 and 19  page 20  





