
Featured Flicks
WINDY 
Thursday

Scene examines the year's most successful movies and predicts their chances for Oscar victory. 
FEBRUARY 14, 
HIGH 44° 
Scene . page 14-15

1ow33° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 89 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND. U 
STUDENT SENATE 

One vote prevents raised activity fee 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Mociate News Editor 
The Student Senate rejected by a vote of 14 to 13 a resolu­tion to increase the student activities foe. 
The vote between the 26 senators ended in a See Also 13-13 tie. 
"Leaders probe

The tie 
Food Services on

meant that student body campus dining"vice presi­

pageB

dent Brian Moscona, who chairs the senate, had to vote. In voting against the res­olution, Moscona said that he wanted a senate committee to look into the issue further to settle questions several sena­tors had raised. The senate can then revote on the resolu­tion. or an amended version of it. 
The resolution called for an initial increase of $10. which would bring the fee to $75 for the 2002-2003 school year. The resolution would also have called for the fee to increase by $5 every two years until it reached $100. If the senate had passed the resolu­tion, it would not have gone into effect but instead would have moved onto the Campus Life Council for further consid­eration. 
The senate originally dis­cussed the resolution at its meeting on Feb. 6. but sena­tors tabled the motion so that they could get feedback from their hall councils. 
"I talked it over with my dorm, and most of the guys ... would rather increase it on a {year by year} basis," said Fisher senator Greg Celio. He added that the students he dis­cussed the resolution with would also prefer to see cam­pus organizations allocated less money so that a club would have to improve its pro­gramming in order to receive more funds. 
Cavanaugh senator Lindsay Zika agreed. explaining that students at her hall council had a similar reaction as Fisher Hall council members did. 
"They felt that this school too often raises money to solve problems." Zika said. 
Off-campus senator Matthew Smith added that he could not support raising the fee when the University refused to fund a group like OUTReachND. 
However, the Financial Management Board's Audra Hagan. who submitted the res­olution to the senate, stressed that because of inflation, the 
RCLC celebrates first year 
nd Communication. and 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
NewsWrirer 
Renalda Robinson would be proud. 
It has only been a year. but the community center in the Northeast Neighborhood that bears her name has already done much to foster the kind of neighborhood advocacy that this matriarch of the community worked so hard for. 
First opened in February of 2001, the Robinson Community Learning Center was intended to he a place "where the neighboring community and university community could come together and break down the barriers that separate us ... to put names and faces to issues that we would other­wise have talked about as · social problems," said Lou Nanni, the University's Vice President of Public Affairs chair of the Center's Oversight Committee. 
Initiated by the University's Office of the President, Nanni's former department, the planning committee's primary goal, as noted by current RCLC direc­tor Jay Caponigro, was to "weave together what would be a strong center" for the neighborhood community at the location of a vacant University-owned building. According to Nanni, it was important that the University not look beyond its neigh­bors' needs or "treat them with a benign neglect." 
After securing support from a number of local and University departments, the planning committee worked with community members to gain insight into how best to fulfill the needs at hand. 
Nanni said the project was a collaborative effort, com­bining a partnership with the Northeast Neighborhood activities fee needed to go up when you're constantly slip­so that campus groups could ping backward," said Hagan. maintain their level of pro­"Every year, the student activ­gramming. ities fee becomes less and less 

"People are always asking us able to provide for us." to do better. It's to do better Student Union secretary Tai 
Council and the University's Center for Social Concerns to "create a community learn­ing center ... for the commu­nity." 
After six months of listen­ing and learning, the com­mittee, consisting of stu­dents, faculty, administra­tors, and community leaders, put its refined plan into action. Intended to be a bea­con for the local neighbor­hood and not an advertise­ment for the University, Nanni said. "We felt that it was critical to the neighbor­hood to the south of us [that we create a place] where we could address their needs, but also show their strengths." 
With that in mind, the Center was launched with a number of programs that have only gained momentum over the course of the year, such as exercise classes, an after-school program for 
see RCLC/page 6 

Romero agreed that passing the resolution was important. "Seventy-five percent of us will 
see FEES/page 6 


Assoc. sports editor moves up in staff ranks 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK 
London Correspondent 
Andrew Soukup has been named The Observer's 2002-2003 Assistant Managing Editor and will direct editorial policy with The Observer's top two editors, incoming Editor in Chief J a s o n McFarley and Managing Editor Kate Nagengast announced 


Soukup

Wednesday. The appoint­ment is effective March 18. 
"It's an honor to be one of the paper's top editors and receive the chance to help shape The Observer's future success," Soukup said. "I look forward to working with Jason and Kate and this very talented, dedicated staff of student journalists." 
As Assistant Managing Editor, Soukup is responsible for working in conjunction with the Managing Editor on staff recruitment and hir­ing and developing the mission of The Observer's seven editorial departments. He also will work closely with the Sports Department on training, writing, editing and design. 
Soukup, a sophomore Knott Hall resident, is currently the paper's Associate Sports Editor. He began work for The Observer in fall 2000 as a sports writer and has worked as copy editor and production assistant in the department. He has been a beat writer for football, men's basketball. track and field and women's swimming. 
A Holland, Mich., native, Soukup is a government major with a con­centra tio n in the Journalism, Ethics and Democracy program. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, February 14, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Here we go again 
Dorothy's romp through the poppies was noth­ing compared to walking past my hall's front desk this morning. As the flower trucks arrived, work­ers brought bouquets in by the truckload. I stood there motionless as Iwitnessed the massive effort. Even Glenda the good Witch couldn't revive me. I was in awe, but luckily, I was ready. 
Last year I was in shock when I left my room and saw the stacks of gifts at my front desk. Never before had I seen such an array of colors, plush and pollen all in one place. It was a war zone. I was surrounded. There were lilies, daisies, roses. There were teddy bears, kittens, goldfJSh. There were girls standing in line to claim their goodies. There were girls standing and watching the other girls. And, there were girls standing in front of the delivery board, searching for their name. There were so many, gifts and girls, that the desk workers had made signs of the alphabet to direct traffic. The constant flow of girls picking up flowers was only matched by the constant flow of more gifts coming through the front doors. This year was no different. 
On Valentine's Day, it seems like everyone can be divided into two categories: those who got something, and those who didn't. And then, even further than that, there are those who care about not getting anything and those who couldn't care less. I am one ofthose people. I just don't see the need for all the hoopla. My view: save a shrub, boycott Valentine's Day. 
I think it is silly for there to be a day specified, by Hallmark no less, to say I love you. That doesn't mean that I think St. Valentine doesn't deserve recognition, but I think he is strangling cupids in the heavens with each flower truck that unloads. Although his feast day is marked only once on the calendar, I think the spirit of Valentine's Day should be a 365 day a year holi­day. Love should be shared, expressed and felt · everyday ofthe year. Feast day or no feast day. Girlfriend or no girlfriend. Roses or no roses. Name on the board, no name on the board. . Walking past the desk yesterday, I noticed the beginnings ofthe frenzy as the hall staff prepared for the massive amounts of foliage that would be arriving. This year is no different, except for one minor detail: I have a boyfriend. That's right. Th.is Valentine's Day I have someone, other than my father, to share it with. Still, I don't care if my name is not on the board. I don't care ifeveryone else is getting pretty flowers. Love is something that cannot be measured in dozens or monetary objects of affection. It is more than a bouquet of roses. It is more than a name on the board. Love is timeless and priceless, and should be shown everyday ofthe year-notjust on Feb. 14. 
So, congratulations to all those who receive flowers th.is year. But, don't pity me for having a boyfriend that doesn't send me flowers. Perhaps I have true happiness in life by realizing that love cannot be bought. And, I am happy. Today, like any other day, I will be sitting in class today wearing the goofiest grin because I know what makes my life special. Surprising to many, it's not flowers or chocolate. It's loving someone and letting them love you in return. It's realizing the importance of having someone special to share the holiday with. Ignore the calendar, and make everyday of the year Valentine's Day by letting someone else celebrate loving you. 
Happy Valentine's Day, Kurt. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest srmdards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
Th, Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during =in and v:u:ation periods. The Obsciver is a mcm~r ofthe Associated Preos. All reproduction rights arc rc:,crvcd. 
Thursday Friday 
. Film: "Partisan Bias in . Event: Booktalk and Policy Convergence: signing, "The Future of 
Privatization Choices in Our Past," Father Robert Latin America," Maria Pelton, Hammes Notre Victoria Murillo, C-103 Dame Bookstore, 3 p.m. Hesburgh Center, 4:15 p.m. . Workshop: "2000 Dance 
Spectrum," O'Laughlin Auditorium, 7 p.m. 
Saturday 
. 
Concert: ND Jazz Bands, Band Building, 2 p.m. 

. 
Event: Recital, Claude Cymerman, visiting pianist, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, 8 p.m. 


Sunday 

. Lecture: "How to Listen to Bartok's Sonata for Piano," Ethan Haimo, Carey Auditorium. 2 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Texas A&M top 20 admission plan denounced 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
David Rogers, a former plaintiff in the landmark federal court case Hopwood v. Texas that eliminated affirmative action in college admis­sions, spoke out against Texas A&M University's proposed top 20 percent admissions plan Tuesday. 
"This plan is part of the problem, not part of the solution," Rogers said. "Diversity is a fine thing, racial preferences are not, and the top 20 percent plan is based on racial pref­erence." 
The controversial plan aims to increase minority enrollment by expanding the current automatic admissions for the top 10 percent of high school students to the top 20 percent of students from 253 eco­nomically disadvantaged schools in 

The plan must be approved by Texas Attorney General John Cornyn. If approved, it will be imple­mented on a trial basis in fall 2003. 
In the Hopwood case, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled public 
. UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS 
Trustee appointment replaced 
Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee voided his appoint­ment of Jim von Gremp to the University of Arkansas System Board of Trustees and added C11rl Johnson instead. The appointment of von Gremp Feb. 6 was found to be unconstitutional Monday because he would have been the fourth representative from the 3rd Congressional District on the board. "We discov­ered afterward that the law did say that no more than three members of the board could be from one Congressional District," Huckabee spokesman Jim Harris said. "The governor admits that a mistake was made about the law, and we corrected it." Huckabee is in charge of more than 360 boards and commissions in Arkansas, and he appoints members to those as needed, Harris said. Each board or commission has specific laws. The law allowing up to three Board of Trustees members from the same district is specific to that board, Harris said. 
Arkansas Traveler 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
q_Q_~cf?.GQ ~~u 

ShOWers T•storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy v .. .u.-p,_.. ar.pt,ioaNel 
universities cannot use race as a fac­tor in admissions or financial aid. The case was filed on the basis that qualified applicants to University of Texas Law School were denied admittance because of racial prefer­ence, allowing admission of less qualified students. 
Rogers was one of several students denied admission, even though he ranked in the 98th percentile for admissions scores. Rogers received his law degree from Texas Tech University's School of Law in 2001. 
Rogers said the plan could be in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Neither allows racial prefer­ences to be used to change racial balances. 
The Battalion 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
TAs, graduate students can unionize 
At Columbia University, the Regional Director of the National Labor Relations Board ruled Tuesday that teaching and research assistants at Columbia are employees of the university entitled to a union repre­sentation election. The decision overturns the universi­ty's argument that its teaching assistants are primarily students and not employees of the university and is a victory for Columbia's Graduate Student Employees United, which is affiliated with the United Auto Workers. "It's fantastic that they've ruled that we are employees," said Beverly Gage, a GSEU organizer and graduate student. The ruling means that a secret-bal­lot election, which would determine whether a union would represent members of the union bargaining unit in contract negotiations with the university administra­tion, will be held at Columbia. No date is currently set for an election, but they are traditionally held within 30 days of a decision. 
Columbia Daily Spectator 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon,Thursday, Feb. 14. 

......... 
STATIONARY
0 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. WARM 
®-© D ~ ml D E2] . 
High Low 8how•r• Rain T·•torma Flun1H · Snow ID• 

\1'11 Assoclat9d f'Te~ 

Thursday, February 14, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
New office emerges from diversity issue 
By JUSTIN KRMCKAS 
News Writer 
In an attempt to improve the quality of professors Notre Dame has to offer, the University has created a new administrative branch called the Office of lnstitutional Equity. The organi­zation will play an integral role in the hiring and firing of University teaching and staff positions. Also, it will be involved in sexual harassment issues, and deal with affirmative action responsibilities within the facultv. 
Rhonda Brown has been appointed to head the office. For eight years, she has been an administrator at the College of Holy Cross in Massachusetts, and she dealt with affirmative action issues within the college. Two years ago, Brown was contacted by Notre Dame and asked to head a similar program at the University. 
This October, she began her work in the Office of Institutional Equity and met with members of tho University staff. 
"I had to learn what makes this place unique," said Brown. 
With these connections, she was able to focus on and gain the support of the faculty for her pro­gram. 
She said diversity helps to cre­ate well-rounded students by allowing them to learn from pro­fessors who come from a broader cultural basis. Diversifying the student body is one way the administration has been working to improve Notre Dame through the years and now it will focus more attention to working with the faculty to enhance the teach­ing environment. 
"My primary task is to diversify the faculty. We will make signifi­cant input into the fall searches," said Brown. "I want to know that the person we help to hire values diversity." 
To help appeal to a wider range of potential faculty members, the ofTice will assist in writing adver­tisements for vacant positions within the University depart­ments. Also, the office will aid in overseeing the applicant pool and narrowing down the search to prospective candidates. 
"It's a long process and will not happen over night, and there's always room for improvement," said Brown. "The faculty mem­bers must be able to grow as scholars and feel part of a com­munity." 
The University ½ishes to keep the faculty they hire for their good teaching abilities and expe­rience. This new office is intend­ed to help faculty members build strong connections with Notre Dame so that they want to remain in this teaching environment. 
The offices are located on the second floor of Grace Hall. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
SERENADING SWEETHEARTS 



SISTERHOOD WEEK: February 18-24 
usisterhood Beyond Boundaries: Lesbian, Bisexual & Straight Women in Community" 
• Keyno-te Address: 
Monday, February 18, 7:00 pm, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans: 
Rev. Jennifer Walters, Dean of Religious Life at Smith College. "Hidden Wholeness, Holy Discord: Sexual and Religious Diversity in a Land of Things Unspoken." Followed by a reception. 
• Fil-m Series: 
Tuesday, February 19, 7:30 pm, Madeleva 351: "If These Walls Could Talk, 2" A film depicting the lives of three lesbian women from different eras. The first story, taking place in 1961, stars Vanessa Redgrave as a woman widowed when her partner of 50 years suddenly dies. The 1972 portion stars Michelle WilliaillS, who finds dealing with the sexual politics of the gay community increasingly more complex when she falls in love with a boyish woman (played by Chloe Sevigny). The most modern piece, taking place in 2000, portrays a contemporary lesbian couple (Sharon Stone and Ellen DeGeneres) determined to have a baby. 
Wednesday, February 20, 7:30 pm, Moreau 232: 
A 1996 award-winning documentary, "The Celluloid Closet" chronicles various Hollywood screen depictions of gays, lesbians, and bisexuals in mainstream film and the attitudes behind their subtle representations. It's packed with celebrity interviews, film clips, and insightful gelllS regarding sub­plots often missed by the audience. 
• Alu-mnae Panel 
Sunday, February 24, 4:00 pm, Moreau 232: 
"Boundaries Pa~t and Present: Sharing Experiences with Alumnae." Followed by a reception in Moreau Art Gallery. 
Sponsored by: People in Support (PinS), Office ofthe Vice President & Dean ofFaculttJ, Centerfor Women's Intercultural Leadership, MAG (Moreau Art Gallery) . Gay & Lesbian Alumni ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GALA-ND/SMC), a,:,.d the Departments of: Communication, Dance & Theatre, English, Intercultural Studies, Justice Education, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Women's Studies 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 14, 2002 
SISTAR accepts grant applicants 
By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 

The Student Independent Study and Research (SISTAR) program is currently accept­ing applications for this sum­mer's participants. The SIS­TAR Program offers a grant to four students who work as junior colleagues with mem­bers of faculty on research projects during the summer. The SIS-
topic. Approach a professor you could connect with and have a conversation with them to come up with a topic. You don't have to know everything about the topic before you start," said Angela Cederquist, a past partici­pant. 
The student receives a stipend of $3,000 plus free lodging on campus. This also allows the student to attend a professional conference in the 
student's 

T A R Program is open to  "The student's determination is what holds the project  senior year. The faculty  
full-time  together."  member  
faculty and  will also  
students in all disci­plines.  Alissa Blair SISTAR participant  receive a stipend of $3,000.  

"I think it is such a good opportunity to take charge of your own edu­cation. You work one-on-one with your professor. It is very satisfying and meaningful and there is no pressure of deadlines or competing homework," said Alissa Blair, a past participant. 
The faculty member and student will be involved in separate projects that revolve around the same theme. The student is not just a helper but also a main contributor to the final result. 
"I think a lot of students are intimidated by choosing a 
"The student's determination is what holds the project togeth­er. They should be there because it is important to them," Blair said. 
This year written applica­tions must be received in the Center for Academic Innovation by March 1 at 5 
p.m. After handing in the application, the SISTAR com­mittee will interview the stu­dent and faculty member to assess the project. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

Great Japanese food at great prices. 
Comejoinus for our 
(\J 
lunch specials! ~ 
$1.00 offfor lunch l $2.oooffforclinner ~ 

........~--·'!'-.._. • .,_ ...
...._,,uni,f.olnfd~1 
IRlltJ,Uldann-­
. . 
~ 

•. . . 
-_. -. ' 
<~\i/«<~:,.: __:'··­
,-,,· 


... -'~--;t1 
,: ;/Jlt-i·;p._·\.,.,. ~, 
1''. 
..,\ 
I 

ND cinema 
MEXICO 

Fox tells plan for U.S. border 
Associated Press 

MONTERREY 
President Vicente Fox unveiled a plan Wednesday to develop Mexico's 2,000 mile border with the United States, calling the region known for its U.S.-owned factories, booming population and sprawling shantytowns, a "land of hope, a land of oppor­tunities." 
His plans caU for a network of government sectors that will oversee more than 50 pro­grams dealing with the effects of the North American free Trade Agreement and other regional issues. 
While NAFTA has dramati­cally increased U.S.-Mexico trade and brought hundreds of thousands of jobs to both sides of the border, it also has clogged roads with trucks, depleted water supplies and increased air pollution. 
Uncontrolled growth has left cities with crumbling schools, overrun hospitals and dilapi­dated sewage systems. 
Fox announced the plan in this northern Mexican city, where he was accompanied by the governors of Mexico's six border states and Mexico's border czar. Ernesto Ruffo, a post created by Fox to oversee the northern border's develop­ment. 
Because of its rapid growth and development, "this part of our country in some ways is a land of hope, a land of oppor­tunities," Fox said. 
In the past six years, the Mexican border region has captured nearly one-third of the country's foreign invest­ment. Salaries and education levels are twice the national average. 
Fox said the border's "human capital is precisely what can give us a competitive advantage." 
The region has been hit hard by the U.S. economic slow­down and tightened border security that has caused delays and hurt businesses that rely on cross-border com­merce. Fox said he has con­crete proposals to speed bor­der crossings, but he did not elaborate. 
He called for Mexican border states to work more closely with their northern neighbors. 
Fox said the proposal com­plements his ambitious devel­opment program known as the Puebla-Panama plan, which envisions an infrastructure, investment and tourism corri­dor stretching from the central Mexico state of Puebla to Panama. 
That plan aims to curb the flow of migrants from Central America and Mexico's south­ern states who have flooded the northern border's cities while attempting to illegally enter the United States. 
In March, Monterrey will host the U.N. International Conference on Financing for Development, which will look at how to redistribute wealth and encourage development across the globe. Fox said he and U.S. President George W. Bush will renew U.S.-Mexico talks at the meeting. 
It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful services, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and services designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. 
It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
(574) 654-2250 
31869 Chicago Trai I
~ 
New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836
HAMILTON 
Website: http://wwwhamiltoncomrn.org
COMMUNITIES 
--··········A· Rich_ Tradit~°.~. ~f-~a~i-~~--~°-~--~~~-~~--~dults Since_ 1922···· ~::_ 
! To find out more, clip and mail the following information to: i : Hamilton Communities, 31869 Chicago Trail, New Carlisle, IN 46552 : 
I 
If.l ,,,,,.,,_ 
~· 
1.4.1 
Name:------------------~-----: ~
THURSDAY, FEB. 14 :
Address: _____________________ 
! ~ · 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
i City: __________State: _____Zip: ___
7:00 PM 
FREE ADMISSION : ----~------------­PRCSE:.N'T ED DY 
I HC O EPARTMENT OF FILM, Tf:LEVISION ANO THEA'T !'IE 
.• J _f, .~ ~~_,_)tJ -~~ j~.,~.~
__ J!\,_;,;~-~~ ' 

•. i '-,,.:.i_ ,.,.:::n:·A..J'~i,i. ­
.i#t, ,-\..>-,.;~'-­

ATION 
Thursday, February 14, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
AIDS fund falls short of goal: Nine months after Secretary General Kofi Annan called on wealthy nations to contribute at least $7 billion a year to a global fund to fight AIDS. donations have fallen far short of that goal. Advocates and some lawmakers blame the White House, saying its pledge of $200 million this year sets a poor example for other countries. 
U.S. plane crashes in Afghanistan: 
An Air Force plane crashed in a remote region of Afghanistan, American officials said Wednesday. All eight crew members survived. Some crew members were injured in the Tuesday evening crash but none of the injuries were considered life threatening, said Maj. Brad Lowell, a spokesman for U.S. Central Command at MacDill Air Force in Tampa, Fla. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Supreme Court shuts down Casino: 
Nine years in operation, the Speaking Rock operated by the Tigua Indian tribe in Texas was ordered closed on Monday night after the United States Supreme Court refused to grant a stay to let the 70,000-square-foot casino remain in operation while tribal leaders fight a protracted legal battle with state authorities who want the casino shut down. 
Boston Globe loses law suit: A jury today ordered The Boston Globe and a for­mer reporter to pay more than $2 million to a doctor who a judge had ruled was defamed by an article about the death of a Globe health columnist from an overdose of experi­mental chemotherapy drugs. The Dana­Farber Cancer Institute and its former chief of staff were ordered to pay another $2 mil­lion on claims relating to the doctor's employment and termination. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Endangered landmark list published: 
Riverfront Evansville's once-bustling downtown riverfront district tops a preservation group's list of Indiana's 10 most endangered historic land­marks. The Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana put the Ohio River city's Main Street cor­ridor atop its annual list, which was released Wednesday. Downtown Evansville still boasts historic buildings that date from the 1850s to the early 20th century, but nearly half are empty, putting them at risk, the foundation said. The downtown area has been left barren as business­es and residents migrated to newer develop­ments in the decades following World War II. 
Market Watch February 13 
Dow 9,989.67 +125.93
14 
Composite 
~  s;rr  Volume: l,195,273,000  
AMEX:  847.96  +9.33  
NASDAQ:  1,859.16  +24.95  
NYSE:  576.09  +4.61  
S&PS00:  1,118.51  +11.01  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.43 -0.43 17 .26 WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -6.92 -0.54 7 .26 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0. 82 -0.30 36.33 METROMEDIA FIBE (MFNX) +6.25 -+€1.02 0.34 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -3.69 -0.36 9.40 
THE NETHERLANDS 

Associitted Press 

THE HAGUE 
U.N. prosecutors Wednesday screened graphic film of gaunt pris­oners in Bosnian camps at the start of the second day of the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, accused of orchestrating a decade of murder and oppression in the Balkans in an unbridled drive for personal power. 
The former Yugoslav president is the first head of state to be called to justice before an international tri­bunal. His case is the most prominent in international law since a military tribunal tried the Nazi leaders after World War II. 
With the prosecution's opening statement lasting longer than expected, it was unclear whether Milosevic would have a chance to begin his response before the end of the day. 
Describing crimes in Bosnia, for which Milosevic had been charged with the genocide of thousands of Muslims at Srebrenica, prosecutors showed video footage of rail-thin and frightened internees at the Trnopolje prison camp in 1992. 
At the Trnopolje, Omarska and Keraterm detention centers of eastern Bosnia thousands of detainees were starved, nize the authority of the beaten, sexually assaulted court and plans to defend and tortured. Many were himself before the three­murdered and their bodies member panel of judges. hauled off to be buried in His lawyers say he will seek mass graves, prosecutors to call high-ranking say. Western officials to testify, 
The pictures of the camps including the former were what aroused intema-President Clinton, and tional attention to the British Prime Minister Tony Balkan horrors that led to Blair. the establishment of the Prosecutors spent Yugoslav war crimes tri-Tuesday's six-hour hear­bunal in 1993. ings laying the ground-
The prosecutors say the work for their case, camps were part of a cam-attempting to link paign to rid large portions Milosevic to thousands of of Croatia, Bosnia and murders and the expulsion Kosovo of non-Serb popula-of nearly a million people tions and create a from the three Balkan "greater" Serb state. states.ly assaulted and tor-Milosevic doesn't recog-tured, prosecutors say. 
Bush unveils Kyoto replacement 
Such an approach would be "flexible The report expressed doubts about
Assocfated Press 

in the face of economic growth, the phenomenon of global warming, 
WASHINGTON encouraging reductions without the effects of natural climate change 
The Bush administration has drawn threatening the economy," the presi­and human activity. and its pace. up an alternative to the Kyoto global dent's Council of Economic Advisers However, a report prepared by the warming pact, which 178 other coun­told hlm. National Academy of Sciences for the tries accepted last year but the White One official said the administration White House concluded in June that House rejected, warning it would would lean on U.S. and foreign corpo­global warming was a real problem damage the U.S. economy. rations to reduce their output of that is getting worse. 
The administration wants to link the greenhouse gases. The report to Bush last week reduction of greenhouse gas emissions It wasn't immediately clear how the warned that the Kyoto requirements to economic activity so that emission government would achieve that. The could erode the nation's gross domes­targets could expand or shrink with report to Bush said the government tic product by up to 4 percent in 2010 economic growth, according to a should encourage businesses "to think "a staggering sum when there is no report by the president's economic about their own emissions and oppor­scientific basis for believing this tar­advisers. tunities for reductions." get is preferable to one less costly." 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, February 14, 2002 
entrepreneurs, the Mendoza vibrant mural that can be found College of Business has on the side of the building.
RCLC 

launched the RCLC as an incu­A second grant has been bation center, which makes acquired to do the same withcontinued from page 1 
essential assistance available to the center's teenage members. local children and adult com­those wishing to start their own In addition, Jackie Welsh, edu­puter classes. businesses. The Office of cational curator of the Snite, 
Nanni credits Caponigro and Information Technologies has leads an art program each his staff for the center's suc­provided computers for the week for the high-school crowd. cess. Caponigro's staff consists sought-after classes. The University departments arc of local and university commu­Department of Music has donat­looking to add new features as nity members, such as ed a number of keyboards to well. Marguerite Taylor, Renalda the center, and now offers The Athletic Department Robinson's daughter: piano lessons to anticipates Americorps volunteers, such as roughly 20 chil­adding Khadijah Shabazz and Andrea dren, taught by ..We want to make a dent sports activi­Mechenbier; and local college department staff in the low [57 percent] ties to the students. members and current
high school graduation
Through a partnership with graduate assis­tutoring pro­the South Bend School tants. rate ofSouth Bend. " gram 's cur­Corporation, the RCLC has been The Snite riculum. able to offer both GED and Museum of Art, Children
Jay Caponigro
English as a Second Language as well, has would be
RCLC director
classes to adults in the commu­demonstrated paired with 
athletes to create what Caponigro calls, "experiential learning through sports." Caponigro has made it a priority to "create new oppor­tunities for children to learn in different styles," addressing specific learning difficulties that the RCLC's students encounter on a daily basis. 
Promoting literacy, for instance, is a principal endeav­or that Caponigro hopes to con­
"A-FRIEND" 01llVE1l TOTORIIIG 
*Speciafi:ed to Individual Need • 
~ 
Free Orientation • Free Pick-up Friendly Prices • Friendly Service 
lnstructoniith 10+ years Experience 
Gene Eckerley -Mishawaka 
Learn to Drive with "A-Ff/END" 
CALL (574) 250-2761 
geneinc@juno.com 
<RRST Lf~ON FREE WJJH lHIS AD> 
Private Transportation Service Available Individuals, Sm. Groups-Airport Assist 

tinue. the programs will grow beyond 
"We want to make a dent in that 8000 foot space -into the the low [57 percent] high school parks, into the streets, into the graduation rate of South Bend," neighborhood," Nanni said. he said, starting with the Since last February, the Northeast Neighborhood com­Robinson Community Learning munity and eventually filtering Center has seen a lot of growth out to the rest of the town, a and participation. Due to the feat that he believes can be collaboration of University and accomplished. "With the talent neighborhood community mem­that we have here, we have a bers, the RCLC has been incred­real opportunity to make an ibly successful in establishing impact." itself in the Northeast 
Tutoring in general has Neighborhood. The center will become a main focus of the celebrate its success with an Center, with more than 50 stu­anniversary celebration Feb. dents from kindergarten to 22. sixth grade taking advantage of University President Father the program. According to Edward Malloy is slated to open Mechenbier, volunteers arc the the ceremony, with awards foundation of the program, with being presented to those volun­more than 250 to date. While teers and students who have both Mechenbier and the chil­demonstrated exceptional dedi­dren's parents have seen the cation to their work at the students' levels of understand­Center. At the culmination of ing rise over the course of the the event, Caponigro will pre­program, she said. "The rela­sent the center's vision for the tionships between the kids and following year. their tutors is notableE it has "There is nothing greater been the most impressive thing than having a dream -and to watch." being able to come back and 
RCLC staff members have see the reality exceeded," Nanni seen a vast improvement in stu­said. dents' understanding and com­prehension of their work, and positive results do not seem to Contact Meghan Martin at be diminishing. "I think a lot of mma.rtin@nd.edu. 
nity. The St. Joseph County Library has established the location as a permanent drop­site for books. The St. Joseph Regional Medical Center has provided RCLC members with health screenings and preventa­tive care. 
The University itself has taken enormous measures to enrich the opportunities offered to the Northeast Neighborhood. 
Providing support for local support for the center. According to Andrea Mechenbier. youth program and volunteer coordinator, the Snite has been really proactive in getting money to help the children involved with the cen­ter. Through the grants it has secured, the museum was able to commission a Chicago-area painter to collaborate with RCLC children on their vision of the neighborhood; creating the 

Fees 
continued from page 1 

participate in some club, and that's just clubs," Romero said. "We all participate, and I'm sure we're getting more than our $65." 
Saint Mary's representative Erin Casey added that students at the College pay a much high­er fee. 
"Sixty-five dollars to me doesn't seem like that much when I pay $150," she said. "You're gaining so much from student government, and you're giving them the power to do more for you." 
In other news: 
. The senate unanimously passed a resolution calling for increased student representa­tion on the Academic Council. The resolution will now go to the University's Student Affairs committee for additional consid­eration. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at laru.ffa.l@nd.edu. 
*******************************************************
:** III a* * 
* * 
: · Interested in being a : 
* * 
* *
* ~ *
* * 
* *
$ SMC Class Officer in$ 
! 2002-2003? $ 
* *
* *
* * 
J{Jl££ £ V:NCJfP,O:NS et SrfV<DP,:Jff£ V:NCJfP,O:N 
SJlctVCJ((})Jlct; PP,(BCJ(VJlCJ(cy'16, 2002 12:30<PM. -2:00(J!M_ 
Por tliose not affiliateawith a residence hal{, tliere wi[[6e a student [uncfieon focateain room 108 LaPortune Student Center. 
: Then come to one of the mandatory : Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents : informational meetings held: : 
* *
** th ** 
: Monday, February 18 @ 6:30 pm in : :* Room 303 Haggar :* * Or * 
* ~ * 
: Tuesday, February 19 @ 5:30 pm in: *: Haggar Par1or :* * * 
* *
* . k t f l l t' *
: , ...'l'l.G e s. or c .ass e ec ions are : t composed President, Vice President,: t Treasurer and Secretary. : 
* * 
** ** Macbeth
: Only 1 person from each ticket is ! * d h . *
: required to atten t e meetings. :
* Questions? Call Mary Crawford-ext. 4453 * ! Sponsored by SMC Board of Governance : 
i* tit···.·.· ;. -~ *
·•·.~ i 
Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 


* *
* * Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame
* *
* * Reserved Seats $1 6 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2
* *
* *
* * Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office.
* *
* * MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128.
* *
********************************************************* 
Thursday, February 14, 2002 page 7
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 

-....:....UPS Freshman Retreat #40 
Retreat dates: February 22-23 
Applications available: 
January 28 through February 18 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #70 
Retreat dates: March 22-24 
Applications available: 
Monday, Feb. 18 -Friday, Feb 22 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Morning and Evening Prayer 
Monday-Friday during Lent 
8:45 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
San Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Crypt 

Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday-Saturday Fatima Retreat Center 
Bible Study (in Chinese) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. Call 631-5653 for information. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 


rdav 
Junior Parents' Weekend Mass 
5:30 p.m. Joyce Center 

First Sunday of Lent 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA: Purification & Enlightenment 10:00 -11 :30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
L 

The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
Reflections on Lent 
Don't forget prayer 
¦ by Fr. Bill Wack c.s.c. Director, Freshman Retreat Program 
The season of Lent is already upon us. This is a time for us as individuals and as a church to discern where we stand with God. In Lent, we focus on how we have strayed from the Gospel call to love and service while praying for forgiveness and recommitting ourselves wholeheartedly. We hope to "find our way back" by focusing on the cross of Christ. 
What will you do to re-commit yourself to Jesus this Lent? How will you remind yourselfof the need to be reconciled with God and the church? How will you mark the next six weeks or so in order to prepare to celebrate the Pascal Mystery (i.e., the death and resurrection) ofChrist? 
The traditional Christian practices are especially appropriate for Lent: prayer, fasting, and almsgiving. 
Ofthose three, fasting seems to get the most attention. Many people "give something up" during this 
season as a way of helping them to stay focused on the cross ofChrist. People often give up candy, 
sweets, snacking in between meals, meat, liquor, TY, video games, and the like. (Or how about 
cursing, arguing, being jealous or prideful?) Ifyou do choose to do something like this, make sure it's 
realistic, not overbearing or physically harmful. The point 
is to remind you of your dependence on Christ alone, 
not to punish the body or yourself.
If you do choose to "give 
Almsgiving also assists us in our effort to be Christlike. something up", make sure Certainly, chis involves donating money to charitable organizations and to the church, but it could also be prac­
it's realistic, not overbearing 
ticed in service to those who are less fortunate. Make a or physically harmful. The commitment to volunteer or give your time and talent to a local or international group. Look for ways in which
point is to remind you of 
you can serve your classmate, roommate, or others you see every day. Almsgiving is spending yourself on oth­
your dependence on Christ 
ers. alone, not to punish the But what of prayer? There are many ways to pray during Lent. Spend time in quiet contemplation in a
body or yourself. 
chapel or in the Basilica. Go to the Grotto daily or a 
couple oftimes a week. Join a Bible study or a faith sharing group 
like Emmaus. Commit to doing a retreat. Talk to people around 
you about your relationship with God. 
There is another form of prayer which is being offered on campus right now: the Liturgy ofthe Hours. This 
prayer has roots that go back hundreds ofyears and was introduced by monks and nuns. This is a form ofpublic 
prayer in which a group ofpeople gather several times a day to pray the Psalms and Scriptures. There are several 
"hours" ofprayer, and perhaps only contemplative religious can "afford" to pray all of them (at least seven times 
a day!). The reforms of the Church in the 1960s, however, made it clear that all Christians are invited to pray the 
Hours together whenever possible. 
For those who pray this liturgy, most come together for two of the Hours: Morning Prayer and Evening 
Prayer. We in the Congregation ofHoly Cross gather at least twice a day to pray these at Old College, Moreau, 
Corby, Columba Hall, Holy Cross College, and St. Mary's College, among other local places. Last Fall, several 
students approached us in Campus Ministry about the possibility of praying Morning Prayer and Evening 
Prayer together as a student body. We have welcomed the initiative and applaud the efforts of those who have 
been pursuing this. To that end: I would like to invite you to join us in this daily prayer. Perhaps this could be 
part ofyour Lenten commitment to deepen your prayer life? Or maybe this would prove to be an excellent way 
to start or end your day of classes. 
Beginning yesterday, Morning Prayer is being prayed in the chapel ofthe Coleman/Morse Center at 8:45am, 
and Evening Prayer is at 5pm, Monday through Friday. There are books available in the chapel for the prayers, 
and even though the format looks daunting at first, anyone can get the hang of it after a couple of times. The 
prayers last about 10 or 15 minutes, depending on music or longer Scriptural reflections. You don't have to 
worry about standing out in the crowd, as this is a time for communal prayer. Basically, it gives us all a chance 
to use the gift ofthe Psalms (the prayer book ofChristians) as a way of growing closer to God and each other. 
Please consider joining us on a regular basis for these prayers. You may very well grow to love this ancient 
form ofprayer and want to incorporate it into your life forever. It is a privilege to live among so many people of 
faith on our campuses. May God help us to take advantage of this, bringing us together often to offer Him 
praise and worship. And may the blessing ofAlmighty God be with us all during this Lenten season. 
First Sunday ¦ Around campus 
¦ Mark vour Calendar 
of Lent Sunday, February 17 
Saturday, February 23 
Coleman-Morse Center

Spanish Mass
Mass schedule . 
1:30 p~m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
No &r....-~a+~r-L.-ove­
Law School Mass 
A day-long retreat 
¦ Basmca at Iba sacred Hean 5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel 
focused on prayer,
Saturday, February 16 Mass MBA.Mass 
music and renewal. 
5:00 p.m. 

7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB ChapelRev. Richard S. Bullene, c.s.c 
Space is Limited Call 1-32.50, for more info
¦ sundaV's
SundaytFebruary 17 Mass 
10:00a.m, Scripture Readings 
Rev. Charles 8. Gordon, c.s.c. 1st Reading Gn 2: 7-9, 3:1-7 11.-45 a.m. 2nd Reading Rom 5:12-19 
C-M

Rev. Robert A; Dowd, c.s.c. Gospel Mt4:1-11 
Campus Ministry 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 14, 2002 
STUDENT SENATE 

Leaders probe Food Services on campus dining 
By ERIN LaRUFFA Associate News Edicor 
Food Services director Dave Prentkowski addressed the Student Senate Wednesday to explain the University's opinions 
of the dining halls.  
Prentkowski  began  by  
explaining  to  senators  the  
important  role  that  the  

University sees for dining halls. 
"They play a significant role in the student life and the culture of the University." said Prentkowski, who explained that much of his job actually involves working with the Office of Student Affairs. "The dining halls are a part of the residen­tial experience -the eating in a community." 
Flex Points 'n• Grab and Go take away from that experience to some extent, Prentkowski added. The University therefore seeks a balance between the convenience of Flex Points and Grab 'n' Go and the community of the dining halls. 
Although Prentkowski said he has discussed possible improve­ments to Grab 'n' Go with Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, Poorman is not supportive of the idea. 
"His feeling was to not make Grab 'n' Go more desirable because he wants students to go to the dining halls," Prentkowski said. 
Dining halls also offer logisti­c al benefits, according to Prentkowski. 
"There are a lot of you guys on campus. The dining halls are made for volume. The Huddle is not," he said. Therefore, he said, lines at retail places such at the Huddle would get too long if more people ate there instead of at the dining hall. 
Financial factors also play a significant role in how meal plans are structured. 
"We base everything on how many meals we know the aver­age student eats," said Prentkowski. "For us to start to change the model and give more flexibility, we have to start to say. 'What are we going to 
t?'"
cu. 
He also explained that stu­dents on the 21-meal plan do not actually pay for 21 meals. 
"We're not charging you for 21 meals. We're charging you for 17," he said. "There's no money left over." 
This year, students are eating more meals than Food Services expected, which means the bud­get for meals is running out of money, he added. 
Food services may consider offering more meal plan choic­es, but students may have to pay more for certain plans, he said. 
Another major cost factor is theft, particularly from the Huddle. Since a new camera system was installed there, 

Prentkowski said, campus police have picked up an average of two people a day for attempting to steal from the Huddle. 
Additionally, various changes are now in the works for La.Fortune. Starbucks is sched­uled to open by the end of spring break, and a Sbarros restaurant will replace Allegro by the fall, according to Prentkowski. 
Therefore, Food Services is looking to replace Tomassito's in order to avoid having two pizza restaurants. Currently, Food Services is considering adding a sandwich shop or Mexican restaurant to the Tomassito's location, although Prentkowski said he has already 

HAVE You HEARD? 

Turtle Creek is FILLING UP FAST! 
Bring your parents this Saturday from 10am-Spm
and sign for your apartment that day! Availability for 2-Bedroom town homes, 
one bedrooms, and furnished studios! Take advantage of Junior Parent Weekend 
and end your worries for housing next year! 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS, STUDENTS# 1 CHOICE FOR OFF CAMPUS HOUSING!! 
P: 272-8124 EMAIL: info@turtlecreekNO.com visit us on the web: www.turtlecreek.com 

Weekends Open 7:00am-2:00pm Welcon1e Junior Parents. Monday-Friday 6:30am-2:00pm 
127 S. Michigan 288 -PEEP L~.Brc;_tlcfast. [...t:::-£ru.::r1cl1 l....£;r..Al.].1:"l.ClJ 
determined it is impossible to add a Taco Bell outlet there. 
Pasqucrilla East senator Nikki McCord questioned Prentkowski as to whether a healthy alterna­tive could be added to the reno­vation plans for the student cen­ter. 
"The problem we have in Lafortune is that we're bursting at the seams. We looked at con­cepts that were the most popu­lar and the most [in demand]," said Prentkowski. He added that Sbarros will offer healthy meals and that a Subway is one possi­ble replacement being looked into for the Tomassito's loca­tion. 
Elizabeth Lenn, the senator from Farley, also questioned Prentkowski about the differ­ences between North and South dining halls in terms of food quality. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at laruffa. l@nd.edu. 


The NEWEST FAVORITE of STUDENTS, PARENTS and FACULTY 
Family Owned Tradition 
Large Groups
Fresh Prepared 

Original Family Recipes Welcome
Dinnen, 

235 5, Mlchlpn 5i.
Pizza, Pine 

South Bend, In 46601 
Wine 

www.catalin01.com dine in/carry-out retervadom recommendecl 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Di1lon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


Thursday; February 14, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CUBA 
Base holds 288 detainees 
. Officials sort out details on captives of several nations 
Associated Press 
GUANTANAMO BAY 
NAVAL BASE 

Officials who are interro­gating detainees at Guantanamo said Wednesday they are having trouble sort­ing fact from fiction. 
Thirty-four more detainees have arrived from Afghanistan at the U.S. Navy base in eastern Cuba, bring­ing the number of people held there to 288. The camp has a capacity of 320. 
Interrogations began last month but the process has been tedious. officials say. 
"We get many different sto­ries, and quite often the way that you determine the truth is to match it against infor­mation you already have that you know to be truthful," said Brig. Gen. Mike Lehnert, the Marine in charge of the detention mission. 
Lehnert said he believed the detainees were still with­holding information but each day the picture was getting clearer. In some cases. offi­cials have learned the detainees' names through let­ters. 
Many detainees "have been giving false names all along," Lehnert said, but "when we give them an opportunity to communicate with their loved ones they suddenly decide that it's very important that they tell their loved ones who is really there." 
Since the first prisoners arrived just over a month ago, the population has grown to represent at least 26 nationalities. Detainees speak a dozen or more lan­guages and dialects and rep­resent at least two religions -lslam and Christiani­ty,officials say. 
In the most detailed break­down, a senior Pentagon offi­cial said on condition of anonymity last week that the 158 detainees then at the camp included 50 Saudis, 30 Yemenis and 25 Pakistanis. There are also eight Algerians and three Britons as well as a handful of pris­oners from Egypt. Australia, France, Russia, Belgium, Sweden and other countries. 
Denmark said Tuesday that one of its citizens was among 34 detainees who arrived 
here Monday. and requested 
U.S. permission to visit him as soon as possible. 
On Sunday, a U.S. military official said the number of detainees at Camp X-Ray whose allegiance had not been established was larger than the number believed to be Taliban or al-Qaida. 
Officials say some may belong to groups other than Afghanistan's ousted Taliban regime or al-Qaida, the international terrorist net­work that the Taliban shel­tered. 
Officials have emphasized the importance of the inter­rogations in the war on ter­rorism. 
"The information that we develop comes from a variety of sources all over the world," Lehnert said, "Suddenly. seemingly irrele­vant or nonessential pieces of information become much more important because peo• pie are able to see the big picture." 
Information from Guantanamo interrogations reportedly helped officials identify 17 suspected al­Qaida members believed to have planned to attack the United States or Americans in Yemen on or after Tuesday. 
NOTKeDame Campus M1n1sTRY InTeMsbzp P-,wq1tam 
. 
A post-graduate one year internship with Campus Ministry for one male and one female. August 15, 2002 -May 30, 2003 

. 
Work in and learn from a creative and dynamic ministry environment. 

. 
Housing and monthly stipend provided. 


This internship is ideally designed for students who are discerning a career in ministry and who have a special interest in Religious Studies. 
For further information and an application, please contact John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Family accuses 
Walker of treason 
. Family of slain CIA officer says American Taliban waged war on West 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA. Va. 

They showed up. unan­nounced, to call John Walker Lindh a traitor. The mother, father and widow of slain CIA officer Johnny Micheal Spann have a score to settle -and no hesitation about saying so. 
"John Walker is a traitor because of the way he lived," Spann·s mother, Gail, said Wednesday. "If you go back from the time he was 16 years old and just go through his his­tory. you know, what more could I say? 
It's so simple 
"As we all know, defense con­
and rhope that 
tends Lindh

all Americans freedom's not free. 
intended to

will feel the Bodies have come home 
fight the· 

same way that 
draped with flags. anti-Taliban
I do." 
Mike's was the first. ... northern
She and 
alliance, not

Spann's father. Americans will 
Americans.

Johnny, had 
not tolerate traitors." B u t
traveled from 
Spann's fam­

Winfield, Ala .. 
ily made it

to see how Johnny Spann 
clear that is

Lindh would 
father of slain CIA officer 
not their

respond to the 
Johnny Micheal Spann 
view -and

allegations against him. The elder Spanns watched qui­etly alongside Spann's widow, Shannon. Their presence in the small courtroom and before reporters outside afterward made a dramatic statement as Llndh proclaimed himself inno­cent of conspiring to kill Americans and supporting the Taliban and terrorist organiza­tions. 
Spann and Lindh crossed paths in November in Afghanistan, in a prison where the young American Taliban soldier was being held with fel­low fighters. 
Spann and another CIA agent tried. apparently unsuccessful­ly, to interrogate Lindh. Later that day, during an armed rebellion in which the prison­ers took control of the com­pound, Spann became the war's first combat casualty. 
At that prison. Lindh disap­peared with other captives into a basement where he was dis­covered almost a week later. 
Though the government's indictment does not directly 
accuse Lindh of killing Spann, it cites his presence at the bloody uprising as a reason for the murder conspiracy charge. If convicted on all 10 counts, Lindh could end up with multi­ple life sentences. 
Spann's widow said that would not be enough for a man who "dedicated his life" to waging war against the West and Americans. Shannon Spann -a CIA employee her­self who lives in northern Virginia -would rather see Lindh accused of treason, which could result in his exe­cution. 
"We expect Mr. Walker to be held personally responsible for all of the things that he has done," she said calmly. "Certainly I should have pre­ferred the death penalty 
myself." 
T h e 

said they hope the court will agree. Spann's father said on ABC's "Good Morning America" he considers Lindh responsible for his son's death as an accom­plice. 
"We sent our sons and our daughters and our husbands and our wives and our fathers and our mothers to a faraway land to fight this terrible evil so we could continue to live and enjoy the freedom that we live in today," Johnny Spann told reporters. "As we all know, freedom's not free. Bodies have come home draped with flags. Mike's was the first. ... Americans will not tolerate traitors." 
After the legal proceeding, Lindh's father, Frank. approached Spann's father in the crowded courthouse hall­way. He tried to shake his hand, offer condolences and say his son was not involved in the younger Spann's death. Officials from the prosecutor's office, however, intervened to end the conversation. 


page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 14, 2002 
I 


Classical by day. Jammin' by night. TUNE INTO 88.9 FM WSND "the sound" On-Air positions now available! 

WSND 88.9 FM 
und For information, e-mail acallan@nd.edu 

is now accepting applications for the
THE 
2002-2003
BSE. 
General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Jason McFarley by Friday, Feb. 15, at 3 p. m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542 or 631-5323. 
NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and 
printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER 
Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
Thursday, February 14, 2002 
The Observer . NEWS page 11 
Police find man, fake IDs near Pentagon 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Federal prosecutors mindful of new terrorism warnings sought the identity Wednesday of a man charged with carrying fake identification on a road near the Pentagon. A judge ordered the man held. 
"There is a substantial risk of the defendant's flight," U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa Buchanan said of the man, identified in court papers as "Imad Abdel-Fattah Hamed, aka lmad Nimer." 
A criminal complaint filed by the FBI revealed that Hamed was interviewed previously by the agency, on Oct. 22. An FBI supervisor, Steve Berry, would not elaborate on the initial interview. 
Just hours after the FBI issued a terrorist alert Monday night, Hamed and another man were detained by state and fed­eral law enforcement officials as Hamed drove a tow truck on Route 110, which passes close by the Pentagon. The route was closed to commercial and other big vehicles after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, one of which tore a hole in the side of the Pentagon and killed 189 people. 
According to the FBI com­plaint, state police found a vari­ety of driver's licenses and 
other false government-issued a terror attack thought planned documents. The men offered for this week. A Justice several explanations for why Department official said a check they were there and where they of immigration records showed were going, the complaint said. no indication anv the 18 ever "Their motivations are still have been in the United States. unclear." Virginia State Police After questioning by the FBI, spokeswoman Lucy Caldwell the passenger in the truck 
said.  Hamed  
T h e mystery  "The timing ofthis apparent  was dri­ving was  
rattled l a w enforce­ment  attempt to breach security, after the latest FBI warning of a specific and credible terrorist threat,  turned over to t h e Imm i ­ 
a n d other  certainly gives me pause ...  gration a n d  
govern­ment  Mark Warner  Nat u ­raliza­ 
officials  Governor of Virginia  t  i  o n  

w h o h av e been on high alert since the Pentagon and the World Trade Center attacks. Monday night, the FBI issued its latest terror alert, warning of an unspecified attack possibly as early as Tuesday. 
"The timing of this apparent attempt to breach security, after the latest FBI warning of a spe­cific and credible terrorist threat, certainly gives me pause," Virginia Gov. Mark Warner said in a statement. 
There was no indication of a connection between the men and 18 named Monday by the FBI as possible conspirators in 
•

February 18-23, 2002 •
•
•

Monday, Feb. 18th 6p.m. "Disability Humor" •
•

Haggar Parlor, SMC Free Pizza. 
•
•
•

Tuesday, Feb. I 9th 8p.m. "Disability Discussion at ND" •
•

Coleman-Morse Center Free Pizza. 
•
•
•

• Wednesday, Feb. 20th View Disability displays at SMC ••
• 

Thursday, Feb. 21st 7:30p.m. "Corky" Life Goes On actor • Stepan Center. Chris Burke will inspire to • set goals and realize your dreams. : Sponsors: • Best Buddies, Howard Hall, the Center for Social • Concerns, the Office for Students with • Disabilities. and the SMC Student Diversitv Board • 

Service. 

He was detained and was not identified publicly. 
Meanwhile, federal law enforcement authorities took custody of Hamed, who appeared Wednesday at the 
U.S. District Courthouse in Alexandria, Va. 
He is charged with commit­ting identification document fraud and making fals.e state­ments. which carry on convic­tion a sentence as high as 15 years in jail, according to prose­cutor John Morton. 
"We are busily engaged in determining what Mr. Hamed's true identification and true 
• 

www.counciltravel.com 
• 

i~~~~i( ~ 
1-800-2COUNCIL 
Masters of Oriental Acrobatics 
~ Chinese Golden Dragons 

2200 Years of Tradition., live on stage, one night only 
nationality is," Morton said. 
Hamed, clad in a white short­sleeved shirt and black jeans and wearing a mustache and beard, asked Buchanan what to do about his job and said he could afford a lawyer before being led away. Buchanan set a preliminary hearing for Friday. 
Traveling south on Route 110 about 10:30 p.m. Monday, the tow truck drove past signs erected in November that pro­hibit commercial vehicles on the road, according to the com­plaint. 
Officers in a police cruiser who watched the truck go by alerted a second team stationed farther along the road. 
The second team questioned the driver and passenger, "both of whom appeared to be Middle Eastern males," according to the complaint, and found sever­al false driver's licenses and other government documents inside. Several of the documents bore pictures matching those of the driver and passenger but had conflicting addresses, dates of birth and Social Security numbers. 
The truck bore a Virginia inspection sticker and tempo­rary Maryland tags, the com­plaint said. 
FBI dogs searched the truck for weapons and explosives but turned up none, Caldwell said. 

8:00pn1, 'rhtffsday, February 14th \Vashingcon Hall 
Tickets: $3 Students Lal...~ortune Info. Desk $5 Pub]ic 
www.nd.edu/-sub All\,(: ndSUBinfo@:> 
ITALY 
China watches Catholics 
As•ociated Press 
VATICAN CITY 

China has detained dozens of bishops and priests loyal to Pope John Paul II and is close­ly watching many more as part of its 
efforts to weaken the under­ground Roman Catholic Church, t h e Vatican's 


missionary Pope John Paul II n e w s agency said Wednesday. The news agency Fides released the names of 33 bish­ops and priests either detained or being kept under strict police surveillance and forbid­den to worship. It said about 20 more priests, whose names were not known, also were being detained. "The (Chinese) leadership has never given up its idea that religious freedom can only be a controlled semi-free­dom," the news agency said, denouncing what it called "abuses and imbalances" in China. Some of the bishops and priests have been arrested "on no charges, and disappeared ever since," it said. Chinese officials in Beijing and Rome were unavailable for comment Wednesday, with all government offices closed for the lunar new year. China has a state-sanctioned Chinese Catholic Patriotic Association that does not rec­ognize papal authority. Millions of Chinese Catholics faithful to the Vatican worship in underground churches, where they risk arrest. Church leaders have sometimes been imprisoned for years. · The Vatican and China broke formal relations in 1951, as China's communist rulers kicked missionaries out of the country and forced Roman Catholics to sever ties with Rome. Fides also accused the European Union and the United States of being sympa­thetic to China "because of its enormous market and its sup­port for the war on terror." "In this context. human and political rights are the last worry," Fides said. The pope appealed to Beijing to October to normalize rela­tions. China has said it was studying the appeal but it demands that the Holy See sever relations with Taiwan and pledge not to interfere in China's internal affairs. 

1-800-SURFS-UP
www.studenTexpress.com 
THE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, February 14, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
A.ssr, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR1 Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noal1 Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richatdson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTR0ll.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX ................•............................•...·······....631-6927 AoVERTISING,....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu 
SPDRTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SVSTEMS/WER ADMINlSTRATORS..•.....•••......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobservn-.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advercisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
~stiom ~ardzng Observer poucia should be dir«t­ed to F,ditor in Chief Mike Connolly. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'The Vagina Monologues' violate Notre Dame 
A few years ago, the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art displayed a painting of the Blessed Virgin with ele­phant dung thrown and smeared aJI over it. When the art museum received widespread criticism for showing such a tasteless and horrifically offensive piece, the museum spokesmen defended it in the name of "art." 
"The Vagina Monologues" is very likely the most offen­sive play in modern theater. Describing in graphic detail women's most private body parts and encouraging females of all ages to get to know their vaginas by masturbating often and engaging in lesbian sexual encounters, this pro­duction flies like elephant dung in the face of all that the most chaste, most holy Virgin stands for at the top of the Golden Dome and in our hearts. That such a play should be allowed on Our Lady's campus makes me want to vomit, weep, scream and pull my hair out all at once. Why have we allowed -and even welcomed -this vile desecration of our school, our fait.h and Our Lady? 
"Any theater is nonetheless the highest form of art," some might claim. Or, regarding any art form. "How can you censor true, heartfelt expression, no matter what the content?" Give me a break. The University buys into that? What if a student were to write and direct a play in which the actors have oral sex on stage in front of everyone in the audience? Or what if someone were to erect a new statue of Mary for the Grotto, except this time with ele­phant feces smeared all over it? Or what if someone were to take a bunch of pictures of vaginas and make an artsy collage to display at the Snite? Would you put it up? "The Vagina Monologues" is not art; it is desensitizing, morally repugnant trash. . 
How about the argument that this play should be allowed because it promotes greater understanding and apprecia­tion of women? After all, it is being put on as part of the celebration ofV-Day {Vagina Day) -a day to demonstrate against violence toward women. There are a few serious problems with this argument. One, the desensitization that occurs when such absolute immodesty is displayed and applauded can only decrease the modesty and reverence men should show all women. Rapes are proven to increase in frequency when men lose all respect for women and their bodies. Two, Vagina Day is proudly sponsored by and donates proceeds to Planned Parenthood, an organization that fights for the right to destroy innocent female life. If V-Day is about ending violence against women, what about the roughly 2,300 women killed every day by abortions in the U.S.? Three, the play itself applauds the molestation of a 13-year-old girl by a 24-year-old woman, justifying the violent sexual invasion because of its lesbian nature. 
By allowing "The Vagina Monologues" to be performed at Notre Dame, we are throwing dung in the face of our Virgin Mother, supporting abortion and stripping modesty from everyone involved. (One scene has a chorus of actors repeatedly yelling in unison, "Cunt, cunt. cunt. cunt.") Most newspapers probably wouldn't allow that word to be print­ed. So why arc we allowing it to be shouted from a stage in DeBartolo Hall? 
In the name of our Virgin Mother, Notre Dame, I beg the administration to disallow the production of this foul play immediately. In G.K. Chesterton's book, "The Ball and the Cross," a Catholic Scotsman breaks a store window and challenges a blaspheming atheist to a mortal duel, all because the atheist wrote an article tying Mary to ancient pagan goddesses. "The Vagina Monologues" openly flips the bird at modesty, chastity and virginity, and in fact at all women who consider their private parts private. What is Notre Dame's administration willing to do to defend the honor of the Blessed Virgin and all her daughters? Roll over and die in the face of modernistic calls for "open­mindedness" and "academic freedom?" Or stand up and stop this travesty? 
I urge all students to write letters to Provost Nathan Hatch calling for an immediate cessation of this produc­tion. I also invite everyone to join us as we pray the Rosary at 9 a.m. and at 5 p.m. every day outside Washington Hall. asking for the intercession of the Blessed Virgin to defeat this horrendous attack on modesty. 
Sean Dudley freshman Carroll Hall Feb. 13, 2002 
Redefining the mission of today 
Each day in the U.S., 960 women are and 700 worldwide. are looking for hope for their futures. raped. Nine hundred and sixty. That's This year Notre Dame will join the V­Hope that they can love themselves. one woman every 90 seconds -of each Day movement along with so many Hope that they will survive. Hope that and every day. Valentine's Day proba­other colleges and universities across they will wake up one day and no bly doesn't seem to be the most likely the nation. Part of our series of events longer fear violence. The stories that day for discussing such disturbing will be two student-produced presenta­you will hear are real. They are true. facts, but since I became part of the V­tions of Eve's play. Many people I've Like the fact that, on average, one rape Day College Campaign movement, I spoken to have had a typical Notre occurs every 22 hours on each college have not been able to think of a better Dame reaction when asked if they will campus in this nation, these truths are time to talk about violence against attend the production: muffled laughter not always easy to hear. women. and a quick exit. We are afraid of what "The Monologues" will shock you. 
Four years back, in 1997, Eve Ensler, is new and different and "The Vagina They will make you cry. They will make the author of "The Vagina Monologues" is certainly both. I would you angry. But they will also make you Monologues," began a movement to like to point out what the Monologues laugh. They will inspire you. They will raise awareness of sex-crimes against are not: They are not foul. They are not leave you realizing that it can be done. women. She called it V-Day and disgusting. They are not man-hating. One day, Valentine's Day will be claimed Valentine's Day for the event. They do not promote any particular known. as Eve puts it, as Victory Over After V-Day became a reality, Eve lifestyle. They are not just for girls. And Violence Day. decided to involve college students in now for what they are: "The Vagina the movement. Since its modest begin­Monologues" is a series of real Kerry Walsh ning with 65 schools in 1999. the women's stories of love, anger, abuse, sernor College Campaign has grown to nearly success, triumph and, most of all, hope. off-campus 450 colleges participating nationwide These are the stories of women who Feb. 13, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Helena Payne Matt Nania Meghanne Graphics Downes Jake Weiler Justin Krivickas Production Sports Andrew Soukup Bryan Kronk Lab Tech Viewpoint Christina Reitano Sheila Flynn 
NDTODAY /OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What is the most important issue for the next student body president's administration to address? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE !)F THE DAY 
"The greatest thing you'll ever know is just to love and be loved in return. " 
Christian character in "Moulin Rouge" 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 14, 2002 page 13 
Hate crime legislation is hateful 
At least once last year I received an e-mail petition from the Multicultural Student Organization urging me, a "multicultural" student. to support hate crimes policies. For those not 
familiar, hate  
crimes laws punish criminals motivat­ Christine Niles  
ed by hatred for  
race, religion, gen­ 
der, age, disability  As I See It ...  
or sexual prefer­ 
ence. The language  
of the e-mail  

brimmed with hope, urging that such legislation would be one more step in the direction of equality andjustice. The afflicted would be comforted by the knowledge that the perpetrator received a double dose of punishment, for hate crimes policies apply addition­al penalties to criminal acts. In other words, the punishment for good, old­fashioned homicide is increased if the perpetrator is also found guilty of "hateful" motives. 
So. like any well-meaning, sincere, 
eager law student, l signed up, right? Wrong. · Hate crimes legislation is one of the 
worst ideas ever to enter a legislator's mind (although a terrific idea for politicians who need votes). First, hate crimes laws are reminiscent of penal­izing thought crimes. Thoughts, no matter how hateful, must be accompa­nied by a criminal act (or at least an almost criminal act) in order for the state to prosecute. It is hard enough 
. for a jury to determine, from an objec­tive standpoint, whether or not the mere intent to kill existed -to add on top of that a determination of racist, sexist or agist motive is to wade more deeply into the psychology of the accused. The jury will find itself flail­ing in waters too deep and murky for it to swim through. • 
Even if the jury felt it were up to the job, it would find a more fundamental problem: Hate crimes policies are inco­herent. First of all, how does the poli­cy-maker define "hate?" Which groups count and which do not? Race is included as a factor for severer punishment ­which races? Which reli­gions? Which sex­ualities? Would a homo­phobe who mur­dered a homo­sexual count? Sure. Would a racist killing an African­American count? Of course. Would a black woman killing a Scottish Presbyterian solely on account of her intense hatred for Scottish Presbyterians count? Er, well ... hmm. Good question. 
But this should count just as much as, if not more than, the previous two cases; it involves both ethnicity (Scottish) and religion (Presbyterian). Or what if a homosexual murdered a straight man on account of his bias against straight people? Umm, dunno ... another tough one. What about an overweight man killed by one who loathed fat people? Definitely doesn't count. If only hate crimes legislation included hatred for economic classes. Sara Jane Olson could have been sen~ tenced longer for offing a "bourgeois 
pig." The fact is that hate crimes legislation tends to favor distinct groups of people over others. Certain privi­
leged, "perse­~ cuted" class­es exist in 
i 
the minds of the politically 
correct. Only cer­
tain class­es of peo­~ ple have 
the right to special pro­tection and 

special treat­ment on account of their being afflicted for many years past. This might be reasonable concerning two issues in this nation's history: slavery 
and segregation. The law has rec­ognized that Equal Protection may sometimes mean redress for a class of people over the long run, rather than redress for individuals in particular cases. Which means that some people, for a certain amount of time, are more equal than others. 
Some may agree with that; some may not. I only point out that such an agen­da lies hidden in hate crimes legisla­tion, except it is applied not only to favor certain minority races, but also to favor certain genders (female). par­ticular sexual preferences (homosexu­al. bisexual. transsexual) and particu­lar religions (anything but Christiauity). And one secs that. in practice, this is exactly the way convic­tions fall. Punishment is meted out to heterosexuals assaulting homosexuals, but almost never the other way around. Penalty is given for whites attacking blacks, but not often vice versa. In theory, equality; in practice, bias. 
Murder is murder is murder. I may kill from hatred of you for simply being who you are -tall, green-eyed, a good cook, a bad speller, whatever. Will the law then tell me that my motives are just not as bad? That my punishment for murdering will be less sevore because I am in some way more inno­cent than those singled out for hate crimes? 
In the end. the people decide which laws they want passed -and if the people want hate crimes legislation, they will get hate crimes legislation. Far be it from me to stand in the way of democracy. But, dear people, before you make your voices heard, I only ask that you think hard about the implica­tions of such laws. They sound nice, they are well-meaning. they appear to do good -but they are bad policy. They are one more example of well­intentioned citizens seeking to work justice and producing just the opposite . 
Christine Niles is a student at the Notre Dame Law School. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at uiewpoint.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Differing views on effects of c~ntraception 
Others' use benefits Catholics 
I do not mean to argue against any of the points Professor Rice made in his column Tuesday about contraception and its serious demographic effects. I would, however, like to point out a potential silver lining in the cloud that is our collective "race suicide." 
An Italian friend of mine first made this observation when I asked him about the low Italian birth rate. He said that when ahnost every­one is practicing contraception or abortion to keep from having chil­dren to raise, then the only ones left actually having them are the devout. I found that to be a positive spin on a bad situation. 
Let the liberals, atheists and selfish materialists contraceive them­selves out of existence. Then, in a few generations, if we serious Catholics do our part (as Professor Rice has done his), then the coun­try will be half Catholic. We will have to have even more kids than would otherwise be necessary, since the bad guys still run the govern­ment, schools and media. So our families will suffer some attrition; but we can do it. 
Imagine: Take 1,000 kids at Notre Dame who are faithful, generous and open to life, and suppose they go marry and have 10 kids each, raising them in the Church, not at the mall. Then their kids have 10 kids and do the same. In 50 years, you have 100,000 devout Catholics, minus the few who get led astray by those forces already mentioned. One hundred thousand serious believers can accomplish a lot. And the kids we cannot have ourselves, we can adopt, as ready-made troops whom we can form into soldiers for God. Having plenty of kids and raising them right may be all we can do to help our society, and kids are much more fun than expensive cars or houses. 
Randa.II Lannie 
da.ss of'99 Feb. 12, 2002 

Population changes should not be feared 
This is in response to Professor Rice's article 
entitled, "Reconsidering contraception," which 
gives a summary analysis of Pat Buchanan's 
new book, "The Death of the West." 
Am I the only one who disagrees with 
Buchanan that a reduction in birth rate 
.because of contraception use is not a result of 
atheism but because individuals have overcome 
ideologies that challenge an individual's right to 
choose whether or not to bear children? There 
are huge rwmbers ofpeople in this country ­
yes; even at Notre Dame -who are very reli­
gious people but who choose to use contracep­
tion because they would like to live their lives a 
little longer before making new ones. · 
A glaring theme throughout Professor Rice's 
column is a fear of change and a future that is 
not controlled by individuals of European ori­
gin. "In 1995 the populations of Europe and 
Africa were equal. In 2050 Africans are likely to 
outnumber Europeans by more than 3 to 1." 
Why this fear that people of non-European ori­
gin will have a larger population? It is painfully 
typical to hear these notions of fear directed not 
at an increasing African population but at the 
increased ratio of non-European to European 
populations. (Has anyone every noticed how · tiny Europe is compared to the othef conti­nents?) "This country is in a similar fix [to Europe) ... 
In 2000, for the first time, there were more Muslims in the world than Catholics." Why do so many fear the reproduction of certain groups of people? Could it be a fear that past crimes against humanity might catch up to them? It is hard to believe that people of the West cannot comprehend that non-Western countries have much more to fear from us then we do from them. 
"Americans of European origin are losing their dominance." Buchanan refers to this as "race suicide." Seeing race so rigidly has only led us into the absurd racial pall that we live under in this country. Races do not disappear as species become_ extinct. They are absorbed, changed and enculturated. Since this is Black History Month, we should be appreciating what we have gained from non-European cultures, not fear them. 
To quote Ben Harper: "My choice is what I choose to do, and if it's causing no harm it shouldn't bother you." Ifit means that people of European origin will slowly disappear as their birth rates decline, as the article suggests, this should not cause any fear. 
Dillon Mahoney 
senior 
olf~pus Feb. 12,2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Thursday, February 14, 2002 
OSCAR ANALYSIS 

Academy announces nominations 
By MELISSA RAUCH 
Scene Movie Writer 

As a result of its remarkable critical and commercial success toward the end of 2001, "The Fellowship of the Ring" leads this year's Oscar race with 13 nominations, followed closely by "A Beautiful Mind" and "Moulin Rouge," each with eight. 
All three films, which many consid­ered the favorites heading into the announcements, were selected as Best Picture candidates, along with "Gosford Park" and "In the Bedroom," 
Sissy Spacek, the emotionally dis­traught mother of "Bedroom" and Halle Berry, the grieving widow in "Monster's Ball," are the frontrunners in the Best Actress category. Nicole Kidman followed her Golden Globe win with a nomination for "Moulin Rouge," while Judi Dench garnered yet another Academy honor for "Iris." Finally, by some unfortunate, incom­prehensible twist, Renee Zellweger managed to pull off a nomination for "Bridget Jones's Diary" over the more deserving Naomi Watts of "Mulholland Drive." 
For the men,. no one was shock~d to hear Russell Crowe's name announced for the third year in a row, this time for "A Beautiful Mind." The surprises· came in the form of Will Smith ("Ali") and Denzel Washington ("Training Day") who made history together as the first pair of African Americans nominated in the Best Actor category in the same year. 
The selections were especially sur­prising considering the lackluster reviews and poor box office results of the films in which each starred. In the tradition of "Rain Man" and "Forrest Gump," Sean Penn was recognized for his work as a mentally disabled father in "I Am Sam." British actor Tom Wilkinson proved he would not be upstaged by his costar Spacek, and scored the final nomination for his impressive turn as an American father dealing with loss in "In the Bedroom." 
Though their work was shut out in the Best Film category, David Lynch ("Muholland Drive") and Ridley Scott ("Black Hawk Down") were compen­sated with nominations in the Best Director field. They face stiff competi­tion, however, in the form of Robert Altman {"Gosford"). Peter Jackson ("Lord") and Ron Howard ("Mind"). 
Notable Supporting contenders are Jennifer Connelly for "Mind," a shoe­in to win among the actresses, and Jim Broadbent ("Iris"), Ben Kingsley ("Sexy Beast") and Ian McKlellan ("Lord"), three Brits who will battle it out among the males. 
See right for a complete list of nomi­nees -well, the ones people care about, anyway. 
Best Picture 

"A Beautiful Mind" "Gosford Park" "In the Bedroom" "The Fellowship of the Ring" "Moulin Rouge" 
Best Director 

Robert Altman, "Gosford Park" Ron Howard, "A Beautiful Mind" Peter Jackson, "The Fellowship of Lhe Ring" David Lynch, "Mulholland Drive" Ridley Scott, "Black Hawk Down" 
Best Actor 

Russell Crowe, "A Beautiful Mind" Scan Penn, "I Am Sam" Will Smith, "Ali" Denzel Washington, "Training Day" Tom Wilkinson, "In the Bedroom" 
Best Actress 

Halle Berry, "Monster's Ball" Judi Dench, "Iris" Nicole Kidman, "Moulin Rouge" Sissy Spacek, "In the Bedroom" Renee Zellweger, "Bridget Jones's Diary" 
Best Supporting Actor 
Jim Broadbent, "Iris" Ethan Hawke, "Training Day" Ben Kingsley, "Sexy Beast" . Ian McKellen, "The Fellowship of the Ring" Jon Voight, "Ali" 
Best Supporting Actress 
Jennifer Connelly, "A Beautiful Mind" Helen Mirren, "Gosford Park" Maggie Smith, "Gosford Park" Marisa Tomei, "In the Bedroom" Kate Winslet, "Iris" 
Animated Feature Film 
"Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius" "Monsters, Inc." "Shrek" 
Writing (Adapted Screenplay) 
"A Beautiful Mind" "Ghost World'' "In the Bedroom" "The Fellowship of the Ring" "Shrek" 
Writing (Original Screenplay) 
"Amelie" "Gosford Park" "Memento" "Monster's Ball" "The Royal Tennenbaums" 
The 74th Academy Awards, hosted by Whoopi Goldberg, will air live on ABC March 24 at 8 p.m. 
Contact Melissa Rauch at mrauch@nd.edu. 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Desperation in 'Ball' transcends racism 
By CHRIS BANNISTER 
Scene Movie Critic 

"Monster's Ball" is not the feel good movie of the year. There is. perhaps no aspect in it that leaves the audience with a positive outlook. However, it is a beautiful piece of film art. It is both aus­toundingly well written and well shot, and for those reasons, it cannot be denied consideration as one of the bet­ter films this year. 
The film centers on Hank Grotowski (Billy Bob Thornton), a prison warden in Georgia. He is overseeing the execu­tion of Lawrence Musgrave (Sean Combs), a convicted murderer. Although most might rightly be wary of a film that has P. Diddy 
dicep. This sort of meekness and social awkwardness brings lighter moments into the film's darkest scenes. It also draws on some of the audience's sym­pathy towards Thornton as an antihero. This idea of creating even the slightest bit of sympathy towards such ignoble characters is what makes the film such a great work. The interaction between the characters tends to leave the audi­ence at the same time laughing, crying and shifting uncomfortably in their seats. It makes viewers react in ways that most films do not. 
The real heart of the story is present­ed when Thornton, through a tragic chance encounter, meets Leticia Musgrave, (Halle Berry). the widow of the recently executed man. The two begin to fall in love, and, 

amongs its cast, Combs 

"Monster's Ball" this brings a host of
full.ills his role adequate­issues with which the ly. 
pair must contend. Both Trouble begins to characters must some­
out offive shamrocks 

erupt when Hank's son how deal with the tragic (Heath Ledger) makes an Director: Marc Forster pasts they each have, error before the execu­and Hank must deal
Starring: Billy Bob Thornton,tion. The error and with his own history of
Halle Berry, Heath ledger and
ensuing argument lead 

Sean Combs
to a disastrous conse­quence that leaves the viewer shocked. 

Of course, t.he relationship between Hank and his son is never presented as a perfect one. In fact, it is so sick and twisted that it often leaves the viewer in disbelief. But as uncomfortable as the interaction between these two may be, one cannot deny the skill in both the conception and execution of the roles. 
Thornton, especially, brings a subtle sense of being somewhat uncomfortable with himself, his actions and his preju­racism. 
Again, when discussing 
the pair falling in love, one must not expect a traditional romantic comedy: they come together to medicate each other's pain more than anything else. However, the rejection of the typical Hollywood norm is what makes "Ball" such a stand out. 
The cinematography is the film's finest aspect. First, it is shot with a grit­ty approach that matches the tenor of the story and characters. Make no mis­take, however; this is no "Blair Witch Project." Nothing is done by accident. 
Within the overall realist grit of the film, an interesting visual tension is established as light and shadow are used to their fullest artistic potential. Characters are constantly moving in and out of shadows, letting the dark­ness hide their tragic pasts from each other. The light becomes a player because it is able to communicate a great deal about each character, allow­ing the film to be more subtle in its development. 
This subtlety is what saves the film from becoming a typical rumination on Southern prejudice. 
Today, audiences like it when the film's emotions are clearly expected. They cry when Julia Roberts loses the man. and they cheer when she gets him back. "Monster's Ball" will settle for no such simple path. It approaches the viewer almost confrontationally. However, because it is a film that excels in almost all aspects, the challenge it presents is one worth taking. 
Contact Chris Bannister at cbannist@nd.edu. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


.ENE. 

Thursday, February 14, 2002 page 15 
OSCAR ANALYSIS 
Movie Scene's Best of 2001 
Critics Jude Seymour and Matt Nania weigh in with their picks 

Photos courtesy of Miramax Films, Studio Canal and United Artists Both Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson (left) deserve praise for their perfonnances in Todd Field's "In the Bedroom." David Lynch's "Mulholland Drive" (~iddle) was the best film 2001 had to offer, although only the director himself was nominated for an Oscar. Steve Buscemi (right) was unfairly shut out of this year's Supporting Actor race. 
Ever since Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan'" lost to John Madden's "Shakespeare in Love'.' for Best Picture, media pundits have speculated that it is in each distributor's best interest to hold their best "Award worthy" movie for a late-year release. Jude Seymour The rationale behind this strategy is, with a December Scene Movie release, Critic "Shakespeare" was more fresh in the minds ofAcademy voters compared to "Ryan," which had a July opening. 
The choices below are all end of the year releases, reflecting this pattern of leaving an indelible impression on voter's minds. Some of these selections, however, did not get nominated by the Academy on Tuesday, but it is. impera­tive to recognize their achievement in the past year. 
Best Picture: 
"Mulholland Drive" 
The David Lynch TV pilot turned fea­ture-length film was in a class by itself this year. No other single picture in 2001 did a better job of engaging the audi­ence's intellectual capabilities while simultaneously providing a most enter­taining trip through a world of dreams, . obsessions and broken desires. "Drive" brought its detractors and supporters together to a common ground: Neither could stop discussing the movie's myriad turns, both in its narrative and its style. A hodgepodge offilm noir. mystery, sur­realism and dramatic motifs, "Drive" transfixed attention to the screen and demanded repeat viewings from the audience it captured. 
Best Director: 
David Lynch, "Mulholland Drive" 
"Drive" is the pinnacle of Lynch's directing and writing career and the ful­fillment of great potential only hinted at by his earlier works. His skewing of a seemingly innocuous Nancy Drew detec­tive story reminds us of another great Lynch film, "Blue Velvet." Lynch marries his unique narrative composition with his oflbeat directorial approach, playing with conventions that provide equal parts frustration and stimulation. He is the grand master of "Drive,'" responsible for the remarkable casting of unknowns and the collaboration with Angelo Badalamenti on the movie's eerie score. In 2001, no director respected his audi­ence more and packed more quality into· a film than Lynch. This made him an easy choice for Best Director. 
Best Actor and Actress: 

Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek. "In 
The Bedroom" 

Todd Field, the writer-director of "Bedroom," deserves credit for the extra­ordinary performances of Wilkinson and Spacek. Field loaded the script with frag­ile emotions and unresolved issues. The two actors breathe life into their charac­ters, building on Field's words with pained facial gestures, discomforting body shuffles and wavering, delicate voices that reflect their character's emo­tional aches. Wilkinson and Spacek engage in an actor's battle, challenging each other to turn in their best perfor­mances by making their own perfor­mances so brilliant. "Bedroom's" audi­ence receives the spoils of that challenge: two Oscar-worthy performances in one exceptional movie. 
Best Supporting Actor: 

Tony Shalhoub, "The Man Who Wasn't 
There" 

An extraordinary supporting actor makes the primary actors look better while simultaneously stealing a tiny piece of the spotlight themselves. Shalhoub plays Freddy Riedenschneider, the fast­talking attorney for the laconic Ed Crane (Billy Bob Thornton) in "The Man Who Wasn't There." His whirlwind appear­ances add humor to darker moments of the film while his character builds on the audience's fascination with Crane. Crane is a slow thinker, and I delighted in his vexation over Ridenschneider's yapping. Shalhoub manages to leave an indelible mark on the film without railroading the unfolding narrative, making him the best candidate for the award this year. 
Best Supporting Actress: 

Maggie Smith, ..Gosford Park" 
Robert Altman's "Park" gives equal time to more than 20 different charac­ters, yet one actor stands out. Smith plays Lady Trentham, a pill whose pro­priety exists alongside her testiness. Trentham's closed British society has become open to Americans. bringing out her acid tongue and her curiously funny witticisms. She steals moments not only with jokes, but also with the subtlety she brings to her character. Trentham jour­neys to Gosford Park not for the droll act of pheasant hunting, but because she fears Sir William will be revoking her allowance. Smith's handlings of Trentham's anxieties are the fruits of an established actor, leading to the creation 
of a truly unique character. 
Contact Jude .<.. •mour at 
jseymour@nd.edu. 

I begrudgingly admit that the Academy 
did a fairly competent job in its selection 
of this year•·s Oscar nominations. None of 
the Best Picture contenders are particu­
larly inferior. "A Beautiful Mind:" 
Hollywood melodra­
ma at its finest. "In 
the Bedroom:" A Matt Nania· 
fierce but subtle 
character-study. 

"The Lord of the Scene Movie 
Rings:" An epic if Editor 
there ever was one. 
"Moulin Rouge:" A 
revitalization ofthe movie musical. And 
"Gosford Park," which I haven't seen but 
am confident contains faultless perfor­
mances and expert direction from the leg­
endary Robert Altman. 
Still, the Academy isn't perfect-not 
by a long shot. If it were, then surely Jude 
and Iwould've been consulted for our 
picks. Here are mine. 
Best Picture: -"Mulholland Drive" 
Despite the preceding complimentary interpretation ofthis year's Picture nomi­nees, none come close to achieving the deranged beauty of "Mulholland Drive,'" David Lynch's opus of fantasies, night­mares and Hollywood. Far be it from me to say what qualities are needed in every film, but how can you possibly go wrong with mystery, a quirky sense of humor, dark satire, haunting music and gorgeous women? You can't. "Drive" is a bizarre but engrossing trip that stands as the high-point ofnot only Lynch's work, but of all films released this year. 
Best Director: 

Baz Luhrmann, "Moulin Rouge" 
Luhrmann is ridiculously absent from this year's list ofDirector nominees, despite the fact that "Rouge" is up for a total of eight awards, including Picture. The supplementary features on the film's packed DVD show a man in creative con­trol of his vision, empowering his actors, dancers and designers to execute elabo­rate musical numbers at a level simply not seen in modern cinema. Luhrmann's snub in this category is unforgivable, but I'll turn the other cheek. At least they nominated Lynch. 
Best Actor: 

Russell Crowe, "A Beautiful Mind" 
For a star of his magnitude, Crowe sure knows how to disappear into character. His portrayal of mathematician John Nash in the historically inaccurate (not that it matters) "Mind" is a lesson to all leading men out there: You can't earn audience sympathy without first convinc­
ing us you're going to stay with the char­ - 
acter all the way to the end. The fact that  
Crowe previously won an Oscar for show­ 
casing his brawn should not stop the  
Academy from rewarding his intellect.  
Best Actress:  
Emma Thompson, "Wit"  
Academy rules and regulations be  - 
damned: The best female performance of  
the year came from Thompson in HBO's  
"Wit.'" Originally meant for theatrical dis­ 
tribution, the film had difficulty finding a  
studio that was willing to risk releasing a  
product about a dying cancer victim.  
Much of the script is presented in mono­ 
logue as Thompson's character talks  
directly to the camera. This sounds like it  
would be boring, but the actress is given  
such delicious and witty dialogue that the  
rather plain visual scheme benefits our  
understanding of what her character is  
going through. That aspect, as well as her  
heart-wrenching depiction of a woman  
dehumanized by medical treatment,  
together makes for a p~rforrnance you  
can't take your eyes off of.  
Best Supporting Actor:  
Steve Buscemi, "Ghost World"  
You've seen him in everything from  
"Fargo" to "Armageddon," always that  
odd-looking guy with the bug eyes and  
crooked teeth. In "World" he gets a fully  
fleshed-out supporting role that capital­ 
izes on his weirdness as well as his casual  
humanity. Instead ofnominating Buscemi  
in this category, the Academy chose  
"Training Day's'" Ethan Hawke (Denzel  
Washington blew him off the screen) and  
"Ali's" Jon Voight CT-low many lines did he  
have? Eight?). But Buscemi doesn't seem  
to be an actor who cares much about  
award recognition. As his character says  
in "World," "I can't relate to 99 percent of  
humanity."  
Best Supporting Actress:  
Jermifer Connelly, "A Beautiful Mind"  
Connelly's mistaken inclusion in the  
Lead Actress category of this year's  
Screen Actors Guild Awards infuriated  
her agents and publicists, but maybe it  
points to an important aspect of her per­ 
formance in "Mind:" She holds her own ­ 
and then some ­against Russell Crowe,  
the lead actor. Exhibiting both warmth  
and intelligence, Connelly finally garners  
the acclaim that has building since her  
strong turn in last year's "Requiem For a  
Dream." Both she and Crowe are the  
front-runners in their respective cate­ 
gories, so it seems that in this case the  
Academy is right on track.  
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd edu.  



SALT LAKE 2002 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 14, 2002 
Miller ends 8-year U.S. drought in alpine skiing 
Associated Press 
SNOWBASIN, Utah 
The poor slalom gate, like all but one of Bode Miller's oppo­nents, never stood a chance. 
Miller's all-or-nothing second slalom run -he blew away the rest of the field by an amazing 
1.18 seconds -catapulted him to a silver medal in the com­bined event Wednesday, ending an eight-year U.S. medal drought. 
Miller fell in the downhill and slipped on the first slalom run. In his breakneck second slalom run, he shattered the gate as he twisted and turned toward the first medal by a U.S. male Alpine skier since 1994. 
It was a second run in the tra­dition of great slalomers such as Alberto Tomba and Ingemar Stenmark, known for their amazing comebacks. It brought back memories of Tomba's sil­ver-medal slalom at the 1994 Olympics, in which he rallied from 12th on the second run. 
-"It was a great run, that's what I was going for in a second run," Miller said. "I really didn't feel I had anything else I could do. I'd been trying to ski how I needed to ski all day and it wasn't working. So I skied how I wanted to ski." He was 15th after the downhill -portion, trailing eventual gold medalist Kjetil Andre Aamodt of Norway by a whopping 2.44 sec­onds. He moved up to fifth after the first slalom run, then passed three skiers on the final slalom run. His day almost ended in the downhill, where he fell midway down the course. The left side of his body scraped the snow. "The next thing I knew, I was down on my thigh sliding right at my coaches," he said. "I got up fast, not to try to stay on course and take second in the combined -it was to not kill myself and the coaches, because I was going about 65 mph." 
Miller became only the second American man to win an Alpine skiing medal since 1984. The only other is Tommy Moe, who won two medals at the 1994 Lillehammer Olympics. 
Miller also became the first American man to win a medal in the combined event, in which results are an aggregate of the downhill and two slalom runs. 
Miller's chances for a medal looked slim after the downhill portion and he was downcast after his first slalom run. He sent snow flying on that run when his skis failed to grip and he slipped at two turns. 
An extremely difficult first-run slalom course narrowed the field considerably. Only 27 of the 47 racers who started the· com­bined event Wednesday morning made it to the second slalom run. 
Among those who fell on the first slalom was Casey Puckett of Aspen, Colo., who became just the second U.S. male Alpine skier to compete in four Olympics. 
Miller remains a favorite in the slalom and a medal hopeful in the giant slalom next week. 
Short Track Speed Skating 
Apolo Anton Ohno stepped out from behind the wall and thou­sands of fans who've never seen a short-track race burst into wild applause. 
Forget the hype. Enough of the controversy. It was time for one of America's best Olympic hopes to hit the ice. 
Ohno began his quest for four medals by finishing second in his 1,000-meter heat Wednesday night, good enough to push him to Saturday's quarterfinals. 
The 19-year-old former inliner from Tacoma, Wash., also was set to anchor the U.S. team that competed later Wednesday in the semifinals of the 5,000 relay. 
Rusty Smith advanced in the 1,000 and four-time Olympian Amy Peterson, who carried the 
U.S. flag in the opening ceremo­ny, made it through her first heat. 
But all eyes at the Salt Lake Ice Center were on Ohno, whose first appearance of these games brought the sellout crowd to its feet in thunderous applause. While fans chanted "U-S-A! U-S­A!" for the first time all night, he took a deep breath as he toed the starting line. 

The race was rather unevent­ful as Ohno settled in behind World Cup champion Kim Dong­Sung of South Korea, who won two medals at Nagano four years ago. 
With the top two skaters advancing to the next round, Ohno knew there wasn't much need to challenge Kim as they pulled away from the other two skaters. 
Still, the former teen-age hel­lion with flowing brown hair and a soul patch below his lips couldn't resist a chance to give the fans a thrill. With just over a lap to go, Ohno daringly dipped to the inside of the straightaway and nearly pulled even with Kim, stealing a glance at his rival. 

Just as quickly, Ohno pulled out and tucked in behind the Korean, looking back with a half-lap to go just to make sure no one was challenging. 
Women's luge 
Sylke Otto of Germany won the gold medal in women's luge on Wednesday, pulling away from teammates Barbara Niedernhuber and Silke Kraushaar in the final two heats. 
It was Germany's seventh gold medal in 11 Olympiads and its fifth medals sweep in women's luge. The German women have won 26 of the 33 medals award­ed since the sport was intro­duced to the Olympics in 1964. 
Otto, the two-time defending world champion, had a four-run aggregate time of 2 minutes, 
52.464 seconds and broke the track record twice in winning her first Olympic medal. 
Niedernhuber, whose Bavarian neighbor Georg Hackl helped build her sled, earned her second straight silver with a time of 2:52.785. That earned her a measure of revenge against Kraushaar, who edged Niedernhuber for the gold in Nagano four years ago by .002 -the closest finish in Olympic history. Kraushaar won bronze this time in 2:52.865. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day cl~sifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be p_repaid. . 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the rtght to edtt all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
IM LAX officials needed. Good  Excellent house 3-4 students.  River Condo For Rent $1050 MO  #1 Spring Break Vacations!  Happy 31st Birthday Gheorghe  
NOTICES  Pay!! Some exp. necessary. Contact Tara Fisher @  Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291­2209  Mishawaka 219-532-1537.  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties,  Muersanl  
1-3536..  Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed­room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896 LOST AND FOUND LOST: Womens reading glasses with tortoise shell rims. Lost between Nieuwland  2000 grad seeking room or apart­ment to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, 2002, can Michelle 202-829-3725 or email krup78@hotmail.com FOR SALE  THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU­DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT AREA 2773097 SUPER HOME GREAT AREA CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STU­DENTS 2773097 MMMRentals.com  PERSONAL Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800·648­4849 www.ststravel.com  Limited!ll 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! Book your trip with StudentCity.com and save up to $100 per person to Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre or Florida. Most popular student hotels including the Oasis and the Nassau Marriott Crystal  VALENTINES Noreen, Happy Valentines Day with hopes for many mo~e in the future. I love you. Mike ALLY-CAT, THE COOLEST GIRL IN THE WORLD A GUY COULD KNOW, HAPPY VALENTINES DAY -KEV-DAWG  
...,,,  & campus Ministry on Jan. 30. Email: emcnassa@nd.edu WANTED TestMaster is looking for responsi· ble people to distribute information, post •flyers and proctor !rests. $101hr. 1­aoo-929-n24 TeslMasters is looking for responsl­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor !rests. $101hr. 1­aoo-s29-n24  92 Eagle Summit (Mils. Mirage) Ssp. loaded, bright red, clean comfy, $2650. Parked 82 n. end. 1-4639 FOR RENT MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 5 mins from ND!4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291·2209  3-bdrm, 1-112 bath tri-level, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2· car garage, fenced yard, AIC, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. New 3-4 bdrms, 3-bath homes lea­turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings. famity room, 10x20 deck, 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232· 4527 or 616-683-5038. 3-4 person house, Close to cam­pus, c/a Available June 1 Call 219­298-3800  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please can Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. Spring Break Ticketsl Gel a FREE MTV audience ticket to select shows when you book your Spring Break through StudentCity.coml Go to MTV.com or call StudentCity.com at 1-800-293-1443 for details! Tours and tickets are limited!  Palace! Prices start at $3991 Sale ends soon! CALL NOW! 1-800-293-1443 or go to Studen!City.coml ADOPTION Young, loving happily married couple interested in adopt­ing a baby. Please call Matt & Robin 1-800­484-6411 PIN#6463 Please recycle The Observer. Want to write for the Sports depart­ment? Call Noah at 1-4543  Happy Valentines Day, Beth! Love, Chad Buuz, be mine? Love, a girl from volleyball HAPPY VALENTINES DAY TO MY SWEET FRIENDS AT THE OBSERVER. LOVE. SHIRLEY Happy Valentine's Meg from your favorite "little" bongo-player. Love you! Mike -Wow, !guess I finally don't call you Connotly all the time any­more. That must be love! Happy Valentine's Day ­Noreen  

Thursday, February 14, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
OLYMPICS 
Probe continues into figure skating controversy 
Associated Preas 
SALT LAKE CIIT 
An Olympic referee raised questions about the scores that narrowly gave the gold medal to the Russians in pairs figure skating. the head of the skating union said Wednesday. 
It was the latest development in what has quickly become the biggest story of the Winter Games. 
Ottavio Cinquanta. International Skating Union president, said he had received "certain allegations" from American referee Ronald Pfenning. who oversaw the nine judges who scored the competi­tion. Pfenning could have been relaying a complaint from him­self or any of the judges. 
!SU rules prevent Pfenning or anyone else on the judging panel from talking publicly about decisions. 
Cinquanta did not provide details of the allegations. Others also had questioned the results, "but the most important is the one of the referee," he said. 
"He is the coordinator of the competition." 
Cinquanta also said he was embarrassed by the furor over the Russians winning despite an obvious technical error. Canada's Olympic delegation has demanded an investigation, and the union said it would conduct a rare "internal assess­ment." 
That assessment could lead to revisions in judging, Cinquanta said. 
Elena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze won the gold medal by the tiniest margin over Canada's Jamie Sale and David Pelletier on Monday night. They won a 5-4 split even though Sikha.rulidze stepped out of a double axe!. 
Sale and Pelletier skated cleanly and the crowd was chanting "Six! Six!" by the time they finished, begging the judges to award the Canadians a perfect score. 
The Canadians got only four 5.9s for artistry. compared with seven 5. 9s for the Russians. Boos rained down as the marks flashed. 
Cinquanta announced that the executive council of the fed­eration would meet on Feb. 18 to discuss judging and consider any revisions to the rules. However, he reiterated that the competition was over, meaning the Russians would keep their gold medal. 
The Canadian Olympic Association sent a letter Wednesday to Cinquanta seek­ing an independent inquiry. 
"We respectfully suggest to you that in order for such a review to have credibility with the athletes, the coaches and the public, it must be indepen­dently structured," COA presi­dent Michael Chambers wrote. 
·Canadian officials said they 


t=,
<n-nrn fott1v"l\};"".u-t~ 
iN!1fi(UHUltAL lf.ADHlSHtP 
don't necessarily want to over­turn the decision, but would be satisfied if both teams were awarded gold medals. 
Chambers said they were fil­ing the appeal now because, "There is no time to wait, we're at the Olympic Games now and we must file the appeal now for any hope of a decision before the end of the games." 
Marilyn Chidlow, president of Skate Canada, said all the alle­gations have come to them sec­ondhand. "We will look for that firsthand information," she said. 
Reaction differed on opposite sides of the world. 
U.S. coach Frank Carroll sug­gested that a French judge, Marie Reine Le Gougne, voted for the Russians in a deal to avenge a loss by the French dance team to the Canadians at the Grand Prix in Canada in December. 
"Does that mean now the 
Have you ever wanted to stretch your comfort zone without having to travel thousands of miles? Have you ever wondered what it would take for very different people to live together and interact with a conscious eye to the impact of their differences on their relationships? Have you ever thought that your college experience might better prepare you for the realities of an intercultural world? If you said yes to any of these questions, read on.... An exciting new program is coming to a residence hall near you! 
The Center for Women's lnterCultural Leadership offers to all Saint Mary's students the opportunity to experience living in an lnterCultural Community through the lnterCultural Living Community Program. 
Students choosing to participate in this program live together in a designated section of a residence hall and spend time refiecting and discussing intercultural issues with other residents in that section. lnterCultural Living Community members will develop an intercultural atmosphere in the residence hall as well as the rest of the College community by collaboratively planning activities. programs and events. 
You and your friends in the lnterCultural Living Community will: 
• 
be provided financial support for intellectual and cultural development 

• 
help manage a budget for planning events for the college community 

• 
receive funds to build the lnterCultural living Community's resource library 

• 
receive special support for relevant field trips 

• 
work collaborat1vely on special presentations on the fnterCultural Living Community experience 

• 
be recognized by receiving a certificate of membership in the lnterCultural Living Community Program 



This program is restricted to sophomores. juniors and seniors. They will however be responsible for planning interesting activities that involve particularly first­year students. 
Russian judge possibly is going to give the French dance team first in these Olympics? Carroll asked. 
The ice dancing competition begins Friday. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a congratulatory telegram to Berezhnaya and Sikharulidze, expressing "his sincere congratulations on the superb victory," the Kremlin press office reported Wednesday. 

What will the lnterCultural Living Community Program do for you? 
Develop intercultural skills Develop leadership skills Develop awareness and knowledge Develop as a global citizen 
Interested students should pick up application forms at the Center for Women's lnte1Cultural Leadership. Saint Mary·s College. 9 Havican Hall. call 284-4051, or contact us at c,.1,11f~i,5,1intmarys.edu 

Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana 46S56-5001 www.saintmarys.edu 

.... 
,.. 
-
.­
Thursday, February 14, 2002
page 18 The Obseroer . SPORTS 
BOXING 
Tyson license faces opposition 
Associated P rcss 
ATIANTA 
Already shunned by Nevada and other states, Mike Tyson faces opposition in Georgia as he searches for a site to fight heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis. 
"I know there might not have been much discretion about the issuance of the license and the way the law was written, but there are other hurdles that have to be overcome and I per­sonally don't think we should have the fight," Georgia Gov. Roy Barnes said Wednesday. 
Since being denied a boxing license Jan. 29 by the Nevada Athletic Commission, Tyson's promoters have been shopping his contracted title bout with Lennox Lewis around the coun­try. Atlanta has emerged as a candidate, along with Los Angeles, Colorado, Texas and other sites. 
Tyson was granted a boxing license last week by the Georgia Boxing Commission, but the commission said the state also requires a promoter's license and a show permit, neither of which Tyson's camp has 
.... applied for. A Georgia boxing license cost.s $10 and is issued to "just about 
anybody who asks," said Les Schneider, a lobbyist for the commission. 
Tom Mishou, head of the Georgia Boxing Commission, said "the personality of a boxer that's going to be on the card" doesn't necessarily carry much weight in an application for a promoter's license or show per­
mit." 
A spokeswoman for Atlanta Mayor Shirley Franklin said Franklin is still gathering infor­mation about a possible Tyson fight and should have a response later this week. 
The governors of Texas and Colorado also spoke out against their respective states holding the fight. 
Texas Gov. Rick Perry cited Tyson's "bad behavior and unresolved criminal charges" as strikes against the boxer in a Wednesday letter to the chair­man of the Texas Department of Licensing and Ilcgulation. 
"Since Mr. Tyson has criminal charges pending against him for violence against women, recent­ly sparked a brawl at a pre-fight news conference, has refused to submit to required drug tests in other states and has had boxing licenses revoked and refused in the past, I ask that his request to fight in Texas be denied," Perry wrote in a letter to Chairman William Fmvler. 
Colorado Gov. Bill Owens called on the state to "act swiftly and decisively and reject any application for Tyson to fight here." 
"I believe the accomplish­ments of great boxers in the past such as Muhammad Ali are being tarnished by the inappro­priate and illicit conduct of Mike Tyson," he said. 
Tyson adviser Shelly Finkel said Atlanta ranks "very high" on his list. 
"They are a great sports city, it has the right facilities, they have direct flights to London. so Lcnnox's fans can be there," Finkel said Wednesday. 
The company that wants to produce the fight says it consid­ers the Georgia Dome to be the "the front-runner" among the locations it has proposed, which include sites in Florida and Texas. ARK Associates is hold­ing the dome for June 8 for a possible fight. 
"The promoters from both sides are both excited about the possibility of coming to Atlanta," ARK president Noah Lazes said. "They obviously want to explore all options to make sure the fight is placed in the very best venue." 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Henderson signs contract with Boston 
Associated Press 
Rickey Henderson and the Boston Red Sox reached agreement on a minor league contract Wednesday, giving baseball's career leader in runs, stolen bases and walks a chance to play his 24th sea­son in the majors. 
The deal. confirmed by his agent, Jeff Borris, came a week before Boston's full squad reports to spring train­ing in Fort Myers, Fla. 
If Henderson makes the Red Sox -it would be his eighth big league team -the 43­year-old outfielder is expected to back up Manny Ramirez in left and be a part-time DH. The Red Sox dramatically revamped their roster in the offseason following a late slide in 2001. They juggled their outfield by signing free agent Johnny Damon, trading away Carl Everett and letting loose Dante Bichette, Darren Lewis and Troy O'Leary. 
As he did last year, Henderson remained a free agent throughout the winter. He signed with San Diego last March and batted .227 with eight home runs and 42 RBIs with the Padres. 
On his final swing of the season, he got the 3,000th hit of his career. He scored 70 runs, giving him a lifetime total of 2,248 to break Ty Cobb's mark. and stole 25 bases to extend his own record to 1,395. 
Henderson's specialty is get­ting on base. His 81 walks last season gave him 2,141, mov­
ing  him  past Babe Ruth's  
mark.  
There  was  a  chance  

Henderson would return to play for the Padres, although not until May. 
Henderson broke into the majors in 1979 with Oakland and spent his first six years with the Athletics. He later played for the New York Yankees, Toronto, Anaheim. the New York Mets and Seattle. 
Henderson is a .280 hitter with 290 HR and 1,094 RBIs in his 23-year career. He's a 10-time All-Star, last making the team in 1991, and also holds the career record of 79 leadoff home runs. 
On Valentine's Day ... 
-

No (:Jiy-e,afe,r-l---ove, 
Saturday, February 23rd 
10 a.m. • Coleman-Morse Center www.nd.edu/ ~ nglove 
Junior
csc 
CENTER FO~ 

Business Majors 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Internships available 
•
Ill 

ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve and build their businesses. 
• 
12 week summer program 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship 

• 
housing paid and food stipend 

• 
3 elective academic credits Theo359A Course includes journal, paper, follow up session 


Available in cities: Atlanta Albuquerque, 
Chicago, New York City, San Diego, 
• • Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & MCOB Undergraduate office ¢ due February 20th 
Interviews in early March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCION 

..... 
Information Meeting : February 14th Room 203 B, MCOB 6:00 PM 

Thursday, February 14, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
OLYMPICS 
History doesn't favor skaters 
. Canadian figure skating pair unlikely to get gold medal 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 
Roy Jones Jr. had just finished beating on Park Si-hun's head for three rounds in the 1988 Seoul Olympics when the referee sheep­ishly lifted the hand of the South Korean in victory. 
Three of the five judges gave Park the gold medal in a decision so out­rageous that even the hometown crowd was stunned. 
"I can't believe they're doing this to vou,"referee Aldo Leoni whis­pered to Jones. 
Sensing they might have gone too far, officials quickly selected Jones as the outstanding boxer of the games. But he never got a gold medal, despite reports of payoffs that found their way into files of East German secret police. 
If history is any indication, Jamie Sale and David Pelletier won't get a gold medal, either. 
The Canadian pairs skaters are merely the latest losers in Olympics that have a rich history of judging controversies. There's usually at least one to add some spice to every games, winter and summer alike. 
They usually come in figure skat­ing and boxing, though there have been others in gymnastics and bas­ketball. 
All, though, have this in common -they are never overturned. 
"Judges are judges, people are human and results are rcsults,"said Francois Carrard, director general of the International Olympic Committee. "That's life." 
Jones knows that well. He spent nearly a decade trying unsuccessful­ly to get international Olympic offi­cials to give him the gold he deserved. 
Along the way, he was recognized as the best pound-for-pound fighter in the world and received the Olympic Order, the highest honor of the International Olympic Committee. 
But the gold? No, that went to Park, who was last seen with it hanging from his neck, just beneath an embarrassed grin. 
"I will die with a little hope in me"that the gold medal will some­how come his way, Jones said a few years ago. 
Jones had his Olympic hopes shat­tered, but he's not alone. A South Korean boxer was so upset by his loss during the same games that he staged a sit in, refusing to leave the ring for an hour. Four years earlier, New Zealand's Kevin Barry won a silver medal while lying on his back after Evander Holyfield was disqual­ified for hitting after the bell. 
And it's no Olympic secret that boxers from Africa will never win a close decision. 
Things got so bad in Seoul that the sport was nearly banned from the games. Now, the same is being said 

Thursday, Feb. 14 
5: 15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 p.m. Film: Yi Yi, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium 
8:00 p.m. Performance: Golden Dragon (Chinese Acrobats), Washington Hall* 
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
9:00 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, LaFortune Student Center Basement 
s·:oo p.m. Acousticafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
10:00 
p.m. -2:00 a.m. Emily Hart Valentine Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room* 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: Serendipity and The Princess Bride, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 



about figure skating, where intricate alliances and flat-out ineptitude among judges has produced more than 75 years of controversy. 
"This is the worst thing that's hap­pened to figure skating in a long time,"said veteran U.S. coach Frank Carroll. "I can understand where, watching that, if the International Olympic Committee said, 'We don't want figure skating in the Olympics anymore.' Who's going to argue with that?" 
Salt Lake City's genteel crowds booed when Sale and Pelletier were given second, but that was mild compared to the 1956 games in Cortina, Italy. There, a crowd that had grumbled all along about the judging became unruly when the popular German couple of 12-year­old Marika Kilius and 19-year-old Franz Ningel finished fourth. 
They pelted the judges and refer­ee with oranges, and the ice had to be cleared three times before com­petition resumed. 
The crowd, of course, is often at odds with judges, even from the comfort of their living rooms. 
The 1972 U.S. basketball team refused its silver medals in a protest after a referee allowed the Soviet Union three extra chances to make the winning basket with three sec­onds left in the gold-medal game. 
The Americans protested to a five­man committee, backed up by the timekeeper and another referee. 
Of course, they were denied. It's an Olympic tradition almost as old as the torch. 

Friday, Feb. 15 
5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 
p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 

7:00 
p.m. Blak Kofee House, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom* 


7:15 p.m. Stations of the Cross, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Serendipity and The Princess Bride, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center Basement 
9:00 
p.m. Crafting Corner: Calligraphy, LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 

9:00 
p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Card/Game Night, Center for Social Concerns 

9:00 
p.m. Comic: Erin Foley, Washington Hall 


10:00 
p.m. Movies: Serendipity and The Princess Bride, DeBartolo 101/155* 

10:00 
p.m. -1 :30 p.m. Tournament Fridays: Bingo, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
'Cats move past Vanderbilt 67-59 
. Prince leads Kentucky with 20 points 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Tayshaun , Prince scored 20 points and Keith Bogans had 12 as 
Kentucky  beat  
Vanderbilt  67-59  
Wednesday night.  

Gerald Fitch and Jules Camara each had 10 points, and Marquis Estill added nine points and seven rebounds for the Wildcats (17-6, 7-4 Southeastern Conference). who beat the Commodores for the 18th straight time. 
Matt Freije and Chuck Moore each scored 17 points to lead Vanderbilt (14-10, 4-7), which has never won at Rupp Arena in 25 games. 
Kentucky shot 39 per­cent and made just three field goals over the final 
15 :24 of the game. Vanderbilt shot 36 per­cent overall and missed 15 of 22 3-pointers. 
Kentucky led 32-23 at halftime and pushed the 
margin to 39-28 on Estill's 3-pointer from the top of the key with 
17:20 remaining. Bogans' 3 put the Wildcats up 44-30 with 
15:20 to play. 

A 7-0 run cut Kentucky's lead to 44-37 with 12:22 remaining. Moore's 3-pointer pulled the Commodores to 56­52 at the 3-minute mark, but they would get no closer. 
The Commodores out­rebounded the Wildcats 35-33 but turned the ball over 17 times, leading to 22 Kentucky points. 
Bogans hit consecutive jumpers, including his first of three 3-pointers, to spark a 13-0 run that gave Kentucky a 19-8 lead at the seven-minute mark. 
David Przybyszewski's 3 pulled the Commodores to 28-21 with 2:15 remaining. Corey Smith's dunk off a steal in the closing moments of the half cut the Wildcats lead to 32-23. 
For the half, Kentucky held Vanderbilt to 32 percent shooting and held a 20-16 advantage on the boards. 
Saturday, Feb. 16 
5:30 p.m. Junior Parents' Weekend Mass, Joyce Center Arena 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Serendipity and The Princess Bride, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
8:00 p.m. Concert: Claude Cymerman, piano, Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center Basement 
10:00 
p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Open Karaoke and Food, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: Serendipity and The Princess Bride, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


12:00 a.m. -3:00 a.m. Music and Munchies at Co-Mo, Coleman-Morse Center 
This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. All programs are free to Notre Dame students unless marked by an asterisk (*). 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT: www.nd.edu/~sao/
. ' 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 14, 2002 
NFL 
Fiedler signs new deal with Dolphins 
+ Contract worth $24.5 million over five seasons 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Quarterback Jay Fiedler, who has played for four teams in six seasons, decided against testing the free-agent market and instead signed a five-year, $24.5 million contract to remain with the Miami Dolphins. 
The deal. which runs through 2006, was announced Wednesday. It contains a $4 million signing bonus. 
Had Fiedler pursued free agency, the Dolphins could have kept him by matching any offer. 
"This was the to 
one place that I "This puts my salary step up
wanted to be," comparable to where and meet said Fiedler, 
quarterbacks are being some of 
who has 34 my needs
paid..,
touchdown 
as well." 

passes and 33 Fiedler, interceptions in going into
Jay Fleldler 
two seasons 
his sev­

Dolphins quaterback
with Miami. 
"The excite­ment level I have coming back is definitely high, knowing the coaching staff is backing me, and know­ing they have the respect that I can be a winning quarter­back." 
Fiedler, 30, is 21-10 as a starter for the Dolphins and has led them to the playoffs in successive seasons. In 2001 he threw for 3,290 yards with 20 touchdowns and 19 intercep­tions, and in the final seven regular season games he threw 11 touchdown passes with just four interceptions, one of the league's best ratios. 
Five times last year, he ral­lied the Dolphins to victory in the fourth quarter. 
"I don't think there is a play­er on our football team who has had more of an impact in helping us win," Dolphins coach Dave Wannstedt said. "Jay has proven he can win." 
The Dolphins have an option for the fifth year that must be exercised after 2003 season. 
Fiedler will make the NFL veteran minimum of $525,000 in 2002 and could collect another $500,000 in incen­tives. In the first 14 months of the deal, Fiedler could earn $7 million in bonuses. 
"This puts my salary compa­rable to where other starting quarterbacks are being paid," said Fiedler, who made about $1 million last season. "With that affirmation, I have arrived. 
"I was truly happy here, but it wasn't a situation where l was going to come back no matter what. Certainly the 
Dolphins 
had 


'l.otfiin3 to Wear? 
Come in andsee our Latest ?lrriva(s for Syrin3! Winter Safe stiff in yro3ress! 

WHERE: J.Mpire rflel (ORNER OF CoLFAX AND HILL DOWNTOWN SOUTH Brno 
HERE'S OUR PHONE NUMBER: 
232·1822 
JUICY (oUTURE NOMINATION HARDTAIL BITSEYJOHNSON 
LAUNDRY 
THEORY 
LILLY PULITZER FRAt-lKIE B 

enth sea­

son, found stability in Miami after serving as backup at Philadelphia, Minnesota and Jacksonville. 
"You want continuity on a solid organization," Fiedler said. "Bouncing around to as many teams that I've been on, I've been able to see what types of teams there are out there. 
Fiedler's re-signing will likely put an end to speculation that Troy Aikman might come out of retirement to play for Miami. 
"You hear all the rumors," Fiedler said. "I went up and spoke to Dave Wannstedt about my situation. He clearly stated that I was the guy that they wanted. That was all I needed to hear. I have to take the word of my coach as the most credible source." 


Boes simliar to Irish 
If you've been following off­season NFL news even some­what closely over the past cou­ple of weeks, then you have to feel bad for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
Here's a team that is stacked with talent up and down its ros­ter, has great potential for success in upcoming seasons. and has a high profile head coaching vacancy­that nobody wants to fill. 
Wait a minute -that sounds a little familiar doesn't it? 
Yes. that's right; just in case you disgusted fans and alumni out there thought that Notre Dame held an exclusive monop­oly on the embarrassing head coaching search, the head hon­chos over in Tampa are out to prove you wrong. 
No, it's probably not the "sec­ond greatest job in the world" (behind coaching the New York Yankees, of course), and it doesn't have more than 100 years of history on its side, but the fact that Tampa Bay head coaching candidates are run­ning from the job like it's the ebola virus is nonetheless sur­prising. 
It could be just an eerie coin­cidence, but it appears that the Buccaneer ownership has fol­lowed the Notre Dame blue­print for the bungled coaching search-drawn up only months ago -right down to a 


tee. Consider the following: Both teams took major public 
relations hits when their main targets embarrassed them in front of a national sports audience. Notre Dame was humbled when George O'Leary "forgot" that he never really lettered in col­lege football, while Tampa put their franchise in the hands of Bill Parcells, who suddenly decided he'd rather go fishing in Florida than coach a football team there. 
Both teams unsuccessfully tried to lure John Gruden away from the Oakland Raiders and ran headfirst into the furious beast that is Al Davis. Notre Dame finally 
decided that they couldn't wait Wltil the end of the NFL season to court Gruden. while the Tampa owners realized that Davis' rumored asking price of two first round picks, a second rounder and their first born children was a little too steep. 
And along the way. both teams were rejected countless times by other candidates, who may or may not have even been considered for the vacancy in the first place. 
At least Notre Dame eventu­ally ended up with a quality coach in Tyrone Willingham. One gets the feeling that Tampa's options are looking more and more grim every day. 
To put the issue in perspec­tive, consider the fact that Notre Dame supporters get offended when guys like Steve Mariucci and Mike Shanahan profess no interest in the head­coaching job. To date, Tampa Bay's refusals have come from, 
among others, Marvin Lewis 
and Ralph Freidgen. 

To be fair, Lewis was ade­quately qualified, and probably deserved the job as much as anyone, but Ralph Freidgen'? How sad is the state of affairs within your program if a col· lege coach with only one year of experience is politely declin­ing your offer? 
So far, the only person who has actually declared interest in the Tampa job is 76-year-old Marv Levy. 
No offense to Marv, but end­ing up with a 76 year-old man as your new head coach has all the excitement of interviewing Lou Holtz for the position and having him recommend his son, Skip, instead. 
Tampa Bay needs to right this ship as soon as possible because its premier players are reaching the prime of their careers, and the prestige the Bucs built up as a franchise is growing smaller every day. 
Maybe the Bucs will eventual­ly nab Gruden from the Raiders' grasp. Maybe they will land a highly regarded college coach. Maybe Parcells will change his mind (again) and return to lead the team to glory. 
But whatever ends up hap­pening, one fact has become quite clear during the past sev­eral months: Football coaching jobs just don't sell themselves like they used to. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboy­lan@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily The Observer. 


Thursday, February 14, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Hornets pound injury-stricken Bulls 113-91 
' 

+ Mercer, Oakley strained groin. Miller bruised on the road. The Hornets shot was supposed to be in the night," Orlando coach Doc his left calf. 55 percent for the game and game or not, then tried to Rivers said. "We were out of
and Anthony miss 
"Brad is day-to-day. With outrebounded the Bulls 48-40. casually walk off the court as sync on defense, and the Heat 
game with injuries Eddie it may be a while before "It was a good way to start Hornets' players screamed at never really faltered. They had we get him back," Cartwright the second half of the season," the officials. Nailon hit the that long break and we played said. Hornets coach Paul Silas said. technical free throw. last night. That was really the
Associated Press 
Chicago was already without "I thought they would present big difference in the game." injured players Ron Mercer, a much bigger problem for us. Miami 11.2, Orlando 95 The Heat led 56-43 at half­
Even though two more 
Charles Oakley and Greg They played the night before The Miami Heat knew just time, putting together a 14-5
starters went down with 
Anthony. and were probably tired." when to step on the accelera­run during the final five min­injuries, Chicago Bulls coach Baron Davis added 18 points Leading 43-37, the Hornets tor. The Orlando Magic just utes. Mourning scored 14Bill Cartwright wasn't making and 12 assists and Jamaal went on an 18-4 run to take a ran out of gas. points in the half, with Jones excuses. 
Magloire had 17 points and 1 O 20-point lead before settling Eddie Jones scored 24 points adding 10. 
Lee Nailon scored 24 points 
rebounds as the Hornets for a 61-43 cushion at half­and Alonzo Mourning added Orlando made it 80-72 afterand the Charlotte Hornets led 
snapped a time. Stacey 18 to lead a well-rested Miami three periods, with McGradythe Bulls by as many as 40 in three-game Augmon to a victory over Orlando. scoring 13 points, including a
a 113-91 victory Wednesday "It was cool, we were
home losing scored eight Playing for the first time pair of 3-pointers. The Magicnight. 
streak. sharing the ball tonight. points and since the All-Star break and pulled within 73-69 on
"We weren't ready to play 
A.J. Guyton Everyone got involved the Bulls on seven days' rest, the Heat McGrady's fast-break dunk,
and we didn't establish our­
scored 19 committed topped the 100-point mark for but the Heat outscored
selves defensively," Cartwright and it all worked out. " 
points and f o u r only the fourth time this sea­Orlando 8-4 over the final
said. "We didn't share the 
Ron Artest turnovers son and won for the 11th time 1:48.
ball. I won't call it being self­added 10 on Baron Davis during the in their last 14 games. Jones and Jimmy Jackson hit ish, I'll call it trying to do too 
4-of-12 shoot­spurt. With "It's like a sprint now," said back-to-back 3-pointers to
much." Hornets guard
ing for the Robinson and Heat guard Eddie House. "It push Miami's lead to 86-76The Bulls played the second Bulls, who Miller out in was a good win, a needed one with 9:06 left in the fourth
half without starters Eddie 
had beaten the Los Angeles thesecond half, the Hornets coming out of the break. It quarter, and the Magic never
Robinson and Br ad Miller. 
Lakers and Milwaukee in their poured it on. helped that we had everybody drew closer than eight points Robinson scored 14 points in last two games, but fell to 3-23 Robert Traylor's alley-oop contributing and playing." the rest of the way. 
the first half before suffering a dunk from Davis at the buzzer Brian Grant added 15 points "The back-to-back 3-point­gave Charlotte a 93-60 lead and Rod Strickland had 14 as ers was the turning point," after three quarters. The lead the Heat shot 55 percent. The Rivers said. "We couldn't ballooned to 40 in the final Heat, once 5-23, have won 14 come back after that." period as the Hornets of their last 20 games and are The Heat outrebounded the improved to 3-0 against the beginning at least whisper Magic 45-26. Mourning had
Sinus Infection 
Bulls this season and 10-2 in about making a run at a play­his way against Horace Grant, the past 12 meetings since off spot. and Patrick Ewing, 39, wasn't 1998. "If we continue to give that able to provide much relief for 
•~ Research Study 
"It was cool, we were shar­type of effort, we 're going to Orlando. Horace Grant scored ing the ball tonight," said be a team to be reckoned 8 points and Ewing managed Davis, who recorded his 21st with," Mourning said. just 4 points in 11 minutes. 
i NOWenrolling! 
double-double of the season. Tracy McGrady scored 26 "With our height and power "Everyone got involved and it points and Pat Garrity 25 to inside, we should dominate
Have you been suffering from any of the foffowing symptoms for at 
all worked out." lead the Magic. this team on the boards," said 
least the past week but less than amonth? 
Charlotte led 32-28 after the Orlando, coming off Brian Grant, who added six 
• Yellow-to-green discharge from nose 
first quarter, most remem­Tuesday's home victory rebounds. The 100-plus points bered for a technical foul on against New York, lost for only was a rarity for the Heat, who the Bulls for having six play­the fourth time in its last 10 went the first 35 games with­
• 
Pain, pressure or tightness on cheeks 

• 
Nasal congestion 



ers on the floor. Artest games. out reaching that mark this
Ifyou answered YES and you are older than 18 years ofage you 
appeared to be unsure if he "We were tired after last season. 
may be eligible to participate in astudy evaluating aresear~h 
m~dicati?n for sinus infections. Volunteers participating in the study
will receive 
• Associated medical care 
• Study medicine 

LAFAYETTE SOUARE TOWN HOMES
Ifyou are interested or would like to leam more, please contact 
Irene Ege at (219) 239-15761 Robs. (ll9) 237_9337 
"The Best Value Per Student" 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWN HOMES OFFER: 
• 
4/5 Private Bedrooms 

• 
Fully Equipped Kitchens ONLY AFEW LEFT 

• 
Washer & Dryer in Each Unit FOR 2002-2003 

• 
Central Air Conditioning Bunn Iouts Tout! 


•••~••••••••••••~•••••••·•••~••••••••••D••••••o•~ 
• Assigned Parking Spaces 
: ,....._ University Resources Call 219-234-9923
• • ADT Security Systems 
• email: REMCorp@aol.mm
for Gay, Lesbian, & • • 24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 
Professionally Managed by: ,...-:; •~ Real Estate Management Corporation · • •·.--.'.•· ·.. 
Bisexual Students 
P.O. Box 540 130 South Ma,n Street South Bend. IN 46624-0540 
• 
Coi,,.MJTTEE ON 

• 
GAY ANO LESBIAN 

• 
STUDENT NEEDS 


•
•• 9 The Standing Committee on Gay and
• 
.• •• •
Lesbian Student Needs 
• . 
~ 
(Confidential information, education, and resourc~~) 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS
• • ~ 

Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent • 
• 
members (sP.e web sitefor student contact info.) •••
• SOME REASONS WHY You SHOULD JOIN OUR COMMUNITY:
• . 
•

• ~ • Over 1,000 SF of Living Space 
• Office of Campus Ministry : 
• 2 Bedrooms/ 1 Bath -­
.• ("GLB Togethcr"--confidential group meetings which : Double Vanity Sinks 
,, 
include prayer and discussion ofspiritual is~;ues; annual : • 4 Blocks South From Notre Dame Campus retreat; library with relevant reading materials~ :
• • On-Site Laundry Facilities 
• : Call 219-234-9923
Contact: Fr. J. Steele. CSC. at Steele.3 l@nd.e<lu, or 
• • On "Transpo" Bus-Line .
• Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu :
• . • Professional Management email: BEMCorp@aol.com
.. •
• . 
• 24-Hour EfDergency "On-Call" Maintenance 
•• University Counseling Center • 
• (Individual counseling or a confidential support group) 
~ 
Contact' Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or MC111reen
•• Notre Dame Apartments Continues to Offer Quality Housing Opportunities _,,. 
• Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
•• and Has Become The Best Yalue in 0/{Campus living
. 
For more infonnation. >:heck out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn' 0
•
•
=•111••······················••*·..................... 

page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 14, 2002 


Investor!; -nt-:ed assurance to make decisions. 
Help us help thern and the cornpanie5 whose stock they buy, and we'll help you build a career. 
www. pwcgiobai .(-om/lookhf,re Opportunities, Info. Free tickets. 
Look beyond the numb .. rs. 
Thursday, February 14, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NHL 
Colorado stop Blues 3-1 
. Roy saves 33, Keane picks up assist in victory 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
Recently acquired forward Mike Keane helped set up Dan Hinote's go-ahead goal, and the Colorado Avalanche head­ed into the Olympic break with a 3-1 win over the St. Louis Blues on Wednesday night. 
Rookie Radim Vrbata also scored for Colorado, and Greg de Vries had an empty-net goal in the final minute. 
Patrick Roy had 33 saves, and St. Louis' Brent Johnson stopped 16. . 
Hinote's shorthanded goal put Colorado ahead 2-1 at 
17:45 of the second period. 
Keane, playing in his first game for Colorado after Monday's trade with St. Louis, brought the puck down the left side. After being spun around by a defender, he passed to Adam Foote, whose shot from the right point was redirected in by Hinote. 
The Blues pulled Johnson with 1:10 left. and de Vries had the empty-netter 19 sec­onds later. 
Although St. Louis outshot Colorado 15-8 in the first peri­od, the scored was tied at 1. 
The Blues' Pavol Demitra scored an unassisted goal just 
1:07 into the game. Roy attempted to clear the puck, which deflected off Colorado defenseman Martin Skoula's skate to Demitra, who shot from the right circle. 
Vrbata tied it at 13:49 with a rebound goal, his 11th. It was Vrbata's fifth goal in the past four games. 
The Blues had a number of scoring chances late in the period, including Demitra's partial breakaway. 
Roy stopped Mike Eastwood on a shorthanded breakaway early in the second period. 
Roy stopped Scott Young on two in close shots, the last at 
13:39 of the third period. 
Detroit 2, Minnesota 0 
Dominik Hasek recorded his fourth shutout of the season and the 60th of his career as the Detroit Red Wings beat the Minnesota Wild. 
Hasek, who will head to Salt Lake City along with 10 other Red Wing players Thursday to compete in the Olympics, fin­ished the night with 21 saves. 
The Czech goaltender spent most of his time diving on the ice, helping to hold off the Wild. 
Kirk Maltby and Mathieu Dandenault scored for Detroit, both off assists from Steve Yzerman. 
The Wild hung tough with the league-leading Red Wings, mostly because of goalie Dwayne Roloson, who was almost as impressive as Hasek. His best stop of the night came late in the second period after Brendan Shanahan led a 3-on-1 break right at him. Shanahan, who scored the winning goal against Montreal on Monday night, got off a close shot, but Roloson made the save with his stick, bringing the crowd to its feet. 
Despite Roloson's 22 saves, the Wild couldn't crack Detroit's defense. 
After a scoreless first period, Maltby scored his eighth goal of the season at 16:48 of the second. Sitting behind the net, Yzerman spotted Maltby streaking in from the left cir­cle and sent the puck to him. Maltby's shot narrowly avoid­ed Roloson's glove. · 
Dandenault scored Detroit's second goal with 2:38 remain­ing in the game after taking a pass from Yzerman from the right circle. Dandenault streaked in from the left and beat Roloson's glove side. 
The Wild blew several scor­ing opportunities. Their best chance came midway through the second period. Pascal Dupuis led a breakaway with Antti Laaksonen trailing. Dupuis closed in on the net and fired the puck, but Hasek came up with the save. 
Minnesota was O-for-5 on the power play. 
Hasek also received two penalty minutes with 5:05 remaining. With the Wild des­peratel y trying to score, Andrew Brunette collided with two Detroit players in front of Hasek and was upended into the net. Hasek, along with the other two players, ganged up on Brunette. 
Shanahan served Hasek's roughing penalty. Brunette was also assessed a penalty in the fray. 
Runoff Election on Thursday!!! 
There will be a Runoff Electiou for Student Body President and Vice-President between Brian Moscona/ Keri Oxley and Libby Bishop/Trip Foley 
Voting will be held on Thursday, February 14 (Valentine's Day!) Off-campus students can vote from 12:30pm-3:30pm By the 1st floor DeBartolo Computer Cluster On-Campus student voting times will be posted in the donns Seniors can vote too!!! Sponsored by Notre Dame Judicial Council 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Oklahoma St. upsets Oklahoma in OT 
Associated Prus 

STILLWATER, Okla. 
Fourth-ranked Oklahoma brought out the best in strug­gling Oklahoma State. 
The Cowboys (No. 15 ESPN/USA Today, No. 16 AP). who came in having lost five of eight, got a career-high 22 points from Ivan McFarlin and a double-double from Melvin Sanders to beat the Sooners 79­72 in overtime Wednesday night. 
McFarlin scored three straight baskets and had eight points in the overtime, helping Oklahoma State (19-6, 6-5 Big 
12) survive without leading scorer Maurice Baker, who missed his second straight game with a sprained ankle. 
"We needed to win it bad,"said Sanders, who had 12 points and 11 rebounds. "We had our backs against the ropes, to tell the truth -18-6, we didn't have our star player. Probably nobody thought we could win, but this is going to help us out a lot." 
Oklahoma coach Kelvin Sampson said he never doubted the Cowboys would give his team all it could handle, even though Oklahoma State had looked ugly in losing at Fresno State on Sunday without Baker. 
"Basketball is a game of today," Sampson said. "That was last Sunday. Today, they were good and that was a tough team out there tonight." 
Oklahoma (19-4, 8-3) got 27 points and 11 rebounds from Aaron McGhee but scored only one basket in the final 1:30 of overtime. 
McFarlin scored consecutive inside baskets on assists from Victor Williams to give Oklahoma State a 69-67 lead with 2:18 left. McFarlin then stole a pass took it the other way for a dunk and a four-point lead at the 1:57 mark. 
"You have to make big plays and have to make defensive plays in order to make a big gap in the game," McFarlin said. "Fortunately that steal, it made a big presence on the scoreboard." 
After McGhee scored on a fol­low shot with 1:39 remaining. Williams scored on a leaner in the lane. Then the Cowboys, who were just 4-for-12 from the foul line in the first half, made six straight from the line to seal the victory. 
Fredrik Jonzen, who made four of those free throws, had 19 points for the Cowboys. Williams had 13 points and six assists. 
Jason Detrick had 15 points for Oklahoma. 
Sampson said he felt the game turned early in the sec­ond half, when the Cowboys scored the first nine points to take a 33-31 lead. Sanders started the run with a 3-pointer and a dunk off a steal. 
"I thought the key to this bas­ketball game, no matter how you slice and dice it, was the first five minutes of the second half," Sampson said. "We have a seven-point lead, and they come out and really take it to us." 
The teams traded the lead seven times after that before the Cowboys scored eight points, including fastbreak bas­kets by Williams and Sanders, to take a 56-51 lead with 3:37 remaining. 
Hollis Price, who finished with 10 points, then made four free throws in a 6-2 Oklahoma run that got the Sooners within 58-57 with 2:32 to play. A free throw by Williams and a shot in close by McFarlin pushed the lead back to four with 1 :27 left, but McGhee and Detrick each made two free throws in the final minute to tie it at 61. 
An Oklahoma State turnover gave Oklahoma a chance to win the game in regulation, but Quannas White's jumper from the left wing missed. 
Oklahoma State, which com­mitted 25 turnovers against Fresno State, had just eight Wednesday. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 14, 2002 

SMC 
continued from page 28 
only 10 shots. 
"There was a nice stretch in the second half where we got the ball to Anne Blair probably four or five times in a row and she scored at will," said Smith. "Then we couldn't go down and get any defensive stops." 
A slow start also didn't help the Belles chances for victory. 
"I think we just came out with a little bit lack of intensity," said Smith. "Obviously Adrian made some good adjustments and they were pretty fired up to play and we just didn't quite match their intensity.· 
Sophomore guard Katie Miller agreed with Smith. 
"We didn't play well at all," said Miller. "No one really stepped it up for our team. Anne had a really good game at the end but it just wasn't enough to get us going." 
The Belles will not have much time to feel sorry for themselves because they play Kalamazoo who is in second place in the conference on Saturday in the regular season finale. 
"One of the biggest things [for the next game] is to have pride," said Smith. "You know when you're playing at home it's a chance for us to send our seniors out with a great game to finish their career out at home. It's a chance for us to come out and prove our­selves and show the crowd how much we've improved this year." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Tennis coach inducted into Richmond HOF 
longest current streak of any Notre
Special to The: 0 bserver 
Dame team. In his career, Bayliss owns a 550-218 mark. His .716 win­
Notre Dame head men's tennis 
ning percentage ranks as the fourth­
coach Bob 

highest among active collegiate
Bayliss was one coaches and seventh on the all-timeof six individuals 
NCAA list. Prior to coaching the
inducted into the Irish, Bayliss spent three years at
University of MIT (1985-87) and 15 at Navy
Richmond 
(1970-84).
Athletics Hall of Just three years after arriving at
Fame Sunday 
Notre Dame, Bayliss led Notre Dame afternoon in the to its first national ranking in school
Jepson Alumni 
history in 1990. One year later, heCenter. Bayliss, Bayliss led his team to a berth in the NCAA
who earned a 
championships for the first time in
bachelor's degree in 1966 and a 
the program's history. The following 
master's degree in 1971 from the 
season, Bayliss· Irish finished 23-4university, played No. 2 singles and and advanced to the 1992 nationalNo. 1 doubles as a senior on the · 
title match before falling to
Spider tennis team. 
Stanford. Notre Dame's march to"It was a tremendous thrill for me the championship match as the No.
to go back to my alma mater and be 10 seed still makes the Irish thehonored in such a manner with a lowest seed and only non-Sun Beltnumber of other great athletes, par­school to reach the NCAA final since ticularly Tim Finchem. the commis­
the team format was adopted in
sioner of the PGA, who was a fresh­1977. The Irish reached the national 
man when I was a senior," said 
quarterfinals again in 1993. In 14Bayliss. "I am humbled and thrilled years at Notre Dame, Bayliss hasto be in the Richmond Hall of Fame. 
coached his players to 14 All­
I look forward to going back to America honors. 
reunions and staying active with my Bayliss was named Intercollegiatealma mater." 
Tennis Association national coach of Bayliss is in his 33rd year as a col­
the year in 1992 and has won
legiate coach and has guided Notre regional coach-of-the-year honorsDame to a 268-124 (.684) record 14 times, including last season. Hesince he began coaching the Irish in has been named conference coachthe fall of 1987. His teams have of the year six times in his career
made appearances in each of the 
and has helped Notre Dame capture
two BIG EAST titles. 


Thursday, February 14, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

How do you pray? 
Lectio Divina Ignatian Meditation Adoration Stations of the Cross Mass Rosary Taize Walk_ around the Lal(es Liturgy of the Hours Praise & Worship 
Throughout history, people of faith have developed many creative ways to pray. No Greater Love offers you a chance to try some of these ways for yourself in a retreat..style setting through inspirational talks and student-led music-filled prayer. Come experience something new. 
Saturday, February 23rd 
10 a.m. • Coleman-Morse Center Breakfast ,Lunch&Dinner provided Closing Mass begins @ 6:30 p.m. Space is Limited • Call 1-3250 for info 
For More Info: Stop by Lafortune TODAY between 2pm-7pm or log on to www.nd.edu/ ~nglove 

A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 

Wo01en 
continued from page 28 
John's, who remains winless in the Big East and falls to 3-21 on the year. 
"I think [the Irish playersJ knew what the record was," McGraw said. "They knew they hadn't won a game in the Big East. We knew we were going to win. I think a more experienced team would not have let that happen, but this team has a lot of young players, and we just really didn't come out and play hard." 
McGraw was also disappointed in the effectiveness of her bench. Other than Flecky, no Irish reserve scored more than one field goal. Freshman Kelsey Wicks, who usually provides a spark off the bench, was score­less, including a 0-6 mark from behind the 3-point line. 
The Irish did succeed, though, on defense. St. John's shot just 22 percent from the floor for the game, and their 31 points were the fewest by an Irish opponent since Valparaiso scored just 27 on Jan. 21. 1982. The Irish came away with 14 steals and forced St. John's into 21 turnovers. 
"Tonight we were working on a little more pressure and trying to create some turnovers," McGraw said. "I thought we did a pretty good job there. That's something that we really haven't been doing too well lately." 
Another area in which McGraw thought the team could have improved was in terms of physi­cal play. The referees allowed the athletes to play a physical game, and McGraw thought St. John's took advantage of that while her team did not. 
"I think we need to play at that level," McGraw said. "We need to play a more physical game and be more comfortable in that type of game, because it was very consistent at both ends and we did not take advantage of that." 
McGraw was pleased with her team's ability to distribute the basketball. 
Notre Dame shot 39.3 percent from the field and rarely had to force shots at the buzzer. In tran­sition, though, the Irish came away with only eight fast-break points. 
"I thought we had the right people shooting the ball even though the shots didn't drop, and we did a pretty good job on the boards," McGraw said. 
"Overall we're still doing a lot of good things, we just need to score more points in transition." 
All areas will need to be improved by Saturday. Rutgers is only 8-15 this season and just 5-7 in the Big East, but traditionally plays well at home. 
The Scarlet Knights also boast an aggressive defense, which poses a threat to a Notre Dame team that may come in without its leading scorer. 
"To think about going into that game without Jackie, who's our leading scorer, makes it even more difficult," McGraw said. "We're going to have a lot of work to do in the next couple of days to find out who's going to replace her in the starting lineup if it comes to that and how we're going to make our changes. This is a very tough match-up for us." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at Amstadter.l@nd.edu. 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E_ Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 14, 2002 
Men 
continued from page 28 
recognition than what we're get­ting." 
Corne tonight, Notre Dame's griping about the lack of national respect will be shoved aside, as the lrish look to beat Rutgers for the second time in eight days. 

Thomas was instrumental in Notre Dame's 89-72 win against the Scarlet Knights last week. He scored 32 points and shot 7-for-9 from behind the 3­point line. 
"The thing that's lost is that we put it on them pretty good eight days ago, and that's 
"It's real frustrating for us. We feel like we've done enough so far, even though we're not satisfied.But we're definitely up to receive more recognition than what we're getting." 
Chris Thomas Irish point guard 
kind of been lost in mix of Saturday's game," Brey said. "And I think I'm going to have to remind our guys they'll really be after us [tonight] and they play very well at home." 
Brey compares the Louis Brown Athletic Center, one of the tough­est places to play in the Big East, to Indiana's Assembly Hall, where the Irish lost to the Hoosiers by a point. 
Rutgers is nearly unstoppable at home. In 12 home games this sea­son, they've won 11, including four out of five in Big East play. 
"Rutgers, I think, is kind of shell shocked that we beat them," freshman forward Jordan Cornette said. "They're expecting to get the best of us at their place." 
In order to contain the Scarlet Knights, the Irish will have to con­tain streaky guards Jerome Coleman and Ricky Shields, who scored 15 and 12 points, respec­tively, against the Irish earlier this season. 
Rutgers can also throw the ball into Rashod Kent, who picked up 
12 points and five rebounds in last week's meet­ing. 
"Last time, we were able to do what we wanted on offense," Thomas said. "The hard thing was stopping them on defense. I think they're a great offensive team. They're one of the better ones we've played so 
far. For us to stop them we have to limit their offensive produc­tion." 
Note: 
Tonight's game begins at 9 p.m. and is nationally .televised on 
ESPN. 
The Irish have struggled in nationally televised games this season. Notre Dame has lost its last seven games it has played before a national audience ­including three losses from the 2000-01 season. Ironically, Notre Dame won it's last national televi­sion game at Rutgers last season. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asoukup@nd.edu. 

222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
... 

Thursday, February 14, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 
UM OH, DAO. LOOICS  C20028il~bJl.klYIIIUIPrd~  
LIKE THE RUSSIAN  WII-L You lwo STOP  
J'U06E w~s NOT  fooL11\1<; AiOUND  
/  IMPRESSED.  ~O H£LP ME  
SALT THE STUPID  
ORIVEWA'Y?.'  

B B ~m
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 

1ov bl me 
~IJ SIC-prise ms 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Psychologist­51 Gleeful cry tumed-N.F.L.
1 Boeufala 52 Quit
runner?

Russe ingredient 53 Settled down 27 Child pluralizer 4 Chord type 55 Adventurer­28 King of the turned-alien?
9 Chicago Cubs Bullwhip
spring training 58 Spanish lady 
30 Man in search

site 
of meaning? 59 Light shades 13 Actress Long 
31 Less risky 60 Present time: 14 Novelist born in Abbr
32 Toronado or Thornton, Starfire 61 Hosp. chartsYorkshire 33 Writer-tumed­62 Expand15 Smackers physician? 

63 Preauction fig. 
16 Author-turned­37 Turkish dough radio 
39 Put off 

personality? DOWN
40 Pessimist's reply 
18 H.S. helpers 1 Win the love of
42 Dumps 19 Really enjoys 21997 Demi
43 Lettuce serving Moore title role 20 1950's political 46 Author-tumed­
inits. 3 Alphonse's
coroner? 

partner in old 22 Knock the socks 48 58-Across comicsoff feature 
4 Spill
23 Win by_ 50 liny wriggler 5 Actor Moody of "Oliver!" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Mozart's Sonata 
SOFIA MONA SICK for 
Puzzle by Randolph ROH K H A K I E L E M T O R I Keyboard and 24 Neighbor of 37 Citrus mixer 45 Make out
Violin Lucy and Desi 
AIDER ROAN AWOL 47 Yemen, once
38 Ross Sea sight 

A y A W N 7 Resting 
25 Lab tube 49 Suffix with favor 
41 La la lead-in8 Batting whiz 26 Knotted rope 52 Poet Harwood 
Jeter 42 Explicit
29 Request for 54 Univ. workers 9 Bad hairdo 
43 One who's fair 10 Jumble Vanna, maybe 56 Top 
31 Joe of "Apollo 44 Draws out 57 Years 11 Iodine source 13" 
12 Puts forward 33 Greenhouse Answers to any clues in this puzzle areoperation
14 Sabbath available by touch-tone phone: proscription 34Wig 
1·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). A V f.::.t-::.t-:'+.::::+:M 17 Donkey's uncle 35 Overseas Annual subscriptions are available for the S E -+---+-+--L T S 21 Paul McCartney, best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
honour: Abbr. E R V S K U D O S for one 36 Winter coats years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
, 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name ______________________ Address ------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON deal with your partner today. Any THIS DAY: Gregory Hines, Flo­thoughtless comments will get rence Henderson, Meg Tilly, Drew blown out of proportion. Time Bledsoe spent with friends may be fun but 
Happy Birthday: You will if someone you love is feeling left know how to work within a group out you may end up in an emo­this year, and your networking tional feud. 00 skills will be terrific. You will work LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You hard in order to afford the luxuries will have some unusual ideas that you desire and you won't be regarding your work. Present hesitant to put time and effort into your ideas and you will find your home. Your numbers are 3, 6, yourself moving into fast-forward 17, 25, 29, 41 professionally. Your extra efforts 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): will be noticed. 00000 Don't be afraid lo start something SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): new. You'll do surprisingly well if Traveling for business or in search you try. Opportunities to make of the truth will lead to new money will surface. Don't hesitate friendships and philosophies. You to invest in a safe, conservative will be able to contribute some­
long-tenn investment. 000 thing worthwhile to any group TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you are involved with. 00000 You will meet some pretty neat SAGITL\RIUS (No,i 22-Dec. 21): people ifyou take part in the activ­Don't become emotional about ities and events going on in your the situations going on around community. Take the initiative and you. Don't ignore matters that you can end up being in a leader­need to be tended to. If you make ship position. 0000 changes you will feel better about 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): yourself and your future. 00 You have to be careful what you CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): say to whom. Don't stretch the Someone you have befriended truth. You may get blamed for may have a greater interest in something you didn't do. 00 you. Be careful not to lead some­
CANCER (June 21-July 22): one on. Be honest about the way Get involved in groups that can you feel and a long lasting friend­offer you stimulating conversation ship can develop. 0000 and a new way of looking at AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): things. Your philosQphies are You will have some wild ideas changing and opportunities to today. If you follow through with expand your circle of friends look your plans, you stand to make promising~ 00000 
financial gains. Opportunities to 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You change your professional future will be emotional about money are also present. 000 matters. Stop being so generous PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): with your friends and family. If You will be sensitive, emotional you are smart with your cash you and eager to please today. will lock it up in a solid invest­Romance will develop if you get ment. 000 involved in worthwhile causes. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Use your genuine warmth and You'll have to be careful how you compassion to win hearts. 000 
Birthday Baby: You are always looking for adventure. You are attract-· ed to fun entertainment and anything that may be a little unusual. You are very in tune with the thoughts and feelings of others and will always have lots of friends. 
~E

Campus Sports National Sports
VtiSERVER 

. Men's Tennis, p. 24 
. Olympics, p. 16, 17, 19 
. 
Column: Boylan, p. 20 . Boxing , p. 18 


. Baseball, p. 18 . NFL,p.20

PORTS 
. NHL, p. 23 
Thursday, February 14, 2002 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hurting Irish 

DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer 

Irish head coach Muffet McGraw and two members of the Notre Dame training staff huddle ·around Jacqueline Batteast early 
in the second half of Notre Dame's 66-31 win against St. John's Wednesday night. 
. Batteast, Bustamante injured as Notre Dame blows out St. John's 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
Amidst Notre Dame's biggest win of the season, the team may have sustained its greatest loss. 
Early in the second half of Wednesday night's 66-31 drubbing of St. John's in the Joyce Center, Irish freshman forward Jacqueline Batteast fell to the floor and had to be helped off the court. 
Batteast later returned to the bench with an ice pack on her right knee. The status of Notre Dame's leading scorer for Saturday night's game at Rutgers, and the rest of the season, is uncertain, pending a MRI this afternoon. 
Batteast's classmate, guard Allison Bustamante, also had to be helped off the floor after spraining her ankle under the basket with 13: 19 left in the game. 
Bustamante, who missed four games earli­er this season with the same injury, is also questionable for Saturday. 
Lost in the injuries were two more strong efforts from the team's veterans, and a sur­prising performance from a rookie. Senior Ericka Haney made five of eight attempts from the field, and went 4-4 at the free-throw line, for a season-high 14 points. Alicia Ratay also scored 14 for the Irish, while freshman Katy Flecky came off the bench to record a double-double, with 12 points and 10 rebounds in 24 minutes. 
"I thought Katy Flecky had a great game," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "It took her a little while to get going in the first half. but to come up with a double-double in 24 minutes, I think that's pretty outstand­ing." 
Despite the lopsided final score -the 35­point win marks the greatest margin of vic­tory for the Irish so far this season ­McGraw was disappointed in her team's intensity against Big East cellar-dweller St. 
see WOMEN/page 25 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles fail to grab 
•
a Will 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 

In the days leading up to last night's battle between Saint Mary's and Adrian, Belles head coach Suzanne Smith praised her team for their solid defense and improved rebounding in recent wins. 
Unfortunately for Saint Mary's, the Belles did neither well last night in a 70-57 con­ference loss to Adrian. · 
Deidre Mangan and Anne Blair led the Belles in rebounding with only four each as Adrian grabbed a 45­30 edge in that category. 
"[Rebounding] was probably one of our biggest weaknesses tonight," said Smith. "But it started more with our defense, we weren't matched up so it was hard to box out then." 
Adrian was lead by the MIAA conferences leading scorer, Ra'Sheida Edwards who had 17 points and 12 rebounds. Kim Hall added 16 points as Adrian connected on 
46.8 percent of its field goals. 
Blair was the only player on her team to ·tally double fig­ures in scoring. She had 22 points on 10-16 shooting. Freshman Emily Creachbuam, coming off of a 26-point per­formance was held to only nine points and attempted 
see SMC/page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Second-place Irish in search of national respect 
. Five-game win streak on the line against Rutgers 
ByANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
After winning five consecutive Big East games, capped by a quadruple-overtime win Saturday against Georgetown, the Irish felt they finally deserved some respect. 
Too bad national pollsters thought otherwise. 
In the latest ESPN/USA Today Coaches' poll, Notre Dame received just seven points. They fared slightly better in the AP poll, picking up 87 points, still nearly 46 points behind No. 25 USC. 
That, Notre Dame believes, just isn't right. 
Just ask Chris Thomas, who was named Sports Illustrated's Player of the Week following his performances against Rutgers and Georgetown. 
"The thing I'm just most upset about with all these accolades this week is that we only have seven votes in the ESPN poll," Thomas said. "That's the main thing here." 
But while Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said the Irish should be ranked after last Saturday's win against Georgetown, he's not too worried about where the 
Irish end up in the polls. Respect, he said, will only be expected on · one day. 
"I only want it on March 10 on 

Selection Sunday," Brey said. "For our guys, maybe they'd like · to see us in those polls and. hey, I would too, but I'm not losing any 
sleep over it." 
Seeing teams with similar 
records ranked ahead of Notre 
Dame, however, has Irish play­
ers a little miffed. 
"It's real frustrating for us," 
Thomas said. "We feel like we've 
done enough so far, even though 
we're not satisfied. We're far 
from being satisfied. But we're 
definitely up to receive more 
see MEN/page 26 


. Men's.Basketball at Rutgers, today, 9 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Women's Tennis vs. Tennessee, Saturday, 10 a.m.
SPORTS 
on!ine 

. Men's Tennis vs. Wisconsin, Saturday, 2p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Basketball at Rutgers, Saturday, 8 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 





