
VOL XXXVII NO. 24 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Presence of women transformed the classroom, campus 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Writer 
When the first freshman class containing women arrived on campus in 1972, Notre Dame's history changed forever. 
"The University may need some structural modifications and personnel additions to make it work smoothly, but fun­damentally the healthy integra­tion of women into Notre Dame depends on attitudinal adjust­ments," then-president Father Theodore Hesburgh wrote in a 1972 edition of the "Notre Dame Report." 
The presence of 325 women on campus posed a challenge to students and administration alike. Though the University established an advisory com­mittee for co-education to deal with the changes that might be required, there were few noticeable changes to curricu­lum or tradition. Not until the number of women dramatically increased in the years after 1972 did significant changes occur. 

Many of the changes made in the early years were subtle. Anne Therese Palmer, one of the first female students, said, "For the first few years profes­sors had to change their teach­ing style and anecdotes used in lectures." 
Most of the classes and cours­es remained the same but actions within them had to be altered with the entrance of tion changed when women women. Bradley Marcotte, a arrived on campus in 1972. member of the last all-male No long-term strategic plan freshman class, was made remembered for hiring 
one such activi­
female ty that ceased 
faculty. with the advent 
College of of women on 
Arts and campus. 
Letters All freshmen 
Dean Ava are required to 
Preacher, pass a swim­
chairman ming test in 
of the order to pass 
Women of physical educa­
N o t r e tion and get a D a m e diploma...To top it off, I was Project, noted that one of the informed that we would be tak­early alumnae told her that she ing our swim test in the buffi" "had only one woman teacher Marcotte said. "Yes, buck in her whole career at Notre naked!" Obviously, that tradi-Dame." 
It seems that though Notre Dame has made a concerted effort to hire female faculty in recent years, but few have reached seniority. 
"Female faculty members have been making huge strides," Assistant Director of Gender Studies Sophie White said, "but not so many women have made it to senior posi­tions." 
Preacher also agrees with White's sentiments. "Women faculty members tend to go into administration instead of to senior teaching positions," she said. 
Despite initial resistence to their presence on camp.us, 
see WOMEN/page 4 

Mellencamp slated to perform at JACC 
By MARIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Tickets for John Mellencamp's 
concert at the Notre Dame Joyce 
Center on November 8 go on 
sale today. 
John Mellencamp will be the latest in a series of famous musi­cians to perform in the JACC, which has hosted performers such as Billy Joel, Elton John, Bob Dylan and more recently groups such as Matchbox 20 and lJ2. 

The concert will be the fifth in Mellencamp's solo tour fea­turing songs from his latest a I b u m "Cuttin' Heads," released in October 2001. Mellencamp's latest perfor­mances have been a hit with fans. 
"I just saw Mellencamp at Farm Aid in Pittsburgh a week ago," said sopho­more Justin Halls. "It was Jan Vijayaraghavan. "I had no idea he was coming. I'll definite­ly be there, it'll be a good con­cert." 
Many student fans of John Mellencamp are excited. "We play a lot of '80s, and John Couger Mellencamp is at the top of the list," said seniors Matt LaFratta and Chris Huebner of the L Train and Factor Show on WVFI. "We're really excited 
Notre Dame could get him." 
The concert has special meaning for Notre Dame, s i n c e MeJlencamp was born and raised in Indiana. "He's a great home­town hero kind of guy," Halls said. "Midwestern guys can relate to small town life. He just stands for a lot of what America is about." 
Students who are less familiar with Mellencamp's music are still likely to rec­ognize some of his hits, especially


a great John Mellencamp performs at the famous songs show." like "Small
2002 Farm Aid benefit In
Though Town," "Jack
Pittsburgh earlier this fall.
Notre Dame and Diane,"
Mellencamp is slated to visit cam­
has many and "Rock in 
pus for a Nov. 9 concert.
Mellencamp the USA." 
fans, the con­cert has received little publicity. Even loyal fans have been unaware of the impending sales. "I'm shocked this hasn't received more publicity," said sophomore "I think this 
is one of those things where a lot of people don't realized how many songs they know," Vijayaraghavan 
see CONCERT/page 4 

Mr. ND pageant marks third year 
By SAMANTHA RANERI News Writer 
Ten Notre Dame men compet­
ed for the glory title "Mr. ND" 
Thursday night in the LaFortune 
ballroom. The third annual 
Walsh Hall-sponsored event 
showcased tbe eclectic talents of 
the participants ranging from 
singing to reciting self-composed 
poetry. 
While ten dorms were repre­
sented in the contest, only repre­
sentatives from Knott, Dillon, 
Morrissey, Fisher and Keough 
made the cut for the third and 
final round. The competition 
was tight, but in the end Mr. 
Keough, Judah Wilson, was able 
to win over not only the crowd, 
but the judges as well. 
The night began as contes­tants strutted their stuff across the ballroom stage with their own Walsh Hall escort and a sin­gle flower. Hosted by freshman Walsh resident Summer Shea, the pageant marked the final event in Walsh's Wild Week, which concludes tomorrow night with their hall dance. 
In the first round of competi­tion, designed to reveal individ­ual personality, each contestant took to the stage and highlighted the significance of his attire. Wilson was able to achieve the look that he said embodied "refinement, elegance, and class," with an appropriately worn "ND" tie and outlet-mall shoes. His favorite element of his outfit was his glasses, which allowed for the apparel to be "easily convertible to the cunning intellectual look," that he sported so well. 
The second round began with the pageant's runner-up, Mr. Dillon, singing a crowd-pleasing rendition of "Part of that World" from Disney's "The Little Mermaid." His performance, complemented by interpretive dance movements, left its mark as a highlight of the night. 
Mr. Fisher was also able to stir up the crowd later in the round with a salute to music of the 1980s complete with dance moves and spandex. But it was the winner, Mr. Keough, who stuck with Frank Sinatra's time­honored "The Way You Look Tonight," impressing the ladies and earning enthusiastic applause. 

After the elimination of five contestants, the third round, or "Q & A" period, commenced with Mr. Knott contending that if he were no longer in the realm of humankind, he would like to per­sonify a star fruit, because they are "odd and unknown." 
After much anticipation, during which the final five contestants anxiously held hands, Wilson's triumph was announced. The sophomore transfer student was then awarded flowers and a crown, as well as a $40 gift cer­tificate to Best Buy. 

Of his first official pageant, Wilson said, " It was a great experience-so much fun. Everyone was friendly back­stage." He additionally revealed that the key to his success that evening was simply being well prepared. 
Finally, Wilson, who volun­teered to represent his dorm, said that he would like to, "Thank the guys of 2A, especially Q-Tip." Although a modest win­ner. the new Mr. ND disclosed that while he plans to continue participating in pageants, he is now going to travel to Disney World and promote world peace. 
Contact Samantha Raneri at sraneri@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Friday, September 27, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Protect America 

The 30th anniversary of co-education at Notre Dame is upon us, but I still have yet to see the special significance of the number 30. After all, this is, also, ifany­one is interested, the 160th anniver­sary of males at Joe Lindsley Notre Dame. But because of the supposed "gender Wire editor problems" at Notre Dame, I'll stop myself here immediately, before I unintentionally get myself into any sort of trouble. Therefore, I'll digress, and dis­cuss a different, albeit somewhat related topic: war. And this probably will get me into trouble. 
Our nation is currently involved in a great discussion over the nature and purpose of war, and good people all over the country have well-thought out and deeply held beliefs on what this nation should do with it~ military might. Some suggest that it would be immoral for our nation to use force in attacking those who we deem a threat to our national and global security. Two wrongs don't make a right, they argue. Turn the other cheek, they say. 
Certainly. from a Catholic perspective -especially here at Notre Dame -it is important to recognize that we should respect one another, and try our best to avoid \.iolent resolutions to problems. 
There is another aspect of the Catholic perspective that is too often ignored, though, and that is the failure to acknowledge that those to whom the gifts of liberty and prosperity have been given bear a serious obligation to the protect that precious possession. Taking care to ensure the continuation and respect of liberty serves not only to keep ourselves free, but also to inspire the world. 
Ifwe truly believe in the ideals of this nation, then protecting our way of life is truly selfless. We do not necessarily have to go around the world making sure everyone set~ up their own versions of Congress, but we do need to make sure that our government -that experiment in liberty -remains a beacon for the oppressed of the world. Ifwe value our liberty, we must protect it-at all costs. In economics they say that there is no such thing as a free lunch. Similarity, we cannot obtain liberty without cost. It comes at a price; oftentimes, that price is paid in blood. 
Ifwe do not cherish this gift, ifwe do not fight for its survival, then that flame in the hearts offreedom loving patriots could he doused by the waters of apathy and jealousy. Ifwe do not show the trou­ble-making nations of the world that we will not sit passively while our values our trodden upon, while our way of life is threatened, then we might as well wel­come invaders into our boarders today. If we do not care about safeguarding our liberty, that will be the inevitable result. 
There is no guarantee that America will lac;t forever -in fact, it is unlikely. If we like living here though, and if we have a real love for the freedoms which we enjoy -ifwe want others to be able to enjoy that -then we must defend it. For ifthe greatest bastion of this sacred liberty is ever conquered, then the world will be in a sad and nearly hopeless state. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Culture hits 
Tropical Storm campus 
Isidore batters through fair 
Gulf Coast 

Saturday's fair 
Isidore hit the 

promises to be big­
shore Thursday 

ger and better than 
causing damage last year's multicul­
and knocking out tural fair. 
power to more than 200,000 homes. 
page 5page 3 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Bush addresses fraud at fund-raiser 

President Bush tells executives at a fund-raiser Thursday to run their companies with honesty and integrity. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Follow your 
dreams, not 
your parents 
Students are encouraged to do what they want to do, not what their parents want them to do. 
page 13 

SCENE 
Small theater earns praise in Michigan 
Check out this small, one-room theater located in Three Oaks, Mich. 
page 14 
SPORTS 
Mens soccer falls to No. 2 team 
Mens soccer falls 1-0 to No. 2 St. John's Thursday. 
page 28 

. 
Lm:ture with Patrick Griffin of Ohio University, "Ireland and Amnrica in a British Atlantic \,Vorld," Flanner Hoom 424, 3 p.rn. 

. 
Applications and Lessons from the Cultures of Death and Life Conference. Center for Continuing 

. 
Alumnae Athletic Heunion Weekend, in tho AAF. Stapleton Lounge and Noble Family Dining llall, all weekend 


Education, McKenna Hall, all day  ·  
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC . Glenn Miller Orchestra, Auditorium, 7:30 p.rn.  O'Laughlin  

. 
Concert: Habo de Lagarixa, Hio de Janeiro choro band at Mendoza College of Business, Jordan Auditorium, 7 p.1n. 

. 
Freshman Hetreat and Sophomore Road Trip #2, all day 

. 
Confidential M Meeting, Havican Hall Boom 20, 9:30 a.m. -11 :30 a.in. 

. 
Fleur De Lys Baroque to Hococco in North Germany. Danielle Svonavec, Soprano, Welsh Parlor, 7::10 p.111. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta, marinara, hummus & cucumber pita, rice vegetable asparagus roll up, baked potato, california cobb salad, hamburgers, vegetable patties, turkey melt, french fries, chicken kabobs, saffron rice pilaf, chefs veg­etables, tomato basil pizza, cheese pizza and deli bar with vegetable cream cheese 
Today Dinner: Chefs pasta, marinara sauce, steamed broccoli, Asian tofu, sticky rice, Cuban sandwich, chicken breast, fried cheese ravioli, bread sticks, sauteed Cajun beef tips with mushrooms, peppers and onions, sausage pie, cheese pizza and deli bar 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
a: 
ILi
:c
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsley@nd.edu ti 
ILi 
3: 
CORRECTIONS ...I 
C( (J 
0 
...I
The Observer regards icself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 



South Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, boiled mostaccioli, boiled tri-color rotini, boiled linguine, pastaria meat sauce, spaghetti sauce, meatball with sauce, alfredo sauce, tortellini with basil cheese sauce, boiled fettuccini,pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza, brown-n-serve breadsticks, bianco pizza, Greek pork loin, turkey pot pie, hamburger, chicken patty. chicken teriyaki, chicken taco, taco meat, and portobello fajita 
Today Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, boiled mostaccioli, boiled tri-color rotini, boiled linguine, pastaria meat sauce, spaghetti sauce, meatball with sauce, alfredo sauce, tortellini with basil cheese sauce, boiled fettuccini,pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza. brown-n-serve breadsticks, bianco pizza, buffalo chicken wings, grilled cod, BBQ rib sandwich, peppered chicken tan­gerine, mexican bar and roasted fiesta corn & black beans 
TODAY TONIGHT 

HIGH 69 HIGH 69 LOW 53 LOW 53 
SATURDAY 
• $ ••

HIGH 68 LOW 40 
SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 


• $. ••.
** 
• ·: ....;: 

HIGH 68 HIGH 68 HIGH 68 LOW 40 LOW 40 LOW 40 
please contact us at 631-4541 so we can Atlanta 81 / 68 Boston 65 I 61 Chicago 70 / 56 Denver 77 I 46 Houston 90 / 66 Los Angeles 77 / 60 Minneapolis 61 / 46 New York 74 / 66 Philadelphia 80 / 68 Phoenix 102 / 75 Seattle 72 I 47 St. Louis 75 / 60 Tampa 89 I 76 Washington 82 / 70
correct our error. 


Friday, Sepremher 27, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Bauer-Goers ticket takes SMC election 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD News Writer 
Following a week-long cam­paign, Saint Mary's Anna Bauer and Liz GO(WS were named the 2002-2003 freshman class pres­ident and 
that drew a 
31.5 percent 
ALLISON DAY/The Observer

c I a s s 
turnout. Newly-elected freshman president 
Both tick­and vice president Anna Bauer ets entered and Liz Goers sport T-shirts deco­the run-off rated with their campaign slogan. 
election on Tuesday after winning the highest per­centagP votes out of six total tkk(~ts. 
Tuf~sday's primary election also filled eight positions on the Freshman Class Board, leaving fivf~ more available. Filling the remaining positions on the board is 01m of many things Bauer and Goers plan to do now that they are in ofTice. 
llowevPr, as promised in their platform, tho first thing they will do is send out a survev. 
"WP want to knm~ what the 
"\Ve look forward to working with our class, because we're all freshmen together. ·we're defi­nitely going to be their voice," said Bauer. 
Bauer and Goers will preside over the first board meeting Monday at 7 p.m. in Haggar College Center. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8339@saintmarys.edu 
class is thinking. what they're wanting, and what they're need­ing from us," said Bauer. "It'll be the gauge and we'll go from there planning activities and events." 
Bauer and Goers also want to work toward integrating the freshman 
motto "We'll Bend Over Backwards For You" \'\ill continue to be their d r i v e throughout the year. 
ND Campus Wide Fair revamped 
By JASON McFARLEY and 


MARIA SMITH 
News Wrirers 

If performances by the Hawaii Club or the Bagpipe Band don't attract a crowd, then Zahm Hall residents smashing a car on North Quad might. 
The cultural diversity and creativity of Notre Dame stu­dents will be on full display Saturday at the second annual Notre Dame Campus Wide Fair. Featuring a variety of student organizations representing over 15 cultures, the Fair "is a great way to open up the year -just another way to celebrate ND," said Joyce De Leon, chair of the cultural division of the Club Coordination Council. 
Student planners of Saturday's Notre Dame Campus Wide Fair say the event improves upon last fall's multi­cultural fair by showcasing a greater variety of student clubs and interests. Organizers hope the revamped format will boost attendance past the 200 to 300 students who attended last year's fair. 
"We've asked more groups to perform and be part of the fair this year," DeLeon said. "It's not just a cultural fair this time." 
Students attending the Fair can expect a relaxed, entertain­ing and informative atmos­phere, Deleon said. "We really wanted to show that culture on campus isn't just something we talk about and learn about in the classroom. This is a chance to showcase everyone's talents and celebrate a sense of togeth­erness." 
The free event includes music, dance and food from 
1:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. on North Quad. Fairgoers can sample food from a dozen ethnic stu­dent clubs and watch perfor­mances by 17 groups. The fair includes special performances by the Bagpipe Band, Ballet Folklorico, Coro Primavera, Filipino-American Student Organization, First Class Steppers, Guitar Players Association, gymnastics team, Hawaii Club, Irish Dance Team, Porn Pon Squad, St. Edward's Hall Players and Voices of Faith. Performances begin at 2 p.m. 
Zahm Hall has planned a 
unique show, said Morgan Russell, co­chair of the cultural divi­sion in the Office of the Student Body President. Residents of the North Quad residence hall will take turns smashing an old car with baseball bats. 
"The idea 
behind the whole fair was to create a fun outdoor event that people can just stop by and have fun at," RusseJI said. "It's a good thing to go out and see it. It's an even better thing to walk away thinking about it." 
Organizers timed the fair around the football team's bye week this weekend, Deleon said. 
Deleon had originally planned the fair for last spring as a campaign goal on Brian Moscona and Keri 0xley's plat­form when the pair ran for stu­dent body president and vice president. After Libby Bishop and Trip Foley defeated them in the election, the new student leaders voiced support of the 
..We ·ve asked more groups to perform and be part ofthe fair this year. It's not just a cultural fair this time. •• 
Joyce Deleon chair, Cultural Division Club Coordination Council 
fair even though it had been a Moscona-0xley idea, Deleon said. 
Notre Dame Student Government, the Office of Student Activities, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, Student Union Board and Campus Ministry sponsor the fair. 
Among the groups providing cultural music, dance and food at the fair will be FASO. The group plans to perform two tra­ditional dances and to serve free food prepared by the offi­
demonstrate how fun it can be to try something new, and I think that the Campus Fair will give a lot of groups that chance." 
"I'm really excited for the cultural clubs that don't get to do big events on campus," DeLeon said. "With the fair, they get a lot of exposure with­out having to spend a lot of their resources." 
Stepan Center will host the event in the event of rain. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu and Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
cers. Club V i c e President Charleen Vinalon encouraged students to stop by and said, "The goal of our performance is to share our culture with a wider part of Notre Dame. We're trying to 

Each weekend a new rerun film including titles like Gremlins, Full Metal Jacket, Evil Dead 2 & Raiders! visit our website at gkctheatres.com for more. 
BIG U~~~ BIG o//~(L,(Ll}~ 
"Big E'; Pizza $7.99!~ 
Hurry ... Limited Time Only! 
VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD 
(Next to Subway)

PIZZA COIWIPMH' 

211-12n

l:412-tmerlgld 
the rerun· fiht1 series proudly ,Presents 2 late nightshowin~s. back on the oig screen. ereven pm each nite tickets only 3 dollars 
vice-presi­dent. win­ning :"i3.5 pf~rcent of votes in Thursday's run-off elec­tion. 
The ticket defeated B I' C k y Winston and Kathlt~en MrMorrow ,vith 45. 7 pPr<'Pnt of tlw votP in an election 
class into Saint Mary's community. They are looking to establish a "big sister" mentor pro­gram, which would pair freshmen with upper­classmen. 
Although elections are over, the tick­et assures that their 





<lji(~;tftJ~iltt1t;:; .~ .·. I . 
c:.... ,..... J,.;~.. .t 

:]-.,,,,.,._ /~. "'jJ.,
n21~-~ir~r:t;·t/~I-i~ ··~ .~. ., ,,;~):;~\~i 
< • .'"· -~~ ~~ :j-.., ,.~,, .i'...,~~_:"'%-t°=~b?:,f:;.1.'~,.:__:-\":~,"w +~-f~ ~~-.:0~~::•~~:.i::J 
. , <!w'" ~-~~;;.:~,~.,, ~~ .. ~:-: .;. ·, ~~),)~~1~~~:~ "+,-! ...~~, : .. :~· < $ ·.. -~~~)< .,,,...,~,:t:t;.·T:;~:, 1w,,, ... ..'<..JI. h'n.J .....! 
. -· , ", , -~ . . ·, ., , .,_., . .,~, ,., . "'""':i ~.~-·-~ ;, tt I 
Nanette Lapore-. ·:Tri~-~ T~rlF:_:/~\\l/t~r~:..::::\ ,.{\',; :-=·;Jr/~ Y'""'''"• ~.,,,,/_.,.,.. 
t-. • ~"· , 

.• ·.~(~ ·<:{(~' t::_, ··.,_;;.·:t(3fi}~'/ft_\j •• Lilly 
Pulitzer • Vera Bradley ,,,.t.,;.;;·7:,.i;/t~::'lr;\\',yfl,· ·.. :{~-t.1~;;J · • 
.. , 
··••< 
Trac Reese • .• Poteci • Petit Poas ~:?~fr,¼'*';x_,.;lr 


· Nally and M1U1e • BCBG. ·.·,.·.,.,.;.-;.. ,.,: : •v·. · :.,; ..
,>··"" 
· 
... ... n3D tr e 
½:}}~;~tii~0He~iseatbe1«~6als't\t~t ~~i1;t~: ,-. 
,··,tt, > i; :;.'' ·.. • · '...... : :· · ..•,.. '+ ·':':~.--.~.\_.J:,..;~.\_···... t.t.~.·~.·-.•~.'.£... : INSPIRE MEI I INSPIRED AND. R.. RED 
·-"}\X/: _w~, Cilltnes~ _•.~a_;·\,~} .-, ··., I 
>·'jJ;:· \,; .c•.· • .;.. ".'. • •• , ~.·.· ;,~\/!'J~fY,: .·;:gowntown South Bend I Granger Area ,
'. J}>t··N,cole MiUer:,·• M;x~di<ft?;:c,.i528 E. Colfax, Suite #2 ! 312 W. Cleveland Rd.·. ·+· ···JamesPer.s:·-~,;.,d ~ore-~ · South Bend, IN 46617 i Granger, IN~~ }'.f;;r~~i~. ,.: . ~: ·.. -\5~);~\}i;--((; ·574/232-1822 I 574/277-6693 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 27, 2002 

Women 
continued from page 1 
women became active in work­ing for their own changes on campus. Most notably, a group of seven women faculty mem­bers launched the Gender Studies department. 
The Gender Studies depart­ment began with seven courses offered per semester and has now grown to more than 40 courses each semester. There is still not a major given in Gender Studies, but a second major is available. The number of students interested in women's issues and male/ female relationships has also grown significantly. There were four students that gradu-


Concert 
continued from page 1 
said. 
"It doesn't get any better then when he sings 'Hurts So Good,"' senior Sarah Henry said. 
Purchasing tickets is not expected to be nearly as difficult as for last year's U2 concert. "I waited pretty much all day for U2 tickets," Henry said. "It was awful." 
Though the concert is not as high profile as U2, many stu­dents are more excited for Mellencamp, and find the prices more reasonable. 
ated with minors in Gender Studies in its first year and last year there were 58. 
White secs a "willingness and desire to discuss male-female relations as they pertain to current issues in The Observer," with her students. 

Tremendous strides have been made in all areas of the campus in the last 30 years, but as a letter sent to female alumni noted, "Women play a key role at Notre Dame as intellectual and campus lead­ers as well as in their capacity as teachers and students, but we still have much to do." 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu 

"U2 was a little out of our price range," said LaFratta and Huebner. "This show might not be as popular as U2, but we're as fired up as for the Michigan game, maybe more so. We're huge fans." 
Tickets will be sold at the JACC starting at 10 a.m. Prices range from $33 to $41. Tickets purchased online or at Ticketmaster outlets will have an extra service charge. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

got news? 


BOG debates Reading Day issue 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance passed a new pro­posal to alleviate the 10-year push to have a study day built into the academic calendar. Written by Student Body President Kim Jensen and Student Body Vice President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl the "reading day" proposal was unanimously approved by BOG last Thursday. 
Since 1992 students began voicing their need for a study day by pursuing avenues in which a study day could be added to the schedule. Last year Jensen and Jablonski­Diehl took on the issue again by asking for students to par­ticipate in a study day survey and used the data to write the new reading day propos­al. 
"Past proposals have not been as comprehensive, with only a few paragraphs or suggestions," Jablonski-Diehl said. "People are impressed by this proposal and are telling us that we did do our 
Mary's students." "Most ofthose Friday's are used 
for review days and professors 
could still assign projects to be 
due or hold review sessions," 
Jablonski-Diehl said. "No matter 
what you use the day for it's going 
to help you prepare for finals." The next step that Jensen and 
Jablonski-Diehl are taking is to present the proposal to the faculty assembly for their approval. \Vhile they are not asking the faculty assembly to vote on the proposal, they would like to gain their sup­port. "I think the big concern of the faculty is how we are going to know if this is work­ing and their second concern is that it will be used as a party day, which is a cheap shot," Jablonski-Diehl said. "To them we go to class, go home and do homework, but that is not realistic with the level of student extracurricu­lar involvement on campus." Regardless of what the fac­ulty assembly decides the proposal will move on to the Academic Affairs committee to vote on the proposal. 
Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl

Student Body Vice President Elizabeth
homework." 
also plan to present the pro­

Jablonski-Diehl debates the issue of
The three-page proposal 
would occur on the Friday before exams week and would cancel all classes. 
"The study day proposal has gained a negative connotation," Jablonski-Diehl said. "When we did the survey we did not ask about this proposal, but I think that the general consensus is that the extra day would help stu-


holding a reading day at Saint Mary's.
includes data from the study day survey results, a compar­ison to the academic calen­
dents." dars of other colleges, accredita­
The study day survey did find tion information and a calendar 

that 89 percent of the student of the reading day format. The body supported a reading day at 
reading day proposal is different the end of the semester. The pro­that the study day proposal as it posal emphasizes the fact that the 
will not rearrange the calendar or reading day would alleviate stress take away days that have previ­and is not "based on a lack of 
ously been off. The reading day time management skills by Saint posal to the Parents Council 
on Oct. 4. 

BOG will continue to spon­sor discussion groups where stu­dent<, can express their concerns about the proposal and also pick up reading day buttons to wear to show their support of the propos­al. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

PERFORMANCES BY: Harmonia, FASO, Pom Pon Squad, Bagpipe Band 
.c
....
·­
~ 
LL 
I.l­
o 
II) 
QJ 
u
·­
~ 
,:, 
C 
~ 
QJ' 
u 
C 
C ~ 
.c 
·-... II) 
-
II)' 
... 
QJ 
Q. Q.
QJ
.... 
V, 
II) II) 
tu
-
u 
..., 
...II) 

SHOWCASING CULTURES FROM AROUND THE WORLD :c 
OJ 





Saturday, Sept. 28 

North Quad Admission is FREE 

~ 
-·
-· 
n
-
C 
C" 

FREE FOOD from ""' C\ 
--':"¦

China, the Caribbean, ,.... C ..,
the Philippines, France, OJ 
u


Ireland, Ciuam, Hawaii, -OJ Korea, Latin America, '<rt)
..,


Poland, Russia, and VI 
)>


Vietnam VI 
VI 
0 
n 
...• 

Sponsored by Student Government, 

:,-· Student 1.0 Activities, 
n 

MSPS, SUB, and 
-
C

Campus Ministry 
C" 

Troop ND, Coro Primavera, Ballet Folklorico, St. Ed's Players, Gymnastics Team 

Friday, September 27, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Tropical Storm Isidore batters Gulf Coast 
Associated Press 
DEi .ACHOIX, La. 

Tropical Storm Isidore blew ashorn Thursday with near hur­ricarw force wfnd, spinning off tornadoes, swamping the Gulf Coast with 15 inches of rain and knocking out power to more than 200.000 homes and busi­1wsses. 
Thousands fled their homes in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama before the storm reached land at 3 a. m. Floodwaters swept through houses in communities across the region and rose to the wind­shields of cars in low-lying Nevv Orleans. 
"I don't know whose they are, but I've got three rncliner chairs in my yard." Susan Serpas said in Delacroix, a fishing town east of New Orleans. where screen doors, mailboxes and furniture bobbed in 3 feet of water. 
Gov. Mike Foster said the storm did at least $18 million in damage in Louisiana, including $3.7 million in lost sugar cane. Foster said the damage estimate will grow, and he was seeking a foderal disaster declaration. 
Isidore was packing wind up to h5 mph when it arrived. bPlow tlw 74 mph thrnshold of a hurricane. The storm lost its punch and \\'as dO\vngradcd to a tropical d<'pression as it moved past Jackson, Miss., in late after­noon. 
Forecasters said the storm would slide into the Ohio Valley by the weekend, bringing heavy rain to the Midwest and the Nortlmast. Up to 8 inches of rain were forncast in Tennessee. 
Several tornadoes spun out of the storm and touched down in the Florida Panhandle. One hit a barn near Graceville, Fla., injur­ing a farmer, while another damaged more than 20 homes in Santa Hosa Beach. 
Mississippi officials also said floodwaters also kept them from reaching a 67-year-old man who died of cardiac arrest early Thursday. 
The wind toppled trees in Alabama and gusts of 40 mph hit Birmingham, more than 200 miles from the coast. Most schools in the region were closed. 
Mississippi kept its floating casinos shuttered. One, the Treasure Bay in Biloxi, sus­tained a 12-foot gash when the surging sc~a drove its entrance ramp deep into one of its walls. Backup security cables were the only thing keeping the casino barge from floating away. 
"This was totally unexpected, this much water," Bernard Carlson, 71. said as he watched the swollen Tchoutacabouffa Hiver from the upstairs porch of his flooded horrw near Biloxi. 
Citv officials estimated 50 to 75 on the Gulf Coast is a clearing­hoi11es were damaged by flood­house for about 13 percent of waters. the nation's crude. 
Foster said Port Fourchon "Fourchon, I am told, is a lake appeared to be hit hard by surg­right now," Foster said. ing tides. The huge oil terminal More than 200,000 customers lost power during the storm, including 87,000 in Louisiana (half of them in greatf~r New Orleans), 50,000 in Florida, 47,000 in Alabama and more than 20,000 in Mississippi. 

ISRAEL 


Mohammed Deif, top Hamas bombmaker may be dead 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip 
Israel tried to kill the> mastermind of the llamas bombing campaign Thursday, firing two missiles from a helicopter into a car in crowded Gaza City and killing two bodyguards. Thirty-fiv<~ bystanders Wf~re wounded but the fate of the Palestinian militant remained uncertain. 
A senior Palestinian security official said Israel's target, 37 year old Mohammed Deif, escaped with moder­ate injuries. Israeli police sources said the Israeli military told them Deif atop 
Israel's wanted list for years was killed. The military had no comment. 
llamas official Abdel Aziz Hantisi said Deif was not even in the car. But he said the group would avenge the attack nevertheless. "We will hit Tel Aviv. \'Ve will hit everywhere." 
Barnas and the Palestinian Authority are rivals, possibly explaining the dif­ferent versions of Deifs fate. 
In other violence, four Palestinians including two gunmen, a civilian and a baby and one Israeli were reported killed. Israel maintained its strangle­hold on Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat's headquarters in the West 
Bank town of Ramallah in defiance of Tuesday's U.N. Security Council reso­lution to end the siege. 
Two helicopters appeared in the sky over Gaza just after 1:30 p.m., firing missiles that blew apart a green Mercedes sedan and sent a plume of white smoke over the Sheik Radwan neighborhood. 
"Suddenly we heard the sound of a big explosion," said Mohammed Hajar, a hairdresser working in the area. "vVhen I ran out, a second explosion took place." 
Blood, body parts and shrapnel were strewn across a wide area and nearby 
windows were shattered. A large crowd, confused and angry, gathered as rescue workers led the wounded to ambulances. 
One man leapt on a car and shouted, "God is great." 
llamas sources identified the two dead men as members of Hamas, Abdel Rahim Hamdan, 27. and Issa Abu Ajra, 29. Rantisi said they were Deifs bodyguards. 
More than a dozen children were wounded in the attack, the latest in a series of assaults the Israeli military calls "targeted killings" of Palestinians. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq condemns strike on airport: 
Iraq said a U.S. airstrike hit its civilian airport in the southern port city of Basra. The announcement did not mention casualties. A Pentagon official said two strikes early Thursday were in response to Iraq's firing anti-aircraft artillery and surface to air mis­siles at alliNI aircraft patrolling zones declared off­limits to Iraqi plam~s. 
6 missing in Australia air crash: 
Four New Zealanders, an American and their Australian pilot were presumed killed Thursday after their light plane crashed and burst into flames on an island off Australia's east coast, police and aviation authorities said. The single-engine Piper Cherokee Six was carrying the five overseas tourists from Hamilton Island, an exclusive resort island about :no milPs north of Qunensland state capital. Brisbane. Its destination was not immediately known. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ex-Maine caseworker gets 20 years: 
A former state adoption caseworker was sentenced Thursday to 20 years in prison for the asphyxiation death of her 5-year-old foster daughter, who died bound with duct tape. The sentencing of Sally Ann Schofield, 41, closes a chapter on a criminal case that led to legislative investigations into the state's child welfare system. 
Bush, Democrats at odds on Iraq: 
Democratic leaders in Congress, angered by President Bush's criticism, said Thursday that law­makers may not be ready to vote next week on a resolution authorizing war against Iraq. Bush struck a more conciliatory stance and said,"Soon we will speak with one voice," as he stressed the dangers of delay in reaching a unified approach on Iraq." The proposed text would declare Iraq in violation of past 
U.N. resolutions on disarmament, lay out a path for Iraq to meet it<-; disarmament obligations. 
Suspects arrested in Neb. robbery: 
Three holdup men shot five people to death in a bank robbery and fled in a st:olen car Thursday morning in a crime that spread terror through this small farming town. Three suspect<; were arrested hours later. It was the nation's deadliest bank robbery in more than a decade. Authorities would not say whether the gun­man got away with any money. 
Daschle: Senate to debate resolution: 
Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle said Thursday the Senate will begin debate next week on a resolu­tion authorizing the president to use force against Iraq. But he said the latest White House proposal remained unacceptable. A resolution giving the president the authority to go to war should be backed by the broadest coalition possible, Daschle said after a meeting with Senate Democrats. "We've come some distance. We've got a long way to go before that can be achieved." 
------------·--------·------·--·--·-------------~---------------·------...... ___________ ... _............ _____________________________________________ _ 
Friday, September 27, 2002 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Germany plans to drop tech stocks 
Associated Press 

FHANKFUHT 
Germany's stock exchange operator announced Thursday it will dump its tech-heavy Neuer Markt after a 2 1/2 ­year plunge that wiped out almost all the market's value and move companies to a more tightly regulated new listing system. 
Deutsche Boerse said that dissolution of the Neuer Markt -Germany's answer to Nasdaq -was aimed at reas­suring investors with clear, tough· rules on financial dis­closure. 
Neuer Markt-listed compa­nies, some of whom were con­sulted on the move, and stock analysts said they hoped the new structure would bring investors back. 
"We think this is absolutely positive," said Gudrun Geissler, head of·investor rela­tions at Neuer Markt-listed Pfeiffer Vacuum Technology AG, a maker of vacuum pumps and one of the segment's prof­itable companies. "For inter­national investors this will give a much clearer picture." 
Thomas Effler, head of small and mid-cap research at Commerzbank in Frankfurt, said the proof of the system would be in how effective the new rules were. 
"If they really make a clear structure. and can convince investors that these are the 
rules, and the hurdles are higher to get into the stock market and to stay in the mar­ket, then I think it can be suc­cessful," Effler said. 
The changes will close out an institution that gave Germany its ticket to the high­tech party when it opened in 1997. 
The exchange pumped bil­lions in to German software and Internet companies and helped stimulate the growth of venture capital in Germany by giving investors in privately held companies a place to cash in their gains when star­tups went public. And it spread pro-shareholder prac­tices such as publishing quar­terly earnings -a novelty for many German companies. 
But then it fell along with the tech fad. Its Nemax All­Share Index traded Thursday afternoon at 411, up 2 percent on the dav but down some 95 percent f;om its March 2000 peak of 8,140. 
The number of companies has fallen from 342 in June 2000 to 264 through delistings and bankruptcies. 
The Neuer Markt was also tarnished by scandals such as that of Comroad, a navigation­systems company that prose­cutors say faked most of its earnings in 1998-2000. The government, not Deutsche Boerse, is responsible for policing fraud -but the news didn't reassure investors. 


First ladies pledge to fight poverty 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY 
Laura Bush joined first ladies from across the Americas in a pledge to fight child poverty, recognizing the problem is not limited to poor, developing countries but also plagues rich ones like the United States. 
Promising to honor their roles as "promoters of change," the 22 spouses of heads of state ended a confer­ence in Mexico City on Thursday by signing a SO-point declaration. 
"Our mission is to encourage the creation and improvement of social programs that pro­mote effective. tangible bene­fits for children living in pover­ty," the statement says. 
The signatories pledge to work toward everything from equal access to education and healthy early childhood devel­opment to responsible sexual attitudes in children and the reintegration of street kids into mainstream society. 
Preventing domestic violence, encouraging children to have tolerance and respect, and eliminating discrimination against minority children are among other broad goals they set forth in the declaration. 
Given that most of the first ladies lack official clout in their governments, some experts and analysts have questioned just how much weight such a conference can carry. 
But the Declaration of Mexico notes that past meetings have allowed the women to "coordi­nate efforts aimed at address­ing social problems and strengthening our role as pro­moters of change, allowing us to make a considerable contri­bution" to eradicating disease, changing women's roles in society and improving health care services, among other advances. 
The first ladies, hailing from the Caribbean as well as North, South and Central America, promised to pursue their com­
"From the crib to the classroom, from the classroom to the work­place, our children deserve to realize their hopes and dreams." 
Laura Bush 
U.S. First Lady 

mitments in informal follovv-up meetings and to review their progress at their 12th confer­ence, scheduled to take place in the Dominican Republic. 
"No matter what country we call home, no matter what cus­toms or faiths or cultures we embrace, one value transcends every border: All mothers and fathers throughout the world love their children and want the very best for them," Mrs. Bush said. 
"From the crib to the class­room, from the classroom to the workplace, our children deserve to realize their hopes and dreams." 
In the United States. the poverty rate for all children under 18 rose from 16.2 per­cent to 16.3 percent last year, while nearly a half of Mexico's 35 million children live in poverty. 
Mexican first lady Martha Sahagun de Fox said one of the conference's most important goals should be to strengthen cooperation between govern­ments and private organiza­
tions. 

"The government can't do everything and society can't do it alone," said Sahagun, reciting what became her mantra during meetings with her counterparts. The asser­tion is included as a clause in the Declaration of Mexico. 
Speaking at the conference in both Spanish and her native language of Nahuatl. 14-year-old Bernarda Temoxtle of Mexico's Veracruz state recounted how she used to sleep on the f1oor and hike long distances from 
her Indian village to her school. 
She praised a Mexican pro­gram tha.t provided her and others with better meals. beds to sleep in and an education through satellites and comput­ers. 
"I ask with all my heart that we unite and combat child poverty," she said, dressed in a traditional white blouse embroidered with brightly col­ored flowers. "We are the future of our world. and I imagine that one day in the future, when I am big, I can arrive at a position like you have." 
, . 


:j{(J::·
.,.1•j~._"•-;~ ·." 
,• :t,.11.~ i~-t-t::•.~,-~
'ti' Jl:1.. ·~·"1 1,~­
1. ~~,';'~;~·:",, 
e 
1' .. ~·· -~-' -~ r 
.. . . 

~ ...;' '· ,
i • . • .. • 
,7~:··=-}~~-Ik . 
.I/;

f\-vls~~t/~i,-',
\ '' : 
'"· 

' . 

'Featurin8 Orq,uesta ~rabu• 
'Music and'Foodfrom Latin 1l.merica 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28  
1 n  c I b · f e e ration o  . .H1span1c Heritage Month  8:00-ll:30PMFIELDHOUSE MALL  
SALSA LESSONS BEGIN AT 7:30  
Sponsored by:  
La Alianza, Institute for Latino Studies  
and Student Activities DICE Funding  


-.... 
O
THE 


BSERVER 




USI 
ESS 
Friday, September 27, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 26 
DowJones 
•. +155.30
1,997 .12 CJ 

NASDAQ 
1,221.61 • -0.68 
S&P500 
854.95 ~ +15.29 
AA1E¥ 
835.76 ~ +11.60 




NYSE 
464.80 
~ +9.72 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
:rsco SYSTEMS (CSCO) -5. 02 -0. 60 11. 3 ~ASOAq...100.•••••tNDEX·····••rQQQ)···•~:~(!~~J+0M}?2!1..••e 
[NTEL CORP (INTC) -0.33 -0.05 15.1 )RActEr.•coRP ••<oRP~>•··•·· < •.•••·•<3<4:s• •••.iel29•· >aI~ 3UN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -5.65 -0.16 2.E 
IN BRIEF Home sales hit monthly record high 
Orders to U.S. factories for big ticket goods dropp,~d by a smaller than expEicted amount. new home sales hit a monthly alltinrn high and new claims for jobless benefits plunged. providing a dose of good news for the econo­my. 
The Commerce Department reported Thursday that orders for durable goods items expertml to last at l<~ast three years dipped by 
0.6 percnnt in August from the month before. reflecting slackened demand for cars, com­munications cquipnwnt and marhinnry. 
The rlecrnaso which came after a 8.6 per­cent jump in July was smaller than the decline of more than 2 percent that many analysts W(JrP forecasting. That heartened some economists. 
The manufacturing sector was hardest hit by last year's recession. To cope. the industry throttled back production and cut hundreds of thousands of' \<\'orkcrs. Although industry is back on its l'PPt, manufacturing isn't bursting with vitality and has rPcently hit sonw rough patchPs. 
United plan to cut cost ignites stock 
The offer by United Airlines· unions to slash labor costs by $5 billion to help stave off bank­ruptcy got a mixed public reception Thursday as the rarriPr·s mariag<~ment and board hud­dl<~d to n'vi.-w tlw proposal. 
lnVt~stors drovP Unit('{l'S lagging stock up more than 30 p1•rc<'nt, restoring three wePks of losses. But nunHffous analysts said tlrn con­cessions might lw too littll'. too late. for an air­line that was sePking even bigger cuts to end its two-year rnoru~y losing streak. 
United chairman and CEO Glenn Tilton didn't publicly tip his hand whether the $1 bil­lion a year concessions arc enough or would likely satisfy tlrn fodcral panel that's weighing United's application for a $1.8 billion loan guarantef1. Tlw board of directors discussed tlw plan at a rPgularly sdwduled meeting Thursday but madP no announcPrrn~nt. 

Bush addresses fraud at fundraiser 
. Bush attacks fraud near scan­dal heaquaters 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON 

Not far from the symbol­
ic center of corporate scan­
dals. President Bush told 
business executives at a 
fund raiser Thursday to 
run their companies with 
honesty and integrity. 
"If you're running a cor­
poration in America, you're 
responsible to tell the truth 
to your shareholders and 
employees," Bush said at 
the political event around 
the corner from the head­
quarte rs of scandal 
plagued Enron Corp. 
The $1 million reception for Texas' Republican Senate nominee John Cornyn was the fourth of six campaign appearances this week for the president. It brought to at least $127 million the total that Bush has raised on behalf of Hepublican candidates this year. 
Just before flying here. Bush was in Washington promoting federal work to bust the corporate crime wave that first made head­lines with Enron's bank­ruptcy filing last year. Ile reported 100 new investi­gations and 150 defendants depends on fairness and economy and what ails it. ish fundraising pace "get­charged in his corporate honesty," Bush said, But Hep. John Spratt, top ting on the road" as he fraud crackdown. adding that "the govern­Democrat on the House called it Thursday night 
And with lingering uncer­ment cannot and should Budget Committee, faulted gathering Republican cam­tainty about the markets, not try to remove the risk the administration for not paign cash in the nation's Bush turrwd up the volume from investment. But we offering more money for capital (twice). New Jersey, on his theme that business will help ensure that the investigators at the Texas, Colorado and scandals have undermined risks are honest and the Securities and Exchange Arizona. economic confidence. At a risks are clearly under­Commission. It was the second time Justice Department confer­stood." "Administration state­this year Bush has traveled ence for federal investiga­Scandals involving ments about corporate to Texas to raise money for tors tackling corporate Enron, \NorldCom Inc., responsibility will be truly Cornyn, after collecting crime. he claimed "broad Adelphia Communications meaningful only if words $1.8 million for the Texas and dramatic progress." and ImClone Systems Inc. are matched by actions," attorney general's cam­
"Our law enforcement have contributed to the said Spratt. D-S.C. "Thus paign in March. Cornyn agencies are after 'em," Dow Jones Industrial far, the administration's and Democratic Senate Bush enthused. Average's plunge to its low­pledge to provide the nominee Ron Kirk are run­
A federal task force. in its est levels since the fall of resources the SEC needs to ning to succeed Phil first 2 1/2 months, has 1998. Consumer confi­do its job effectively has Gramm, who is retiring opened more than 100 new dence also hit a four year been empty rhetoric." after three terms. cases, the president said, low this week. The elections will decide Despite the support, the and filed charges against While planning for a pos­control of Congress and Republican Cornyn has dif­more than 150 people and sible war with Iraq has got­many of the statehouses fered publicly with Bush on secured convictions or ten most of the attention in that could help Bush's own secrecy issues while the guilty pleas against 45 the past few weeks, Bush re-election in 2004. As Democratic Kirk has taken defendants. sought to show that he such. the president this care to praise the president 
"The American economy remains focused on the week has kept up a fever-and his war on terror. 



Irish bank to sell Allfirst to M&T 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE Allied Irish Banks PLC is selling its 
U.S. subsidiary. Alllirst Financial Inc., to M&T Bank Corp. for about $3.1 bil­lion in a deal that it said was first dis­cussed months before a currency trad­ing scandal surfaced at the division. 
The deal announced Thursday ends a seven-month effort by AIB officials to boost the reputation and market value of its Baltimore based unit. That's after an alleged $691 million fraud by its senior foreign-exchange dealer th<'re. John Husnak. 
AIB chief' executive Michael Buckley said the trading lossPs did not push the bank "farther or faster or any other particular way into this." 
"I mean, we had the broad outline of what might work sketched out well before that happened," Buckley said. 
AIB chief financial officer Gary Kennedy said negotiations with M&T began in October 2001, well before the currency scandal surfaced in February. 
Buckley said the deal was slowed down after the losses were discovered "simply because I was spending my time in dealing with those issues." 
Robert Wilmers, M&T's chairman. chief executive and president. said he considered currency-trading case "an isolat,~d incident." lie said the fact that Allfirst had a foreign exchange trading operation was "totally irrelevent to us." 
"\Ve were never inten!sted in their foreign exchange trading business," \Vilmers said. 
Wilmers said his bank has an active foreign exchange desk. "but just for the benefit of our customers. \Ve do not take positions." 
Rusnak was charged in June with seven counts of fraud. A Feb. 10 trial date has been set for Husnak. His attorney. David Irwin, has indicated the case might not reach trial. On Thursday, Irwin wouldn "t comment on how negotiations with prosecutors have been going. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 27, 2002 
Smallpox vaccine to combat bioterrorism 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Moving aggressively to steel the nation against bioterrorism, the Bush administration is preparing to offer the effective but risky smallpox vaccine to every American before an attack ever occurs. 
The decision, which goes well beyond earlier thinking, stems from practical and philosophi­cal concerns including the looming war with Iraq and the fact that, for the first time in decades, the government will have enough vaccine on hand to inoculate everyone. 
Just three months ago, feder­al advisers were recommend­ing that only select hospital workers get the smallpox vac­cine, maybe 20,000 total. Now Bush administration officials say that eventually, it will be offered to all 280 million Americans. The questions being debated are how fast and under what circumstances, according to three officials involved in the planning. 
Experts don't know if the nation will ever be attacked with smallpox, which kills one­third of its victims. Eradicated from nature two decades ago, it is still feared as a bioterror agent. But the vaccine itself carries rare but serious risks, including death, complicating any decision to inoculate peo­ple absent a certain risk. 
The Bush administration has yet to make final decisions or announce plans for what is called "pre-attack" smallpox vaccination. But administration ollicials say the consensus is to begin vaccinating those at greatest risk of encountering a highly contagious smallpox patient, such as hospital emer­gency room workers. That could total a half million peo­ple. Then the vaccine would be offered to non-hospital health workers, such as primary care doctors, and to police. firefight­ers and other emergency work­ers. 
At some point after that, it would be offered to the general public. 
"You start with one group and based on their potential risk, you keep expanding," one administration official said Thursday, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. 
But it hasn't been decided how many people will get vac­cinated during the first wave of shots, or how long it will take to offer them to everyone. 
At issue, officials say, are important details such as who should get the vaccine while it's still an experimental drug, which requires a lengthy pro­cedure to ensure that people understand and accept the risks. One option is to wait until the vaccine is fully licensed by the Food and Drug Administration before offering the vaccine widely. which could take a couple of years. 
Another unanswered ques­tion is liability -how to com­pensate people injured by the experimental vaccine. 
Made from a live virus, the vaccine itself is risky, particu­larly for people with certain skin diseases and weak immune svstcms. Studies from the 1960s· suggnst orrn or two people pt>r million inoculated will die. About one in 1,000 will face complications, some seri­ous, including a severe skin rash or encephalitis that may kill or cause permanent neuro­logical damage. 

Other issues are logistical, such as how states and cities prepare large vaccination clin­ics and train people to give the shots. Another point: how to deal with people who get sick from the vaccine and the pub­licity likely to surround such an incident. 
Those questions get more complicated as the number of people vaccinated increases. 
No matter how these ques­tions are resolved, the adminis­tration's direction represents a remarkable shift in thinking in a very short time, say experts both in and out of government. The reasons, they say, are practical, political and philo­sophical. 
Immediately after last fall's anthrax attacks concentrated attention on bioterrorism, mass vaccinations were not consid­ered because there wasn't enough vaccine: only 15.4 mil­lion doses in storage with another 40 million on order. 
Since then, researchers have determined that by diluting the 
15.4 million doses, 75 million people can be inoculated. A drug company found another 86 million doses in its freezer and donated them to the gov­ernment. And the Department of Health and Human Services signed or expanded contracts for 209 million new doses, which should arrive early next year. 
The new shipments bring a natural pressure to offer the vaccine. Newspaper editorials and leading voices, including Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., a physician, have argued that people should be allowed to weigh the risks and decide for themselves whether to be vac­cinated. 
"What if you do have an attack and people die and you had something you could have given them, how do you answer that?" a second administration official said. 
On top of that looms possible war with Iraq. All smallpox was supposed to be destroyed except for samples kept in spe­cial labs in Atlanta and Moscow, but experts fear that hostile states including Iraq have it. 
"We're very worried about lraq,"said Dr. D.A. Henderson, a top I IIIS bioterrorism adviser. "Why is Saddam Hussein push­ing ahead with weapons of mass destruction if at some point he is not going to ust~ them? It's certainly got to be a factor in all of this." 
Another factor: Officials are realizing how complicated it will be t<> vaccinate large num­bers of people quickly after a smallpox attack. This week, federal officials gave states guidelines for mass vaccina­tions after an attack; most cities arc far from ready. 
If there were an attack, mass vaccinations would be signifi­cantly easier if many people arc already protected. Some argue aggressive vaccinations might even deter an attack. 
A decision had been expected by the end of September, but officials now say it's not expect­ed until next month. 

Quechan run to protect ancient sites 
Associated Press 

For centuries, young American Indians have run a series of trails that stretch from the muddy red waters of the Colorado Hiver to the Arizona­California line. 
Running the trail has been at the center of the Quechan Nation's religion, traditions and history. Now 30 young men are running to try to save the paths for the next generation. 
The runners are making a 700-mile relay trek through California to focus attention on state legislation that seeks to protect ancient sites like the one they hope to safeguard from becoming a gold mine. 
The group wants Gov. Gray Davis to sign a bill that would require local governments to notify a tribe of proposed con­struction within 20 miles of a reservation and to protect sacred sites from development. 
Opponents of the bill said it could grant tribes veto power over both private and public land. The California Chamber of Commerce said the bill threat­ens to delay or stop public improvement projects, school buildings and new homes. 
Davis, who has until month's end to sign or veto the bill, has not publicly taken a position. 
"This is not only for politics," said 15-year-old runner Richard "Ticky" Smith, a Quechan tribal member who has sweated through triple-digit temperatures in California's Central Valley this week. "It's for all the elders -the ones that passed on, the ones who are sick, the ones who can't run or walk or hear or sec. It's also for the future." 
The run began last Friday in Sacramento, Calif., and is expected to end Saturday at the tribe's Imperial Valley reserva­tion. The proposed mine site ­at Indian Pass, a remote spot near the Arizona-California line -sits on federal land outside their reservation. 
Lillian Sparks, an analyst for the National Congress of American Indians, said no state has enacted legislation similar to the bill before the governor. 
"California is really taking ini­tiative to protect Native American sacred places, and we're hoping other states will follow through until we can get protection at the federal level," said Sparks. 
Across California, about 300 sites that average a quarter­acre each need protection, according to the Native American Heritage Commission. 
Under the legislation, a local government would hire an out­side investigator such as an anthropologist to check histori­cal records and determine whether a site has long been considered sacred. The investi­gator also would look at whether the area has a shrine or other religious artifacts. 
The bill stems from Quechan opposition to plans by Glamis Gold Ltd., a Reno, Nev.-based company that wants to build an open pit gold mine on 1,600 acres of BLM land near the tribe's reservation. The Bureau of Land Management parcel includes a site of religious cere­monies that contains ancient pottery shards and petroglyphs. 
Charles Jeannes, senior vice president of Glamis, said the proposed state bill could ruin the company's efforts to create an operation on which it already has spent $15 million. 
Jeannes said the bill now on Davis' desk would hamper development statewide by only allowing construction of pro­jects on sacred sites that have an overriding environmental, public health or safety reason. 
"It's a fairly narrow exception and it gives the native tribe any right to veto any project they deem sacred," he said. 
The Clinton administration rejected the gold mine plan, cit­ing "undue impairment"to Quechan sacred land, but thP Bush administration rescinded that ruling in October 2001. 
Quechan presidfrnt Miki! Jackson said the issue is about continuing a tradition for his 3,000 tribal members. 
"We want to preserve our his­tory just like any other person," he said. "We should enjoy our religious rights like anybody else." 




MSPS PRESENTS: INTERRACE ' 
OCTOBER TOPIC BLURRl\:G THE LI\JES: CREATl\:G A BIRACL:\L IDE\:TITY 
*PANEL DISCUSSION WILL FOLLOW THE DINNER 
DATE: WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 
Tl ME:  5:30  PM  
PLACE:  CENTER  FDR  SOCIAL  
CONCERNS  (COFFEE  
RSVP:  1-6B41  
BY SEPT.  30TH  
-(•'  
~. ~ --. -111­_,. I ,~ -~ -;;c·==--_:__: .-:. 7~  ---, ­-_.__ ­_:..  ·,~;;··~.~{  
...­ ,., :.  
J:,  
'  ....  ,  .-,,,,  
l~ ~~~  . .  --··  . .,-~~---:  


i.. I 
Teenagers plead guilty in beating 
Judge Randolph Subryan indi­prove who struck who, how
Associated Press 

cated he would give them proba­many times. was it hands or tion for up to five years along fists? We know fists were fly­PATEHSON, N.J. 
with nearly a year in jail contin­ing."
Four teenage defendants 

gent on their cooperation with John Schadegg, the attorney
accused in the beating death of a 

authoritics. for Brown-Parris, said his
homcl1~ss man pl1rnded guilty 

The fourth defendant, llm1ry client "joined a group knowing
Thursday to aggra\'ated assault Bobinson, 17, also pleaded guilty the group was looking for

chargPs and agn~ed 

t () trouble" but never intended to
to testify against sov­

manslaugh­seriously harm anyone.
cral otlwrs. "It's very difficult to 
ter. lie faces "My client had no idea this
At least 13 vouths 

prove who struck more than was going to be the end result
kicked and ptinclrnd 

four years in of this," Schadegg said. "He42-ycar-old llector who, how many 
prison knows he did something
Hoblcs as Im sat sip­tirnes, was it hands 
before wrong by not walking awayping a beer near a 
or fists? We know becoming when he had the chance."
warehouse in an 

eligible for Those who pleaded guilty
industrial area rn~ar .fists were flying." 
parole. Thursday will be sentenced
tlrn t1~ens' school in 

Another April 25.
2001. authorities William Purdy 
defendant Thirteen boys were initially
said. An autopsy 
rP v"aI"d lw di1~d chief assistant prosecutor was expect­charged as juveniles in the ed to plead June 20, 2001, attack; most of
from internal bleed-

guilty the cases were moved to adult
ing. 

Friday to aggravated assault, court. Two defendants accept­
Francisco Hodrigucz, Jawon 

robbery and riot. Five other ed plea bargains while their
\Vhite and Shohmahree Brown­

teens rejected plea offers and cases were in juvenile court.
Parris, all-I 8. had been charged will stand trial for murder. The case of the final defen­

with murder. In addition to 
"All of these defendants dant. Freddy Rivera, was
aggravatf~d assault, they also 
acted as accomplices," Chief adjourned until Oct. 1 pending
plcmd1~d guilty Thursday to riot 

Assistant Prosecutor \Villiam completion of another case
charges. They face three to five 
Purdy. "It's very difficult to involving him.
years in prison. 
! 
' 
Friday. September 27, 2002 

The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
School bans dances 
drunk kid there than some­
. 200 students 
one who was sober," senior
show up to 
Dave Nambar told The homecoming party Journal News. 
Principal John Klemme,
after drinking, 5 
who called police to thetaken to hospital party, banned school dances until school officials felt Associated Press sure that the students in the affluent New York City sub­
SCAHSDALE, N.Y. urb wouldn't misbehave. School dances Klemme said at Scarsdale several students
"It was easier to 
High have been were suspended, banned after find a drunk kid but he did not about 200 stu­divulge how
there than 
dents turned up many.
someone who
drunk at a "You have homecoming was sober. " slightly drunk party. kids taking care Five of the 600 of very drunk

Dave Nambar
students at last kids," po lice 
senior

Friday night's Detective Hichard dance were Fatigate said of taken to hospi-the party. "It tals. All have recovered. doesn't make for a very 
"It was easier to find a good situation." 

Happy 21st Janel-y! -:< -=~:t? -::r From Team Corby!  


ASIAN PACIFIC STUDENTS YOU ARE INVITED! 
THE ASIAN PACIFICALU1'11NI OF NOTRE DAME BOARD OF DIRECTORS WOULD LIKE TO MEETWITH YOU FOR LUNCH & CONVERSATION. PLEASE STOP BYTHE NOTRE DAME ROOM ON THE 2ND FLOOR OF THE LA FORTUNE CENTERTHIS COMING SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER28, FROM NOON UNTIL1:30 PN1 
page 10 The Observer . HEALTH NEWS Friday, September 27, 2002 

Study outlines risks of Ecstasy 
Associaced Press 
WASJIINGTON 
Partying with Ecstasy sever­al times a night, a common practice among users of the illegal drug, may damage key neurons in the brain and per­haps hasten the onset of Parkinson's disease, according to a study in monkeys. 
But some researchers were skeptical that the results from the animal studies translate to humans and said such studies discourage research that might lead to medical uses for Ecstasy. 
A Johns Hopkins University researcher injected squirrel monkeys and baboons with three shots of Ecstasy, also known as MOMA, three hours apart, mimicking dosages "often used by MDMA users at all-night dance parties." He said the drug caused enduring damage to dopamine-produc­ing neurons in the brains of the animals. 
The damage was still evident two weeks to six weeks later. said Dr. George A. Ricaurte, the lead author the study appearing this week in the journal Science. But he said it is not clear if the dam aged neurons will repair them­selves, a key factor in whether Ecstasy could cause Parkinson's disease. 
Parkinson's disease is a brain disorder triggered by the permanent loss of dopamine-producing nerve cells. 
"We aln~ady know from tlrn literature that brain dopamine declines with age," he said. "A young individual who sustains injury to thest\ dopamine cells and depletes their reserve may be at greater risk of Parkinsonism." 
But Julie A. Holland, a psy­chiatrist on the faculty of the New York University School of Medicine, said carfier studies on humans have failed to show that Ecstasy causes per­m anent damage to dopamine neurons. 

"It is a big leap to f1xtrapo­late what he is seeing in these primates and what you expect to S<!C in Parkinson's syn­drome," Holland, the author of a book on the risk and rncre­ational use of Ecstasy. 
She said Hicaurte's research has helped "demonize" Ecstasy and prevented studies to determine if the drug could be used to treat post traumat­ic syndrome. 
Dr. Alan I. Leshner, former head of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, however, said the Hicaurte study shows "that even an occasional use of Ecstasy can lead to significant damage to brain systems." 
Stephen Kish, a University of Toronto researcher studying Parkinson's disease and Ecstasy. said he analyzed the brain of a deceased habitual Ecstasy user two years ago and found no evidence of dopamine neuron damage. 
"Hicaurte's findings do raise a concern that Ecstasy may damage the dopamine neurons and potentially cause Parkinson's," said Kish. But he said the current study "might not translate to humans" and has not proven a clear connection between the drug and the brain disease. 
In the study, the animals wern given six milligrams for every 2.2 pounds of their wt1ight. One of five monkeys and one of five baboons used in the study died shortly after receiving the shots. 
The brains of the surviving animals were examined microscopically and ch(~mical­ly after two to eight weeks. 
The nerve endings where the dopamine is processed \Vere destroyed, said Hicaurte. 
"There hasn't been a single animal that escaped the dopa.mine [cell] lesions," he said. 
Hicaurte said the damag<1 was not enough to cause Parkinson's symptoms, but there is "a clinical concern" that repeated use of Ecstasy will diminish the natural rnserve of' brain cells and lead to early disease. 
Holland said Hicaurte 's study in monkeys and baboons does not relate to the experi­ence of human recreational users of Ecstasy. 
"The dose that he gave killed 20 percent of the ani­mals immediately," said Holland. "Clearly these ani­mals reacted to the drug dif­ferently than humans because not one out of five Ecstasy users drops dead." 
Also, she said Hicaurte's study injected Ecstasy, while most human users take the drug orally. Drugs taken orally are less concentrated in the body than drugs that are injected, said Holland. 
The NYLJ psychiatrist said "there is a lot of politics involved" in Hicaurte's study because the government does not want to allow medical research with Ecstasy, even though it has been approved for study by the Food and Drug Administration. 
RicaurtP's research has been funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the agency Leshner once headed. Leshner is now chief executive 
o ffi c e r of the Am erican Association for the Advancement of Science, the organization that publishes Science, the journal printing Hicaurte's current study on Ecstasy. 

House limits use of malpractice suits 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Ilouse, responding to doc­tors' complaints that rising insurance premiums are forcing them to quit their practices or relocate, passed a hill Thursday to cap pain-and-suffering dam·­ages that juries can award in malpractice suits. 
The 217-203 vote came after a lengthy debate over whether limiting large jury verdicts would ease the costly insurance crunch felt by doctors and patients. Its passage faced an uncertain future in the Democrat-controlled Senate, which already has rejected a similar measure. 
"Our nation is galloping toward a health care crisis of dimensions we have never faced before," said Hep. Nancy Johnson, R-Conn. "There are whole states where a woman cannot find an obstetrician that will take a high-risk pregnancy." 
"Very quietly. access to sophisticated high-risk care is declining in America." she added. 
Democrats questioned whether the bill would simply be a cash cow for insurers after Republicans rejected Democratic attempts to require that savings be used to lower malpractice insurance premi­ums. 
"They are going to allow the insurance industry to pocket this money," said Hep. Edward Markey, D-Mass. "That's what it's all about. It's about the insurance companies, not about physicians." 
But Republicans were buoyed by support from the White House, business groups, insur­ers and hundreds of physicians. 
"This is the moment of truth," said Dr. Donald Palmisano, president-elect of the American Medical Association. "Without reforms, patients, trauma cen­ters, maternity wards and physi­cians are all at the mercv of an out-of-control liability system." 
The House legislation would limit noneconomic damages, such as pa.in and suffering, to $250,000. Punitive damages would be limited to twice the amount of economic damages awarded or $250,000, whichev­er is greater. 
Patients' ability to file lawsuits over old cases would be limited under the legislation, which would also curtail lawyers' fees. 
In tackling the issue, the House waded into a debate that is already taking place in dozens of states. Nevada Gov. Kenny Guinn, a Republican, recently signed into law a bill that caps pain-and-suffering awards, and Mississippi legislators have been in a special session for weeks trying to craft a. bill. 
For doctors, the relief is sorely needed, supporters said. 
"There definitely has to be a cap," said Dr. Khadra Osman, a gynecologist in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. who recently had to drop her obstetrics practicr, after see­ing her yearly malpractice insurance rate go from $32,000 in 2000 to $74,000 in 2002. "I cried with every single patient of mine who was pregnant." 
Dr. Hobert Comnau, a Las Vegas obstetrician, understands. lie rf~cently bogan scaling back his practice because his insurer is going out of business and he envisions trouble getting afford­able insuranc,i. Already, he has gottun, estimates of up to $100,000 for malpractice insur­ance. 

South Africa to set AIDS vaccine trials 
Associaccd Press 
CAPE TOWN 
South African scientists said Thursday they will begin manu­facturing, and testing on humans. three new vaccirrns intendPd to protm:t against the AIDS virus. 
Thf' vaccines showed great potential in laboratory tests on micP and primates, said Anna-1.ise Williamson. associate pro­fossor at tlw University of Cape Tmvn's lnstitutn of lnfoctious Diseases and Molecular Medicine. 
Small-scale human trials could begin as early as next year, said Dr. Tim Tucker, director of the South African AIDS Vaccine Initiative. 
UNAlDS, the United Nations ag1~ncy on AIDS. last year esti­mah1d that 40 million peopln worldwide wern HIV positive and the development of a vac­cine \\'as considered imperative to stop the epidPmic.'s sprnad. 
More. than a dozen candidate 
vaccines are at various stagt!S of 
testing worldv..-idc. 
Iluman trials arc unden,:ay in tlw United States, Bntzil, Britain, Haiti, India. Kenya. Peru, South Af'rica and Thailand. 
Tlw vacci1ws d.-vPlopPd hy tlw University of Cape Town will be manufactured and tested in the United States and Britain. Th<~y will be produced using genetic material from the strain of IIIV most commonly found in Southern Africa. 

The scientists will insert harm­!(~ss pieces of thn IIIV virus into human cells in hopes of stimu­lating the production of' antibod­iPs that will provide immunity. 
Tlw South African AIDS VaccinP Initiative will contribute $1 million toward producing and testing tlw vaccines, whil<1 the 
U.S. National lnstitut1\ of' IIPalth will contributP about $2 million. 


Ill 


% 
APR* As Low As 
It'll Get Your Motor Bonnin'! 
·._,4 
i ""'~­t t ..,,.. 



'0a 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us to be better 

574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
'Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 5.75%APR is available for various financing tenns. Rates subject to change without notice. Certam restncbons may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 


Friday, September 27, 2002 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 


ITALY 


Assisi celebrates fresco restoration 
Associared Press 
ASSISI 
St. Jeromp's white beard is 

largely gone, his rich cloak 
looks like it was devoured by 
moths and the roll of writing 
paper on his desk has disap­
pearnd. 
But in a kind of restoration miracle. much of the rest of the Giotto fresco is back on the soaring ceiling of St. Francis Basilica. five years after an earthquake sent the master­piece crashing to the floor in tens of thousands of frag­ments. 
Lik<' a giant puzzle knocked apart by an angry child, the fresco was painstakingly piecPd back tog11ther by a team of restorers. who celebrated th11ir achiPv1~mcnt Thursday as this town marked thP fifth anniversary of a pair of power­ful quakes hours apart that clainwd l O lives and destroyed homes and artwork across Umbria in central Italy. 
Tlw race to save the fresco. which experts believe was painted by Giotto at the end of the 13th century. began almost immediately after a huge chunk of the basilica's nave foll a distance of seven stories in thP earthquake, burying t\vo Franciscan monks and two workPrs in a mound of dust, plaster and bricks on Sept. 26, 
1997. 
After tht~ bodies were pulled out, volunt,~ers and restoration experts, who slept in a tent camp with some of the thou­sands left homeless in the quake. started sifting through some 50,000 fragments of the fresco of St. Jerome and pieces of lesser-known fn~scoes of eight other saints. 
We are bring 

They tried to match pieces to 
an enlarged photograph of the 
original St. Jerome work and 
carefully laid unmatched 
pieces on cushions of foam in 
crates and drawers. 
"Days would pass when peo­
ple would find nothing, or 
maybe just a little piece," 
recalled one of the chief 
restorers, Paola Passalacqua. 
"Then suddenly we would 
n~member seeing a certain 
piece in a certain drawer that 
matched. It was a work of 
memory." 

Part of the ceiling above the altar also came crashing down in the second of the quakes, including another priceless masterpiece, a fresco by Cimabue, who is considered the father of Italian painting. 
Restoration work on some 120,000 fragments of Cimabue's St. Matthew will begin in a few months, aided by a computer that will try to find matches between the pieces and a photograph of the masterpiece. Fragments of the Cimabue now fill 880 drawers in a cloister of the Franciscan basilica's convent. 
A computer might also have helped with the Giotto fresco, but right after the quake there was no time to tailor programs to the enterprise, said Passalacqua. 
"The computer will do what we do, looking into one's mem­ory, only we do it much more slowly."said the restorer. 
In the weeks after the quake, the art world debated if the wrecked frescoes should be mounted in a museum if not enough pieces were found to be put back on the ceiling. 
A fow months after the quake, c;iuseppe Basile, the 
restorer overseeing the fresco 
project, said that if mainly blue 
sky and little human figures 
were found, restorers would 
not be able to put the work 
back on the ceiling. 
But piece by piece, a lot of the puzzle started to be filled in: St. Clare's nose in a cycle of Giotto-school frescoes depict­ing a row of saints; St. Jerome's book, his two-peaked hat, his penetrating eyes and reed-thin nose, some of his burgundy-colored cloak and a few wisps of his wavy beard. 
The Rev. Enzo Fortunato gazed up Wednesday at St. Jerome and the other eight saints near the entrance and said: "When we could see the face of St. Rufino, his eyes, beard, a cheek, then real hope began for us"that the restora­tion would succeed. 
At a kind of thanksgiving ceremony Thursday, the Franciscan custodian of the basilica complex, the Rev. Vincenzo Coli, told the restor­ers who will work on the Cimabue: "We're faithfully waiting for another miracle of faith and of the capabilities of man." 
The upper level of the two­tiered basilica, where the fres­coes are located, was reopened to the public in 1999. 
"When pilgrims come in, they point to where the Cimabue fresco was and say, 'That's where the quake dam­age was,"'Fortunato said. 
Visitors don't realize the St. Jerome fresco also was quake­dam aged, its missing details taken for a casualty of passing centuries and not the tem­blors, a true indication, Fortunato said, of the restora­tion's success. 


back this iavorite project 
Crom _last year. Come and make specialty soaps •n your ravorite color and with your 
tavorite  scent.  
Friday~ September 9:00pm­11:00pin LaFortune Student  2002 in the Center  

Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visi1" www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
IVORY COAST 



Americans evacuated from Ivory Coast 
Associated Press 
YAMOUSSOUKRO 

American schoolchildren flew 
to safety Thursday on the first 
evacuation plane out of rebel­
lion-torn Ivory Coast. while 
French troops launched a full­
scale evacuation of frightened 
Westerners from a rebel-held 
city under threat of imminent 
government attack. 
A U.S. C-130 carried the first 
18 evacuees -students age 8 to 
18 from a mission boarding 
school and staff, most of them 
American -to an airport in 
neighboring Ghana, where U.S. 
Embassy workers whisked them 
away to rest and start arranging 
reunions with families. 
Smiling broadly, the rescued 
American teens and younger 
children clutched water bottles 
as they crossed the tarmac tot­
ing bags of their belongings. 
U.S. forces armed with assault rifles had flanked the children's military cargo plane when it left Ivory Coast -ending a week that saw teachers and children pinned down by rebel fire that at times came over the walls of their whitewashed mission boarding school on the edge of the besieged city of Bouake. 
"We were hunkered down for seven days waiting for help ­then the French came," said Mike Coustineau, security chief for the U.S.-allied International Christian Academy. "We were very delighted to see them." 
The first flight out came as U.S., French and British forces scrambled to bring all their nationals out of Bouake, a cen­tral city of 500,000 people that has been held by rebels since a failed Sept. 19 coup attempt. 
In Washington, the State Department advised Americans on Thursday to leave the rebel­lion-torn country and autho­rized the families of American diplomats and those whose jobs are not essential to leave at U.S. government expense. 
As the evacuation got under way, Ivory Coast Defense Minister Lida Moise Kouassi took to state TV to declare Bouake and one other rebel-
held city "war zones." He said 
attack was imminent. 
"The national forces of Ivory 
Coast will be called upon to do 
their duty," Kouassi declared. 
Troops from France -the 
once-stable nation's colonial 
ruler -hammered out a cease­
fire with rebels for the evacua­
tion and rushed to clear the city 
of all who wished to go. 
Hundreds of armed French 
troops in jeeps and at least one 
light tank secured the main 
roads out of Bouake. 
Anxious evacuees lined the 
roads in cars, rolling out in con­
voys when the word to move out 
came. 

Thousands of the Bouake's 
people fled on foot, walking the 
sides of the roads with bundles 
of belongings or cooking pots on 
their heads. 
Rebels in camouflage uni­
forms manned checkpoints in 
and out the city. Shattered glass 
and other wreckage by some of 
the checkpoints testified to 
recent fighting. 
Government troops secured the 40 mile route to a hastily erected reception center at the Ivory Coast capital. Yamoussoukro. French and U.S. forces and diplomats of several European countries and Japan waited there to take in and process their nationals. 
Refugees, streaming to the safe haven in cars crammed with suitcases and children, spoke of a week pinned down by gunfire. with water and electric­ity out and food running short. 
"It was the isolation, and thinking every night there could be an attack," Jamal Bittar, a French evacuee of Lebanese descent, among the first convoys of evacuees arriving in cars crammed with suitcases and children. 
"It's sad for the locals. They're not going to be able to leave," Bittar said. "We will pray for them." 
On the day the firing was worst, Frenchwoman Catherine Martin said, she retreated with her husband to a room with no windows, and brought in mat­tresses to avoid any flying bul­lets. 

Mg~"') O'lau~hlin Huditorium ·no~.m. 
, e_~ IHE ,.~n-571./zRi 'f.t-J:.. 
:; 
-
-
-


O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Friday, September 27, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
Tiu /H,i,p,ndn1t, Daily Nt1P1pnp" Snt,int Notr~ Dmn, anti Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box Q. Nom: Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  

Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lurz Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................63 I-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........······...........................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................ .631-4324 
observer.smc.1@nd.edu PHOTO ........................................................ 631-8767 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobseroer. nd. edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion 
columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the 

University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial conrem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Ohserver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 


POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Olh('fV("r (USPS S.99 2--40001 i,. puhti,htd Mond1.~· tht'ouµ:h Frido1y nctpf ,iuri~ cx,m1 .md ,•.u:ouion period... A ,ubM:rip1ion to Thr Obscn.·rr ,~ S100 for one .ic.1Jcmic yr.1c $'j'; for one M"nll"<>tc-r. 
·n1<-(lh"'t"rver i~ publ1!Jhcd Jt: POSTMASTER 021 Sourh OintnJ:_ Hall ~nd ou.i~fri:-.,!> .,:orrection, ,o· !'iomt 0.1.mC', IN 46556--0779 TI1e: Ob'.'lerver Pcruxiac.11 p-o"lailJtc pai,l .u Sorr~ D.imc po. floxl) 
,mtl ,1tldi11cui.1I nuilint:. otl~ct',. !\orrc (J,,m<, 1:-.i 46,S(. 0:79 
11,~ ( Xl-...:rv<"r 1;."' m,emll<'r ol ihe .-\"'"-lio:-1,Uc-d Pre;.1-. AH rtproJucuon n~hh ou(' ft"..CfV«f 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 

d 
Courtney Boyle Chris Federico 
Meghan Martin Matt Lozar Shannon Joe Lindsley Nelligan Scene 

Viewpoint C. Spencer Beggs Lauren Beck Lab Tech Graphics Brian Pucevich Jimmy Atkinson Illustrator Pat Quill 
Honor code must imply trust 
Plagiarism seriously inhibits the intellectual environment problem of academic dishonesty. it cannot be abused and of a university, and dishonest academic behavior should applied without provocation or strong suspicion. be penalized. The new changes this fall in the University But the University's honor code is supposed to assume Academic Code of Honor Handbook, along with the that Notre Dame students can be trusted. Inherent in the school's contract with Turnitin.com. an online plagiarism code is a mutual trust and respect between professors and detection company, tighten the reins on acad­students. Only in cases where that trust is emic dishonesty. O Th broken are other measures needed.
oserver
While a service like Turnitin.com should be The honor code revisions and the contract employed in cases where professors have a with Turnitin.com indicate that the trust has reasonable suspicion of academic dishonesty. been broken. The University has made its
·Editorial it should not be used as a standard procedure decision, but that does not mean that student in the grading process. honor cannot be restored. Professors and students can 
On the Turnitin.com Web site, a UC-Berkeley professor is both agree to uphold the values that the University has for quoted as saying that incidents of plagiarism in his classes its students. have dropped nearly to zero percent and the trust level The argument can be made that a professor would not has risen to 100 percent. Reducing plagiarism should be a need to use Turnitin.com if students were not cheating. priority for the institutions currently dealing with this Yet, then~ is a difference between some students and all growing problem, which is related to increased student students. computer access. The question is: Will professors use Turnitin.com before 
However, Notre Dame's decision to contract with there is a reason to do so? Technological advances in Turnitin.com indicates that an outsider must solve what is academia are beneficial to all, but professors and students essentially an internal problem. While the service should can maintain the trust and honor that Notre Dame should be utilized by those professors who perceive a serious symbolize if they choose not to abuse their use. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 




Solutions demand respect, cooperation 
On Wednesday, President Bush through respect of those representa­lution are to be blamed for the halt of accused Democrats in the Senate of not tives who hold opinions different than that resolution as much as the people being interested in homeland security. one's own, it is possible to reach an who halt it. 
Senator Tom Daschle (D-S.D.) gave agreement that is acceptable to the Domers and Belles alike, I am calling an impassioned speech reprimanding majority of the nation's representatives you out. I am calling on you to discuss such comments and demanding an and to the people that they represent. the very important issues that our apology from the president for showing No one is perfect and no one has the nation is facing. I am calling on you to blatant disrespect for the Democratic right answers because no one can treat the people you argue Party. know the future or how others with, even if you think 
What's going on? will react to the decisions that they are dead wrong, 
llow is it that politics in our nation are made. One cannot know with respect. has been reduced to name calling and what goes on inside anther As fellow human insults, not of ideas, but of the verv person's head. One can-beings who do people who represent at least halfof not assume that just not and cannot the United States population? This is because that other per­know the right totally unacceptable. son has reached a dif­answers, we 
I find the current political atmos­ferent conclusion, cannot be so phere in which politicians from one they do not care presumptu­party are accusing members of the about the same ous as to other party (and thus those that elect­issues. judge the ed them) of being unconcerned with Apparently, some­
moral bflar­the security of this nation impossible to one has forgotten 
ing of others tolerate. Forget the accusations of this. Someone has 
based on politicizing the war being thrown decided that he 
what beliefs around by both parties; what this boils knows what is good, 
they hold. down to is respect. what is evil, what is 
Our world is 

It is necessary the parties of this best for this country, in the middle country demonstrate respect for each and that anyone who of a situation other. They do not have to agree on decides he's wrong that, regard­issues, nor should they. simply doesn't care less of the out­
However, they do have to recognize about this country. come, is going that we are all created equal, and if Personal offense is to change it for­one side thinks that more than one being taken at views and ever. Now is the issue needs to be considered, and that opinions different from his time to stand up the state of our national security does own. and be a part of that not warrant ignoring issues that are This cannot be allowed in a change. If we want to still important and have not gone away democratic nation. If that person change it in a positive since national security came to the begins draw black and white lines way, we have to work forefront, that view and the people about what's what, the political together in a climate of mutual who hold it must be respected. process will stop, nothing will get respect. 
Our government is not set up on the accomplished, not even on those issues principle that one side is right and one he values most. Compromise is neces­Danny Richter side is wrong. It is set up on the princi­sary, even in a situation in which our sophomore ple that through dialogue, through nation is facing war, and the people Keough H,111 analyzation of events and issues and who frame the issue and draft a reso-Sept. 26 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you support a preemptive U.S. attack on Iraq? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 189 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4n independent is the guy who wants to take the politics out ofpolitics ... 
Adlai Stevenson politician 

O
THE BSERVER 


Friday, September 27, 2002 page 13 

Dissidence is a form ofpatriotism 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Biblical teaching on homosexuality stands 
I don't hate gays -never have. never will. I have no fear of a gay man hitting on me. Some of my friends are gay, some of my family are gay, and I still talk to them. However, in no way does that mean I agree with or accept homosexuality. 
Joe Muto's attempt to disprove Biblical teaching on homosex­uality in his Sept. 25 column is neither correct nor convincing. He failed to take into account that some teachings are stronger and more binding than others. 
The two teachings in Leviticus that Muto cited are inherently different. It is considerably worse to "lie with another man" than to wear a garment wove with more than one fabric. Also, the infamous "garment argument" doesn't hold sway with any Christian. 
Christ ca.me to fulfill the Old Covenant. In doing so, the uni­versal teachings were kept and expounded upon while those which were temporal, those not necessary in the New Jerusalt~m. passed away. Jesus himself said not to "hold fast to the traditions of men" (Mark 7:8). The garment is such a tradi­tion. 
Ilomosflxuality. on the other hand. is not. If it were, wouldn't the Apostles have known this? Yet they spoke just as firmly against homosexuality as Leviticus, if not more so. 
St. Paul condemns homosexual acts as sinful in Romans 1 :26­
32. He does so twice more in 1 Timothy 1 :10 and 1 Corinthians 6:9, whPre he equates homosexuality with theft, kidnapping, murder, greed, fratricide, lying and lawlessness. These are St. Paul's words. not mine. It's quite obvious that Biblical condem­nation is not even remotely limited to Leviticus. 
Muto does make a good point about not dwelling on "the sex­ual relations of people you've never met." Truth be told, I nor­mally don't give them a second thought, but some things must be responded to. After all, Jesus did tell us, "Go and make dis­ciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that l have commanded you." God didn't drop the ball on this one: He took it to the basket. • 
Becket Gremmels sophomore Alumni Hall Sepe. 26 


Follow your own dream 
lt is that time again. Career fairs and recruiters from all over the country are coming to Notre Dame to find the best and brightest for their respective companies. Career fairs, in my mind, are just another parental reminder that you need to figure out what you want 
to do for the rest of your life. That nagging question that appears every Sunday morning when vidual they raised. They will the family calls to check on be proud because you you. Of course they want to were brave enough to hear the answer that most follow your dreams. families want to hear: So, here's some doctor, lawyer, attorney advice for you younger general. Domers. Do not be 
As a freshman, these intimidated by these questions didn't matter career fairs. Look at as much because you them as opportunities were away from home to seek that which and caught up in the you've never sought magic found under the before. Look at that Dome. Sophomore year teaching position in was a blur because it China or that Peace always is. But now you're an Corps position in South upperclassman and these Africa and if you still choose 
questions have gotten old. 
night. 

Choosing a career path aside from your par­ents' ideals may create some hostilities. But rest assured, you parents do love you and they will understand ... eventually. Maybe they 
won't understand at first or even a cou­
On Ttwsday. conservative radio enter­tainer Rush Limbaugh hurled a trash can in reaction to a speech by former Vice President Al Gore. 
Gore had cautioned against rushing after Iraq's 
Saddam llussein at the Pxpense of combating terror­ists worldwide. Limbaugh claimed he was so ill, he almost did not climb out of bed 

to work his show.  
Nice drama,  Gary Caruso  
Hush. vVhile he  
may entertain  
millions with his  Capitol  
conservative idP­ Comments  
ology. he offers  
little to an honest,  

intellectual debate over staging a war with Iraq. Limbaugh makes millions of other Americans, including this writer, ill with his babble. If liberals, moder­ates and Democrats stooped to Limbaugh's level of "truth," long ago we would hav<\ begun a holy war against tlrn current president like Limbaugh did on day one of the Clinton presidency. 
Yet us "non-conservatives" arc not questioning President Bush's efforts to light Osama bin Laden. \Ve know when to act as the loyal opposition, unlike anti-Clinton fanatics who claimed in 1998 that Clinton was "wagging the dog" to divert attention from impeach­ment proceedings. Ironically, Limbaugh and his fanatics prevented Clinton from seriously retaliating against bin Laden. 

Ile mocks C1inton's veracity for mere­ly firing missiles at bin Laden while Republicans waged their 1998 impeachment war. 
If Limbaugh served in Vietnam, regardless of where his military assign­ment may have been. he would have credibility for his opinions regarding war. Al Gore is a Vietnam veteran. 
If Limbaugh was an elected official who bucked his party to support the other party's prnsidential efforts in the Gulf \Var, he would have credibility when he comments on the methods and timing of Bush's war against Iraq. Al Gore was one of only a few Democratic 
U.S. senators who crossed over the isle to vote in a nonpartisan manner with Republicans to support Daddy Bush's Gulf War resolution. 
If Limbaugh would pull his head out of his ideological bag, he might lose rat­ings points at the expense of gaining respect points. Despite Limbaugh's antics and jovial entertaining perspec­tive, he is dead wrong whenever he attempts to tackle a serious issue. 
Al Gore, the Vietnam veteran with a record of supporting the Gulf War, points out that this president has squandered the worldwide good will the United States gained after the Sept. 11 attacks with his insistence on fighting unilaterally if necessary. Gore notes that an immediate war with Iraq will dilute our anti-terror efforts, especially if we cannot provide compelling evi­
dence of Iraq's immediate threat and 
the international community does not join us through the United Nations. 
Gore, like conservative House Republican Minority Leader Dick Armey (R-Tex.), has shown great political lead­ership and courage in speaking out in opposition to a first strike against Iraq when others have remained mute. 
Despite the White House's usual per­sonal and nasty characterization of Gore, saying that he was "irrelevant," Gore and Armey have struck a chord with many. Both have articulated a position for those of us who, for what­ever moral, diplomatic or logistical rea­sons, do not believe it is wise to attack Iraq at this time. 
The president has already done much harm to our diplomatic relations abroad. 
By accusing the United Nations of being irrelevant for not adequately enforcing 16 resolutions pertaining to Iraq, Bush has allowed our allies and foes to laugh at the United States for our refusal to pay U.N. dues. 
They point at our hypocrisy by citing our recent Security Council abstention, the only non-affirmative vote, condemn­ing Israel's current attacks in Gaza. 
They in fact remind us that more than 100 U.N. resolutions condemning and sanctioning Israel have also not been enforced because the United States wants inaction. 
The White House will do much domestic harm if it continues to portray the war with Iraq on patriotic terms. During the Vietnam War, my genera­tion's patriotism was impugned by Richard Nixon and the great silent majority. The Reagan campaign in 1980 portrayed Republicans as flag-draped patriots implying that the Navy veteran Jimmy Carter was less of an American merely because he was unable to man­age the economy and settle the Iranian hostage crisis. 
Al Gore, this writer, Democrats, mod­erates, independents and liberals have joined our president in response to the terror attacks upon our fellow citizens and society. The president's natural constituency of conservatives, including wind bag Rush, need to realize that we are as much Americans, as much patri­ots as anyone. 
If we choose to exercise our freedoms by questioning or even opposing the president's policies, we are patriots. 
It is time that the intolerant who think they know everything realize that we are not living a John Wayne movie. At stake are American lives and long­lasting consequences after a war with Iraq. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame class of 1973, served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at Hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
session of the recent English Career Night, Professor Kerry Temple said something that struck me: "I talk to some of my doctor and lawyer friends who I graduated with and they hate their jobs." 
Why is that? Did any of these people stop to think if they really wanted to be that doctor, lawyer or Fortune 500 businessperson? Too many of us live the life set out before us on a sliver platter. But is the silver platter really what we want? 
You suddenly realize that you've spent most of your college career taking certain classes to please your parents. When does living in your parents' shadow end? The answer is. right now. Stop living the life your parents want for you and start taking some chances. Follow those dreams that leave you unable to sleep at 
that's cool. But don't live a life with­out passion because it's just not worth it. 
In short, follow your heart. But when you do, don't hold back. Don't be afraid to fail. Don't misunderstand me, though. You will make mis­takes along the way. But support the decision you've made with hard work and conviction. And if you fail, it's OK. Only then will you know you've given life -your life -a shot. Be proud of who you are and who you've become here. And if you turn out to be a Kerry Temple, peo­ple will envy the amount ofjoy that radiates from a conversation with you. 
Adam Cahill junior Sorin Hall Sepe. 25 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Friday, September 27, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 


'Lips' romances the dark side 
The movie also uses sound and audio effectively toBy C. SPENCER BEGGS build suspense. The audience will view scenes as 
Scene Editor 

Carla hears them, with her hearing aids turned on or off. As the pair begins to live both at Carla's office and "Read My Lips" plays like Bonnie and Clyde go to the nightclub the mood shifts from the sterile white France and start a Fight Club. The romance noir from 
lights of the corporate world to an insomniac 
French director Jacques Audiard is a heist thriller 
Kafkaesque nightmare. with teeth. And even though the movie uses Carla's ability to 
The plot follows Carla (Emmanuelle Devos), an read lips to advance the plot, it doesn't rely solely on unappreciated middle manager come secretary in a it. Lip reading is treated as one more tool a thiers Paris construction firm. Invisible, disrespected and 
black bag. 
made fun of by the rest of the office staff, the homely Dramatically, the change in the characters of both hearing-impaired 30-something is a depressed and Carla and Paul is realistically portrayed. As time pro-brooding mess. 
gresses Carla not only
When her boss asks her behaves more assertively,

to hire an assistant to help "Read My Lips" she appears
also so. 
her with daily duties, most 


Similarly, Paul migratesof which include throwing from a disheveled burn 
away half finished coffee sleeping in a supply closet cups and making copies of 
toward a more refined 
construction proposals, 

·Director: Jacques Audiard mastermind. 
Carla turns to a temp 

Writer: Jacques Audiard and Tonino Benacquista The movie contains a lot agency. But good help is Starring: Emmanuelle Devos, Vincent Cassel and of realistic violence. While hard to find and the temp Olivier Gourmet it still pales in comparisonagency sends Paul (Vrncent 
to most blockbusters,

Cassel), and recently French with English subtitles "Read My Lips" treats a 
released ex-con with no 
punch in the face like a marketable skills whatso­VICKERS THEATRE SHOWTIMES: punch in the face: it hurts. 

ever. 6:30 p.m. and 9:15 p.m. on Friday and Saturday 
More squeamish viewers Carla hires Paul and they 3:45 p. m. and 6:30 p. m. on Sunday might want to think twice quickly fall into a pseudo­7 p.m. on Monday about this movie. 

sexual psychological rela­There are a number of 
tionship. The pair finds subplots that seem to be unlikely companions in each other as they help each thrown into the script for convenience -such as sto­other put their lives in order by reciprocal illegal ries about Paul's parole officer and Carla's best friend favors. Paul Li; eventually hired/indentured by a night­that never seem to work into the main plot beyond club manager/wannabe gangster. When he discovers their apparent usefulness when they cross paths with that the manager and some other shady associates the heist. The movie appears to waste about 15 or 20 are using the club to move large amounts of valu­minutes developing these only to throw them away on ables, Paul and Carla plan a heist. 

relatively minor roadblock in the heist plan. 
"Read My Ups: is a well-scripted movie. Though the Overall, "Lips" is a delightfully dark romantic couple has a relationship, it doesn't solidify iti;elf until thriller certain to please audiences with an addiction later in the ftlm. The movie avoids over simplifying by to suspense.
presenting both Carla and Paul as stubborn charac­ters who won't let themselves be helped by anyone. Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3 @nd.edu 

Carla and Paul plan a heist in the dark romantic thriller "Read My Lips." The French film is this playing this week at Vickers Theatre In Three Oaks, Mich. 
ByC. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

Hollywood has been lying to you: There are more movies released each year than most people know about. While big-budget studio pictures are distributed nationally to major movie houses almost uniformly, there are hundreds of independent or smaller studio releases that have spotti­er runs. In fact, the art house movie scene has been remarkably productive in the last decade, producing much of the country's best cinema. 
But in a world of corporate-dominated multiplexes, many of these movies, despite critical acclaim, never come to a theater near you. Luckily, the small town movie the­ater is long from extinct. Art movie houses across the country continue to play quality movies against most odds. The only problem is finding a hip theater. 
Luckily, Michiana has its own art house theater in Three Oaks, Mich.: Vickers Theatre. The restored turn of the cen­tury movie theater is a breath of breath fresh air for movie buff..i; who live in a cinematic world dominated by the ever­important male 15-25 year-old demographic in which Hollywood seems to be trying to think of as many ways as possible to justify Freddie Prince Jr. falling in love with the unlikely high school nerd who just happt=ms to be a super­model underneath all her unnecessarily baggy and dis­tastefully arranged clothes. 
The building in which the theater is located was built in the 1890s to serve as a livery for the nearby train station. The livery was transformed into an early movie theater by a group of investors lead by a man named Frank Lee. Though 1911 is early in the history of movie-only theaters, 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, September 27, 2002 
page 15 



C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 

1tury film house now called Vickers Theatre. 
C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 
average moviegoer. 

The the­ater is a friendly place; either Jon or Jennifer is there every night. They employ two local high school stu­dents, Rachel Trucks 
especially in the Midwest, the theater was actually only one of three located in Three Oaks. 
The Lee family owned and operated the theater until 1978 when they sold it. The building changed hands a number of times throughout the '80s, operating sometimes as a mainstream movie house and at others as office space or even apartments. Facing tough competitions from modern multiplexes, the theater finally closed in 1987. 
Around the time the theater closed, Jon Vickers moved back to the area in which he grew up with his wife Jennifer. Vickers, a civil engineer by trade, thought that the building could be restored to its former glory that he remembered from his childhood. 

"We knew a woman that owned the building at the time. I think something just struck [Jon] and he said, 'Why not? Let's created a theater here.' And I was all for it. I think if we had stopped and thought about the difficulty of opening a theater in Three Oaks, we may have not done it," Jennifer Vickers said. 
The Vickers re-opened the 120-seat theater in 1996. They had spent the last two years renovating the inside. 
Originally, the theater was meant to present all different types of art including live theatre and music. The Vickers soon discovered, however, that the plan may have been overly ambitious and have gone to an almost strictly cinema format. The theatre does, however, double and an art gallery for Midwestern artists and crafh,people. 
"When we first opened, our goal was to be a well-rounded center for the arts, offering film, music and theatre.... We've kind of flowed into the film and artwork side of things. Once in a while, we'll have live music." Vickers said. 
Currently, the theatre is featuring the furniture of South Bend craftsman Larry Szymanski. Szymanski works primarily as and educator and repro­duces antique furniture as an amateur artist. 
Now in its seventh sea­son, Vickers' Theater is doing well, and business is getting better each year. 
"Obviously, overhead on a single-screen theater is different than on a 14­screen. The business is doing fine now, but we really get more enjoyment out of the pm)ple here than the theater being prosper­ous monetarily," Vickers said. 
The theater mostly culls its audience from northern Indiana, though a there are a number of local regu­1ars. A core audience group that is devoted to the theater's rare charm most­1y supports it. Vickers' and Joe Pobocik, to fill 
out their staff. 
The Vickers like presenting an offbeat selection of film; they follow movie openings in Chicago and New York as well as read trade magazines to decide their feature sched­ule. The theater's patrons themselves request a number of the features. 
Running the theater is a labor of love for the cou­ple, who balance their duties at the box office with Jon's civil engineer­ing practice and raising their three children: Max, Frank and Ava. 
To get to Vickers Theatre from campus, take U.S. Route 33 North to Michigan about seven miles. Merge onto U.S. Route 12 West and contin­ue for about 17 miles. Turn right onto S. Elm Street at the first (and only} stoplight in Three Oaks. Drive up a block, cross the railroad tracks and S. Elm Street becomes N. Elm Street. The theater is located at No. 6. 
For movie schedule information visit www.vickerstheatre.com. Show times are generally at 7 p.m. on Fridays, 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Saturdays, 3 p.m. and 6:30 
p.m. Sundays and at 7 p.m. Mondays. General admission is $? and $5 for stu­dents and seniors. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 

patrons tend to be older Vickers Theatre doubles as an art gallery for Midwestern artists and craftspeople. 

and more refined than the Currently the gallery Is displaying a collection furniture reproductions by Larry Szymanski. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 


Cardinals chop Seminoles 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 

Associated Press  tied it at 20-20 for Louisville with 11 :37 left. Neither team  enough," Florida State defensive end Alonzo Jackson said. "He's a  
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  threatened to score again in the  great player. We just couldn't  
Florida State coach Bobby  fourth quarter.  contain him enough. We had  
Bowden worried for months  The Cardinals won the coin  opportunities to make plays that  
about playing Louisville. It turned out his fears were war­ toss, but chose to play defense first in overtime.  would've enabled us to win and we just couldn't do it."  
ranted.  Remnants of Tropical Storm  The Seminoles gave up their  
Henry Miller ran 25 yards for a touchdown on the second play of overtime as Louisville upset  Isidore soaked Louisville throughout the day and the showers never subsided after  first first-quarter points of the season on a 45-yard field goal by Nate Smith 1 :42 into the game.  
''  the fourth-ranked Seminoles 26­ the game began. Most of the  Florida State trailed for the  
'!  20 in a steady downpour. "They were better than we were," said Bowden. who was  crowd stayed until the end. "We fed off an unbelievable crowd in a torrential down­ first time this season, but weren't behind for long. A 33­yard pass from receiver Anquan  
I \·.llI .  denied his 328th career victory. "Before the season, I was very concerned about this game because they were playing as good as anybody last season."  pour," Ragone said. "They start­ed ripping down the goal posts, ripping off my helmet, ripping off everything." The Cardinals trailed 13-6 at  Boldin to Gardner set up Xavier Beitia's 40-yard field goal with 10:21 left in the opening quar­ter. Louisville linebacker James  
Anthony Floyd intercepted a pass by Chris Rix near the goal  halftime, finishing the first half with more penalties (eight) than  Greene blocked Chance Gwaltney's punt and gave  
line a play earlier to set up  first downs (six) -and more  Louisville its initial first-and-goal  
Miller's run.  penalty yards (100) than total  at the Seminoles 2.  
The Seminoles (4-1) were the  yards (77).  Florida State's defense stuffed  
highest-ranked team to play in the 4-year-old Papa John's  Ragone, 2-of-8 in the first half, finished a seven-play, 51-yard  three Louisville runs before line­backer Jerel Hudson intercepted  
Cardinal Stadium, and Bowden  drive in the third quarter with  a pass by Ragone at the goal  
knew the game would be tough.  one of his best throws of the  line.  
"We came in here 4-0, but  night -a 30-yard touchdown  A personal foul on Louisville  
they could have been 4-0 just as .  pass down the sideline to Joshua  cornerback Laroni Gallishaw  
easily," Bowden said.  Tinch with 4:05 left.  kept alive Florida State's first  
Florida State was playing its  Rix was just 2-for-12 in the  touchdown drive in the second  
first overtime game and lost to an unranked team for the sec­ first half, but was 5-for-5 on Florida State's answering drive.  quarter. Rix found Gardner on a slant route for a 23-yard touch­ 
ond time in two seasons. North  Talman Gardner's 21-yard  down with 11:08 left.  
Carolina State beat the  touchdown catch was his fourth  The Cardinals drove to the  
Seminoles 34-28 last year.  reception of the drive and tem­ Florida State 2 again on their  
"It's kind of like playing golf­ porarily silenced the crowd.  ensuing drive. But a delay of  
you come to the last hole even  A holding penalty nullified a  game penalty and Jackson's  
and then you hit your drive out  43-yard touchdown pass from  sack of Ragone pushed Louisville  
of bounds," Bowden said.  Ragone to Dorsey early in the  back to the 16. The Cardinals  
The Cardinals (3-2) spilled  fourth quarter. Unfazed, Ragone  settled for a 26-yard field goal  
onto the field after finishing one of the biggest wins in school his­ found Tinch for 23 yards on the next play. Two passes to running  by Smith. A personal foul on Dewayne  
tory. Most of the rain-soaked  back T.J. Patterson drove the  White and a pass interference  
crowd of 38,109 followed them  Cardinals to the Seminoles 2.  call on Gallishaw aided Florida  
and carried off the goal posts  A penalty on Florida State  State on its closing drive of the  
behind each end zone.  moved the ball to the 1 and  first half. Beitia kicked a 20-yard  
"To have these guys come to  Ragone rolled right and found  field goal as time expired.  
our house was big," Louisville  Dorsey for the tying touchdown.  The Seminoles, fourth in the  
coach John L. Smith said. "To  Ragone finished 15-for-27 for  nation in scoring defense coming  
beat them was even bigger."  182 yards and two touchdowns.  into the game, had only 335  
Dave Ragone's 1-yard touch­ He also rushed for 43 yards.  yards. Rix finished 14-of-33 for  
down pass to Damien Dorsey  "I couldn't take him down  173 yards with an interception.  

I • 
' ' 
Friday, September 27, 2002 

NCAA 
Injuries must be kept undisclosed 
formalguidelines for the con­

Associated Press 
ference were adopted then, 
so the discussion of injuries is 

LITTLE HOCK. Ark. left up to each university this 
Some football coaches season. refrain from talking about "It's my understanding their players' injuries in a from talk going around that strategic move. Next season, the health insurance act may speaking about them could be change the landscape on that against the law. a little bit," Trainor said. 
The Health Insurance ,"We're just going to wait to Portability and Accountability see what comes out of it." Act. passed in 1996, goes into The act was designed to effect in April and could protect individual's insurance affect how much coaches coverage by keeping their know about players' injuries health history private when 
and whether the university they changed jobs. Its effect can report those injuries to on college athletics is an the media. unintended consequence. 
Alabama coach Dennis Charles Bloom, the SEC's Franchione has already associate commissioner for adopted the policy. It's why media relations, said the con­few outside the Crimson Tide ferenee still is trying to figure trainer's office know for sure out if the law will apply to whether quarterback Tyler college athletics. 
Watts will play Saturday "Right· now there's so much against Arkansas. haziness as to how it would 
Watts sprained his left foot pertain to us," Bloom said. "It in the Title's victory over wasn't meant to affect college Southern Mississippi last sports. We'll wait and see and week and didn't play the rest if it doesn't affect us, then all of the game. the colleges will go back to 
"I don't sec the advantage what they've been doing in in exposing our players' every the past." little bump and bruise to Some colleges aren't wait­everybody," Franchione said. ing for the law, Franchione's 
"There's nothing to be gained policy aside. Texas won't by it. I think it offers a little report on the status of its No. bit of protection to them as 1 receiver Roy Williams, who we go through the season." appeared to injure his ham­Under the act, which was string last week against signed by President Bill North Carolina. The universi­Clinton, institutions could ty won't discuss his injury lose federal funding for dis­and it \'.\'On 't make Williams 
closing an athlete's medical available to talk about it. information. In Florida's win over 
Arkansas sports informa­Tennessee last week, the tion director Kevin Trainor Gators wouldn't provide said he and his SEC counter­injury information about run­
parts started discussing the ning back Earnest Graham or law and its ramifications dur­quarterback Rex Grossman to ing their spring meetings. No CBS' television crew. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
CLASSIFIEDS 



• I  
NOTICES  FOUND: PRESCRIPTION SUN· GLASSES IN ANTHONY TRAVEL IN LAFORTUNE. STOP IN TO CLAIM AT FRONT DESK.  Chick-fil-A at University Park Mall is currently seeking high caliber indi­viduals to fill Leadership roles days & nights. Flexible schedule, no  DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­ LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from ND. Basement, garage, safe and private. $640/mo. Great location ­1122 Woodward Ave.  PERSONAL  
CJs Pub See whats happening  Sundays, free meals, $9 per hour. Contact Kathy Wonderly @ 272­ PUS-2-4-5·6· 7-8·9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT  Call 360-2500  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
www.cjspub.com Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable www.sunsplash­tours.com 1-800-426-771O  WANTED $250 a day potential/bartending. Training proyided 1-800-293-3985 ext 556  2247. FOR SALE  NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM-MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS· CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 • (574)674-2471  Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 ­269-469-0245  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
SPRING BREAK INSANITY! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­TEED LOWEST PRICES! CAN­CUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND  PART-TIME WORK $14.05 base­appt. Flex. around classes. We train. All majors. Gust. service & sales. No door-to-door telemarket­ing Build resume. Internships. cond.  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500.  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available tor football/par­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  TICKETS  Give adoption a chance ...we are happily married and need your help in starting a family. Will provide a lifetime of love, laughter and end­less opportunities. Call our attorney toll free at 866-215-2229.  
BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! FIF­TEEN YEARS EXPERIENCE! FREE TRIPS FOR CAMPUS REPS!  apply.www.workforstudents.com 574-282-2357 #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico,  Williamson.1@nd.edu HOME FOR SALE Great family home with room for a home office close to Notre Dame, SMC, 4 bed- Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT­WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593.  ND grad with Ph.D. doing child care/tutoting (ages 4·7)in home near campus. 234-8004  
www.workforstudents.com  Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas!  room, 3 bathroom. eat in kitchen.  UTILITIES.  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
I  574-282-2357 Sports car,88 Mazda RX7.Runs great.no rust. $3,950 o/b/o. 291-4048, LOST & FOUND Lost: Platinum wedding band with gold edging-Michigan weekend-Alumni Hall/Circle, or on the walk from Angela/St. Louis to Alumni Hall along ND Ave. Engraved: AKD & JD 11-18-00 If found please con­tact me at James.Dougherty@accenture.com or 1-972-679-8770. REWARD  Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Free! 1-800­SUNCHASE ext 123. WWW.SUN­CHASE.COM Earn extra money evenings sched­uling appointments and making customer calls for local State Farm agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, you choose from Tuesday-Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must be enthusiastic with great telephone presence. Fax resume to 574-232­9984.  formal dining and living room, sun room and finished basement Call Dan-Remax 1st, 574.273.9547 or dan@cdkhomes.com FOR RENT All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  CALL 472-0054 EMAIL: leopei@hotmail.com Alum owned, 5Bdrm/2Bath, W/D, Security, 1 Oft ceilings, HUGE Yard,very close to campus&well kept.2Bdrm w/view of dome also available.Call 674-0709. • Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607-723· 7363 Spacious Condo for Rent: 2 BR & 2 bath, freshly painted & carpeted, walk to campus, w/d, microwave, DW, fireplace, clubhouse & pool. Call 317-261·0190.  Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­8048 or astrog999@aol.com WANTED: ND tickets· HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND vs. USC tix and Hotel, Irish Fest in CA! NDCOC.com Beat SC! WANTED: 2 tix for BC game Call Colleen, 4-2607.  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Wow did my life just get a lot busier! If I can't join photo. I'm petitioning the university to start up a Playboy bunny Volleyball club to cover in Sports. 6'2" Editor-in-Chief seeks pretty, fun-loving. Beyonce look-alike com­panion for long/short-term relation­ship. Send in applications along with a taped recording of "I'm a Survivor" to The Observer. It's o.k. KM, I still want your mom.  

Friday, September 27, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 



A's top Seattle, clinch West 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
Tlw Oakland Athletics wPrn 
all smil1~s. high-fives and hand­
shakes on tlw infield grass al 
Safeco Field. Thon it was party 
time inside the visitors club­
house. 
Miguel Tejada tied the game with a ninth-inning homer and Scott llatteberg hit a two-out, two-run double in the 10th as Oakland beat the Seattle Mariners 5-:3. clinching the Amerir.an League \Vest champi­onship for the second time in three yPars. 
"This group of guys is so fami­ly-like," HattebPrg said. "It makes it swcnter and it helps us. We are reallv excited." 
Oakland, whii~h had failed to hold eighth-inning leads against Seattle the previous two days, opens the AL playoffs at home Tuesday against Minnesota. The A's arn a half-game behind the New York Yankees, who play Anaheim in the first round. for home-field advantage through­out the playoffs. 
The A's wore championship T-shirts over their uniforms and donned "2002 AL West champi­cms" hats in a clubhouse cele­bration that lasted 40 minutes. David Justice danced for cam­eras, and manager Art Howe was doused several times with champagne, beer and Gatorade. 
"We can kick back. enjoy it for a while and start to work hard again tomorrow,•· said 

Billy Koch (11-4). who pitched two innings for the victory. "I don't kno"· about any urgrmcy, but \\'f} just wanted to get it done, win, and wrap up the West. It foels good to get it out of the way." 
Arter Hatteberg's hit off Shigetoshi Hasegawa (8-3) put Oakland ahead 4-2. Tejada had a run-scoring single. Tejada, who went 4-f'or-5, had tied the score with a one-out solo homer in the ninth off Kazuhiro Sasaki, who blew a save for the eighth time in 45 chances. 
"There weren't many guys hitting good against Sasaki," Tejada said. "I was happy I got a hit against him in that situa­tion. The only thing I said was, 'I want to be on base.' ... I didn't think the ball would get out. I didn't think I hit it that hard." 
Tejada has a .306 batting average, 201 hits, 32 homers and 127 HBI, making him a strong candidate to become the AL's Most Valuable Player. 
"It topped off a fantastic year for him," Howe said. "What can I say? I le played every single inning for us. Every time we needed him, he stepped up and came through. He just had a phenomenal season." 
It was subdued in the Mariners clubhouse. 
"We were hoping they would do their celebrating somewhere else," Seattle manager Lou Piniella said. 
Seattle, which tied the major league record with 116 victories 
ffl.,arco~s·Pizza
•

Quick Carryout & Free Delivery! 
~•~ I :w •
-~ ::.~+., ~JS(>, ~f,,wti,t. • 
Medium Pizia 

Cheese & 1Topping • • • 
• 


Large Pizza 


Cheese & 1Topping 
• 

Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday! 
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
52750 IN 633 .......574-243-1122 
No Coupon Necessaiy Plus Tax. FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Nol Valid With My 01her Offer Valid On~ At Listed Ma~o·s Pizza Locabons. Ex1nres 12·15,-02. 
I M-3
7'tlf 71,ae, · 
fresh baked and buttery-topped with cinnamon sugar. Complete with aside of vanilla topping. Mmmm ...!Jy some tad ! 
Fresh•baked bread strips with 3kinds of cheeses &garlic butter: topped with Parmesan & Roma Seasoning. Served with aside of Pizza Sauce &Ranch Dipping Sauce. 

Serving Bethel College 
326 N. Ironwood .. .574-243-1111 
last year before losing to the 
Yankees in the AL champi­
onship series, was eliminated 
from postseason contention 
about 15 minutes before the 
start of the game Thursday 
when Anaheim beat Texas 10-5. 
"It wasn't as fun as it could 
have been," said Bret Boone, 
who hit his 24th homer in the 
fourth. "It was a longshot any­
way. We kept that glimmer alive 
for a long time. Over the last 10 
games, we showed a lot of char­
acter." 
The A's would have clinched earlier in the day if Anaheim had lost at Texas. 
"I don't think anybody wanted to back into it," Howe said. "Even if the Rangers had won today, we didn't back into any­thing. We had a great year and clinched it with a victory. We went our in style today. That was great." 
There was little reaction from the fans at Safeco Field when the Angels' game ended. The mood carried over to the Mariners. 
"It was kind of somber going into the game," reliever Jeff Nelson said. "Everybody had some hope. When we saw that score, it made things kind of meaningless." 
Seattle went ahead in the fourth on consecutive homers, Boone's 24th and Mike Cameron's 25th. Boone favored his right foot as he rounded the bases. limping slightly because of a bruised right heel 

Angels grab wild card, avoid letdown 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas Now, the Anaheim Angels can celebrate. 
After 16 years and a four­game losing streak that kept putting off the party, the Angels finally clinched a playoff berth with a 10-5 vic­tory over the Texas Hangers. 
"\,Ve would have taken it anyway, but to have an opportunity to get to do this right here, it's pretty spe­cial," said center fielder Darin Erstad, who was doused in champagne and beer just like everyone else in the Anaheim clubhouse. 
Since their last postseason appearance in 1986, the closest the Angels got to the playoffs was when they fin­ished a game behind Seattle in 1995, when Garett Anderson and Troy Percival were rookies. 
"I had a glimpse of it my first year, but that has been a sour note in my career until now," Anderson said. "I was so close, then the last six or seven years I got a rude awakening of how hard it is to really get to the postsea­son. I'm enjoying this." 
With the score 2-2 in the fifth. outfielder Tim Salmon hit a run-scoring infield sin­
gle and Anderson added a 
three-run homer off Colby 
Lewis {1-3). 
Salmon and Scott Spiezio each hit a two-run homer in the seventh. 
Rookie John Lackey (9-4) allowed three runs and seven hits in five-plus innings. He left after giving up consecu­tive singles to start the sixth. 
Anaheim, which eliminated Seattle with the victory, will open the postseason as the AL wild card Tuesday in New York against the Yankees. Oakland and Minnesota have also clinched AL playoff berths. 
The Angels, who had lost four in a row and seven of nine, clinched on the road for the first time. The team also went to the playoffs in 1979 and 1982 but has never won a postseason series. 
While Anaheim struggled the past week, the Mariners remained in contention with consecutive come-from­behind victories over the A's. 
"It's been a long grind. It's been emotionally draining and physica11y draining," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. "We got over that little rough spot of maybe guys were trying to bull themselves through that last game to get at least to the playoffs." 




Expos may move to Portland 
the other 29 teams, isn't sure
Associated Press 

whether the team will remain in PORTIAND, Ore. Montreal after this season. 
For six years, Lynn Lashbrook A move is an option, with has been on a crusade to bring Washington, D.C., the leading major league baseball to candidate. Charlotte, N.C.; Las Oregon. In the Montreal Expos, Vegas; and Portland also are he sees his best chance yet. possibilities. and an investor 
"Nobody really believes it can group said this week it wants to happen," Lashbrook said. "But buy the franchise and move it you and I both know the Expos Puerto Rico. 
have to go somewhere.·• "I'm embarrassed that we're Major league baseball, which bigger than Kansas City and we 
operates the Expos on behalf of don't have a major league 
Friday October 4, 2002 Little Theatre 
7:30 p.rn. 
hlnl ...,, ·, Coll<1r ~ 

MOG;ff,fk_/ 
THI: IIR1 S NOTltl DAME, IH 
For ticket information call the 
•t Saint Mary's Box Office 
t 5 7 4/284-4626 
i 
I ! 

team." said Lashbrook, presi­
dent of the Oregon Baseball 
Campaign, which hopes to bring 
the Expos to the City of Hoses. 
Commissioner Bud Selig said 
back in January that 
\Vashington was a "prime candi­
date," for relocation. But 
Baltimore Orioles owner Peter 
Angelos doesn't want another 
team in his area. Expos presi­
dent Tony Tavares doesn't know 
where the team will wind up. 
"It's a very difficult situation to be in," he said. "To be the leader of a group of people who every day want to know what the future holds for them." 
John McHale, executive vice president of administration in the commissioner's office, is studying the alternatives for Selig and his staff. 
"The season isn't over yet," McHale said. "There's no partic­ular immediacy to this." 
The Portland Oregon Sports Authority has already submitted a proposal to major league bast~­ball and is poisr.d to do whatever necessary to formally bid for the Expos. That includes playing host to them temporarily to demonstrate that Portland can support a team. 
"They need to answer first that philosophical question whether it's best for the Expos to exist in Montreal -or flourish somewhere like Portland," said Drew Mahalir., chief executive officer of the sports authority. 
Portland supporters cite the availability of an interim stadi­um, PGE Park, the commuter­friendly downtown home of the Class AAA Portland Beavers. 
Corner of Ironwood &McKinley 
The ballpark seats more than
1:13 alll ~ 

ACCEPTED HER£ Musi provide credil card iltmMon llllen onleflng tor detiYery 
I 25,000 and features 38 luxury
HAVING A BIG PARTY? 
l boxes.
WE CAN CATER YOUR EVENT!
Voall us on II,. Web al www.m.,.,..._com 
C2002 Marco·•. Inc. 2682-802 '' 
-= 
t. --~---••.--..........'"'._ 

page 18 Friday, September 27, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 


Moss apologizes, snubs cop 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE. Minn. 
Minnesota Vikings receiver Randy Moss apologized to his team, family and friends Thursday -but not to the woman he's accused of pushing with his car while trying to make a turn. 
Moss spent a night in jail after the Tuesday night episode, which resulted in two misde­meanors but no felony charges. Moss will start Sunday's game against Seattle, and his agent said the team will fine him, although the amount hasn't yet been determined. 
"I'm sorry for what I've caused and what I brought on everyone who really cares about

• 
me or this team," Moss said dur­ing a news conference. "I am human. I am a man. I do take care of my responsibilities, and I stand up for my actions." 
Moss, however, made no direct mention of Amy Zaccardi. the 27-year-old traffic control officer who police say stepped in front of Moss' car to stop him from making an illegal turn. Police say the 25-year-old Moss slowly pushed her along the street, stopping when she fell off the car. 
Zaccardi, who's a city employ­ee but not a police officer, was not seriously hurt. 
"I don't know if trouble is out 
to find me," Moss said. "But I'm 
certainly not out to find trouble." 
Moss took no questions at a news conference, but later, in an interview with ESPN, insisted he did nothing wrong. 

"By the time the woman told me to turn back into the lane that I turned in, it was too late," Moss said. "The woman had me confused as to what I was sup­posed to do. There was no con­versation.... All I know is the cuffs are slammed on me, and I'm in the back of the cruiser." 
Moss said the arrest was espe­cially unfortunate considering all the attention he's received for being a team leader early in the season. 
'Tm trying to be there, trying to change, trying to change for the best," he said. Moss prac­ticed Thursday and looked more relaxed, smiling and joking with teammates as well as Tice. 
"I thought he seemed very sin­cere in his apology, and I think everyone accepted that and is ready to have him back on this team," linebacker Greg Biekert said. "He felt bad about what happened and was willing to come to us and say that. I think it takes a lot for a guy to do that." 
Moss whistled as he walked out of jail Wednesday. He was charged with careless driving and failure to obey a traffic offi­cer. He faces a maximum penal­ty of 90 days in jail and a $1,000 fine on each charge. He will be arraigned Oct. 2. 
Police also said they found a marijuana cigarette in Moss' car, an amount that would qual­ify as a petty misdemeanor, with a fine of up to $200. But no drug charge has been filed. Moss' agent, Dante DiTrapano, and his attorney, Joe Friedberg, have said that the marijuana did not belong to Moss. 
Moss didn't directly say who the marijuana belonged to, but repeated that others had the use of his car. He said the NFL does not allow the use of marijuana and he tries his best to stay within the rules. 
Friedberg said Moss has five cars and four other people had driven his Lexus recently. The attorney said they planned to fight the traffic charges. 
Despite the arrest, Coach Mike Tice said Moss will still start for the 0-3 Vikings on Sunday against the Seattle Seahawks. But he said Moss would be disci­plined for missing Wednesday morning's practice. Tice didn't specify what punishment would entail. 
DiTrapano said that the team would fine Moss, with the amount yet to be determined. 
League and team sources told ESPN.com's Len Pasquarelli on Wednesday that the amount of fines will total about $50,000. 
"I know they had to discipline me, for what reason I don't know," Moss said. 
Under NFL rules, Moss will undergo mandatory "evalua­tion" because he was charged. Any disciplinary action would follow a conviction or guilty plea. 

NFL 
Griese sprains ankle tripping over dog 

Associated Press 
DENVER 

Denver Broncos quarter­back Brian Griese was limp­ing on a sprained left ankle, the result of being tripped by his dog on some stairs at his home Wednesday night. 
Griese's availability for Monday night's game in Baltimore was uncertain. 
He was listed as probable on the team's injury report, but he said his ankle was 
sore  and  still  somewhat  
swollen.  
Head  coach  Mike  

Shanahan said the injury was severe enough that X­rays were taken to be sure there was no fracture. Griese did not participate in Thursday's practice, the first of two major workouts this week. 
"I was walking down the stairs and my dog came bar­reling down the stairs after me and clipped me, and I kind of twisted my ankle on the stairs," Griese said. "These things happen. Unfortunately, it happened to me. 
'Tm getting treatment. I'm going to ice it and hope the swelling goes down." 
Asked about his status for Monday night, Griese said, 'Tm expecting to play right now." 
If Griese can't go, veteran Steve Beuerlein would take his place. 
Shanahan said the unde­feated Broncos should know more about the severity of the injury in the next few days. 
"With a sprained ankle, I don't think you really know," he said. "Sometimes it's two weeks, other times you can come back in a day or two. I'm not exactly sure how serious it is, but it's bad enough that he's not going to practice [Thursday]. 
"It's one of those things you deal with." 
Asked his reaction when Griese gave him the news, Shanahan said, "I said, 'Oh, no.' I thought, 'What's going to start from here, rumors and speculation of what hap­pened? Did he really trip over the dog?' That's what I was thinking." 
On May 5, Griese tripped on a steep driveway at team­mate Terrell Davis' house and was knocked uncon­scious. bruising his face. The injury fueled speculation Griese was intoxicated. 
Tight end Shannon Sharpe expressed disbelief when informed of Griese's version of his latest injury. 
"Are you jiving?" he said. "I know you're all joking." 

I, i 
.. f· 
¼-., 
!
-
THERE'S SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE THIS WEEK AT (su~IE~

The sweetest Tvttl,'\,g 


'1 1 

f 
\. 
' 
/ 


tlt\tA.YS..!}/2~ 1-0 -pV1A.­fy1,.3127 .§ sett..!}/2g> yt-:30 .§ 1-0 -pV1A.­~ brt 1-01. 
1.3 
Braveheart 


thurs 9/26 10 pm fri 9/27 & sat 9/28 7:30 & 10 pm dbrt 155 $2 

Friday, September 27, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 19 
~";:J:~~-;:,.:lJ,1'?:.L, i•~"' :,.~~ ·-.'!!-,\ki,'.\,;,;..\._ ""''?>~--~;_;,.,.,_,,~ >--._.;-41~ ,--, ·,:<,'.21,-/. _ __ _,_ .. _,__ ..'3:~-~:;~G,.#.:_.~,<· ;: --~~--·-·i;{.'":-,;~~; tJ ::1' ,_. ·...•. 
~,-.· '". '" ~ ., / 


I.
' 

(HIMSELF) 
* 

.. . r ,ith 

a foll 

nhis''kiUer Boek'n'Boll
d,,

san 
,. UH JU.ff s 
_,11,,4,a s 
., 


JOYCE CENTER FRIDAY • NOVEMBER 8 • 8:00 PM 
Tickets available at the Joyce Center box office and ticketmaster at (574)272-7979 ticketmaster.com and all Ticketmaster Ticket Centers including select Marsh Supermarkets. Dates, acts and times subject to change without notice. Aservice charge is added to the price of each ticket. AClear Channel Entertainment Event. 
., 
'. 





... 

page 20 

·•· ...... co11ege· r=M1:li11: Pons••··· AP I Coaches 
·team 

team 
Miami {511J 1
l Miami (69) 

Texai(2) ·. 2
2 Oklahoma (3} 
3 . TeXf!S (2) ·. 

... Qldahuma 3 4 ·Florida State 

· fto:rida State . 4 · s Virginia Tech Ylr:glnfaJeth d) 6 Ohit.fState <........ Oiji9Jt~te.· I[ 
r .•ftortda ·.. •GeCJtgta ·7 
•· O~gO:li .Ii .
It• · 11earg1a ·•· 

g•··. Oregon<. ?<•·•· ·...... Florida•.. 9• .• 
10 ROTREDAME 
11 Tennessee.. 

·•·••·1•"oi:;Jt!':!••····•::•..•········
12 .PeM State . PemrS.tate Jl< 
13. •WailihJgton < 
14 < Mlcliltail · ..•· 15 kll'l$1$ Slatit 






:iiiWt~!i:liili 
1& .Washington state Wt$~ons~n< tf < . 17 NC State•· ~allS$ ~tale •tr? 1& osc •W:aJltingtotr$tale< JS:> 19 loW,a Stal, NebraSka ... 19. < 
·.·· .......... LSU 20 < 
.> .. 20 . Nebraska ···••·•· ... 21 •·• WiSCllRSll'I lcw~ State 
21 / 
<<•.· 2? L-SU . < .. <.VJQ ,ir .·.. .23 Orqon t>tate Colorado Slate 23 >· ...... •.•.· 24 TeiasiA&M .>breg~n Slate 24 > ·.··. ·. 25 Colnrndo A,tdlutn ZJ / 


around the dial 
FRIDAY GOLF 
Ryder Cup 8 a.m., USA 
BASEBALL 

Pirates at Cubs 3 p.m., WGN ., Braves at Mets 5 p.m., TB? 
SATURDAY GOLF 
Ryder Cup 8 a.m., NBC 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL Iowa at Penn State noon, ESPN UCLA at San Diego State 2 p.m., ESPN2 Michigan at Illinois 3:30 p.rn .. ABC Kentucky at Florida 3:30 p.m., CBS Minnesota at Purdue 6 p.m., ESPN2 South Florida at Oklahoma 7 p.m., TBS Alabama at Arkansas 7:45 p.m., ESPN 
n 
SUNDAY 
NFL 

Browns at Steelers 1 p.m., CBS Saints at Lions 1 p.m., FOX Patriots at Chargers 4: 15 p.m., CBS Vikings at Seahawks 8:30 p.m., ESPN 
GOLF 
Ryder Cup 7 a.m., NBC 


COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, September 27, 2002 
NBA 

AFP PHOTO 

Washington Wizards forward Michael Jordan drives to the hoop past Toronto Raptors forwards Antonio Davis and Keon Clark during a Mar. 24, 2002 game in Toronto. Jordan just announced that he will return for another season. 
Citing love of game, Jordan will return 
WASHINGTON year retirement by resign­because of the physical guard Jerry Stackhouse 
Michael Jordan, satisfied ing from the Wizards' front demands of playing against and small forward Brynn that his knees can take the office so he could resume better defenders. Russf.'11 to start on the punishment, announced his playing career. With Jordan, however, perimeter. that he will play another Although Jordan has such plans are never a cer­"No decisions have been season with the come out of retirement tainty. Last season, when­made as to my exact role Washington Wizards. twice before, he has indi­ever Collins, trainers or on the team," Jordan said 
"My love for the game of cated that this would be even Jordan himself tried in the statement, "but I basketball continues to his last season. At the All­to put limits his playing expect that coach Collins drive my decision," Jordan Star game in Philadelphia time, his competitive juices will make those assess­said in a statement this year, he answered would get the better of ments next week in train­released by the Wizards. with a definite "no" when him. He exceeded his pro­ing camp." "Physically I am feeling asked if would play more j ecte d minutes almost Jordan signed a two-year very strong, and feel that than two seasons with the every night. contract when he unretired the steps I took in the off­Wizards. However, the lineup and for the second time a year season have allowed me to Jordan is returning as a Jordan's age -he'll turn ago, but he had worked so return to the game in great projected backup. Coach 40 in February -suggest hard getting back in shape condition." Doug Collins said he has the bench is where Jordan that his knees weren't 
The announcement spoke to Jordan about belongs at the start of the ready for the rigors of a lacked the drama and using him as a sixth man game. The Wizards have full NBA season. Ile played magnitude of Jordan's at shooting guard, and he's had a busy offseason, 60 of 82 games and started announcement a year ago, said he doesn't want to use acquiring point guard 53 while trying to hide the when he ended a 3 1/2-Jordan at small forward Larry Hughes, shooting discomfort he felt. 
IN BRIEF 
Brewers' Hernandez on thing -there's no need for him to percent for the first time since the verge ofstrikeout record play. I don't have a plan to sit him NCAA began tracking the figures 18 On the brink of tying the major the rest of the season, and I don't years ago, according to a survey.have plans to play him. If we need
league record for strikeouts in a Male athletes are graduating at a 
him, he will play."
season, Milwaukee's Jose rate of 54 percent, up 3 perr.entage Hernandez was held out of the Hoyster planned to talk to his points from a year ago, while the 
starting lineup Thursday night and coaches to get their opinions about rate for female athletes remained he might not play the rest of the whether Hernandez should play. If at 69 percent.
he does, Royster said it might be
year. The NCAA's survey covered on­
Saturday.

Brewers manager Jerry Royster scholarship athletes who entered 
Hernandez made the NL All-Star
kept Hernandez out of the lineup college in 1995 and graduated against the St. Louis Cardinals, say­team in July. lie said all the talk within six years. The graduation
about the record, while frustrating,
ing all the media attention sur­rate among athletes remained 2 
means little to him.
rounding the dubious record "is percentage points higher than the 
"I don't even think about that
kind of making a mockery of it." rate for the general student popula­
stuff," he said. "I don't think I've
Hernandez has struck out 188 tion. 
got to show anybody anything. I'm
times this season, one shy of the Among black male athletes in mark set by Bobby Bonds in 1970. having a great season." Division I. the graduation rate was 
Royster said he had not decided Hernandez leads all NL shortstops 43 percent, and 60 percent for whether Hernandez would bat at all with 24 home runs and is batting black females. in Milwaukee's final series of the .288 with 73 RBIs. Ile is hitting Only 36 percent of male basket­season, a four-game set in St. Louis. .448 when he makes contact. ball players graduated, however. The manager said his shortstop and the rate for black basketball "won't be laughed at." NCAA graduation rates players was 28 percent. The rate 
"To be honest with you, I don't reach 60 percent for white male basketball players cam if he played another game," The graduation rate for Division I was 51 percent. Royster said. "I can tell you one student-athletes has reached 60 
Friday, Sq'rt>mi •<:r 27, 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

-----------------------~--------------------­
WOMENS INTERHALL 
MENS INTERHALL 





McGlinn offense St. Ed's starts season late, to face challenge ready to get victory 
By ROB MILLS 
.Sports Writer 
McGlinn captain Juli!~ Kremer is worried about the Lyons defense this weekend, and rightfully so. The Lyons defense has played superbly the past few games, always making the big stops when they needed. 
Despite her worries Kremer still expect-. a well-played game from both teams. 
"It's going to be a good game," Kremer said. "You know the other team is prepar­ing just as hard as you are and that you really can't take any­thing for granted." 
Over tlw past week, Kremer and offensive coach Grant Kreizenb1~ck have worked on improving receiver routes and quarterback vision. The Shamrocks am hoping to use tlw passing game frnquently. 
Like McGlinn. Lyons plans to n~ly primarily on its passing game and with the rise of fresh­man receiver Holly Law, McGlinn may come to find that it isn't onlv the Lvons defense to b11 worried about. 
Both tnams have recruitPd a numb«>r of first year players to irHTl!asP tPam size. but although tlw Mdilinn defonsc lweonws stronger and more aggr11ssivP each ganm, incxpc­ri('llC<' may comp into play. 
Lyons captain Sarah Jenkins agrnml with Krnm.-r that the tnam 's biggPst strcnhTlh is in its defense, but also mcntionPd that the Shamrocks should Pxp1~ct a strong showing from their offense this week as well. 

The past few games, the Lyons offense has had its share of problems. but after a week of work, it is starting to show some progress, Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said her team was looking for a big win this week­end. With a 1-1-1 record Jenkins and the rest of the Lyons need a few good wins to carry them into the playoffs. 
Howard vs. Pangbom 
Pangborn may not have a coach this weekend, but they will not be without a leader. Pangborn quarterback Charlotte Troupis, says that although their biggest concern is heading into the game with­out a coach, there will be plenty of talent to rally the team together. 
Troupis says no single athlete causes their success and that the strong team effort drives thn Phoxes to succeed. 
However, Troupis is impressed with the play of April Flores, one of Pangborn's lead­ing receivers. Flores is an inte­gral part of Pangborn's strate­gic aerial attack. Troupis also praised the efforts of upcoming freshmen Amy Matte and Aliya Biddle. 
Most of Pangborn's work in practice this week has l,een focused on knowing individual roles, player responsibilities and becoming more sorious and focused for the upcoming game. 
Contact Rob Mills at rmills @nd.edu 

senior wide receiver Dave lot more participation," By LISA REIJULA Knesek said. "We need our Tarsha said. "We are together Sporn Writer offense to be more efficient. as a team and hopefully will 
We were a little rusty against work as a unit to win games." 
It makes sense that a team Knott." Lineman Nick Stober is con­that failed to win a game last The Sorin defense looked sidered a player to watch for year would get an extra week solid against Knott, only St. Ed's, along with freshman to prepare for this season. St. allowing one field goal. They tailback Joe Blatt and fullback 
Edward's interhall football will look to shut down St. Ed's, Mike Bartowitz. Senior Jim team, 0-4 in 2001, is the only a team the Otters defeated last Kleckner is also expected to Blue League team that has yet season. contribute. 
to play. "Our chances are pretty Tarsha considers his team to 
St. Edward's faces Sorin good against them," said be similar in style to Sorin in Sunday at 1:00 p.m. at Riehle Knesek. "We feel positive that both are prone to Fields. The Otters squeaked about our ability to get a win." turnovers, but also capable of out a 6-3 win over the Juggs St. Edward's team is also big plays. of Knott in their season open­feeling good about the upcom­"We don't want to be over­er. ing game. The defense will confident," Tarsha said. "This 
Senior quarterback and feature a few new wrinkles. will be a building year for us kicker Greg Carney made two The Steds plan to employ a 5-and hopefully we will be able field goals in the win. The 2 formation, which they did to control the ball against legitimacy of the second was not use last season. Sorin." controversial. and the Otters Sophomore quarterback Dan look to avoid a situation like Tarsha returns to lead the that Sunday. offense. 
"We need to put points on "This year's practices have Contact Lisa Reijula at lreiju­the board besides field goals," been a lot more intense with a la@nd.edu 
GOLF 

Ryder Cup set to begin 
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the chaotic celebration, the Ryder
Associated Press 

reason the matches were post­Cup finally returns to the golfing poned for the first time since stage Friday at The Belfry, withSUTTONCOLDFIELD, England World War 11. Tiger Woods in the first group. lSeparated on stage by the gold 
"Every country represented No one questions th at the
Hyder Cup trophy they desper­here lost citizens that day," matches should have been post­

ately want to win, U.S. and 

Strange said during the opening poned a year. No one doubts that
European players paused to 

ceremony. the intensity will be just asremember why they had to wait Strange urged players and strong. Everyone figures it willso long for the chance. 
fans not to forget why the Ryder be close.
U.S. captain Curtis Strange 

Cup was started, recalling the In the last seven Ryder Cups, 
began with a reminder of the 

vision of English seed merchant each team has won 98 total 
Samuel Ryder to stage a golf points. exhibition that would promote "It's a two-horse race, and we friendship and peace on both have a super chance," Colin sides of the Atlantic. Montgomerie said. "It's very. 
"Guys," he said with a nod to very close -one of the closest each team, "let's make Samuel competitions in sports. That's Ryder proud." why it gets your attention." 
Three years after the Woods has conquered every Americans staged their great domain in golf except the Hyder comeback in suburban Boston Cup, where he has a 3-6-1 and riled the Europeans with a record in his matches. 

Law Fair Friday, September 27 11:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Joyce Athletic &Convocation Center ·--­-"1: t__..,•~~ Representatives from approximately 60 law schools will be available to answer questions and to distribute application materials and bulletins.  


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 27, 2002 
ND WOMENS TENNIS 


Irish to sweat out tough schedule in Atlanta 
I ). ) 
VOLLEYBALL WOMEN'S GOLF 
Saturday, 9/28 -12pm
FRIDAY9/27-7pm 
Warren Golf Course
ND vs. UConn 

ii 
*FREE t-shirts to the first 500 fans* COME PACK THE 18TH GREEN!
l _, 

SUNDAY 9/29 -2pm 
**FREE Papa John's pizza and 
,{ 
ND vs. St. John's 

If 
t-shirts to the first l 00 fans** 
l 
I( 

*FREE volleyballs to 
rf1Mii.ii1 
;~·r1c-,t;.•'krC'd!~1.h...

{ 
the first 250 fans* 
i~'l.1ct~...i::1­


~I 
'ii 
I 
tournament of this fall." 
By MARK ZAVODNYIK 

Despite the increased strengthSporrs \'I;'rirer 
of competition, many of the 
Notn~ Dame tennis players have 
Tlw Notre Dame vvomens ten­nothing to worry about. That's nis team hopes for some sweet because the team has a large tal­southern hospitality as they trav­ented group of freshmen who el to Atlanta for the adidas arc experiencing college tennis Classic this W(H~kend. for the first time. 
The adidas Classic provides "\!Ve have so many freshmen, tlw Irish with an E~arly opportu­tlrny have nothing to lose, they nity to measurP have nothing themselves to expect," against the "It's good for us to junior Caylan country's very Leslie said. 
compete against the best 
best. Florida, The Irish
tea,rzs."

Duke, Tennessee are coming a n d off a great Northwestern Jay Louderback performance were all ranked at last week­
Irish coach 

among the end's season nation's top 15 opening teams last year. Prince Cup Invitational. The Irish 
"It'll be good to see how we do were led by junior Alicia Salas against them," Irish coach Jay who battled her way to the finals Louderback said. "All of our of the singles bracket. Also, the players compete really \veil." Irish received strong perfor­
The Irish are excited for the mances from their five freshmen challenge of facing top national Lauren Connelly, Liz teams. Donohue, Kelly Nelson, Jennifer 
"It's good for us to play against Smith and Kristina Stastny. the best teams," Louderback The Irish hope to get another said. "It's the most important stellar performance from Salas, 
Volleyball 
continued from page 28 
St. John's averages 14 kills, l 1.3 digs, and 1.7 blocks per game. 
Connecticut qualified for the 2001 Rig East tournament with a fourth-place regular season finish. The Irish defeated the Huskies in the semifinals of the postscason tournament. 
Tlw lluskiPs are struggling, having lost their last four matches. l)(~spitn the poor start to its season. Connecticut prc­sen ts Notre Dame's offense \Vith some problems. 
"Traditionally. UConn has been a strong team in the Big East," Brown said. "I think one of the things they do well is that they are a good defensive team. They average 18 digs a game, which is good. The challenge for us is that we don't get frus­tratPd getting dug and make shots that cause us to have unforced errors." 
Notre Dame plays Connecticut Friday at 7 p.m. and St. John's at 2 p.m. Sunday. Both matches are at the Joyce Center. 

i 

Notes:

( 
I . The Irish have never lost a } Big East conference match at 
> 
the Jovce Center. Their home

'.( 
i.'{ ; conl'er"ence-winning streak is .. curn~ntly at 43 matches. Also, the lrisli currently have a 29­
It 
~· 
~ 
N. 
~'. 
V
1r 
match overall home winning streak, the longest in school history. 
. Notre Dame's 3.63 blocks per game average puts them third nationally. behind Florida and Long Beach State. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.e u 
the team's No. 1 singles player. Salas will be facing the best play­ers from the other schools and has a chance to knock off some top-ranked players. 
"This is a great weekend for Salas," said Louderback. "She will play a lot of people who are ranked ahead of her." 
Louderback is confident Salas will use last weekend's perfor­marice as a springboard to play well against the top-flight com­petition. 
"She has a chance. She can hang in with any of them," said Louderback. "I want to see how she reacts." 
Salas' teammates are impressed by her early season success. 
"Alicia is amazing," said Leslie. "She is a tough girl, tough com­petitor." 
The adidas Classic will be setup with "A" and "B" flights, with the better players in the "A" flight. for both singles and dou­bles. 
Contact Mark Zavodnyik at mzavodny@nd.edu 




Friday, September 27, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
WOMENS INTERHALL 
Babes put up 20 points in 2nd half for win 
By ERIK POWERS, JUSTIN SHUVER and liEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer, 
Breen-Phillips defeated Walsh 20-0 on Thursday night, but the game was far from a blowout. In a game that was the talc of tvvo halves, the Babes scored 20 unans,vered points in tlw sec­ond half to PmNge with the vic­tory. 
During a scoreless first half. Walsh outplayPd Breen-Phillips but was unablP to reach the end zone. The Wild Women kf~pt the Babes off-balance with unorthodox play calling on offense, coi1trolling the clock with a creative series of options, reverses, and quarter­back drmvs. 
BP playPd clutch dofense. however. ending one Walsh series with an interception and tln,·arting anotlrnr drive with aggressivP goal-line def'ensn. Th<' Babes caused the \Vi Id Women to turn the ball over on downs on the BP three-yard line with 3(> seconds left in the half. 
Tlw vVild \Vomen used a wicked pass rush in the first half' to sack Babe quarterback Atasha Pottnr once and inter­cept two passes. 
In tlw second h a I f, \,Valsh stu r k \<\-'ith s i mi I a r o ffe n s ivf' play calling but scrapped its blitzing. physical man-to-man coverage for a conservative Cover 2 defonse. 
BP responded by loading up on the run. holding vValsh to 28 yards rushing in the second half. The Babes also limited the Wild Women to 10 yards pass­ing in the final half. BP defend­
-~.; 
,~ rt 

...
,. 
' . . 
ers Jen Aguirre and Kelly in Gold League womens inter­Deckleman each had an inter­hall football action Thursday ception. night. 
On offense. Pottfff stood tall in The Whirlwinds (3-1) got the the pocket and used her quick scoring going with their own release to spread the ball version of the Holiday-to Battle­around the field. Walsh sacked to-lloliday pass the Irish used her once in the second half, but against Michigan State. Totter eluded the weakened Starting quarterback Lauren rush consistently. Hoeck pitched the ball right tu 
Totter was 8-for-12 for 110 running back Vanessa Lichon, 
yards  with  who  found  
two touch­downs in the  "Luckily, we came out  Hoeck open in the end zone for  
second half and finished 15-for-26 for  strong in the second half. like we usually do, to pull  a 14-yard touch­down pass. Lichon not  
190 yards  it out."  only scored the  
with  three  touchdown, but  
touchdowns and two intercep­ Kelly Deckleman Breen-Phillips wide receiver  also set with an ception  it up inter­of  

tions. In the second half. Totter rolled out to th,~ right and heaved a 31-yard bomb to Kelly Deckleman, who split two defenders and scored a touch­down. 
"\Valsh did a good job on defense, especially in the first half," said Deckleman, who fin­ished with two touchdown catches and an interception. "Luckily, we came out strong in the second half, like we usually do. to pull it out. I have to give credit to vValsh." 
Lauren Ohlenforest caught the other touchdown pass from Totter. Kelly Landers, playing with a torn rotator cuff, caught a two-point conversion pass on the game's final play. 
Welsh 20, Pasquerilla West 7 
The Whirlwinds might have taken a page from Tyrone vVillingham's playbook as three different players threw touch­down passes in Welsh Family's 20-7 win over Pasquerilla West 
Purple Weasels 
quarterback Leslie Schmidt at the PW 14­yard line on the previous play. 
The Whirlwinds added to their advantage just before halftime. This time, the play was remarkably similar to Dillingham-to-Battle. 
From the PW 31-yard line, Hoeck completed a short pass to wide receiver Sarah Skrabacz, who juked and wig­gled her way around the Purple Weasels' defense to the end zone. 
Back-up quarterback Melissa Sands continued the Whirlwinds' potent pass offense, completing all three of her passes in the second half for 37 yards. including a 9-yard touchdown to wide receiver Mary Murphy. 
The Purple vVeasels (1-2) got on the scoreboard with less than two minutes left in the game, when Schmidt completed a 39-yard touchdown pass to 

wide receiver Heather Van 
Hoegarden. The conversion 
pass to Van Hoegarden was 
also successful, making the 
final score 20-7. 
"It felt good [to score] 
because we never gave up," 
Schmidt said. "We know Welsh 
is a good team. We got off to a 
slow start, but picked up 
momentum in the second half. 
We'll be ready for the next 
game." 

Whirlwinds co-captain Murphy explained the reason for her team's quarterback switch. 
"We just have two different quarterbacks," she safd. "They're both pretty solid play­ers and it's good to throw [our opponents] off a little bit." 
Following a previous loss to Breen-Phillips, Murphy said that the team really needed a good win to get back on track. 
"It's a pretty good win for us," she said. "We really picked it up and came together as a team." 
Badin 19, Farley 0 
It only took Farley's defense two plays to realize what they were up against in Badin 's offense. After referring to Badin (2-1) as a "small dorm," Farley saw Badin wide receiver Steph Heath take an out pattern 60 yards and start the Bullfrogs on its way to a 19-0 victory. 
Bullfrog quarterback Erin Zachry threw for 160 yards and three touchdowns. Zachry did not take the credit for her team's victory. 
"Our receivers ran crisp routes, and the line did a great job blocking," she said. 
Despite the team-first atti­tude, Zachry picked apart the Farley secondary, scrambling 
CARDINAL CHARTERS 
IF QUALITY COUNTS... e~ ~ ~/· 


,Since 1923 ,Group Services •Professional Drivers ,Luxury Buses •Competttive Rates ,Wheelchair Accessible 
DIAL TOLL FREE 

1·800-348•7487 
www.cardinalbuses.com 
WRITE SPORTS. CALL 1•4543 
and firing to open receivers all over the field. Farley tried to blitz to slow down Zachry, but all of their efforts came up empty. 
On defense, the Bullfrogs were led by Jen Carter's three interceptions. Carter, the for­mer varsity soccer player, is playing interhall football for the first time as a junior. This year, Carter has been more than a welcome addition to the Bullfrogs, as she has emerged as a defensive leader already. 
"Jen is extremely helpful to our team." Zachry said. "She adds a lot of athleticism to our defense." 
Meanwhile, the Finest look to regroup after their third straight loss. In the post-game huddle, the team was upbeat, looking forward to their next game, in hopes of a victory. Quarterback Katie Popik, a freshman, struggled to run an option-like offense against a more experienced and skilled defense. 
However, Popik had a positive outlook about the game, and the future of the Finest this sea­son. 
"Everything was clicking." she said. "We moved the ball up the field, but we just couldn't get it in the end zone. We will be fine." 
Zachry meanwhile walked out with a smile on her face. 
"I had a lot of time to throw because of the offensive line tonight. and our receivers just caught the ball," she said. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu, Justin Shover at jshuver@nd.edu and Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 27, 2002 
MENS INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Dillon off to slow start, hopes to rebound 
"You take it with a grain of salt. horizon. Kline and fullback John Caver to prove after they suffered a dis­
By JUSTIN SHUVER, ERIK 

We look at it as a learning expe­"We have three games left," establish a balanced ground a p pointing 14-7 loss at the 
POWERS AND TREY 

rience." Keough captain Andy Hess said. attack. hands of west quad rival 
WILLIAMS 

Esper thinks his team's strug­"We need to win one more, "We hope to mix it up pretty Keough.
Sporrs Writers 

gles early on have given the maybe two in order to get into well," Caver said. "Fifty percent "I think it was our lack of real team a renewed focus. the playoffs. So it's really kind of passing and 50 percent run­game experience that hurt us," Early in the 2002 season. "This could be the best thing a must-win situation." ning." O'Neill captain Jesse Norman Stanford and Dillon look like the that could happen to us, how we The Kangaroos pride them­Morrissey has lost to Keough said. "This time around we real­interhall football version of the respond to this loss, because we selves on their defense. Keough the last two years, yet remains ly haven't tried to incorporatePrince and the Pauper. didn't have one last year," he concentrated on a strong pass confident they can win a drawn­anything new. \\le're just going

Dillon (0-1) was last year's 
said. rush versus O'Neill, often leav­out battle with the Kangaroos. to try to do what we did in the interhall champion, amassing a Mark Zeph, a junior on the ing its defensive backs in man­The Manoritcs believe that they second half [of the Keough7-0 record along the way. This squad for the first time, has to-man coverage. can win if they stop the long gameI and see how we match year, its one game has been a taken over quarterback duties On offense, quarterback Hess plays and force Keough to drive up."14-0 loss to Alumni. for the Big Red and has done a will look to connect frequently against them. But victory is not Norman's strategy may haw~ 
Stanford (1-0) was 0-4 a year solid job. with receiver Brian Adams Morrissey's only goal. some bearing in this weekend's ago and has already improved "I've been really surprised before handing off to running "We want to come out and hit bout with the Dawgs. Alumni's upon its 2001 record with a 14-6 with our quarterback," Esper backs James Waechter or full­people and, regardless of the defense shut down Dillon's win over Keenan. said. "Our freshmen as a group back Dan Degnen. outcome, have them hurting the offense, which is built primarily
One team is anxious to turn it have performed beyond expec­"We've had success on the next day," Caver said. on rushing, but the defense's around, the other is anxious to tations as well." ground versus O'Neill. We've overall strength will be tested keep the good times rolling. Both teams realize that it's a been a little off with passing, but Alumni vs. O'Neill when facing O'Neill's strong 
I. "This year, we just have 24 new season, and that the that's just how it is early in the Alumni will stroll onto Stepan passing game led by quarter­
I I guys who love to play football," records from last year have little season," Hess said. "\Ve'd like field this Sunday to take on back Troy Montgomery. Griffins captain Adam Oyster relevance now. the pass to be more productive O'Neill (0-1) with the realization "We have very versatile
a 

said. "Last year we just never "They still look like a pretty to open up the run." they are an all-around better defense," Siegfried said of his came together. This year we're good squad so it should be a Morrissey takes the field for team than the Dawgs of a year team's chances against the just going out and having fun." good game," Oyster said. the first time on Sunday. The ago. Already, they shut out Angry Mob. "The talent that we Oyster credited the turn­"After last week's game we're Manorites hope an extra week of defending champion Dillon last have enables us to switch uparound to several key players, looking for a big improvement preparation and conditioning week. and defend against a running
including freshman wide receiv­this week," said Esper. "We will work to their advantage. If This kind of accomplishment defense or a passing defense." 
er Colin Walsh, freshman quar­want to take it one game at a anything, the bye week has might give any team a big ego, With neither team able to tell terback Rich Whitney and veter­time and put ourselves in posi­added a bit of mystery to the but Alumni (1-0) is not quite who the true powerhouses are an tailback Mark McNamee. tion to get back to the playoffs perception of Morrissey. ready to assert itself as the best this season, there is a mutual 
"There's probably about four and have a chance to defend our 'Tm not quite sure how good just yet. feeling this is anybody's game. or five seniors [besides the new­championship." Morrissey is this year, but we'll "There are a lot of new dorms O'Neill can't afford to go 0-2 comers] as well who didn't play find out on Sunday," said Hess. on the rise, including ourselves," while Alumni would be well on last year. That's helped us out a Morrissey vs. Keough The game will be a baptism by Alumni co-captain Billy Siegfried its way to the playoffs with a lot," Oyster said. The season is only one week fire for the Morrisey's untested said. "This weekend. we take on second win. After winning the interhall old, but Sunday's game between offense. The passing game will O'Neill and that's where our championship last year, Dillon Keough and Morrissey is already be carried by quarterback Rick focus is going to be at this point. had not experienced a loss since a pivotal game for both teams. Ysasi and n~ceivers John Then we'll see where the rest of 2000. Keough (1-0) defeated O'Neill Mulligan and Greg Bright. The the season takes us." Contact Justin Shuver at "I wouldn't say lwe were) dis­last weekend and knows games Morrissey running game hinges O'Neill (0-1) comes into jshuver@nd.edu, Erik Powers at appointed [with the loss]." Big against perennial powerhouses on the debut of freshman Nick Sunday's match up with a little epowers@nd.edu and Trey Red captain Patrick Esper said. Alumni and Dillon loom on the Kline. The pressure will be on less pride and a lot more to Williams at twillia6@nd.edu 

I,,· 

Information Meeting 
i 
< 
Perth, Australia 

Tuesday, October 1, 2002 
Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 
5:00 PM 

For Students in the Colleges of Science and Engineering 
Application deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/-.,intlstud 
•. ¦•ea ¦•• ¦ •• ¦ ¦ a•• ¦ II• 

..,
Friday, September 27, 2002 page 25
The Observer . SPORTS 

the ACC, the Big 10, the Big 
12. the Big East, the Pac-10, the SEC and Notre Dame ath­continued from page 28 letic director Kevin White. 
The Irish could possibly exempt and under the original respond by petitioning the BCS date, it probably qualified committee to count the game under that vein. But once the as non-exempt. A BCS official proposal to move it came said this is the first time the about. \·Vn thought that exemption status of a game is changed it to a regular season in doubt and there is no for­game." m al appeals process. Hight 
Notre Dame points to the now, the BCS considers the fact that Maryland, already Kickoff Classic exempt. scheduled to play the NCAA­Another option the Irish maximum 12 games, had to have would be to add another file a petition to add a 13th game to their schedule, either game because the date change on the Nov. 16 open date or would move the game inside Dec. 7. Heisler said the possi­the regular-season window. bility of the Irish adding After 1\1 arylancl' s successfu1 another game remains petition , Notn~ Dame simpIy extremely low. assumed the game would "I don't believe we would be count as a regular season trying to add a game at this game. juncture," he said, adding that 
An NCAA spokeswoman said the Irish haven't decided what how the BCS selects teams is they plan to do. governed solely by the BCS If the Kickoff Classic counts committee, composed of the as a non-exempt game, the conference commissioners of Irish would need to finish the 
BCS 

LOGAN Center needs your ticket!
~ 
LOGAN 

Allow a person with a disability to attend the game on 
October 12th -ND vs. Pittsburg 
season 10-2 in order to be considered eligible for one of college football's four major bowls. Even if the game is counted toward the win total and the Irish finish 9-3, it is doubtful they would appear in a BCS bowl. No team with three losses has ever been selected for a BCS bowl. 
"I don't think there is any question, I think the NCAA determines what's exempt and non-exempt," Heisler said. "[Based on the rule], the game is non-exempt." 
Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham brushed off the issue when he was asked about it Tuesday at a press conference. 
"Hight now what this foot­ball team has to do is leave all of the details to others and let us focus on playing one game at a time," he said. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asou.kup@nd.edu 


ND WOMENS GOLF 

Irish hope for home cookin' 


By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame womens golf team hopes its home course advantage will result in victory at the this weekend's Notre Dame Invitational held at Warren Golf Course. 
The Irish come into the tour­nament after finishing 10th at last week's Mary Fossum Invitational at Michigan State, but the team still has high expectations for this week. 
"As long as everyone shoots somewhere in the 70s, we'll have a good shot to win," 

freshman Sarah Bassett said. "We're a deep team. everyone challenges each other in prac­tice and we have good team chemistry." 
Irish coach Debby King's lineup this week largely reflect­ed the way her players finished at last week's tournament. Bassett and fellow freshman Lauren Gebauer were the low scorers for the Irish and will play the top two positions this weekend. 
Juniors Rebecca Rogers and Shannon Byrne will be joined by two more freshmen, Katie Brophy and Lauren Barbir. All of the Irish golfers in the lineup competed last week except for that the 2000 team had in the inaugural Notre Dame Invitational. Rogers opened the tournament with a two-under par 70 on her way to the indi­vidual championship. She also the Irish to a 30-stroke win over second-place Princeton. 
Considering that every golf course is different, playing at home should be a significant asset for the Irish as they look to win their tournament for the second time in three years. 
"Playing our home course is definitely an advantage," Bassett said. "The greens and bunkers are the toughest part of the course." 
"We should be able to win if 

Barbir, who will be seeing the everyone is on their game," first action of her collegiate King added. career this weekend. 
Notre Dame in general and Rogers in particular will be Contact Andy Troeger at looking to duplicate the success atroeger@nd.edu 
6 A­, 4T~ .
LittI e F ~~ 
.,;,, * ::> 
·:,\:' .'.-~•:!; 

Tickets available at the Morris Performing Arts Center rERFoRM1N~ARTSCENTER •soun1uENo,1N Box Office, or charge by phone
II o II 1111 
FRIDAY, i~6~tER 11TH ~ijij.J)1~~1J J1~·BJ-~1~~
ca01pus shoppes • 1011110 & countrv 
onIine@www.MorrisCenter.org
bellev1lle center -1111estern avenue 
A NiteLite Promotions Presentation 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 27, 2002 
ND WOMENS SOCCER 

Irish take to road against con£ ere nee foes 


I, 

'i
,·' 
,, 
t 
f' 
I' 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sporrs Wricer 
Sometimes winning is simply not enough. Just ask the Notre Dame womens soccer team. 
Last weekend. the No. 9 Irish recorded two home victories against conference opponents Rutgers and Seton Hall, but winning those games does not tell the whole story. 
After Sunday's game, Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum was extremely upset with his team's effort on the field. 
''Everybody's got to get on the same page and get a commit­ment level to what we're doing," Waldrum said. "Until we do that, every game is going to be like this. We've got a diffi­cult schedule. These are the types of games we need to win by five or six." 
The Irish (6-2, 2-0 in the Big East) begin the walk down the difficult part of their schedule this weekend when they play at Villanova (5-1-2, 1-1) on Friday and at Georgetown (7-3, 2-0) on Sunday. Both of these games will be important factors in determining the final standings of the Big East's Mid-Atlantic division. 
In last Friday's match against Rutgers, the Irish needed some clutch saves by freshman goal­keeper Erika Bohn and an incredible goal by forward Amy Warner in the second overtime to finally put away the Scarlet Knights. 
Sunday's performance against the Pirates was not much better. Even though Notre Dame outshot the Pirates 13-2, the Irish were lucky to escape with a 1-0 win. llad it not been for midfielder Handi Schf~ll<-~r stepping in front of Pirates forward Jo Ann Flanagan's wide-open shot from 10 feet in front of the goal, the game probably would have ended in a 1-1 tie. 
"\Ve played terrible," Irish captain Amy Warner said. "We need to improve in all aspects of the game. We need to be much quicker to the ball and play smarter. We are not as mentally tough as we need to be." 
The lone bright spot for Notre 
Dame last weekend was the 
play of its defense. Despite 
playing without injured starters 
Vanessa Pruzinsky and Gudrun 
Gunnarsdottir, the Irish did not 
surrender any goals. 
Mary Boland, who just con­
verted to defense from midfield 
only two weeks ago, was named 
the Big East Defender of the 
Week. Bohn was named the Big 
East Goalie of the Week after 
recording the first two shutouts 
Baskets of Elegance .~ 
Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion (574) 674-0022 Fax (574) 674-0033 ND themed baskets our specialty! 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext 123 
WWW.SUNCHASE. C_()M 

of her career. Notre Dame is hoping their defense continues their top-notch play against this weekend. 
"Everyone is starting to get more comfortable on defense," Chapman said. "We're starting to learn how to communicate a lot better on the field. We need to play well again this week­end." 
After scoring five goals in the final 25 minutes against Maryland two weeks ago, the Irish offense fell flat last week­end scoring only two goals against two of the weakest defenses in the Big East. 
"It's been really tough," Warner said. "We know we have the talent out there, but we just are not getting results. At this point, everything that could be said has been said. 
"Now, it's just a question of us going out there and doing it on the field. Villanova and Georgetown are much tougher than last week's teams so we know we have to play better." 
/:~];~\~:~~;:~:i!~w.ifili 
r 
:r:· 
:~~~i~ 
::f:·Y 

I i10c 
Notes: 
. 
Notre Dame will again play without starting defenders Pruzinsky and Gunnarsdottir. Pruzinsky has appeared in only one game all season due to a severe knee injury. Gunnarsdottir has been side­lined with a stress fracture in her foot. She is expected to be back in two to three weeks. Kim Carpenter and Boland have replaced them in the starting lineup. 

. 
Starting midfielder Ashley Dryer is also expected to miss this weekend's action due to an ankle injury she sustained against Rutgers. Freshman Maggie Manning replaced her in the starting lineup last week­end against Seton Hall. 

. 
Warner was named the Big East Offensive Player of the Week for her dramatic over­time goal against Rutgers on Friday. 


Contact Joe Licandro at lican­dro.l@nd.edu 


·vou're the Homecoming chairperson. All you have to do is organize 10,000 students, 20 events and 1 parade. 
tttrEr:~m::r:tjt!Jl!tt~l~II~~~l~W.t¼.lW{
SPEAKER Pit ONE WIREWS WEB ACCESS AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER"' service TWD·WAV MESSAGING JAY.\"' GAMES & APPLICATIONS DlliffAL CRLUIAR 

"11\ey'ye All CO\.\\\H"" O\\ yo\.\. Which is why yo\.\ \\ee~ l',le,cte\'s ~i-'i¼-Al wAlkie-t"'l\de -PeA½-1.\Ye. 1\-lets yo\.\ "et Yi."ht H,wo\.\~h with t-he f\.\Sh o-P ""\'>\.\H-o\\. -rh"'t ~eAi.,.s 
\\O ~i.sse~ cAlls, voice iM"'il CY pho\\e tA,. <StAy i\\ co"t"'ct with everyo\\e ,Pyo~ 
the floAt Co~iMit+ee to \-he A1\.\tM\\i 
Co~~it+ee, wltko\.\t iMlssl"-' "'-J.et-All. 
t-{ow yo\.\'Ye veMy-SYi\\~ It. 
"'4ow's "" ~ve"'t +i~e to ~er ~e,ci-el: 
"'" t-totv-e D"'~e stL\J.e\\ts ~et ,,..(0%+tAiSC1'l.\\\r o" ~"Y v~te pl"'" "'"J.$ \ 00+ o.P.P "'-"Y pho\\e. 
i'oJ.e-.y \-he J.i,i\-""I w,,,J~ie+e-.l~ie 
,o""Y:
wo.,.~s ove.,. seve.,.e-.\ hl.\\\J..,.eJ. """iles. 
-~o to \\e)l:te\.co~v'isl-\-stv.J.e\\t.
A\\J. \-oiMovvow, "'"Ho\\wiJ.e. 
-c~n to\\-Pvee l-'177-s-0,-2-=,2,. 
# COll\tc,.ct Jt)),,\ (OIMIMlAll\lCc,.tiO\\S
NEXTEL 
"'t S74-24'3-,8' l 8' 
.:..:: ·,. "_: ·-·:-~ •, ..-,:·:..
:,:• ··• 

=··=··· ··.,,,;• ·tt/::/;g ·0tt~:1.S vaud torNotre. Dame studen~ and parents and expires December 31, 2002. While supplies last Requires new activation, one year Service Agreement and ­)'\.t'tf '.... t:rtdit ®PfP~-'$20011arly termination IM applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. In-store purchases require at least 2forms of valid identification. Account'\/\ii\. .sel-l.ll)'f,e'flt$3.S;j)er ph~ne~ maximum $70 per account Fees may vary by market $100 instant savings is off the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point t.·.>: Jt··.• ·•:· .Qf ~Ii,,1~ off IJ!Olltlily rate plan is vatid on any rate plan acti\lated with this offer. Other restrictions may apply. Rate plans are subject to taxes, fees and other /'i;{}i~f , cµ~rgf!S'. ~ellt prices aie subject to chanQe. Read Servic. Agreement for detaifs. ©2002 Nextel Communications, Inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Nextel 
.· ·,,.,,,, ff:: y~:/ logoart1:rag~tered ttlldtlmarks of Nextel Commwuca11ons, Inc. Motorola and the Styliled M logo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trarlemark Office. Java and == :,,,/f~l1Jl( • / ,<::{, :%.,.J>Jt. ,, alt ~t~ Java-based markS are r&gratered trademarkS of SUf1 Mietosystems, Inc. AOL. AIM, Buddy List and the Triangle design are registered trademarks of
f.i\liltl:~;l[i1!:lJ]rr{I!J~l'.~l~l0ftif;l::::~~!~·~~'.~~es~nger is atrademark of Amer~ Online. me. 
,. 

' i • ' • 1 • 
\ ( ' ( ' ( ( ~ ( '" '-. 
Friday, September 27, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME  
~~  by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon  

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
ALGIE 

j
I I r 

rtCORLLS t 
WHA.i'Tlli~ 
~11..PMPNTO
I J 

W15N'Tl¥;YV'laa!
www.iumble.com 
~ 
I HIPLAC ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
I I r IJ 

Ans: A "(II I X X I )" ( I I X) 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: DOUBT ENTRY IMPEND JUSTLY s Answer: How the toddler's sitter felt at the end of the day -TIED UP IN "NOTS" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To order, send your name, address and S5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 27 Hit sor.,:, from 51 Paper clip, e.g.the rock opera
1 Car controls 60Got
"Tommy" 7 T~ings with 31 Tip 62 ~aon·t 1et the m,rrors heat get to you!"32 Seat at the bar 
63 Notea French
15 wsiavonic 
34 "Prometheus physicist

Dances~ 
Bound• 
playwright 

appomtments
16 A Handel 
36 Lines from a 

concerto might 66 Many a snake
groupie, mayba have one 

38 Confusion, 17 "By_!" Slangily 
DOWN 18 Sound right 41 Divide 1 '''A Certain 45 Cheers Justice• author 
, 9 1998 Sarah Mclachlan hit 46 Disk readers 2 Plain 
48 Times SQ .• to a 3 Frequent 

20 Trainee 
straphanger portrayer ot 22 Thompson of Otello
49 o.c. party

"Family" 4 Solo
50 Actress Murray

23 Checkers, e.g. 
ot th6 silents 5 Telecom setup 
2-4 Hang (around 51 Occur. old-style 6 It provides an with) overview
52 Screen symbol 26 Riviera view 7 128 cubic feet
54 Icy drink aTony's cousin
2t lntematlonal 57 New Testament 
31 Instrument for 39 Winner of a 54 "Gitt•rang. group e_Blanc Ofpheus race 16 Province of 
10 Tuner on a viola 
40 Ciickers

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 33 Takes out, so to Spain 11 Real estate; speak 42 Bird format10ns 
sect. listings 51 Web addresses 
43 Stand for35 Wiesbaden's

12 Kind of apple things? 57 Mariners' needs
state 13 Pearson's 44 Speedier 59 Start of the third 
47 Avid century .+r+!ll!"h'" 14 Big name on 
38 Alaskan animals 63 Times out 61 RCA compe1itor
Wall Street 21 It makes hay 
Answers lo clues in this puzzle are available by touch•tone 24 Middle Eastern phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. dish 
Annual subscriptione are available for uie beat of Sunday 28 Says quickly, crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. with •otr Oniine subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comldiveraiona ($19.95 a year).
29 Prizes 

~,.+!i-+jpt Cr088W0rds for young sOlvera: The Leaming Network, 

_ _...__.__, 30 Outer: Prefix nyt,mo.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Co111munity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two can1puses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and rnail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name _____________________ Address ---------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: A Martinez, Randy Bachman, Shau Cassidy, Mike Schmidt 
Happy Birthday: Be more selective in your choices this year so you don't take on too much and fall short of your goals. Say no to something that doesn'1 appeal to you. Personal relationships may not go the way you want them to and, if you let your emotions get the better of you, much will be lost. If you ar, persistent and focus on precisely what you want to accomplish, you should be able to reach your goals. Your numbers are 5, 13. 27, 33, 36, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get together with close friends or neighbors. A 
-.,..
short jaunt to a nearby recreation facility will bring you in contact with interesting individuals. **** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may find yourself facing a financial burde if you don't stay on top of your personal portfolio. Don't let anyone else handle your money. Changes at work will turn out to be to your benefit. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't test your partner's patience by asking too many questions. Actions will definitely speak louder than words. You may be dealing with a situation that you know very little about. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can ex.peel someone to try to hold you bac today. Be cautious not to give away all your trade secrets. This is a perfect tim to invest a little in your home. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be too hard on the people you know through group associations. You need to get out and socialize with friends. Romance is likely to blossom today. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone you live with will be disgruntled about their life. Be congenial and offer to help make the necessary changes. Home improvement projects will pay off. Focus on professional gains. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may want to take off on a mini vacation, or a1 least take a jaunt to a place of entertainment. Buying something that will enhance your looks or your image will perk you up. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may be concerned with elderly person you're close to. Offer to take care of his needs. Money can be made through investments, winnings or other means that you don't have to work for. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your partner take advantage of you. You will have a lot of charisma today and you should be able to captivate any group of people you talk to. Take action by getting involved. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you put in a little extra time to whatever it is that you need to accomplish, it won't go unnoticed. This is the perfect day to start taking better care of yourself. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Elaborate on your talent by taking it to the next level. Now is the time to let other people see what yau are capable of doing. Social events will lead to an interesting chance meeting. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can ex.pee! to experience some confusion at home today. Don't let delays get you down. Changes made to your home will be uplifting. ** 
Birthday Baby: You will be able to articulate well throughout life. You will be a perfectionist who sees clearly what you're capable of doing. You will be emotional and intent on getting your own way. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasl.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
• 



MENS SOCCER 
. No. 10 Notre Dame gives up last-minute goal, loses 1-0 to No. 2 St. John's 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Associate Spores Editor 
The 10th-ranked Notre 
Dame's mens soccer team had 
never beaten No. 2 St. John's 
on the road and things didn't 
change Thursday night. 
The Irish allowed the game­winning goal to the Red Storm's Jean Camere with only 1 minute, 48 seconds remaining as they lost a heartbreaker, 1-0. 
"I thought we played very, very well in the second half," coach Bobby Clark said. "We had a tremendous second half. It was one of those games that when you look at the process, this was a sue-
Friday, September 27, 2002 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish to kick off 
ti 
F· 
conference play
:~L 
f'1,"'.,• 
f ) • 
ByMATTLOZAR 

j 
f' 
t: 
I 
i 
; 
I 
: '. ';f: } work on," Irish coach Debbie ' t' -~ 
Brown said. "We worked on ',. serving and passing, the two 
\
:f
' \)' 
basics that have to be strong:J; t in order for us to play well." Notre Dame (9-3) begins conference action this week­
;,:'.t
;/ end by hosting Connecticut 
• I'y1 .: (4-7) and St. John's (11-7) . 
),-, '; 
f 
Since joining the Big East .),L in 1995, the Irish have won six regular season confer­
!11', 
I. 
ence titles, including the last ' I, , three. The Irish haven't 
.~>; dropped a conference match I 'i' since losing to West Virginia
)i'
if in November 1998 -a ,f, J' streak of 34 regular season 
Sports Editor

J 
} ·, ', 
With no weekday matches scheduled last week, the Notre Dame volleyball team went back to the basics to 

, 
prepare for the start of Big East conference matches. 
"I think as much as any­thing, it gave us four days to practice and to work through some things we needed to 

Not enough 
cessful outtake. But you look "The guys know they played at the result and, obviously, well. It wasn't an easy place we're very disappointed." to play," Clark said. "There 
The Irish had several scor­was very, very heavy rain, it ing opportunities late in the was raining all day.... I game, with the first coming thought the boys did Notre from sophomore Luke Dame proud today even Boughen, who just missed though they didn't win." from the top of the box with Clark felt confident about 
8:45 remaining in Notre the contest. Less Dame's
..I thought the boys did 

than a minute chances
Notre Dame proud today. 

later Erich Braun against missed a shot even though they didn't s t 
. ,,

from 12 yards out John's·
Wlll. 

as the game heading stayed scoreless. into the Camere's goal Bobby Clark contest. 
came from 18 yards away and deflected off an Irish defender before crossing the goal. Notre Dame goal­keeper Chris Sawyer saved two other shots on goal throughout the match while Red Storm goalie Bill Gaudette saved three shots. 
St. John's out shot Notre Dame 11-8 for the game. 

contests. With that impres­sive resume comes the bur­den of getting an opponent's best effort in every match. 
"We just have to realize for the teams in our conference, or non-conference, it is usu­ally the biggest match of the year for them against us," Brown said. "Our opponents are very well prepared and emotionally up for the game. Our biggest challenge in the conference is that we have to get up for every match. We have to match or exceed the level of determination the opponent brings to the game. 
"If we think that we don't have to work that hard, we are in big trouble," she con­tinued. "But I don't believe the team is thinking that way." 
Last year. St. John's went 6-6 in the Big East and tied with Seton Hall for sixth place. The Red Storm started this season by dropping their first four matches but won 11 of their past 14. As a team, 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 22 
Irish Coach "I real­ly felt we w e r e coming into St. John's and looking for a victory," said Clark. "\Ve were looking to play them evenly and I think we did that. I think St. John's was very relieved to get out of today's game with a victory. "But maybe that's why they are the No. 2-ranked team in 

the country because they are able to, somehow, get a victo­ry out of a game like that." 
Notre Dame's only other loss this season came as a result of a late goal by their opponent. Bradley scored with less than 10 minutes remaining to beat Notre Dame 3~2 a week ago. Clark feels the Irish must start winning close games and cannot allow the late goal. 
"We've got to learn how to win these games because that's a couple games now that we've lost in the last five minutes of the game," said Clark. "[Allowing late goals is] maybe something we can look at when we look at the video tomorrow and take it from there." 
Notre Dame's schedule doesn't get any easier as the Irish face Rutgers on the road Sunday. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 
BCS poll 
considers Irish 3-0 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Few college football fans expected Notre Dame to jump out to a 4-0 start this year. But the big surprise for Irish fans is that the BCS only con­siders the Irish 3-0, thanks to a dispute over whether or not Notre Dame can count its 22-0 win against Maryland in the Kickoff Classic toward the nine-win total needed to qual­ify for a BCS bowl. 
But Notre Dame officials think it's obvious the game should count in BCS standings because the game was played after the date the NCAA con­siders the official start of the regular season. 
According to NCAA rules, no team may play a game before the Thursday before Labor Day unless the school receives prior permission from the NCAA to play in an "exempt" preseason game. That game is then not counted toward the total number of games a team is allowed to play in a season. 
In the past, the Kickoff Classic took place two Saturdays before Labor Day and never counted toward the total number of games a school could play in a season. Hight now, BCS officials don't see any reason why it should be different. 
"The Kickoff Classic has always been an exempt game," said John Paquette, associate commissioner for communications for the Big East Conference, whose com­missioner serves as BCS coor­dinator this year. "But there's nothing to prevent them from asking (the BCS] to reconsider the situation." 
The Notre Dame-Maryland game, originally scheduled for Aug. 24, was moved when Notre Dame officials discov­ered that the game would interfere with Freshman Orientation. They moved the game back a week and began the season the same time as most NCAA teams, automati­cally assuming the game would be considered "non­exempt." 
"We always felt it was non­exempt from the beginning," Notre Dame associate athletic director John Heisler said. "In the past, the game was always 
see BCS/page 25 

J ND WOMENS SOCCER WOMENS INTERHALLND WOMENS GOLF ND WOMENS TENNIS
MENS INTERHALL

!~ U¦I 
)<' Notre Dame at Notre Dame Sunday adidas Classic 
't 
Breen-Phillips scored 20
Villanova Invitational 

Keough vs. Morissey,

; I I-i 
0: 
second half points to beat
O'Neill vs. Alumni, Dillon 
Fri.-Sun.

l a: =:5 
Walsh 20-0. Welsh topped

1r' I' Friday, 4 p.m. vs. Stanford and St. Ed'sSat. -Sun. The Irish face a tough field 
?P 
Pasquerilla West 20-7 andvs. Sorin are all games in

tr The Irish return to play The Irish hope to use a including, Florida, Duke, 
the Badin Bullfrogs shutout ,,1· this weekend in two Big 

action Sunday at Riehle

home-field advantage at 
Tennessee and Northwestern Farley's Finest 19-0. 
Fields.

1 East conferene games. 
this weekend's tourney. 
in their biggest fall tourney. 

I.. a:a. ti 
page 23, 21page 26 page 24, 21page 25 page 22

u., 










