
VOL. XXXVII NO. 17 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Lopez, Cortright discuss Iraqi weapons inspections 
By TERESA FRALISH 
News Writer 
Disarmament issues and the presence of weapons inspec­tors will continue to influence 
U.S. policy on possible action in Iraq, said lecturers from the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, at Tuesday's lecture "The Coming War with Iraq." 
George Lopez, senior fellow and director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute, and David Cortright. visiting research fel­low at the Institute, spoke to students and faculty about the Iraqi situation at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute, moderat­ed the panel. 
Both lecturers stressed how the recent events of the past two days regarding weapons inspections in Iraq had impact­ed policy makers in the United States and the world communi­ty. "Much of the discourse has now focused ... on disarming Iraq," said Cortright. 
Cortright also discussed how different groups such as the United Nations and the Arab League may have influenced Iraq's decision to uncondition­ally allow U.N. inspectors back into the country. Despite the announcement by the United Nations, Cortright said the Bush administration might incorrectly see Iraq's agree­ment as ploy to further deceive the international community. "I think they have seriously misread [the situation]." said Cortright. 
At best Cortright thought 
U.N. officials would probably be able to enter Iraq within two to three weeks. "I believe that [they] can achieve consid­erable progress," said Cortright. 
Once in Iraq, inspectors would begin to create a weapons monitoring system and resolve remaining disar­mament tasks. 
Although inspectors had not been in Iraq for several years, Cortright felt that previous inspectors had strongly helped to reduce Iraq's stockpile of certain weapons and its ability to produce them. He explained how officials had helped to control the development of nuclear, chemical and biologi­cal weapons as well as ballistic missiles and missile engines. 
"By December of 1998, it was concluded that Iraq's capacity to build nuclear weapons had been eliminated," said Cortright. 
While previous inspections in Iraq were relatively successful, some degree of risk still exists, according to Cortright. "Much of Iraq's ability to produce 
see IRAQ/page 4 


Neighborhood angered by parking 
By JAMES GAFFEY 
News Writer 
Controversy over parking for Notre Dame football games has erupted in the Wooded Estates neighbor­hood, which is a residential area just off campus near the intersection of South Bend Avenue and Edison Road. 
Residents' practice of rent­ing out their lawns for foot­ball parking has drawn a number of complaints from neighbors. 
They argue that the pres­ence of large numbers of vehicles in the area has com­promised the safety and peace of the neighborhood. 
Homeowners who rent out their lawns, however, enjoy the extra income. 
The conflict has attracted the attention of the South Bend police and the mayor's office. 
Concerned residents have witnessed visitors, many of whom tailgate prior to the games, exhibiting drunken behavior, littering and dump­ing hot coals on their lawns, said Lynn Coleman, assistant to Mayor Stephen Luecke. 
Although homeowners rent­ing out their lawns for foot­ball parking is not a new trend, a barrage of increas­ingly vehement grievances to the mayor's office is, Coleman said. 
According to an official let­ter from the mayor's office to Wooded Estates residents, hand-delivered just in time for the last weekend's game against Michigan, there are three violations police have primarily noticed: 
1) Local ordinances dictate that residential areas cannot compromise pedestrian safety and impede the access of emergency vehicles to the houses if such emergency access should be required. 
This year, the South Bend police tried to alleviate the problem by painting street curbs near intersections and restricting parking to only one side of the street during game weekends. But com­

be used for ':4s soon as you start p I a i n t s parking lots. charging people. then regarding Homeowners parking on
you have a business. " 

may fit as lawns still many cars as flooded into they like on Lynn Coleman the mayor's their driveway, office after
assistant to the mayor

but cars the Purdue
may not be parked on lawns, according to city law. 
2) In residential zones, it is not permissible to charge peo­ple to park on your property. "As soon as you start charg­ing people, then you have a business," said Coleman. 
3) During football week­ends, many vehicles are found in no-parking zones. either those clearly marked by signs or unmarked zones, such as in front of a fire hydrant or too close to an intersection. 
The mayor's office is wor­ried that the large number of vehicles parked in front of the houses will cause traffic jams, 
game. 
T h e 
police have responded to current prob­lems by issuing more citations to homeowners, the first of which results in a fine of $50, with $100 fines being issued for any citation after the first. The city is also considering pursuing litigation against repeat offenders, according to Coleman. 
Some currently pending cases may reach the court­room before the Oct. 5 home game versus Stanford. 
ContactJames Gaffey at James.R.Gaffey.3@nd.edu 



Robbery investigated 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Notre Dame Security/Police said two recent attempted rob­beries under investigation could be linked. 
NDSP has posted crime bul­letins around campus to alert students of the incidents which occurred near South Dining Hall and the Rockne Building on South Quad. 
The first robbery occurred on Sept. 6 around 10:30 p.m. between Fisher Hall and South Dining Hall, said assistant director of NDSP Chuck Hurley. 
A Stanford Hall resident told campus police that the suspect grabbed him from behind, demanded money and ran in an unknown direction, Hurley said. 
The suspect was described as a 6-foot, black male of thin build, age 19 or 20, who wore an orange T-shirt. 
A similar description was given for the suspect in the sec­ond case that occurred Sept. 12 at 11:20 p.m. by the Rockne Building. There, the alleged victim said the suspect, age 17 to 19, was a black male and 6 feet tall with a slender build and short black hair. He was also accompanied by a white male who was 17 to 19 years old, about 135 lbs. and between 5-foot-5 and 5-foot-6. The second suspect was said to have short blondish-red hair. 
"The method of operation was the same in both of the cases and the description was very similar," Hurley said. 
According to the alleged vic­tim, a student, the first suspect demanded money from him in the attempted robbery at the Rockne Building. The student reacted by handing the money in his wallet over to the second suspect. The two suspects then ran off in the southeast direc­tion of campus. 
Because the alleged victim immediately reported the inci­dent to NDSP, Hurley said secu­rity officers on duty were able to spot two people by the Morris Inn that fit the descrip­tions of the second attempted robbery. 
Hurley said suspects ran into the field behind Keough Hall and eventually ran south and jumped the fence by the Notre Dame Cemetery. 
In both cases, Hurley said no students were injured and "no weapon was ever implied or seen." 
Hurley said NDSP encourages students to utilize Safe Walk and practice regular safety pre­cautions. 
"Students ought to walk with each other and watch out for each other," Hurley said. 
Contact Helena Payne at hrayam@nd.edu 


page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What did you say? 
As mandated by the unwritten 
nightlife society rules, you can only ask 
people to repeat themselves so many 
times. 

Then it becomes ridiculous, as we 
have all learned at bars, parties and 
clubs, and you have 
to respond, despite 

the fact that you Shella Flynn 
have no idea what­
soever about what 

the person is say­News 
ing. Hence comes Production 
the interesting part 

Editor 
of the conversation, 
when you must 

invent a non-committal reply which 
could theoretically relate to the topic at 
hand a.nd hopefully conceal your 
absolute cluelessness. 

I became quite adept at this conversa­tional art over the summer, which I spent living with relatives in Ireland. My father is Irish-born and I've spent my entire life around Irish families, so I usu­ally have no problem understanding brogues. 
But one night out I found myself chat­ting with an inebriated Irish electrician from the country and his equally intoxi­cated Australian cousin. 
The music blared and their accents 
blurred and I was hopelessly, horribly 
lost. When the Irishman first addressed 
me, it was fabulous. 

"What?" 1asked, leaning toward him and indicating that the music was impairing my hearing. He repeated him­self. I smiled and waved at the speakers again. 
"What?" 

He leaned down and said the same thing -I'm guessing -again. To this day, I have no idea as to what he was trying to communicate. 
But I figured that two "What?"s were enough, so I stood back thoughtfully and moved my head a little -not a shake and not a nod, just an indecipherable movement -and answered. 
"Hmrnmm, right," I said. 

This response seemed satisfactory, and the conversation continued. The Australian joined in and we chatted away, and I hadn't the foggiest notion about what was going on. Ijust spouted out ambiguous lines and made vague hand gestures, and if the pair of them had consumed two or three fewer pints they probably would have questioned my mental capacity. Fortunately for me, the pints kept flowing, they kept drink­ing and I could continue with my evasive and inane discl1Ssion about something. "Right," "interesting," "maybe," "some­times" and "Do you think?" became my words and phrases of choice. 
So the moral of thls column is that it is very possible to spend an entire night talking while saying nothing at all to people you don't understand. Giving them alcohol helps, but even if it's not available you simply have to be original. Our language is full of ambiguous words and indistinct pointless sentences. As long as you present them right and accompany them with the appropriate movements and facial expressions, you'll be fine. 
Don't you agree? 

Hmmm... interesting. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
Monday's Observer incorm:dy identified the dam:e group Ballet Folklorico de Valparaiso in a photo caption. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards icsclf as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
U.N. works priest honored 
Notre Dame 
out plan with with Ricky 
Iraq for Martin 
inspectors to return 
The United along with Ricky 
Father Elizondo, 
Nations worked Martin, will be 
out a plan for honored at the 
weapons inspec­2002 Hispanic 
tions, while the Heritage Award. 
U.S. and Russia 
argued over there view of Baghdad. 
page 5page 3 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Institute for Latino Studies book signing and rnreption, McKenna I!all 112-4, 4 tu 6 p.m. 

. 
Booksigningtdiscussion: "Why I am a Catholic," Eck's Visitor Center Auditorium, 7 p.m. 

. 
Interfaith Christian night prayer, Morrisey Hall Chapel, 10 to 11 p.m. 




WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. CWIL writer's circle: "Across the Lines," Haggar 303, 11 :45 to 1 p.m. 
. 
Student diversity board meet­ing, IICC/#304, 12 p.m. 

. 
Home program meeting, Carrol Auditorium, 7 to 9 p.m. 



University employee falls 
NDSP transported a Notre Dame employee to University Health Center because of injuries sustained in a fall. 
Student receives disturbing e-mail 
NDSP is investigating a threatening e-mail that a student received Sept. 16. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Tomato soup, tortilla soup, honey garlic pork chops, white beans with ham, collard greens, cherry crisp, julienned sauteed vegetables, baked lemon perch, szechuan vegan noodles, maypo, ham, scrambled eggs, buttermilk pancakes, chicken nuggets, cheese enchilada, lone star rice 
Today Dinner: Tortilla soup, mine­strone soup, buffalo chicken wings, macaroni & cheese, green beans, cher­ry crisp, pork fried rice, breaded ched­dar scrod, tofu jerk, lentil stew & bar­ley, baked sweet potato, oriental veg­etables, whole beets, BBQ rib sandwich 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
w 
::c 
ti 
w 




==_, 
c( 
(.) 


0 
HIGH 82 HIGH
...I 
LOW 70 LOW 
74 64 

Atlanta 84/ 70 Boston 71/ 58 Chicago 82/ 64 Denver 65/ 45 Houston 91/ 74 Los Angeles 79/ 61 Minneapolis 75/ 53 New York 78/ 61 Philadelphia 82/ 62 Phoenix 96/ 75 Seattle 67/ 52 St. Louis 88/ 66 Tampa 93/ 75 Washington 83/ 66 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Cart theft case solved 
A golf cart that was reported miss­ing on Sept. 1 by the Joyce Center has been found. 
Individual caught with 

drugs 
Indiana State excise Police issued a state citation for possession of mari­juana in the C2 student lot on Sept. 14. 
Helmet taken leaving rider 

disgruntled 
The victim reported his motorcycle helmet was taken from his motorcy­cle while it was parked in the Blue Field between 7:30 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Sept. 14. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Chicken mozzarella pastaria, cajun pasta sauce, chicken fajita pizza, quiche lorraine, chicken cordan bleu, baked cod, delmonico potatoes, baked honey glazed ham, Italian risotto, onion rings, grilled veg­etable plate, chinese noodles, beef & veggie szechuan stir-fry, flame roast corn & black bean 
Today Dinner: Italian beef & maca­roni, cajun pasta sauce, chicken fajita pizza, black olives and rice, baked parmesan chicken breasst, kielbasa sauerkraut, roasted pork tenderloin, sesame baked pollok, corn cobblettes, oriental shrimp with noodles 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Chefs pasta marinara, California wrap, cous cous salad, sauteed spinach, new Jersey Shore Deli Soups, cheese ravioli, beef ravioli, gar­lic bread, chicken nuggets, curly french fries, deli bar with tuna salad 
Today Dinner: Curry crepes with spicy thai vegetables, spinach turnover, rice pilaf, chicken burger, grilled cheese pita, roasted potatoes, carved turkey breast, corn bread stuffing, deli 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
SCENE 

Real World "realities" coming at you from Las Vegas 
MTV debuts yet another season of its cult hit the Real World and already cast members are getting too friend­
ly. 
page 14-15 

bar with tuna salad 
SATURDAY 
74 49 

SPORTS 
Ty: from MSU football player to ND coach 
As the team gears up for MSU, take a look back at Ty Willingham looked like in his playing days for this weekend's opponent. 
page 28 
SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 

64 50 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Toy company comes clean on illegal payments 
Tyco provides information on tens of millions of unauthorized pay­ments it has hand­
ed  out  over  the  
years.  
page 7  

VIEWPOINT 
Random hook ups equal grab 'n' go 
Viewpoint colum­nist Jacqueline Browder offers her opinion on random hook ups and likens them to Grab 'n'Go. 
page 12 

Wednesday, September 18, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


ND theology professor to be honored 
SMC adds new 
By LAUREN WILCOX 
News Writer 
On Friday, Father Virgilio Elizondo will join the likes of Ricky Martin, Derek Parra, a n d J u l i a Alvarez 
n receiv­ing a 2 0 0 2 Hispanic Heritage Awa rd 


Elizondo

at the John f. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington. 
A noted author, respected teacher, and notable theolo­gian, Elizondo was awarded Laetare Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor. 
Now, Elizondo is prepared to add another award to his collection. 
Since the reception of the 
Laetarc Medal in J997 and officially coming to t h e University as a visit­ing profes­sor of the­ology and Latino studies, Elizondo 
has worked Father Tim 
Provost Nathan Hatch. 
He played a large part in getting Gilberto Cardenas to come to the University to be a chair of theology and organiz­ing the first hemispheric con­ference on "The Church in America." 
He was also influential in getting Gustavo Gutierrez, the well-known and most influen­tial theologian in today's world, to join the Notre Dame faculty. 
He has 
mission.
made the "He's a great professor with the 
Kim was

Theology and a great guy students in 
born in
Department the class­
overall." 

Seoul,
visible in the room, as 
S o u t h
Institute for well as 
Korea, and

Latino Eugene Futtntes getting to 


a t t e n d e d Kim
Studies and know them

student 

S e o u 1
the ILS pre­sent in the Theology Department. He worked with the ILS and Theology Department to open up five new slots for Latino graduate students in the MTS 
program. 
"I really enjoy working with the students in the classroom, as well as getting to know them outside ofthe classroom.,, 
Father Virgilio Elizondo professor 
The courses he has orga­nized and taught include: 
U.S. Latino Spirituality; The Ecclesial Imagination: A Tour of Contemporary M i n i s t r y Among Latinos; Culture, Religion and 

closely with Evangelization: Theology and Scully and the Dynamics of 
Inculturation; and The Paschal Mystery in the Latino 






political perspective 
Community. 
He also taught a weekend course in cooperation with Campus Ministry on "Faith and Revelation." 
"He's a great professor and a great guy overall," said Eugene Fuentes, a senior in Elizondo's class. 
Elizondo finds working with students rewarding. "I really 
e n j o y 
working 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
The political science depart­ment's newest faculty member, Younkyoo Kim, brings a fresh perspective to the school's educational 
outside of 
the class­
r o o m . 
There are some top notch people here," said Elizondo. 
Among the other recipients, Ricky Martin will be awarded for the arts, Derek Parra for sports, and Julia Alvarez for literature. 
Elizondo expressed a great deal of respect for all of the recipients. He was excited about meeting Ricky Martin and said, "I admire his involvement in peace move­ments and the issue of social justice." 
The awards ceremony will air on Oct. 12, 2002 on NBC stations. 
Contact Lauren Wtlcox at 


Lauren.A.WilcoLl6@nd.edu 
University for undergraduate studies. Raised in a country with a tumultuous political history, Kim knows the importance of understanding different coun­tries and their political systems. 
"The Korean government is heavily influenced by the United States, and more and more so by China," said Kim. 
Kim earned his masters degree from Tufts University in international relations, and then moved on to Purdue University for his Ph. D. in political science. It was there that he heard of Saint Mary's. 
"The job offer cam through the department, and the Department head recommended me," said Kirn. 
According to Kim, it is com­mon for Korean professors to have degrees from the United 




Team invites SMC students to prayer 
Come learn about what Bain has to offer: 
enables the person making the request to 

Date: Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
give that 

By COLLEEN BRUEN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's prayer team has opened itself to students for the first time this school year. 
Instituted in August 2000, the prayer team originally served as a response to faculty and staff suffering from then-senior Kristi Morris' death in spring 2000. 
It also served as a support for people facing other difficulties in life. A new concept on cam­pus, it grew in popularity and was seen as an effective way to generate prayer and help grieving people. 
"Submitting a prayer request really serves two functions. It States. 
"A majority of professors at Korean Universities have American Ph.Os and more and more Koreans remain in the 
U.S.." said Kim. 
Obtaining legal status to work in the United States was an ordeal for Kim. 
''I almost became a terrorist in INS legal terms," Kim said. 
His visa did not come through until the day before classes were scheduled to begin. 
While Kim currently lectures in comparative politics and Russian politics, he supports the idea of developing a class or a major specifically in East Asian politics. 
"Students reaJJy should learn about Asia, particularly China [which] is on its way to becom­ing an economic powerhouse," said Kim. 
Overall, Kim is disappointed by the Asian studies programs in American universities. Those in the Midwest and East are particularly lacking. Kim said. Students' knowledge of the East is also deficient. 
Even China is Greek to American students, Kim said. 
He hopes that as the East grows in international impor­tance, students both at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will develop interest in the region. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
handled through the Internet. 
Since its creation, the prayer team has handled requests on behalf of students, but has not taken direct requests from stu­dents. In response to the over­whelming request for student prayer, the team has decided to allow direct student submis­sions. 
"We realize that students have prayer needs as well and we want the students to realize that prayer is an essential part of the Christian life," said Measell. 
Students interested in sub­mitting prayer requests may send an e-mail to prayerteam@saintmarys.edu. The team will read the requests and say prayers on behalf of the student. The 
uniqueness of

nme: 6:oo pm "We realize that students
need to this service is
Place; Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
God," said have prayer needs as that confiden­Richard tiality is high­
well."
Bain •nd Compony invites all interested seniors 
Mee.sell, ly valued, 
to apply by September 23rd, 2002. 
assistant especially professor Richard Measell when submit­
All students are requested to apply online through and prayer assistant professor ting requests 
www.bain.com. team leader. "We need not carry our burdens alone. And we have a God who
BAIN & COMPANY cares for us and desires our prayers and we believe that with Almighty God all things are possible."
springboard to opportunity 
Comprised of about 40 mem­

For more information, plea,e visit www.bain.,orn 
bers, which includes faculty,
An equal opportunity employer 
staff and Holy Cross sisters, the prayer team never meets face to face but only via the Internet. Prayer requests are submitted through e-mail and 
on behalf of 
someone else. 
"The initial 
response from students has been excel­lent," said Measell. "We have had several prayer requests from students and it's great to see that many students recog­nize the importance of turning to God, especially in difficult times." 
Contact Colleen Bruen at bruel428@saintmarys.edu 


_____________ J1 
page4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
Iraq 
continued from page I 
weapons was destroyed, but uncertainties still remain." Cortright said. 
In particular, some of Iraq's "homegrown" missiles were n e v e r 
accounted for 

··we need afull and 
find things,"
and may still 

be in the frank engagement ofthe he said. "Then what?"
country. scientific community. " 
L o p e z Lopez said stressed that 
the Bush George Lopez administra­
updated tech­nology could Director of Policy Studies tion must 
play  a  key  
role  in  new  
I  r  a  q  i  

weapons inspections. 
"We need a full and frank engagement of the scientific community," said Lopez. "Technology [has] changed since 1998." 
In addition to the importance of technology. Lopez said it would be important for U.N. officials to secure Iraq's bor­ders and prevent materials and foreign individuals from entering or leaving the coun­try. 
control was key for future inspections. he said that it did not seem likely other countries would chose to buy weapons materials from Iraq. 
Though Lopez felt that events of the past two days were significant. he felt that a broader strategy would be needed for Iraq. 
" G o o d 
inspectors will 
closely ana­lyze the actu­al risk Iraq presents and how much uncer­tainty the public is willing to 
live with. 
"What's at issue is our cur­rent level of security," said Lopez. "It's a debate about competing fears." Lopez also stressed the importance of developing alternatives to forcibly removing Iraqi dicta­tor Saddam Hussein and mili­tary action in general. 

Contact Teresa Fralish at 

While Lopez thought border tfralish@nd.edu




r---------------•~
I 
I I I I 
PIZZA & I 
~---l€AST0f.
I OHCAGO 

POP I I 
PIZZA COMPA~
I I Large 1 Topping Pizza I I I
& 2 Liter of COKE Only 
I I I $9.99!!! I I Delivery or Carryout Only. I I We match competitors' deals! I I Visa & Mastercard Accepted. I I Expires 10/3/02 I 
I I 271-1277 I I I SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to Subway) I 



·----------------~ 

Join the company that has plenty of room for advancement. Travelers is one of the leading insurance companies in the United States. Our superior financial strength and consistent record of strong operating returns means security for our customers -and opportunities for our employees. We give you the opportunity to get in on the ground floor with an exciting Leadership Development Rotational Program. So make the right move with us and enjoy world class benefits from day one. 
** Actuary, Anance, Computer Science and Engineering Majors** 
We are coming to campus 
Resume Drop: Wednesday, September 25, 2002 Pre-Interview Session: Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
Time: 6:30 PM 
Place: Contact Career Services for Location Interviews -Thursday, October 17, 2002 
For more information on our opportunities, vist our Web site: www.travelers.com 

TravelerST · 
Travelers is an equ,c1£ opportunity employer and invites culturally diverse applicants to join our team. We acUvely promote a drug-free workplace. 

City gives away pot in protest 
Associated Press 
SANTA CRUZ 
Calling Santa Cruz a sanc­tuary from federal authori­ties, medical marijuana advocates -joined by city leaders -passed out pot to about a dozen sick people at City Hall. 
"Santa Cruz is a special place, and today we're let­ting the world know how compassionate we can be," Mayor Christopher Krohn said. "We're taking a stand." 
More than 1,000 communi­ty members jammed into the garden-like courtyard for a supportive demonstration during the giveaway. Some held signs reading, "DEA Go 
Away"  and  "U.S.  Out  Of  
Santa Cruz."  
Several  people  in  the  

crowd lit marijuana ciga­rettes, but it was mostly an alcohol and drug-free gath­ering, which was what orga­nizers requested. 
Marijuana is illegal as a medicine or as a recreation­al drug under federal law. But state law, and county and city ordinances, say it's legal if recommended by a doctor. 
Drug Enforcement Administration spokesman Richard Meyer said he was appalled by Tuesday's event, and feared the community is sending a dangerous mes­sage to its children. 
"Marijuana is an illegal drug in this country," he said. 
But Mike Corral, who helped distribute the mari­juana. said the only message sent was that "marijuana is medicine." 
In Santa Cruz and many California communities, local law enforcement works closely with growers and distributors who help sick people obtain marijuana. 
Krohn a.nd his colleagues didn't handle the marijuana Tuesdav, but stood in soli­darity with the clinic work­ers and users. 
Police Chief Steve Belcher said his officers didn't plan to arrest registered, legiti­mate members picking up their medicine. However, he said, "This is not going to be a smoke-out at City Hall." 
People who showed up to smoke marijuana without a doctor's recommendation could face arrest, he said. 
The City Hall pot distribu­tion comes less than two weeks after DEA agents arrested the owners of a local pot farm and confiscat­ed 130 plants that had been grown for use as medicine. 
There was no official city sponsorship of the event. Council members and med­ical marijuana advocates simply acted on their own in a public space, said City Attorney John Barisone. 
Hal Margolin, who said he suffers chronic back pain, said he was relieved to receive his weekly marijua­na dose. 
"We don't buy it, we don't sell it, we don't ship it in interstate commerce and we don't give it to children," he said. 





WORLD & NATION 

Wednesday, September 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
United Nations and Iraq plan inspectors return 
fusociated Press 
WASHINGTON 

As U.N. weapons inspectors moved ahead with plans to return to Iraq, the United States and Russia clashed on Tuesday over whether to take Baghdad at its word or impose a new ultimatum. "We have seen this game before," said a skeptical Colin Powell. 
The secretary of state reaf­firmed Washington's call for a tough anti-Iraq resolution by the U.N. Security Council, despite Iraq's sudden about­face on inspections. 
But Russia's foreign minister said he saw no immediate need for new U.N. demands if the inspectors are quickly dis­patr.hed. He was backed up by Arab leaders, Moscow's tradi­tional allies. The "logic of war" may now be replaced by "the logic of peace," said one. 
The 15-member Security Council majority decided, despite a U.S. request for more time, to quickly schedule a meeting, possibly Wednesday, with chief weapons inspector Hans Blix to discuss renewed inspections. The Americans, supported by Britain and Colombia, wanted first to pre­pare a new resolution, diplo­mats said. · 
Blix then met with Iraqi rep­resentatives, after which the Iraqis announced talks were sel for Sept. 27 to make final plans. 
In the Middle East, the busi­ness of preparing for war went on, as American warplanes flew under aggressive new rules over Iraq, and U.S. com­manders considered basing heavy bombers closer by. 
At a U.N. news conference at which Powell and Russia's Igor Ivanov laid out conflicting views, Secretary-General Kofi Annan appealed for them to stick together on Iraq. 
This is "the beginning, not an end," he said. "We should try to maintain the unity of purpose that has emerged.'' 
The Security Council then went into closed-door consul­tations on a timetable for deal­ing with the fast-changing Iraq issue. 
The council sent weapons inspectors into Iraq after the 1990-91 Gulf War, to ensure that President Saddam Hussein's regime destroyed any chemical or biological weapons it possessed, and any capacity to produce those or nuclear weapons. 
The inspectors left in 1998, ahead of U.S. airstrikes, amid Iraqi allegations that some were spying for the United States and countercharges that Baghdad wasn't cooperat­ing with the inspection teams. fully called for the Security 
The international "unity of Council to threaten action purpose" Annan cited emerged against Iraq if it did not allow after President Bush, in a the inspectors back. speech to the U.N. General If the world body didn't act, Assembly last Thursday, force-Bush made clear, Washington 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Afghanistan's young government is worried that President Bush will become so distracted by Iraq that he can't focus on the continuing fight against terrorism in Afghanistan. 
Afghan foreign minister Abdullah made the rounds in the nation's capital Tuesday, telling Congress and the Bush administration that Afghan President Hamid Karzai faces a severe test: Making good on promises of security and economic recovery. That test will be made more difficult, Abdullah said, if U.S. support for Karzai's regime fal­ters because official attention is divert­ed elsewhere. 
In an interview with The Associated Press. Abdullah said Karzai expressed his concerns to Bush when they met at the United Nations last week. Abdullah said he planned to raise the issue with 
U.S. officials again during this visit, even though Bush "assured us and reassured us" that Afghanistan will remain a priority. 
"While there are other major con­cerns for the United States like the Middle East, like Iraq, the focus from the campaign against terror shouldn't be shifted, because that campaign is far from being over," Abdullah said. "Our point, at this stage, is that Afghanistan is a test for the interna­tional community, for the United States. Success or failure will be judged by the whole world, and will have its implications." 
As for Iraq, Abdullah said he viewed Saddam Hussein's surprise offer to allow weapons inspections as just another stalling tactic that ignores the need to fully comply with U.N. resolu­tions. 
"In the past, they have played with time," Abdullah said. "I wonder if they 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
HIV positive moppet on S. African 1V: 
Kami, a mustard-colored furry Muppet, likes nature, telling stories and collecting stuff. She also happens to be HIV-positive. To plaudits from educa­tion officials and AIDS activists. the producers of South Africa's version of Sesame Street on Tuesday unveiled the first Muppet infected with the virus that causes AIDS. "We are living in a society that is very stigmatizing and discriminatory," said Musa Njoko, an AIDS activist. The introduction of Kami "is going to create a culture of acceptance." 
Canada reports first W. Nile death: 
Health officials said Tuesday a 70-year-old Ontario man died of West Nile virus, the first human fatality in which the disease was contracted in Canada. Another Canadian who died of West Nile virus in 1999 got the disease during a visit to the United States. "Itis clear that Ontario has entered a new era of concern for public health," said the provincial Health Minister. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. pushes for Iraq disarmament: 
The Bush administration stepped up pressure Tuesday for a new U.N. Security Council disarma­ment resolution for Iraq and disclosed plans for moving B-2 bombers closer to Baghdad, prepar­ing for possible war to remove President Saddam Hussein. President Bush, speaking in Nashville, Tenn., said the United Nations must show that it is more than an "ineffective debating society". 
Bishops questions U.S.'s Iraq plans: 
America's Roman Catholic bishops have told President Bush they have grave reservations about a unilateral U.S. strike against Iraq and urged him to use the United Nations to pressure Saddam Hussein for change. Bishop Wilton Gregory, presi­dent of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, acknowledged in a statement Tuesday that Iraq posed a threat, but said it would be diffi­cult to justify a pre-emptive attack. 
# ., ., ....... ~ ... ~ •. _, .. -. .................. . 
would feel free to launch a military attack. 
Bush's was the opening move in what may become a high-stakes diplomatic chess game. 


Afghans fears Bush will become distracted by Iraq 
realize that that period is over now, and they have to comply fully and immediately.... There was enough time for negotiations. And they have managed so far, the Iraqis, to pass time. I'm not sure if they will be allowed to do so again." 
The foreign minister came to the United States to give an update on Afghan reconstruction and a looming humanitarian crisis as 1.6 million Afghans who were displaced by war return home. He described a series of challenges that could undermine Karzai's hold on power if Karzai does not meet them successfully. 


Van Dams hail death penatly ruling: 
The parents of Danielle van Dam on Tuesday thanked the jury that found their neighbor guilty of kidnapping and killing the 7 -year-old girl and said they hoped their "angel" would watch over the panel. Speaking for the first time in months, Damon and Brenda van Dam said they were pleased with the outcome of the trial. which ended Monday with the jury's recommendation that David Westerfield be put to death. 
Affair sparks Times Square shootings: 
Aninsurance executive who killed two co-workers and himself had recently received an e-mail from one of the victims ending their relationship. investigators said Tuesday. The shootings took place at Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield's oflices near Times Square, where the health insurance company temporarily relocated after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, from which the shooting victims had previously escaped. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 18, 2002 




Illinois has worst West Nile outbreak 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Bob Meisenheimer liked to sit in his hack yard with friends on sultry summer nights, wear­ing a T-shirt and trying to solve the world's problems. The one that killed him -West Nile swelling. A World War II veter­an and retired bricklayer, Bob Meisenheimer had battled leukemia but was feeling pretty good until he developed flu-like symptoms about three weeks ago. 
His son figures Meisenheimer got bitten during his nightly routine, sitting out on the pic­for Disease Control and Prevention reported more than 1,500 cases nationwide, includ­ing 71 deaths. That does not include the three deaths reported Tuesday in Illinois. 
The Illinois victims have ranged from a 3-month-old baby girl from the Chicago area who survived a severe 
virus -has authorities scram­nic table in Bethalto, north of case to a 92-year-old suburban bling for answers. St. Louis. woman who did not. Most peo­
The mosquito-borne illness "I don't think he ever thought ple bitten by an infected mos­has hit Illinois harder than any a mosquito would get to him," quito do· not become ill. and other state this summer, with Bret Meisenheimer said of his most of those who do get sick 399 cases so far, including 21 father. have only mild symptoms. deaths. That is far worse than He doubts Ono reason even hot, humid and swampy his dad wore for the out­
"I don't think he ever
Louisiana. which has had 11 insect repel­break may be deaths. lent or protec­thought a mosquito that Illinois is The outbreak here is the tive clothing, on a major
would get to him." 
deadliest in the nation since which along bird migra­West Nile virus was first dis­with avoiding tion route, the 
Bret Meisenheimer
covered in this country in New being outside Mississippi York City in 1999. at dusk and victim's son Flyway. Birds 
Experts are uncertain why dawn when can spread the problem is so bad here, but mosquitoes the disease. their theories include bird are most active are among pre­In Cook County alone. which migration patterns, a heavy cautions state officials have includes Chicago, there have concentration of mosquito­recommended. been about 300 cases, includ­infesied cemeteries, and While Illinoisans may not ing 15 deaths. And the Illinois residents' summertime have curtailed summertime Chicago-area geography habits. fun, many are worried, espe­includes lots of forest preserves 
uYou've got a short warm cially in Chicago's hard-hit and marshes, which are better season and everybody loves to suburbs. mosquito breeding grounds be outside. To be told to cover "You go to a block party and than, say, the concrete jungles up and wear repellent when a soccer game, and it's on of New York, said Dr. Robert you go outside, you're kind of everybody's minds," said Jay Craven of the CDC. messing up the party," said Terry, a health director in Entomologist Khian Liem of Kitty Loewy of the Cook County Evanston, where 26 people the South Cook County Public Health Department. have been infected. "We had a Mosquito Abatement District 
Bret Meisenheimer thinks block party two weeks ago and noted that the entire Chicago that may explain his 76-year­there was a table set up just area is a former swamp, and old father's death Sept. 5 from for insect repellent." that the southern suburbs have West Nile encephalitis, or brain As of Tuesday, the Centers a high concentration of ceme-
John Cavadini, Ph.D., Department ofTheology 130 Malloy Hall University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, In 46556 
Sir: 
teries, which are an ideal mos-Linn Haramis, an entomolo­quito breeding ground. gist with the state Health Mourners continually bring in Department. said Illinois' mild flower containers, which col-winter this year, followed by a lect rainwater, in which mos-hot and dry summer, was ideal quitos breed. for the common house mosqui-
The Archdiocese of Chicago toes that spread the virus. As has temporarily banned flow-fall and cooler temperatures ers from gravesites at Roman approach, mosquito activity is Catholic cemeteries. expected to decrease. 
------~-------···----­
•.. ... 
DaytonContemporary Dance Company 


Friday September 20 
8:00 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
574/284-4626 

I am hereby challenging you, and/or anyone else in the Department ofTheology, to a public debate on the Doctrine of the "resurrection ofthe dead" taught by Jesus, Isa-iah and Mohammed; which, as I explain on my web page at http://www.dead­seanaghammadiresearch.com, is not the doctrine of a physical 'resurrection' of a dead body from the grave; but, rather, similar to the Buddhist Doctrine of'Rebirth'. 
Elucidating Christian theology's fundamental contradictions ofthe Teaching ofJesus is not, by any means, a trivial matter; espe­cially in the context of a threatened war between the United States and Iraq [and Iran] and the continuing threats of interna­
tional terrorism originating in the corresponding lies and errors oflslamic theology. 
On the contrary, it is the contradiction of this Truth by all of the monotheistic religions--and the censorship and suppression of 
this Truth by the religious and media officials in, especially, the United States and Israel--which is at the foundation of the theo­logical conflicts between Judaism, Christianity and Islam; and, thus, the political conflicts between Israelis and Palestinians 
especially over Jerusalem. 
Moreover, no genuine or long-lasting success will ever be achieved in what has been referred to the 'war against terrorism' with­out forcefully striking at the theological foundations ofthis 'conflict between civilizations'. 
Thus, the ultimate goal of this debate is to begin to resolve these theological conflicts; thereby diminishing the potential for a 
massive military confrontation between these civilizations, and the incalculable--and unnecessary--suffering, bloodshed and 
death that would result from such a confrontation. 
The critical question, then, is whether you will agree to such a public debate, in an effort to achieve genuine Peace between 
Judaeo-Christian civilization and Islamic civilization; or whether, succumbing to "wishful thinking" or "willful blindness", you 
will choose, instead, to place the economic interests of Notre Dame and Christianity, Inc. ahead of not only the personal, commu­
nity, and national security interests ofthe people ofthe United States; but, also, the very future of human civilization itself. 
While I await a timely response to this challenge to debate, I must also emphasize that time is not on the side ofthose who sin­cerely desire both a genuine Peace in the Middle East and a definitive end to any and all violence, terrorism and warfare origi­nating in theological error... 
Whether it be Jewish, Christian, Muslim, or Hindu. 
Sincerely, 
Michael Cecil 

l I 
I 
,--------------------------------------------------------------------------


BusiNEss 

Wednesday, September 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Tyco details illicit payments 

l\'larket Watch Se tember 17 

DowJones 
8,207.55 
-172.63 


NASDAQ 

1,259.94 -15.94 

S&P5{X) 
' 
873.52 -17 .58 
AMFX 
' 
856.65 -14.53 



NYSE 

473.91 ' -9.64
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -6. 54 -0. 07 1. 01 

!~i!:n::fa.:.... '!l[j[~l.!~;111:;tt... -·,:111~::~i 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.69-0.25 9.0 


gjs!i:J~l~l~l!l':i!illl~1I!l!!I:!;Ii~l~:;~!!Ill~llll1Il~;~'!I 
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)+3.75+0.ll 3.0, 
IN BRIEF 
McDonald's stocks hits 7-year low 
McDonald's Corp. warned of lower sales and profits Tuesday following a summer of disappointing results, and its top executive said a series of moves aimed at turning around its slumping U.S. business will take time to pay off. 
The announcement sent McDonald's ailing stock diving another 13 percent, hitting a seven-year low for the second time in a week. 
The hamburger giant said it will slow its rapid expansion pace abroad, where it has been opening an average of three new restau­rants a day, as it invests in a U.S. initiative focused on $1 menu items, restaurant renova­tions and faster, friendlier service. 

Iraq offer may ease OPEC pressure 
With OPEC ministers under pressure to boost oil output and presumably give importers a break from prices driven higher by war fears, Iraq shook things up on Tuesday by offering to readmit U.N. weapons inspectors. 
The news sent oil futures prices down about 
4.4 percent initially on London's International Petroleum Exchange but prices regained some lost ground later to shave the decline to about 2 percent for the day. 
Lower prices could bolster the arguments of those OPEC members who say the oil supply has boen adequate but crude has been inflat­ed by a "war premium" of $2 to $4 per barrel on perceptions that the United States might soon invade Iraq in an attempt to topple President Saddam Hussein. 

GM of Canada agrees to labor deal 
General Motors of Canada and the Canadian Auto Workers reached a tentative agreement Tuesday on a new three-year contract to avoid a strike scheduled to begin at midnight. The agreement had been expected, with both sides expressing optimism throughout the day that a deal was in reach, though it still requires ratification by the CAW workers. 
. Illegal pay­ments approach tens of millions 
As•oclated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. 
Tyco International Ltd. on Tuesday disclosed tens of millions in unauthorized payments to dozens of employees under the com­pany's indicted former chief executive. 
The conglomerate also alleged that the former leader, Dennis Kozlowski, tried to thwart an investiga­tion of the payments and induced former general counsel Mark Belnick to go along for the ride with a hefty, secret compensation package. 
The filing Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission fol­lowed a four-month internal investigation and was the first time Tyco outlined details of a loan forgiveness program. Eleven executives are named as among the 51 Tyco employees who -at Kozlowski's direction and without board approval ­received $56 million in bonuses that effectively canceled out loans they had taken from the company's relocation program. 
The forgiveness program included not only relocation loans, but extra money to reimburse employees for the tax consequences of the loans. 
Another $50 million was paid to Kozlowski and for­mer chief financial officer Mark Swartz, both of whom were indicted last week on charges of looting the com­pany. Belnick also was indicted for falsifying docu­ments to cover up a loan he'd taken. 
Tyco also detailed tens of thousands of dollars in per­sonal expenditures Kozlowski made with com­pany money, including $15,000 for an umbrella stand, $97,000 for flowers and $2,900 for coat hang­ers. 
Paul Lapides, a corporate governance expert at Kennesaw State University in Georgia, said the unau­thorized spending should have been caught by board members years ago and he expects the company's management shake-up to continue. 
"Here's a big company that is being run like a monarchy, and I think what the report is saying is the reign of King Kozlowski is over," Lapides said. "The king is gone and it's time for full and fair disclosure and getting hack to the basics." 
In a lawsuit Tyco filed last week against Kozlowski, the company alleges some of the money was used to buy employees' silence about his misdeeds . 
Tyco spokesman Gary Holmes said the lawsuit was referring just to Belnick and Swartz. The other employ­ees were "misled by Mr. Kozlowski to believe these programs were authorized and proper." He declined to elaborate. 
Tyco, which makes every­thing from security systems to undersea fiber optic cable and had $36 billion in revenue last year, said the forgiven loans were not dis­closed to the board. 
The lawsuit seeks repay­ment from Kozlowski for the loans he approved. 
State securities regulators said Tuesday afternoon there was enough evidence for them to take regulatory action against Tyco and they would decide how to proceed in the next few days. They declined to elab­orate. 
Kozlowski asserted in a September 2000 memo to a human resources officer that more than $95 million in forgiven loans had been approved by the board, even though it hadn't, the company said in the filing. 
Kozlowski told Patricia Prue, Tyco's senior vice president of human resources, the payments were bonuses for good work. Prue received a for­given loan of about $1.3 million, the filing said. 
Mark Foley, a vice presi­dent of finance, prepared a memo signed by Swartz that showed the company would include the expense as part of other charges, rather than account for the loans individually as employee compensation, the filing said. 

The filing also said Kozlowski and Belnick secretly agreed to tie Belnick's compensation to Kozlowski's, "thereby giving Belnick an undisclosed incentive to aid and facili­tate Kozlowski's improper diversion of company funds to Kozlowski's personal benefit." 
The terms of Belnick's compensation were not dis­closed to the board, but Belnick kept a copy of a let­ter from Kozlowski in his office that said Belnick's bonuses would be no small­er than one-third of Kozlowski's. 
Tyco released only the names of senior executives who benefited from the loan forgiveness program in its filing. Holmes said the names of lower-level employees would not be released. 
Those beneficiaries named for the first time are: Jerry R. Boggess, president of Tyco's fire and securities services division; Stephen B. McDonough, former presi­dent of Tyco's plastics divi­sion; Neil R. Garvey, former president and chief execu­tive of Tyco subsidiary TyCom Ltd.; former general counsel Irving Gutin; execu­tive vice president Brad McGee; Prue; Jeffrey Mattfolk; Michael Robinson; and Scott Stevenson. 



Charles Schwab to cut 1,880 jobs 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
Charles Schwab Corp. announced Tuesday it will cut about 10 percent of its work force -roughly 1.880 jobs -as the discount and online brokerage continues to struggle with weak trading volumes. 
In August. the San Francisco­based company hinted it would be making cuts but provided no num­bers. At that time, the company had about 18,800 employees. 
It was not immediately known what business units would be tar­geted by the layoffs, which are expected to be completed by the 
end of November, said Greg Gable, a Schwab spokesman. 
The layoffs will represent Schwab's second major payroll purge in two years as the broker­age continues to adjust to a bear market that has spooked investors and pinched the company's profits. 
Schwab disclosed Tuesday that it expects to earn 7 cents to 8 cents per share in the third quarter. Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call were expecting an average of 8 cents per share. 
With the latest job cuts, Schwab will have cut its work force by about 35 percent, jettisoning more than 9,000 employees, in less than two years. 
Management says it can't afford to retain so many workers with cus­tomers continuing to eschew the stock market. 
Schwab reported that clients made an average of 117,500 daily trades in August, which is up 3 per­cent from 2001 but down 25 per­cent from last month. The figure excludes mutual fund trades. 
The company also said new assets brought by new and existing clients in August totaled $4.4 billion. "While trading volume is down ... we're still seeing positive flows of assets into the company," Gable said. 
Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


thursday




september 19 
6:00 pm -8:30 pm 
Undergraduate seniors, second-year MBAs, MS in Accountancy students (attire is business formal) 

friday


september20 
10:00 am -2:00 pm 
All students regardless of degree, major, college, or year (attire is business casual) 
joyce center north dome 
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 



findoutmore! 
For more information about the participating companies, job descriptions, and contacts, access The Career Center website: 
• 
Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 

• 
Click on the "Undergraduates"title bar, then click on the "Go !RISH" title bar and enter username and password 

• 
Click on "Jobs & lnternships11 

• 
Type in "BCF" (include the quotation marks) in the "keywords" textbox and then click on "Search" 

• 
Click on either "Job Title" or "Employer" title bar for an alphabetical list of jobs or companies attending the Fair 


THE 
CAREER 

University ofNotre Dame
CENTER Mendoza College ofBusiness 





participating n 
Abbott Laboratories Abercrombie & Fitch ABN AMRO/LaSalle Bank 
Accenture 
A.G. Edwards American Express Financial Advisors American Management Systems (AMS) Aon Corporation Bain & Company Bank One Corporation BOO Seidman Bibb and Associates, Inc. bp 
California Franchise Tax Board CAREMARK Carson Pirie Scott & Co. 
Central Intelligence Agency Chicago Consulting Actuaries Chicago Mercantile Exchange CIGNA Citigroup/Salomon 
Smith Barney Cochran, Caronia & Co. Crowe, Chizek and Company Davis Conder Enderle & Sloan Deloitte &Touche Deloitte Consulting (soon to 
become Braxton) Driehaus Capital 
Management, Inc. E& J Gallo Winery Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young FactSet Research Systems, Inc. Federal Bureau of 
Investigation Fiserv General Electric General Mills, Inc. Gibson & Associates, Inc. Headstrong H-E-B Grocery Company Hewlett Packard Honeywell Houlihan Lokey Howard 
& Zukin Huron Consulting Group 
IBM 
lndalex Indiana Department 
ofTransportation lnteCap Johnson & Johnson Jones Lang LaSalle 

KPMG 
Kraft Lutron Electronics Co. Midwest Family 
Broadcast Group 
Morgan Stanley Morningstar, Inc. National City Corporation Newell Rubbermaid News America Marketing Northwestern Mutual 
Financial Network­Hoopis Financial Oak Brook Bank Pfizer PNC Financial Services Group PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble -Finance and Accounting 
Procter & Gamble ­Marketing/Brand Management 
Protiviti Quad/Graphics Robert W. Baird & Co. SBC Ameritech Corporation SCORE Small Business 
Development Center SEI Investments Smart and Associates Social Security Administration State Farm Strong Financial Corporation Stryker Instruments Susquehanna International 
Group Target Corporation Teach For America The Boston Beer Company The Boston Consulting Group The Gallup Organization The St. Paul Companies Towers Perrin Travelers Tucker Alan Inc. Uline 
U.S. Army Healthcare 
U.S. Navy 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Midwest Regional Office 
UnumProvident Vanguard Visteon Corporation Wachovia Walgreens Wells Fargo William Blair & Company World Business Chicago 
0
3 
IIIJIII 
W 
m 
ID ::,-· 
"' 

Wednesday, September 18, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 


34 new shows will debut this fall 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK Ride a new wave of familiarity as another 1V season begins. 
More precocious kids. Tell-tale corpses. People moving in with people who don't want them. Snarky sparring between mates. Attitude. Irony. Hugs. Even an old-fashioned Western -set in the intergalactic future. 
With 34 new fall series, televi­sion remains part "lights and wires in a box" as newsman Edward R. Murrow declared a half-century ago and part echo chamber. 
What's echoing loudest of all are expressions of comfort. 
On this, the first fall lineup to respond to the trauma of 9-11, you can take dramatic comfort from cops-and lawyers-dis­pensed justice, doctors' healing and cozy family life. Plus comfort as recalled from bygone erac;. 
Television, like most of its view­ers, idealizes the past. Just think of the sitcom "Happy Days," which, set in the halcyon '50s, aired from 1974 well into the '80s. 
Now the 1980s provides the nostalgic setting for a pair of new series: the ABC dramedy "That Was Then" and the WB's half­hour comedy "Do Over," which dehut.s Thursday at 8:30 p.m. EDT. Playing to an audience that would love to scrap the past year for a global do-over, each show zaps its adult hero back to high school, where life's mistakes can be nipped in the bud. 
With six major broadcast net­works and dozens of cable outlets vying for your attention, competi­tion this fall is fierce. Thls means how each network crafts its schedule has never had more impact on the fate ofits shows. 
In other words: location, loca­l.ion, location! 
"Scheduling isn't so important that content doesn't matter," says media analyst Steve Sternberg, "but a good show isn't going to succeed just because it's a good show." 
Old viewing habits die hard. So any new series that L•m't blessed with a strong lead-in and soft competition (and few are so lucky) demands a hearty promo­tional push to get it noticed. Otherwise, the viewer may not even know that show exists in the hurly-burly of fall premieres ­and roughly two-thirds of them will be history by May. 
But in some cases, the message is getting through loud and clear. 
Consider ABC's "8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter," which handicappers have picked as a likely success ­and which, for months before its Tuesday premiere, had been heavily promoted. 
John Ritter, the sitcom's long­familiar star, recalls how he was recently approached on the street by a well-wisher. _ 
"He said, 'Hey man, I really like your new show -that teenage girl thing.' rsaid, 'Thanks.'" Ritter rolls his eyes. "The show wasn't even on yet, but after so many promos, this guy thought he'd seen it." 
Never easy, building viewer awareness is even harder for the networks when, thanks to their pack mentality, their new shows seem interchangeable with shows launched by their rivals. 
How much promotional muscle must ABC and CBS apply before a viewer gets the difference between CBS' medical drama "Presidio Med'' and "MDs," ABC's competing medical drama in the Wednesday-at-10-p.m. time slot? 
And what about the remarkably look-alike "Do Over" and "That Was Then" (which premieres on ABC Friday, Sept. 27)? 
On both of these shows, a thir­tyish single guy who feels like a failure is jolted back to his high school years in the 1980s. 
There he has a wisecracking best friend (the only person he entrusts with his time-travel secret), an inattentive father, an unhappy mother and a longing for a beautiful blond classmate, who is introduced to the viewer in dreamy slow motion. 
And he has a chance to correct a life-defining screw-up: Facing the student body to make a speech, he froze in panic the first time around. 
Despite these similarities, there are also differences between the two series. For starters, "Do Over" is a wry comedy, while 'That Was Then" is a bittersweet romance. 

Woodstock holds 'artsy' film fest 
Associated Press 
WOODSTOCK, N.Y. Woodstock is ready for its close-up, again. 
The third annual Woodstock Film Festival kicks off Wednesday. Like the town· hosting it, the five-day festival figures to be artsy and left-of­center with a distinct New York City accent. 
If the Sundance Film Festival conjures up an image of founder Robert Redford, the Woodstock festival's image is closer to one on its Web site showing board member Ethan Hawke in a black T-shirt. 

Woodstock is a regional festi­val, not as big and powerful as showcases like Sundance and Toronto. But Matthew Ross, senior editor at indie WIRE, said the festival is raising its profile and status. Woodstock has a leg up on other regional festi­vals, Ross noted, because it caters to the film community in New York City, about 90 miles south. 
"It will always be a bit higher on the radar than some of the other good regional festivals simply because of the people it can attract," Ross said. 
Actor/director Tim Robbins and Parker Posey -called an Indie Queen for playing so many idiosyncratic characters in independent films -are among big names slated to 

Students can exchange their football tickets 
for regular admission tickets. 
In order to exchange a student ticket tor a regular admission ticket to a specific football game: 
1.students must go to Gate 10 Box Office during the exchange period for the game, which runs from Tuesday through Thursday the week prior to the game. 
2. 
Notre Dame students must pay S22.00, and Saint Mary's and Holy cross students must pay $14.00 (the difference between their price per game and the regular admission price). 

3. 
Each student must exchange his/her own ticket and present his/her student I.D. 


For more information on ticket exchanges and restrictions, call the 
Ticket Office at 1-7356. 
Spunsored by Student Government. 
show up. And since it's Woodstock, a guy from Phish and Arlo Guthrie are on the schedule, too. 
The festival, which runs through Sunday, landed two films that created a buzz in top­rung festivals: "Personal Velocity," which took top dra­matic honors at Sundance, and "Far From Heaven," which earned Julianne Moore best­actress honors this month at the Venice Film Festival. 
Many movie people have full­time or weekend homes near Woodstock in the Hudson Valley. Ismail Merchant of the Merchant-Ivory moviemaking partnership needs only to drive across the Hudson River, orga­nizers say. Festival director Meira Blaustein said an adviso­ry board member with a house in the area helped land Robbins, who is receiving the festival's Maverick Award. 
'There's much less than six degrees of separation. That has a lot to do with a lot of pro­gramming in the festival," she said. 
The Woodstock festival drew about 5,000 people last year, though there were a lot of no­shows because it started the week after the Sept. 11 attacks. Blaustein expects at least that many people this year. 
She said she is trying to build on what this venerable arts colony already has -a.n artis­tic sensibility and a lot of resi­dents involved in music and the media. 
Woodstock became an arts colony a century ago and its countercultural credentials were revived with the 1969 Woodstock festival, which was actually held 50 miles away in Bethel. Blaustein said she tries to pick "movies that make a dif­ference, movies that make you think." 
That sort of sensibility is reflected in festival fare like Gus Van Sant's feature "Gerry," and "The Agronomist," a docu­mentary in progress by Jonathan Demme about a slain Haitian journalist and human rights activist. 
Ram.one's death was overdose 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
A heroin overdose killed Dee Dee Ramone in June, the coro­ner's office said Tuesday. 
A toxicological examination of blood samples taken during an autopsy found that Ramone had a lethal amount in his body, coroner's office spokesman David Campbell said. 
Ramone, a founding member of the punk rock Ramones, was found dead June 5 on the couch of his home by his wife. An overdose was suspected because drug paraphernalia including a syringe was found nearby. 
His death, at age 50, came 11 weeks after the band was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and 14 months after the group's 49-year-old lead singer Joey Ramone died of cancer. 
Dee Dee Ramone was one of the band's major songwriters and its bassist, bringing a fast­paced sound to an era dominat­ed by disco and corporate rock. The first album, "Ramones," was released in 1976. 
The Ramones' best-known songs were "Beat on the Brat," "I Wanna Be Sedated," "Now I Wanna Sniff Some Glue," "Teenage Lobotomy" and "Sheena Is a Punk Rocker." 
In his autobiography, "Lobotomy: Surviving the Ramones," Dee Dee Ramone, whose real name was Douglas Glenn Colvin, wrote of his struggle with drug and alcohol abuse. 


Spacey disputes 
•

magazine 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Kevin Spacey wants the 
world to know that he has 
never been to Fire Island. 
In a letter to the editor in 
this week's issue of New York 
magazine, the actor took gos­
sip columnist Marc Malkin to 
task for reporting that Spacey 
was renting a palatial house on 
the island off Long Island's 
southern coast, complete with 
a private boat. 
Spacey called the item, titled 
"Spacey out in Fire Island," a 
"total inaccuracy." 
Spacey wrote that he'd never 
been to Fire Island and 
quipped that he couldn't possi­
bly have visited the island 
because he had spent the sum­
mer at an amusement park in 
Boise, Idaho. 
"While I understand that 
most of your reporting is done 
in good fun and that this par­
ticular story does not appear to 
have been written with mali­
cious intent," Spacey wrote, "it 
is so completely untrue that it 
seems to warrant a reexami­
nation by New York of the 
freedom it gives to reporters 
who write anything they want 
without concern for the facts." 
page IO The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
Cotntnunity college nutnbers rise 
Associated Pre.ss 
RED BANK, N.J. 
When Jennifer Buono decid­ed where to enroll after high school, she chose little-known Brookdale Community College in central New Jersey over Rutgers University. 
The bottom line, Buono said, was the bottom line. 
"Brookdale is cheaper and you're getting the same edu­cation for less," said the 18­year-old education major. "And when I get out of school, I won't have all those student loans to pay off." 
Across the country, many students have made similar decisions this semester. 
Though official figures aren't available, community college administrators say enrollment is way up, a prod­uct of the sour economy and rising tuition rates at four­year schools, including state universities such as Rutgers. 
Norma Kent, a spokes­woman for the American Association of Community Colleges, said many schools are reporting percentage increases in the double digits for enrollment. 
This comes at a time when community college costs also are creeping up and education budgets nearly everywhere are being squeezed by declin­ing state revenues. 
Barbara Grano, of Lakeland Community College outside Cleveland, said that with a 10 percent increase in students in the past year, classroom capacity is being pushed beyond its limits. Grano recently visited an algebra class where 34 students were squeezed in a room intended to hold 30 maximum. 
"Students are begging their way into classes," Grano said. "They're saying, "Please, let me take this class. I have to get in." 
Such overcrowding troubles Kent. "We are all about access," she said, "And the idea that we might have to turn people away is appalling." 
Recessions tend to inflate college enrollment. But this time is different because the increases are primarily at the community college level, said Barmak Nassirian, a policy analyst with the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. 
With many large, public uni­versities hiking tuition, Nassirian said it is not sur­prising that students are turn­ing to commuter schools. 
"For most families, the eco­nomic downturn doesn't man­ifest itself in depleted portfo­lios but instead forces them to make different choices," Nassirian said. "And for those people, community colleges present a safety net." 
Renee Brock, a freshman at Brookdale Community College, says community col­leges are even more attractive for students who must pay their own tuition. 
"I would say that a lot of people whose parents are paying are going to the four­year colleges," she said. "But for those who are paying their own way, this is a good place to go." 
In cities and towns hard-hit 
by the economic downturn, 
community colleges also have 
become a magnet for dis­
placed workers. 
On the six campuses of the Moberly Arca Community College in northeast Missouri -a region with several plant closings -many of the 2,600 students are repositioning themselves for rccession­prouf jobs. 
The typical Moberly student is female, 29 years old and shows up for computer-orient­ed classes that meet after 5 p.m. 
Moberly has seen credit­hour registration increase by 7 percent this semester. 
"We work with companies to retrain them and bring them to different skill levels. A lot of these folks, with limited skills, need to work on their math and developmental skills to get back in the work force," said Ben Taylor. the dean of technical and career pro­grams at Moberly. 
Community colleges also are increasingly attractive because they are developing ways students can stay beyond the two years of coursework it takes to receive an associate's degree. 
Brookdale has an operating agreement with several col­leges and universities that allows students enrolled in a "communiversity" program to use the Internet and other means to get a bachelor's degree without transferring. 


Public hearings draw fire from. judges 
Associated Press 
PHH.ADELPHIA 
Federal judges considering the legality of secret immigra­tion hearings for terrorism sus­pects expressed concern Tuesday that making the pro­ceedings public could help ter­rorists stage more attacks. 
"We could make a decision here ... and people could die. Lots of people," said 3rd U.S. Circuit Court or Appeals Judge Morton Greenberg. 
The appeals court is consid­ering a Justice Department request to overturn a lower­court ruling that rejected the government's practice of hold­ing secret immigration hear­ings related to the terrorism investigation as unconstitution­al. 
Justice Department lawyer Gregory Katsas told the three­judge panel that opening the hearings could cause "poten­tially catastrophic" harm. For instance, he said, revealing how suspects were caught would give terrorists clues about how to enter the country undetected. 
Media organizations and civil rights groups have sued to make the hearings public, or allow them to be closed only in cases where the government has persuaded a judge that secrecy was necessary to pro­tect national security. 
Hundreds of foreigners were secretly detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service after the Sept. 11 attacks. Critics have charged that many of them weren't ter­rorists and were detained for long periods without cause. 
"Society has an overwhelm­ing interest to know when its government is detaining people for months and months and months," American Civil Liberties Union attorney Lee Gelernt said. 
Unlike criminal or civil trials, immigration hearings aren't always open to the public. Katsas argued that a 40-year­old federal law allows judges to exclude the public from INS detention hearings if doing so is in the public's best interest. 
Detention hearings were open for decades until shortly after Sept. 11, when the chief immigration judge ordered them closed for detainees the FBI though of special interest in the terrorism investigation. 
The judges said they expect­ed to make a decision soon in the case, which the ACLU is arguing on behalf of the New Jersey Law Journal, a weekly publication, and North Jersey Media Group, publisher of the Herald News of West Paterson, a daily newspaper. 
U.S. District Judge John Bissell in Newark, N.J., ruled against the government in May, finding that it could close hear­in gs only on a case-by-case basis. The U.S. Supreme Court in June issued an order staying the decision while the case was appealed to the 3rd Circuit. 


Wednesday, September 18, 2002 page 11
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

ISRAEL 






5 hurt in bombing of Palestinian school 
Associated Press 
HEBRON 

Israeli police and Palestinian officials in the West Bank said they believe extremist Jewish settlers planted two bombs in a Palestinian school yard Tuesday. 
One device exploded, injur­ing five children. 
Yehoshua Mor-Yosef, spokesman for the Jewish Settlers' Council, said the bombing was an "immoral and illegal act." 
Israeli military officials said the explosion occurred near a water cooler in the courtyard of the Ziff junction secondary school south of Hebron. The second bomb was found and safely detonated. The Israeli military controls the junction, a remote region populated mainly by Bedouins. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres' office, mean­while. said the government had rejected a Palestinian cease-fire proposal during a meeting at United Nations headquarters in New York. 
The proposal by Palestinian Cabinet Minister Nabil Shaath called for an end to Palestinian attacks against Israeli civilians in a first phase and an end to all attacks in the second. 
Peres' office said the plan was unacceptable because it would allow attacks on those not classified as civilians dur­ing its first phase. 
That was taken to mean 
Jewish settlers and soldiers in the Gaza-Egypt border, resi­the West Bank and Gaza. dents said. The area is the 
Shaath said the cease-fire scene of frequent clashes. and also calls for an Israeli com­Israeli forces often uncover mitment to stop killing sus­tunnels there used for smug­pected Palestinian militants gling weapons into Gaza. and destroying houses. "If The school yard bomb went Israel will do that, then this off just after recess ended at will pave a way for a compre­9;45 a.m. A 6-year-old boy hensive cease-fire, but unfor­was among the five injured tunately Mr. Peres said that he children. rejects it," the Palestinian On July 26, Palestinians minister said. killed an Israeli couple, their 
In other developments, the 9-year-old son and a soldier Israeli Supreme Court rejected from Hebron in an ambush at a petition by the families of the same junction. two Palestinian suicide Palestinian Cabinet Minister bombers to prevent the Saeb Erekat said he held the destruction of their homes by IEraeli government responsible Israeli forces, Army Radio for Tuesday's bombing. Israel reported. "failed to bring any of those 
The two bombers carried out who kill Palestinians in cold a Dec. 1 attack in which 11 blood to justice," he said. [sraelis were killed. Relatives Most of the violent incidents 
denied they  allegedly  
knew of the  involving  
suicide attackers' plans. Israeli  '1/srael]failed to bring any ofthose who kill Palestinians in cold blood  Jewish extremists have centered on the Hebron  
troops entered the  to justice. ,,  area. The  most  
K  h  a  n  recent  inci­ 
Younis  Saeb Erekat  dent was July  
refugee  Palestinian Cabinet Minister  28, when  a  
camp  in  Palestinian  
Gaza earli­ girl was shot  
er Tuesday  and  killed  
and blew up  during  the  
metal work- funeral of an  

shops where the Israelis say Israeli soldier in the divided Palestinians were making city. Settlers are suspected, weapons, the latest in a series and several were detained for of almost nightly raids by questioning. Israeli forces in Gaza. · Hebron is divided into 
On Tuesday evening, Israeli Palestinian and Israeli-con­forces destroyed a house in trolled zones, with Israeli sol­diers patrolling the center of school in east Jerusalem, the city, where about 450 injuring a teacher and four Jewish settlers, including children. Jewish militants some of the claimed most mili­responsibility 
tant in the "IfIsrael will ... [stop for that 
West Bank, attack, but no
killing suspected 
live in three one has been 
enclaves militants}, then this will charged. and clash page a way for a There have frequently been several
comprehensive
w i t h other inci­Palestinians. cease-fire ... " dents, most On April involving set­28 of this tle rs taking
Nabll Shaath 
year, Israeli revenge in

Palestinian Cabinet Minister
police foiled West Bank an attack by villages after Jewish set-Palestinian tlers when terror attacks their car or funerals was stopped next to a for Jewish victims. Palestinian girls school on the However, of the 1,790 Mount of Olives in Jerusalem. Palestinians who have been 
A huge bomb was subse­killed in the two-year conflict, quently found in a trailer the Jewish extremists are suspect­car was towing. Police said the ed in only a few deaths. settlers had intended to set off Since the conflict began, 609 the bomb as Palestinian girls people have been killed on the arrived for school that morn­Israeli side. ing. Settlers have been prime 
Four Israelis from Bat Ayin, targets of Palestinian attacks a settlement north of Hebron, throughout the conflict, and were arrested and remain in experts have warned that a custody. Jewish terror underground 
On July 19, 2001, gunmen could form to carry out ambushed a car on a road revenge attacks. This could west of Hebron, killing three be frightfully reminiscent of a Palestinians, including an settler-dominated terror group infant. A shadowy Jewish which emerged in the mid-extremist group claimed 1980s that attacked responsibility. The gunmen Palestinian mayors and a apparently escaped into Israel, Hebron university. That group and no one has been charged had also planned to blow up in the ambush. Palestinian buses and the Al 
In March this year, a bomb Aqsa Mosque, Islam's holiest went off in another Palestinian site in Jerusalem. 
Need a ride to the 

@[GO NOTRE lJAME Vo 
Michigan State Game?? 
Take th.e Student Activities Charter! 
Tickets are $20.00 and include transportation only. 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk beginning September 12. Buses leave for Lansing at 8:15am and return af­ter the game. Buses have wheelchair accessability., please contact Student Activities if you require this service. 


For more information contact the Student Activities Office at 1-7308 . 
. . \ ... " ... •-. '''' 
\ ........... ' .... \ \. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 






VIEWPOINT 

page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. BQX Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre D:une, TN 46556 
EDITOR !N CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGINC EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kace Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT .EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR.; Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 

Ao DFSIGN .MANAGER! Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMJNISTRAT0R: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROILER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us 
OmCE MANAGER/GENERAL lNFo..............631-7471 
FAX................... ················· ...................... ...631-6927 AoV£.RTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT, ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPO!NT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................ 631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOTO ........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 

THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as carcoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contenc, including adverrisemencs, is not governed by policies of the adminiscration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenc the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and noc necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lecters is encouraged. Lecrers co che Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions r,garding Observerpo/um should be direct­ed tD Editor in ChiefjtlJOn McFark-y. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Otn("tver (USPS 599 2-4000) ii publuhcd Mond.i.y chrough Friday ao:pc during. c:nm ~d vaation period£. A 1ubscription to The-Observer is-S100 fur one academic ynr, $55 fo,ronc ICfflcncr. 
The OD$C"rver is puhli,hc:d it: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send add.ra,co~tioru w: 
Notre 0.iJJH;, IN 165~6--0779 The Observer 
rmodiol fMlStagc rud. H None D.unc P.0.BexQ .md ;;ddirfot!al m.aili!2g vffica. 024 Sou.d> Di.nin,: Hall 
Nottt Dame, lN -465S6-0n9 

The Oba:rvct is• inemb.:::r ofdu: A.uoc:ia,ted Pn:u. All n:produa:ion righe att =n«i. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Meghanne Katie McVoy Downes Bryan Kronk Bill Puckett Scene John Fanning C. Spencer Beggs 
Viewpoint Lah Tech 
Sheila Flynn Claire Kelly 
Graphics IJlustrator 
Mike Harkins Veronica Kelleher 
Random hookups. These beer­soaked, hormone-induced incidents have become as much a part of campus life as pep rallies and freshman semi­nars. And lately, on a campus that demands conve­nience and simplici­ty, it's as if a ran­dom hookup has become the ulti­mate form of Grab 'n' Go. 
Much like our favorite bagged version of lunch on the run, a ran­dom hookup is simple, easy and always an option. The appeal of Grab 'n' Go is in its convenience. There's no com­mitment to the dining hall, no cumber­some trays -there's no need to even sit down. 
We often get our Grab 'n' Go in between lunch and dinner. just as we often have our hookups in between relationships. Sometimes, we even for­get the names of the items we've cho­sen. And the fact that athletes enjoy unlimited Grab 'n' Go only furthers the point. 
After all, isn't the literal definition of a random hookup to grab ... and go? 
It seems that the dimly lit, window­less bars we frequent at night are replaced by dimly lit, windowless din­ing hall side rooms during the day and the ease in which we choose our veg­etable trays and leftover chocolate brownies follows us into our evening activities. We choose what we want fairly easily, bag it and leave as quickly as possible. The same can be said for many of our random hookups. 

Notre Dame is a community that always seems to be on a deadline. We allow a certain amount of time to sleep, study, party and eat. We priori­tize our time and often look for a way to get things done as quickly and effi­ciently as possible. We're very focused. Any added restraints on our time are met with a great deal of anxiety. Whatever it is, we just don't have the time. That's why we get Grab 'n' Go. That's why we have our hookups. 
Yes, there is an enormous difference between getting some lunch and simply getting some. However, both seem to function on the simple basis that they are frequent, convenient and ultimate­ly unsatisfying. 
We complain every day that what we are offered at Grab 'n' Go simply isn't enough. That we require more to be satisfied. That it's not a valid substitute for what we can get in the dining hall, if only we invested the time. 
Just as it's difficult to find satisfac­tion in the shallow depths of a paper Grab 'n' Go bag, it's not easy to find love after a random hookup. Both should be taken for what they are ­convenient, easy ways to get a little something when you need a little something. 
However, similar to the dining halls, there are non-negotiable rules to be enforced when embarking on an adventure such as a random hookup. 
For example, if you've never before laid eyes on your new object of affec­tion, take note: This person will show up on every corner you pass for the rest of your collegiate career. It's a known fact. 
Also. just as waiting until the end of the day can limit your choices greatly when getting Grab 'n' Go, waiting until the end of the night to choose your new love interest can lead to choices similar 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Has the new alcohol policy prompted you to tailgate off campus? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
to the leftover, soggy turkey-on-rye 
option. It's always best to make these 
choices as early as possible for this 
reason, as no one likes to leave with a 
soggy sandwich. 
And please, don't make it a habit. When we forgo the dining hall alto­gether and only get Grab 'n' Go, it's simply not healthy. Eventually we become as limited in life as we are in our Grab 'n' Go choices. 
Most importantly, we can never let our emotions run high. We must recog­nize that the circumstances of a ran­dom hookup are accompanied by the consequences of one. Chalk it up to the atmosphere, the attraction or the Amstel Light, but it is important to realize that when the hooking up is over, it's not as simple to forget as a discarded Grab 'n' Go bag. lt can be ignored and disregarded, but when it comes down to it, the grabbing is easy. It's the going that can be the hard part. 
Whether it's hormone-or hunger­driven, we love the ease and conve­nience of Grab 'n' Go just as we enjoy our random hookups. Both are almost entirely non-committal. Both are almost always an option and there are always several choices. However, we may have our choice of tuna on a bun or three cheese on wheat, but in the end, do we really want either? 
After all, too much Grab 'n' Go can give you indigestion. Too many random hookups can give you quite a heartache. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American studies major and journal­ism. Her column runs every other Wednesday. Contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I don't want money. It is only people who pay their bills who want that, and I never pay mine." 
Oscar Wilde novelist 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

Wednesday, September 18, 2002 page 13 
Discovering front porch liberation 

Reflection is a part of being that we have learned to ignore. Most ofus don't go for walks, don't explore our neighbor­hoods or sit around and ponder. Hanging out, drinking tea and every once in a while having a beer with my house­
Paul Graham 

mates and friends is a freedom I can explore at my 
Another

house. My front 
Perspective

porch is my libera­tion from this mun­dane life I am sup­posed to live. I am resisting the world that we are told to live in and creating my own existence: leisure. contemplation and almost a spirituality that cannot be found on a bench on campus. 
The people that I live with have discov­ered how to slow down, take time out of the day to contemplate and take in every­thing that has been happening. We sit around. relaxing, clearing our heads and joking around about everything and any­thing, talking about poverty, education and Chinese tea. We look out into the street and wave to "strangers'' who walk or ride by as we listen to music from our living room and have a good time. 
So many of us hurry about our lives, going to school for that education that will bring us financial success and there­fore happiness in our lives. 
Thinking like a busy businessperson causes us to forget about art, literature, poetry and music. We are made to think, "If it doesn't make us money, what's the use or point?" Thus, art sucks, poetry sucks, exploring essential questions about faith and the meaning of work suck. At an 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cooperation is needed to resolve gender issues 
I can see that not much has changed since I left Notre Dame. 
Some guys still hold the stereotype that the Notre Dame women are ugly. I'm will­ing to bet there are still a lot of nasty rumors out there concerning the "virtue" of Saint Macy's girls. 
Surely. there are still cheers of "BP fat" at pep rallies. Clearly, there is a funda­mental problem with gender relations at Notre Dame. 
Simply put, the boys and girls just don't know how to play nice together. 
What are the reasons for this problem? I wish I had a simple answer. I think a big part of the problem is the forced separa­tion of the two sexes into single sex dorms, in conjunction with parietals. While I understand the University's stated reason for this is to keep the dorms from being unruly and to quiet them down so people can study and sleep, the simple fact of the matter is that it also limits the amount of interaction that occurs between the two genders. 
Not to mention that the girls' dorms are like a cell block on lockdown most of the time. IL isn't all that easy to just pop over to a girl's dorm to say hi or hang out. In most. or maybe all by now, you have to be let in and then sign in, and then sign out. I understand that this is mainly for security reasons but it also sometimes makes the girls' dorms a little oppressive to be in. 
Another problem may be the lack of true social space. While it has gotten better with the addition of Reeker's and the expansion of the Huddle, I still don't think early age, we quit seeking answers to questions about life. We settle for a quick "because," and begin to believe that we have no power over life. Poetry, art and other forms of expression disappear or are turned into lucrative gears in the 
money-making machine that runs life, "Just because ... that's how it is." 
Self-exploration ceases. Relationships with our neighbors either do not exist or are superficial. We've stopped living life to submit our­selves to various kinds of authori­tarian order of some type, and forget the simple art of sitting around and shooting the breeze. The only time that people, especially college 
~~­
students, take time -----~----·._ _ us money and is 
out of their work or · ~---==== ~ therefore not asked. studies is to play video \ ----~.,: , We delve into the games, watch a sports psyche of poets like Alan game or get trashed. · . 1 Ginsberg, Walt Whitman 
Few engage in serious dis-IV~ and Jack Kerouac, the socio-course, but instead discuss more ---~ logical theories of Marxism, 
about the alcohol that we drank last weekend or are about to consume this weekend. Most ofus have forgotten how to debate and discuss life, social issues and our personal relationships. We are constrained psychologically by the "iron cage" that we have developed and are 
it is enough. The University is very isolated behind its expansive grounds and gate­houses. It isn't all that easy to get off cam­pus ifyou don't have a car. Moreover, South Bend isn't the quintessential college town. 
Thus, this need for social space must be met by the University, as I think it is beyond even Notre Dame's ability to level South Bend and build the classic "college town." 
The problem could also stem from the University's strong reliance on a strict "in loco parentis" strategy of dealing with stu­dents that I felt was a little repressive dur­ing my years there. 
After all, people go to college to get away from their parents, not to inherit an administration building full of them. If you treat people like children, that's how they'll act and there seem to be a lot of children at Notre Dame right now. 
Whatever the cause, there is a big prob­lem between the genders at Notre Dame. They insult each other, they don't date (honestly, how many colleges have you heard of that have a date week?), they don't seem Lo respect one another and they don't interact in they way that people their age should interact socially. The University and the students need to put their heads together to come up with a solution to this problem. 
It's gone on for far too long already. 
Cory Wagner 
class of 2000 Sept. 17 
allowing to control our social interactions -we do not know how to slow down and reflect. 
Porches have an awesome power that allows us to slow down and analyze. My housemates and I gather on the porch, 
\ 
sometimes declaring a holiday from homework {whether we can afford to or not) and sitting around contem­plating. We talk about 
war, our faith, ques­tions of life that we 
m~h~e,thejo~ of friendships, plans for going 
camping, books 
we are reading
and sometimes reading poetry to each other. We are explor­ing what it 
means to "be" in an age where asking, "Who am 
I?" does not make 
Confucianism and Taoism, and the nat­ural beauty of the earth that we are slow­ly destroying. 
One moment we can be discussing a book and the next we are giving a glass of orange juice to Hansen, a 38-year-old man who lives nearby and is constantly 
Birth control is not the answer 
The Notre Dame sex policy has no need for revision, whether it be in the form suggested by Ben Le Roy or not. This policy upholds an elementary Christian truth: sex is "wonderful and spiritual," as Le Roy states in his Sept. 12 letter, and it should only be undertaken within the context of marriage. 
As incredible as it may seem to some of us, the Notre Dame administration is neither stupid nor blind. They know full well their policy cannot stop stu­dents from having sex and, as such, have programs to accommodate women who do become pregnant. 
However, the solution Le Roy proposes would only aggravate the problem. Any form of birth control. condoms or pills, would actually increase the preg­nancy rate. It is the atmosphere of "safe sex" that causes people to equate "safe" with "failsafe," something birth control is not. In fact, three out of 10 condoms fail to perform correctly and pills work only 86 percent of the time. With the idea of "safe sex" in mind, more people would have sex, leading to more pregnancies, which, if one follows Le Roy, would lead to more con­doms. 
Furthermore. one might ask what happens to the 14 percent of women whose pills fail. At this point, the majority of pills (all but two or three brands) turn abortifacicnt. In other words, the pill kills the unborn child days or even hours after conception. An outright abortion seems contrary to Le Roy's "wonder and joy at the miracle of life." Chances are the woman will never even know she was pregnant. 
Finally, Notre Dame is a Catholic university, and being such should and must abide by Catholic teaching. The Catholic Church has always taught that artificial birth control is immoral. This is not a new idea, as some claim, but originated with the Apostles themselves in the Didache, circa 70 AD. Moreover, birth control is directly contrary to God's first command to mankind, "Be fruitful and multiply" (Genesis 1:28). 
Instead of hypocritical. I would call Notre Dame's sex policy Catholic: it pro­fesses a universal moral law while accepting our fallen human state. If, how­ever. Notre Dame were to follow Le Roy's proposal, the policy would be not only hypocritical, but also immoral, anti-Catholic, and anything but "safe." 
Becket Gremmels sophomore Alumni Hall Sept. 17 
looking for work. He always offers to sweep and clean our porch, cut our grass or do anything else for money, but we are always broke and can only offer a banana or an apple. We have developed a friend• ship with him. We know his story and he knows ours. We are constantly meeting people, learning about their lives and their stories and in the process, building relationships. 
Being off-campus does leave us more vulnerable than living on-campus. but that is something that we want to risk. We want to open ourselves up to the neighborhood and South Bend, a city with 200,000 people -a mix of blacks. whites, Latinos, Vietnamese, Bosnians and more. Students cannot discover life from a dorm, but only from a porch, where rent is due, you owe your housemates money from the utilities last month and real stress can begin to shape you. 
Life is only a front porch away. Explore yourself through honest dialogue with friends and neighbors, read poetry, share your thoughts and discover what life feels like through exploring what is not prof• itable. Our porch is our escape, our liber­ation, our freedom from a life and its complexities, ironies and backwardness which we are only beginning to under­stand. 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major with a minor in Catholic social tra­dition. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

tston 

page 14 Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
A loft apartment in New York. The lavishly decorat­ed double-sized SoHo apartment housed the first incarnation of reality television. 
Season 1: New York 
Capitalizing on the success of the first season, MTV moved the popular show to an even more fantastic house on the west coast. 
Season 2: Los Angeles
1993 
MTV's next dream pad in San Francisco suffered a fire afte filming ended causing over $2 million in damages. 
Season 3: San Francisco 
1 994 

'Real World' in 
M7V's grandfather of reality shows 
backgrounds, and
ByC. SPENCER BEGGS 
stick them in a 
Scene Editor 
house (or a reason­able facsimile)Las Vegas, the city built on the hedonistic 
together for a few fantasies, welcomes the real world in for 
months and record 
the first time. The end of Vegas as we 
nearly every
know? No, "The Real World" blends right In 
moment. 
to the city of sin. 
"The Real World" "The Real World," MTV's premiere reality 
has even made 
television show where a group of seven 20­
minor celebrities somethings are selected to live together and out of cast mem­be recorded for broadcast has chosen The 
bers like Puck from 
Palms Hotel for the location of its 12th sea­
season three. And son. from the way the The cast of"Real World: Las Vegas," made season is set upits debut with a one-hour premiere Tuesday. 
after the Las VegasThe show airs from 10 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. cast's initial Tuesdays for the remainder of the season. episode, it appearsThe seven cast members are all picture­this group is des­perfect. Or, as the MTV bios variously tine for fame, be it describe: "strikingly handsome," "stunning" short lived or not. and "the very picture of all-American The group certainly charisma and good looks." will not short­"I have to admit we are very fortunate. We change viewers on have an exceptional-looking cast this sea­drama, either. son," series producer Tracy Chaplin, a 12-As soon as cast year "The Real World" veteran told the members meet in Associated Press. "And a lot of it just boils their "home," there down to the people who apply to the show. seems to be the They're usually highly motivated. They're kind of chemistry very active. They are certainly conscious of both friendly and their appearance. Those are the people who sexual that best tend to make great cast members." fuels ,reality-based "The Real World" is the grandfather of TV. today's reality TV programming, debuting For example, it in 1992. The show has spawned a host of isn't long before imitators that add various twists to the there is an unex-


In its twelfth season, "Th
premise, such as the voting off of pected hook-up 

las Vegas the least real ci
"Survivor," but all have stuck with MTV's between room-

crew occupy an entire I,
original formula: beautiful people, free mates, complicated association confessionals and 24-hour mon­by hurt feelings by itoring. two other room­

Season 12 
The original show was set in a New York mates who feel 
2
loft apartment, followed by houses in Los slighted by the Angeles and San Francisco. Other "Real randy couple. World" locales have been New Orleans, The Las Vegas Chicago, Hawaii, Boston, Seattle and cast seems as dynamic as ever, which of London. course causes the conflict and hence the 
The premise is always the same: Take sev­interest in the show. eral young adults ages 18 to 24 from differ­Blonde bombshell Brynn is a party ani­ent races, places, and social and economic mal, as she described herself to a bellman 

In Boston, MTV set house. No stranger tJ 
Still a cash cow for MTV, the company moved the reality franchise across the Atlantic. The show was more popular than ever. 

Bringing "The Real World" back across the pond, the cast lands itself an almost 13,000 square foot SeasonSeason 4: London house in Miami. Of course, everyone in the real world lives like this.
1995 
Season 5: Miami 
1996 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 18, 2002 page 15 
the City of Sin 

Real World" has arrived in 
in the world. The cast and 
or. The cost: $2 million. 
Las Vegas 
02 
when she first made her way through the casino floor of the Palms. Though currently single and not looking for a long­term relationship, Brynn certainly isn't disinterested in the romantic scene. 
Arissa is about fun, but remains practical and con­cerned about her finances. Having lived in the Boston projects all of her life, Arissa hopes that "The real World" will be her ticket out of a type of life she detests. Strong-willed and deeply compas­sionate, she sens­es a deep bond with fellow cast member Irulan. 
The streetwise lrulan initially seems to be the quiet one of the bunch, but is, in fact, not afraid of asserting her place in the house. She maintains an open relationship with her boyfriend, which seems to indicate a future dilemma. She also reaches out to Arissa for friendship and the 

two wind up sharing a room. 
Trishelle ls from a small town in Louisiana and is worried her roommates will assume she lacks intelligence because of her back­ground and accent. Once devoutly religious, Trlshelle, now finds strength to deal with her problems inside of herself. Somewhat headstrong, she also exudes vulnerability. 
Steven is the "all-American'' to whom MTV was referring. He's funny in a goofy way and a perennial flirt and women seem to respond -including at least two room­mates. Embroiled in a divorce from a snap­decision marriage, Steven Is a self-help poster child. Having taken care of himself since he was 16, the heterosexual Steven once worked in a topless gay bar to make ends meet. 
Alton is a violinist and in-line skater who also enjoys rock climbing. The modern Rennaisance man, he comes across as the peacemaker of the group, but also seems the most likely to push buttons. 
Frank is the kind of son many parents may wish they had: smart, athletic and ultra polite. Born and raised in a small whole­some town in Pennsylvania by the definitive nuclear family. he is, ironically, the cast member most out of his element. 
To accommodate the cast and crew, six Palms hotel rooms were combined into one massive suite featuring three bedrooms, a communal shower with separate stalls, a bathroom and wash area, a kitchen and dining area, living area and game area. 
And, of course, there is the confessional: the isolated small room with the fixed cam­era where cast members can record their thoughts in secret ... at least, until the series airs and the confessions are brought to light. 
MTV has kept a tight lid on the plot and even the names and descriptions of the cast members and understandably so. Executives at MTV want the show's twists and turns to remain a surprise. 
But, if Tuesday's premiere episode is an indication, viewers are in for sex, partying and drama as only "The Real World" can provide it. Welcome to Sin City, USA. 
Jason McFarley contributed to this arti­cle. 

Though MTV tried to maintain a low proflle during ­
filming, an accident tipped off the location to Chicago newspapers before filming began inciting protests, none of which were lncfoded in the cut footage. 
Season 11: Chicago 
2001 

-
With nine seasons down and still going strong, MTV returned to a-loft in New York less than a mile from the original apartment. 
Season 10: New York 
Located on the historic St. Charles Ave., "The Real World" got a taste of creole in the deep South ofLouisiana. 
Season 9: New Orleans 
2000 


The pier house in Seattle was not so much a 
World" cast in their most exotic location yet. 
house as it was a "24-hour film set.·• Seattle 

: Boston 
forbids occupancy ofpiers. 
Season 8: Hawaii
Season 7: Seattle 
1999 
1998 

Wednesday, September 18, 2002 The Obseroer . SPORTS page 16 
NFL 
Broncos consult NFL after communication failure 
Associa.ted Press 
DENVER 

The Denver Broncos contacted the NFL on Monday about using alternative means of communication in future games after their headsets failed to work against the San Francisco 49ers. 
The Broncos usually give the plays to quarterback Brian Griese through a radio transmitter in his helmet, but the signal was crossed with one being used by emergency personnel and ushers at 49ers Stadium in San Francisco on Sunday. 
Denver had to shuttle players into the game to get the plays to Griese, and he even called a few plays of his own when tho calls didn't come in quick enough. 
Broncos coach Mike Shanahan said league officials told the team before the game that there was a problem with the frequency, but they couldn't do anything about it. San Francisco had no problems with its headsets. 
"We're going to check into it and see what type of alternatives we do have, what type of backup systems we can have," Shanahan said. "Can we change the frequency, so we can at least be able to communicate? We're working on that hard today. and hopefully we can come up a solution in the next couple of days." 
NFL spokesman Michael Signora said the officials were correct in letting the 49ers continue to use their headsets. 
-
Under rules in the NFL Operations Manual. if one team has trouble commu­nicating from the coaches' booth down to the field, the other team must not use its system. 
But the rule only applies to coaches try­ing to talk to other coaches, Signora said. 
"The coach-to-quarterback is not sub­ject to the equity rule," Signora said. "If one team experiences difficulty with the coach-to-quarterback communication, the other club does not have to shut down." 
Teams use encryption to keep their communications from being tapped into, but somehow the Broncos were getting interference on their frequency, Signora said. Denver's coaches had no trouble communicating between the booth and the field. 
Signora said officials in San Francisco are trying to determine exactly what happened and assured the league it wouldn't happen again. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES LOST & FOUND 
~ 
CJs Pub See whats happening LOST: SIGNET RING AT MICHi­www cispub com GAN GAME ON 9114. PLEASE 
CALL JOHN AT 634-1090. Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Found: Womans gold watch on Trips, drinks&meals Saturday, September 14th in The Party w/ MTV Huddle. Hottest Destinations Call 245-3508 to identify. Most Reliable www suos111astrtours com 1-800·426•7710 
WANTED 

Available Game Weekends: COUN­TRY ESTATE Three Bedroom $250 a day potenliallbartending. Home, Country Setting on Training provided 1-800-293-3985 Operating Horse Farm, 20 min from ext 556 campus Contact Mitch Magari-Ya Stables RIDING INSTRUCTORS; and Equestrian Center ENGLISH/ WESTERN 574-299-1607 PART-TIME POSITIONS TO magariyastables@aol.com WORK AROUND CLASSES 
20 MIN FROM CAMPUS. Contact www workforntudents com Mitch Nihart 574-282-2357 Magari-Ya Stables and Equestrian 
Center ••·ACT NOW1 Guarantee the best 574-299-1607 spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER· Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, EES needed for south side elernen-
Florida & Mardigras. tary school TRAVEL FREE, located near Scottsdale Reps needed, EARN$$$ Mall on Miami Street. Group Discounts for 6+. $30 00 per soccer game; 1 888 THINK SUN $20.00 per VB match to qualified ( 1 888-844-6578 dept 2626) / refs. www si:iriogbr!!a~disrouots cam Call 291-4200. 
PART-TIME WORK $14.05 base­
appt. Flex. around classes. We 
train. All majors. Gust service & 
sales. No door-to-door telemarket­
ing Build resume. Internships. cond. 
apply.www workforstudents com 
574-282-2357 
#1 Spring Break VacationslMexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texasl Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties &Meals! 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Make $320 Weeki Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext. 123. WWW SUl::iCt:IASE COM 
FOR SALE 
Dratting tables -$25-30 Student desks $25 631-4969 
99 Jeep Wrangler. Maroon w/tan 
lop. 
Good cond.,CD,hitch,rack. 43K b/o. 315-4176 
Completely remodeled 2 bdrm. home in Oakmont Park near University of ND. Must see to appreciate. Call 243-7434. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT-ALL NOTRE DAME vs MICHIGAN 
WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM-STATE FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 
PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES SALE AT 517-351-1992 OR LOG
FOR RENT 
UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL: ON TO: WWW Jamesthe leopei@hotmail.com ticketman.com 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com Comfy, 5bdr home, 30 min.from www mromr.eo!als com N.D. On Indian Lake, Dowagiac, Ml. 
Next to golf course. $1300-Thurs PERSONAL ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR thru Mon. $1,000 sec dep. Call Ron RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. 312-907-9708 email: UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. ron@gsec9.com not go it alone. If you or someone 
DOMUS PROPERTIES· NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4-5·6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM -MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS­CALL TODAY • HOUSES GOING FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 ­(574)674­2471 
HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003: We have a variety of houses includ­ing two of the best undergrad hous­es you can rent. Call Bil! at 532­1896 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for football/par­en! wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80-$1 15, Middlebury, 30 miles from cam­pus. Toll Road. Exit 107, 800-418-9487. 
you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1 · 
TICKETS 7819. For more information, see our 
bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. Give adoption a chance .we are 
happily married and need your help NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME in starting a family. Will provide a GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593 lifetime of love, laughter and end­
less opportunities. Call our attorney Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. toll free at 866-215-2229. 289-8048 or astrog999@aol.com ND grad with Ph.D. doing child 
care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home WANTED: ND tickets -near campus. HIGHEST PRICES PAID 234-8004 251-1570 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS ND TICKETS FOR SALE Americas #1 Student Tour Operator LOWEST PRICES Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free 289-9280 Information/Reservations 1-800· 
648-4849 or www ll!S![a~el.com ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 5'4" scene editor looking for date. 
No, really, he is. No requirements, ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-just a pulse. Call Spencer. ED AM 232-2378 Lauren, I think your mom is an PM 288-2726 option for him 

Wednesday, September 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
You Can Have It 1111 


Free Checking 


~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
lndependentofthe University 


SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni 
Student Returnees 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 129 Hayes-Healy 6:00-7:30 p.m. & Wed.,Sept.18,2002 129 Hayes-Healy 4:45-6:15 pm. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 
Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall '03 and All Year 2003-04 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Alabama, Kentucky lose sanction appeals 
• Both schools banned from bowl appearances due to 'numerous, egregious violations' 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 
The NCAA rejected Alabama's request that it ease sanctions against the football program on Tuesday. 
Kentucky, off to a 3-0 start this season, also lost its appeal to the NCAA. T h e Wildcats were hop­ing a bowl ban would be lifted. 
Alabama sought restoration of six scholarships and its bowl eligibility but the appeals committee upheld all the penalties imposed after the program was cited for illegal 

and well presented both in writing and in our meeting with the appeals committee last month." 
"Through this adversity, we will move forward and become stronger than ever," athletic director Mal Moore said. 
The NCAA placed Alabama on five years' probation on Feb. 1, tacking on six scholar­ship cuts to the university's self-imposed reduction of 15, and banning the team from participating in a bowl game for two years. 
The infractions committee cited Alabama for illegal recruiting practices by boost­ers, with chairman Thomas Yeager saying the panel con­sidered the so-called "death penalty" which would shut down the program for at least one season. 
The university also contend­ed that the committee wrongly used the testimony of a secret witness in punishing "a blame­less, indeed exemplary, insti­tution." 
The secret witness told the NCAA enforcement staff in March 2000 about an Alabama booster's involvement in the recruitment of defensive 
recruiting by boosters and other infrac­ "Through this adversity, we will move forward  lineman K e n n y Smith in  
tions. The appeals report stated  and become stronger than ever. "  1995, and again in 1996.  
that the penal­ Under  
ties  were  Mal Moore  NCAA poli­ 
appropriate  Alabama athletic director  cy,  no  
"because the  names have  
violations  in  b  e  e  n  
this case were  released,  

numerous and particularly but case details appeared to egregious." indicate that the witness is an 
"But for the unequivocal Alabama employee. cooperation of the university, Alabama said the testimony it's very clear the death penal­of the secret witness was per­ty most probably would have missible only as background 
been imposed," said Clemson information 
athletic direc­tor Terry Don Phillips, chair­
"But for the unequivocal 
man of the Division I cooperation of the 
Infractions university, it's very clear 
Appeals 
the death penalty most 
Committee. 
Interim probably would have Alabama been imposed." 
President J. Barry Mason 
said university Terry Don Phillips officials "dis­Division I Infractions Appeals agree and are Committee chainnan 
disappointed" with the deci­sion. 
about illegal actions of a booster in the recruit­ment of lineman Albert Means in 2000. The uni­versity said the N C A A wrongly used the secret wit­ness to get around a 
In a statement, Mason said four-year time limit that would the university's arguments for have barred the Smith case relief "were grounded in fact from even being considered. 






the stands. "Whenever you see your used to move With 6:38 teammates coming out on the fans back. 
remaining The cooling
the field and ... grabbing

in the game fans on the 
a n d their throats ... it's a Philadelphia Philadelphia pretty tough situation. " bench helped 
leading 37-spread the 7, the spray quickly. Eagles play­Donovan McNabb "The first guy ers scat­Eag1es quarterback that went down 


Associated Prcss 
I.ANDOVER. Md. 

Monday night's game between the Washington Redskins and Philadelphia Eagles was stopped briefly in the fourth quarter after police used pepper spray to break up a fight in 
tered from the bench area and referee Bob McElwee announced that there was "some kind of a foreign sub­stance sprayed on the Eagles sideline." Players and fans in the stands on that side of the field held their hands over their faces. 
"Whenever you see your teammates coming out on the field and pretty much grabbing their throats or covering their nose, it's a pretty tough situa­tion," Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb said. "I've never been a part of anything like that. It's a first for me, it's probably a first for Monday night. Hopefully, it doesn't hap­pen again." 
Redskins spokesman Karl Swanson said there was a dis­turbance in the fan area a few rows up behind the Philadelphia bench. Swanson said a Prince George's County police officer intervened and that a "small amount of pep­per spray" was 
was Ike 
Reese," Philadelphia coach Andy Reid said. "He started barfing, and we all just followed right along. We just walked onto the field. and I just told them to keep going." 
Swanson initially said the offi­cer was injured, but the Redskins later released a state­ment saying that the officer was not hurt. No arrests were made. 
The smell soon dissipated. After a delay of about eight min­utes, McElwee announced that it was safe to resume the game, and the Eagles players returned to their bench. 
Philadelphia won 3 7 -7. 

I 
I 
I I I I 
I 
I I 
I I 
I ~ 
I I 
I  
II  .  
I  
I  
I  • ..  
I  
I  
I  

ATTENTION GUYS: There isa small number of seats left on the bus for this Friday's Sophomore Road Trip. The 

,kTION: 
women's spots, on the other hand, have u vVV\ been filled for more than a week. Looks like the women of Notre Dame are more adventurous than the men.... 





Guys, There's still time to sign up for a weekend of adventure. Go to Room 111 of the CoMo by midnight on Thursday, bring some friends, fill out an application, pay 25 bucks and you're in. If you're wondering what exactly we'll be doing on the SRT, just think "Outdoors Adventure." This is not a retreat ... if it were, we'd have called it the Sophomore Retreat... it's the Sophomore Road Trip.•.. don't miss it. 

..-------------------------­
Wednesday, September 18, 2002 page 19 
Saying goodbye to a legend 
u Bagpipes, roses and receivers help 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

With the wall of bagpipes fill­ing the cathedral and his coffin covered ln white lilies and rnses, Johnny 
Unitas was remembered as "the greatest," a quarterback who made the impossible possi­ble. Before more than 2,000 relatives, fans and friends, the Hall of Farner was honored Tuesday as a leader who forev­er changed the NFL and made everyone around him better. Unitas died Wednesday of a heart attack at 69. 
Former Baltimore Colts receiver Raymond Berry, Unitas' most frequent target, told the crowd his teammate was a "once-in-a-lifetime quar­terback." 
"You elevated all of us to unreachable levels, whether we 
NFL 
Matthews looking to play 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 

Quarterback Shane Matthews, whose non-throw­ing shoulder was injured in the Washington Redskins' loss to Philadelphia, said Tuesday he expects he'll be able to play Sunday against San Francisco. 
Matthews bruised his left shoulder Monday night when he was hit on the final Redskins drive of the first half in the 37-7 loss. Matthews fin­ished the series, but Danny Wuerffel replaced him at the start of the second half. 
An exam Tuesday revealed nothing more serious than a bruise. 
"I plan on playing," Matthews said. "I felt like I could play the second half." 
Coach Steve Spurrier said Matthews will remain his starter if he is healthy. The coach said Matthews "may be a little limited in practice"this week. 
"We'll check his shoulder 
situation and so forth, and if he's 100 percent, Shane will still be the starter,"Spurrier I said. 
Matthews struggled against the Eagles, completing just 10 ' of 22 passes for 62 yards and one interception. The Redskins only score came on a punt return, making it the first game in which a Spurrier-coached team hasn't scored a touchdown in l 0 years. 
Wuerffel would start if Matthews can't play. Spurrier said he will give first-round draft pick Patrick Ramsey more work in practice in case the rookie has to suit up as the No. 2 quarterback. 
were in the stands or on the field," Berry said. 
Berry was joined at the Cathedral of Mary Our Queen by N-FL commissioner Paul Tagllabue, Baltimore Ravens coach Brian Billick and players Ray Lewis, Peter Boulware and Michael McCrary. Also attend­ing were former Baltimore Colts teammates Art Donovan and Tom Matte, and Mayor Martin O'Malley. 
"He was mythic," Tagliabue said. "He symbolizes football, and, more importantly, he sym­bolizes leadership." 
Outside the cathedral, a small plane flew overhead with a banner that said, "Unitas We Stand" in blg red letters. Near the coffin stood a painting of Unitas walking into the distance in his No. 19 blue Colts jersey. 
Unltas' six sons were the pall­bearers. Chad Unitas choked back tears as they prepared to take the coffin out of the hearse and a bagpiper played "Edelweiss." 
"We remember the cheers 
that rang out from 33rd Street, celebrating a man in black hightop shoes," said Cardinal William Keeler, the archbishop of Baltimore, recalling Unitas' glory days at Memorial Stadium. 
"He humbly and generously dealt with everyone, whether a grandson beginning to play football or a fan seeking an autograph. He Jed and he touched others by his integrity and loyalty." 
The memorial service and funeral Mass were open to the public. The cathedral, which seats about 2,200, was filled by the time Mass began. The coffin was closed, and the body will be cremated. 
Unitas played for the Colts from 1956-72, and for the San Diego Chargers in 1973. He set 22 NFL passing records, was named MVP of the NFL three times and was selected for the Pro Bowl 10 times. He won three championships, including the overtime victory against the Giants in the 1958 NFL title game. 
"You made the impossible possible," Berry said. "Those images of your performances still haven't faded." 
Donovan added: "He was the greatest. He should get this kind of respect. He's the guy who put Baltimore on the map." 
Outside the cathedral, Ravens president David Modell said Unitas supported the new team when it came to Baltimore from Cleveland before the 1996-sea­son. 
"Johnny U. was the father of modern football, so all of us, including my father, who enjoyed participating, owe that to Johnny," Model! said. Modell's father, Art Modell, is the Ravens· owner. 
Frank Gitschier, a former coach at the University of Louisville, was the first speak­er. 
"The world has lost one of its greatest legends and all of you have lost a friend," Gitschier said. He recalled how he met 
-roJ..""y \-he J..i.eii.h,.,\ "'""l~ie+.,..lr-ie 
wov\<s cvev-~evev.,..\ lill.\1'\J..v-eJ.. ""iles. 
A..,,_J. t-o""lonow, ..,,_.,._+-ic..,,_wiJ.e, 
NEXTEL: 
9 p.m. Saturday night. Your plans have changed three times in the last half hour. 
. > l}llfli.tm!~lm3! I I 111 IH 
SPWlllflllltl WlllllUS W!I iWOS 
TWO-WAY MESs.\lillli 1/#A* &ANIS & .wlllD11HS "'™'-m.t.UIA 
-·--MDHKDI"' leMff 
Unitas 52 years ago, when he was recruiting as an assistant coach. 
Gitschler said he was told, "This kid is tough as nails and he could really throw the ball." After he promised Unitas' mother that he would go to Mass every Sunday and would graduate, she agreed he could attend Louisville. 
"It was no great recruiting coup -we got Johnny U. because no one else wanted him," Gitschier said. 
Several of Unitas' children also spoke. Janice Unitas DeNittis said she remembered sitting on her father's lap as a little girl as they watched game film over and over. She said that after practice, her father and Berry would often run pass plays in their yard until they perfected them. 
His son Joe recalled his dad's reputation as a straightforward man, including his traditional pregame speech to his team­mates: 
"Talk is cheap. Let's go play." 
'fo!A, 1-\eYev-IM.lSS 1'\\.\yt-~i\.\8j w~y St-1'\v+ \.\Ow? 
t-text-el's ~i~it-"'\ w"'r~.ie+"'lkie ~e"'t-tA.v-e let-s yo1A ~et-v-iBht-thv-01ABh with the pl.Ash o-P "'b1At-to\.\. Tu"'t-1M.e0\\.\S 1-\0 1M.isse~ c"'lls, IA\\c~ec\ce~ voice ""'"'ii ov-pho\.\e t-"'B· 'C"'-v.Se who h""s t-i.1M.e .{?ov ""I\ t-h""t-wl,..e..., yov. C<-'\\.\1t eve\\ ~eci~e wh"'t-t-o we"'v? Now yov.'v-e v-e""~y-Bv-i\\B It. 
N.ow's "',v-e<>11t-t-iW1e to ,et-N.elCt-el: 
oo.ll t-ioh-e t),,,_.....e sh>..J.el.\½-s ~et­
"" \0.7."t:liSCOlA\\t o\,\ "'-1-\Y v-"'+-e rl"'\,\ "'-1-\.A $f00"o.P.P "'1-\Y phd\\e. 
-ro 'bv.y: • 80 to \\ext-el.cc,1M/tv-isl-\-s-l--l..\J.e\\t-. , CO\n i-c,11--Pvee l-'rl7-5'0,-2 '12,. 
• to ~i.~.:l. "' Ne><tel-Ow\\e.:l. Ret"'il 
'Stove \\ectv yo1>., cctll \-8'00-8'2.S--S'Z.'>S". 
(:·~~·~.~~-!_-\. ~·.\. . . ' ~ ·. .-~ ·-C-~ . -:· ' •\ ',~: . 
'.·.•, ·s;/wriite SU plleG IIISt Requires ~w~tivafion, one y~ar ~ivlci/Agreeme~ ani'••. · requlrt at lmt 2otomti ot valid identification. Aci;Olint",'. ff 1h11 Reg~lar . . f'._rte, ~-"~.?iJI b,Opplied,(PQil\1, • 
apply:Rat~pla .su61ecrto..taJt$, lee~Jnifotlttf. · municatio11,1, lmi All . reseived. Nex!4I and the Nextel registered /n.:the·U.S'. P;itent'arid Trademark Office. Java and' · . , B~ddy ~ist aod t~e Tr~ligle deslQn ar, registered trade~ of. · 
~ , -~ : ~ ' . ' : . ·. . . .
, ' ' 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
U-WIRE 
Wolverines don't blame Navarre for loss 
By J. BRADY McCULLOUGH 
Michigan Daily 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Overthrows. batted balls and passes thrown behind receivers. These are the things most Michigan fans will remember about John Navarre's performance in the Wolverines· 25-23 loss at Notre Dame. 
But Navarre, who completed just 19-of-42 passes for 230 yards, could have completed many more with a little help from his receivers. 
In Michigan's final drive with less than two minutes to play, both Navarre and the Michigan receivers failed to make a play to win the game. 
After a nine-yard completion to fullback B. J. Askew, Navarre overthrew a wide-open Ronald Bellamy. The junior quarterback then ran for a first down to keep the drive alive. 
On the ensuing play, receiver Tyrece Butler found a hole in the Notre Dame zone, and Navarre put it right on the numbers at the Irish 35-yard line. But Butler couldn't hold onto the football, keeping the Wolverines out of field goal range. 
"As a receiver, I'm supposed to make big plays, and I didn't make big plays," Butler said. "That's what I'm here to do." 
Players were adamant that cism, receiver Braylon Navarre shouldn't receive the Edwards said. "He's played lion's share of the blame for the well this year, and even loss. (Saturday) he played pretty 
"If we had won the game, well. If his teammates catch the everyone would be talking ball, he'll be alright." about how great John Navarre Navarre, known for taking is," Joppru said. "The fact we sacks too often last season and lost, everyone will look for not being able to get rid of the someone to blame, and that's ball, didn't take one sack who they're going to blame. It's Saturday. too bad for Johnny that he has "I thought he moved particu­to take a lot of heat. larly well in the pocket and 
"I think he played a good made some great throws," game." Michigan coach Lloyd Carr 
Those are refreshing words said. "I thought he made very for Navarre, the greatly scruti­good decisions. I thought he nized quarterback who was threw the bail to the right peo­nearly run out of town last sea­ple with a couple of excep­son after throwing nine inter­tions." ceptions in the last five games. Notre Dame defensive tackle Fans and media clamored for a Cedric Hilliard talked after the coup by junior transfer Spencer game about how he didn't Brinton, or expect even highly­Navarre, touted true who hit 19­
"Ifwe would have won 
freshman of-42 passes
the game, everyone
M a t t for 230 Gutierrez. would be talking about yards, to be 
But Navarre how great John Navarre so tough to 
was unfazed sack.
is.,,
by all of it. He "He was a just worked big guy and with new Bennie Joppru he was able quarterbacks to move up
receiver
coach Scot into the Loeffler to pocket," learn everything possible about Hilliard said. "I think we rattled offensive coordinator Terry him some." Malone's new scheme. It's rare that anyone wishes 
"John's come a long way from the 6-foot-6, 228-pounder to last year, taking all the criti-run, but down 16-7 in the third quarter with his team inside and I happened to be the right tho 10-yard line, Navarre could read," Joppru said. "John's have made a play to bring his grown a lot as a quarterback." team within two. He rolled left Malone's offense has simpli­on third-and-goal, and for an fied the game for Navarre, 
instant, had  allowing him  
a touchdown  to make reads  
staring him  "As a receiver, I'm  he might not  
in the face. But he wait­ed for a  supposed to make big plays, and I didn't make  have made last season. "He can  
receiver to break open  big plays. "  look sides  at of  all the  
instead of making a break for the  Tyrece Butler Wolverines receiver  field and get a look at a lot of different  
goal line, giv­ receivers,"  
ing the Irish  Joppru said.  

defenders a chance to bring Navarre didn't get a chance him down. The Wolverines to do much of anything in the were forced to settle for a field first half. He completed his first goal. pass to fullback B.J. Askew. 
"There were some plays that who then fumbled the ball we would expect him to make away. that he did not make," Carr On the next possession, said. Michigan ran three times and 
With the extra time given by punted. Then, the offense his line and improved pocket missed a chance to have the presence, Navarre was able to ball when Marlin Jackson go through his reads and pick returned an interception for a out his receivers accordingly -touchdown, forcing the defense something fans didn't see last immediately back onto the field. season with Navarre looking for At the end of the half, Marquise Walker in most situa­Navarre hit Butler in the two­tions. minute drill, but he fumbled, 
Notre Dame was giving turning it over to the Irish Michigan the pass to the tight again. In all, Michigan ran just end, and to Joppru's delight, 23 plays in the first half, leav­Navarre saw it and exploited it ing Navarre no chance to find a up and down the field for 80 rhythm. yards and a touchdown. "What can you do with 23 
"He went through his reads plays?" Joppru asked. 
Need a ride to the 
@(GO NOTRE DAME Y© 
Michigan State Game?? 
Take the Student Activities Charter! 
Tickets are $20.00 and include transportation only. 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk beginning September 12.. Buses leave for Lansing at 8:15am and return af­ter the game. Buses have wheelchair accessability.. please contact Student Activities if you require this service. 


For mo1·e information contact the Student Activities Office at I-7308. 

Wednesday, September 18, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

HOW FAR CAN YOU GO? 
Morgan Stanley Invites You ... 
Learn about the people who work here, what they do and how we serve our clients around the world. 
FIRMWIDE PRESENTATION Wednesday, September 18, 2002 7: 30 p.m. Alumni Room Morris Inn 
Apply online at morganstanley.corn/careers 
Join us. 
Morgan ~ Stanley 
Morgan Stanley is an Equal Opportunity Empkiyer cornrmtted to workforce d1vr.rs1ty. © 7002 M11tH,1n 51~nlPV 

"":> 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
WOMENS INTERHALL 
Feathers fly as Chicks crack Ducks 14-0 
Cavanaugh 30, McGlinn 6 other teams. Of course, that's into their next games next ized on the good field posi­

By JUSTIN SCHUVER, TREY Inexperience proved to be something we can build off of Tuesday at Riehle field. tioning, pushing to the goalWILLIAMS and ROB MILLS the shortcoming in McGlinn's to get better in the next few Contact Trey Williams at line and scoring on a pass
Spons Writers 
game during Tuesday's flag years." williams.37@nd.edu from Coons to wide receiver football season opener in Despite the lack of know Lindsay Terifay. 
The feathers flew as the 
which Cavanaugh dominated how by the Shamrocks, they An incomplete pass forced
Pasquerllla East 18, Lyons 8

Chicks defeated the Ducks 14­
with a near shut out score of were able to pull off a few key the third failed two-point con­
Behind the

0 in Blue League interhall 
30-6. plays mid-version for the Pyros, but
arm and legs

football action Tuesday night 
The Chaos dominated the way through their lead grew to 18-0. After
of senior

at the west Riehle field. 
Shamrocks with their preci­the second "We're definitely doing a an evasive run by Holly Law,
quarterbackThe Chicks, who advanced 
sion offense led by quarter­half. lot ofrebuilding this year. quarterback Sarah Jenkins
A b b e y

to the championship game 
back and captain Meg Myers. Senior connected with Lauren Blum
Coons, the

last year, made it clear before The fact that we're a
Myers was able to connect Defensive for the first Lyons points of
Pasquerilla

the game that their goal for 
with receivers on nine differ­captain young team kind ofsets the night. Law finished the
East Pyrosthis year was to repeat that 

ent plays and also rushed for Jessica Laux drive with a reception to com­
us behind some ofthe defeated

feat. 
60-yards, including a 45-yard easily got plete the two point conver­
Lyons Hall
"We try to take it one game other teams. That's
blitz which would have result-under a wild sion, making the score 18-8.
18-8.

at a time," 
ed in a pass by something we can build Pasquerilla East took pos­
Coons put

said Chicks 
touchdown Cavanaugh 's offofto get better in the the first session of the ball near the

co-captain "ft was a big game had it not Myers for the end in hopes of holding onto 
A n n e next few years. " points on the
because Howard is a been for a interception the lead. Not letting up, the
scoreboard

Koontz. "We 
false start to spark a Pyros were within yards of the

really want good team. We have to as she ran in
call against fire in the Julie Kremer goal line thanks to a long
the end zone

to get back work on our consistency the team. McGlinn side­reception made by Katherine
Shamrocks captain on a quar­

to the stadi­
and focus. Everyone in Cavanaugh line early in Lent. However, they were
terback

um." 
charges the second unable to score in the final
W i t h our division is good this keeper. The 
,, back from half. She followed through by minutes. After the game

Tuesday year. ensuing two-point conversion
last year's 6-bulldozing through the Chaos' Pasquerilla East coach Clay

night's win, attempt failed on an incom­
2 season defense to score the Remely believed his team
plete pass. After an acrobatic

the 2-0 
with strong Shamrock's only touchdown. fought hard until the end.

Chicks are Diane Meyers interception by Kelli Kimmel
numbers of Laux and her defensive unit "You did what you needed to
of Pasquerilla East, Coons ledcloser to that Chicks coach 

which more proved to be McGlinn's back­do, and I think this is a step in
the Pyros to the end zone ongoal. 

than half are bone in the second by limiting the right
an impressive
"It was a 
returning Cavanaugh's offense to a mere direction,
run to stretchbig game because Howard is a 

seniors. 9-yard charge during their towards a
the lead to "You did what you need

good team," said Chicks coach 
"We've got a lot of fresh tal­first possession. game in the
12-0. Again,

Diane Meyers. "We have to to do, and I think this is a
ent in our freshmen," Myers "At half time, I told [the stadium,"
the Pyros

work on our consistency and 
said. "Fortunately, we also defense] that [Cavanaugh 's step in the right Remely told
were unable

focus. Everyone in our divi­
have a strong corps of seniors offense] boiled down to a few his team

sion is good this year." to complete direction, towards a
there to support them and big plays out of a lot of small­after the
the two-point
The Chicks were led by game in the stadium. " 
pass on their experience." er ones," said Laux after her game.
conversion.

quarterback Erin Nasrallah, 
McGlinn, on the other hand, touchdown. "If we can stop T h e
Lyons made awho completed 9 of 14 passes 

is plagued with a young team these big plays, then they've Pasquerilla
hurried Clay Remley 

for 112 yards, including two 
with few senior leaders. This got nothing." East victory
march to the

touchdown passes. Pyros coach
could hurt the team, coming McGlinn's freshman tackle was not only
end zone and
Both Chicks touchdowns 
back from last years 3-3-2 Bridgett Meacham symbolized a morale
was withinoccurred in the first half. 

record. the team's potential for lifter, after
five yards of scoring when the

Following an interception by 
"We're definitely doing a lot improvement, achieving a being defeated 28-0 by
half ended.

Ducks quarterback Sheena 
of rebuilding with the team pass block and a sack in last Cavanaugh, but also a nice
The second half started with

Ketchum, Nasrallah engi­
this year," said senior captain few minutes of the second birthday present for coach Bill

neered a a great defensive stop by
30-yard drive that 
Julie Kremer. "The fact that half. Ellesworth.
Pasquerilla East, forcing

culminated with a touchdown 
we're a young team kind of Both teams hope to improve Contact Rob Mills at
Lyons to punt from their own

pass to wide receiver Lynne 
sets us behind some of the their records as they move rmills@nd.edu
end zone. The Pyros capital-

McCrystal. 
Nasrallah's longest pass of 
HIT MOVIE

the night, a 26-yard pass to 
TEACH US ABOUT

McCrystal. 
"Execution was great offen­OPPORTUNITY? sively in the first half, but we kind of let down in the second ¦ 
half," Meyers said. "We had When it's a hot one,you want to be first in line 
some people who didn't play Hearing about it isn't enough.you have to experience it last year perform well. That's 
The best ones have happy endings

critical." 
The Ducks' best chance to change momentum occurred What makes a hit? It's when the right combination ofstory and character, come together to create in the second half after stop­something special. It's called chemistry. It's the same when an uncommon career opportuni!J 
ping the Chicks at fourth-and­meets the right person. That's called Wichovia. W., have joinedforces with First Union to create goal from the Ducks 3-yard a great new compa'!)'; one that places emphasis onyour personal financial growth, formal 
training, opportuni!J, and communi!J involvement. W., invite Notre Dame students tojoin us at

line. That chance was squan­
our Open House and the )Ob fair for more info,mation.

dered the very next play, when Ketchum was intercept­Op,n House-Corporate & Investment Banking An,&st ed for the second time that 
Thursd'9', September 19, 2002 Noon-3pm

night. 
Center for Continuing Education

The Chicks also had two 
McKenna Hall, Room 112

interceptions in their opening 
(sponsored~ the Career Center)

game against Pangborn. 
In return we offer great pay and benefit>, including flex-time,
"[That play] obviously 
WACHOVIA
mentoring initiatiuts and more. There's never bt:en a better

stopped our momentum," said SECURITIES
time to b, the star at Wachovia. Apply online at

Ducks captain Meghan 
wachovia.com/col/ege. Uncommon Wisdom

O'Keefe. "We still stayed posi­tive." 
Despite Nasrallah's profi­ciency, the Ducks' pass rush was successful in sacking the Chicks quarterback three times. 
"It was good experience for our first game," O'Keefe said. "Our D-line did a good job. We got experience and learned what we need to work on." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 23 
NBA 



we, Oak?" Ewing shouted nant centers. farewell news conference 
Associated Press 
from the podium. The 40-year-old Ewing were ex-teammates NEW YORK Indeed they did. finishes his NBA career Charlie Ward, Allan As Patrick Ewing talked And for a fleeting with 24,815 points and Houston, Herb Williams about his retirement, moment Tuesday, Ewing 11,606 rebounds. He'll and Mark Jackson; coach­was back under the basket move on to become an es Mike Jarvis, Don
there was a softness in his 
eyes, a relaxed look with Oakley, the two bat­assistant coach for Chaney and Jeff Van replacing the glare he tling for baskets and Michael Jordan and the Gundy; and Miami's used wbile establishing bounces, trying to put the Washington Wizards. Alonzo Mourning, out for 
himself as one of the 50 
New York Knicks over the The 11-time All-Star the season with the Miami greatest players in NBA top. holds a number of Knicks Heat because of his kidney history. They never quite got records, including leading condition. 
Patrick Ewing will go there, but they had fun scorer (22.8 points) and Ewing was asked how he right from his official trying. leading rebounder (10.4). wanted to be remembered. retirement as a player to For 15 years, Ewing was Most of the time, Oakley "As a hard hat," he said. 
the centerpiece of the was right there with him. "A hard nose. The workthe Wizards' bench as an 
assistant coach. Knicks, New York's go-to "He came to work every ethic I brought, I gave it Then Ewing saw old pal guy. There were two day," Oakley said. "He put 110 percent. I thought I Charles Oakley in the back wrap-up seasons with a lot of effort into what he had a great career. I have Seattle and Orlando, foot­wanted to do, what he no regrets. I wouldn't
of the room and his eyes 
danced. "My hit man, Oak! notes to a career as one of wanted to accomplish." trade it for anything. I We had some times, didn't the league's most domi-Also attending Ewing's enjoyed every minute." 
IN BRIEF 
Rivera could pitch this abled list for the third time this sea­it to me, we had four or five guys weekend son on Aug. 19. Before this season, who had it last year," Tressel said. "It New York Yankees closer Mariano Rivera had been on the DL only once. could've been an old injury that he might've gotten further banged on." 
Rivera reported no problems after Clarett undergoes surgery Clarett was scheduled to rest histhrowing 31 pitches in batting prac­
knee on Tuesday and then begin
Ohio State freshman tailback 
tice Tuesday and could be activated rehab on Wednesday.
Maurice Clarett had arthroscopic 
from the disabled list by this week­
surgery on his right knee Tuesday 
end. 
Albert Belle arrested for 
but still might play Saturday at
Rivera, who has been sidelined by a 
DUI
Cincinnati.
strained shoulder, is to throw in the Former All-Star outfielder Albert
Or. Chris Kaeding, a team doctor.
bullpen Thursday and might be acti­Belle is scheduled to be arraigned
said it was "unlikely but not outside
vated before the three-game week­Wednesday in a Scottsdale court
the realm of possibility" that Clarett
end series at Detroit. after being arrested on DUI and
could play this weekend. 
"He'll take tomorrow off, have other charges last Saturday night,
Clarett was injured in the first 
some mound work Thursday, and police said. 
quarter against Washington State
then we'll probably be able to put Belle, 36, was pulled ovor after a
last Saturday, coach Jim Tressel said. 
him in a game," New York manager police officer said he saw a 2003
Despite the injury, Clarett ran for 230 
Joe Torre said Tuesday. maroon Rolls Royce Bentley weaving 
yards and two touchdowns as the 
It was the first time Rivera has sixth-ranked Buckeyes beat the on a north Scottsdale street and trav­thrown on consecutive days since last Cougars 25-7. eling 10 mph over the posted 45 mph month. He threw off a bullpen mound Clarett had an MRI over the week­speed limit. 
Belle, a Scottsdale resident, has anMonday at Yankee Stadium. end and was on crutches following unlisted phone number and could not"I feel real good physically," Rivera the surgery. He could return to prac­be reached for comment Saturday. 
said tice by Thursday. The All-Star was put on the dis-"The way our physicians explained 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
Ty 
continued from page 24 
of my athletic career," he said. "I think they slowly emerged about my junior year at Michigan State. that that's something I was really actively seeking. Coach Rogers at that time was a huge participant of that." 
Part of Willingham's desire to enter coaching came from his realization that he wasn't going to make it as a football player. He entered Michigan State in 1972 as a diminutive 5-foot-6 walk-on quarterback and never stepped on the playing field, although he earned a scholar­ship for his dedication. 
The next season. 
he wouldn't go along with us. He never slacked off." 
Willingham also distinguished himself as a baseball player ­earning all-Big Ten honors as an outfielder in 1977 -but it was no secret to anyone that football was his favorite sport. Every Saturday, Willingham roused his roommates out of bed at 7 a.m. for early morning workouts. While his teammates shook off hangovers, Willingham -who didn't drink -ran at the front of the pack. 
"He would do anything to help us win," Rogers said. "The play­ers respected him because he wasn't kidding and he wasn't jacking around. What he was saying was solid and sound." 
Willingham can still reel off the name of the running back 
that scored the 
only touchdown 

when quar­in Michigan
"I think the coaches in

terback State's 10-3 
my time knew {Notre 

Charlie victory over the Baggett was Dame] was one ofthe big Irish in 1975, injured, the only time in 
teams in the country and

Willingham Willingham 's
they always urged our 

started a five years the handful of team to play its best Spartans beat games. He the Irish. He
football ... 

saw limited still remembers action the the excitement next two Tyrone Willingham surrounding a seasons and head coach Notre Dame­
converted to a wide receiver during final year with the Spartans. 
Willingham doesn't shy away from admitting his shortcomings as a football player. When asked Tuesday to describe what kind of player he was, he answered, "Terrible." Asked why he was terrible, he stoically responded, "I wasn't any good." 
But what Willingham lacked in football ability. he more than made up for in discipline, hard work and mental toughness. He carried a businesslike approach into practice, never pulling pranks, never letting his grades drop, never frustrating his coaches. 
He never backed down, either. In practice, when the Spartans ran sprints, there was an unwritten rule that players weren't supposed to run them full speed. Willingham took great pleasure in breaking that rule. 
"He expected the best," said Baggett, who was also Willingham's best friend and roommate. "He wasn't the fastest guy in the world, but he used to beat us in wind sprints. We wanted to run them at 50 percent, but he wouldn't do it, Michigan State 
game, as well. 
"I think the coaches in my time knew this was one of the big teams in the country and they always urged our team to play its best football," Willingham said. "If you didn't play it any other week, you played your best football against Notre Dame and against Michigan and against Ohio State.n 
Even after he left Michigan State, Willingham kept close tabs on his alma mater. And he is used to the barrage of ques­tions that comes with playing his former school, having coached Stanford against Michigan State in the 1996 Sun Bowl. 
Although Willingham coached against the Spartans with Stanford in the 1996 Sun Bowl, Saturday will be his first game at Spartan Stadium on the opposing sidelines. While he isn't focused on the fact that he is coaching against his alma mater, he said one thing is obvi­ous entering Saturday's game. 
"No Michigan State T-shirt this week." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

BREAKING THE CYCLE OF VIOLENCE: LIVING AFTER GENOCIDE 
A lecture by 
Martha Minow 
Professor, Harvard Law School 
Thursday, September 19 -8:00 pm CCE Auditorium, McKenna Hall 
Sponsored by the The Notre Dame Holocaust Project 
in co-operation with the Nanovic Institute Center for Ethics and Culture Center for Civil and Human Rights 


INFORMATION SESSIONS 
THURS. SEPT. 5, 2002 6:00-7:15 PM 
& 
THUR. SEPT. 19, 2002 5:00-6:15 PM 
ROOM 129 HAYES-HEALY 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 


Wednesday, September 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
HOCKEY 
Irish picked 7th in early CCHA polls 

Volleyball 
continued from page 28 
five attack errors. In the upset of Pepperdine, Neff had a career-high 21 kills. 
"Based on how she did last spring, I'm not surprised at how well Katie is playing. In our spring tournaments, she was as dominating as she has been this year," Brown said. "Based on how much improvement she made last year, we knew what she was capable of." 
This season, Neff is second on the team in kills (91) and attack percentage (.364) and third in blocks (30). 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


Wanna go to the Biggest Party of the Year? 
;~...-~......-·
·.-.·.··~.··

7!j.
... ~-~-.. .. ~~ --.~~ ~~~ 

Pick AT&T Long Distance and you could win a trip to the MTV Studios. 
AT&T College Communications 
~uz. clu,;,a,_ ~ w.<.Y>.ld. ~.A/!, V-Oi.a-. 

~ 
IIUIIC~ISION• 
R 
AT&T 
Get a FREE MUSIC CD of your choice when you select AT&T. 

NO CALL OR PURCHAS!a NECESSARY TO ENTER OFI WIN. ELIGIBJUTT: Open to legal residents ol lhe 41! United SlaleS. OISJnCI of Cotumo,a, and the 
U.S. V.rg,n Islands woo are 18 or older as of 11/1/02. V010 in Puerlo Rico. U.S. Virg,n Islands, Hawari, Alaska and where olhel'N•se proh,o,tea lly law. 1\¥0 W,rys tu Partlcipa1e: A.) To enler by signing up for AT&T Long Distance, AT&T One Rate• 7c Plus Plan and/or the AT&T AnyHour lnlematlonal Savings Plan: C&I HJTT·COU.Ei3E belY<een lZ:00:00AM Easlem lime ("El") on 6/11\l2 and 11 :59:S9Pt.l ET en 10/31/02 (he<eaher referred to as \he "l'romouoo Poriodi ana provide lhe required informat;on to rtie operacor or iVR prompt to receive one entry into the sweepstakes. Umit one entry per househOld for eac.h plan. B.) To enter by miilU: Hand print your name, ccmptele address, zip code, age. day1.me felephone number, email address, conege o, university name, schOO sta~ tus [pl/ft) [• applcable), and ll'w! words ·AT&T College/MTV Bad< to SchoOI Promotion• on a pla,n 3"• s• paper and mail~ ,n • hand addressed 110 envelope W1lh first-class postag& to: ·AT&T Col~Badc to S<:t,ool Promot10n•. PO. Box 13084. Bndg"l)Ort. CT 06e73-3084. Limtt tnree entnes per peeson and per house~ld lorthe ooration of the Prom01Kln Pe,,od. Prlli,s/Odtts: (1) GraT'd Pnze: 4 day/J night t'l) for winner and (3) guests 10 the MTV New Yeafs Eve Pa,ty 1n New Yortc City on ,2,00,az~112103 consisting o1 round lnp coach air 11'3.n.sportation fmm near~st ma,Or airport in the U.S. to winner's residence, suite holel accommOdat,ons for (4). gmuno transportalion (!o/lrom hole! and !hi! airp<ml. and a total cl $1,000 spending moni,y (Approx,mate Reta,! VaJue "AAV"..SS,000). Actual sallJe ol pnte may vary depencltng on w,nner·• city of clepa111Jre. Insurance a.no all appliC8ble federal, slate and local taxes on !QCeipl and use of pnze, I any, and ar,y expenses n01 speedi&d ab<We are lhe sole respons,t>ilrty of w,nner. A ranOom drawing will be conducted on or about 11114102 Imm among all ele gible en1nes roceNe<I. Octds ot winning tne Grand Pnze will depend on 1t,e l<llal number 01 eligible entnes AOCeiv9'!. Sub,ea lo lhe Otf,c,al RUies ava,lable by Y1s1tirg hTlp:/lwww.an.com/l:Ohege/rules or by sending a sed-aodressec:I, stamped envelope by 1111102 lo, AT!!,T CollegeiMTV Bade lo Sctiool Promotion, PO Box 13106. 8ndgePOl1. CT06673•3106. Span..,r AT&T.340 Ml Kembel. ~mslOwTl, NJ 07960Promoter. DVCGroup. Inc., Yomstown. NJ 07960 CD OFFER: Consum= who have s,gned up lor 11\e AT&T Long Otst.tnce. AT& r One Rate" 7c Plus Plan and/or Ille AT&T.AnyHour lnten1a1oooa1 Sav,ng Plan during lhe pro­mo1t,m periOd, 10 addillOO to being ootered rnto this Swe-epsiakes will bi-sent a Sony onllne gift celtilicale which may be redeemed at www.sonycertJficate.s.com toward a select CO lrom fhe Sony Music "Hof New Releases" Catalog (Appmx,mate Rera11 Valtle ~AAV-.;;.$15}. While StJpplles lasL The Sony onhne 91f1 cert1fi­ca1e will be 10C'luded in the AT&T lull1llment package Terms. conddKJns, and restrictions may apply to 1he use of the online cert1f1Cate and PIN. limit one CO per person, e-mail address, immediate family member, or household. Please allow $~8 weeks after redemption for delivery. 
Special to the Observer 
The Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA) opened its 32nd season with its annual Media Day at Detroit's Joe Louis 
Friday-Sunday format that it has employed in recent years. 
This moves the tournament to Thur.• Mar. 20 through Sat., Mar. 22nd. Saturday's final day will also see the league return to a third-place game featuring the two semi-final losers prior 

-
Arena on 
to the championship game. Tuesday With the NCAA tournament afternoon. expanding to 16 teams, the T h e 3rd-place game is expected to league have tournament ramifica­announced tions. The third-place game several also allows fans that come changes from long distances to see their for the team play two games on the 
~ .... by William 
... ,·.___ ... •' -· _y 
Thursday, September 19 ... 7:30 p.m. 
2002-03 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Actors Frorn The I_Jondo11 Stage 
,•.3~uch Ado About Nothing 

c o m i n g Poulin season concerning the CCHA Super Six in March as well as new rule changes for the coming season and the preseason coaches and media polls. 
In the annual polls. Notre Dame was picked to finish sev­enth by both the coaches and the media. In fact. the both polls were identical from top to bottom as both groups selected defending champion Michigan to defend its title. 
In the coaches poll, Michigan received eight of 12 first-place votes with Michigan State get­ting two and Northern Michigan and Ohio State each getting one. 
The media's poll (with 72 members of the media voting) saw Michigan get 39 first-place votes, Michigan State 22, Northern Michigan 7 and Ohio State 3. The results of both polls: 
The league also announced that it is moving the CCHA Super Six to a Thursday­Saturday format instead of the weekend. 
The CCHA also announced that the goal creases would conform to the dimensions used by the National Hockey League. 
This will ensure consistency in dimensions for all regular season, CCHA tournament and NCAA tournament games. 
The CCHA will also adopt the 15-second faceoff rule that was popularized during the 2002 Winter Olympics. 
The procedure will be in effect for all games except games with television timeouts. 
Irish head coach Dave Poulin and his staff will take to the ice at the Joyce Center for the first official practice on Thur., Sept. 26. 
Notre Dame will play its annual Blue-Gold Intrasquad game on Sunday, Sept. 29 at 4:00p.m. 
The following Friday night, Oct. 4, the Irish will host the University of Toronto in a pre­season game at the Joyce Center with faceoff set for 7 :05 
p.m. 
Shakespeare • 
Friday, September 20 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, September 21 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at La Fortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Irish avoid Holiday touchdown debate 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spores Editor 
The replay has hit every major sports recap in the country. Quarterback Carlyle Holiday crossed the goal line in Saturday's game against Michigan and there lay the ball -on the ground. The referees signaled a touchdown. 
So the debate rages on during Spo::-ts Center and on news 
-shows, but the call was made and Notre Dame earned six points. "I took a pretty solid hit on that play," Holiday said. "I mean. we haven't really gone over it; we just watched it on film. If it wasn't a touchdown, the team sure showed emotion like it was. There was no reac­tion on the Michigan side." Irish coach Tyrone Willingham isn't dwelling on the play either. "I think you could probably go the other way and say that Ryan Grant was a touchdown," Willingham said. " ... I don't spend much time on either one of those." With the NFL adopting an instant replay, effective officiat­ing has come into the spotlight. Rehashing penalties and fumble calls is as common an after­game activity as reliving the game-winning touchdown. A possible missed calls always bring up the idea of instant replay in college football. "I think it's prohibitive because of the cost to all of the teams around the country," Willingham said. " ... At the same time, I'm a fan of the human fac­tor, okay. I think that's what makes autumn so interesting." 
Shane's Fame 
Senior cornerback Shane Walton was named the Bronko Nagurski National Defensive Player of the week following the Irish victory against Michigan. Walton, who had the game-end­ing interception, had a career­high eight tackles, forced a fum­ble and recovered another. 
Walton made a key play with less than three minutes to go in the third quarter when he broke up Michigan quarterback John Navarre's pass for an attempted two-point conversion. 


•·,---------------------.,_.______.__"'------, 
9-BALL 
BILLIARD 
TOURNAMENT 

FRIDAY.. Sept. 20 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level. LaFortune 
(Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 

Prizes: 1st Place: $100 gift cErtlflcate from BEST BUY 2nd Place: $75 gift certificate from BEST BUY 3rd Place: $25 gift certificate from BEST BUY 
Space limited to first 20 people who sign up-­Sign up at ND Express. (Must present 1.0. when registering.) 
Sponsored by thE Stud&nt ActlvltltiS OfflCE. 
Walton's interception on Saturday raised his season total to four. He intercepted Maryland three times in the Kickoff Classic on Aug. 30, tying an Irish record for interceptions in a single game. His average of 1.33 inter­ceptions per game leads the nation. And teams keep throw­ing at rum. 
"I think people want to chal­lenge [Walton]," defensive coor­dinator Kent Baer said. "They look at his size and they don't believe he's really as good as he is. And that's all right. They go after the best part of our defense, him and Vontez Duff, and if they want to continue to do that they can go right ahead." 
Closing the gate on the defense 
During Nicholas Setta's point after attempt against Michigan, Willingham swung the gate on the Wolverine defense. The Irish defense lined up on one hash mark and, right before the kick occurred.shifted. 
"The whole process is really two things," Willingham said. "Hopefully you would like to get an easy score from a two-point play, hopefully they fall asleep ... Then the other one is that if you have a team that is very adept at rushing your kicks, that move­ment may be a little unsettling." 
Color-blind? 
When Tyrone Willingham faces off against Bobby Williams on Saturday, it will be the first time the first African-American coach in Notre Dame history faces another African-American coach on the opposing team. Although Willingham refused to let his race be the focus of his hiring at Notre Dame, he recog­nizes the importance of Saturday's game. 
"I think I've put it in the per­spective of what I view it, which may be less than others look at it," he said. "But I think I consis­tently said that my situation here at Notre Dame, the fact that two coaches of African-American decent will go against each other is significant. But it also points to a shortcoming in our system, and that is disappointing." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5965@saintmarys.edu 
Nanette Lapore • Trina Turk Lilly Pulitzer • Vera Bradley Sharagano • SriQhtan 
Trecy Ree5;,e • Polcci • Petit Pois 
cusia barcelon~ • Nominations 
tib-i • Cynthia Stoffa 
Nelly and Millie • BCBG Be1suy Johnson • Rayure Pares · · "' Adriano Golds.chmied 
Harveys seatllelt bags lulu Gui.nos.s • ABS Nicole Mith,n .. MaxStudio 

,-,... /. I ; , -·.,. !h/AJ~ A 11\,1"" • .-1yA..! 
/., fl'\' ,..., 
.. i:.:.,"'J;J., ,~< 1\J n~,/ 

.. 
Jnjpired & Jired 
INSPIRE ME! INSPIRED AND FIRED 
Downtown South Bend Granger Area 528 E. Colfax, Suite li2 312 W. Cleveland Rd. South Bend, IN 46617 Granger, IN 46530 
574/232-1822 574n77-66S3 



Wednesday, September 18, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 32 Game show 64 "Y" wearer panelist Peggy
1 Brutish sort 65 Actress Eleniak 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Frankie Avalon, Greta Garbo, James 
35 Preschoolers 
Gandolfini

6 Picture prize 66 Oscar-winning 37"_Mio" screenwriter
11 Phone Happy Birthday: You will be inclined to make too many promises and take on too
Robert
38 "Bleah!" many challenges this year. Avoid being pushed in a direction that you don't feel good

14 Vice president 
67 Antonym's about. If you take control of your life, you can tum negatives into a positives. Your

Stevenson 39 Sass from 
numbers are 5, 17, 26, 29, 30, 41
antonym: Abbr.
Elsie?

15 Seize, ala 
68 Knocks flat
41 Shell mover ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get into a groµp that will allow you the creative

Caesar 42 Ragu rival 69 Aligns
16 Masseur's freedom you need to expand your mind. The more outgoing and enthusiastic you are, supply 44 Milton the easier it will be for you to get others to support your ideas. **** TAURUS (April 20.May 20): Immediately take care of whatever problems crop up.
Friedman's subj. DOWN17 Insect's bedtime 

This is not the time for you to be stubborn or difficult to deal with. You may need to 

ritual? 45 Friend of Big 1 Raisin cakes apologize. ** Bird GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The more you do to open your mind to new ideas the
19 Bother 2 Bring out 
better you will feel about your future. The inspiration you receive from others will
46 Club

20 Hole-in-one 3 Ragged Dick help you decide what it is you want to accomplish. ***** 
48 Dumbstruck CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you haven't been putting enough money away you

21 King in a Steve creator 
may find yourself running a little short. Poor investments may be the cause for your
50 Hand down

Martin song 4 Carrier to financial dilemma, but if it happens to be an inability to say no to the ones you love, 22 1945 52 Not stop for, in Copenhagen it may not be so easy. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): If you have made someone a promise, you'd better keep

conference site a way 5 Move quietly 
your word or prepare to face the music. Your partner may want a commitment or 24 Part of a 6One_(ball promise ofsome sort, and you'd better be ready. ***
56 Have in one's service hands game) VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get all promises in writing today. Although this can tum out to be a very favorable time for you, you must play it smart and leave nothing
58 Test site

26 Perfumes with a 7 For example to chance. An older relative may require your assistance. ~* joss stick, say 59 Big D.C. lobby LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Make plans to pamper yourself. A day at the spa or a
8 Kind of sole 
sports event with some friends will take your mind off your everyday routine and

27 Induction motor 60 Tick off 
9 They have bring you in contact with someone who inspires you. ***** developer 61 Sound when a strings attached SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should reach out and help an older family member. Your ability to handle serious matters will make your family feel secure,
29 Very funny gobbler gets a 32 Putting targets 40 Sort of 54 Bucker
10 Place to stretch 

person joke? but don't do so at the cost of ruining your health or stretching your finances. *** your legs 33 Prefix with 43 Fat, in France 55 Director Peter SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will enjoy the company of foreigners and cultural should travel to an exotic destination. Get involved in cultural events that will lead to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Hammer for a 45 Slippery sort 56 Bakers' wares new friendships with people from different backgrounds. **** 
hopper? 
34 Rams, lambs CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): This is a good time to reevaluate your position.
47 Make certain
12 Disney musical and ewes? 57 Alternative to You have more options than you think. Do your research and talk to as many people 49 Some beers De Gaulle as you can about your intentions. *** 
13 Latch (onto) 36 Move with 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Let your creative side take over. You will be able to -e+:-+::+-,+.e-t=1 18 Totals difficulty 51 "Hamlet'' 58 Pastoral places come up with a great new plan that should point you in an exciting direction. Idle 
courtier 
time will be your worst enemy. *** 
39 Dressed like a
23 Tres y Ires 62 Hateful org. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This can turn out to be a lucrative day if you get
Victorian 53 Public, as 
involved in money matters with other people. You will have luck where contracts
25 Whitney and 
woman information 63 Today, in Toledo and legal matters are concerned. An older relative may lean on you. *** 
others: Abbr. 
26 Puss's food --+...+---+-e,-4 container? Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone Birthday Baby: You will be disciplined and hard-working, clever and caring. You phone: 1 ·900-285-5656. $1 .20 per minute. wi!I be incredibly thoughtful and always have wonderful solutions to whatever
28 Game company 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday problems arise. 
that originated 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS.
Yahtzee Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astrcndvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE ~-,-+e=+-..+-,,,,i 30 Steamer. e.g. past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). -=+-=+:-+::-+.-.,.i 31 Medal awardee, Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, maybe nyt1mes.corn/leaming/xwords. 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN rm not fooling anyone. 

HAPPY TOWN 
. ,:., . 


JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KLOYE 
±
I rr J 
Cl20o2 Tribune Media Son1icea, Inc. All Rl9ht1 Roserved. 
DAULT 
t 
I rJ I J 
~ CADDEEj
J [ I I 
www.jumble.com 
LEZZUP 
I (J I t:n 
Ans: ( 
l l )"( l l l l l J' ( l I ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: FRAUD BELIE JOCKEY ENCAMP Answer: What the postman brought to the salvage yard -"JUNK" MAIL 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO, 11 -To order, nnd your name, addrn1 and $1i.46 and make check payable to Tribune Media Servlcea, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 6068().4330, 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

A~~ 
-~&~-­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

-
-;:,,. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ______________________ Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

r· 
: 
I I 
I .,..­J 
I 
I 
I I 
t 
l I 
I 
PORTS 
Wednesday, September 18, 2002 

FOOTBALL 
Ty trades Spartan green for Irish gold 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
-Only two wrote back. Even though Tyrone Willingham had sent out over 100 letters to Division 1-A col­leges across the country, asking for a chance to play college foot­ball, he wasn't discouraged by the fact that only Michigan State and Toledo sent letters back 'L offering him the chance to walk on to their football team. So he sat down in his Jacksonville, N.C. home. looked at the two letters and decided to try joining the Big Ten power­house in East Lansing -not the last time in his life he would dream big. Saturday will be a homecom­ing of sorts for Willingham, who played with the Spartans for five years before graduating in 1977. stuck around another year as a graduate assistant under Darryl Rogers and returned in 1980 for a three­year stint with Muddy Waters as a secondary coach. Even after Willingham left Michigan State, he kept close tabs on how his alma mater did. "You always pay attention. I mean, that's my school," he said. "And occasionally, espe­


cially for the big games, the Michigan game, you have on your T-shirt under your coach­Former Michigan State player Tyrone ing gear." 
Willingham will be returning to Spartan

While Willingham isn't the type of coach to reminisce about Stadium for the first time as a Michigan State 
his football days, he acknowl­
opponent Saturday. 

edged his desire to become a coach first originated during his college career. 
.

"[Those aspirations] were probably hidden for a large part Photos courtesy ofMichigan State University Sports Infonnation 
see TY/page 24 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Volleyball team prepares for Purdue 
"I think with this team it knew they have a lot to do challenge for us." give us an opportunity toByMATILOZAR was very easy in practice on still." Purdue has lost its last two work on that and improve."

Sports Writer 
Monday," said Irish coach Notre Dame (8-2) and matches after winning eight Tonight's match at Purdue Debbie Brown. "They came Purdue (8-3) have not played of its first nine. Leading the is scheduled to start at 7 The Notre Dame volleyball in motivated to continue to each other outside of exhibi­Boilermakers over the week­p.m. team has learned its lesson. do well. We already had ear­tion matches since 1996. The end and this season is mid­
After winning the season­lier in the season a couple Irish have beaten the dle hitter Kim McConaha. Notes: opening Shamrock practices that weren't pro­Boilermakers five matches in The sophomore was named Junior Katie Neff's MVP Invitational, the Irish did not ductive followed by a couple a row and have won six of to the Jayhawk Classic All­performance at last week­have a good week of practice of matches that were not the last seven. Tournament team where she end's Golden Dome and paid the price, losing productive. "We did play them in the averaged 3.6 kills a game Invitational earned her the their next two matches. "I think the lesson was spring. That was good for us and recorded a .415 hitting Big East Player of the Week 
Coming off its first win learned. Each day is a new but each team in the fall is percentage. honor on Monday. against a top-10 opponent day and the win [against different with freshmen," "One of their middle block­Last week, Neff compiled a since 1995 and riding a five­Pepperdine] makes the tar­Brown said. "We have just ers is a go-to player," Brown .482 hitting percentage, 45 game winning streak, Notre get to knock us off a little bit the results they have had said. "One thing we haven't kills and 13 blocks. On 83 Dame is not going to make bigger. Their motivation is this year and film from one done well so far this year is swings, Neff only committed the same mistake in tonight's we haven't done what we of their earlier matches. I stopping our opponent's mid­match at Purdue. want to accomplish. They think they will be a good dle blocking. This match will see VOLLEYBALL/page 25 
FOOTBALL 
HOCKEY

en II.I
1--c.:, 
Was Carlyle Holiday's touchdown against Michigan really a touchdown? 
The Central Collegiate Hockey Association released its preseason Coaches and Much speculation has arisen in the national media, but the Irish say that it 
Media polls this week, and Notre Dame was picked seventh overall in the confer­

ccsc:s 
doesn't matter anymore. 
ence. Read more about head coach Dave Poulin's preparations for the 2002-'03 sea­son. 

A. Ii < 
page 25en page 26 

,. 






