
Enjoy spring break!
SHOWERS 
Friday

Have a safe and fun vacation. The Observer will publish next on March 18. 
MARCH 8,
HIGH 60° 
LOW 47° 
2002 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 105 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Chiefs of staff play key role in student government 
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES 
News 'vv'riter 
Behind each good student body president and vice president lies a great chief of staff. This person, w1known to most. i-; the ghm of the staff who works behind tlu~ scenes to make sure that the office is nm­ning smoothly. 
"I am a stunt double for Brooke and Brian. lf they have a couplr of meP.tings rontlicting, they will send me," said Jonathan Jorissen, current chief of staff under student body president and vice president, Brooke Norton and Brian Moscona. "My job is to orga­nize and run the dh,isions of the office in an efficient and eITective matter. that is essentially what I do." 
Norton and Moscona appointed Jorissen last spring follo"'1ing their election. When a ticket is elected to office, voters are not electing two people to lead the student government 
but three, the third being selected by the president and vice president elect. The chief of st.a.ff is the third extension of the student body executive and the next in charge behind the vice president. In many ways, this person is accountablfl to students because thfl Senate must confirm the appointment. 
This individual is an integral person in the Office of the Studmt Bodv President. Thi,; individual act,; as an intermediary between staff members and the presi­dent and vice president. In many ways the president, vice president and chief of staff work as a team, sup­porting and communicating with each other. 
The chief of staff has the responsibility of running the office and ensuring that the clifferent divisions "'1ithin the office are kept on task and accomplishing the administration's platform goals. 
He attends executive cabinet, Campus Llfe Council, Student Senate and staff meetings. 
see CHIEF/page 4 



Destinations on discount 
Students turn to Internet, professionals for convenient, quick spring break travel 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI News Writer 
Annunciata seniors Alissa Blair, Jen Wyatt, Jaime Martens and Kara Tirimacco will pack their bags and pile into their cars for a 30-hour road trip to catch a cruise for spring break today. 
"We're driving to Miami and taking a boat to Jamaica and to Grand Cayman Island, and then back to Miami, and then driving back," Blair said. "[Driving down] was a way to save money, and the road trip is a trip in itself. This is my last spring break to do something like that. take a road trip with my friends." 
Blair and her fellow road-trippers are leaving at midnight on Thursday, and must be at the port in Miami at 4 
p.m. Saturday. They plan to drive straight through on the way down, but take breaks on the drive back to Saint Mary's, stopping in Atlanta, Nashville, and Indianapolis to stay with friends. 
"The bummer about driving for 30 hours after a cruisfl is that we will be very tired when we come back," Blair said. "We're hoping the adrenaline will kick in and that we'll make it." 
Blair and her friends vvill join sever­al Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents this week in the biggest trend in this year's spring break travel, according to Kayleen Carr, assistant manager for l\otre Dame's Anthony Travel office who handles spring break packages. 
"The number one thing this year was cruises, then the Bahamas and AC'apulco," Carr said. "Many students chose Key West, Cancun, Puerto Vallarta and Jamaica. People were also going to Mazatlan and Colorado. Most people want to go someplace warm. It is typical." 
The trend this year, according to Carr, was to drive to the cruise point booked cruises through Anthony of departure, saving airfare. Carr Travel, and most of them were dri­reported that more than 150 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students see BREAK/page 4 


SMC security chief Chlebek to leave office 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
Richard Chlebek, director of Saint Mary's Security will retire this year after 18 years of service to the College. 
Chlebek, a member of the South Bend Police Department for 23 years, came to Saint Mary's in 1984 to broaden his hori­zons. 
"I completed my career there and I looked for other avenues to enhance my area of interest, which was law enforcement, and ended up applying for the position here when it became open," Chlebek said. 
Chlebek had a wide range of duties at Saint Mary's, originally heading the fire safety committee and reporting inci­dences. He is responsible for the addition of lights on campus, card access system and changes to the fire alarm system. 
Chlebek will leave this year on the tail end of the Department of Education's investigation into Saint Mary's crime sta­tistical reporting procedures. The investi­gation began as an inquiry into rape reporting procedures in summer 2001. If Saint Mary's is found out of compliance with federal law, the College faces up to $35,000 in fines. A decision is expected before the end of the semester. 
"I hope that someone in the near future is going to fully finalize the legislation because there are a lot of colleges and uni­versities that probably aren't totally com­pliant," Chlebek said. "I think there has to be some common sense application and good judgment in complying with the leg­islation ... at the present time it's confusing and not clear as to what gets reported and what shouldn't be reported," Chlebek said. 

see CHLEBEK/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, March 8, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Senior Baggage 
In a duffel bag in the corner of my bedroom. 
every essential item is packed for the perfect 
spring break. Sunglasses, a bikini with the 
store tags still attached, sunscreen and even 
aloe for the inevitable burn 
my fair Irish skin will suffer. 
There are tank tops and skirts and tiny-heeled shoes. a New York Times bestseller and an oversized beach towel. On top of the bulging zipper there is a road map, a guide for the road trip that will com­mence Saturday morning. 

I always overpack. rt is an unfortunate consequence of what my friends like to call my "worst-case scenario" syndrome. I want to be prepared for every situa­tion, every consequence, everything that I could never imagine happen­ing. 
There is nothing I've forgotten. But somehow, even with my careful planning, I can't ignore the feeling that I'm headed into some sort of terrain where no amount of planning will help me predict what will happen. 
It's not the trip, really. There's only so much unpredictability that could happen on a week of spring break debauchery. It's more a feeling of what will begin to happen when I step back onto campus, for the final weeks of what's been an epic collegiate journey. 
I've always hated uncertainty. I hate it now, even with everything prepared and in place. My friends and family keep telling me I have nothing to worry about; everything will be fine after I graduate. I've got a job, I've got a decent salary. I'll be near family. 
I've got great opportunities ahead. But I'm not ready to face all that yet, or leave the place I've struggled to carve into a home. I'm not ready to start saying goodbyes, or to let reality hit me like a freight train and start contemplat­ing the unknown. 
In some ways I feel like that kid moving from middle school to high school, worried that the cafeteria's going to be bigger, that his locker combination won't be the same, that all the cool kids won't like him. That his classes will be hard. That he won't get the good seat on the bus anymore. 
Really, though, it's just the thought of leaving the people around me. It begins tonight, when I walk out of the Observer office for the last time after two years in this position. It begins when I have to start thinking about leaving the people who have inspired me, challenged me, laughed with me and made college worth it. It begins when I check off the last page, shut the door and pick up my duffel bag for the first of many unpredictable adventures. 
I guess I can't stop it. I know I can't. I sup­pose the only comfort I can take this week, is I've got the road map. I've got something telling me where to go. 
Beyond that, it's anyone's guess. Maybe that's what makes it fun. Maybe that's what makes it worth it. For now, I'm going to pick up my duffel bag and head for the car because I need to enjoy the journey while it lasts. I'll worry about everything else later. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at Gill0843@Saintmarys.edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and srrives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize chac we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Ob,emr (USPS 5'>9 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and Vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the /usocia[cd Press. AH reproduction rights a.re reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Morrissey men brave cold for charity 
Monday, February 10, 1992 In a campaign to raise money for the Megan Beeler and Colleen Hipp Scholarship foundation, shirtless men from Morrissey Manor participated in a mile and a half "Polar Run." 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Nicaraguan students worry over war 
Friday, September 22, 1978 Nicaraguan students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were concerned over developments in their home­land where bloody fighting erupted in opposition to President Anastasio Somoza.
• 

Compiled From U-Wire reports 
Stanford researchers say cancer drug combats HIV 
STANFORD, Calif. 

Researchers at the Stanford Medical Center have discovered that a drug used to treat cancer -called Gd-Tex ­may also be effective in combating HIV. The drug could help AIDS patients by ,targeting HIV-infected cells, without harming healthy cells that defend the body against disease. 
HIV weakens the body's immune system by killing white blood cells with CD4 receptors. particularly a class of white cells called CD4+ T­cells. These cells normally coordinate the body's defense system by stimulat­ing immune system cells and natural killer cells to attack foreign invaders. HIV destroys CD4+ T-cells, leaving the patient susceptible to common infec­tions. 
Stanford University researchers have found that low doses of Gd-Tex -or motexafin gadolinium -kill HIV-infected CD4+ T-cells, while still leaving healthy ones intact. 


"Gd-Tex selectively killed the HIV­infected cells when they were in a mixture of healthy white blood cells," Genetics Prof. Emeritus Leonard 
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY 
Grad student union talks stall 
PHILADELPHIA 
The on-again, off-again negotiations between Temple University and the Graduate Students Union have stalled once again after a deadline passed Feb. 
28. Contract talks have been postponed until March 20 by Temple's chief negotiator Robert Birnbauer. The postponement came after three days of talks, Feb. 26-28, at the Holiday Inn in Center City between Temple's negotiators and those of the Temple University Graduate Students Union. The talks were scheduled to last 10 hours each day. "The negotiators spent most of [the 10 hours] waiting for Temple's team to show up," said union organizer Rob Callahan, "The meetings were nowhere near as productive as they could have been." Birnbauer suggested that talks resume on Saturday, March 2 to give the Temple negotiators time to work on proposals. On Friday, March 1, he notified the TUGSA negotiators that he was leaving for a vacation and would not be able to meet with them until March 20. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Herzenberg, the senior author of the study, said. "To our surprise, only the infected CD4+ T-cells were killed." 

"Our findings were extremely unex­pected," Omar Perez, a pharmacology graduate student at the Medical Center's Nolan Laboratory, said. Perez is the primary author of the study reported in the Feb. 19 issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
Gd-Tex is currently undergoing clin­ical trials in brain cancer research. The drug is manufactured under the brand name "Xcyclin injection," and is produced by the Pharmacyclics com­pany in Sunnyvale. 
In radiation treatment of cancer, Gd-Tex has been shown to cause glu­tathione levels to drop. This process induces apoptosis, a kind of "cell sui­cide" in cancer cells. 

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Committee investigates plagiarism 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Eleven months and 158 charges later, the University of Virginia Honor Committee has finished all the investigations for the Bloomfield plagiarism cases. So far, 38 students who took the Physics 105 and 106 courses, How Things Work, have been dis­missed from the University, including those who admitted guilt before and after their investigation panels. Of 59 cases referred to trial, 20 still are pending, and Committee Chairman Thomas Hall esti­mates they will not be completed until the end of the semester. "We obviously are glad to have the investi­gation stage completed, and the process has been quite smooth," Hall said. Hall said he expected the trials to be finished last semester but now is confi­dent they will finish by the end of the semester. "The cases may have moved slower than anticipated, but the truth has been found in every case," he said. "I don't think there is anyone out there who would want to sacrifice truth for speed." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, March 8. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
.....-T 

C> 2002 AccuWealher, Inc. cow WARM STATIONARY Prcuure: 
(fil

® © Gl t2J u ~ . ~~ ~'tiff 

High Low Shower• Rain T·•torma Flurrlea Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vfa Ati.,ocia/Bd Pross  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  72 71 49 60 76  50 46 41 41 61  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  62 75 53 66 72  36 55 36 44 47  Portland 46 Sacramento 60 St. Louis 73 Tampa 81 Washington, OC 72  34 36 39 59 49  
..  

Friday, March 8, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
OIT plans outage during spring break 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
News Writer 
In a campus-wide e-mail sent out last week, the University's Office of Information Technologies announced plans for a tempo­rary Internet 
Internet 

connection 
Outage

outage on Sunday. During the 
. Sunday

outage, all Internet con-. 4 to 10 p.m. 
nectivity out-. Noire Dame side of the Notre Dame network will be 
network will inaccessible 
be unavail-from outside 
able between the hours of 4 p.m. and 10 p.m. Additionally, the network will not be accessible from oul5idc sites, such as America Online or cable modem services. 
This temporary disabling of the University's Internet system is the result of OlT's plan to install a second, backup ISP connection to the campus net­work. This will double the amount of bandwidth available to the Notre Dame community, making for more rapid Internet access. 
Prompted by a number of unintentional outages, includ­ing one that occurred last year and lasted nearly 27 hours. the Office of Information Technology has been vying for project funding from the Board of Trustees for years. Just before the 2001 fall semester, ly, set to culminate this Sunday. 
Jn addition to the Internet outage,. the OIT has scheduled an access outage on the same day for all campus Macintosh computers from 4 p.m. to 7 
p.m. The Mac servers are dis­mantled and reorganized with­in the Data Center Operations area. 
According to Denise Moser, of Data Center Operations, "there will be a very minimal impact" on University comput­er users during the outage, and as a result of the concurrent network outage, the impact will be reduced even further by tbe fact that "people v.11l not be doing work at the clusters any­way." 
Those students and other computer users who will remain on campus for the duration of the outage should be aware that they will addi­tionally he unable to access or send e-mail outside of the Notre Dame network, use Instant Message applications, and visit websites outside of the University system. OIT official Katie Christman reiterated Moser's contention that stu­dents should remain unaffected by the temporary projects, but stressed the importance of one precaution in particular. 
"Students need to be sure to protect their computers appro­priately" by using virus protec­tion software, as an increased 
SMC class runoffs yield winners 
BIG PIMPIN' 

amount of access leaves indi­viduals increasingly vulnerable to viruses, Christman said. 
By KATIE VINCER "The Internet is a dangerous 
News Writer place." 

Thursday. The class of 2003 
elected Rachel Finley's ticket 
while class of 2004 elected 
Nicole Haeberle's ticket. 
Finley's ticket earned 55 per­
cent of the class vote. Finley's 
ticket includes Candace 
McElligott as vice president. 
Erin Moran as secretary and 
Torie Cox as treasurer. 
"We will have student surveys which will be the basis of every­thing we do. Basically, we need · all the input from seniors to for­mulate our class activities," said 
Finley. 
Opponent Nickey Prezioso's 
ticket had 45 percent of the 
class votes. Prezioso's running 
mates were Kara Harms for vice 
president, Nina Ready as secre­
tary, and Katie Erchick for trea­
surer. 
About 48 percent of the class 
voted. 
The class of 2004 decided to 
"Spring into Junior Year" with Nicole Haeberle's ticket for class council. Haeberle's ticket includes Erika Kozlowski as vice president, Kelly Viater as secre­tary, and Jenny Burke for trea­surer. The ticket earned 57 per­cent of the class vote. 
"We plan to hold frequent class forums which will provide a casual atmosphere for the class to gather and speak their minds," said Haeberle. 
Haeberle's ticket defeated Jamie Belcher's ticket. Belcher's running mates were Becca Doll for vice president. Annelise Woolford for secretary and Bitsy Doro for treasurer. Belcher's ticket received 43 percent of the class votes. 
About 33 percent of the class voted. 
Contact Katie Vincer at vinc0858@saintmarys.edu 

"Some things never change 

Happy 21st Midge! Love, the PO 


Friday, March 8, 2002 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
While Aruba is on Anthony ones that I least enjoy, but will maintain a connection with 
Travel's list of most popular there's always been light at the the College. He plans on spend­
Break Chlebek 
continued from page 1 
ving. · 
"It's hard to know why [peo­ple are choosing to drive)." Carr said. "I think a lot of seniors don't necessarily have a job lined up for next fall. The economy is down, people are not spending." 
Carr did not say the events of Sept. 11 impacted students' decision to drive, nor were they responsible for the lower fares being offered. "Sept. 11 didn't really impact what the fares are right now." Carr said. "This is the slowest year as f<1,r as the bookings go. I've worked here for seven years. People usually book early, because stuff isn't left. This year there is so much still available. Students can still find a great deal." 
Even if the number of people choosing to travel is down, 

"Where you see the shift 
the number of "Hopefully destinations is is the number ofpeople if anyone not. else from
doing different things. 
"Where you school is
This year Nassau is 
see the shift is there we the number of probably the biggest. Last can meet 
people doing year we sent I 80 people up with 
different them."
to Mazatlan, this year
things. This According year Nassau is only 20. The cruise is the to Carr, 
probably the biggest, and seniors do March is 
biggest. Last also low
the biggest trips. " 
year we sent season in 180 people to Europe, Mazatlan, this Kayleen Carr and flights ye a r o n l y 2 0 . assistant manager, Anthony Travel are cheap 
The cruise is the biggest, and seniors do the biggest trips. It doesn't seem that we have people go out of the ordi­nary. They go where they can find a deal." 
Although many students still use travel agents to .plan their spring break jaunts, the Internet is fast becoming a students' best friend when it comes to vacations. In some cases, students at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's used the Internet to plan their entire trip, including every­thing from airline tickets to hotel rooms. 
Alumni sophomore Nick Gaeke and several of his hall mates used the Internet to get themselves to Aruba and back. 
"One of our friends, Wes [Aull]. really wanted to go do something for spring break," Gaeke said. "He subscribed to a bunch of travel discount notification systems." 
At first. Gaeke said, it was difficult to get the whole group tog_ether and decide on a par­ticular deal before the time limit ran out and the deal was gone. And then, they hit the jackpot. 
"[Aull's] family also has a time share in Utah. so he put that on an exchange pro­gram," Gacke said. "A week or two after we got back from Christmas break, a condo in Aruba popped up. We were excited about it bec~use we would only have to pay for air­fare. He got us discounts on that too. We found tickets for $325 apiece." 
Gacke and fellow Alumni sophomores Wes Aull. Michael Kwiatt, Joel Hein and Tohen Cocklin, will leave Notre Dame early Saturday morning to catch a flight at Midway air­port for Aruba. 
"We are leaving fro~ Midway at 10 a.m., which means we have to leave from Notre Dame at 6 a.m.. " Gaeke said. "That should be a fun lit­tle drive. We'll get into Aruba at about 5 p.m. and it'll be nice and warm." 

student spring break destina­tions. Gaeke and his friends needed to do a little research on the Net to find out more about it. Then they had to con­vince their parents. "The neat thing about Aruba is that the crime rates are really low," Gaeke said. "It is a very safe, very rich little island. Every day we get on the Internet and check the weather in Aruba, and it is always 85 degrees out and beautiful. It didn't take my parents a lot of convincing. None of us really had any problems. This thing was just too good to pass up." 
While the boys plan to have lots of fun in their condo on the beach, they will also take a small piece of No_tre Dame with them on their travels. "We bought an Aruban flag on eBay. and we are going to bring that and an ND flag to hang on our condo on the beach," Gaeke said. 
to go over­
s e a s . Several students on both cam­puses plan to visit friends studying abroad. A large num­ber of Saint Mary's students plan to visit their classmates in Maynooth, Ireland. 
Holy Cross juniors Maura Kennedy, Kelly Rizzi, Rachael Benkert, Mary Brown, Rachel Finley and Allyson Palombaro are among 17 traveling to Maynooth, Ireland to visit where they studied abroad last year. 
According to Lafferty, the group found inexpensive tick­ets on the Internet, through Council Travel. 
"We're staying there until the 18th," Lafferty said. "We're leaving tomorrow. Some of the larger group left today, and another group will leave Saturday. Rachael Benkert lives just outside of Chicago, so we are driving to her house first and her mom is driving us to the airport." 
Still others, though, will just vacation at home or with rela­tives. 
A group containing both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students plans to stay at a rel­ative's beach house in Newport Beach, California. Meghan Vandewater. Anna Lentz, Jake Teske, Pat Sluka, Stephen Christ, and Tim Ponisciak will spend their spring break relaxing on the beach and visiting famous places in southern California, including Disneyland, California Adventure, Hollywood and Beverly Hills. 
VandeWater and Lentz are juniors at Saint Mary's. Teske, Sluka, Christ, and Ponisciak are juniors at Notre Dame. 
"We want to go this year because the house is being sold this summer, so we want to take advantage of it while it is still available," VandeWater said. "I am looking forward to a week away from. school work and cold weather." 
ContactSarahRykowskiat ryko2948@saintmarys.edu 
Chief 
continued from page I 

According to Norton, the Student Union would be inoperable without Jorissen. He is responsible for keeping the office organized, arranging meetings and listening to staff concerns. He must facilitate communication between the president and vice president and ensure that the office is staying on task to accomplish its goals. 
This year, Jorissen oversaw 14 divisions with the help of his three assistant chief of staffs. He trusts the capabilities of his staff members, and prefers that they keep him informed but use their best judg­ments to make decisions instead of constantly seek­ing his approval. 
"I have a laid back attitude in my chiefdom," said Jorissen. 
Without Jorissen, the office would not be orga­nized, meetings would not be arranged and the staff concerns wouldn't be heard, according to Norton. 
"J.J. [Jorissen] is involved in pretty much every­thing. It is invaluable to me to have a third brain in there. It is great because he is a philosophy major and thin.ks of things in a different manner," said Norton. 
Jorissen said, "I am a resource for Brooke and Brian because they are so busy that when the divi­sion co-chairs have a problem they can come to me. I don't actually organize events, I help them out and direct them to other people and useful resources." 
Besides accomplishing many platform goals, including the culture fest, "Last Lecture" series, Blessing Onto Others and student discount cards, Jorissen helped to initiate and commanded the Stadium collection for the Michigan State football game, raising about $271,000 for the victims of Sept. 11. This past winter after working extensively on the Board of Trustees report on freshman orien­tation, Jorissen was able to present it with Norton to the Board in California. 
"It is very nice to have someone like J.J. who cares so much for students and loves both Notre Dame and what he is doing, and doesn't mind helping out with everything," Norton said. 
The position of chief of staff is a thankless job. Norton believes that this individual has to be a self­less person. The chief of staff works just as hard as the president and vice president, but rarely receives the gratitude that he deserves or the recognition that the other two positions receive. 
"When there is something that is really important and needs to be done and I can't fit in, J.J. always pulls through for me," said Norton. 
When deciding upon a chief of staff last spring, Norton and Mosconna were looking for someone who was personable, responsible, and passionate; 
Well maintained houses n~ar campus 
• 
Washers and dryers provided 

• 
24-hour maintainance staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, 4:-, 5--, & 8-bedroom houses 


Only 4 left for the 2002,2003 school year Also leasing for the 2003-2004 school year 
CaH today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571 
cared about students and was fun to be around. Norton realized that Jorissen, who was then the junior class president and had worked on her cam­paign, would be her choice because of his approach­able and diplomatic personality. 
The new administration 
On April 1, the new administration under the leadership of Libby Bishop and Trip Foley will be entering the Office of the Student Body President. Each administration has its own style and is allowed to structure their office as they choose. Jorissen has been meeting with next year's leaders to ease the transition and to both answer questions and provide advice. 
During the campaign, Bishop and Foley were not consciously thinking of whom they would appoint as their chief of staff, but they knew they would be looking for someone who was a strong leader, com­manded respect, upheld honesty and made others feel comfortable. A week after being elected, without any hesitation, they appointed sophomore Pat Hallahan. 
Hallahan recalls when Bishop and Foley asked him to accept the position, they said it would be ben­eficial to the office for him to join them because of their ability to work together. 
Hallahan is a friend of Foley's and took an active role in the campaign last fall as one of the campaign managers, while Bishop was studying abroad in London. Upon returning this semester, Bishop noticed his devotion and realized that he would do a goodjob. 
"I became impressed by his work ethic and his dedication to what Trip and I want to accomplish. He has had those two years of experience both on class council and senate, and I think he knows how things work," said Bishop. . 
Currently, Hallahan is preparing for the transition and finalizing the structure of the staff with Bishop and Foley. The new staff structure will be similar to Norton's; however, there will be eight divisions with a handful of liaison positions. 
"We are going to run a productive office because we realize that we only have a year to accomplish our goals," said Hallahan. "I am going to have a hands-on approach and be involved in different positions -making sure that everything is going smoothly, we are on schedule and resources are available." 
He believes that one of his most important roles will be as the relay person between the staff and Bishop and Foley. 
"I would hope that if people on our staff have problems and are wondering how to go about doing things, that they would come to me and then I could point them in the right direction," said Hallahan. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
ing time with family, including his daughters who graduated from Saint Mary's. 
"I plan to catch up on my fish­ing and ... I live on a lake in Edwardsburg, so I'd be spend­ing a lot of my time there. My relaxation is watercolors and then projects around the home, traveling with the wife, being with the grandkids," Chlebek said. 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@saintmarys.edu 
continued from page 1 

He appreciates Saint Mary's commitment to continual improvement, though he has learned through experience that some changes can bring difficul­ties. Chlebek has remained hopeful throughout his career that such challenges can be overcome. 
"There are times when it's try­ing and those particular occa­sions would probably be the 
end of the tunnel," Chlebek said. 
For Chlebek, the rewards out­
number those trying times. He 
values not only his ability to pro­
tect, but also those whom he is 
protecting. 

"I think I've always been con­
cerned about the safety of the 
community and that was my 
number one priority. [I was] ... 
hired to provide a safe environ ­· ment. 1think we did a very good job in doing that." Chlebek said. Chlebek said he has enjoyed his career at Saint Mary's. and 

ATION 
Friday, March 8, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBS.ERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Voters defeat Ireland abortion bill: 
By a razor-thin margin, voters rejected a gov­ernment plan to close a gap in Ireland's tough abortion laws, official returns showed Thursday. The result from Wednesday's refer­endum left in legal limbo a decade-old Supreme Court judgment that sought to legalize abor­tions for women whose pregnancies threatened their lives. 
Judge denies Canada torpedo site: 
A federal judge has ruled the Canadian govern­ment improperly seized ownership of a torpedo testing site off British Columbia used by the Canadian and U.S. navies. The ruling means the Nanoose Bay range on Vancouver Island reverts to ownership by the provincial govern­ment of British Columbia, igniting a dispute over whether nuclear-armed vessels can use it. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Schwarz free on $1 million bail: 
After nearly three years behind bars, a white former police officer whose conviction in the torture of Abner Louima was thrown out on appeal was freed on $1 million bail Thursday to await a new trial. U.S. District Judge Reena Raggi agreed to release 36-year-old Charles Schwarz but restricted him to New York City. The bail was secured with his mother's house. 
Ex-priest won't face rape charges: 
A judge dismissed two child rape charges against the former Roman Catholic priest at the center of the Boston Archdiocese sex scan­dal Thursday, saying prosecutors had not filed them in time. The defrocked priest, John Geoghan, had argued the 1999 indictment alleging he twice raped a 10-year-old boy between 1980 and 1984 came after the statute of limitations had expired. County prosecutors said they had made no decision whether to appeal. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man dies in train yard accident: 
A Lafayette man working in a train yard died after being pinned between a 90-ton railroad car and a wheel assembly, police said. David Flcischauer, 47, died about 1:40 p.m. Wednesday when the railroad tanker he was repairing shifted and pinned him between the train car and the wheel assembly. Fleischauer and two other Norfolk Southern employees were changing the wheel assembly on the tanker, which contained an estimated 
180.000 pounds of vegetable oil. 
Market Watch March 7 

Dow 10,525.37 -48.92 
]~ Same:  Composite  
~  192  Volume: l ,510,378,347  
AMEX:  880.56  -0.84  
NASDAQ:  1,881.63  -8.77  
NYSE:  600.90  -2.21  
S&P 500:  1,157.53  -5.23  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUM-/) -2 .10 -0.19 8.84 NASDPQ-100 INDEX (cm) -0 . 3 5 -0.13 37.47 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.13 +0.19 16.69 SEPRACOR INC (SEPR) -58.90 -27.84 19.43 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0. 79 -0.26 32.70 
ISRAEL 


Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
Israel pressed its cam­paign of intense strikes throughout the West Bank and Gaza Strip on Thursday, conducting sweeps in refugee camps and killing 12 Palestinians. 
A Palestinian suicide bomber attacked a West Bank settlement, while a gunman killed four people and wounded 20 in an Israeli settlement. 
The attack on the Atzmona settlement came shortly after President Bush announced he planned to send his Mideast envoy back to the region. 
A Palestinian gunman infiltrated the Gaza settle­ment late Thursday and killed four people, before soldiers shot him dead. The attacker wounded 20 people, five seriously, the Israeli military said. 
Israel Radio reported the military wing of the militant Hamas organiza­tion claimed responsibili­ty. 
The station said the infiltrator entered the Atzmona settlement from the south, near the Palestinian city of Khan Younis, and threw grenades as well as shooting. 
Bush said he was send­ing Anthony Zinni to the troubled region next week in hopes of halting widen­ing violence and called for both sides to end the fighting. 
The president said the Israelis had to show "a vision for peace. There's got to be more than secu­rity." Bush said, however, he fully supported Israel's right to defend itself from Palestinian attacks. 
He called on Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to make a "maximum effort to end terrorism against Israel." 
Israeli troops stormed 
through two West Bank refugee camps before dawn and rocketed a police station after night­fall in one of Gaza's most crowded camps, sending Palestinian civilians run­ning for cover. 
In the biblical West Bank town of Bethlehem, Israeli airstrikes on Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat's local headquar­ters hit so hard they blew open bolted doors in nearby homes. 
Israeli leaders said the campaign was aimed at forcing the Palestinians to stop terror attacks, but there was no sign of that on Thursday. 

House extends jobless benefits 
Three previous economic stimulus Added House Speaker Dennis
Associated Press 

bills passed by the Republican-led Hastert: "We think this is the right 
WASHINGTON House that contained much bigger prescription.•· 
Ending months of gridlock on tax cuts had languished in the The House vote coincided with a recession relief, the House over­Senate. Capitol Hill appearance by Federal whelmingly passed legislation "The Senate needs to act and get Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Thursday combining tax cuts intend­the bill to my desk, and I look for­who gave a more upbeat economic ed to spark business growth and a ward to signing it," Bush said at the forecast than he had a week earlier. 13-week extension of benefits for White House, "We've had too much Given the size of the U.S. econo'my, millions of unemployed people. non-movement on this important Greenspan told the Senate Banking 
Senate Democrats said after the issue, and it's time to go." Committee, the relatively modest 417-3 vote in the House they would Senate Majority Leader Tom stimulus package would have little bring the bill to the floor first thing Daschle, D-S.D., said, "I am very impact on recession recovery. Friday for a vote there. The White pleased they have chosen to follow a "I doubt very much that the econo­House said President Bush would path that many of us were suggest­my, if it didn't get a stimulus, would sign the measure into law. ing long ago." sag," Greenspan said. 
Friday, March 8, 2002
page 6 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 
Judge awards former Playmate Smith $88M 
Associated Press 

SANTA ANA, Calif. 
A federal judge awarded for­mer Playboy Playmate Anna Nicole Smith more than $88 mil­lion in damages Thursday in the latest ruling in a bitter legal fight over the estate of her late husband, Texas oil tycoon J. Howard Marshall II. 
U.S. District Court Judge David Carter ruled Thursday that Marshall's son, E. Pierce Marshall, had interfered with Smith's attempt to get part of her late husband's oil fortune, estimated at hundreds of million of dollars. 
"The evidence of willfulness, maliciousness and fraud is over­

whelming," Carter "This is a complete would receive wrote. victory for my client, half of what he He found that E. owned," Carter
and I think it's a victory
Pierce Marshall said in his rul­
for a husband's love 
and others spied ing. on the couple and for his wife." He said Smith controlled his was entitled to father's access to $44.3 million in 
money to deny Philip Boesch punitive dam­Sm ith the s u ms attorney for Anna Nicole Smith ages and the 
she was promised. 

E. Pierce Marshall released a statement saying he would appeal and that his father "would be appalled that the district court continued to ignore his clearly stated wish­es." 
Thursday's ruling came after 
E. Pierce Marshall challenged a previous federal bankruptcy court decision that awarded Smith $475 million of his father's money. 
Smith, 33, has fought lengthy court battles in California and Texas over the fortune of her late husband, who died at age 90 in August 1995, 14 months after they wed. 

Tho former Playboy Playmate, whose real name is Vickie Lynn Marshall, met her husband in 1991 when she was working as a stripper. The couple married throe years later when she was 26 and he was 89. 
Before his death, his estate went into a trust that divided his fortune among charities. a foun­dation, his son and other indi­viduals, but gave nothing to Smith. She sued E. Pierce Marshall to get part of it. 
Carter's ruling said Smith had a reasonable-expectation that she would receive a portion of her husband's estate and that she would receive it without interference. 
"J. Howard made numerous 
promises to 
Vickie that she 
same amount in 
compensatory damages against E. Pierce Marshall, who controls the trust established by his late father. 
"This is a complete victory for my client, and I think it's a victo­ry for a husband's love for his wife," said Smith's attorney, Philip Boesch. 
He said his client "was subject­ed to the worst kind of legal maneuvering by her son-in­law." 
Marshall and Smith were absent when the ruling was issued. 
A year ago, a Texas jury con­cluded Smith had no right to any money. 
Bush film debuts 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Alexandra Pelosi came to the Texas capital as an NBC News producer to cover Gov. George 
W. Bush's bid for the White House in 1999. This week, she returned as a documentary film­maker with "Journeys with George." 

become president. Some Bush aides have been apprehensive it might make him look unpresi­dential. 
"Stop filming me. You're like a head cold," an irritated but smil­ing Bush tells Pelosi in one scene. "This is going to be a lousy documentary." 
By the end of the movie, though, Bush has grown into a more comfortable, confident candidate. During one heart-to­heart, Pelosi asks how the 18­rnonth campaign has changed him. 

St. Petersburg/Clearwater & Orlando/Sanford · FLORIDA 
Gary/Chicago Airport
1-800-FLY-PANAM 
www.garychlcagoalrpon.com
www.flypanam.com 
or call your local travel agent. 


AFP Photo Model Anna Nicole Smith arrives at a Santa Ana, Calif., federal court in January with her attorney for closing arguments. A judge on Thursday awarded Smith $88 million in her bat­tle with her former stepson for her share of her late husband's estimated $2 billion estate. 



·cood Luelf.To Our Men W Women's Basketball Tea 1n8i±: 
;·!·;/;;i::':J;.~:. 
;··<\i?:li 
.··,/\-'.,i' 

. -~-,,;:-•<!;,['. :; .• 
We salute your hard wo.-..k and dedication. 



'':i!!<+,ct, ~ NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
lodepcndent of the University 
Friday, March 8, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Crews may finish Pentagon repairs by Sept. 11 
Associated Press 
WASIHNGTON 

Workers are rebuilding the Pentagon so quickly that by Sept. 11, Defense Department employ­ees will be working at the spot where a hijacked airliner crashed into the building a year earlier. 
"We want them sitting at their desks, doing their work" on the anniversary of the attack, said Walker Evey, program manager of' the restoration project. 
The back-in-business symbol­ism of that image inspires hun­dreds of workers laboring long hours to restore the Pentagon's western flank 
will blend seamlessly with the original, near an outdoor memo­rial planned hy the Army Corps of Engineers. 
Evidence of recovery has edged out signs of disaster. 
Gone from the western Dank is the jagged hole of blackened concrete ripped open by a rogue jetliner traveling 350 mph, six feet above the ground. In its place is a 100-yard-wide rectan­gular gap partly filled with five stories of floors in various states of construction. Looming over­head are two 140-foot-tall cranes. 
Pentagon officials did not pre­dict such quick progress given the damage and the unique chal­
lenges facing 

and the offices inside. So far, the project is months ahead of schedule, Evey said.  "Sept. I I was Sept. 1 I. It's in the past. Our eyes are all on the future. "  rebuilders of the massive building. American Airlines Flight 77 and its 20,000 gallons of fuel  
"They  have  spread destruc­ 
tr e m e n d o u s motivation,"Evey said  Walker Evey restoration project manager  tion, fire and death over 2 mil­lion square feet,  
Thursday.  killing 189 people  

"Some lost family members"in in the plane and on the ground. the crash." The fire was so hot, Evey said, 
"The Phoenix Project" is that it turned window glass to already rising fast, but Evey is liquid and sent it spilling down careful to say that the work will walls into puddles on the be far from finished by the ground. The impact cracked tragedy's anniversary. massive concrete columns far 
Unlike the outermost "E Ring," beyond the impact site, destabi­home to the offices of the most lizing a broader section of the senior Defense Department building than contractors had employees, the ''C''and "D" rings originally thought. that also were damaged will Several challenges confronted likely not be completed by Sept. the contractors. Poisonous mold 
11. he said. in kaleidoscopic colors climbed 
That could happen as early as the interior walls, fed by millions next year, when the new facade of gallons of water that had been sprayed at the fire over two days. Gloved, gas-masked work• ers pumped hot, dry air trough the windows to remove it. 

New security measures ­from fortifying the structure's windows and wall'> to improving air tlow, sprinklers and escape routes -drove up the price from around $700 million to about $7 40 million, Evey said. 
And a few employees faced, then cleared, the more personal hurdle of putting a grinding sad­ness behind them and digging into the renovation. 
"Sept. 11 was Sept. 11. It's in the past," Evey said. "Our eyes are all on the future." 
A month and a day after demolition began on Oct. 18, workers had cleared a huge rec­tangular hole down to the con­crete floor four weeks ahead of schedule. They filled spiral sup• port columns with concrete to strengthen the structure against future attacks. Workers are now completing the fifth and final floor and preparing to begin work making the new exterior walls match the originals, Evey said. 
Of the 4,600 Pentagon workers who were displaced by the attack, some 1,500 are back in their offices while others work elsewhere in the Pentagon or in rented space . 

•one more time The Observer's 35th ·Anniversary Reunion April 20, 2002 South BendMariott e-mail obsreunion. com for more information or to RSVP  

The Observer. ADVERTISEMENT 

.-----------------------------------------------------------­
-
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 8, 2002 page 9 
GUEST COLUMN 
U.S. attitude is reminiscent of colonialism 
MADISON, Wis. 

At the height of British imperial dominance throughout much of the world, the British adventurer and writer Rudyard Kipling wrote one of his more controversial poems, "The White Man's Burden.'' His phi­Braden Smith losophy of noblesse obliga­tion toward other The Daily races had a pro­
Cardinal 

found impact on colonial thought and still influ­ences most of the discourse concern­ing developing nations to this day. 
Kipling's words were certainly racist, but they are not yet an anachronism. Kipling's philosophy is having a rebirth in certain intellectual circles in this country under a new guise: international security. The result has been an extension of U.S. power throughout the world, but with little regard for the effectiveness of justifying military action based on moral obligation. 
In many ways, the new colonialism is much like the moralist arguments made in the late 19th century to justify intervening in places like the Sudan, which allowed the slave trade to flour­ish until a British expedition routed the forces of an extremist Muslim leader. The British General Gordon, who led the expedition to the Sudan, felt it was his duty to force the Sudanese to end slavery. 
Of course, once the British left Sudan, the country descended into warlord violence once again. In fact, Sudan is one of the few places on Earth where one can still buy or sell slaves. Apparently. the "white man's burden" was too much for the British colonial administrators. 
But, will the Bush administration want to shoulder this same burden in Afghanistan'? By all indications, Afghanistan can barely be called a nation. If improvements are going to be made, it will take years of support from Western governments and require forces on the ground enforcing the peace between rival warlords. 
The responsibility sounds a lot like colonial administration. There ts pres­sure being applied by various human rights organizations for the United States not to abandon Afghanistan after the Taliban are thoroughly rout­ed. This could mean a commitment of more than 20 years and certainly bil­lions of dollars. 
In a sense, arguing for the United States to accept the burden of bringing Afghanistan into the 21st century in terms of living standards and moral behavior is like accepting the "white man's burden." It is assuming that the United States and other Western nations could change Afghanistan and its culture if it wanted to. Gordon 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defining feminism 
Someone should buy Lt. David Sauve a dictionary. 
Feminism is a movement whose ultimate goal is equality (essentially, equality of opportunity) between men and women. The "Marxist and Communist" agenda Lt. Sauve cites in his March 5 letter is purely of his own invention. Feminism doesn't sound too bad unless, like Lt. Sauve, you are a misogynist who makes assumptions about a belief system other than your own without first researching the goals and principles of this ideolo­gy. Feminism has arisen out of self-loathing based on monthly periods? If this were true, I guarantee there would be far more feminists on this campus. 
Lt. Sauve makes a number of unfair assumptions about feminism. I consider myself a feminist, yet I hate neither men nor myself. According to Lt. Sauve, this is a contradiction. Meanwhile, not all feminists subscribe to the idea that only when babies can be grown outside the womb will we be able to have true equality with men. Lt. Sauve has quite obviously nut done his research, and his cri­tique of feminism therefore cannot be taken seri­ously. 
By spreading anti-feminist propaganda that strives to denounce ideas that aren't even neces­sarily connected with feminism, Lt. Sauve is con­tributing to an unhealthy divide between the sexes, the negative effects of which manifest themselves every day in the sad state of gender relations on our campus. 
If Sauve is going to criticize feminism, he should first be sure that the behavior he condemns is in fact consistent with feminist views. Perhaps next time Lieutenant McCarthy will do his research before blacklisting feminists. 
Kathleen O'Leary 
sophomore 
Farley Hall 
March 5, 2002 

failed; what makes Bush think he can succeed'? 
New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman has been arguing in his col­umn that the United States needs to become more involved in spreading democracy to the Middle East. He has been urging policy makers to stop sup­porting autocratic and corrupt rulers in the Middle East, who siphon their countries' wealth into private jets and palatial mansions. 
Part of Friedman's argument is cor­rect. Strategic interests such as oil sometimes play too large a part in for­mulating American foreign policy. There is rarely any acknowledgement of the danger to U.S. interests that come from supporting rulers who base their popularity on anti-Americanism. The U.S. government could take sim­ple steps like reducing our depen­dence on fossil fuels and removing 
U.S. military bases from countries like Saudi Arabia that would de-emphasize our connection to Middle Eastern oil and Saudi Arabia's corrupt rulers. 
Yet, we cannot begin to believe that by meddling in Middle Eastern politics, the United States will "convince" coun­tries to accept democratic principles or embrace religious diversity. Just look at the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for a good example. The Oslo Peace Accords are the closest the region has come to a peace agreement, but they relied too heavily on U.S. pressure. 
The region's prejudices and hatreds are too firmly implanted in the minds of the average West Bank or Israeli resident. It seems absurd to think that only two years ago President Clinton proclaimed that peace in the Middle East was just over the horizon. That burden was too great for the United States to support, and now it is painfully obvious that no amount of 
U.S. intervention could halt the vio­lence. 
Kipling's burden was not a literary invention. It was an arrogant assump­tion of the white man's superiority. Now it appears as if the United States is poised to be just as arrogant by assuming a similar burden to purge the world of Islamic extremism. The result may just be the rebirth of colo­nialism, with all its ugly assumptions of superiority and responsibility. 
This column originally appeared in The University of Wisconsin campus newspaper, The Daily Cardinal, on March 7, and is reprinted here cour­tesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Rethink popular culture 
On February 28, the NAACP held an event enti­Sex as a marketing tool is becoming more and tled "Music, Sex, and You." The forum addressed more acceptable in an ever-growing society. Every the impact of music, films and videos on relation­day we see advertisements with a partially ships. dressed individual attempting to sell us, the con­
American culture has undergone drastic sumer, a product. Music videos, and in particular, changes in the past decade. We are a society that hip-hop videos, resonate this form of sensational­thrives off of capitalistic exploitations of groups of istic exploitation by portraying women as sexual people. For instance; the Trans-Atlantic Slave objects. They are displayed for the disposal of hor­Trade reiterates this point. Africans were abduct­monally driven males. Men, especially African­ed from their native homeland and sold as a com­American males, are seen as overindulgent indi­modity, property to European traders. The pattern viduals whose sole purpose is obtaining a piece of continues today but is shaped in a different medi­the "American Dream" pie. an. Youth are imitating this form of entertainment 
With the advent of modern forms of communica­because many lack emotional and moral support tion, our perceptions of society have been signifi­from their families. After the final bell rings at cantly influenced by entertainment. For example, 2:45 p.m. and class has ended, a number of chil­in the early 1900s, we did not have access to cable dren levitate to the television screen and watch or satellite television for 24 hours a day, seven the latest music videos while learning about the days per week. However, depending on our won newest fashion trends. A child's moral and value socio-economic status, we have the capability of system is being influenced by the images flashed tuning into our favorite television show at our own across the television screen. As a result, adoles­dispense. The impact of television is evident cents severely lack a honest perception of reality. through the growth of music. In 1981, a small sta­In saying all of this, it is our responsibility to tion known as MTV began broadcasting music establish a creative and intellectually based cul­videos that spanned a variety of musical genres. ture that will stimulate the minds of our youths. 
During this same period, the art of hip-hop was Most youths have high aspirations to make a dif­evolving in economically disadvantaged communi­ference in the world. The process has to begin ties in New York City. This new form of music with each individual. People need to undergo a expressed the hardships and struggles of a sector spiritual cleansing of the soul. The cleansing will of people that lived in conditions which resemble a assist people in defining their roles as an individ­ghetto. ual within this complex society. 
In "Sketches of My Culture," Dr. Cornel West Next, there needs to be action taken that puts an calls hip-hop, "The greatest creative breakthrough end to these exploitative practices. If enough of us of the last 25 years of the younger generation fus­take a stand then these music videos will no ing linguistic virtuosity with rhythmic velocity." longer exist. 
Mainstream America began to take notice and Finally, we have to educate the youth in order to saw the possibilities of developing hip-hop into a ensure a society that we can all appreciate. If peo­multi-million dollar market. In 1985, Russell ple fail to educate their children, the societal Simmons launched Def Jam Records that legit­norms will still exist. imized hip-hop as a culture that could be a rep­utable form of entertainment. Hip-hop has evolved Jourdan Sorrella with the ever-changing societal norms. Music sophomore videos viewed on cable television are evidence of Siegfried Hall this change. February 28, 2002 
• 
O
THE BSERVER 

page 10 Friday, March 8, 2002 

Oh My Thai 
Scene reviews the newest Thai restaurant in South Bend 
By LAURA KELLY Associa[e Scene Editor 

As one of only a handful of Thai restaurants in the greater Michiana area, My Thai makes a valiant attempt to offer South Bend customers a diverse and extensive menu. 
However, the restaurant's unfortunate lack of atmosphere and its uninspired presentation over­shadow what could otherwise be a unique or memo­rable dining experience. 
Located at 1620 Ironwood, My Thai is situated near established favorites like La Esperanza and infamous late-night eateries like Boracho Burrito and Nick's Patio. This convenient and accessible location gives the restaurant a boost in patronage, as seen in the comfortably filled dining room on a typical weekday night. 
The creation of an interesting and sensually­pleasing atmosphere is where My Thai needs to focus more of its efforts. 
With stark fluorescent lighting overhead and plain white walls, the single dining room is reminiscent of a small-town community center or grade-school cafeteria. A few tapestries and hand-crafted deco­rations give the walls some color, but there is no sense of an intimate dining experience. 
As any restaurant should, My Thai focuses on the food. The large menu offers many varieties of stir­fries, noodle dishes, curry and other entrees. Soups, a selection of mostly deep-fried appetizers (which a strong young heart should always indulge in) and unusual salad combinations like papaya-carrot round out the meal. 
As expected, standard dishes like pad thai are found here, and the kitchen does a predictable job with the popular rice noodle and vegetable mix. For the adventurous, an offering of daily specials pro­vides changing and creative options for those already familiar with the style of Thai cooking. 
Generally speaking, the food is solidly, if not inventively, prepared. The portions are large ­generous enough for all to bring leftovers home ­but the delicate spices and flavorings so important to Thai food seem to be lost in the sacrifice for quick, large meals. 
Even the menu items marked with a red dragon to indicate their spicy taste are not noticeably hot or 

Located on Ironwood near popular college haunts such as Nick's Patio and Boracho Burrito, My Thai appeals to a variety of guests. The prompt arrival of meals is convenient, but not enough to divert atten­
tion away from the bland flavor and harsh interior. 
exceptionally flavorful. Perhaps this is the curse of trying to please a Midwestern sensibility that con­siders even the mildest spices too hot, but it is a shame not to have a greater range of options for those who like to shock their taste buds. 

Customers in a rush will appreciate the quick preparation of the dishes, but the practice of serv­ing the plates in shifts as they become ready is dis­rupting to the overall experience of the meal. The kitchen would do better to keep dishes warm until 
they can all be brought out and enjoyed together. 
For the prices charged, a customer should expect 
slightly more from the overall dining experience 
than what My Thai offers. 
Appetizers, soups and salads cost around $5 on 
average, and main dishes range from $9 to $12. 
While sizes are satisfactory, the quality of cooking 
does not seem to equal the prices charged. 
The small wait staff is friendly and attentive, 
however, which always improves a restaurant's 
ambiance. 
Judging from the wide range of customers ­
groups of elderly couples, young people on first 
dates and friends gathered for a meal -My Thai 
has a broad appeal, perhaps because of its 
dependable service and prime location. 
While room for aesthetic improvement can be 
seen, such as the addition of screens to partition 
off the single dining room and the overall addition 
of more decoration, the restaurant still seems to 
enjoy a successful operation, which will hopefully 
translate into greater attention to the delicacy of 
Thai cuisine. 
Until then, the Ironwood establishment will con­
tinue to work to establish itself not only among the 
ranks of neighboring Nick's and Boracho, but also 
among other popular Oriental restaurants in the 
greater South Bend area. 
My Thai is open for lunch and dinner from 
Tuesday through Sunday. Reservations are accept­
ed at (574) 272-8872. 
With simple tables in a stark white dining area lit by harsh fluorescent lighting, the atmosphere In My Thal leaves much to be desired. This wall hanging Is one of the few, sparse decorations adorning the walls. This Contact Laura Kelly at LKelly@nd.edu. lack of comfortable dining environment detracts from the overall dining experience. 
• 
O
THI: 
BSERVER 


Friday, March 8, 2002 page 11 

The Big Easy is perhaps too easy 
South Bend's premiere nightspot for Cajun food, blues and slow service 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
Straight from Bourbon Street to South Bend, a piece of Creole culture has landed near the University. The Big Easy, South Bend's pre­miere hotspot for live music and exotir food, offers patrons culture and culinary clout in one place. Of course, the culinary part may take a while to get to the table. 
Co-owners Rick Weaver and Bob Miller opened the· Big Easy because they wanted to give South Bend a break from the hum-drum sports bars and family-themed restaurants all too prevalent in the area. 
"I saw the need in South Bend for some­thing different, a change from all the cookie­cutter restaurants," Weaver said. 
Weaver and Miller wanted to start a restau­rant that offered its patrons an escape from the work-a-day world. The result: The Big Easy, a slice of colorful New Orleans life in the gray Midwest. 
"Good food, good drinks and good entertain­ment ... It's a fun place to be, just like in New Orleans: It's all about enjoying life," Weaver said. 
The Big Easy, located at 1516 North Ironwood Drive between Edison and SR 23, is South Bend 's newest hotspot for live music. 
With bands playing four nights a week, The Big Big Easy is hopping from Thursday through Sunday enjoyable, but patrons wanting a quick meal will Easy is on track to claim the title of the now closed night when live bands play and the kitchen is open not be satisfied with the restaurant's despicably Mickey's as the city's outlet for local and traveling until midnight. The live music begins at 9 p.m. slow service. Perhaps the waitstaff takes the professional blues, jazz and swing bands. But the easygoing atmosphere is not the only good restaurant's name a little too seriously. 
Frank Krakowski, or "Little Frank" as he is feature at The Big Easy: The food is great too. The In the end, The Big Easy has a wonderful atmos­known on stage, has been playing at The Big Easy chefs serve authentic Creole dishes that ooze New phere, hip music and great food (that is, if it ever since it opened last November. Orleans flavor through and makes it to the table). Krakowski had been looking for through.
"Good food, good drinks 
steady work in South Bend and Must-haves on the menu include
and good entertainment
The Big Easy fit the bill perfectly. the Louisiana frog legs, which are 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu . 
Little Frank, his band and guest ... It's a Jun place to be, lightly breaded and tossed in a performers are featured at the house butter
just like in New Orleans: 
restaurant every Thursday night. sauce; the succu­
It's all about enjoying 
"I was looking for a steady gig. lent legs (which, in The Big Easy provided that for life.,, fact, do not taste local musicians like me," like chicken) are a Krakowski said. delightful appetiz­
Rick Weaver 

The live music is top quality and er and are well really gives the renovated low-life co-owner worth their $7 bar a unique Cajun atmosphere. price tag. The patrons are enthusiastic about Patrons will also the music, loudly hollering and urging the bands enjoy the crispy fried gator tail. The on. The Big Easy has an obvious crowd of regulars juicy morsels of alligator are fried that makes the scene feel homey. The scene at The and then tossed in a tasty molasses 
Guitarist Frank Krawkowski (far left) plays with "Little Frank" bandmates (from left to right) Robert Carter, Craig Ridout and Brian Cook. Little Frank performs at The Big Easy every week. 



• barbecue sauce and served with cornbread croutons and a spicy corn relish. Although the dish is fried, the gator tail is very tender and moist and has a particularly delicate flavor. The gulf grouper is particularly good. Herb­crusted and served with a side of horseradish mashed potatoes, this dish competes nobly with the portabella burger, a large marinated portabella mushroom topped with spinach, tomato, provolone cheese aad served on a foccacia roll. For lunch, the fried catfish sandwich, is a hearty Cajun meal. Patrons, of course, can slather all of their entrees in The Big Easy's fine assortment of hot sauces. The prices at The Big Easy are definitely not for the spendthrift college student; expect at least an $11 per plate lunch and $20 per plate at dinner. The food and the atmosphere are definitely worth the price, however. For the not so adventurous, The Big Easy also provides a meager selection of American grill standards like sirloin and ribeye steaks, as well as chicken breasts. The Big Easy also features a full-stocked bar and a fine assortment of domestic, imported and specialty beers. 
Unfortunately, the service can be grievously slow at The Big Easy; it can take up to an hour and a half to get a meal after being seat­ed. Of course, the relaxed atmosphere is Friday, March 8, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 12 
BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Georgetown still on bubble after OT loss 
. Hurricanes Panthers, Huskies advance to semis 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Miami is in the Big East tournament semifinals again. Georgetown must wait to learn its next postseason stop. 
Marcus Barnes scored five of his career-high 27 
Big East 
points in 
Semifinals
overtime, 
and the . Garne1 20th-ranked . Pittsburgh vs. 
Hurricanes beat the Miami Hoyas 84-76 
-. 7p.m.
Thursday to 
. Game 1
reach the semifinals . UConn vs. for the third 
Notre Dame
time in four years. . 9p.m. T h e 
ESPN will
Hurricanes (24-6) will televise both 
play No. 7 
games today
Pittsburgh ­which beat Boston College 76-62 -on Friday for a berth in the title game. 
"This tournament is like a family reunion, and you always want to show the fami­ly you're pretty good," Miami coach Perry Clark said. "I just thought you saw two basket­ball teams going after each other, playing as hard as they could, and we were fortunate enough to come out with the victory." 
The loss might have dealt a severe blow to the Hoyas' chances of receiving an at­large bid to the NCAA tourna­ment. 
Georgetown (19-11), which beat Providence 68-6 7 in the opening round, has one victory over a non-Division I team this season and, despite having won four straight entering this game, doesn't fare well in the computer rankings. 
The Hoyas are 0-4 in over­time games this season, including a loss to Notre Dame in four OTs. 

"This is the same feeling I've had too many times this sea­son," Georgetown coach Craig Esherick said. "We're going to have three long days until Sunday. We have put our des­tiny into someone else's hands. It's a helpless feeling and for three days that is all we're going to be thinking about: 'Is the committee going to pick us?' 
"I certainly think we played well enough to deserve a bid, but I also know that I would have felt a whole lot better about that decision if we had won this game." 
Wesley '\Nilson led the Hoyas with 16 points and 10 rebounds. 
Barnes, a 6-foot-2 sopho­more, finished 6-for-10 from 3-point range. The last of his 3s came with 12:42 left and gave Miami a 52-48 lead. 
Georgetown took advantage of a sudden cold spell by the Hurricanes to go on a 10-0 run and take a 63-53 lead with 
7:44 left on two free throws by Harvey Thomas. 
"Coach teaches us to stay in the game and keep focused. You know it's going to come back around," Miami's Darius Rice said. "I wasn't worried." 
Rice, who finished with 18 points, became Miami's offen­sive key down the stretch,. hit­ting three of his four 3-point­ers in a 2 1/2 -minute span, the last tying the game 68-68 with 2:31 left. 
The score was 70-70 enter­ing the final minute of regula­tion and it seemed neither team wanted to win. 
Georgetown called a timeout with 51 seconds left, but John Salmons intercepted Thomas' inbounds pass and was fouled with 36 seconds left. He made both free throws. 
Kevin Braswell converted a spin move in the lane with 27 seconds left to tie it. Salmons was tied up inside by Mike Sweetney with 16 seconds left and the possession arrow was in favor of Georgetown. 
The Hoyas didn't take long to turn it over, though, as Courtland Freeman's cross-
court pass went off Tony Bethel's hands and out of bounds. 
Miami's last chance at a win in regulation was an airball 3­point attempt by Rice at the buzzer. 
Barnes gave Miami the lead for good at 7 6-7 4 with 2:58 to go, and the Hurricanes closed it out by going 8-f'or-10 on free throws. Georgetown failed to score on its last six posses­sions. • 
"I thought Marcus Barnes' play throughout the course of the game was critical," Clark said. "In the second half, late in the game, Darius came alive and put us in a position to come back and win." 
Salmons finished with six points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists. 
Gerald Riley had 15 points for the Hoyas, while Swectney added 14, and Braswell 12. 
Esherick wouldn't blame any players for the late turnovers in regulation. 
"We were up by 10. There were all sorts of plays that permitted Miami to get back into the game," he said. 
Pittsburgh 76, Boston College 62 
Another game, another scor­ing drought for Boston College. 
This time, the Eagles had trouble on offense against Pittsburgh and the No. 7 Panthers didn't let them off the hook, turning the dry spell into a victory. 
Next for Pitt (26-4) is a Friday night semifinal against Miami, which defeated Georgetown 84-76 in overtime in Thursday's second game. 
A day after shooting 15 per­cent and making just five field goals in the first half against Rutgers -the worst shooting half in Big East tournament history -BC came out fast, seemingly intent on erasing the memory of that game. 
The Eagles (20-11) had six field goals in just over six min­utes, one more than they man­aged in the first half of their tournament opener and moved to a 20-15 lead with six min­utes left in the first half. And then suddenly, they went dry. 
Pitt went on a 21-4 run, shutting BC out from the lield over the last six minutes of the first half and charging out to a 12-point lead at 36-24. 
BC never really challenged after that. 
"In a game when you're down, you have to do damage in the first six or seven min­utes of the second half," BC coach Al Skinner said. "We didn't. We didn't execute well and they got transition baskets and built the lead." 
Pitt never panicked at BC's early surge. The Panthers just waited for their opportunity and when it came. they took advantage of it. 
"We don't get concerned when we're down," Pitt coach Ben Howland said. "We defended and rebounded and did what we wanted to do." 
It's a formula Pitt has used in winning eight straight games and 11 of the last 12. The Panthers wore down BC off the boards, holding a 40-23 rebounding edge. 
"Our players are strong and physical," Howland said. "We don't get pushed around. We have depth. We're nine or 10 deep and all of them are good." 
BC had recovered from an 11-point halftime deficit against Rutgers but could not duplicate that effort against Pitt, which reached the Big East semifinals for the fifth time. 
Pitt's lead grew to 21 points as Donatas Zavackas scored 16 points and Chevon Troutman added 15. BC's Uka Agbai led all scorers with 25. 
Connecticut 72, Villanova 70 
Freshman Ben Gordon scored a season-high 23 points, including the winning 3-pointer with 11.8 seconds to play, and No. 19 Connecticut beat Villanova in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
The Huskies (22-6) won their seventh straight game and advanced to Friday night's semifinals against Notre Dame. 
Connecticut, making its ninth semifinal appearance, has won 10 of its last 12 games in the Big East tournament. 
Gordon. second on the team in scoring at 12.7 points per game, hit the 3-pointer as the shot clock wound down to g1ve Connecticut its first lead since 56-54 with 9:40 left. 
Villanova (17-12). which beat Syracuse 78-64 in the opening round, had a final chance, but Gary Buchanan's 3-pointer, with 6-foot-9 Ekema Okafor heading right at him, bounced off the rim at the 
buzzer. 
It was the fifth straight year the Wildcats lost in the quar­terfinals of the tournament and the third time this season they lost to the Huskies. 
Caron Butler had 14 points and 11 rebounds for Connecticut, while Okafor, whose free throws with one minute left brought the Huskies within 70-69, had six points and 10 rebounds. 
Brooks Sales had 13 points and 13 rebounds for Villanova, while Buchanan, Ricky Wright and Reggie Bryant each had 13 points. 
After Villanova took a 58-56 lead with 8:30 left on a shot in the lane by Buchanan, the Wildcats could never pull away. 
When they did take a five­point lead, Gordon hit consec­utive jumpers to get Connecticut back within one. 
Villanova went up 67-62 with 5:07 left, but Johnnie Selvie scored down low and later added two free throws to get Connecticut back within one. 
Derrick Snowden, who fin­ished with 12 points. hit a 3 with 2:50 left to make it 70­66, but those were Villanova's final points. 
Gordon's free throw with 
1:26 left got the Huskies with­in 70-67, and after Wright missed a shot down low. Okafor made his two free throws. 
Bryant missed a 3 from the corner with 48 seconds left to set the stage for Gordon's game-winner. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Need some extra $$? Do you enjoy 4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available babies and toddlers? First Unitarian after 6/1 . 3 block from campus. Call 
NOTICES 
4-7 BDRM HOMES WALK TO ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03. 
272-6306 
$250 a day potentialibartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Fraternities'Sororities•C!ubs'Stude nt Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event Does not involve 
credit 
card applications. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact Campusfundraiser.com at 
(888)-923-3238, or visit 
www.campusfundraiser.com. 
Well maintained hOuses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003­
2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274­
9955 

WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: M1lke a difference in the life of a child' Summer therapy camp for children with dis­abilities. Located on the shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ Arts & Crafts/ Recreation/ Canoeing, Nurses, Therapists, Food Services annd Auxilary. Must be enthusiastic, 
responsible and 
love children. June 16 through August 11. Salary, room & board and experience of a lifetime provided. Notre Dame students have the opportunity lo participate through the summer ser­vice project call or write for appli­cation and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300. Marquette, Ml 49855, (906) 228­5770, e-mail BayClillHC@aol.com 
Church needs nursery caregiver for about 2 hrs. on Sunday mornings Close to ND. For more info, call 288-9167. 
2000 grad seeking room or apart-men! to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 or email krup78@hotmail.com 
FOR SALE 
For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N. Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN Remodled in 1996 new insulated windows hot water heater & plumbing 200 amp electric update newer furnace & root basement laundry room privacy fenced back­
yard w/ deck 
10x12 utlity garage excellent area $59500 Jim-Day 574-233-253 Eve 
574-259-6843 
FOR RENT 

MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291­2209 
MMMRentals.com 

Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-conditioned room in 
NWDC 

hOuse, mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M, 1F) 
Safe 

neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus lo downtown. 1-1 /2 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/monlh + 1/4 utilties, call Michelle 202/829-3725, or krup78@hotmail.com 
(773)-486-8862. 

tastefully decorated rooms for rent for Graduation/ND Football week­ends in private home, less than 2 miles north of campus. Continental break­fast included, many happy repeat cus­tomers! Call Kim 277-8340 
Spacious 4-bdrm house avail.now or for Fall 2002. Fronse 255-8403. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)1arge (6-9) people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call 
Billa! 
532-1896. 

Summer Rent 2-bdrm Castle Point part.furn 243-0195 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Want to write news for The Observer? Come to the news meet­ings at 5 p.m. in the basement of South Dining Hall. 
Don't just watch the Irish stomp St John's, come work for The Observer and write about the game too. Call 1-4543 to start worKing tor Observer Sports 
Do you like to review products and the arts? Call Spencer 1-4540 

Friday, March 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Soukup 
continued from page 20 
The No. 1 quality Irish head coach Mike Brey values in his players and fears in his oppo­nents is experience. He would probably coach for free if he could have a team composed entirely of battle-tested seniors. 
For Brey, finding experience in a player is like finding gold in California. 
"Our program has taken the next step and we're back on the map," Brey said. "And that's a credit to these seniors." 
This year's team acts like grown men who have been through a war. Last year's team acted like 5-year olds in a candy store. 
That shift in attitude is due to the leadership of Humphrey, David Graves and Ilarold Swanagan. They helped the team recover from the loss of Troy Murphy. They kept the young players focused on team goals. And most importantly, they backed up their words with their play. 
When the Irish new into New York for the Big East tournament last year, they barely had time to unpack their bags before they flew back home after a first-round loss. With Murphy wavering between NBA and college, the Irish had a multitude of dis­tractions to handle and no dominant leader. 
The instant the Irish stepped into the favorite role, they stepped out of the postseason. 
That can't happen again this year. Not if Humphrey, Graves and Swanagan want to leave Notre Dame with a smile on their faces. Not if they want to hang a Big East championship banner from the rafters. Not if they want to make a serious run in the NCAA tournament. 
That's why tourney time often equals senior time. It's the last chance for a senior to leave his mark on a program. And with the way the three seniors have helped Notre Dame's program do a com­plete 180, you can bet they're itching to put one final stamp on Irish basketball history. 
Say all you want about Chris Thomas' sensational freshman season. He's good, but he's still a rookie at heart. He has three more years of basket­ball. He doesn't understand what it means to have only one more game left to play. 
And that's what Humphrey, Graves and Swanagan are feeling. When the Big East tournament is over, it's down to one•and-done. One bad game, one mental error, and three more seniors will be fin­ished with their college bas­ketball careers. 
When a reporter asked Brey a question after Thursday night's game, he turned to Thomas for the answer. That might be one of the few times Brey will go to his young point guard this late in the season. 
When games, seasons and careers are on the line, Brey will turn to the seniors. They've been there. They've delivered. And they're ready to do it again. 
Because everyone knows they don't have another chance. 
"Whenever I go out on the court, I leave everything out there because I know it might be my last game," Humphrey said. "And when I leave, I'm ready to pass the torch onto Chris." 
But Humphrey isn't ready to leave yet. He's too busy hold­ing onto that torch. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 

With §ratitude... j j j j j 
~ During the One Year Celebration of the c~~/t52fi!t Robinson Community Learning Center, 
~ two awards which were presented are: 
MR. ARTHUR QUIGLEY, PHD AWARD 
This award honors the Notre Dame Faculty or Staff whose "service and education in the Northeast Neighborhood exemplifies the mission of the University to exercise 'leadership in building a society that is at once more human and more divine."' 
" ... the first annual recipient of the Arthur Quigley Award is Jim Paladino, from the Center for Social Concerns ... his passion for the development of (the RCLC) clearly went far beyond his responsibilities at the CSC, and far beyond anyone's expectations." 
REV. DON MCNEILL, C.S.C. AWARD 
This award honors "a Student volunteer whose commitment to service has strengthened interaction between Northeast Neighborhood residents and the academic community by reducing learning obstacles and building relationships with youth and adult participants. " 
The recipient of the Rev. Don McNeill Award is Kathleen "Katy" McCoy (ND '05) 
Congratulations to Jim Paladino and 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS

Katy McCoy! 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
pushed that lead to 12 at the 
10:40 mark. St. John's was unable to whittle away at the lead, despite shooting 38 per­cent from the field before heading into the locker room. 
A clean 3-pointer by Carroll gave the Irish their biggest lead of half at 14 with 3:30 left to play. 
But Notre Dame's double­digit halftime lead wasn't a big enough cushion for a comfort­able second half. Led by Red Storm guard Marcus Hatten, who scored 19 of his 25 points in the second half, St. John's cut a 16-point Irish lead to only five with just under 11 minutes to play. 
"Coming in, I knew what my role was -to get the team started," Hatten said. 
But unlike Seton Hall Wednesday, Notre Dame refused to cave to the pressure of a scrappy team and a hostile crowd. 
"We knew they would go on a run in the second half like they did in the first game and we just had to counter that,0 Humphrey said. 
The Irish buckled down on both ends of the court and went on a 21-2 run to jump out to a 71-50 lead with four min­utes left to play, sealing the win. 
"We came back strong," Thomas said. "We got down in a defensive stance and starting guarding again like we were in the first half." 
With poor shooting to end the game, the Red Storm was unable to weather the Irish attack. 
"We certainly had a chance," Red Storm head coach Mike Jarvis said. "But then we pro­ceeded to make a lot of mis­takes and they proceeded to turn all of our mistakes into baskets. They played a very efficient offensive game." 
The Irish were on fire from the floor, shooting 63 percent in the first half and 43 percent in the second. 
Unlike the Red Storm, whose only player in double scoring figures was Hatten, Notre Dame played a team-oriented offense, with eight players putting points on the board and amassing 25 assists in the game. 
Thursday's win pits Notre Dame against Connecticut in the third round of the tourna­ment. The Huskies held off Villanova earlier in the night with a 72-70 win to advance. 
"I think it's going to be hard to stop us from putting points on the board," Brey said. "It's just defending and us defensive rebounding that's going to be a key for us advancing in either one of the tournaments -this tournament or the next one." 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 

,-----------------------------------· --­page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 8, 2002 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE for a record setting weekend. For the women, they are send•
Track 
ing the most individuals than any other year. In 1999, the

continued from page 14
Irish head west to Stanford 
Irish sent three individuals, and 
By CHRIS COLE.MAN 
Sports Writer 
The women's lacrosse team travels to Stanford tWs weekend to face the 3-2 Cardinal. Head coach Tracey Coyne said this is an important game for the Irish because Stanford's program is on a similar level nationally. 
"Stanford is huge," said Coyne. "They were ranked ahead of us for so long last year, and we felt that we should have been ranked ahead of them. H's excit­ing to have them on the sched­ule." 
The Cardinal's two loses this year came against opponents from the east that are also on Notre Dame's schedule. Big East rival Syracuse beat Stanford 15­9 and Cornell beat them 20-6. Stanford needs this game to prove that they can play on the level of the stronger East Coast competition. 

The Irish on the same note need to prove that they are they deserve to be the 17th-ranked team in the country and that they can beat the same teams that Syracuse can. 
If the Irish can carry the offen­sive potency that they showed against Ohio all the way to California they should be able to attack the relatively weaker Stanford keepers. Starter Virginia Solomon got pulled dur­ing the Cornell game after sav­ing only six out of 21 shots. With the speed and depth of the Irish attackers. combined with a more aggressive midfield, Solomon can expect to field a lot of Irish shots. 
Tina Fedarcyk should be back at full strength for the Irish on Saturday, and the return of the All-Big East defender should sure up the already stingy Irish backfield. 
The women's lacrosse team then travels to Florida to face George Mason, March 14 at 7 
p.m. It returns home March 17 to face Big East opponent Boston College. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolmal@nd.edu. 
MAC MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Kent State extends streak 
Associated Press 

Kent State is close to home. The Golden Flashes just aren't ready to go back there yet. 
With Trevor Huffman scor­ing 24 points and Antonio Gates 23, Kent State extend­ed its winning streak to 16 games and advanced to the Mid-American conference semifinals with an 82-70 win Thursday over Marshall. 
Kent State became the MAC's first No. 1 seed in three years to avoid getting knocked out in the quarterfi­nals. And Kent State enhanced its chances of making the NCAA tourna­ment even if it doesn't win the conference tourney. 
The top seed hasn't won the MAC title since 1996. 
"I wouldn't be surprised if it didn't happen again," said Marshall coach Greg White. "That's nothing against Kent." 
Kent State, which shot 63 percent in the second half and closed with an 11-2 run, will play No. 4 seed Toledo in Friday's semifinals. 
The Rockets advanced with a 62-54 win over Central Michigan. 

In Thursday night's quar­terfinals, seventh-seeded Miami of Ohio plays second­seeded Ball State and No. 11-seed Akron plays third­seeded Bowling Green. 
Ball State 62 
Miami of Ohio 50 
Theron Smith took over in the second half, scoring 19 of his 29 points Thursday night to lead Ball State to a 62-50 quarterfinal win over Miami of Ohio in the Mid-American Conference tournament. 
Smith added 11 rebounds and Patrick Jackson had 12 points for the Cardinals (20­10), the MAC's West Division champion who earlier this sea­son upset Kansas and UClA on consecutive nights in Hawaii. 
Ball State, the tourney's sec­ond seed, will play either 11th­seeded Akron or third-seeded Bowling Green in Friday's sec­ond semifinal. 
In the other semifinal, top seed Kent State will p.lay fourth-seeded Toledo. 
Alex Shorts had 17 points to lead seventh-seeded Miami (13-18). which had made it to the semifinals 10 straight years and had been in the past five MAC title games. 
Toledo 62 Central Michigan 54 
Keith Triplett scored 22 points, Terry Reynolds got 12 in the second half and Toledo moved into the semifinals of the Mid-American tournament with a 62-54 win Thursday over cold-shooting Central Michigan. 
The fourth-seeded Rockets (16-13) scored just two field goals in the final 10: 10 but that was enough to hold off the Chippewas (9-l 9). Central Michigan managed just one field goal over the final 16:37 and made only four baskets in the second half. 
Toledo will play top-seeded Kent State in Friday's first semifinal. Trevor Huffman scored 24 points to lead the Golden Flashes to 82-70 quar­terfinal win over eighth-seeded Marshall. 
In Thursday night's quarterfi­nals, seventh-seeded Miami of Ohio plays second-seeded Ball State, and No. 11-seed Akron plays third-seeded Bowling Green. 
Bowling Green 60, Akron 58 
Keith McLeod hit a fadeaway 3-pointer with six seconds left and Bowling Green survived a late Akron rally for a win in the quarterfinals of the Mid­American Conference tourna­ment. 
McLeod scored 29 points and showed why he was the league's MVP during the regu­lar season by hitting the shot after missing his five previous 3s and four free throws down the stretch. 
The Falcons (23-7) will play Ball State (20-10), the tourney's second seed, in Friday's second semifinal. The Cardinals advanced with a 62-50 win over Miami ofOhio. 
In the opener, top-seeded Kent State (25-5) will play fourth-seeded Toledo (16-13). The championship is Saturday. 
Watson will be running the 3,000-meter this weekend, rid­ing on the momentum of a spectacular mile time in the Wilson Invitational last week­end. He is also ranked second in the nation, in the 3,000. He ran a 7:54.02 in the Meyo Invitational earlier this year. 
Overall, the Irish are looking this year they are sending four. Watson and Shay have a good chance at bringing home two victories. It is the last indoor track meet f'or Watson, Shay and Grow, and they are hoping to make it a good one. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 

ACC MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Strugging Seminoles send Tigers packing 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Delvon Arrington scored a career high 24 points as Florida State salvaged what has been a disappointing stretch run with a 91-84 ovcrtim e win against Clemson in the first round of the ACC tournament Thursday night. 
The Seminoles (12-16) upset then-No. 1 Duke on Jan. 6, but had done little since in the Atlantic Coast Conference, going 3-11 the last two months before hold­ing off the Tigers and advancing to play top-seeded Maryland in one of four quarterfinal games Friday. 
Eighth-seeded Florida State fell behind by nine with 6:48 left in regulation, but went on a 14-2 run to take the lead late. The Seminoles then watched Tomas Nagys tip in a missed shot by Jamar 
· McKnight with 0.6 seconds left in regulation to send the game into an extra five­minute period tied at 6 7. · However, the Seminoles wasted little time turning the momentum around. Monte Cummings sank a free throw and Michael Joiner hit a 3­pointer in the first 1:02 of the overtime and the Seminoles never trailed. Nagys, who had a season­high 18 points and matched his career-best with nine 
rebounds off the bench, missed two free throws to start Clemson's slide in OT, and the ninth-seeded Tigers (13-17) missed their first six shots from the field to fall behind 79-69. 
Florida Stat.e, which strug­gled most of the night at the foul line, made 14-of-18 over the final 1:36 to nail down the win after losing nine of 10 coming in. 
Arrington's previous best was 23 points against Virginia in January 2001. Cummings added 17 points and Joiner 15. 
Nagys was forced to play more minutes because of foul trouble against Clemson inside men Chris Hobbs and Ray Henderson -and the junior responded. He was 5­for-6 from the field and 7-of­10 from the foul line to add punch to an offense that struggled most of the night. 
Clemson led 55-52 before Scott hit a 3-pointer and two 18-footers in a two-minute span to put the Tigers up by nine. 
But the Seminoles came charging back as Cummings, who had missed 11 of his first 15 shots, hit a banker with 1: 34 left to give Florida State the lead and Arrington added a 10-footer a minute later to set up a hectic final seconds of regulation. 
The Tigers fell to 13-49 all­time in the ACC tourney. 


QuaJlity Diamonds ® John M. Marshall's Incorporated 1965 Jewelers / GemofogistsG-o!,dsmiths / Platinumsmiths K~y Bank Building, Suiite nlOl S,outh Bend, Indl1ana 416,601 287-1427  

Friday, March 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
BIG 12 MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Knight friend falls in win 
. Biographer Hammel suffers diabetic seizure 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Bob Hammel. Bob Knight's closest friend who helped write his autobiography, col­lapsed at courtside Thursday while Knight was coaching Texas Tech in the Big 12 tour­nament. 
In the first moments after Hammel, the former sports editor of The Herald-Times newspaper of Bloomington, Ind., collapsed, a paramedic said the writer had an appar­ent heart attack. 
Dr. Larry Cordell, the physi­cian on duty during the game, later said Hammel was breathing on his own by the time he was taken by ambu­1ance from left Kemper Arena. 
"The clinical appearance looked like a seizure," Cordell said. 
WDAF-TV in Kansas City, broadcasting the tournament, said the 66-year-old Hammel had a low blood-sugar diabet­ic seizure and was expected to recoyer. 
Play was halted as para­medics attended to Hammel late in the second half of Tech's victory over Texas 
A&M. 
Knight, in his first season at Texas Tech, went across the court at several times to watch closely. After the game, Knight jumped into a waiting patrol car and went immedi­ately to St. Luke's hospital. 
Knight's autobiography, 
'Knight: My Story' is sched­uled for nationwide release in late March. 
"He was shook up right away when he found out who it was," said Texas Tech assistant coach Pat Knight, who appeared at the postgame news conference in place of his father. 
"That's the closest friend he has. It's ironic that he's also in the media, but that is the closest friend he has. He left immediately and didn't have time to talk to the team." 
Hammel was the sports edi­tor for The Herald-Times for 30 years before retiring after the 1996 Olympics. 
The Red H.aidcrs, who have made a remarkable turn­around in Knight's first sea­son, almost let a 12-point lead get away before finally beat­ing the Aggies 80-71. Center Andy Ellis said Knight had a speciQ,l message for the team after Hammel was stricken. 
"He just said that was one of his really good friends who came down from Indiana and if there was any time to play hard, that would be the time," Ellis said. "He didn't want us to lose that game." 
Andy Graham, a sports writer at The Herald-Times, said Hammel was not cover­ing the tournament for the newspaper, but was attending to "lend support" to Knight. 
Graham said Hammel remains on the newspaper's staff as an editor, maintains an office there and edits the paper's Sunday edition, The Hoosier Times. 
"He's really only semire­tired. He never really has retired, he's here in the office every day," Graham said. 
. Red Raiders top Aggies, 80-71 
Associated Press 
Andy Ellis scored 27 points and Andre Emmett added 24 as Texas Tech beat Texas A&M 80­71 Thursday in a Big 12 tourna­ment game 
Texas Tech (22-7) led 68-66 when Emmett. a first-team All­Big 12 selection, hit two field goals and one free throw and blocked an Aggie shot to put the Red Raiders on top 73-66. 
After Q,nother Texas A&M miss, Kasib Powell put in a stick­back for a 75-66 lead. Then with 31 seconds left, Nick Valdez hit two free throws to make it 77­68. 
In Friday's quarterfinals, the Red Raiders will meet No. 12 Oklahoma State, which they split with in the regular season. win­ning by 24 at home and losing by 2 on the road. 
Texas A&M (9-22), the tourna­ment's 12th seed, had its last lead at 39-38 on Jesse King's 10­footer, then Ellis dropped in two free throws and started a 9-0 run that put the Red Raiders in command. 
The lead reached 11 before Bernard King, who had totaled 40 points against Texas Tech in two previous games this year, hit two 3-pointers and two free throws to make it 53-50. 
King finished with 26 points. Jesse King had 11 for the Aggies. 
Texas Tech trailed the entire first half but never let the Aggies get a bigger lead than 7 points. 
Ellis hit a 3-pointer to make it a 1-point lead with about two minutes to go in the first half and the Aggies finally settled for a 30-32 halftime edge. 
Time Is Money ... 

Earn .25%APY* More On Your IRA Contribution With Notre Dame Federal Credit Unionl 
'CJ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
@ 574/239-6611 · 800/522-6611 UHl msu, www.ndfcu.org
LENDER Independent of the University. 


•APY is Annual Percentage Yield. This special offer ends April 15, 2002. There is a minimum IRA deposit requirement of $2,000. To quo lily for the additional .25%APY, you must have o Notre Dome Federal Credit Union checking account. IRA contributions for 2001 may be made through April 15, 2002. 
PAC 10 MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Trojans topple No. 16 Cardinal 
Associated Press 

Despite what the rankings say. Southern California has proven it's a better team than Stanford this season. 
The 22nd-ranked Trojans built a 23-point lead in the first half and never looked back, beating the No. 16 Cardinal 103-78 Thursday night in the first round of the Pacific-10 tournament. 
It was USC's third victory over the Cardinal {19-9) this season. The Trojans won the first meeting by eight points in Los Angeles, then won the sec­ond by 19 points in Stanford's worst loss at home since 1993. 
Sam Clancy led five USC players in double figures with 25 points. He was voted the Pac-10 player of the year Wednesday. 
Brandon Granville added 20 points and 11 assists, Desmon Farmer 19 points, David Bluthenthal 17 points, and Jerry Dupree 10 points. 
The fourth-seeded Trojans (21-8) will play top-seeded Oregon in Friday's semifinals at Staples Center. The Ducks (23-7) defeated eighth-seeded Washington 86-64 earlier Thursday. 
Casey Jacobsen and Curtis Borchardt each scored 17 points to lead fifth-seeded Stanford, which added to its history of blowout losses in the tournament. 
Before the tournament took a 12-year break in 1990, Stanford lost to Arizona by 22 points in the 1989 final, and by 24 points to Arizona in the 1990 semifmals. 
USC's 25-point win was one shy of the tournament record for largest winning margin, set by Arizona in a 93-67 win over Oregon in 1988. 
Stanford shot 38 percent and committed 19 turnovers in the game. 
Jacobsen, the Pac-lO's lead­ing scorer with a 22.2-point average, picked up his third foul with 10:55 remaining. Borchardt, the 7-footer who led the conference in rebound­ing and shot blocking, had 14 rebounds as Stanford con­trolled the boards, 51-31. 
Oregon 86, Washington 64 
Regular-season champion Oregon played like an also-ran for most of the first half in the first Pacific-10 Conference tournament game in 12 years. 
The second half was a differ­ent matter. 
Luke Jackson scored 16 of his 27 points after halftime, and leading scorer Frederick Jones also got going in the final 
20  minutes  as  the  ninth­ 
ranked  Ducks  boat  
Washington.  

The win was Oregon's sixth 
straight and gave the top-seed­ed Ducks (23-7) their most vic­tories in a season since 1945, when they won 30 games. 
Jackson, who also had eight rebounds, made all of his career-high four 3-pointers in the second half, which began with the Huskies leading 42­35. 
The Ducks, who trailed by as many as 13 points in the first half, moved within one on 3­pointers by Jackson and Jones to begin the second half. Jones' field goal was his first of the game. 
A steal and dunk by Jones with 13:59 left gave Or'egon its first lead since the opening eight minutes, and a 3-pointer by Jackson 35 seconds later snapped a 4 7 -all tie and put the Ducks ahead for good. 
A 3-pointer by Mark Michaelis and a three-point play by Jones with 10:02 remaining extended Oregon's lead to 61-51, and two foul shots by Jones a little over two minutes later made it 68-55. 
The Huskies didn't threaten after that. 
Jones scored 13 of his 15 points in the second half, and Luke Ridnour had 11 points and six assists for the Ducks. 
Arizona 73, Arizona State 56 
Twelve years later, and Arizona still remembers how to win in the Pacific-10 Conference tournament. 
Luke Walton had 25 points and eight rebounds as the 15th-ranked Wildcats beat archrival Arizona State in the opening round of the first Pac­10 tournament since 1990. 
The conference held a tour­nament for four years before calling it off 12 years ago, and resumed it this season. Arizona won the last three champi­onships after UCLA took the first title, and now has a 10­game winning streak in tour­nament games. 
The second-seeded Wildcats (20-9) meet the winner of the UCLA-California game in Friday night's second semifinal matchup N after top-seeded Oregon faces fourth-seeded Southern California. 
Jason Gardner added 22 points and Salim Stoudamire and Will Bynum scored 10 each for Arizona, which lost three of four before a stunning 99-53 season-ending victory over Cal. 
Jason Braxton scored 12 points and Chad Prewitt and Curtis Millage added nine each for seventh-seeded ASU (14­14). which finished its season by facing six straight ranked teams Nthe most in school his­tory. 
The Sun Devils were 1-5 dur­ing the stretch. beating only UClA on Feb. 16. 


222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 8, 2002 
C-USA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Marquette pushes past Louisville 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Cordell Henry wouldn't let himself get trapped. 
The slick point guard scored 24 points and repeatedly darted through Louisville's full-court press for soft jumpers and layups, steadying No. 13 Marquette to an 84-7 6 victory Thursday in the Conference USA tournament. 
The Golden Eagles (25-5) will play in the semifinals Friday against Houston, which upset Memphis 80-74. 
Marquette wasted most of an 18-point lead against Louisville (18-12). which went to its press and forced Henry to dribble the length of the f1oor through a dizzying array of traps. 
Soaked with sweat and gulp­ing breaths, Marquette's best ball handler hit a pair of float­ing jumpers down the stretch to finish off the Golden Eagles' third win over Louisville this season. 
"When you're in a game, you can't think about fatigue," Henry said. "You have to play above everything else. I just tried to get into the lane and make something happen." 
Henry played 39 minutes, grabbing rest a few seconds at a time, and had only two turnovers in a repeat perfor­mance. He scored 23 points and had only two turnovers in 35 minutes of a 75-63 win over Louisville on Feb. 16. 
"We gave it everything we had, and it wasn't enough," Louisville coach Rick Pitino said. "Their point guard proba­bly gave us more trouble than anyone else this season." 
Houston 80, Memphis 74 
Marcus Oliver scored a career-high 26 points Thursday and Houston hit just enough free throws in the closing min­utes to upset Memphis 80-7 4 in the Conference USA tourna­ment. 
The Cougars (18-13) will play No. 13 Marquette in the semifi­nals on Friday, their third game in three days. 
Memphis (22-9) never led and never figured out how to stop the Cougars' patient, highly accurate offense, which shot 
55.6 percent from the field and pulled away at the free-throw line. 
Houston scored its last 14 points from the line, hitting l 4­of-24 in the final 3:57 to keep Memphis at bay. 
It was a stunning loss for Memphis, which nearly won the regular-season championship on Cincinnati's court last Sunday. The Bearcats pulJed it out in overtime, leaving Memphis with a No. 3 seed and a first-round bye in the tourna­ment. 
Oliver, who had never scored more than 15 points in a game, anchored an efficient offense that spread out the Tigers. passed for open shots and made them. Houston is one of the conference's best shooting teams, making 4 7 ,6 percent from the field. 
Oliver was 8-of-13 from the field and 5-of-7 on 3-point tries. Anthony Rice scored 15 points, leading five Memphis 

players in double figures. The Tigers played without Kelly Wise, their best front-line play­er, who is hobbled by a strained knee. 
The Cougars hit 10 of their first 13 shots as they pulled ahead 26-17 and led the rest of the way. Oliver made a pair of driving layups during a 9-3 run that gave Houston its biggest lead of the half. 
Memphis, which missed its first six shots, tied it at 29 on Earl Barron's two free throws and his jumper with 1:30 to play. Dominic Smith banked in a 3-pointer as the shot clock wound down, and Bryan Shelton hit a floating jumper with 2 seconds left to give Houston a 34-29 halftime lead. 
Cincinnnati 79 South Florida 57 

Steve Logan scored 15 points in a brief appearance as No. 5 Cincinnati brushed aside South Florida and moved into the semifinals of the Conference USA tournament. 
The Bearcats (28-3) have won all seven of the conference's regular-season championships. 
Feeding off the energy from a hometown crowd at an arena 15 minutes from campus, the Bearcats quickly rattled the Bulls (19-12). who took their most lopsided defeat of the sea­son. 
South Florida fell behind by 29 in the first half, its biggest deficit of the season, and never got closer than 18 the rest of the way even though Cincinnati rested its regulars for most of the second half. 
Charlotte 78, Tulane 69 

Jobey Thomas scored 22 points and matched his season high with six 3-pointers, steadying Charlotte to a victory over Tulane in the Conference USA tournament. 
Charlotte (18-10), the defend­ing tournament champion, will play No. 5 Cincinnati in the semifinals. Charlotte lost both of its regular-season games against Cincinnati. 
Cincinnati coach Bob Huggins sat courtside, munching on pretzels while doing a little firsthand scouting after the Bearcats easily handled South Florida 79-57 in the earlier game. 
Thomas, the conference's career 3-point leader, made 6­of-11 from behind the arc and set a school season record with 
108. He also made four free throws in the final 1 :40 as Charlotte held on. 
SHAMROCK 

CONTACT LENSES ST. PATRICK DAY 

$39.95 PER PAIR 

TOLL FREE 1-866-33-COLOR MCMSA/DISC/AMEX 
BIG TEN MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Recker leads Iowa over Purdue 
Associated Pres• 

Luke Recker scored 25 points and Reggie Evans added 19 and a career tying 18 rebounds as Iowa opened defense of its Big Ten Tournament championship with an 87-72 victory over Purdue on Thursday. 
The Hawkeyes (17-14), the tournament's ninth seed, advance to Friday's quarterfi­nals against No. 1 seed Wisconsin (18-11). 
Recker and Evans combined for 24 points in the second half. as Iowa led by as many as 
20. Recker hit a fadeaway 3­pointer that saw him tumble into coach Steve Alford for a 69-54 lead with 8:37 to go. 
Chauncey Leslie gave Iowa a 19-point lead with a 3, but Purdue, the eighth seed, scored six straight points to make it 80-67 with 3:31 left. 
But a basket by Leslie, two free throws by Pierre Pierce .ind a 3 by Recker made it 87 ­67. 
Iowa, which a year ago became the first Big Ten team to win four games to win the title, shot 57 percent. Leslie and Pierce each scored nine points. 
Big Ten scoring champions Willie Deane led Purdue with 16 points, Maynard Lewis had 15 and Rodney Smith 13 for Purdue. 
The Boilermakers (13-18), who narrowly avoided their first last-place finish since 1965-66, tied the school's sin­gle-season record for losses. The 1952-53 team went 4-18. 
Michigan 72, Northwestern 51 
LaVell Blanchard hit a career-high five 3-pointers and scored a season-high 26 points as Michigan beat Northwestern in the first round of the Big Ten tourna­ment. 
The Wolverines (11-17), who lost in the tourney's first round each of the past two years, advanced to Friday's quarterfi­nals against Ohio State (20-7). the No. 2 seed and one of four regular-season co-champions. 
Blanchard, whose previous highs this season were 20 points against both Eastern Michigan and Northwestern, had 17 points in the first half. when the 10th-seeded Wolverines led by as many as 13 and never trailed. 
The Wildcats (16-13), whose No. 7 seed was their highest in the five-year history of the conference tournament, were hurt by poor starts in both halves. 
They missed their first six shots at the beginning of the game and fell behind 18-6 in the first six minutes. Blanchard had nine of those points, including his first two 3-pointers. 
Led by Winston Blake and Tavaras Hardy, however, Northwestern pulled within four late in the half before two more 3-pointers by Blanchard put the Wolverines up 36-28 at the break. 
Then Northwestern hit just one of its first seven shots at the start of the second half as Michigan again began pulling away. Two baskets by Blanchard, including his fifth 3-pointer, gave the Wolverines their biggest lead up to that point at 47-30 before the final Northwestern comeback. 
Hardy, who led Northwestern with 17 points, hit two 3-pointers and Jason Burke hit another 3 to help pull Northwestern to 49-44, but the Wildcats couldn't come any closer. Michigan outscored Northwestern 18-2 over a five­minute span and took its biggest lead at 70-48 with under two minutes to go. 
Minnesota 85, Penn State 60 
Dusty Hychart scored a sea­son-high 23 points and Hick Rickert added 21 as Minnesota beat Penn State in the first round of the Big Ten tourna­ment. 
The Golden Gophers (17-11) advanced to Friday's quarterfi­nals against Illinois (23-7), the No. 3 seed and one of four reg­ular-season co-champions. 
Rickert, the Big Ten Freshman of the Year, scored 12 points in the first half as the sixth-seeded Gophers led 38­23 at the half. 
Penn State (7-21) shot only 26 percent in the first half, missing 16 of its first 20 shots. A 3-pointer by Sharif Chambliss pulled the Nittany Lions to 19-14 before the Gophers closed on a 19-9 run. 
Rickert scored 10 points dur­ing the run, and finished 9-for­12 overall. 
Chambliss scored 16, Brandon Watkins had 12 and Tyler Smith 10 for the Nittany Lions, who had advanced to the semifinals each of the past two years. 
Minnesota opened a 20-point lead 6 1/2 minutes into the sec­ond half. 
Rychart went 1 l-for-12 from the floor, scoring 17 of his points in the second. His previ­ous high was 22 points against Wake Forest in November. He had failed to reach double fig­ures in four of the last five games. 


Friday, March 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SOFTBALL 
Irish face 9-game California trip 
semifinal loss at the Kia
By AARON RONSHEIM 
Classic. The Irish are 
Sports Writer 
scheduled to play No. 1 
Arizona, University of 
The Notre Dame softball California at North Ridge 
team will play nine games and Texas Tech in the in eight days during spring round robin games. Notre break. Dame then will play three 
"I think they enjoy it. We more games in tournament 
get to visit a lot of great play.places. Every sport takes "This is a big tourna­up time over one of the ment for us this year. It is 
breaks. For us it's spring a good measuring stick for break," said head coach us, especially after each Deanna Gumpf. team has played a few The Irish will not just be games," said Kriech. 
playing softball. There a It will be a tough task for few actives planned, such the Irish to beat Arizona as viewing the taping of this weekend, especially if 
the Tonight Show with Jay they see Jennie Finch on Leno. 
the hill. Finch was 32-0 
"It is a lot of fun. This is last year and was named one of the times where we the national player of the actually have some down year. The Irish have 
time and aren't playing already faced Finch in the softball the whole time," first game of the year, in said captain Jenny Kriech. which Finch shut them out 
The Irish will start out 
3-0. their road trip with two "She was the only pitch­games in Las Vegas, then er to be undefeated last 
a single game against year. I would love to be the Long Beach State. They team to end her streak," will conclude the trip with said Gumpf.
the Kia Classic at the This time against the University of California­Wildcats the Irish will be Fullerton. fully healthy and have few 
In Las Vegas the Irish (5-games under their belt. 
7) will play UNLV (11-13) "Not all of our playersand Oregon (11-7). The 
were healthy the first time 
Irish pitchers will have we played them. Plus it their hands full with was our first game of the Oregon's Andrea Vidlund, year ·and they had alreadyKristi Hall and Alyssa played in two tourna­Luax who all have batting 
ments. Hopefully it will be averages over .400. a different game this 
Half of the Irish softball time," said Kriech. team will get the chance to These will be the last play in their home state of games for Notre Dame 
California and spend some before they start their Bigtime with their family. East schedule against
Freshman pitcher 
Rutgers March 23. Steffany Stenglein is one of "Our goal is to get better the seven California every game. I don't think natives, who will get a we are a great team yet.
chance to play in front of We still have some work to her family and friends. do, but as long as we con­"I am looking forward to tinue to improve we will be 
playing and going back 
fine," said Gumpf.home. It is cool that we get to play in California," said Stenglein. Notre Dame will try to Contact Aaron Ronsheim at improve on last year's aronshei@nd.edu. 
FENCING 
Teammates fight for NCM spots 
. Regionals will tice this week after missing last NCAAs returned, but that does 
weekend's conference champi­not mean the team is set. determine 12 Irish onships and will make the trip to In foil, Liza Boutsikaris has NCAA qualifiers the regionals. Mautone looks to qualified in each of her first two 
help ease the expectations placed seasons. Standout freshmen on Snyder by performing well. Andrea Ament and Alicja
ByMATTLOZAR 
"I don't have any more motiva­Kryczalo look to qualify for their 
Sport.s Writer 
tion because this is my last year," first NCAA Championship after 
said Mautone. "But I do feel some impressive seasons. Kryczalo won 
This weekend's Midwest pressure so Derek doesn't feel the conference championship last Fencing Regional Qualifier is the any extra pressure on him." weekend. last chance for senior foilist Steve The other men's weapon where Maggie Jordan switched from Mautone to qualify for the NCAA there is a race for the second spot foil to sabre to give the Irish more Championships. Although this is is in epee. Captain Jan Viviani, depth in sabre. She looks to his final season, he does not feel with an individual title at last return to the NCAAs after making 
any extra pressure. week's conference championship, the championships in foil as a 
Last year, Mautone came very should take one of the spots. But freshman. Senior Carianne close to qualifying for the national competition for the other spot will McCullough and sophomore championships after finishing sec­be between senior Brian Casas Destanie Milo, who both qualified ond at the regional competition. and freshman Michal Sobieraj. last year. will compete with But, since the criteria for the Casas qualified for the NCAAs in Jordan for the two spots. national meet is more than just his first three seasons. Sobieraj is Epee will also see competition results from the regionals, returning from a fractured bone among team members for the two Mautone was passed over by the in his foot and has not fenced NCAA spots. Juniors Meagan Call NCAA selection committee for a since the Air Force Duals during and Anna Carnick have qualified pair of teammates," junior cap­the first weekend of February. His for the national championships in tain Ozren Debic and Forest foot has been improving this week their first two seasons. Walton. allowing him to practice and Sophomore Kerry Walton, fresh 
"I was a little upset [last year]. I Sobieraj will fence this weekend. off defeating .Carnick for the con­was trying as hard as I ever had In men's sabre, senior captain ference championship last week­at the end of last season," Andre Crompton and senior end, gives Notre Dame three Mautone said. "But, I needed to Andrzej Bednarski should be the strong epeeists to qualify for the win the competition to make the top finishers for the Irish. NCAAs. team so it was my fault and I Crompton finished second at last The Midwest Regional Qualifier could live with that." year's regional competition to takes place at Case Western 
This season, Walton is studying qualify for his first NCAA competi­Reserve University in Cleveland, abroad. But, Mautone has other tion. Bednarski was third last Ohio on Saturday. competition for the second spot year and has been to the NCAAs on the national championship in his three other seasons. squad. Freshman Derek Snyder, On the women's side, every· Contact Matt Loza.-at the No.2 foilist, has been at prac-fencer that qualified for the mlozar@nd.eclu. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Seniors push Irish past No. 5 Illini 
Special to The Observer 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

Irish seniors helped the sixth­ranked Notre Dame men's ten­nis team register its third victo­ry over a top-10 foe this season by edging fifth-ranked Illinois 4­3 on Thursday. 
The Irish won the doubles point and split the six singles matches to improve to 12-3 on the season. The doubles point came down to a tiebreaker in the decisive match, while four singles matches were deter-
AP·ARTMENTS 
Clevelwul and lron11·00{/ Roads/NW I J Cleveland Road/ S0111h Bend, Indiana -1663 7/ ('l 19J!7 2-81 J0 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes ofcampus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 BR apartments w/ lofts and dens still available 


mined in three sets, with each team winning two. 
Illinois, who was ranked No. 1 in the nation last week, dropped its second match in a row to fall tci 8-3. 
"It's special to beat a team that was No. 1 in the countrv yesterday morning [before the new rankings were released]," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss after the victory. ''I'm pretty excited to see these seniors play so well." 
For the second time this sea­son, senior captain Casey Smith 2. The Irish captain performed a similar feat against then-No. 7 Pepperdine last month. 
Wilson came back from a 4-0 deficit in the second set to force a tiebreaker and then rallied from a 6-1 margin in the tiebreaker to win seven straight points to force a third set. In the final set, Wilson trailed 5-1, but ran off three straight games. Smith, down love-30 in the ensuing game, delivered four straight points to clinch the vic­tory. 
"I was real proud of the poise 

was the final match on-court in Casey showed," said Bayliss. a 3-3 tilt, delivering an Irish "He was on the verge of winning upset of a top-10 team on both a couple of times and had to occasions. hold off Wilson, but he got it 
On Thursday, Smith with­done. That is the second time he stood a number of rallies to has been the decisive match in a defeat 92nd-ranked Brian win over a top-10 team this sea­Wilson 7-5, 6-7 (6-8). 6-4 at No. son." 
Spring BreakWork 
EARN MONEY OVER SPRING BREAK The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College has employment opportunities over Spring Break (March 11-15). [f you are available to work part time and are interested in spending time reading children's books, building wlth b!oclG, and singing songs with children, please contact ECDC as soon as po~ib!e. Have fun and get paid. too! 

Earlv Childhood DevelopmentCenter, Inc. 
284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) 
631-3344 (ECDC-ND) 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS HOCKEY 
Irish ride new D-scheme 

• Notre Dame ' faces Neb.-Omaha 
I 
II ­
in first round 

f 
' By MATT ORENCHUK 
I 
' 
Sports Writer 

r 
After being swept by Alaska­Fairbanks 7-5 and 6-5 on Feb. 1 and 2, Notre Dame's coach­es knew they had to make some defensive changes. Most of Alaska-Fairbanks' goals came from the transition game in the middle of the Ice. 
When Notre Dame coaches came into the office the next Monday, the discussion was on how to fix Notre Dame's sag­ging defense. The plan the coaches came up with was to designate one of the two defensemen as a fore checker to sit back in the defensive zone. Then, the other defense­man is allowed to roam freely in the middle of the ice, pinch­ing up to help on offense or falling back to help on defense. 
"The D knows to come up in the neutral zone," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "That really helps us work on the transition game." 
Now six weeks later, the Irish are riding a five-game win streak into the opening round of the CCHA playoffs at Nebraska-Omaha this week­end. 
It is no coincidence that the winning streak has come since the Irish changed their defen­sive scheme. The five-game win streak is the longest since January 1999 for the Irish. 
The streak started when the Irish defeated highly ranked Michigan State on the Spartans home ice 3-2 the weekend after the Alaska­Fairbanks losses. 

After taking a weekend off, Notre Dame picked up right where they left off against Lake Superior State. The Irish swept the Lakers 3-1 and 6-0. Finally, last weekend Notre Dame swept Bowling Green 4­3 and 4-1. 
The recent win streak is giv­ing Notre Dame high confi­dence heading into the play­offs. 
"Everybody is feeling good right now (about the win streak)," said Poulin. "Not only do we have high confidence, but other teams know that we are playing well." 
Things will not come easy this weekend against Nebraska-Omaha. The last time the Mavericks and Irish met was in early December. That weekend was a frustrat­ing one for Notre Dame. Despite out-shooting Nebraska-Omaha 90-46 on the weekend, Maverick goaltender Dan Ellis kept the Irish offense in check. Nebraska-Omaha swept that weekend series, winning 3-2 and 4-2. 
For Notre Dame the spot­light will be on its own goal­tender, Morgan Cey. Despite his freshman tag, Cey is no stranger to big events. Last year he led his Canadian Junior team to the Junior League Championships. 
For the ,Irish to play well and advance, Cey will have to be at the top of his game, but he has a vote of confidence from his head coach. 
"Cey will thrive," said Poulin. "Last year he played the Championship game in his hometown. So he knows pres-
Alam500 •Design• lnnmaaas •Mari1Uag, cansultanrs seniinar 
Leam The Methods OfA Professional Business Man's Priceless Achievements An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
AOne DaySeminar, A loot OfBrer Ten Years lltln11alua1JleExoet1a11,:e. 
This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts 
you must have in business to move forward in high level business. 
The class is_ ta~ght by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company .V.P. say_s will, change the course ofan entire industfY. • 
-....:.:: 'AB1/C 

For class dates, private classes &
~ '~ 

~"!'BSOAII "!ore information, go to our web--.,-iiiiitli'i',-e..,.. site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 _Wfllllll.USIISIBnd.t:om E-mail • lnventor@usastand.com 
sure." 
The first round of the CCHA is a best-of-three format, with all three games being played at Nebraska-Omaha. Should the Irish advance they would then have a single-elimination play-in game for the right to play in the CCHA semifinals at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. The puck drops tonight Saturday, and if necessary Sunday at 8:05 p.m. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
Friday, March 8, 2002 
BASEBALL 

Irish headed to Texas for break 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame baseball team will play eight games in nine days during a spring break road trip in Texas. 
The Irish (4-3) won three of four games at the Homestead Classic last weekend, despite being without five starters who were out with injuries. 
"Overall I thought it was a good weekend," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "We had our freshman pitchers throw very well again, c·specially (Grant] Johnson and [Chris] Niese!. Some guys that haven't played consistently really stepped in and did a nice job." 
Captain and centerfielder Steve Stanley was pleased that reserve players have stepped up to fill in for injured starters. 
"The fact of the matter is that we've got a lot of guys hurt right now," Stanley said. "That's no excuse. That just means that some of the other guys that we didn't count on to play starting roles in the beginning have had to step up and they've done a great job." 
Notre Dame has consistent solid outings with Niesel and Johnson's appearances in the early-season campaign. 
Niese} picked up his first career victory last weekend, going six innings for the victo­ry. The young right-hander has struck out 19 batters and walked only one in 12 innings of work. 
Johnson gave up only two runs in 5 1/3 innings of work against Florida International last weekend in getting a no decision. 
"They've been playing really well," said Stanley. "They've been playing like veterans. They've jumped right into the thing and done a great job." 
The Irish seniors, particu­larly Matt Bok and Stanley. have provided a much-needed spark to the club as well. 
"Matt Bok had a tremendous weekend for us, said Mainieri. "I think he's 
leading the team in hitting right now. Steve Stanley had a phenomenal weekend. What tremendous leadership he showed to our team last week­end. With all those guys out, all he did was have two four hit games." 
The Irish hope to beat some very good teams this weekend and more importantly gear themselves up for the Big East schedule that looms around the corner. 
"We know we're going to play in two beautiful stadiums, we have some great oppo­nents, and the weather. hope­fully, will corporate and be really good and it's fun," said Mainieri. "It's really a time to make the big push so we can get ready· for the Big East schedule." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
-~·· 

• 
Study in the nation's capitol 

•Work 
in an internship 

•
Fulitll philosophy, theology, and fine arts requirement 

• 
Study public affairs 


•Live in an exciting city 

•Open to Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors from all colleges 
John Eriksen, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen.1@nd.edu · 
www.nd.edu/~semester 

Friday, March 8, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
-
CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS  28 Driving need  59 Kings Peak's  FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 2002  
1 ·soap" family 6 Belt piercer 9 friends 14 Make _ (get rich) 15 Green stretch 16 One who serves long? 17 Area 19 Gather 20 Biblical judge 21 They may be parked in a park: Abbr. 22 Still available, in a way 24 Actor Brad of "The Client" 26 _ Lumumba, Congo's first P.M.  31 Stomach 32 Locate on the dial 33 Up 35 Area 38 Makes shakes, maybe 39 Fall collection? 40 Pole's cousin 41 Really bad 43 Washer setting 46 Missouri feeder 50 Line feeder 51 Asian leader? 52 Funny guy 53 Like a 27-Down 54 area 57 Like otologists' tests 58Alley_  range 60 "Funny Girl" composer 61 Reason 62 It may be branded DOWN 1 It may be stunning 2 Not meager 3 Marketing ploy 4 Business letter abbr. 5 Onset of wakefulness 6 Whittier poem " Well" 7 Believer in spirits? 8 Shots off the backboard  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bob Moffatt, Freddie Prinze Jr., Lynn Redgrave, Cyd Charisse . Happy Birthday: You'll have an instinctive knowledge about future trends this year. You can do well investing in art objects or in items that have the potential to grow in value. You will have the opportunity to get involved in joint financial deals but don't feel obligated to put your cash on the line, Your curiosity about love will be heightened. Your num• bers are 2, 16, 25, 28, 32, 37 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't get emotional about some­thing happening at work. If you are professional and do your job to the best of your ability you will getahead,00 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You've been on the go for some time now and you should be giv· ing yourself the day off just to do the things that you enjoy doing. A little time to catch up on read·  000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Social events will be entertaining and exciting. You are likely to meet someone interesting but don't move too fast. Find out all you can before you decide to become dose. 00000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): If you haven't been getting along well with someone at home go straight out with friends today. You will have an imaginative mind and some creative ideas today. 00 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be entertaining the thought of going on a trip. Check out cultural events in your com• munity if you don't get the chance to travel. You will have a greater interest in finding new ways to do things. 0000 SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be considering chang· ing your professional direction. Take a look into your options. Don't limit yourself because  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ...,.+.,,.+,,.-1 __.__.__,  9 Elite ones 10 Like some keys 11 area 12 Attention-getting question in a small ad 13 Sound that might deter a burglar 18 Relative of a stilt 23 Aberdeen denial 25 Keep back 27 Kind of lamb 29 Biblical suffix  Puzzle by GUber1 H. Ludwig 33 Competitive 34 Forster's _ Quested 35 Emerges suddenly 36 What a nod may mean 37 Money that's shelled out? 38 Alcott book "_ Boys"  44 "A Tree Grows 49 Actress in Brooklyn" Samantha family name 51 Make out 45 Longtime 53 Is in the past? Strand writer 55 Cry at a circus 47 Bundling aid 56 It might help 48 Oncle's wife you get started Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900·285·5656 ($1.20 per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  ing or tuning into the radio will make your day. 00000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be tempted to get involved in a moneymaking scheme. If you decide to go that route be sure to go it alone. Joint ventures are not likely to pay off. 000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your feelings will be close to the surface today. Develop an open relationship with someone you care about; talk about the way you really feel. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put in a hard day's work and you will feel good about yourself and your accomplishments. A serious minded group will be more entertaining than you anticipate.  someone is against your making changes. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec.22•Jan.19): You will be a little confused regarding your personal life. Try not to let things get to you. If you back up a few steps you will have a much clearer picture. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have to be discreet about what it is you are doing. Being secretive today will enable you to follow through with your plans with fewer obstacles. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can persuade others to take part in something that you believe in. The possibilities are endless if you are determined and dedicated to your cause. 0000  
42 "Later"  years: 1-888·7-ACROSS.  Birthday Baby: You are a born leader who has the courage to  
undertake ventures that most would shy away from. You are also  
impulsive, extravagant and a little careless. You are always willing to  

take a chance. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
', ~If€ EARLY & 'a~1=At:1 WH~T 

FOXTROT 
LE<":,oL.b.S A HtT! HE 
FIRES HIS PIERCES THE Bow oF PRoFE.SSoR'S ELVISH BEAUTIFUL 
A,cuRACY. MINO! 
\ 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
THIS tS HOW WE'D C:IET A

THE AND GoSFoRD 
ACADEMY LOT MORE

8ALRo6 FLEES THE PAR'k' 
AWARDS "TE.RMINAToR"

cRA,KS HIS ANO RuNS 
SHOULD MOVIES THAT

HUGE, SCREAMING 
BE 0Ec10£D. WAY, I SET.

FLAMll'IG INTO THE 
Wl-llP. BEDROOM! 
\ I \ 
>~ 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 


Sometimes God has his own little ways of saying, "You are a bad person." 
;I, 
O
THF

Campus Sports Campus Sports
-
BSERVER 
. Softball, p. 17 
. Hockey, p. 18 
. 
Fencing, p. 17 . Baseball, p. 18 

. 
Men's Tennis, p. 17 . Women's Lacrosse, p. 14


PORTS 
Friday, March 8, 2002 
• 

2002 BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Red Storm Calming 
. Notre Dame out­. Humphrey isn't 
lasts St. John's about to miss this rally, wins 83-63 year's dance 
NEW YORK
By KERRY SMITH 
All season long, Ryan 
Sports Writer 

Humphrey has madA it crystal clear that he has never missed NEW YORK an NCAA tournament in his Notre Dame played St. John's four years of college basket­
type of game Thursday. ball. And won. He has Just as the Red Storm weath­
shown he ered a run by Seton Hall will do Wednesday to advance to anythingThursday's quarter-final round, and every­the Irish staved off a second thing pos­half burst by St. John's. The sible to Irish earned a berth against make sure Connecticut in Friday's semifi­he reaches nal of the Big East tournament the tour­with an 83-63 win. ney again. frish forward Rvan He'll Humphrey dominated in "the throw paint, scoring a team-high 21 down rim­points. Matt Carroll added 20 shattering and Chris Thomas chipped in dunks. 15 to lead the frish. He'll "I want to leave everything send enemy shots into the out there," Humphrey said. third row. 
'Tm playing every game like And if a stop sign could talk, it's my last." he said he'd talk trash with it. Playing in their first tourna­The way Humphrey played 
ment appearance after sitting Thursday night, he looks like out Wednesday's opening he's playing for an NCM 
round with a bye, the Irish championship, not the right to used stingy defense and hot move onto the Big East semifi­shooting to take an early con­nals. 
trol of the game. Notre Dame better hopes he 
The Irish quickly quieted the plays like that next week, too, predominantly St. John's because the Irish desperately crowd at Madison need a senior presence in 
Square Garden with a 7-0 order to be a presence in the run to open the half and NCM tournament. 
see IRISH/page 13 see SOUKUP/page 13 


NCAA INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Women's relay heads to Arkansas ranked 3rd 
By DAVE COOK Sports Writer 

Since the end of the outdoor season last year, the Notre Dame women's mile relay team has kept one goal in mind: win the national championship. The goal was the focus of the off-season, and they have come closer and closer to it during this year's indoor season. 
When Liz Grow, Ayesha Boyd, Kristen Dodd and Kymia Love head to Fayetteville, Ark. for the NCAA champi­onships this weekend, it marks the first time any Irish women's squad has made it that far. The team enters the national championships ranked third in the nation. 
"We knew when we came back this [indoor] season, we had to come back strong. We knew that we had a reputa­tion to live up to because last year we qualified provisionally. So this year we knew we had to qualify automatically," said Love. 
Under the leadership of senior Liz Grow, the relay team has set several meet records, a new track record both indoor and outdoor, and a school record. Nevertheless, they are still look­ing to improve. 
"We're No. 3 right now, and we have a chance to actually become All­Americans and actually win the meet," said Boyd. "We're aJI happy. We have a chance to knock off a couple seconds off our time. 
The squad posted a school record time of 3:36.84 last weekend at the Alex Wilson Invitational. It is also the time that automatically qualified them fur nationals and spurred them to its third­place ranking. 
"We were all hyped about the mile relay lfor the Wilson Invitationall. We just came to the meet excited and ready to run," said Love. 
More important than their achieve­ments on the track, though, is how close the four women have come over the past one-and-a-half years. And for Grow, this is her last season running for Notre Dame, and this weekend marks her last indoor collegiate race. 
"We're like sisters," said Dodd. "We all went out to get our hair done [on Wednesday]. Liz and I got our hair braided the same, and Kymia got her hair done." 
Grow and Boyd will be competing in events other than the mile relay this weekend. Grow has qualified in the 400, and is currently ranked seventh in that race, and Boyd was able to sneak into the championships in the 200. 
Rounding off the women's squad is freshman Lauren King in the mile, and junior Tameisha King in the long jump. 
It is the second time Tameisha King made it to the indoor championships since qualifying in her freshman year. 
"I know there's a lot expected of me. I'm a junior, an upperclassman. I don't have any excuses," she said. "This year I'm way more confident in myself and my abilities. My freshman year I was intimidated. Now I'm there, and I'll be doing the intimidating." 
On the men's side, the two qualifiers come as no surprise: seniors Ryan Shay And Luke Watson, two seniors who have had strong indoor seasons. 
Shay will be running in the 5,000­meter and the 3,000-meter, something he has never done in his career at Notre Dame. He has just made it in the 5,000 in previous years. His 5,000 time of 
13:46.80 is his personal best and also the second-best time in the nation. 
see TRACK/page 14 
. 
Baseball vs. Texas Christian, today, 3 p.m. 

. 
Hockey vs. Nebraska-Omaha, today, 7:05 p.m.


SORTS 

. Men's Basketball vs. Connecticut, today, 9p.m.AT AGLANCE . Track and Field at NCAA Championships, Fri-Sun. 







