
VOL. XXXVII NO. 59 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND campus reflects on fall dances 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
Just one scmnstcr after the University instituted sweeping changes in an effort to curb drinking among Notre Dame students, 19 dorms have held their fall dances under the new policies that require dorms to hold their SYHs out­side of the residence halls. Despite the new regulations, students and staff say it seems Loo early to tell what tho final result will be. 
"I think the jury's still out," said Jeff Shoup, director of Hosidcnce Life. 
Last March, Student Affairs announced the new policies, ending a long time tradition of in-hall SYHs. University officials felt that many stu­dents were leaving the dances to drink in their rooms. In attempt to ease concerns iibout increased costs, Student Affairs offered each dorm a $1,000 subsidy for this year only to help with funding problems. Student i\ctivitics also iden tificd about 20 off-campus loca­tions, ranging from Alumni-SAnior Club to the basement of the Knights of Columbus building, where dorm dances could be held. 
One of the major players in last vear's decision to end in­hali" dances, rather Mark Poorman, the University's vice-president for Student Affairs, said he felt the new requirements had been a good policy. 
"It's early to say," Poorman said. "13ut overall we have received a lot of positive feed­back about the dances this year, especially from stu­dents." 
Representatives from Student Government worked with Poorman's office over the summer to ensure that the new policies would be implemented smoothly. "Our office worked all summer with Student Body President Libby Bishop and her staff. The input of al these folks was invaluable," Poorman said. 
Bishop's office said student feedback about this year's dances has been both positive and negative. "I've heard such mixed reactions and mixed emotions," said Bishop. 

Bishop said student govern­about SYRs. "I think there's ment's future plans regarding still a lot of room for dia­the issue of dorm dances logue," said Bishop. "I really included further discussion think that Student Affairs will on the Campus Life Council talk to us if we can nail down and developing a focus with specific improvements." the Ilall Presidents' Council Residence Life officials said they have seen a slight decrease in safety and alcohol issues at dances held this year so far. "I would say we've had a bit fewer cases of discipline afterwards," 

see DANCES/page 6 

University Libraries announce budget cutbacks 
and endowment revenues had Spring 2002 semester.

. Students encounter 
previously absorbed these infla­By the end of this calendar

research difficuffies with 
tionary increases but were year, the library will also elimi­reduction of journals unable to do so this fiscal year. nate the 891 paper journals to The economic downturn also which faculty and students cur­contributed to a decrease in rently have both electronic and By JOE TROMBELLO endowment portfolios. While paper access. In this way, the 
News Writer 
purchasing power of books and library can reduce its costs with­journals decreased by 6 to 10 out eliminating core content. percent because of rising costs, "Teaching faculty collaborated 

Because the rising costs of the collections' budget only with librarians to keep the most journal and book subscriptions increased between 2 and 2.5 needed journals," Younger said. have outpaced the budget percent. "Trading off the less needed and 
increase for the 2002-03 school "Overall for next year, the less frequently used [material 
year, the Notre Dame libraries increase in the library collection was needed tol keep the more have been forced to reduce com­budget is less than the rate of needed materials." m itments by 6 inflation for Younger said that although the 
percent. library University libraries relied on fac­"Library "Budget problems have a materials. ulty members and library repre­deficits affect wide sweep because Therefore sentatives to work together to everyone on with this determine which materials could 
every [University]

campus," said limited be culled, the 2002-03 University assistant librar­department uses the increase, we Committee on Libraries has both ian Cheryl library." have to be an undergraduate and a gradu­Smith. "Budget more selec­ate student representative to problems have tive in our provide student input and sug­
Cheryl Smith 

a wide sweep purchase of gestions. because every assistant librarian books and "Having access to the latest (University) journals papers is to research what hav­unique journal or book titles, she to fight price increases and pub­department during the ing oil is to a car. You can't do said that she anticipates she will lishers' control in an attempt to uses the coming without it," said Wesley Calvert, need to do so to cut commit­return science back to the scien­library," she said. year," Younger said in a letter graduate student representative. ments by the necessary 6 per­tists as opposed to the publishing 
Since 1986, the journal unit addressed to all faculty members "A lot of graduate students are cent. Some journals in her areas corporations. cost has increased 226 percent in April 2002. unhappy with the cuts that have have almost doubled in price "Some commercial publishers and the book unit cost has risen With faculty input, subject come through already, since it from the previous year. have raised prices to a degree 66 percent, while the price of librarians in April and May makes things harder to access Nevertheless, such price increas­that we find unexplainable," inf1ation increased only 57 per­ascertained which journals and and there is some material that es have not come without criti­Younger said. "We are encour­cent during the time period. books students and slaff most we just aren't getting anymore." cism. Organizations and coali­aging the faculty and the schol­According to Jennifer Younger, frequently used. Over 500 jour­Although Smith, a subject tions like SPARC (Scholarly arly society to bring pressure on director of University libraries, nal titles were cancelled to save librarian for education and psy­Publishing and Academic commercial publishers." the libraries' collection budget $170,000 at the end of the chology, has not yet cut any Resources Coalition) have risen 
see LIBRARY/page 6 


page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Monday, November 18, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
My life's 



soundtrack 
I woke up to a gorgeous day. The sun was out, the blue sky promised warm weather, and it was Friday. I left my room ready to carpe diem, to see and conquer, I was walking on sunshine, ooh yeah. 
I slipped on my headphones as I 
Colleen Barrett
headed to my sin­gle Friday class, and just as I Account approached South Executive Quad, the song on my Walkman hit its crescendo. 
I'm not going to tell you what song I was listening to. Well. ok. fine. There's nothing to be embarrassed about. It was Whitney Houston's "One Moment in Time." It's a good song! 
But the point is, when I heard Whitney asking for that one moment to be more than she thought she could be, I thought, "This is my song! Today, the answers are all up to me!" It was perfect timing. 
And that's when I decided I need a soundtrack to my life. When I walk by the Grotto, the Rudy theme song should waft through the air. When I'm hurrying to get to O'Shag, "Chariots of Fire" should play as I dash in and out of the students on the quad. When I'm down and trou­bled, and I need a helping hand, and nothing, whoa nothing's going right, maybe James Taylor would be my friend. 
I suppose the scenario poses a few problems. As I sit in class with the Dixie Chick's "Earl Had to Die" play­ing during a whimsical moment, it may disturb any Earls who happen to be in the vicinity. And perhaps as I wait in line at Reeker's on Friday night, I might regret having Garth Brooks begging me to give him two pina colodas. At the very least, it would bring unwanted attention. At the worst, I'd lose two good drinks. 
Not to mention the person I would need to follow me around, playing the appropriate song at the appropri­ate moment. What a huge responsi­bility. How socially awkward would it be if, at the very moment I ventured into my professor's office, Britney Spears incessantly declared her bondage? Or if I headed to my gradu­ate school interview with "Because I Got High" blaring from the speakers? 
As exciting as the soundtrack to my life sounds, implementing the plan would probably cause more problems than I need at this point in my life. I suppose I will have to content myself with simply humming "The Eye of the Tiger" as I pump myself up for the next big exam I take. 
And I have to ask myself, why do I need the extra drama in my life? Shouldn't I be able to motivate myself to work out in the morning without "We Are the Champions" pushing me to the Rock'/ Is my life so boring that I need to spice it up with music blaring around every cor­ner? 
(Insert contemplative pause here.) I'll start taking applications for my soundtrack coordinator as of now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Colleen Barrett at cbarrett@nd.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal• ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 


WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's students and staff attend womens forum 
SMC students and staff along with women from the South Bend community attend­ed a program on women's concerns at Memorial Hospital. 

page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
U.N. officials prepare to resume Iraqi inspections 
Cheif inspector Hans Bix landed in Cyprus on Sunday to prepare his team of weapons inspec­tors to for a new round of weapons inspections in Iraq. 
page 5 

BUSINESS NEWS 
PG&E prepares to answer charges in federal court 
Lawyers for Pacific Electric and Gas and state offi­cials return to bankruptcy court Monday to debate the future of California's largest utility company. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Letters fault Saddam, not sanctions, for Iraqi problems 
Professor Dan Lindley and senior Matthew Osburn argue that the poli­cies of the Iraqi dic­tator, not economic sanctions are the real cause of Iraq's problems. 
page 11 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
Community Youth Conforencc 7:30-3 p.m. at McKcnna Hall 


. 
Faculty Tea and Panel Discussion "Should We Seek an Audience 

Beyond the Academy?" 4-5:30 p.m. at Executive Education Lounge, Mendoza College of Business 

. 
Lecture with Kristin Shrader-Frachette, "Environmental Justice" 4 p.m. at the Snite Museum of J\rt, 20th Century Gallery 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Brown Bag tunchcon with Bobbie Wren Banks "Follow the Money: Women, War and the Future of Our Country 

11 :30 -1 p.m. at the Dining Hall North Wedge Hoom 

. 
Hccital Forum 12-1 p.m. at Little Theater 


. 
Social Work Lunch 12-1 p.m. at the Stapleton Lounge, LcMans Hall 





WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Penne with gorgonzo­la, pastaria pesto sauce, cheese & pep­peroni French bread pizza, breadsticks, fresh corned beef, boiled cabbage, peas and carrots, apple crisp, cheese strata, Italian risotto, spinach, grits, scrambled eggs, sausage patties, cinnamon bread French toast, potato triangles, grilled turkey sandwiches, crinkle fries 
Today's Dinner: Southern fried chick­en, collard greens with ham hocks, corn apple crisp, quiche lorraine rotini with vegetables, baked herbed zucchini, yel­low rice with raisins, stir-fried garlicky kale, Szechuan vegan noodles, spicy colache, honey-mustard chicken 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Basil-pepper-tomato mostaccioli, four-cheese pizza, cherry turnovers, herbed noodles, sugar-snap peas with sesame, lemon-lime chicken breast, haddock with herbs, roast turkey breast, curried vegetable rice pilaf, stuffed cheddar potatoes, sloppy joes, crinkle fries, soft pretzels, Japanese ginger chicken tenders 
Today's Dinner: Baked pasta Italiano, basil-pepper-tomato mostacci­oli, cheese pizza, cherry turnover, peas and pearl onions, vegetable rice casse­role, grilled redfish, broccoli-rice casserole, Italian-blend vegetables, chicken-fried steak, rotisserie chicken 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
I.LI 
:r: 
~ 
;: 
..I 
cc 
(.) 





0

..I HIGH 43 HIGH 47 45 LOW 36 LOW 34 38 
36 34 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
SCENE SPORTS 

Scene covers 
Womens soccer Ani DiFranco's 
advances in latest concert 
the NCAA tour stop 
tournament 

A Scene reviewer 
After beating both checks out Ani Di 
Ohio State and Franco's most 
Purdue 3-1 over the recent performance 
weekend, the Notre of her indie-rock 
Dame womens music style in 
team advanced to Chicago. 
the third round of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
page 12 

page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
DUI reported on Friday 

NDSP apprehended a visitor on Juniper road around 2 a.m. Friday morning for driving under the inlluence and exceeding the posted speed limit. The case was closed with an arrest of the indi­vidual. 
Efi1ployee keeps car from 
bemgtowed 

A University employee's vehicle was being towed from the Stadium Circle on Thursday, when the ower arrived and paid the tow fee. 
Employee reports harass­ment 
A University employee reported being verbally harassed at the LaFortune Student Center. The case is being referred for admin­istrative review. 
Complied from the NDSP crime blotter. 
Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Turkey noodle soup, tomato basil bisque, white pizza, cheese pizza, Cajun beef loafer, deli bar, grilled chicken breast, french-fried onion rings, baked cod, wild rice blend, corn, cheese ravioli, fettuccine, garlic bread, baked potatoes, ceasar bean burgers, marinated cucumber salad 
Today's Dinner: Wings and things bar, parsley boiled potatoes, zucchini, Yankee pot roast, wild mushroom and feta strudel, Mexican fried rice, rain­bow vegetable medley, cheese and herb biscuits, apple walnut and wild rice salad, pinneapple upside down cake, oatmeal raisin cookies 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 



46 47 35 33 
Atlanta 57 / 42 Boston 46 / 34 Chicago 47 / 38 Denver 54 / 32 Houston 76 / 53 Los Angeles 82 / 53 Minneapolis 44 / 31 New York 49 / 36 Philadelphia 49 / 35 Phoenix 78 / 53 Seattle 53 / 49 St. Louis 54 / 41 Tampa 66 / 49 Washington 51 / 35 
Monday, November 18, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


lillllllll¦ lle1r11r 
A CO-SPONSORED EVENT: 
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT, Saint Mary's College 
THE CAREER CENTER, University of Notre Dame 
MONDAY,NOVEMBER18 

LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
1ST SESSION •••••••••••••• 6:00-7:00 PM 
For FIRST AND SECOND YEAR STUDENTS interested in EDUCATION as a Major 
PRESENTATIONS & PANEL DISCUSSION: 
Traditional Elementary Educadon 
Nancy Turner, Associate Professor, Saint Mary's College 
Secondary Education 
Kitty Green, Assistant Professor, Saint Mary's College 
Special Guest: 
Michael Rampolla '03, University of Notre Dame, will speak about his 
experience in the Secondary Education program. 
************************************ 
• ~nd SESSION •••••••••••••• 7:30 -8:30 PM For THIRD AND FOU~TH YEAR STUDENTS interested in TEACHING CAREERS 
PRESENTATIONS & PANEL DISCUSSION: 
Transition to Teaching Program 
Dale Banks, Associate Professor, Saint Mary's College 

Teach for America 
Amanda Jonas, Director of Recruitment Support 


Alliance for Catholic Education 
Mary Jo Adams Kocovski, Senior Associate Director 
Culver Military Academy 
Candace Koehn, Intern Coordinator Special Guest: Cari McCullough '02, University of Notre Dame. Cari is presently teaching Music Theory and Music History. She is also co-director of the CMA Orchestra and coach for the CMA fencing team. 


THE 
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS 
PRESENTS 

The Power of Words and Words of Power: 



The Greek Bible in the Greco-Roman World 
a LECTURE by 


Professor Tessa Rajak 
Editor, Journal of Jewish Studies Department of Classics University of Reading 
Wednesday, November 20 4:30 -6:00 pm 220 MALLOY HALL 



Students and staff attend women's forum 
By MELANIE BECKER News Writer 
Women from South Bend and the Saint Mary's community attended Saturday the Center for Intercultural Women's Leadership day-long workshop, "Health and Cultural Competence." 
The focus of the program was for women in the South Bend community, Saint Mary's faculty and students to come together to discuss women's health issues and women as leaders in the world. 
"This is part of the Catalyst Project, which seeks to foster 
the leadership of women and to link women community leaders with women in the Saint Mary's Community," Meredith Sarakees, director of CWIL said. 
The day opened at 8:30 
a.m. with an introduction titled "Our 

"Only from a group of body as an ancient seat
economically. socially 
of power. It

and racially diverse was affirm­group of women can we ing to be part of hon­
come up with a definition 
oring the

of the quintessential 
body in such 

woman." a good way," said Ann Seckinger,
Kareema El Amin 
Chaplain at 


presenter 
Memorial 
Bodies. Ourselves:lnternationalizing the Women's Health Movement," by CWIL fellow and co-coordinator of the event, Marcia Good­Maust. 
"(The workshop] brought to campus ways to deal with con­flict among peers in the busi­ness world," Saint Mary's junior Joan Mueke said. 
The rest of day consisted of four 90-minute sessions. The program provided a variety of workshops most had a second follow-up session. Saint Mary's faculty members and several women leaders selected from the South Bend community led the workshops. 
Some of the workshops focused on the topics of Caring for the Self: Self Expression for Latina Mothers, Body Praying, Female Empowerment in Flamenco Dance, Interplay, Exforming in an Information Age, The Body that Writes and several panel discussions. Several snack breaks, lunch and dinner were provided to the participants. 
Over the course of the day women were encouraged to express themselves freely and embrace their feminine qualities as unique and special. Participants were challenged to then take these qualities and empower themselves with them. "I thought that what was interesting was that I got to pnr­fo rm with people that I was comfortable with. I apprnciatcd learning about my 
I lospital and South Bend resident. 
The overall focus of the event was to delve into the feminine half of humanity and celebrate the many beautiful qualities of women in society. 
"Only from a group of eco­nomically, socially and racially diverse group of women can we come up with a definition of the quintessential woman," said Kareema El Amin, one of the workshop presenters. 
The day ended with a fashion show title, "Dress with Less for Finesse" that included opportu­nities for several of the work­shop groups to share what they had done over the course of the day. 
Contact Melanie Becker at Beck093 l@saintmarys.edu. 



SMC sends delegates to hall conference 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Editor 

Nine delegates from Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) attended the Great Lakes Association of Colleges and Residence Halls conference over the weekend to participate in a competition among Midwest col­leges. This year's conference was held at the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh. 
Saint Mary's, along with the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, were the two finalists competing for a first place finish for program­ming events that have been in1ple­mented in their residence halls. Part of the competition included a presentation made by senior Whitney Ross, entitled "A League of his or her own. Wham! Women have a Mission." The Saint Mary's delegation placed second in the competition. 
"Wisconsin La Crosse has 12 residence halls and we only have four. They had a lot more pro­gramming because they have so many residence halls," Ross said. 
Ross said that Saint Mary's diversity within RI IA has grown in the past year, especially with the new lnterCultural Living commu­nity started this year, but that there are still more improvements that Saint Mary's RIIA can make. 
"One thing we were criticized for was that we don't have gay and lesbian representation in our association. We are working on opening up RHA to more student diversity," Ross said. "l think HHA and [Student Diversity Boardl should work together." 
Ross plans to re-submit her pre­sentation at the sub-regional con­ference in the spring. The sub­regional competition only includes colleges and universities from Indiana. 
"I tl1ink Saint Mary's needs to be recognized for its dramatic improvement over the past year," Ross said. 

Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
r 
© 2002 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and other members of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organization. We are proud to be an Affirmative ktion and Equal Orrortunlty Employer. 

VOTED 11 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 
.• ,.~· >· ~ . ' . :~. '~-:. 
-. . ., .....··;:,"'.~ .• "\ 
~ 
,,. -~-·--•· .......·•. .,,)·· 
.. 
l/·.
.. 
l :,.;
/,\::.\!~

;1J/fl .. 

Investors need to be able to trust tht; information that companies supply to the public. Help us audit that information and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 






WORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CYPRUS 
U.N. officials prepare for arms inspections in Iraq 
try to hide anything. 
Associa1cd l'ress 
The 74-year-old Swedish diplo­mat said inspectors would be

LAHNACA 

taking along much more sophis­The chiefU.N. weapons inspec­
ticated equipment than was
tor landed in Cyprus Sunday to available when the inspectionassemble his team for a return lo 
program was suspended in
Baghdad and said the "question December 1998. 
of war and peace" awaits an 
'We do of course expect to getanswer from Saddam Hussein. 
tips from the (U.N.) member
President Bush has warned 
states," Blix said. "We also have
that Saddam faces military 
modern equipment that is supe­aclion if he fails to cooperate rior to what we had in the past.
fully with the inspectors, who But ... we would like the Iraqis towill fly to Iraq on Monday. 
declare, and this is an opportuni­
Saddam faces a three-week 
ty for them to do so and we hopedeadline to reveal weapons of that they will seize that opportu­mass destruction or provide con­nity."
vincing ovidcnce he no longer Bush is insisting on "zero toler­has any. 
ance" or the Iraqi delaying tactics Chief' U.N. inspector Hans Blix and deceit which marked theand Mohamed E!Baradei, ovcr­previous inspection effort. 
set,ing the International Atomic EIBaradei, an Egyptian, said
Energy Agency's search for 
there was a need for "intrusive
nuclear arms, flew to Cyprus 
verifications," meaning inspec­
from Vienna, Austria. They 
tors "will use every means at ourjointid about two dozen other disposal to make sure that Iraqmembers of the advance team does not have weapons of massassembling here to prnparo for a destruction."
resumption of inspections after a Also, Iraqis with key informa­nearly four-year absence. 
tion would be interviewed out­EUT R
"The question of war and 
side the country if it was neces­Chief U.N. Weapons Inspector Hans Blix, right, and Director of International Atomic Energy
peace remains first of all in the sary to protect their safety. But, Agency Mohamed El Baradei address reporters during a news conference in Larnaca, Cyprus
hands of Iraq. the Security 
he acknowledged, "if people do
Council and the members of the Sunday. Blix and Baradei will head to Baghdad Monday to begin the investigation of Iraq.
not want to talk, we obviouslySecurity Council" Blix said. 
will not be able to force them toBlix, who will lead the overall between the inspectors and the are keen to beef up the mission hug," said the official, referringtalk."
mission. said his team was pre­Bush administration, U.N. offi­with staff and equipment Blix to Blix's interest in U.S. supportHowever. Blix favors coopera­pared to meet the challenge of cials said Sunday on condition of may not consider necessary. but also in avoiding the appear­tion instead of confrontation with ensuring Iraqi compliance. But anonymity. "We're happy for the hand­ance that Americans are run­the Iraqis, and the differences inhe said he hoped Iraq would not One official said the Americans shake, but we don't want the ning the show. 
approach could create tension 
Ridge downplays recent al-Qaida threat as 'nothing new-' 
Associa1cd Press Department of Homeland Security. A unsigned. six-page document on he said. senior administration official con­Wednesday, a day after the station Ridge said a recent visit he made to WASHINGTON firmed Sunday that Ridge, a former broadcast an audiotape believed made Ml 5, the British domestic intelligence 
With the Senate set to approve the Pennsylvania governor and close by al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. agency. was "very revealing," but agency he's expected to lead, friend of Bush, is the president's The United States and other govern­added that he thought it was unlikely President Bush's homeland security choice for the job. ments blame bin Laden and his al­the administration would create some­adviser on Sunday played down as Appearing on three Sunday morning Qaida terrorist network for the attacks thing similar. He and several senators "really nothing new" an alleged al­talk shows, Ridge tried to minimize that destroyed the World Trade Center noted that FBI Director Hobert Qaida threat or attacks in New York the alleged al-Qaida threat. in New York and damaged the Mueller is working, under orders from and Washington. "We're familiar with that piece of Pentagon in Washington, killing more Bush, to reorganize the FBI to 
Tom Ridge also said he doubted the information. There are no new than 3,000 people on Sept. 11, 2001. improve domestic intelligence gather­Bush administration would create an threats. There are the same old condi­While the correspondent says he is ing. agency separate from the FBI to gath­tions," Hidge told "Fox News Sunday." certain the statement came from al­Ridge said powers given to Ml5 er domestic intelligence. Several sena­"It's just part of the continuing threat Qaida 's leadership, Ridge said the would be unacceptable under the tors said the White House should not environment that we assess. It's really administration was unsure of its Constitution. pursue that idea without congression­nothing new." source, but recognizes that the United "I don't think you're going to see a al input. A correspondent for the Arab satel­States is a primary target. similar organization be developed in 
Hidge declined to discuss whether he lite TV station Al-Jazeera told The "The war on terrorism has come to this country," he said on CNN's "Late wants to become secretary of the Associated Press he received an our shores. We have to deal with it," Edition." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Highjacker foiled on Israeli airline 
Security guards on Israel's national airline El Al overpowered a suspected hijacker who tried to storm the cockpit of a Tel Aviv to Istanbul flight on Sunday, apparently armed with a pen knife, officials said. None of tho 170 passengers on board the Boeing 757 were harmed and the plane landed safely, said Oktay Cakirlar, an official at Istanbul's Ataturk International Airport. The semi-official Anatolia news agency iden­tified the hijacker as Tawfiq Fukra, a 23-ycar-old Arab with an Israeli passport. Cakirlar said El Al Flight 581 sent out a hijacking signal as it approached Istanbul but the suspect was overcome. "No one was injured," Cakirlar told The Associated Press by tele­phone. "The terrorist is in custody at the police station at the airport." The suspect, a tall. thin man with dark features. was later seen being taken out of the airport in handcuffs by undercover police. Passengers said the man threatened a flight attendant then tried to kick in the door to the cockpit. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ice storm strikes New England 
New England's first major ice storm of the season spread freezing rain across the region Sunday, downing trees and knocking out power to thousands of homes. More than a half inch of ice had accumulated in parts of northern and western Connecticut, and more than 130,000 Northeast Utility customers were without power at the height of the out­ages there. Several towns in the northwest part of the state set up emergency shelters while more than 100 linemen worked to restore power. About 100,000 customers remained without electricity late Sunday afternoon. An estimated 15,000 Central Maine Power customers were without electricity by Sunday afternoon, said CMP spokesman Kevin Howes. Dozens of cars slid off highways and speed limits were reduced to 45 mph on the Maine Turnpike and Interstate 95. 
Nuns arrested at SOA protest 
More than 90 people, including at least six nuns, were arrested for marching onto Fort Benning grounds Sunday during an annual protest of a U.S. military program that trains Latin American soldiers. "I feel anger at the deliberate teaching of violence." Caryl Hartjes, a nun from Fondulac. Wis .. said as she entered the compound. where she was arrested. About 6,500 protesters gathered for the 13th annual demonstration by the School of the Americas Watch, which continues to protest the Nov. 19, 1989, killings of six Jesuit priests in El Salvador. Protesters said they demonstrate because people responsible for the killings were trained at the School of the Americas, a Fort Benning-based program that was replaced last year by a new institute. Protesters say the change was only cosmetic. The demonstrators Sunday passed through the base's gates, including one where they cut the padlock and slipped through fence posts to get onto the property. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 18, 2002 
gatherings," said Father forced the dorm to cancel
"'Where cost effective on the 
James Lewis, rector of its planned SYR. "People
basis of use, we will purchase
Library 



Dances 

Carroll Hall. Despite some didn't want to get in trou­
individual journal titles on 
incidents, Lewis and other ble," he said. "The rules
continued from page 1 demand instead of placing sub­
continued from page 1 rectors said their halls' were not clear."
scriptions to the journal," 
dances were well-planed The fall dance at Lewis
As publishers have devised Younger said in a March 2002 
said Shoup. "Any kind of and well-attended. "Our Hall was also cancelled
new ways of packaging and pro­report to the academic council. 
damage whether inten­students were more due to low student
ducing materials, they have "We are strengthening existing 
tional or unintentional is enthusiastic about and turnout.
gained the control to set price collaborative resources on cam­
way down." present at this dance," Fisher Hall was the first
levels and forced libraries to pus [and] we will also forge more 
Overall. Shoup think the Lewis said. dorm to hold its fall dance
increase their purchases. direct inter-institutional borrow­
new dance policies will Brother Jerome Meyer, off-campus at Beacon
Whereas librarians could once ing." 
make a positive change to rector of Knott Hall, Bowl. "The turnout was
purchase individual journal titles, The University Libraries have 
Notre Dame. " I do think agreed that his hall's actually pretty good.
publishers have begun to sell also increased the cost of copies 
[the changes] have made dance had not been nega­People liked the whole
many titles in one package. The this year to 10 cents per page 
an impact. The focus is tively affected by the new idea," said Ryan Bui. one
University Libraries currently with a copy card and 15 cents 
back to actually having a SYR policies. "We had a of Fisher's co-presidents.
subscribe to five major packages per page with coin, in order to 
dance than having a big tent dance and it went However, Bui said fund­
with over 2,900 journals. cover the cost of copying. 
party," he said. very well," said Meyer. "It ing would be a concern for
Because of the continued con­Because of increased use of elec­
Peggy Hnutusko, assis­was well-received and the dorm. "We're trying to
trol of the publishing industry, tronic resources and computer 
tant director of Student those who attended had a slowly use the money [that
librarians and student represen­printing, the copying volume has 
Activities for program­good time." Student Affairs allotted],
tatives say that budget problems seen a steady drop from the 
ming, said she agrees that Dorm commissioners said Bui. "It would defi­
will not be resolved in the near 1999-2000 school year to the 
the impact of the new and hall presidents said nitely be cheaper [to hold
future. Younger said that the 2001-02 school year. 
policies on dorm dances that some dances have the dance in the hall)."
budget problem is not exclusive Despite budget cuts, the library 
cannot be judged as of yet. been successful but not Patrick Hertzkc, dance
to Notre Dame. Most other has also been making some posi­
"It's way too early for without many budget and commissioner at Siegfried
libraries at major institutions tive changes. including and 
any reliable statistics," planning issues. "It ended Hall, said his dorm had
have also had to reduce their improved library Web site. 
she said. "As the semester up being really expensive problems getting any of
commitments because of the eco­Students can now more easily 
goes on we'll be able to -a lot more expensive the $1,000 supposedly
nomic downturn and the sky­find the electronic resources 
tell more about the than having it in our allocated to Siegfried. The
rocketing costs of books and available to them, view their loan 
dances." dorm," said Jessie Stamm, dorm eventually hosted its
journals. list and recall status and renew 
Student Activities has Walsh Hall dance commis­dance at the Warren Golf
"There is a fear that the real materials on-line rather than in 
collaborated with student sioner. Clubhouse, but had to
pain is still coming," Calvert said. person, said library officials. 
planners to make alter­Jen DeWitt, one of Lyons limit tickets sales to 60-70 
"Hopefully before too long the In addition, the Hesburgh 
nate locations work well, Hall's dance commission­tickets because of space
financial situation will be better Library is in the process of a 
said Hnutusko, including ers, said the Lyons Luau, constraints, Hertzkc said.
and we'll be back in shape, but at major renovation to its basement. 
one dance held off-campus held at the Knights of Students also reported
the moment, things look pretty The basement will reopen in Fall 
at Beacon Bowl. Hnutusko Columbus building, went problems with the require­
bleak." 2003 and will have moveable 
said the unusually limited off well this fall but that ment that dorms use the
Younger said that any faculty shelving storage for 7,000 vol­
number of weekends budget constraints in the company Catering by
member or student needing spe­umes, 100 user seats and a reno­
available for dances this spring would pose a prob­Design to provide meals
cific research materials would vated microform center. Younger 
year might have played a lem for the dorm. "I would for the dances. "They tend 
continue to be accommodated. said that the new accommoda­
role in any decreased pop­say that we had over 60 to overcharge," said Ryan
Faculty and students can still tions would help increase storage 
ularity. percent attendance. That's Greenberg, co-president of
make use of interlibrary loans to space and provide an additional 
Residence hall rectors pretty good," said DeWitt. Carroll Hall. 
get material, and the University area for students to read or study 
felt that the new policies "But [the new policies] are
will continue to purchase individ­in a comfortable environment. 
have brought positive really making everything
ual articles from journals if a 

changes overall for the worse," she said.
specific piece is needed. The 

campus. "There were Abhishek Goyal, co-pres­
library also plans to make use of 

some disciplinary matter ident of O'Neill Hall, said
existing relationships and con­

Contact Joe Trombello at 
which were a direct result concerns among students Contact Teresa Fralish at
sortiums with other libraries and 

jtrombel@nd.edu 
of off-campus pre-dance about he new policies tfralish@nd.edu
institutions. 

Wireless Irish. 
Student discounts and other exclusive promos from Apple make the holidays merrier and using wireless Internet easier. 
L,. · · , ·~ 11 ~-· ~ ··· ..... '..,.;.: \,i__, 
iBook 
Playl1sts ------> 
Browse >
~ 
E11tras 
> Setfings1 > 
In Sync.
Rbout > 

iBook • Starting at $949 
Add AirPort Wireless to
Holds up to 4,000 songs Discounted for the Notre Dame family your iBook for only $93 
10 hour battery life Download a CD in seconds 

iPod • Starting at $269 Special Promos 
Discounted just for Students 

Apple has great promos going to help make buying a Mac and the accessories you need more affordable, all discounted for Students. 



Double your memory. 
Double the standard configuration of memory far only $40 on any Mac. 
Expire1, De,ernber .3 l, 200.2 
Brighten your holidays. 
Buy a Mac and an HP DeskJet 3820 or ssso printer and receive a $99 rebate. 
hplres Janua1y 7, 2003 


For more in(ormaiion on these and orher promotions,please visit www.apple.com/educotionlpromos/ 
Room 112 Information Technology Center 
Get your student discount at: $"'ofuftohf; c~hC&r http://solution.nd.edu/ 
Notre Dame's Computer Products Store 574-631-7477 

Monday, November 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch November 15 
DowJones 

8,589.09 +36.96 
NASDAQ 

1,411.14 
-0.38 
S&P500 

909.83 +5.56 
• ~ 
AMFX 

818.40 -0.69 
NYSE 

482.34 
+3.64 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0. 57 +0. 08 14. 08 
1

~~l!l11111il~ifllili!!J:li!li1ililill!!Jll11illlli:ll!III.J.J~!ll 
NASDAQ 100 INDE (QQQ) +1. 30 +0. 34 26.44 
§HN:,Bii9i¥UM!];~-~i\t:~i!~;i~i~l!l;~lll!iJ!!i~;~j~li 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +3. 48 +0. 36 10. 71 
IN BRIEF 
'Potter' sequel has 3rd best opening 
The "Chamber of Secrets" has been opened, and Harry Potter has found a fortune inside. 
"llarry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets," the second installment in the fantasy franchise based on J.K. Rowling's novels, took in $87.7 million, the third-best debut week­end ever, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
"Chamber of Secrets" came in behind the record $114.8 million that "Spider-Man" grossed in its first three days last spring and the $90.3 million haul of "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" a year ago. 
Though "Chamber of Secrets" opened in a record 3,682 theaters on a record 8,515 screens, distributor Warner Bros. had not expected the movie to set revenue records. Anticipation had been greater for "Sorcerer's Stone" because it was the first big-screen adaptation of Rowling's tales, said Dan Fellman, Warner head of distribution. 
But with generally better audience and critical reaction for the new movie, Fellman said the studio hopes "Chamber of Secrets" will surpass the $317.6 million total of "Sorcerer's Stone." 
FBI Raids Medical Lender's Offices 
Federal agents spent the weekend searching the offices of the troubled National Century Financial Enterprises, which provides cash Ilow financing for health care operators. 
Problems at the company have been rippling through the industry, forcing at least two com­panies into bankruptcy and threatening the financial stability of some health care providers. 
Jim Nickell. a spokesman for National Century, said Sunday that he did not know the reason for the search, which began on Saturday. Nickell also said he did not know what agents took. After obtaining a warrant from a foderal magistrate, two dozen agents from the FBI's white-collar crime unit in Columbus spent several hours searching Saturday. 
PG&E's future at stake in court 
. Bankruptcy case to resume Monday 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
They've trained for the past 19 months, scouring legal documents, calculat­ing data, hunting for the best witnesses. Most have logged more hours at work than at homo during the last few weeks. 
On Monday, teams of lawyers and consultants representing Pacific Gas and Electric Co. and state power regulators head back into federal bank­ruptcy court to start a gru­eling, weeks-long process to argue in favor of their plans, which will deter­mine the future of California's largest utility. 
Aside from record elec­tric rate hikes that appear likely to remain in place for months to come, things haven't changed much for the average customer since PG&E filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in April 2001. The dishwasher hums. The blue trucks still show up when big trees tackle power lines. The bills still come in the mail. 
Behind the scenes, PG&E is feeling pressure from all sides. Its parent agrees it's imperative to power costs were pushing trols how much PG&E can corporation said last week help PG&E settle its debts it into tens of billions of charge for the electricity it it will lose $20 million per and become creditworthy dollars of debt and asked churns from its power 
quarter if the utility 
again. California wants to for higher rates to make plants and hydroelectricremains stuck in bank­stop being a power buyer up the difference. dams. ruptcy beyond the end of or financier and can't until The utility is trying to The state and a majorMay. energy sellers believe convince U.S. Bankruptcy committee of PG&E's cred­
Federal judges can't PG&E is able to pay its Judge Dennis Montali that itors, on the other hand, agree whether the utility's bills. Creditors, of course, it would become a more want to force PG&E, its post-bankruptcy plans are want their money sooner stable entity by weakening shareholders and its legal. PG&E had to spend rather than later. its ties to the state. PG&E ratepayers to generate more than $2 million to Trouble is, the state and hopes to transfer billions money to pay the debts fight a public takeover in the utility couldn't agree of dollars worth of trans• through selling stock and San Francisco, its home­less on how to make it mission lines, pipelines maintaining electricity town. Major creditors, happen and have threat­and other assets into new rates that already are including some of the ened to take the matter federally regulated com­among the most expensivenation's largest banks and before the U.S. Supreme panies, then borrow in the nation. 
energy companies, still are Court if necessary. against those assets to pay PG&E's woes are justowed billions. Depending PG&E brushed aside its debts. one piece of California's how PG&E emerges from offers of help from Gov. Analysts say federal reg­puzzling energy bill, the debt, ratepayers could be Gray Davis and state ener­ulation would enable the cost of which increasingly on the hook to come up gy regulators just days utility to earn more money is trickling down to mil­with the cash. before it entered bank­should energy prices climb lions of customers of Everyone involved, from ruptcy court. It entered again, enhancing the PG&E and two other majorcreditors to the Public 
the court months after the value of those assets. utilities as more bills come Utilities Commission, utility warned soaring Currently, the state con-due. 

United Airlines to cut 9,000 jobs 
do to qualify for the loan guarantee. the nation's No. 2 carrier by 23 per­
Associated Press 

The Elk Grove Village, Ill.-based cent overall from its size before the 
CHICAGO airline said that with the cutbacks, it Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. 
The parent company of United should be profitable by 2004. Spokeswoman Chris Nardella Airlines said Sunday it would cut "Our plan is intended to restore declined to discuss which jobs are 9,000 jobs and reduce its flight United's financial health, and it being targeted by the cuts. Earlier schedule by another 6 percent as gives us the ability to repay ATSB· this month, United said it plans to part of a restructuring plan tied to guaranteed loans," Glenn Tilton, furlough 2,700 flight attendants the carrier's effort to return to prof­United's chairman and chief execu­beginning in January because of a 
itability. tive officer, said in a statement. "The reduced flight schedule planned for 
UAL Corp. faces a Dec. 2 deadline plan aligns our costs and revenues, next year. Officials said the layoffs in its fight to avoid a bankruptcy fil­while building a platform for future would bring the number of flight ing. It hopes to receive a $1.8 billion growth." attendants on furlough to roughly loan guarantee by then. United spokesman Jeff Green said 4,800. 
The carrier has been talking with the airline's staff would be cut to United said it also plans to retire 
the Air Transportation Stabilization 74,000 from the current 83,000 by an additional 49 aircraft, defer all Board over the last week about its 2004. The additional 6 percent flight scheduled aircraft deliveries through loan application and what it needs to reduction would decrease the size of 2005 and lower capital spending. 
Monday, November 18, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
Muscle trerunent tested 
Jusodatcd Pre .. 

CHICAGO 
Doctors testing a new treatment for heart attacks said Sunday they have restored life to seomingly dead heart muscle by seeding it with cells borrowed from patients' own thigh muscles or bones. 
The idea is to f'md an alternative to transplants for people whose hearts are so damaged that they fail to pump blood forcefully enough. This condition, called heart failure, is a growing health problem that afflicts an estimated 5 million people in the United States alone. 
Two years ago, a French doctors described a novel alternative: He put millions of immature skeletal muscle cells into the badly dam­aged heart of a 72-year-old man. His heart began to pump more powerfully, although it was unclear whether the benefit came from the new cells or from coro­nary bypass surgery he received at the same time. 
That physician, Dr. Philippe Manasche of Bichat Hospital in Paris, has now repeated the approach on 10 patients, and simi­lar experiments are being con­ducted by teams in the United States, Germany, England and Poland. 
Preliminary but encouraging data on these experiments were reported Sunday at the annual sci­entific meeting in Chicago of the American Heart Association. Doctors said the shifted cells can live inside the heart's dead scar tissue and show at least some signs of contracting like the origi­nal heart muscle. 
"This is quite exciting and defi­
nitely new... said Dr. Timothy Gardner of the University of Pennsylvania, who is not involved in the studies. 
For now, all that researchers can say for sure is that the trans­ferred cells take root and flourish in dead areas of the heart. Whether they make the heart pump more forcefully remains to he proven, although researchers say they see encouraging evidence this may happen. 
"The results so far support the hypothesis that these cells will do some good. It gives us a reason to go on," said Dr. Francis Pagani of the University of Michigan. 
Pagani is working with Dr. Nabil Dib of the Arizona Heart Institute, whose team tested the approach on 16 patients getting either coro­nary bypasses or temporary pumps to keep them alive until they could have heart transplants. 
Ordinarily, the heart pushes out more than half of its blood with each beat. Dib's patients had such had heart failure that their hearts pumped just 23 percent. 
After the bypasses and cell injec­tions. this improved to 36 percent, although it was impossible say how much, if any, of the new strength resulted from the extra cells. 
Like Manasche, Oib's team begins with immature muscle cells, called myoblasts, obtained from the patients' own thighs. These are grown in test tubes until millions are available. Then they are injected into parts of the heart that died during heart attacks. 

"We clearly showed living tissue in the injected scar," Dib said. "If this proves efficacious, we will improve the quality of life of our patients and their survival." 
ISRAEL 

Isreali tanks enter Gaza Strip 
The Palestinian forces have house from three directions. 
Associated Prns 

"instigated, encouraged and Outside, he said he heard provided support" for a "the sound of explosionsGAZA CITY series of terror activities in mixed with screams of chil­
rsraeli helicopters and 
the area, the army said. dren." 
tanks hit Gaza City early 
The Israeli forces pulled Palestinian official Tayeb
Monday, targeting a main 
out after more than three Abdel Rahim lives about 100 
Palestinian security com­
hours, leaving several of the yards from the targeted
pound, while hundreds of 
11 buildings in the security base. He told the AP that his miles away. security guards compound in ruins. At the house was hit by bullets but foiled an attempt to hijack 
main administration build­he was not harmed. He 
an Israeli passenger plane. 
ing, targeted for the first called the Israeli operation
Despite all the violence 
time in two years of fighting, "aggression" and warned and a sudden, hitter Israeli furniture was smashed and that "security and stabilityelection campaign, negotia­computers destroyed, their for Israeli people cannot be tions continue over a U.S.­
parts littering the floor as achieved at the expense of 
backed plan to put an end to a blaze
firefighters fought the Palestinian people."
the Mideast conflict, accord• 
nearby. So far Gaza has been ing to a document obtained As tanks moved into the spared the large-scale mili­by The Associated Press. 
city, Israeli gunboats opened tary operations in which In Gaza City, Israeli heli­
fire on the shoreline, Israel has taken coritrol of copters fired missiles at the shelling the area where most West Bank Palestinian 
headquarters of Preventive Palestinian leader Vasser population centers, retalia­
Security, the main official was. The for terror
Arafat's office tion bloody
Palestinian force, and tanks 
complex was destroyed in attacks. 
and soldiers moved in, 
an Israeli attack several However. Israeli leaders 
shelling buildings and set­
months ago. Apartment have said that militant 
ting fires. Two Palestinian 
buildings and a hospital also groups operate unfettered in 
security officers and a TV came under lire. Gaza, and the Israeli mili­
cameraman working for 
The sounds of explosions tary would confront them at Reuters news agency were could be heard all over the some point.
lightly injured. doctors said. 
city of about 300,000 Meanwhile, Turkish police
No other casualties were 
Palestinians. Witnesses said were interrogating a pas­reported. 
troops fired shells at the senger who officials say
The army said the offices house of Yusuf Mukdad, a tried to hijack an El Al 
were used to make 
Preventive Security officer Israel Airlines plane just weapons. An explosives lab­
arrested recently by the before it landed in Istanbul 
oratory, welding equipment, Israelis on suspicion of plan­with 170 people on board. 
weapons, ammunition and a ning attacks against Israelis. El Al general manager
missile were found in the 
Mustafa Mughrabi, 45, Amos Shapira told the AP
headquarters, the army said 
who lives near the that the passenger, an 
in a release. 

Preventive Security base, Israeli Arab, "tried to reach 
Palestinians fired on the 
told The Associated Press by the cockpit with what we 
troops and shot missiles 
telephone that he was hid­assume now is a small pock­against tanks but no soldiers a bed with his
ing under et knife," but was overpow­were injured, the army said. 
children after gunfire hit his ered by security guards. 
undergraduate students have played healthy lifestyle. Kalisik has been with eating in a manner less familiar
A New Face an instrumental role in the building a comprehensive list of all to students at Notre Dame and Saint development of the organization. 
of the health services available on Mary's. Nutritional information will
in the "Because UBWELL2@ND is campus, how and where to find them come in March and students can student-driven, it translates into a on campus, the correct contacts, the solve financial woes with sincere understanding of the costs, and the schedules of the UBWell2@ND's help in April.
Neighborhood 
attitudes, beliefs, and desires of the organizations. 
Amy Fehrenbacher, a juniorstudent body concerning wellness 


Psychology and Elementary
and health," said group member Education Major, will handle the Molly Francis, a junior Sociology February's concentration on eatingDo you think you are and Spanish major. 
disorders.

healthy? As a hard-working student, While the representatives of "I'm happy to have theover-all wellness depends on much the various health-oriented programs opportunity to raise awareness ofmore than exercising regularly or on campus want to disseminate interests and issues of health andskipping the cheesecake every other information to students, they wanted well-being pertinent to students'day. 
methods that would capture and lives," Fehrenbacher said.
While students at Notre sustain the interest of busy young "Even though we will have aDame and Saint Mary's are generally adults. Through personal experience, general topic each month, we stillhealth conscious, their over-all well­
the student members of 
want to focus on any health concernsbeing can be improved. Stress, lack UBWELL2@ND can evaluate the the student body has," says Colleenof sleep, financial problems, eating current health needs at Notre Dame Barrett, senior English major. "Wedisorders, dismal weather and and Saint Mary's as well as create aren't limited to the one specificnutritional misconceptions all effective ways to circulate that topic."

contribute to health problems that information. 
UBWell2@ND has pickedstudents may not acknowledge or "I am excited about this several broad topics of interest to theeven be aware of. 

project because of the close "Most students just don't 
student body, but its members wantWhile the problems may relationship with the staff realize how many wellness resources to hear from you. What topics doseem trivial, they can impede healthy administrators and the resulting the University offers. And even if you want to see discussed? Whatlifestyles. Many services available chance to actually achieve 

you do know they exist. finding out health services would be valuable toto students on campus are not being improvements hy making this how to contact someone in that area your career at Notre Dame or Saintutilized in a sufficient way and could happen," said Hanni Masserer. A 23-can be even more of a challenge. It's Mary's? Let us know by contactingvastly improve the daily lives of year-old business major from our focus to equip students with this our new email address,students. 
Munich, Germany, Masserer has information so they don't have to UBWell2@ND.edu.
The problem is, most 
extensive business experience as a spend time searching for it," said
students either do not know of the 
junior consultant to a design group Kalisik. 
We want to know if thisservices offered or do not know how 

and a PR/Marketing executive to a UBWell2@ND will cover
to find them. address works! The first 25 peopleGerman professional basketball monthly topics that are applicable to to email UBWcJJ2@ND.edu with
!)BWeil2@ND is here to team. His experience in marketing is the time period in which they occur. questions or comments will receivehelp. It is a new organization 
invaluable in the promotional aspect November will focus on the 
a coupon for a free sandwich to ' 

founded through collaborative efforts 
of the new organization. importance of sleep management in any Food Service Cafe orfrom Heallh Services, RecSports, Kelli Kalisik, a senior preparation for the inevitable Restaurant. Keep an eye out aroundFood Services, Physical Education, Management-Consulting major, has cramming for finals. January brings campus for health-relatedCounseling Center, and Memorial 
previously worked closely with the information on Seasonal Affective 
information in The Observer andHospital Community Health 

Health Center. Her interest in Disorder (SAD). February is 
stall notes. If you pay attention toEnhancement program. More collegiate athletic administration 

National Eating Disorders Month, them, there will be more chances to
importantly, a group of 
lends itself to the promotion of a and the group will focus on problems win great prizes. 


MonJay, November 18, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Prison fire prompts questions of safety 
An American Paradox: Justice and the Practice of the Death 
Thursday, November 21 
4:00 pm, I leshurgh Center Auditorium, University of Notre Dame 
(first rampus bldg. 011 right of i\01 re da11w Ave., going nort Ii) 
Lecture; Sheila Murphy, Retired Presiding Judge of the Sixth Municipal District Circuit Court of Cook County An American Paradox: A First Hand 
ccount ofJustice on Death Row. 
.,____;_,i¦ 
Sheila Murphy 

Shella Murphy ls an avid and outspoken opponent of the death penalty. She is retired Presiding Judge of the Sixth Municipal District Circut Court of Cook County, and Is now council to the Chica.go law firm of Rothschild, Barry & Myers. As a. judge, she ordered crucia.l DNA testing for Vernea.I Jimerson, lea.d­ing to the exoneration of him and the other members of the "Ford Heights Four• from death row, and giVing wide publicity to the problem of false convictions on death row in Illlnoise. She ha.s also established children's rooms in courthouses, drug treatment courts, and a courthouse school for at risk defendants. 
Penally 

Thursday, November 21 7:00-9:30 pm, Carrol Awlitorimn, Madeleva Hall, St. Mary's College 
(enter campus hy main entrance, l'ol!ow signs to Madclcva) 
Lecture: Sheila Murphy, 
n American Paradox: ustice and the Death Penalty Today 
Panel Discussion-8:00pm 
Mocl,mor: Mike Collins, New, Anchor. 
WSBT Television, Ch. 22 
Judge Jerome Frese, St. JoS<:ph county Superior Court Professor Paolo Carozza, As.socia.tc Professor, Univer.iry ofNotr< Dame Lw School Mr. Paolo Mancinelli, Sant' Egidio Community Ms. Charlortc D. Pfeifer, Director of Srudcnt and Community Relations, IUSB Mr. John Maciejczyk, Chief Depucy ProS<cutor, St. Joseph County 
Friday, November 22 12:00-l:30pm, Center for Social Concerns, University of Notre Dame 
Open discussion: The death penalty and the work of the Sant'Egidio Community 
Sheila Murphy Paolo Mancinelli, Sant'Egidio Community Darrin Belousek, Assistant Professor, Goshen College 
Sponsored by the Sant' Egidio Communily and lhc .loan It Kroc lru,titut\ for lnt('rnationnl peace 
Sludks 


CHINA 

China enforces salt monopoly 
The salt police were set  abled people in China are  
Associated Press  up to enforce the monopoly.  victims of iodine deficiency,  
shutting down hundreds of  said Wang Zhilun, a  
HUIANBAO  private producers and mer­ researcher on endemic dis­ 
As soon as they saw the  chants who had appeared  eases at Xi 'an Medical  
empty truck brake suddenly  during the market reforms  School in Shaanxi province.  
on the deserted rural high­ of the 1980s. The officers  Studies in China in the  
way, the four men in dark­ also patrol remote regions  1980s and early '90s by for­ 
blue uniforms jumped into  like Ningxia where smug­ eign and Chinese scientists  
action.  glers sell illegal salt that is  were among the first to  
The truck likely was a  cheaper, but not iodized.  establish the connection  
scout, slowing to phone a  As is often the case under  between iodine and brain  
warning to smugglers close  the communist regime, the  development. They found  
behind. Piling into a white  tactics are heavy-handed.  that just a teaspoonful con­ 
van, the officers roared  But experts say they have  sumed over a lifetime pre­ 
down the two-lane road  helped China achieve one of  vented cretinism and raised  
until they found a heavily  the biggest health successes  IQs by 10 to 15 points. 
laden truck struggling to  in recent history.  China's success with  
turn around to avoid the  By 2000, 90 percent of  iodine is a lesson in what it  
police trap.  China's 1.3 billion people  takes to get things done in  
"We got him just after he  were eating iodized salt. up  this increasingly freewheel•  
got the call on his cell  from 10 percent in the  ing, market-driven society. 
phone," said Li Yanming.  1980s. That means more  Resistance by underfunded, 
recounting the chase in  than 18 million of the 20  and often indifferent, local  
China's northern Ningxia  million children born annu­ governments was overcome  
region.  ally in China have a better  only by a top•down push 
On board, the officers  chance of good brain devel­ from the cnntral leadership. 
found 14 tons of white,  opment.  "It's a classic Chinese  
powdery contraband salt.  By contrast, iodized salt  story," said Dr. Ray Yip, a  
Li and his colleagues arc  accounts for only 70 per­ UNICEF adviser in Beijing. 
in China's salt police,  cent of consumption in the  "If you can convince the  
25,000 officers with red  United States. America  right person, something can  
epaulettes and gold badges  started adding the mineral  happen." 
in the shape of salt crystals  to salt in the 1920s to pre­ After years of lobbying by  
who enforce one of the old­ vent goiter. That was before  health officials, the break­ 
est economic policies in the  the link with mental devel­ th rough came at a 1993  
world: the Chinese govern­ opment was known.  con fcrence in Beijing  
m en t.' s exclusive right to  As recently as the 1980s,  attended by then Vice  
produce and sell salt.  researchers were finding  Premier Zhu Rongji, said  
Although China first  entire villages just miles  Glen Maberly, a researcher  
imposed the salt monopoly  from Beijing where the  who was at the conference.  
2,600 years ago, the police  average IQ was 60, well  Maberly, now a professor 
force was created just eight  below the norm of 100. A  of international health at  
years ago to help fulfill a  third of villagers su ffercd  Emory University in  
modern public health goal.  from cretinism, a severe  Atlanta, says the  
In 1994, China launched a  form of mental retardation  researchers repeatedly told  
national campaign to fortify  that often involves stunted  Zhu that China was losing 
all salt with iodine, a min­ growth and loss of speech  tens of millions of IQ points 
eral needed for healthy  and hearing.  a year. 
brain development in fetus­ More than 80 percent of  "At one point, Zhu said,  

es. the 10 million mentally dis-We will solve this problem," 


DID The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business IOI and D I D The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
c.....__________J 
Proudly Present 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Mr. Michael Chalifoux Executive Vice President and ChiefFinancial Officer Circuit Cify Corporation 
"The Challenge ofBusiness Ethics at Circuit City" 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002 
7:00 p.m. 

Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
A.soci'ltcd Press 
BALEIGB, N.C. 

In the six months since a jail fire killed eight inmates trapped in their cells, North Carolina inspectors have over­ha ule d safety programs and increased pressure on local officials to improve their lock­ups. 
"It's the nightmare you didn't want." said Hobert G. Lewis, who heads the Jail and Detention section of the state 
Department  of  llealth  and  
Human Services.  
"The  whole  ball  game  

changed" with the May 3 fire at. the Mitchell County Jail. he said. 
The evening blaze began in storage room where a wall­mounted heater apparently ignited a leaning stack of card­board. With thick smoke pour­ing through the building, the jailer pulled u towel over her face and tried to crawl to the inmates, but each cell door had to be unlocked manually. Seven of the inmates died still behind bars on the second floor. 
Prosecutors investigated the response by authorities and, on Friday, cleared both the jailer and sheriff of any wrongdoing. 
The May 3 blaze was the first fatal jail fire since North Carolina began its jail inspec­tion program 35 years ago. Still, Lewis immediately began calling managers of the 22 jails built before 1967 the year min­imum jail standards were introduced by the state and ordered fire and building inspections. 
The inspections found hun­

dreds of problems, including faulty or absent smoke detec­tors and improper storage of wood, paper and other com­bustible materials some of the same problems found in Mitchell County after the fire, the state Labor Department said. 
In the 96-ycar-old Cherokee County jail, inspectors found a stairwell fire door tied open with a wire so jailers could hear prisoners on the second floor. In Madison County. an addition to the jail had been built without a permit and exit signs lacked emergency light­ing. 
Many of those types of prob­lems have b1rnn corrected, but Lewis wants counties to do more. 
Ideally, each jail would have a sprinkler system. though Lewis says that would cost tens of thousands of dollars that counties don't want to spend on aging jails. So he is asking every county without a sprin­kler system to install ventila­tion systems that can suck smoke out. 
Wilkes County needed just a few days and $1,700 to install one earlier this year. 
When local sheriffs haven't been able to persuade county officials to pay for safety improvements, Lewis has gone to the meetings himself to lobby for money. 
He told Montgomery County commissioners in September to replace their 1927 jail, and ordered them in the meantime to add a smoke evacuation sys­tem, alleviate crowding and put another officer on each shift. 
recalled Maberly. "And that's what it took." 
The following year, the government revived the salt monopoly, which, though officially still in effect, had fallen into neglect during the market openings of the 1980s. Salt monopolies have existed in China off and on since the 7th century B.C., when emperors first used salt revenues to finance strong central government. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, November 18, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Noire Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsS'r. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SroRTs EDITOR• Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN 1\-IANAG.ER: Meghan Goran 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us 
OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL lNFo..............631-7471 FAX................... ...................631-6927 
ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS.......... ...............................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT ................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................... . ......................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............ . ......................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WES ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llob,erver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmenr edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qw:rtions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed ID Editor in ChiefjtlJOn McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
ThC' ObM:r.cr (USPS 59'.l 240) ii rublishcd Monday chrough Fnd...y except diuing exam md v;i,;.,1,don pc:rioJs. A ~ubl><..ripiio11 m The Obscnn i1 $11JIJ for 011<! ac;i,.1.:mK ft"V, SSS foront: lffl'IC~tcr. 
The Obscr.a-i1 publuhcd,u: POSJ"MAS fER 024 So1.1rh Dining Hall Send adJress correction, m: Notre DMn<', !N 4/,556 The Observer 
r.O.Bo,Q PcrioJi..:al po.t.agc pml at Norre Q.. nu: Nurre Da:mc, IN 46556-0779 and acidiiion..t mUhng offKG. 
Thr Obst'r'lft u; amanbt-r of rhr Awxiu~ rreu. All rep,oduction righu :irc­roc~. 
I buy my friends 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Chalking does not further causes 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Teresa Fralish Chris Federico Shannon Nelligan Bryan Kronk Claire Heininger Joe Undsley 
Viewpoint Scene 

Sheila Flynn C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics Lab Tech 

Katie McKenna Lisa Vclte 
Illustrator 
Pat Quill 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame reconsider the number of University requirements necessary to graduate? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''A diplomat is a man who always remembers ~ woman's birthday but never remembers her age." 
Robert Frost poet 

I knew it would be hard. Fall semester. Junior year. All the cool kids seem to disappear. I lost a couple to Ireland. England and Austria. Lost a couple more to Spain. Like my big brother always said, I was a loser. Again. 
I took to the streets, to the dark aisles of Wal-Mart and even fell into some "hard" candy. lt was bad, but not for naught, I stumbled upon 
David Barrett

a stranger. Ile was dark. He was dirty, real dirty. He was taller than he looked, and, oh, was he handsome. I wanted to say something, to run to him, to ride 
Notre Bum 

him, to pop a wheelie on him. Or at least to take him home. 
He was a Huffy. but I was a Schwinn man; always had been. I would change. He was a beautiful burnt red, perhaps sienna, and emblazoned on his side were 8 letters: V-E-R-O-N-A. Scenes from Italy crashed into my head. I thought Shakespeare, I thought love and I thought the price was right. 
But I needed a bike lock first, and he need­ed a name. Shelby, Zack, Danny. No, no, no. I desperately lunged into the caged thing with the little bicycle-sized license plates. Almost biblically, the mass of lame mid­western names parted to reveal "Juan." Hmmm. It was short, it was sexy and it was classy. It was perfect. And it was at least a 72-size font so everyone would be able to see him, talk about him and marvel at him from distant classroom windows. 
Juan and I have been together for almost two months now, and I am happy to report that it's going awesomely. The only problem is how hard he is to keep up with. He's like a 5-year-old, but much cooler. He possesses 18 devastatingly fast speeds, none of which even begin to express the magnitude of his awesomeness. 
Kind of like a haiku. The Japanese believed haiku could transcend the limitations of language to achieve unimagin­able beauty. So Juan achieves unimaginable coolness. Thus. through an effort to oppose the linear thinking of man as machine, haiku was born. Juan had a mom, though. and she was probably hot, too. I just know it. 
As in any healthy relationship (stress healthy). Juan and I continually reinvent one another. He does for me, and I for him. He has changed the way I look at things and the stan­dards to which I hold other bikes, while I have helped get his feet wet with the new female crowd. He prefers the luscious 24 speeds so prevalent on this side of the lakes to those 10s across the water. I don't blame him. We judge the racks around campus, and strongly question tho apparent prefer­ence for those curious upside down U imitations. For that sole reason we abandoned exercising at Rolfs for the racks at the Rock. Can't say we regret it. 
I guess things turned out alright for me. after all. I got a real nifty bike for a great price. I got a best friend, my haiku. I got mine, and you can get yours. 
Keep your head up. Don't get down because your room­mate since freshman year is an ocean away, and 
forget what your girlfriend is getting on in Ireland. It's not too late. You can still salvage your friendless semester. Go get a bike, and you might just get more than you bargained for. I know I did. 
And please, get it a name. I know at least a handful of oth­ers did. I've seen you, 
Michaela, and you, Thomas, and you. Pablo, and don't think I forgot about you. 

Elizabeth. It is going so well with Juan that I have even begun to look at baskets. It's a surprise, but I have this cute little wooden one picked out. How is that for inspira­tion? I know at least 90 percent of the female population is fixing to settle down 
soon, so why don't you girls go shopping for bikes this time? The dudes should go. too. Take a look around, and don't be shy-you might just enjoy the ride. 
David Barrett is a junior economics and philosophy major. His column appears every other Monday. Contact him at dbarrett@n d. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I think it's funny that Ed Cohen, a member of the ND Peace Coalition, acknowledges that the pro-peace defacing of pro-war chalking doesn't help their cause. It's funny because he seems to be under the impression that the regular, not-vandalizing-the-chalk­ing-of-others type of chalking actually does help their cause. Wake up, Peaceco: No chalking helps any cause. 
I challenge any of you to provide one example of a case when someone has had an opinion swayed by a phrase etched on the sidewalk. In fact, I chal­lenge you to find one instance where a person has even been moved to think about an issue because of chalk. 
You might point to the fact that since you began your bold acts of free spee_ch, discussion of the sidewalk chalk has notably increased on this campus. This is true, but a closer look will reveal the nature of the debate. More people attack or defend the chalking itself than the messages con­tained in the chalk phrases. 
Honestly, what are football-weekend visitors supposed to do? See a peace sign scribbled on the ground and con­vert? Or maybe you expect that some­one will walk past the highly intelligent phrase, "Drop Bush, Not Bombs," and say to himself, "My God. I have been living a lie for years. After seeing this. though, it all makes sense!" 
Let me tell you, from a non-member perspective, the real effect of chalking. As far as I can see, chalking only rein­forces the stereotype that peace activists are self-righteous and blind to the realities of the world. You actually do a disservice to your cause by chalk­ing. 
I will admit, there is plenty of obnox­iousness on the other side of the spec­trum. War hawks. from all that I have seen, are more than willing to attack people and shrug aside arguments. This doesn't help, either. I continue to hope for a reasoned debate on the issue, a debate that incorporates both the respect for human life that makes killing abhorrent while recognizing the imperatives of protecting life from assault. I would offer a starting point for the debate myself but for my own uncertainty as to where I stand. 
Though people might defend their beliefs with vacant catch phrases. I doubt very much that hurling such phrases back and forth across the ideo­logical spectrum can ever convince anyone of anything. 
So, in closing, I have two messages for the Notre Dame public: "Intelligence, not obnoxiousness," and "Reasoned debate, not catch-phrases." With any luck. people will see these two snippets and re-examine their lives. 
Mike Romano junior Dillon Hall Nov. 15 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 18, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Treatment of same-sex unions shows legal flaws 
This teller is in response to James Mangrum's Nov. 15 letter about same-sex marriage. I believe he is right in his con­clusion that lhe government ought not value one relationship over another. But the example ol' homosexual marriage is only one symptom of how marriage law is llawed. 
The essential problem is not that the govtirnment d0<is not recognize a particu­lar type ofrdationship, but that the gov­ernment ascribf's any legal status at all on the personally chosen relationship of any two persons whatsoever. 
Marriage laws generally violate the oqual protection clause of the U.S. Constitution, in particular in that people are treated dilTercntly under the law based on marital status (reference the legal right,; and responsibilities that you mentioned come along with marriage). 
For example, a married couple with two incomes pays a higher percentage of taxes if they file together. because their combined income puts them into a higher tax bracket than they would otherwise be if they were to file separately. Would any­one dream of forcing my girlfriend and I to file jointly with the same result? Of course not. 
Also, a man whose wife conceives another man's child while married to him can be legally bound to care for that child even if it is proven not to be his. Could this happen to a single man who "passed" his DNA test? Of course not. This example is a remnant of English common law that has been rendered utterly obsolete by sci­entific advancement. 
At the other end, single people often pay higher insurance rates than other­wise identical married people. If such a statistical adjustment were made for race or religion, there would be rightful out­rage, although there might indeed be sta­tistical proof that, for example, white men have a higher suicide rate than black men or that they cause more car acci­dents, apparently justifying higher life and auto insurance premiums. But even with rock-solid statistical evidence, would any insurance company dream of imple­menting such adjustments? Of course not. 
Finally, when you have a health insur­ance plan from your employer, your fami­ly is often covered. This typically means your spouse and children are covered. What about a single person with an aging parent or sick sibling? These are typically not covered. But why should this employ­ee pay the same1premium and receive less coverage? It amounts to unequal benefits for equal work. all because of arbitrary legal recognition of one person­al relationship over another. 
These are only a few examples. So the debate goes far beyond homosexual unions, although that situation certainly provides an excellent example of the dubious nature of marriage law. Marriage is in fact an inherently religious institution, and the societal good that comes from marriage is because of the practice of monogamy that accompanies it., not from the certificate of marriage itself. That the one can (and often docs) exist without the other shows that mar­riage has no inherent societal benefit. Our long history of governments led by well-intentioned, deeply religious men has left us an unfortunate legacy of a legal relationship between the sacrament of marriage and the judiciary. 
Only when governments cease to recog­nize any human relationship over anoth­er, and to grant or deny rights according­ly, aside from the necessary protections of helpless children from neglectful or abusive parents, will this incestuous rela­tionship of church and state finally be granted a long-needed annulment. 
Eliot M. Held 
class of 1997 Nov. 15 

Saddam, not sanctions, is responsible for Iraqi suffering 
Ills caused by sanctions don't make war wrong 
Peter Quaranlo's Nov. 14 letter to the editor is to be appreciated for its concern for the Iraqi people and for peace in general. Moreover, debates about the costs, benefits, effectiveness and morality of U.S. for­eign policy, and here especially the sanctions on Iraq, are to be wel­comed. However, the letter contains a number of errors. 
First, Quaranto states that the sanctions killed Iraqis. Indeed they did. But Saddam Ilusscin chose sanctions and his Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) programs over no sanctions and no WMD pro­grams. The oil for food program was olTered in 1991, and Iraq refused it until 1996. Saddam is primarily responsible for killing his own peo­ple. The closest analogy for the sanctions I can come up with is this: we gave Saddam the gun (the sanctions) and he pulled the trigger. Keep in mind he also started two wars that killed 1.3 million combatants and an unknown number of civilians. In the late 1980s, Saddam Hussein killed up to 180,000 Kurds, razed 4,000 villages and killed 3,000-5,000 Kurds in the village of Halajba using chemical weapons. Some 60-200 other Kurdish villages were attacked with chemical weapons. 
Second, claims that Iraq has WMD are not "unsubstantiated." For example, thanks to defector's information, Iraq itself admitted to pro­duction of 19,000 liters of botulin um toxin, 8,500 liters of anthrax and 2,200 liters of aflatoxin and weaponization involving the fitting of 157 or 166 aerial bombs and 25 scud missile warheads with biological war­fare agents. UNSCOM destroyed much of these weapons, but suspected production of two to four times these massive amounts. 
Third, Quaranto states that more bombs were dropped on Iraq in 1991 than in all of WWII. In fact, we dropped between 66,000 and 89,000 tons of aerial ordinance in the Gulf War, and this compares to over 2.1 million tons in WWII (and over 6 million in Vietnam; they last­ed 1.5. 45 and 140 months, respectively}. 
Fourth, Quaranto makes the absurd claim that the sanctions are a deliberate act of genocide by the U.S. on the Iraqi people. Genocide is the "the systematic and planned extermination of an entire national. racial. political or ethnic group." Saddam has killed more of his people than the sanctions he chose, and the sanctions have killed at most 2.5 percent of the population. Quaranto should apologize to the Armenians, Hwandans and Jews, and stop devaluing the meaning of the word geno­cide. 
Letters such as this hurt the cause of the peace groups. In addition to the errors above and the general tone of the letter, there is a funda­mental flaw in the logic of the letter: that the ills caused by the sanc­tions make a war against Iraq wrong. I fail to see the connection. Same for bomb tonnage. War is horrible, but unless one is pacifist therein does not a policy prescription make. 
A more fruitful line ofinquiry might examine the threat posed the Iraqi regime, how it compares to other threats, assess the relative costs ancJ benefits or addressing those threats, and the morality and wisdom of conducting what is at best a preventive and not pre-emptive war. When I do this, I come out about 60-40 or maybe 70-30 against the war. 
Dan Lindley 
assistant professor of political science Nov. 14 

Bush pushes Saddam to play by the rules 
This letter is in response to Peter Quaranto's Nov. 14 let­ter concerning the UN sanc­tions leveled against Iraq after the Gulf War. In his let­ter, he cites the many prob­lems that the Iraqi people have had to suffer through since the sanctions were introduced to Iraq over 10 years ago. Quaranto wants us to believe that the United States is currently participat­ing in some sort of "genocide attempt upon the Iraqi peo­ple." 
All of the hardships described in the letter are true and it is true that the hardships are largely due to the lack of resources avail­able to the Iraqi people after the sanctions. But it is not the fault of the UN or the United States that the people of Iraq are not getting the resources they need to survive. 
It is the fault of Saddam Hussein that his people are dying in record numbers. The sanctions leveled against Iraq were meant to restrict Saddam's ability to rebuild his army and restrict his abil­ity to develop and produce weapons of mass destruction by restricting the amount of resources available to Iraq. 
The sanctions also specify what Saddam is allowed to do with the resources allowed to reach Iraq. The problem is that when faced with restrict­ed resources, Saddam chose to use his limited resources to rebuild his army instead of feed his own people and no one in the previous adminis­tration seemed to care to hold him to his side of the bargain. 
Standing armies require, if nothing else, a lot of money. Instead of using state funds to buy food to feed starving chil­dren, or to buy medical sup­plies to help the dying or to spend money upgrading sewage systems to help decontaminate the water sup­ply, Saddam has chosen to spend that money protecting himself with rebuilt republi­can guard units. That is the reason the Iraqi people arc dying, not because of unfair or unrealistic UN sanctions. 
The sanctions are struc­tured so that Iraq can trade to make enough money and acquire enough resources to function as a peaceful state. Since Saddam does not have the resources to both build an army and provide for his peo­ple, he chose the former. And in withholding the resources of his country from his peo­ple, he gives those people, through state propaganda, the exact same arguments that Quaranto tries to give us. Saddam tells his people that the UN and the U.S. are responsible for their suffer­ing. He tells them that the sanctions are to blame for their lack of food and ade­quate health care, but that is just not true. 
Now, as cited by Quaranto, the people of Iraq are con­fused as to why we need war after they have suffered, all the while the United States has tried to tell them that the sanctions were a better alter­native to war. If the previous administration had been more concerned about hold­ing Saddam to the terms of the sanctions, all of the suf­fering innocents in Iraq would be in much better con­dition and there would be no doubt in their mind that the sanctions are a good alterna­tive to open war, and there would be no need for a possi­ble upcoming war. 
Quaranto also seems to be opposed to the fact that we might go to war over "unsub­stantiated claims that Saddam possesses weapons of mass destruction." If Saddam had been forced to follow the terms to which he agreed to at the end of the Gulf War, then the inspectors would know for certain whether Saddam has weapons of mass destruction, and there would be no "unsubstantiated claims." The Bush administration is simply trying to hold Saddam accountable to his end of the sanctions and accountable to his people. If Hussein is unre­sponsive to these requests, then President Bush is pre­pared to go back to war with Iraq and hold Saddam accountable for his multiple violations, both with regards to the sanctions and in regards to human rights. 
Supporting Bush in trying to hold Saddam accountable for promises he made to the world back in 1991 is not being a "militaristic hawk" or a "war-monger;" it is simply learning from the past. Learn from the past, mostly notably World War II, that appease­ment of dictators never brings about change for the good. It only allows those dic­tators to continue to play the world for fools until they arc ready to bring their games upon the rest of' the world on their terms. 
President Bush is just trying to make Saddam play accord­ing to rules that Hussein and the UN agreed to over a decade ago before it is too late and we are again forced to respond to an Iraqi threat as we did in the Gulf War. 
Matthew Osburn 
senior 
O'Neill Hall 
Nov. 14 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Monday, November 18, 2002 
Righteous
records 
. With 19 albums to her name, DiFranco's corporate-free discography is nothing short of impressive 
More Joy, Less Shame 
1996 
Dilate 
1996 
Not a Pretty Girl 
1995 


Ani Difranco 
1989 

DiFranco lig 
Indie rocks reigning 'poster girl with n 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

Despite having to sit on a chair for the entire the show due to a broken foot, indie rocker Ani Di.Franco brought the audience to their feet multiple times during her con• cert at the Chicago Theatre Saturday evening. 
Hamell on Trial opened the show with his brand of feisty political punk acoustic rock. Ed Hamell's subtly unnerving, Lex Luthor­esqe appearance, overtly irritating person­ality and unapologetic high-powered rock guitar made his show a conflicting experi­ence to watch. 
On one hand, Hamell is a phenomenal guitarist who really engages the audience with his hard-hitting punk sound. On the other hand, he's a preachy, pompous and whiny prick. Hamel! stopped between every song and attempted to tell jokes to the audience which were neither original nor funny and slightly offensive. 
Hamell's lyrics mostly kvetched about conservative national politics. While he's playing, he's talented and witty, but Carrot Top would be more entertaining talking in between songs. Luckily, Hamell stuck to the 30-minute rule and rolled his cue ball­like head off stage before he embarrassed himself too much. 
The audience greeted DiFranco with a huge roar and she greeted the audience with a sheepish smile and an apology for the broken foot. DiFranco pushed right into her usual high-energy performance despite being chair-bound. She had a stagehand bring her a different guitar between each song for the solo set. The audience sat mesmerized for the entire hour and a half show. 
DiFranco, a native of Buffalo, N.Y., emerged on the American music scene in 1989 when she self-produced her first album on her own label, Righteous Babe Records, when she was 19. 

Despite a broken foot that kept her chair-ho DIFranco put on a first-class performance Saturd 
Difranco began performing covers of 
Beatles tunes in local bars when she was 
nine and began writing and performing 
her own music when she was 15. 
Following her parents' divorce, DiFranco 
moved out of her mother's apartment and 
started performing regularly at bars and 
coffeehouses. By the time she moved to 
New York City at age 18, she had already 
written over 100 pieces of original materi­al. Though DiFranco was solicited by a number of record companies, both major studios and inde­pendent labels alike, she turned them down and started Righteous Babe in an effort to keep artistic control over her work. She emptied her bank account and bor­rowed money from friends to produce her self-titled acoustic album. The record gained an instant grass­roots following, espe• cially on college cam­puses, and DiFranco moved from playing bars and coffeeshups to larger theaters and folk festivals. Since her second album, DiFranco has released at least one album each year total­ing 19 in all. Hut the foundations or DiFranco's unique style can be heard on her ini­tial release. 
THE 
OBSERVER 

Monday, November 18, 2002 page 13 
sup Chicago 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 
,throughout the performance, lndle star Anl ,cnlng at the Chicago Theatre. 
DiFranco's style is hard to define; it resides somewhere in that zone between punk rock and folk rock -that very nebu­1o us zone between punk rock and folk rock. Of course, that's sort of the point: DiFranco's music is about defying stereo­types and pigeonholing definitions. 
Whatever label is put on her music, DiFranco's playing itself is almost inde­scribable. In her hands a guitar becomes a complete orchestra, she plays it more like a per­cussive ensemble than a solo six-string. And in between rapid-fire gui­tar riffs and pounding baselines, DiFranco bel­lows out her hypnotic lyrics that fall some­where between poems and prayers. 
DiFranco has never been shy about her polit­ical messages: pacifism, defense of women's rights, protecting the environment and pre­serving artistic integrity from corporate control, 1tmong others. In Saturday's concert she performed one of her newer pieces, "Sorpentine," that exemplifies much of her philosophy: "Yes, the goons have gone global / and the CEOs arc shred­di11g files / and the Dernocrans / and the Hcpublicrats / are flash­ing their toothy smiles / and Uncle Tom is posing for a photo op I with the Oval Office clan / and Uncle Sam is rigging cockfights/ in the promised land." 
But while DiFranco certainly has a poW.i­cal message, it's not the most important part of her performance. Looking around the Chicago Theatre, DiFranco attracts an incredibly diverse audience, from experi­menting high school lesbians wearing fish­net stockings and multi-colored dreadlocks down their backs to stuffy 60-year-old Chicago politicos in fur coats and Armani jackets. 
For every political message DiFranco pushes on her audience, she reveals some­thing equally intimate about herself. In her song "Educated Guess" she talked about her struggles with depression and anxiety, a theme that has been present in her music from the start: "Looks like my crazy family/ is down one crazy daughter 'cause I I'm shipwrecked in a desert that / once was underwater / just looking for a swift turn of phrase / some colors to fly / as I float by/ in the parade." 
After she finished her set, DiFranco returned to the stage for an encore. Instead of singing. DiFranco performed her poem she wrote about Sept. 11, "Self Evident." Amid scattered and hisses, boos and irksome shouts of "Socialist," DiFranco stood up trepidly and put on a breathtaking performance. When she fin­ished, the crowd exploded with cheers. 
Whether audience members liked what DiFranco had to say or not, there's no doubt that everyone has respect for the way she said it. DiFranco doesn't just appeal to honesty in the music business, she actually lives it. The fiercely independ­ent DiFranco is a breath of unpolluted air in a musical world more concerned with hawking Pepsi than saying anything mean­ingful and meaningful is what DiFranco does best. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 



rovalll"l) 
Revelling/Reckoning 
2001 


.. 

.,, 
,---------------------­
Monday, November 18, 2002
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

McNabb breaks ankle in Eagles' win over Cards 
The Eagles (7-3) played noth­Maddox was hurt. man team, relying on Vick to Texans.
. Steelers' QB 

ing like the team that was dis­"You know sometimes we are carry them all the way to the This time, his boldness back­Maddox rushed to mantled by Indianapolis 35• 13 fans, too. You look at a guy who Super Bowl. fired. hospital with at Veterans Stadium last week. has busted his tail for 10 years "He was disrespecting a lot of "I told him there's nothing 
They got TDs on all three sec­to get into this position for him people on our team," defensive wrong with that, but some com­
unknown injury 

ond-quarter possessions, scored to get hurt, it is tough," Flowers end Patrick Kerney said. "Mike men ts you've got to keep to the last 24 points and racked up said. is a great quarterback and he's yourself," said Browns line­Associated Press 463 yards. Maddox's injury overshad­doing a lot of things. But a lot of backer Earl Holmes, who Staley had 136 yards rushing owed the best performance by people are contributing." sought him out on the field. and added 82 more yards the Titans in nearly two sea­The Falcons haven't lost since "You can't guarantee a victory.
PI Ilu\DELPHIA receiving on three catches. sons. an Oct. 6 defeat against Tampa It came back to smack him inPlaying with a broken right "They had a quarterback that Steve Mc.Nair threw two Bay dropped them to 1-3. Since the face."

ankle that could sideline him was gimpy, but their running touchdown passes to Kevin then, the only blemish is last The Browns (5-5) stayed inthe rest of lhe regular season, 

game was working so well," Dyson and Eddie George ran for week's ·34-34 tic against playoff contention by stoppingDonovan McNabb had the best Cardinals coach Dave McGinnis two more as the Titans earned Pittsburgh. Even that outconrn Dillon twice from point-blackpassing game of his career. 
said. their fifth straight victory. felt like a win, because Atlanta range.
McNabb, injured on the third McNabb went down after he "I told our club five weeks ago rallied from a 17-point deficit in Brandon Bennett returned aplay of the game, tied a career was sacked by Adrian Wilson when we were 1-4 we're going the fourth quarter. kickoff to the 7-yard line with " high with four touchdown pass­and LeVar Woods on a third­to be 6-4 if we keep playing and Vick put on another dazzling the Browns leading 27-20 and

es, leading the Philadelphia 

and-3. belicwing in ourselves, and here performance before a raucous the sharply divided crowd ofEagles to a 38-14 victory over He clutched his right leg and we are," Titans coach Jeff Georgia Dome c,rowd of 70,382 64,060 sensing a chance for the
the Arizona Cardinals on 

stayed on the turf after losing fisher said. -lhe second-largest turnout in upset.
Sunday. 

the ball, but returned on Tennessee snapped a five­Falcons history. Dillon ran the ball twice to getBut his status for the final six Philadelphia's next series. game unbeaten streak for the The most spectacular play to the 1, then was tripped up bygames is in doubt. 
"I tried not to think about it," Steelers (5-4-1) by making them came in the third quarter. Holmes as he went off rightEagles coach Andy Reid said l\IcNabb said. "When the game look like the team that started On third-and-goal from the tackle. On fourth-and-goal from
this type of injury typically 

was going on, I just focused on the season 1-3. New Orleans 7, Vick took a a foot away, the Bengals sent
keeps players out six-to-eight 

what I needed to do to get the "Nobody thought we could shotgun snap, tucked the ball Dillon to the right once againweeks. 
win." hang on with big, old, bad under his right arm and took off behind tackle Willie Anderson. 
McNabb, who has never had a Pittsburgh, but \ve expected to for the right corner. With sever­Darren Hambrick hit Dillonserious injury, insists he'll try to Titans 31, Steelers 23 

win and this is gratifying," al Saints closing in, he didn't first, and Holmes shoved him
play against San Francisco next The Pittsburgh Steelers went Titans cornerback Samari Rolle appear to have room to reach back for no gain with 5:51 left.
Monday night. home looking for answers, said. the end zone. It was the same spot on the field
"In my mind, I'll be out relieved that quarterback 
Not so fast. Vick switched the where Dillon tripped over histhere," said McNabb, a two-time Tommy Maddox could move his Falcons 24, Saints 17 ball to his left hand, planted his blocker and came up inchesPro Bowl quarterback. arms and legs Sunday after Joe Horn swallowed his pride right foot at the 2 -just inches short in a 30-24 loss toHowever, the Eagles medical being taken off the field in an and admitted he was wrong. 
from the boundary -and Tennessee on Oct. 27.
staff was less optimistic. ambulance. Yes, the Atlanta Falcons have a launched his body toward the "On second down, we got it in "It's not something he can In a 31-23 loss to Tennessee, pretty good team, a worthy rival goal line. Somehow, he man­there close," coach Dick LeBeau play with right now," said train­Maddox was tripped up by safe­to his New Orleans Saints. 
aged to stick the ball across said. "We ran our best back
er Rick Burkholder. "We'll know ty Lance Schulters and tossed "It's a rivalry now," Horn said before a defender sent him behind our best blocker, and wemore in the next 24-48 hours." the ball to Antwaan Randle El after firing up the Falcons by 
sprawling out of bounds. The didn't make it."
Koy Detmer probably would as he fell for-. arguing to amazing play gave Atlanta a 14-A group of Browns fansstart in McNabb's place. w a r d the contrary. 
0 lead. unfurled a banner behind the
Unable to scramble because of Linebacker "J told our club five Michael 
"We need to start calling him Cleveland bench that read, "I
his injury -diagnosed as a Keith Bulluck weeks ago when we were Vick flew 
Houdini," said Trevor Gaylor, Love Mike Brown." Their cele­
sprain during the game -hit Maddox's through the
1-4 we're going to be 6-4 who hauled in a 74-yard touch­bration was a little premature.
McNabb stayed in the pocket shoulder with air like
ifwe keep playing and down pass from Vick. "He can As with practically all Browns
and threw TD passes of 2 yards his forearm, Superman 
find a way to get out of any situ­games, this one came down to a
to James Thrash, 3 yards to and Maddox believing in ourselves.,, on a touch­
ation. He's selling himself out to final play. 
Dorsey Levens, 27 to Todd rolled onto his down run, get us the win. He's not worried The Bengals got the ball atPinkston and 9 to Duce Staley in head and did while the Jeff Fisher about getting hurt." their 11 with 1:41 to go and nothe first half. not move. Falcons timeouts, and Dillon cost themThough he limped noticeably Maddox had Titans head coach slowed down Browns 27, Bengals 20 
by turning upfield instead of
the entire game, McNabb didn't no sensations, the New Chad Johnson dropped his getting out of bounds after amiss a play until resting with but was con-Orleans head and covered his face with reception. Peter Warrick was4:49 left. scious and talking as he was offense for a 24-1 7 victory a black-gloved hand as the jubi­tackled at the Browns 24 after aHe finished 20-of-25 for 255 strapped to a backboard. Sunday -their second victory lant Cleveland Browns walked 
catch, and the clock ran out
yards and one interception, but Trainers and doctors worked on over the Saints in four weeks. his way. 
before the Bengals could line up had no rushing attempts for the him for at least 15 minutes, "They whipped us twice," Now, they were going to do for a throw into the end zone.
first time in 53 career starts, then Maddox was lifted onto a Horn said. "They beat us. We the talking. Guaranteed. 
Quincy Morgan was the firstincluding playoffs. stretcher, loaded into an ambu­are 0-and-2 against the Falcons. Tim Couch matched his 
Browns player to reach
Strangely, the Cardinals lance on the field and taken to I'm a man. I can admit that." career high with three touch­
Johnson, who got a consoling
rarely blitzed McNabb even Baptist Hospital's trauma unit. Atlanta (6-3-1) extended its down passes and the Browns'
-. hug. Johnson was crestfallen
though he was hobbled. Steelers spokesman Ron Wahl unbeaten streak to six and crept defense stopped Corey Dillon but not the least bit contrite in"He wasn't coming out," Reid said they would not discuss the within a half-game of New twice from the 1-yard line in the the aftermath of his prediction. 
said. "I tried. I knew he was nature of Maddox's injury until Orleans (7-3) in the NFC South. closing minutes, preserving a 
''I'll do it again," Johnson
hurt. We didn't know this, Monday. Wahl said Maddox was The Falcons were fired up by 27-20 victory over the though. He showed a lot of awake and alert, had talked Horn, who claimed the Falcons Cincinnati Bengals. said. 'Tm not going to say guts." with his family and was able to were lucky to win the first Johnson provided a grudge when, but I'll do it again. I'm 
Jake Plummer threw two TD move all of his extremities. meeting 37-35 on a field goal as Sunday by guaranteeing a win, not going to say we had it today, passes for Arizona (4-6), which Safety Lee Flowers said it was time ran out. He also said the just as he did before the but we competed. We had every has lost four straight. tough to keep playing after Falcons were basically a one-Bengals (1-9) beat the Houston chance to win." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Ha!L Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must he prepaid" 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Charming home in beautiful safe  WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME  All size homes available tor 2003­ 3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq. ft  NEED 2 TIX FOR RUTGERS.  
.:.  NOTICES  neighborhood. 1 mile from ND" 3­bdrm, 1 1/2 bath,lr, dr, family room,  YEARBOOKS CALL 233-1296  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com  house. Close to ND. All appli­ances,big yard,garage,C/A.  PLEASE CALL 674-6593"  
...ACT NOWI Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas.  eat in kitchen, finished basement Beautiful hardwoods; new carpet throughout. Built in gas grill in large private backyard" All new appli- TAX PREPARERS needed by local tax firm • full & part time for the upcoming tax season Experience a plus" Call Mrs" Johnson 234-4564.  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896.  Beautiful. Musi see 243-9901"  $1000/mo"  PERSONAL  
Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, EARN$$$" Group Discounts for 6+. 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578 dept 2626)/www.springbreakdis­ ances. References (equired. 950/mo. 288-5118  TAX PREPARERS needed by local tax firm • full & part time for the upcoming tax season" Experience a plus" Call Mrs" Johnson 234-4564.  SUBLEASE AVAILABLE-fully fur­nished 2 bdrm apt avail. spring semester or from Jan-Aug 03, w/d incl, DSL, heated parking garage, 4  TICKETS ND. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone" If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819" For  
counts"com  WANTED  
 miles from ND & located on bus  273-3911.  more information, see our bi-weekly  
••At Last Spring Break" Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free  #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico,  FOR SALE  route, $950/mo (util. incl.) call 234­4536  WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570  ad in THE OBSERVER SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
- Trips,LowestPrices" sunsplash­tours.com 18004267710 HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, JOR- Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted' Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals' 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE" ONE MILE TO ND" NON-RENTAL.NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED"  nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses. 288-9673" Avail now.  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
DAN LOVE, MOM & DAD  $99,500. Williamson"1@nd.edu  3-bdnn,2 full bath 1,594 sq ft  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  
Buy/Sell N D Football Tickets.Student discount avail­able.289-8048  Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day No experi­ence necessary" Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187.  FOR RENT  house" Close to ND" All appli­ances,big yard,garage,C/A Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo. 243-9901.  SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  Wanna hear a joke? OK"" so these three guys walked into a bar""" and the fourth one ducked!  

Monday, November 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

Relationships & Sexuality 

Theo. 340101. 1credit. S/U Instructor: Mark Poorman, C.S.C. 
Weekend Retreat: January 17, 3:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. January 18, 9:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Location: Cedar House 
Prayer 

Theo. 340A/01. 1credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Sundays February 2, 9, 16, 23 &March 2 Time: 6:00-8"30 p.m. Location: Coleman-Morse Rm. 330 
Mary 
Theo. 340N/01. 1credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Brian Daley, S.J. 
Tuesdays/Thursdays March 25, 27, April 1, 3, 8, 10 Time: 6:00-8:05 p.m. 
Location: Dorm Lounge (TBD) 



FAITH 

One-Credit Courses 
Spring 2003 

offered by the Department of Theology 
in coopcratio11 with the Office of Campus Ministry 
Creation 
Theo. 340C/01. 1credit. SIU Instructor: John Cavadini 
Monday Nights March 17, 24, 31 April 7, 14, 21, Time.· 6:00-8:05 p.m. Location: Keough lounge (to be confirmed) 


For farther infonnation, contact Dorothy Anderson in tlie Theology Department, 631-7811. Syllabi for tlte courses c1111 be obtained at the Theology Dept., I30 Malloy Hall. 

Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 

INFORMATION SESSION 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002 
5:00 PM 
245 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fail semester for Pre­Professional Students; pre-medical internships available Engineering courses available in Monterrey 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DEC. 1, 2002 FOR F'2003, AY 2003-2004 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
FENCING 
Two fencers claim individual titles 
Special to The Observer 
University Park, Pa. 
The Notre Dame mens and 
womens fencing team finished 
the Max Garret Penn State 
Open (following Sunday's 
women competition) with two 
individual champions in the 
two-day event. Champions 
included senior All-America 
men's epee captain Jan 
Viviani (Haworth, N.J.), and 
sophomore women's foilist 
NCAA champion Alicja 
Kryczalo (Gnansk, Poland). 
Viviani repeated his 2001 performance, at the event by finishing atop a strong epee field. Other competitors included Penn Sate All­Americans Adam Wiercioch and Daniel Landgren and 2002 NCAA runner-up Soren Thompson of Princeton. Viviani defeated Thompson 15-9 to claim his champi­onship. Teammate Michal Sobieraj, a sophomore All­American from Krakow, Poland, finished ninth in the pool of 47 epeeists. 
Kryczalo also repeated as the champion of the Penn State Open, finishing ahead of Wayne State All-American Inga Wallrabenstein in a pool of 44. Irish sophomore Andrea Ament (Gates Mill, Ohio) fin­ished eighth, followed by senior captain Liza Boutsikaris (Sparta, N.J.) in ninth. 
All-America senior captain Ozren Debic (Zagreb, Croatia) led the Irish in the men's foil pool of 55 with a third-place finish. after winning the championship at last year's Penn State Open. He lost to Penn's Yale Cohen in a 15-14 bout, before defeating Ian Schlaepfer of Penn State for the bronze medal. Close behind Debic was sophomore All-American Derek Snyder (Chatsworth, Calif.). who placed fifth. Senior foilist and 2001 All-American Forest Walton (Londonderry, N.H.) returned to action with a 10th-place finish. 
.Junior Kerry Walton (Londonderry. N.11.) -the 2002 NCAA epce champ ­competed in her l'irst Penn State Open, placing third in a 43-woman epee field. Penn State topped the field with All-American Jessica Burke placing first, followed by teammate Katarzyna Trzopek. Notre Dame All-America classmates, captain Anna Carnick (Mishawaka, Ind.) and Meagan Call (Eugene. Ore.), finished eighth and 15th, respectively. 
Junior women·s sabre cap­tain Destanie Milo (Knox, Ind.) topped her freshman year performance (fifth), with a fourth-place finish while her classmate Maggie Jordan (Maplewood, N.J .) placed 19th in the 38 fencer women's sabre pool. 
The Irish men's sabre squad was led by senior Matt Fabricant (Elizabeth, N.J.), who placed eighth in a 44­man pool that was dominated by Penn State (All-American Alex Weber repeated as champ, followed by Marten Zanugis in second, Wyatt Kasserman in fifth and Amir Rahimi in ninth). Freshman Nicolas Diacou (New York, N.Y.) continued his Irish debut with an eventual 16th­p lace finish, after fencing extremely well against Weber, who defeated Diacou 15-10. 
The Irish have concluded the 2002 fall individual com­petitions, as they await the onset of team competitions ­beginning with the Ohio Dual meet, in Columbus, Ohio, on Jan. 25th. 

GREAr WALL 
•• Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row : · •• 1 Szechuan • Hunan • Cantonese• Amencan · , Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
~ ) 

. Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday .' 11 arn. to 3 p rn. , $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
(574) 272-7376 -222 Dlicleway south 
(U.S. 31 In ROHiand) South Bend, IN 
-
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 18, 2002 
NBA 

SuperSonics continue solid start w-ith vVin over Clippers 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Gary Payton is keeping Seattle's solid start in perspec­tive. 
Payton had 22 points and 10 assists and the Pacific Division­leading Supersonics rallied in the fourth quarter to beat the Los Angeles Clippers 84-78 Sunday for their fourth consecu­tive victory. 
The Sonics are off to their best start since 1999-00 when they opened 9-2. Three of their wins came against such struggling teams as Golden State, Utah and Miami. 
"It's still early. We haven't played a lot of good teams, but we're starting off good," Payton said. "This is the most together team we've had here, where everybody isn't worried about who's getting the shot. We've got confidence that everybody's going to make the shot." 
The Sonics certainly did in the fourth quarter, going 10-of-17 from the floor. The Clippers were a woeful 4-of-24. 
"When the shots were sup­posed to count, we made them count. That's why we kept taking the shots, because we knew something was going to go down pretty soon," Payton said. "Nobody got down on each other. We just kept playing hard, picked up the defense, grabbed the rebounds. and then things started to fall our way." 
Payton and Desmond Mason sparked the Sonics, combining to score all but 10 of the team's 30 points in the final 12 minutes. Mason had 10 of his 18 in the quarter when Seattle trailed by 12. 
Elton Brand had 19 points and 16 rebounds for the Clippers, who lost their third in a row. Eric Piatkowski added 17 points, and Michael Olowokandi had 13 rebounds. 
"We've just got to relax and play, especially down the stretch," Los Angeles coach Alvin Gentry said. "We've got to believe we're a good enough team to win games like this." 
After leading by 15 points in the third quarter, the Clippers scored just two points in the first 6 minutes of the fourth. Payton and Mason combined for 11 points and then Vladimir Radmanovic hit a 3-pointer to give Seattle the lead for good with 5:11 remaining. 
"Not much you can do when the ball doesn't go in," Brand said. "We just let them come back. They're not 8-2 for no rea­son." 

Philadelphia 100, Washington 84 
After the first 10 games of the season, the Philadelphia 76ers are quite pleased with the trade that brought Keith Van Horn from New Jersey. 
Van Horn scored 23 points and converted a three-point play with 5:41 left to begin a game clinching 10-0 run as the 76ers defeated Washington 100-84 Sunday night. 
Improving to 6-0 at home. the Sixers got 28 points from Allen Iverson and 11 points and 12 assists from Eric Snow to move into a tie with New Jersey for first place in the Atlantic 
Division. 
"I never would have guessed that it would work out as well as it has," said Van Horn, who was 5-for-5 in the first quarter and finished 9-of-13 from the field with seven rebounds. 
Van Horn and Todd back, Jordan was called for trav­eling and Philadelphia scored six straight points. 
Utah 82, Toronto 78 
Karl Malone didn't stop shoot­ing despite missing 12 or his first 14 shots. 
Malone scored 11 of his 15 points in the fourth quarter as the Utah Jazz beat the Toronto Raptors 82-78 Sunday. 
Matt Harpring had a team­high 23 points, and John Stockton added 15 for the Jazz. who have won just four of 11 games. 
"I've played enough games to know not to get caught up in how many shots you missed," Malone said. "I feel at any time it can get going for you." 
After combining for just 12 points in the first three quarters, Malone and Stockton combined for 18 in the fourth. 
"To gut out a win like this means a lot because we need wins really bad right now." Malone said. 
Malone grabbed an offensive rebound and hit a short jumper to give Utah a four-point lead with 1 :35 remaining. 
He then made one of two free throws, giving Utah an 81-76 lead with 1:24 left. 
After Toronto's Morris 
Peterson made a layup. Stockton hit one of two free throws with 44 seconds left to give Utah an 82-78 lead. 
Toronto's Voshon Lenard missed a 3-pointer with 4 sec­onds left to seal the win. 
"When it came down to the fourth quarter we went to John and Karl because they've been there so long, and they came through for us," Harpring said. 
The Jazz finished their road trip 2-3. 
Alvin Williams scored 20 points, and Antonio Davis had 18 points and eight rebounds for the Raptors, who played without Vince Carter. 
r------•MacCulloch were acquired over 
I I
the summer in the trade that 
I $15 I
sent Dikembe Mutombo to the 
I I
Nets, and the 76ers have become 1 Mens Cut I a better offensive team because 
I.. ______ ..I
ofit. 
Philadelphia is seventh in the league in scoring and reached 100 points Sunday night for the fifth time this season. 
Another result of the trade has been a switch in defensive phi­losophy that helped produce 23 Washington turnovers. 


·------· ·------·

·------· r------• 
I I $59 I 
I I I
I $26 

I I I Color, Cut & I I Cut & Style I I Style I I ..I One Process I
.. ______ I
·------w1 
I  I  
I I  $68  I I  
I  Perm, Cut & Style  I  
I  I 

·------· 

Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-. 
Mus be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
I I 
I $69 I 
I I
Highlights,
I I
Cut & Style
I._ ______ ..I 
. 

"Having Dikembe enables you Melissa-Connie-Serge'-K.ristin-Jennifer-Elaine -Michele -Elena -Jennifer 
to do so many things as far as gambling and trapping. He's 
ATRIA SALON 2 

ATRIA SALON Nrn ,,lid for spir.J pmru. Longortimcd hairuldSIO. No ochcrdismuno WY· Op<.-n somccvt.'lling;. ATRIA Marrin" s Shopping Center 
always there to bail you out. 
Salon re,ctYt:S mt." right to refuse jCfVKC w any diem whose h.ur rondicion Uuntreatable.
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Next to Sprint i
Now we don't have him, and we 
Corner of Edison 271-8804 

I
have to be great as far as team defense. That's one of the things coach Brown has been harping on early in the season," Iverson said. 
Jerry Stackhouse scored 29 and Michael Jordan 19, but no other Washington player reached double figures. Jordan and Stackhouse each committed five of the Wizards' 23 turnovers. 
"We don't have a shot blocker, but we're getting our share of steals and creating turnovers," coach Larry Brown said. "Our strength is our quickness on the perimeter." 
Jordan closed the third quarter with a 3-pointer from 28 feet away, cutting Washington's deficit to 75-68, then began the fourth quarter with a steal that led to a 3-pointer by Tyronn Lue to make it 75-71. 
A jumper by Jordan cut Philadelphia's lead to 77-73, but Greg Buckner scored on a put-
The Department of English Presents 
AN ENGLISH MAJOR EVENT 
TONI IRVING 
Assistant Professor of English University of Notre Dame 
SEX, LIES, AND VIDEOTAPE: DOCUMENTING AMERICA THROUGH 
ALICE WALKER'S THE COLOR PURPLE 
-
Tuesday, November 19, 7:30 pm Hospitality Room, Reeker's 
Refreshments Will Be Served 
Monday, November 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Texas Tech knocks Texas from national title contention 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas 

Texas had no answer for Kliff Kingsbury, and now there's no chance for a Big 12 or national title. 
Kingsbury threw for 473 yards and six touchdowns against one of the nation's top defenses and Texas Tech earned a 42-38 upset of the Longhorns on Saturday. 
"'We tried everything and he whipped everything we tried," Texas coach Mack Brown said. "We're really disappointed, but give them credit." 
Texas fell eight spots to No. 11 in tho coaches' poll, which was released Sunday morning. 
While Kingsbury ended Texas' title hopes, he also lift­ed Texas Tech (8-4, 5-2) into the Big 12 South race. 
The Hod Haiders visit co-No. 4 Oklahoma (9-1, 5-1) next Saturday, with the winner tak­ing the division and advancing lo the Big 12 title game on Dec. 7. 
"We just have to do the same like we did today" to beat Oklahoma, Tech coach Mike Leach said. "We need to get a lot of first downs. make good punts and complete passes." 
The defeat was another tough blow for Texas (9-2, 5-2) and coach Mack Brown. A loss to Oklahoma last month all but eliminated the Longhorns from the conference race, but they still had an outside chance of reaching the BCS' national title game in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 3. 
That's gone, too. 
"They all hurt anytime you lose," said Texas quarterback Chris Simms, who threw for 345 yards and four TD passes. "This one hurts a lot. To be so close and have things fall the way they did, it's tough." 
Tech went ahead 42-38 on a 25-yard pass from Kingsbury to Taurean Ilcnderson with 5:41 left. 
Simms tried to lead Texas back, but Texas Tech safety Hyan Aycock intercepted a pass intended for B.J. Johnson with 5:21 remaining to seal the win. 
"I was just trying to go in the middle. and I got bumped by a linebacker," Johnson said. "By the time I got turned around in there, Chris had already thrown the ball. The rest is history." 
Ohio State 23, Illinois 16 (OT) 
Battered but still unbeaten after another scare on the road. Ohio State is one victory away from playing for its first national title since 1968. 
And like always, Michigan is standing in the way. 
"It's the biggest game of the year. It's our archriva\, and if we win we, go to the Fiesta Bowl," linebacker Cie Grant said after Saturday's 23-16 overtime win over Illinois. 
The second-ranked Buckeyes (12-0, 7-0 Big Ten) nearly lost that rare opportunity against the Illini, whose chance to spoil Ohio Slate's perfect sea­son fell short when Illinois quarterback Jon Bcutjer had his final pass batted down at the line of scrimmage in over­time. 
Ohio State won the game on an 8-yard touchdown run by Maurice Hall. one of two backs who lilied in for injured fresh­man Maurice Clarett. 
The Buckeyes improved to 12-0 for the first time in school history, but to get into the national championship game on Jan. 3, they'll have to beat Michigan in Columbus next week. A victory would leave Ohio State and Iowa both unbeaten in the Big Ten ­they don't play each other ­but the Buckeyes would have the better overall record. 
"Nobody said winning the Big Ten championship would be easy," Jenkins said. 
Especially against Michigan. The Wolverines ended Ohio State's bid for perfect seasons in 1995 and 1996. 
"We're going to get focused on Michigan, because we know if we lose that, none of this means anything," Jenkins said. 
"This is the playoffs," Ohio State linebacker Cie Grant added. "Next week is the semi­finals and if we win that we're playing in the finals." 
Illinois (4-7, 3-4) came very close to sending the game to a second overtime, but Beutjer's third-down pass to Walter Young in the end zone was ruled incomplete when the official deemed that Young was bobbling the ball when he went out of bounds. 
Replays appeared to confirm that officials made the right call. Of course, Ohio State agreed. 
"The one on our sideline, he was bobbling it. It's a good call," Buckeyes coach Jim Tressel said. 
lllinois sent the game to OT tied at 16 when John Cockman kicked 48-yard field goal on the last play of regulation. The ball started out left and stayed that way, barely falling inside the left upright. It was the third field goal of the game for Gockman. the Illini's long­range kicker who had just three field-goal attempts com­ing into the game. 
It was the second straight week the Buckeyes had strug­gled on the road against a team with a losing record, only to pull out a win in the end. Ohio State trailed Purdue last week but won 10-6 when Michael Jenkins caught a 37­yard TD pass with 1:36 left. 
"We stick together and keep fighting and find ways to win," Jenkins said. "Everyone in the locker room is happy right now. We're just glad to get out of here with a win." 
Georgia 24, Auburn 21 
Michael Johnson went up for the ball and Georgia hasn't come down yet. 
David Greene threw a 19­yard touchdown pass to a leap­ing Johnson on fourth and long with 1 :25 left to help the sev­enth-ranked Bulldogs defeat No. 24 Auburn 24-21 Saturday, giving them their first SEC Eastern title. 
"J know it's only the East, but we're champions tonight," coach Mark Richt said. 
Three straight incompletions by Greene and a false-start penalty set up fourth-and-15, but Greene pump-faked, then 
lofted his pass into the left cor­ner of the end zone. Johnson, subbing for an injured Terrence Edwards, outjumped former Georgia signee Horace Willis for the score. 
"We lost our best receiver, then he comes out and makes one of the best catches in Georgia history," Greene said. 
The play was called 70-X­Takeoff, and it launched the Bulldogs to the championship game for the first time. The Bulldogs (10-1, 7-1 SEC) earned a shot at their first league title since 1982 and ended a three-game losing streak to the Tigers (7-4, 4-3). 
"We're going to Atlanta," linebacker Tony Gilbert said. "We should have been there a long, long time ago." 
Auburn took over at its own 28 with 1:18 to play, and Jason Campbell quickly hit Robert Johnson over the middle for a 25-yard gain. 
The Georgia defense resumed its second-half domi­nance after that, with a sack by Boss Bailey and two Auburn penalties leaving Auburn with a fourth-and-20. Campbell's pass to Tre Smith fell well short of the first-down marker with 19 seconds left. 
Georgia players raced over to celebrate with their fans, and Edwards helped Kareem Marshall unfurl a banner pro­claiming the Bulldogs champi­ons. 
Edwards also couldn't resist a dig at their biggest East rival. 
"Tell those Florida Gators they don't have to play any­more," he crowed after Johnson's catch. 
The Tigers, who still have title hopes in the West, slumped off the field. The only period they trailed in the game was over the final 85 seconds. 
Georgia's last four victories in the series have come at Jordan-Hare Stadium. 
Greene finished 18-of-35 for 232 yards with an interception. Playing without Edwards (sep­arated right shoulder) and Damien Gary (left leg injury). he passed for just 29 yards in the first half. 
Johnson had caught 11 pass• es coming in but finished with 13 for 141 yards and the final touchdown. 
Auburn led 14-3 at halftime behind Ronnie Brown's 103 yards rushing, including a 53­yard touchdown. Brown had 10 second-half carries for 21 yards, struggling after injuring his right ankle. 
Quarterback Jason Campbell was 12-of-23 for 133 yards with two first-quarter inter­ceptions, also rushing for 72 yards despite getting sacked four times. Ile threw a 2-yard touchdown pass to Brandon Johnson and ran for a 21-yard score with 5:45 left in the third quarter for a 21-10 lead. 
The Tigers went three-and­out on six straight possessions after their final score, gaining just 99 second-half yards. 
"You have to give it to their defense. They won the game for them," coach Tommy Tuberville said. "We had them cornered several times, but they just came back and had the big play at the end." 
USC 34, Arizona St. 13 
Passing, running and playing defense -No. 8 Southern California has put it all togeth­er late in Pete Carroll's second season as their coach. 
Carson Palmer threw for two touchdowns and ran for anoth­er and Justin Fargas ran for 125 yards and another score Saturday in the Trojans' 34-13 win over Arizona State. 
The Trojans' defense limited Andrew Walter and the high­scoring Sun Devils to just one second-quarter touchdown and a pair of field goals. 
Palmer completed 20 of 34 passes for 214 yards for USC (8-2, 6-1 Pac-10). with scoring throws of 18 and 2 yards in the first half. He capped the scor­ing on a sneak with 4:39 remaining. 
Fargas carried 26 times and topped the 100-yard mark for the second time at USC. lie put the Trojans in control with a 3­ya rd scoring run that gave them a 27-13 lead over the Sun Devils (7-5, 4-3) early in 
the fourth quarter. 


urritos & 
sombre 


200 Free Burritos 
(from Boraeho Burrito) 
Tuesday, November 19th 
10:00 pm -12:00 am Notre Dame Room 
(2nd Floor ol LaFortune) 
Come by to hear a sample of Matt Nathanson! 
Class hats will be.. on sale for sis. 
Sponsored by1 Junior Class Counell For more Information visit: -.nd.edu/-classo4 
"I just want to move the chains," Fargas said. "To put together a good drive and top it off with a touchdown is a good feeling." 

.... 
Ifyou areready for something different... rbadas is waiting for you! Legendary beaches and fantastic nightlife makes Spring Break in Barbados 
•·:_ ~" unforgettable 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, November 18, 2002 

... 
around the dial 
NFL 

Bears at Rams 9 p.m., ABC 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Associated Press "I'm not a miracle man. second choice and his trade. 
CHICAGO 
Dusty Baker went to the World Series and now he's going to Wrigley Field. After running one of base­ball's most consistent win­ners, he'll be managing one of its biggest losers. 
It's a tough assignment, one that many have con­fronted before, only to fail. 
Baker says he's ready for the challenge. 
"I love baseball, No. 1. I love challenges, No. 2," Baker said Friday night as he accepted the formida­ble assignment of manag­ing the Chicago Cubs. 
I don't know if it will take two or three years or whatever, but we're dedi­cated to winning. A num­ber of players have indi­cated that they would like to come to Chicago and possibly play for me. They are dedicated to bringing in the best players." 
Baker, a three-time National League Manager of the Year, agreed to a four-year contract, a deal thought to be worth between $14 million and $16 million. 
Cubs president Andy MacPhail said Baker was general manager Jim Hendry's first choice, his third choice, even though he interviewed several other candidates. 
"We're very thrilled to have him," MacPhail said. "His record speaks for itself. He's an enormously popular manager with his players. As result, th~ field of players that would like to play for the Cubs has increased with tonight's announcement by a large amount." 
In fact, the Cubs might now actively pursue Jim Thome, who hit 52 home runs for Cleveland last season. They've already acquired catcher Damian Miller from Arizona in a 
Baker becomes the sec­ond-highest paid manager behind Joe Torre of the New York Yankees. The sides began negotiating Tuesday and on Thursday agent Jeff Moorad said the Cubs needed to dip deeper into their pockets to get the deal finished. 
"They dug a little deep­er," Baker said. "We were creative and came up with ways to make it work for both sides to be satisfied." 
With the hiring of Baker and Bob Melvin by Seattle earlier in the day, all 10 openings for major league managers have been filled. 
IN BRIEF 

U.S. soccer ends year on than 21/2 years. Sasha Victorine graphs for fans. winning note scored in just his second U.S. team 
While congratulations are in order appearance, and four players made Arkansas in trouble wih at the end of a very good 2002, coach their international debuts. NCAA 
The NCAA has made an officialBruce Arena's mind is already set on 
2006. Bol hangs up skates inquiry of the University of Arkansas The U.S. national team wrapped up Manute Bol's efforts to raise money over payments to football and basket­its most successful year Sunday with a for the people of his war-torn home­ball players and asked the school to 
2-0 exhibition victory over El land got more ice time than the for­show why it shouldn't be subjected to Salvador, a game featuring a young mer NBA player. punishment as a repeat violator. roster that offered an early gauge on The 7-foot-7 basketball shot-blocker A university lawyer Friday called the 
prospects for the next World Cup. from Sudan sat on the bench Saturday inquiry "a form letter" and said the The United States finished 13-6-1 night as the puck dropped in his hock­school believes it had previously this year, setting a national record for ey debut. He didn't stay long, leaving reached an agreement with NCAA 
victories and advancing to the quar­the rink while the Central Hockey investigators that payments to athletes terfinals of the World Cup for the first League game was still going on. between 1997 and 1999 did not justify 
time in 72 years. Bol made his first appearance with charges of major violations in the 
"The last couple of months, we've the Indianapolis Ice at Conseco Razorback athletic program. received a lot of praise and all, and Fieldhouse when the team faced the The basketball team faced sanctions I'm grateful for all that," Arena said. Amarillo Gorillas. Bol signed a con­in 1997 but university attorney Scott 
"But enough already. We've had our tract with the Ice earlier this week. Varady said the new violations were congratulatory tour, and now we just But Ice officials said Saturday's not serious enough to warrant severe 
want to get on with the business of appearance is likely to be Bol's last penalties as a repeat offender. 
starting all over again." with the team. Bol's arthritic feet The university previously tried to 
Ben Olsen, returning after four -began to swell inside his custom-made negotiate its own penalties based on operations on his right ankle, scored ice skates, and after the first period he its own inquiry, but the NCAA ordered 
his first international goal in more was out of uniform and signing auto-a more complete investigation. 
Monday, November 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
first half, the Irish offense 
broke through when Guerlin 
gathered an Ohio State 
turnover and juked Buckeye 
goalkeeper Erica Haynam. 
"Everyone around me has 
been playing awesome," said 
Guertin. "It's not just me out 
there. My teammates have just 
been playing me great balls 
and I've been putting them in 
the back of the net. My team­
mates have just been incredi­
ble." 
Seven minutes into the sec­ond half. Notre Dame struck again. Irish forward Amy Warner used her blazing speed to dribble past the Buckeye defense for a golden scoring opportunity. llaynarn blocked Warner's shot, but Katie Thorlakson was there !'or the rebound. marking the freshman's first career NCAA Tournament goal. 
Ohio State came roaring back in the 60th minute of the gamt'. when Buckeye forward Colleen Jloban gathered an errant clear from an Irish defender and shot the ball past Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn lo narrow the score to 2­
1. With 12 minutes remaining in the game, Guertin put the game out of reach with her 35th career goal. Amy Warner provided her second assist of the game with a cross from tlrn left sideline to an onrush­ing Guertin who slid the ball past Ilaynam. 
"I thought we were great tonight. I thought we came out in the first 20 minutes and really set the tone," said Waldrum. "We wanted to jump on them early, and I think we did that. I think real­ly every phase of our game was good. I thought we were really solid defensively. We were really good in the mid­field and up front also. I thought the team was good all the way through." 
The Irish did not have a lot of time to cherish Friday night's opening round victory. Sunday, the Irish had to return to action against a Purdue team that soundly defeated them 3-1 just over a month ago. 
Despite Purdue's physical style of play, the Irish were not intimidated. Prom the beginning of the game, the Irish were on the attack. 
Midway through the first half, Guertin dribbled right past the Purdue defense and registered her first goal of the game by beating Purdue goalie Jocelyn Cavalier. 
Early in the second half, the junior forward capitalized again off a Purdue turnover in the goalie box to extend the Irish lead to 2-0. 
In the 13th minute of the second half, Purdue's offense finally came to life when Chrissy Creamer's wide open shot from the top of the box found the lower right corner of the net. 
After Purdue's goal, howev­er, the Irish defense seized control. 
The Boilermakers failed to advance the ball past midfield the rest of the entire game. Junior defender Melissa Tancredi superbly shut down Purdue's leading scorer Annette Kent. 
A month ago, Kent scored a quick goal at the beginning of the game to give the Boilermakers the early momentum. But Sunday, she was a non-factor the entire game. Not only did Tancredi shut Kent down, she also got into the act on offense. With eight minutes left. the former forward headed in a beautiful­ly placed Guertin corner kick to shut the door on the Boilermakers. 
Despite putting up three goals, the Irish offense never got into a rhythm because of Purdue's physical play. Numerous fouls on both teams and Purdue's constant substi­tution pattern severely hin­dered the flow of the game. 
Although not altogether pleased with his team's per­formance, Waldrurn was happy with the results. 
"It wasn't the attractive soccer we played Friday night," said Waldrum. "Having said that, we played well enough to win. I thought we were the better team. Organizationally we played okay. We didn't quite have the energy and intensity I would have liked to see for a playoff game, but we knew going in that mentally we'd have to get over the hump. We only played 11 players the entire game so a lot of credit for our kids for playing a full 90 min­utes." 
With the victory over Purdue, the Irish have already advanced further in the tour­nament than last year when they were upset in the second round by upstart Cincinnati. 
Game Notes 

. The third round is set to begin this Friday night. The Irish will play at Stanford Saturday in the round of 16. 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 
MENS SOCCER 
Five players earn all-Big East honors 
Special to The Observer 
Senior forward Erich Braun became the first Notre Dame player to twice earn first­team all-Big East honors as he was named to the all-con­ference first team for the sec­ond straight year. For the sec­ond consecutive year, five Irish players garnered all­conference honors. 
Joining Braun as all-confer­ence selections were junior midfielder Justin Detter and sophomore back Jack Stewart, who both earned second-team honors, while junior midflelder Chad Riley and sophomore goalkeeper Chris Sawyer copped third team accolades. 
Braun is one of three Notre Dame players to earn first­team all-conference honors since the frish became a member of' the Big East in 1995. A 19-game starter. he leads the team in scoring for the third time in four seasons with 10 goals and 1 assist (21 points). Braun's 3 5 career goals ties him for seventh on the career goal-scoring list and his 83 career points tied him for ninth all-time. In 1999, he was the Big East Rookie of the Year. 
Detter, a first-team all-con­ference selection in 2001, stands third in the Irish scor­ing column with six goals and five assists (17 points) and has started all 19 contests. Ile has 14 career goals and 11 assists (39 points). 
Stewart earns all-confer­ence accolades for the first time in his career in just his second season a member of the Notre Dame program. Stewart, who has started all 19 games in '02, has scored one goal this season. 
Riley repeats as a third­team selection after following his selection to that same team in 2001. He is Notre Dame's second-leading scorer this season with starting appearances in all 19 con­tests. Ile has netiod four goals and has dished off a team­leading 11 assists (19 points). His 11 assists nearly match the 12 he scored in his first two seasons. and are the most by an Irish player in a single season since the 1995 cam­paign when Bill Lanza fin­ished that season with 11. I Iis 23 career assists tie him l'or fourth all-time at Notre Dame. 
Sawyer earned second-team all-conference honors last season in his rookie year. The second-year player battled injuries throughout the sec­ond half of the season and played missed live games. He allowed 14 goals, made 39 saves and registered two shutouts. Sawyer has a 0.99 goals against average and .735 save percentage. 

Monday, November 18, 2002 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
Cornette 
continued from page 24 
ball home for the 15-point Irish lead. 
"As long as people can keep getting defensive rebounds, we can get guys out in transition," Miller said. "We really have some athletes on this team that 
can get up and down the floor." 
Brey found success at the end of the first half -and in much of the second against the smaller Belmont squad with a speedy lineup that included Thomas, Miller, Cornette and guards Torrian Jones and 
Chris Quinn. With three talent­ed ball handlers on the court in the presence of Thomas, Jones and Quinn, the Irish were able to free up more players and spread out the Bruins defense. 

"It's a line-up that we haven't played so much in the exhibi­tion with [Thomas] and [Quinn] together," Brey said. "But (the Bruins] were smaller, and they had us spread out. No matter who we play, I think it's a good lineup for us. It gets Chris Thomas off the ball and lets him work off screens. We move pretty well with Miller, Jones, Cornette and those two little guys. We can guard you, and then we can change ends real fast." 
The Irish will not have long to 
Revenge 
continued from page 24 

were higher. This time both teams put their seasons on the line for the right to advance to the third round of the NCAA Tournament. 
While most teams would want no part of a team that handed them their lunch a month ago, the Irish were ecstatic last Monday when they learned that they might face the Boilermakers in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
On Friday night, Purdue squeaked out a victory over Northern Illinois in a game that went to a sudden death shootout. 
Two hours later. the Notre Dame took care of business against Ohio State, beating the Buckeyes 3-1. 
The Irish wishes had come true. The stage was set for a rematch. 
"The motivation will ccr­tainlv be there since they beat us." said Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum in anticipation of'Sunday's rematch. "The kids are look• ing forward to it. It's been dif­ficult to hold them back (in practice I and make them think only about Ohio State and not about Purdue. We know they have a good team. We know it will be a tough game. We feel that we weren't at full strength the first time we played them. Our team is going to be quite different this Sunday then what we put on the field last time." 
Coach Waldrum wasn't lying. For 90 minutes, the Irish 
out-hustled Purdue to every loose ball. 
For 90 minutes, the Irish refused to allow Purdue's cheap shots and physical play to bring them down. 
For 90 minutes, the Irish played with more confidence than they had all season. 
For 90 minutes, Purdue looked like anything but the team that stomped the Irish a month ago. 
Instead, Notre Dame inti­mated them from the opening minute of the game. When the final buzzer sounded, the Irish found themselves cele­brating victory while the Boilermakers found them­selves tasting the agony of defeat. 
So what was the difference 
this time around? Two names 
-Melissa Tancredi and 
Ashley Dryer. 
Tancredi missed the last 
game due to suspension. 
while Dryer was held out of 
action with an injury. The 
Boilermakers could not con­
tend with Tancredi's tough. 
hard-nosed play. She com­
pletely shut down forwards 
Annette Kent and Jennie 
Moppcrt, who created all 
three of Purdue's goals the 
last time around. Tancredi. 
who converted to defense just 
a month ago, didn't forget 
how to score goals at her new 
position. Tancredi headed in 
Sunday's decisive third goal 
for the Irish with just under 
eight minutes left. 
Dryer -along with fellow 
midfielders Randi Scheller 
and Mary Boland -con­
trolled the game by winning 
loose balls in the midfield. 
Consequently, Purdue was 
never able to establish any 
offensive rhythm the entire 
game. 
"Having Tancredi in gives you more speed, more strength, somebody who can physically match up with most anybody in the coun• try," said Waldrum. "Then when you have Ashley Dryer, she kind of run the show for us at midfield. 1think you can sec from her play this weekend, how important she is to this team." 
If anyone would have said a month ago, after their first match-up, that Notre Dame would defeat Purdue in the second round of the NC'AA Tournament a month later. I would have told you that J-Lo and Ben Atlleck would have a better chance of getting engaged before that ever happens. 
Was I ever so wrong? One 
month later, the Irish are on 
to the third round, and the 
most ridiculous couple in 
America is set to tie tho knot. 
All kidding aside, this Notre 
Dame team deserves a 
tremendous amount of credit 
for turning their season 
around. With the return of 
Tancredi and Dryer to the 

lineup coupled with the oll'en­
sive resurgence of Amanda 
Guertin, the Irish have seri­
ous potential to do some 
damage in the NCAA 
Tournament. 
Ain't revenge sweet? 
"I think we were a little 
unlucky the last time we 
played Purdue. It's playoff 
time and we needed to step 
up," said Guertin. "Any time 
someone beats you, revenge 
is on your mind." 

The opinions ofthis column are those ofthe author and not those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. J@nd.edu. 
savor their first victory of the season. as they return to the court tonight for the second round of the Guardians Classic against Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis, who d·efe a ted 
Brown 66-65 in the first match of the day. 
"They want us had," Brey said of his next opponents. "All I know is that last year was 
"It's a lineup that we haven't played so much in the exhibition with [Thomas} and [Quinn} together. But [the Bruins] were smaller. and they had us spread out. I think it's a good lineup for us." 
Mike Brey head coach 
IUPUI 98, Georgia Tech 92 .... They go down to Atlanta and beat them. It's the same team. and they're men. They're older than us, and Coach Hunter has talked about them wanting to play us for a long time. We have to be ready to play." 
Tipoff against IUPUI is set for 

7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Notes: 
. Irish center Tom Timmermans did not play Sunday because of a back sprain. The junior's injury caused the other Irish forwards to step up defensively in the middle against the Bruins. 
"They were probably licking their chops with a big guy like Tom Timmermans out," Cornette said. "We knew we had to give it our all and play strong down low, and that's what the big guys did tonight." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
At:t:ent:ion St:udent:s! Sign up for a New Course! 
Global Business Et:hics: A  Lect:ure Series  
(SPRING 2003, BA-3 1 1 &  'MBA-5 1 1)  
'VVHAT Is THIS?  

A solid foundation in business ethics is more important than. ever in today's business 
climate. Businesses with global operations -and professionals working for such firms ­
face special challenges in the ethical realm, given the differing cultural norms, religious 
underpinnings, and governmental systems around the world. 
This 1.5-credit-hour course -sponsored by Professors Thomas Klein, Patrick JV1urphy and Georges Enderle and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide -will examine the nature and kinds of ethical challenges facing organizations doing business globally. We'll hear how leading businesses deal vvit:h such issues as human rights in the workplace, environmental sustainability, religious and cultural di:f':f'erences, and corrupt political environments. Course participants will gain new in.sights on the link.ages between ethics and the functions of organization.al leadership, human resource management, marketing, finance and operations. 
'VVHEN Is IT? 

We'll meet on nine selected M:onday afternoons in. Jordan Auditorium, .Mendoza College ofBusiness, from 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. during Spring Semester 2003. You will hear from recognized experts in global business ethics including: 
• 
Dean ]'V[aines, University of St. Thomas/Cummins Engine (ret.) 

• 
Fritz Heimann, GE/Transparency International 

• 
David Lowry, Freeport-McM:oRan Mining Company 

• 
Walt Riker & Bob Langert, .McDonald's Corporation 

• 
Lynn Sharp Paine, Harvard University 

• 
Scott Appleby, University ofNotre Dame 

• 
Klaus Leisinger, Novartis 


A complete list of guest speakers and their topics vvill be available in late November. 
'VVHAT ARE THE COURSE REOUIRElVIENTS? 
You are expected to attend nine M:onday afternoon lectures and be prepared to discuss assigned readings. This is a ..Satisfactory/tJnsatisfactory•• course with no more than one verified, excused absence to receive a grade of •~satisfactory." No examinations or term paper required. 
'VVHO CAN ENROLL? 
The course is open to any Notre Dame or Saint .Mary's Stu.dent via DART. There are no prerequisites. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. 
Monday, November 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish men, women achieve different results at regionals 
. Women take 1st, earn automatic NCAA Championship berth 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
It has been a month of firsts for the Notre Dame womens cross country team. 
Not only did the Irish win their first ever Big East Championship two weeks ago in Boston, but now they have also won their first ever Great Lakes Hegional -the most competitive district qualifier for nationals in the country. 
The fifth ranked Irish took first place on Saturday in West Lafayette with their score of' 63. The Wolverines or Michigan were their closest competitor. finishing with 107. 
Another first for the Irish ­freshman Molly lluddle beat All American sophomore Lauren King. King and Huddle have run right next to each other all season, but Saturday was the first time Huddle was able to edge out King, who as the elder teammate has served as the freshman's guide on the vari­ous courses they have run this sea­son. Huddle, running 20 minutes, 
47.1 seconds for the 6K, took sec­ond place overall, behind Toledo's Briana Shook. King, finishing in third, ran 21 :01.9. 
The Irish entered the race know­ing that the top two teams would automatically qualify for the NCAA Championships and believing that they, as a team, possessed the attributes needed to win the race. 
tion to the sophomore) said. "We knew that [senior Jen Handley] would stay up with them. and if she did that, that would help us out a lot. We needed our four and five runners to be up there. llrish coach Tim Connelly] told us the night before that if we did that, we'd have a chance of winning." 
Handley, who has helped give the young Irish team confidence with her experience, completed the course in 21 :28.6 to finish in sixth overall, and in third for Notre name. King crossed the line next for the Irish with her 25th place. Freshman Stephanie Madia round-. ed out the Irish scoring top-live as she finished in 27th place. 
The lrish had been expecting a successful season, but were not confident they could make pro­gram history in the manner that they have. 
"When we first got here we all said, 'We want to be this good' and, 'We think we can be this good,' but it was, 'We don't know if we ca.n be,"' the younger King said. "As we got further into the season, we got more confidence in ourselves and we knew that we were capable of doing something good, and so far, we've been doing it." . 
The Irish. while serious about preparing for the national champi­onships, which take place in Terre Haute, Ind. on Nov. 25, are not hiding their enthusiasm. 
"It's been such a rush, this year," King said. "Knowing that we've never done it before, it just makes it so much more exciting." 
"We knew they would run at the Contact Joe Lindsley at top," freshman Lori King (no rela-jlindsle@nd.edu 
. Injury-plagued mens squad runs to 8th place 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sporn Writer 

If the Notre Dame mens cross country team receives an at-large bid to NCM Championships, they will have qualified by a hair's breadth. 
The Irish are hoping for that bid to materialize today, not only for obvious reasons, but also to give them just one more shot at proving their worth, some­thing the team feels they have not done all season. 
Heading into the Saturday's Great Lakes Regional -the qualifier for the national meet ­the Irish knew they would have to finish in at least eighth place to make a case for an at-large berth in the national champi­imships. 
Notre Dame finished in eighth place, after losing a tiebreaker to Michigan State. 
The Irish will not know if they have qualified until this afternoon, but the team is fairly confident they will go to nationals in Terre Haute, Ind. next Monday. 
"We're probably going to be the last team in," junior Todd Mobley said. "It's a little close for comfort." 
Mobley, the team's top overall performer, ran his first race Saturday since an injury several weeks ago that kept him out of the Rig East Championships. The 2001 All American, not yet in top form, finished in 26th place with a 1OK time of 31 minutes, 22 seconds. 

Freshman Tim Moore, running his first competi­tive 10K in 30:57.1, led the team with his 14th place finish. 
''I'm happy with how I ran," Moore said. "It wasn't what I would call just a completely awesome race, but I felt really com­fortable and confident for the first 9K. Tho last [kilo­meter] I kind of broke down, but it's just a matter or working with experience and changing my mentality over that last kilometer." 
Mobley took care not to re-injure himself in his return. 
"I played it a little cau­tious," Mobley said. "I went out a little slow and moved up the entire race. The next time I run, I'll proba­bly run with a little more abandon. It's just a matter of getting my legs back under me and getting used to running. My mileage has been pretty low." 
According to Moore, the team would have fared much better had Mobley been in normal form. 
"[Mobley] has been bat­tling with injuries," Moore said. "I know that when Todd is on the top of the team. he would beat me. If he were at the top of his game, he would definitely be a top 10 guy. That would have helped us out a lot.'' 
Still, the Irish are per­plexed at their recent per­formances, including their fourth place finish at the Big East Championships two weeks ago. 
"We haven't performed near to what we are capa­ble of-all season," Moore said. "I don't know what it is. It's not that we aren't running hard. It's not that the guys aren't doing what they can. From our work­outs, we know that we're in much better shape than we've shown." 
Moore said that the team's performance has been an enigma to them. 
"It's kind of a mystery to us," he said. "lVe've been working out really well. We've got a lot of good work under our belt. It might be something men­tal. I think we can fix that." 
Mobley and Moore were followed by junior David Alber, who finished in 42nd place, and sopho­more Ryan Johnson, who finished in 54th. Junior Brian Kerwin, sophomore Eric Morrison, and senior John Keane came in 72nd, 77th, and 109th, respec­tively. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

A new fitness and taekwondo school has opened close to campus 

Join us for our Open House Saturday, November 16th, 9am -2pm 
• 
Taekwondo and fitness demonstrations 

• 
Free Food 


• 
Stop by and mention this add for a FREE 2 week pass! 


4609 Grape Rd., Suite A7 (across from Barnes and Noble) 
247-2555 
page 22 The Obseruer . SPORTS Monday, November 18, 2002 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish stunned in two weekend losses 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Spores Wricer 
The apocalypse is upon us. 

Heading into this week­end, the Notre Dame volley­ball team had lost two regu­lar season conference matches since iL joined the Big East in t 995, winning 87 of 89 conference match­es. 
Now, with losses to Miami and Virginia Tech, that total stands at four. 
The Irish were unable to complete their hopes of an undefeated conference sea­son with a 30-25, 30-28, 25­30, 22-30, 15-7 loss Friday at Miami. 
On Sunday, the Irish couldn't rebound and lost at Virginia Tech 30-27, 37-35, 30-27. 
After dropping game one to the Hurricanes, the Irish (21-7. 11-2 in the Big East) had a chance to tie the match at one game each, leading 26-22 in game two. 
The Hurricanes took advantage of three Irish errors in the final 10 points and won the game by two. 
In game three, the Irish got on track, hitting .429 for the game. compared to .128 for the Hurricanes (24-4, 10-3). Outside hitter Emily Loomis had 5 kills in the game the Irish won by five. 
Miami continued to strug­gle with its hitting in game four, recording a .105 per­centage in game four. The Irish fell behind 8-2 early in the game, but then went on an eight-point run and took command of the game, win­ning by eight. 
Deciding game five was never close. as Miami scored the first eight points, 
using  three  kills  from  
Hurricane  outside  hitter  
Valeria  Tipiana,  who  

recorded a match-high 28 kills. The Irish hit .000 for the game and lost their first Big East match since the 1999 Big East Tournament championship, a stretch of 36 contests. 
Loomis led the Irish with 18 kills. Freshman middle blocker Lauren Kelbley con­tinued her accurate hitting with a .481 hitting percent­age. For the match, Notre Dame hit better than Miami 
- .243 to .186.  
Middle  blocker  Lauren  
Brewster had  11  blocks.  

Libero Keara Coughlin led the Irish with 17 digs, 
Virginia Tech (20-10, 10­
3) needed a win to qualify for the Big East postscason tournament and came out determined to hand the Irish their second straight loss. 
No team took more than a four-point lead in game one and the Irish were within one at 27-26. The Hokies called a timeout and won three of the next four points to win game one. 
The Irish battled back from a 27-24 deficit to force game two into extra points. In a game featuring 13 ties and eight game points. the Hokies pulled out the game winning the last three points, and taking the game 37-35. 
The Hokies left no doubt in game three, grabbing the early 11-4 lead. The Irish battled back and came with­in one at 28-27, but the Hokies utilized a timeout to their advantage again to win game three and the match. 
Kelbley led the Irish with a .609 hitting percentage and 15 kills. As a team, the Irish hit a disappointing .154. 
In next weekend's Big East Tournament, No. 1 seed Notre Dame will play No. 4 Connecticut at 1 :00 p.m. Saturday. No. 2 Virginia Tech faces No. 3 Miami in the other semifinals. The winners play Sunday for the title. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

2002-2003 Mainstage Season Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theacre PRESENTS 
WRITTEN BY paula vogel • DIRECTED BY wendy arons 
Washington Hall 

WED. NOVEMBER 20, 7:30 P.M. 
THU, NOVEMBER 21,730 PM. FRI, NOVEMBER 22, 7:30 PM. SAT, NOVEMBER 23, 7:30 P.M. 
SUN, NOVEMBER 24, 2::lO P:\1. 
Tickets 

RESERVED SEATS $I 0 SENIOR CITIZENS $9 ALL STUOF.NTS $7 Available at the Lafortune StUdem Ccmer cicket office. Mascercard and Visa orders call 574-6.~ 1-8 I 28. 
This production is sL1pported by the lnstinttc for Scholarship in the Liberal Ans. 
MENS SWIMMING 
Swimmers take 2 of 3 in Texas 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 
Eighteen hours after a close loss to Texas Christian Friday, the Notre Dame men's swim­ming and diving team rebound­ed for a convincing victory over TCU and Centenary. 
The Irish improved their record to 4-2 with the 121.5­
102.5 win over TCU and a 100­84 win over Centenary in Fort Worth, Texas Saturday. 
On Friday evening, the out­come of meet came down to the final relay. The Irish had a strong performance and led for most of the contest. 
Notre Dame won five events convincingly, but TCU came back to take a one-point lead. 
After TCU's rallv. Notre Dame answered with victories in the 500 freestyle, as Matt Bertke (4:41.70), J.R. Teddy, and Patrick Davis swept the top spots. 
However, the Horned Frogs got the win with a one-two fin­ish in the final 200 freestyle relay, beating the Irish 117­105. 
For the Irish, Jason Fitzpatrick won the 100 breaststroke (58.68) and fresh­man Tyler Grenda was second. Fellow rookie Jamie Lutkus took first in the 400 individual medley. 
Teddy led a strong Irish group in the 200 butterfly, win­ning in 1:54.20. In the 100 freestyle, Frank Krakowski and Tim Randolph finished one-two for the Irish. 
After the loss, the Irish came back strong on Saturday after­noon. 
"We wanted to prove to our­selves and the other team that we were the better team, so we come out with a really positive attitude," said junior Matt Obringer. . 

The Irish avenged their defeat in style, dominating the majority of events. Davis was first in the 1,650 freestyle. Obringer won the 200 freestyle, followed by freshmen Lutkus in third and Patrick O'Berry in fifth. 
In diving, Joe Miller earned a second place finish with 265.50. 
When TCU pulled closer with victories in the 50 free and 100 butterflv, a repeat of Friday's comeback seemed possible. 
However, Obringer put the Irish back on top with a win in the 100 freestyle. A one-two­three finish in the 200 breast­stroke by Grenda, Lutkus, and David Moisan gave Notre Dame a comfortable lead. 
Relays made the difference for the Irish. Victories in the 400 freestyle and 400 medley races provided valuable double points. 
Obringer was pleased with the Irish's performance in the pool. 
"It was a great team effort and we kept working hard," he said. "Everyone from the fresh­men to the seniors showed team commitment and that was really good to see and motivat­ing for us." 
The meet was the first con­test in which the Irish swam two days back-to-back. 
Notre Dame next faces Purdue at home on Friday at 6 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 

Study Abroad Fair 
at St. Mary's College 
Presented by The Center for Women's lntercultural 
Learning's, International and lntercultural Learning 
Thursday, Nov. 21st, 4:30-6:00 in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. 

Learn about any and every abroad program currently offered at Saint Mary's College, including academic year and summer programs. Also, learn about the new programs to be announced this year. Enjoy ff@@(d] and ®O'i)if®irll:©J~O'i)ITTlil®mrrc~ Financial Aid will be available to answer questions regarding how to make the dream of studying abroad a reality. 
Speak to students who have previously studied abroad and listen to their exciting stories. 
Monday, November 18, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
THE:" 'I.'M INTE:R£ST£D 11-IE. n INDIAN l::j/VE.R'5'' 1l-lE'."I l.OJLON'T ~E:T A A ~DCA1}lOLIC'' C:i!F IN ARE.LATl~5HIP"f:i1Fr CJIFT(wn.~i;.up IF~IVEIZ.IS<,IRL) l<'IDE. TD ME:IJER." l,IFT 
HAPPY TOWN 
So, what did you tlllnk of 
8 Mlle? 

Well, given that I'm pampered upper middle class college student, wholly 
removed from the harsh realities de­
picted, it was a troubling reminder of the gross economic ~/. disparity in our country. -~~-.·. :/• 
It prompted a re-evaluation,  ·  ._ · .  
of sorts, of my own life and ...  - 
the opportunities that I've  ·  
been given--and yet all too  
oft11n have wasted.  

JACK MONAHAN 
••.Whfch brings you to using your daily comic strip as a 
personal ,;oapbox? 
' 

Pretty much. 
I'll be resorting 
to fart jokes within 
' 

two days, though. 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

lfft,?,--:\./41 ~ ~ THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME ~ ~ ~~ by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REGEL±
rJ r J 
crzoo2 Tribune Media Services, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. 
SEBOE ± 
I I r J I BELTOG j 


r 
WHY THE BAND TEAC-Hi:=R KE:PT THE BRASS Sf:C­
TION AFTE=F<! PRACTIC.E:. 
www.1unt>le com

tSYTTUR j 
Now arrange the circled letters tor form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 
A: TO ( 

I I I I I ) A "[ I I I I T' 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: PRIOR OFTEN MULISH ZITHER Answer What she weighed before starting her diet ­HER OPTIONS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 28 -To order, aend your n ¦ m1. •ddreH 1nd S5.95 and make check PAY•~• lo Tribune Media Set\/lcH, P.O. Box 4330, Chlcaigo, IL 60680-4330. 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ ACROSS 33 Take to court 63 Tricks 1 Place to moor a 34 Lennon's widow 64 Start of an boat Yoko invention 
5 "Pipe down!" 36 Environmental­65 One 'twixt 12 10 Say"%@&#!" ist's prefix and 20 14 City south of 
37 Does hip-hop 66 Like a gymnast 
Moscow 38 Gershwin title 67 Eyeglass part 15 Rich cake "cor reeled" 68 Dole (out) 16 Poker pot 41 Vacationers' 69 Breakfast, lunch 
primer stops and dinner 17 Removes 43 Hosp. units 70 After curfew squeaks from 44 "What'd I tell 18 Actress DOWN
ya?" Samantha 45 Corn holder 
1 Take a chill pill 19 • almost 46 Kennel club 
2 Baltimore 
taste it!" classification 
ballplayer 20 Elvis Presley 48 Molten rock 
3 Luxurious fabric 
title •corrected" 52 Letters that 
4 "If all fails 23 Suffix with don't need 
percent stamps 
5 Pittsburgh24 Thrilla in Manila 54 Alley-_ 
productboxer (basketball 
6 Immobilize, 25 Sonnets and 
maneuver) 

rodeo-stylesuch 56 Nonsense 
7 Craving 27 Grand 57 Fats Domino 
8 Laurel of
Nationa!Park title "corrected" Puzzle by Harvey Estes and Nancy Salomon 
comedy•29 1 996 Madonna 62 Paul who sang 35 Eggs _ easy 46 Sandwich, 55 Desert havens 
9 Group of buffalo 
musical "Diana" briefly
37 Perlman of 

10 Egypt's capital 58 Streetcar "Cheers" 47 "Is that a fact!" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 He wants you 59 Bigger than big
38 Where many 49 Like a good~~-~ 12 Bypasses memos land egg 60 China's

S H A R P C A L F 
A S A P bedtime continent
39 Before, once

E A T E R I B A R 
N E R O 13 D.C. VI.P. 50 "One _, 
G R O V E A R I A 

T A N K 21 Food from 40 Office subs please" 61 Sledder's spot heaven 41 Skater's surface 51 Opposite of 
62 $20 bill 22 Fed. pollution 42 Convention's dispenser,
''Ten-hut!" 

monitor choice 53 Absurd briefly 26 "Absolutely!" 28 Cries at 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a fireworks 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

30 Sonnets and Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday such crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 31" bin ein Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
Berliner" past puzzles, nytirnes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 32 Hula hoops and Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, yo-yos nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Linda Evans, Elizabclh Perkins, Kevin Nealon, )3renda Vaccaro 
Happy Birthday: Don'I be afraid to make a leap of faith. If you arc rcluctanl to try new things, you aren't likely to discover the possibilities thal lie ahead. You have some great ideas, charm and common sense, so prepare to be a leader, not a follower. Your numbers are 9, 12, 18, 27, 34, 38 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You're subject to fevers and minor infections, so relax and give your body a break. Reevaluate your present situa1ion and rearrange your lifestyle to accommodate your needs. *** TAURUS {April 20-May 20): Problems with in-laws or relatives will lest your 
... 
patience. Try not to retaliate in such a way that you will regrel it Diplomacy is 
the key.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Involvement in joint matters or financial contracts will be to your disadvantage. Read the fine print and get some legal advice before you sign anything. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your mate may be erratic and uncertain aboul his or her direction. You may wam to do your own thing and give him or her some space to figure things out. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is not the best time lo voice your opinion at work or partake in conversations that may put your reputation on the line. Travel or reading that relates to business is your besI bet. * * VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This is a great day 10 make that change you've been thinking about. Be fearless. Your attention should be focused on finishing creative projects or meeting new people through social events. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): The changes going on around you may be somewhat unnerving. Try to remain calm and think lhings through. Be careful not to upset your partner or make waves in your domestic scene. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let your emotions interfere wilh your professional duties. If you take a disciplined approach, much can be accomplished, and advancement and financial gain will follow. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Career changes may be on your mind.. Don't hesitate to take advantage of the opportunities that evolve. Your talents will not go unnoticed. Showcase your abilities. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your hectic schedule may be upselling to ­those you Ii ve with. Try to spend a little time reassuring those you love. Lei them know what you are doing. Your insight into business trends will be uncanny. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Secret affairs could lead to scandal. Be cautious when talking to friends or relatives; you are subject to divulging information that may lead to your demise. Don't tell anyone about your personal secrets. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone will mislead you. Listen carefully. Do not take on too much or make unreasonable promises. Think before you act This is a time to take care of yourselr **** 
Birthday Baby: You will have courage, fortitude and the wherewithal to reach your chosen goals. You will show great determination throughout your life. You will be strong-willed and honest. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvicc.com, eugenialasl.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
------------------------~------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
,. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
..... 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ .. City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
--
PORTS 
Monday, November 18, 2002 
WOMENS SOCCER 

Guertin it done 
Amanda Guertin's 4 goals, assist help Notre Dame beat Ohio State and Purdue 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
There is an old adage in sports that big-time players step up in big-time games. For the past three years. Amanda Guertin has been that big-time player for the Notre Dame women's soccer team. This past weekend, the 
junior playmaker rose to the occasion again to propel the Irish into the third round of 
the NCAA Tournament. 
Friday night against upstart Ohio State, the forward from Grapevine, Texas, scored two goals in leading the host Irish to a 3-1 victory over the Big Ten champion Buckeyes. 
Sunday, Guertin continued her strong play adding two 
more goals and providing a key assist to lead the Irish to a 3-1 victory over Purdue. 
"Amanda has been fantas­tic. She was just great," Notre Dame head coach Randy Waldrum said. 'Tm so happy for her right now. She's such a good player. It's good to see her back on track because we really need her." 
Despite not playing a game for three weeks, the Irish did not show any signs of rust Friday night. From the open­ing moments of the game, the Irish offense was on the move. After holding an impressive 13-2 shot advantage in the 
see NCAA/page 19 

and get Irish to Sweet 16 in NCAA Tournament 

Irish forward Amy Warner and a Purdue defender scramble for the ball during Sunday's Notre Dame victory In the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
. Revenge propels Irish to victory over Boilermakers in 2nd round 
In sports, there is nothing sweeter than revenge. 

On Oct. 4, Purdue stormed into South Bend like a blizzard and crushed Notre Dame 3-1. The physical Boiler­makers pushed and shoved the Irish around for 90 minutes. 
To make matters worse, the Irish dropped their third straight game, see­ing their record drop to a mediocre 7-6. 
Even worse, at that point in the season, Notre Dame was in serious jeopardy of not even competing in the NCAA Tournament. 

Oh, how the tides have turned. 
After rebounding emphatically from the midseason loss to Purdue, the Irish found them­selves staring the Boilermakers in the face again. 
But the stakes of this game 


Joe Licandro 
Sports Columnist 

see REVENGE/page 20 
-
MENS BASKETBALL 
Irish open season with 76-48 rout of Belmont 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 

.... 
Jordan Cornette's hands. 
That's all Belmont's shoot­ers saw Sunday afternoon. as the Irish knocked off the Bruins 76-48 in the opening round of the Guardians Classic at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish forward blocked 11 Bruin shots, shattering the previous Irish single game record of eight, set by LaPhonso Ellis in 1992 and edging the Joyce Center record of 10 set by UCLA's 

Bill Walton in 1973. the defensive double-double, 
"I think it's fitting that it grabbing 13 rebounds. 12 of was Walton's which came record, on the 
because it's "Jordan definitely did a defensive about time great job. He had I 1 side. 
that we got a "Jordan
blocks, and that's a great 
UCLA guy's definitely name off a accomplishment for him. " did a great Joyce Center job," Irish record," Irish forward
Dan MIiier

coach Mike Dan Miller
forward

Brey said. "It said. "He should be a had 11 Notre Dame blocks, and guy's record." that's a great accomplish-
In addition to the block ment for him. He just hustled record, Cornette completed all over the floor. He didn't score a lot tonight, but he did everything else. He had assists. rebounds, steals, and he was just all over the place." 
After seeing its lead nar­rowed to just four points with 3:40 to play in the first half, Notre Dame erupted for a 15-0 run to close out the half, largely on the efforts of Cornette and a quick Irish defense. 
"We just kept pushing and playing defense hard," said Miller who paced the Irish in scoring with 19 points. "We pushed it out towards the end of the first half, and we made a run. It just shows how explosive we can be. We can just put points on the board in a hurry." 
Miller was a key part of a late first half play that seemed to turn the tide in the game towards Notre Dame's favor. After one of Cornette 's seven first half blocks, Irish point guard Chris Thomas gathered a pass just left of the key and tossed an alley-oop pass up to Miller who slammed the 
see CORNETTE/page 20 
... 
VOLLEYBALL 

CROSS COUNTRY 
After falling to Texas Christian Friday, the Irish 
Miami 3 Notre Dame 2 
Great Lakes Regional
rebound to beat the-Horned Frogs and Centenary
Virginia Tech 3, Notre Dame 0 
Championships
Saturday. 
After having lost only two of its last 89 Big East 
The mens squad finished eighth while the 
matches, the Irish lost two more over the week­
women won the regional litle over the weekend. 
end. 
page 22
page 22 

page 21 








