
l'lll¦:t:t;t.'All~l•Wffl ; ¦ IIIVf•Ji,1 ¦ l\TAllW~ltJltlll 
Rector changes Morrissey parietals 
• Vandalism prompts midnight parietals rule 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Ediwr 
Duo to snvural incidents ol' vamlnlism in the past month, Morrissey llall rnclor rather .John St11olo imposP<l new pari­etal hours on tho dorm's male rnsidnnls. 
PariPtal hours. when stu­dnnts of llw opposite sex arc 
Rathert issue not resolved 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's suspension of sllcurity officer Belinda ltalhert on Nov. 7 remains unresolved, Bather said Thursday. 
Tim officer is on an unpaid suspnnsion from the College p11nding the provision or infor­mation to be given to Iluman Hcsources Director Debra Kelly. 
"J\s far as I know, at this point I am on unpaid suspen­sion but I expect the College to terminate me," Hathert said. 
Hathert claims that Kelly suspended her because Hatherl's college transcripts were missing from her per­sonnel file and until them was verification of Rathert's degree from Indiana University Southeast, Hathert claims the College told her she would be suspended from her duties. 
According to the disciplinary procedures in the College's employee handbook "prede­termined standards of perfor­mance and conduct an~ estab­1ished in all departments of the College" and "when an employee does not observe these standards, either through lack of knowledge or with intent. the supervisor will ruact to these situations by using a system of progrnssive discipline." 
The handbook also further statos that "the normal steps in this disciplinary system arc: oral warning, written repri­mand, disciplinary layoff and termination." 
In Hathnrt's case. the College is investigating whether or not Rathert mis­rn presnn tu d herself to the 
see SECURITY/page 3 

allowt~d in dorm rooms, nor­the dorm. mally rnn l'rom 9 a.m. to mid­Steele also encouraged resi­night Sunday through dents to come forward with Thursday and 9 a.m. to 2 a.m. information about the latest Friday and Saturday. incident of vandalism, the 
Under the new rule, smashed stall door, which Morrissey parietals will now be occurred Sunday between 2 9 a.m. to midnight every day a.m. and 2:30 a.m. for the rest of the semester "lt is my experience that except the day ol' Morrissey·s there is a code of silence that Christmas dance. shrouds such happenings," lrn 
In an e-mail sent early wrote. "No one wants to get Thursdav to dorm residents. anyone 'in trouble.' This Steele wrote that four broken inmate mentality sometimes windows and a busted bath­known as the honor of thieves room stall door on the third has no place among men who l1oor show a lack of pride for have come to know themselves as a community, as brothers." 
Steele went on to explain how .to explain his reasons for eliminating social gatherings, which usually occur on week­ends and last until 2 a.m. when parietal hours end. 
"Since we are not in fact treating Morrissny Manor as a home by taking pride in it and taking care of it, it seems lit­ting that we have no further social gatherings in the dorm for the rest of the semester,'' he wrote. 
Steele and the dorm's assis­tant rectors did not return 
Seniors say ~bye' to stadium 
By JETAUN DAVIS 
News Writer 
As the Notre Dame foot­ball team prepares to play llutgers in tho final home football game of tho season Saturday, Notre Dame seniors said they realize that lhe clock is ticking toward the end or their col­lege years. 
"I am going to be really sad on Saturday," said senior Kate Mosesso. 
Though not every senior holds an emotional bond with Notre Dame football, many of them said they are having difficully coming to grips with the fact that this game will be their final foot­ball game as Notre Dame undergraduate students. The aspect of Notre Dame football that they will miss the most, many said, is the unique atmosphere of the entire weekend. 
"I am going to miss doing the Irish jig with my friends and throwing marshmallows during timeouts," said senior Meg Wallace said. "I will definitely miss laughing hysterfcally at that one usher that ducks with fear every time the marshmal­lows come out." 
But senior traditions and friendly jokes are not the only aspects that will be missed, students said. Seniors said it will be par­ticularly hard to bid farewell to this specific sea­son, which has been marked with such increased enthu­siasm and victory under new head coach Tyrone Willingham. Although seniors witnessed a success­fu I season in 2000 when Notre Dame went to the Fiesta Howl, students sav this season stands far abov~ that of two years ago. 
"The new West Coast offense is what really makes the games crunk," said senior James Scarborough. "Over my past thn~e years, everyone new what play 

phmrn calls made Thursday. 
Somo residents said they did not see a connoction betwMn vandalism and pariotals. 
"Parietals should not be a punishment. but they should be for privacy and sal'cty,'' said sophomore Mike Ilaggerty. 
Junior Michael Miranda said he and students were annoyed by the new restrictions. "Out. of a dorm of nearly 300 people, that's kind of" a large an~ou~t ~f p<iop.~n to p~mish !"or a lew 111c1dents, hn said. 
see PARIETALS/ page 9 

La\Vsuit threatens 
ACE 

By SHEILA FLYNN News Writer 
A current federal lawsuit charges that government funding for Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program is unconstitutional, blurring thn separation of church and state. 
The suit was filed Oct. 3 on behalf of the American Jewish Congress (AJC) in U.S. District Court in Washington. D.C., against the Corporation for National and Community Service, which directs the AmeriCorps program that finances ACE. Because these programs receive federal money that extends to ACE and two other religiously affil­iated organizations, AJC said, the government is paying for religious education, and it is this controversial allocation of funds which is spurring th·e protest. 
The AJC case is being han­dled by Irvin B. Nathan, Daniel Pariser and Sarah Kotler of the Washington law firm Arnold & Porter. 
"We have made it clear from the outset that we do not object to the program !ACE) as such, provided they're only teaching secular subjects," said Marc Stern, assistant executive director of the AJC in New York. 
But the problem, Stern said. is that ACE volunteers teach religion. The lawsuit seeks an injunction against further use of federal funds to nnance such religious instruction in sectarian schools. 
ACE participants commit to a two-year service program. teaching in underprivileged Catholic schools across the southern UnitP.d States. 
see LAWSUIT/page 6 


Davie would run -straight down the middle." 
Many seniors said they are upset because they have only had one year with Notre Dame football while under the direction of Willingham and his staff. 
'Tm glad that he was here for my last year," Mosesso said. "I wish I was going to be around to see more of him." 
Though they appreciate being a part of this era, stu­dents said, they are sad that it is over so soon for them. This year's senior class will make up the first alumni members of the "return to glory" phenomenon, but students said this distinction does not ease the transition from student to graduate. 
"Coming back for games still won't he the same not sitting in the student sec­tion," Mosesso said. 
In fact, to extend their time with the "return to glory" era, many of the seniors are planning their trips to the bowl game that 
is much anticipated. 
Although other years were not marked by such excite­ment and change, students said they still have unfor­gettable memories from their first three undergrad­uate seasons. 
"The Boston College game my freshman year where the squirrel running into the end zone was the high­light," said senior Kyla Davis. 
Senior Dan Hoople also chose a freshman year game -the Nebraska game -as his favorite. 
"Their fans redded. out the Stadium, but the game was definitely one to remember as well," Hoople said. 
Other seniors, however, could not pinpoint a specific game as their favorite. 
"All of them" are Wallace's favorite, she said, "because I always have l'un at the games with my friends." 
Contact Jetaun Davis at jdavis7@nd.edu 
• I 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Friday, November 22, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Nam.es in a n1ental Rolodex 
''Er ... hl. My name's Will, I'm from Siegfried. originally from Ohio, I like to read, I like to write and I'm crazy. In other words. I'm considering PLS." 
l've lost track of how many times I've said that phrase, or 
some variant of it. over my admittedly short time here under the Dome. What I do know, though. is that each time I said that, I supposedly made a new acquaintance. 

The thing is, my  Will Puckett  
brain has the mem­ 
ory retention capa­ 
bility of an amoeba  News Production  
or some other one- 
celled icky thing  

thev yell at us about in biology. 
So if your name's Katie, not to pick on Katie Staden, but anyways. you're prob­ably listed somewhere in my broken mental Rolodex as "that one girl whose name starts with a K." Obviously, this leads to problems when dealing with more than one person whose name begins with K, like Katie, Katie and Katie. (Are there other names that start with a K?) Since I don't think the University will limit enrollment to 26 people anytime soon, I guess I'm a lost cause on that front. 
Maybe the key is trying to memorize AIM screen names. That'll work just great. I can go around calling everyone stuff like "fightingirish327283963434" and "sprklygurl823592" all the time. What are those people who make them­selves "firstnamelastname" just because they can trying to do, confuse me? 
Then there's the people who appar­ently know me from somewhere or other, maybe from "that one class'meet­ing/dinner/party/other activity," assum­ing of course that I remember that exact same instant in time when we both regurgitated our "vital informa­tion" as ifit were toxic and would devour our insides ifwe didn't spill it. I'm beginning to think that's the real reason behind acid reflux. At any rate. it's really pretty rare to remember all that stuff, let alone call it up on demand. 
So ifyou're going to class, at a party, wherever -and the best friend of the roommate ofthe person who dated the person you sat next to in freshman year composition shows up, don't be aston­ished when they don't jump up and down screaming your name at first sight. Well, if they do, Iwould run. But otherwise, give 'em a break, and let them slide by with an "ab, uh, hey, howyadoing?" at first before breaking a chair over their head and reintroducing yourself. Maybe I'm just vainly hoping that by the time I'm a junior or some­thing, people won't expect me to know the names of all 10,000 or so people here, but hey. a naive freshman can dream, right? 
I hope so, because I need to get to study group with irish­leprechaun28395832. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of jownal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Lecture and panel discuss the death penalty in America 

Judges and other experts examine the merits and problems of the death penalty, including moral issues for courts. 
page 11 
WORLD& NATION 
United States announces capture of top al-Qaida terrorist 
U.S. 
officials announce that Abd al-Rahim al­Nashiri, the al­Qaida chief of operations, is in 

U.S. 
custody. 


page 5 
BUSINESS NEWS 
United Airlines campaigns for loan to avoid bankrupcy 
United Airlines and its unions appeal to the government for monetary help to stem downward financial spiral. 


page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Senate must enforce its rules to be taken seriously 
The Observer editorial examines the failure of the Student Senate to abide by its own actions and consequences of this weakness. 
page 12 
SCENE 

Chicago offers an impressive artistic side to city visitors 
Scene introduces readers to the exhibits, merits and unique features of the Art Insitute of Chicago, especially Italian Renaissance pieces. 
page 15-16 
SPORTS 
Insider profiles senior football players 

This week's Irish Insider highlights each senior member of the football team before they take the field for the last time Saturday. 
Insider 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Open panel discussion with Sheila Murphy and Darrin Bclousek "The Death Penalty and tho Work of tho Sant'Egidio Community" Noon to 1:30 p.rn. at Center for Social Concerns 

. 
Philosophy Colloquia Series with Ernan McMullin, C.S.C. "van Fraascn's Unappreciated Hcalism" 3 p.m. in Hoom 220, Malloy IIall 

. 
Lecture with Lillis O Laoire: "Warmth, Cold, Kinship and Friendship: Aspects of Irish Language Metaphorical Worldview" 3 p.m. in Hoom 424, Flanner Hall 

. 
Lecture with Peter Eisenman: "Architecture Matters" 4 p.m. in Room 104. Bond Hall 

. 
Saturdav Scholar Series with Meredith Gill "Art and· the Heligious Imagination" 


9:30 a.m. Saturday in Ilesburgh Center Auditorium 
. Theatre directed by Wendy Arons: "How I Learned to Drive" 
7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Sunday in Washington Ilall 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 18th Saint Mary's College High School Choir Festival 
8:30 a.m to 4:30 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium and Little Theatre 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Bus hits street sign 
NDSP received a report Wednesday of a bus backing into traffic sign on Notre Dame Avenue. 
Student vehicle towed 
A student's vehicle was towed Wednesday from Lhe E03 Visitor Lot for a parking violation. 
Employee transported to 


hospital 
A University employee was trans­ported by ambulance Wednesday from South Dining Hall to Memorial Hospital for treatment of an illness. 
Student bike stolen 
A student reported the theft of her bike Wednesday from outside Hayes­Healy Center between 9:15 a.m. and 
10:30 a.m. There are no suspects. 
Two cars collide on Juniper

Road 
NDSP responded to a two-car acci­den Wednesday on Juniper Road. There were no injuries reported. 
Compiled by NDSP Crime Blotter. 

. Senior Hccital with Cindy Millc.r 
2:30 p.m. Sunday in Little Theatre 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Buffalo chicken lasagna, meatball with sauce, Hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, roast top round, champagne rice pilaf, cherry crisp, baked Cajun pollock, cheese & veg­etable pie, long grain & wild rice, win­ter-blend vegetables, oatmeal, bacon, sausage, gravy & biscuits, hash browns, grilled turkey on kaiser, snow peas & noodles, California Eldorado casserole 
Today Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, provencal sauce, Hawaiian pizza, roasted turkey breast, bread stuffing, peas, cherry crisp, tuna casse­role, potato pancakes, hot chunky applesauce 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
w 
:z: 
ti 


3: w 
... 
cc 
CJ 



0

.... HIGH 39 HIGH LOW 30 LOW 
39 30 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Meatball, baked cheese ravioli, Mexican beef pizza, pretzel sticks, macaroni & cheese, cau­liflower, BBQ chicken, grilled tuna with lemon, turkey breast, bread stuffing, long grain & wild rice, grilled chicken, reuben sandwich, seasoned fries, onion rings, BBQ Cantonese pork 
Today Dinner: Meatball, baked cheese ravioli, Mexican beef pizza, pretzel sticks, spinach pie, green bean casserole, turkey noodle casserole, fried perch, roast top round, Cajun chicken breast sandwich, seasoned fries, onion rings. chicken Kung Pao. taco baskets 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No Menu Available 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 


Atlanta 48 / 32 Boston 52 / 45 Chicago 39 / 31 Denver 69 / 39 Houston 67 / 42 Los Angeles 78 / 54 Minneapolis 37 / 29 New York 56 / 42 Philadelphia 57 / 39 Phoenix 85 / 56 Seattle 55 / 40 St. Louis 45 I 33Tampa 70 / 45 Washington 55 / 40 

•';** * 
** * 

HIGH 34 31 LOW 30 19 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Security 
continued from page 1 

College, which is subject to immediate dismissal, as it would be considered fraud in securing employment.. 
"It was unfortunate that this had to occur. It could have been handled in a more professional manner. It could have been as simple as a request for college tran­
·------· r-------. 
scripts but that is not how
·------.. ·-------.. $59 ·------· 
I I I I I 
Debbie Kelly handled the sit­
I I I $69
I $15 I $26 I I $68 uation," Rathert wrote in a 
I I I I Color, Cut & I I I Highlights, 
statement. 

I Mens Cut I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I 
Following Rathcrt's sus­
Cut & Style

I.. ______ .. .I ______ ..I .I ______ I I I .______ ..One Process .. 
pension, the security officer



·------· 
was also banned from cam­
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. 
pus. The security officer
You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, 
received a letter on Nov.12
and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
from Kelly confirming the
We hope to see you soon. 

College's "suspension and notice of absolute prohibition
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­
from campus."
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-. 

"The decisions that [inter­
Mu.st be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
im security director)
Melissa-Connie-Scrge'-Kristin-Jennifer-Elaine -Michele -Efena -Jennifer 
Rosemarie Harris, human ATRIA SALON 2 
resources and administrators
ATRIA SALON NotvJ,dfc,npir,lp.'11•"-Loogonino:dhauadd$10. No0<hcrdisaJUn~WY· °"'""'""'"""i"ll'-ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center 
make are to benefit the stu­
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Salon rcw:rva. the Ttco rdusr ~to .lfl)' client whose I\.Ut condiion LI untrratahle. 
Next to Sprint 

dents. They would not make
Corner ofEdi,on 

271-8804 289-5080 OFFER EXPIRES 11-30-02 Less than I mile from campus 
a decision that would nega­tively impact students," College spokeswoman Melanie Engler said. "They keep the campus' best inter­est in mind." 
Rathert was originally given until Nov. 13 to provide the College with the missing information, but was granted an extension by Kelly. According to Rathert, she sought an extension so she could seek legal counsel and hired Shawn Freidman of the Freidman and Associates law firm based in LaPorte, Ind. 
Rathert claims Freidman contacted College Counsel Kathy Brickley on Nov. 18, to turn over Hathert's tran­scripts. 
But Engler said Rathert's transcript has still to be turned over to the human resources department. 
"[Freidman) told them we have a degree but they told him they don't want me back. They told him they would negotiate a severance package but !accepting) a severance package keeps you from suing," Rathert said. 
Rathert has filed a com­plaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and plans to file a lawsuit against the College based on claims that sexual harassment and discrimina­tion, unequal wages and a hostile work environment exist at the College. 
Kelly refused to comment on the situation. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

r-----------·-­

theclogstore.com 
1-800-948-CLO.G 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets forany Occasion (574) 674-0022 Fax (574) 674-0033 ND themed baskets our specialM 
Ifyou areready fat something different... arbados is waiting for you/ Legendary beaches and fantastic nightlife makes Spring Break in Barbados ,_.-. unforgettable, 

You're the Homecoming chairperson. All you have to do is organize 10,000 students, ~() events and 1 par~cte. 
h ><.::.<:tx:.::::.:r:~:~::X\iiZ-i 
·  •  SPEAKEAPIIONE  
J.:t  i~~.E~::A:c:~~~~:ER'" service TWO-WAY NESSAlilN6 JAVA"' GAMES & APPLICATIONS OllilTAL CELLULAR  

l10c 

10J.e11,y I-he J.i,il-e11,l we11,l\(.ie+e11,l\t.ie wo.,-\:.s ovev seve.-c,,.l l'll.\"l,,he.A. ""iles. A"IJ.. 1-c""'ov-vcw, "le11,¼-\0>1wiJ.e. 
Tuey'v-e .:,,.II col.\\\t-i\\' O\\ yol.\. Which is why yol.\ \\ee.A t-le,c¼-el's .A,,ih,,l w.,..1\:.ie+.,..l\:.ie .Pec:,,.¼-1.\ve. It lets yo!.\ ,e+-v-i,'.:lh+-t-hvol.\,1-. wi+-1-\ +-l-ie fl.\Sl-i o.P .:,,. bl.\H-O\\. The:,,.¼-1Mec:,,.\\S \\C iMisseJ. c.:,,.lls, voice IM"'il ov-pho\\e t,.,..,_ <5+-"'y i" co\\h:"ct wi+-1-\ evev-yo"e .Pv-01M the Floe:,,.¼-(01M1MiH-ee +-o tl-.e All.\1M\\i Co1M1MiH-ee, witl-\ol.\¼-1Missi\\~ "' J.e½-.:,,.il. New yol.\1ve v-eMy-f>vi\\, It. 
J\lcw's "' ~v-e"'+-+-iw.e +-c ~et J\le)<;+-el: "'11 J\lch-e {)"'""'e stl.\J.e\\ +-s -,e+­
"'I07.*~i.scal>.~i--"'"Y v-oo.+-e
Cl\ 
pl.II\\\ .11\\\.A $I00* c:,,P,P "'"Y pl...ol\e. 
-ro b1>.y: 
• BO t-o \\e)(t-el.colM/ivish-st-lAJ.e\\t-. • coi.11 t-oll---fvee 1-877-c;'Q(.-2.'i2G. 
• C¢\\h,,ct-Jl)t--\ (OtMIMlA\\lC"'-Ho\\S "'t-S74-24'3-'38' 18' 

--------------··­page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS · Friday, November 22, 2002 



Debaters place high in St. Louis 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Debate Team achieved unprecedented success last weekend at the Gateway Invitational debate tournament at Washington Univorsity in St. Louis. 
The 12 members who partici­pated in the event, led by sec­ond-year law student Kate Huetteman, the team's director, debated in two-person teams against pairings from other col­
leges and universities from the Midwest and the south in both varsity and novice divisions. 
After nine roWlds of 40-minute Parliamentary-style varsity debates, two of Notre Dame's five reams emerged victorious in the final championship round. 
"It was basically complete domination," said Huetteman, who is in her second year of coaching Notre Dame's team. "We came home with two huge sweepstakes trophies." 
In a typical final-round sce­nario, the two competing teams hail from opposing schools, and are therefore required to debate in front of three judges, who will then determine the winning pair, whose school team would be awarded a specific amount of points. 
This time, there was no ques­tion which school would be awarded the points. "We didn't have to debate the final round, because we really don't debate against our own team," Huetteman said. 

The final round was called off, team points were tallied and the Irish debaters were declared vic­tors. 
"At this tournament, we got 26 points towards the National Parliamentary Debate Association's (NPDA) National Sweepstakes." Huetteman said, referring to the governing body of college-level debate. At each regional tournament, held vari­ously throughout the academic year at schools across the coun­try. teams compete in six prelim­inary rounds of debate before breaking into octafinal, quarter­final, semi-final, and final rounds, each of which they are allotted a set number of points for strong performances. 
Senior political science major Maureen Gottlieb and her part­ner. fellow senior Victoria Fetterman. made up one of the two Notre Dame pairings that made it to the final round, meet­ing fellow Notre Dame studen1s Meghan Callahan-Peters, a sophomore, and Chris Gallo, a senior and the team's president, in top standing. Both teams were declared unanimous victors by all three judges in their respec­tive semifinal rounds. 
AN IMPORTANT MESSAGE FOR ARTHUR VELASQUEZ, MEMBER, NOTRE DAME BOARD OF TRUSTEES 
As members of the Notre Dame community, we are concerned about the struggle between your company Azteca Foods and its workers. Your union workers went out on strike in Chicago on September 30m_ They wanted to 
replace the previous union that did not represent their interests with a democratic union that they controlled. Your company refuses to allow a federal mediator to help resolve this dispute. 
While we recognize the troubles one may have in running a highly profitable business, shouldn't workers be treated with dignity and respect? Shouldn't they be allowed to choose their own union which isn't controlled by lead,ers that could care less what they think? 
The Catholic Church has a strong moral teaching on the rights of labor and the benefits of unions. The Church i-ecognizes that unions are vital to of the dignity of work and necessary for the appreciation of the value of each person. Pope John Paul II. in his encyclical Centesimus Annus ( 1992), stated that, "the freedom to join trade unions and the effective action of unions...are meant to deliver work from the mere condition of 'a commodity' and to guarantee its dignity." 
Workers have the right to organize and to be at the bargaining table to negotiate their contracts without the threat of loss of wages, benefits, or their jobs. In Paccm in Terris ( 1963), Pope John XXIJI wrote that, 
It is clear that [the human person] has a right by the natur.tl law not only to an opportunity to work. but also 
to go about [that] work without coercion. To these rights is certainly joined the right to demand working conditions in which physical health is not endangered, and young people's norIT)al development is not impaired...Furt.hermore, and this must be especially emphasized, the worker has a right to a wage determined according to criterions ofjustice and sufficient therefore... to give {workers] and cheir families a standard of living in keeping with the dignity of the human person. 
The value of unions is recognized in Notre Dame's code of conduct, which all licensees are required to follow. which has a clause stating that companies must allow its workers to organize. Unions play an essential role in benefiti11g workers, raising their standards ofliving, a11d improving their working conditions, while strengthening the community. 
We are asking thatyou accept the requests made by your workers, recognize the union, VE Local l 159, and allow your workers to be atthe bargaining table with Spanish language translation provided. 
We are also asking that you allow the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to have access to your plant when a request is made. 
We ask you 10 cease threatening your workers because of their legal picketing and strike. We ask you to stop photographing your workers while they pray at their picket line with a priest. 
Please work promptly to develop a contract that benefits both Azteca and the workers who have made the company what it is today. 
The Progressive Student Alliance www.nd.edu/~psa psa@nd.edu
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 



R. ' 
. 


Don't forget...the CSC, is .ponsoring a dorm competitzonJ giving a cash awardqf $IJ 000 to the hall with the highest percent qf participatzon and$500 to the runner-up/ 
So ... bring backjacketsfrom home after Thanksgiving break.I 
Bring your jacket to one of the Give away your coat ... and various Project Warmth sites on 

Share the Warmth!
campus and receive a coupon for a 25% discount 
St. Michael's H\Ml\1Es Building Food
~,I\Sso~l

on any new jacket of your choice 
Laundry BOOKSTORE Services Services 
SOC I AL 

fa,.,,:, 

< :, 
at the Hammes Bookstore! CONCERNS ..... 0 Student UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Activities 









WORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 22, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WJRE SERVICES page 5 
U.S authorities capture al-Qaida's Gulf chief 
Mecca, Saudi Arabia, is 
Associated I' rcss 

believed to be in his mid-30s and a longtime associate of bin WASIIINCTON Laden. 
Al-Qaida leader Abd al-Hahim U.S. intolligcncc believes he al-Nashiri. the network's chief was behind the Oct. 6 attack on of operations in the Persian the French tanker off the coast Gull'. has been captured, senior of Yemen that left one crewman 
U.S. govornment officials said dead, said a U.S. defense offi­Thursday. cial, speaking on condition of 
Al-Nashiri, a suspected mas­anonymity. termind of the USS Cole bomb­Al-Nashiri oversaw the pur­ing in October 2000, was taken chase and transport of explo­in an undisclosed foreign coun­sives, the leasing of safe houses try earlier this month and is and the planning and financing now in U.S. custody, officials of attacks, the official said. said. speaking on the condition He has also traveled under a of anonymity. number of other names, includ­
lie is the highest-ranking al­ing Umar Mohammed al-Harazi Qaida operative captured since and Abu Bilal al-Makki. U.S. the CIA. FBI and Pakistani officials believe he was in authorities captured Osama bin Ghazni. Afghanistan, around Laden's operations chief. Abu the time the war began there in Zubaydah. in raisalabad, October 2001. He is thought to Pakistan, in March. have moved to Pakistan when 
U.S. officials had recently said the Taliban fell, and he may a senior al-Qaida leader had have gone to Yemen in recent been caught, but they had months. Some tribesmen in declined tu identify him. On Yemen, however, said he had Sunday, llomeland Security gone to Malaysia. Direclor Tom !Hdgc said the In the Cole attack. U.S. offi­leader was providing informa­cials have said al-Nashiri gave tion to his interrogators. telephone orders to the 
Al-Nashiri is suspected in a bombers from the United Arab number ol' other al-Qaida ter­Emirates. He then fled to rorist plots. including the 1998 Afghanistan. East Africa embassy bombings. In addition to the Cole attack, bomb another destroyer, the tied to a failed al-Qaida plot to He is also suspected of being I le is believed to have recruited officials say he has been USS The Sullivans, nine months bomb U.S. and British warships behind plans to bomb the 5th his cousin, Azzam, to train in involved with a number of plots before the Cole attack, at Aden. crossing the Strait of Gibraltar, Fleet Headquarters in Bahrain, Afghanistan and serve as one of targeting the U.S. Navy in the That attack failed when the sui­U.S. officials have said. In June, a plot revealed in January by the suicide bombers in the past three years. cide boat, overloaded with three Saudis were arrested in another top al-Qaida operative attack on the U.S. Embassy in He is thought to be behind a explosives, sank. Morocco in connection with that captured by Pakistan after flee­Nairobi. Al-Nashiri. born in nearly identical attempt to Most recently, he has been plot. ing Afghanistan. 

NIGERIA 

50 killed as angry mob protests Miss World article 
Associated Prc:ss 
LAGOS 

Angry mobs stabbed and set fire to bystanders Thursday in rioting that erupted after a newspaper suggested Islam's founding prophet would have approved of the Miss World beauty pageant. At least 50 people were killed and 200 injured. 
The violent demonstrators in the northern city of Kaduna burned church­es and rampaged through the streets until hundreds of soldiers were deployed to restore calm and enforce a dusk-to-dawn curfew. 
"A lot of people died. We don't know yet exactly how many, more than 50," said Emmanuel Ijewere, the president of the Nigerian Red Cross. 
Street demonstrations began Wednesday with the burning of an office of ThisDay newspaper in Kaduna after it published an article questioning Muslim groups that have condemned the Miss World pageant, to be held Dec. 7 in the Nigerian capital, Abuja. 
Muslim groups say the pageant pro­motes sexual promiscuity and indecen­cy. "What would [the prophet] Muhammad think? In all honesty, he would probably have chosen a wife from among them (the contestants)." Isioma Daniel wrote in Saturday's arti­cle. 
The newspaper ran a brief front-page apology on Monday. followed by a more lengthy retraction on Thursday, saying the offending passage had run by mis­take. 
In Thursday's rioting, more than 50 people were stabbed, bludgeoned or burned to death and 20(·!~re seriously injured, Ijewere told Tl:J Associated Press. 
At least four churches were destroyed, he said. 
Many of the bodies were taken by Red Cross workers and other volunteers to local mortuaries. Many people remained inside homes that were set afire by the demonstrators. ljewere said. 
Shehu Sani of the Kaduna-based Civil Rights Congress said he watched a crowd stab one young man, then force a tire filled with gasoline around his neck and burn him alive. Sani said he saw three other bodies elsewhere in the city. 
Alsa Hassan, founder of another human rights group, Alsa Care, said he saw a commuter being dragged out of his car and beaten to death by protest­ers. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Eleven Israelis killed in bus bomb buried 
A 13-year-old Israeli girl who loved to draw was buried at sunset Thursday on a Jerusalem hilltop, one of 11 people killed when a Palestinian man blew himself up on a crowded bus. Four of the dead were children. It was the first attack in Jerusalem since August, and the bomber's hometown -Bethlehem -braced for retaliation. Late Thursday, the army ordered residents of about 30 homes in el-Khader, on the outskirts of Bethlehem, to leave their homes. 
Things look dark as oil slick spreads 
Waves of black sludge from a major oil spill washed ashore amid high winds and driving rain Thursday, tarring new stretches of northwest Spain's scenic coastline and further threatening the region's multimillion-dollar fishing industry. The regional government extended a ban on fishing and shellfish harvesting declared Saturday, when 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


One million to lose employment benefits 
Jo-Anne Hurlston can't find a job after nearly six months of searching, even with her master's degree and experience in education. human resources and the hospitality industry. She's one of nearly 1 million unemployed workers across tho country who will start losing jobless benefits three days after Christmas because Congress failed to grant an extension before leaving for the year. 
Seattle gives thumbs up to monorail project 
Seattle voters gave the go-ahead for a monorail that would streak quietly across the city's skyline. The $1.7 billion. 14-mile expansion of Seattle's landmark monorail was approved by the city's residents by a mere 877 votes out of about 189,000 cast, according to Election Day totals made official on Wednesday. "I think it's going to put Seattle back on the map as the pioneer city that we are," said one of the chief sup­porters of the idea, Patrick Kylen. 

DEA goes wild over ecstasy drug rings 
Saying teenage use of Ecstasy is reaching "epidemic' lev­els. U.S. authorities planned to boost efforts to stamp out rings making and selling club drugs. The Drug Enforcement Administration expected to double such investigations as part of "Operation X-Out". Currently. about 5 percent of the DEA's major investigations involve club drugs such as Ecstasy and the so-called "date-rape" drugs Rohypnol and GHB, or gamma hydroxybutyrate. 
Harvard mulls ban on offensive language 
Harvard Law School is considering a ban on olfonsive speech after a series of racially charged incidents, rais­ing fears that the rules will inhibit the kind of sharp­edged intellectual combat so famously depicted in the movie "The Paper Chase." In the meantime, the school is also offering first-year students a new course to help them "manage difficult conversations" and learn how to speak with sensitivity on touchy issues such as race and gender. 
• r 

page 6 The Obseroer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 22, 2002 
gion. Some only teach religion, impact in disadvantaged The cases, filed in Michigan Supreme Court decisions ruled and there is no indication those schools throughout the nation and New York. disputed the that state subsidizing of non­


Lawsuit 
continued from page l 
During the summers of these two years, the ACE workers study at Notre Dame in its Master of Education program. During the school years, they live together with small com­munities of other ACE partici­pants, and the program encourages the fostering of spirituality in this living envi­ronment, advocating atten­dance at daily Mass and prayer services. 
ACE volunteers teach secular subjects and religion. but the program maintains that teachers are not paid by AmeriCorps for time spent teaching theological subjects. 
"Some ACE teachers do not teach religion. but some do and we firmly believe that they do that apart from any AmeriCorps support," said Matt Storin, associate vice president of news and infor­mation at the University. 
In a statement, the University said, "This action rests on the separation of church and state; in fact, since the beginnings of ACE religious activities have been specifically, systematically and scrupulously separated from the AmeriCorps Education Award program for which some ACE partici­pants are eligible." 
Stern, however, said this strict separation is not the case. 
"First of all, that's some­thing that the corporation has claimed, but it surfaced for the first time after about a year of negotiations," Stern said. 
"The time cards them­selves make no such claim. The list of teacher assign­ments makes no notice of people assigned to teach reli­
hours are off the clock." AmeriCorps has yet to respond to the suit. 
"We filed the complaint, and they may have up to 60 days to file an answer from the time they were served,'' Stern said. He expected a response from AmeriCorps around Dec. 3. 
Whenever the case goes to court, however, Storin said tho ACE program is considerably optimistic. 
"Notre Dame's ACE program consistently has been judged one of AmeriCorps, most suc­cessful programs, based on its significance and measurable and because it is providing the nation with a stream of highly educated and committed young teachers at a time of great demand for them." the University's statement said. 

Storin said, "We feel we have a very strong argument to make in the court." 
Recent legislation supports this confidence. Several cases barring federal funding for education in nonpublic schools were overturned within the past few years. 
In 1997, the Supreme Court reversed two previous 1985 decisions in Agostini v. Felton. 
use of state money to pay teachers working in nonpublic schools, and the original deci­sion deemed this financial situ­ation unconstitutional. 
The Supreme Court over• turned the rulings in 1997. however, stating, "What has changed since we decided Ball and Aguilar is our understand­ing of the criteria used to assess whether aid to religion has an impermissible effect." 
In 2000 and 2002, the trend continued toward allowing slight financial transgressions of the separation between church and state. Several public education was constitu­tional, as long as aid was pro­vided in an evenhanded man­ner. 
Despite all this support for religious education funding, however, Stern said the AJC will still push to ensure that "teachers not be allowed to teach religion" in federally­funded programs. 
"I think we have a good shot," Stern said. "But I've learned over the years not to get too confident." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 


MIKE O'DRISCOLL PRESIDENT, ASTON MARTIN JAGUAR LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA 
Mendoza's Jordan Auditorium Friday, November 22, 2002 at 10:30 am 
Mr. O'Driscoll will be discussing 
¦ 
The Development of3 famous British Car Companies 

¦ 
The Democratization ofLuxury within the Automotive Market 

¦ 
Business and Brand Strategy for Jaguar in a Turbulent Economy 


tMlltAii91)..'I 
ASTON MARTIN 


PLUS, Make sure to see the Jaguar XKR on display in Mendoza's courtyard Friday (8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m.) from the new James Bond 007 movie, opening in theaters, November 22nd. 


• t 

~ 
, . . 
-,. ~~. 


,Ii,.},_ 

, · ...,. ~..,. Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row ·..;. · f Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American .. , , Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
. '., ) 

,: ! · Sunday Buffet Brunch • Every Sunday 
• 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
' $8.95 for .II.dulls $4.50 for Children under 10 
(574) 272-7376 • 222 Olxleway South 
(U.S. 3~ In Roseland) South Bend, IN 
Notre Dame Opera 



AUDITIONS 
Dido & Aeneas The Happy Prince --Henry Purcell --Malcolm Williamson 
Audition dates: November 26 & 27, 2002 
12:00 pm to 5:00 pm 
SIGN UP IN CROWLEY HALL RM. 105 
Auditions will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium, basement of the Suite Museum of Art. 
Please bring one prepared aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Opera performance dates are April 25 & 26, 2003. 
Solo and Chorus roles available 
ALL ARE INVITED! ! 
· lj: 1°.t•,.rd,,.'( l:: ac hr1's'1"'<'·l':n:~'u,,;1 
Fu1l•Jt­


,.,:fiflr, it''I ita11•i! ff~1 hro"t ri.¥ 1)!,,WJ-'J at ,,i\t-,ar;j l;.{-lli!'t~ 
"Art and the Religious Imagination" 
with Meredith Gill 
Assistant Professor of Art, Art History and Design and a historian ofthe 
Italian Renaissance 
9:30 a.m. Saturday Hesburgh Center Auditorium 


Friday, November 22, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch November 21 
DowJones 
8,845.15 +222.14 

NASDAQ 

1,467.55 +48.20
~ 

S&P500 

933.76 
+19.61 


AMEX 

826.21 ~ +2.55 
NYSE 

493.12 +8.69
~ 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +5.98+0.8615.24 


~s:~~1;,~~::;~l~i~ :~•~11::1±Ji:jzrt1:~:1i::'-z::!v~ 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +5.54+1.06 20.21 



,:~::::::;:1PJll!il!il!!1l!B!l!:ll!ll!ili 


LUCENT TECH (NDRU) +10.47+0.47 31.10 
IN BRIEF 

U.S. economic stabilization predicted 
A yardstick of U.S. economic activity was 
unchanged in October, halting a decline that 
began in June and suggesting the nation's 
poor financial health may be stabilizing. 
Separately, the Labor Department said Thursday that weekly jobless claims fell to their lowest level in four months. 
The news helped the Dow rise more than 222 points to close at its highest level in three months. 
The Dow closed at 8,845.15, up 2.6 percent, after its biggest one-day gain since Oct. 11. The Nasdaq had an even bigger percentage gain, rising 3.4 percent to 1,467.55. 
The nation's gradually improving employ­ment outlook helped offset weaker consumer attitudes last month, leaving the Conference Board's Index of Leading Economic Indicators nat at 111.4. It fell a revised 0.4 percent in September. 
Leading service provider to hike rates 
MCI. the nation's second-largest long-distance company, will raise rates sharply on some call­ing plans beginning Dec. 1. a move that ana­lysts said w,L'> an attempt to steer customers to itc, more lucrative packages of services. 
WorldCom spokeswoman Claire Hassett said the price increase, which raises some per­minute rates to 9 cents from 5 cents, affects only a small percentage of MCI's 20 million cus­tomers and is designed to remain level with the rest of the industry. 
The rnte hike defies predictions by MCI's competitors that WorldCom, which flied for bankruptcy protection in July amid an account­ing scandal. would slash prices in an already depressed telecommunications market if it's allowed to emerge from bankruptcy. 
Still. rival AT&T Corp. had harsh comments for MCI. 
"There certainly is room for rational pricing to find its way back into long distance, but these price hikes are extreme to say the least," AT&T spokesman Gary Morgenstern said. 



UA needs loan to stay flying 
. United Airlines plans to obtain a $1 .8 billion loan 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Cash-strapped United Airlines, running out of time to avoid taking its restructuring into bank­ruptcy court, stepped up its campaign Thursday for government help. 
A day after a critical agreement with mach in­ists in efforts to cut com­panywide labor costs by $1.1 billion annually, United and its unions issued a new appeal to the federal panel consid­ering its application for a $1.8 billion loan guaran­tee. 
The airline delivered more than 42,000 letters from United employees, suppliers and allies to the Air Transportation Stabilization Board's offices in Washington, urging that the cash guarantee be granted. 
Representatives of the pilots, machinists, flight attendants, salaried employes and manage­ment groups all spoke briefly with staff mem­bers of the ATSB to rein­force the importance of the world's second­largest airline and the to run out of cash early York Stock Exchange workers -announced consequences a bank­next year. after opening more than cuts are some $400 mil­ruptcy filing would have. The immediate urgency 24 percent higher. They lion short of the targeted 
"We've had letter-writ­is a Dec. 2 debt payment are still down three­total. ing campaigns before but of $375 million, although fourths in value since the Standard & Poor's air­we've never generated that carries a grace peri­start of the year. 1ine analyst Philip this kind of vibes. which od of 10 business days While awaiting the Baggaley said it still shows the strong feelings which expires Dec. 16. ATSB decision and hop­appears "more likely the employees have," In a separate effort to ing machinists ratify than not" that the federal said spokesman Joe drum up financial aid, their tentative agreement board will reject United 's Hopkins of the Elk Grove chief executive Glenn next Wednesday, United application, forcing the Village, Ill.-based airline. Tilton was in Rio de is trying to obtain more airline to file for bank­
It's not known whether Janeiro on Thursday financial help from its ruptcy protection. But he the three-man board can seeking help from vendors and identifying told investors in a be swayed by lobbying, United's partners in the additional cuts to round research note that "there including pressure from Star Alliance, a coopera­out its plan for $5.8 bil­remains a significant congressional delegations tive worldwide network lion in labor cuts over 5 minority chance that in Illinois and several of 14 airlines that share 1/2 years. United will manage to other large states where passengers and revenue. Even with the machin­avoid Chapter 11." United is a major Investors remain hope­ists' pact -entailing He said that if machin­employer. ful, as evidenced by the $1.5 billion in wage ists approve the conces­
But the stakes are latest spurt in United 's reductions for 13,000 sionary deal next enormous for United, stock. Shares in parent United mechanics and Wednesday, political which is losing more than company UAL Corp. rose 24,500 baggage han­pressure on the ATSB to $7 million a day and is 22 cents, or 7 percent. to dlers, customer-service approve the loan guaran­thought to be on a pace close at $3.32 on the New agents and reservations tee will increase. 

Vivendi rejects $15 billion bid 
resentatives met with Vivendi the form of Barry Diller, who owns 1.5 
Associated Press 

Universal executives in Paris on Nov. 5 percent of Vivendi Universal 
LOS ANGELES and soon after, the company rejected Entertainment, the company that was 
Billionaire Marvin Davis, who at one the bid, Vivendi spokesman Alain formed last year to run Vivendi's U.S.­time has tried to buy CBS, NBC and Delrieu said. based entertainment operations, MGM, has made an unsolicited $15 In a statement issued in Los Angeles, excluding the music group and video billion bid for the entertainment assets Davis said he felt the offer was a "full game divisions. of debt-burdened Vivendi Universal. and fair value for the assets and VU's VU Entertainment was formed after 
Vivendi. the French parent of response has been positive." He said Vivendi bought the entertainment Universal Studios and Universal Music additional meetings with Vivendi have assets of USA Networks, which was Group, has been shedding assets but been scheduled for early next year. owned by Diller. 
said Thursday that its movie studio, Sources familiar with the negotia­Any sale to Davis could also founder record label, theme parks and other tions said Vivendi rejected the offer as because of restrictions Diller negotiat­entertainment units were not for sale. too low and might be open to a higher ed as part of that sale. If Vivendi sells Davis, however, said he expected to bid or to selling some of the assets or any of the entertainment assets, it may keep talking with the company. spinning off the entertainment divi­have to pay Diller as much as $2 bil­
Under the proposal, Davis would sions and keeping a minority interest. lion to cover taxes that would become also assume $5 billion in debt. His rep-But any deal faces a huge obstacle in due on the original deal. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 22, 2002 



WEEKEND EVENTS 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
Author Events: 
Khalil F. Matta Ph.D.., ND College of Business Administration, will be signing copies of Thou Shalt Not Invest Foolishly on Friday, November 22nd from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. 
Ted Mandell, ND professor of Film, Television, & Theatre, will be signing copies of Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys, on Football Friday Home Games from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. 
John Heisler, ND Director ofSports Information, will be signing copies of Quotable Rockne on Saturday, November 23rd from 9:00 
a.m. to 10:00 a.m. 
Paul Hornung will be signing copies of the Magnificent Seven: the 
Championship that Built the Lombardi Dynasty on Saturday, 
November 23rd from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
Patrick Monaghan will be signing copies of Because They Never Do on Saturday, November 23rd from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. 
August Jennewein, ND '80 will be signing copies of Slow Down: A Journey in Words and Photography on Saturday, November 23rd , from 10:00 a.m. to Noon. 
Mark Bradford will be signing copies of Nice Girls Finish First: 
The Remarkable Story ofNotre Dames Rise to the Top ofWomens 
College Basketball Saturday, November 23, 10:00 a.m. to Noon. 
Musical Events: 
,:;f 

The Undertones, Notre Dame acappella group, will perform on Saturday in the Bookstore one hour following the game. 
Following the school pep rally, the Liturgical Choir of the University of Notre ~e will perform in the store'slobby on Friday, November 22ri~ at7:30 p.m. 
Enjoy the upbeat music ofJoe Probst on Saturday, November 23rd fi-om 9:00 a.m. to Noon. 
HA. M M E S 
·.· JOYCE CENTER 

FOOTBALL WEEKEND HOURS Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Varsity Shop (in the Joyce Center) 


NOTRE DAME 
Fri~~ 9:00 am -10:00 pm Friday 9:00 am -5:00 PU.I

BOOKSTORE 
SatUr<fa.y 8:00 am -10:00 prri. Saturday 8:00 am -7:00 pni
IN THE ECK CENTER 
Sunday 9:00 am -10:00 pni Sunday 10:00 am -4:00 pm
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

' .
' •,. 

rriday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Oxford poet highlights influences of Blake 
heavily influenced by both Yeats and Blake. He said Van Morrison was so greatly inspired bv Yeats that he recorded an entire album using a selection of Yeats' poems. Because of copy­right restrictions and the lack of support from Yeats· surviving heirs, however, the album still has not been released to the public. 
Like Blake. Paulin said, Morrison tries to express the concept of Eden and how it would appear to us. His music is the result of fussing Scotch, Irish and England fussing with the American vcnacular, 
But in addition to Van Morrison's influences, Paulin explained his faults. 
"On paper, the lyrics don't work well," Paulin said. But with the wide range he employs to pronounce the words he sings, Paulin said, Van Morrison has the ability to create a great work of' art. He said both faith and vision are shown as forms of healing. and voice is a form of freedom. Like many of' Blake's poems, Van Morrison music is always searching for something that's been lost. Paulin said. lie said Van Morrison creates a Blakian vision with his music, and as such, one can argue that Blake is a folkloric artist. 
Paulin has edited numerous award winning collections of poetry, including "The Faber Book of Political Verse" and "The Faber Book of Vernacular Verse." llis first book of poetry, "A State of Justice," received tho Somerset Maugham Prizn in 1977. Paulin published a new book last year. ''The Invasion Handbook." 
llis lecture was sponsored by the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
Assistant News Ediror 
Tom Paulin, a poet and Lecturer at Oxford University's llortford College, spoke as a guest lecturer about the impor­tance of William Blake's poetry to three influential men on Thursday. 
Paulin. describing the genius r,f \-Vil!:am Blake, said, "He was an aristouat in the slum ... IBlakn wasJ a hefty extrava­gance of' invention." 

Ignored in his own time, it was not till after Blake's death that his work was appreciated, Paulin said. 
The lecture, entitiled "William Blake, Irish Visionary: His Influence on Yeats, Joyce and Van Morrison," explained the impact Blake has had on James Joyce, W.B, Yeats and Van Morrison. 
Blake's poems bring to mind God, demons and the fatherland, Paulin said. He discussed how Blake used poetry as a median to present the frustrations and tribulations he had with English rule. 
"Blake was an inspiration to the Irish people," Paulin said. He said Blake attempted to pre­sent to the masses a complex collection of poetry with exten­sively detailed illustrations. Yeats greatly admired his work and was influenced by his style, Paulin said. 
Paulin told the attentive crowd how musician Van Morrison was 
Hey Graduate...Moving to Chicago? 

Hot 

Apartments 
In The 

Windy City. 
•
TWO MONTHS FREE RENT on selected units 

• 
NO SECURllY DEPOSIT 

• 
3,000 Great Apartments 

• 
Hottest Locations in Town 

•
Apartments for Every Price Range 

• 
Short-Term Leases Available 


Parietals 
continued from page 1 
Residents say they were under the impression that the new parietal hours could change if Steele gets a confes­sion from the people responsi­ble for the broken stall door. 
However, sophomore Brian 
Murphy was not convinced that the punishment would work. 
"I don't think moving pari­etals back will deter vandal­ism," he said. 
According to Steele's e-mail. the Office of Student Affairs is considering a dorm-wide fine. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 


'EAAflVLKci 


SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 


UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS, 
For details and application fonns, go to; 


http://www.nd.edu/---sumlang/ or 
Pick up appllcatlons from the Office of lntematlonal Studies, (154 Hurley Bulldlng. Ph1,5203) 
application deadline: 3/7/03 



Sponsored by the Offtee ofthe Assistant Provost for International Studies and the College ofArts and Letters 
WRITTEN BY paula vogel • DIRECTED RY wendy arons 
Washington Hall 
WED, NOVEMBER 20, 7:30 I'M. 
THU, NOVEMBER 21, 730 f'.M. !'RI, NOVEMBER 22, 7:30 P,M, SAT, NOVEMBER 23, 7:30 l'M. 
SUN, NOVEMBER 24, 2:30 l'M. 

Tickers RESERVED SEATS $I 0 SENIOR CITIZENS $'I Al.I. STUDENTS $7 Available at the Lafortune Student Ccnte1 tkkct oflicc, Masrcrcard and Visa orders call 574-631-8128. 
Thi., production is supported by the Insrinne for Scholarship in the 1.ihcral Arrs. 
page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 22, 2002 




Judge shares anecdotes on capital punishment 
By JIM GAFFEY 
hews Writer 
Sheila Murphy, former presid­ing judge of Cook County, III., spoke Thursday in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium about her perspectives on capital punish­ment in America. 
The lecture, "An American Paradox: A First Hand Account of Justice on Death Row," included Murphy's impressions of the death penalty and a retelling of her personal experi­ences related to capital punish­ment. 
Murphy began her wide range of experience in the judicial sys­tem as a public defense lawyer when capital punishment was illegal in the United States. She represented several cases that called for capital punishment but never led to prosecution. She later became a Cook County judge and presided over many controversial cases involving capital punishment. 
One of the most famous of these cases was that of Vcrneal Jimerson, an black man who 
faced th c death penalty on 
charges of the rape. and double murder of a young Chicago cou­ple. Testimony against Jimerson was brought forth by a woman who, as it turns out, had been manipulated into presenting evi­dence to the court. Evidence against Jimerson mounted and, when the case was nearly closed, Murphy ordered a DNA test that eventually exonerated him. 
Jimerson was a person of low income, low IQ and no prior criminal record -a racial and socio-economic profile sugges­tive, Murphy said, of the bias inherent to capital punishment cases. She said tho majority of criminals on death row are either minorities or individuals from low-income backgrounds. Murphy said tho unfairness of America's administration of the death penalty makes it "a fatal lottery," one that unjustly perse­cutes minorities and the poor. 

"If you are poor, you will not lawyer to represent your case 
Contact Jim Gaffey at 

be able. in most cases, to get a well," she said. 
jgaffey@nd.edu 

..~-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-___-_-_-_-....----------------------::.;:...=...=...=...=...=.-=-=-=--=--=--=-=....,-, 


Conte Meet Anterica's envoy to the Vatican, Atnbassador JiID Nicholson 
Ask Ambassador Nicholson your questions about thejob ofrepresenting the U.S. abroad 
Friday, November 22, 2002, 2:30-4:00 pm in 117 DeBartolo Hall 
Organized by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
For more information contact The Nanovic Institute 211 Brownson Hall 
574.631.5253 


www.nd.edu/~nanovic 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 11 

Illinois judge, panel examine death penalty 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
Ncews Wrircr 

A forum Thursday night in the Ifesburgh Center Auditorium investigated the humanity of the United States' justice system, featuring a lec­ture by Illinois district judge Sheila Murphy followed by a panel discussion with other experts. 
"As Americans, we have to hang our heads in shame," said 
Murphy, retired presiding judge of the 6th municipal dis­trict circuit court of Cook County. "The death penalty is such an embarrassment." 
"The United States is really quite an outlier in how it uses and abuses the death penalty," Paolo Carozza, law professor at Notre Dame, said. 
Twelve countries have out­lawed the death penalty and few others actually execute their citizens, the panel said. In recent years, 90 percent of 

The death penalty is affecting the way the world views the United States, panel members said.. 
"It is very difficult for the United States to take steps forward in the areas of ter­rorism and other diplomatic issues due to the obstacle of capital punishment," Carozza said. 
St. Joseph County Superior

Major contemporary Latino poets will read from their work, debate literarv 
Court Judge Jerome Frese 
issues, and celebrate Hispanic culture and poetry during the Latino Poets 
said the death penalty is Conference. This unprecedented gathering will take place at the University of anythirtg but just. Notre Dame November 21-23, 2002. The events include poetry readings, panels "It is an eye for an eye on contemporary poetry and translation, Q & A sessions, and an open-mic mentality," Frese said. "I am poetry night. Conferees include renowned award-winning writer Gary Soto as against the 

well as the following fine poets, critics, and translators: Francisco Alarcon, Rai",I d e a t h "/ can't say the state death penalty penalty; I depends on
Barrientos, Lisa Chavez, Maurice Kilwein Guevara, and Aleida Rodriguez. The 
doesn't have the right to
don't like who the vic­
event is sponsored by Institute for Latino Studies, the Creative Writing Program, 
the death take a life. " tim is and it
the Department of English, and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
penalty; I depends on would like who the per­
Jerome Frese
to see us get petrator is." 
St Joseph County Superior Court
rid of the J o h n d e a t h Judge Maciejczyk,
Schedule of Events: 
penalty. It 
just doesn't 
make sense."
Friday Nov. 22 . Frese said presiding in a 
2:00 pm 
3:15 pm 
4:30 pm 
8:00 pm 

Saturday Nov. 23 the law. I cannot prevent 
10:30 am Panel: Latino Poetry & spirituality, led by Orlando Menes, Hesburgh state's right to a fair trial." Center C-103 A practicing Catholic, 
11:30 am Student Readings: undergraduate and graduate student poets, Hesburgh Frese said the Catholic Church only recently took an
Center C-103 Panel: Discussion of translation issues, moderated by Orlando Menes, with district that supports the hancisco Alarcon/Francisco Aragon, Raul Barrientos/Ben Heller, Hesburgh death penalty. particularly Center C-103 where a unanimous jury Reading: Reading of original poetry by Raul Barrientos with translations by Ben recommendation requires 

the judge to impose the pun­Heller, Hesburgh C-103 ishment, creates a conflict ofReading oforiginal poetry by Francisco Alarcon with translations by Francisco interest.
Aragon, Hesburgh Center C-103 
"I can't say the state
Reading: Lisa Chavez, followed by light reception, Hesburgh Center, 
doesn't have the right to 
Greenfield's Cafe take a life," Frese said. "I also took an oath to follow 



Elia's 
.M.ehi~~~,U,M-.e. 
******************** 
Vegetarian Dishes 

Hoummos, Tabouli, Falafel 
Meat Dishes 

Kibbee, Shawanna, Grape leaves 
Kebabs 

Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Kafta ... 
Desserts 
Baklava, Rice Pudding ... 
3 Blocks North o/SMC on US 31 --Roseland area Tel: 277-7239 l 15 Dixie Way North 
South Bend, IN 46637 
death penalty executions Iates human dignity. not if it is occurred within China, Iran, just, not if it is imposed fairly, Saudi Arabia not if it and the United "As Americans, we have makes the States. In addi­victim's fami­
to hang our heads in 
tion, the United ly feel better States stood shame." and not if it alone in execut­is an effec­ing the mental­tive punish­
Sheila Murphy
ly retarded m e n t , " 
Indiana district judge
until a Supreme Carozza said. Court ruling in "It is an exis­June 2002. tential ques­"The basic question is tion just as much as any, who 
whether the death penalty vio-arc we and who should we be? We need io look to the world arena to answer these ques­tions." 

active stance against the death penalty. In a conference in the l 980's the Bishops were split on the issue. The church found it justifiable to take a life to prevent further harm to others. 
"The death penalty corrupts us because we get this sense of righteousness and justice out of it. Law and punishments arc not meant to be based on emo­tions. it has to be hascd on jus­tice," Frese said. 
Charlotte D. Pfeifer, director of Student and Community Relations at Indiana University, said South Bend was mainly concerned with people of color and mental retardation. She compared Hitler's final solution to exterminate unwanted peo­ple in the community with the implementation ot' the death penalty in the United States. 
"Black people arc dispropor­tionately represented in the criminal justice system. Black people continue to suffer from the remnants of slavery and white people continue to bene­fit from them," rfeiffer said. "I am talking about institutional oppression. It is easier to try a person who is not seen as valu­able to the community. The 
usage of' the 
chief deputy 
prosecutor for St. Joseph County, seemingly the only proponent of the death penalty in the auditorium. agreed that the death penalty is not implemented uniformly. 
Maciejczyk spoke from his experience with the families of the victim's that he has repre­sented in murder trials. Ile said it was after dealing with murder cases that he found himself to be a strong support­er of capital punishment. 
"There are certain crimes where the criminal deserves to die," he said. 
Paolo Manicinelli of Sant'Egidio Community. an organization that works with death row inmates all over the 
country, said putting the offender to death is not an appropriate or helpful way to deal with the death of a loved one. 
"The death penalty never gives the victims back their lives and it never pays back the victims families." 
The majority of the panel agreed. 
"The greatest love and soli­darity calls us to oppose the death penalty," Carozza said. 
The discussion will continue with Murphy in a panel discus­sion on "The Death Penalty and the Work of the Sant'Egidio Community" at noon today at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. Other panelists will include Mancinelli and Darrin Belousek, assistant professor of philosophy at Goshen College. 
The events are sponsored by the Sant'Egidio Community, Notre Dame's Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, the office of Campus Ministry, and several other campus and local organi­zations. 

Open: Tuesday-Saturday llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bai1I407@saintmarys.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 









IEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, November 22, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norrc Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jas-00 Mcfarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
Kace Nageng:i;;r  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR, uuren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GR.APHTCS EDITOR, Karie McKenna SAINT MAil.rs EDITOR: Sarah Nc:.ror 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Marr Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieco 
CONTROLLER, Lori Lewalski 

CoNTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS............................... ...........................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VJEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's........ .....................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTI:Ms!WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer.na..edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporu, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofrhe University ofNorre Dame du U1C and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reseives the righc ro refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assisranr Managing Ediror and department edirors. Commencaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies shouU be direct­ed to &iitor in Chiefjmon McFarley. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obiavc-r (USPS 599 J..0} ii published Moru:hy rhrough Friday cxcq,t during c:um andv~arion pcnods. A ,ul»cripcio-n ID 1nc OblittVc:rU SlOO for one x:..1:mic year; 15'> for one &emem:r. 
The Oba-n-cr U publi.W .1.r. l'OSfMASTER 
0.24 South Dining H~ Send add.rc:u COTTC'Crion1 w. No'"' o.,.,.. IN <16556 1'bt01-crvcr 
P.O.lloxQ Ptriooiu.l poi(~ paid .at Nolfe U.mK Nuctt OatUC, lN 46)56-0779 .1nJ ,.d,Jl1io11al m..ihng offlLCS, 
The Oh~l'\'e-t h arncmhcr (~f rhc Auocuu~..J !'ro,. Al! rcrroJ1.K1ion righu :uc mcrv,J 
Senate must treat its mission seriously to gain student respect 
The Student Senate strives to be taken seriously in its quest to change University policies if it does not consistently follow its to represent the Notre Dame student body. own. In its mission to represent students to administrators, Senate Students have a right to know how they are being represent­assumes both groups acknowledged its privileged role. ed in student government. The fact that voters are largely But it's evident that voters don't take unconcerned about the attendance of student sen­Student Senate seriously when they elect rep­OJhe ators not only places the senators in a negative
userver

resentatives who cannot fully commit to their light. but it is also a sign that student government positions. is not viewed as a serious organization that neces­It's evident that some elected members sitates the attendance of its members. 

Editorial 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Sheila Flynn Chris Federico Helena Payne Matt Lozar Himanshu Pat Leonard Kothari Scene Viewpoint Sarah Vabulas Kurt Bogaard Lab Tech Graphics Michelle Otto Jimmy Atkinson Illustrator Patrick Quill 
don't view Senato as a serious organization when they are tardy to or absent from meet­ings while participating in alternative commitments. 
And it's evident that Senate can't even take itself seriously when it fails to enforce its own policies. 
Earlier this year, senators passed the Attendance Policy Amendment 25-0, requiring the Senate Ethics Committee to issue a warning to any senator who has missed four meetings. Five absences would result in a hearing that could possibly lead to expulsion. 
Since then, at least two senators have violated the attendance rule. The Student Senate has taken no disciplinary action. 
Attendance at Senate meetings and subcommittee meetings is obviously a crucial responsibility of senators. The organiza­tion's own amendment acknowledges the importance of regu­lar attendance and timely arrival. Representatives from each dorm must be present so that they may inform their hall com­munities of new student government developments. Senators, therefore, should enforce the guidelines they themselves designed. 
Student Senate cannot be an effective advocate for students Fingers can be pointed in many directions in this 
case: the voters for not caring about the participa­tion of their representatives, the representatives for failing to comply with the rules of Student Senate, senators for not addressing the issue, and finally, Senate leaders for failing to enforce the organization's policy. 
It is now imperative that the Student Senate enhances its credibility with the student body. Enforcing its own resolutions is one step toward earning respect from students. If Senate itself doesn't take its policies seriously, how can it begin to expect students and administrators to treat policies regarding parietals and alcohol policy? 
The Senate has the power to act as a voice for the students and has done so in the past. In order to be an effective voice for students, members must attend meetings where ideas emerge and work begins. But internal flaws belie external productivity. 
It is time for the Senate to iron out its many kinks. The stu­dent body deserves a productive Senate that can be taken seri­ously. 
And if Senate doesn't take its own actions seriously, it cer­tainly can't expect anyone else to. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Defending Irish dance 
After reading Sheila Flynn's interpreta­tion of Irish dancing as a "cutthroat sub­culture" in last Friday's Inside Column, we felt a response was needed. As she mentioned, she quit at age 13 and was only exposed to one teacher. 
Many other Irish dancers share this campus. As mem­bers of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Irish Dance Oub, we have been blessed to work with quite a few of them. Contrary to Flynn's assertion that her Irish dance instructor fostered an "elitist, condescend­ing attitude" in dancers and that they were bred to hate rival schools, there are dancers from various dance schools in our club. They have competed against each other and yet are dedi­cated to working and having fun together. For many who have spent years in Irish dance, many strong friend­ships came from class and competition. 
Flynn asserts that Irish dance "is a highly-structured realm." This is true, but why is that bad? The purpose of the accreditation system for Irish dance teachers is to ensure that teachers have proper knowledge of the music and steps to pass on to their students. This is one of the most admirable aspects of Irish 
dance, and the fact that this structured system exists is a testament to the commitment so many people have made to it. Flynn also mentioned tvvo dancers from her 
former school (one of the most respected schools in the East) 
who were "pushed so hard that one now has severe ten­donitis and the other has broken or sprained every toe 
and both ankles at least once." Despite their injuries, both of 
these dancers happen to be very successful still today; one of them toured with Riverdance and one placed at the World's twice. 
Besides, what competitive sport does not have its share of injuries? In fact, Irish dance is one of the best exer­cises. And it has been said that of all dance genres, Irish dance has the lowest incidence of eating disorders. It is an incredibly healthy activity which fosters dedication and persistence and instills a great deal of confidence. 

Sure, you have your fair share of extreme stage moms and teachers, but that does not mean all are like that. And it is the competitive nature which has created the dancers who are taking the world by storm with shows like Riverdance, now the best-selling video in the world. There are some horrible fathers and extreme coaches in Little League, but that doesn't mean all of Little League is bad. 
While we respect Flynn's opinion and do not contest her personal experiences with Irish dance, we feel another opinion should be offered. For many of us, Irish dancing has been a defining and positive part of our lives and our time at Notre Dame. So we would suggest the next time you see Irish dancing. you think not of students embroiled in "countless petty rivalries" but of how amazing it is that a country barely the size of West Virginia has so successfully exported its music and dance to nearly every corner of the world, to accredited schools from Japan to Kenya, from the Czech Republic to Poland. 
Kristy Hernandez 
co-president Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Irish Dane~ Club Nov. 20 



NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I won't take my religion from any man who never works except with his mouth." 
Carl Sandberg writer 

O
THE 
BSERVER 



VIEWPOINT 
Friday, November 22, 2002 page 13 
Parietals supporters need a taste of reality 
So, several times over I've been told that if I don't like it here, I can leave. I've even been called a "bug-brain" by a senile old 1962 Notre Dame alumnus. Well, now it's my turn, but I think I'll pose the attack a little differently. 
John Litle

If you want. like, or support pari­etals. I don't care if you do like il here. Frankly you need to go Obnoxious home to your mother right now and give her a hug. 
You need to stay there, nestled in her comforting bosom, until you are ready to come back out here with the rest of us big kids and start living in reality. I came here to interact and learn with a group of independent. intellectual, mature peers. Apparently you came here for kindergarten. This is a college, nnt pre-sctwol. I don't want you here; you don't want to be here. In fact, chances arc both you and your mother wish you were in your comforting, famil­iar hometown, under her loving wing. Make us all happy-go home. 
This campus is enragingly conserva­tive. You know, you can question authority -it is possible. Just because the rule has always been one way, doesn't mean it has to stay that way. What was once a smoothing policy to case the introduction of the "wretched and to-be-avoided, yet money-wielding and thus acceptable" females to campus has become an embarrassing testimony to your complacence and social immatu­rity. 
But what am I saying? You all agree with me. right? l mean, clearly no col­lege age student would consider manda-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tuesday's oil spill along the Spanish coast­line, which was covered in the business sec­tion of The Observer, deserves much more ·aunntion than it was given. 
I don't know about you, but "business" is not what comes to mind when I hear of an environmental cataslrophe. Although the eco­nomic damage to the Spanish people will be immense, there is much more at stake than the fishing industry. 
After a. disaster such as this, the dynamics of the ecosystem will change dramatically. The spill caused immediate ecological dam­age and the long term eITects, such as alter­ations to species composition and interaction, rnay exist for decades to come. 
In 1989 an Exxon Valdez tanker dumped nearly 11 million gallons of oil ofT the coast of t\luska. As of this year, the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council reports that while much progress has been made, the harbor seal, 6 tory gender separation to be a reason­able policy in this age of equal sexes and respect for individuals. right? Oops, how wrong of me, in so many ways. First, equal sexes here at Notre Dame? Yeah right, ask a tenured female professor ­if you can find one. 
Next, respect for individuals? You needn't look further than our esteemed Ollice of Student Affairs to see precisely the importance of respect for individual students. But this is beside the point. 
The real issue is that about half the students on campus don't agree with me at all. Half of the people you know actu­ally want parictab. Worse than simply being denied an opportunity to grow as a person, they actually request the stag­nation of their personal development. Staggering information to any liberated human being indeed. 
Armed with excuses like. "It's so con­venient that I don't have to worry about my roommate hooking up with his girl­friend every night," or "I like the feeling of privacy and gender community," these super-conservative sissies hold hostage what semblance of'the real world can be generated on this campus. What in God's name are these people going to do when they graduate? (Please avoid the obvious conclusions: "Return home" and "Live off their parents' wealth.") 
You know the truth. I don't like these people. I don't want to live next door to them when they graduate. I don't want to work at the same office as them. I don't want to have to do the job of rais­ing them from their slightly post-pubes­cent maturity to that of a real, function­ing adult, nor do I want to be nearby during their shock-initiation to adult life. 
So my solution is that they leave, and leave now. They can take a leave of absence -they're free to return when they are no longer sucklings. There will still be a place for them. 
Most frustrating of all of this is that I honesUy don't believe parietals sup­porters to be unintelli­gent. I think that just like most Notre Dame students, they're some of the brightest in the country. Their intrinsic judg­ment flaws come in a few stan­dard forms. about which I will elaborate. 
First of these is extreme con­servativism, of which l 'm sure we have more than a fair repre­sentation on cam­pus. This leads the afflicted to nearly always accept the status quo as being the best option simply because it is the current option, or simply because "it's worked so far." This reasoning is 11awed. Ask imperial England. 
The other common ideological flaw is authoritarianism, my most hated politi­cal philosophy, the ethos of tyrants. These bastions of intelligence believe that simply because it is the rule of those in charge, the rule should stand. Included in this group are those who claim that the University will lose some sort of "private-ness" or will be giving in to the outside in11uences if it changes its policy. Wake up people, no one but 
Notre Dame students knows about or cares about pari­etals. There's no outside pressure. Find a real argument. Something like, oh, 'Tm sad and I miss my mommy." In closing, if you're extremely 
conservative. authoritarian, a senile old man, 
bitter or a pari­etals supporter catching yourself writing a response about how immature I 
myself am for 
writing this very column and the manner in which it 
was constructed, you can be assured. I don't care. If you're 
writing about ageism for my application of the adjective "senile" to a 62 year old, I call your attention to the term "bug-brain." 

John Litle is a senior MIS major who is hoping you 're reading with enough ofa light heart that you can see his humor and his point. If not, he's sure you 're enraged, which is good. //is column runs every other Friday. Contact him at jli­lle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
species of waterfowl and the Pacific herring have made no recovery since the spill. Sea otters, clams, intertidal communities and sed­iments have shown improvements but are still being affected by the remnants of the disas­ter. 
Tuesday's spill dumped 20 million gallons of heavy crude fuel into the ocean, almost twice as much as Exxon Valdez. It is still early to measure the ecological impact, but scientists suspect it to be much worse than the 1989 spill. Neither the economic effects of this cala­strophe nor the damage that we humans are inflicting on our planet can be ignored. It is time to start looking beyond our wallets and toward a sustainable future. 
Angie Reist junior Lyons Hall Nov. 20 
Rape prevention program isn't broad enough 
I am writing in regards to Jamie Belcher's news article on Nov. 21 per­taining to the new rape prevention program at Saint Mary's. Initially, I was very impressed that Saint Mary's was adding a new program to com­bat something that has been neglected for some time by the college. However, after reading the article, I was very alarmed by a very nai've and common misconception about sexual assault stated in the article. 
Ms. Belcher describes "one Saint Mary's student who will never fall into that category [of assault victim]" because she already has "10 years expe­rience of karate under her belt." Although the Rape Aggression Defense program and other self-defense programs may make you feel safer, these are not surefire ways to prevent sexual assault. To have the attitude that you are always protected because you know some defensive moves only makes you more vulnerable to the situation. Also, this attitude plays directly into the myth that most sexual assaults occur when some scary man in a ski mask jumps out of a dark alley or behind some bushes. 
Unfortunately, in 85 percent of sexual assault situations, the victim knows her attacker. Your first reaction when a friend or boyfriend crosses the line is not to turn into Karate Kid, but to trust that when you say "stop," he will respect your wishes since he supposedly cares about you. 
Also. your guard is already let down because you arc with a trusted per­son and with 90 percent of cases involving alcohol, your motor skills are impaired. Therefore, while you're under the influence of alcohol and with a trusted friend, are your defensive moves going to guarantee you never fall into the category of not being able to protect yourself'? No. 
While it is great that Saint Mary's is working on trying to prevent a problem in only 15 percent ofsexual assault scenarios, they need to con­sider the bigger problem and work on solutions that do not create a false sense ofsecurity. 
Sarah Alter class of 2002 New York City Nov. 21 


THE 
OBSERVER 

CEN 
t 
page 14 Friday, November 22, 2002 
The art of late Re 
The Art Institute of Chicago features ltalt 
Botticelli, but few are familiar with late 
By RANDY N. BELISOMO 

Renaissance Florence or as familiar as 
Scene Wrirer 

they should be." This show should change that situation completely. 
Now at the Art Institute of Chicago, While curnmt trend in exhibitions dic­The Medici, Michelangelo, and the Art tates fo<.:us on a single work or artist, of Late Renaissance Florence traces The Medici, Michelangelo, and the Art of the historic and artistic legacy of the Late Renaissance Florence is conceived Medici family and its own dynasty of with greater ambition, in which every dominance throughout the sixteenth piece vies for primary focus in this cen­century. Under Medici reign, rlorence tury-spanning collection. blossomed as the epicenter of European f'einberg said, ''I hope the public finds art, gestating such masters as Agnolo the art so beautiful and the Medici so Bronzino, Benvenuto Cellini, intriguing that they will be interested in Giambologna and Michelangelo finding out more on these characters." Buonarroti. The exhibition comes to the Tbe Art Institute's exhibition, with its United States from a showing at the 200 works, including eight by Palazzo Strozzi in Florence, and marks Michelangelo, is sure to establish the the first presentation of works by all of period and its dynasty once and for all the pre-eminent Italian painters of the in the public's mind as utterly distinc­period. The extensiveness of this collec­tive. tion of painting, sculpture, drawing and With its preliminary piece, the exhibi­decorative art from 1537 to 1631 stands tion successfully expresses the core of as a reflection of the enormity in the age and its values. Giambologna's expanse of Medici rule. Venus statue symbolizes the city of 
The artists of the period have yet to Florence itself. Its fusion of classical receive the rncognition they deserve ideals and seemingly modern sensuality from the world at large, especially in encompasses the nature of the entire the United States, where relatively few Medici house. The synthesis of the two of their works are flxhibited. Fo·r the figures, both Venus and Florence, paral­wider public, the treasures of the Medici lels the merging dimensions of this dynasty remain something of a mystery. developing city in the unmistakable lan­
On the compilation of this exhibition, guage of the Renaissance. curator Larry Feinberg said, "we want­Throughout the exhibition, portraiture ed 'to do a show devoted to this period provides tho viewer with both historicity because many people in America are and psychological insight into the Medici familiar with the Medki, like Lorenzo family. The first Medici patriarch the Magnificent, and also early appears in Agnolo Bronzino's Duke 
_Pl1otocourtesyofPaoloNannoni Renaissance painters, for example, Cosimo I as Orpheus. Having commis­
Judith with the Head of Holofernes by Cristofano Allori 

sioned tho portrait as a wedding girt for his wife, Cosimo is depicted here in nude starkness. His stately figure twists towards the viewer in figura serpintina­ta posture, suggesting both political power and erotic eminence. In this pos­ing of Cosimo as Orpheus, one finds the conjoining of ancient classical themes with the governing reality of sixteenth­century Florence. 
Cosimo's wife also receives treatment in portraiture; she appears in Bronzino's 1545 Eleonora of Toledo and Her Son Giovanni. Bronzino showcases Eleonora's regal stature as an elegant suggestion of her role as the maternal source of future Florentine power. Her position as woman is lauded. Feinberg said, "although by and large women did not have status in society like men, there was a great respect on the part of the Medici for women of intellect and strength." Other such feminine works include Bronzino's 1561 Laura Battiferra degli Ammanati, in which the subject, holding a book of Petrarchan sonnets, sits as symbolic successor in talent of the fourteenth-century poet. 
There are several drawings featured by Michelangelo, graceful illuminations of the artist's meticulous method ol' compositional planning. Candolahrurn of 1537 exemplifies this exacting style; it is part of a recent discovery in a box of eighteenth and nineteenth century designs for lighting fixtures found in tho Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York. This marks the first exhibition of tho newly treasured drawings, sources of great international intrigne. The cande­labrum was probably a Medici commis­
sion for the altar of the New Sacristy in the church of San Lorenzo, planned to 


Photo courtesy of Paolo Nannoni 

house the remains of two elder genera­Oval plaque showing the Piazza Granucale, painted In 1599-1600 by Bernardino Gaffuri and Jacques Bylivert tions of Medici. 


~ .. 
~ 
' 
' 
. ~ 1 
. 
~. ~ y 

,------------------------------------------·----. ---­
Friday, November 22, 2002

page 2 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS INTERHALL CHAMPIONSHIP 

Siegfried gets another shot, Alumni seeks upset 
prPpared. The big game experi­hopes the offense can compli­"The whole year we've defense," said Torgenson. "This
. Ramblers return 

ence should help us out." ment the strength of the focused on getting all eleven week, we'll have to show it on 
to Stadium for Big game experience and a defense. guys to the ball and not stop­both sides of the ball because rejuvenated offonse. Siegfried Second-year ping till the Alumni is an excellent team." 
second chance 

averaged 23 points per game in whistle is Siegfried may have the game's 
Alumni quarter­"We're aggressive and 
By PAT LEONARD the regular season, but scored back Chris blown," said only secret weapon, and after
we focus on stopping the 

just ten points in their two play­Cotlingham Reis. "We last week, he's not that secret.
Sports Writer 

off wins. brings scram­run. We'll go into came up Kicker John Nowak (8-10 on The Ramblers need quarter­bling and pass­with big extra points) kicked the
The Siegfried Ramblers and Sundays game with the 
back Bill Bingle wide receiver ing options to fourth down Ramblers into the Stadium two
the Alumni Dawgs play for the same strategy."
John Kaup and running back the Alumni stands and weeks ago with a game-winningmen's interhall football champi­Tim Breitbach to have produc­attack. He's led goal line 23-yard overtime field goal. 
onship Sunday at 1 p.m. at 

tive days if they want to win. an Alumni's stands." Two teams who have
Larry Rooney 
Notre Dame Stadium. 

"Morrissey shut us down," offense that Reis and dreamed of playing in the
So who's the favorite? lt's dif­Alumni lineman
said Siegfried coach John averages close cornerbacks Stadium !'or months stop
ficult to say for certain. 

Torgenson. "I expect the offonsP to 14 points per N a t e dreaming Sunday afternoon. 
Siegfried is undefeated. 

to come out firing. To beat game. Ratchke and John Lira are the
Alumni is 5-1. Alumni lost to 

Alumni, we'll have to put up But scoring will not be easy standouts on the Siegfried
Morrissey in the regular season, Contact Pat Leona.rd at 
more points [than we have in for Alumni. Siegfried's defense defense.
7 -6. Siegfried beat Morrissey in pleona.rd@nd.edu
previous games]." rivals that of the Dawgs. "It's been nice to rely on our
the playoffs. 7-6. 

Easier said than done. The
In the end, the biggest advan­Dawgs defense is rough.
tage might be Siegfried's experi­"Our strength is our defensive 

ence. The Ramblers lost to 

line and our linebackers," saidDillon in the r:hampionship last Alumni lineman Larry Rooney. 
season. While the Alumni 

"We're aggressive and we focus
defense has given up just 13 

on stopping the run. We'll go
points all into Sunday'syear, the 

game with the
Dawgs have "The core nucleus ofour 

same strategy.
not been to 

team has been here We'll attack
the Stadium 
since they before, so we are a lot them." 

Center Chris
won it all in better prepared." 

Seponski,
1989. 

defensive tack­
"Last year 

Kyle Reis les Ben
was an awe­

O'Connor,
inspiring Siegfried captain 

Justin Stetz
experience, to 

and John
be playing in 

Wahowski and linebacker
the stadium," Siegfried captain Tommy Dempko put offenses on

Kvle Reis said. "It was the first time any of us had been there. their heels. We came out excited, but we Alumni coach Steve Keppel weren't ready. The core nucleus said the Dawgs' intensity and of our team has been here commitment grew after a loss to An Alumni running back tries to break a tackle in a playoff game earlier this season. Alumni before, so we are a lot better Morrissey in week three. Keppel makes its first appearence in the Stadium since 1989 Sunday, when they face Siegfried-


Bingle tries new position, becomes team's leader 
smaller without the big crowd." Siegfried Ramblers have again
. Rambler player 
Following the graduation of attained .the second-highest goal switches from last year's Hambler quarter­an interhall team can achieve, a receiver to QB back, Hingle was thrust into the trip to play in Notre Dame 
starting role. In addition to Stadium. being a wide receiv.er last year, Sunday, they'll try to better
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer Bingle also served as the emer­that achievement with a victorygency backup, so he had at least against the Dawgs of Alumni. some experience with the intri­Bingle explained that he
Nearly every sport has one 
cacies of the thought the
player on the team that receives 
offense. difference in
the praise when a team does "This year, we have more
''I've actual­this year's
well and most of the blame 
ly always liked fun and have a good time Ramblers is a
when the team does poorly. In 
playing wide 

more often. I think that simple differ­
hockey and soccer, it's almost 
receiver like I ence in atti­
always the goalie. For baseball, helps us a lot, because
did last year," tude.
it's usually the pitcher. 
Bingle said, we never get down and "Last year,
In football, it's the quarter­
"but our 

feel like we're out ofa the seniors
back. One minute you're the 
senior gradu­kind of ran the
hero, and the next minute game.
ated and we team," Bingle
you've let your team down. 
didn't really said. "This
For Siegfried quarterback Bill 
have much of Bill Bingle year, we have
Bingle, it's important to have a 
our offense in more fun and
short-term memory when it Siegfried quarterback
place. I still have a good
comes to mistakes. 
knew the stuff 
time more

"It's kind of hard to shake 
from last year, so it was easiest often. I think that helps us a ·1ot,
[mistakes! off," he said. "Your 
for me Lo step up." beeause we never get down and
teammates try to help encour­
In his junior year of high feel like we're out of a game."
age you, but you really only for­
school, Bingle played wide Bingle said that he wasn't
get about the mistake the next 
receiver and helped his team even aware of intPrhall footballtime you throw a earn a place when he first applied to Notretouchdown." 
in the state Dame, but that it has been a
In interhall "It's a really neat 
rankings. fie great experience and he's gladfootball, Bingle 
experience. Last year it was slated he decided to play.
has alrPady had 
the opportunity seemed like everyone to start at "[It's different from high quarterback school] because it's a lot more
to PXperience from the dorm came out." 
his senior fun," Bingle said. "It's less pres­the thrill of play­year, but a sure when you coach yourself'.
ing in the stacli­
Bill Bingle wrist injury In high school, you'd always
u m. The junior 
prevented havn coaches yell at you but
was a wide Siegfried quarterback 
him f'rorn hem ifs more rnlaxod."
rnceiver on last playing that Sunday, that pnissure will beyear's runner-up 
year. back. Bingle is ready. Since hisSiegfried squad. 
lie has finally gotten the senior yflar in high school, he's
"It's a really neat <'xperience," 
chance to bP under center, and waited for this moment.
he said. "Last year it seemed 
the pressure couldn't be
like evervone from tho dorm came out: It was weird because greater. Contact Justin Schuver at that stadium seems empty and Hingle and the rest of the jschuver@nd.edu 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 3 
WOMENS INTERHALL CHAMPIONSHIP 

. Neither team was expected to be in final 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Spum Writer 
( ;oing inlo this year's in1erhall liiolball sew,on, 110 one would havo pn•didml that Cavanaugh would havP an undPl'nated S!)ason, inrluding a vict<wy over Welsh hunily, !wading into Notre Dame Stadium and tht' intorhall champi­onship gamn Sunday. 
l lowev1ir, ddying the odds and doubtms is what. Cavanaugh has dorn\ all year. 
Pasquorilla East was not sup­posed to be playing in the Stadium this ynar, eiUmr. nm Pyros strug­gled last year but enwr the cham­pionship game after a completP. turnaround from lw,t so&'ion. They look to continun lhPir trend ol' defying history Sunday against Cavanaugh, a tnam that beat Pasquerilla East 28-0 earlier this season. 
Pasqunrilla East is Ind by a group of' talentnd players who work together, contributing to the toam 's success. Captain and olfonsivn lineman IJndsay Tcrility leads the way both on and off the lield for the Pyros. Terifay doesn't believe history will rnpnat itself' on Sunday. 

'Tm so excited to play Cavanaugh," Tnrifay said. "I just can't wait to avenge our loss earli­er this season. We are a whole new loam now; new quarterback, new dofonse, everything." 
Among many changes, Tcrifay has be<m a stnadying factor for the Pyros. She ls joined on the line by centor Allison Ferber. They pro­vide protection for-elusive quarter­back Abbny Coons. Wide rocoivors Tricia David, Laura Tushaus and Kristin O'Brian remain Coons' favorite targeL'i. 
lkgardlcss, according to Terifay, the Pyros are a well-balanced team. She crndiled their semifinal victory lo their tnam concept. 
"We were very happy with our last performance," Terifay said. "We marched up the field on o(fonsr and held them on delimsn. We can take this momentum into the championship game." 
The defcnsn is led by defonsive end Brita McCullough, dnfonsive back Erinn Hignny and safoty Stnph Yahn. This defense will be tested on Sunday bccaus11 they face a Cavanaugh olfonse that foa­tures quarterback and captain Meg Meyers, running back Lisa llufl'nr and wide rnceivers .Jenny Nokes and Nancy Powaga. All wnre unstoppabln in their smnili­nal victory. 
"Wn just have to continue to play as a team, making as few mistakes 
as possible, while capitalizing on their mistakes," Myers said. Meyers was confident about her team's capabilitins. 
"Offensively we will read the defense and adjust accordingly," Myers said. "I lowcvnr: nitlwr way, wn have a gniat shot. Hngardlnss, tlm win against Wnlsh Family in the semifinal was one tlrn sw1mtnst victorins in tlw history of intcrhall football." 
Cavanaugh looks lo get what would bn an 1w1111 swnntnr win Sunday at tlm Stadium. 
Contact Heather Van 
Hoegarden at 
hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

--. ~~----------------------------------------------------------------­
Myers gets job done on both sides of ball for Chaos 
the win. toams. coming together," Myers said. Myers leads the Chaos with a 
. Two-way Myers plays quarterback with A civil enginenring major, "The tone was set in the br,gin­combination of disciplino and grnnl confidencn, despite it bPing Myr'rs is an nnginecring dorm ning to bP eneouraging to (Wery• humor. After a team moPt.ing
standout leads 
her first snason at the position. In representative and also do<~s one. There arn no fights or jnal­early in the season, she rnado aChaos into final provious years, she played wide rnsearch in the field for a profos­ousy over playing time." hat out of a dnllatnd football. It is receiver, running back, and out­sor. Myers also foels the team bene­given to Lhn most valuable player By USA REIJUlA side lineman. She is a senior IPadPr for Young fits from strong leadership from aftnr 1mch gamo as a silly rnward. Sports Wrircr At tho beginning of the snason Life, a Christian ministry group other seniors and the coaches, in "I fnd I know how to rnotivutci try-outs were for high-school­particular third-year coach Bart pnopln and keep them focused on lmld to !ill Llrn (' rs in urban Bruckcrt. a common task," Myers said. "I
"Without Meg. we
Cavanaugh's inlnrhall football vacancv at South Bend as "Without Meg, we wouldn't am dndicat1id and cmsygoing, and trnun linds itsdl' in unchartnd tcr­quarlnrback wouldn't have a chance well. have a chance of being whero we wlrnn I commit to somnthing I r i lury lhis snason, having for lhn Chaos, ofbeing where we are. " "I spend about arc," Bruckert said. "I haven't give it 110 p11rcnnt." knod1\d off powcrhoust> WPlsh and My<•rs 15-20 hours a nw·t many pr•opln as imprnssive On Sunday, Cavanaugh looks to Family and making ii to Urn decided to week at Young as her." continue thnir winning ways with d1a111pionship game. givP it a shot. Bart Bruckert LifH," Myers The Chaos are hoping to My1irs. Tlw senior captain is 
ThP r,,asnn ('or tlrn suc<·nss of Sim won tho Cavanaugh coach said. "H's been imprnss PasqtJPrilla East in 1.he rPady to loavn hor mark. tlw Chaos this ynar? Two-way job and has cool to see the championship. After their upset "Wn'rn rnally mnntally standout MPg Myt\rS, the only dPvclopnd kids progrnss." of Welsh, Myers knows it's focused," strn said. "J\llnr b1iating fo11rth-yPar sPnior on lhP roslnr into one of tlrn WiLh all hrr important for her team to regain Wnlsh, wn know nothing is going aml I.he undisputnd tliam lnadnr. lrnst quarterbacks in the lrn.1dership experif•ncP, Myers has focus. to slop us." 
Myers was a major fact.or in women's lnai:.,11m. bcon lhe gluo of' tho Cavanaugh "We know wo can't undnrosti­Cavanaugh ·s I:t-12 uµsnt of A 11ativ11 of Plano, Texas, Myers Learn this season. The Chaos are mate them even though Wtl'vn Wr-lsh Family. In addition to hadn't playnd football bcfo,•p imdoli~ated amt Myers attrihut11s beaten them." she said. "If we throwing two tourhdown passes, coming to Notm Dame, although thnir success to toam chemistry. stick to tho fundamontals wn Myr•rs had au intcri:nption ,tl cor­shn was a mcmb1ff ol' her high "Jn the past, wo struggled with should win. I'm ccmlidm1t in our Contact Lisa Rcijula at rwrhack lat,\ in tlw garnn to seal sr.hool's basketball and soccer disunity and small groups nol abilitiPs." lreijula@nd.edu 
• 

I 
· l i 
t· 
... 

• 
THE 
OBSERVER 

CEN 
t 
Friday, November 22, 2002 page 15 

issance Florence 
Renaissance paintings and sculptures 

Miclwlangclo's unfinished wooden Crucilix provides a view into the aging artist's psycht\. Carved in Michelangelo's lat11 eighti!ls, the piece insinuates a per­sonal ndigious reflection, an aura of intimacy not found in the artist's more monunwnlal works. 
I lowever, tlrn centerpiece or the collec­tion is undoubtedly Michelangelo's David-Apollo. marking the second time a major sculpturn by ttrn artist has trav­eled Lo the Unitnd States. Its dual title stands in ambiguity as to the identity of Lim subjnct. Giorgio Vasari, painter and biograplwr of' Hcnaissanr:e artists. belioved it to be an Apollo "extracting an arrow from his quiver;" however, the work was citied in an inventory of the Medici Palazzo Vecchio as an "unfin­ishnd David by Buonarroti." 
II' lhn work is indeed a David. it is a d1•finile divPrgPncn from Michelangelo's l'anHHI narlier trentmont of the same subject. Larry Feinbnrg said, "l think it startPd out as probably a David and was rnforrnd Lo as David hy many people. But. David was a llepublican, anti­Mndici symbol, and at some point Michnlangnlo decided to change it t() a suhjncl the Medici would rind more acct>plahl11." This srulpturn's twistPd posturn and obvious psychological agita­tion shape tho work as a more inward nxamination ol' charactlir. Being sub­stanlially srnallnr than the original David, llrn work's emphasis is trans­f'flrred from Uw outnr form towards a 111or1· centralizPd, dePp1ir emotion. 
Fliinbnrg continuml. "It is much more in keeping with his slaves or the Louvre, those Louvre slaves that seem to be in the same way in a sort of fitful slumber. Like the earlier David, it depicts a psy­chological moment of contemplation bef'ore the physical action, that to many of us seems more interesting than the physical action itself." 
The dramatic lighting on the part of the Art Institute endows the viewer with a snnsation of quasi-voyeurism upon this intensely personal human moment. The exhibit's installation itself is a work of dramatic theater as Henaissance music pervades four of the galleries. 
Another gem, Benvenuto Cellini's sculpture Perseus and Medusa of 1545­55 d(1picts the god triumphant while raising the head of the slain Medusa above his own. The victory of Perseus is a symbolic illustration of Cosimo de' Medici's own victory. the salvation of Florrince. The fate of Medusa serves as a harbinger to those who ignore Medici rule. Tho omnipotence ol' the family dynasty was here hauntingly realized through artbtic expression. 
In Alessandro Allori's 1601 painting, Penitent Magdalene, Mary Magdalene kneels before a crucifix. emerging in brilliant illumination from the canvas as ii" in a spotlight of forgiveness and Christian re-entry. The work's message is dnlineated in the text that Mary holds, the lirst Jinn of Psahn 31: "Rlessed arf' Lhoso whose sins have been remitted." Notable however. is tho monumental sc:aJP of Mary Magdalene juxtaposed with the humble crucifix. Allori did not stray from the humanistic trend or the epoch. and perhaps it was this feature that rendered the work appealing to the Medici court. It entered the Grand Ducal collection almost immediatfily fol­lowing its completion. 
With this expansive art collection ol' intt~rwoven themes and mediums, il proves a difficult task to untangle the characteristics of Medici taste. Despite the monumental works of the exhibi­tion, Feinberg said, "the Medici did have a strong taste to smaller works and very highly finished, hyper-relined art." Perhaps the 1599-1600 Oval plaque of Piazza Granducale is the quintessence of such proclivity. The subject is also known as the Piazza della Signoria, the square in front of Cosimo's palace. The background of this plaque is a work of pietre dure, or hard­stone inlay. Intricate designs are formulat­ed through the assembly or many semi-precious stones, such as jade and lapus lazuli. 
The exhibition con­cludes with Cristofano Allori 's Judith and Holofernes, The story comes from the Old Testament, in which Judilh offers herself to the invading 
Assyrian general 
Holofernes. Ile is 
deceived, and Judith 
later decapitates 
Holofernes with his 
own sword. To Florentines, this tale surely suggested courage and triumph over foreign threats. Feinberg said, "in Italy, Judith was one of the great heroines, a patron of the city." Here Judith stands as like representative of Medici valor. 
Possibly no other individual or family has ever been responsible for more artistic production that the Medici. Today, Florence still hails as very much a sixteenth-century city due to the indelible mark left during their reign. Feinberg said, "In addition to the art itsPlf. the grnaUegacy was intellectual toler­ance. When it came to ideas, tho Medici championed and pro­tected philosophers. poets and artists that may have not been favored by the Church." The oxtraordinary oppor­tunity the Medici extended to artists has boen unequaled; it would be a shame to miss this one lrnre. 
"The Medici, Michelangnlo, and the Art or Late Renaissance Florence" is on exhibit at the Art Inslilute of Chicago, 111 S. Michigan Avcmrn, now through J,'ebruary 2, 2003, before it travels to the Detroit Institute or Arts. Entry is frnn with general admission into the musn­um, $10 adults, $6 students. Tuesdays are free to all. Tho catalogue is avail­able through tho museum in hardcover and paperback. For f'urthcr information. call (312) 443-3600. 
Contact Randi N. Belisomo at Randi.N.Belisomo@nd.edu 

-
Friday, November 22, 2002

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Dupuis leads Minnesota in 4-3 victory over Washington 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Pascal Dupuis had a goal and two assists as the Minnesota Wild held off the Washington Capitals for a victory. 
Dupuis scored the only goal in last Saturday's 1-0 victory over the Capitals in Minnesota. His third-period goal in this game gave the Wild a 4-2 lead at 9:52 ofthe third period. 
Washington's power-play problems continued. The Capitals failed to score on their three extra-man chances. 
The Capitals are now in a 9­for-78 power-play slump while the Wild have killed 21 straight penalties. 
Minnesota took a 1-0 lead when Antti Laaksonen scored 53 seconds into the game. They stretched it to 2-0 when Stephane Veilleux put slick moves on both defenseman Brendan Witt and then goalie Olaf Kolzig to score at 6:30 of the second period. 
Sergei Gonchar and Ken Klee tied it for the Capitals with sec­ond-period goals. Those were only the second and third goals from Washington defensemen this year. 
However, the Wild took a 3-2 lead when former Capital Andrew Brunette's shot from a severe angle along the goal line hit Kolzig's right skate and trick­led in with 3:31 left in the peri­od. 
Dupuis scored the insurance goal when his shot bounced off the stick of Washington's Rick Berry and in. Mike Grier scored for the Capitals with 5:33 left. 
Islanders 7, Lightning 2 

Jason Blake had two goals and two assists, and Jason Wiemer added a goal and three assists as the New York Islanders beat the Tampa Bay Lightning. 
Blake doubled his season's goal production. Wiemer started the day with just two points overall, both coming on goals. 
Garth Snow made 29 saves for New York. He got the start although Chris Osgood, who played in Wednesday's 3-3 tie at Florida, is 13-0 against Tampa Bay. 

Snow is 2-3-3 against the Lightning. He received a five­minute match penalty for an attempt to injury with his goal­tending gear during a scrum near the Islanders net with 2:45 left to play and was ejected. Osgood finished the game. 
Mark Parrish had two goals and snapped a 10-game goal­scoring slump. The Islanders are 2-1-1 through four games of a five-game road trip. 
Ben Clymer put the Lightning up 1-0 just 49 seconds in. 
The Islanders rebounded later in the period on goals by Blake, at 8:33, and Parrish on the power play, at 16:19, for a 2-1 lead. 
New York put the game away with four unanswered goals in the second period. 
Mattias Timander made it 3-1 at 5:14 of the second with his first goal in 38 games. 
Parrish made it 4-1 at 13 min­utes. He deked Lightning defenseman Dan Bovie to the ice and beat Nikolai Khabibulin from in-close. 
Dave Scatchard (18:28) and Wiemer (18:47) scored 19 sec­onds apart late in the second to give New York a five-goal cush­ion. 
Khabibulin, the NHL player of the week for the period ending Nov. 17, was pulled after two periods. He faced 32 shots. 
Blake scored 25 seconds into the third off Lightning backup Evgeny Konstantinov. 
Andre Roy scored for the Lightning with 3.1 seconds left. 
Bruins 3, Hurricanes 1 

Glen Murray scored his 200th and 201st career goals, and Brian Rolston added a short­handed tally as the Boston Bruins beat the Carolina Hurricanes in front of the sec­ond-smallest FleetCenter crowd ever. 
Boston, which had its five­game unbeaten streak snapped in at Toronto on Tuesday, has won six of nine (6-1-1-1). 
Murray scored off a faceoff, tying it 1-1 at 8:45 of the second period. Joe Thornton won the draw over to Murray. who fired a slap shot past Kevin Weekes. 
Rolston put Boston ahead for good late in the second period when he raced to his own rebound at the bottom of the right circle and flicked a shot inside the far post. 

The Bruins haven't regained fan interest just yet, though, after losing high-scoring for­ward Bill Guerin via free agency and electing not to sign goalie Byron Dafoe during a negative­publicity-filled offseason. 
In the last three weeks, the Bruins have had their lowest and second-lowest crowds since their arena opened in 1995. They drew just 9,491 on Oct. 31 against Anaheim when the Bruins sustained their only home loss this season. 
Boston is 6-1-1 at home. 
Murray tipped Thornton's shot over Weekes to give Boston a 3­1 edge 9:27 into the final period. 
Carolina took a 1-0 lead mid­way into the opening period when Kevyn Adams spun and fired shot from his knees. 
The Hurricanes had a 5-on-3 power play for 1 :24 late in the second period, but John Grahame made a couple of nice saves and the Bruins defense kept the chances to a minimum. 
Senators 3, Canadiens 2 

Chris Phillips scored his first goal of the season late in the second period to lift the Ottawa Senators to a victory over the Montreal Canadiens. 
Phillips, a defenseman held to two assists through 16 games, scored 18:33 into the second to break a 2-2 tie. He had gone 21 regular-season games without a goal, dating to last season. 
Montreal's Jeff Hackett made 34 saves, including a remark­able pad stop on Marian Hossa with just over eight minutes left to keep the Canadiens within one. 
Hackett lost for just the second time in 10 games (5-2-2) as he made his second start in as many nights in place of injured goalie Jose Theodore. 
Theodore, last season's MVP, missed the two-game road trip because of a hip flexor injury sustained Monday in a win over Pittsburgh. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

- FOR RENT All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 Nice 3-bdrm home in East Race near Corbys avail. now. WID incl. 679-2010. Large updated duplex avail. now. Unit 1 • 2-bdrms Unit 2 -3-4 bdrms Or rent both units for large group. Close to campus Call 679-2010. 3-6edroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, alarm system, A/C Availimmed , $650/mo. Call 220-0499. HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896.  Furnished-2 BR Til 9/01/03 Near ND. Furnished 2BR in Spring 03 near Airport. Cell 508-524-9761, Fax 508-457-5202 nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses 288-9673. Avail now. 3·bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.ft. house. Close to ND. All apph­ances,big yard,garage,C/A. Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo 243-9901. 3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.ft. house. Close to ND. All appliances.big yard,garage,C/A. Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo. 243-9901. 2 & 4-bdrm houses for 2003 Close to ND. 616-699-5841. Very comlortable &clean home on ND Ave., beginning summer or Fall, 2003. 4 BR, 1 5 BA, security system, washer/dryer Huge rooms. Owners have references from previ­ous tenants! Max of 5 seniors or grads. Lease details 255-5852, leave message with name and phone.  NOTICES ..At Last Spring Break** Book now Free Meals, Parties.Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplashtours.com 18004267710 Buy/Sell N D Football Tickets.Student discount available. 289--8048 HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004:Anlan Properties, L. L.C. 532-1896 Gall Bill. ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI­TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only company exdusive to Acapulco! Thats why we re the BEST."Go Loco In Acapulco" with the #1 Spring Break Company in Acapulco for 16 years! Call 800-875-4525 Today. www.bianchi-rossicom Be a Rep, travel FREE-ask howl  FOR SALE LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 2 -1988 National Champion Footballs. Autographed by players, coaches and Lou Holtz. 574-256­7322 WANTED #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida. Texas' Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties &Meals! 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummertours. com Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187.  WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. TAX PREPARERS needed by local tax firm -lull & part time for the upcoming tax season. Experience a plus. Call Mrs. Johnson 234-4564. TICKETS N.O. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. WANTED: ND tickets· HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 BCS BOWL TICKETS FOR SALE (ALL LOCATIONS) Local(574)654-0168. TOLL FREE(B00) 272-8553  PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1 ·800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com HERE COME THE !RISH! Happy 21st birthday, Megan. We love you!ll!!!ll!!!llfl!III!! -Francine, Beth and Travis I'm going to Pittspuke this weekend Another unbeaten gets lucky tonight. Can the Maize and Blue ruin another Buckeye November? The stick rules all, I'm out.  
...  

AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, November 22, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 17 
~;tnjill~~1i:l•r-
NewJersey . . \ 
P~lladlliPhlii' ,/Boston•=··•·· . \ /Wa~hlnglo~·i:::;:::,. ·· · Orland6° }?@•
•. Miami ·············· 
NeirJ 
· Eastern C .·. 
.te4~·· 

. Chl'3go. M} / 'f 4i$) <,., Cleveland .··· ''\)1~40' ( 
w.am 
Dallas San Antonio Houston Minnesota Utab ·••·•·· ·y(
;it~~-C4"'ffl§', 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Preseason NIT second round 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA BASKETBALL Raptors at Sixers 8 p.m., ESPN Clippers at Nuggets 10:30 p.m., ESPN Bulls at Lakers 10:30 p.m., FOXCH 
BOXING Cotto vs. Hernandez 9 p.m., ESPN2 
GOLF 

Franklin Templeton Shootout 8 p.m., GOLF 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

had the majority of the East-record streak to 22 had to punt, giving the 
Associated Press 

highlights. But Rod games and moved two vic­Panthers the ball with 2:12 MIAMI Rutherford had almost as tories away from a berth left. Pittsburgh threatened, many for Pitt. in the Jan. 3 Tostitos They drove to the Miami and Miami held on. McGahee had a 69-yard Fiesta BowI. They finish 25, and Rutherford mis­
Willis McGahee ran 19 touchdown run that tied the season at Syracuse and fired on two consecutive times for 159 yards and the game just before half­at home against struggling passes. Then he connected scored two touchdowns as time and added a leaping Virginia Tech. Miami also with Yogi Hoth for a 5­the top-ranked Hurricanes 4-yard score in the fourth took over sole possession yard gain to set up a overcame another slow quarter. After his second of first place in the Big fourth-and-5 from the 20. start and a frantic finish to TD run, McGahee placed East. Roth was wide open again. earn a 28-21 win over the his fingers in the shape of Pitt (8-3, 5-1) lost for just this time on a slant pass at Panthers (No. 19 a diamond -a pop-cul­the third time in 17 games the goal line, but ESPN/USA Today, No. 17 ture symbol that repre­and had its conference Rutherford's pass sailed AP) Thursday night at the sents a dynasty. winning streak snapped at past his outstretched arms Orange Bowl. The gesture might have nine games. and through the end zone. 
In a nationally televised been appropriate for the But after falling behind Miami's defense gave up game that gave Miami (10-Hurricanes, but a bit pre­28-14, the Panthers had a 341 yards but left Pitt bat• 
0, 5-0 Big East) a chance 
mature. chance to tie in the final tered -literally. Heceiver to showcase Heisman The defending national minutes. Rutherford Larry Fitzgerald left the Trophy teammates Ken champions extended their scored on a 3-yard run game and receiver Dorsey and McGahee, the nation-best winning streak with 4:37 to play, cutting it Roosevelt Bynes left the sophomore running back to 32 games, their Big to 28-21. The Hurricanes game after a crushing hit. 
IN BRIEF 

Carter dances with Nelly
while team loses in Atlanta 
Toronto Raptors general manager Glen Grunwald said Wednesday that Vince Carter could be back practic­ing with the team as early as Thursday and might play next week. 
Carter, who left the Raptors' Nov. 2 game at Houston with a quadri­ceps tendon strain in his left knee, caught flak after appearing in an alleged jig with rap star Nelly in a concert at the Air Canada Centre on Monday -the same night his team­mates were outhustled and defeated in Atlanta. 
There have been suggestions that the All-Star forward should not be cavorting on stage when he is injured and his teammates are play­ing elsewhere. Grunwald's response to the incident was typically low key. The GM said that if he had a choice he would have attended the concert, given how uninspired his troops looked against the Hawks. 
Lindsey Hunter, who has a sore right knee, and center Nate Huffman, who has not played this season after undergoing arthroscop­ic surgery on his right knee, also could be back practicing as early as Thursday. 
Issue of sportsmanship in high school playoff game 
Walkerville 115, Lakeshore 2. And it could have been worse. A lot worse. 
"What do you tell our girls? Not to play?" Walkerville High athletics director Ron Stoneman said Wednesday, a day after his state­ranked school stomped winless Hart Lakcshore Public Academy in a girls basketball playoff game. 
The blowout left Lakeshorc acade­mics director Steve Hamilton seething about a lack of sportsman­ship. 
"To me. if you run up the score like that, you have to answer for your­self," Hamilton said. "l have my doubts about a school that would go 
-

and run up a school by 100 points." 
Walkerville coach Steve Kirwin said he doesn't schedule teams like Lakcshore, which has a student body of 50 in grades nine through 12. dur­ing the regular season. But during the playoffs, "You play who they tell 
you to play." .. 
Kirwin said he promoted girls from the junior varsity and freshmen teams, and did not use his normal pressure defense against over­matched Lakcshore. 
By halftime, Kirwin said, three girls hadn't scored. So he said only they could shoot. But after they scored. then what? 
'Tm not going to tell my kids to not continue to play," Kirwin said. "It's not that we wanted to score a ton of points." 
The Michigan lligh School Athletic Association did away with a differen­tial rule during the offseason. Under the old rule, the clock ran continu• ously if a team built a 40-point lead in the second half. 
r-----~ page 18 T'he Observer . 
SPORTS 

1
===================================================~'=~~~~~~~~============================~F~ri;d;aY;•~N;o;v;c;m~b;e;r~2;2~,2;0;0~2 
NFL 

Faulk status for Sunday is gatne-titne decision 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS It's still a waiting game with the St. Louis Rams and Marshall Faulk. 
Faulk missed Monday night's victory over the Bears with a high sprain in his right ankle and a strained tendon in his left foot. His status for Sunday's game at Washington won't be determined until game time, coach Mike Martz said. 
Faulk didn't practice, instead visiting with team doctors about the ankle, by far the more serious of the injuries. Martz said Paulk won't practice the rest of the week; he didn't practice all last week, either. 
"l think we'll just keep him out until they make a decision," Martz said. "What's helped him is staying off this thing and letting it heal. I don't know if we'll have him for Sunday or not." 
'Tm more optimistic, certainly, than last week," Martz added. "I think there's a chance we'll have him." 
If Faulk can't play. rookie Lamar Gordon again would start. Gordon had 97 yards rushing and receiving, includ­ing a 22-yard touchdown reception, against the Bears. 

Martz said Faulk, who has missed only eight games in eight-plus seasons, has been frustrated by the injury. Faulk, who rarely speaks to the media, declined comment before practice. 
"He's such a quick healer, he's used to just fighting through it," Martz said. "Now they know exactly what it is: it's just a strain in the membrane, and I think that's a relief to him." 
Kurt Warner, the other half of the Rams' MVP backfield, was a bit shaky on some of his throws as he practiced for the first time since reclaiming the No. 1 quarterback job from Marc Bulger. Martz said it might take a little while for Warner, who hasn't played since Sept. 29, to get his tin1ing back. 
"Shoot, he's fine," Martz said. "Another good day of practice tomor­row and I think he'll be ready." 
Martz said Bulger would definitely be the backup at Washington on Sunday. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Glavine visits Phillies, Mets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Next year's competition in the NL East got off to an early start. 
Tom Glavine, one of the most coveted free-agent pitchers on the market, visited New York and Philadelphia as the Mets and Phillies tried to persuade him to leave Atlanta, his team of 16 years. 
"We got the sense that ho is seriously considering the Mets, and I'm sure he's seriously considering Philadelphia as well," Mets general manager Steve Phillips said after spending about six hours with Glavine, his wife, Christine, and agent Gregg Clifton. "It seemed like a very, very sincere visit." 
The Glavines flew into White Plains, N.Y., and were given a tour of Westchester County and Greenwich, Conn., an area where many Mets and Yankees live. 
They then came into the city and had lunch at the Four Seasons restaurant with Phillips, Mets owner Fred Wilpon, chief operating officer Jeff Wilpon, man­ager Art Howe, and pitchers John Franco and Al Leiter. 
Even Mavor Michael Bloomberg 
stopped by to help recruit Glavine, as did New York Rangers goaltender Mike Richter and hockey Hall of Famer Rod Gilbert. 
Wilpon, who took over sole ownership of the team in the summer, has made signing Glavinc his top olTseason priority as the Mets try to rebound from a last­place finish. 
"We had a super day," Phillips said. "It was a very worthwhile meeting and a day I hope left him with a good taste about New York and the Mets and what the future could hold here for him." 
Glavine then went to Philadelphia, where he took in an NHL game between the Flyers and the San Jose Sharks. Glavine is a big hockey fan and was drafted by the Los Angeles Kings out of high school. 
Glavine planned to meet with Phillies officials on Friday and take a tour of the site of the team's new ballpark, sched­uled to open in 2004. 
The Mets and Phillies have made three­year offers to the two-time NL Cy Young Award winner worth about $9 million to $10 million annually. 
The 36-year-old Glavine was 18-11 with a 2.96 ERA this year. 

D 0• .0•.0•. 0•.0•00•. 0•.0• .0•.0• D 
0 0 
0 0 
D IT'S GREEK TO ME! D 
. 
. 
0 0 
D
. 

0 0
Think your family D drives 

. 
0 0
you
• 

nuts? . 
D D 
0 You have no idea... 0 
D 

. 
0 0 
. 

• 
D 

. 
0 
0 
D D 
0 0 
D
. 

0 0 
. 

• 
D D 
0 0 
·~ .
D . 0• .0•. 0•. 0•.0•.0• . 0•.0•.0• . 0• . 0 
®@NOTRE DAME ATHLETICS@@ 
TONIGHT TONIGHT TONIGHT TONIGHT TONIGHT 
-I

A NCAA MEN'S SOCCER 0 MEN'S BASKETBALL I, 15TROUND z VS. BUCKNELL NOTRE DAME VS. AKRON -Gl 9:00 PM
:c 

CHANCE TO WIN AMIKE BREY b~ALUMNI FIELD -7:30 -I AUTOGRAPHED BALL COURTESY Of NOTRE DAME
FEDERAl CREDIT UNION 

WVFI Sports Presents (' 
PAT HADEN 
NBC Color Commentator for ND Football Games 
-
.. 
WIN AN ,so GIFT CERTIFICATE FORA 
LOCAL SPORTING 
D 
GOODS STORE OR A DAY ATA SPA! 
Email us with the correct answer 
UBWELL2@ND 
.EDU 
at UBffl1@nd.edu to be entered into adrawing 

How many traffic accidents occur annually due to lack ofsleepr 
Answers to and Winners ofWed, Thurs, and Fri contests will be listed in Monday's Observer 


wwuuutiltrfa mtDm Come hear this inspiring speaker! Friday, November 22 3 pm Montgomery Theatre 
in Lafortune 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page l 9 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish look to rebound in Big East Tourney 

By rvlATT LOZAR 
Sports ~'riter 
The Irish don't look so invin­cible anymore. 
After losing its first confer­ence matches since a loss at West Virginia on Nov. 15, 1998, the Notre Dame volley­ball team goes into this week­end's Big East Championship at the University of Pittsburgh looking a little more human. 
On Saturday, the Irish (21-5, 11-2 in the Big East} face Connecticut (14-14, 9-4} in a semifinal matchup. With a win, the Irish will have a rematch with either Virginia Tech (20­10, 10-3) or Miami (24-4, 10­3). The winner of that match receives an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
Looking to qualify for their 11th consecutive NCAA Tournament, the Irish haven't changed their attitude. but are focused on fine-tuning their game. 
"I think we had a good atti­

0 

Junior Parents Weekend is around the corner and hotels are going fast. 
The Morris Inn will be holding a lottery to reserve a spot for the weekend. Lottery numbers can be picked up at The Morris Inn front desk. 
Deadline: Monday, December 2nd 
For more information visit: www.nd.edu/-jpw or contact jpw@nd.edu 
tude going into the matches that we have had combinations last week. We had good prepa­of things go wrong," Brown ration but just didn't play well said. "It wasn't just passing. over the weekend," Irish coach serving or hitting. We had a Debbie Brown said. "I don't variety of problems. Too many know if lour attitude] has dras­people did not play well and tically changed. It was good the mistakes accumulated. 
and  healthy  Obviously  
and  still  is  "! can see that we have a  Miami  and  
healthy. I can see that we have a  stronger commitment to make our game a little  Virginia Tech were inspired and took  
stronger com­mitm ent to  sharper."  advantage." Against the  
make our game a little sharper."  Debbie Brown Irish coach  Hurricanes, the Irish com­mitted 12 ser­ 

Entering last week-end"s final regular season con­ference matches, the Irish were 11-0 in the Big East and had already wrapped up their regular season title. With the goal of a fourth straight unde­feated conference regular sea­son in their sights, the Irish just fell apart. 
"It wasn't just one area like it usually is, but several things went wronl!' for us. It was rare 



vice errors, had 10 service receiving errors and recorded 
a .000 hitting percentage in the match's fifth and deciding game. 
Two days later at Virginia 
Tech, the Irish continued to 
struggle with nine service 
errors and five service receiv­
ing errors. As a team, the Irish 
hit .154 for the match. 
One bright spot for the Irish in their losses was Lauren Kelbley. The freshman middle blocker continued her strong second half of the season hit­ting .481 against the Hurricanes and .609 against the Hokies. Kelbley leads the Irish on the season with a .349 hitting percentage. 
In Notre Dame's 3-1 defeat of 
Connecticut on Sept. 27, Brown 
went to her bench in the come­
from -behind victory. The 
Huskies won Game 1 and held 
leads of 20-10 and 29-24 in 
Game 2 before the Irish rallied 
to win that game 33-31. 
Freshman setter Kelly Burrell saw her first significant action of the season and recorded 35 assists. Middle blocker Kim Fletcher had 11 kills, and freshman outside hit­ter Meg Henican led the Irish with 14 digs. 
"I think we have looked at that tape a lot and we had sev­eral extenuating situations in that match," Brown said. "[Setter] Kristen Kinder was out from practice all week with a knee injury and was off her game. [Outside hitter) Jessica Kinder didn't play well against them, but has played well in the matches after that one. 
"Lauren Kelbley, another of our starters, didn't play a lot and has been so steady, espe­cially in the second half of the year when she has been unstoppable." 
Notre Dame and Connecticut have one win against the ­teams in the field this weekend while Miami and Virginia Tech each have two. Combining those mixed regular season results with Connecticut and Virginia Tech's lack of postsea­son experience, the title is up for grabs. 
"l love the fact that we have played [Connecticut], seen them, been able to study the film and see our mistakes.·• Brown said. "We are in a great position to correct the errors that we have had. I don't see either team having more of an advantage. 

"With Virginia Tech and Miami. they just beat us and have confidence right now. We know we didn't play our best match and we know what we have to do to be better." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


.... 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS f riday, November 22, 2002 
HOCKEY 

Irish look to declaw 5th-ranked Wolverines 
... 
-
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Ediror 
After having last weekend off, it's back to the grindstone for the Irish this week, as they head to Michigan for a pair of CCHA con­tests with the Wolverines. 
The games will be the first of four away from the Joyce Center for the Irish, as 11 of their next 13 contests will come on the road. Notre Dame played its last five games at home, going 1-3-1 against three ranked opponents -No. 12 Ferris State, No. 1 Boston College and No. 11 Miami of Ohio 

It doesn't get any easier for Notre Dame tonight, as Michigan enters the contest 8-1-1, unde­feated in conference play and currently ranked fifth and sixth by the USCHO.com Poll and the USA Today/American Hockey Magazine Poll. respectively. 
The Wolverines average 4.1 goals and just over 33 shots a game thL5 season, while holding opponents under two goals per contest. 
Sophomore forward David Moss has been the points leader for Michigan so far this season, with 10 points on three goals and seven assists. Freshman for­ward Jeff Tambellini paces the Wolverines in goals scored. with 6. 
Though it didn't show in their record, the Irish played extreme­ly well during their most recent homestand, topped off by Notre Dame's 2-1 victory over Miami its last time on the ice as Irish goaltender Morgan Cey made a career-high 44 saves. 
The Irish have scored 3.1 goals per game this season, averaging 30,6 shots a contest. Junior Hob Globke leads the Irish in scoring with 11 points on seven goals and four assists, including the eventual game-winning goal in Notre Dame's victory over Miami. 
If history is any indicator, the pair of games against the Wolve · es this weekend will be 
Ar• y11 1, It ••••••• y11 ltn1w • TR IO Al1111I? 
/ 

The TRIO umbrella covers Upward Bound, Educational Talent Search, CANDAX/McNair and Upward Bound Math/Science programs. 

Contact the University of Notre Dame Upward Bound pro­gram at (574) 631-5669 or email upbound@nd.edu 
We look forward to hearing from you. 
Best Deal on Campus. 
Student discounts and other exclusive promos from Apple make the holidays merrier and switching to the Mac easier. 

a tough test for the Irish, Notre Dame has not won a regular sea­son game in Michigan's Yost Arena since Oct. 22 1982 -a 9­5 victory. In their last 19 games at Yost. the Irish are just 1-17-1. The last meeting between the two teams, however, turned out more productive for the lrL'>h ­a 3-3 tic in the Joyce Center Jan. 4 of this year. 
The teams face off tonight and Saturday, with starting time scheduled for 7 :35 both nights. 
Note: 
The Irish announced the sign­ing of f1vc players to letters of intent Wednesday for the 2003­2004 season. The group includes goaltender David Brown of Stoney Creek. Ont., defonseman Noah Babin of Palm Heach Gardens. Fla., dcfcnseman Wes O'Neill of Essex. Ont., forward Jason Paige of Saginaw. Mich. and forward Josh Sciba of Westland, Mich. 
''I'm very excited about this incoming group of players," Poulin said. "All five are highly skilled players who should be able to contribute as freshmen next season. They give us a good mix of size and speed and will add to our talent level and depth next season. With the loss of six players to graduation these five will have an excellent opportuni­ty to step in and make immedi­ate contributions as freshmen." 
The six players who graduate at the end of this season are goaltender Tony Zasowski. defenseman Evan Nielsen and forwards Michael Chin, Connor Dunlop, Jake Wiegand and John Wroblewski. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


In Sync. 

Holds up to 4,000 songs 1 0 hour battery life Download a CD in seconds 
iPod • Starting at $269 Discounted just for Students 


The new iMac • Starting at $1,099 ,,. 
Discounted just for Students 
Special Promos 

Apple has great promos going to help make buying a Mac and the accessories you need more affordable, all discounted for Students. Double your memory. 

Brighten your holidays. 
Buy a Mac and an HP DeskJet 3820 or 5550Double the standard configuration of 
printer and receive a $99 rebate.

memory for only $40 on any Mac. 
For more information on these and ocher promotionr,please v;sit www.apple.rom/education/promo.'-I 
Room 112 Information Technology Center 
Get your student discount at: ~ofuftohf; c~11,f~p http://solution.nd.edu/ 
Notre Dame's Computer Products Store 574-631-7477 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MENS SWIMMING 
Swimmers look to build on pair of victories 
of three meets at Texas after a narrow defeat last
By LISA REIJULA 
Christian University last week. Friday that was decided by the 
Sports W ritcr 
Now the Irish look to continue last relay to win twice on the their winning streak against meet's second day. 
Notre Dame's mens swim­Purdue Friday night. A strong performance by the ming team has regained The Irish showed persever­400-meter medley relay team momentum after winning two ance against TCU, rebounding of Doug Bauman, Jason 
Fitzpatrick, Frank Krakowski place finish in the meet's last 
and Tim Handolph got the event. 
Irish off to a good start. The Other individual winners 
400-meter freestyle relay team included freshman Jamie 
of Randolph, f'itzpatrick, J.H. Lutkus in the 400 individual 
Teddy and Matt Obringer medley race, Fitzpatrick in the 
sealed the victory with a first 100 breaststroke, Patrick 
Davis in the 1,650 freestyle and Obringer in the 100 and 200 freestyle. 

After the win in Texas. Obringer is pleased with the team's improvement. 
"It gave us confidence and WC 'II use this win as a spring­),. board for the meet with Purdue," the junior said. "We're looking forward to it." 
The Irish showed their depth at TCU. In addition to the many event winners, Notre Dame had swimmers placing in the top four in most events. In the 200 breaststroke. Tyler Grenda. Lutkus and David Moisan finished one-two­three. 
Friday's meet against Purdue will be the second time the Irish face a Big Ten oppo­nent at home this season. Notre Dame defeated Michigan State Nov. 8. 
The Irish face the Boilermakers at Rolfs Aquatic Center at 6 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at 
lreijula@nd.edu 
-


page 22 their last game, a gut-wrenching 2-1 overtime loss to Georgetown

Soccer 
continued from page 28 
days prior to eke out a 1-0 victo­ry at Akron. Jack Stewart's goal midway through the second half proved to be the deciding goal. 
Before the Irish victory this season, the Zips had dominated the series between the two teams, having won six of the first eight games of the nine game series. Before 2002, the Irish and Zips had not played each other since 1989. 
The Zips enter the tournament having won the Mid-American Conference with a 4-1 confer• ence record. 
Meanwhile, the Irish have had nearly two weeks of rest since 
on Nov. 9. 

"We're taking it back to funda­mentals," Martin said. "We've treated this two-week period as a kind of preseason for the [NCAA] Tournament," 
The Irish are returning to the NCAA Tournament for the sec­ond consecutive year. after being eliminated in the first round of last year's tournament at Maryland. 
This marks the second time in the history of the mens soccer program the team has received NCM Tournament bids in two consecutive years. The Irish also achieved that feat in 1993 and 1994. 
However, the Irish feel that this year, unlike any other before 

~. --~ ... ·.. ·, .. \, 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 22, 2002 
in the history of the mens soccer four wins together against any­Tournament. program, the team can build on body we play," Martin said. "And In addition, the Irish, under its experiences from last year's to do so would put us in the Final the guidance of Clark, have a 14­postseason and string together Four." 3-1 record (.806) at Alumni some wins to make its second This year marks the eighth Field. season last longer than just one time in Clark's 16-year collegiate game. coaching career that he has led Contact Bryan Kronk at 
"We feel that we can string his team to the NCAA Kronk.3@nd.edu 
MAYBE YOU'VE 
HEARD ABOUT US. 
USDA "Prime" Steaks Dry Aged & Cut to Order. 
Exquisite Fresh Fish and Seafood. Wine Spectator Awars ofExcellence. Live Entertainment. Reservations too! 
We're Eastern Pacific Grille and Bar. Featuring the Fusion Cuisine ofChefSean Garren and his staff. 
Private Dining Rooms Available. 
-.,.

FRIDAY: "'LITTLE FRANK AND THE IMPERIALS" -Friday Night ,: SATURDAY: "E2 ED WRIGHT" -Saturday Night. 

EASTERN PICIHC GBIW AND BIR-501108TH NlllS AVENUE-S8ffl BEND, 1146617-57~233-1300 
MCNAIR SCHOLARS PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
7
ANNOUNCES THE 2002 -2003 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND MS. MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2002 
7:00 -8:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas will be served) 
IN ROOM 218 MAIN BLDG. 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
!
I 
In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mi,;sion. The mission was to provide a personal, caring. educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year institution of their choice. 
Holy Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fundamental mission. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
our mission is what has made us successful. So while many things change, our mission is one thing that will not. 
P.O. Bo• 300 • Notre Dame, IN 4655&-0308 • 574-239-8-400 • fAX 574-233-7427 • www.hcc-nd.edu 


l 
I I I I I I 
) 
\ ) 
I 
( 
) 
,I : 
-
Hair Salon ''Specializing in Highlighting» 54053 North Ironwood (574) 277-1174 

STUDENT DISCOUNT SPECIAL _,....-·~ 
Make your Haircut or Highlight 
' ' ' ' Appointment With Emily & Receive 10% off 

$59.00 

Returning to campus early after Christmas break? The :Vlorris Inn will be offering a 
special rate for returning students on Saturday, January 11. $59.00/ single or double 
occupancy. Please call to reserve aroom with us. 
The Morris Inn 
"On The Campus" 
Notre Dame, IN 
(574) 631-2000 

... 
.., 
N1<1ay, l'lovember Li., LUUL The Observer . S PO R l S page 23 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Surly Miller all business on court for Irish 
when he's on the court," Carroll Irish hope to continue tonight and plays isn't an empty cliche, 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
smiled. "When he's out there, he against Bucknell at 9 p.m. it's a comment coming from a 
Spom Writer 
goes to battle." Irish coach Mike Brey has player frustrated from sitting out All one needs to do to under­already noticed how Miller's last season after transferring 
They want to make the NCAA stand Miller's toughness is look presence affects the Irish and from Maryland. Tournament, win the Big East at his body after a game, which how he helps to fill the absence He's already gotten off to a fast Championship, finish with over is typically covered with bruises, of Ryan Humphrey's athletic start with the Irish, recording20 wins and make a statement cuts and other abrasions show­defense with a grinding, physical two double-doubles in his first on the national college basketball ing Miller's physical style of style of play. two games after failing to record scene. defense. After Tuesday's game, Brey one in three seasons with 
But senior Matt Carroll has And Miller's defensive pres­said, "He's got a little bit of a Maryland.another, more personal goal he ence has been instrumental in surliness about him." While Miller downplays the wants to achieve come season's Notre Dame's first two games "I don't even know what surly statistical significance of his first end. where the Irish held both oppo­means," Miller said. "I just go out two games, Brey said he's glad to 
Make Dan Miller smile on the nents under 50 points and kept there and play. and I try to be see his veteran gain some confi­court. them shooting less than 30 per­tough." dence early in the season. "I!e's so tough and so serious cent from the field, a trend the Miller saying he just goes out "It was important for him to 


• Reckers Artisan Sandwich 
Oven baked flat bread stuffed with your choice of flavored chicken and spreads. 
• Freshens Farms Micro-Batch Ice Cream • Larger half-pound burger and bakery bun 
• Grilled Portobello Mushroom Sandwich • Renovated service counter. 
,. :\~·.: \;:_ 

!' ·•,\';,., . •. _, ..•,, .,..:. -w,o 
come out like that, and I'm glad to sec that happened," the Irish coach said. "Ile plays better when he's confident, and he's a better leader when he's confi­dent." 
Part of Miller's defensive prowess with the Irish springs from his role at Maryland. where he was inserted primarily as a defensive stopper and often guarded players such as former Duke All-American Shane Battier in key ACC games. 
When Miller came to the Irish, Brey had one request for the 6­foot-8 veteran. 
'Tie's one of the better defen­sive wings we've had," he said. "We didn't want him to lose that." 
So far, his defense has been infections, spreading to the rest of the Irish and giving them a defensive identity Brey said his team danced close to but never found in his first two years. 
Forward Jordan Cornette's presence down low also is a huge reason for the Irish defensive dominance. The sophomore has 19 blocks in his first two games. 
The newfound defensive identi­ty Brey talks about has the Irish smiling, for they know if they have trouble scoring -a prob­lem that has plagued them early in their first two games -their defense will give them the edge. 
"Our defense is going to just make our offense that much bet­ter," Carroll said. "If our defense is on. our shots are going to fall." 
Note: 
Irish center Tom Timmermans, who sat out Notre Dame's first two games with back spasms. will be able to play for the Irish tonight, Brey said. 

Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
-

•
Since 1923 ,Group Services ,Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 


... 
Friday, November 22, 2002

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 9-1 

NOTRE DAME
AP: No. 8 
Coaches: No. 8 

Tyrone Willingham first season at Notre Dame career record: 
86-53-1 
at Notre Dame: 
9-1 
Willingham against Rutgers: head coach 0-0 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
l  Jared Clark  TE  6-4  228  JR  
2  Carlos Pierr,-Antoine !LB  6-3  245  SR  
2 3 4  Dan Novakov AmazBattle Ryan Grant  QB WR RB  6-1 6-1 6-1  218 213 211  SR SR so  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-2  190  FR  
6  Carlos C.unpbell  WR  5-11  194  so  
7 8 9  Carlyle Holiday Matt Krueger l ason Beckstrom  QB QB CB  6-3 5-10 5-10  214 180 188  JR JR SR  
9 11 12 13 14 15 16 17  Pat Dillingham Marcus Wilson Chris Olsen Nick Sella Gary Godsey Preston Ja<ksoll Stan Revelle Joey Hildbold  QB RB QB K/P TE CB QB p  6-1 5-11 6-4 5-l 1 6-6 5-9 5-11 5-10  209 199 220 177 259 176 182 191  so so FR SR SR JR so SR  
18 19  Ronnie Rodamer Glenn Earl  WR FS  6-4 6-1  206 205  JR SR  
19  D.J. Fitzpatrick  K/P  (,-1  192  so  
20 21 23  C.romeSapp Maurice Stovall Chris Yura  ss WR FB  f,-0 f>-3 6--0  218 205 220  SR FR SR  
25 26  Nate Schiccalallo Garron Bible  RB FS  6--3 5-10  220 197  FR JR  
26  Josh Schmidt  FB  o-1  207  so  
27  Lionel Bolen  ss  f,-0  195  so  
27  Mike Profeta  TB  5-11  208  so  
28 29 30  Cole Laux Quentin Bl!rrelf Mike Richardson  FB CB DB  5-10 6--0 f>-1  236 178 180  JR so FR  
31  Jake Carney  DB  (,-0  180  FR  
32  Jeff Jenkins  RB  f,-0  195  FR  
33  Courtney Watson  !LB  (,-!  232  SR  
34 35  Vootez Duff David Miller  CB K  5-11 5-11  194 210  JR SR  
35 36  Tun O'Neill Tom Lopienski  TB FB  5-5 b-1  172 245  SR SR  
37 38  Dwight Blick Preston J acksoo  CB CB  5-10 5--9  179 176  so so  
39  Brandon Hoyte  !LB  f,-0  226  so  
39 40  David Bemenderfer Nate Schomas  ss WR  5-11 5-10  195 160  JR FR  
41 42  Mike Goolsby Shane Walton  LB CB  b-3 5-11  243 185  JR SR  
43  Rashon Powers-Neal  TB  6-2  224  so  
44  Justin Tuck  DE  b-5  238  so  
46 47  Corey Mays MlkeMcNair  ILB FB  (,-1 f,-0  235 230  so SR  
48 49 50  Jerome Collins Derek Curry Cedric Hilliard  OLB ILB NG  6--4 6--3 6-2  256 233 290  JR JR SR  
51  Jamie Ryan  OT  b-5  285  FR  
52  Jeff Faine  C  6--3  298  SR  
53  John Crowther  C  b-2  239  SR  
54  Jason Halverson  DL  6-1  246  SR  
55  Zachary Giles  C  6-3  281  so  
56  Pat Ryan  !LB  6--3  231  SR  
57  Justin Thomas  OLB  6-1  243  SR  
58 60 61 62  Chad DeBolt Darrell Campbell Charles Hedman Scott Raridon  !LB DT LB OT  f,-0 6--4 6-1 6--7  202 288 215 285  SR SR SR FR  
63  Brennan Curhn  OT  6-8  305  SR  
64 65 66 67  Casey Dunn Sean Milligan Derek Landri Ryan Gillis  OT/OG 6--4 ex; 6--4 NG 6--2 ex; b-3  255 300 275 305  so SR FR SR  
68 69 70 71 71  Ed O'Connell Darin Mitchell Jim Molinaro David Kowalski James Bonelli  LB 6-3 OL 6--4 OT b-6 ex; 6--2 OC/OT 6-6  212 280 297 249 285  JR so SR JR FR  
- 72 73 74 75 76 77 7B 79  Ryan Scarola Mark l.eVoir Dan Stevenson ChrisFrome Bob Morton Greg Pauly Jordan Black Sean Mahan  C/OC TE ex; DE C m OT OT  6--5 6--7 6--5 6--5 6--4 6--6 6--6 6--3  310 309 292 240 305 280 305 285  SR so so FR FR JR SR SR  
80  Omar Jenkins  WR  6-2  204  so  
82 82 83 85 86 87 87 88 90  Bernard Akatu Matt Shelton Matt Root Billy Palmer Brendan Hart Marcus Freeman Patrick Nally Anthony Fas..no Brian lleidal!ich  WR WR TE TE TE TE TE TE DL  5-10 6-1 6--6 6-3 6--2 6--4 6-3 6--4 6--4  193 172 258 251 240 240 246 237 269  SR so so JR JR FR so FR so  
91 92 93 94 95 97  Jeff Thompson Kyle Budinscak Dan Santucci Brian Mattes Ryan Roberts Travis Leilko  NG/DT 6--4 DE 6--4 DE 6-5 DE 6-6 DE 6-2 DE 6--6  273 269 250 250 258 250  so JR FR FR SR FR  
99  /a.on Sapp  DE  6--3  249  JR  

NOTRE DAME 2002 Schedule 
Aug. 31 Maryland -W Sept. 7 PURDUE -W 
Oct. 26 at Florida State -W Nov. 2 BOSTON COLLEGE -L Nov.9 atNavy-W Nov. 23 RUTGERS Nov. 30 at USC 

COACHING 
This weekend will prove whether or not Willingham 
I.LI 

and his staff can get their 
~ 

team back to solid football.
ct 

After a loss, a near loss and a bye week, Willingham 
C 
I.LI 

will have to get his team
c::
... 

focused on playing an
0 

unranked foe, playing Irish 
z 

football and bringing home a big victory. 

~:::::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Schiano is only in his 
second year at 
Rutgers. He has led the
Cl)
c:: 

Scarlet Knights to just
I.LI 

three wins in the last
CJ 

two years while com­
... 

piling 18 losses. He is
=>
a:: 

young and inexperi­enced, but has the respect of his team. 


QUARTERBACKS  IRISH RUSHING  
Holiday has shown that he can pass and he can rush, although he has spent a lot of time in the pocket making his reads and finding his receivers. He is still struggling to consistently lead his offense on a long drive down the field that results in a touchdown.  The Irish rushing game has been inconsistent lately. Grant has been unable to hold the ball, but Powers-Neal has stepped up to make big carries for the Irish, often taking defenders with him across the first-down marker.  

Hart, the true fresh­
Rutgers rushing defense 
man, will most likely 
is its weak link. The
get the start for the 
Scarlet Knights have
Scarlet Knights. 
allowed their opponents
Schiano is hoping that 
to gain an average of
the signal caller, who 
nearly 200 yards a
has played in three 
game, although they do 
games this seaosn, will 
force fumbles and have
be able to improve on 
recovered half of those
Trump and Cubit's per­
they force. 

formance. 

The Notre Dame rushing gamJl §gould BWY!=l no 
..
~~;Jll;'=~t~!lil~~~: 
right"'p~fthe Rutg~rs line and into the end zone. 
IRISH PASSING 
The pass game has stepped up, averaging 170 yards a game. The Irish receivers do a good job running their routes and getting open. However, Holiday still has trouble finding them, and they have been unable to make a recep­tion and then take off. 
The Knights pass defense is also giving up nearly 200 yards a game. However, Hutgers has managed to play close to some very good passing teams and could surprise the Irish. They record less than two sacks a game, but have eight interceptions. 
Although Notre Dame has shown improvement 
itrJh\i.h:~t?~ETrauttl
ft::~,~er,c~1~~=r~i~c
touchdowns and his pro­tection isn't quite enough for the time he needs in the pocket. 




After a pair of lackluster performances Rutgers again finds itself in the basement of the against Boston Collge and Navy, the Irish Big East at 1-9. The Scarlet Knights have been 
are back into a position where people are outscored this year by an average of nearly 16
Irish 

questioning their No. 8 ranking. That's points a game. Their lone highlight was carry­good news for the Irish, who played their ing a 17-14 lead into the fourth quarter against best when they're disrespected. Notre No. 1 Miami before yielding 28 unanswered
experts 

Dame has no problem dismantling points. This should provide a good warm up for Rutgers in the seniors' home finale. Notre Dame before the USC game next week. 
Chris Federico FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 
Rutgers 7Rutgers 10 sports editor 

Andrew Soukup assist.ant managing editor 

foday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
,­
Rutgers 

Scarlet Knights 
Record 1-9

RUTGERS 
AP: unranked 


KNIGHT RUSHING 
Aside from a major lapse against Navy in their last outing, the Irish defense has controlled opponents' rushing game. Although they allowed more than 200 yards against the option, they are keeping opponents to an average of less than 100 yards per game. 
=-=======----_-_________-----------.... 
The Hutgers running game is medicore, at best. The Scarlet Knights rely mostly on their passing, only gaining somewhere near 50 rushing yards per game. In addition, the Knights have fumbled 24 times this season and lost 11 of those. 
Hutgers does not present any s-~,;Jqus thi;~~kW-the
~~G;i;~\ii§lt,i~;
fil'tB:~
and J~JJng tn¢Jt run gamt't'co'n\plctlc§ out of the picture. 
KNIGHT PASSING 
The Irish secondary and linebackers are still going after the big, game-defining plays. The Irish have averaged more than one intercep­tion per game and returned several of those picks for touch­downs. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
Irish special teams remain inconsistent at best. Setta has connected on some field goals, but several opponents have blocked kicks. Hildbold continues to help the Irish win the field position battle, and Vontez Duff ran a kickoff back against Navy. 
••------------------------------------------.... ••------------------------------------------.... 
The Knights' offensive strength has been their pass game, but it hasn't been overly productive. Smith and Martin will provide the biggest threat to the Irish defense -both have three touchdown recep­tions on the season. 

Sands is 5-9 for the Scarlet Knights in field goals. However, the Knights do have a weapons in special teams in kick returner Jones, who has two touchdowns, one of which came on a 100­yard runback. 
Neither team has par­ticularly stellar special teams. The Irish and U1@,,,, Sc arJJ/"'''K nigh ts
~ilw~~ 
returns. Hiidbold will win the field position battle, but the rest is up for grabs. 


The Irish have been less than stellar in their last two games, but with the home­field advantage they should run over the less talented Scarlet Knights team. Look for Notre Dame to rely on its run game to pick up big yards. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27Katie McVoy Rutgers 10 

associate sports editor 
Coaches: unranked 
Greg Schiano
RUTGERS 

second season at
2002 Schedule 

Rutgers career record:
3-18 

at Rutgers:
Sept. 7 BUFFALO -L 
3-18 

Schiano

against Notre
Sept. 14 ARMY-W 
head coach

Dame: 0-0
_4:-::-...,
Sept. 21 
j~~,~,:~i:~~burgh -L 
Roster
Sept.-,,~jljlii:::::!~:il~i~~&!~:.e -L 

No. Name Pos. Ht.
Oct. 12, \fi,Wl$'1\\IIRl&llli.llA -L I RaeemOrr DE 6-4 2 Clarence Pittman RB 5-10 3 Terry Byrnes LB 6-2 
:-:-.-:• t,,.,.,. •.·• ....,.,.....·.... ·•'. •.. .,.,,.:,.::,:-:•:•:•:•: 

Oct. 1~/t~~f:Vi.i~iri;ci,;;~~ -L 4 Nate Colon DB 5-11 
Oct. 26 Nov.2 Nov. 16 Nov. 23 Nov. 30 

5 Chris Baker WR 6-5 6 Corey Barnes WR 5-8 7 Anthony Cali QB 6-5
at Syracuse -L 

8 Tres Moses WR 5-10 9 Sean Carty WR 6-0 10 Berkley Hutchinson LB 6-3
MIAMI -L 

10 Bryan Wilson WR 5-9 
II Ryan Hart QB 6-2 
12 Ryan Cubit QB 6-3
TEMPLE -L 

13 Mike Barr r 6-3 
14 Michael Cortese K 6-3 
15 Brain Leonard FB 6-2
at Notre Dame 

16 Ted Trump QU 6-2 
17 Justin Musiek K 5-11 
17 Brian Boland QB 6-2 
18 Darren Haliburton WR 6-3
BOSTON COLLEGE 
INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame has the hornefield advantage for the seniors last game in Notre Dame Stadium. They are coming off of two mediocre perfor­mances that have made them hungry for a solid win against a weaker opponent. 
•
..------------------------------------------.... 
Rutgers will be up for playing Notre Dame. The Scarlet Knights have had a less-than-spectacular season and will be looking to prove themselves and hopefully ruin Notre Dame's chances of going to a BCS bowl. They will look to capitalize on Notre Dame mistakes 

:::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::: ::.:::::::::::::::::::::-::: 


Joe Hettler 
associate sports editor 
19  Vaughn Calhoun  DB  6-0  
20  Jarvis Johnson  DB  5-11  
21  DeWayne Thompson  DB  5-9  
22  Markis Facyson  RB  5-10  
23  Shawn Seabrooks  DB  5-10  
24  Brandon Haw  DB  6-0  
25  Anthony Frazier  DB  5-11  
26  Aaron Krause  DB  5-10  
XJ  Jason Grant  DB  6-1  
28  Bryan Durango  DB  5-10  
29  Dondre Asberry  DB  5-11  
30  Joe Radigan  p  6-5  
30  Ryan Sands  K  6-0  
31  Eddie Grimes  DB  6-0  
32  Nathan Jones  DB  5-10  
33  Jason Nugent  RB  6-1  
34  Leslie Collins  DB  5-10  
35  William Beckford  LB  6-1  
z 0 -t::a ITI  36 37 38 39 40 40  JoeStellke Brandon Wood William Gilkison Plana Lukabu Cedric Brown Cabral Edley  FB DB LB DE RB RB  6-1 6-1 6-2 6-3 5-10 5-10  
C .3:  41 42 43 44  Gary Brackett Brian Bender Mitchell Davis Jeremy Campbell  LB LB FB LB  5-11 6-3 6-2 6-2  
ITI  45  Marcus Jones  RB  5-10  
46  Jereme Baker  WR  5-11  
46  Antonio Valvecde  DB  6-2  
47  Ray Pilch  FB  6-3  
48  Sal Fama  LB  6-0  
49  Brian hohmann  LB  6-3  
51  Trohn Carswell  OL  6-5  
52  Marty Pyszczym uka  OL  6-2  
53  Ishmael Medley  LB  5-11  
55  Davon Clark  DI  6-4  
::c C: -t G) ITI::a u,  56 57 58 60 61 62 63 64  Ron Jenerette Steve Berson Joe Henley Justin Peyton Mike Clancy Mike Williamson William Vogt Rob Dinsmore  DL LB DL OL OL OL OL OL  6-4 5-11 6-3 6-4 6-4 6-5 6-3 6-5  
67  Jeremiah Barrett  OL  6-3  
69  Howard Blackwood  OL  6-4  
71  Dan Biernacki  OL  6-4  
73  Brian Duffy  OL  6-5  
74  Randy Boxill  OL  6-5  
75  Mark Segaloff  OL  6-5  
76  John Glass  OL  6-5  
77  Rich McManis  OL  6-5  
78  Mike Esposito  OL  6-4  
79  Sameeh McDonald  OL  6-5  
80  Jerry Andre  WR  6-I  
81  Clark Harris  TE  6-6  
82  Aaron Martin  WR  6-4  
83  Ed Jordan  TE  6-3  
84  Jeff Ternyla  WR  6-2  
85  L.J. Smith  TE  6-4  
86  Bryan lloehrer  TE  6-3  
87  Chris Loomis  TE  6-4  
88  Keith Landi  TE  6-4  
89  Shawn Tucker  WR  6-2  
90  William Burnett  DE  6-4  
91  Ryan Neill  DL  6-3  
92  Alfred Peterson  DE  6·3  
94  Val Barnaby  DE  6-5  
95  Gary Gibson  DL  6-4  
96  Joe Giacobbe  DL  6-0  
97  Vincent Iachetta  DI.  6-5  
98  Luis Rivas  DL  6-4  
98  Syheem Farrar  DL  6-2  
99  Greg Pyszczymuka  DL  6-2  
99  J'VoMe Parker  DL  6-6  

After a week off, Notre Dame will bounce back in impressive fashion against a stingy Rutgers team. Look for the Irish to be focused in the seniors' last home game at Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame clicks on both sides of the ball and wins easily. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Rutgers 7 
Wt. YR 260 SR 200 so 210 FR 190 SR 200 so 165 FR 215 FR 
,.•
190 so 185 SR 245 FR 
190 so 
195 FR 215 so 220 SR 205 FR 220 FR 215 SR 175 FR 210 FR 200 FR 190 SR 190 so 185 SR 195 FR 190 SR 185 SR 205 JR 185 JR 195 JR 180 FR 175 FR 215 FR 225 JR 180 so 175 JR 190 FR 175 FR 220 FR 220 JR 185 FR 230 FR 235 so 180 so 180 JR 235 SR 235 SR 230 SR 235 JR 195 so 185 JR 200 FR 230 JR 225 FR 242 JR 300 SR 275 SR 230 so 285 so 285 JR 220 SR 220 FR 240 FR 290 so 289 JR 2"12 FR 290 JR 250 JR 301 SR 310 so 300 SR 313 FR 295 so 320 so 310 JR 295 SR 300 so 185 so 225 FR 205 SR 
2.10 JR 175 so 252 SR 260 SR 230 so 240 JR 180 FR 280 SR 245 so 270 so 255 FR .. 
280 JR 260 FR 220 FR 263 FR 
223 . 
JR 280 SR 325 JR 

..... 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 22, 2002 
===================================================================================-= 
us, then we'll be in a lot of trou­leads the team with 33 points Tancredi. Last week, the junior semifinals of the NCAA ble." overall. While these players may shut down Purdue's top scorer Tournament, being the heavy
Sweet 
Even though the Cardinal end up in the box score, Annette Kent, while also con­favorite can be a real burden. 
continued from page 28 
their way to a 20-1 record. The Pac-10 champion's sole loss came Oct. 4 against perennial national power North Carolina. 
In last weekend's opening rounds of the tournament, the Cardinal crushed Cal Poly 5-0 and then squeaked by California in a 1-0 overtime victory. 
Notre Dame forward Amanda Guertin made a statement in last weekend's victories. The junior scored four goals and registered an assist on her way to an impressive nine-point weekend. 
Guertin and fellow forwards Amy Warner and Katie Thorlakson will have their work cut out for them against The Cardinal's top-ranked defense in the country. 
Stanford's back line, led by senior Katherine Harrington, gives up an average of just five shots a game. The Cardinal also possesses one of the premier goalkeepers in the country. Nicole Barnhart leads the nation with 0.19 goals against average. Despite all of these imposing sta­tistics, Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum believes his offense can create scoring opportunities. 
"They've got a good defense and a good goalie," Waldrum said. "They've kept their goals against average really low. But with what we have up front, I think we can cause them some problems. I don't know if they've gone up against three forwards like Amanda Guertin, Amy Warner and Katie Thorlakson. 
"Our forwards need to be mobile for us to win the game. If we get caught just waiting around for the ball to come to 
... 
boasts the best defense in the country, Waldrum is more wor­ried about Stanford's high-pow­ered offense and its big midfield. The Cardinal's starting midfield­ers are all taller than any of Notre Dame's starters Randi Scheller, Ashley Dryer and Mary Boland. 
Pac-10 player of the year Marcia Wallis leads the Cardinal with 12 goals on the season, while midfielder Marcie Ward Waldrum is most concerned with the playmaking ability of mid­fielder Callie Withers. 

"Callie Withers is their best player. She just makes huge plays for them offensive and defense," Waldrum said. 
After struggling during the early part of the season with an assortment of injuries, the Notre Dame defense has finally solidi­fied itself with the addition of converted forward Melissa tributing the decisive goal with eight minutes left in the contest. Tancredi along with Chapman, Catherine Sigler and Kim Carpenter must continue their strong play this weekend. 
"Our backs really need to be consistent," Waldrum said. "I think we'll be alright back there." 
As Waldrum can attest when his undefeated Notre Dame team from two years ago lost in the 
"Two years ago, we were undefeated and ranked number one going into the tournament. If you don't win, then you feel like you've really blown the season," Walrdum said. "The pressure is on them. If they lose to us, then they've blown their ranking and their entire season." 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu 

Whether You're looking For A Brand New car, Or ANew-To-You car, we can Help, With Rates As low As 
UNION 
00/567-6328 

cing tenns on new and used vehicles. Rates are subject to change without 
' . . . 
Entries due Friday, December 6 
Drop off in Student Activities Office 314 LaFortune 
Questions? Email schuster.13@nd.edu 

I f
I I 

Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 

CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 
~t df®,t 
1 l 5PAAY PAtNl~D fLOWE.~ ~ . o a ! lt;NTE.RflECESIN lHE AN EDUC/fflON FROM 1----SL:=--'-'--'--'-'-.....____.""-"-'-"---tCOLEMAN MD!1i%CENT£R DININq I-IAtLS ONrOOi-NOTR'E. PAME.: P£DICUR£D T~E£S ~ ~' -rwo -rot0-1M~L~[OUN· L ~'!~f1/iY5: ~fEtl$1VE !.. .ER., LAWN CAR"-: rJ00,000.-· TAIN: 30,000. -111. -&fc~tm>N :t ttiAN PRfC.EL£$S. 
JACK MONAHAN 
HAPPY TOWN 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
_.-::-T-:-r,.,..=i -=-t--:-t-=+-:-,-t,=-t 
..,,,.+=+-.,,.+,,,-1 
~-=+=-••~:.i-::+.:.:.:...=..,...-i1111111 


P E A S S S K Y 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

WILLSHORTZ 
3 Chest sounds 4 Marie Claire competitor 
5 Bust specialists, for short 
6 Compass 7 Place to sun 
8 Better 

9  10  11  12  13  14  15  
16  
11  

9 Dentist's direction 1o Rock blaster 
11 Spring time in Paris 
12 1940's arena: Abbr. 
13 Home entertainment systems 
14 Thoroughgoing 
15 Hair holder 
22 Reviews, as books 
23 Salon specialties 24 Tropical rays 

41 4-Down 48 Moscow's 55 Old protest grp. 25 Brat features Museum 56" Married an
42 Top dog

27 Split 49 Track founded 
Axe Murderer" 28 Madison, tor (Mike Myers
43 "Bridge in 1711 one: Abbr. Complete" 
50 Times comedy)author 29 It separates two 45 Exxon rival 53 Blue 57 Media inits. 
breaks 

Reservoir since 1980 30 Part of an (Colorado's
46 Became wearisome

Eskimo diet I argest body of 58 It may be 31 LAX posting 47 Biathlon need water) written in stone 
32 • Blue?" (1929 hit) For answers, call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550.
33 Japanese honorific Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
34 E.U. member 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00035 Firth of Clyde past puzzles, nytimes.com/divers1ons ($19.95 a year). port 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Lfarning Network, 37 Percolate nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name Address ---------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
JUMBLE 

~filhill 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
SIDAY 

rJ I b
02002 T rtbune Media Services, Inc. All R 1a A..ervod. 
BOYHB 
IFREDOKj 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

I I 
Answer: HE 

rI I JrI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' I Jumbles: CRAZE HAIRY BAKING DOOMED 
s Answer: What the dealer on the gambling boat was known as -A DECK HAND 
Stumped? Call 1•900•776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jamie Lee Curtis. Rooney Dangerfielu. Tom Conti, Biltie Jean King, Robert Vaughn Happy Birthday: You'll have to have your wits about you this year if you don't want lo miss out on a good opportunity. Don't be a daydreamer. Turn your ideas into something concrete and you won't be sorry. You have everything to gain and nothing to lose. Your numbers are 3, 14, 22, 27, 34, 39 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Travel should be on your agenda. You can obtain a vast amount of knowledge if you keep an open mine.I and discuss your opinions with established inuividuals. This is a wonderful day for learning. 
**** 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take time to do things for and with colleagues. You should be able to pick up ad<litional knowledge or skills through courses or apprenticeships. !l's a good time to learn. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your flippant nature will surface if you allow your emotions to take over regarding your partnership. You need to get out and enjoy. Look into activities that will proviue you with mental and physical stimulation. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Added responsibilities may be <lifficult to handle. Do your best to make residential changes and improvements that will benefit the whole family. Make sure everyone knows you could use· a little help.* LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love connections can solidify if you discuss your intentions with your mate. Don't hesitate to set aside time and find a private place where the two of you can share your dreams. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emotions may flare up on the homefront. Take one step at a time and don't pick siues. Your practical ou1look will win out. Get sound advice from someone you respect. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel will lead to new friendships and valuable information. Don't be afraid to accept inevitable changes in your personal life. They will ultimately be better for you in the long run. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your possessive tendencies may be difficult for your mate to handle today. Don't put demands on those you live with or love. Take this time to work on yourself and give some space to those around you. 
***

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Inevitable changes concerning your career may surprise you. Stomach problems due to nervous tension are likely. Try to remain calm, eat properly and set up an exercise program 10 alleviate stress. 
** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't mix romance with business. Gossip will damage your reputation. At this time, honesty and discrimination are your greatest assets so use them wisely. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can utilize your discipline to accomplish personal goals that you set for yourself. You have everything it takes to succeed in all your endeavors at this time, so get started. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional problems with family members can stifle your plans. Residential moves or changes will be beneficial in the long term. Follow your instincts. You will be right on the mark with your decisions. 
** 

Birthday Baby: You will be lighthearted, fun and entertaining. You will always want to be surrounded by friends and family. You will find solutions 10 other people's problems and that will bring you respect and popularity throughou1 your life. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHY THE= FISHER.­MAN BOUGHT THE NEW L-UR.E. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 They're llfesavers 
16 Degree requirement. maybe 
17 Point out 
18 Suit to 
19 Start of a German series 
20 Source of being, it's said 
21 Meyerbeer's
. 
Huguenots" 22 Some poles 24 Amalgamate 25 D1scourag1ng 
word 26 "Promised 
Land" author 28 Shot the breeze 31 Old colonial 
region 
36 1983 film based on a Jean Shepherd book 
38 Began 
39 Assuaging agent 
40 Shake off 41 Game show V.1.P.'s 42 It produces_ wrinkles 
44 Repeat· 48 "A shrewd pickpurse": Howell 51 Herbert of "War and Peace'' 
52 Help 
53 Reticulation 
54 Brief time? 
59 Smash-up 
60 Restlessness 
DOWN 1 Centrally located 
2 Uncontrollable 




PORTS 
Friday, November 22, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Dueling the Knights 
No. 8 Notre Dame returns to the gridiron against I -9 Rutgers 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associace Sports Editor 
For the second straight game, Notre name faces an opponent that has only one win this season. 
And the Irish hope this game goes better than their last one. See Also 
Two weeks ago, Notre Dame played a Game analysis 1-7 Navy team at 
pages24-25

Havens Stadium in Baltimore and needed a late 67-yard touchdown pass from Carlyle Holiday to Omar Jenkins in the final minutes to secure a 30-23 victory over the Midshipmen. 
On Satu.rday, the Irish will need to play better than their last two outings if they hope to secure a win against Rutgers. While only 1-9 and 0-6 in the Big East conference, the Scarlet Knights have played several top teams tough this season. They led Tennessee at half­time and were beating No. 1 Miami late in the third quarter before losing 42-17. 
"They have played their best football against the best teams, and, of course, they have played some of the really bet­ter teams in this country," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "So it is a frightening thought that a team that has the skill that they have will play their best game against us this Saturday." 
Notre Dame must also caution against looking past a lowly Rutgers team and seeing USC on the horizon. The Trojans are in contention for a BCS bowl bid and host the Irish next weekend. 
"That has always been the difficult side of coaching, is how can you get your young men to focus and concen­trate on what's important now," Willingham said. "To do that, you really have to count on not only the leadership of your coaches, but the leadership of your players. They have to understand what's important." 
The Scarlet Knights use a two­pronged backfield of Markis Facyson and Clarence Pittman. Facyson leads the team in rushing with 408 yards on 108 attempts and a touchdown. 
Rutgers has also used different combi­nations of quarterbacks extensively this season. Tt~d Trump leads the team in passing yards, while Ryan Cubit has started more games. Yet the Irish will likely see true freshman Ryan Hart, who hast started the last two games for Rutgers. The freshman has two touch­downs and three interceptions on the season. 
Meanwhile Notre Dame hopes to hold on to the football and move the ball effectively on offense. (n their last two games, the Irish have fumbled a com­bined 11 times, including seven fumbles in their 14-7 loss to Boston College. 
Notre Dame will be without starting offensive lineman Jordan Black as well. The South Bend Tribune reported the senior will miss the first half of the game for repeatedly parking his car illegally, a violation of team policy. · 
"This is just .handed down from coach Willingham. It's his decision," Black told the Tribune. "I don't think he wants people to do that and he wants to set a precedent and obviously he's using me as the example." 
The game kicks off at 1 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

ND SOCCER 

NCAA Tournament time continues for Irish 
. Mens team looks to avoid letdown in rematch with Akron 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 

Few were surprised Monday when Notre Dame's name was announced as a part of the 48-team NCAA Tournament field for mens soccer. 
vVhat may have surprised some, how­ever, was the opponent, an Akron team the Irish have already faced -and beat­en -this year. 
Friday night at 7:30 at Alumni Field, the Irish (11-5-3) and Zips (9-7-3) face 
off in the first round of the "second sea­son" for both teams. The winner of the rematch will play Indiana in Bloomington on Wednesday. 
After an early exit from the Big East Tournament, the Irish are more than ready to start over again. 
"[Coach Bobby Clark] has really got us believing that being eliminated from the Big East Tournament [in the first round] was a blessing in disguise," junior cap­tain Greg Martin said. 
Friday's match will mark the first-ever NCAA Tournament home game for the mens soccer team. 
The first time these two teams met this season, on Oct. 6, the Irish rebounded from an overtime loss to Pittsburgh two 
see SOCCER/page 22 
. Irish women look to spoilNo.1 Stanford's Sweet 16 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wom­ens soccer team may be huge underdogs this weekend, but they sure are not worried about it. On Saturday at 10 p.m., the No. 19 Irish will travel to Palo Alto, Calif., to take on No. 1 Stanford, with the winner advancing to the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament. 

"I think the pressure is really on them," defender Candace Chapman said. "They're the No. 1 team, and we're supposed to be the big underdogs. We might have struggled a lit­tle during the season, but I don't think they under­stand how good we really are." 
"I know we're physically tough. We just need to go in there mentally tough. Even if there are tough times against Stanford, we can't break down," defender Melissa Tancredi said. "It's hard to face the No. 1 team, but right now we have the advantage. We just can't make the lit­tle mistakes because that is what has killed us all season." 
After last weekend's pair of 3-1 home victories over Ohio State and Purdue in the opening rounds of the tournament, the Irish will now be fac­ing their toughest test of the season. The Cardinal has allowed only four goals the entire season on 
see SWEET/page 26 
MENS BASKETBALL 
MENS SWIMMING 

HOCKEY 
VOLLEYBALL 

FOOTBALL 
INTERHAU. FOOTBALL

en ..... 
Bucknell at Notre 

Rutgers at Notre
Purdue at Notre 

Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 
Siegfried vs. 
Big East 
Dame 
Alumni,
Dame 

Michigan 
Tournament 
Cavanaufih vs.

CC::5 Dame 
Friday, 9 p.m. 

Friday, 7:35 p.m. 
Pasqueri a East
Friday, 5 p.m. 

Saturday, 1 p.m. 
The Irish look to go 
The Irish host the 

The Irish return from 
Saturday-Sunday 

The Observer profiles 
C,: 
3-0 on the season tonight 
Boilermakers in this 

a bye week to play No. 
Irish look to defend 
Dorm championships 

seniors playing their last 
in the Stadium Sunday. 
dual meet. 

5 Michigan. 
their Big East title. 
at the Joyce Center. 

game at the Stadium. 
D.ti 
page 23 
page 21 

page 20 
page 19 
Insider
Insider

en 

O THE 
BSERVER 
::-.ri
·~1 
•t 
~ : ~ 
.. ~··' 
'·•:, . 
page2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 22, 2002 
table of contents 

Bernard Akatu 
page 21 
Arnaz Battle 
page 15 
Jordan Black 
page 8 
John Crowther 
page 18 
Chad DeBolt 
page 21 
Charles Hedman 
page 12 
Jason Halvorson 
page 10 
Joey Hildbold 
page 17 
Tom Lopienski 
page 5 
Sean Mahan 
page 9 
Mike McNair 
page 5 
David Miller 
page 7 
Dan Novakov 
page 12 
Ed O'Connell 
page 14 
Tim O'Neill 
page 20 
Carlos Pierre-Antoine page 4 
Ryan Roberts 
page 13 
Gerome Sapp 
page 3 
Ryan Scarola 
page 16 
Shane Walton 
page 11 
Chris Yura 
page 6 
Fourth-year seniors 
pages 22-23 

Seniors relish return to glory 

The fifth-year seniors had every right to jump ship. 
Could you blame them if they did? This was the class that suffered thro-ugh two losing seasons with sub-.500 records. 
The class that had as many head coaches as winning seasons. The class that came in with loads of potential and hadn't seen it manifest on the 

football field. 

Andrew Soukup
Notre Dame's senior class had motive and opportunity. All Sports Writer they needed to do was run away from Notre . Dame, away from the scribes who would write off their years under the Golden Dome as a giant disap­pointment, away from the shadows of Rockne and Leahy, away from the black stain on Notre Dame's football program. 
But they stayed. And by staying. they became legends. 
They'll admit it. Many of Notre Dame's fifth-year seniors toyed with the idea of leaving Notre Dame for the NFL, for real life, for anywhere where their every move wouldn't be analyzed under a microscope. 
But they stayed. Their individual reasons for why they stayed are dif­ferent. Shane Walton didn't think he was ready for the NFL. Arnaz Battle had yet to establish himself as a wide receiver. Ryan Roberts couldn't wait to start. 
The Irish seniors had their indi­vidual reasons for sticking around. They also had a legacy to leave behind. 
Few will admit it, but the prospect of being remembered as playing during an era best described as decidedly Faustian wasn't exactly how the seniors wanted to leave. 
"I didn't expect to have any losing seasons coming to Notre Dame," 
QUOTING THE IRISH 
"Ifwe win out and win a bowl game, this is going to be one of the great teams in Notre Dame history." 
Jordan Black offensive tackle 
Jordan Black said. "I expected to win a national championship. I thought that was very possible with the recruiting class that I was in." 
They had dreams of winning a national title, of proving that Notre Dame could still compete with the nation's elite programs. They want­ed to walk out with their heads held high knowing they left behind a pro­gram in stable hands. 
And they will. 
Ask a Notre Dame die-hard the signifi­place in history'' Not too often. mostly because they already knew they were only going to receive a few lines in the media guides instead of pages devoted to great teams. 
Not many will admit it, but the uncertainty was there. It was there in winter workouts, it was there in spring practice, it was there over the summer, and it was there on media day. The Irish said they were 
headed for a huge 
turnaround. Few 

cance of 1964 and The Irish said they heard them. Fewer 
they'll start brag­believed them. 
were headedfor a huge
ging about how Ara In fact, even as Parseghian magi­turnaround. Few heard the Irish claimed cally turned the they could contend 
them. Fewer believed 
Irish program for a national
them.

around. Talk to those around cam­pus in 1993 and they'll say how great it was to be around a national championship race. 
Now, the 2002 version of the Irish football team is writing chapters in history one Saturday at a time. 
And the seniors love it. 
Say all you want about the dra­matic turnaround Tyrone Willingham created this year. but Willingham himself would be the first to say the Irish wouldn't be 9-1 without the senior class. He didn't even name captains, choosing instead to place the burden of lead­ership on the entire team instead of on four individuals. 
When a new head coach comes in, he often ignores the seniors and focuses on rebuilding the program's freshman and sophomore classes. But Willingham didn't scorn Notre Dame's seniors. He called on them for their leadership, asked for their respect and offered them the chance to return to greatness. 
It was a chance they grabbed. 
"As a senior. you don't want the year of a new coach to be a rebuild­ing year," Ryan Roberts said. "We knew from the first workouts this was going to be a different kind of deal." 
Did the Irish worry about their 
"Every year ... I'm 100 percent proud of. and I just want to finish it up with a great season like we have been doing." 
Chris Yura punt protector 
championship, they 
weren't too sure 
themselves whether this year would 
be different from the rest. 
But they blew out Maryland. 
Edged Michigan. Rallied to beat 
Michigan State. Crushed Florida 
State. Secured their place in history. 
"We've had so many losing sea­
sons, thinking about losing wouldn't 
have done us any good," Gerome 
Sapp said. 
Now, instead of being remem­
bered asthe forgotten seniors, this 

year's class will be seen as the cata­. lyst for an Irish return to glory. 
Now, instead of being compared to 
the 1993 team, considered by many 
to be the last time Notre Dame chal­
lenged for a national title, the 2002 
Irish will be looked at as the first 
group of many to challenge for a 
title. 
Now, instead of wondering 
whether they'd ever make an 
impact, the Irish will graduate feel­
ing their stint under the Dome had 
tremendous significance. 
Now, the seniors know what pride 
feels like. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asoukup@n d. edu. 
"It was a hard year last year. This year we returned to Notre Dame football." 
Sean Mahan offensive guard 

Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
GEROME SAPP 
Taking control 
Sapp may play defensive back, but the defense he calls his own calls him the quarterback 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Sitting at home in front of the televi­sion was excruciating. He even thought about turning the game off, but he knew he couldn't do that. Instead. he turned down the sound to avoid having to lis­ten to the announc­ers and put on soothing music. There was pain, but il wasn't the pain that came from his injured knee. 
The defense, his defense, was strug­gling against a weaker team and there was nothing he could do about it. 
Gerome Sapp could only describe watching the close Irish victory against the Midshipmen on his televi­sion instead of on the field with one word. 
"It was torture," he said. 
Playlng strong 
Sapp is not used to injury. Aside from the normal bumps and bruises any football player suffers in the course of his career, Sapp hasn't had much experience with injury. In fact, before the Navy game, he had never missed traveling with the Irish. 
"He's never hurt," defensive coordi­nator Kent Baer said, ironically, the day before Sapp suffered the knee injury. "Ile hasn't missed a practice, hasn't missed a snap. That's part of playing as well as he·s played because he hasn't missed a practice." 


still his defense and there's more yet to be done. 
"!The injury] sets me back leaps and bounds," Sapp said. "Just in terms of wanting to play in every game an pro­duce in every game. But I plan on catching up however I can." 
Besides, he and cornerback Shane 
Walton are in a picking contest. 
Walton has now had an extra game to 
get interceptions. 

"Yeah. he probably does [have an edge]." Sapp said. "I plan on being back before the season's over to I can catch up with him." 
Playing tag 

For Sapp and his fellow members of the secondary, football isn't so much a job as a walk in the park. or rather, a walk on the playground. 
Coaches will argue that individually, the Irish secondary players may not hold a candle to some of football's defensive greats, but together, they're dynamite. 
"I've been around better corners individually, I've been around better safeties individually," Baer said. "But I'm not sure I've been around a better group or a group who likes to play the way they play as a group." 
The way Sapp describes it, when he plays with corners Vontez Duff and Walton and fellow safety Glenn Earl, it's not really a purely professional relationship. He feels more like he's tossing around the pigskin with his brothers. 
"It's kind of like we're out there playing on the playground," Sapp said. "When you think back to high school and play with that mentality when it's fun, it's so much more effective 
The next day, "When I look at the because you're not Sapp got hurt in defense, I feel kind oflike really afraid of mak­
practice. The injury ing mistakes and
it's my defense, or at

to his knee isn't so things like that. We serious that it's least my secondary. And all know each other career-ending or so well -Shane,
to not be able to be out 

even season-ending. Vontez, Glenn -that
there and help our team,

Sapp may even be we have fun playing 
back in time to play it was horrible." together." against Rutgers But once game time Saturday. But for hits, they have no
Gerome Sapp

the senior safety, it problem putting away
Irish safety

was a new experi­their jump ropes, 
ence. 
"I've always dealt with knick-knack injuries," he said. "This is the most serious I've had, and, in the big pic­tu rc, it's not all that serious. It just came at a bad time." 
Sapp played in all 12 games his freshman year. He missed just one game his sophomore year with a slight ankle sprain and one game as a junior with a shoulder injury. But he had never missed a trip. He had always been there when his team needed him. 
So the real pain for Sapp came not from the injury, but from his inability to help the Irish. As part of a sec­ondary that has prided itself on mak­ing big plays to turn games around, Sapp was infuriated that he couldn't do anything helpful when the Irish were losing to a 1-7 Navy squad. He had taken ownership of this defense and they were leaderless. 
"When I look at the defense, I reel kinJ of like it's my defense, or at least my secondary," he said. "And to not be able to be out there and help our teum, it wus horrible." 
/\!though the injury has set Sapp back in terms of what he wants to accomplish this season. he refuses to !cl it shut him down. Injury or no, it's hopping of the teeter­
tauter and focusing. 
"It's natural," Sapp said. "We can have a good time and we play well in a game.... Once it's game time, it's all ball and it's all business. When the game's over, it's all laughs." 
Making sure it's all ball and all busi­ness is something Sapp prides himself on. 
Playing quarterback 

"He's the quarterback back there in the secondary," Baer said. "That's good because of all the adjustments we have to make on almost every snap." 
Coaches and players don't seem so shocked by comparing Sapp to an offensive player. After all, he's the signal caller for the secondary. Ile watches out for the line-up, he checks for any adjustments that have to be made. He's the quarterback. 
"He's very vocal and instrumental in getting people lined up," Earl said. "[Quarterback] is a pretty accurate characterization.•· 
"He also provides great leadership," added coach Tyrone Willingham. "He's very much the quarterback in 
\ 

our secondary." Sapp himself didn't seem so sur­
prised with the characterization. Every time he steps on the field he wants to make sure everyone is focused on all ball and all business. But he doesn't want his team to lose track of the big picture either. 
"I would say the quarterback is always calm no matter what's hap­
pening, poised and always keeping his head to the sky and realizing that every­thing is going to be OK," Sapp said. "That's kind of how I am. I get the guys lined up and checked in and out ... it's a lot of little things so I take on more of a leadership role and things like that, try to lead by example," 
Taking that kind of 

"He's the quarterback back there in the secondary. That's good because ofall the adjust­ments we have to make on almost every snap." 
Kent Baer 

defensive coordinator 
leadership role is something Sapp always wanted to do. lie knew from the first day he stepped into the Notre Dame locker room that someday it would be his team. 
"I knew as soon as I got the chance that was going to happen," Sapp said. "I was just waiting patiently for that lo come and never doubting it. I knew as soon as I got enough playing time and enough confidence behind me 
from the coaching staff that I would [take a leadership role]." 
With a new coaching staff, taking that definitive leadership role was a little easier for the Texas native. They had no preconceived ideas about the past, they were only looking to the future. Sapp saw himself as part of 
that future. 
"They know noth­ing of me. They knew some, but really nothing," he said. "All they want­ed to know was what can you do for the future. They didn't care about the past. So I fell. my leadership qualities would come out even more." 
Now, even with an injury, the sec­ondary's quarter­

back is pretty sure when he leaves things will be OK. "Even when I leave, I'm leaving things in good hands," he said. 
The next time he has to watch a Notre Dame football game on televi­sion, maybe it won't be so hard. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 22, 2002 
CARLOS PIERRE-ANTIONE 
Moving from an earthquake to a rumble 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Carlos Pierre-Antoine's arrival at Notre Dame caused an earthquake. His departure will barely make a tremor. 
W h a t happened to cause one of the most heavi­ly recruited high school athletes to essentially become a four-year special teams player. Pierre-Antoine doesn't know. He only under­stands that he tried his hard­est, yet never emerged as a regular in the Irish lineup. 
"It was frustrating," he said. "I want to get out there and I want to play, but you have to do whatever the coaches think is best, and what the coaches thought was best was for me to get behind my teammates." 
Coming out of high school in Seattle. virtually every major recruiting service listed Pierre­Antoine as one of the top line­backers in the nation. He earned MVP honors in the Seattle Metro League twice, captained his team twice, and finished with 105 tackles his senior year. 
When the Irish landed Pierre­

Antoine, he was seen as one of 
the crown jewels in a recruit­
ing class that eventually pro­duced seven NFL draft picks. But even as NFL teams placed calls to his classmates last spring, Pierre-Antoine fero• ciously battled to earn a start­ing spot. 

At times, Pierre-Antoine admitted the h.ype got to him and affected his adjustment to college. He sat out his entire freshman year to preserve a year of eligibility and to adjust to college life, a decision he hoped would prepare him for future greatness. 
The decision appeared to pay off his sophomore year when he appeared on defense in all 12 of Notre dame's games. recording a career-high 19 tackles that season. 
But Pierre-Antoine started to feel the pressure the spring after his sophomore season, when he battled his good friend Tyreo Harrison for a starting linebacker job -a decision Pierre-Antoine thinks was already made before the spring. 
"I think he was going to start anyway, they were just doing that to get him fired up," he said. "So I'd try to help him out as best I could, that was my role." 
That spring seemed to be the defining point in Pierre­Antoine's career, a point that epitomized the struggle he went through trying to carve out a spot on the team. Harrison moved into the start­ing lineup, while Pierre­Antoine moved to the special teams unit. 

He had another chance this fall to earn a starting position again, but Derek Curry beat out Pierre-Antoine, sending the fifth-year senior back to the special teams unit. 
Pierre-Antoine isn't bitter toward Bob Davie's coaching staff for keeping him on the sidelines, nor is he bitter toward Tyrone Willingham's staff for deciding to keep him there again. Although he briefly thought of transferring, he wanted to stay in South Bend to get a Notre Dame degree. In the meantime, he was left wondering why he stayed on the sideline. 
"I don't know what it was," he said. "I guess its that the coaches felt the other person can get the job done better than I can." 
Notre Dame's success this season has made Pierre­Antoine's season go a little eas­ier. He gets his satisfaction in small bursts, mostly from mak­ing huge hits on special teams. 
He had his moment in the spotlight against florida State when he drilled a kickoff returner and caused a fumble, helping Notre Dame to a 34-24 victory. 
What lies ahead for Pierre­Antoine, he doesn't quite know. He got his degree in Sociology and computer applications last year, and is working on an education minor. After college, with the NFL out of the picture, Pierre-Antoine wants to explore the possibility of play­ing football at some level. If 

CHIP MARKSfThe Observer 

Carlos Pierre-Antoine practices a ball-carrying drill. The senior forced a fumble against Florida State. 
that doesn't work out, he plans [and] didn't do what was to get a Masters in social work. expected in college," he said. 
Even now, at the end of his "There are different situations, college career, Pierre-Antoine you want to come in and play, isn't sure how he'll look back and I wish I could have done on his football days at Notre the same. Dame. Disappointment is a "But this is the plan God has word he frequently uses, yet for me, and I'm going to do the his experience in South Bend best I can and go in the direc­taught him football isn't every­tion I'm going to go." thing. 
"You can say that about a lot Contact Andrew Soukup at of people, that they came in asoukup@nd.edu 



Close to campus! (Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way 
(574) 272-1441 
t and "'r 

tra\ \\ea
cen 


Friday, November 22, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
MIKE MCNAIR 
McNair learning to stop running, start blocking 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Editor 
US!\ Today first team prep All-J\mcrican. Hated in the Top 20 players in the nation by the Chicago Sun-Times. 
Haled in the Top 50 players in tho nation by The Sporting News. 
School r c c o r d 


2,671 yards rushing  McNair  
and  3 3  
touchdowns  !'or  California  

football powerhouse Mater Dei as a senior. A 10.55 time in the 100 meters and 4.36 in the 40-yard dash -top 10 nation­al times for both distances. 
Those were the stats. records and honors earned by Irish fullback Mike McNair during his senior year of high school -as a tailback. 
But when McNair arrived as a freshman at Notre Dame, former Irish coach Bob Davie decided to try to take advan­tage of his size and growth potential and moved the tal­ented runner to fullback. 
It was a difficult change, and one that took longer than either player or coach had hoped. 
"It was pretty tough, because l had never blocked in high school," McNair said. "I was mostly used to just carry­ing the ball. I had to really develop my blCJcking over the years." 
The southern California speedster worked to gain weight to bulk up to the size of a fullback and tried to learn the blocking skills and tech­niques of the position. 
"When I lirst gained a lot of weight, I didn't really lose a lot of speed, but I felt kind of tight and restricted," McNair said. 
Rut McNair managed the switch and played most of his freshman season as a blocking back in short-yardage situa­tions. 
Then injuries took their toll -McNair played only one game of his sophomore season before suffering an arch injury that kept him out the rest of the year. 
Then as a junior. Mc Nair· saw action as a backup in six games, but missed two trips and some playing time, this time with a hip flexor injury. 
In fact, it wasn't until the Navy game last season that McNair -the record setting high school tailback -got his first carries for the Irish, three for 15 yards against Navy. 
So when new coach Tyrone Willingham and his almost completely revamped staff came in last season, McNair, who had a fifth year of eligibil­ity remaining. saw it as an opportunity for new life in his last year. 
"With the new coaching staff, I saw it as an opportuni-


Mike McNalr came into Notre Dame as a highly touted running back. He spent most of his career blocking so someone else could run the ball. 
ty to end my time here on a State and Notre Dame's first McNair said. "It's a great team good note, and just give it one 0-3 start last year, this season to be a part of with some real­last shot to see if I could have has been one of redemption. ly great guys. We've done fun," McNair said. In addition to Notre Dame's some good things, and I'm def­
For McNair, who along with 9-1 start, McNair has seen initely happy about how things the other members of his class increased playing time, includ­have gone so far. It's been a had witnessed some tough ing appearances in all 10 lot more fun for me this year." times with the Irish, including games and his first career two losing seasons, a 41-9 reception against Stanford. Contact Chris Federico at Fiesta Bowl loss to Oregon "I think this year is great," cfederic@nd.edu 

TOM LOPIENSKI 
Lopienski happy to do the team's dirty work 
perk, but I am just as happy the top 100 high school play­ByMATTLOZAR to throw a good block and let ers nationally by The Sporting Sports Writer 
[Irish running back) Ryan News, Chicago Sun-Times and Grant or somebody else Dallas Morning News. 
Most football fans notice score." However, seeing his older Notre Dame fullback Tom The full back's role on sister Sarah run track for the Lopienski when he doesn't do offense is to open holes for Irish and knowing his dad 
his job instead of when he the running backs, block Tom was a cornerback for the does. But blitzing defenders and, basi­Irish in the '70s made two weeks cally, help the offensive line Lopienski's decision easier. ago, the do the dirty work. Even "My dad came here and my senior's watching the fullback and sister came here who ran 
name was 
concentrating on him every track here although she got announced play doesn't necessarily scholarship opportunities to for doing reveal if he is playing well. run elsewhere," Lopienski something "Basically, it is like an said. "I fo!!owed her pretty good. and offensive lineman, if you just much, you know the big sister it wasn't focus on that player during -go with her. just throw­the game, it's pretty hard to "Notre Dame has a good ing a block. tell if they are doing their football tradition and 
Unfortunately, Lopienski job," Lopienski said. "Any thought it was the best wasn't able to enjoy his first time you get in the open field choice." career-rushing touchdown as and you can see the fullback Although he has played in much as he should have. making a block for the tail­every game in which he has Lopienski's touchdown put back then you can tell he is been eligible, what Lopienski the Irish ahead 9-7 in the sec­doing a good job." will remember most won't be ond quarter against lowly The change to the pro-style the plays on the field. Navy. offense brought by Irish coach "I would say the friendships "During that game, things Tyrone Willingham and his on the team stick out the most weren't going too well so I coaching staff hasn't resulted and is what I will remember was more mad throughout the in a big change in Lopienski's the most with the guys on the whole game," Lopienski said. role. team, the guys in my class the "Things weren't going so well "I am getting the ball maybe year before," Lopienski said. for the team so I was more a couple times more, but basi­"Just remembering those focused on that than the cally it is just blocking and I memories of joking around. touchdown being a big thing have no problem with that," winning games and losing for me." Lopienski said. games you don't remember Even though the Irish were Coming from Walsh Jesuit too much about that. able to pull out the 30-23 vic­High Schoo! in Ohio, "You just remember the tory, Lopicnski hasn't focused Lopienski had scholarship good times you had with your on his moment in the sun. offers from Ohio State. teammates." "I just keep on working Michigan and Michigan State. hard." he said. "I block, and The Parade prep All­Contact Matt Lozar at to score a touchdown is a American was rated as one of mlazar@nd.edu 

Friday, November 22, 2002 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
CHRIS YURA 
Fullback makes best of what's given to him 
the special teams unit. we have been doing," Yura said. hy BRYAN KRONK Yura spent much of his Notre . Having been part of the Notre Sport~ Writer Dame career playing special Dame tradition for his four 
teams, making a few rushing years in college, Yura will look 
Chris Yura has made the most attempts, most notably on a back on his time at Notre Dame of the opportunities that have fake field goal in 2000 against as a special time in his life. been given to him. Boston College. Yura's 4-yard After this season is over. he will 
Even before he began break­run on fourth-and-2 gave the move on from the Irish sidelines ing state 
Irish a key first down in the and take with him the lessons record after game, which the Irish went on that those four years as a part state record to win. of the Irish football team -as as a run­Despite not seeing much well as part of a greater Notre ning back in action at running back. Yura Dame "team" -taught him. his home­has still relished his time here "The work ethic -hard work, town of at Notre Dame and his ability to commitment ... just the Notre Morgan­make contributions to the Irish Dame experience -is the one town. W. V.. effort. thing I'll be taking with me," Yura knew "Just being here, just being Yura said. 'Tve been with a
Yura

where he able to experience the football great group of guys, and with w o u I d part [of Notre Dame] has been excellent students ... just the spend his college years. awesome," Yura said. "The whole combination is a great 
"When I first came here, I whole Notre Dame experience thing to take away." came to football camp," Yura has been such a gift. J feel like While his future remains said. "After I saw the traditions. I'm the luckiest guy in the world uncertain, Yura will still keep a like Touchdown Jesus. it was to have the opportunity to come place in his heart for the Irish just like, 'Wow.· And I couldn't to a place like this and play long after his playing days at think of anyplace else to come football. It's just amazing." Notre Dame are over. but here, and that was my In his final year of eligibility, "I think the thing I'll miss sophomore year of high school. Yura made contributions to most [about Notre Dame] is my So I basically made my mind up both special teams and the Irish taammates," Yura said. "A lot of when I was 15." offense, earning a rushing these guys ... you're with them 
Unfortunately for Yura, his attempt during this year's game all the time, you kind of grow to primary position in high school with Air Force. In addition to be like family. It's such a close­-running back -would be the rush at Air Force, Yura also knit group. I think it's going lo backlogged with competition at made a special teams tackle be hard stepping out of it and Notre Dame. In 1999, star run­that game. not being a part of the team ning back and fellow freshman Although he has seen only anymore. You grow so close, Julius Jones would take many of limited action this season, Yura and it creates a bond just with the handoffs at tailback for the said he has no regrets about not the hard work you go through. Irish and Jones' depth would be being able to contribute more. It's hard to walk away from it." supplemented by fellow backs "Every year and every thing Tony Fisher. Tony Driver and I've done here, I'm 100 percent NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Terrance Howard. proud of, and I just want to fin­Contact Bryan Kronk at Chris Yura came to Notre Dame as a running back but made 
So the Irish placed Yura on ish it up with a great season like bkronk@nd.edu the best of playing on special teams as a punt protector . 




The Most •POPULAR"# on Campus••• 271-1177II 
Voted •aest Dellvered" Pizza AGAIN In 200211 Call your PAPA 
for these great specials (no coupon necess 
-----------------.-----------------,----------------~------------------~
IRISH Sp9clgl :Manager's lpeclal,I BCS Special I , Return to Glory_ 1 Large 1 topping, 1 1 Large 1 topping, • 1 Large 1 topping, 1 1 Large 1 topping, Breadsticks, and I Cheesesticks, and : Chickenstrips, and : Dessertsticks, and 2-liter Coca-Cola : 2-liter Coca-Cola 1 2-liter Coca-Cola 1 2-liter Coca-Cola 
$11.99* : $13.99* : $13.99* : $13.99* 
~--~----------~--~-----------------~----------------~----------------­
• I I 
Papa's <;holce , The WIiiingham I The Leprechaun• Game Day Speclal: . 
X-Large with • 3 Large 1 topping, 1 1O" Small : 2 Large 1 topping 2 toppings : pizzas, 2 Breadsticks, 1 topping and I pizzas 1 1 and 2-liter Coca-Cola Breadsticks 1 : $10.99* : $28.99* I $7.50* : $14.99* :
I 

-----------------~--------------~-~~~--------------~----~-------------~ 
*Original or Thin Crust Where Available. Coupon expires 12/31/02. Not valide with any other offer. Valid at participating locations. Customer pays all applicable taxes. 
NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S 
271-1177 271-PAPA 


f.1iJ.1y, November 22, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
DAVID MILLER 
Free-spirited Miller carves spot as holder 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Spons Wri1cr 
David Miller grew up minutes away from Irish territory, was recruited in 1998 to kick and nevtir permancnlly obtained the coveted start 1\ r's position. 
But things happon for a reason. 
"I would obviously lovn to kick, but I would 11 e v e r change the fact that now I'm playing," said Miller who is finishing his fourth ynar of eligibility as a hold,ir and backup kicker with the Irish. "!\II I want to du in my last year is win." 
When Millnr e11tercd Notre Dame as a freshman, he had grown accustomed to winning. As the kicker and punter for Penn lligh School in Mishawaka, he contributed to three consecutive state champi­onship teams from 1995 to 1997. 
'The thing that sticks out most about David is that the more crucial the situation the better he performed," said Penn football coach Chris Geesman. 
But more than Miller's com­posure caught the Gecsman's eye. 
"lie was a free spirit," ~cesman said, adding that 
• Miller would dye his hair di!Tcr-

ent colors and often painted his nails gold. 
Even now, Miller describes himself as an independent thinker who is very opinionated. 
''It's tough for people to get in an argument with me," he said, 
Geesman said it was Miller's self'-confidcnce thal made him an outstanding football player. 
"He's what I consider the typi­cal kicker," he said. "He was a little eccentric but very, very good." 
Earlv in Miller's Notre Dame career. he sprang into the spot­ligl1t at a time when kicker Jim Sanson missed several attempts and the crowd was responding by crossing their fingers in the air. 
Against Arizona State in 1999, Miller made 6 of 7 cxtrn­points. with the lone miss com­ing on a blocked kick. That same year, Miller made field goals at of and 33 yards against USC and totaled 19 points for the season. 
Although Miller had his moment to shine, Sanson returned to the starter position, and, in the following season, Miller faced the competition of another teammate, senior Nicholas Setta. That year, Miller kicked off during the Navy and Rutgers games but did not play during 2001. 
Now, Miller works as the holder for the Irish. And Despite the kicking games' inconsisten­cies this season, Miller is proud of his teammates' perseverance. 
"We've had some tough times," Miller said. "It'd be easy for a lot of guys to leave, but this whole senior class, we've stuck around and finally fought through it." 


He added that playing under coach Tyrone Willingham has revitalized the team's sense of pride. 
"Now, you expect the best out of everybody," he said. The 5-14, 210 pound. kicker graduated with the clasii of. 
2002 as a psychology major with a 3.33. In his fifth year, he is taking graduate classes in psychology in preparation for a job or internship, and later, a graduate studies program. 
Miller calls music one of his "biggest loves," owns hundreds of CDs and enjoys listening to the lyrics of rock groups like Melallica, Rage Against the Machine and Korn among oth­ers. 
J-1 e gets pumped up before games to the sounds of Korn's "Here to Stay," said he antici­pates an emotional last home game against Rutgers. 
"It feels like I've been here forever," he said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 


Friday, November 22, 2002

page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
JORDAN BLACK 
Hookin' 'em Longhorn style 

Black turned down Texas to come north and win with the Irish 
you can tell that I'm a kid,"

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Black said. "It's funny to go 

Spores Editor 
back and look at. But I think 
now, it's pretty obvious that 

When Texas native Jordan I've got some games under my Black turned down offers to belt. and J've just got a better play college football for in­feel for the game. I think you state giants Texas and Texas can just see more maturity in A&M. and the way that I play." instead Now Black is one of the dom­selected to inant tackles in the game, head north using a combination of talent of the and experience to lead the Mason­Irish line. Dixon line "I think Jordan -physical­to play for skill wise -is as gifted as any­N o t r c body I've ever worked with," Dame, he Irish offensive line coach Mike expected to Denbrock said. "But he's also a be a part of smart football player." many great teams for the Irish. Black uses what he's learned 
He didn't expect it to take from his four years as a four years to develop. starter, and brings it with him 
"I didn't expect to have any to every game. Some of the losing seasons coming to Notre coaches relate it to having Dame," Black said. "I expected another coach out on the field to win a national champi­during a game. onship. I thought that was very "He understands the game, possible with the recruiting does a good job of communi­class that I was in." cating with me on the sidelines 
But four years after stepping about the kind of things that onto campus. the senior offen­are happening while they're sive tackle knew he couldn't out there on the field," leave South Bend -knew he Denbrock said. "A lot of that is couldn't leave one of the great­him having the opportunity to est college football programs play so much and having the of all time -without leaving a game experience that he does mark. have. But a lot of it, too, is 
"Everybody has a goal of instinctive, and it's just some­winning a national champi­thing that he brings to the onship, or as in my case, to table." just be a part of a winning team," Black said. "Last year, 
The leader 

we didn't do so hot, and I 
Even a squad that starts five

didn't want to end on that 
seniors along the offensive linenote. So I came back." 

needs someone to look to forBlack decided to take advan­
leadership. While its nice to

tage of his fifth year of eligibil­have the wisdom of being with 
ity and returned for one last 
a team for four years, age can run with the Irish. 

mean very little without play­Now, 10 games into a dream ing experience. 

season, the fifth-year senior 
"Game experience is invalu­and the rest of his classmates able. There's no substitute forfinally have their chance to it," Denbrock said. 

contribute to Irish lore. They 
In that respect, Black has

have a chance to go down in 
been the pace-setter for the

history as another great Notre Irish, starting in almost everyDame team. 
game during his career, a near
"If we win out and win a 
unimaginable feat for a posi­bowl game, this is going to be 

tion that receives so much 

one of the great teams in Notre 
wear-and-tear. After sitting

Dame history," Black said with out his entire freshman year,
proud certainty. "We're one Black started every game but 
game short of being able to 
two. He missed two games at

play in the national champi­
the end of his sophomore sea­onship. I think this is going to 

son when he suffered a tornbe remembered just like the medial collateral ligament in

'93 team. We had the one bad his right knee. 
game against Boston College, Now, in his fourth year as abut other than that, this team 
starter, Black tries to share

will be considered a very spe­
everything that he's learned

cial team." 
from 42 games on the gridiron. "Leadership-wise, I think The player he's somebody that the guys on 
Few teams have the luxury of our team really look to and try seeing five seniors start on the to be like. not only in the way offensive line. But if the Irish that he approaches the game, line is experienced, Black is a but in the way he studies it grizzled veteran. Entering .this and prepares himself to be season, Black ranked 13th in ready every week," Denbrock the nation in starts by a line­said. man with 32, and he is now up Even though many of those to 42. players he has been expected 
Over that span, Black can to lead are peers and class­see how much he has matured mates, Black has had no prob­and grown as a lineman from lem accepting that role. the time of his first start as a "Regardless of whether they sophomore in the first game of look to me for leadership or the1999 season against not, it's my responsibility to Kansas. demonstrate leadership ­
"It's night and day. If you go hopefully, I do that," Black back to my sophomore year. said. "But a the same time ... 
we're all old and experienced guys, and it's just fun to go out there and play with a group that's so close." 
The Texan 
As one of the top offensive linemen in the nation coming out of Dallas Christian High School, it seemed almost auto­matic that Black would stay in state and become an Aggie or Longhorn. So Black committed Texas football suicide when he pulled the wool over the eyes of Texas and headed north for Notre Dame. 
It's hardly acceptable when Texas players leave for th~ SEC or other Big XII schools, so it's equitable with treason when one leaves to play for a northern school. 
"A lot of people were unhap­py -especially in the media ­when I decided to go to Notre Dame." Black said. "Everybody thinks, 'Jordan Black, he's a traitor.' But at the time I wasn't really impressed with Texas or Texas A&M." 
Black eluded the lure of the then newly-hired Texas coach Mack Brown, who is often con­sidered the top recruiter in college football. 

"Mack Brown, though, when he got hired, he almost talked me into going [to Texas]." Black said. "But Notre Dame was too big of a deal to pass up, so that's why I came here." 
For four years, all those nay­sayers and second-guessers had been able to criticize Black for leaving his home state behind. But now. as the Irish sit at No. 8 in the nation, just two wins away from a BCS bowl berth and a few strategic losses by the right teams away from the national champi­onship game, Black knows it was the right decision. 
''I'm happy about what we've accomplished this year," he said. "I couldn't ask for any­thing more." 
And it's no surprise Black already has one team he'd love to play in a bowl game. 
"Oh man, that's got to be Texas," he quickly responds with a devilish grin. "I would love to play them." 
The end 

After four seasons of disap­pointment in which Black wit­nessed the Irish go a combined 28-19, including two losing seasons, the 4l-9 debacle in the 2001 Fiesta Bowl and the program's first 0-3 start last season, he is finally enjoying the type of season for which he told all those Texas coaches to keep their scholarships. 
"We had a couple of bad years," Black said. "We did make it to the Fiesta Bowl. but in retrospect that was kind of an embarrassment what hap­pened to us there. But consid­ering how this year has been, it's been totally worth it." 
And now. Black and his Irish teammates -especially those senior classmates that have seen the worst days -arc basking in the good times. After four years that seemed to last an eternity, he can't make this final one last long enough. 
"It's unbelievable. coming back from the Florida State game at the airport, there's people waiting there to cheer us on," Black said. "There's 500 people waiting at the sta­dium for us when we get back. That's just something I haven't experienced. I'm trying to just soak up as much as I can before I leave here." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

---------, 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 9 
SEAN MAHAN 
Orphaned, but not alone 
After losing both parents, Mahan found support in friends and family 


By KATIE McVOY A.ssociare Sports Editor 
Sean Mahan lived the life of an All-t\merican boy. He grew up in a comfortable neighbor­hood in Tulsa, Okla. with his parenls and his sis­tor. II c played bas­ketball and wrestled. llis first love was football and he was good at it. lie was just the hoy next door. 
Then his whole life changed. 
During the summer of 1996, right before Mahan entered his junior year in high school, a year during which his foot­ball team would win a state championship, Mahan's father passed away. Just two years later. in October of his freshman year at Notre Dame, his mother lost her long battle with cancer and left Mahan an orphan. 
"IL has been very difficult," Mahan said. "It's something you never expect as a teenag­er or a child -to lose your parents." 
By his sophomore 


year in high "ft has been very "She had school. difficult. It's something cancer when 
M a h a n I was
you never expect as a

seemed to younger," have it pret­teenager or a child -to Mahan said. 
ty much fig­lose your parents. " "But she had 
ured out. lie diabetes and had earned her body just
Sean Mahan

a starting started to spot on the Irish offensive tackle fall apart." 
Jenks lligh School foot­ball team, a team that did not allow a sack in all three years that Mahan started. He played football with a team of all-stars, including last year's Dick Butkus award winner Hocky Calmus. By his senior year, Mahan had two state championships under his belt. 
Ilis father would not be able to watch those wins. Michael Mahan, a 1964 graduate of Notre Dame, fell victim to a heart attack in the summer of 19%. 
With his decision about col­lege just around the college, his fathM's legacy weighed heavily on Mahan's mind. 
"I definitely thought about it," Mahan said. "It was defi­nitely in the back of my mind. I talked about it with my mom and she just wanted to make sure that whatever decision I made I was happy with it." 
Mahan knew about the Notre Dame legacy and his father stayed in the back of his mind. But he wanted to keep his mind open. 
"When I was being recruit­ed by schools, I wanted to make sure and have an open door policy with overyonp, recruiting me," he said. "ll wanted) to make sure I checked every place oul to 
make sure I made the right decision." 
Even with just his mother around to talk him through his decision, Mahan knew that both of his parents would have been proud of whatever path he chose. 
"They both would have sup­porled me with whatever decision I made," Mahan said. 
When it came down to it, whether it was the legacy of his sister, his father and his uncle attending Notre Dame or whether it was just a feel­ing. Mahan chose Notre Dame. 
"Everything just weighed in and it felt like the right place for me," Mahan said. 
Mahan knew he was choos­ing Notre Dame for the foot­ball, for the tradition and for the academic.s. He didn't know he was choosing a sup­port system. 
Halfway through his fresh­man season, which he sat out to preserve a year of eligibili­ty, Mahan received a disturb­ing phone call from home. His mother. who had battled with cancer when Mahan was younger, had undergone surgery to correct a brain clot. 
The surgery was successful, but Mahan 's mother had passed away unexpectedly 
following the 
surgery. 
Mahan was 
not alone when he received that phone call. The first tine of his sup­port system was there when Mahan's sister, Lisa, told him that they had lost another parent. His teammate room­mate on the road, Jordan Black, sat and listened as Mahan talked. 
"I was actually there when he got the phone call," Black said. "And that was a hard thing to sit there and hear him listen to his sister telling him what happened. That was just real hard." 

After he got the news, a lot longer Mahan wasn't sure he was for a young even going to stay at Notre man who had Dame. The shock of losing to learn to both parents was something cope with that could have sent any man more than back home. But, in choosing just bad foot­Notre Dame, Mahan had ball games. unexpectedly fallen upon a "I came in support system that would 1998. It feels help carry him through the like it was 20 hardest times in his life. years ago," 
"I was living in Siegfried Mahan said. 
''There are always two people I dedicate games to. Every game is dedicated to them. " 
Sean Mahan Irish offensive tackle 

out," Black said. "I think the t e a m responded and was there for him when he needed us." 
In return, Mahan has brought a 
sense of strength to the offen­sive line. He has overcome major obstacles and contin­ues to overcome the smaller obstacles of day-to-day life. 
"He has a lot of respect among his teammates," offen­sive line coach Mike Dcnbrock said. " ... I think 
he's a young man that any obstacle that's put in front of him, he's going to overcome it. Unfortunately, he's had to overcome tragedy that none of us would ever want to deal with and done a good job and become a solid young man." 
Five football seasons later, Mahan has grown as a player and as a man. But there are some things that always stay the same. 
Every week the Irish play a different team, they focus on different weapons their oppo­nents use, they run out of the tunnel looking at different colored jerseys. Mahan has dealt with different coaches, he has met new teammates. 
But one thing has never changed. 
"There arc always two (peo­ple] I dedicate games lo," he said. "Every game is dedicat­ed to them." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

wanted to come back, but they were so supportive that I wanted to come back and fin­ish what I started." 
Mahan stayed four more years. 
But the five years Mahan spent at Notre Dame felt like 
bargain for when he came to Notre Dame to face off against opposing defensive lines. 
"I think when something like [death] happens, every­body tries to get as close as they can to him and help him 
Hall at the time and I had a bunch of friends living in the dorm that were very support­ive," Mahan said. "And my friends on the team -Jordan Black, Mike McNair -they were very supportive, always helped me .... When it first happened, 1 didn't know if I 

"I've been here for half a decade." 
But five years have found Mahan with more than just football statistics. A half a decade of football a.nd a tragedy that no one expects to face left Mahan with friends that he didn't exactly 
page 10 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 22, 2002 
JASON HALVORSON 
Halvorson hits the books and then the field 
By MARK ZAVODNYIK 
Sporrs Wricer 
Jason Halvorson didn't come to Notre Dame to play football. The walk-on senior defensive lineman from Burnsville, Mlnn .. arrived at Notre Dame 
to focus on acade­mics. 
"I came to Notre Dame because it's a great academic insti­tution, and l figured my football days were over," Halvorson said. 


Halvorson spent Halvorson his inaugural foot­ball season at Notre Dame in the student section like most undergrads. However after experiencing the aura and tradition of Notre Dame football from the stands, Halvorson knew that he needed to be a part of it on the field. So at the end of his freshman year, Halvorson tried out at spring practice 
and made tho squad. He has been living the dream of Notre Dame fans ever since. 
From being in the locker room to play­ing in the games, Halvorson has been able to live out his dreams as a Notre Dame football player. 
"You get goose bumps on the back of your neck running out of the tunnel, looking out into the 80,000-people sea of green," he said. "It's exhilarating." 
This season Halvorson was on the sidelines for every home and away game. All of the hard work paid off when Halvorson got into the action for a play in Notre Dame's Oct. 5 victory over Stanford. However, the best part of being a Notre Dame football player for Halvorson has been the daily opportuni­ty to follow in the footsteps of so many Irish greats, from George Gipp to Rocket lsmail, and the chance to wear a gold helmet. 
"Making the football team is definitely one of my biggest football achieve­ments," Halvorson said. "When I tried out freshman year, I didn't even expect to make the team." 
Another achievement that Halvorson is very proud of is the scholarship that he earned for his senior year. 
"I was totally surprised when Coach Willingham told me about the scholar­ship," Halvorson said. 
This season Halvorson has had an opportunity to be part of the renaissance of Notre Dame ;football. New coach Tyrone Willingham has instilled in his players the importance of team unity. 
"The team has really come together and set goals for itself," Halvorson said. 
Willingham and his staff have also instilled a belief that the team can accomplish its goals. Halvorson talks about how this foundation of being goal­oriented is evident in all aspects of this team. 
"From day one, Coach Willingham set a standard for us to achieve," Halvorson said. "We are trying everyday to achieve those standards that he set for us." 
This season has been highlighted for the Irish by a win over Florida State at Tallahassee. For Halvorson, that game was the most exciting of his career. 
"It was a riot to go down there and beat them at home," Halvorson said. 
But the world doesn't end with football for Halvorson, who has bigger plans in state after graduation. 
The science pre-professional major plans to attend medical school next year. Despite his difficult class schedule and lofty expectations, Halvorson said the opportunity to be a part of the Notre Dame football team has been worth jug­gling his responsibilities. 

"It's hard, it hasn't been easy, but at the same time it has been really reward­ing," he said. 
As he approaches his final two games as a Notre Dame football player, Halvorson will be forced to look back at his career and think about how far he has come. In the end, he'll be able to say that he was a member of one of the most tradition-rich teams in all of colle­giate athletics. 

"It's fun just to be a part of it," Halvorson said. "To say that you are a part of something truly bigger than yourself." 
Contact Mark Zavodnyik at mzavodny@nd.edu 

Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 11 
SHANE WALTON 
Playing for pride 
Walton started football to make his coach proud ­
his soccer coach, that is 

Walton waited his turn and By JOE HETTLER used one of his biggest assets Assodare Spom EJiror 
-his work ethic -to put 
himself in a position to start 

Throughoul his football in 2000. Ile also added weight 
career, Irish corncrhack to his then 175-pound frame. 
Shane Walton always wanled "I basically had to change 
to make late Notre Dame soc­my body, the structure of my 
c n r coach body from a soccer player to a 
M i k e 
football player," Walton said. 
Bcrticelli "Football is a lot of burst. so I 
proud. had to put about 10 pounds 
It's safe on .... I think [starting and 
to say being successful] is a tribute 
Walton has to my work ethic. I believe 
done a anyone. can do anything they 
good job of want to do. It's just a matter 
that. of how hard you're going to 
Borticelli Walton work to attain that goal." 
g a V ll In 2000, Walton recorded 31 
Walton an opportunity to try­solo tackles and assisted on 
o u i for the football team nine others. One of the high­before his sophomore year, lights of the season for Walton even though the young super­occurred when he intercepted star Jed the Irish soccer team Purdue's Drew Brees and in goals and was an All-Big returned the ball 60 yards for East second team selection a touchdown in Notre Dame's the year before as a fresh­win over the Boilermakers. man. Walton also led the team in 
"( Berticclli] was my foot in minutes played that season 
the door," Walton said. "lie until breaking his right fore­
wanted what was best for me arm against Rutgers. 
and not whaL was best for the Just a year later, 2001 was 
soccer team. That shows the a very bittersweet season for 
true r!~eaning of a man right Walton. He had a breakout 
them. year, quickly becoming the 
Berticelli's sudden death in leader of the Irish secondary 
1999 was one of the hardest by blocking a punt against 
experiences Walton's eve-r had Nebraska that set up the only 
to endure. Irish score of the game. He 
"The way I got through !his went on to record 43 tackles, 
death! was just knowing he a sack and seven tackles for a 
was up there. looking after loss that season. 
me, and it was his dream for However, Notre Dame strug­
me to succeed," Walton said. gled to win and finished just 
"If I could do that. then I'd 5-7 under former coach Bob 
proven something." Davie. The season challenged 
Berticelli's selfless act the Irish, as well as Walton, to changed Walton's life forever rise above the criticism and and gave the Notre Dame the bad aura surrounding the football program an outstand­team. ing leader as well as a great "It was hard for me," football player. To cap off an Walton said. "I hate losing. I illustrious career and 2002 think anyone that is OK with season, Walton was named a losing is a loser. So I was defi­finalist for the Bronko nitely not all right with it. It Nagurski award Tuesday, an was frustrating, but I still had award given annually to the fun. I love doing what I'm best defensive player in the doing." country. After 2001, Walton had to 
"I had a goal," Walton said decide whether he would about changing sports from leave school or come back for soccer to football. "I think if his fifth-year of eligibility. you don't set goals then When making his decision, there's something wrong with Walton thought back to his you. My first year I just want­goals and knew he had not ed to learn the system, and if I attained all of the ones he set played. it was a bonus. My before himself. So the decision second year I wanted to do to stav was made. well. my third year I wanted "I didn't think I was proven to be good, and my fourth yet," Walton said. "l think I year I wanted to be great. I'm still had a lot to prove. I just almost there. We still have wasn't ready to leave. This three games to go so I'm not place kind of grows on you. I there yet, but I want to make thought I was a pretty good mv mark oo Notre Dame." player [in 2001 J, but I still 
Walton's climb l'rom stand­think I had a lot of room to out soccer player to standout improve." football player didn't come So Walton returned to a without its setbacks. After team that had been through making the team as a sopho­losing seasons in two of the more, Walton stood on the Jast three years, a coaching sidelines and hardly saw any controversy and rape accusa­action. tions aimed at four players. 
''I've never sat the bench in Despite these obstacles, my entire life, and that was Walton kept working, kept hard for me to deal with," improving and kept his focus Walton said. "Rut you have to on helping the 2002 Irish foot­deal with it, and I think I ball team. lcurnod from it, as fur as lie knew things could watching the other players change quickly. ahead of me." 'Tm not too big on the indi­vidual, but for the team J defi­nitely expected this [success this season]," Walton said. "You look at some of the games we lost last year ... I knew we had talent, it was just a matter of bringing it all together." 
New coach Tyrone Willingham brought all that talent together this season as the Irish sit on a 9-1 record heading into the seniors' last home game of their careers. Much of Notre Dame's success this season has been attrib­uted to the defense, particu­larly a devastating secondary that has made big plays all year, and Walton has had a hand in his fair share of those game-turning plays. 
He picked off three passes against Maryland in Notre Dame's 22-0 season-opening win. He came back two weeks later and broke up a potential game-tying 2-point conversion against Michigan, then sealed the upset win by intercepting Wolverine quarterback John Navarre late in the game. Walton also recovered a fum­ble and forced another in the 25-23 victory. 
With the Irish offense strug-gling three weeks later against Stanford, Walton had an 18-yard interception return for a touchdown against the Cardinal and also served as a gameday captain. Against Air Force, Walton had another interception and recorded four tackles against the talented Falcon option attack. 

In arguably Notre Dame's biggest game of the season at Florida State, Walton shined, recording a career-high nine tackles and breaking up three passes while again serving as a captain. 
Walton attributes his knack for big plays to playing in important games throughout his life. He also credits the coaching staff for putting him in a position to be a playmak­er. 
"J think I've been in so many big games in my career in both soccer and football," Walton said. "I've been in so many big games where (now} the pressure doesn't really get to me, and I'm able to come through. 
"I believe a lot of [being in a position to make plays! is game planning by the coach­es," he added. "They let me know what's going to happen, and if I'm able to pick up on that, f'm able to be at the right spot and make a play." 
With his senior season almost over, Walton knows NFL teams will be looking at him as a high round draft pick. ESPN's Mel Kiper recently projected Walton to go as high as the late second round. But Walton isn't con­cerned about that just yet. He knows the Irish still have a season to finish. 
"It's a dream (to go pro]," Walton said. "It'd be a dream come true if that would hap­pen, but right now I'm taking it one game at a time. That's what I think you have to do to get there." 
As a leader on and off the field, it's easy to sec Walton's impact on Notre Dame's 9-1 record at this point in the sea­son. With his goals close to being reached, no one could be prouder of these accom­plishments than Walton. 
Except, perhaps, Berticelli. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhetder@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 22, 2002 
CHARLES HEDMAN 

Linebacker plays football while keeping promise 
By JASON McFARLEY Sports Writer 
Jt took Charles Hedman seven years and 
100 pounds to make good on his final 
pledge to his father. An opportune coach­

ing change didn't hurt either. 
Then IJedman's 

yearni.ng to keep his 
promise kicked in at 

the right time, too. 
"I wanted to wait -until all lhe circum­
stances were perfect 

to try out for the foot­
ball team." said 
Hedman, now a 
senior walk-on. 
Making the team 
this foll fuUillcd the promise to play col­
lege ball that he made to his dad before 

his death in 1995. Keeping his word has 
today literally made lledman twice the 
man he was then as a high school fresh­
man. 
The Mishawaka native stood 6-foot-1 ­

his current height -but weighed a 
scrawny 120 pounds when he played foot­
ball and basketball at SL Joseph's lligh 
School. Now a 220-pound mass of mus­
cles and fiery red hair, Hedman is a frac­
tion of his former self. 
The guy who 100 pounds ago scram­
bled around the field as a safety now 
delivers punishing hits as an outside line­
backer on the scout team. He benches 
370 pounds and squats almost four times 
his high school weight. 
The transformation began when 
Hedman entered Notre Dame in 1999. 
With the promise to his father in mind, 
Hedman knew a 120-pound frame 
wouldn't [ly in the college ranks. He start-ed building a football body. 


"I ate right and lifted every day," be said. "I gained mosl of the weight in a year's time." 
Hy his sophomore year, Hedman had the body but didn't feel ready to try out. He spent three years at Notre Dame before finally giving tryouts ewn a second thought last winter. Hedman was in fact waiting for the perfect time to live up to his word. 
Enter Tyrone Willingham in January. 
"As soon as he was hired, I made up my mind to go out for the team," said Hedman, who lives off-campus this year. ''With the reputation Coach Willingham came in with, l knew I wanted to play for him. If it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be here." 
And of course. HPdman is happy to be where he is. 
Practices am tough. he said, but noth­ing that he didn't expect. The cama­raderie among players makes the experi­ence worthwhile for him. When HPdman needs extra motivation, he thinks of the years-old promise to his father. 
"Playing has been better than you could ever expect. I wouldn't trade this for any­thing in the world," he said. 
Life outside of football is good, too. The 21-year-old political science major is headed to Harvard next fall to pursue a law degree and MBA. 
Hedman promises he's ready for the challenge of an lvy League classroom; ~ season on the Notre Dame gridiron has prepared him for anything. If his latest promise is anything like the one he made all those years ago, expect him to make good on this one as well. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

DAN NOVAKOV 

For Novakov, Notre Dame still the only school 
experience with the school's traditionBy LAUREN BECK into words. 
Sports Writer 

'Tve never really known anything else because it's always been normal 
When he was growing up, walk-on to me. Growing up, l didn't really quarterback Dan Novakov lived every know there was any other college," young Irish fan's dream. Novakov said. 
Novakov, a senior from Dallas, Tex., When he was younger, Novakov was one of the kids wanted to be a basketball player, but scurrying around he soon realized that Notre Dame on game day wear­football was in the cards for him. ing a Notre Dame He started playing football in junior jersey and gold high school and grew to like it more pants -only he -enough to walk on to the Notre actually knew the Dame football team and back into the guy whose number locker room that captivated him as a 
he sported. child. The number on While it hasn't been easy, Novakov 
his replica jersey said he never thought twice about giv­was 81, and it ing up. belonged to Tim Brown, 1987 recipi­"I've never quit anything in my life," 
ent of the Heisman Trophy and fellow he said. Dallas native who Novakov's father Having a father who played college helped recruit. football has also helped him through 
Novakov met Brown and fell in love his four seasons playing on the scout with the Irish at an early age, when team. his father, former Irish center Dan "Overall it's so much more time and Novakov, Sr., brought the family to so much more intense than playing in South Bend each year. Novakov was high school. It's nice having someone able not only to watch the games but who has gone through it, who under­
also to go behind the scenes after­stands and can offer advice," he said. ward. Novakov, Sr. said he values his 
"The neatest thing was going into experience with Notre Dame football ihe locker room arter ihe game," said and thinks his son is learning some of Novakov. "My grandfather and Coach the same timeless lessons. 
(Loul Holtz were good friends. When "You learn a lot more than football. 
Notre Dame played in the Cotton Bowl You learn teamwork, how to deal with I went to practice ... I have auto­success, how to deal with failure, and graphs from those teams." how to deal with those weekly.... 11ut 
Novakov's grandfather also graduat­really the important thing is to do His son agreed, saying the ('r.iend­mid his experience. ed from Notre Dame, as did two your best and let the chips fall where ships he has made with his teammates "I don't think last year was much uncles, who also played football, a they may," he said. "The greatest have been the biggest rewards of play­fun for anyone," he said. "So it's good great uncle and a sister. assc>i about Notre Dame is the people ing football. to end on a good note and have a 
Noire Dame, and in particular Irish and being associated with I.hem. The As tho younger Novakov carries on great year." football, is such a part of thP Novakov football players are really great peo­the family fo()tball tra]dition, he said family's lil'e that it's tough to put their ple, good kids." this season has be(m a perfect way to Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu 



Friday. November 22, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 13 
RYAN ROBERTS 
Different is good 



Teammates poke fun at him about being unique, but Roberts prides himself on it 
fort.ably. i\nd Im calls soccer By ANDREW SOUKUP the bost sport on earth -Sporn \);'rirn 
strnng words coming from a 
foot.ball playM. 

ThP atmosplwrn inside thr. "I don't do what a lot of tunnel bef'orn the Irish race pnopln would expect me to on to tlw f'i nIcl {'.an bos 1 bn do," Hoberts said. "If you sit d1•sc:rib11d as a bolt ol' eleo­around doing what people t r i city oxpect you to do, then they wailing to ucver really know who you cxplodfl are as a person." from the Boborts doosn't try to pre­s k y tend he's something he's not, Play1•rs and his teammali~s enjoy llrn bounce flavor the fifth-year senior around Urn brings to thn Irish locker tunnnl, room. He's 1won oarned a hoµpi11g certain amount of respect for around, ostablishing himself as a dil'­jumping fnrnnt person. into Pach oth1~r. and shout­"When hn dons something ing motivational phrasns to crazy, nothing surprises me llrnir tCHllll llHllBS. anymore," Earl said. 
Hvan Hobnrts is difl'PrenL "Everyone accepts him for 
TiH~ l'if'th-ynar defensivn who hn is and it kind of ,~rHI plants his fent and makes our team a fun stands lik11 a wall amidst an group." 
oc: {\an of' tnam ma1ns. Su r n, running out of thn tunnnl is a 
Gamebreaker

thrill. But Hob(irts would It seems appropriate that a 
ra tll('r l'ocu s on something 
guy with a differnnt person­

nlse. 
ality would get his chance on

"I lovn the mrnrgy, but I'm 
Lim field as a result of

tlw only guy not jumping," 
unusual circumstances.

he said. "All people think Hoberts had never playnd
ahout all wnPk is coming out 
l'ootball until his freshmanof tlw tunnel. All I'm think­year of high school. One ofing about is that first drive." 

his friends encouraged the

Tim !'act that Hobnrts con­
6 -fo o t , 2 2 0 -po u n d s oc c e r

tains his nxcitnment in the 
player to give l'ootball a try.

tunnel whilP his teammates Roberts went to football lrn th II s ias Li ca Ily psych c 
practice, skipped soccer that

thcmsclvns up shows that 
afternoon, and never kickedHohPrts isn't your typical 

a soccnr ball around in a

l'ciotball playnr. 
game again. llr, came to l\otre Dame as Trendbreaker a linebacker who had 
"lln's kinda weird," returned kicks and punts in (; t\ r om C\ Sa pp s u id with a high school as well as star­laugh. "But the thing that's ring as a tailback. But Irish runny about that is he knows coaches quickly switched he's weird and he's okay Hobnrts from linebacker to with being weird." defensive end, and Hoberts 
Holwrts is the first person was forced to sit and wait his to admit he's not exactly like turn behind established vet­llrn rnst or his teammates. lie erans Anthony Weaver and doesn't follow trnnds. lie Grant Irons. doesn't follow the crowd. He llis career seemed to hit a has his own set of priorities. low point the winter after his 
i\nd his teammates love to sophomore season, when point that out. Roberts needed back 
111 fact. the Irish love to surgery. Doctors fused bone pick on Hoberts for just from his hip to bone on his· about anything. When he spine and used four screws 
dyes his hair red, they make and two metal rods to stabi­fun of' him. When he turns on lize his back. his nccen tric music, they Hoberts could have taken make fun of' him. When he the year off to rehabilitate. talks about hanging out at a But he decided to add the sushi bar. thoy make run ol' mei.al implants because they him. Whon Im shows up to would accelerate the healing class wearing a long-sleeve process, and, less than six tlrnrmal shirt under a polo months aftef surgery. shirt. his teammates make Hoberts was doing full-r,on­fun of him. When hn talks tacLdrills. about socc,~r -a sport ho ll was a good thing he was playcd until lrn was a high ready. When Irons suffered a school freshman -his team­season-onding shoulder rnatos make fun or him. injury. Roberts was tho only 
"!In's his own species," guy who could take his (;11•1111 l•:arl said. plac:e. 
But Hounrts donsn't pay loo "I had been practicing my mud1 auont.ion lO his team­hardest., and that's what I matns' ribbing. EvPrything was preparing for," he said. tw d1ws has a µurposn. Ile "I just wanted lo be healthy cly1\d his hair lw«·aus<' hn was 1H10ugh to participate and borl'cl. 11<1 listens to tnchno, help out. I was l'orcf\d to step ro t'.k. rap and pop lrnca usn into a starting role, and I lw likPs all differt•nt kinds of' did." music. lln Pats sushi 1111 f'ill«'d Irons· shoes in a bc1:ausP 11,~ likns ll. II<• big way, rl'cording a sack in do1·sn't drt'ss bad, jusl com-his f'irst four games, giving 

him confidence that he could to his more verbose team­excel at the college level. matns. Instead, he impresses 
The next season, Irons coaches and players with his started ahead of Roberts quiet intensity and lead-by­again, but another Irons example style of leadership. injury propelled Roberts into "He's playing with a metal the · lineup. rod in his Playing with back," Sapp Weaver, with said. "If you
"He's playing with a 

n o b o d y see that and available to metal rod in his back. If see the way 
back them you see that and see the he plays, 
up during a that's inspi­
way he plays, thats 

game, was ration a 1 the highlight inspirational right there." right there." of Hoberts · Already career. this season,
Gerome Sapp

" K n o w Hoberts has
Irish safety

there was accumulat­nobody com-ed eight ing in for us. sacks, four pushing our hardest, know­more than the next closest 
ing t.he other guy is going so Irish defonder. He also ranks hard, its great times," he sixth on tho Irish -and first said. "I worked hard to get on the defensive line -with into that position." 31 tackles. 
A torn MCL nnded Roberts' "Ile is a guy we can count season thrne games early, on to •~ak<; plays in t~1~1 ball­but the dnf'ensive end had gamo, Irish coach I yrone 
made a statnme11t -hn was Willingham said. "a guy in ready to stop into his own I. h ,~ Io c kI\ r r o o m t h a t h a s spntlight. provided somn excollent 
leadership." 

Walking his own path Ynt football isn't evnry­Hobt~rts doesn't talk much thing to lloborts. Ile focuses on the l'inlll -Im leavos that intont.ly on his academics. 
trying to make sum Im gets good grades. While hn would love to play in the NFL somn­day, Hoberts is already preparing for a career as a sales rnpresentativn. 
i\nd yes, that does mean hn has to actually dross nicely and wear a suit. 
'Tm a kid," he said. "This is what you gnt to do when you're 22 years old. When it's over, you movn into trU(~ adulthood. It's just the expn­ricnees of life." 
Roberts has a great timn exporiencing lif'o. llis team­mates have a great time exporiencing Hobt\rts' eccen­tricities. 
And that's just fine with Roberts. As long as he doesn't botlwr anybody, lw doesn't. minct doing his own thing. 
'Tm a diff'nrnnl. p<irson. I don't l'ollow trends. I don't have Lo rant and ynll," hf' said. "I just conw, get my Joh done, and I'm happy with succnss any way I can gnt
it.,, 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


Friday, November 22, 2002

page 14 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Eo O'CONNELL 

Busy man on campus balances football, ROTC 
By JOE LICANDRO Spores Wri1er 
Think you're busy. Think again. Meet Ed O'Connell, the busiest man on this campus. 
As if walking on to the foot­ball learn 
were not time-con­s um in g enough, the senior from Chicago also takes on addition­al responsi­

bility  as  a  O'Connell  
member of  
the  ROTC  
program.  On  a  typical day,  

O'Connell wakes up at 5:30 in the morning for physical train­ing with Marine Corps Officer's program. 
From there. he heads to Loftus for weightlifting with the football team. From 9 to 2, O'Connell goes to class where he is currently finishing his degree in finance. After class. he gets ready for three gruel­ing hours of football practice. When practice ends, he finally returns home to his off-campus apartment where he somehow has the energy to study. At about midnight, an exhausted O'Connell goes to bed so he can get up and do it all over again the very next day. 
"It's something 1 definitely take a lot of pride in. Both organizations have been very 
Medium Pizza 
Cheese & 1Topping 
Large Pizza 
Cheese & 1Topping 

Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 52750 IN 633 ..............574-243-1122 
Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday! 
Serving Bethel College 
326 N. Ironwood ..........574-243-1111 Corner of Ironwood & McKinley
No Coupon Necessary. Plus Tax. FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 
Minimum For Delivery. Nol Valid Wtth Any Other Otter Valid 

Only At listed Marco's Pizza Locations. Expires 12-15-02. HAVING A BIG PARTY? ~ 
WE CAN CATER YOUR EVENT! ~;
~-Iii) 
ACCEPTEDllliRE 

'"~>I,. ' < -,,./~,,,_,<,,.,ii
Must provide credit card information when ordering tor dehverv 

~Pinas Crust Styles 
understanding," O'Connell said. "The Marines know that I have football commitments in the afternoon, but it is very important for me to be out there training with them in the mornings." 
O'Connell arrived on campus four years ago as a lifelong, die-hard Irish football fan, but he never had any intention of playing football, let alone join­ing ROTC. Although he played offensive guard and served as the long-snapper for his high school football team, O'Connell hoped to play a different sport at Notre Dame. 
"Growing up, I was always the 'Notre Dame' kid. Whenever Notre Dame lost,my friends always ragged on me," said O'Connell. " ... When I came here, I actually wanted to play baseball ... but they had too many catchers so it didn't really work out." 
As O'Connell found out dur­ing his freshman year, some­times life's twists can really catch you by surprise. 
"I was really just looking for something to do," O'Connell said. " ... In the spring of my freshman year, there was an ad in the paper to come out and try to long-snap so I gave it a shot. My RA during my freshman year at Siegfried got me interested in ROTC at about the same time. All of the sudden. I went from doing nothing to having my day com­pletely filled with ROTC duties and football practices." 
In the wake of last year's dis­appointing 5-7 season, it would have been easy for someone with as mariy commitments and responsibilities as O'Connell to choose not to come back out for another year. After all, the life of a walk-on is not glamorous. But quitting and giving-up is sim­ply not in Ed O'Connell's nature. With the success of this year's team, O'Connell knows he made the right deci­sion. 
"There's a lot to be said for the guys who have stuck around and persevered," said O'Connell. "I guess it could have been easy to jump ship and say this isn't worth it any more. But for me, I couldn't picture myself doing anything else. I wouldn't change a thing." 
After initially making the team as a long-snapper, O'Connell's role on the team has expanded over the last three years to serving as a tight end, linebacker and defensive end at times. As a second-team special teams player this season, he not only suits up for all home games but has traveled to every away game. 
When O'Connell graduates from Notre Dame in May, he will spend at least the next four years of his life in the United States Marine Corps and could eventually be placed in a combat situation. 

"As a newly commissioned officers, they will go through at least a year of training before they I go into a situation like that," said O'Connell. "I knew when I signed on the dotted line that war was a real possi­bility.... For me, there's a sense of duty. The fact that I can represent what this coun­try and the Marine Corps stands for is something I take a great deal of pride in." 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu 
Fresh baked and buttery-topped with cinnamon sugar. Complete with a side of vanilla topping Mmmrn ...try some today! 
"" 
Vl$il us on the Web al www.m,uco:,.com , tr.!002 Marco's, Inc. 2682(1 )•802 

~ ?laked Subs $4.69 
• 
DELUXE Cheese. pepperoni. mushrooms. green peppers. • Original Classic Crust• Crispy Thin • Pan Style • ITAtlAN sue Salami. ham. cheese. onions. tomatoes. banana onions, Italian sausage & extra cheese peppers & Italian dressing 

• 
TACO Cheese, seasone(J ground beef. black olives. onions. Party Sia It... • STEAK & CHEESE sue Steak. cheese. mushrooms & mayo dressing 


• HAM & CHEESE sue Extra ham, cheese & mayo dressingtomatoes & Cheddar cheese (side of sour cream) 2nd Pim atEqual or Lesser Size & Toppings Only...
erved with your choice 

• CHICKEN CLUB sue Chicken breast strips. cheese. tomatoes.
• All MEAT Che,se, pepperoni, mushrooms, green peppers,
of Ranch, BBQ 

0AIOOS, Italian sausage, barn, bacon & extra cheese Sntall 10' $4.99 Medium 12· $5.99 ~aeon & mayo dressing 
auce or • GARDEN Cheese, mushrooms, black olives, onions, sliced • VEGGIE SUB Mushrooms. green peppers. onions. black olives.

Larqo 14" $6.99 Xlarge 16" $7 .99
Honey 

Cheddar chllese, tomatoes & Italian dressing Mustard 
1omatoe. &. fetil cheese 
• HAWAIIAN Cheese. extra ham. bacon, pmeapple & extra cheese Toppin9s Marco's Salad $1.99 
• CHICKEN CLUB Cheese. seaso11ed chicken. bacon. onions, • Pepperorn • Ham • Italian Sausage • Ground Beel Cnsp lenuce, pepperoni. tomatoes. banana peppers. bla~k olives. 
tomatoes & Cheddar cheese • Brack Olives • Pineapple • Anchovies • Fresh Tomatoes Feta & Cheddar clleese & Italian dressing• WHIT£ CHHZY Buner garlic sauce with 3 blended cheeses. • Mushrooms • Green Peppers • Fresh Onions • Bacon 
FREE Pizza Crust Toppers
bacon, onions. tomatoes & Feta cheese • Seasoned Chicken • Banana Peppers • feta Cheese • Roma • Butter Garlic • Parmesan Cheese 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page l 5 
ARNAZ BATTLE 
Learning what it means to be tough 


Battle has had struggles in football, but none as difficult as losing his brother 
Editor's Nole: This article he could do. originally appeared on Nov. 1. On the first play from scrim­2002. mage during Notre Dame's 
second game of the season, By ANDREW SOUKUP against top-ranked Nebraska, Sports Writer Battle started scrambling and 
got drilled by a Cornhusker 

Tough for Arnaz Battle has defender, landing on his left nothing to do with a football wrist. The next dav, fans start­field. ed scrambling for anatomy 
Tough isn't starting your col­books to find out what a navic• lege career working as a back­ular was, because that's the up and bone Battle broke. when you At first, the coaches couldn't finally s"tart wait to get Battle back. When that first former Irish head coach Bob game, play Davie asked how the Irish arguably reacted to Battle's injury, the worst Davie responded, "You mean game of after we stopped crying?" your life. Rut attitudes started to 
Tough change in a hurry. Battle sat isn't enter­the season out to preserve a ing your year of eligibility and watched junior season as the starting freshman Matt Lovecchio lead quarterback, only to break the Irish to seven straight wins your wrist and miss the rest or and a BCS berth. the season and lose your job. At some point in the season. 
Tough isn't trying to switch coaches approached him with to wide receiver, and then the prospect of a position breaking your leg, leaving you change. The reason? wondering whether you made According to Battle, the coach­the right choice and if you're es told him that Lovecchio ever going to reach the NFL. would enter the spring as the 
Batlle didn't learn about starter, and if Battle wanted to toughness on a football field. find playing time, it would lie learned over a decade ago, probably come at wide receiv­when he was nine years old er. and found his three-year-old So Battle transplanted from brother floating face-first, quarterback to receiver, a dead. in his grandmother's position hadn't played since pool. his freshman year of high 
"Things could be worse, school, and had to earn play­that's the way I look at it," ing time behind future NFL said Battle. "The death of draft picks David Givens and somebody so close to you Javin Hunter. reminds you that football isn't The playmaking potential everything." coaches raved about never 
materialized. Battle broke his 
leg midway through the season

Football struggles 
and missed four games. He

The fifth-year senior is used only caught five passes all sea­to seeing headline writers play 
son and didn't score a touch­

off his last name. "A New 
down.

Battle Plan", "The Battle 
Throw in a coaching change

Back", "Battling Back" ­in the winter, a new offenseBattle's seen them all. and 
and a whole lot of uncertainty,dozens more. 

and Battle started to think

But he knows the catchy 
about life after football.

phrases aptly describe a foot­
"There's a lot of people out

ball career teeming with there who have the talent to
adversity. 
make it to the next level, but I

When he arrived at Notre 
think you have to be in certain

Dame in 1998, coaches saw 
situations," Battle said. "I

him as the crown jewel of the never doubted my ability, but I
recruiting class and a player 
doubted my opportunity. I

that would emerge as the next didn't know if I'd get an oppor­great Irish quarterback. 
tunity to show what I had."

Yet he was stuck playing behind Jarious Jackson and barely made it onto the field Family first his freshman year. The one If Battle needed inspiration. game he did start, lhe season he looked to three places ­finale at LJSC, he estimated he God. his family and his left knew only 70 percent of the bicep. offensn. mostly running plays, After his brother drowned ­and dismally finished 7-for-19 an event too painful for Battle for only 94 yards passing with to describe in detail -Battle two interceptions. carried around a picture of his 
That game haunted him his brother in his wallet. But after entire sophomore season, as he kept losing his wallet and he stood on the sidelines and the picture, someone suggest­watched Jackson inch closer ed he get a tattoo. and closer to breaking all So before he came to Notre kinds of' Notre Dame passing l)ame. Battle had his brother's records even as the Irish tum­face engraved on his arm -a bled to a 5-6 record. constant reminder of how bad 
But Jackson graduated, and things can get, as Battle is Battle began his junior year as fond of saying. 

things could be worse, and so I'm enjoying this moment. You can be high one time and low the next time, but you just have to appreciate it and live everything to the fullest." 
Much like the family pulled together when Battle's brother drowned, they rallied around Battle as his football career spiraled out of control. Nearly every day, he talked with either his mother or grand­mother. They told him every­thing would be fine. that things happen for a reason. 
What that reason was, Battle still doesn't know. He's grate­ful to his family for their sup­port. and part of his motiva­tion for reaching the NFL is getting money to give to his family. And he knows he's a stronger person because of everything he's endured. 
"The Lord, He tests you to see how strong you'll be, and I believe I've been through a strong test," Battle said. "Things are going to work out for me." 
Breaking out 
Battle admits he felt some trepidation before the first official team meeting with Tyrone Willingham. He was worried the coach would try to move him around to a different position or worse, not even play him. 
the most experienced receiver out of an already-depleted wideout corps and Willingham wanted to give Battle the chance to flourish as a receiv­er. 
"That was very reassuring. I needed to find a home, and I think I found it," Battle said. "Jumping back and forth was very hard to make that transi­tion, and then having people say you should go back to quarterback, it was tough. But I finally found a home." 
The coaches' confidence in Battle was relatively high, con­sidering the receiver only caught five passes in his career and had never caught a touchdown pass. Yet they called him the team's play­maker. the go-to guy when the Irish needed a clutch recep­tion. 
"He had speed, strength and athletic ability," said Diedrick, reflecting on his pre-season prediction. "What else do you want?" 
"If he was able to transfer those skills and that mentality to his position, he would be a young man we could count on," Willingham added. "Ile has really started to live up to that role." 
It took time, but Battle grew increasingly confident as a receiver. Finally, everything seemed to come full circle 
That catch was just the beginning. Two weeks later against Pittsburgh, Battle seemingly took over Notre Dame's only extended drive of the day, making a pair of tough catches before hauling in a tough catch in the end zone. He finished with 10 catches for over 100 yards. 
Then came a 112-yard receiving performance against Air Force and a stunning 65­yard touchdown on Notre Dame's first play from scrim­mage against Florida State. 
"I would have thought I would have been in this situa­tion early in my career, but obviously things didn't work out," Battle said. "I say things happen for a reason, and the things that happened to me just made me a stronger per­son. It helped me realize to not take my blessings for granted. The good things that happen to me, I've learned to appreci­ate them, because I know things can be a lot worse and go the opposite way." 
Then Battle stopped for a second and paused. 
Even though he had on a ­long sleeve shirt, he momen­tarily glanced toward his left arm, at his brother. The mes­sage was clear. 
!Iis football career has been tough. But not that tough. 

Lhe undisputed starting quar­ 'Tm going through so many  Bui Willingham and offen­ when he caught  a  60-yard  
terback.  Finally,  Battle  tough times, and I'm able to  sive coordinator Bill Diedrick  game-winning touchdown pass  
remembered thinking, he had a chance to show people what  appreciate my blessings," he said. "I can appreciate that  never considered a change. Diedrick didn't want to take  with less than two minutes remaining against Michigan.  Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu  

.. 
Friday, November 22, 2002 

page 16 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
RYAN SCAROLA 

Faine' s backup accepts playing out of the spotlight 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
Ryan Scarola isn't used to playing in the spotlight. 
The fifth-year back-up center has played in every game the past two seasons, but usual­
ly only in his spe­cial teams capacity. But at Michigan State this year, the time arrived for Scarola to step up us Jeff Paine's backup. When the starting Irish cen­

ter left the game Scarola briefly after sprain­ing his ankle, Scarola took to the field. 
'Td never really played center in a game before," Scarola said. "I was really excited to get a chance to play." 
Being Faine's backup is not a posi­tion that would afford one much play­ing time, but Scarola believes he has learned much from the experience. 
"You have to be ready," he said. "Your nerves kind of go away and instinct takes over. You never know. It teaches you a good lesson." 
Scarola  has  not  regretted  one  
moment of his  time  on the football  
squad.  

"It's a dream to play here," the pschycology major said. "I think that motivates everybody. Playing football, which you love [is part of the motiva­tion]. but I think it's a dream to play here especially." 
Additionally, his positive attitude and duty to the team have made his experience rewarding. 

"I enjoy what I do," Scarola said. "I like playing hero. I like everything about it." 
Scarola has always enjoyed football, and Notre Dame has been part of his life ever since he was a baby. 
Scarola's father, a Notre Dame graduate, proposed to his mother dur­ing a game at Notre Dame Stadium. So despite being an export from Export, Penn., he has always had Irish blood. 
Although Scarola did not see any playing time in his capacity as backup center during his freshman year, his sophomore year brought some playing time as well as his first career start against Kansas. 
Scarola is still amazed from his first-ever experience running out of the tunnel into the Notre Dame Stadium. 
"The most unforgettable !moment} was probably the Michigan game my freshman year, coming out of the tun­nel," Scarola said. Despite knowing that he would not be playing in that game, Scarola said the day still stands out as one of his best Notre Dame memories. 
"You don't really realize what it's like to walk out into the Stadium until you actually do it," Scarola said. "That's probably the most memorable thing for me." 
Scarola is relishing every moment of this, his last season donning the blue and gold. 
"You can't put a price on playing here," Scarola said. "It's unforget­table." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

-
"May the Blessed Mother bless this work and all who enjoy it. " 
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C. Notre Dame President Emeritus 
"This one should be a big hit with the ND crowd during the upcomingfootball season!" 
Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C. Executive Vice President Emeritus 

"This CD reaches out to ND.friends, family, and.fans ofall ages. " 
Jim O'Connor Manager, Hammes ND Bookstore 
A NOTRE DAME 

"You have much to be proud ofin this musical endeavor." 
Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Vice President for Student Affairs 
"I am an ND parent and havejust returned.from seeing my two sons get settled.f,Jr another year. I believe that you have truly cap­tured the Spirit rdDur Lady's 
University. 1 hanks!" 
-The Huebners 
Winston-Salem, NC ND Parents 

Exclusively available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Tim & Ryan O'Neill (ND '94 & '97) have sold over 700,000 copies oftheir relaxing piano music. 
Their music has been featured on HBO's, Sex & the City, 
and they recently performed for George Bush. To find out more about their 15 CD's available and future perfonnances, visit: 
www.pianobrothers.com 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 17 
JOEY HILDBOLD 
Going long 
Irish rely on punter to pin opposition deep and send Notre Dame far 
Boilermakers inside the 20­By JOE HETTLER yard line five times. Against Associate Sports Edimr 
Florida State, Hilbold stuck 
the Seminoles inside their 

The llilbold family can own 10-yard line three 
rwver enjoy a Notre Dame times. 
l'ootball game when they visit Hilbold does the Irish 
campus to see their son Juey defense a huge favor by forc­
play ing opposing offenses to 
cvr•n if the 
travel the whole field for a 
Irish arc score. Notre Dame almost 
winning. always wins the field posi­
" I f tion battle. 
play, I "I just go out there and try 
play. !l's to help out the team and try 
probably to do the best for the team 
good if' I and eventuallv that does well 
don't," for me," Hilbold said.
Hildbold

llilbold Ililbold's success dates 
said. "My back to his freshman year 
l'amily comes to the games. when the Centreville, Va. 
and they have the big dilem­native became Notre Dame's 
ma because they want to see full-time punter. He made 
me play but they want us to the most o[ his opportunity 
win." by averaging 39.0 yards per 
This is the life of a punter. punt and nailing a season­
But llilbold doesn't mind. long 56-yarder against 
In fact he loves his job. Michigan State. 
Ililbold has worked hard in Hilbold used his success as 
practice and in the off-sea­a freshman as momentum 
so n throughout his !'our when he headed into his 
years at Notre Dame and it sophomore year. That sea­
has paid off. Ile was a final­son, Hilbold was named a 
ist in 2000 and this year for Hay Guy award finalist and 
the !lay Guy Award. given to was one of only two sopho­
the nation's best punter. He mores in the country to 
will also graduate as one of receive such recognition. 
the best punters in Irish his­Football News and 
tory. Collegefootballnews.com also 
"!Being recognized as a top named him to the All­punter! reels pretty good," Independent team. Hilbold llilbold said. "That's a real crushed his career-lqng punt nice honor to have. l really of 69 yards against Texas couldn't do it without my A&M that season, placing the protection team. They've Aggies at their own 3-yard been really line. good, a good As a snapper. junior,
"[Being recognized as the 

good person­Hilbold fin­
top punter] feels pretty

al protector. ished 35th Tlrny all help good. That's a real nice in the coun­me out. ll's a try in punt­
honor to have. I really 

great honor. ing average
couldn't do it without my

it'd be nice at 42.2 to win it but protection team. They've yards per it be a lot punt. He
been really good, a good

be ltcr if we also had
snapper, a good personal 

were win­one ol' his ning." protector." best games All of at Notre llildbold's D a m e
Joey Hildbold

accolades against
Irish punter

aren't bad. Michigan considering S t a t e . he frequently drilling gets booed when taking the eight punts for a 50.1 aver­field at Notre Dame Stadium. age. Hilbold followed that 
"Sometimes it's funny career-best performance by because when I run out on besting it the next week the field, !the fans] boo when the Irish faced Texas because we're not going for A&M. In that game. Hilbold il or we just had a bad play," drilled six punts for a llilbold said. "/\ couple times career-best 50.5-yard aver­that happened in the past. age per punt. It's kind of funny because Hilbold credits his work you run out there and you ethic for the success he's wonder 'Is that for me?' or had so far in his Irish career. 'Is that because we didn't do "I knew if I worked hard well?' I really don't take it enough and really concen­too personally." trated on what I was doing, I 
lie doesn't take it person­would do pretty well," ally because ho has been an !Iilbold said. 'Tm just con­unlikely contributor to Notre centrating on the kick itself. Dame's success this season. You visual a little bit before 
llc's averaged 40.3 yards and know what your going to per punt this season and has do, know what your assign­pinned opponents inside ment is and then just go their 20-yard line a career­through the fundamentals high 25 times. In Notre and just go out and kick." Dame's 24-17 victory against That formula has contin­Purdue, Hilbold drilled eight ued to work for Hilbo!d this punts. averaging 44.6 yards season. He has been named per kick. Ile also pinned the an All-American candidate 

LISA VELTE/The Observer 

Fifth-year senior Joey Hildbold punts during an Irish victory against Stanford. The punter is averaging 40.3 yards a punt and helping the Irish win the field-position battle. 
as well as a Ray Guy semifi­and help the team to win. "LNotre Dame's] been a nalist. Then when that times comes, great place," llilbold said. 
All this success may have decide then." "Everybody talks about it. given Hilbold a chance to Football wasn't always but you don't really under­play on Hilbold's stand how great it is until Sundays first inter­you get here and you go next fall. est. He through the whole four
"/ knew ifI worked hard 
However, played soc­years. Playing football adds
enough and really

he's nut cer from the a whole other level to it." thinking concentrated on what I fifth grade Notre Dame is llilbold's about the until the first love, but punting the
was doing, I would do 
NFL too 12th grade football on Saturdays is a
pretty well. " 

much right and also close second and he takes 
.. 

now. wrestled and great pride in doing his job "That's a Joey Hildbold played wide as best he can. g o a 1 , " receiver and "Just going out there every
Irish punter

Hilbold said. kicker on day is a joy for me," Hilbold "I'd like to the football said. "I treat it like punting. do thaL. So team. [ like punting. That's some­this off-season fJ may] train Hilbold's father attended thing I enjoy doing so every­and see what happens. But Notre Dame, so when it came day is good for me." right now I'm just trying to time to choose a college, focus on punting well for the Notre Dame was what team, try to win some games Hilbold judged other schools 
Contact Joe Hettler at 

and then go to a good bowl against. It was the right 
jhettler@nd.edu

game and perform well there choice. 
Friday, November 22, 2002

page 18 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
JOHN CROWTHER 

Snapper climbs from walk-on to veteran 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
John Crowther has lived the Notre Dame student's dream. 
The Irish long snapper. who was virtually un-recruited out of high school in his home­town or Edina, M i n n . , entered his freshman year at Notre Dame with inten­tions no greater than simply playing dorm football for Morrissey Manor. 
Little more than a week into his first year of college, Crowther got a surprise call from one of the Notre Dame football coaches to tryout for the team. 
"lt started when l first got here, staying in Morrissey 1:-1 all," Crowther said. "I went out for the interhall team there. Father Bill Steech was the assistant coach, and he called up the head foot­ball coach for me and got me a tryout vvith the team without my knowledge or anything. 
"I got a tryout on the team, actually made it and then a week later the backup got hurt, so I got to travel about a week and a half 
after  I  made  the  team  to  
Michigan  State  for  my first  
game," Crowther said.  

That first game was bitter-


sweet. The freshman walk-on combined the excitement of run• ning out onto the field with one of the most storied football pro­grams in history with the despair of witnessing one of Notre Dame's worst losses in recent history. 
"It was the first time I had ever dressed, and I was really excited coming out and hearing the band," Crowther said. "The only bad thing was I believe we were down at halftime 42-3. IL was one of our worst games, and we had a good year that year. I was real­ly excited to be out there, but they just kept scoring on us, and I was just thinking, ·wow.' It kind of ended the excitement real quick, but it was still a memo­rable moment." 
The Irish ended up losing that game 45-23. but things were only just beginning for Crowther. By his junior year, he had worked his way up the chart to the start­ing snapper for field goals and extra points, and he would soon become the snapper on punts as well. 
At the end of last season, after two years atop the depth chart at snapper for Crowther. the senior walk on was offered an opportu­nity to return for a fifth year. 
It was an opportunity he could not turn down. 
"I was very excited when I met Coach Willingham for the oppor­tunity to come back for a fifth year," Crowther said. "I've been with the same guys on th.is team for a long time, an we've been through a lot of ups-and-downs. I felt that as a group, we could still really accomplish some good things." 

Over the summer, Crowther was offered a scholarship to return for his fifth year. That only made the dream complete. 
The former Morrissey center has climbed from walk-on backup, to starter, to scholarship veteran. 
"It's been a pleasant surprise, and I've definitely enjoyed it," Crowther said. "But looking back on it now, I couldn't imagine going through my four years at Notre Dame without playing on the team. It's such a great expe­rience, and it completely changed my outlook and my view of Notre Dame.'' 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

-
.., 

~--.,.1
1: Visit www.ndusc.cOm/Scheduie.htm for more information. ? 


The Notre Dame Club of LA provides several special events. 
Notre Dame Pep Rally 
Held on Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Anaheim Marriot Ballroom. Admission is $5. 
Bus Transportation to Game 
Visit www.ndusc.com/Schedule.htm or call (626)795-6363 for details. 
Irish Fest ... Pregame Tailgate Party The L.A. Club will be hosting a tailgate outside of the Coliseum before the game. 
For more information on these and other events, call (626)795-6363 or visit www.ndusc.com/Schedule.htm . 
Ad sponsored by Student Government. 

,

... 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
.; 


Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an 
invitation to come together and celebrate the 
Eucharist this weekend. 
Rutgers Football Weekend November 23-24, 2002 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after ·game 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart 
(-M Parish Crypt 6:30, 8:00, 9:30 & 11:00 am 
Campus Ministry 
' 
I 
I 
l 
I 
-ll 
I I I I I I I I I 
.. l I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I 
,._ I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
1 
I I I 
,... I I I I 
... 
-
Friday, November 22, 2002

page 20 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
TIM O'NEILL 
Fifth year doesn't wake O'Neill from dream 

larger picture of being part of the team and making adjustments from high he will carry with him for the rest of school to college and then accepting his life. you into a family is the biggest thing." 
"It's kind of hard to pinpoint just one That, and keeping the dream alive. experience," he said. "But just being with your teammates. just being in that family and supporting each other Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sporn Writer 
Tim O'Neill couldn't give up the dream. 
When the chance to play a fifth-year for the Irish came. the 5-foot-6 walk­on couldn't say no. 
"I have always wanted to play foot­ball at Notre Dame. If you have the chance to do it for one more year, I mean. that was an easy decision for me to make," O'Neill said. "If you still enjoy playing and you are playing at Notre Dame, then you are going to come back." 
The announcement of Irish coach 

,· Tyrone Willingham replacing former coach Bob Davie was just icing on the cake. 
"The decision was made before [the coaching change] but obviously there is a lot of excitement with a new coach coming in," O'Neill said. "It has just been a tremendous experience. One of the best decisions I have ever made." 
O'Neill rushed for 1,634 yards and scored 12 touchdowns at Athens high school in Troy, Mich. and passed up opportunities at other schools where he would be featured to attend Notre 

, 
Dame. 
"I often thought about that, because in high school you get the ball a lot, but if I got in to Notre Dame, this is where I was coming," O'Neill said. " It was Notre Dame and then I had some Callback plans. But if I got in to Notre Dame then I didn't think about any-where else." 


That intention to attend Notre Dame began early in O'Neill's life. Going to his first Notre Dame football game when he was seven years old, O'Neill watched wide receiver Tim Brown run back two kickoffs for touchdowns. O'Neill's older brother Mike also walked on at Notre Dame and played in 1991. 
Three years ago in his sophomore season, O'Neill saw his first game action in Notre Dame's 48-17 win against Arizona State. O'Neill gained four yards on two attempts. 
This season, O'Neill has carried the ball in two games. O'Neill gained four yards in Notre Dame's 22-0 defeat of Maryland in the Kickoff Classic and rushed for 18 yards against Stanford, including a career-long rush of 11 yards. 
Despite seeing little playing time in his career, O'Neill relishes the oppor­tunities he has been prepared for his entire life. 
"It might surprise some people when you say you aren't nervous but when you have been playing football since fourth grade, that is what you prepare in the off-season," O'Neill said. "That is what you think about at night before you go to bed is getting in there and playing and contributing. 
"I think if you have confidence in your abilities then you a.re not in awe or it's not like you can't believe you are in that situation because that's a situation you have pictured yourself 
in." 

Running out of the tunnel, putting the uniform on for that first time or even his first carry aren't the moments that stick out in O'Neill's mind. It's the 
Wireless Irish. 
Student discounts and other exclusive promos from Apple make the holidays merrier and using wireless Internet easier. 



.. 

Double your memory. 

Double the standard configuration c,f memory for only $40 on any Mac. 
ExplreslAc.em~f 31,2002 
L 
In Sync. 


iBook • Starting at $949 
Add AirPort Wireless to 
Holds up to 4,000 songs 

Discounted tor the Notre Dame family your iBook for only $93 
l O hour battery life Download a CD in seconds 

iPod • Starting at $269 
Special Promos 

Discounted just tor Students 
Apple has great promos going tc, help make buying• Mac and the accessc,ries you need more affordable, all discounted for Students. 
Brighten your holidays . 
Buy a Mac and an HP DeskJet 3820 or 5550 printer and receive a S99 rebate. 
EKptresJ;muary 7,2003 


For more information on these and other promotions.please visir www.apple.com/education/promos/ 
Room 112 Information Technology Center 
Get your student discount at: ~ofuttoh~ C~h(-ep http:/ /solution.nd.edu/ 
Notre Dame's Computer Products Store 574-631-7477 
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer. IRISH INSIDER page 21 
CHAD DEBOLT 
Special teams player balanced football and lacrosse 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Wri«:r 
Football practice five days a week is tough enough. Especially when one couples that with starting for the 
lacrosse team. 
Add to that an engineering degree, and why not toss in an MBA too? 


Then, just DeBolt for kicks, throw in playing the bagpipes when time allows. Chad DeBolt does not like to miss opportunities. "It's just been a great ride," DeBolt said. "That's the reason why I came here. I wanted to play football and lacrosse." IJeBolt never thought it would be an easy ride, but he always believed that if the ride were enjoyable, it would be doable. "I knew it was going to be t()ugh," he said. "I just worked really hard, and I had some lit­tle bit of luck behind me, and everything kind of fell into place. I've played with a bunch of great guys on both teams, so I've just been very blessed to have the opportunity to do it." DeUolt was recruited to come to Notre Dame to play lacrosse, but that did not mean he was about to relinquish football. Before he came to South Bend 
as a freshman, he sent out brochures to the Irish football coaches in hopes of gaining their attention. They did not respond. 
Nevertheless, he held onto the dream, and as a high school senior, told Irish lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan of his desire to be a part of the Notre Dame football team. 
HI always had in the back of my mind that I love football too," he said. "I always liked both equally the same. What better place to be able to play thorn both than here, so it just worked out great." 
Although Corrigan encour­aged DeBolt, it was not until DeBolt's sophomore year that he earned a spot on the football team. fall of that year proved to be the most trying of his col­legiate experience, with foot­ball practice live days a week as part of the scout defense and then three-hour lacrosse scrim­mages on Sundays. 
The following years, he did not attempt such a hard fall routine, but still found time to watch lacrosse practice, "just to see how the team's going." 
While he did not appear in a game his sophomore year. as a junior, DeBolt played in every game of the season on special teams. 
DeBolt said the route to suc­cess when trying to balance so much springs from having a passion in all pursuits. 
"You have to enjoy what you're doing," DcBolt said. "[It isl time management. You have to find quality in everything you do, if you have fun doing it, it'll be easy to do." 

In high school, DeBolt had always enjoyed math and sci­ence, so engineering seemed a good fit for him. 
"I enjoyed my classes, but it's definitely been very tough, very demanding," he said. "But it pushes you to the limit, and hopefully it will get me ready for the next step." 
Even with all of these chal­lenging commitments, DeBolt found time for other pursuits. 
"I play bagpipes," he said with a laugh, almost surprised himself at his high level of involvement. 
Despite all that he's done at Notre Dame, DeBolt sometimes wishes he could have done more. 
"I wish I had put a little more time into the school," he said. "I think it's a great school, there are a lot of things you can get out of it." 
In a sense, DeBolt, who wants to work on Wall Street after graduation next spring, feels lucky about what he has been able to accomplish at Notre Dame. With his passion for the .. school, for the football and lacrosse teams, and dual engi­neering and MBA degree, DeBolt has become a Notre Dame man northern Indiana's version of the Renaissance man. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at j1ind1se@nd.edu 

By JOE LICANDRO  a 9-1 record and No. 8 national ranking, Notre  he began to have second thoughts. As he points out,  
Sports Writer  Dame has proved the  sometimes life has a funny  
doubters wrong all season.  way of turning out.  
Arter four years of work­ Akatu is extremely thankful  "I was an engineer for  
ing against the first team  for the way Willingham has  three years. I kept hoping  
defense every day in prac­ quickly left his imprint on  I'd like it, but it never hap­ 
tice, walk-on wide receiver  the program.  pened. I don't remember a  
Bernard  'Tm not going to sit here  single professor or single  
Akatu was  and say that I predicted we  class I liked so I guess  
seriously  would be 9-1. but I thought  that's not good," said Akatu  
contem­ we could compete with  with a laugh. "I thought I'd  
plating  every team on our schedule.  go into business because I  
whether to  At no point, did I ever doubt  like people."  
call his  that we were good enough  Even if this season had  
football  to win a national champi­ turned out differently for  
c a r e e r  onship," said Akatu.  Notre Dame, Akatu is glad  
quits or Akatu  "Willingham now has made  he made the decision to  
return to  us believe we can win a  come back. Throughout the  
exercise  national championship."  past five years, he always  
bis final year of eligibility.  Both on and off the field,  had faith that Notre Dame  
Even though he would be  Akatu has a great sense of  football would return to  
returning to Notre Dame for  humor. Although he is the  glory. Now, he's thrilled  
a fifth academic year, the  constant recipient of ribbing  that he's had the chance to  
21-year old native of Lagos,  from his teammates, the  be a part of it.  
Nigeria, was starting to  fifth-year senior does not  "I wouldn't say the last  
question whether all the  mind at all. As a walk-on.  four years wouldn't have  
practices and team meet­ Akatu believes his job is to  been worth it, but this year  
ings were worth it any  always carry a positive atti­ made it feel like hard work  
more.  tude into the locker room to  really pays off," said Akatu.  
"When they made the  keep his teammates loose  "I cannot imagine what it  
announcement there would  for the games.  had been like if' last season  
be a new coaching staff, I  "Walk-on or not, football  h a d b e c n m y Ia s t yl' a r  
got a little excited. but I  is tough for everybody. It is  because I really would have  
didn't make my decision  hard for all of us to do what  felt that I hadn't accom­ 
until I met with Coach  we do both physically and  plished much. I always  
Willingham. After I talked to him. I was so impressed  mentally. So for you not to have some excitement about  believed this team could be good, but for some reason  - 
with the man I met that I  what you do is just putting  things just didn't work out.  
thought this was definitely  an added stress on your­ This year has been a huge  
the right direction for Notre  self," said Akatu.  sigh of relief."  
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Dame football,'' Akatu said.  Five years ago, Akatu  
Nigeria native Bernard Akatu thought twice about coming back As this season has unfold­ entered Notre Dame plan­ 
to Notre Dame until he met Tyrone Willingham. ed, it turns out Akatu's  ning to major in engineer­ Contact Joe Licandro at  
instincts were correct. With  ing, but after his junior year  Licandro. l@nd.edu  

BERNARD AKATU 
Decision to stay was right for wide receiver 
page 22 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 22, 2002 

COURTNEY WATSON 
Notre Dame's senior inside linebacker has 
been a big hit for the Irish. 
Courtney Watson, recently named a finalist for the Dick Butkus award given to the coun­try's best linebacker, has hit often and hit hard. After missing the first two games of the season due to an illness, Watson came back strong. After eight games, he leads the Irish with 81 total tackles. He's recorded three interceptions, including a 34-yard runback for a touchdown. 
The 2002 season marks the second year in a row that Watson has started at linebacker for Notre Dame and the second year in a row he has been in the top two in tackles. Last season he recorded 76 after filling the spot left by the graduation of former All-American Anthony Denman. 
However, Watson's hard-hitting abilities aren't the only things that have impressed the new Irish coaching staff. The senior, who still has one year of eligibility left, has taken an obvious leadership role on and off the field. 

During the first two games of the season, when Watson was out sick, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham mentioned several times that the linebacker would lead the team. Since then. he has been named a game day captain sever­al times and has led a defense that has held their opponents to an average of 97. 7 rushing yards and 182 passing yards. 
That is quite an accomplishment for a play­er who came to Notre Dame without the expectations of playing on tho defense. Watson, who hails from Sarasota, Fla .. came to Notre Dame as a running back. At Riverview High School he earned all-Sarasota honors while rushing for more than 2,500 yards and 25 touchdowns. 
However, when Watson hit Notre Dame, the coaching staff thought they could use Watson somewhere else. So they began to develop themselves a linebacker. Now, 188 tackles. 22 tackles for a loss and four interceptions later, the Irish have developed more than a line­backer. They have a hitting machine. 

Jason Beckstrom 
After playing in every game in 2001, 2002 has been quite a change for the Irish reserve cor­nerback. He started two games last season. This year he hasn't seen one play. 
After suffering a bicep injury and then undergoing surgery at the beginning of the season, Jason Beckstrom has not seen any action this season. The senior Tulsa, Okla. native has spent all season recov­ering. 
In the 2001 season, he recorded three tackles and recovered a fum­ble against Tennessee and grabbed his first career interception against Purdue, which he ran back for a touchdown. 
Ryan Gillis 

Despite being a top 30 national prospective by Football News and a Parade prep All-American, Ryan Gillis has had a tough time getting into the game. 
Gillis plays behind an offensive line that doesn't get hurt and doesn't give up. As a back-up offensive guard, he plays behind senior Sean Milligan and fifth-year senior Sean Mahan. 
The senior Fawn Lake, Va. native saw some playing time during the 2001 season, moslty on special teams. However, he saw playing time at the right guard position against Boston College and Navy after Sean Milligan suffered an injury. 
Brennan Curtin 
The first thing you notice about Brennan Curtin is his size. The 6­foot-8. 305-pound offensive tackle is the largest member of the Notre Dame team. But if he makes a a statement with his size, then he really makes a statement with his play. 
The senior offensive tackle is a key member of an offensive line that has shown continual improvement over the course of the seaosn, opening up the Irish rushing game. 
Curtin recorded his first start last season against Michigan State and played several offensive line positions before settling into tack­le this season. 
Sean Milligan 
Starting is nothing new to Sean Milligan. The 6-foot-4 offensive guard saw nine starts in 2001 and has seen 10 starts this season. An ankle inury benched him against Boston College and caused him to miss the Tennessee and Navy game. 
Milligan joins fellow seniors and fifth-year seniors Brennan Curtin, Sean Mahan. Jordan Black and Jeff Faine on a veteran offensive line. 
The Norcross. Ga. native was a USA Today second-team All­American coming out of high school and was rated 86th on the list of top 100 prospects by ESPN.com. 
DARRELL CAMPBELL 


Irish senior Darrell Campbell has taken a leadership role on the Irish defensive line. 
Barely missing being one of ing 27 tackles in 10 games thus far Notre Dame's top-10 tacklers, this season. He has been key to the Darrell Campbell has made himself Irish pass-rush game. Campbell known on the football field. And has recorded five tackles for a loss, his size isn't the only thing that pushing opponents back a total of makes him obvious. 28 yards. 
The 6-foot-4, 288-pound defen­Campbell started nine of 11 sive tackle is one of the vocal Irish games during the 2001 season, sit­leaders on a defensive line that is ting out the Michigan State game determined to be the best in the after suffering a neck injury and country. missed the Stanford game due to a 
Last season, Campbell seemed to right knee sprain. settle into his role on the defensive This season, the starting defen­line. This year, he's more than sive line has not been with
.... 
comfortable. He's in charge. Campbell. 

Campbell, who hails from South Coming out of Thornwood High Holland, Ill., is a starter for the School. Campbell was a USA Today second year on the Irish squad. He honorable mention prep All­has already bested his 26 tackles American and was ranked 82nd that he recorded last season, tallyi-nationally by the Chicago Tribune. 
NICHOLAS SETTA 


Nicholas Setta attempts a kick against Purdue. The kicker began the sea­son with five field goals against Maryland. 
This season has been a roller yards. respectively. lie retains a coaster for Nicholas Setta. streak for consecutive extra points, 
The senior place kicker started the hitting every single attempt this sea­season on what can only be labeled a son. high. During the Kickoff Classic, The Lockport, Ill. native, whose Setta connected on five field goals, first love was soccer, has served as his only miss coming from more than Notre Dame's place kicker for the 56 yards out. He was named the last three seasons. beating out fellow Kickoff Classic MVP for his efforts teammate David Miller for the job. and found his to be the new house­In addition to managing his kicking hold name around campus. duties for the Irish, Setta manages to 
After that game, he hit what Irish run track. He works in the high jump coach Willingham refused to call a and the long jump for the Irish and slump. In the next four games he short to medium distance running. only connected on 3-of-10 field goals Setta. who was a Parade prep All­and broke his 16-game streak for American and rated the number-one consecutive field goals. kicker in the country out of high 
However, he managed to find his school, hit the cross bar on a 73­foot again against Florida State, hit­yard attempt at Lockport Township ting two field goals from 35 and 39 High School. 
_________ J 
-
Friday, November 22, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 23 

JEFF FAINE 

Ask Irish coaches who the anchor of the frish 
offensive line and they'll easily name Notre 
Dame center JcIT Faine. 
Faine's career has ben characterized by 
steadiness along the offensive front -a steadi-. ness the Irish have desperately needed amidst their offensive turmoil. In Faine's three years in the middle of the Irish offensive line, the Irish center has started all 32 games of his career. In . comparison, he's snapped the ball to five differ­
ent starting quarterbacks during that period -
Arnaz Battle, Gary Godsey, Matt Lovecchio, 
Carlyle Holiday and Pat Dillingham. 
If there's one thing Irish coaches have trouble 
doing, H's getting Faine to come out of the 
game. He played with a sprained ankle for most 
of the Michigan State game and hobbled off the 
field three weeks later against Stanford. Yet 
even as Faine jogged into the locker room at 
halftime, he knew he'd return to the field. "It 
would probably take a broken neck to keep me 
out of the game," the Irish center remarked at 
one point in the season. 
Sean MIiiigan 
It's amazing what a year of experi­ence can do for an offensive lineman. Last year, Milligan was often pushed around on the Irish front line and slruggled to provide adequate protec­tion. An ankle injury kept him out of the Tennessee and Navy games and Milligan cmly returned in a reserve role in the final two Irish games of the year. 
But this season, Milligan has estab­lished himself as a dominant pres­ence on the lrish line. He's started all five games for the Irish and is a member of one of the most experi­enced Irish offensive fronts in Notre Dame history. With one year of eligi­bility remaining. Milligan is poised to improve even more next year. 
Jim Molinaro 

Three seasons of turmoil have finally culminated this season for Molinaro with a series of appear­ances on the Irish offensive line. 
Molinaro came to Notre Dame as a highly recruited defensive line­man. But he sat out his freshman year and only squeaked into one. game his sophomore season. Coaches approached Molinaro with the idea of a position change, and the senior readily accepted the move. 
The Irish lineman spent much of last season learning the Irish offense. But now that he's learned the nuances of being a lineman, Molinaro is ready to break into the Irish rotation next season. 
Pat Ryan 
Ryan entered Notre Dame with a USA Today All-American selection under his belt. But the senior from Montana has yet to make a signifi­cant breakthrough on the Irish squad. 
Ryan made his first appearence in 2000 as a member of the Notre Dame's special teams and winning his monogram. He made the lone tackle of his career in Notre Dame's second game of the sea­son. 
Last year, Ryan only made a handful of special teams appear­ances, playing in just three games. He has appeared in nine of Notre Dame's 10 games this season and has recorded six tackles. 

Faine is only second to fifth-year senior Jordan Black in terms of minutes played and has started every game of his college career despite sitting out his freshman year to save a year of eligibility. Generally regarded as one of the top offensive linemen in the nation, Faine was a semifinalist for the Outland Trophy, an award presented annually to the nation's lop lineman . 
One of Fainc's greatest assets is his leader­ship. A\1.hough Tyrone Willingham used game day captains this season. Faine has been a con­stant selection by the Irish coaches, walking out to midfield for the coin toss for well over half of Notre Dame's games this season. 
What lies ahead for Faine? The Irish center isn't sure. He has said he's going to carefully consider his options when it comes to deciding whether to leave Notro Damfl a year early for the NFL draft. Regardless of Faine's intentions. the cenwr chose to put his team first -waiting until the end of the season to make a decision about his future to put the team's success first. 
Justin Thomas 
Thomas' career can best be described as a work in progress. He was named Defensive Player of the Year by an Oklahoma newspa­per in high school, but the Irish are still waiting for that potential to translate into on-field prowess. 
Thomas played five games his freshman year as a backup line­backer, although he saw most of his work on the special teams unit. He sat out his entire sophomore .. season and made only a handful of special teams appearances in 2001. 
But this season, Thomas has played in every game, making six tackles on special teams. His role next season is still undefined. 
GLENN EARL 

Safety Glenn Earl hits a Navy player during an Irish victory. Earl ranks second 
on the defense with 65 tackles. 
The Irish safety entered this season known pretty much for one thing ­blocking n field goal against Air Force in 2000 that preserved Notre Dame's hopes to reach a BCS bowl 
But Earl couldn't wait to get out of the shadow of the player who made a huge special teams play and establish himself on defense. His career has been deci­mated by injuries, and the 2002 cam­paign is his first completely injury-free season since he arrived at Notre Dame. 
Earl entered last season as a reserve defensive back, and nobody knew how much he would be able to contribute to a relatively deep Irish secondary. But he started the season on a rough note, missing the second game with a leg injury. He didn't return to full-timo action until the USC game, and then suffered a seperated shoulder two games later at Tennessee and a concus­sion against Stanford two more games after that. 
The game that set the tone for the 2002 season was the 2001 finale. Earl started the game and recorded 12 tack­les. including a pair of sacks. 
This season, Irish teammates dubbed Earl the headhunter of the Irish sec­ondary for his hard-hitting abilities. He also has recorded a pair of intercep­tions and is ranked second on the team in tackles with 65. 
In the vocal Irish secondary, team­mates ridiculed Earl for grabbing a pass against Florida State that car­ommed off a ref'eree's head. Earl got his first "legitimate" interception against Navy. 
GARY GODSEY 

Gary Godsey runs after making a reception. After playing quarterback for two games, Godsey moved to the receiving end of the ball. 
He still sees students walking around campus wearing T-shirts that say, "In God(sey) We Trust." But Gary Godsey just smiles and laughs when he looks back on his short­lived Irish quarterback career. 
Two seasons ago, when Arnaz Battle broke his wrist in the second game of the season, Godsey started t.he next two games as Irish quarter­back. Ile won his debut against Purdue, leading the Irish on a 59­yard drive that culminated in a game-winning field goal kick. 
But Godsey struggled a week later against Michigan State and was eventually replaced by Matt LoVecchio, who went on to start the final eight games of the Irish season. With Carlyle Holiday and Jared Clark waiting in the wings, Godsey moved to tight end the winter before his junior year. 
During his rookie year on the offen­sive line, Godsey didn't make much of an impact. Although he started two games, Godsey caught just two passes against Navy for a combined 
•

50 yards. llis role in the Irish offense seemed to be reduced to a glorified blocker until Tyrone Willingham instituted his pro-style offense. 
This year, altough Godsey has yet to score a touchdown, he has caught ....15 passes, the third most of the Irish roster. for 150 yards. Ile also heads a very deep corps of tight ends, yet has emerged as a clutch receiving option when the Irish need a big play. 
.. 

,. 

• 
.... 





