

~ 
I I I ' ' f 

t HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
Notre Dame family gathers for Sept. 11 memorial Mass 
By JOE TROMBELLO News Wrirer 
"God Bless America" and New York Fire Department shirts with American flag clothing accessories colored the quad behind the Hesburgh Library reflecting pool as thousands gathered for Mass one year fol­lowing after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. 
"One year ago today, we declared a day of prayer and remembrance and gathered en masse to remember those who died, some taken in the midst of their daily routines," University President Father Edward Malloy said. "We witnessed a sense of collective loss, a heightened sense of anxiety and a need for each other." 
Malloy presided over the 5 
p.m. Mass and was accompa­nied in song by a 275-member choir composed of representa­tives of all University and Basilica choirs. 
The ceremony, through its readings and hymns, empha­sized the spirit of community and the hope of eternal life. 
"Death is not the last story we have to tell. Our tears can be wiped a way," Malloy said in his homily. "There is life ... we are called to live in this world." 
In his homily, Malloy described his experiences when he visited New York 40 days after the attack, seeing the res­cue workers continue to search against all hope and feeling the shock of a nation. One year later, Malloy called those at the Mass to display the same perse­verance as those rescue work­ers. 
"Let us not be anxious and driven by dread. Let us get on with our lives. Let us pray to God for things beyond our con­trol and entrust the burden into the arms of a loving God," he said. 
Student body President Libby Ilishop and Vice President Trip Foley led the general interces­sion prayers, calling on those at the Mass to pray for the Notre Dame family affected by 9/11. 
During the sign of peace, stu­dents held each other in lengthy embraces, displaying more emotion than they had in previ­ous parts of the Mass. 
"I was in New York this sum­mer and saw where the World Trade Center used to be," freshman Katy Marsh of Ohio said. "It was sad to see the memorial and watching the reports on NBC today reminded me of that. I thought coming to the Mass today would be a good way to remember with every­one." 
In closing, Malloy referred to the image of Christ the Teacher, commonly called "Touchdown Jesus," on the south side of Hesburgh Library. He said Jesus' extended arms offered comfort and hope. 
An American flag was risen into the air at the close of the Mass. 
"The Mass was beautiful; it provided a sense of connection and union and a time to reflect on that experience with my peers," said senior Brooke Piller, a resident of upstate New York. 
The ceremony concluded the University events honoring the victims of 9/11. A prayer ser­vice and candlelight procession from the Grotto to the reflecting pool took place Tuesday night and a student-led rosary prayer Wednesday afternoon. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

New GSU leaders collaborate to establish significant changes 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
Momentum -that's what Graduate Student Union President Tim Dale and Vice Presidents Misty Schieberle and Ravi Subramanian hope 
to  maintain  during  their  
terms.  
Dale  highlighted  the  

accomplishments of last year's organization under former President Gabriela Burgos in healthcare, gradu­ate student quality of life and academic affairs and vowed to continue working on these issues. 
"The Graduate Student Union served really well llast year]," Dale said. "TherP were some great accomplish­ments that need to be fol­lowed through on. My main interest is keeping the momentum going. The CSU has a lot of resources given to it, and 1want to make sure these resources are allocated as efficiently as possible." 
The healthcare issue has been a focal point of the GSU agenda in past administra­tions. Notre Dame graduate students have complained that the University health­care plan is woefully inade­quate. Last year. GSU peti­iioned for a new, improved plan and called on the University to supplement any increases in premiums. 
The University is currently considering GSU's requests. Dale anticipates that the new, wider plan will be approved and added to the budget by the end of this semester and that Notre Dame will cover the $200 to $300 increase in premiums for each student. 
Dale and GSU Healthcare Committee Chair Heather Edwards, however, have additional healthcare con­cerns, including the fact that students must currently pay for one year of coverage even though many graduate in December. They also intend to monitor students' opinion of subsidization and the increased coverage. 
GSU is still evaluating a graduate student handbook. 
see GSU/page 4 
Saint Mary's board of directors to tneet 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD News Writer 
Saint Mary's will host return­ing alumnae today and Friday as the graduates gather for their bi-annual board of direc­tors meeting. 
Board President Sarah Belanger Earley, a 1971 alum­na, along with 17 other alum­nae, will convene both days to discuss issues of importance for past and present Saint Mary's students. 
The meeting will primarily focus on alumnae clubs, fund raising, student-alumnae rela­tionships, club scholarships, reunions and student recruit­ment. The board is currently working to improve student­farulty connections along with the development of the College's women and philan­thropy initiative. 
"The board is very interested in expanding outreach to stu­dents ... our future alumnae," said Barbara Butler Henry, director of alumnae relations. 
Campus seminars are also frequently sponsored by the Alumnae Board of Directors, including two that are sched­uled for tonight. 
"Grace Under Pressure" is a networking and business semi­nar for seniors, held at 5:30 
p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. It was organized to help students learn to build career network­ing and contacts. The seminar also gives other practical advice, such as tips on business dress and how to "work" a room. Seniors will have an opportunity to hear from alum­nae in various career fields 
see BOARD/page 4 


----· ------­
• • I 
I 

I. I I' 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, September 12, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Keep leisure in your life 
Being idle is bliss, and sitting can be one of the finer parts of life. Just look at the movie Office Space and you begin to realize watching Kung-Fu is quite possibly one of the best forms of entertainment out there. Doing 

Justin Krlvlckas 
nothing is what 
some ofus do 
best. Assistant 
Whether you're 
News Editor 
the one wasting 
three hours per­
fecting your moves in a video game 
like Tony Hawk or overdosing on TV 
in a dorm lounge, you know leisure is 
king. Enjoy it while you can. 
These periods of being idle will soon disappear. or so will your GPA, as the semester catches up steam. You'll have club meetings and hopefully a job to help pay for your weekend shenanagins and a million other things will be coming your way, and professors a.re going to be reminding you that you're here to learn by giv­ing you papers and assignments as well as quizzes, tests and finals that will leave you shriveled and frail from prolonged periods ofstudying. Here are a few pointers to avoid falling behind, and all the while giving you enough downtime to win that Xbox tournament you've been spending night and day preparing for. 
Don't become the student in class who is always a chapter behind. By falling behind and playing catch-up throughout the semester you'll find out that once you finish cramming for one test you have to begin doing the same for another. It can be difficult to finally find yourself back on schedule for all your classes. 
Remember to avoid all-nighters at all costs. This form ofstudying does more harm than good, especially before a major test. The material you force into you head at midnight will have all but disappeared by three o'clock, and the stuff you beat into your head at three will be gone by three fifteen when you pass out from an excessive dose of coffee. Getting a good night's rest the night before, even if you don't feel fully prepared, will allow you to better use that nog­gin of yours. 
Also, I can't stress enough the importance of keeping a daily plan­ner. At least in my experience by the time I reach my dorm, I've forgotten much of what we've done in class, least of all do I remember the extra homework assignment that was tacked on or the quiz that was announced for Thursday. Keep it always with you and jot down every­thing even ifyou are sure that you'd never forget it. 
Keeping up in class isn't hard to do and a few hours work each day can keep you ahead of the game and leave you with plenty ofdowntime. Now not only will you not fail out ofschool, but you can strut about your dorm aim­lessly looking for something to do like the bum you've always wanted to be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at Jkrivick@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due ro a reporting error, an item in Monday's secu­rity blotter incorm:c!y stated chat a Breen-Phillips student was ciced for minor consumption of alcohol outside her dorm. According to NDSP, a srudent was cited outside of Breen-Phillips Hall for minor consumption of alcohol and possession offalse [D. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Saint Mary's 
Bush goes abroad 
memorializes "Year of Sorrow" 

Bush visits theSaint Mary's three crash sitesCenter for Women and consoles fami­in Intercultural lies of the victimsLeadership spon­who lost their lives sors women to par­one year ago. 
ticipate in interna­tional service pro­jects. 
page6 

page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ NO 
. 
:frd Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures "Beyond Bibliolatry," llcsburgh Center for International Studies, 4 p.m. 

. 
Solomon Smith Barney Citigroup Placement Presentation, McKcnna Hall, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 

. 
Movie: Waking Life, Carey Auditorium, 7 p.m. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Alumnae Board of l)irectors Fall Meeting, campus wide 

. 
Political Science Club Meeting 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 

. 
Twilight Tailgate with picnic, Library Green, 4:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: French onion soup, cream of broccoli soup, pasta ala car­bonara, chicken fajita pizza, mushroom stroganoff, kluski noodles, green beans, cherry crisp, baked chicken with herbs, roasted vegetables, barley greens, grits, scrambled eggs, sausage links, blueber­ry pancakes, tater tots, gyro, corn and blackbean fiesta 
Today Dinner: Minestrone soup, french onion soup, chicken fajita pizza, cherry crisp, roasted pork loin, wild pecan rice, broccoli cuts, chicken and pea pods stir fry. garden quiche, lemon mint couscous, baked sweet potato, veg­etable moussaka, corn dog and chili frito 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
w 
::c 

;: ~ w 
..J 
<
(,) 


0 

HIGH 77
..J 

LOW 73 

67 63 
BUSINESS 
VlEWPOINT
NEWS 
Assessing Our
Wall Street 
Lady's ladles
pauses for 
Sept.11 
Joe Muto looks at 
Trading begins 
the delicate issue of
90 minutes late at 
beauty found on
the New York 
campus and takes a
Stock Exchange to 
stance that is com­
pay respects to 
promise to both
those who died one 
factions.
year ago in the 
Sept. 11 attacks. 
page 7 
page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Worker accident reported 
A student worker at the South Dining Hall on Tuesday was trans­ported by NDSP to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a laceration. 
Cars relocated in lot 
Two vehicles were relocated to a different area of the parking lot due to work being done in the lot on Tuesday. 
Students reports bikes stolen 
A locked bike was taken from a bike rack on the north side of Mendoza College of Business on Wednesday. Also, there was a report of an unlocked bike being taken from a bike rack on the east side of Morrissey Hall on Tuesday and a locked bike was taken from a bike rack on the north side of Flanner Hall. 
Wallet lost 
There was a report ofsomeone los­ing her wallet at an unknown cam­pus location on Tuesday. 
South Dining Hall 
SCENE SPORTS 
Getting Reviews 
Movie deeper 
Irish linebacker reviews "Road to 
The scene 
Courtney Watson Perdition," "City 
missed Notre by the Sea" and 
Dame's first two "Undisputed." 
games but will return Saturday to face Michigan. 
~ 
page 10 
page 20 
Two car accident reported 
NDSP responded to a twQ-car acci­dent on Tuesday. There were no injuries reported. 
Car theft reported on campus 
NDSP is investigating a theft from a vehicle at the library faculty parking lot. 
Parking decal stolen 
The victim reported her University parking decal was taken from her unlocked vehicle Tuesday while parked in the South faculty lot. 
Speeding citation i~ued 
NDSP issued a state citation Tuesday for exceeding the posted speed limit on Juniper Road. 
Information compiled from the Notre Dame Security/Police blotter. 
Today Lunch: Neapolitan style spaghetti, italian sausage marinara, pepperoni pizza, vegetable pizza, sausage pizza, chicken jambalaya, beef and noodle casse­role, rotisserie chicken, fried cheese ravioli, vegetable lomein, chicken taco, sauteed mushrooms, turkey tetrazzini, lima beans, whipped potatoes, calzones, spinach, peas, beef tips, mushrooms, mushroom marinara, spinach cheese tortellini, and baked potato Neptune. 
Today Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, shells, mostaccioli, tri-color rotini, linguine, pastaria meat sauce, elbow macaroni, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza. vegetable pizza, sausage pizza, pretzel sticks, roasted russet herb garlic potatoes, hamburger, grilled hotdog, chicken patty, natures burger, Chinese noodles, vegetable eggrolls. Spanish rice whipped potatoes. cut corn, brown sauce, plain rice, baked potato, egg­plant parmesan, swiss steak, grilled salmon filet, pork tempura, herbcd vegetable 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 

78 60 

78 
61 

71 52 

70 54 

---~~~ -----~p;~e ~~ l 
I 
Thursday, September 12, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
=================================~=========================================================================­
Bats take up residence in the hallways of Saint Mary's 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
LeMans and Holy Cross halls at Saint Mary's are fabled among students to have other­worldly inhabitants, both buildings do have non-human entities floating in the night ­
hs,t., 
LeMans Hall Director Melissa Peters estimates that there have been about 12 bats seen in LeMans since the beginning of the school year. 
Kim Holly, a Saint Mary's sophomore, is now anxious leaving her room open after her experience with a bat. 
"I was walking back from the bathroom with mv room-
Orthodox Christian Fellowship Club 


All are invited to the first meeting of the year on Thursday, September 12 at 9:00pm in 108 DeBartolo. 
or more information please email us at jlohkamp@nd.ed 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Arc you curious about the most popular choice for ''Off-Campus Living,'? 
Come to our Open House I Meet us at Apt #6 
Date: Thurs~ Sept 19, 2002 Time: 2:00 to 4:00 PM 
Walk through our 5 BR towrJlome., .. Pick-up a Rental Application... . We'll answer your questions.... . 
Apta available NOW I Apts available 2003-04 I 
(Abo learn about our duplexe!, S BR home~ and other apts) 
574-234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 
''Best Value Per StudentH Professionally Managed by R.eal Estate Management Corp. 
mate and a bat literally flew right between us. We have to close our transom in fear of bats," Holly said. 
Although this is the first time some students have heard of bats taking up resi­dence in their halls, this is not the first time the animals have been seen on campus, accord­ing to Dan Woods, the 
College's interim security 
director. 

"Bats are common in 
Indiana,'' said Woods, "espe­
cially in buildings with attics. 
Spotting bats in our residence 
halls. especially Holy Cross and LeMans, is not new. The college does control the bat population well with regular inspections by animal control specialists." 

After a recent influx of inci­dents, animal control special­ists conducted an inspection on September 6. though they regularly assess the residence halls, according to Woods. 
"Following the inspection, they will make a recommenda­tion on the best way to man­age the situation," Woods said. 
Because the bats are consid­ered endangered, he said, they are caught and released out­side. 
Woods sent out a campus­wide e-mail the day of the inspection to brief students on the situation and to quell any fears they might have. The e­mail attempted to dismiss common misconceptions about bats, saying they are non­aggressive animals and only one-half of 1 percent of bats have rabies. 
Bats are not directly danger­ous to humans, but can be if provoked, said Thomas Platt, professor and chair of the Biology Department at Saint Mary's. 
Bats have no interest in humans, and any contact with humans is totally accidental, Platt said. Because the ani­mals can carry rabies, people should never attempt to pick up bats that are injured or on the ground, because they will protect themselves by biting if they feel threatened, he said. 
If a student spots a bat in the hall, she should contact security officials to have it removed. If the bat is inside a resident's room, the student should give the bat access to an exit, Platt advised. 
Chasing a bat will increase its stress level and may result in the bat making a decision which could result in acciden­tal contact with people in the immediate vicinity. 
"The best thing that you can do is to open a window and give the animal a path of escape," Platt said. "Open a window and leave the room, closing the door behind you. The bat will find its way out." 
Contact Emily Ford at 
ford6504@saintmarys.edu 
Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion 
(574) 674-0022 Fax(574)674-0033 
·basketsofe!egance@ao1.com 

A JAPANC~£ R(\TAU~AhT Carry Our and Dint': In 
Cleveland 
402 US 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-2535 
S1.50 off for Students 

. I' 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 12, 2002 
GSU 
continued from page 1 
After an increased crackdown on student tailgating last football season. officers expressed concern that duLac, which serves both undergraduate and gradu­ate students, inadequately represented graduate stu­dent needs and policies. A committee of graduate students and representatives from the Office of Student Affairs and graduate school officials, was formed last year to draft a separate, graduate duLac handbook. The first draft is undergoing publication and should be available in October. 
Dale, however, anticipates that the edition will need to undergo ongoing revisions. 
In addition to continuing the agenda established by Burgos last year, Dale has outlined some goals of his own. 
Most importantly, Dale said, he wants to increase the efficiency of the GSU. At the organization's first committee meeting on Tuesday, Dale introduced his first mandate of limiting each meeting to one hour. He also ran with two vice presidents in order to split the 12 committees between them and divide the workload. 
"We really wanted to be sure that graduate stu­dents could get their [academic] work done," Dale said. 
The president's pet project involves a plan to offer increased academic and social options to students. As a third-year Ph.D candidate in political science, Dale has been involved with an organization through the department that allows political science students to get to know each other academically and socially. 
Board 

continued from page 1 
personal gmdance on adaptmg to the business world after col­lege. 
Another seminar, "Sophomore Swap," is today at 9 p.m. in Regina North Lounge. It is designed to reach out to sophomores as they face a key year of change. 
"'Sophomore Swap' is an opportunity for alumnae to share with students how sophomore year was a transi­tional process in their lives and explain why they decided to stay at Saint Mary's," said Henry. 
Additionally, sophomores can participate in an e-mail pen pal program and job shadow­ing with alumnae. 
Today and Friday's sched­uled board events include 
meeting with College President Marilou Eldred and Shari Rodriguez, vice president of College relations. Also planned are discussion sessions within the board and an opportunity for board members to remi­nisce by attending classes on campus. 
The Alumnae Board of Directors welcomes self-nomi­
nations from Saint Mary's graduates interested in future membership. Most members start by becoming active with their local alumnae club, stu­dent recruitment or and other general development pro­grams. The board chooses a wide variety of women whose year of graduation and resi­dence closely mirrors the, College's overall alumnae pop­ulation. 

Dale hopes to establish similar clubs in every grad­uate department and have them funded by the departments, the University and GSU, he said. 
"One of the initiatives I want to work on is funding and establishing graduate-student organizations in as many departments as possible," he said. "I think that the [political science club] can be a model for establishing similar organizations in other depart­ments." 
Overall, Dale is optimistic about the coming year and what GSU can accomplish during that time. 
"It's going to be a good year," h-e"said. "I think graduate students have a lot to be appreciative of for what GSU has accomplished, but a lot of [these accomplishments] haven't been completed. The important thing is that these discussions not be closed." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

Meeting friends? They've got to be here somewhere. 
)  DIGITAL WALKIE-TALKIE  
)  SPEAKERPHONE  
WefcontcTo  )  WIRELESS WEB ACCESS  
NEXfS.  )  AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER'" service  
)  TWO-WA\' MESSAGING  
)  JAVA'" Gil.MES S APPLICATIONS  
)  DIGITAL CELLULAR  

NEXTEL: 
?S-,000 .P"'-"-S? N,a pv-a\,leLM.. N,e,ct-el fves ya1>. so ""'"'-"-Y w"'-YS t-o .Pil\J-wl,-.o ov-wl,-.""t­yo1>.1v-e loo~il\~ .Pav-, t--\ee+-yo1>.v-t'v-iel\J-s "'+-t-\.\e N,e)C+el kias~ \,e.Pav-e t-\.\e t',:,,.w.e a\\ <;tJ\t-1>.v-J-tJ\y +-a ~et l,-.aa~eJ-l>.f wit-!,-. t-1,,,.e 1-1.ewes+-pl,-.01-1.es, coolest-.PetJ\t-1>.v-es ""1.1.J-sweet-es+-v-tJ\t-e plt:'\1.1.S. N,aw ya1>.'v-e v-e""J.y-Bv-i".~ lt-. 
N_i,w's "" ,ve"'t-hw,e t-o ~el-N.e,.+el: .,..u 1-{ohe l).,.,..._e s+-v..Ael\rs ~el-"" \0%* t:AtSCCI..\\\;-<>I\ .,.,11.y v...t-e 
fl"""' "'"".A $\oo• ¢,P,P "'""'Y fha\\e. 
.,.-., b~y: 
* ~a +-a l\e,ct-eLco1M/ivisl,,,.-sH."J.el\t-. 
• c""ll t-oll-.f'v-ee l-8'77-S-0,-2."12,. 
• -1-o .f'il\J. "" Ne)d-el-Ow\\.eJ-Ret"'il 'S-1-oYe l\et1-.Y yoti., c""'ll !-f00-8'2S-S2.'3S-. 

Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Write for 
News. 
Call 1-5323. 

00 
'Offer is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002. While supplies last. Requires new activation, one year Service Agreement and credit approval. $200 early termination fee applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. In-store purchases require at least 2 forms of valid identification. Account set-up fee of $35 per phone; maximum $70 per account. Fees may vary by market. $100 instant savings is olf the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point of sale. 10% off monthly rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this otfe r. Otlier restncMns may apply. Rate plans are subject to taxes, fees and other charges. Current prices are sub1ect to change. Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 Nextel Commumcations, Inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Ne)(!el logo are 
registered trademarks of Nextel Communic.itiOns, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized Mlogo are registered in the US. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and all other 


Java-based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. AOL. AIM. Buddy List and the triangle design are registered trademarks of America Online, Inc. Instant Messenger is atrademark of America Online, Inc. 
I/;  '•I,' I•.  
WORLD & NATION  
Thursday, September 12, 2002  COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES  page 5  

Bush memorializes 'Year of Sorrow' at ceremonies 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

At Ground Zero, the names took precedence, 2,801 of them read aloud, from Gordon Aamoth Jr. to Igor Zukelman. Patriotic resolve held sway at the Pentagon. And in a field near Shanksville, Pa., grief was partially offset by pride. 
At each of the three sites, and in comIJlUt\\ities across the nation and world Wednesday, Americans and their allies relived the stag­gering events of one year ago and remembered those who died. 
"They were our neighbors, our husbands, our children, our sisters, our brothers and our wives. They were our countrymen and our friends. They were us," New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg told grieving families at the site of the World Trade Center. 
New York's roll call of the dead and missing began after a moment of silence at 8:46 
a.m. EDT, the time when the first terrorist-piloted plane struck the trade center. It took 2 1/2 hours 50 minutes longer than planned for 197 readers to complete the list of names. 
While wistful cello music accompanied the ground zero ceremony, a booming rendi­tion of the national anthem set the tone for commemora­tions at the Pentagon, where 184 people died when American Flight 77 smashed into the building. 
"Though they died in tragedy, they did not die in vain," declared President Bush, a fist clenched for emphasis. "As long as terror­ists and dictators plot against our lives and our liberty, they wiil be opposed by the United States Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force and Marines!" 
After the Pentagon ceremo­ny, Bush flew to southwest Pennsylvania to join com­memorations for the 40 peo­ple killed when United Flight 93 crashed in a field near Shanksville. The passengers and crew were hailed by Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge as heroic "citizen­soldiers" for struggling to take back their hijacked plane and avert a possible attack on the Capitol or White House. 
"If we learn nothing else from this tragedy, we learn that life is short and there is no time for hate," said Sandy Dahl, the wife of Flight 9 3 pilot Jason Dahl. 
Bush laid a wreath in Shanksville, then another at ground zero after an after­no on flight to New York. Carrying the badge of a fallen Port Authority police officer, the president and First Lady Laura Bush lingered at the 

AFP photo President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush stand with a Marine honor guard in front of family members of victims of Flight 93 before placing a wreath at the Pennsylvania site where 
the plane crashed one year ago. 
site, greeting and comforting ones, it has been a year of relatives of Sept. 11 victims. sorrow, of empty places, of 
Their losses were at the newborn children who will core of the speech to the never know their fathers here nation Bush was to give later on earth," Bush said in his Wednesday from Ellis Island, prepared remarks. with the Statue of Liberty as a Far from the sites where the backdrop. hijacked planes crashed, 
"For those who lost loved Americans and well-wishers 
from other nations found myr­iad ways to observe the anniversary. In addition to repeated moments of silence, church bells tolled, sirens sounded, musicians per­formed, and religious leaders groped to find words suitable to the occasion. 

PAKISTAN 
Pakistani police raid alleged al-Qaida apartment 
Associated Press 
KARACHI 

Police commandos fought a pitched battle with al-Qaida suspects holed up in an apart­ment Wednesday, with combat spilling out onto adjoining rooftops. Two suspects were killed and five captured in the fighting, as Pakistan stepped up pressure on the rem­nants of the terrorist movement a year after it made its mark on the world. 
Six officers, including two intelligence agents, were wounded when police stormed the top-floor apartment and the rooftop where the gunmen held out against hun­dreds of troops in the street and on the roofs of nearby apartment blocks. Two of the wounded were reported in critical con­dition. 
Police said one of the dead militants and one of those arrested were Arabs, but their nationalities were not known. The rest were Afghans, he said. 
The federal Interior Ministry in Islamabad confirmed all the gunmen were foreigners but released no further information. A neighbor said the men moved into the apartment in the upscale neighborhood about three months ago. 
Police seized a laptop computer and "lit­erature," plus an arsenal of assault rifles, submachine guns, pistols and hand grenades, said an intelligence agent on the scene. He spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Police retracted an initial report that a 4­year-old girl was killed in cross fire. 
Karachi, a warren-like city of 12 million, has become a refuge for al-Qaida and Taliban fighters who fled Afghanistan when U.S.-led coalition forces chased them into the mountains bordering Pakistan after the collapse of the Taliban regime. In a sepa­rate raid in Karachi on Wednesday, Pakistani security forces arrested five Islamic militants suspected of planning ter­rorist attacks on American fast-food restau­rants in the city. All five men were members of a splinter group of Harkat-ul­Mujahedeen, or Movement of Holy Warriors, who had received weapons train­ing in Afghanistan, police said. 
Also Wednesday, U.S. forces said they captured a man who is believed to be a top financier for al-Qaida network or the Taliban. The troops in southeastern Afghanistan detained at least eight other people and seized more than 150 Kalashnikov assault rifles and 200 explosive booby traps. The men detained were not identified by name. 
Pakistani authorities said this week they have captured 402 al-Qaida activists since the start of the war on terrorism. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arafat's cabinet forced into resignation: 
Palestinian legislators forced the resignation of Yasser Arafat's 21-member Cabinet Wednesday, delivering the biggest political blow to the Palestinian leader since he returned from exile eight years ago. Lawmakers clapped and shared jubilant smiles as the resignations were announced moments before parliament appeared set to vote no-confidence in Arafat's ministers. He now has two weeks to present a new Cabinet to parliament. 
Islamic militants kill Indian politician: 
Days before crucial state elections. suspected Islamic militants assassinated a heavily guarded politician and killed 15 other people Wednesday in Kashmir. in a clear attempt to frighten candidates and voters away from the polls. State Law Minister Mushtaq Ahmad Lone, 44, who was a candidate in the legislative elec­tions that begin Monday, was killed as he addressed a campaign rally in a high school courtyard in the village of Lalpora, some 70 miles north of Srinagar. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Reno may challenge Florida results: Florida's first major election since the 2000 debacle was marred by mechanical and human glitches that frustrated voters and prompted Janet Reno to con­sider challenging results that showed her trailing in the race for governor. Political novice Bill McBride jumped out to an early lead over Reno in Tuesday's Democratic primary when initial results were count­ed, but Reno remained in striking distance as votes were still being counted in South Florida counties where she held a better than 2-to-1 margin. 
United States will soon rejoin UNESCO: 
The United States will rejoin the UNESCO, 18 years after it left the body to protest its alleged misman­agement and overly political policies, a diplomat at the United Nations said Wednesday. President Bush is expected to make the announcement in his speech to the U.N. General Assembly Thursday, said the diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Colorado mudslides trap hundreds: 
Heavy rains sent full-grown trees. massive boulders and rivers of mud rushing across charred hillsides in southwestern Colorado on Wednesday, isolating hundreds of residents in their homes for the second time in less than a week. No one was in immediate danger but roads near Durango were blocked by debris 10 feet high and boulders weighing several tons apiece, said La Plata County sheriffs Lt. Dan Bender. One to 3 inches of rain had fallen in the area since Tuesday afternoon. 
Retest of executed man's DNA sought: 
Four newspapers and a charity that investigates claims of wrongful convictions asked the Virginia Supreme Court on Wednesday to order new DNA testing in the case of a man executed a decade ago for rape and mur­der. Lawyers urged the justices to overturn a lower court's order last year that a private lab return the remaining biological evidence to the state. 

~--,--------~--------------·-· ----·-----. 
, 1 \ • • • , \ \ l • \ • • • l \ \ t j i • • 
page G The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 12, 2002 
Saint Mary's students go abroad to serve and learn 

By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
For Saint Mary's stud ents Emily Blaha, Molly Lee and Rebecca Stumpf, this past summer was much more than a mediocre job and family barbecues. These women were three of several Saint Mary's students who, with the sponsorship of the Center for Women in Intercultural Leadership ( CWlL). participated in international service projects during the summer months. 

Stumpf, a senior psychology major. first heard about the available money resources for interested students through a friend. With a life-long interest in India and "/ was surrounded by its culture as her 
amazing people who I 
motivation. Stumpf 

would expect to be 
wrote up a detailed 
proposal about her leaders one day." 
goals, as well as 
completed a CWIL 
Emily Blaha 
application. A few 

summer service project worker
months later, she was in Rajgarh, India, teaching 
English to Hindi-speaking elementary 

school children. 
Breaking the language barrier was tough, Stumpf admitted. "In the beginning. I basically started with the ABCs. There were no textbooks so I had to bring my own supplies," she said. 
Although she was only a few hun­dred miles south of the Pakistani bor­der, a region which nearly broke into war, Stumpf never felt endangered. 
"We were very isolated." said Stumpf, "and there were no English language newspapers to read. We learned mostly about what was going on from the calls from home." 
As a pre-med major working in Arusha, Tanzania, Lee also felt isolat­ed. She did not miss the hustle of the western world however. 
"Everything was very slowed paced; I had to learn to be patient, and more Contact Megan O'Neil nexible." Lee worked at a hospital in at onei0907@saint­Arusha. and spent much of her time marys.edu in the maternity ward where women 
In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mission. The mission was to provide a personal, caring, educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year institution of their choice. 
Holy Cross College now has _over 500 studcn~. a residence life program and an ever-increasing 5elect1on of course otterings. amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow. we will never lose sight of our fundamental miss.ion. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana univer..ity and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
our mission is what has made us successful. So while mc1ny things change. our mission is one thing that will not. 
Collect Calls 
Save The Max 

1800MAXSAVE.COM 
1-800-MAX-SAVE 
(1-800-629-7283) 
*Plus set-up. lnterstate/8p.m.-7a.m. 
DIAL 10-10·226 THEN 1 + AREA CODE ANO NUMBER 
50%MORE TALK TIME 
WWW.10-10-226.COM 
' ' 


Thursday, September 12, 2002 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch September 11 

DowJones  
8581.17  ,,  -21.44  
NASDAQ  
1315.45  -4.64  

.....S&P500 
909.45 -0.13 
AMEX 
879.12 +2.15 
NYSE 
492.33 +0.54
t-
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) -0.85 -0.20 23 .45 

CISCO SYSTEMS(CSCO) +1.04 +0.1413.57 
111~1:;:!llllf!!tll1:i!:;:;l:Jj::;;:::::l!:;ll!lllillllii::l!l!lll!li:II 
MICROSOFT CORP(MSFT) -2.43 -1.2148.58 
IN BRIEF 
World's steel makers end subsidaries 
Representatives of the world's biggest steel makers and steel-producing countries agreed Wednesday to speed up efforts to scrap gov­ernment subsidies to reduce the sector's over­capacity, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said. 
However, representatives disagreed on whether the move should be part of overall efforts to-liberalize international trade. Industry officials argued that it should be a stand-alone initiative, outside of free-trade talks at the World Trade Organization. "There appears to be consensus that [the steel] industry would, like most subsidies and relat­ed government support, to be banned" in most cases, said Hans Colliander, chairman of the OECD steel committee. 
In a statement, Colliander said the International Iron and Steel Institute argued that concrete steps for the scrapping of the subsidies should be agreed on ahead of a December meeting of the steel committee of the OECD. 
Trustees contest Hershey sale block 
A lawyer for the controlling trust of Hershey Foods Corp. told a court Wednesday that Pennsylvania's attorney general is exceeding his authority in seeking to block a sale of the candymaker. 
Jack Stover, a lawyer for the Hershey Trust Co., said Attorney General Mike Fisher's attempt to exercise authority over a charita­ble trust is unprecedented and intrudes on trustees' lawful powers. 
Deputy Attorney General Gerald Pappert said his office was within its rights and duties to seek the injunction. 
"There is absolutely no support, and in fact the evidence contradicts, that there is a need to sell this company," Pappert said. 
The five-judge Commonwealth Court panel did not say when it would rule on whether a lower court's injunction blocking any sale should be lifted. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
Wall Street pauses for Sept. 11 
+Stock exchangeobserves moment of silence 
Associated Press 
NEWYORK 

German shepherds patrolled outside, concrete and metal barricades formed a fortress around Wall Street, and the crack­ling of police radios was one of the few interruptions to an otherwise eery hush. 
But trader Mark Feeley pushed past it all and took up his place on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange again Wednesday, savoring the familiarity of a place that has been his solace throughout the last year. 
'The best thing is getting back here and going back to being with everybody on this trading floor," said Feeley, a Morgan Stanley trader who's worked on the exchange for 26 years. "Because, l will tell you, this is my second family down here." 
Feeley and all the other people who make Wall Street work paused to mark the moment Wednesday when the World Trader Center fell, to recount the stories of the friends they lost, to give thanks for those who made it. Then, they got back to business. see the tears." who left her job at a firm just The fact that investors 
But even as the nation's Those feelings were down the street from the continue to worry about ter­financial heart again demon­echoed in the notes scribbled exchange within weeks of rorism is just one more strated its resiliency, traders by mourners in church's the attacks because she reminder to Wall Street and brokers known for registry book. "Peace to all couldn't bear to spend every about what took place just being brash and loud turned Men," one wrote. "'Thank day in Lower Manhattan. blocks away, traders said. quiet. The day reminds You God For All Our On Wednesday, though, "Getting through every day them, they said, that this Blessings," wrote another. she passed through the dis­helps psychologically," said place and its people have The music from the ser­trict, and noted that even a Ted Weisberg of Seaport changed. vice a Schubert string quin­year hasn't been enough to Securities, staking out space 
"This is in the back of my tet mixed with the roar of change the way she feels. in a sea of traders on the head every day and it never commuter buses pouring "Still today, it's like 'Why?" NYSE floor. "Trading stock goes away," said Richie into downtown, as workers Moxey said. "No one can every day is very emotional. Weppler, a trader on the arrived for a delayed open­ever answer that question." You have to deal with emo­American Stock Exchange, ing of stock trading. On the That sense of foreboding tions and you have to learn his voice breaking and eyes streets in the financial dis­also continues to weigh on to keep those emotions out­growing glassy as he left a trict, many people were investors, traders said. side when you walk into the memorial service in the silent, some bowing their Stocks retreated building." financial district's Trinity heads. People who know the Wednesday on extremely Others who work on Wall Church. area say the pulse of the light volume, a reminder of a Street, though, said 
"This helps," said financial district has been year in which the markets Wednesday's ceremony at Weppler, who lost five altered by what happened. have been dragged down by Ground Zero, the two min­friends last September, co­"When I first came back reaction to the attacks, then utes of silence observed on workers who had been here, they were still pulling to a flurry of corporate scan­the floor of the NYSE and attending a breakfast meet­out bodies and the sounds dals and because of linger­the completion of a year, ing at a restaurant atop one and smells were devastat­ing doubts about an eco­were an important step in of the towers. "But you can ing," said Andrea Moxey, nomic rebound. moving on. 

AEP wants to idle 16 power plants 
Associated Press whether the plants are needed for the power producers and resellers, includ­
long term. But they said Texas has an ing AEP, that administers the power 

DALLAS ample supply of extra power. grid covering about 85 percent of 
American Electric Power said it The 16 plants can produce 3,866 Texas. wants to idle 16 older, gas-fired gener­megawatts, enough energy to run Noel said AEP's move shows that ating plants in Texas because it can more than 3 million homes. That rep­electric deregulation, which began in buy power more cheaply on the open resents about 5 percent of the state's Texas on Jan. 1, is working by attract­market. generating capacity, according to the ing new power capacity to drive out 
The state's power grid operator has state's power grid operator, the older, more costly sources of power. agreed to determine by the end of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or AEP said electric prices would not be month whether any of the plants are Ercot. affected by the idlings. still needed to provide electricity to "We have a very substantial capacity In recent years, power companies Texas homes and businesses. margin right now," said Ercot director built new gas-fired plants in Texas, Unneeded plants will be mothballed by Tom Noel. "If you took these plants which deregulated electric service Jan. the end of the year, AEP said. out, you drop from a 30 percent mar­1. The new plants generate more elec­
Regulators said they would probably gin to something else. I'm not really tricity with the same amount of natural ask AEP to operate some of the plants concerned about it." gas as the older plants like AEP's, for three months while they study Ercot is a corporation made up of which date to the 1960s and earlier. 
-' 

----•-~------•w----~~-----,--··------··----""I 
O
THE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, September 12, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 4655G 
02.4 South Dining Hall, Nmre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDtTOlb Hc:lena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITO!c Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOlb C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR! Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lutz AD OF.SIGN MANAGERI Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Tea Bangert Wrn ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us OFFICE M.\NAGERIGENERAl INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.................. .........................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEl'........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWs.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS...................................••.............•.....631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE••....•••.....•.•.....••....••••.....•••..•.••••.••••••..631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MAF.¥'s............................................. 631-4324 observer .smc. I@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTIMSIWEB ADMINISTRATORS... ..............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obmver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as canoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ed.icorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and c;olumns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que,tions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The OMC'rvcr (USPS 599 2--4000) 15 published Moncby through Friday accpr during ,:um .a,id vacacion periods. A 1ubscription m The ObscJYU USUK> for one academic yc-;w, SS5 for one scmcucr 
The Ob.e-rvcr iJ publi1hcd ~!: i'OSTM/SrER 021 So11th Oming Hall Send addn::u C.Ol'fl,'f;cion1 co: N(lm Da.m!!, IN 46156--0779 Thl"ObU"rv!!t 
ruioJK~ po1ugc p..id at Nacre U.mr P.O. Bo,Q 
md addi1.ional mailing offic:w:.s. 024 South Dining Hill 
Noin: Dame, IN 46556--0779 
The Olncncr i. a member ufdic A.sociat.eJ rrcu. All r.:produ~tion right~ are """'d. 


From the dining halls to the dorm rooms, an oft-repeated maxim has sprung from the lips of every Notre Dame male at least once in his career here. The whispered phrase finally made a public appearance a few Joe Muto days ago, in the form of an annoy­
ingly ingratiating Muto "'z·me 
letter to the editor. '' Notre Dame girls are ugly. 
There, I said it. But is it true? That's a brutal question. And unless I want to find myself stapled to the wall outside the Gender Studies office as a warning to others, this will be a delicate answer. 
Now I could take the sensitive route here and proclaim my devotion to find­ing inner beauty, intelligence, personal­ity and what not, but I'm a realist. Not that those things aren't good in their own right, but it's hard to brag to your buddies in the locker room about your girlfriend's dedication to working with the homeless. 
The fact is that ever since Michaelangelo painted exquisite male genitalia on the Sistine Chapel ceiling with a thought-provoking amount of care, the human race has been unapologetically obsessed with physical beauty. We just like to look at pretty things. And. for the tastes of many guys here, there are not enough pretty things matriculating at this school. 
Let me stop here real quick. An arti­cle about attractiveness might appear odd coming from me, because after 20 years I have accepted as fate that I am no Backstreet Boy. In fact, I'm barely even the balding guy from 98 Degrees. But that is not the issue. 
The issue here is the mysterious force that makes one student body more attractive than others. The generally accepted theory is that as the intelli­gence of a student body goes up, the attractiveness level goes down. Could intelligence :..e inversely related to beauty? The very idea is ridiculous and a little insulting; but on the other hand, you don't see Nobel Laureates tacked onto dorm room walls. I personally saved that honor for television person­ality Brooke Burke, whom many observers are convinced is a recovering stroke victim. 
To better understand what an unat­tractive university is, it helps to witness an attractive one. Miami University, conveniently situated 45 minutes from my home, has been consistently pro­claimed as the university with the most attractive coeds. 
Visiting there, I was forced to admit that there was a lot of eye candy. Strolling around in their bleached­blonde, capped-tooth, Capri-panted glory were girls who appeared to have stepped out of the Abercrombie catalog just long enough to do two hours on the elliptical machine and eat a plate of plain lettuce. 
So if Miami women are supposedly less academically focused and more attuned to their physical appearance, can the opposite be said of Notre Dame women? This could be somewhat plau­sible. That's not to say that Notre Dame women aren't still concerned with their personal appearance. One only need to look as far as Rolfs in the late after­noon, where knife fights have been known to break out over treadmill time, to realize that not everyone here is going to sit back and let Father Time and Mother Saturated Fat rule their lives. 
As far as a normal class-time appear­ance goes, Miami has us beat hands down. But that presents a problem. At Miami, the party clothes arc worn, the hair is done, makeup is perfected, all for morning classes. When it comes time to actually go out at night, there are no more surprises left in store for the fellas. With Darners, it's much more fun to discover that under those ubiqui­tous pajama pants and that baggy sweatshirt, there's a ferocious cleav­age-monster dying to be set free. 
In conclusion, I'm going to have to give the answer that won't guarantee my imminent castration. Are Notre Dame girls ugly? Not at all. I see great looking girls every day, many of whom can make direct eye contact with me without shuddering. 
Do we have as much skin showing as your average Florida or California state school? Not even close. We're smaller, we're more conservative and the only reason you'd wear skimpy clothes in South Bend weather is if you were plan­ning to etch glass with your nipples later. 
And I'm not going to go as far as say­ing that brain power arouses me, but I must admit that it's a plus when you don't have to constantly wipe drool from your date's lip while you're talking to her. 
So, men of Notre Dame, I don't want to hear any more complaints. I see plenty ofhotties every day-not the fake kind that try to ensnare you with their "good personalities," but real, honest-to-God babes. Just look for them. 
And if you can't find them, you can always console yourself with the knowl­edge that women at Harvard must be heinous. 
Joe Muto is a junior FIT and English major who on Tuesday met and was pleasantly surprised to find himself lik­ing his arch-nemesis. He can be reached a jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Justin Krivickas Sheila Flynn Sarah Nestor Viewpoint Kristin Yemm Graphics Chris Naidus 
Sports Joe Hettler Rachel Protzman Scene C. Spencer Beggs Lab Tech Christina Reitano 
Illustrator Veronica Kelleher 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The two sexes do not understand each 

Should student in air-conditioned dorms pay 
other. But in practical life, the woman is 

more for room and board? 
judged by man's law, as ifshe were a man, not a woman. " Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
Henrik Ibsen Norwegian playwright 
I ' 



O
THE 

BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 12, 2002 page 9 
But if it did, what would it impression of real life is that I will be accomplish? If Notre Dame asked to do these things when I get there, actually managed to keep its too. student from ever imbibing Notre Dame has an amazing dorm life, 
hard liquor while attend­and I'm not putting that down. I liked liv­ing our University, ing on campus. But it's not fair to chastise wouldn't this just lead to students for moving off campus if they are a lot of 22-year-olds mak­ready. Off campus, we are able to break ing fools out of them­out of the Notre Dame bubble and experi­selves by getting drunk ence both relief from the hectic nature of 

and throwing up because the golden place and also learn, while we they a.re inexperienced are still in school and our parents are still with hard liquor? Putting off morally required to clean up our messes, the problem until we are no how to be responsible. longer Notre Dame's responsi­College education is supposed to be bility doesn't seem to me like the about learning to live in the real world. best way of managing the issue. Notre Dame does its students a disservice Also, off campus, we are allowed to by discouraging them from going out to 
have guys at our house at all hours of the confront the real world where it lives ­
day and night. We did briefly discuss outside the bubble. 
turning our bedrooms into parietal zones 
and the living room into 24-hour space, Marlayna Soenneker is a senior psy­
but this was soundly defeated by a 3-0 chology major. Her column appears every 
vote. I may be wrong, but I'm pretty sure other Thursday. She can be reached at 
real life will involve guys, even after mid­msoennek@nd.edu. 
night on weekdays and 2 a.m. on week­The views expressed in this column are 
ends. those ofthe author and not necessarily Real life also involves things like bills those ofThe Observer. 
Academics rightly valued 
I read an article in the last issue of Notre Dame Magazine about Notre Dame's strive for excellence not only in academics, but in athletics as well, and the article got me thinking. Obviously, there is a big push for Notre Dame to once again estab­lish its football program as one of the best, if not the best in the country. But con­sidering Notre Dame's academics and the steps needed to establish Notre Dame football as an elite program, I think it's safe to say Notre Dame will never again win a national championship in football. But that's not necessarily a bad thing. 
In order for Notre Dame's football program to become the best, the program has to have the best players in the country. And that ½ill never happen simply from the fact that in order to play football at Notre Dame, one has to be an excellent stu­dent. The best players in college football spent most of their high school and col­lege careers concentrating on football rather than academics. As a result, these players attend schools like the University of Florida, the University of Miami, Nebraska, Ohio State, Florida State and other state schools where the admissions standards are far from stringent. And as long as they contribute to the success of their school's football program, their lack of performance in the classroom conve­niently goes unnoticed. 
A key to having a successful football program is having the ability to assemble a team of great players every season. But the one thing that can hinder this ability is graduation. Every year, college football teams lose some of their best players to graduation, but what separates the best programs from the rest is their knack for being able to find talented players to fill those gaps. And the reason why the schools I mentioned above can do just that is the fact that they have such a huge student body to draw from. With 30,000 to 50,000 students attending each of those schools, finding people to play football and play it well isn't hard. Where Notre Dame comes up short is the fact that Notre Dame's student population is around 10,000, including graduate students. 
Now obviously something clicked at Notre Dame in the 1988, 1992 and 1993 seasons, but it's been a while since Notre Dame has had players like Tim Brown and "The Bus." But, if Notre Dame never wins a championship again, it shouldn't be a big deal. I'm sure many die-hard fans would be disappointed season after sea­son and maybe the mystique of the Four Horseman, the Rock and the Gipper would fade away. But what the University has done right is rather than worrying about producing a national championship football team. the University worries about producing scholars. Maybe years ago, the football team's success brought the University recognition and attention to its fine academics. But today the University doesn't need the football team to bring it fame. Notre Dame has estab­lished itself as one of the nation's top universities, with many of its programs nationally recognized. 
Notre Dame's graduates have gone on to become CEOs of large corporations, inventors, TV personalities, the best in their fields, no matter what the topic. What the University does and should realize is that a top-quality education and academic performance come first, and if the football team happens to win a championship along the way, then great. The University echoed this sentiment by preventing Julius Jones from participating on this year's football team. I'm sure the coaches, fans and players were disappointed to lose such a talented back, but it's great to see that the University ingrains in its football players' brains the fact that they're Notre Dame scholars who happen to play football. 
Brian Tomcik class of '99 Scpr. 11 

'Real life' prevails outside the bubble 
One of my roommates has been enraged recently by the "nasty" articles that have appeared in these hallowed pages about the evils of moving off cam­pus -namely, I.hat it erodes community, leads to police cor­ruption and causes Marlayna droughts in small Soenneker African countries. She asked me to 
Her·e We Go

write my column 
A.gain

today about wh~ moving off cart11ffl!l" is not actually about being a bad Domer, a poor Christian or a horrible human being. 
First of all. the space we enjoy off cam­pus is delightful. Particularly for me, hav­ing spent last semester in Ireland with a room of my own, on-campus living ½ith a roommate was simply out of the question. 
My roommate and I managed to live together for a year and a half without ever seeing any indecent parts of the other person, and neither of us was inclined to push our luck. Plus, after a while, referring jokingly to the lofts as "the bedrooms," the couch as "the living room" and the sink as "the kitchen/bath­room" stops being kind of cute and just becomes sad. 
Now we have a lovely three-bedroom townhouse in University Park. We actual­ly have real bedrooms, and each ofus gets one of our own. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sex policy change needed 
We have two bathrooms, and we don't do anything related to food in either one. In fact, we have an actual kitchen, where we mostly keep our food. Also, here we arc allowed to own our own microwave, rather than trekking down three hun­dred yards of hallway to get to the nearest dorm-owned microwave. And here, our kitchen privileges can't be taken away ifwe don't clean it satisfactorily. 
Secondly, there is a great deal of peace to be found in actually leaving Notre Dame at the end of the day. I arrive at 11 a.m., I go to classes, I do things, I sec people and at the end. I go home. School is no longer my entire life. True, my life revolves around Notre Dame, but I am no longer constant­ly surrounded by adorable, skinny girls who make me feel fat, unattractive and possibly leprous. I don't have to see all the over-achievers of Notre Dame doing their over-achieving. 1can leave the stress of Notre Dame life at Notre Dame. 
Third, I actually get to practice what "real life" is like. We talk about "real life" at Notre Dame quite a lot, and Notre Dame seems to be very concerned that we all have an understanding of what "real life" means to many people, namely the poor and downtrodden. However, Notre 
lgnore for a moment the very controver­sial issue of Notre Dame's "no sex" policy. Instead, focus on the single issue of birth control. I will attempt to establish a clear distinction between these two topics with the intent to isolate the issue of birth con­trol. 
Yes, we all scoff at the duLac clause "a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a commitment in marriage." At least, I do. Sex is a wonder­ful and spiritual gift that can and should be shared. Perhaps this expression oflove is most intimate under the bond of mar­riage, but that does not negate the fact that sex does cultivate feelings of intimacy in any relationship. If for no other reason, people are having sex at Notre Dame because it feels great. Amongst a student body of more than 8,000 people, it is almost certain that someone is having sex on campus everyday. 
The easy answer to any problem is to first pretend that there is no "problem. This is the solution that Notre Dame has adopt­ed concerning birth control. Students do have sex on campus and, yes, some girls do become pregnant. Because of the anti• sex atmosphere of Notre Dame, expectant mothers are made to feel shame instead of wonder and joy at the miracle of life. Do not misunderstand me; I am not directly saying Notre Dame should reconsider its no-sex policy. Instead, I am pointing out that regardless of the explicitness of duLac, sex happens and so does pregnan­cy. 
Notre Dame has recognized, after a fashion, that student pregnancy occurs by providing a confidential assistance pro­gram through the Office ofStudent Affairs. The confidentiality of this program implies that girls in this program are afraid to dis­cuss their pregnancy. Instead of hiding the sex issue in the closet, let's bring it out in the open. Because there is no open forum for sex talk between students and the administration, the issue is simply forced to remain in limbo, always present but never addressed. 
Having a child while also being a full­time student is impractical. In fact, many would argue, and I believe correctly, that it is not possible to be both a good parent and a good student. Consequently, preg­nant students are faced with a choice. Give up the glory of the Dome or give up the baby. Personally, I love kids and the emotional consequences of an abortion would far outweigh my desire to stay at Notre Dame. Who would give up their progeny for a football game? 
Yes, sex happens at Notre Dame. Yes, girls can get pregnant. While conception is a miracle, as a student it is better to avoid the pregnancy and the consequences in the first place. The two choices, then, are either don't have sex or use birth control. We have already established that sex does happen, so the only other option is to use birth control. No one wants to get preg­nant or get a girl pregnant on campus but by avoiding the issue and not providing any form of birth control, there is a very real chance for pregnancy to occur. If pregnancy occurs., our livelihood as a stu­dent is destroyed:_ and no one wants to leave good old Notre Dame. 
What I propose is that Notre Dame pro­vide free forms of birth control to stu­dents. Many college campuses have free condoms available and even pass them out to promote safe sex. Better to urge safe sex than to ignore the issue completely. At the very least, don't adopt a hypocritical stance by professing no sex and simulta­neously providing "confidential" student pregnancy programs. 
Notre Dame administration, hear our cry, shake down the condoms from the sky. 
Ben LeRoy Notre Dame freshman St. Edward's Hall Sept. 10 

Dame doesn't seem to have much interest in helping us learn what "real life" is like for us. 
Llving on campus, we are unable to have hard liquor in our rooms. First of all, this isn't going to stop many people. 
and responsibility. I have a rent payment now, and if I don't pay it, I won't have anywhere to live. I am also responsible for things like cleaning my house, doing my own dishes, making sure there is food in my house and feeding myself. My 

O
THE BSERVER 

page 10 Thursday, September 12, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Perdition' weak in unseen elements 
It is twilight. A black MG, its license plate bearing the number 026-651. pulls over to a tiny all-night diner -an oasis of warm colors and smells against the cool greens that blanket the land­scape. The driver gets out of the car 
and we hear his Anne Hamilton 
uneven step as he scurries across the 
The Arbiter 

gravel drive. Inside, he sits across from 
ofTaste 

Michael Sullivan (Tom Hanks), the man he is sent to kill, as he reaches down and pulls out his r:amera, we see ten overgrown fingernails fiddle with the device. 
"ls that your hobby or your profes­sion?" Michael asks the stranger. The strange little man snickers and sniffs twice, rubbing his forefinger under his nose. 
"Both, I guess. To get paid to do what you love ... ain't that the dream?" he says smiling widely up at him across the two tables with small, yellow teeth. The conversation shifts as the clinking of plates and the jingling of entering cus­tomers fill the cloistered space. 
"Have you ever seen a dead body?" Michael asks eventually, as a bead of sweat runs down the back of his neck. 
"Oh, yes. I shoot them, take their pic­ture that is." 
As the follow-up to director Sam Mendes' debut Oscar-winning film. "American Beauty." the story line of "Road to Perdition" is not anything like its predecessor's. This time, Mendes chooses to look at the darker side of Chicago in the early 1930s. The story follows the life of Michael Sullivan • a tacit hit-man whose career is kept secret from his two sons, Michael Jr.• and Peter. His sons only know that their father works for mob boss, Mr. Rooney 
(Paul Newman). 
One rainy evening, unbeknownst to his father and curious to learn more about his work, Michael Jr. hides in the car his father and Rooney's son take on one of their missions. The boy witnesses a murder and becomes hunted in return. Rooney's son does not trust that the boy will be able to keep the secret his father promises and one night, a few evenings later, he mur­ders Mrs. Sullivan (Jennifer Jason Leigh) and Peter, mis­taking him for his brother. Michael Sr. promises revenge and the rest of the film is devoted to the cat and mouse chase between the mob and the father-son pair. 
Not since Stanley Kubrick has there been a director as conscientious as Sam Mendes. And not since Kubrick's "Eyes Wide Shut," his last film released post­mortum in 1999. the same year as Mendes's first, has there been a film in which the scope of every shot, the lighting, angling and cine­matography has been so well choreographed. Mendes' use of these ele­ments demonstrates emo­tional shades and the char­acters' changing mood. 
The cinematography is the best you will see this year. Mendes re-creates the Depression-era Chicago beautifully and the view of Sam Mendes' "The Road to Perdition" pays close attention to detail. Mendes' meticulous 

LaSalle Street is breathtak­style is reminiscent of director Stanley Kubrick. 
ing as Mendes brings the main characters over the bridge. Every detail is accounted for, from the picture frames, to the Tiffany glass, to the cherry woodwork, to the pageboy hat Michael Jr. wears. Mendes also conveys time subtly and elegantly by using a panning technique to convey its passage and by slowing the move­ment to a standstill in the climaxing scene. 
I mentioned the colors. As with "American Beauty," Mendes uses dark 

Though having a small part in "The Road to Perdition," Paul Newman turns in an exemplary performance as gangster Mr. Rooney. 
blues and greens throughout the film for everything from the identical blue­green of both the father and son's eyes, to his use of water as the predominant image. The film starts and ends with the image of the young boy narrating the story, his faced turned out to sea. The conflict begins on a rainy evening, and ends on one also. But while "American Beauty" had flairs of a red door and roses inviting us into the characters' lives, nothing breaks the ice in "Road to Perdition." We are 
film, but the complexity of the film makes it is easy to understand why she took the role. The actor who plays the young Michael Sullivan has a promising future. As well, Stanley Tucci's intelli­gence and depth make him an excellent fit for his role as the Chicago crime boss. Hanks has here his most interest­ing role since "Philadelphia," but we still have yet to see him shining with half the candescence he exhibited in "Forest Gump." Even with the presence of all the other 
always, somehow, talent, Newman
"The Road to Perdition"
shut out of the steals the show. characters' inner 
This should come thoughts. as no surprise to 
The trouble is, those of us who after I saw "Road are familiar with 
Director: Sam Mendes
to Perdition" I his movies. "The 
Writer: David Self
knew I admired it, Verdict" most 
Starring: Tom Hanks, Paul Newman, Jude
but I am still reminds me of unsure whether I this film. While it
Law and Jennifer Jason Lee 
liked it. The story line is intelligent, following the redemption of a man who is trapped between the life he has cho­sen and the life he wants his son to lead. IIowever. this is definitely a movie based on character and not on plot. By keeping the audience removed from the charactrrs' inner emotions, Mendes weakens his film. The plot, while origi­nal and interesting, seems to hold the characters fast in its grip. They am helpless to act against what fate has decnrnd for them. In th.is way, "The Road to Perdition" acts morP like a Greek tragedy than a play in which its characters become interesting as they struggle over which pa.th to take. A modern Oedipus, Michael is strung into his calculated fate, unable to break free, like a bead on an abacus. 
Th(• star-studded cast, however, makes an excellent showing. Jason Leigh doesn't receive .many lines in this 
is a shame that 
he holds a some­what minor roll, it is quite enough just to watch him act. 
"Road to Perdition" is a beautiful, well thought out film, that's weaknesses lie not in what is done, but what is not done. These arc, however, forgivable in light of the film's overall strengths. I would _not be surprised if this film is nominated for the Academy Award for best picture and best director, but I believe it is highly unlikely that it will win either. 
The opinions expressed in this colum­na re Lhose uf the author and not ness­esarily those of The Observer. 
Anne Hamilton has inserted her nam_e into the dictionary next tu the word "taste." Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be contacted at hamilton.56@nd.edu. 

O
THE BSERVER 

Thursday, September 12, 2002 page 11 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'City by the Sea' washes out 
However, we see that he is selling the gui­By SHAWN NEWBURG 
tar for drug money and is a hopeless
Scene Movie Critic 
junkie. Eliza Dushku, who plays Joey Nova's girlfriend, also turns in a great per­"City by the Sea" is based on a true-life formance. She plays the part of a young story of a detective in New York. Vincent single mother, struggling to stay off drugs. Lal\tiarca (Robert DeNiro) is a very success­Her hest scene comes opposite DeNiro ful dotnctive whose father was sentoncod when she decides to leave her son Vvith to the electric chair for murder. Ile begins him. Other noteworthy actors are Frances investigating a murder case obviously com­McDormand, who plays Vincent's girl­mitted by his estranged junkie son, Joey friend, and Patti LuPonc as DeNiro's ex­LaMarca (James Franco), who is known vvife. Each established a great presence on on the streets as Joey Nova. screen with DeNiro despite having few 
Vincent is pulled off the case, but ,,;hen lines in a movie with a relatively lackluster his partner is killed. it sends the cops on a script. bloodthirsty hunt for Joey. The movie The film's cinematography is another becomes a race for saving grace. StiU Vincent to save his shots of Long son from the cops "City by the Sea" Beach as a boom­ancl himself. Wbile 
ing town several struggling with his decades ago open own demons, the film. However, Vincent learns that Long Beach is now he is a grandfather Director: Michael Caton-Jones a broken-down and becomes the Writer: Ken Hixon town with graffiti child's unlikely Starring: Robert DeNiro, James Franco, everywhere, an 
guardian when its 
Patti LuPone and Eliza Dushku abandoned board­mother runs out walk and boarded 
Acting is what up buildings saves this movie everywhere. As DeNiro says at one point, from being terrible. DeNiro, as always, "It looks like the Soviets came through 
turns in a stellar performance. Playing a here." It was refreshing to have such Several times he put himself in a position ous movie with heavy themes and difficult father and grandfather with issues of diverse shots; ranging from bustling to either kill himself or get killed by the situations. It has a very real and gritty feel abandonment and guilt, he must battle Manhattan to the long-dead Long Beach. cops. But in typical Hollywood fashion, the to it, which stems from where the movie through his own feelings for his father The pitfalls of the film come in the actual movie forges on trying to bring a happy was shot and the excellent acting. while dealing with the fact that he aban­plot, especially in the ending. The main ending to an irreconcilable situation. However, the development of all the char­doned his own son. At the end of the conflict is between Vincent and Joey. Joey The lack of real resolution between acters and their relationships with each movie, his part feels like it goes over the is unforgiving of his father for having father and son leaves the audience mysti­other is never accompanied by a resolution top, but only momentarily. walked out on him and his mother. Now fied. Vincent never resolves his relation­to all of their conflicts. The ending leaves 
Franco plays Joey Nova very well. He Vincent is facing his own demons while ship with his girlfriend and Vincent's ex­much to be desired leaving the audience comes onto the screen at the very begin­trying to salvage his relationship with his wife is not seen for the last half-hour of the asking, "What now?" ning carrying a guitar down the board­son and save him from the cops. It seems movie. Many loose ends are never tied up walk. The picture is reminiscent of an the scriptwriter wanted to have an unhap­and the movie ends too abruptly. Contact Shawn Newburg at early Bob Dylan and Franco looks the part. py ending, with Joey eventually dying. Overall. "City by the Sea" is a very seri-newburg.l@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Undisputed' an action delight 
> I 
l 

and Oiambers really engages the viewer in thugs. This seems to be what ultimately the onist while Hutchen is more or less anBy CHRISTOPHER COOPER the story; by the end, you cannot help but point this film was making. anti-hero you cannot help but cheer for in 
Scene Movie Critic 
get caught up in this clash of titans as the This movie is definitely not for everyone, the end. They both give very convincing settle their differences the old-fashioned but is quite an enjoyable movie-going portrayals, especially Rhames, who actual­"Undisputed" is the work of director way. experience. The camera angles during the ly boxed earlier in life. This movie is a 
Walter Hill and sends the viewer deep into Walter Hill uses a very interesting way of climax of the movie were slightly off at great guy flick, especially if you enjoy the 
an underground prison boxing ring. 
providing background for the events that times and that was a little vexing. art of boxing. Wesley Snipes and Ying Rhames star in a led to the conflict. He utilizes cuts of old However. the movie does deliver good
modern day setting where both are in 
footage and interviews to give the viewer a action and a great interaction between Contact Christopher Cooper at prison and forced to fight to achieve some greater understanding of his characters. It character roles. "Iceman" is a good antag-cooper.42@nd.edumeasure of their freedom back. is quite effective and keeps the viewer's 
"Undisputed" begins abruptly, literally interest peaked because he does not give
diving into the you everything at world of prison 
once. He methodi­boxing. Wesley "Undisputed" cally sifts the. Snipes plays details to yowover
Monroe Hutchen, a 
the course of the 

convicted murder, movie. 
who in the past ten Boxing is a brutal 
years of incarcera­
sport and this
Director: Walter Hill

tion has dominated movie captures that 
Writer: David Giler and Waller Hill

all opponents and brutality with some
Starring: Wesley Snipes, Ving Rhames and 
gone undefeated akin to the movie
Peter Falk

with a record of "Ali." However. 
67-0. Enter Ving 
boxing can also be Rham~s' charac­

a thing of beauty 

ter, James "Iceman" Chambers, who just and this movie does a wonderful job of 
happens to also be the undefeated heavy­reminding tlm viewer what it once was. U weight champion, and tho stage is sot for a 
was a noble sport that was fought with clash of two unmatched gladiators. 
skill and fortitude. 
The story progresses quickly. hut the 
This inovie docs a groat job of reminisc­.... pace is not frantic. The Chambers charac­ing about what boxing used to represent. ter mirrors the story of "Iron,. MikP. Tyson Champious of years passed who were in that he is the heavyweight champion loved for their power, grace and skill in the and sent to prison for a crime against a ring are now a complete and utter rarity; 
woman. Also, the contlict bHtwe<'n Hutcheu they have been replaced hJ: criminals and 



SMC Sports Roundup 


page 12 Thursday, September 12, 2002 
In Brief 
Soccer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team lost a close match to Taylor University on Tuesday. ln overtime, Taylor scored the only goal of the game to take home the 1-0 victory. 
The loss drops the Belles to 1-3 while boosting Taylor's record to 2-2. 
Golf 
The Saint Mary's golf team will take anoth­er stab at bringing home a first-place finish. 
The Belles will be heading to Albion College for the Britton Fall Invitational at Medalist Golf Club on Saturday,. 
Last weekend, Sa'lflt'Mary's tied Hope for second place in the first MIAA match-up of the season. Two weeks before they set a team-best one-round total of 34 7 strokes. 
Cross Country 
The Saint Mary's cross country team will be heading to Defiance College for the Defiance College Invitational on Saturday. They fin­ished fourth out of five teams last weekend in the Run for One Invitational at Grace College. 


VOLLEYBALL 


By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 

Without the help of Elizabeth Albert or Stacey Stark, the Belles fell flat against the Adrian Bulldogs on Tuesday, losing in three games (30­3, 30-18, 30-18). 
Albert, the senior outside attacker. and Stark, the sophomore setter, are both expected to return to practice but their absence on Tuesday was strongly felt and they didn't play their best game. 
"It wasn't one of their best games," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
"We had a lot of trouble just starting. It was slow and we're still missing Stacey Stark." 
Missing Stark took the Belles out their offense. They started the year playing a 6-2 defense, but losing Stark forced them into a 5-1 offense. 
"It changes the whole chemistry of the game," Schroeder-Bick said. 
Schroeder-Biek said that Adrian didn't play as tough as expected, the Bulldogs offense wasn't as quick. But their own slow start was too hard to overcome and the Bulldogs came home victorious. 
Bridget Wakaruk and Elizabeth Rupright led the Saint Mary's offense 
with 15 assists and seven kills respectively. Allison Shevik led the defense with seven digs. 
Stark underwent x-rays, which confirmed her foot was not broken. Albert underwent an MRI on Wednesday to get clear results on her injured wrist. 
The Belles play Olivet on Friday and then leave immediately to travel to Defiance to play in three games on Saturday against Defiance, Wooster and Oberlin. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

RIDING INSTRUCTORS; ENGLISH  Drafting tables -$25-30 Student  BED n BREAKFAST for FOOT- Buy/Sell N.D. vs. Michigan State  
/ WESTERN PART-TIME POSJ- desks $25 631-4969  BALL WK ENDS blocks from cam- Football Tickets 289-8048  
NOTICES  TIONS TO WORK AROUND  pus call KEVIN 574-288-5377  TICKETS  
CLASSES 20 MIN FROM CAM­ 1993 FORD AEROSTAR. Asking  
CJs Pub See whats happening www.cjspub.com  PUS. Contact Mitch Nihart Magari-Ya Stables and Equestrian Center  $1500. Call Leah 233-8411.  New Studio Apartment available to rent for ND games and events.  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911.  PERSONAL  
574-299-1607  2 -1988 National Champion  Walking distance to Univ. on Dunn  
Attention Spring Breakers Travel  Footballs signed by players, coach- Rd. Call 340-5938/272-3116.  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals  Nanny wanted for 3 children  es & Lou Holtz. Call 271-2843.  GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations  Approx. 12-15 hrs. per week (very  DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW  you love needs confidential support  
Most Reliable www.sunsplash­ flexible) 271.0766 Kim  99 Jeep Wrangler. Maroon w/lan  LEASING FOR 2003-2004  Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­ or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
tours.com 1-800-426-7710  top. Good cond.,CD,hitch,rack. 43K  SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­ 8048 or astrog999@aol.com  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
AFTER SCHOOL CARE FOR TWO  b/o. 315-4176  TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM- more information, see our bi-weekly  
Need 4 tickets for the ND vs  CHILDREN, 3PM-5:30PM, MON  PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED- Need 2 or 4 GA tix to home games.  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
Michigan game. Call 4-4622 and  THAU THURS. GOOD PAY! CALL  ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT  276-8507. Call 288-2877 alter 5.  
ask for Roy.  LISA AT 631-9947 OR 277-8564.  FOR RENT  NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF  Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich. game.  Give adoption a chance...we are happily married and need your help  
Available Game Weekends: COUN­ SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­ ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS ­ 255-8256.  in starting a family. Will provide a  
TRY ESTATE Three Bedroom  EES needed for south side elemen•  Furnished rooms tor rent in a spa- CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING  lifetime of love, laughter and end- 
Home, Country Setting on  tary school located near Scottsdale  cious comfortable home. Includes  FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER  WANTED: ND tickets - less opportunities. Call our attorney  
Operating Horse Farm, 20 min from  Mall on Miami Street. $30.00 per  kitchen privileges, washer/dryer,  (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 ­ toll free at 866-215-2229.  
campus. Contact Mitch Magari-Ya  soccer game; $20.00 per VB match  /1/C, internet, quiet reading rooms,  (574)674-2471  HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570  
Stables and Equestrian Center 57 4­ to qualified refs. Call 291-4200.  swimming pool and patio. 2 miles  ND grad with Ph.D. doing child  
299·1607 or  from campus. $330 month. Call  HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003:  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home  
magariyastables@aol.com  Hate your roommate? Move in with  Tom at 574-243-4749.  We have a variety of houses includ•  PRICES 289-9280  near campus. 234-8004  
me! Fun. exciting, studious grad  ing two of the best undergrad hous- 
MICHIGAN Tix (2) with Lodging  student looking for similar. Rent:  All size homes available for 2003­ es you can rent.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  your mom  
near N.D. 271-7205.  $200 + 1/2 utilities. Call (574)288­ 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  
4128.  www.mmmrentals.com  Call Bill at 532-1896  hey -did you know that State got  
www.workforstudents.com 574-282­ ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  busted last night??  
2357  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  WANTED AM 232-2378 PM 288­ 
WANTED  FOR SALE  RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  has space available for football/par­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths. hot breakfast, $80-$11 5.  2726 Need many tickets(6)for BC game.  Hey Kevin:) have a happy day  
Large one-bedroom condo for sale.  Awesome! We have a 2 bedroom 2  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Call Brian at 4-0881  metzi • you are dirty  
$250 a day potential/bartending.  One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly  bath apartment available now at  Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487.  
Training provided 1-800-293-3985  remodeled. Fully equipped.  College Park Condos on Bulla.  Need 1 GA for Michigan call collect  For Great Sprink Break  
ext. 556  $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu  Celebrate Junior or Senior living at  ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT­ 317.582.1492  Destinations  
<..  its best. Call Patti 235-7234.  WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM- Call Luke at 555-FL yy  
Housemate in 3 bdrm.house in a  91 HONDA ACCORD EX, 4-DA,  PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES  Want 4 MICH !ix call 312-925-8961.  
t I I I  quiet nbrhood. close to campus. $350/mo incl all utiL Call Niki 574­287-7869.  TEAL, CLEAN, 1-0WNER, VERY GOOJ CONDITION. $4200. 277­0189.  ND ALUMS: Rent a 4-bdr condo 5 min from ND for football weekends. Email ndcondo2002@yahoo.com  UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL: leopei@hotmail.com  ND VS. USC tix and Hotel, Irish Fest in CAI NDCOC.com Beat SC!  Congratulations Scholastic on pub­lishing your first issue of the year. You're now one ahead of Juggler.  
!  



...,....,_________ ---"-­
....,. ___________________________________
,-ill_____________ 
Thursday, September 12, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
After the Dust Settles: Forgive
Sign~up Freshman Retreat #42 (September 27-28) ¦ Chandra J. Johnson, Assistant to the President 
August 27-Septeinber 23. 
This column was due on Tuesday, so I didn't know how I was going co feel or what would happen
114 Coleman-Morse Center 
on Wednesday. To be honest, I was torn as to whether I should add my muse to the plethora of reflections and memories already written about September 11th, or whether I should move on to more pleasant topics like the new Sophomore Road Trip or our recent win against Purdue. Then a little voice said: "Read the gospel for September 12th." And the answer came. Consider chis:What would Jesus do ifhe were an American citizen right now? 
What can I say about September 11th that hasn't been said already? What else is there to say? What else is there co do? A year and a day after our country's most horrific national tragedy, the gospel reading suggests a radical reaction to our pain and suffering. Now that the dust has settled, 
8:00 p.m. 
Luke suggests that it might not be a bad idea to con­

Hammes Student Lounge 
sider what Jesus recommended to his friends who would

Coleman-Morse Center · 
Accessing our place in God's 
eventually find themselves hated and persecuted. To Kingdom takes a willingness the future leaders ofour Church, Jesus said: 
to move beyond the hunger, 
"To you who hear I say, love your enemies, do good to
Lt 


poverty and pain. It takes those who hateyou, bless those who curseyou, prayfar those 
. ,. :~,:·., .. 
who mistreat you. To the person who strikes you on one

Law School Mass 
forgiving those who are 
ch~ek, offer the other one as well, andfrom the person who

4:00 p.m. Law School Chapel responsible for our hunger, takes what isyours do not demand it back. Do to others as 
you would have them do to you. For ifyou love those who 

MBA Mass poverty and pain. 
love you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners love those 

7:00 p.m. 
who love them. And ifyou do good to those who do good to

Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do the RCIA-Session ;.. same...But rather, love your enemies and do good to them...; 
then your reward will be great and you will be children of the Most High, far he himselfis kind to the ungrateful and the wicked. Be merciful, just as also your Father is merciful. "Stop judging andyou will not bejudged. Stop condemning andyou will not be condemned. Forgive andyou will be fargi,ven... " (Luke 6.27-33; 35-36,· 37) 
Forgive? After all that's happened, that doesn't seem very sensible. Will forgiveness protect our national borders? Will forgiveness bring back the 3,000+ who died in the September 11th carnage? Will forgiveness heal our psychological and physical wounds? Will forgiveness rebuild the Twin Towers? Will forgiveness punish those who hate us? According to Jesus, it will. 
The interesting thing about today's gospel is that it is recorded immediately after Jesus's Beatitudes speech where he describes how one gains access into the Kingdom ofGod (Luke 6.20 26). Jesus reminds us that being poor, hungry and persecuted is an affliction against the human spirit. God's Kingdom (happiness, peace of 
¦ Presiders . 

mind, and an eternal relationship with God) reconstitutes this lack and limitation, and restores the honor of those afflicted. However, Jesus is convinced that there is more to it than that. Accessing our place in God's
t~r· 1 -\~i-­Kingdom takes a willingness to move beyond the hunger, poverty and pain. It takes forgiving those who are 
responsible for our hunger,-poverty and pain. We must forgive those who consider us invisible and inconse­quential to realizing their goals, dreams and aspirations. Jesus's speech on the hill was not only an affirmation 
.~~•:;~:~~;:~:;f!:;a~~!ss 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. of God's promises co his disciples, but a precursor to his resurrected fate. Father, forgive them for they know Sunday, September 15, Mass not what they do. On his way to the Kingdom, Christ forgave those who persecuted and abandoned him. 8:00a.m. When the dust seeded on Calvary and he hung dying on the cross, he saw his enemies and his friends as God Most Rev. Andrew J. McDonald saw them-brothers and sisters and inheritors of the Kingdom. At the moment ofhis death, his honor and life Bishop Emertius of Little Rock, AR purpose were restored. As Christians, we are taught to believe in this Paschal mystery. It is a metaphor for Christian living. Jesus believed that blessing and doing good to those who hated him would soften their hardened hearts. Maybe embracing his pain to understand the anger and pain ofothers would create a common platform from which to begin a conversation. Perhaps he felt that forgiving others would help him to recognize his own trespasses and the answers to life's mysteries. · Now that the dust has settled, where is God in your life and what does your Kingdom look like? As 21st century young adult intellectuals, these are questions worth thinking about because your answer to them will determine our fate. What is your stake in the Kingdom of God? Is there anything we haven't tried that might reap better benefits for our nation? Would che Sermon on the Mount be adverse to homeland security, eco­nomic stability, political bipartisanship, ecumenical coHaboration, or intra-dependent international relations? Is forgiveness a viable option as we continue to think about tomorrow? Without a doubt, America's future success is rooted in our collective reaction to our enemies. According to Luke, Jesus says forgive them. What do you say? 






(1 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 12, 2002 
TENNIS 
Notre Dame begins replacing six seniors 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sport< Wrirer 
Just a few months ago, the Notre Dame mens tennis team was competing in the Round of 16 at the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish squad that will take the courts at the William and Mary Invitational in Williamsburg, Va.. this weekend. however. will look very different from the team that traveled to the NCAAs. 
Graduation took All-Americans Javier Taborga and Casey Smith away from the ranks of the Irish as well as Aaron Talarico and1Andrew Laflin. The presence of those players will most likely be missed as Notre Dame takes on Minnesota on Thursday. The Gophers were just one of six teams to defeat the Irish last season. Despite this the Irish feel confident. 
"I think having lost the six starters people might think it'll be a transition year," junior Matt Scott said. "But that motivates us to push harder and to prove everyone wrong." 
The Irish still return three of their starters -sophomore Brent D'Amico, junior Luis Haddock-Morales and Scott. who is ranked 85th in the nation. Senior Brian Farrell, a mono­gram winner who was injured for most of last season, is expect­ed to be competing on the courts late in the fall season. Thus far, he has been practicing, but is not yet able to serve the ball. 
Another chan e for the Irish is their assistant coach. Former assistant coach Billy Pate, who last year was named National Assistant Coach of the Year, is now the head coach at Alabama. Notre Dame hired Todd Doebler, a second-year assistant coach at Pepperdine, to replace Pate. 

"[Doebler] is a great guy," D'Amico said. "We got to know him when we played Pepperdine. Billy was a great coach, but Todd is a great replacement." 
"Todd has done a great job taking over Billy's shoes," Scott said. "He is really hard-working and willing to spend time indi­vidually with players." 
Billy Pate's departure was dis­appointing for the Irish, but the team was pleased that he received a head-coaching job. 
"That's what's best for him," Scott said. 
With their three starting returners, a new assistant coach and a talented incoming class, the Irish are not ready to be dis­counted by their opponents. 
A seeming disadvantage could increase incentive for the Irish to work harder in the upcoming months. 
"I think having lost the six starters people might think it'll be a transition year, but that motivates us to push harder and to prove everyone wrong.," Scott said. 


Start your Friday mornings off at the Eck Center with coffee and donuts, provided by ND Alumni Association and Anthony Travel, and enjoy Notre Dame camraderie throughout the day. 
12:00 noon -Student Piano Player (Inside the Eck Center) 
1:00 -3 :00 pm -Kennedy's Kitchen Irish Band (Outside) 
3:30 pm -Notre Dame Marching Band (Outside) 
4:00 -Glee Club (Inside) 
We hope you will stop by and enjoy the spirit ofNotre Dame 
Notre Dame Alumni Association 

'.' j, 
I I I' I l 4 I, 

Thursday, September 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page IS 

Dame Classic. to a loose ball, only 20 yards in In a play during the first half front of the Irish goal. 
Soccer 
of the Portland game, Chapman Quickly, Chapman swooped in 
demonstrated how quickly she from the other side of the fieldcontinued from page 20 
can change from being an to slide tackle the ball away 
aggressive defender to an from Sinclair. Then she put the by Waldrum to jumpstart his attacking forward. Pilot All­Irish on the offensive attack by struggling offense. For her American forward Christine driving the ball the length of the efforts, Chapman was named Sinclair had a 10-yard head field and creating a corner kick fl,.., l)pf1msivP. MVP of thP. Notrn start in front of the Irish defense opportunitv. 
WILLIAM BLAIR 
& COMPANY 


Learn more about what the Investment Banking Analyst Program at William Blair & Company can offer you! 
Company Presentation N[0NDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002 LAF0RTU~E (THE HUDDLE) NOTRE OA,'vlE ROOM 7:00 P.M -9:00 P.M. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
IN 

ATHENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Jullict J\,1ayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs And Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Thursday, Sept. 12, 2002 5:00-6:00 PM 
129 Hayes-Healy 
··············································································· 
Applicaton Deadline: Oct. l, 2002 for Spring. 2003 .\pplications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 
2002-03 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Actors From The London Stage 
uch Ado About Nothing 
Thursday, September 19 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, September 20 ... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, September 21 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall· Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $ 12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
''I've always played forward or midfield before coming to Notre Dame. My first instinct is to go with the ball and run with it when I sec the open field in front of me," said Chapman. 'Tm not just thinking about running down and scoring, but I'm trying to look for an open teammate to push the ball up field. I like to move the team in transition. 
"Of course, I'd rather score a goal. Who wouldn't?" she con­tinued. "But I really like playing defense too." 
While her freshman year was an impressive debut, Chapman vows to improve. 
"My goal is to just keep improving every year and hope­fully win an NCAA Championship," said Chapman. "Becoming an All-American would also be amazing. I want this team to return to the Final Four like they have numerous years before and win a champi­onship. We deserve one." 
In the midst of last weekend's struggles at the Notre Dame Classic and the loss of starting Irish defender Gudrun Gunnarsdottir this week due to a stress fracture, Waldrum needs someone to bring the team closer together during these difficult, early stages of the season. He believes Chapman is a prime candidate to assume more of a leadership role. 
"Our players just have so much respect for her," said Waldrum. "I think she can real­ly help us by setting an example in training for the other players. I would love for her to become more of a vocal leader on the field." 
While she is only a sopho­more, Chapman is not shying away from the challenge pre­sented by her coach. In fact. she relishes the opportunity to step up for her teammates. 
"I don't think being a sopho­more makes me to young to be a leader," said Chapman. "It's my responsibility to help the team in any way that I can. I think my international experi• ence this last summer will help me be more of a leader this year." 
As Chapman emerges on the collegiate scene, do not be sur­prised if her name becomes a mainstay in international soccer for years to come. Two weeks ago, she helped U-19 Canadian National Team to a second place••.flnish in the World Championships. In November, she will be competing in the Gold Cup trying to help Canada quality for the 2004 World Cup. 
"She may not realize it, but she has the potential to be a household name in internation­al soccer like Mia Hamm or Brandi Chastain," said Waldrum. "She's not only played for the U-19's but for the full national team on several occasions. She's one of the next international stars of the game." 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 

Tfie Pa[ace Lounge 
North Village }.,fall. US 31 (57../.)243-533../. :fina[[y .9l. Pface. 9-{pt 'Too !Far !From :Home! 
Lounge Open: Tuesday Lhrough SaLurday at 4:00p m. 
Sunday open frorn ...J.:OOpn-1. lo 12:00a.rn. $1. 00 Beer Wednesdays! Karaoke -Sundays at 7: 00p. m. 
Wednesday & Thursday at 
8: OOp. TTL 
"'GO IRISH"' 
"''J{ptre '.Dame. (jame.s: $1.00 '.Draft & $1.50 '.BsR:fl'Wings!• Lounge Opens at 10:(X}a.m. (jame '.Day 'Big Screen TT! & Pknty of!}wom. !For J1I.[{'.Your !Fri.emfs! 
Weekend Entertainment Call (574)243-5334 
~ NASCAR SUNDAY'S, Call For More Info! 
• 
POV\,\.e Si'<tJLLg"1t wLtvi nae.I-< LLgvitLv,,g, ,.;i.g Doiv,,e,e FLoov' 

• 
Rev1.,t R.oov"'-.s. foY-WeG\cli.v,,g ~ccptLo""'.s., PcirtLes or-MecH""'g.s. 1 

• 
Pool TClbLe, Tr~vi.ci MC-1C.VJi.ll\,e, DClrt.S.,jvC.R.d'.lox. § c;olf c;c:iv"'-e. 

• 
We serve FvC.lL Bllr, Appeti.zev<;. § SClll\,c:iwi.ci,,e<;.. DLV1..V1..eY S00ll\-1 



AROUND THE NATION 
page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, September 12, 2002 

around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Cubs at Reds 
6 p.m., FOX Sports Net 
COLLEGE f OOTBALL Marshall at Virginia Tech 
6:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


said before the Chicago regular off day this week to remember, but you've got
Associated Press 

Cubs' game against the Wednesday instead of to get on with it," Braves 
CHICAGO Montreal Expos. "But once Monday. But most sporting outfielder Chipper Jones 
The colorful NL pennants we got here, it seems like events went on just as on said. "You've got to do that usually fly above the the perfect place to be. almost any other day, what you do. And that's Wrigley Field scoreboard Here, we'll commemorate it despite the government's what we're doing. Twice." were gone, replaced by a in the proper way." decision to raise the United Before the Dodgers­lone American flag at half­While the rest of the States' security alert warn­Giants game at Pac Bell staff. country marked the ing to "high risk." Park, there was a tribute 
Songs such as "Let it Be" anniversary of the Sept. 11 Security was tight at on the big screen on the and " Over Troubled terrorist attacks with afternoon baseball games, center-field scoreboard Water" played during bat­solemn prayer services and and crowds seemed smaller reading '9.11.01 We will ting practice instead of the speeches, the games that than usual. At Turner never forget' with a series usual bubblegum pop ordinarily entertain and Field, where the Atlanta of black-and-white photos music. And the electronic amuse us became another, Braves played the New from the events of one year message board carried a very different sort of York Mets in a day-night ago. simple message: memorial. doubleheader, only about Instead of a ceremonial 
"We Shall Not Forget." The Meadowlands 1,500 people had arrived a first pitch, the ball was 
"I first felt guilty about Racetrack and Monmouth half-hour before the first placed on the mound by a coming here to celebrate," Park were closed, and game. man whose father died in fan Geraldine Mrozinski Belmont Park switched its "It's a day that we'll all the attacks. 
IN BRIEF 

No Charges on Washburn tion, prompting an investigation by for the fight has not been finalized. The Orange County district attor­the Anaheim Police Department. One possible roadblock to the 
"I was just surprised the investi­fight, which would be televised on

ney will not file sexual assault charges against Anaheim Angels gation was the length that it was, the Showtime cable network, is knowing the facts," said that HBO also is looking at Dec. 7
left-hander Jarrod Washburn. 
Washburn's agent, Scott Boras, for a possible fight between WBA

"We have thoroughly reviewed who a day earlier called the alle­heavyweight champion John Ruizthe case and we are rejecting the gations "baseless." and undisputed light heavyweightcase based on lack of sufficient 
evidence at this time," Deputy Washburn. 17-5 with a 3.32 champion Roy Jones. ERA, has made two starts since the It's not likely the two competing
District Attorney Randy Payne said 
Wednesday. investigation began, winning both. networks would put showcase "Awesome, awesome. For him fighters on at the same time.
The 28-year-old Washburn 
and his family, for us as a team, A Ruiz-Jones fight must first

expressed relief at an impromptu news conference at nearby Edison it's outstanding," first baseman clear a number of hurdles, howev­Field 21/2 hours before the Angels Scott Spiezio said. er, not the least of which is 
whether Jones is actually willing
played the Oakland Athletics. 

"I'm just happy that I've been Tyson Returns to the Ring to move up to the heavyweight cleared and that this is all over Mike Tyson will likely make his ranks. with.'' he said. 'Tm happy to be return to the ring in December, Tyson has exercised his option 
with a fight against Clifford for a rematch with Lewis, which

back on the baseball field, playing ball. As far as I'm concerned, the Etienne. according to the contract for the Tyson's manager, Shelly Finkel. first fight, must take place after
matter's done with." 

KABC-TV. citing an unidentified said Wednesday he hoped to have Lewis has one fight. Lewis gave source, reported Tuesday that a a deal worked out next week for a up the lBF portion of his heavy­Dec. 7 fight that would be Tyson's weight title rather than fight with
16-year-old girl called police from first since being stopped by Lennox Chris Byrd, and has yet to commit
an Orange County hospital room 
Lewis in June. Finkel said the site to any fight.

on Sept. 1 and made the allega­


Thursday, September 12, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
.. 
O'Neal may miss beginning of season following surgery 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

After almost three months of indecision, Shaquille O'Neal finally had surgery on his chron­ically sore big toe Wednesday and could miss the beginning of the season. 
Recovery and rehabilitation time for the Los Angeles Lakers' center is expected to be 6-to-8 weeks, said Dr. Robert Mohr, who removed bone spurs from a joint on the arthritic right big toe at at UCLA's Outpatient Surgery Center. 
That means O'Neal could miss the three-time defending NBA champion Lakers' regular-sea­son opener _11gainst San A!_ltonio 
on Oct. 29. If he had surgery earlier, he probably would have been at full speed by the time the season began. 
O'Neal has said he delayed the operation until he had checked out all the options and spoken with a number of' doctors. 
"He was deciding what to do, and was getting some conflicting opinions," Lakers general man:. 
ager Mitch Kupchak said. "When he finally made the deci­sion, he was completely com­fortable with it." 
Kupchak and the rest of the Lakers breathed a sigh of relief after doctors deemed the surgery a success, with Mohr saying, "We're very confident he's going to have a complete recover ." 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Sign Up on the Internet NOW @ 
www. LaareaStadios.com 
to ensure your place in your2II03 Demc Yearbook! 
Where: 
When: 
Where: Why: 
Class of 2003 Pictures taken Sept. 2 -Sept. 20 La Fortune 108 To Be In the 2003 Dome 
. 
~­

llememher ta Sign llp Toda~ www. LaurenStudias.eem.~ 
--=--= 
"When we saw the doctors 
come out smiling, I think we 
were all relieved -the team, 
Shaquille's people, everybody," 
Kupchak said. 
The often mischievous O'Neal 
was in a jovial mood right after 
the operation, "Joking, just 
being Shaq," Kupchak said. 
Lakers coach Phil Jackson was among those visiting O'Neal, but he did not speak to reporters. 
The NBA Finals MVP for the past three years as he led the Lakers to three titles, O'Neal was hampered by the injury during most of the regular sea­son and playoffs. 
He m~i,.t:)d 15 games and tried a combination of medication, orthotics and other treatments to ease the pain, but no method was completely effective. 
O'Neal was on the injured list twice last season because of his toe. He averaged 27.2 points and 10.7 rebounds -both slightly below his career aver­ages -and usually wasn't as mobile on defense as in past years. 
RESUMES 
Anyone can write a resume -but will it be effective? · A+ Resumes is the answer. 
<p Resumes that work <p FREE consultation <p Located near campus 
A+ Resumes 
243-3140 www.aplusrez.com 

•. l 
1 
Toast an Irish Vi,ctory this weekend with us... And kialftT! iJeekend earl .TONIGHT.
· , . •. 

> 

'F FOR ABUCK -NO COVER BEFORE 11PM 
.-Il!IBiB;~ 
BRING YOUR COLLEGE ID-21+ ONLY 
.. 


page 18 
NFL 

Baltimore's Unitas dies Wednesday 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Johnny Unitas, the Hall of 
Fame quarterback who broke 
nearly every NFL passing 
record and won three champi­
onships with the Baltimore 
Colts in an 18-year career, died 
Wednesday at age 69. 
Unitas had a heart attack 
while working out at a physical 
therapy center in the Baltimore 
suburb of Timonium. said 
Vivienne Stearns-Elliott, a 
spokeswoman for "~l:':Joseph 
Medical Center in Towson. 
Doctors and nurses at the 
scene could not resuscitate 
him, she said. 
Unitas underwent emergency 
triple-bypass surgery in March 
1993 after a heart attack. 
"Johnny U," with his trade­mark crewcut and black high­tops. was the first to throw for 40,000 yards and now ranks seventh, surpassed by a group of quarterbacks who played after him, with rules that make passing easier. 
Unitas retired after the 197 3 season with 22 NFL records, among them marks for most passes attempted and complet­ed, most yards gained passing, most touchdown passes and most seasons leading the league in TD passes. 
"Johnny Unitas will always be a legendary name in NFL history." league commissioner Paul Tagliabue said. "One of the greatest quarterbacks to ever play the game, he epito­mized the position with his leadership skills and his ability to perform under pressure." 
Unitas completed 2,830 of 5,186 passes for 40,239 yards and 290 touchdowns. He com­pleted at least one touchdown pass in 4 7 straight games, a record not challenged since it was set from 1956-60. 
Unitas was Most Valuable 

Player three times and played 
Baltimore to the NFL champi­
onship in 1958 and 1959 and 
the Super Dow! in 1970. 
On the NFL's 50th anniver­
sary in 1969, Unitas was voted 
the greatest quarterback of all 
time. He also was selected at 
quarterback for the NFL's All­
Time team in 2000 by the 36 
Pro Football Hall of Fame vot­
ers. 

"Johnny Unitas is the great­
est quarterback ever to play 
the game. better than I was, 
better than Sammy Baugh, bet­
ter than anyone," Sid 
Luckman, the great Chicago 
Bears quarterback of the 
1940s, once said. 
Unitas was one of the few 
quarterbacks who called his 
own plays, an ability traced to 
his knack for reading an oppo­
nent's defense and spotting a 
weakness, then calling a play 
to take advantage. 
John Mackey, the Colts' tight end during the Unitas years, once said of his teammate, "It's like being in a huddle with God." 
Unitas was never flamboyant or boastful -yet No. 19 always seemed to get the job done thoroughly and quietly. 
"A man never gets to this sta­tion in life without being helped, aided, shoved, pushed and prodded to do better," Unitas said at his induction into the Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio. in 1979. "I want to be honest with you: The players I played with and the coaches I had ... they are directly responsible for my being here. I want you all to remember that. I always will." 
The long list of accomplish­ments was quite a reversal of fortune for a player who hitch­hiked home from his first NFL training camp after the Pittsburgh Steelers cut him in 1955. 
Campus BzhLe Sruoy (CBS) EveRy Tuesoay ar 7:00 p.m. 
114 CoLeman-MoRse Con-FeRence Room 

All students are invited to attend Bible Study every Tuesday through the semester beginning September 17, 2002. All sessions last one hour. 
Bring your own Bible and a friend. 


For further information contact: Fr. Al D Alonzo, csc 631-4616 or Campus Ministry 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Thursday, September 12, 2002 


Notre Dame Athletics 



2002 Irish Baseball •••Celebrate The Season Watch as the 2002 Irish Players receive their 2002 College World Series Rings 
SaturdaY., September 14th -11 AM trank Eck Stadium The First 2,000 Fans Will Receive a 2002 World Series Replica Flag!! 
Mon , Thurs 10:30 am, 9 pm Fri & Sat 10:30 am, 10 pm 
CHICAGO.-STYLE PIZZA DELI SANDWICHES 
Join Us To Cheer On 

THE FIGHTI-N'G IRISH 
Buy one 16" Pizza and get a second for 1/2 price! 
Stop in and enjoy Michiana's favorite hot dog Voted #1 in Michiana 

631-7800.
~..I.a&d,,,wt ~ 
.s,,,i, fa his W>...U ou-:dv ,',,,u-1.wt.i ~-, 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 
' .. ? 
• • • • • • • I 

Thursday, September 12, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
What kind of Uh.. would you sandwich would Lettuce or Mayo? like fries with that? 
. ·.-:x.
you like? · :tomatoes? 


•
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRlON 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, Knowing him, he'll peddle
it as a genuine Picasso 
l"~~~~~f 
I [J -tJ 
Cl200Z Tribune Medin Services. Inc. 
All FIi ta R..arved 
SACEE 
CATATH 

VVl-W n-t: PRISONER l,l=C.AME WHEN HE
[J I b 
PAINTl=D rHOSE
www.jumble.com 
POR.Tl<AITS. 
INVOIL I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rI J ( J 
suggei;~d by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

A "(XI) l XX IIIJ' .. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: GUMMY STOOP ALPACA ANYHOW Answer: A salutation for hot-air balloon enthusiasts ­'WHAT'S UP?" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 25 • To order, oend your nomo, odd..,., ond $5,95 ond m•k• ct,ock payoblo IO Tnbuno t,t,,dl• SorvloH, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 606il(l-4.J30. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 Veterans 68 Perfume , Like ears of 37 Soft and grain yielding 
DOWN 

a Teacher's 42 Army unit? 
1 Opposite o!

diagnostic tool 43 Antarctic flier NNE 
1f Oder region 
44 Mdse. 2 Kind of chart 1~ Birthplace of EHe Wiesel 47 What spouse 3 Accursed does, step 3 
4 Monk's abode 

, r Strongly built 52Alley _ 5 Historic Italian1a Nostrums town damaged53 Intercom sound 
19 What spouse many times bydoes every 54 Mormons, in earthquakesnight, step 1 brief 
6 Cuff link 21 Part of a 55 What spouse companion
U.S.A.F. does, step 4 7 Irks
s,:;hedule [hint: look at the black squares
23 Actress Phillips 8 Non-or un-: 
al the gridJ Abbr.

ot "l, Claudius" 24 Fannie 61 It's usually 9 Do body work played first of a sort 
25 What spouse does, step 2 62 Makes bubbly 10 Expressionist Nolde 
30 So-so link? 65 "No kidding" 11 Meter site 
31 Merriment 66 Passover fare 12 Poser 
32 Place to spend 67 Parade 57 Singer Tennille shekels: Abbr. requirements 13 Name echoed 
in 1960's news 58 Peevish display 48 Corp. takeover
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 14 Took a bite 
39 Kind of crew 59 Hanoi holidays 49 Opening word
E L I B E 20 Conceptual art 40 Tinted 60 Flatten P I T AS pioneer 50 Lover of Dido,
EA A Y S 63 And so forth:
21 Breakfast brand 41 Natters on in myth 
Abbr. 
22 Get off one's 

44 Dirt, so to speak 51 Wears jauntily
chest 64 Dam, for 45 Sit behind bars 56 Printing unit example
26 Natl. Sewing Month Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone
27 Twice 

phone: 1-900-289-CLUE (2583). $1.20 per minute. 28 Lawyer's abbr. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. River" Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytirnes.corn/diversions ($19.95 a year).
34 W.W. II fliers 

Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, 35 Stop _ dime nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITl&'i BORN ON TillS DAY: Geoige Jones, Maria Muldaur, Peter Scolari. Barry White 
Happy Birthday: You may find this a raiher emotiooal year, so keep dungs in perspective. Eliminate the people and siruations that are mnging you down and holding you back. This can nm, into a wasted year ifyou dm't act on your feelings. You will do well career-wise, but ooly if you control your emotions. Yoor numbers are 12. 16.23,38,41,46 ARIFS (March 21-April 19): Overindulgence will lead to all sorts of problems. You must take better care of yourself. Don't overspend m children or luxury items. This is not the time tojump from ooe job to another. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Pannerships may be strained today. If so, you may want to spend as linle time as possible with the person who is contributing to the tensim. Concentrdte oo work. ** GEMINI (May 21-Juoe 20): You have creative ideas to share. With the help of those around you, much can be achieved. Expect to hear some 
interesting news abool so1neone from your past *** CANCER (Juoe 21-July 22): Get involved in activities that include chilcln:n or seniors. You need to have greater interactiro with people from different 
generations. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. ll): It will be diffirult to oolance everything today. Keeping the peace wilt be next to impossible so avoid any deep, dark discussion. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will need to be a sounding board for a good fiiend who has beco1ne involved with a married persro. The time to be blw,t with the ones you love is now. You will be thanked later for yoor help. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You need to be careful when dealing with an iooividual who is making you promises. Oiances are good that this person will not come through with his end of the ba,gain. Don't put your money on the line. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be emotional aboot your persmaJ life and the people yoo care about. You can't change the way someone feels aboot you. Try to 
be nioe and hope foc the best Being overprotective oc n:strictivc will cause 
discord.** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Sudden changes in your financial siruation will lead to problems with government agencies. Don't lry to cover up for someone else. You will have to let thing,, wifold naturally ifyou don't wwn to get yourself into trouble.*** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your desin: to be a part of some1hing big will lead to all sorts of other possibilities. Don't make a large droation. Your hard work and dedicatioo should suffice. **** AQUARIDS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This isn't the best ti1ne to open up and teU everyone what you lhink and how you feel. Being vocal will only lead to friction and all kinds ofn:pe,russions. Do yoor own thing and let others fend foc themselves. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Youc involvement in new groups will lead to a chang,: in your ootlook as well as yoor plans. Someme yoo meet through work may show interest in you. Bewan:: It will probebly lead to gossip. ***** Birthday Baby: You will be loyal, trustworthy and always willing to help the underdog. You will have a tendency to try to do too much for !00 many. Yoo will be focever t,ying to fit as much as possible into each day. 
Oieck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroodvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT X02 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

-
-------------------------------------------------------~-----~-~---~-----­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name _____________________ Address ___________________ 
• j
City _______ State ____ Zip.______ 
., ',  I.'  . I,,  
..  PORTS  
Thursday, September 12, 2002  

FOOTBALL 
Watson back in action 
By CHRJS FEDERICO Sports Ediror 
The biggest opponent for the Notre Dame defense thls season has been microscopic -a virus that infected senior inside line­backer Courtney Watson just two days before the team's opener against Maryland. 
-
Watson had hocn so weak and lost so much weight that he missed both the Maryland and Purdue games. His replacement, sophomore Brandon Hoyte, had never played a down with the Irish, not even with the special teams unit. That's why his play on defense -17 tackles in two games ­has been such a pleasant sur­prise for Irish players and coach­es. "I think [Hoyte] played well, especially for a guy who's never played before," Watson said about the play of his replace­ment. "To go out and play against a team like Maryland as your first snaps in any game ­not even a specials teams guy ­to go on the field in prime time game against a nationally­ranked team, J think he did great. Then to come back the next week and play a totally dif­ferent offense and still perform well, I think he did a great job. It shows the type of depth we have on our defense." Combined with the solid play of first-time starters Mike Goolsby -the team's leading tackler -and Derek Curry, the Irish linebacking corps has pro­vided the backbone of a strong 
Irish defense. 

Watson practiced with the team for the ffrst time Tuesday, and his return has given the Irish something they didn't expect to have at the start of the season -depth. 
"I really like the play ofthe two young kids that have been play­ing in these early ball games, but it adds some depth at that posi­tion." lrish linebackers coach Bob Simmons said. "It allows us to rotate, because Courtnev, right now, is a guy that can play both positions." 
The virus and lingering effects caused Watson to lose some weight and strength. He's finally getting back to the physical shape he had been in prior to the illness. 
"I lost some weight, but I've gained most it back," Watson said. 'Tm about four or five pounds lighter now then when I got sick. The problem with the virus was that there was really no medication I could take for it, so I basically had to live with hit. It was such a long process, because my body had become so weak." 
Watson has returned to prac­tice with the mentality that he will again be the starter. 
"The way I'm preparing for this week is as if I'll be playing full time," Watson said. "I don't know how it's going to play out, but I'm preparing myself to go out and play every snap against Michigan. I want to do what 1 need to give us the best chance to win. If that means I only play five or six snaps, then I'll go out and play my best for five or six snaps. But right now, I'm preparing myself as if I'm going to play 65 snaps." 

The coaches are still undecid­ed about who will start. Tho best possibility seems to be that Watson, Hoyte and Goolsby will split time at their two linebacker positions. 
"I don't see lour situation! changing a lot," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "That will just give us a little more depth. I'm not going to say who's starting because I don't know. Right now, I'd say we're going to go the way we've been going with Courtney rotating in. But right now, that remains to be seen until we finish practice tomorrow." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

SOCCER 
Chapman having all around success on field 
Chapman to the right fullback helped the Irish record nine can attest, Chapman's versatili­experimented with playingBy JOE LICANDRO 
position because of her speed shutouts and post an impressive ty separates her from other Chapman at three different field Sports Writer 
and tackling ability. 0.82 goals against average to go players. positions -forward, midfielder, Chapman admits she was a bit along with her three goals and "Chappie is a special player," and fullback. Last weekend, in There are two types of soccer surprised by the move from for­two assists. For these reasons, said Waldrum. "She is such a games against defending players. Those that prefer to ward to fullback, but was will­Chapman earned a spot on luxury to have on the team as a national champion Santa Clara score goals and those that pre­ing to do anything to help the Soccer America's All-Freshman coach because she has the abili­and NCAA semifmalist Portland, fer to prevent the other team team win. team and joined Irish team­ty to play any position." Chapman rescued the Irish by from scoring. It is rare when a 'TU go wherever the team mates Lindsey Jones and First-year goalkeeper Lauren chasing down one-on-one scor­player can excel at both. The needs me. Starting out last year, Monica Gonzales as the first trio Kent echoed her coach's senti­ing opportunities for the other
-
Notre Dame womens soccer I didn't like playing right back, of defenders from the same ments, commenting on how team. In the Irish's 1-0 loss to team is blessed to have such a but I got more comfortable as school to be named First Team much more comfortable she Portland in the final game of the player on their roster. Her the season went along," said All-Big East. feels when Chapman is playing Notre Dame Classic, Chapman name is Candace Chapman. Chapman. "Now I really like Even more impressive, defense in front of her. played the entire first half at 
As a freshman last year, playing right back. I get a lot of Chapman started every game as "I always feel better knowing defense, where she shut down "Chappie" as her teammates room to run because of the sys­a freshman except one due to that Candace is in front of me," the high-powered Portland call her, began her Irish career tem we play and that's one of illness. That game was the said Kent. "She's always been attack. as a starting forward in place of my strengths -attacking peo­[rish's last of the season -a very good, but now she is so The Pilots' only score came the injured Melissa Tancredi. ple." second round loss to upstart much stronger ... It's almost after Chapman was moved to \\'hen Tancredi returned to the Despite never having played a Cincinnati in the NCAA impossible to get the ball past the upper midfield in an effort lineup, Notre Dame coach game at the fullback position Tournament. Chappie." 
sec SOCCERJpage 15Randy Waldrum mowid before last season, Chapman As her teammates and coach Already this season, Waldrum 

SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL
SOCCER
FOOTBALL 
TENNIS

t-w 
Versatile Chapman playing 
Mens team hopes to 
Saint Mary's 0 
Watson returns 
reload 
Adrian 3

cc !i 
well
::5 

Irish linebacker Courtney Watson missed 
Graduation depleted the
c:s 

Right fullback Candace Chapman 
Notre Dame's first two games with a viral 
Irish tennis team and the Irish 
Without Elizabeth Albert or Stacey Stark, 

has played three different positions 
Ct. ~ infection. He will finally return to the field 
hope to use tougher work ethic 
the Belles fell flat against the Bulldogs

this season and had success at all of 
this Saturday against Michigan. 
to overcome their losses. 
Tuesday night in a conference match-up. 
them.

U) !ii 
page 12

back page 
page 14

back page 






