
Progress reports
CLOUDY 
Wednesday 

The Observer staff grades the Notre Dame student government of the 
2001-2002 school year in a special section. 
HIGH 50° 
JANUARY 23, 

In Focus
LOW31° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 72 HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Out with the old, in with a new LaFortune 
. University plans to renovate student center 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Writer 
In recent years students have been asked to feel out surveys regarding their levels of satisfaction with the food services that are provided on campus, and finally the sug­gestions for improvement are being answered as there are plans to offer new restaurants in LaFortune. 
"I am really excited about this addition because students can say their input led directly to these improvements. It was their responses on student government and food services surveys that led to this deci­sion," said Brooke Norton, stu­dent body president. 
Since last spring, the Office of Food Services in conjunction with the Offices of Student Activities and Affairs have been talking with and search­ing for restaurants to replace Allegro and Tomassito's. Work is already in progress to trans­form the former Alumni Room into a Starbucks. 
"I think if the new restau­

rants are well advertised it will work," said junior Lindsey Horvath. "I don't think Allegro and Tomassito's are well advertised. Anyone can go to Burger King at any time, but Allegro has funky hours which I was never sure of." 
According to Dave Prentkowski, director of food services, the initiative behind making the changes in the restaurant services at LaFortune was driven by a survey that analyzed student dissatisfaction. 
"Working with student affairs we were looking at LaFortune and we wanted to know what kind of things can we do in LaFortune to enhance the service," said Prentkowski. 
In the spring of 2001, facul­ty, staff and student focus groups to discuss how service could be improved were held. According to Prentkowski, there was an overwhelming interest in Starbucks. 
"We wanted to attract cus­tomers from all walks of life to interact and we made the deci­sion to bring in an operation that would be attractive beyond the typical meal peri­ods," he said. "Starbuck's name percolated to the top." 
Over Christmas break, remodeling began in order to accommodate Starbucks and it 
UNIFIED PIECES 

Chandra Johnson, assistant to University President Edward Malloy, presents a quilt before a crowd of students in Coleman Morse Center. The quilt honors the legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr. in one of several events of "Operation Love," which intends to celebrate King's life and death. 
Alumnus donates to writing program 
By GEREMY CARNES 
News Writer 
After a 1.5 million-dollar donation by best-selling author and Notre Dame alumnus, Nicholas Sparks, Creative Writing Program students will have the opportunity to partic­ipate in publishing and intern­ship programs 
"It's the first major gift to the program, so it's a tremen­dous boost," said Valerie Sayers, director of the pro­gram. 
The University created the Creative Writing Program in 1990 as a two-year course leading to a Masters of Fine Arts degree. The program admits five fiction and five poetry students each year. The Sparks gift will give several of those students the opportunity to gain experience in the pub­lishing field. 
"LSparks] not only gave us the money, but [he] made the phone calls to get the intern­ships," Sayers said. 
The internships are part of the Sparks Summer Fellows Program. Each year, two stu­dents will serve as interns in New York literary agencies and publishing houses. This year, the award recipients will work at the Sanford Greenburger Associate's liter­ary agency and Warner Books. 
"There was tremendous interest," Sayers said about the internships. All the stu­dents in the program are eligi­ble. The agency and publish­ing house will select the interns based on the student's letters of application, resumes and telephone interviews. 
Another program made pos­sible by Sparks's gift is the Nicholas Sparks Fellowship in Creative Writing, which will annually grant two students assistantships on the Notre Dame Review, the University's national literary journal. 
Finally, the Sparks prize will 
see WRITING/page 6 


is anticipated that it will open "I liked studying in the pus," said freshman Katie in April. Operating hours are Alumni room and I am disap­Kurowski. still to be determined, but pointed that they are replacing While Kurowski opposes the Prentkowski said that it will it with Starbucks because of addition of Starbucks to cam­most likely be open until the the location and there are pus, not all students feel the early hours of the morning. already coffee shops on cam-
see LAFORTUNE/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Real w-omen show respect 
Something has been bothering me for quite 
some time and I want to finally get it off my 
chest. 
It's about respect. 
It's about respecting 
women. 
It's about women 
respecting women. 
It all started at one of my last football games as a Notre Dame student. As we all quickly learn as fresh­men, most students don't actually sit in their desig­nated seats. Rather, you sit wherever you can whenev­er you get to the stadium. Such was the status quo for four seasons and no one ever hassled me about it. 

Until halfway through the first quarter of the USC game when my friends and I were approached by a very unhappy looking group of girls. This foursome, headed by a woman from the same hometown as one of my best friends, insisted that we move out of their seats and into the seats we were given. Initially, I didn't know how to respond because never before had I been presented with such a claim. Looking behind me, I could see that there weren't any seats left in the senior section. Looking ahead, toward my rightful seats, l could see my fellow seniors. If I were to move closer to the field to my right­ful seat and push those seniors out, then they would have to go to their seats and push oth­ers out. It would be impossible for everyone to iron the problem out. 
I tried explaining this to these women, but they didn't care. They wanted us gone. So, I tried explaining it again. My friends and I even offered to move over and make room for them, but they weren't interested in compro­mise. Instead of taking us up on the offer, the woman leading this quad looked at my friend -the one who comes from the same home­town as she -and called us a very, very bad name. 
This woman called us a derogatory word referring to a part of the female anatomy -a part of her female anatomy. With no concern for the years of oppression women have faced and with no care for the shame women still have to overcome about their own bodies, this angry woman showed us that she has a lot to learn about being a woman. 
Real women don't knock down themselves in an effort at knocking down other women. Real women don't take advantage of nega­tive attitudes about women. Real women don't further society's igno­rance about what it means to be a woman. 
Real women don't use a bad word about a beautiful part of their bodies to hurt their fel­low women. 
Real women learn to find comfort in who they are and what their bodies look like. 
By using such a tasteless, classless and immature slur, this "woman" proved that real women have a long way to go. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at MSmithe.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday thmugh Friday excep, during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.. 
THIS WEEK IN MICHIANA 
Monday-Friday.  Thursday-Saturday  
. Gallery Opening: Masks  . Film Festival: Notre  
and Figures, Form and  Dame Student Film  
Styles: The Christensen  Festival Hesburgh Library  
Family Collects African  auditorium, 7:30 p.m. and  
Art, Mestrovic Studio  9:30 p.m.  
Gallery,  
2p.m.  

Compiled from U•Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
University reviews out-0f-control early admissions 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
The day after Yale University President Richard Levin told The New York Times he wanted elite colleges to abandon early admissions, the phones at Woodbridge Hall were busy. 
High school guidance counselors were calling to compliment Levin on his announcement. Parents thanked him for opening the door -even if it was just a little bit -to a less angst­ridd en application process for their children. Yale students and high school seniors wrote him e-mails of support. 
"The response I received was enor­mous -exactly what I had hoped for," Levin said. "I knew I had stirred the pot." 
Levin has stirred the pot so much, in fact, that television and radio outlets 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Smokeless tobacco stirs debate 
Ohio State University researchers are fired up over their study on the uses of smokeless tobacco in Ohio. The National Institutes of Health awarded Mary Ellen Wewers, professor of nursing, and her colleagues a $1.3 billion grant to complete the research. The study will take place over the next three years and is expected to be completed in June 2004. Researchers will compare oral health in smokeless tobacco users and nonusers and test a cessation program for quit­ting smokeless tobacco use, Wewers said. "Nicotine dependence is present in smokeless tobacco users, as in cigarette users," she said. "The effects of nicotine occur more slowly and last longer in smokeless tobac­co users." Wewers and her colleagues will test assist­ed methods of tobacco cessation, including the use of pharmacotherapy, such as nicotine patches, and behavioral counseling. "Success rates for quitting tobacco, in general, are around 20 to 30 percent with treatment," Wewers said. 
The Lantern 


LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditiollS and high temperatures 
4A<;A~q 6fo Q 1) b u 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

from around the country have begged him for interviews since his announcement. And after sparking a national debate on the issue, the Times received a good deal of letters from its readers, some of which appeared days after a masthead edito-


UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
Student leads police to kidnapper 
An anonymous tip led Pittsburgh police to the hideout of the suspect wanted for kidnapping a University of Pittsburgh student. Germaine Cook, a 26-year-old Hill District native, is accused of robbing the student of $115 and holding him captive for more than eight hours, according to police Comander Dom Costa. Police arrested Cook, who uses the alias Shawn Williams and the nickname "Blue," last Thursday night at a Hill District home. Costa commended the Pitt student, who had recently transferred from Texas, for assisting authorities with the investigation, saying that without his help the suspect would still be at large. According to Costa, the student led police to every house and automated teller machine that the kidnapper took him to. He also visually identified the kidnapper's friends, which ultimately led to the suspect's identification. 
The Pitt News 


NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 23. 
Lines separate hlgh temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

.......... .......... ~ 
C 2002 AccuWoather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pn»•urt: 

® © D c=J L] CJ Ci] '
' 
.

High Low Show•r• R•ln T~¦ tonn ¦ Flurrl•• Snow lo• 

Vf8 A.s90ClakH1 Press 

Atlanta 72 58 Las Vegas 49 33 Portland 44 41 
Baltimore 57 45 Memphis 69 52 Sacramento 53 33 
Boston 47 42 Milwaukee 42 24 St. Louis 58 33 
Chicago 47 27 New York 55 43 Tampa 80 60 
Houston 78 64 Philadelphia 57 44 Washington DC 59 48 
Saturday Saturday 
. Play: "Cinderella and . Concert: The Repertory" O' Laughlin Summertime Blues Band Auditorium. Saturday at 2 at American Legion, 
p.m. and 7 p.m. Bourbon 
rial endorsing Levin's statement. 
"To have the president of one of America's great universities say that the current admissions system is out of control carries enormous news value." said James Fallows. national correspondent for the Atlantic Monthly, who himself wrote a land­mark piece in September that made the case for abolishing early applica­tion programs. "With the position Yale occupies on top of the university edu­cation pyramid, it has the influence to do something about the way colleges admit their students." 
But it is other colleges, Levin readily acknowledged, the University must convince to drop their early admission programs if Yale is to eliminate its own. 
The Yale Herald 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




British House leader analyzes terrorism 
chancellor Brandt's apology to By JOE ACKERMAN the Jews at the Warsaw ghetto. News Writer In regards to the current U.S. 
war on terrorism, Williams said 
September 11 has come and that, "Politically, by describing gone, yet the aftermath of the the attacks as an act of war attacks on America still live on was attractive." This she in many and effect their lives argued was due to the fact that on a daily basis. • it gave the President "great 
Originally scheduled to lec­freedom of action." ture on the topic of "Science However, Williams expressed and God," Shirley Williams concern over how the United geared her Tuesday night lec­States could go about a war on ture on "War and Peace," as terrorism without addressing part seven of her eight lectures groups such as the IRA and 
comprising the Erasmus lec­Spain's ETA and labeling them tures series. with enemy status. 
To her audience in the "Defining terrorists as the Hesburgh Center Auditorium, enemy is treacherous tcrrito­the British House of Lords rv." she stated. 
member discussed what she "Williams went on to lay out a 
thinks in regard to the nature of terrorism itself and also what  "Defining terrorists as the enemy is  series of ideas, which she feels are essential to  
can and should be done to coun­ treacherous territory."  the problem of containing  
teract its poten­tial effects.  Shirley Williams  terrorism. Some of these  
Terrorism,  member, British House of Lords  ideas include  
Williams  a  recognized  
argued, has as  system  of  
its basis the dual  international  

problems of resentment and law, a more even distribution of unmet expectations. It evolves wealth and resources and the from historical wrongdoings, recognition of responsibility for that have long lasting ramifica­international peace by all 
tions among those affected nations, especially Western which leads to strong views powers. and even stronger convictions. "No instrument is more 
"Terrorism is parasitical on appropriate," Williams com­civilized society and will mented in regard to a proposed destroy it if it is not contained," international court system that said Williams. would handle cases of terror­In order to correct these his­ism at an international level. torical wrongs, Williams said The U.S. Congress voted heavily symbolic actions can go against joining the not yet oper­a long way to repairing dam­ational court [which has been age, such as the pope's apology joined by 41 nations so far and for slavery and former German will become operational when 

Shirley Williams, a British foreign policy expert and member of the British House of Lords, talked to students and others about the implications of the U.S.'s current war on terrorism. 
it reaches 60] on the grounds killed 5,000 Muslims. -She and realizing world peace. that it could take U.S. citizens believes it is imperative that International cooperation, under its jurisdiction. there be an international stan­through support of organiza­
Williams stressed a compari­dard and method in place for tions such as the United son between the attacks perpe­dealing with such crimes and Nations and the recognition of trated by Osama Bin Laden on criminals so similar punish­instability and inequity in the New York and Washington, ments can be meted out. world is an essential step which killed 3,000 Americans, Ultimately, Williams argued, toward achieving these goals. with the massacre of Muslims it is necessary for the nations of in the former Yugoslavia by the world to realize these ideas former Serbian President in order to work toward the Contact Joe Ackerman at Slobodan Milosevic, which goals of containing terrorism ackerman.4@nd.edu. 

is currently accepting applications for the 2002-03 term of 


EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is eligible to apply. Applicants should have a strong foundation in print journalism and skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop. 
Applicants should submit an eight or more page statement detailing what he or she wishes to accomplish in the term. Applications are due to Mike Connolly by Thursday, Jan. 24 at 5 p.m. Any questions about the application or application procedure should be directed to Mike Connolly at 631-4542. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 

Lafortune 
continued from page I 
same way. 
"I think putting a Starbucks in Lafortune is a great idea. With the amount of traffic that · goes through LaFortune every day, attempting to study there is difficult as it is. So, in my opinion, why 
"Burgers greasy. Pizza greasy. Mexican food greasy. We need healthy food," said freshman Andrea Brault. 
Another possible addition that Notre Dame is currently in conversation with is Sbarra. Together they are developing a program and budget to see if it is feasible for Sbarro to open a restaurant on campus. Sbarra offers pizza and Italian dishes. 
With the like­

not improve lihood of an
"If there were a Taco Bell 
the social Italian restau­
on campus, my life would 
atmosphere rant opening in of the stu­be complete. " the basement, a dent center Mexican restau­even if it rant will proba­
Greg Kuhl 
means sacri­bly replace
freshman
ficing a little Tomassito's. 
space that some say could be used for studying," said freshman Andy Rutz. 
Besides providing the typical Starbucks products of coffee and pastry items, a new line of Starbucks products consisting of salads and sandwiches will be offered. 
Prentkowski said that after evaluating the surveys and the student lounge in the base­ment of LaFortune it was decided that the area needed to be a more desirable student space. In addition, an Italian and pizza dining area was appealing. 
Students had mixed opinions about the quality of the food offered in LaFortune. 
Prentkowski 
has been in contact with a handful of Mexican restaurants and has conducted taste tests. The most favorable results were the food selections from Eddie Peppers. 
"I have never heard of Eddie Peppers, and I think that Taco Bell would be far superior. If there were a Taco Bell on campus, my life would be com­plete. From an economic standpoint it is my belief that a Mexican restaurant would pro­duce far more revenue than Tomassito's," said freshman Greg Kuhl. 
However, freshman Bianca Cardiel had a different opinion and said, "It's going to be fake 


Govt. dept gains new name in fall 
By JOHN FANNING 
Nc:ws Writer 
To more accurately reflect and market its curriculum, Notre Dame's Department of Government and International Studies is changing its name the Department of Political Science next fall. 
"The universal topics that we are interested in are mainly political issues -issues that are not sufficiently covered by the term 'government,"' said department head Michael Zuckert. "For example, we offer courses on political par­ties, which are not specifically a part of government and the area of international studies also fits better under the term political science." 
Yearly evaluations also moti­vated the name change, said Zuckert. Every academic department is annually evalu­ated by outside reviewers to ensure maintenance of the University's academic stan­dards and to ensure that the department is making the best choices in terms of course offerings and topics covered within each specific major. Although the government pro­gram received high marks in all areas, the reviewers sug­gested the name change to more accurately reflect the ideals of the department. 

This sentiment was echoed by letters from prospective stu­dents wishing to study political science at Notre Dame, but confused as to whether or not the major was offered. 
Since the department is affili­ated with the American Political Science Association, and the new name is more common in universities across the country, the change will allow the department to "stop sending misleading messages" to its students -current and prospective, said Zuckert. 
Lizzette Butkiewicz, a junior government major, agreed and said that as long as the ideals of the major were not altered, the change in name was fine with her. 
Zuckert maintains that the curriculum and the varied approaches to its subjects used by the major will not be altered in conjunction with the change. Moreover, current seniors will still graduate with majors in government and international relations on their transcript. Anyone graduating in 2003 and beyond will graduate with a degree bearing ihe amended name. 
Contact John Fanning at fanning.ll@nd.edu. 


J..i~ti~9=~oim 
~ Model"' E<eeded J'or sb.o:rt; h.a,i.:r c-u. t;s
--.vo:.:.ieXI./III.eII. :ro.r t;:ra,i.:n.i.:.ig cl.a,sses 
Must Present This Ad Before Services Are Performed 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
$,:-·, 11. 0 
Mexican food. I love Allegro because subs are a healthy alternative." 
The processes of bringing in and searching for these new restaurants has been compli­cated because of business issues regarding whether it is possible for the restaurant to develop on campus because of preexisting franchise relation­ships. All of the restaurants would accept both flex point and domer dollars and be owned and operated by Notre Dame, similar to a franchise agreement. 
In addition to expanding and modifying the food services at La Fortune, students can pur­chase smoothies and pizza in the Coleman Morse Center on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. Campus Ministry proposed this idea to the office of Food Services last spring in order to provide stu­dents with another opportunity for socialization. The snack bar opened last Thursday and after its first weekend of oper­the opportunity to grow signifi­ation. cantly," Prentkowski said. 

"Returns were respectable but it has a long way to go. But we didn't do any promotion on purpose because we wanted to Contact Meghanne Downes at see how it would work. It has downes.4@nd.edu. 




Thin & Healthy 
"Your Last Stop For Weight Loss" Mishawaka, IN ANNOUNCES 
NOTRE DAME SPECIAL *$150 Discount* 
Less Than A Dollar A Day CALL 
257--8400 

Our members KNOW why they belong! 

Present This Coupon *$150 Discount University ofNotre Dame Special 
For Students, Faculty and Employees Located at 413 W. McKinley Ave. (across from K-Mart) •Applies to a one year full privilege membership 
-----------------------------~----------­






ATION 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Jordanian police deter rioters: 
Police in a southern city in Jordan used tear gas Tuesday to disperse more than 100 riot­ers who accused police of torturing a 17-year­old to death, witnesses said. Nine officers were injured, including one shot in the head and another in the che,st, and five civilians were injured, residents of Maan, 140 miles south of the Jordanian capital, told The Associated Press. 
Britain freed of foot and mouth: 
The World Organization for Animal Health has declared Britain free of foot-and-mouth disease, paving the way for the full resump­tion of meat exports. The ruling by the Paris­based body could soon see British meat, meat products and dairy products back on ihe tables of many foreign countries. 


NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ore. school chief faces charges: 
Oregon's top education official was accused Tuesday of more than 1,400 ethics violations for allegedly using government cars and tele­phones for personal business. The Government Standard and Practices Commission said its initial investigation found that School Superintendent Stan Bunn repeatedly violated a state law prohibiting the use of public office for private financial gain. 
Mo. families hope for buyout: 
Families whose homes in Herculaneum, Mo., have been contaminated by the nation's largest lead smelter said at a meeting Tuesday that they want the federal government to buy their properties. The government announced last week it would move hundreds of residents ­most of them _in families with young children or pregnant women -into temporary homes while experts carry out a multimillion-dollar cleanup and crackdown on emissions. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Vandals hit South Bend cemetery: 
A cemetery that is regularly vandalized has been hit again, this time with 50 to 100 headstones damaged, including the well­kept grave of a child who drowned two years ago. Caretaker Earl Hullinger said the weekend damage was the worst ever at Mount Pleasant Cemetery, which contains 5,000 headstones. Sentimental items adorn­ing many graves were thrown, broken or stolen and the heads of statue angels and animals were knocked off. Several eternal­
flame candles also were smashed. 
Market Watch January 22 
Dow 9,713.80 -58.05 
]~ Same: 
Composite Volume:
~ 21l 1,298,802,944 
AMEX: 823.40 -7.24 NASDAQ: 1,882.53 -47.81 NYSE: 574.27 -1.92 S&P 500: 1,119.31 -8.27 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

OMPANV/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
KMART CORP (KM) -60.34 -1.05 0.69 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -9.57 -1.16 10.96 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -4.19 -1.19 37.40 ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.37 -0.79 18.06 CO INTL LTD (TYC) +24.02 +1.10 47.55 

GETTY Photo Kmart became the largest retailer to seek court protection from creditors Tuesday when it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy after plunges in profits and poor fourth quarter performance. 
Kmart files for bankruptcy 
formance in the fourth terms of every lease by the cash flow while it restruc­Associated Press quarter. Fourth quarter end of the first quarter of tures. earnings are to be released 2002, and will close unprof­It has targeted emergence 
DETROIT next week. itable or underperforming from Chapter 11 in 2003.

When Sebastian S. Kresge The No. 3 discount retail­stores. Some analysts said "We are determined toopened his first store here er known for the BlueLlght Kmart would close up to complete our reorganiza­in 1899, he sold everything Special and Martha Stewart 700 of its stores. tion as quickly and smooth­for 5 and 10 cents, a mar­fashions has struggled Kmart has about 275,000 ly as possible, while takingketing strategy that caught against No. 1 Wal-Mart employees and stores in all full advantage of thison and helped turn his com­Stores Inc. and No. 2 Target 50 states, Puerto Rico, the chance to make a freshpany into a multibillion-dol­Corp. What Kmart needs, U.S. Virgin Islands and start and reposition Kmartlar discount chain of more retail analysts say, is a plan. Guam. for the future," CEO Chuckthan 2,100 stores. 

Analysts say it's that kind Conor Reilly, senior part­Kmart, which filed its Conaway said in a state­of vision that Kmart Corp. ner with Gibson, Dunn and petition in U.S. Bankruptcy ment. named so in 1977 because Crutcher, said Kmart needs Court for the Northern Kmart also named Ronald Kmarts were Kresge's most to ascertain "what their District of Illinois in B. Hutchison executive vice successful stores -needs sort of retailing rationale is, Chicago, said it had secured president and chief restruc­to bring itself back. what's going to bring cus­$2 billion in financing from turing officer. Hutchison, 
Tuesday, Kmart filed for tomers to them as opposed Credit Suisse First Boston, 51, was most recently chief Chapter 11 bankruptcy and to other competitors." Fleet Retail Finance Inc., financial officer of became the largest retailer "They have let things get General Electric Capital Advantica Restaurant 
to seek court protection in such a downward spiral," Corp. and J.P. Morgan Group Inc .. where he and from creditors. Kmart filed he said. Chase Bank. The financing, new Kmart Chairman for protection because of As part of its reorganiza­approved late Tuesday by James B. Adamson were several factors, including tion, Troy-based Kmart said Bankruptcy Court Judge instrumental in the compa­lower-than-expected holi­it will evaluate the perfor­Susan Pierson Sonderby, ny's successful reorganjza­day sales and earnings per-mance of every store and will help the company's tion. 
CHINA 

Settlers migrate to Tibetan region 
1,000 miles west of Beijing, accord­way to develop western China. 
Associated Press 
ing to provincial officials. The World Bank got involved in 
BEIJING Irrigation works are being built the Dulan project in the late l 990s, 
China is moving 17,000 mostly and improvements made to existing saying it would give 60,000 people Chinese and Muslim settlers to a farmland, Zou Han bin, a a better life. It agreed to lend China trdaditionally Tibetan region in its spokesman for the Dulan county $40 million to cover half the cost. remote west, reviving a plan aban­government. said in a telephone Tibetan activists condemned the doned by the World Bank after interview. plan. contending it would dilute protests by critics of China's The project's revival fulfills a Qinghai's Tibetan character and Tibetan policies. pledge by China to go it alone fol­ravage the local environment by 
The settlers are to occupy a for­lowing a battle pitting the Tibetan increasing demands for water and mer labor camp in Dulan county, government in exile and its sup­farmland. They lobbied the bank to an arid stretch of the Tibetan porters against Chinese leaders, order new inspections and a second plateau in Qinghai province, some who say resettlement is an effective approval vote. 
page6 


Lectures brings profs to dorms 
By ERIN IARUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
When staff members in the office of the student body presi­dent were searching through their archives, they decided to bring back a lecture series that was popu­lar at 

"The purpose is to give 
N o tr e the title of D a m e Notre Dame students a chance the lecture during the series
to hear the best professors 
1970s and reflects the 
at this University.,. 
1980s, fact that according professors t 0 are encour­
Brendan Harris 

Brendan aged to give
staff member, Office of the President 
O,,Campus_ Jffl1iorParffltWeekmb St,eciAl fcl,n,atlf t4·17, 1~02 Come early; stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $60.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four n~hts. Rooms are availabie Thursday through Slllday. For reservations can 574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436  
If you were a Notre Dame professor, what would you say in your... Last Lecture? ''Teaching at the Margins'' presented by David F. Ruccio L Associate Professor of Economics Kellogg Institute Fellow Wednesday, January 23 7pm St. Ed's Hall Lounge REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED!!! SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT and ST. EDWARD'S HALL  

Harris. a s t a f f member in the Office of the President. 
Last spring, student govern­ment held the first lecture in the Last Lecture Series. By fall semester of this year., the series' popu1arity grew to the point that approximately 175 students came to listen to professor Hugh Paige, Harris said. 
"He was a remarkable suc­cess," said Harris. "It was really packed." 
The first lecture in the series for this semester will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in St. Edward's 


Writing 
continued from page ·1 
go to a single Creative Writing Program graduate each year. The prize grants the 

"It's the first major gift to
recipient a Prize; Mark year's resi­the program, so it's a Behr, whose dency at novel "The
tremendous boost." 
Notre Dame Smell of to work on his Apples" has or her writ-Valerie Sayers won numer­ing. The director, Creative Writing Program ous awards; 
award recipi­ent will also be expected to teach a class at the University and give a public reading during the year. 
Despite the Creative Writing Program's small size and short history, it has had numerous success stories. 
"We put it down to the sup­port the students give each other," Sayers said. She consid-Hall. Economics professor David Ruccio will present a talk enti­tled, "Teaching at the Margins." 

"The purpose is to give Notre Dame students a chance to hear the best professors at this University," Harris said. "It also gives the professors an_ opportu­nity to speak on a topic of their 
choice." 
Indeed, 

a lecture as if it were the last one of their career. 
"Often that turns into some really inspiring words from our professors," Harris said. 
Harris selects the lecturers based on a list of professors that students nominated, he explained. He added that he tries to select professors from a variety of academic disciplines. 
Admission is free, and refresh­ments are also provided, accordingto Harris. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at laruffa.l@nd.edu. 
ers the program's students to be among the most cooperative 
graduate  students  at  the  
University.  
Past  graduates  include  

Michael Collins, whose novel, 
"The Keepers of Truth," was on the short list for a Booker 
Tom Coyne, author of "A Gentlemen's 

Game," a novel that later became a motion picture and Jenny Boully, who won the Associated Writing Program's Journal Prize for her poetry. 
Contact Geremy Carnes at carnes.4@nd.edu. 
The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 

Bush team looks at Enron 
Associated Press 
President Bush on Tuesday used his recess appointment power to put an ofiicia.1 from a major accounting firm on the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is investi­gating the auditing work done for troubled energy trader Enron Corp .. 
Bush appointed Cynthia A. Glassman, a principal at the Hig Five accounting firm Ernst & Young. She worked at the Federal Reserve Board from 1977 to 1986 as economist and senior economist and in other positions. 
The accounting profession has come under heightened public scrutiny as a result of the collapse of Enron, and the SEC is investigating the audit­ing work done for the company by major accountant Arthur Andersen LLP. 
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., objected to Bush's bypassing the Senate approval process to appoint Glassman. 
"To make a recess appoint­ment of an individual who comes from the accounting profession without giving the Senate an opportunity to review this nominee's qualifica­tions just invites challenges," Wyden said in a telephone interview. "I think the Senate will say this is very troubling." 
Oregon's largest electric utili­ty is Portland General Electric Co., an Enron subsidiary where many employees lost their retirement savings last fall after Enron barred them from selling company stock from their Enron-dominated 401(k) accounts. 


L __ _ 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 

Dinner,s S1A 1e
vv, atsh· 
Gift Certificates trts 
Friday, January 25, 2002 • 7:00 PM-4:00 AM Joyce Center • 631-6100 • recsports.nd.edu 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
R~~ 





Still no 
homework yet? What are you


waiting for? 




GO OUT!!! 
The Alumni-Senior Club is the only place to be this Wednesday. $10 Lifetime Membership Special extended one more week. 
Check out www.nd.edu/ ~ask for info on specials and other events. 

Military relaxes strict dress policy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The U.S. military, in a policy reversal, will no longer require servicewomen in Saudi Arabia to wear Muslim­style head-to-toe robes when venturing off base. 
Instead, wearing the robe, known as an abaya, "is not mandatory but is strongly encouraged," according to an order by Gen. Tommy Franks, head of the U.S. Central Command, e-mailed to com­manders in the region Saturday. 
The Air Force's highest­ranking female fighter pilot is challenging the rule in court. Lt. Col. Martha McSally's law­suit calls the policy unconsti­tutional and says it improper­ly forces American women to conform to others' religious and social customs. 
McSally's lawsuit did not inspire the policy change, Central Command spokesman Col. Rick Thomas said Tuesday. 
"The policy was under review before the lawsuit was filed, so the change was not a direct result of that," Thomas said. 
McSally's lawsuit, filed in federal court in Washington, also challenges policies requiring servicewomen to be accompanied by a man when­ever they leave their base and to ride in the back seat of a car. Women are not allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia. 


1-800-SURFS-UP

www.studentexpress.com 

Thomas said those policies remain in effect. 
McSally will not drop her case, said John Whitehead, a lawyer with the Rutherford Institute, a religious freedom group representing her. The new policy is a step in the right direction but docs not go far enough, Whitehead said. 
"What it says to us is that it's not been rescinded," Whitehead said. "It's like say­ing, 'You're equal to us but you can't eat in the same restaurant because you're strongly encouraged to eat at one more fitting with your lower class.'" 
Whitehead said he has told McSally, who is now stationed at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Tuscon, Ariz., not to comment. Officials at the Air Force base referred calls to the Rutherford Institute. 
Central Command, which oversees the military in Saudi Arabia and other countries in the region, had defended the policy, put into place after the 1991 Gulf War. Central Command officials had said the requirements for service­women made them less likely to face harassment or attack. 
McSally and other critics said the policy was ironic, since U.S. forces in Afghanistan have fought to remove the Taliban regime, which required all women to wear an even more restrictive covering called a burkha. 
The change in policy "sends 
a.strong signal that we recog­mze that military women in Saudi Arabia should be treat­ed as their male compatriots are treated and be allowed to pick their civilian clothing," said Nancy Duff Campbell, co­president of the National W~men 's Law Center. Campbell's group is not a part of the lawsuit but has lobbied members of Congress to oppose the abaya rule. 
9-BALL BILLIARD 





TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY. JAN. 25 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level, LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: $225 worth of gift c;ertlficatas from BEST BUY. 
Sign up at NO Express. Limited space so sign up NOW! (Must present I.D. when registering.) 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
----------·---------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 





IEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Not.tt Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Darn,, IN 46556 
EorroR IN CHIEF Mike Connol!y 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MJ\NAGER  
Kerry Srnith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McE!wee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradcer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGE.R: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0,.,...... ,, ..,631-7471 FAX,,,, ... , .. ,, ...... , .. ,,.. , ... , .. ,. .. , .. ,,,,,,,., ,.,..........631-6927 ADVERTISING,,.,.,, ... ,.,,... ,, .. ,.,, ..... ,,,, ,,.631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF,, ........................ ,,............631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.....,.,,.....,,.... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 
NEWS,...,..,..............,. ................. , ........ , ....... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews, l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.•• , •...•• , •. ,. ................,. ................631-5303 observer. viewpoint, l@nd.edu SPORTS,,.,, .• , ...... , ... , .... ,. .....,. .........: ..... , .. ,, •• ,.631-4543 observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE......... , ......... ,, .. ,, ....... ,. ...... , , ............. ,631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARYS.. , .......... ,...... ,, .. ,................., •. 631-4324 
observer,smc, l@nd.edu PHOT0. ., ...... , ..• , .•., • ., ...... ,. .. ,...,...... ,...... ,.... .,631-8767 SYSTEMS/WES ADMINISTRATORS, ......, ......,..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obs,rver,nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press, 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-the 
movies/musk for 
minure forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet rhe editors and 
August 1999 
siaff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe UniversityofNotre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College, Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content, 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenra.ries, letters and columns present rhe views ofth~ ai'.i'thors and· not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofal! opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
QUl!stiom ~gttrding Obmvl!'rpolicies ihould be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mil« Connally. 

As a first year student at Notre Dame, I decided to get involved with our school and local community. Not feeling that I could commit a great deal of time, I decided to vol­unteer two afternoons a week with a creative writing pro­gram at Lincoln Elementary school. That was four years ago, and now as a senior, I run a tutoring program at Lincoln. I Nicholeen never imagined what a significant DePersis role the decision I made fresh­man year would play in my life. 
That initial involvement truly For impacted my views and my life, as I saw children suffering from a lack of love, assistance and com­passion and I became determined to help, Without ever leaving South Bend, I had gained a whole new perspective on life, faith, society, the world and myself and I was inspired to become involved and try to make a difference. 
Throughout my first year, I began to get more interested in the program and the problems necessitating the pro­gram and other similar services. As a result, during my sophomore year, I took the position of lead tutor through the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). This position allowed me to begin a program focused solely on tutoring. 
While still only volunteering twice a week, I grew more interested and engaged in the program and the lives of the children. Lincoln became a second home to me and the children and staff there truly began to feel like family. I grew to care a great deal about all the children I worked with and also began to realize that there were children suffering in this way nationwide. 
My time at Lincoln has not only opened my eyes, but has also motivated me to learn more about national social mal­adies. Wanting to learn firsthand about the problems chil­dren face, I decided to participate in an Urban Plunge and a Summer Service Project. I then volunteered with various anti-drug organizations and spent a semester interning at the Children's Defense Fund in Washington, D.C. 
Each of these experiences is due in large part to my time spent at Lincoln. While there, I have met many inspira­tional teachers and administrators, worked with some wonderful Notre Dame students and most importantly met many children that have inspired me to learn about the challenging problems they face and to take some action to fix those problems. 
While [ have accepted the fact that I cannot save the world by volunteering twice a week, I have learned what an impact I can make by taking some time to help, befriend and support the children in our local community. I have also learned that taking time to understand and experience the problems that many are forced to live with better prepares a person to be a part of the solution. 
We as Notre Dame students are often heard proclaiming our desire to fix the problems of the world, to be those political, social, spiritual or what have you, and yet how can we endeavor to remedy problems many of us have never experienced firsthand? Taking some time to volun­teer not only helps the people you work with directly, it also better informs you, thereby increasing your potential for discovering a remedy to those same problems. 
Over the course of the past four years, I have fostered strong and lasting relationships with many students at Lincoln. It is these relationships that inspire me to contin­ue to tutor even when it means not having as much time for myself, because these children give me something no one else can give. The children at Lincoln give me purpose and meaning, and they motivate me to use my education to help others. 
I strongly urge you to get involved, to take advantage of the opportunity to be a part of the local community, to learn and to grow. There are plenty of different service opportunities offered through the CSC to meet any of your interests and time constraints, all with varying levels of commitment. You don't need to commit an excessive amount of time; any time and love you can give will help and you will be surprised how much it will enhance your life as well. 
I invite you to attend this year's Social Concerns Festival held at the CSC on Thursday, Jan. 24 from 7-9 p.m. The Festival is a great opportunity to learn of the many ways to become involved in South Bend. You will be amazed how much your involvement in the local community will better your life. 
"For a More Just and Humane World" is the Center for Social Concerns's bi-weekly column in The Observer. Nicholeen DePersis is a senior government and computer applications major with a concentration in journalism. She plans on attending law school upon graduation. Contact the CSC at ray.11@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Scene Courtney Boyle Laura Kelly 
Do you plan to participate in activities 
Helena Payne Graphics 
"We can do no great things. only small 
celebrating Martin Luther King, Jr. day? 
Sports Andy Devoto 
things with great love." 
Katie McVoy Production Viewpoint Katie McVoy 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Mother Teresa
Teresa Fralish Lab Tech 
Catholic missionary
Angela Campos 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Study abroad economically 
After participating in an international So what I did for the following two study program, returning students semesters in Monterrey was to go as an often say ironically enough that their independent student. Not only did I best semester at Notre Dame was the save around $16 thousand over those one spent in a foreign country. The two semesters, I still received transfer experience is priceless. One learns a credits for my Monterrey classes. I rec­great deal about the culture. language, ommend to anyone considering any of people and lifestyle of another land. Notre Dame's smaller international 
I spent a year and a half of my life in programs that he or she do so indepen­Monterrey, Mexico at the Tecnologico dently of the University. However, if where I made lifelong friends, became one opts for a program in Europe like fluent in Spanish and learned a great England or France, that may well be deal about Mexico and myself. I do not worth the high prices. Still anyone regret a day. interesting in going abroad should 
There is only one thing that I, and investigate beforehand. mostly my parents, wish I could have And if you are worried about orienta­changed -paying full Notre Dame tion before going. I found that the mail­tuition my first semester there. ings, information and orientation ses­
Let's do a little math. The tuition for sion given by the school in Mexico were one semester at the Tecnologico of much more helpful and well organized Monterrey is $3,500. Add a university than Notre Dame's international study stipend of $500 a month, a dorm room offices. Though l must recognize the for $1,000, one roundtrip ticket to excellent job that the Notre Dame pro­Monterrey for $500 and one trip for gram is doing in making students spring break to Oaxaca for $500. The aware of study abroad opportunities sum amounts to $8,000, which is just and setting up numerous locations less than half of the cost of a semester around the world. at Notre Dame. My question is where Whatever you decide, get informed the heck did the other $8,000 dollars and continue to study abroad. I know go? that you will find that a semester spent 
The only explanation that occurs to in foreign land is indeed priceless. But me is that this is the cost of making why pay Notre Dame prices for it? your grades earned abroad help your GPA. You see, if one were to study inde­John Lauterbach pendent of the University programs, he senior or she would only earn the credits with Alumni Hall no grades. But that logic makes no Jan. 21, 2002 sense for anyone taking difficult cours­es that count towards their major. 
Be wild but 
respectful at 
basketball games 
I am very pleased that there is a is overweight does not mean that he group within the Notre Dame family or she does not deserve the respect that has decided to take it upon given to any other person. In no themselves to liven up the Notre way did that player deserve the Dame student body at home basket­ridicule that was cast upon him by ball games. It is great to see Notre Notre Dame students. Dame students cheering on their He was most likely embarrassed. fellow students on the court. Embarrassed because he knew that 
However. a line must be drawn. his friends and family were watch­Singling out individual players on ing and hearing him being made fun the opposition's team and ridiculing of on national television. them is ignorant and immature. However, he is not the one that is 
I;,>uring the Notre Dame­to be embarrassed. It is the Notre Georgetown basketball game I, Dame family that is to be embar­among many others, was disgusted rassed. The Notre Dame family to hear cheers that degraded the should be ashamed that certain physical characteristics of a partic­members do not believe that every­ular member of the Georgetown one should be treated with a certain basketball team. This player was a amount of respect. The Notre Dame large guy. According to the sheet of family should be ashamed that cer• paper that was passed out by the tain members do not know the dif­Leprechaun Legion, he had gained a ference between cheering on their lot of weight since last season. team and abusing the opposition. 
In order to try to get into this Notre Dame is a special place. The player's head the Leprechaun Notre Dame family consists of spe­Legion decided it would be appro­cial people. As students, we should priate to make fun of his large act as though we are deserving of stature. They passed out being affiliated with such a great McDonald's sacks to most of the stu­place and such great people. dent section to wave in the air when At basketball games get loud, be this player was at the free-throw wild, have fun and be respectful. line. At one point in the game, the student body began to chant, Douglas Pope "You're fat," while this player shot sophomore his free-throws directly in front of Sorin Hall the student section. Jan. 22, 2002 
Let me clue some of you in to something. Because another person 
GUEST COLUMN 
Raise education standards by lowering costs 
CHICAGO, Illinois 
Fifteen thousand dollars -that's how much l fig­ure I'll have to pay back to the federal government when I leave this fine institution (and that's not including the loans I'll have to take out for law 
school).For the last two and half years,  M" h II M IC e e ·  
I've been able to convince myself  Valiukenas  
that I was actually doing a good  
thing, that I was putting forth  
this extra money so that I could  The DePaulian  
get a quality education at a  
school that was devoted to serv­ 
ing every individual's needs.  

I chose DePaul University rather than any of the_ state schools because of its apparent commitment to the individual and for that, I was willing to live in debt for a few years after graduation. 
But, as I read the news items this week touting University of Illinois's soaring tuition increases, I realized that it did not matter whether I went to a state school or not. College has gotten way too expensive. 
According to a Credit World article, the average college student upon graduation has $12,000 in stu­dent loan debt. In this day and age, when it is required to have not only a bachelor's, but also a graduate degree to get a good job, this is ridiculous. 
How can a college graduate with $12,000 in debt convince himself or herself that it is a good idea to go to graduate school, where they are going to be immersed in further debt? 
Then, whether or not he or she goes to graduate school. can you honestly tell me that every college graduate is going to get a job where they will be able to pay off their loan right away? No, of course not. 
Now, some will argue that there are programs like Bright Start and U-Promise that allow parents to put people would want to attend and because colleges away money when their child is born or as they are and universities would not be so obsessed with prof-growing up, and then use that money to send them to it, the level of education would improve because col­a state school free of charge or get the tuition equiv-leges and universities could afford to be selective. alent at a private college or university. That way, rather than finding the majority of your 
While I agree that these are fantastic programs classmates from the same middle class areas, you and that more parents should get involved with ~~,,....,,.,_w.ould find your classmates from a variety of dif­them, they were not around when I was -;.••""· '''~?~~ . ferent locations, classes and backgrounds. young. So while l keep seeing commer-~~~ ..o:,,~.
-What an amazing thought that would cials about them, I'm still stuck with a ~ j_ be: to go to a college or university looming thought that in a few years, /' · _,r. . . that would remain competitive and I will have to pay off my $15,000 · · ·· l1:. ' ..-.;:::,:~-==-7 :c:.,,._ ' go to classes with a wide variety 
in undergraduate debt (and still more in law school debt). 
The problem is that as the cost of higher education continues to rise, less and less people will be 
abl~ ;~t!~~~ ~~=~~his trend 'Y(J will continue to grow and the need for multiple degrees will rise, thereby increasing the num­
ber of people who will be left with no other option but to finish high school and find a job, a job that will 
provide little to no benefits and will most likely barely pay minimum wage. 
So, I propose this idea: Let us look to our nefghbors in Europe who do not have this dilemma because education, even in the form of colleges or universi­ties, is free to all citizens. 
Can you imagine what would happen if we were to significantly lower the cost of college in the United States? 
More people from a variety of different back­grounds, not just the economically advantaged, would be able to attend college. Then, because more 
____ df of students, all of whom you -. would learn from. Not to men­· tion the fact that you wouldn't have to worry about selling 
•your blood and organs to pay 
.btt~itr~a;~~v; ~~:~\aned an idealist and I think that on this one, I'd have to agree with my skeptics. Since I don't see the United States deciding to give us free (or even cheap) higher educa­tion anytime in the near future, I sup­pose I'll have to go with other alterna­tives. Today, I've decided to start playing the lottery. I hear there's a big jackpot this time around. See you in line! · 
This column first appeared in DePaul University's campus newspaper, The DePaulian, on Jan. 18, and is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE.. 
The opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

E
nol~
page 10 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 

Need to order pizza on the way to class? Itching to call home from the qua 
By EMILY HOWALD Scene Writer 
As any college student knows, life is full of choices, some more important than others. 'While the problem of choosing a cell phone that works within the South Bend area may not be the most pressing issue for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, choosing between the different companies can still be confusing, unless you do your research. 
Two of the most frequently used cell phone services in the area are Verizon Wireless and Sprint PCS. Both companies operate on a wireless system that strives to create a clear sound, private conversations and time­saving features. 
Battle of the networks 
Verizon Wireless is composed of numerous smaller companies that joined together when wireless cellular communication first became popular. Sprint PCS, on the other hand, built a digital network -a network of services that uses 1900MHz frequencies -from the ground up and began buying up the largest percentage of the frequency markets offered by the government 
Seven years ago Sprint spent $5 billion to buy net­works with 1900MHz frequencies, as opposed to the 800MHz analog frequency networks that were com­mon before the government made the change. 
To understand the difference between analog and digital cell phones, Sprint sales manager Robert Orcutt compared the quality to AM and FM radios. 
"The 800MHz networks may be provided over a longer distance but they are not as clear, said Orcutt. "The newer [digital network, as compared to] FM radio. may not reach as broad of a spectrum that the analog can, but it is working from the higher end of the frequencies, so the connection is clearer. Sprint is 100 percent 1900MHz." 
While Sprint PCS was the first Personal Communication Services player in the market, Verizon is equally programmed to work on networks through­out the United States. However, Sprint PCS works only through its own 1900MHz networks. 
Verizon Wireless is a combination of all networks that have both 800MHz and 1900MHz towers. Verizon has more towers because it owns both the analog and digital towers that date from the older generation of cell phones; nevertheless, the connection is not always as strong since it works from an 800MHz network. 
Both companies own towers throughout the country, creating the unified nationwide network that allows for wireless service nearly anywhere where competitive service is available. 
Verizon Wireless 
Combining old technology with new, Verizon Wireless is programming the phones to work solely on the digital networks. Verizon uses many towers to decrease the odds that the roaming rate will apply, but because the company offers one flat rate, the addition­al roaming cost is already included into the plan. 
Verizon works on a domestic calling program, offer­ing separate plans that allow the owner to choose the best deal for their lifestyle. The three main options are the Local Digital Choice plan, which covers the South Bend and northern Indiana area; the Regional Single Rate plan, which includes all of the Midwest; and the National Single Rate, which incorporates all of the country. 
The Local Digital Choice plan is designed for cus­tomers who plan to call close to home, while the Regional Single Rate is geared toward those who are within driving distance of the home area where the phone is purchased. The National Single Rate works best if the customer plans to talk to people around the country or if they desire domestic roaming in their plan. 
Each plan correlates with the domestic area that is chosen. Once outside of the domestic area, the owner must pay the domestic roaming fee of $.65 per minute. 
The Verizon Wireless Free Up Network rates are also offered, which include areas that are selected to charge only the Free Up rates. This plan enables the buyer to prepay for their time and to buy the plan up front. 
To activate a Verizon Wireless phone there is a $30 activation fee for a one-year agreement, or no activa­tion fee for a two year agreement. There is, however, a $175 early termination fee that applies to both deals. 
Sprint PCS 
Sprint PCS offers two plans that accommodate either a local caller or a nationwide caller. Long distance is included in the Real Nationwide Long Distance plan for no additional charge. In the local plan, the overall price is cheaper but the long distance costs an added $.20 per minute. 
Because Sprint PCS works through its own networks, the roaming rate only applies when a Sprint tower cannot be found and Sprint must pay for the use of a different company's tower. Sprint PCS's roaming rate of $.39 per minute applies when calls are made off the network. 
Sprint PCS also offers a great deal of night and week­end minutes to accommodate for calls that are not 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer With phones like the Kyocera 2135 and accessories like voice mail, caller ID and a wireless web connec­tion, Verizon Wlreless alms to provide its customers with a clear connection on its digital network. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

-
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 page 11 


-
d? Check out digital cell phone options available in the South Bend area 
made during the quieter hours. Sprint has to pay for  in dorm rooms such as Howard Hall, but also in  Accessorlze, accessorlze  
the towers' power at all times, and since they are used  Debartolo Hall and in the basement of the Huddle.  Both phone companies have their own perks that  
less when it is not prime business hours, the additional  Reception is clear from the Joyce Center, Carroll Hall,  entice the customer to choose their plans over another.  
minutes are included to increase interest in the nights  South Dining Hall and the library. Essentially, the  Sprint and Verizon both offer voice mail, caller ID and  
and weekends. Notre Dame's Sprint PCS network site  Verizon cell phone works everywhere on campus with  the wireless web connection that enables e-mail sys­ 
is always close to capacity during the weekend hours.  little difficulty or disturbance in the conversation.  tems and Internet connections.  
Although the Sprint PCS pricing plans appear to be  Although the Sprint SPH-N200 phone creates a clear­ Verizon is also the flrst company to promote safer  
more appealing to the average bargain-minded college  er conversation when it is in use outside of any build­ driving with cell phones by including ear pieces that  
student, the South Bend service area must also be con­ ings, it would not work from any indoor locations on  enable the driver to talk on their cell phone hands­ 
sidered. Because Sprint does not own the older towers  campus. The Sprint PCS phone can work from a dorm  free. In light of recent laws that have been passed in  
that Verizon has, local reception is not as good indoors  room when its antenna is out the window, but the ser­ select states prohibiting the use of handsets while dri­ 
and in more remote locations.  vice is unpredictable and often goes out before the end  ving, Verizon offers a practical and easy solution.  
Sprint does have a better reception when outside buildings, but due to the lack of power, the reception cannot penetrate through walls, making it difficult to call from dorm rooms and classroom buildings. Also, as Sprint works only off of 1900MHz frequen­cies, it cannot pass as easily through metal and con­crete. Higher frequencies do not move through walls and concrete as easily as the lower analog frequencies that Verizon uses.  of a conversation. Looking to the future According to Orcutt, Sprint is working to build a tower just north of Notre Dame that would enable bet­ter reception in buildings on campus. "It takes time and money to do anything, and north­ern Indiana has only been on air for a year, so with time this system will be unbelievable," Orcutt said. Although Sprint does not appear to be the more ben­ Making a smart decision Sprint and Verizon both offer accessories that can enhance the cell phone, and both have features that are appealing to the average college student. Though Verizon Wireless and Sprint PCS each have their own positives and negative points, the decision to choose a cell phone comes down to the individual. Verizon Wireless does provide a better connection from the Notre Dame campus, but Sprint PCS is contin­ 
Putting the sales pitch to the test  eficial service in the South Bend area, the company is  uing to grow in network in an effort to reduce roaming  
The Verizon Kyocera 2135 cell phone works not only  looking toward the future.  rates.  
"Sprint is building new networks with new technolo­ At the moment, the Verizon service appears to best  
gy," said salesman John Kadletz. "It is the only wire­ accommodate the needs of a Notre Dame or Saint  
less company that has one network with one technolo­ Mary's student, but if quality and service are desired  
gy across the nation."  for a long term plan, Sprint PCS seems to be the best  
Verizon is trying aggressively to make the transition  route to take.  
to all digital service, but it is a tiinely process that will  The bottom line in this "digital decision" is that con­ 
eventually lead them to greater capacity and higher  sumers have to do their homework before buying a cell  
frequencies.  phone.  
Until then, however, Sprint PCS is the only all-digital  "You need to know where you are when you call,  
company. In an effort to accommodate even more cus­ where you are calling and what time you hope to use  
tomers than their current 230 million, the company  your phone," said Kadletz. "If you research these three  
plans to grow and develop a broader spectrum of ser­ aspects before buying a cell phone, you should be able  
y  Both 800 MHz Analog Networks and 1900 MHz Digital Newtorks  vice. Sprint's coverage area may not currently be as extensive as Verizon's, but both are working towards a more futuristic network that can appease all customers inexpensively.  to find the network that works best for you and only you." Contact Emily Howald at Howald.2@nd.edu.  
-----­ 
---­ 
t  $30 Activation Fee with  
one year agreement; no  
activation fee with two  
year agreement  
- - --~. -----------­ 
Local Digital Choice;  
Regional Single Rate;  
National Single Rate  
ate  $0.65  

l.ook into Free Up and also look for promotions that are offered simultaneously. 
Works in most buildings an 
campus. 
static can interfere with calls. 
C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Otiservar
Venzon Wireless 

The Sprint SPH-N200 phone Is one of several models offered by the company for use on its digital network, 
(866} 346-8202 
which provides service to over 230 million customers across the country. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
BOXING 
Tyson gets physical a little early 
. Heavyweight throws punches at Lewis during press conference to announce fight 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Mike Tvson couldn't wait. 
Tyson· and Lennox Lewis threw punches in a melee that abruptly halted a news r:onfer­ence Tuesday to announce their heavyweight title fight in April. 
Tyson threw a left hook and a Lewis bodyguard went down, although it wasn't clear if Tyson connected. Lewis' overhand right apparently glanced off the top of Tyson's head, and Tyson had a cut at his hairline. 
The fight. scheduled for April 6 in Las Vegas, must be licensed by the Nevada State Athletic Commission, which fined Tyson $3 million and revoked his license after he bit Evander Holyfield's ears in 1997. 
Tyson's license later was restored, but it has since expired and the commission will hold a hearing Jan. 29 on Tyson's request to grant him another one. 
Asked if what happened Tuesday might keep the fight from happening, Tyson adviser Shelly Finkel said: "It didn't help." 
Marc Ratner, executive direc­tor of the Nevada bodv, said there should have been· better security at the New York news conference. 
"I thought it was completely regrettable," Ratner said. "They had an incident when it didn't need to happen. 
"Why nobody wasn't there to stop it is beyond my compre­hension," he said. 
The news conference began when Tyson, wearing all black, including a leather hat, was introduced first. 
He strode onstage at the Hudson Theater, and then stared in the direction of where Lewis was supposed to appear. When the champion walked out, Tyson walked quickly toward him. 
A Lewis bodyguard pushed Tyson and then touched him again. Tyson then threw the left hook and Lewis threw the right. 
The two fighters then rolled briefly on the stage, which sud­denly was filled with jumping, falling bodies and flying fists. 

After things quieted down, Tyson walked to the front of the stage, and thrust his arms in the air in triumph, then grabbed his crotch. 
Someone shouted, "Put him in a straitjacket." Tyson then gestured at the man and cursed him. 
When it was over, WBC presi­dent Jose Sulaiman was holding 
"My motivation for approaching Lennox was to a stage a face off,· which I was told both camps had agreed to." 
Mike Tyson boxer 
his jaw and neck. "I blacked out for a few moments," he said. 
Tyson later issued a state­ment explaining what hap­pened. 
"My motivation for approach­ing Lennox was to stage a face off, which I was told both camps had agreed to," Tyson said. "It was Lennox's body­guard who panicked and shoved me. Lennox then threw a right. I was here to promote the fight, not be intimidated. I will never be intimidated by anyone, and Lennox will pay in April." 
It was announced Lewis would meet with the media later, but instead he sent busi­
ness agent Adrian Ogun to read a statement from the WBC-IBF heavyweight champion. 
"As a result of today's events, I will re-evaluate my options after the rele­
vant boxing commission has ruled," the statement said. 
After the news conference was canceled, Tyson strolled around the block, stopping to sign autographs. A few women kissed him. 
Tuesday's fracas recalled the scene when Lewis and Hasim Rahman exchanged words and chest bumps before wrestling on the floor during a TV inter­view in August. 
That was 2 1/2 months before Lewis knocked out Rahman in a rematch to regain the heavy­weight title. 
In Las Vegas, meanwhile, police investigators found evi­dence they contend backs up a woman's claim she was raped by Tyson, although charges have not been filed against the former heavyweight champion. 
"We think there's probable cause to believe a crime occurred," said police Lt. Jeff Carlson, commander of the sex crimes unit. 
"We're not the attorneys. It's their decision whether to prose­cute." 
Results of the four-month investigation were given Tuesday to the office of Clark County District Attorney Stewart Bell. 
Chermaine Gord, a spokes­woman for Bell, said prosecu­tors needed more time to review the information before making a decision on whether to file sexual assault charges against Tyson, who served three years in an Indiana prison for a 1992 rape conviction. 
MLB 
Tigers sign 
Weaver 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
Optimistic about the Detroit Tigers' future, right­hander Jeff Weaver agreed Tuesday to a $22 million, four-year contract. 
Weaver, 13-16 with a 4.08 EBA last year, gets $2.4 mil­lion this vear, $4.1 million in 2003, $6.25 million in 2004 and $9.25 million in 2005. He had agroed Friday to a $2.35 milliori, one-year deal. 
"In my mind, Jeff is one of the best young pitchers in the game," Tigers general manager Randy Smith said. "He's a guy that's gotten bet­ter every single year and I think will continue to improve as we go forward." 
Contract discussions began around Christmas and the longterm package was final­ized after Weaver returned from a positive experience at the team's minicamp last week at Lakeland, Fla. 
"We had position players in there along with the pitch­ers, which I think was a lot better than just having the pitchers down there," Weaver said. "We were able to meet the new players and go out and have some fun with each other and start this season on the right foot." 
Weaver publicly clashed with his teammates and manager Phil Garner several times last year, often chastis­ing the team for a lack of run support. He said if the mini­camp was any indication, the team will be happier this season. 
"It's just the fact that some of those players that might have been dragging us down are gone," Weaver said. 
Detroit allowed the Boston Red Sox to claim All-Star first baseman Tony Clark of waivers and let go shortstop Deivi Cruz and outfielder Roger Cedeno. 
Outfielder Juan Encarnacion was traded to the Cincinnati Reds for first baseman Dmitri Young. 
The Observer acccprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r•rn. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Do you miss your family pet? 
Consider becoming a FOSTER or VOLUNTEER for the cats and dogs at PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 1 omin· utes from campus. 
Please visit www.petrefuge.com, e­mail webmaster@petrefuge.com, or call 
256-0886. 
---------····-···· 
FOR RENT 
Why live in crowded houses? Have your own space, privacy & security. Mar-Main 
Apartments 233-2098 
3·bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, sate neighborhood, new appliances, 2· car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/D. 
Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 
232-4527or 616-683-5038. 
New 3-4 bdrrns, 3 bath homes fea­turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck, 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232· 4527 or 616-683-5038 
nice homes north of ND [close] for next school year ideal for 3-8 stu­dents great area 2773097 
MMMRenlals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
3 Bedroom House Close to Campus $595.00 per month Call 233-1440 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4. and 9­bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532­1896 
----··········-····· 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648­
4849 
www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Mike Lanes lonely hearts club band· 
Do you have your tickets for Damn Yankees? Get them now at the LaFun info deskl Show opens Feb. 71 
Do you find yourself watching . ESPN instead of doing your home­work? 
Write ObseNer sports 
Call 1-4543 
After you've left the room, do your roommates turn on the TV to find CNN was the station you were watching? 
Then join the Observer news team. Call 1•5323 
Do you always open to the middle of the Observer first to see what cultural evenls are going on cam­pus or what new CD just came out? 
If so, then write for Scene. 
Call 1·4540 
Are your friends always asking you tor doubles of the pictures you took at the dance? 
Join the Observer! 
Call photo al 1-8767 
Want to wish a friend a happy birth· 
day? Have you lost something recently? Try The Observer classifieds in the basement of South Dining Hal. 
---------~­
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NFL 
Agent: Gruden will not renew contract 
with returning the Raiders to Tom Brady's apparent fumble
Associated Press 
prominence. Oakland was 4-12 with 1 :43 left in regulation in in 1997, the year before the Patriots' 16-13 victory on AIAMEDA, Calif. Gruden took over. Gruden has a Saturday.Coach Jon Gruden will not 38-26 record in four years with New England trailed 13-10 sign a new contract with the 
the Raiders. when Brady was hit by corner­Oakland Raiders and plans to "I think he's the best coach in back Charles Woodson and lost leave the team after next sea­
football the ball. 
son at the latest, his agent told right now," Biekert several San Francisco Bay area 
Gannon pounced on it,
"I only deal with facts. I 
newspapers. said. "If I and referee Gruden won't coach the team signed a five-year 
didn't Walt Coleman after his five-year contract believe contract and I have one initially ruled it expires at the end of the 2002 
that, I year left. The most a fumble. But, 
season., agent Bob LaMonte wouldn't after reviewing
said Monday. important thing for me is
c o m e replays,Gruden, a top candidate for back." to make sure this football Coleman the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' One of changed his
team is going in the right 
job, is in the lower half of the Gruden's mind and ruled 
NFL coaching pay scale, with direction."
m a j o r it an incom­
an annual salary of $1.2 mil­attributes plete pass. lion. His parents live in Tampa. 
has been John Gruden The Patriots 
"This isn't about leverage." 
the ability then tied the
Raiders head coach
LaMonte said. 'There's a zero to get his game on Adam percent chance of Jon Gruden 
t e a m Vinatieri's 45­
coaching the Raiders in 2003." 
focused yard field goal
Earlier Monday during a sea­despite off-field distractions, with 27 seconds left in the son-ending news conference, which included speculation he fourth quarter, and won it on Gruden refused to discuss his was ready to leave during the his 23-yarder 8:29 into over­
future in detail. season for Notre Dame. time. "There's been a lot of specu-. 
"Since Jon has gotten here, "I believe it was a fumble and lation since I've been here," he's instilled a never-quit atti­I'll go to my grave thinking it Cruden said, two days after an tude," linebacker Greg Biekert was a fumble," Gruden said. 
overtime playoff loss to New said. "You've got to give the "Pictures speak volumes of England. "I only deal with facts. coaches a lot of credit for get­what that play was truly about. I signed a five-year contract ting guys prepared." 
But the Patriots move on and 
and I have one year left. The Gruden was still adamant 
we don't. We're still sick to our most important thing for me is about the play, or replay, which stomachs and disappointed to to make sure this football team helped hasten the end of the be out of the playoffs." is going in the right direction." Raiders' season. 
As for film of the game? 
Quarterback Rich Gannon 
Biekert recovered New 'Tm pretty much done with it 
John Gruden, who led his team to a victory against the Jets
credited Gruden and his staff England Patriots quarterback forever," he said. 
earlier this season, will leave the Raiders in 2003. 

Breen-Phillips EALAUCTI Don't miss your chance to dine with campus celebrities Wednesday,Jan.23 8:00 pm at Reckers -Featuring­Father Hesburgh David Smith Jacqueline Brogan Father Patrick Gaffney The Leprechaun Anre Venter Bill Kirk Ava Preacher Father Poorman Mike Brown Father Bill Wack Father Tim Scully Jim McKenna Coach Mike Brey Danielle Skorich Gail Walton & Ramzi Bualuan Carl Ackermann Father Bill Miscamble Andrew McShane Carmen & Lou Nanni Brian Coughlin Bruce Auerbach Jim Langford Fr. Gary Chamberland Jason Beckstrom Mike Riess Greg Downey And Many More! Proceeds benefit the American Diabetes Association... so bring your checkbooks or cash and start the bidding!  


I 
r 
I 
!
I I 
I I I 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Court: Twins must call Metrodome home 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 
The Minnesota Court of Appeals upheld an injunction requiring the Twins to play the 2002 season in the Metrodome. 
The unanimous decision Tuesday makes it even more unlikely major league baseball will follow through on its plan to eliminate two teams before this season. The Twins and Montreal Expos are the likely targets, although no decision has been made, and commissioner Bud Selig said last week he still intended to push ahead with contraction for this season. 
"While we disappointed with the decision of the appeals court, we are not surprised," said Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief legal offi­cer. "We will seek a final deter­mination in the Minnesota Supreme Court as soon 
as possible." "While disappointed with have to move A three­with extraor­
the decision of the 
judge panel dinary speed
appeals court, we are not
affirmed a to rule before 
November surprised." then. decision by a The high Hennepin court typically
Bob DuPuy
County judge, takes five to
MLB legal officer
saying he did · seven months 
not abuse his discretion in holding the Twins cannot simply buy out the final year of their lease but must field a team for the season's 81 scheduled home games. 
"Since it appears from the record that money could not compensate the commission for the intangible losses that would result if the Twins breached their promise to play, the district court did not abuse its discretion in considering harm to the public when deciding whether to grant temporary injunctive relief," Chief Judge Edward Toussaint Jr. said in his opinion. 
The court didn't rule on the merits of the case but said five times in the 27-page opinion that the lower court "did not abuse its discretion." 
"Of course we're disappoint­ed," said Roger Magnuson, a 
'NotfiinB to Wear? 
join us for our S~'M'1:-1A.'Jf'N1l'AL S!Jt.L~ of 40-75% 1JDesig_ner c(otfii'j] andGifts 1.ow th.ru 'Fe6.15tt 

JMpi"e »J,) 
(ORNER OF COLFAX AND HILL DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
HERE', OUR PHONE NUMBER: 
232-1822 
(BRING FRIENDS OR COME AND 
MAKE NEW ONES l 
YOUR FRIENDS AT INSPIRED ft FIRED AND INSPIRE Mt! 

lawyer for the Twins and Selig. "We think there were fundamen­tal errors in the injunction." 
The Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission, which obtained the injunction as the Twins' landlord, planned a news conference later Tuesday. 
Senate Majority Leader Roger Moe said the ruling allows time for the Legislature, which con­venes in a week, to consider pro­posals to fund a new ballpark, which would ensure the Twins' long-term survival. 
Twins outfielder Torii Hunter took the ruling as another sign that the Twins would play this year. · "It's getting close," he said. ''All you can do is get ready, and prepare like you're going to have a season. or it's just going to come back and bite you." 
Spring training opens in mid­February and the Minnesota 
Supreme 
Court would 
to decide cases 
after hearing arguments, though it has moved more quickly in some cases where time was an issue. At least three of the court's seven members must agree that an appeal is merited. 
Toussaint and Judges Robert Schumacher and Roger Klaphake upheld the decision by District Judge Harry Seymour Crump, who ruled the team's lease, which expires after this season, requires the Twins to field a team for the season's 81 scheduled home games. 
Baseball's lawyers have argued that the injunction went against past lease disputes in Minnesota and was based more on emotion than law. 
The court declined to consider several of the issues raised by baseball and the Twins in their · appeal because weren't present­cd to the district court. 

The judges also cited congres­sional testimony by Selig in 1992 and 1993, quoting him as telling a Senate subcommittee that leagues "should vigilantly enforce strong policies prohibit­ing clubs from abandoning com­munities which have supported them." 
In addition to the legal moves in Minnesota, the players' associ­ation filed a grievance claiming 
Class of 2002 
The Dome Yearbook needs your 
CANDIDSI 
We are now offering $10 for the top ten photos submitted, so let us see your favorite shotsI 
When submitting your pictures, please be sure that your name and the names of those photographed is written on the back of each shot. Pictures will be returned to you in the spring. Drop them in the envelope on the Dome office door in the basement of SDH or in the 
box at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
you
~-• • 
making a difference in our world as a Sister ·ot the Holy Cross 
"Prepare your heart" to hear God's call at a Discernment Retreat 
Saint Mary's • Notre Dame, Indiana Friday, February 1, at 5p.m. through Saturday, February 2, at 7p.m. 
To register or for more information: (574) 284-5356 E-mail: mlavonis@cscsisters.org 

the Nov. 6 vote by owners to eliminate teams violated the rules of its labor contract, which expired the following day and remains in force. 
Aller the appeals court ruled, union head Donald Fehr said "hopefully, things will get resolved." Asked if baseball should drop its attempt to elimi­nate teams this year, Fehr said: ''I'll leave that response for base­ball and its lawyers after they've studied the opinion." 
Crump issued the temporary injunction on Nov. 16, ruling that the state and fans would suffer irreparable harm if the Twins do not play this sea.5011. 
On Nov. 30, the Minnesota Supreme Court refused to take a direct appeal, but ordered the Court of Appeals to hear the case on an expedited basis to leave time for a possible appeal to the high court. 

Wednesday, January 23, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Superbowl will end 21-year NFL standard 
Bowl for Fox Sports. in some way. I'd love to do tennis 
Associated Press 
But Lhe 71-year-old former again." New York Giants star kicker, While Summerall called thoseNEWYORK who's been associated with the sports when he was at CBS, he is
Pat Summerall and John 
NFL for 50 years as a player or best known as half of theMadden are parting ways after announcer, said he won't rule longest-paired NFL TV duo ever.
21 years in which they became out doing more TV work. Summerall's play-by-play and
the standard by which NP'L 
Asked if he's set on retiring. Madden's color analysis haveannouncing teams are judged. 
Summerall said: "Absolutely not. complemented each other sinceSummerall announced I still want to do games. I still they were paired at CBS in 1981.
Tuesday that he will leave his want to work with the NFL. I'd They moved together to Fox inlongtime NFL broadcasting part­love to get back involved in golf 1994 after that network boughtner after they call the Super 

the department of film, television, and theatre presents 
-SrnV\,ci V\,eW fL,lW-s ...l!;Y-all\,d 11\,eW Locat~OV\., ...s~Vl,t,e g·;e~t ti.me!
~~w,;i~~r~:,;
\l'\0 .,_,,010
n O t re 
festival 2002 
thursday • friday • saturday • monday january 24 • 25 • 26 • 28 @ 7:30 & 9:45pm • tix $4.00 hesburgh library auditorium • tix on sale at Lafortune (wJ.ii.1..e tJ.ieu Last) 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
Sign up for LI -II 
Mondays, February 4 -March 4, 8:30 pm -9:45pm 
Who? Sophomores who are currently involved in student groups and are interested in learning more about their leadership style with the anticipation of becoming an officer of a student group. 
What? Interactive sessions which focus on organizational management and personal development, including: 
* 
Public Speaking * Problem Solving 

* 
Recruitment * Retention 

* 
Effective Meetings * Using Your Advisor 


Why? LI -II will give you a head start on preparing to lead your student group. 
How? Registration closes February 3. 
WHY PARTICIPATE? 
There are many great reasons why you should participate in Leadership Institute. Some of these include: 
* 
Opportunity to develop your leadership skills. 

* 
Learn more about your leadership style. 

* 
Meet other student leaders. 

* 
Have practical experience you can take with you into the "real world." 

* 
Receive individualized attention to your leadership development. 

* 
Learn how you can make a difference in student life at Notre Dame! 


NFL rights. 
Their Feb. 3 swan song will be Surnmerall's 17th Super Bowl broadcast. 
'TU miss standing next to John during the course of a broadcast and watching his antics and enjoying his commentary and trying to react to his commen­tary," Summerall said. 
"That I can never replace." 
Joe Buck. who is Fox's lead play-by-play announcer for base­ball and has called NFL games for the network. could be a replacement as Madden's part­ner. 
"No decisions have been made about who will work with John next year," Fox spokesman Lou D'Ermilio said. 
Summerall. whose Fox con­tract expires at the end of this season, said he decided two weeks ago to move on. He want­ed to make the announcement now so as not to be a distraction during the buildup to the NFL's championship game. 
He said he might be interested in staying at fox in a different spot. 
"Fox has said they would like to talk to us after the Super Bowl about other possibilities of him staying on," said his agent, Sandy Montag. "Sometime in February or March, we said, we'll talk about it." 
Summerall's TV career started in 1960. 
"Pat Summerall is not only a Hall of Fame broadcaster, but one of the classiest men to ever work in the business," Fox Sports president Ed Goren said. "His 50 years as a player and broadcast­er is a record that will never be broken, Quite simply, for genera­tions of fans, Pat Summerall was the voice of the NFL" 
Madden said in a statement: "My relationship with Pat has been more than just a broadcast partnership and my respect for him goes beyond football. There arc some things in your life that can never be replaced." 
5 R• XXXI 

COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS 
Applications Due Friday, Jan. 25 
Pickup an application at the StudentActivities Office at 314 LaFortune and sign up for an interview. 
Check out the website for more info: www.nd.edu/~bkstr/ or Email us at bkstr.l@nd.edu 
Attention All SMC Students: Do you have questions or concerns for your future 
1
Student Body President & Vice President?? Then come to: Meet the Candidates 
On Wednesday, Jan. 23rd at 7:00pm In Haggar Parlor 
Sponsored by saint mary's college board ofgovernance 
I 
-I 
I I I I l I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
l 
j 
I 
-------. ­
---------------~ ----­
-----------------, 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
Seles snaps Williams' win streak 
Assoc;iaied Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia Venus Williams, supreme at Wimbledon and at Flushing 
Meadows, stumbled at  the  
Australian  Open.  
Monica  

S e I e s snapped Williams• 24-match winning streak and her bid for a third con­secutive 

Grand Slam Williams title with a 6-7 (4), 6-2, 6-3 quarterfinal upset Tuesday and moved into the Australian Open semifinals against Martin.a Hingis. 
Seles lost her previous six matches against Williams, who has won the last two U.S. Opens and the previous two Wimbledon titles. 
The second-seeded Williams injured her hamstring in the first set and limped for the rest of the match. She'd gone into the quarterfinal with an injured left knee. 
Williams reached the semifi­nals at Melbourne Park last year, when she had the worst loss of her pro career in a 6-1, 6-1 defeat to Hingis. In her pre­vious trips to Melbourne Park, she'd never gone beyond the quarterfinals. 
Seles, seeded eighth, has won four Australian Opens, but the last one was six years ago. I-lingis is a three-time Australian Open champion, but has not won since 1999, her last title in a major tournament. 
Williams won the first set in a tiebreaker despite her injury. 
"I had pain in the hamstring area -I wasn't quite sure what was going on," Williams said. "It hasn't been the best tournament for me health­wise." 
Seles won the first eight points and led 2-0 before Williams broke back and held to put the first set back on serve. 
Williams injured her ham­string chasing a wide Seles' forehand on the last point of the eighth game and needed a medical timeout and treatment inside the player's tunnel to have the top of her right thigh strapped. 
Seles dominated the second set, with her two-fisted fore­hand and backhand ground­strokes regularly producing winners, and she evened the match at a set apiece in 33 minutes as Williams' error rate increased. 
In the third set, Seles broke to lead 3-2 when Williams' wild errors and five double faults. her hardest match so far. She backhand went long. "More than anything [Seles] only conceded nine games in 
At 4-3. Seles gave her had the gameplan today, .. her previous four matches. younger rival three break Williams said. "Who knows, Serena Williams, the 1999 points but saved them all for a maybe she'll take the whole U.S. Open winner, withdrew 5-3 lead, finishing with a back­Slam home -that would be an before her first-round match hand winner down the line. exciting story. She deserves it." here due to an ankle injury she 
Serving to stay in the match, Williams said she'd get some picked up the previous week in Williams faced two match medical advice before deciding Sydney. Serena and Hingis had points and surrendered on the where to play next. Although been drawn to meet in a quar­second when she netted a fore­she's now targeting the French terfinal remakh. hand. Open "to end my nightmare "I had to face Serena in the 
"It was such a tough match, there." She's never gone quarterfinals here at this point really weird beyond the [last year], but it's kind of nice circumstances quarterfi­having someone you don't know for both of us," "ft was such a tough nals at that we.JI," Hlngis said of Serra said Seles, who Roland Zanetti. "It's nice to get through 
match, really weird 
complained of Garros. it easier than last year.'' 
circumstances for both
a sore throat Hingis has Her road to the semifinals and fever going of us." reached the this year hasn't been taxing. So into the match. final at far, she's had wins over "We were both Melbourne Virginie Razzano (6-2, 6-2),
Monica Seles 
fighting a lot of Park every Greta Arn (6-1, 6-2). Barbara problems with­tennis player year since Rittner (6-1, 6-0), and Amanda in ourselves. 1997, when Coetzer (6-1, 6-0). 
"Venus is such a great champion, I just got lucky there on a couple of points at the end." 
The only other time they'd gone head-to-head outside of the United States was at the Sydney Olympics in 2000, when Williams got a three-set win in a semifinal en route to a gold medal. 
Williams finished with 49 unforced errors and 10 double faults, almost twice those of Seles, who had 25 unforced 
she picked up the first of her three consec­utive titles. She was runner-up to Lindsay Davenport in 2000 and again to Jennifer Capriati last year. 
"Martina is a very tough play­er, she's playing some of her best tennis. It's going to be a tough battle, we always play tough ones," Seles said. 
In her 6-2, 6-3 win Tuesday over Adriana Serra Zanetti, Hingis looked composed and confident even though it was 
She leads Soles 12-4 in head­to-head meetings. 
Hingis, who held the No. 1 ranking for a record 7 3 consec­utive weeks until injuring her ankle last October and under­going surgery, says the unscheduled break did her some good. It took her mind off the grind of touring and helped her concentrate on improving her game. 
"I think I've reached some stage that I haven't been before," Hingis said. 

OPERATION 

MAKING A DIFFERENCE PIECE BY PEACE 
.:·,,; i 
. 
'ff,;<,·.···•
,,.,:· -:•:, 
./,:c> 
-.· .. ::-. 
, J:1Y' 
SPEAKING THE TRUTH A Fi reside Chat with Student Leaders and Others Wednesday, January 23 Coleman Morse Center Student Lounge 
::}; 
7:00-8:30pm 
... 
'#'li1 
sponso,ed by: Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Multicultural Student Progrgm~ ,md Se,vu;;e\, and Office ol th,: President 
., 
,'iiiiiiliilliiil--• 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Hornet's strong offense. "We've got to rebound offensive­
Belles NFL 
ly and defensively and we've got to work hard," Smith said. "We just
continued from page 20 have to play together and attack­
Bettis is
ing their defense and we just needrealize we can win and we're defi­to take it to the basket." 
nitely thinking upset again." 
Saint Mary's has also been
For the Belles to do that, they adjusting to the loss of four play­must force the Hornets to play 
ready to
ers -three to injury and one whotheir bench players. Kalamazoo left the team. Despite this setback, starts only one senior, one junior 
Blair believes the Belles have
and three 
responded in a
freshmen. 
return
positive way. 
Much of the 
"We need everyone to "It's not like
bench also we can replace
step up and stay out of
consists of 
them but every­
freshmen. If Associated Press
foul trouble which has 
one has steppedKalamazoo is 
been a big problem. " up and people
forced to play PITTSBURGH
have filled their
its reserves, Jerome Bettis said Monday he
roles," Blair
Saint Mary's Anne Blair is certain he"ll return from a
said.
feels confident seven-week layoff to play in the
co-captain Smith agreed
about its AFC championship game. He's
and added that
chances of also sure
the team is clos­
winning. about some­
er than before. 
'They have a good core starting thing else. 
"We're a much closer group
five but then they really don't have No more
without as many people and prac­
depth," said Belles co-captain needles.
tices go pretty smoothly and a lot
Anne Blair. "We need everyone to Bettis, the
of people are getting a lot of time," 
step up and stay out of foul trou­Pittsburgh
Smith said. "So they've adjusted 
ble which has been a big problem. Steelers' Pro
pretty well." 
We do have depth and everyone Bowl run­on our bench can play." ning back, Smith also said the Belles must Contact Joe Hettler at said he real­rebound to shut down the jhettler@nd.edu. izes it was a 
mistake to Bettis get a painkilling shot just before Sunday's AFC playoff game against Baltimore. The injection apparently struck a nerve and caused one of Bettis' legs to go numb, preventing him from play­ing. 

The Steelers went on to beat the defending Super Bowl cham­pion Ravens 27-10 without him, and they would be favored to beat New England in the AFC championship game even if he doesn't play. 
However, Bettis insists he will play, saying, "I could have played about five or six o'clock [Sunday] after the shot wore off." 
Amos Zereoue ran for 63 yards and two short touchdowns as Bettis' replacement, but Bettis' presence would give the Steelers a difficult-to-defend asset that perfectly accompanies their dra­m a tica 11 y improved passing offense. 
Before he was hurt Dec. 2 against Minnesota, Bettis was averaging nearly 100 yards per . game through 11 games. 
"He'll definitely be the freshest man in the playoffs when he comes back," offensive tackle Wayne Gandy said. "For a man like him who is driven, who already is a hard runner, if he gets a chance to play Sunday, he'll be running 100 miles per hour." 
The Steelers will take Bettis' customary 100 yards. 
Bettis said he's taken painkilling shots before without a reaction, and he has no idea why Sunday's injection went so wrong. He insisted he didn't need the shot because he reinjured himself. 
"l knew there would be a lot of pain associated with the injury and l just wanted it to feel bet­ter," he said. "The scar tissue still has to tear, and it is nowhere near as strong as regular tissue, so there's going to be pain. 
"It's nothing that will keep you from playing, it's just something you have to deal with." 
Gandy estimated about half the Steelers get painkilling injections before a game, but said it's not very strong. 


A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-771 0 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
I I I I ~ I 
L ~ 
I i I 
seen," said senior Ryan Humphrey. "There's times in
Irish 
continued from page 20 
dent their perimeter shooters will deliver as the season pro­gresses. 
"I've been around Matt and Dave for three years now, and they're the best shooters I've practice when they hit five. six in a row. I have confidence in them, and when they start knocking down shots, then it'll be exciting to see us play." 
Note: 
Harold Swanagan, who re-
aggravated an ankle sprain and Alabama. better for Saturday. but if he's missed Monday night's game, "He's not moving the same, not better for Saturday, we'll underwent a MRI Tuesday. he's not rebounding the same. hold him out there, too." 
The senior forward's ankle has He's a little frustrated," Brey affected his play since Notre said. "We've got to get him 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
Dame's Dec. 27 game against healthy ... Hopefully he'll feel 
asoukup@nd.edu. 
iPREMIERE! 
OF 
American Family 
The First Drama Series on Broadcast Television to Feature a Latino Cast. 
American Family was created by Academy Award nominated director Gregory Nova (El Norte, setenaL 'The series is about an American Family living in Los Angeles that happens to be Latino," savs Nova. "I wanted to create ashow that will make the audience laugh and cry as it chronicles the daily struggles and triumphs of afamily. American Family is about everyone's family." 
Please join us: Wednesday January 23 at 
8PM 
DeBartolo 131 

Come Early and Enjoy 
La.ttno studies
Refreshments!! 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTaC DAME 
Bool< Talk and Signing 
Meet author 
Thursday 
January 24th 
7:00 pm 
in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER phono: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

ND SOCCER 
Teams earn academic honors 
compiling cumulative 3.205 in
Special to the Observer 
the 2000 fall semester and 3.192 in the spring of 2001. .
The University of Notre Dame The women's soccer team was
men's and women's soccer 
recognized with the award forteams each were recognized by the first time in the history of its the National Soccer Coaches program. Twelve players earned Association of America with the Dean's List distinction in the fall
NSCAA/adidas College Team 
as the team compiled a 3.205
Academic Award for exceptional cumulative grade point averageperformance as a team during during that semester.
the-2000-01 academic year. Notre Dame was one of 36 insti­tutions whose men's and women's teams earned that dis­tinction. The men's soccer team "SPRING BREAIC earns the award for the third 
....._l:A.tlcuff.JlrAlw:o,MAzlmJIH
consecutive year as the Irish had 
.,,..Mal. 8Alllus. &s. PADRE 
12 players earn Dean's List dis­
www.studentexpress.com
tinction during both the 2000-01 
Call Now: ~-:.8-9«?-7~7-3787
spring and fall semesters after a 
Happy 21st Birthday A! 
Your MoM 
rnvs ta((e off +hat ha+ and ge+ 
rea<lv for a rea( wi(d is-(ar,tJ 
t,ar+v! 
love, Your wUtJ 
rooMMates­

r------------------------, 
January Super Special! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza $7.99 (with coupon) Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1.49! 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! We Take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 2/2/02 
L ________________________ J 

Wednesday, January 23, 2001 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

Fox TROT BILLAMEND 

1F JASON (;,ETS BRACES, HOW WILL HE BREA!<: THE NEWS To HIS LITTLE 
HA HA, EILEEN! NOW 
WITH HIS 
'foU'LL WANT To KISS 
USUAL 
ME EVEN LESS! 
IS THIS ONE oF THOSE 
"NE6ATIVE INFINIT'f MINUS oNE" QUESTIONS? 
RYAN
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

Yov•re .\-le o"e w~ h,k) ML W12dl\e.sclc.y 
Lvt..~ '~I.Jfflf dr..y,l
I 
CROSSWORD EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
anyone today, least ot all thoseCELEBRITIES BORN ON
ACROSS 34 No-no for Mrs. 57 One way to be 
who care and tell you to stopTHIS DAY: Tommy Lee Jones,
Sprat taken
Muscle that a Oliver Stone, Dan Marino, Prince spending.00 runner stretches 36 Woke up, with 58 Queen of the Harry, Wendie Jo Sperber VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 5 Bullets "to" 54-Across Happy Birthday: You may face Keep your thoughts to yourself. An ability to see flaws in everyone 
60 Punitive some setbacks this year but only if
9 Dictation taker 37 58-Across 
will not make you popular andyou take on too much or overex­
player in 1963 61 Like many Mae
14 Land east of the could even lead to disagreements.
tend yourself financially. Maintain
West quotes 
Urals 40 Phi _ Kappa perspective and you'll move along Remember to say something nice 
62 Gal's dream or don't say anytlting at all. 000
15 Friend to 41 Sub_ (in exceptionally well. Be aggressive LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't
Androcles secret) date when necessary to avofd others 
let your lover cost too much. Youtaking advantage of you. You have 
63 Rubberneck
16 Pavarotti or 42 2001 's symbol, may think gifts will win his or her 
everything you need to suc~d-so
Carreras in the Chinese 64 What extra heart, but paying too much will
stop looking around. Your VJSIOn
calendar innings break add stress about lack of funds.
17 58-Across can lead others into the future. player in 1917 43 Boozer 65 Church recess Your numbers: 2, 18, 27, 35, 41, 44 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
ARIES (March 21-April 19):
19 Rust, e.g. 44 Opposite of Drastic changes in attitude are nec­
It's time to take a close look at who
20 Ready bellum DOWN essary. You nave to think of your­
you've become and where you're 
21 French head 45 Municipal 1 Be-boppers headed. If you don't like the pic­self. Your talent will be recognized at work as long as your personal
22 Clearings council 2 Whence the ture, make changes. Rid yourself dilemmas don't nterfere with your
member: Abbr. phoenix rises of people and things that no23 58-Across 
longer are to your benefit. goals.00
player in 1953 46 58-Across 3 Deceive SAGIITARRJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
00000
26 Serve to be player in 1946 4 Macarena or TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Question someone who is pushing re-served 51 Printed cloth Beanie Babies, Lack of funds ,,ill add stress to an his or her beliefs. Follov.ing your 27 "Oh, brother!" 54 World's longest once already uncertain situation. Con­own philosophies will lead to new 
circles and open doors that willcentrate on career and earning
28 Pinup's leg river 5 Even if 
offer a unique vision of life.
money, not on melodramas creat­
31 Wife 55 Canon camera 6 Sporty Mazda 00000
ed by others. Pull up your socks 
7 Edible CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
and make a leap of faith. 00 Take things as they come today.
mushroom GEMINI (May 21-June 20):
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE The more carefree you are, the fur­
8 _ roll (lucky) Romance will develop. Sign up for 

ther you'll go. Don't let th~sechallenging courses. You may
9 Swiped even meet someone special who around you who are conservative 10 Either President and lack vision hold you back.
has similar interests. The personBush who is mentally stimulating will 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
11 Writer Bagnold 48 Nephew's sister win your heart. 0000
32 Butter substitute 
56 Rice wine CANCER (June 21-July 22): Although upsetting, changes in 12 Junction point 33 Catcher's 49 Fancy duds Take the plunge into something your domestic situation will prove 13 Valuable 58 PC screen: beneficial in the long run. If some-­
catcher 50 Taxi tooters you enjoy. You need some time to 
deposits 34 Pope of 1605 51 Tams Abbr. dawdle over an enjoyable hobby. one has been taking advantage of you, it's time to call it quits. 00
18 Goddess of Financial setbacks will occur if you
35 Aliens, for short 52 Help in crime 59 "Now I get it!" PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
wisdom and war l\aven't been sticking to your
36 Pop star Lauper budget.000 Whatever you do today, be sure to22 Concede, as a scale it down. You'll have a ten­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will
38 Cry at La Scala
point Answers to any three clues in this puzzle dency to spend too much ~nd
be tempted to shop till you drop.
24 Public square 39 In Morpheus' are available by touch-tone phone: Do yourself a favor and leave the promise too much. Take your time arms and make concrete plans. 000
1-900-420·5656 (95e per minute). plastic at home. You won't listen to 44 Predicament
capital Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: You'll amaze others with your creative vision. You 28 Big bash 45 Metallic mixtures best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 tune into what's going on around you and are always ready to stand up 29 In a frenzy 46 Parish priest years: 1·888•7-ACROSS. and be counted. You are passionate, direct and productive. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasl.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit ~he_fil!s~r~_er on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
;_\ 


47 China's Zhou 53 Sweater girl Turner 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks p~yable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
:-­
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
O
THE 
National Sports 
BSERVER 
. 
Pro Tennis, p. 16 

. 
Madden, p. 15 

. 
Twins, p. 14 


PORTS 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
• Irish shooting woes continue to cause problems 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
When a shooter's mind wanders, his shot often wanders with it. 
And based on Notre Dame's recent shooting, it appears their minds have been wandering quite a bit. 
"When you start missing, your confidence changes," guard Matt Carroll said. "You have to start worrying about going out there and 
making them rather than just going out there and shooting with a clear head." 
Notre Dame's success is directly tied to their 3­point shooting. In their 12 wins. the Irish have shot over 44 percent from behind the arc. But in their six losses, the Irish hit just 30 percent of their 3-point shots. 
"A pretty jump shot, those shots are over in league play," Notre Dame head coach Mike Brey said. "Shooting a jump shot and looking at your form, that's not going to happen. Not in this league." 
Life on the court has been partic­ularly rough for Irish point guard Chris Thomas recently. Before Big East play started, a red-hot Thomas made 45 percent of all his shots. But since Jan. 6, the fresh­I man has shot just 27 percent over­I all. And in the last three games, he 
I 
is just 4-of-23 from 3-point range. David Graves is in a similar slump. In his last five games, 
Missing the point 
Graves shot 15-for-55 from the field. And after starting the Georgetown game l-for-9, Brey pulled the senior forward out for good with 11:33 left in the game. 
It's tough to pinpoint the source of Notre Dame's shooting woes. But it's even tougher to figure out how to stop it. The key, Carroll said, is to just keep shooting. 
"Half the battle of shooting is mental," he said. "You gotta under­stand it's a long game, and when it's not falling in the first half, you gotta keep shooting, or you're not going to stay confident." 
Carroll understands the emotions swirling through Graves' and Thomas' minds. Early in the year, 
"When you start missing, confidence changes. You have to start worrying about going out there and making them rather than just going out there and shooting with a clear head." 
Matt Carroll 
guard 
Carroll had trouble finding his shot, even going score­less against Indiana. But Brey kept him on the court and in the starting lineup and Carroll broke out of his slump. 
Brey would prefer to keep his shooters in the game. But he's not afraid 
to make a change in the starting lineup to shake things up. Last year, after a struggling Irish team lost their fifth game of the season against Kentucky, Brey moved Harold Swanagan to the starting lineup and Graves to the bench. The move paid off. Graves regained his confidence and the Irish reeled off and eight-game win streak. 
"We may still move the lineup around again," Brey said last week without mentioning any specific plans. 
Nevertheless, the Irish are confi­
see IRISH/page 18 
I 
~ FOOTBALL 
Recruit says no to Irish 
• Wide receiver Hannum chooses Penn State 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
Wide receiver Josh Hannum has changed his mind about attending Notre Dame next season, choosing instead to attend Penn State. 
Hannum. who is from Wallingford, Pa., is the second high school player who com­mitted to attend Notre Dame while Bob Davie was coach to change his mind since Tyrone Willingham was hired Dec. 31 to replace him. 
Linebacker Jeremy Van Alstyne from Greenwood, Ind., did the same thing earli­er, verbally committing to Michigan. 
But while Van Alstyne reportedly was upset about not receiving a phone call from Willingham right away, Hannum told the South Bend Tribune that his decision had nothing to do with Willingham's hiring. He just decided he wanted to play closer to home. 
"During that layover time (between the coaching searches), I had to look around," he said. "It came down to a matter of feeling comfortable. I think you thrive in a place you're com­fortable at. I feel comfortable at Penn State." 
Notre Dame now has 12 verbal commitments. National signing day is Feb. 6. 
National Sports 
. 
Gruden, p. 13 

. 
Tyson, p. 12 . MLB, p.12 



SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles face tough conference test 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
After nearly pulling off an upset win against Adrian on Saturday, the Saint Mary's bas­ketball team must regroup when fr faces a tough Kalamazoo team tonight. 
For the Belles (6-11, 2-4) a win tonight against the third-place team in the MIAA could be the catalyst that helps give them momentum for the rest of the season and the upcoming MIAA tournament. 
"It's a huge game," said Belles head coach Suzanne Smith. "Especially bouncing back after playing a close game on Saturday in a game we definitely could have won. We definitely 
see BELLES/page 17 
. SMC Basketball at Kalamazoo, Tonight, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. ND Track vs. Michigan State, Friday, 6 p.m.
SPOTS 
ontine 
. Men's Basketball vs. Seton Hall, Saturday, Noon AT AGLANCE . Women's Basketball vs. Virginia Tech, Saturday, 6 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
-


Grading the government 
As Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
student leaders near the end of
OCUS 
their terms, The Observer issues a report card. Wednesday, January 23, 2002 A feature ofThe Observer's News Department 

Above: Student body president Brooke Norton addresses the student senate. Right: Students attend a town hall meeting sponsored by the office of the student body president. 
. 
Photos by 
TONY FLOYD 
AND LISA VELTE 
Untangling the mysteries of ND student government 
as well as one senator who represents have to look at a lot of different campus mores, juniors and seniors are elected
By JASON McFARLEY 
off-campus students. Senators are elect­issues," said CLC chair Norton. on a four-person class council ticket. 
News Editor 
ed during the spring semester and take The officers then appoint other students office in April. from their class to committee member­
Student Union Board
At Notre Dame, student government The group meets weekly, and mem­ship positions on the council. 
Think concerts, movies, and other
positions are as diverse as the con­bers must sit on at least two of the sen­Individual dorms. too, are hubs for
forms of entertainment. SUB is responsi­
stituencies and interests that student ate's standing committees that target leadership positions. Residence halls
ble for organizing and bringing these
leaders here represent. such issues as residence life, gender essentially are the basic units for cam­
events to campus. 
For undergraduates, government is concerns and University affairs. pus government. 
Headed this year by Paul Krivickas,
centered in the Student Union. It The policy-oriented senate considers There are many dorm commissioner
the programming board in the past has
includes several basic arms: resolutions. which, if approved, are for­jobs available to students as well as hall
brought actor James Earl Jones and
warded directly to administrators or the presidents posts. Hall presidents also
singer Ani Difranco to the University's
Campus Life Council. serve on the campus-wide Hall
Office of the President Stepan Center. Last spring former
"The senate can reach every student Presidents Council. 
At the head of campus government are Indiana University head basketball 
on campus," said Moscona, who thairs
the student body president and vice coach Bob Knight spoke at Stepan.
the body. "Ideally, students will take
president. Elected every February by the Annual SUB events include the
their concerns to their individual sena­
majority vote of the undergraduate stu­Collegiate Jazz Festival, Sophomore Contact Jason McFarley at 
tor."
dent body. they take office April 1. Literary Festival and Antostal, the week­McFarley. l@nd.edu. 

"We work to bring everything togeth­er." senior Brooke Norton, the 2001­2002 president, said in an interview last semester with The Observer. "We have many focuses. but our role is to repre­sent student opinion." 
[n the same interview. vice president Brian Moscona, a junior, said, "We're basically working to serve students, being their voice." 
The Office of the President staff includes elected students Norton and Moscona and their appointees to the Chief of Staff position and to other posts in divisions just as academics, diversity and service. 
Student Senate 
This body includes one elected student from each undergraduate residence hall 
Campus Life Council 
The council's membership reflects all sides of Notre Dame residence life and includes administrator, faculty, rector and student representatives. 
The CLC's members are elected to the body from other groups, such as the Faculty and Student senates and the Hall Presidents and Club Coordination councils. 
CLC members consider resolutions for­warded to them by other groups, gener­ally the Student Senate. In the past, the CLC has been the only body with student membership to make policy recommen­dations directly to the Office of Student Affairs. 
"It's hard to say what areas we'll focus on in any year, because, by nature, we end spring carnival. 
Other student government 
Notre Dame student government isn't so neatly summed up as a collection of councils and boards. The Student Union includes other outlets. 
Participation on class councils often is a springboard to higher executive posts. Traditionally, student body presidents and vice presidents held class offices before heading the Student Union. 
Each fall, 27 first-year students are elected to their class council through their residence halls. The freshman rep­resentatives then elect from among themselves the council's four executive officers -a president, vice president, secretary and treasurer. 
In the spring semester, rising sopho-
INSIDE ND Office of the President... ......page 2 ND Senate..............................page 4 Campus Life Council............. ....pages SMC BOG ...............................page 6 SMC Office of the President ..... .page 6 Graduate Student Union............page 7 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002
page 2 The Observer . IN FOCUS 
ONE PERSON'S VIEW 
On the outside, looking back 
Not surprisingly, under our very O\'VIl Dome, students seem to be polarized along the sides of either student government fanatics or those who could care less. After all, how many class dinners 

can a person take? Furthermore, with all the Notre Dame T-shirts, aren't our toddler-sized wardrobes full? Although I have serious­ly been pondering these questions, I will get to the point. 
The truth is that student government does have a sig­nificant and necessary func­tion. I say this as a former insider and current outsider to student government. My little government stint lasted for three semesters starting as a freshman council officer and ending as a sophomore 
Helena Payne 
Assistant News Editor 
council committee member. By my sophomore 
year, I had begun the transition into an outsider 
role by reporting on the Campus Life Council 
(CLC) for The Observer. 
My experience has been that student govern­
ment -whether it is CLC or office of the presi­
dent -has the goal of enhancing the experience 
of Notre Dame students. The class councils in 
which I participated were sustained by our under­
classmen enthusiasm, but especially as a fresh­
man, I was too swept up in the excitement to real­
ize that student government had enemies. As an 
outsider, I was more attentive while also seeing 
that student government members continue to 
plan and provide exciting activities for the 
improvement of student life despite the criticism. 
Unfortunately, however, there remain students 
who are either unaware ofthe events or unappre­
ciative ofthe effort. 
Perhaps the greatest benefit of any representa­tive government is that the people's voices can be heard. The Notre Dame student government has taken strides to hear the voices of the students it represents through town hall meetings and acces­sibility. Naturally, at Notre Dame there are differ­ent attitudes about student government ranging from pessimistic to optimistic, but too often we hear an abundance of opinions and not enough suggestions until it's time for an election. Then, all of a sudden somebody wants cable in the dorms or the return of Sophomore Siblings weekend. l encourage more dialogue between student gov­ernment and the students. Constructive criticism is great but ideas and action are even better. The only way people can legitimately complain or claim to have the solutions to student govern­ment's problems is if they actually understand student government from the inside and outside. This does not mean that everyone has to join stu­dent government during their undergraduate years, but students should attempt to talk to a member to see what the student government real­ly does beyond class dinners and dances. 
Generally, student government consists ofstu­dents highly committed to making the Notre Dame experience more positive. They want to break barriers between students and administra­tors and faculty. The members try to listen to stu­dents' ideas on issues, but when the town hall meetings are virtually empty, students shouldn't be surprised that it is easy for student government members to become comfortable with the status quo. After all, they are students with their own priorities in addition to being a representative for their peers. 
-I urge students to articulate their ideas and learn more about the activities of student govern­ment. Yes, there is much more to life than student government, but there is also much more to stu­dent government than dinners and T-shirts. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
IN FOCUS STAFF 
Editor: Erin LaRuffa 
Photography: Angela Campos 
Graphics: Andy Devoto 
Make promises you can keep 
As students trickle out of dorms at 
12:55 a.m. on Thursday nights after watching the latest HBO movie pre­miere with their friends and return to their dorms as parietals expire, they have nothing but contented smiles on their faces as they con­template the up-and-coming hip­hop and rap artists conference as well as the all-school formal. 
On Fridays, students can be over­heard chattering about the lower prices at the bookstore and the new bowling alley at Alumni Senior Club over their "Grab 'n' Go" lunches they picked up in DeBartolo Hall with the students on service-based scholarships and from the Pacem in Terris program, which brings stu­dents from war-torn counties to get their education at Notre Dame. 
Of course, this scenario is more 
OJhe userver 
Editorial 
like a dream than an average day on campus, but that's not what stu­dent government hopefuls would have the student body believe. 
Each year the student population is subjected to ridiculous platform agendas from the candidates for student body president and vice president. While some platforms are better researched and more feasible than others, the story is the same year after year: little if none of the promises made in the campaign come to fruition. In fact, 
most of them never even have the remotest possibility of being ful­filled. 
While it is important for student government to be ambitious and set high standards for itself, it should also be cognizant of its limitations. And though a noble effort may be made to achieve their goals, candi­dates for student body president and vice president seem to be in a contest to promise more and deliv­er less. When campaigns run planks in 40-point font on their posters they should have more than just a good idea to implement those plans. 
The student body deserves candi­dates that will work hard for them, represent them and have realistic expectations of being able to deliv­er more than recycled pipe dreams. 
Domers give Student Union mixed reviews 
believes student government works
By ELIZABETH LEE 
hard for the students. 
Wire Ediror 
"They have a hard job to do," he Students have different opinions 
said. "If given completely free reign [by the administration]. imagineabout how effective student govern­what they could do." ment is. Some argue that student government has the students' inter­Many students, in fact, agree that 
ests  at  heart,  the power of stu­ 
but others feel that it does not  'They have a hard job to  dent government is limited, and these  
make  enough  do. If given completely  students appreciate  
effort to reach students. However,  free reign {by the administration}, imagine  any changes it can effect. "I was surprised  
other students  what they could do."  and pleased to see  
expressed con­ that they helped get  
cern  that stu­ Eric Carpenter  the Dean's List requirements clari­ 

dent govern­
senior
ment does not communicate well with the student body. 
"I don't think that our student gov­ernment communicates with the stu­dent body very well at all in terms of the changes that students would like to see," said sophomore Megan 
Horner. "I rarely seem to know what they're working on, discussing or try­ing to change." 
Some students, like sophomore Leslie Schmidt, see little value in stu­dent government. 
"It seems like the student govern­ment is more of a formality than a driving force," she said. 
Other students know very little about what student government does. 
"I don't know anything about stu­dent government," said freshman Dwight Ellick. "I don't know what they do or who they are." 
Student government holds office hours and opens up Student Senate meetings to the public, but students feel that these opportunities are not advertised well enough. 
"Voicemails, e-mails, or signs in _the dorms letting students know when representatives are available to discuss issues would be a big help." said Horner. "I get e-mails occasionally from my class council about social events, but that's about it." 
Despite complaints about a lack of campus presence, most students feel that student government does try to keep the students' interests at heart. 
"I give them a lot of credit," said senior Eric Carpenter. "Even if changes come slowly, student gov­ernment still helps improve student life." 
Students also believe that student government's apparent lack of cam­pus presence has to do with the con­trol they feel the administration imposes on student government. 
"They want to accomplish great things for the students but get hin­dered by the higher powers," Carpenter said, adding that he 
fied for students," said sophomore Michael Sanchez. "I usually don't put a lot of stock in stu­dent governments, so it was nice to 
see that they do have some sort of influence." 
Moreover, students generally appreciate the work the officers put in. 
"I think the student government has very limited power, but they work hard to accomplish some things," said Schmidt. "I appreciate their hard work even if changes come about slowly." 
Many students say they would like to see student government take on issues such as parietals, the book­store prices and football ticket distri­bution. Other suggestions were a bit more creative. 
''I'd like to see [Student Government] start a dating service," said sophomore Laura Sech. 
Contact Elizabeth Lee at alee2@nd.edu. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
Do you think student government is effective? Do you think student government represents your concerns? 


Can you name your hall's student senator? 

Can you name your student body president? 
*Results based on random telephone survey of 100 Notre Dame students Wednesday, January 23, 2002 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 3 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
Striving to serve 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate New, Editor 
Whether it is 2 o'clock in the after­noon or 2 o'clock in the morning, one can probably find student body presi­dent Brooke Norton working hard to fulfill her responsibilities to the Notre Dame student body. . 
Most likely, Norton will not be work­ing alone, but instead will be joined by student body vice president Brian Moscona and chief of staff Jonathan Jorisscn. 
Despite their long hours, each of them believe the service they provide to fellow students is "definitely worth it," as Jorissen put it. 
"The service itself is a reward," agreed Moscona. 
"We all love Notre Dame and we want it to be even better than it is now." said Norton. 
When Norton and her administration took office in April 2001, they created a list of goals for their term. While some of their initial goals -including their campaign promises to install cable in dorm rooms and to extend parietals -have proven impossible to achieve, many of their other efforts have had significantly more success. · 
One of Norton and Moscona's main goals was to increase collaboration between the office of the president and other branches of the Student Union. Norton said she believes they have had a great deal of success in accomplish­ing this goal. 
In particular, Norton and Moscona praised their office's diversity division, which collaborated with the Student Union Board (SUB) to plan a multicul­tural fair in November. 
"I think that division represents what this office wants to represent," Moscona said. "This office has worked hard to unify the student body and the Student Union." 
Norton added that her office wanted students of all races to participate in the event, a goal she believes the fair accomplished. This semester, the diversity division is planning a Diversity Symposium for sometime in March. 
Another of Norton and Moscona's goals was to improve communication between student government and the student body. Their attempts to meet this goal have had mixed results. 
"There are 8,000 people at Notre Dame with different opinions, and it is impossible to satisfy every one of them," said Moscona. 
Opening the Maximum Resource 
Center, or the Maxx, last semester was part of their communication plan. Because the student government office is located on the second floor of LaFortune, Norton and Moscona said they wanted another office that would allow them to be closer to where students are. Located on the first floor of LaFortune, the Maxx is intend­ed to give the office of the president and other student groups a place to hold office hours. However, some details need to be addressed before the Maxx will be working properly, according to Norton. 
As another part of its communication plan. the office of the president also began holding town hall meetings throughout last semester. Each meet­ing had a specific topic, such as foot­ball ticket distribution or tailgating. 
"Some have been effective. Some have not been," Jorissen said, adding that attendance at some meetings has been better than at others. 
The office plans to continue holding town hall meetings this semester, but the office is planning to use better "market techniques," according to Moscona. In addition, Norton wants the meeting to have a revamped format that involves University administrators. 
"We want to enhance the communi­cation between students and the administration because there has been friction there," said Norton, referring to several incidents last semester involving the University's alcohol poli­cy. "I think there needs to be an open discussion about duLac and a student's place on campus." 
Students are sometimes upset at the University's administration, Moscona added, and part of that problem results from the fact that students do not always know the reasoning behind administrative decisions. Moscona believes student leaders must help to bridge that gap. 

"Because many students don't have contact with administrators, we're their intermediaries," he explained. 
As student leaders, Norton, Moscona and Jorissen have the challenging role of working with administrators while still being students themselves. 
"I can't speak for the administra­tion," said Norton. "I can tell students what they told me, but I'm not the one that made the policy, so I can't guaran­tee anything." 
Another communications challenge Norton said her office faced last semester involved knowing how to properly respond to the events of Sept. 11. 
In the end, the office of the president was involved in several initiatives in response to the terrorist attacks. Norton's office teamed up with other campus entities, including Campus Ministry, the Student Activities Office and other branches of student govern­ment. 
The office helped coordinate a can­dlelight vigil to remember the victims 
Cheers andJeers 
Cheers 
Concern for the student body: In everything thelr administratign has undertaken. Norto~and ~t9sco2~ have shown their dedi­cation to the Notre Dame student body. Consistently striving to reach out Jo .asmany siudeiit$ as possible,. they have p,toven themselves to be committed campus leaders who see their positions as an opportunity to serye the{Jniversity they obviously love. · 

Response to 9/11: Combining prayer and charity, the office of the president led the way in helping students deal with the tragedy of Sept. 11. And despite all their hard work, they stilLmanaged t() deflect praise,and give the q-editto therest qfthe student body. · · · 
U2 ticket pre-sale:Without Norton's persistence. students would never ~ate had the c;tw,nc~ J;qbu.y'.;IJ:? cor.(cert tickets, be.fore the general public. Her polite response to criticism concerning ticket distribution -a process Norto11's office had no control over-illustrated her maturity as a student leader. · 
Polite Applause 
Greatness Grants: The concept of funding student-initiated service reflects important va1ues of Notre'Dame's mission, bµflhe idea for these grants came from Norton's predecessor, Brian O'Donoghue. It remains to be seen how the program will work once its put in action, and wh~ther ~t-udent gQvernment can r~~e more than the cm::rent $i.oQO';it;ha.$.!or ~4~. grants,; 
Founders' Day: The special food in the DH wa.s nice, but the events were not as ambitic:>us as Jast yea,r's carnivaL Norton and Moscona wisely propped thetr prop:t)sal for an unfeasible aU-sph,ool formal a? part Qfthe f~stjtj.tje~; 

Jeers 
Town ball meetings: They may sound like a nice idea on paper; but where are the students? Attendance at the meetings has· been lacking, and most of people who have both.erect to show up were already involve.dJn stµdent government. It is dmil:>tful that Norton, Moscona and Jorissen learned anything from the,meetings. Iftheytrulywant,toholct,s.lnlil~ forums this sem~stet';. 
they will have to significantly improve their publi~ity efforts. ··· · · ·' · · ' , · · · · · ·· ' 
. , .."., ..-.. · . ·•-•, .. :. 
Student governlrient Web site: De.spite Norton iind M9scona',s. proµtise to'.: upd.,\.te this''f;1te/j{;~ sti.1l'.:Uicomplete. ~ '~~i'tilct !nformation still dates back two administrations, listing Micah :rvturp~y as st~yient body pr~d.~ 

of the attacks. Norton, Moscona and Jorissen also played an influential role in organizing the collection of approxi­mately $250,000 for families of New York City firefighters, paramedics and police officers killed during their res­cue efforts at the World Trade Center. The money was collected primarily during the Michigan State football game, as well as at campus masses and the candlelight vigil. 
"That really showed a lot about the student body," said Norton. 
The final part of the office's response was to hold a blood drive in November. Fifty students, the full number that could be accommodated, donated blood. 
In December, the office of the presi­dent also worked with members of the South Bend community to raise money to replace a New York City hospital's ambulance, which was destroyed when the World Trade Center buildings col­lapsed. 
Norton also played an influential role in having a pre-sale of U2 tickets to students, according to Moscona. 
"Brooke lobbied for the students. Without Brooke, the students would not have gotten the presale," he said. 
While many office of the president initiatives vary based on the adminis­tration's own goals and unexpected events such as Sept. 11, the office also has certain responsibilities that remain the same every year. One of the most important of those responsibilities are three reports every year to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. 
At the board's fall meeting, the office 
see NORTON/page 8 
B+ 
Nthoµgh·botq Norton and Moscona had significant student government .. e)(peri~nce before taking their cur­rent offices, both have grown even more since April. They had to drop JWo of. their most important cam­p'aign promises, to extend parietals and to bring cable to dorms. However, they have fulfilled, or are in the process of fulfilling, almost all of their more feasible platform i:;sues. They ~! have work to do to iniprove communication with the s,tudeut body, but students clearly
<pobld pot ,a.sk'for· an administration rnorei1}terested in serving them. 
::,_,.·::~Li.':::.·.-.. , .....,. 
:-{: -;~~{'.£\l -.. :; :. :··-?:\1 .. 

page 4 The Observer . IN FOCUS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senators work to improve quality of student life 

By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Tackling topics ranging from curriculum review to possible parietals extensions to the amount of chicken served in the dining halls, members of Notre Dame's Student Senate have dealt with numerous issues that senators believe affect students on a daily basis. 
"If we can improve the qual­ity of life for students in any way, we feel like we're doing our job," said Brian Moscona, who as student body vice pres­ident chairs the senate. 
To some observers, howev­er, it might not seem as though the current senate, which began its term in April 2000, has been very produc­tive. That assumption 
is incorrect, "Ifwe can improve the surveyed stu­according to 
quality oflife for students dents in the 
Moscona, 
dining halls.
in any way, we feel like 
because he 
The surveys
said sena­we're doing our job." also collected tors have 
student ideas 
been busy 
on the direc­
Brian Moscona 
conducting 
tion changesbackground student body vice president 
to the curricu­
12 non-senators serving on committees, according to Moscona. 
Academic committee 
The senate's academic com­mittee has dedicated most of its time to curriculum review. According to committee chair Pat Hallahan, the University has established a nine-person committee, led by Father John Jenkins and consisting of admin­istrators and faculty members, to look into Notre Dame's curricu­lum and possible changes to it. 
"There are a lot of changes that can happen," said Hallahan. "We've been trying to give stu­dents a voice in that." 
To get a sense of student opin­ion on the current state of cur­riculum in each college, Hallahan and his committee 
research and learning how to go about accomplishing their goals. 
"The first semester is spent learning the process," Moscona said. "Right now. we definitely have the process nailed down. We know what issues we want to focus on." 
This semester. senators will continue working on the issues they have identified, but the work will primarily occur within senate commit­tees, not at the weekly meet­ings of the full senate, accord­ing to Carroll sen ator Jesse Flores. 
"Most of the work is done outside the Wednesday meet­ing," he said. 
Each senate committee focuses on a particular area of student life at Notre Dame. Although committee members are primarily senators, all stu­dents are welcome to join them, and there are currently 
lum should 
take. The committee also conducted focus groups to get in-depth informa­tion from students. At the end of fall semester, the senate sent a letter to Jenkins describing what the academic committee had learned from the student sur­veys. 
"The academic committee put in a countless number of hours doing that research, and I think it will lead to the enhancement of academic life at Notre Dame," said Moscona. He explained that to the curriculum review com­mittee, the information from the senate represents the opinion of the student body. 
This semester, Hallahan said his committee will continue working with Jenkins and the curriculum review committee. The committee also plans to con­tinue studying interaction between students and faculty, another topic the committee began addressing in the fall. 
"Some people think it's lack­ing," Hallahan said, adding that his committee is looking into ways it can improve intellectual life at Notre Dame through increasing student faculty inter­action. 
"Notre Dame is a top-notch university, but it might not have that edge that Harvard or Yale have," he said. 
The committee will also try to get more student representation on the Academic Council, which currently has three students out of 30 members. 
Diversity Committee 
One of the diversity commit­tee's goals for last semester was to network with other entities on campus that address similar issues, according to committee co-chair Elizabeth Lenn. The committee started by meeting with groups including the diver­sity division within the office of the student body president, as well as Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS). 
Part of the committee's work last semester also involved creat­ing a resolution, which the full senate passed, requiring that the Celebrating Diversity Workshop be held twice a year, instead of just once. All senators are required to attend the workshop at least once. 
''The workshop opens your eyes. and you become aware of a lot as a student leader," said diversity committee co-chair Nikki McCord. "We think diversi­ty is very important. both for stu­dents and for the senate in par­ticular." 
This semester, the diversity committee is holding a workshop for dorm multicullural commis­sioners. 
"A lot of times, the multicultur­al commissioner is the hardest commissioner position you can have on campus," said McCord. She explained that most dorm commissioner positions, such as dance commissioner. have spe­cific goals. However. multicultur­al commissioners have a more difficult time determining what direction to take their position, she said. 
To address that challenge, according to McCord, the work­shop will make these commis­sioners aware of resources avail­able on campus. 
Gender Relations 
Much like the diversity com­mittee, members of the gender relations committee started by talking to several people who deal with gender issues on cam­pus, according to committee chair Mary Mullen. The priorities that the committee developed out of those conversations have guid­ed the committee's work throughout the school year. 
At the end of last semester, the senate passed a resolution from the gender relations committee calling for more lighting in cer­tain locations around campus, including along the paths around the lakes. The committee created the resolution after meeting with campus administrators to discuss the possibility of additional lights. 
"I think that resolution and their work with Security will benefit students now and in the future," Moscona said. 
Another committee project is to create a list of steps a person should take if he or she has been the victim of sexual assault. The committee plans to put the lists in every dorm sometime this semester, said Mullen, who became committee chair in January when former chair Jeanine Valles left the senate to study abroad. 
The committee is also working on the issue of parietals. Last semester, a resolution to extend parietals failed to pass the Campus Life Council (CLC). Several CLC members who voted against the resolution claimed that "ROTC students and athletes were not interested in extending parietals," Mullen said. 
Prompted by that claim, sena­tors on the gender relations com­mittee are conducting a survey of student athletes and ROTC par­ticipants to gage how both groups feel about extending pari­etals. 
"We want to make sure people aren't misrepresenting what stu­dents want just to vote a certain way," said Mullen. 
In addition, committee mem­bers are currently working with 
see SENATE/page 5 
Committee Report Card 
Academic  A  
Diversity  C+  
Gender Relations  A- 
Residence Life  A- 
Oversight  B  
University Affairs  A- 
Overall  B+  

As a whole, the senate has grown into a strong organization since the beginning of its term in April, although the various commit­tees have differed in their productivity and effectiveness. Moscona at first seemed uncomfortable and unprepared to chair the group, but he has adjusted well to the role. His capable lead­ership is complemented by several dedicated senators who have made possible many small but significant improvements to stu­dent life at Notre Dame. 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 The Observer . IN FOCUS page 5 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Council changes produce few tangible results 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Last year when a Campus Life Council meeting cut into dinnertime, it meant one of two things: Either mem­bers had gotten a late start or, more likely, they were tied up in contentious debate and name-calling. 
During the spring 2001 semester alone. the group twice tabled discus­sion and adjourned its bi-weekly meet­ings after members' bickering over such issues as academic freedom and parietals extensions stretched past the council's self-imposed 90-minute time limit. At its height, the CLC's squab­bling led student members to draft a letter to rectors, faculty and the administrator who sat on the body, urging them to end the in-fighting. 
That -and some personnel changes -seemed to work. Feuding isn't on the group's agenda this year. 
In fact, the campus leaders who com­prise the body this year hardly look ­or sound -like their counterparts from the 2000-2001 council. 
Since September, members' tone has been cooperative, even amiable. Meetings have run efficiently; several sessions lasted between 20 and 30 minutes. 
On the one hand, the changes speak to a recommitted CLC that wants to take advantage of its unique powers. The 15-member group can form task forces at its own discretion to examine various areas of campus life. Most res­olutions passed in the Student Senate require a stamp of approval from the CLC before Student Affairs officials will even consider them. And whenever it wants, the council may draft its own resolutions and forward them to the vice president for student affairs, who is required to at least send back a for­mal response to the measure. 
But if CLC members this year arc in high spirits or are getting out of meet­ings earlier, that's also a matter of what they're considering in the confer­ence room. 
Arguing sometimes rendered the CLC ineffective last year. but the disputes always centered on significant campus issues. Consider: Debate in the CLC last spring about ending parietals at 9 
a.m. instead of at 10 a.m. increased hostility at the meeting table but resulted in a resolution approving the one-hour rollback of hours members of the opposite sex are barred from visit­ing each other in residence halls. University officials, in turn, signed off on the proposal and implemented the change in the fall. 
Current members, however. have done little in the way of con­sidering other groups' resolutions or drafting their own. Only the Student Senate has asked for the CLC's approval of a resolu­tion, a measure in November that would allow students to miss three class days per semester to attend job or graduate school 
C­
CLC members deserve credit for dropping the attitudes and personal agendas that plagued the group last year and boosting their cooperation with each other. But 20­minute meetings that produce little valuable input week after week are not so much a sign of efficiency and teamwork as they are an indication that the group is finding little to do. Task forces are effective, hut res~ olutions that shape campus policy is one of the best means of judging this group's success. Passing only one resolution in an entire semester just doesn't make the grade. 
Senate 
continued from page 4 
the office of the president on its winter Board of Trustees report, which focuses on freshman ori­entation. As a final project for this senate term, the gender relations committee is also plan­ning retreat for female Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in March. 
oversight 
The oversight committee is currently working on reviewing the senate's constitution, said chair Jim Ryan. While the review involves primarily organizational changes, the committee is also considering adding an important clause about fiscal responsibility. 
That clause would address the fact that campus clubs currently draw money from the same account, with no mechanism in place to prevent a club from drawing more than its allotted share of funds, according to Ryan. 
"As of right now, there's noth­ing to say, 'You owe money,'" he said. His committee is trying to hold clubs accountable. 
interviews. The council passed the res­olution and sent it to the Academic Council. where it awaits consideration. 
A single resolution doesn't represent the sum total of the CLC's work this year. Fact is, the group exists as more than a resolution-making body with veto power over other organizations' policy initiatives. 
When they weren't considering reso­lutions, members this year were focus­ing on task force work. Thoughtful dis­cussion at the beginning of the fall semester led the group to create task forces focusing on three areas of Notre Dame student life: alcohol use, off­campus living and social space. 
Traditionally. CLC task forces have had short lives, lasting only until task force members arrived at conclusive findings or drafted a resolution. At present, the council has five task forces -the three formed in September and two formed this week that deal with community life and stu­dent-administration communication. 
At this point, the task forces are essentially tools for collecting informa­tion and passing it along to University officials. Significant policy•changing resolutions aren't likely to come out of the task forces. 
And that seems to pose a dilemma for the council. 
From one standpoint, the CLC's unique make-up affords it the advan­tage of bringing together representa­tives from each campus constituency to discuss student life issues. 
From another, CLC members are in an enviable position to shape policy ­and not just talk about it. 
This year's council has taken both tacks and produced relatively few tan­gible results. 
Contact Jason Mcfarley at McFarley. I@nd.edu 

Members of the Campus Life Council discuss diversity at Notre Dame during the council's meeting on Monday. 
Residence Life Discussion with security has 
"We put a lot of effort into initi­mainly involved making it easier ating a dialogue with the dining for students to get onto cars hall," said residence life commit­when they need to. tee co-chair Aldo Tesi. In addition, committee mem­
In addition to talking to dining ber Padraic McDermott did hall managers, the committee extensive research on water has also conducted student sur­quality last semester. As with veys to find out what students several other issues the commit-
changes  stu­ tee has stud­ 
dents would like  ied, however,  
the dining halls  "Notre Dame is a  senators real­ 
to make. So far, the committee's work has been  top-notch university, but it might not have that edge that Harvard or  ized that there was nothing they could do to improve  
responsible for several changes,  Yale have."  water quality. "Older pipes  
including  an  are gradually  
increased  Pat Hallahan  b  e  i  n  g  
amount  of  academic committee chair  replaced.  
chicken and a  We're satis­ 
new location for  fied with what  

soup in North Dining Hall. The the University is doing," Tesi committee was also able to get said. "A lot of our actions so· far the dining halls to sell special have been finding out what we guess meal passes. according to can't do." Tesi. The passes, which are sold Similarly, the committee in the card services office of researched how the University South Dining Hall, allow students waters its lawn in hopes of find­to purchase a book of five meal ing a way to avoid walking paths passes for less money than if being in the trajectory of sprin­they purchases the meals sepa­klers. However, as with water rately. quality, committee members 
Members of the residence life realized that there was nothing committee have also been meet­they could do to address the ing with campus security. issue. 
"It looks like the University is doing it in a way that gets the minimal amount of people wet." said Tesi. 
The committee has several projects planned for this semes­ter as well. For example, Tesi said the committee wants the University to post its e-mail mon­itoring policy posted on the WebMail Web site. The University already includes the statement in DuLac, but Tesi said posting the policy on the WebMail site would make more students aware their messages are being monitored. 
The committee is also working with the people who handle Notre Dame's Freshman Register to see if it would be possible to print a similar book for students at the before the beginning of their junior year. 
"So I can fmd a date to a dance or something," Tesi said. 
University Affairs 
Much like the residence life committee, the university affairs committee has undertaken sev­eral. wide-ranging projects. 
Last semester, the committee conducted a survey to gain stu­dent opinion on vans at the Center for Socia! Concern. The survey focused on issues such as the process of loaning out the vans and the condition of the vans. 
The committee also established two ad hoc committees, one to investigate faculty-student inter­action and one to investigate gender relations. Committee co­chair Jesse Flores said both are areas ofinterest to him. 
In addition, committee mem­ber Kim Milford is looking into the University's health services to see if resources could be made more accessible to students. 
The committee is also continu­ing to study social space, particu­larly in relation to Lafortune Student Center. 
This semester, Flores said the committee is brainstorming ideas based on the University's mission statement. 
"Our projects will be more focused on the mission statement and its impact on student life," he said. Such a focus, Flores added, will require the commit­tee to consider "what kinds of things we can do to help students realize their maximum poten­tial." 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at LaRuffa.l@nd.edu. 
1---­
page 6 The Observer . IN FOCUS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 
SAINT MARY'S BOARD OF GOVERNANCE SAINT MARY'S OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
Board works for visibility, small changes 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN AND 
NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writers 
B 
Every Monday, members of Saint Mary's student government walk around campus in 
The board did an excellent job of coordinated T-shir1s and sweatshirts, worn to 
revamping or enhancing small, identify themselves as members of the student 
basic elements of student life, at government association. Srarted as an initia­
Saint Marfs. Eliminating e-mail tive to "bring student government back to the 
annoyance, increasing munch students," Student Body President Michelle 
money and· providing responsible Nagle said the shirts were supposed to make 
funding procedure were goals the student government more visible. 
board set and met. But the hoard VJSibility was one of one of the main goals 
failed to issue any public stance on Student Body President Michelle Nagle and 
issues sµ.ch as campus security _or Student Body Vice President Kristen Matha set 
academic freedom, It would have for the Board shortly after their election. 
heeri nice to s(;e the 'drive the Developing the T-shirt days, enhancing a 
board approached the e-mail pro· newsletter, adding to the board's Web page 
p()sal with applied to isst1e~ grave-and developing office hours were all parts of 
ly affecting students' experiences the initiative. 
on campus, such as campus secu• "One ofmy largest objcctivffi for this semes­
rity. ter was to educate the student body about who we [student leaders} are," Nagle said. 

maze of unwanted mass information. The The Board had a moderately successful 
November rejection of campus-wide e-mail year, bringing change to small, everyday stu­
privileges signaled a success for Board of dent life issues. In absence of big proposals, Governance's proposal. The swift, decisive and BOG can be commended for its little changes, 
fair action was by far the board's greatest suc­and making the effort to better publicize itself. 
cess of the year. 
Stopping Mass E-mailing Refinancing
Most student governing organizations face 
BOG's fall revamping of funding grants for the challenge of fighting through brick walls 
campus clubs and organizations should be and red tape to accomplish initiatives, This 
commended, By changing co-sponsorship year's Board of Governance leaders found 
funding to a grant process. BOG has become themselves fighting through firewalls and 
more financially accountable. The board rec­gateways instead. 
ognized that past boards had thrown around Fed up with the loads of frivolous e-mails 
money too haphazardly and rectified the prob­that flooded the Saint Mary's network, Board 
lem. The new system has cut back waste and of Governance decided this fall to put a stop t.o 
left the board with a surplus. Initial discussions the excessive abuse of the computer network. 
of surplus spending have focused on buying''This plan of action will be a more orga­
items that will enhance student life in the resi­ruzed outlet for the information to be sent," 
dence halls. Technology Commissioner Elizabeth Cusick said at an October board meeting. 
Community Service
Despite cries it was suppressing free speech, At a time when most financial donations are the governing body stood by its decision and going towards Sept. 11 funds, the Boardput together a rational, logical and fair propos­stepped up and recognized a struggling localal that allowed students w get their messages charity instead. The board donated the fundsacra,.s without abusing the network. It was a from Pride Week T-Shirt sales to South Bend's decisive response to a long-termed problem. 
chapter of the YWCA, a charity supported by '"This i<; in direct response to student com­
various extracurricular groups at Saint
plaints and their input," said Erin Casey, Mary's. The board didn't forget the victims of Board of Governance's representative to Notre Sepl 11, however -it organized a blood driveDame Student Senate, at a November board shortly after the attacks. Kudos are in ordermeeting. 
for keeping local and national interests bal­By proposing listservs students could sign up 
anced.
for to get information on specific topics, the board freed the community from the excess see BOG/page 7 

MEGAN LAFFERTY ffhe Observer Kristen Matha, Michelle Nagle and Kim Jensen sit at a recent Board of Governance meeting. 
Nagle, Matha win small victories 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
C+
Losing her characteristic smile for a moment, Student Body President Michelle Nagle admits that she worries 
Nagle and Matha entered their posi­she might not have done a good job. 
tions with the best intentions. TheyHer eyes fall, look around, and she 
achieved little victories executed bysighs. Picking up the pace in her voice, 
the Board of Governance, such as it's easy to see this is a president who 
the e-mail proposal, refinancing wants to please her constituents. But as 
student grants and Munch Moneyshe talks about her role the past year as 
additions. But as the highest leaders president, her smile returns, her pos­
in the organization, they needed to ture relaxes, 
take a sta.nd on issues critical to 'Tm excited for student government 
students. By not speaking up about to transition," she said. But looking onto 
the DOE investigation or academic the upcoming election. she loses her 
freedom, Matha and Nagle did not smile again. "It hurt.'l in a way -I've 
utilize the best opportunity they had spent so much of my time building a 
to be true leaders. While they may
foundation for student government. 
be visible, students are left wonder­People run to change things. I can only 
ing what they were watching. hope they want to continue the founda­tion." 
Entering her office after a year that Board of Governance had a breakfast;saw Board of Governance censor the 
they wore coordinated T-shirts on
controversial junior class T-shirt and Mondays to increase visibility. Officialsstudents perform a renegade produc­held office hours. The main emphasis oftion of the administratively banned play their term was exactly what Nagle andThe Vagina Monologues, Nagle and vice Matha wanted -to bring student gov­president Kristin Matha's administra­ernment to the students. 
tion, she says, has been quiet. 
But it wasn't utilized.
It's been a year of silence, she says, Students rarely came to office hours
and there haven't been that many 
and at Monday's Board of Governance "major issues" that have demanded her meeting, the Board deliberated if it wasattention -or the board's. 
necessary to continue them. Some
Campaigning on a need for better members suggested having them in acommunication and what they per­
more prominent place, like the diningceived as a need to reconnect student hall or Haggar. Still, the lonely office ingovernment with students, Nagle and Haggar symbolizes the silence that hasMatha's platform promised to continue 
characterized Nagle and Matha's
to work on the study days proposal, administration.
hold breakfasts in the dining hall so stu­"It is a little disappointing," she said.
dents could talk to student leaders, 
"I think to have a lot of students partic­
erect a bulletin board with campus 
ipate in something you really have toevents and information about BOG and get them angry. There haven't been any 
publish a newsletter. With the exception of the bulletin hoard, these promises were delivered. see NAGLE/page 8 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS 
Do you think student 
II
government is effective? Yes 
79.8% 

Do you think student government represents 
your concerns? 
Can you name your 
class president? 


Can you name your student body president? 
*Results based on random telephone survey of 84 Saint Mary's students 
-. ' . 
Wednesday, January 23, 2002 The Observer . IN FOCUS page7 
Understanding the SMC wheel 
• BOG serves as center for Saint Mary's student government 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS Wire Ediror 
The Student Government Association resembles a wheel. The Board of Governance sits at the middle of the wheel and acts as a communications hub and distributes money to the other four divi­sions of SGA -the Diversity Board, the Student Activities Board, the Student Academic Council and the Residence Hall Association. 
The student body president and vice president at Saint Mary's chair the Board of Governance. 
The Board of Governance provides a forum for discussion of issues and policies that concern and effect students as well as the entire College community and contains 23 executive staff positions. 
"Having a specific board or person to represent every possible interest allows us to make well-rounded decisions with as much representation of the student body as possible," said student body president Michelle Nagle. 
The Board's most important function is allocating funds to various campus organi­zations through its budget and separate grants and co-sponsorships for clubs and individuals involved in interesting activi­ties. 
The voting members of BOG include the student body vice president, student activi­ties board coordinator. residence hall association president, executive secretary, executive treasurer, student trustee, class presidents and the various commissioners appointed according to the Student Government Association Constitution. 
The Diversity Board was created in 2000 to increase awareness of multicultural stu­dents and activities at Saint Mary's. The primary purpose of. the board is to create programs highlighting diversity at Saint Mary's. 
The Student Activities Board organizes campus events such as Pride Week, cam­pus movies, Twilight Tailgate and other special activities. 
The Residence Hall Association is made up of elected representatives from each residence hall and chairwomen who apply for positions to handle planning of events or programs. The RHA deals with issues related to dorm life as well as planning activities such as the All-Campus Formal and Little Sibs Weekend. 
Each major elects a representative to the Student Academic Council to discuss issues related to academic life at Saint Mary's. The SAC organizes the major of the week program and deals with issues such as academic honesty and general education requirements. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at JKrivick@nd.ec1.u. 
BOG 
continued from page 6 
Mary's. The board didn't forget the vic­tims of Sept. 11. however -it organized a blood drive shortly after the attacks. Kudos are in order for keeping local and national interests balanced. 
Munch Money 
Finally, the board added to the quality of student life on campus by increasing Munch Money to student meal plans by $25. An amenity that wa.s a tangible goal for the board and a benefit to students, polite applause is in order. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 
-
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Grad students make major strides 
ByANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Something has changed within the Graduate Student Union (CSU), the organization representing Notre Dame's 1,500 graduate students, according to its president Gabriela Burgos. There is an energy in the room and, she said, a synergy between the GSU, their advisors and the academic departments. 
"When we talk to graduate students we get a sense that faith has been restored," agreed vice president Kishori Deshpande agreed. "To us. this is more important than anything else." 
Winds of change 
When Burgos and Deshpande took office last April. they inherited a repre­sentative body from outgoing president Mark Buckles already undergoing change. Formed in 1969 to represent the needs of the University's graduate students. the GSU often had a reputa­tion of being ineffective -more prone to complaining than taking action. 
Burgos and the members of the orga­nizatiou's eight committees are work­ing to update this reputation, along with the union's constitution, organiza­tion and relationship with the University community. 
During the summer, the organization initiated an overhaul of their constitu­tion under the direction of Burgos and Suzann Gallagher, elections, creden­tials and procedures secretary. The results led to the formation of the healthcare and publicity and promo­tions committees. The GSU has contin­ued to make changes to its constitution throughout the year to better define the role of each committee and to increase the body's productivity, according to Deshpande. 
"The constitution was too concerned with procedure," Burgos added. "We wanted to get stuff done." 
The group is also brainstorming about ways to increase the productivity of their monthly meetings. Burgos says that she wants to make the meetings more interactive and improve commu­nication between the different commit­tees. She is considering allotting each committee a portion of one meeting to high­situation, compared the University's plan with other schools and contained facul­ty surveys and stu­dent testimonials. The group presented their findings to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees that month. 

"We spent a lot of time -two weeks straight -working on the report and doing the research," Minerick said. "We thought we would be convincing them (the Board of Trustees] that they ought to be doing this [adopting the new subsidized policy] and they were already asking us the specifics." 
The GSU plans to make a similar pre­sentation to the University's officers 
in March. They are SONIA WALLACE/The Observer confidant that the Leaders of the Graduate Student Union discuss possi­idea will be ble changes to the University's health care policy. 
light their recent work. "When we talk to school alumni as 
Reforming health care graduate students we well. The groups GSU's most notable want to host a
get a sense that faith 
progress has occurred graduate student in reforming the has been restored." career fair in the University's health care future. policy for graduate stu­Focusing on
Kishori Deshpande
dents, an issue that has 
GSU vice president quality of life
been discussed since 
approved and that the new policy will be available within a year and a half once the logistics are worked out, according to Minerick. 
Career networking 
The GSU has also taken steps to assist graduate studen1s find jobs after earning their degrees. 
The organization is working with the Career Center to aid students in the job search. As a result, the Career Center has sponsored a series of workshops geared toward assisting graduate stu­dents in the corporate and academic worlds. Workshops organized this year educated students on corporate eti­quette, resume preparation, job search strategies and provided information for international students. 
"The fact that we established com­munication with the Career Services is really productive," Deshpande said. 
The GSU is working with Peter Lombardo of the Alumni Association to 
foster connections 
with graduate 
1995. 
When Burgos and Deshpande took over in April, results from a healthcare survey commis­sioned by Buckles were filtering back to the GSU. The results indicated the need for a more comprehensive University subsidized policy. 
"When I was elected, the graduate students' first suggestion was work for health care," Burgos said. 
"There was a definite discontent among the students," Deshpande added. 
Once the CSU created the health care committee to address this discontent, committee .chairperson Adrienne Minerick, who considers herself a vic­tim of the current policy's shortcom­ings, began investigating. The commit­tee has been instrumental in offering short-term solutions and working toward the establishment of a final res­olution. Working with Ingrid Villa-Real. publicity and promotions chairman, Minerick published pamphlets designed to assist graduate students in navigat­ing the current health insurance plan and established a discount eye care program with Optical One. 
ln October, Minerick researched and published a report on the health care issue with Burgos and Deshpande. The 100-page report assessed the current The GSU has con­
tinued to sponsor social events for graduate students this semester. The organization has tradi­tionally hosted parties but this year, committee chairpersons Jennifer Anthony and Miriam Rainbird created a more diverse social calendar, Burgos said. 
Social events include cultural and athletic activities. The organization recently sponsored a wine tasting festi­val and organized a trip to Chicago for a baseball game over the summer. 
The union also has an intellectual life committee led hy Kari Foster that pro­vides funding for graduate students to attend academic conferences. The com­mittee is working to make the applica­tion process smoother and may increase funding for the next academic year. 
Long term, the GSU wants to increase graduate students' social opportunities on campus with a student union center. Quality of life committee chairman Tom Scheiding is currently conducting a sur­vey to determine the level ofinterest for the center and what students feel it should contain. 
"Graduate students expressed that they really need a space to socialize and work on projects," Burgos said. "The graduate school is seriously look­
,.....·· .• .. ··...·....... ~tfstQI llave much
J&trrp&;to"achieveau thejr
\r;gd}il~;butBurgos and Deshpande i!l:l,i~ve greatly, revitalized the GSU. J,f.pio.Q, is no.y a positive and iv¢ yoi~Cfor graduate stu­
ij atNotr¢ Di!.Ille, 
ing into this problem." 
Looking toward the future 
This semester, Burgos and Deshpande plan to continue to work on these pro­jects. The GSU is also negotiating with OIT to establish a service contract for the graduate student computer cluster. They plan to host a spring orientation for new students as well. 
Despite their success, Burgos and Deshpande do not intend to seek reelec­tion in April, citing a need to devote more time to graduate research. Minerick will also move on to spend more time on research after her term ends. All three, however, expressed sat­isfaction in the direction the organiza­tion has taken. 
"Traditionally the Graduate Student Union has been involved primarily in social activities," Burgos said. "Now it's not just social -it's healthcare, its about career services, it's about quality of life and professional life." 
The three, however, expressed con­cern for the direction of GSU once new officers are elected. 
"It's frustrating because this is a one year appointment," Minerick said. "What if people next year aren't as pro­ductive? What happens if all our work falls apart?" 
Despite this concern, the current lead­ers are poised to aid in a smooth transi­tion and plan to volunteer with GSU next year. Donna Frahn, the organiza­tion's administrative assistant, will also be available to help, according to Burgos. 
For all the positive publicity the more productive GSU has received, it seems unlikely the University community will allow it to regain its former reputation. 
"It's a strong organization," James Powell, associate dean of the Graduate School said. "They represent the University very well. It's much easier to work with an organization that can artic,?-late and accomplish their goals well. 
Contact Anclrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu, 

page 8 The Observer . IN FOCUS Wednesday, January 23, 2002 

Nagle 
continued from page 6 
big controversial issues this year. I like to think if 
students are quiet, they're happy with the way 
things are." 
But, she says, the silence makes it hard for her to know where her administration stands. "It's hard to gauge how effective student gov­ernment is when it's quiet," she said. 
Nagle's leadership roles in Board of Governance have been characterized by her stand-in-the-middle positions on almost every issue, her relentless deter­mination to understand her constituents before mak­ing a decision, and repeated statements of love for the College and the student body. BOG tends not to take on a cause unless it's brought to them first -by their constituents. 
"We want to make huge stands on issues that stu­dents bring to us," she said. "We will make a stand on things we feel comfortable that we know how the stu­dent body feels," 
But while Nagle and Matha's administration has remained quiet, there were controversial issues fac­ing campus during her administration. The Department of Education conducted an on-site and off-site investigation of Saint Mary's crime statistic reporting procedures, after a report alleged the College improperly reported them. Board of Governance never issued an official statement on the investigation, or took any other action than handing out whistles door to door. 
Nagle and Matha backed away from the issue after discussing it in executive board, giving the campus no decisive statement. The DOE investigation, which could levy up to $35,000 in fines, loss of student scholarships, prove negligence of security to properly handle rape reports and severely tarnish the school's reputation got no attention from BOG. 
"We met with [Dr. Timm] and she told us it was being taken care of," Nagle said. 
The team also left the campus floundering for a position in a heated debate about academic freedom, ignited by last year's Vagina Monologues perfor­mance. The College organized a forum to debate the extent of academic freedom on campus in early fall, and asked Nagle to present students' views on the topic to a panel. 
Nagle sent out an e-mail to the student body to gather opinions, but got minimal response -and was left floundering on a podium. 
"I don't know what academic freedom means, I searched for meaning and not one student could answer what academic freedom meant to them," Nagle said to the panel, and in front of an audience of students and administrators. 
While the BOG administration can be faulted -and should be -for remaining quiet on these issues, their decision to do so is reflective of the organization's governing philosophy. It firmly believes it should address issues that students bring to them -not the other way around. 
The one issue the administration did fight for -the addition of a study day to the academic calendar ­met with opposition from Faculty Assembly. A com­promise proposal, which suggested the College elimi­nate the registration day to have one more day off at the end of the year, was not submitted in time to be seriously considered for spring semester. 
It was a frustration for both Nagle and Matha, who felt they had moved the proposal to a point of success. Especially when they knew it was a proposal their constituents wanted. In an e-mail survey, they were overwhelmed with student responses in favor of it. 
"They were saying, 'Please, we need an extra day,"' Matha said, who geared the proposal from her posi­tion as chair of Student Academic Council. "I got five e-mails a minute for a day." 
When Faculty Assembly rejected the proposal, it was yet another roadblock for the three-year old BOG effort. 
"It was a disappointment, that's for sure," Matha said. "But if it had gotten shot down right away, I think we would have been disappointed." 
While they are both optimistic the live the proposal has beyond the tenures oftheir offices, each are skep• tical about its plausibility. 
"We'd have to get an entire new faculty," Matha said. 
Their administration can be measured in small suc­cesses -revamping how Board of Governance allots funds to clubs and for co-sponsorship: leading the Board in the restriction of mass e-mail privaledges and increasing the amount given to students for Munch Money. It was practical, small changes rather than large ambitious ones that leave this administra­tion with not much to be remembered by. 
But Nagle -who will graduate and plans to pursue a career in politics -and Matha, who is not seeking re-election, will be remembered as leaders who tried, with the best intentions, to represent the students. 
"We'll keep plugging away every day," Nagle said about the upcoming end to their administration. "I don't want to be done." 
co·ntact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu 
Norton 
continued from page 3 
chose to present the topic of stu­dents living off-campus. 
To prepare the fall report, according to Moscona, the office included several students who had nol. previously been involved with student government. He said the experience was a chance for them to learn so that they can improve for future presentations. Norton added that the fall report served as a learning experience for her staff which will help make upcoming reports better. 
"The problem was that there were so many issues to cover. We could have done a better job than we did, but I think we made some major points," said Norton. 
The winter report, which will be presented at the board's next meeting in February, will cover freshman orientation. The spring report will focus on women's issues. 
With many different projects to oversee, Norton, Moscona and Jorissen all admit that their jobs are challenging. 
"We have so much going on in the office -so manv divisions ­that sometimes it's been hard to keep it all straight and going forward," said Jorlssen. I-le explained that to help with that challenge, the three have weekly meetings and one of the three tries to attend each division meeting. 
"There are days when you wonder 
what it would be like not to have any "There's always 
ing its communication efforts. Most 
meetings," said Jorissen. 
something else you students probably do not feel com­
All three admitted that sleep is often 
fortable going to the student govern­
hard to get. could be doing. You 
ment office on the second floor of 
"With these jobs, there is no end of have to give up a lot." 
La.Fortune, but a flight of stairs 
the day," Moscona said. "We leave 
alone cannot be the major obstacle 
LaFortune at two in the morning and 
to effective dialogue between student
Brooke Norton
then we have to start homework or 
leaders and the student body. The 
continue responding to e-mails from student body president 
Maxx, therefore, is only part of the 
students." 
"There's always something else you could be doing," said Norton. "You have to give a lot up." 
Now that they are back from semester break, the three say they are ready both to continue working on projects they have already started and to begin new ones that they have been planning. 
While their office has gotten of to a strong start, there is indeed much more work to be done if Norton and Moscona's administration is to fully live up to its potential. 
Board of trustees reports are one area the office will have to put a great deal of work into. The board 
-.· ,· 
.~~ -~.s,.;~)f ...,,.·· ·::'.:?. ·,,.:{· l. . 
)\ \:~/~ ,,:• .(',}{~, :_••\~ C •.~ 
_4)~ ·::rt. .1.1:,-~:> :~ <'.)-'~--i/"\:; ',_.,. ·. 
seemed somewhat uninterested in student govern• ment's fall report. To make sure the winter and spring reports are better received. the office of the president need well-researched and organized pre­sentations. 
Perhaps most importantly, the 
office also needs to continue evaluat­
solution. Norton and Moscona must 
develop new and better ways of not only getting student input, but also educating stu­dents about student government. 
Fortunately for students, Norton and Moscona seem to understand that there is much they still have to accomplish. 
"We have a lot of work left to do," Moscona said. "We want to continue to unify the student body and continue communicating with them." 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at LaRuffa.l@nd.edu 





