.------------------------------------------------­
Spring into April Movies
PARTLY 
Thursday

CLOUDY 
The Observer movie critics check out the box office's latest offerings, including "Death to Smoochy" and "High Crimes." 
APRIL 11,

Scene . page 14

HIGH 73° 
2002

LOW 50° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 119 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




ND student alleges gang rape 
. Alleged victim rape occurred at about 4 a.m. five days before going to the its student disciplinary proce­with the four male students 
on March 28 in a house near hospital and nine days before dures." expecting to go to an off-cam­accuses 1 former, Indiana 23 and Ironwood filing a report with police. No players were suspended pus party. However. she said 3 current Irish Road, just outside South Bend "I just imagined turning on from football practice Tuesday she realized there was no 
city limits. the TV and seeing my face on for disciplinary reasons, John party when she reached the
football players 
In an interview with The ESPN," said the alleged victim, Heisler, associate athletic house. Observer Wednesday. the adding that she was unsure of director. told The Associated The woman told police sheBy HELENA PAYNE alleged victim said she was her rights at the time. Press. The team does not prac­tried to resist. but she was
News Editor 
assaulted by three Notre Dame Notre Dame is also privately tice on Wednesdays during the unable to escape from the football players currently on investigating the situation as a spring. men, who each allegedly raped
St. Joseph County police are the spring roster and one for­matter of procedure, according "There are University guide­her. Afterward, one of the investigating the alleged gang mer member of the team. to University spokesman lines that govern all students," alleged attackers drove the rape of a 20-year-old female Police would not confirm that Dennis Moore. Notre Dame head football woman back to campus.
Notre Dame student by four 
information, but the alleged "The University is aware of a coach Tyrone Willingham said Over the course of three male Notre Dame students. 
victim said the men were her police investigation involving after Tuesday's practice. "We hours earlier in the night, the Maj. Bob Finn, public infor­acquaintances. Notre Dame students," Moore are no different. We work by alleged victim said she had had 
mation officer for the St. 
Because of the high profile of said. "In such circumstances those and through those." no more than three alcoholic 
Joseph County Sheriff's 
the alleged assailants, the the University also conducts its The alleged victim told South 
Department, said the alleged 
alleged victim said she waited own investigation according to Bend police she left a local bar see ASSAULT /page 6 
SENATE 

Senate tables budget proposal 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
The Financial Management Board presented its budget to the Senate for approval on Wednesday; however, the sen­ators opted to table the budget until the meeting for review. 
The issue questioned by sev­eral senators was the FMB's decision to pay off the $47,890 debt incurred by the Business Board and Carry Forward Fund. The Carry Forward Fund allocates funds for pro­gramming by organizations that surpassed their allotted budgets. 
"I am concerned that they are paying off the entire debt now with our money when it should be used for students next year," said Jason Creek, Knott Hall senator. 
Andrew Oxenreiter, student union treasurer, emphasized that the debt that has accumu­lated over the past years should be paid off now that the opportunity is present. Oxenreiter contributed this debt to the "messes that were left behind by past administra­tions." 
One of the reasons behind this year's student activity fee increase was to pay off the Student Union debt. According to Oxenreiter, the Student Union has been in debt the past five to six years due to the disorganization of previous budgets and the financial losses of such student 

see SENATE/page 7 

Ex-marshal to head Saint Mary's security 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
For another two weeks, Saint Mary's will have two directors of security. 
Michael Carrington joined the College's security force April 1 and will replace Richard Chlebek when the lat­ter retires April 19. 
"They're both here and working together," Keith Dennis, Saint Mary's vice pres­ident of finance and adminis­tration, said. "We thought it would be a good idea for them to overlap for three weeks. They worked together as young cops and have known each other for 30 years." 
Carrington, a former U.S. marshal during the Clinton administration, brings three decades of experience in law enforcement to the job. 
Carrington was appointed by then-President Clinton in 1994 and served as the U.S. marshal for Northern Indiana for eight years. He also served as direc­tor of campus security and parking operations at Indiana University South Bend for 15 years. Before coming to Saint Mary's, Dennis was the vice chancellor for business affairs at IUSB and as such, was Carrington's boss. 
see SECURilY/page 6 


Thursday, April 11, 2002

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Nuclear peace? 
With the ongoing violence in the Middle East, the ever-present threat of terrorist attack and the general uncertainty and fear of vio­lence in the world today, peace has never seemed more far off than it does today. Every day, it seems we are all del­uged with headlines of sui­cide bombings and more harsh and violent rhetoric being laid out by leaders around the world. 
The events of the last year or so have prompted much alarm among many. including the advancing of the famed doomsday clock, which measures the likeli­hood of nuclear war. The movement of the clock sev­eral weeks back to its clos­est position ever to mid­night, which represents nuclear war, represented a dramatic statement about the state of affairs the world is in right now. 
The greatest fear of most when it comes to war and terrorist attack involves the use of nuclear weapons. Only twice before in our his­tory have these weapons been used, by the U.S. in World War II, but those weapons that were used over a half a century ago pale in compari­son to the destructive force of the types of weapons that are in existence today. 
Contrary to what many may think, the presence of nuclear weapons in the world rep­resents a powerful deterrent of war. Any state with nuclear weapons realizes three basic facts. First, they are well aware of the destruc­tive capabilities of the weapons they possess. Second, they know how expensive. fragile and vulnerable the weapons can be, thus they will use high levels of security to protect their investments and prevent theft or accident. Finally, and most important, states realize that as long as there are other countries that have nuclear weapons and oppose the use of them against other countries, retaliation would be inevitable. 
Thus, no state with any desire to remain intact would ever dare use nuclear weapons against another because it would most certain­ly face total destruction in response to a nuclear attack. It is hard to imagine any sce­nario in which any nation would ever be able to launch nuclear weapons without facing an immediate retaliatory strike from another nuclear power that would feel threatened, thus they are rendered virtually unusable. 
Therefore. these very weapons that are such a source of fear for many actually have the opposite effect of discouraging conflicts. Although individual states are highly unlikely to ever use nuclear weapons themselves, they still remain fearful and uncertain as to how other states will behave. This fact serves as a force toward peace, because states are hesitant to partake in actions or policies that would potentially anger a nuclear power and lead to the escalation of a conflict to the nuclear level. The Cold War is the perfect example of this, in that each time nuclear war seemed inevitable, such as in the Cuban Missile Crisis. a diplomat­ic or otherwise solution was arrived at before the conflict escalated. 
Thus, a doomsday scenario such as in Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove, where a mil­itary overeager to use a nuclear weapon ends up bringing about doomsday, is highly unlikely given the nature of states in today's world. 
Contact Joe Ackerman at ackerman.4@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards icself as a profe,sional publication and strives for the highesr standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make m;stakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
·n,, Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam ,nd vacation periods. Th~ Observer is a member ofthe Associared. Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Lecture: Edison Lecture and  . Lecture: "Brick by Brick: The  . Dorm Event: Fisher Regatta,  
Marconi Award, McKenna Hall  struggle to cement relations  Saint Mary's Lake, 1 p.m.  
Auditorium, 3 p.m.  between Northern Ireland's  . Bonfire: Bonfire with live music  
. Mass: Mass for victims and sur­ Catholics and Protestants," Law  by Tim Bradley, Jason Brown and  
vivors of sexual assault, Log Cabin  School Room 120, noon  Christina Castrillo, Holy Cross Hill,  
Chapel, 7:30 p.m.  . <:omedy: Comedy Sportz. Library  9p.m.  
Auditorium, 9 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
USC students upset by skyrocketing cigarette prices 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
must go toward labor and storage 
James Lee slammed his wallet on costs. the counter and cursed after asking "I would have never increased the for a pack of cigarettes at Commons price if our vendor would not have Tuesday. The cashier said the total increased it," Ranasinghe said. "I try would be $7.35 with sales tax. not to make any price changes, but­
"What?" he asked in disbelief, mak­when there's a huge difference like ing her repeat the new price. He this I have to pass it down. A 26 per­handedher the money and walked cent profit isn't even enough to pay for away with a dumbfounded look on his labor costs." face, swearing he never would buy a 5 cents for holding costs, which Although Scott Henderson, Core­pack of cigarettes at University of brought the total increase on USC cig­Mark district sales manager said the Southern California again. arette sales to $1.25. hike came as a result of a California 
A $1.94 increase was imposed on all Because of this increase Ranasinghe cigarette tax increase imposed on cigarettes Monday in Commons said he was forced to add $1.56 to Phillip Morris. Rich Peterson, a busi­because of an unexplained 33-cent make up for the losses. If he had kept ness taxes representative of the hike Philip Morris introduced last cigarettes at the original $4.85 price, California Board of Equalization, said week, said Ronald Ranasinghe, direc­USC would be at a 7 4 percent loss in the last time the state tax was raised tor of retail operations. labor and storage costs. At $6.79, the was in 1999. The department handles 
Core-Mark, USC's cigarette vendor, price without sales tax added, all types of cigarette taxes for the informed Ranasinghe two weeks ago Ranasinghc barely covers all of his state. of the 33-cent rise. Core-Mark added expenses because most of the money Daily Trojan 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
$40,000 grant sparks scandal 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Accused of receiving nearly $40,000 from Taiwan to fund his Harvard studies in exchange for negotiat­ing Taiwanese interests into a U.S.-Japan defense agreement, a former Harvard fellow on Tuesday denied knowing the ultimate source of the money that is at the heart of a growing scandal. 
According to recent press reports, Masahiro Akiyama, who had been affiliated with Harvard's Asia Center as a distinguished fellow, is allegedly part of an expanding international scandal involving diplomats from the U.S., Japan, South Africa. Nicaragua and Panama paid to advance the interests of Taiwan. 
Numerous reports allege that James Kelly, a top Bush administration official, was responsible for channeling money from Taiwan to Akiyama when he headed the Pacific Forum of Center for Strategic and international Studies. 
Harvard Crimson 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeal.her~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Thursday, April 11. 
FRONTS: 
.a-&. ...,.....,.
.....-ir' 

C 2002 AccuWuth•r, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY r~--:r..·,
(8)-=© B WJ ill] [;I3. ~ ~ 0 ~i{!li ~ 
Hluh L.ow Shower• Rain T~11on-n¦ Aun'IN Snow loo SUhnY pt, Cloudy CloWy 
VHI Aaocia,edp,... 

Atlanta 67 55 Las Vegas 89 64 Portland 61 33 Baltimore 62 39 Memphis 78 58 Sacramento 71 48 Boston 51 39 Milwaukee 61 45 St. Louis 81 54 Chicago 71 47 New York 59 35 Tampa 81 64 Hous1on 78 57 Philadelphia 62 40 Washington 63 42 
BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
Computer addiction problematic 
BOSTON 

The high-speed Internet lines found in nearly every dorm room and residence on campus can be a bless­ing for students whose computers are a central tool for communication and schoolwork. For other stu­dents, the computer becomes more than a tool. it becomes an addiction. 
Computer addiction interferes with sleep cycles, time devoted to homework and hurts relations with friends. according to Dr. Maressa Hecht Orzack. a Harvard University psychologist and founder of the Computer Addiction Services at McLean Hospital in Belmont. 
While most people use the computer to search for a particular article or to check e-mail, computer addicts use the computer to escape into a fantasy­world. according to Orzack. They have low self­esteem, and are looking for ways to lower their anxi­ety level. 
The Daily Free Press 
. I J ' 

Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND reorganizes PR dept. 
public relations and commu­
• Moore assumes 
nications activity kind ofvice president tended to be overshadowed by development and alumni
position, Cullinan 
relations," Moore said. becomes assistant The restructuring of Public vice president Affairs was actually institut­
ed in July 2001. but the University has yet to 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Notre Dame Vice President of Public Affairs and Communications Lou Nanni has recently announced the reorganization of the office as well as 


the two 
Affairs will also cover the 
new selec­
area's com­
tions of 
munity rela­
dent and the new assistant vice president, Shannon Cullinan. 
After years of holding Public Affairs and Communication under the larger umbrella of University Relations, Nanni and Moore said the new configuration could enhance the public relations office to better ful­fill the mission of the University. 
•There needs to be an organization that can con­centrate solely on media relations," said Nanni. 
These concentrations will include two new depart­ments: news and information and marketing communica­tions. 
"In that kind of a situation. 
announce who will head the two newest departments under the division. Nanni said the University would likely announce the person to head news and informa­tion within the next few months and the marketing 
head during the summer. 
The new division of Public 
Dennis 'The two ofthem [Moore 
tions. public for the Moore as relations, and Cullinan] are just Homeless
the depart­
Notre Dame going to complement as a con­
ment's 
Magazine, troller and 
associate each other and provide
marketing the associ­vice presi­communica­exceptional· leadership ate execu­
and what it stands for," Nanni said. 
Cullinan, the assistant vice president of Public Affairs, is also familiar with the University as a 1993 accounting graduate. 
'Tm excited to be back at Notre Dame," said Cullinan who came from the 
·University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School to complete his MBA in the Mendoza College of Business. " I feel like it's my second accep­tance." 
Cullinan, who has started businesses for profit and not-for-profit, worked with Nanni for more than four years at the Center 
tions and gov­ for this division. "  tive direc­ 
ernment  tor  prior  
affairs. Nanni  said  Lou Nanni  to coming to Notre  
the division's  Vice President of Public Affairs  Dame  for  
associate vice  and Communications  the  sec­ 

president Moore has acquired a "track record for excellence" during his 14 years of working in University public relations. 
"I believe this position at Notre Dame is going to be very much suited to Denny's strength," said Nanni. 
Moore. a graduate of Notre Dame and one of the found­ing members of The Observer newspaper, has been with the University since 1988. 
"He has a wonderful appreciation for Notre Dame ond. 
H e brings tremendous talent and a great deal of energy," Nanni said. 
cu·llinan said he would also be involved in projects pertinent to the local South Bend community. 
"The two of them {Moore and Cullinan] are just going to complement each other and provide exceptional leadership for this division," 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
SMC alcohol policy unaffected by ND 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's alcohol policy is not going to change any­time soon, campus officials said. 
Despite recent revisions in the Notre Dame policy, Saint Mary's administrators believe that the current codes are effective and appropriate for the residence life that exists on campus. 
The policy, consistent with Indiana law, states that stu­dents under the age of 21 may not possess, consume, provide, manufacture or sell any quantity of alcohol on campus. Additionally, under­age students may not be pre­sent at any gathering where alcohol is present, whether they arc drinking or not. However. students of age may use alcohol in student rooms provided they use it responsibly and follow the guidelines outlined in the handbook. 
These guidelines prohibit drinking games and public intoxication among other things. 
J aillene Erickson, Holy Cross Hall director, said there's an important purpose for the rules. "Saint Mary's alcohol policy is for the pro­tection and the safety of the students." 
Junior Mary Brown said, "When I first came to Saint Mary's, I always compared our policies to Notre Dame, but now, as a resident advi­
sor, I agree with the policies. After dealing with vomit on the stairs and being in an authoritative position, I real­ize that [Residence Life) is looking out for the welfare of the students." 
Saint Mary's has experi­enced relatively few prob­lems with the policies in the past and does not foresee an increase in the near future, officials said. As far as docu­mentation of violations, there has been a minimal problem enforcing the alcohol policy this year. 
"There have been just as many documentations for other violations as there have been for the misuse of alco­hol," Erickson said. 
Brown agreed. 

"As far as I am concerned, violation of the policy has been a minimal problem this year," she said. "If you are 21, you should be able to have alcohol in your room if it is used appropriately. This works as long as it is enforced that you must be 
21." 
If documented for an alco­hol violation. a student may have a hearing or informa­tional meeting where a pre­ponderance of evidence will determine the violation and a sanction may be issued. This sanction ranges from an offi­cial letter of reprimand to a required leave of absence, depending on the severity of the violation. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail 1407@saintmarys.edu. 
7 

ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applications for the position of Admission Counselor 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff. the Counselor is e11.pcctcd to make an important t:ontrihution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations wnh the prospective applicants. their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning. travel, communications within the geographic area, a~sessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities, including the possibility of diversity recruitmenL will be a~signed by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor·s degree and familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm. diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Preferred start date is July 1. '.!Oo::!. 
Apply on-line via Human Resources web site or submit resume, cover letter and reference information by Wednesday, April 17, 2002to: 
Admissions Counselor Job# 2007-077 De!)ilrtment of Human Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Notre Dame Department of Film,Television, and Theatre presents 
Wednesday-Saturday 
April 17-20, 7:30 p.m. 
Sunday 
April 21, 2:30 p.m. 
Post-performance 
discussion on 
Wednesday, Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday. 
Reserved seats: $ I 0 Senior citizens: $9 Srndents: $7 
Tickets are available at the L;iForcune Student Center Box•Office or by calling 574-631-8128. 
by BERTOLT BRECHT 

TRANSLATION BY DAVID HARE 
DIRECTED BY GUEST ARTIST HOLGER TESCH KE 
For more information, please visit www.nd.edu/-ftt/mainstage.html 
Read The Observer. Because news two weeks late isn't news... it's history. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 11, 2002 
Bishop and Foley outline term goals 
By PAM RONSD°N 
News Writer 
Libby Bishop and Trip Foley are making change,,s to student govern­ment designed to create new ways of programming and coordinating between existing clubs. 
Concerns have been raised as to what new things will be combined or created under the Bishop/Foley administration. New to their administration and "\\'ho Knew?" ads that currently run weekly in The Observer. 
'Tfhe ads] conununicate to stu­dents about services and things that already exist, but they might not know about them," Foley said. "For example, that students can cash a paycheck in the Dome building. and the existence of Greenfield's Cafe, located in the Hesburgh Center, across from the Morris Inn." 
Bishop and Foley worked to cre­ate an extensive Public Relations division under their administration. lt created in-depth focus groups. organized groups for students polls, wrote press releases and updated the three-year-old student government Web site. They also addressed the efficiency of the space currently used for The Maximum· Student Resource Center (fhe Maxx) in the lounge of La.Fortune. 
Both intend to work with already existing forces that serve the students on campus to better the students' lives. Bishop recently spoke with the head of the Student Services Committee Division about a possible "Flex 10" for tl1ose stu­dents who often do not eat the allotted 14 meals per week avail­able through the current "Flex 14" plan. Bishop and Foley also are looking to expand the routes of1.he Saint Mary's shuttle to include bus stops at Meijer, University Park Mall and downtown South Bend. 
The administration also appoint­ed two new programming liaisons. One will act as the liaison for Bishop and Foley by working close­ly with the Hall Presidents Council and the Student Union Board. The other liaison will work closely with all the student clubs on campus and with each of the Class Councils. Both liaisons will be expected to attend the weekly meetings of the groups they medi­ate. 
"The goal is to better student life in all areas and aspects on this campus, allowing for program­ming. collaboration and combina­tion among all student groups to ultimately bring the student body closer together," said Pat Hallahan, chiefofstaff for Bishop and Foley. 
In the midst of all of these changes, Joyce DeLeon, former Diversity Division co-chair for the 2001-02 year, is concerned about the future of her former division, she said. Though Bi'ihop and Poley do not intend to cut this division, they hope to combine it with other 
areas. 
The new grouping may be labeled the Cultural Division, potentially cutting some program­ming and leading to greater collab­oration with the Multicultural Student Programs and Services and other multicultural clubs on 
campus. 
'Tm worried because I know that the Diversity Chair laid its first foundations in the O'Donoghue/Norton administra­tion. and has been two years in the making of building it up steadily since then," DeLeon said. 
DcLeon worked to coordinate the Multicultural Fair where more than 400 people attended the event. The Diversity Division also sponsored the Educational Forum where lectures and panels were held addressing topics such as race, religion and sexual orienta­tion. 
"Witl10ut the support of Student Government, such high attendance would not have been possible," DeLeon said. Many more students attended these events because "they felt less like a targeted minority and more like a regular student all because the name of Student Government was behind 


TONY FLOYD/The Observer 

Student Body President Libby Bishop addresses the student senate on Wednesday night. 
it." and continue with it," said Walsh. 
Bishop and Foley intend to keep "From my perspective, both the VisiontSocial Concerns division. administrations that I have worked run by junior Katherine Walsh. with do an excellent job with their 
"Libby. Trip and I all met togeth­readiness to help and in their will­er and sat down to talk about my ingness to listen." division and we ended up keeping it. I felt like they listened to what I 
Contact Pam Ronson at
had to say and that it was impor­
pronson@nd.edu.
tant enough to all of us to go ahead 

LEWIS CRUSH 2002 
Off Campus Siegfried Stanford 
Tony Acetta Brian Bircher Tom Bemiller
Ask These Boys What They 
Zack Allen Mike Borgia Mario Bird Bryan Arvai Kyle Eller Tony Bosley Ben Baughman Brian Farkas Ryan Brady 
Did To Get Invited: 
Jeremy Beau Nick Gahl Dan Burke 
Chris Bystead Joe Hoffman Justin Gallagher Alumni Fisher Brian Stefanski RickCavolo Steve Holte Steven Granados Alfonso Bosch Jack Cowett Matt Thompson Jqe Kanaval 
John Cowen John Hudek Mike Bott Geoff Dennie Brent Weiss Steve Curasco Casey Johnson Cory Kelly Patrick Reynolds MattHygema Scott Healey Chuck Lamphier Pete Kenny Tom Smith MattKohley Keough Kevin Jones Andy Larsen Jesse Kirkpatrick MattLaFave Matt Crosser John LeBlanc Joey Lopez Phil Koesterer Carroll Brendan O'Neil Tom Degnan Matt Lee Mike Macaluso Kevin Kratt Dustin Beauchamp Kevan O'Neill Griffin Eaton Brian Michalek Brendan McNee 
Mike Fitzgerald Chris Richez Mike Madigan TomMcGinty Andy Haines Fratemo Villa Ben Marley Greg Neilson Greg Morrissey John Morgan Dave Heinsch Fritz V onMering Chris O'Boynick Ryan Newell Matt Padilla Brian Moscona Dan Herleth Nick Yonto Matt Ring Yan Ortiz Ron Perrotta Dave Murray Erich Stanley Brian Young Luke Slonkowsky Mark Overman Kevin Phipps Ryan O'Connell Frank Villaume John Walsh 
Brian Pawloski Mark Ryan Adam Oyster Keenan Patrick Peters Dan Slowinski Steve Peterson Dillon Steven Arevalo Knott 
James Romanchek Scott Pijanowski Yan Stastny Eric Bilinski Joe Barron Brian Biedtasch Dave Pisarkiewicz Marc Steining Chris Sawyer Kevin Boo John Banters Alex Clark Nick Schumacher Reid Platt Mike Walsh Tommy Bramanti Matt Coleman Douglas Durkalski Rob Quigley Chris Scoletti 

Justin Brandon Josh Fulcher Michael Dybicz Casey Corcoran Dave Gloss Tim Sheehan Charles Skriner Sorin Mike Stephens Chris Crane Dan Greene Mike Tennant Matt Strickroth Dave Fiorini Darius Stewart Travis Deschamps Geoff Grubb Bob Sullivan Will Guerrieri Scott Strother Dan Guerin Shaun Harris Morrissey Patrick Virtue Mike Knowski Joe Weiss Rick Hasty John Hart Bernard Akatu Bill Voller Alan McGinn Sean Yelle Dave Huber Nate Hermes Kevin Brown Day Zimlich
Adam Witmer Kevin Leicht Matt Ivers Dave Cook 
Matthew Molyneux Bob Kaiser Paul DeMott 
Old College St. Eds 
Don Norton Rob Kelly Patrick Dillon Tim O'Malley Mike Donnelly Zahm Anthony Pagliarini Jack Kingseed Joseph Dugan O'Neill John Espinosa Jeremy Bauer Rob Paik Matt Kinsella Dan Luedtke Ian Anderson Dominic Galvan Matt Christoff 
Greg Ruehlmann Mike McGowan MikeMinnda Matt Barr Colby Hanover Nate Denicola 
Matt Schmidt Gerald Morgan Tim Nowacki Jim Stevens Austin Munn Morgan Pembroke Shea Helmle Chris Hurst Brock Domin David Yeager Michael Naughton Colin Pogge Dave Lopushansky Travis Kline Sean Griffin Regis Rogers David Purcell Steve Mattingly Brian MacK.innon Jim Keenehan Adam Reeves 
NickSetta Joe Mudo Jeff McMahon Adam Loverro Jared Rizzi 
Brian Murphy Blaine Pennington Daniel Saracino Mo Rodriguez Ryan O'Malley Frank Pyle Andy Sciallis Tim Ruggaber Enrique Schaerer Dan Sushinsky Greg Tait Paul Schreck Brad Wanchulak Steven Schreiber Dan Zeller 
ongratulations to all those invited! Please join us later today in front of Lewis for the CRUSH Barbecue at 5:30 ... See ya then! 

ATION 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Colombian guerrillas free hostages: 
Rebels released 11 hostages Wednesday with a message demanding the Colombian govern­ment reject any U.S. assistance to protect a crucial oil pipeline. The National Liberation Army, or ELN. had kidnapped the 10 mayors, congressmen, dly officials and one Roman Catholic priest, all from Arauca state, last week. "It was a kidnapping as a way to pres­sure the national government," freed congress­man William Reyes told The Associated Press. 
Ebola outbreak pinned on gorilla: Contact with an infected gorilla triggered an ebola outbreak that killed a reported 53 peo­ple in Gabon, the World Health Organization said. Health workers traced the outbreak to a gorilla found in the remote north of the central African nation in the Ogooue-Ivindo province. The remains tested positive for the ebola virus at a lab in France. WHO said Tuesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Energy regulation ban rejected: 
The Senate on Wednesday rejected apropos­al, inspired by the Enron collapse, that would have required federal regulation of financial contracts used to speculate on energy prices. Working through provisions of the energy bill, senators also moved closer to an expected confrontation over drilling in an Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
Day of Silence promotes solidarity: 
Thousands of high school and college students around the nation vowed not to speak Wednesday to protest anti-gay bias in schools. The silence is meant to draw attention to the iso­lation that can drive gay students to higher rates of suicide and substance abuse. Some took a nine-hour vow. Others ate at silent lunch tables· during the protest, now in its seventh year. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Missing student case continues: 
Authorities investigating the disappearance of an Indiana University student on Wednesday sought a higher bond for a man jailed on unrelated charges, hoping to ques­tion him further about their case. Uriah Clouse, 26, of Monroe County, remained jailed Wednesday on $3,500 bond in Brown County on charges that include violating a restraining order, an Indianapolis television station reported. He is eligible for release on Saturday. 
Market Watch April 10 

Dow 
10,381.73 +173.06 
Jones 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY o/oCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) 4.77 -0.66 14.82 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) 15.55 +0.73 33.59 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) 33.84 +0.25 8.12 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) 8.10 -0.02 5.43 AOL TIME WARNER (AOL) 20.70 -1.15 28.46 
BAHRAIN 


Jamal Aruri 

Embattled Palestinians reach for food rations distributed by humanitarian workers in Ramallah, West Bank last week. 
Israel's refusal to end Its campaign against Palestine has sparked a flood of recent protests in the Middle East. 
Protests surge in Middle East 
violent -have swept the enemies, not only of the The Egyptian students
Associated Press 

Middle East since Israel people, but also of God," were protesting Secretary 
MANAMA sent troops into said a 17-year-old student of State Colin Powell's stop 
Police fired rubber bul­Palestinian towns and protester who would only in Egypt, where he met lets and tear gas to keep cities in the West Bank give his first name, with President Hosni thousands of pro­beginning March 29 in Hussein. "We want the Mubarak in an effort to Palestinian protesters response to a series of sui­Americans to leave our broker an Israeli­away from the heavily for­cide attacks in Israel. country." Palestinian truce. The tified U.S. Embassy in "U.S. and Israel are the In Egypt, a U.S.-run cul­Bush administration has Bahrain on Wednesday. In terrorists," read one ban­tural center in the port called for a halt to the three other Arab capitals, ner carried by some of the city of Alexandria was Israeli offensive. Powell tens of thousands of 3,000 protesters in closed after one person goes to Israel on Thursday women demonstrated Bahrain, many of whom was killed and at least 200 night. peacefully. were high school students. injured in a violent protest Wednesday's clashes in 
Some 450 people were The demonstrators Tuesday by university stu­Bahrain began when pro­treated at the Salmaniya demanded a break in dents. testers pelted police with Medical Complex in Bahraini-U.S. diplomatic The ·death pushed to stones. King Hamad bin Manama, most for tear gas ties and the dismantling of four the number of known Isa Al Khalifa appealed to inhalation but some for the U.S. 5th Fleet, which is fatalities linked to the Bahrainis to express their minor injuries from rub­based on the Gulf island Arab protests. The others anger at Israeli policies in ber bullets, doctors said. state. were earlier in Bahrain, a "civilized" and calm 
Protests -some of them "The Americans are the Jordan and Yemen. manner. 
SOUTH AFRICA 
Doctor tried in apartheid case 
and biological weapons program. and insisted he had innocently been
Associated Press 

The cardiologist the South African embroiled in a drug deal he knew 
JOHANNESBURG media has dubbed "Dr. Death," nothing about. 
The testimony was horrifying. The faces 46 charges including murder Sasson continued working as a apartheid government tried to cre­conspiracy, fraud and drug posses­cardiologist at a state hospital dur­ate deadly bacteria and anti-fertility sion. ing the trial, until he was eventually drugs that would only affect blacks. The fraud charges stem from mil­asked to resign last May. He had a It poisoned opponents' clothing. It lions of dollars he is accused of stroke in February. stockpiled cholera, HIV and anthrax siphoning from the government's During the 2 1/2-year trial, scien­for use against "enemies." shadowy chemical warfare unit, tists and men who worked as gov­
One of South Africa's most surreal Project Coast, to finance a lavish, ernment agents described Basson post-apartheid trials comes to an globe-trotting lifestyle. as a calculating man sitting atop a end Thursday, when a Pretoria High Basson has denied the fraud secret agency -with front compa­Court judge begins reading his ver• charges, said he never provided nies across the world -focused on dict against Wouter Basson, the for­deadly muscle relaxants and other finding better ways to kill mer head of South Africa's chemical poisons to kill apartheid opponents apartheid's opponents. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 11, 2002 
ty, responsible for police and "[Chlebek] is familiarizing fire services. Among other me with the procedures, how
Security 

positions, Carrington has also things are done," Carrington been the chief probation offi­said. 'Tm familiarizing myself 
continued from page 1 

cer for the St. Joseph County with the campus and people. It 
"We worked together from Probate Court, an Indiana really is helpful to do it this 1989 until 1994, when he left state parole officer and an way." to become the U. S. marshal administrative assistant to for­For Carrington, the transi­for Northern Indiana," Dennis mer South Bend Mayor Peter tion is even easier, because his said. "[Carrington] was a Nemeth. He received his bach­c'onnections to the College go direct report to me in this elor's degree in 1970 from deeper than his work in the capacity and thus I knew him Indiana S o u t h 
very well." University and Bend com­
When Chlebek announced his master's in "I will be taking it a day munity. 
his retirement, Dennis and the 1971 from at a time. There's a lot to "I'm a Administrative Council imme­Valparaiso S o u t h
learn and change is hard 
diately began the search for University in Bend per­
for everyone." 
his replacement. Ironically, behavioral stud-s O 11 , " Dennis at first tapped ies. Carrington Carrington for possible candi­"We are Michael Carrington said. "My dates because of Carrington's extremely mother
Director of security
extensive connections in the pleased to be graduated !aw enforcement community. able to bring a from Saint At that time, it became clear person of Mike's Mary's in 
that Carrington would be caliber and experience to the 1950's. She was a com­replaced by a Bush appointee Saint Mary's," Dennis said. muter student but always felt as marshal. and so Dennis "He has excellent relation­good here. I've always had a ended up recommending ships will all of the local police good feeling about Saint Carrington for the job. agencies, including a long Mary's. I've been out here for 
"[Carrington! is clearly the relationship with [Notre Dame programs before." best candidate possible for Security/Police Director] Rex Carrington has also lived this position," Dennis said. Rakow. He is known and five miles from campus for 25 "He has a depth of knowledge respected throughout the years, and after a conversa• in campus security and safety South Bend community." tion with his wife, thought issues and also has worked For now, Carrington is set­working closer to home would with stalking cases and is a tling into his new position, get­be a welcome change. member of the Association of ting a feel for the community For now, though, he is still Threat Assessment and the students and deter­feeling his way through the Professionals. This group mining the security concerns campus security system at reads and facing the Saint Mary's. evaluates let­college. "I will be taking it a day at a ters and other 'YCarringtonJ is clearly "Right time," Carrington said. communica­the best candidate now he is "There's lots to learn, and tions to indi­change is hard for everyone.
possible for this position." trying to 
viduals and get an I'm enjoying it. I've had a determines assessment chance to meet some people appropriate Keith Dennis of what is and go to some meetings. security involved," Each college is different, and
Saint Mary's Vice President 
responses. Dennis Saint Mary's, as an all­Mike is a man said. "He women's college, is unique." of intellect, often con­He believes that any changes compassion and integrity." sults with other colleges and is he might make to the depart­
Carrington's connections to cooperating with the Notre ment will surface through dis­the area made the decision Dame [police]. He plans to talk cussion and conversation with very easy for Dennis and the to as many people as he can administration, staff, faculty Academic Council. Besides and make recommendations and students. heading security at IUSB, for changes or improvements "I am trying to listen and Carrington also taught crimi­in Saint Mary's security. He learn right now," Carrington nal justice courses as an hasn't been involved in cam­adjunct assistant professor in pus security for eight years, so said. "Before I make any changes, I would like to talk to the students, the administra­tion, the faculty. In a universi­ty, there is more discussion and collaboration on every­thing. Whoever is director of security, one of their jobs is to be an advocate for the safety and security of students. You have to make the case for it. I'm going to try and do it just right." 
His connections with Notre Dame security also will help him in his role at Saint Mary's. 
"I know the security people at Notre Dame," Carrington said. "Chuck Hurley [assistant director of Security/Police] was police chief in South Bend when I was involved there. I know the law enforcement people in the area. I've been doing various kinds of security administration for years now." 
While Carrington hasn't made any decisions yet, Dennis believes that two of the most complicated end-ofathe­year events, moving out and Commencement, are impor­tant security concerns. 
"Those are really critical issues for the department" Dennis said. "There are also security issues with having a cabinet member [U.S. Labor Secretary Elaine Chow] come for Commencement. Mike's been talking to the Labor Department and other security officials. He has also escorted presidents and cabinet mem­bers before. He's well-quali­fied to be able to do that." 
Carrington will also be help­ing with several meetings in June of county and deputy prosecutors and more than 200 first-response personnel to discuss reactions to terror­ism and counterterrorism measures. 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
Assault 
continued from page l 
drinks while dancing. She said she felt sober when she left the bar with her alleged assailants because she had consumed her last drink about 90 minutes earlier. 
"I wish I didn't remember every single thing," the woman said. 
Although she originally reported the alleged assault to South Bend police, because the alleged incident occurred outside city limits, the case was turned over to county police. Finn said police are completing the investigation that l_:>egan April 1. 
The alleged victim said she is currently working with detectives and intends to press charges. Finn said the case will be referred to the county prosecutor soon. 
According to Moore, the University's private investiga­tion is closed due to the Federal Education Records Protection Act, which protects the privacy of student records. 
"When it comes to the police investigation, we're not a part of that, or if we are, it's in a very peripheral way," Moore said. "When it comes to what­ever we do internally, that is a student confidentiality mat­ter." 
The alleged victim said she took her case to the Office of Residence Life and Housing and submitted an eight-page statement detailing the events of her alleged assault. Both the alleged victim and the alleged assailants will have a scheduled hearing with ResLife Wednesday. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
the School of Public and Environmental Affairs. 
"I wasn't ready to quit work­ing, and I didn't want to leave the area," Carrington said. "I like university security work. The timing is good for me. I was being replaced and knew that. It was a combination of things that worked together." 
Before taking the position at IUSB, Carrington was South Bend's director of public safe-

we are trying to get him up to speed. He is in a learning 
mode  and  an  assessment  
mode."  
Chlebek  is  introducing  

Carrington around campus, and the two are attending meetings and going over pro­cedures. Carrington, who has spent the last few months training his replacement as marshal, believes this is bene­ficial. 
changes your LIFE! 
JOlll US 

for a free retreat; this could be the weekend that 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance 
Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1~7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


call or write: toll-free 1-866-774-0005 · eafonn@~dmc-op.org 
www.aamc-op.org 

Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
afforded; however, he did say that the FMB recognized that
Senate Taxpayers may pay for errors 
HPC should be given more 
continued from page 1 
businesses as Adworks, Irish Gardens and Dome Designs. 
The FMB believes that it is necessary to pay off the debt in order to have a fiscally sound Student Union. Hallahan, for­mer Sorin Senator and current chief of staff, stressed that the previous Senate's intent to keep the Carry-Forward Fund at constitutional level and to "move forward with paying off the debt." 
"I understand the importance of paying off the debt," said Kevin Connolly. "I was wonder­ing why we can't pay it off in two years because that would be an extra $24,000 for student organizations." 
Oxenreiter responded by say­ing, "Paying off the debt was not a choice we were given. We were told to pay it off this year." 
In response to the possibility of asking University Accounting to review paying the debt over two years, Oxenreiter said that this would not be feasible. He cited the recent student activity fee increase and that the debt has been around for too long. 
Some senators raised con­cern about the specific alloca­tions that the FMB made with its $318,377 budget. 
"I am concerned with the new rules are going to make programming more difficult," said Steve Holte, Hall President's Council senate liai­son. "With regard to HPC, it will be difficult to increase dorm unity and will force events off campus." 
HPC had requested $64,500 and received $45,000. Oxenreiter stated that the FMB wanted to allocate more funds, but the $1000 increase from last year was all that could be funds in the future. 
Student Union Board, which had been involved in a struggle with the CCC for funds, requested $370,614, approxi­mately $50,000 more than the FMB's budget. Citing that they paid hack the $24,000 debt the previous administration, Oxenreiter expressed that the FMB wanted to grant them flexibility. 
"We stand by it. We are pret­ty happy with it and it was the best we could do." said Oxenreiter. 
In other Senate News: 
. 
Acknowledging the tradition of in-hall dances, the denial of student initiatives, the need for a student voice, and the neces­sity of education to combat alcohol abuse, the senators unanimously consented to a resolution supporting the Student Petition. "It calls on the CLC to reconsider its for­mer decision on the alcohol policy," said Rick Harris, Siegfried senator. 

. 
Student Senate officers, Erik Smith, Paul Dockery and Ricky Sadowski were approved as Student Union Secretary, Chaplain and Parliamentarian, respectively. 

. 
In the Office of the President, Pat Hallahan, Jim Ryan and Jen Majcina were approved as Chief of Staff, Academic Delegate and Controller, respectively. 

. 
A resolution was passed to bequeath the Emeritus title upon former Student Body President Brooke Norton and former vice-president Brian Moscona. 


Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes. l@nd.edu. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Taxpayers are cheating themselves out of nearly $1 billion in overpaid income taxes simply because they fail to claim itemized deduc­tions. 
"One of the big mistakes that people make is that all of a sudden they rush to get their tax returns finished and they aren't careful in organizing their records so they overlook things," said Toni Bardi, an enrolled agent, which is a tax profes­sional licensed by the Treasury to represent tax­payers before the IRS. 
"You should take a minute to think back through the year," she said. "Think about what you did that might be related to a deduc­tion." 
Thing people often are leaving out are mortgage interest and points, charita­ble contributions and state and local income taxes and property taxes, the congres­sional General Accounting Office found in a new report. Other itemized deductions are for medical expenses, job expenses, union dues and gambling losses. 
In 1998, as many as 2.2 million returns claimed a lower standard tax deduc­tion when they could have qualified for much more if they had only itemized. 
House Majority Leader Dick Armey, who requested the GAO report, said it serves as a warning to tax­payers who are scrambling to meet Monday's filing deadline in most of the country. People in parts of beneficial; the report didn't the Northeast have an extra attempt to figure out why day because their IRS center people overlooked the is located in Andover, Mass., potential larger itemized where Monday is the annual deductions. Patriot's Day holiday. This year's standard 
"The last thing people deduction for most people is should have to do is pay $4,550 for an individual, more taxes than they owe," $7,600 for married couples said Armey, R-Texas, on filing jointly and $6,650 for Wednesday. heads of households. The 
In 1998, deduction tens of thou­is more sands of tax­"The last thing people generous 
payers who for those
should have to do is pay
took the more over age straightfor­more taxes than 65 and ward stan­they owe." those who dard deduc­are blind. tion paid at 
Dick Armey
least $948 In 1998, million more House MaJoritY Leader about 70 
in taxes than they should have, the GAO found. That was true even though half of these returns were prepared 
by tax professionals. 
The GAO, which serves as Congress' investigative arm, estimated that the average overpayment in 1998 from failure to itemize was $438. About a quarter of taxpay­ers overpaid by more than $500. 
Lower-and middle-income taxpayers were most likely to overlook itemized deduc­tions. An estimated 1.6 mil­lion of the returns were filed by people earning under $75,000 a year, with the median income for those returns about $47,000. 
Tax law allows people to take the standard deduction or to itemize using IRS schedule A, whichever amount is greater. Tax experts say it is best to run a comparison to determine which deduction is most 
percent of 

all taxpay­ers claimed the standard deduction. 
Taxpayers who need more time to sort things out can get an automatic extension to file their returns by Aug. 15 by calling the IRS at 1­888-796-1074. One caveat: any tax due must be paid by Monday or interest and late penalty payments will apply. 
Using information from lending institutions and employers for a sample of 1998 returns, the GAO esti­mated that 948,000 returns failed to itemize deductions for mortgage loan interest and points. 
Examining Labor Department averages to measure other types of deductions -charity. state and local taxes and real estate taxes -the potential number of returns that should have included item­ized deductions rose to 2.2 million. 
FREE 

Law and Business Admissions Seminar 
Attend this FREE event and learn how to· 
successfully navigate the admissions process and 
how to craft an appllcation that gets noticed. Press Contact: David Neff 
574-272-4135 

FREE ADMISSIONS SEMINAR FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
Kaplan Test Prep, a division of Kaplan Inc., will hold a free Admissions and GMAT and LSAT Strategy Seminar for pmspective business and law students. The event will be _at ~ 2:00 PM 011 April 12, 20002, in Debartalo Hall, Room 125. K~plan experts will discuss such topics as finding and researching schools, how schools '."valu.::1te applicants, and writ1,:ig personal statements. For more information, please call 1-800-KAP-TEST, or log onto www.kaptest.com 
Free and open to tl1e public. 
Call or visit us online to register today! 

1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com 
TAKE 
PORTUGUESE 
AT ND 
AND STUDY ABROAD IN BRAZIL 
Course Offerings for 2002-2003 
• 
ROPO 11 I-I 12F: Intensive Beginning Portuguese I & II ( Fall/Spring: sequence fulfills the language requirement) 

• 
ROPO 121-122: Portuguese for Spanish Speakers I & II (Fall/Spring) 

• 
ROPO 201: Intermediate Portuguese (Fall) 

• 
ROPO 202: Advanced Portuguese (Spring) 




• 
LLRO 180J: Brazilian Film & Literature in Translation (Fall) 

• 
RQPO 441: Immigrant Voices in Brazilian Literature (Spring) 


University of Notre Dame 
Dept. of Romance Languages & Literatures Portuguese Language Program Director: Isabel A. Ferreira Tel. 631-0460 E-mail: ferreira.5@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 11, 2002 
SPAIN 

Powell heads to the Mideast to resume peace talks 
Associated Press 
MADRID 

Secretary ofState Colin Powell said Wednesday he would push ahead with his peacekeeping mission in the Middle East despite Israel's objections to his meeting Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. An Israeli military withdrawal from three West Bank towns drew support from the White House. 
"The withdrawal the president has called for is continuing. Now the Palestinian Authority and Arab nations have to do what the president called for," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said in Washington. The state­ment did not mention Arafat by name. 
"The burden isn't Israel's alone. All parties have responsi­bilities," Fleischer said on the eve of Powell's visit to Israel. 
The White House statement was a shift from the administra­tion's objections earlier Wednesday over Israel's slow­ness in meeting Bush's demands for a withdrawal. 
In his earlier remarks, Powell brushed aside Sharon's assertion that the secretary's planned meeting with Arafat this week­end would be "a tragic mistake." Powell said his mission was "not in the least in jeopardy." 
He said he hoped Sharon would help the meeting take place and ease restrictions on Arafat in Ramallah to help him communicate more readily with other Palestinian leaders. 
"He is the partner that Israel will have to deal with," Powell said after his peace mission was endorsed in Madrid by the European Union, the United Nations and Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov. 
America has pressured Israel to pull troops out of West Bank cities and end its 13-day offen­sive. Despite the newly announced withdrawals, Israeli troops still occupy the major population centers of Ramallah, Nablus, Jenin and Bethlehem. 
The crux of Powell's two-step plan is to try to arrange a cease­fire between Israel and the Palestinians and then steer them into negotiations that would cul­minate in a Palestinian state on land Israel now holds. 
Even if Powell gains a cease­fire, many in the region question how well it might hold if there are more Palestinian suicide attacks. As he trekked through the Middle East and then detoured to Spain, Powell made plain that his other objectives include renewing security coop­eration between Israel and the Palestinians, asking Saudi Arabia for assistance to rebuild Palestinian facilities and organiz­ing a worldwide relief effort for Palestinians. 
"We understand the difficult situation that Israel finds itself in, but we believe that the best way to relieve this tension. the best way to move forward and provide a solution to the crisis that we find ourselves in, is for the withdrawal of Israeli forces," Powell said at a news confer­ence. 
Powell is due in Israel late Thursday after a stop in Jordan to talk to King Abdullah II. He is to see Sharon in Jerusalem on Friday and hopes to see Arafat on Saturday. 
Sharon, on the other hand, feeling the continuing sting of Palestinian suicide attacks on Israelis, told reporters while touring an Israeli army base near the West Bank refugee camp of Jenin that he had informed Bush he could not pull troops back immediately. 
"Here we are in the middle of a battle," Sharon said. "If we leave, we will have to return. Once we finish. we are not going to stay here. But first we have to accomplish our mission." 
In Washington, White House spokesman Fleischer reiterated that he wants the Palestinian Authority and Arab nations to "publicly denounce terrorism, stop funding it, stop inciting vio-
PHILIPPINES 

Ferry fire kills 15 at least passengers 
Associated P rcss 
MANILA 

A ferry carrying more than 240 passengers caught fire in the central Philippines on Thursday, killing at least 15 peo­ple and injuring more than 70 others, officials said. 
At least 115 people were res­cued from the MV Carmela after the blaze broke out around 7 a.m., and search operations were under way. The coast guard said it was possible that other survivors had been picked up by private vessels as the acci­dent happened in a busy ship­ping lane and fishing area. Quezon Memorial Hospital in Lucena City reported it had received 70 people with various injuries and that more casualties had been taken to other medical facilities in the area. The ship, designed to carry about 326 pas­sengers plus vehicles, had left 
the island of Masbate 11 hours earlier and had been about an hour from its destination, Lucena City in Quezon province, 70 miles southeast of Manila. 
It was still smoking more than four hours later. 
OREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11 :30 -3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM -10:00 PM 

,· Friday • Saturday 11 :30 AM -11 :00 PM 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday
. l 

11 a.m to3pm. $8.95 for Mulls $4.50 for Children under 10 

222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
n., Nou, 0,1111 DEPA,afJIHIIIT of Muiic PIIHIHTI 
Eaic M&,n, wi..ia,,uUo MiLa-1u,..;,._..., pi""° widi 1t""' ._.,iu kuu, 1!1\1.,.-..,'-, .,i.to,,-,;lll• 

Wostlu; l.y: N.t.di.., BO\!lA111c,H ludwiG v•~ BcnfiovEN CbH~CAJtfo MtNoTTi 
A)'jd Tiu: woAld pA011iuu of: 
Cu1111cun Duo by C:OMr,ouR A'-id ND PRo(cH011; of Mu\ic Ed,u HAiMo 

Tt..J{,nrla,y, fAJriL 11, :i.002 7:3 Oj11l, .9l,x,xtnbtrJ .!A..1tdit,;riHJH.., Sxife;..)A,J{,fe-J{,11(.1art &ldmi.t1io'K-it ':Free 
"There was no overloading of the ship," coast guard comman­der Vice Adm. Heuben Lista said. 
lencc in state-owned media and begin to implement" peace process plans. In a break from past practice, the statement did not ask Israel to pull back its troops. 
"There is no military solution to the conflict," said a joint state­ment issued by four leaders and Powell. The statement called for an immediate cease-fire and Israel's withdrawal from Palestinian-held cities on the West Bank, including Ramallah, where Arafat is confined. 
Meanwhile, in advance of Powell's visit, U.S. envoy Gen. 
Anthony  Zinni  met  with  
Palestinian  officials  in  
Jerusalem.  
And  Vice  President  Dick  

Cheney spoke with Syrian President Bashar Assad and made clear Bush's admonition to stay out of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, a State Department offi­cial said. lie said Cheney also stressed the need to act and speak against terrorism and vio­lence. 

Organiwd by Lnw Professor Teresa Phelps' Gend~r bsues and the Law 
Womyn 'Witfi Wings 
A play of skits and songs promoting gender · and multiculrnral awareness. 
Monday April 15th 7:00, 8:00 pn1 
LaFortune 
Ballroom Free Admission 


%anfi.§ to tlie generous <Donations of: 
· :W.ufticu[tura(Stuaent -Programs,:{,

·.;1.(ummJ{a[[ 
Serc•ices (:i.tS!PS)

· '1J{adtLaw Stuaents of:Notre ,Dame 
, :Native ;tmencan Law Stuaent

{'USJ®) 
)lssociation {:N£S.JI)

· Ca·,,anilugli J{a[[ 
, Notre •Dame Law Sclioo[{'7'FDLS)

· 'Far{cy :Jfil{[ 
, ,Pang6om J{a[[ 

· gen.fer Studies 
· ·Hlomcn'.s Lega{'Forum (WDF) 

Congregation of Holy Cross 

lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush presses Senate to ban cloning Supporters 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush pressed the Senate on Wednesday to ban cloning of human embryos for research, saying science must not rush ahead "without an ethical compass." Senators promised a fight, seeing great promise in cloning for cures of terrible afflic­tions. 
Bush called medical researchers. ethicists. lawmakers, ministers and disabled people to the White House to explain why he objects to human cloning and to embrace a. ba.n pro­posed by Sens. Sam Brownback and Mary Landrieu. 
"'We can pursue medical research with a clear sense of moral purpose, or we can travel without an ethical compass into a world we could live to regret," Bush said. "How we answer the question of human cloning will place us on one path or the other." 
"Llfe is a creation, not a commodi­
ty," he added. 
The president was looking to tamp 
down an evolving Senate compromise, 
crafted by Sens. Arlen Specter, 
Edward Kennedy. Tom Harkin and 
Dianne Feinstein that would outlaw 
cloning for reproductive purposes but 
allow it for research on illnesses such 
as cancer, Alzheimer's and 
Parkinson's. 
"It would be a mistake for the U.S. 
Senate to allow any kind of human 
cloning to come out of that chamber," 
Bush said. Kennedy, said it is Bush 
who is mistaken. 
"We must not let the misplaced 
fears of today deny patients the cures 
of tomorrow," he said. "Congress was 
right to place medicine over ideology 
in the past, and we should do the 
same again as we confront the issue 
of cloning." 
Specter said the ban Bush advocates would criminalize legitimate research and cause "an enormous brain drain out of the United States to Europe." 
"To tie the hands of medical science in the 21st century, in my opinion, is just not the right thing to do," Specter said. "There's going to be a real fight on the Senate floor. I believe we will find enough Republican votes ... to make a majority." 
Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, urged lawmakers to heed a call from 40 Nobel laureates who sup­port research cloning, and he said it is possible to bar ethically repugnant uses of cloned tissue without blocking the research. 
"The president wants to ban it all, and I think he's wrong," Daschle said. "And I think the American people are on our side on this issue." 
At issue is the production of embryos that are genetically identical to a donor human being. Bush voiced his opposition frequently last year, and in August he restricted federally financed stem cell research to 64 existing stem cell lines taken from embryos discarded by fertility clinics. 
The House passed a ban on all human cloning last July but the Senate has not acted on it. Many sen­ators object to the idea of cloning humans, but are not averse to embryo research that could cure disease. 
Brownback, told an anti-cloning rally on Capitol Hill Wednesday that the ban was "clearly a winnable issue." Standing before a stack of peti­tions with 400,000 signatures, he said, "Cloning is wrong, period. Creating human life to destroy it is wrong." 
But for many senators, the matter was more personal than political. Sen. Zell Miller, a moderate who has backed Bush on other high-stakes leg­islation, said he supports the Specter option because his son has juvenile diabetes and his late mother suffered from Alzheimer's. 
Sen. Bill Frist. said he supports the Brownback ban -an endorsement the White House viewed as key, because Frist is a heart-transplant surgeon whose views on medical top­ics are respected by his peers. 
"Does the promise of human cloning embryo experiments ... justify what is required today to conduct those experiments -and that is the pur­poseful creation of human embryos for experimentation and destruction? The answer to that question to me is no," Frist said. Bush called the prospects of successful research from clones "highly speculative," and said he fears nightmare scenarios in which embryos are created so they can be plundered for body parts, so that par­ents can have custom-ordered chil­dren, or so that women's eggs can be sold at high prices. He also said research had suggested that "designer cells" taken from cloned embryos might be rejected by human bodies. 
"Once cloned embryos were avail­able, implantation would take place," Bush said. "Even the tightest regula­tions and strict policing would not prevent or detect the birth of cloned babies." 
Michael West, president and CEO of Worcester, Mass.-based Advanced Cell Technology, disputed that point. His company announced in November that it had cloned a six-cell human embryo for the purpose of culling stem cells. 
'Tm not proud to be an American. when our leadership doesn't take the time to get the science right," West said. "You can't make science work just the way you want it to." 
defend Boston Cardinal 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Supporters, including an alleged abuse victim, came to the defense Wednesday of Cardinal Bernard Law as pressure mounted for his resig­nation over his handling of child sex cases involving priests. 
Law, head of the Catholic Archdiocese of Boston since 1984, has apologized for shifting defrocked priest John Geoghan, an accused pedophile, from parish to parish. Documents made public Monday show Law handled the case of another accused priest, the Rev. Paul Shanley, in much the same way. Ray Flynn, a former Boston mayor and ambassador to the Vatican, said that while Law's mistakes are indefensible, he should remain on the job to repair the damage suffered by the church. 
"He's the one that's most in pain," Flynn said. "He's the one who has the most to lose. He will put his heart and soul into it." Ralph Delvecchio, one of Geoghan's alleged victims, agreed that Law might be the best person fix the problems. provided there isn't evidence Law acted maliciously in shuttling priests between churches. 
"I don't really believe he intentionally meant to be devious," Delvecchio said. "I think he could do more good staying there because he knows what's going on." The cardinal has also earned loyalty for his years of work with the poor and immigrants. Law has made frequent visits to Latin America, including Cuba, to speak out against social injustice. 
"His resignation will not solve the problem," said Dr. Roger Jean-Charles, chairman of the board at the Haitian Multi-Service Center in Boston. "This is a case where the cure is worse than the disease." 
NDAnERFIVE 
Friday, April 12
Thursday, April II 
Saturday, April 13 
5:00 p.m. ND Women's Lacrosse vs. Duke, Moose
5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred 
5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of the 
Krause Field (match begins at 4:00 p.m.) 
Heart 
Sacred Heart 

5:00 p.m. ND Women's Softball vs. Connecticut,
7:00 p.m. Film: All About You followed by 
5:00 p.m. Foundations and Implications of the U.S. 
(double header), Ivy Field, (first game begins at
question and answer discussion led by 
Wa_r on Terrorism, by Graham Fuller, Hesburgh 
4:00 p.m.)
Christine Ashford-Swanson and Michael 
Center for International Studies 
5:00 p.m. -7:00 p.m. The Calling Concert and Food
Swanson, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium 
6:30 p.m. Hawaii Club Luau, LaFortune Student 
Fest, South Quad (event begins at 4:00 p.m.) 
Center Ballroom ..

7:00 p.m. Lecture by Jennie Weiss Block, 
5:00 p.m. Local Islamic Responses to September
Copious Host;ng: A Theology ofAccess for 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Harry Potter and Dark Side of 
11 (Parl 1 ), Hes burgh Center for International 
People with Disabilities, McKenna Hall Room 
the Rainbow, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
Studies

100-104 (Book signing and reception will follow 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, 
5:05 p.m. ND Men's Baseball vs. Virginia Tech 
7:00 p.m. Two Original Plays, LaFortune Student 
free billiards, Lafortune Student Center 
(double header), Frank Eck Stadium 
Center Ballroom 

9:00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Bonfire with live music by 
5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7 p.m. Book talk and signing, Thou Shalt Not 
Tim Bradley, Jason Brown and Christina Castrillo, 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs
Invest Foolishly, Khalil F. Matta, Hammes Notr 
Holy Cross Hill 

Sports Recreation Center 
Dame Bookstore 

10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Open Karaoke and snacks, 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Harry Potter and Dark Side of
7:30 p.m. Mass for all the victims & survivors of 
· LaFortune Student Center Huddle 
the Rainbow, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
sexual assault, Log Cabin Chapel 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Harry Potter and Dark Side of 
8:00 p.m. "807'' Mass, Coleman-Morse Center 
8:00 p.m. Searle Lecture: Center for Pastoral 
the Rainbow, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
Student Lounge 
Liturgy, McKenna Hall, Center for Continuing 
10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Video Game Tournament, 
8:00 p.m. ND Collegium Musicum Spring Concert, 
Education 

Stanford Hall Basement 
Moreau Seminary Chapel 
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room 
Sports Recreation Center 

This ad is published by the Student 
open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room 
Activities Office. Programs are subject to 
9:00 p.m. -Midnight Multicultural Food Night, 
open, LaFortune Student Center 
change without notice. All programs are 
Fieldhouse Mall or LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student 
free to Notre Dame students unless marked 
Ballroom
Center Huddle 
by an asterisk (*).

9:00 p.m. Comedy Spartz, Hesburgh Library Carey 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Harry Potter and Dark Side 
Auditorium
ofthe Rainbow, DeBartolo 101 and 155.. 
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: End-of-Year Address Book, LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 
10:00 
p.m. Movies: Harry Potter and Dark Side of the Rainbow, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

10:00 
p.m. -1:30 a.m. Tournament Fridays: Connect 4, LaFortune Student Center Notre 



Dame Room 
FOR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOM, VISIT: www.nd.edu/,--sao/ 
page 10 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 11; 2002 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Moral Fo·undations of Private Law 
Thursday and Friday, April 11-12, 2002 Notre Da111e La\N School Courtroo111 
Thursday. April 11. 2002 Friday, April 12, 2002 
4 p.m. 9 a.m. THE MORAL FOUNDATIONS OF PROMISES, TRUST AND CONTRACT PRIVATE LAW LAW 
James Gordley A.J. Bellia Shannon CecilTurner Professor Notre Dame Law School of Jurisprudence University of California at Berkeley 10:30 a.m. 
School of Law EQUALITY IN EXCHANGE James Murphy Dartmouth College 
1:30 p.m. SEARCHING FORTHE MORAL FOUNDATIONS OF CONTRACT LAW 
Henry Mather University of South Carolina School of Law 
3:00 p.m. 
MARRIAGE ANDTHE GOOD OF OBLIGATION 
Scott Fitzgibbon 
Boston College Law School 
Co-sponsored by the Olin Foundation 
' 
L______ 

Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 11 
OPEC won't replace Iraqi crude oil shortage 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

OPEC has no plans to pump more oil to replace the crude Iraq is withholding from the market, reasoning that the recent spike in oil prices will ease once violence between Israel and the Palestinians abates, the group's top official said Wednesday. 
OPEC Secretary-General Ali Rodriguez defended the deci­sion to keep output steady until at least late June by insisting that global supplies were "normal" in relation to the physical demand for crude. 
Oil prices seesawed on a day of conflicting market signals. Iran's oil minister reaffirmed that his country wouldn't join Iraq in suspending its crude exports unless other Muslim countries also do the same. 
However, the International Energy Agency warned that political uncertainties in the Middle East and labor strife in Venezuela could yet upset the market. 
May contracts of North Sea Brent crude rose 22 cents a barrel in London before slip­ping to $26.01, down 7 cents from Tuesday's close. In New York, contacts of light, sweet crude for May delivery rose 31 cents to close at $26.13 a bar­rel 
"Twenty-six dollar Brent isn't a terrible, terrible num­ber," said Peter Gignoux, head of the petroleum desk at Salomon Smith Barney. But he hastened to add: "It's not a great number." 
The big question, Gignoux said, is how quickly other oil producers can replace the crude that Iraq has kept away from markets. 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein suspended oil exports on Monday for 30 days or until Israel withdraws from the Palestinian territories. 
Iraq, which has a daily pro­duction capacity of 2.5 million barrels, exports at least 1.8 million barrels a day under the close supervision of the United Nations. 
Iraq is OPEC's third-largest producer but doesn't partici­pate in the group's production agreements. 
Iran and Libya had earlier expressed support for the idea of using an embargo as a means of pressuring the United States to lean on Israel to end its military offensive against the Palestinians. 
Libya has been quiet on the issue since Iraq began its boy­cott, but Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Zangeneh insisted that Iran would not act on its own to suspend its crude ship­ments. Iran is OPEC's second­largest producer after Saudi Arabia. 
Zangeneh, speaking in Seoul, South Korea, said polit­ical tensions and speculation are driving the crude market and insisted there is no short­fall in global supplies. 
Rodriguez said that Iran and Libya both had assured him they wouldn't restrict output. 
OPEC will stick to its current production ceiling of 21.7 mil­lion barrels a day until June 26, when oil ministers from the group's 11 member coun­tries are to meet again, Rodriguez told reporters at OPEC's headquarters in Vienna, Austria. 
"Jf we increased production, we could suffer a collapse of prices after the solution of the dramatic problems we're see­ing in the Middle East," he said. 
•·our hope is that the con­crete conflicts between the Palestinians and Israel can be resolved as soon as possible." 
The IEA seemed to support Rodriguez's view that supply and demand were basically in balance. 
The Paris-based group is the energy watchdog for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of rich oil-importing nations. 
The agency noted in its monthly oil report that crude inventories for the world's biggest consuming countries were still above average, and that oil producing nations had a combined spare production capacity of 6 million barrels a day -more than enough to cover the missing Iraqi bar­rels. 
In addition, IEA member countries have about 4 billion barrels in strategic reserves to tap in an emergency. 
Other barrels in the sea 
Analysts suggest that other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting countries, which pumps a third of all crude oil, will intervene to offset Iraq halting crude exports. 
Top global oil producers in 2001, millions of barrels per day• 
OPEC Non-OPEC Saudi Arabia Russia fM'iiil'%fAW.Wi'%1M~r~w 8.03 t¥®%1m&tl¥Jmft.ffi1WtHkWiM 1.os Iran United States 
t11*.1ffli.%l®W 3.72 r@'MiWiinl&ft':WfMtfilWID 5.85 
Venezuela North Sea•·• 
i1H~f&J 2.sa fZf&ili®im.ifQIDmlfJf~fl s.so 
China
~IM:2.43 WJ&JIWl'.W!W 3 .3o 
Nigeria 
@§1.iM2.2a t~&i!:,nxns 3.20 
United Arab Emirates Mexico 
iff£~2.26 Mt'®WJ.@Wi® 3.13 
Kuwait** United KingdomMfafmWJ 2.03 1if.WW:Wlfa.2s 
•Annual average .. Includes about one-half of the production in the Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone ...Includes the United Kingdom offshore, Norway, Denmark, Netherlands offshore and Germany offshore 
OURCE: Energy Information Administration 


Still, the IEA noted that the market was tightening, due partly to the unexpected speed of the U.S. economic recovery and to diminishing 
U.S. inventories of gasoline and other refined products. 
High prices, if sustained over a long period, could impede a global recovery, the agency added. 
The price of Brent futures surged by 17. 3 percent during the 30 days ending March 25, while light, sweet U.S. crude jumped by 17.9 percent dur­ing the same period. 
OPEC members other than Iraq pumped an additional 440,000 barrels a day in March, for a total of 23 mil­lion daily barrels, the agency said. 
This meant OPEC's members were exceeding their official quotas by 1.3 million barrels a day. 
Gignoux noted that this trend in OPEC's unofficial out­put could help keep prices from rising too far. 
"In a funny old sort of way," he said, "OPEC is sort of solv­ing our problem." 
sub movies presents... 
of ~t\f. AAINBoiv 
somewhere over the rain­
9~f~ 

bow i' II see you on the darkside of the moon...the co bet_--_ween pink f
. 

albumfdork side of. . mgm's 1939 movie 't pave captured nationat an;ongoing debate of w~~th purftosely ¢reoted a second -{me classic ~tarring judy garl the}'~ynchronilities are pure..,; maintain there was strong intentio 
,..__;_:J_~_,__·
,,w, 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, April 11, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

N.EWS EDJTORl Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SroRTS EDITORl Chris Federico .Sc.ENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINr MARv's EonoRi Sheila Eg~ PHOTO EDITOR, Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

ADVERTISING MANAGERI Matt Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze Sn.TEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB A.oMJNISTRAT0R: Scott Brodfuehrer CoNTROlllR: Lori Lewalski DEVEWPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.•.•••.•..•••.••..••.••..••..•..••..•631-6900/6&40 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631--454! BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................._. ..............................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINf MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYsnMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ........... ......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://obseroer.,vl.edu for daily updates ofcampw news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and races of print ads 

cial campw coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial oonrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of,he authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co a1I readers. The free ex.pr=ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and mwt include contact information. 
Que,tiom regarding Obsaverpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor ,n ChefJason McFarley. 
Notre Dame's liturgical life is the best available 
They say that absence makes the heart grow fonder, and I daresay that it's true. I've never missed the dining hall the way I miss it here. (I've never missed the dining hall before, but that's immaterial.) 
1

Having to cook for Mar ayna myself has made Soenneker 
me a lot more 

Here We Go
grateful for the times and places Again: Letters where my needs From Exile 
are filled by some­
one else. 

Far more than I miss the dining hall (and I really miss it), I miss the spiri­tual life of Notre Dame. Whether you love Notre Dame or not, you have to admit that the sort of religious life that exists at Notre Dame can be found nowhere else in the country. Maybe you could have gone to Stanford and received the same edu­cation, but the spiritual education available at Notre Dame is truly avail­able "nowhere else but Notre Dame." 
I always assumed that the spiritual life at Notre Dame was a result of the student body being 85 percent Catholic. I figured anywhere with that kind of concentration of one religion would be the home of a dynamic Church. My obviously oversimplified explanation of our spiritual life is per­haps a sort of tribute to the incredible people behind the scenes who make Notre Dame the wonderful spiritual home it is. They do it so well that I didn't even realize they were there until they weren't. 
When I applied to go abroad to Ireland, one of the major points I talked about in my essay was the fact that I was looking forward to an entire country of Catholics. I was cer­tain that there would be a dynamic Church in Ireland because of this high concentration, just as I thought the Church at Notre Dame was dynamic because of our high concentration of Catholics. 
It wasn't until just a couple of weeks before I left that an Ireland returnee informed me that the Church in Ireland was a lot of things but was definitely not dynamic. Nevertheless, I had high hopes and arrived prepared for a good spiritual experience in this heavily Catholic country. 
It hasn't happened. Most Sunday Masses don't have music, and they usually only last about 35 minutes. At the University Church, the priest reg­ularly omits the second reading on Sunday. The priest and the Irish con­gregation sound like they are in a race to get to the end of Mass fastest, and I think that their confirmation classes must include speed speaking. I have yet to venture to a weekday Mass, but I can only imagine the dis­mal scene they must present. 
I think I will probably spend the rest of my life searching for a Church like the Church at Notre Dame, a Church with the kind of involvement, life and spirituality that prevail throughout Notre Dame. Whenever I go home to my home parish. it is always both pleasant and a little disappointing. It's good to be among the familiar people who surrounded me growing up in the faith, but the lively liturgies and piercingly relevant homilies aren't there. It's good to go home, but I'm always glad to come back to the Notre Dame Mass. 
We often take the great spiritual life at Notre Dame for granted. But the fact is that Notre Dame is an incredi­bly special place, and for most. if not all, of us it is probably going to be the best church community we ever belong to. We have legions of priests and religious considering and catering to our every spiritual need. 
But out in the "real world." we're not going to get that kind of attention. We'll be sharing one priest with hun­dreds of other people and he won't always be able to meet our every spir­itual whim. Out there, we can't just be the passive recipients of the Church's bounty; we must become the ministers of her riches to others. 
A lot of us do serve the Church at Notre Dame. But we aren't asked to lead the Church, to anticipate the needs of others and to meet them. We will be asked to do this outside the Golden Bubble, and I think the first step to learning to do this is realizing how much work and dedication the men and women who do this for us put in. 
So next time you are at Mass singing the Gloria. think about how different it would be if you weren't singing those words of praise but were instead racing through them in a monotone as if there were a prize on the other end. The next time you think you have too much homework to go to Mass, remember that you won't always have the incredible liturgical experiences of Notre Dame available to you. And the next time you have a particularly meaningful spiritual experience at Notre Dame. take a moment to thank God for the people who make it happen. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a junior psy­chology major currently studying abroad in Ireland. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be contacted at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Andrew Thagard Joe Ackerman Meghan Martin Sports Kerry Smith Viewpoint Sheila Flynn Pat McElwee 
Scene 

C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Jake Weiler Production Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 

t'
! l
i. 'j \ 
I
!l I
I : 
i ; I 
I 
l 
I 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame publicly address the recent cases of sexual abuse involving the Catholic Church? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Words are, ofcourse, the most powerful drug used by mankind.,, 
Rudyard Kipling writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 page 13 
Hospital's move hurts area poor 

The South Bend Tribune has report­ed that St. Joseph's Hospital is going to be moving from its current South Bend location to a location north-east of the city. closer to Granger. The Tribune reports a claim of concern on the part of the Catholic hospital for those people -many of whom are poor and of color ­who will have to travel greater dis­tance to reach the new location. 
There will still be Whitmore emergency care in South Bend. There 
The Common
will still be the 
Good

Chapin Street Clinic. 
One of the more interesting points ma.de by a hospital representative is that St. Joseph's did a study of the University Park Mall north-east of the city and found that people living in the south and west areas of South Bend could still get to the mall. 
Therefore, the reasoning goes, they can get to the new hospital. 
This reasoning is supposed to cover the concern for the poor and uphold the hospital's Catholic identity, but let's look at it more closely. Mark Twain once commented, "The problem with being poor is that it takes all of your time." Many who are poor in South Bend do not have cars. Given South Bend's inadequate public trans­portation, it takes an extended period of time for people to get from the poor­er neighborhoods in the south and west to the mall and other Grape Road destinations -Wal-mart and Meijer come to mind -where many of the available low-entry jobs exist. I have known more than one person who has lost a job to the vagaries of the · Transpo system. 
Here's the conundrum of the poor: to get to a job consistently first of all requires a car; to buy a car first of all requires a job that one can get to con­sistently. The conundrum intensifies given the fact that low pay often requires a person to take two jobs. The Grape Road enterprises can function because other populations -for instance, seniors who already have cars, spouses of people who already make a living wage and students ­provide much of the workforce. 
In other words, the attitude of the mall and other Grape Road businesses is to locate close to wealth and if the less well-off can get there, fine. Those who have the best access to trans­portation are the ones closest to the service; those who have the least access to transportation are the fur­thest away. There is no irony in this for the University Park Mall. Its aim is to be close to money. What St. Joseph's reasoning tells us is that its standards for concern for the poor are not much different from those of a shopping mall. 
Catholic social teaching's "option for the poor" tells us that justice requires that we look first to those who are marginalized. One of the contributions that Pope John Paul II has made to Catholic social teaching is to insist that poverty is more than economic. Those who are materially poor also have lim­ited access to the full array of social goods -for instance, education, job training and health care. 
Listening to and attending to the needs ofthe poor is not something that one sets up as a minimum test to pass -let alone a test modeled after stan­dards of a consumer center. Even sec­ular philosophical standards do better than that. John Rawls, the most influ­ential secular social philosopher, tells us that for any policy change to be just, it must be "to the greatest benefit of the least advantaged." This is Rawls' "difference principle," and it is part of an overall view he calls "justice as fair­ness." It is clear, then, that St. Joseph's move meets neither Catholic nor respected secular standards. In the pope's words, the dignity of the poor "is not acknowledged in any real way." 
Catholic social teaching does recog­nize the importance and necessity of institutions meeting financial obliga­tions. Here, moreover, is where we get into further interesting questions. Did St. Joseph's ask whether there was land available for building on the south and west sides? One recent big busi­ness did and will be locating significant part of its production there, both for business reasons and to create jobs for the many who are unemployed there. 
Why did a Catholic hospital not do the same thing? How earnestly did it pursue the matter, if at all? Did it consider, seriously or at all, the possi­bility that its mission calls it to be in the midst of those who are least well­off, and that following that mission can be the most fiscally responsible thing to do both for the hospital and for the city? 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor of theology and the director ofthe Program in Catholic Social Tradition. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at Whitmore.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column represent those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
All employees should not be punished 
This week, Anderson layed off 7,000 to another person in the same way that employees. This action was caused by the you can assign civil liability. For instance, I nation's lack of faith in Anderson's future could agree with my roommate that we as a viable firm, which was caused in turn would both cover the costs of any damages by the Justice Department's indictment of to our Houston apartment. I could not Anderson for obstruction of justice. The agree that I would be criminally responsi­Justice Department better be able to ble if, while I was living in Chicago, he prove. beyond a reasonable doubt, that decided to commit arson to that apart­Anderson, the firm, and not merely a few ment. partners, engaged in the obstruction of It may be the case that the obstruction of justice. justice so pervaded Anderson that the 
Unfortunately for Anderson. some people criminal responsibility applies to the firm say that getting an indictment is so easy as an entity. I would concede that, ifthat that you could indict a ham sandwich. In were the case, then the government's this case, the indictment itself has turned prosecution and a resulting U.S. Securities out to be the death penalty. Anderson has and Exchange Commission bar on auditing already been punished although no guilty public firms would be appropriate. verdict has been issued. Even if Anderson However, I doubt that this is the case. is found to be not guilty, it is still a goner Obstruction of justice requires intent on due to the public's lack of faith in the firm. the part of the actor, and many of the less­It would be a shame if that punishment er players in this whole affair appear to proved to be completely unwarranted have acted negligently at worst. The claim because the Justice Department is unable that there was a firm-wide intent to com­to prove firm-wide responsibility. mit a crime is unrealistic. As for the 7,000 
I have serious cloubts that the criminal employees that have been laid off, I don't prosecution and resulting series oflayofi's think it would be too much of a stretch to at Anderson is a situation that justice say that probably none of them did any­demands. A friend tried to explain to me thing wrong. that, since Anderson gains several benefits At the end of the day, I think that the from its partnership form, it should also prosecution of Anderson is a politically­have to face liabilities in that same part­motivated witch hunt. I also believe that nership form. This is just plain wrong, the Justice Department h~c; turned a blind however, when criminal responsibility is eye to the plight of 7,000 (and soon thrown into the mix. It is entirely reason­28,000) workers who had nothing to do able for a group of business partners to with the whole Enron debacle. When polit­agree to joint and several civil liability for ical motivations make people lose their any money damages that may arise. It jobs, I get mad. At any rate, the Justice would be entirely impermissible, and Department has its work cut out for it in unprecedented, for a group of business trying to convince a jury and the public at partners to contractually assign criminal large that it's seeking justice and not responsibility to each other unless each vengeance. and every one of them took deliberate acts Andrew Malahowski that would give rise to individual criminal third-year law student responsibility. You can't assign a mens rea April 10, 2002 
Arafat is a terrorist 
This letter is written in response Israeli military strikes and the to the letter by Sorour Alotaibi that intentional targeting of innocent appeared in Monday's Observer. civilians by Palestinian suicide 
Let me start by going out on a bombings. limb and calling Yasser Arafat a ter­We are led to believe that those rorist. Let's call a spade a spade and youths who strap explosives on their not beat around the bush. Arafat bodies and detonate them in public can do much more to control violent places do so because they have no elements both within the PLO and other choice and no other options. outside of it, yet he chooses to do That is a most unfortunate reality. nothing. Why? Because he cannot But the reason is that Arafat and end the current intifada without terrorists groups like Hamas and having achieved some political Hezbollah have convinced the objectives. And, contrary to Palestinian youth to believe so. Alotaibi's opinion that the They've been taught to believe they Palestinians are freedom fighters, I have no hope, nothing to live for and hate to tell you, but Yasser Arafat is that Israel is to blame. The only no Patrick Henry. To even fathom agenda Hamas and Hezbollah have the thought that, "Give me liberty or is the destruction of Israel, at all give me death," is morally equiva­costs. If that means blowing a child lent to, "Give me liberty without the up in the process. so be it. existence of Israel," is extremely The fact of the matter is that if disturbing. Despite the fact that Arafat were serious about peace or Arafat was and continues to be a if he was serious about establishing supporter of terrorism against the a state for Palestinians he would state of Israel, he has gained the arrest the militant parties within legitimacy of the world as the sole and outside the PLO and give 100 representative of the Palestinian percent effort to control them in the people (thanks mostly to the U.S.), future. He would condemn terror­and he must be included in any form ism and agree that peaceful negoti­of negotiations or talks between the ations are the only way to resolve a two sides. final peace agreement. Should 
To be completely fair in the opin­Arafat do those things there would ion of labeling Arafat a terrorist, we be no justification for Sharon to must recognize that Ariel Sharon is remain in the occupied territories, no less ruthless or merciless than for Israel has no strategic interests Arafat. Known as the "Butcher of there, save his attempts to stop ter­Beirut" for his 1982 military rorism by arresting militants and exploits in Lebanon, Sharon has defending the right of the people of taken espccia)ly brutal methods Israel to exist in peace. Palestinians recently in attempting to secure no doubt deserve the same rights, Israeli security, mainly the bulldoz­but until their leadership realizes ing of homes within the occupied that targeting Jewish civilians does territories and limiting the availabil­not serve as an end, the Al-Aqsa ity of medical services to those seek­intifada is unlikely to end. ing care in the territories. However overly aggressive Sharon's actions Luke Burke appear, it should be said that there Dillon Hall is no equivalence between the col­jurnor lateral damage caused by strategic April 9, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Thursday, April 11, 2002 
Bad premise gives 'Smoochy' the kiss of death 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Edi tor 

For anyone who ever secretly won­dered if Barney was actually a friend­less alcoholic or Elmo had to attend court-ordered anger management classes. "Death to Smoochy" may seem like a deviously pleasurable romp through the sordid version of chil­dren's entertainment. Unfortunately, director Danny DeVito fails to deliver anything more sinisterly pleasing than stealing two pieces of fruit from the dining hall: sounds like it's living on the edge until you realize that you now have two bruised apples. 
When Rainbow Randolf (played by Robin Williams), a psychologically dis­turbed children's show host, is busted in an FBI sting for taking bribes to put children on his show, the scandalized network bigwigs order their yes-man lackey. Stokes (played by Jon Stewart), and his sexually harassed partner, Nora (played by Catherine Kenner). to find a squeaky clean replacement. Enter Smoochy: a soy dog-eating, pur­ple dinosaur suit-wearing Good Samaritan who plays children's songs for free in a methadone clinic in the slums. Also known as the perfect suck­er for Stokes and Nora's manipulation. 
Of course. the children's television world isn't all fun and games -then again, neither is this movie. Between Rainbow Randolfs demented attempts at revenge (which include, among other things, an overly elaborate speaking engagement set up at a Nazi party rally) and clandestine advice 

Photo court0Sy of www.imdb.com Norton plays the title character of an ultra squeaky-clean children's television host in the incredibly not funny dark comedy "Death to Smoochy." 
from Smoochy's scumbag agent, Burke Adjusting"). It's truthfully hard to put (played by Danny DeVito) and a fairly a finger on the exact reason; the movie pointless seems to have romance all the ingredi­
"Death to Smoochy"
between ents for a good Smoochy and 
film. It's the Nora, moviego­recipe that ers will wonder spoils this film. why the movie The big prob-
Director: Danny DeVito 
isn't funny 1em with
Starring: Edward Norton, Robin Williams, Danny
(despite a well-"Death to
DeVilo, Catherine Kenner and Jon Stewart
timed Notre Smoochy" is Dame Fight that it's not Song before a dark enough to twisted children's song entitled "My be a dark comedy and not absurd Stepdad isn't Mean, He's just enough to be a comedy. Frankly. the movie can't get over its initial premise, which its producers apparently think is hysterical. It's not. 
Williams' sad clown act is more than worn-out and so is his funny clown act. Norton puts in an adequate perfor­mance as an ultra-squeaky-clean over­grown Boy Scout, but the fact that his character is completely unchanging throughout the movie makes for an eye-glazing hour and a half. 
The strongest performances come from the Stewart and Kenner. Stewart's consummate smarmy jibing that he perfected from working on "The Daily Show" and receiving count­less schoolyard beatings in elementary school is nothing short of artful. And Kenner manages to balance sexy and abrasive well. The banter between the two, which is about as potty-mouthed as an episode of Southpark on methyl amphetamine. is razor sharp and live­ly. 
Luckily, DeVito is an excellent direc­tor and manages to save his all-star cast from utter embarrassment. With credentials like directing "The War of the Roses" and "Throw Momma From the Train" as well as being an execu­tive producer of "Pulp Fiction," DeVito squeezes a few laughs out of a movie that in other hands would have gone straight to video. 
DeVito has a keen eye for interesting cinematography and the movie is edit­ed well. But the half-witted premise of "Smoochy" is its kiss of death. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 
High thrills in 'High Crimes' 
By EMILY HOWALD 
Assistant Scene Editor 
"High Crimes" is yet another thrilling and attention-grasping flick by the wonderfully paired duo of Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman. These two have not been on the screen together since 1997's "Kiss the Girls," but their on­screen chemistry prevails again in this continuous quest for the truth and jus­tice. 
Claire Kubick (played by Ashley Judd) is a highly-esteemed lawyer whose hus­band, Tom 

Photo courtesy of Twentieth Century Fox and Regency Enterprises Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd reunite In the military justice thriller "High Crimes." The pair also shared the screen In 1997's "Kiss the Girls." 
(played by James "High Crimes" his usual role of Caviezel). is 
the elderly man accused of first­who is way pastdegree murder. his prime. But his 
The charge goes experience adds back to an event 
interesting twists
Director: Carl Franklin
he had as a sol­
to usual proce­
Starring: Morgan freeman, Ashley Judd and
dier in El 
James Caviezel
Salvador in 1988. 
Claire, the trusting wife, does everything in her power to save her husband. She is assured of her hus­band's innocence and teams up with a young military lawyer (played by Adam Scott) and a former alcoholic local attorney Charles Grimes (played by Morgan Freeman). The three join forces with Claire's sister, Jackie (played by Amanda Peet), who adds comic relief to the thriller. 
In fighting for Tom's innocence, the group uncovers the truth of what actu­ally happened in El Salvador. Not only are they faced with obstacles in finding the truth about Tom's case, the military also uses its power to deter Claire and Grimes from the case and into trouble. 
Judd does an excellent job of portray­ing the headstrong, confident lawyer, characteristics necessary for her to get to the end of the trial. However, she also possesses that gentle sweetness she usually portrays in her characters which grasps and tugs at the viewers' heartstrings who want her to find con­tentment in the end. 
Meanwhile, 
Freeman plays 
dures. Judd and 
Freeman shine 
once again and 
make "High Crimes" a film worth seeing. 
There are numerous unique turns throughout the film but the storyline is common and predictable. There are some unexpected events that make the film better than the usual military law film, yet it doesn't completely distin­guish itself from that common formula of film. 
Director Carl Franklin does an excel­lent job of keeping the story moving and keeping the viewer in suspense. 
The film makes you want to question everything and Franklin keeps you wondering until the very end about the truth of what may have actually hap­pened. 
The 115-minute long film is well worth the money and the trip to the theater. It grasps the audience's atten­tion from the beginning and doesn't let go until the very end. Though it may not keep the audience guessing throughout the whole film, it will keep its attention. Although one does have to feel sorry for Judd on occasions, it isn't a heartthrob film. Rather, "High Crimes" is an interesting and entertain­ing movie that will satisfy audiences. 
Freeman and Judd successfully use a common plot with different angles to makes the storyline more enjoyable. The duo brings back to theaters a film that makes the audience wonder if everything you trust, everything you know, may be a lie. 
Contact Emily Howald at howald.2@nd.edu. 
O
TH£ 
BSERVER 


Thursday, April 11, 2002 page 15 
Two TICKETS FOR "THE ROOKIE" 
'Rookie:' another touching baseball movie 
If living in South Bend hasn't eroded your belief in the eternal renewal of springtime. then perhaps a film about baseball still can. Time to root, root, root for the home team as Melissa Rauch (MR) and Paul Camarata 
(PC) make a double play on "The Rookie ... 
PC: Today's ques­tion is whether America keeps pro­ducing great base­ball stories or 

whether baseball Melissa Rauch keeps producing and great American Paul Camarata 
movies. Say what you want about that Scene Movie opening to "Patton," 
Critics 

but it ain't got noth­ing on a home plate umpire yelling, "Play ball." 
MR: But this really isn't an American story, Paul. We're dealing with Texans here. 
PC: Woah, woah, woah, little lady. You're getting dangerously close to break­ing rule numero uno: Don't mess with Texas. Our job here is to review a movie, not to mess with Texas. 
MR: Trust me, I would never do anything of the sort. I only mean that Texas is one state not suffering from any self-esteem problems. Texans are proud of their peo­ple and their stories, as is evident in the film "The Rookie," which recounts the tri­umph of a high school science teacher turned major league relief pitcher Jim Morris. In his early 20s, Morris had embarked on a pro baseball career when a shoulder injury curtailed his dream. Years later his arm only sees action when throw­ing batting practice for the high school team he coaches. When the team strug­gles, Morris attempts to inspire his players by making a fateful deal: If they win the district championship, he'll try out again for the majors. 
Though the film frequently seems far­fetched and schmaltzy, the "based on a true story" seal of authenticity lets the audience suspend its natural disbelief at the implausibility of what transpires. Of course, as "The Hurricane" and "A Beautiful Mind" have already taught us. Hollywood frequently takes liberties with the truth when illustrating such supposed real-life heroic tales. Nevertheless, "The Rookie" will still satisfy its audiences with an uplifting story about following dreams set against the backdrop of America's favorite pastime. 
PC: Without knocking what the film does accomplish, I will say that merely sticking to the basic components of every baseball movie ever made automatically provides fodder from the culture to please the mass­es. Normally I'm the cynic when it comes to a movie relying on its genre to generate success. particularly when the Bruce Willis action category can presuppose superhu­man cop skills from anyone who smokes cigarettes. In this case I can make an exception, since its baseball we're talking about and not wannabe heroes. 
MR: The issue, then, is where this base­ball movie stacks up in the diverse, histori­cal canon that includes both "Rookie of the Year" and "Field of Dreams." 
PC: Don't forget 'The Natural" or "The Sandlot." 

MR: Or "The Bad News Bears" or "Bull Durham." 
PC: Or "Little Big League" or "Major League." 
MR: Or "Major League 2" or "Major League 3: Back to the Minors, which went straight to video. 
PC: Or "The Scout" or "Eight Men Out." 
MR: Or "Angels In the Outfield" or "Damn Yankees." 
PC: Or "Mr. Baseball" or "Mr. Destiny." 
MR: Or "For the Love of the Game" or "For the love of God, Kevin Costner. please give it a rest." 
PC: "Ed." 

PC: What range, everything from the 1919 Black Sox scandal to Matt LeBlanc and a monkey. The common thread is, of course, overcoming adversity in that swell 
interface between reality and the magic of the national pastime. Mike Rich's script for "The Rookie" opened a bit slow for my taste, but all in the effort of forging a back­drop of frontier folklore to further underscore the American-ness of the story. Dennis Quaid picked up the slack. mostly because he's believable as both 

"The Rookie" 
Melissa's rating 


Paul's rating 


Director: John Lee Hancock Starring: Dennis Quaid, Rachel Griffiths and Jay 
Hernandez 

a resilient everyman and a hopeful roman­tic. Torn by his jostled childhood. his own family and his hometown, Quaid finds a way to reconcile them all in the pursuit of his dreams. 
MR: Quaid, and that charming grin of his, definitely shines. Also convincing is Rachel Griffiths, who, though a native Australian. gives an understated and real­istic performance as Jimmy's patient Texan wife, Lorrie. The colorful cast of supportive townspeople, full of local charm, entertains as well. Shifting to the film's weaknesses, the strained relation­ship between Jim and his military father seemed underdeveloped and unnecessary. Viewers never know why Jim Morris Sr. is so unsupportive of his son's dreams or why Dad comes around in the end. The film has plenty of material to tell its tale without resorting to this distracting subplot that comes off as a shameless copycat of the "Field of Dreams" father-son bonding finale. These scenes look like Hollywood embellishments rather than real-life drama. 
PC: Of course Hollywood embellishes. reality, let alone what it does to make fic­tion implausible. I mean, you have seen the movie "John Q". There was plenty of opportunity for these filmmakers to bend the particulars of the Morris 
Morris resur­

rects his career at all is balanced nicely by the fact that he does it in the lowly Tampa Bay Devil Rays organization. If this film were a "movie" and not steeped in the real world, a. lot more sap would likely be dripping from the screen. 
MR: You want sap? What about the highly unlikely, extremely fortunate coinci­dence that the thirty-five year old gets his big-league break and that his very first game is against the Texas Rangers? This lucky break provides for a heartwarming conclusion to the narrative as Morris's family, students and the rest of the crew from Big Lake can drive to The Ballpark in Arlington to cheer for their hometown hero. 
PC: If his first game was in Texas. Mel, it was in Texas. To quote the punk band Bad Religion, "Sometimes truth is stranger than fiction." Occasionally there are people whose real lives become "SportsCenter" highlights or feature pieces in Time maga­zine. That's what this and so many other movies are about. Yes. "The Rookie" had its rough edges, my biggest complaint being that they couldn't find a way to work Randy Quaid into the gang of Texas yokels or bullpen hecklers at the Triple A Stadium. But then maybe we should applaud director John Lee Hancock for resisting the temptation to fabricate a sur­prise visit from some mythical "Cousin Eddie." My tolerance is admittedly higher because it's baseball, but I know this movie works, at least within its genre, because there were still plenty of moments when I got verklempt. 
MR: Don't get me wrong, aside from the father-son bit and a few too many music montages, I thought this was a very enjoy­able movie. While not reaching the ranks of "Field of Dreams" or "The Natural" in the pantheon of classic baseball movies, 'The Rookie" still holds it own -both as a rousing sports tale and a drama of the human spirit. And speaking of getting verklempt, a Devil Ray is neither a devil nor a ray: discuss. 
T'llhen it comes to real, real-life baseball, Paul and Mel's true loves are Al Leiter and defensive indifference, respectively. They also share an affinity for Lenny Dykstra and can be reached at pcamarat@nd.edu and mrauch@nd.edu. 
story so that his melodramatic triumph occurred against the evil Pinstripes from the Bronx (see " D a m n Yankees," "Major League," "For the Love of the Game") or in on an overblown World Series stage. That 
O
THE BSERVER 


page 16 Thursday, April 11, 2002 
Laughs, sobs, cheap beer and Sega 
''A Night of One-Acts" examines both the mundane and the abstract 
By JOE MUTO Scene Writer 

Dickey Seaman's housekeeper wants to teach him about the birds and bees. There's only one problem: Dicky isn't attracted to her. She's 30 years older than he is and not exactly svelte. 

"How skinny would I have to be 

"Our best practice was the they say is so
for you to want funny," Larson

me?" the coy house­time we had a 40s said.
keeper Consuela rehearsal. There weren't 
Larson, whoJohn Stamos Pinata. actually any 40s, but we describes filmmak­
asks in a thick 

has some beer, so that was er Kevin Smith as
Spanish accent. 

a big influence,
pretty cool.,, 
"Thin enough to attempts a funny 

wear the ring off a 

yet heartfelt por­
pudding can as a Ernie Grigg 
trayal of the trials
belt," answers a 

actor and tribulations of 
college life. The 
plot centers around the quiet, earnest Mark as he pines for his long-distance girlfriend and his cynical, know-it-all friend Andy (played by senior Alan Maginn). 
totally serious Dickey. "What flavor?" Senorita Pinata deadpans back. 
This exchange is from "Why Dickey Seaman Sucks at Life," one of two plays in "A Night of One-Acts," a new production co-written and directed by senior Ryan Cunningham and junior Molly McShane. 
"Why Dickey Seaman Sucks at Life" follows a conversation between Dickey {played by freshman Paul Sifuentes) and his therapist (played by sophomore Ricky Herbst) who remi­nisce and try to discover the root of Dickey's problems. 
"The play questions what is normal by showing Dickey Seaman and his life as completely bizarre, completely offensive and completely absurd ... hopefully the audience will question what is normal in their own lives, as he does," Cunningham said. 
Despite the serious-sounding intent, the play by McShane and Cunningham is anything but serious. 
"Basically we just tried to make each other laugh," McShane said. In fact, comedy is just what one would expect from the pair. 
McShane, who got campus-wide attention last year following the for­mation of her Molly's Club, is also a member of the campus sketch comedy group The University of Notre Dame Humor Artists. Cunningham is well­known as the stand-up comedian from the 2002 Keenan Revue and for his comic strip "Befuddled and Bemused," which runs daily in The Observer. But fans of the comic should not necessarily expect the same thing in the play. 
''There's a lot less drawing in the show than there is in the comic," Cunningham said. 
"Why Dickey Seaman Sucks at Life" is the second play in a theatrical dou­bleheader sponsored by Morrissey Hall. 
Starting the night off is "The Common Room," a play written and directed by senior Joe Larson. Larson, who started writing the play during fall break of his freshman year, also stars as Mark, one of four freshman quadmates. The action takes place centerpiece is a tiny television and a Sega Genesis sporting the legendary game "NHL Hockey '94." Larson hopes the play will resonate with stu­dents who will find much of the con­versation and many of the situations familiar. 
"I thought [guys hanging around a dorm] had a unique experience. Some of the stuff Grigg as Han, who has accepted the fact that his roommates assume he is gay despite the fact he has a girl­friend. The quad is occasionally visit­ed by Rick, the weird guy who lives upstairs and only ventures down to mooch food or drunkenly pass out on the couch. 
With "Common Room" Larson has gone for a true sense of realism, even accidentally casting actors with no act­ing experience. 
Grigg was not "/just hope [the audience] tors, are somewhat exactly truthful thinks it's funny. Actually, optimistic about the about his acting success of their
I just hope they don't think 
experience at the plays.
it sucks." 

audition. "I think it's going 
"I lied. I told them to be better than I had been in a Joe Larson expected," McShane play," Grigg said. writer-director said. "Of course, 
Larson also strove to maintain a real common room atmosphere at rehearsals, attempting to get the five cast members to bond. 
"Our best practice was the time we had a 40s rehearsal," Grigg 
who believes that "A Night of One-Acts" said. "There weren't college students actually any 40s, but should limit their . Lafortune Student Center we had some beer, 
activities to drinking Ballroom cheap beer and 
. 7 p.m. tonight

hooking up. The rest of the cast includes . $J admission. junior Michael Grant as Wade, the ugly friend who is obsessing over a girl in his Econ class and sophomore Ernie 
so that was pretty cool." 

The plays are guaranteed to be dif­ferent from the stan­dard theatrical fare presented on campus. Both deal with sex and other controversial issues 
candidly and both make liberal use of explicit language. 
"We drop the F-bomb a lot," Grigg said. "A lot." 
McShane doesn't think this should scare away audiences. 
"My friend who's fairly religious saw the play and she really enjoyed it," McShane said. "She wasn't offend­ed at all." 
Larson and 
McShane, both first 
time writer-direc­
now that I've said 
that, it's going to be 
worse." 

Larson is more fatalistic about his piece. 
"I just hope [the audience] thinks it's funny." Larson said. "Actually, I just hope that they don't think it sucks." 
"A Night of One-Acts" will be pre­sented tonight at 7 p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. Tickets are $3 and are available at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office at 631­8128. 
Contact Joe Muto at jmuto@nd.edu. 

Photo court8$y of Joe Larson 

over a two-week span and is set Larson's cast attempted to keep the common room atmosphere during the rehearsal process. They even had a 40s entirely in a common room where the rehearsal to promote cast bonding. 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
.. 
Sox continue Tigers' skid 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

The Detroit Tigers' losing streak stretched to eight -their worst start in a half-century -as Frank Thomas capped a five-run fifth inning with a three-run homer that led the Chicago White Sox to a 7 -5 win Wednesday. 
The Tigers, the major leagues' lone winless team, also started the 1952 season 0-8. Detroit has lost two games since Luis Pujols replaced Phil Garner as manager. 
Chicago won three of four to split an eight-game road trip. Thomas, who hit his 350th homer Tuesday. has hit three homers in three games. 
Antonio Osuna (1-0) gave up two hits in 1 2-3 innings. He stranded two baserunners when he entered the game with two outs and a 6-5 lead in the fifth. Four relievers fol­lowed, including Keith Foulke, who earned his save second save in three opportunities. 
White Sox starter Jon Garland gave _up five runs and 10 hits ­including three homers -in 4 1-3 innings. 
Jose Lima (0-2), who squandered a two-run lead, allowed up six runs on six hits in 4 2-3 innings, lowering his ERA from 18.00 to 13.50. 
Detroit stranded 13 runners, including nine in scoring position, and 13 total. With the bases loaded in the seventh, Craig Paquette hit an inning-ending groundout off Bobby Howry. 
Bobby Higginson's leadoff homer in the first gave the Tigers their sec­ond lead since the season opener. 
Jose Valentin's sacrifice fly tied the game in the second, but Detroit took a 3-1 lead Higginson on Higginson's RBI double in the bottom half and Dmitri Young's homer in the third, his first with the Tigers. 
Lima then gave up five runs on four hits and a walk in the fifth. Royce Clayton's RBI triple and Kenny Lofton's RBI preceded Thomas'homer. 
Rockies 4, Astros 1 
Todd Zeile homered for the third straight game, and Shawn Chacon allowed one earned run in 6 1-3 innings to lead the Colorado Rockies over the Houston Astros. 
Chacon (1-1) gave up five hits, struck out five and hit two batters. He had lost six straight decisions since defeating San Francisco last July 24. 
Zeile hit a two-run homer in the eighth inning, his third of the season. He was 2-for-4. 
Larry Walker had two hits, includ­ing his third homer of the season, and drove in two runs. 
Dave Mlicki (0-2), starting against Colorado for "the .first time since June 19, 1998, allowed two earned runs and eight hits in six innings. 
Chacon had much better control than he did in a 9-0 loss to Los Angeles on Friday, when he allowed eight runs and walked five in 3 2-3 innings. He didn't allow a runner past second base Wednesday until Richard Hidalgo led off the seventh inning with a homer to left-center. 
Hidalgo's second homer of the sea­son pulled the Astros to 2-1. 
Chacon left in the seventh with one out and runners on first and second, but Kent Mercker got a forceout at second and Craig Biggio hit an inning-ending lineout off Todd Jones. 
Jose Jimenez pitched the ninth for his third save. 
Mets 3, Cubs 2 
Roberto Alomar homered for the first time with the Mets and Mike Piazza followed with a home run of his own to give New York a victory over the Chicago Cubs. 
The back-to-back homers in the 
eighth inning spoiled a solid outing by Kerry Wood, who struck out 10 and scattered four hits over seven innings. Chicago was trying to win consecutive games for the first time this season. 
With the Cubs leading 2-1, Jeff Fassero (0-2) relieved Wood to start the eighth and got two quick outs. But Aiomar, who had been 1-of-18 against lefties, put the first pitch he saw into the right-field bleachers. It was the first NL homer since Sept. 17, 1990, for Alomar, acquired by the Mets from Cleveland in December. 
Piazza, who struck out in his first three at-bats, had an opposite-field homer to right on a 3-1 pitch. Fassero finally got Edgardo Alfonzo on a popup to end the inning, and was booed as he left the field. 
Todd Hundley drove in a run with a pinch-hit sacrifice fly in the sev­enth. 
David Weathers (2-0) allowed one hit in 1 2-3 innings. Armando Benitez pitched the ninth for his first save, striking out one and allowing a double to Alex Gonzalez. 
Benitez made things interesting. Trying to hold Gonzalez on base, he overthrew s~ond and Gonzalez took third as the ball rolled into center field. Pinch-hitter Delino DeShields followed with a game-ending flyout. 
With the wind blowing in at Wrigley Field, it was a pitcher's duel early. 
Wood gave up only one hit after the third inning, and Shawn Estes allowed only one all day. 
But both pitchers ran into trouble in the seventh. Alfonzo got the Mets going with a leadoff, full-count walk, and Jeromy Burnitz followed with a single. 
Mark Johnson sacrificed to put both runn.ers into scoring position, and Alfonzo scored on Rey Ordonez's sacrifice fly. 
Dispute moves to next phase 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

After 20 days of testimony over four months 
from nine witnesses. the hearing phase of the 
grievance by baseball players to block contrac­
tion likely came to an end Wednesday. 
Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer, 
completed his testimony Wednesday and was fol­
lowed by Bob Starkey, an accounting consultant 
who has worked for the commissioner's office 
and the Minnesota Twins. 
Tom Ostertag, baseball's general counsel, was 
recalled to the witness chair by the union and 
answered additional questions. 
The sides and arbitrator Shyam Das are work­
ing on an agreement that would allow the rest of 
the case to proceed without additional witnesses, 
union lawyer Michael Weiner said. The sides 
hope by next week they will have an agreement 
on a schedule to complete the case. 
Owners voted Nov. 6 to eliminate two teams 
for the 2002 season and the players filed a griev­
ance the following day, hours before their labor 
contract expired, claiming the decision violated 
the deal. 

While management's attempt to fold the 
Minnesota Twins and Montreal Expos was 
stopped by a Minnesota injunction, the union is 
continuing with its grievance. Das will decided 
whether owners have the right to eliminate 
teams, or if they must have the union's agree­
ment. 

Owners say they must merely bargain over the 
effects of contraction, such as a dispersal draft of 
players. If Das rules for the union, the grievance 
would continue to a damage phase and owners 
would have to deal with contraction in collective 
bargaining. 

Talks for a new labor contract, which recessed 
March 13, are likely to resume Tuesday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
CHILD CARE near UP mall, well-behaved daughter-15. son-9. Hours & live-in with own bath/bed option 6/1 0-8/15 ca11243-1228 atter6:00. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Necklace w/ gold+diamond cross in West Quad area. 
Call 4-1640 Reliable businessman looking to rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home for9to 12 months or longer. ASAP. 
Call Tim 574-250-8552. Lv. mes­sage if necessary. 
Looking for single Castle Point roommate coming summer and/or fall. Free high-speed DSL internet. currently $323 per month + utils. Call 57 4.277 .9322 if interested. 
FREE 1 BEDROOM APT FOR THE RIGHT GRAD STUDENT IN EXCHANGE FOR 21 HRS/WK LEASING APTS AND OFFICE 
HONDA, 92, VG cond. 126K miles. Red 2-dr htchbk. 41 mpg. $2900. 1­4906day, 233-6581 eve. 
98 Honda Civic EX, 2-dr., auto, 49k miles. All power, air, cassette + 6 CD changer. $10,900 obo. Call Mark 631-7716 or email mshaw­cro@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 

Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003­2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274­
Nice 3-4 bdrm, 1.5 bath, CIA, gas heat, W&D, fenced backyard across from park, VERY SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, fireplace, 2 car garage $1050/mo+dep. 
Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038 

New York City Apt-2 bedroom/con­vert 3 New building in East Village Large kitchen with island NC, video­phone,Dish,Micro,Laundry. Free access to nearby gym,No Broker Fee $2600/mo(heat and hot water included) Bethany ND2000 (347)524-5823. 
4&5 Bdrm, W&D, CLOSE. ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR 
Call Karey 255-8403. 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? 1999 ND Alum has 2-2BR/1 BA Apt for rent in BUCKTOWN, ALL NEW, Hwdfl, Exp Brk Wis, Fplc, AC, New Apl, Dishwshr, Lndry, Jacuzzi, Deck, Gar Spee Avl, No Pets, $1,395, 
773. 791-5810 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT OUES­TIONABLE AREA NICE HOME NORTH OF ND 2773097 

OFFSET PRINTING available at THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Call for a quote: 574-631-COPY Free Pickup & Delivery 
GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by local PGA professional. 
Call Dick at 276-9670. 
Is your TV always turned to ESPN? Then write Observer Sports. 
Call Chris at 1-4543 
WORK. SOME WEEKENDS.  9955  
Wanted Summer Employment for College Student Care for 11 and 9 i:-ear old. WANTED Please call Lisa 631-9947.  IMMEDIATE OPENING YEAR ROUND. GEORGETOWN APARTMENTS 272-7286. Dependable caregiver for Sunday mornings infant & toddler nursery. Must have refsrences & transportn. Resume to Secretary,FPC,333 W.Colfax, So.Bend 46601 3 law students seeking 4th room­mate for next year. House has AC,  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com MMMRentals.com OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking ... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cottage ..cute.. DAVE 291-2209  Have a job in Chicago this sum­mer? Rent my furnished bdr in awe­some 3 bdr apt w/ ND grad. Close to El &Wrigley. M/F. Call Kristin @ 773-388-2704 1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath house with lots of updates. OW/wash/dryer inc. Walking distance to campus. Spacious yard for tailgating, recre­ation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec or $325 ea for 5+  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9 people) 2) medium (3-5 people) Call Bill at 532-1896. Room for Rent in Private Home Shared kitchen,living room,bath­room $250/month (616)684-8877 Ange/a Bennet  CNN instead? Writer Observer News. Call Helena at 1-5323. Maybe ETV? Write Observer Scene. Call Spencer at 1-4540 Like taking pcitures better?  

Portrait Photographer. Available 30­40 hours per week 1 to 3 years experience workmg with high school seniors? Fine arts education? Enjoy career opportunity with award winning stu­dio? 
Call Priscilla 1-800-844-5725 Ext 
washer/dryer, dishwasher & is close to campus. $300 a month. Please ca/1315­
FOR SALE 
Couch, loveseat. and recliner. $450 or best otter. Less than a year old. Perfect condition. 233-0360 3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM­PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 
272-6306.292-6717 

3-4 person home. Avail Juns 2002. C/A Security system. Close to campus. 
616-699-5841 
Call 277-8450 or email house@newwebtech com 
short/long term 3 mo. max. Matt 631-2000 3-11 pm M-F $250/mo. 1/2 mile to ND 

Lrg tux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. Garage. Must Seel 
Call Tammy(616)684-1049. 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 

Take photos for The Observer. Call Nellie at 1-8767 Check out The Observer online www.nd.edu/-observer 
Rcycle The Observer 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 11, 2002 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
STUDENT

NCAA puts KSU 
((( ~ 
ITIES 
on probation 
~d FICE 
walk-on baseball player who.
Associated Press 

because he was not recruited, 
I 
t 
I I 
I 
I I 
I I I I I 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Kentucky State was placed on two years' probation by the NCAA on Wednesday for eligi­bility and recruiting violations in four sports, including men's basketball. 

~ 
The NCAA investigation found that basketball coach Winston Bennett, before offi­cially employed by the univer­sity, recruited a player, and that another player competed with the basketball team before fulfilling one academic vear in residence. ' In 1998, former cross coun­try and track and field coach Marcus Henderson entered an ineligible female runner under another athlete's name in two events at the Samford University Invitational meet. 
The NCAA also said several men's and women's track and field and cross country ath­letes participated in team practices while not enrolled full-time, and some practiced and competed before receiving a certification of eligibility. Another track and field athlete competed after his eligibility was exhausted. 
Another violation involved a never submitted eligibility papers to the NCAA. He prac­ticed and played in 37 games in spring 2000. 

None of the athletes was identified in the report by the NCAA Infractions Committee. 
In addition to two years pro­bation, which began Wednesday, Kentucky State will be limited in the 2002-03 academic year to one contact with each basketball recruit and two tryout dates for stu­dents already enrolled. 
Also, each year during pro­bation. university officials must attend an NCAA compli­ance seminar. The school was not required to forfeit athletic scholarships. 
Kentucky State athletic director Derrick Ramsey said he expected one year proba­tion, but not two, which he described a~ "harsh." He noted that the major violations, which involved track and cross country. occurred before he joined the university in July 1999. 
The other violations. all sec­ondary offenses, were self­reported by the university, Ramsey said in a telephone interview from Frankfort, Ky. 
Now Hiring 

Student Progra1n Assistants 
The Student Activities Office will be hiring 3 Program Assistants for the 2002-2003 school year. Program Assistants responsibilities include: 
Learn the program planning methodology and implement programs using a standard process Coordinate, produce and staffweekly; campus-wide week­end programs including Crafting Corner, Tournaments and Karaoke Support Student Activities Office events/activities Coordinate special projects for the Student Activities Office Provide administrative assistance to Student Activities staff members, as needed.· 
This position is a stipend position and requires 7-10 hours per week. Applications are available outside the Student Activities Office located at 315 LaFortune. 
For more information contact Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631-4602. 


Student International Business Council Presents 
Impact Forum 
April 13th, 155 DeBartolo 
11:00 Paul Shinn, Sr. Assoc. ofWilson Sonsoni Goodrich &Rosati 
11:40 Christine Cumming, VP ofFederal Reserve Bank ofNY 
1:40 Tom Frecka, Notre Dame Accounting Professor 
2:10 Mark Brown, Exec. VP and CFO ofWhirlpool and 
3:00 Dick Ebersol, President ofNBC Sports and News 
Hear these speakers talk about different impacts on business 


Free Lunch/ r-shirts and Prizes! 
COME FOR ONE SPEAKER OR STAY ALL DAY! 

Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MASTERS 
Course size cuts down on fun 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

The hype over the Masters is no longer about the possibility of a grand slam. 
This time, it's the punishment expected from a grand course. 
Augusta National has under­gone many changes since Tiger Woods left last April after com­pleting his unprecedented sweep of the four biggest tour­naments in golf. 
Starting Thursday, Woods 
v.ill try to defend his title on a super-sized version of Augusta, a course that has been stretched to nearly 7,300 yards and figures lo provide the 89­man field with the toughest test in Masters history. 
"It's just not as much fun as it used to be to come here and play," Bob Estes said. "You'll still have great champions, but you won't have as many oppor­tunities to make birdies and eagles." 
Chris DiMarco, the 36-hole leader last year in his Masters debut, added: "If we don't have any rain, it's going to be brutal. A couple under (par) could win the tournament." 
The final swing from Woods last year was a 75-yard lob wedge from the 18th fairway. He made birdie from 15 feet for a 16-under 272, the fourth-best score in Masters history and two strokes shy of his record 270 when he won his first green jacket in 1997. 
Now? 
Woods expects to have any­thing from a 5-iron to a 7 -iron for his second shot in the 18th. He didn't even have that much club for his second shot on some of the par 5s. Johnson when he announced 
Even his preparation has the sweeping changes last year. changed. Woods used to watch The clubs players were hitting videos of past Masters to see if into the green on the par 4s he could detect peculiar were what bothered him. bounces along the fairways and "We just hated that time after breaks on the green. time, they were pulling out sand 
"That doesn't happen any­wedge or pitching wedge," more, because these are all Johnson said. new holes for us," he said. A sand wedge into the reno­
Well, not all of them. vated par 4s will probably 
Only half of the 18 holes were mean a player has hit into the changed during the largest ren­deep bunkers or crowded trees ovation project in the 70-year and had to pitch out. history ofAugusta National. Booming tee shots are no 
Bulldozers cleared out longer as helpful unless the ball Georgia pines goes where to make room players are for a tee box "It's just not as much fun aiming. that is 60 Hitting it
as it used to be to come
yards farther long and
here and play.,,
back on No. straight 
18. The club won't mean had to buy much with­
Bob Estes 
land from out a good
golfer

adjacent week of 
Augusta Country Club for a new tee on the par-5 13th. David Duval used to reach that green with a 5-iron. Now, he has put a 7-wood in his bag, which goes about 235 yards. 
What does it all mean? 
The player with the lowest score will slip into a green jack­et at the end of the Masters, of course. What remains to be seen is what kind of score it will take. 
"I don't know what kind of number you put on the increased difficulty of the golf course," Duval said. "I think you'll see a lot of 70s each day, 71s, scores that are more reflective of the other majors." 
The scores were never a source of irritation for Augusta National chairman Hootie putting. 
"It puts a huge premium on driving the ball," said Woods, a heavy favorite to join Jack Nicklaus (1965-66) and Nick Faldo (1989-90) as the only repeat Masters champions. "And no matter who wins this tourna­ment, their short game is going to be tested." 
Still, renovated Augusta National figures to be an advan­tage for big hitters. 
"Any time anybody hits the ball farther than another per­son and can do things to a golf course that somebody else can't do, they're going to have an advantage," Nicklaus said. "Power is a very big issue on his golf course." 
That's why Nicklaus, a six­time Masters champion who is 

Featuring: 

Skammunists Bagpipe Band Lester 
The Notre Dame Pom Squad 
Outdoor Activities: 
Sumo Football Obstacle Course Sports Challenge 
Free food and festivities begin at 4:00 pm on South Quad. 
not playing this year because of a bad back, was pleased with the changes. But simply adding 
•285 yards and stretching half of the holes produces another set of dynamics. "It does eliminate part of the field," Nicklaus said, referring to the short hitters. 
Not everyone agrees, and that's one of the many develop­ments that will unfold over the next four days. 
"For many years, the guys here could just hit it as hard as they can and had a huge advan­tage around this golf course, mainly because the difference between a 7-iron and a pitching wedge is dramatic," Greg Norman said. 
"Now, the long hitters are hit­ting 8-irons, and the shorter hitters are hitting 6-irons, and that's not that big of a differ­ence." 
Norman faces what might be his last chance to ½'in the major he covets the most. At 47. he was given a rare foreign invita­tion and might have to earn his way back to Augusta National next year. 
For Phil Mickelson, it's his next chance to win his first major championship, the only thing missing from his remark­able record of 20 PGA Tour vic­tories in his 10-year career. 
Duval has been in contention on the back nine Sunday at Augusta each of the last four years, has never shot worse than 70 in the final round and still hasn't won. 
All the hype is about the new Augusta National. By Sunday afternoon, the focus will shift back to the players who are desperate to win golf's most prestigious prize. 

MILLER GUITAR ACADEMY 

Par-3 
perfect for Price 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

Sometimes, winning at 
Augusta isn't the ultimate goal. As champion of the Masters ·par-3 contest Wednesday, Nick 
Price knows the feeling. 
Price defeated Mark 
Calca.vecchia on the second 
hole of a playoff to earn one of 
the more dubious titles in golf. 
No player who has won the 
par-3 contest has gone on to 
win the main tournament that 
year. . 
Price and Calcavecchia tied 
with scores of 5-under 22 on 
the cute little course, located 
just behind the 10th hole at 
Augusta National. 
Price won when Calcavecchia 
dumped two shots into tile 
huge lake on the second play­
off hole. After the second 
water ball, Calcavecchia 
reached over and shook Price's 
hand. 
While Price won the tourna­
ment, the star of the day was 
Toshi Izawa of Japan. 
Izawa made holes-in-one on 
Nos. 5 and 6 and joined Claude 
Harmon (1968) as only the sec­
ond player to ace back-to-back 
holes on the par-3 course. 
Izawa also made quadruple­
bogey on No. 4 and finished at 
1 under. 
"I don't want to use up all 
my luck today," he said. "I 
want to save some for the tour­
nament." 
summer02 
Now enrolling 
255-9343 

Training that builds confidence & musical knowledge, through the joy of music. 
Classes taught by notre dame guitar 
instructors Stephen and Joellen Miller 
Also Special Children's programs 
MillerGuitarAcademy.com 

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 11, 2002 

Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 
Eucharistic Adoration
•
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
Hammes Student Lounge 
Coleman-Morse Center 
ROTC Senior Retreat 
April 12-13 
Moreau Seminary 
Freshman Retreat #f41 
April 12-13 Sacred Heart Parish Center 

Marriage Preparation Retreat 
April 12-13 
Fatima Retreat Center 
RCIA-Mystagogia
•
10:00a.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 

Confirmation-Celebration of the Sacrament of Confirmation 
• 
7:30 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.rn~, 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m..-. ll:00 p.m. 
Fisher Hall Chapel 

· 111 Baslllca al Iha sacradlaart 
Saturday, April 13 Mass 
5:00/j.m. · 

Rev. John H. Pearson,.c.s.c. 
Sunday, April 14,Mass 
10:00a.m. 

Rev. JamesK. Foster, c.s.c. 
11:45 a..m. 

Rev. Mark l. Pooman, c.s.c. 
¦ Around ~ampus 
Saturday. April 14 Mass Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass ;; r.' ;: . t". ~-.,,":
• '. ' ' . .-• ' •• a ':+ ·_•-' ' '. 

·1:00 p.m., Mtuldofa COB Chapel 
RCIA: Journey to Becoming Catholic 
''I Believe.•• '' 
¦ by Fr. Gary Chamberland, c.s.c. Rector, Keenan Hall & Assist~nt Director, RCIA 
{NOTE: This column was initially written to appear just before Spring Break} 
This past Sunday, nineteen members ofthe Notre Dame community joined the Roman Catholic Church at the 11 :45 a.m. Basilica Mass. After the homily, they were called forward and asked to join with the assembly in professing the creed. Baptized Christians this served as a reaffirmation of their faith. They were then invited to affirm that baptismal faith in the context of the Catholic Church. Together they proclaimed, " I believe and profess all that the holy Catholic Church believes, teaches and proclaims co be revealed by God," -a bold statement of faith and of confidence by the newest members of our faith community. 
Liturgy is a powerful tool that can bring us up short and make us confront the very reality in 
which we claim to exist. As the presider at 
Sunday's liturgy, that simple and straight­
I cannot look at these journeyers on forward statement took me aback. "I be­
lieve and profess all that the holy Catholic 
the road to discipleship in the Catholic 
Church believes, teaches and proclaims to Church and fail to recognize that they be revealed by God." Bold, powerful and awesome are words to describe such a proc­
actively seek what I have always had. 
lamation. Daunting, overwhelming and im­They long for what I have taken for possible are other words that some might also use. It would be easy to dismiss such a
granted and, at times, not really even 
statement as a simple liturgical formula cared about. Their presence calls us without much meaning or import. Yet, that casts a pall over all liturgical statements and 
to reflect on our own relationship with 
formulas. One wouldn't want to journey too far down 
God and with the Church. that path with regards to other statements such as "The 
Body of Christ." 

No, the statement must be understood as it was 
spoken and the actoffaith it represents be taken as the 
awesome reality which it is. As I listened to these can­
didates profess their faith, as I witness the catechu­mens depart each week after the homily to further reflect on God's word and their journey toward baptism, as I watch these men and women give up precious time, energy and effort to reflect on their lives, their beliefs and their heart's d_esires, I am in awe. I cannot look at these journeyers on the road to discipleship in the Catholic Church and fail to recognize that they actively seek what I have always had. They long for what I have taken for granted and, at rimes, not really even cared about. Their presence calls us to reflect on our own relationship with God and with the Church. 
In fifteen years ofworking with RCIA programs, I know that it is not an easy journey for those seeking to be baptized or those desiring full communion in the Church. There can be a lot of dying to self along the way. Parents and family, though often supportive, do not always understand. The church's teaching challenges per­sonal opinions and beliefs about morality, ethics, spirituality and dogma. American individualism meets communitarianism head-on and the clash can be difficult to negotiate. Truly, it is a leap of faith to stand before the gathered assembly and proclaim, "I believe and profess ..." And it should be, because faith is what it is all about. 
It was faith that led these men and women to the church in the first place and it is faith that will sustain them along the road of life. The process of formation and catechesis must be thorough in its attempt to expose the enquirers to our beliefs and practices. But no program will give them everything; no process can remove all doubt and fear. Ultimately, each person, after study, reflection and prayer must jump into the unknown reality offaith or not. Each ofus, as Catholics, must make the statement with our lips, our heart and our lives, "I believe everything that the holy Catholic Church believes, teaches and professes to be revealed by God." 
That doesn't mean that we won't have doubts and questions or come to some degree of intellectual dissent. It is rather a profound sense ofan inspired Church -a Church living under the guidance ofthe Spirit and operat­ing in the world to bring all of creation to the glory of God's kingdom. It is a deep recognition that there is something greater than us at work in the mystery ofthe Church; that there are truths beyond our current ability to understand. It is a statement made in' a moment to be lived out and fulfilled in a lifetime. It is an act offaith proclaimed in truth today that is also act ofhope that proclaims its future fulfillment. It is an invitation to the Holy Spirit to bring to completion the work already begun. 
As we celebrate the lives offaith ofour new Catholic brothers and sisters, let us pray for them as they continue their journey offaith. And let us pray for ourselves as well. Guided by their example, may we enter more deeply into our life offaith in the Church and become more completely that which we proclaim to be -members ofthe Body ofChrist. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

¦ Slullr/S SallbnlllQl• 1.. Rdg Acts 2~14, 22-33 2nd Rdg 1 Pt 1:17-21 Gospel Luke 24:13-35 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Griffey set to return in 3 to 6 weeks 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

Ken Griffey Jr. 's injured right knee is healing quickly and he could return to the field in three to six weeks, the Cincinnati Reds' team doctor said following a re-examina­tion Wednesday. 
There has been "vast improvement .. in the knee since the All-Star center field­er partially tore the patella tendon and partially dislocat­ed his kneecap during a run­down in Sunday's game against Montreal, Dr. Timothy Kremchek said. 
"Junior has a full range of motion" Kremchek said. "I am convinced he is right on target to return in three to six weeks." 
Griffey, who began twice­daily physical therapy sessions 
"Junior has a full range ofmotion. I am convinced he is right on target to return in three to six weeks." 
Timothy Kremchek 
Reds' team doctor 

on Monday, was placed on the 15-day disabled list and stayed behind in Cincinnati as the Reds began a road trip in Pittsburgh. 
Orthopedist Dr. James Andrews. a Reds consultant, examined a magnetic reso­nance imaging scan of Griffey's knee and concurred with Kremchck's diagnosis. 
"I recommend Griffey let the injury heal without surgery," Andrews said .. 
The Reds are hoping Griffey 
can return with rest and rehab. 
If not, he would have to undergo surgery, which could sideline him for the rest of the season. 
Ruben Mateo was called up from Triple-A Louisville to take Griffey's spot on the 25­man roster. 
Griffey was bothered during spring training by tendinitis in the same knee. 
Last year, Griffey missed most of the first three months because of a partially torn left hamstring. 
The Reds also said infielder Juan Castro was playing his first game with Triple-A Louisville in Durham, N.C., on a medical rehabilitation assignment when he aggravat­ed his strained left hamstring and left the game Wednesday. He is to be re-evaluated on Thursday in Cincinnati. 
Farnsworth breaks right foot 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
As if the Chicago Cubs needed more trouble, reliever Kyle Farnsworth broke a bone in his right foot Wednesday and is likely to be side­lined for four to six weeks. 
He'll be put on the 15-day disabled list Thursday, but the Cubs didn't announce who will take his spot. 
The right-handed setup man was warming up in the bullpen in the seventh inning when he felt something "pop" in his foot. X-rays showed a stress fracture in his right foot. 
Farnsworth's injury could be a costly one for the Cubs. The hard-throwing reliever had a 
2.74 ERA last season, and he's got a 0.00 ERA with two strikeouts in 1 1/3 innings this year. 
And the Cubs learned quickly how much they need him. Chicago manager Don Baylor likely would have brought him in to face Mike Piazza after Roberto Alomar hit a game-tying, solo homer off of Jeff Fassero in the seventh inning Wednesday. 
Instead, Baylor left the left-handed Fassero in, and Piazza hit a homer of his own, giving the Mets the 3-2 victory. 
Chicago is 2-5, with four of the losses by two runs or fewer. 
Attention sophoinore·s! 
It~s Your Turn To Organize & Run 

Junior Parents~ Weekend 2003 
We are currently taking applications tor all positions., including Chair & Vice-Chair. 
Applications are available outside the JPW Of'fice at 214 LaFortune.. Applications are due Monday. April 15th.. 
Please contact JPW at jp"'1"@nd.edu ror n1.ore iniormation. 
Alon heads to lllinors for batting practice 
A..sociaced Press 
CHICAGO 

Chicago Cubs outfielder Moises Alou, on the disabled list with a strained right calf for the third year in a row, will go to Class-A Daytona this weekend for a rehabilitation assignment. 
Alou wants some more at-bats before Monday, the first day he's eligible to come off the disabled list. He took batting practice for a second day Wednesday. and ran without any trouble. 
"They gave me a choice, and I felt like it was a good idea since I didn't get that many at-bats in spring training," said Alou. who was sidelined for most of the spring with a strained muscle in his left side. "It's a mutual decision. I think I can use 10 at-bats." 
He'll go to Daytona for Friday and Saturday's games. He'll then rejoin the Cubs and hopes to play Monday, when they open a three-game series against the Montreal Expos. 
Alou began his career in Montreal, and his father, Felipe, was the longtime manager there. Though there's artificial turf in Olympic Stadium, he's not wor­ried about it causing problems for his calf. "I played in Montreal for six years, and I came off the disabled list a few times there," he said. ''I'll be careful about it." 
The Cubs will make sure of that. They're struggling without Alou. who, along with Sammy Sosa and Fred McGriff. is expected to give Chicago one of the NL's most potent 3-4-5 lineups. The Cubs are hitting .221, and four of their five losses have been by two or fewer runs. 
Alou, a career 306 hitter, batted .331 with 27 homers and 108 RBIs for the Astros last season. 
Gonzalez skips game with injured hand 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas 

Juan Gonzalez wasn't in the Texas lineup Wednesday night against Oakland and was to see a specialist about his injured right hand. 
After taking some swings in the batting cage before the game, Gonzalez pointed to his right thumb and traced a line along the muscle there when asked what the prob­lem was. The Rangers call it a deep bruise, and Gonzalez said he didn't expect to go on the disabled list. 
Rangers spokesman John Blake said Gonzalez was scheduled to see a hand spe­cialist Wednesday night. Blake didn't know when the team would have results from that exam. 
After Gonzalez came out of Tuesday's game, he was taken to Arlington Memorial Hospital for X-rays, which were negative. 
Gonzalez left the game against the Athletics after two innings. He re-aggravat­ed the injury during his only at-bat, an infield popout. Five days earlier, the two­time AL MVP left a game at Oakland in the ninth inning. 
Gonzalez said he initially sustained the injury when he got jammed on a pitch last week in Oakland. He said the pain worsened after several more at-bats, including Tuesday against Barry Zito. 
Through seven games in his return to Texas, Gonzalez is hitting .250 (6-for-24) with no homers and no RBIs. 
With Gonzalez out and sec­ond baseman Michael Young back home in California after the death of a family mem­ber, manager Jerry Narron had just two everyday play­ers available on the bench ­catcher Bill Haselman and infielder Herbert Perry. Rookie Kevin Mench replaced Gonzalez in right field. 

Elkhart Mayor Dave MIiier  
~  ~  
~  Speaks at HUNGER this Sunday, 5:30 PM  ~  
m @ @  FREE pizza served after HUNGER during a question/answer time with the mayorl  m ~ ~  
~  ~  
~  Harris Prairie Church 14719 State Rd. 23,  fil  
~  Granger, IN ...just east of Grape Road.  ~  
~  272-2069 or www.hpcoc.org\HUNGER.htm  fil  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.··········•·'·······························································
.
.
. 

got 
BORACHO? 
.
.
.

..•.........................••.••.........•............................•..• 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 11, 2002 
Eligibility 
continued from page 28 
too competitive. If we play together for the whole season we have an advantage," Blair said. 
"Having plays in bookstore basketball goes against every­thing bookstore is all about," Clemency said. 
Other than the Saint Mary's team, Clemency said he thought the new rule change might impact graduate or law school teams with Division II or III players in future years. 
"I don't want to see a team with a bunch of D2 players just go out and heat down on every­body," he said. 
NCAA eligibility rules usually prevent college basketball play­ers with eligibility remaining from participating in Bookstore Basketball since it, among other things, predetermines rosters, has corporate sponsorship and use referees in later rounds. Thus, Notre Dame basketball 
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
constant, Clemency said there is a major change to Bookstore this year. Any registration money left over after paying for officials, set-up fees and tro­phies will be donated to the Jumpball program. Jumpball is a basketball cUnic for under­privileged children in Jamaica run by the Notre Dame Club of Jamaica. 
"We just want to throw as much money at them as possi­ble," Clemency said. 
To keep down costs associat­ed with running the tourna­ment, Clemency has picked up several sponsors. PJ Marketing, adidas and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore have all donated to the tournament. 
adidas donated all the cloth­ing for the commissioner's clothing, while PJ Marketing and the Bookstore are paying for the embroidery for the clothes. The Bookstore also paid for the printing of the books of team names and brackets for distribution to cap­tains. 
players do not participate in Bookstore until after they have exhausted their eligibility. 
"The rule generally is that all competition during the school year that meets those criteria [listed in the NCAA rule book] is banned," said Delise O'Meally. director of membership services fortheNCM. 
Saint Mary's, however. received an exception for its basketball players to play in Bookstore since it is a University-sponsored tourna­ment open to all students, according to athletic director Lynn Kachmarik. 
The only thing that would stop the Saint Mary's underclassmen from playing would be a ban from head coach Suzanne Smith. Smith, however, has no problem with her team playing. 
"They just love playing so I am not going to stop them," Smith said. "If you are going to have an injury, this is the time to do it." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connoUy.28@nd.edu. 
Clemency is still in the process of negotiating with campus groups to gain further sponsorship and lower the cost of the tournament even more. 
'Td love one day to run this thing for just the cost of offi­cials and trophies," he said. 
The tournament continues through April 28, when the open championship, the women's championship and the hall of fame games will be played. 
Notes: 
. 
At least three members of the 2002 men's basketball team will be playing in this year's tournament. Head coach Mike Brey will play for Stylistics. Its first-round game is scheduled for Tuesday at 4 p.m. Senior forward David Graves will also play in this year's tournament for No. 19 Bacchus. Bacchus' first game is scheduled for Tuesday at 6:15 p.m. Both games will be on Stepan courts. 

. 
Reserve senior guard Charles Thomas will play for Big Bry Grill on Saturday at 1 p.m. on Lyons courts. 


Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 


Want to sample ethnic food?? Looking for a home-cooked meal?? 
MCGiinn Hall Meal al Nations 

Sunday, April 14, 2002 
7:00 PM McGlinn 24 Hour Lounge 
WNBA 

Dunn unsure about Bird 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
Everything is telling Seattle Storm coach Lin Dunn to take Sue Bird with the first pick of next week's WNBA draft. 
Bird can pass and score. She can run a team. She has good size and can play more than one position. 
But Dunn hasn't made up her mind. She's hearing plenty of offers from other teams to trade the No. 1 choice for players or another high draft selection. 
"It would have to be an awful­ly, awfully good offer because Sue Bird is awfully, awfully good," said Dunn, also the team's general manager. "I don't know how often in a life­time you get point guards who can score like she can." 
This is the second consecutive year Seattle has selected first in the draft. The Stonn selected 6­foot-5 Australian center Lauren Jackson last year, but still struggled. The team finished 10-22, just four wins better than the franchise's inaugural season the previous year when it finished last in the league at 6-26. 
Dunn said Seattle needs another scorer to become a playoff contender. 

She is also considering Oklahoma's Stacey Dales and· Nikki Teasley of North Carolina. Dunn will complete a final round of evaluations this week­end at a pre-draft combine for the country's top college seniors in Chicago. 
Bird, The Associated Press Player of the Year who led UConn to a 39-0 record this sea­son, would be a good fit in Seattle, where the Storm strug­gled to score from the perimeter last season and is desperate to find an offensive rhythm. 
Seattle shot just 37.8 percent from the field, and 31.3 percent from 3-point range. 
Bird, a 5-foot-9 point guard, averaged 14.4 points and led the nation in free-throw shoot­ing at 89.2 percent for national­champion UConn. 
Bird worked out with the national team last week in Colorado Springs and scrim­maged against WNBA players. 
"I can see her fitting into our style in Seattle," said Storm guard Michelle Marciniak, who attended the workouts in Colorado. "I would love to play with her. She makes everyone around her better and is a very unselfish point guard. I think she would be a great addition to our team for 10 different rea­sons, and they're all positive." 
Despite reports last fall that Jackson was considering not coming back for the second year of her two-year contract, Dunn said she'll have her center. 

Ot\Campw, GrAbwadott Weekettb Special MA1i 16-11. 1001 
Need a piece for your family to stay, try SacNd tte.r1 Paitah Center (St. Joseph HaN on campus). 
We sal a $IO.IO P9' pe.-.on donation for the weekend. 
•cOME EMU.Y (nursd¦yJ-STAY LATE (Tuesdayr-same low price. 
For resc:eNatiOnt please can 
J~-PaJIIJ;:d_dy ~~l~J:7.§.1~ 
Mary Fonferko at 57.-631-8436 
OnSunda~ 

Come run or walk in honor ol Brianne Clarv, Conor lurnhv and Miranda Thomas, three members ol the Class 012002 who have passed awav lrom leukemia. 
S10 donation gets vou agreat t-shin and food at the end of the race. 
And on Tuesday, 

Provide Hope bv Becoming a 
Tuesdav, April 16th, trom 9am­4pm lafonune Ballroom. Please sign up tor the Bone Marrow Drive: www.nd.edu/~class02/donor/ 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
job for you," he said. "All you these kids, and I've recruited a can do as a coach is do the lot of them," Mattison said.
Football 
best you can do, and whatever 'Tm just thankful I get to work continued from page 28 happens, happens." with a lot of them. You get Having a familiar face on the real close to kids when you all the time." staff also made the transition recruit them. You put a lot of 
Granted, most coaches don't remarkably easier for both the work into them, you see them go through what Mattison and players and the new coaches. grow, and you want to be part his family went through in During the winter months, of their successes." December. Mattison helped the new staff One of the biggest adjust­
But Mattison compared his get accustomed to Notre ments for Mattison was getting situation to Dame. used to the responsibilities of that of any He provid­only coaching instead of serv­person who "I really like spending all ed a link to ing as defensive coordinator. loses his job. my time with the the recruit­While he doesn't want to If Mattison ing efforts compare working with Davie
defensive line. That's
had to move, from Davie to his current job under it would have what I was hired to do, t 0 Willingham, he said it has affected his and that's what I'll do." Willingham. been easy to work with the family, And it's easi­new staff. including his er for the "Coordinating is something
Greg Mattison 
daughter. players to I've had the opportunity to do, Lisa, a stand­defensive line c.oach have some­and I like doing it, but I really out junior on one who like coaching," said Mattison. Notre Dame's knows their who served as defensive coor­softball team and his son, capabilities. dinator at Michigan in 1995­Bryan, a high school senior. "Having him back was prob­96 before coming to Notre 
So during the weeks Notre ably the best thing that could Dame as defensive coordinator Dame didn't have a head have happened." rising junior in 1997. "I really like spending coach, Mattison stayed in con­defensive end Kyle Budinscak all my time with the defensive tact with recruits and tried not said. "He's always put a lot of line. That's what I was hired to worry too much about what trust in me. and he's a guy l to do, and that's what I'll do." would happen. trust a lot. Having him back as 
"If you do a good job coach­a coach has put me in a much ing and work hard at what better position." Contact And.rew Soukup at you're doing, there's always a "I've put a lot of time into asoukup@nd.edu. 


16 Inch 2 Topping "Big E" Pizza $8.99! 
Hurry........Limited time only! 
Visa & Mastercard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
:~~ 
271-1277 
~GOi PIZZA COMPA~ 
SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to SUBWAY] 
University of Notre Dame Film, Television & Theatre 
presents 
FTT Alumni Director 
CHRISTINE SWANSON to screen & discuss her film 
ALL ABOUT YOU 
NE>clnerna 
THU RS DAY, APRIL 11 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
7:00 PM 
FREE ADMISSION 
PRt:St:N n::o [J'( 
TltC: D C:PARTMC:NT 01" F"ILM, TC:LC:Vl~l . N ANO Tl . C:.ATRC: 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 11, 2002 
ND SOFTBALL 

Wissen looks to pitch winner 
mound, I can just relax." 
Catcher Jarrah Myers and first baseman Lisa Mattison have led the offense throughout the winning streak. Myers is hitting .538 with three home runs and 14 HBI. Mattison has dr.iven in 10 and is batting .500. 
Purdue is 29-15 on the year but 0-6 in the Big Ten. The poor record in conference action does not influence Gumpf's assessment of the Boilermakers. 
"Purdue is a good team and we need to contain their hit­ters," the head coach said. 
At the top of that Boilermaker offense is second baseman Andrea Hillsey. The freshman leadoIT hitter holds a team best .362 batting average. Shortstop Katie Crabtree leads the team with 10 homeruns and 33 runs scored. Crabtree is also second in batting average -.340 and RBI -36. First baseman Heidi Foster leads Purdue with 39 RBI. 
For the Irish to extend their 10-game winning streak and 23-game home winning streak, they have to keep improving on their entire game. 
"We have to keep getting bet­ter every day in order to be successful." Gumpf said. 
Wisen should start today's game against Purdue. The time for the game has been changed to 5 p.m. and is at rvy Field. 
Contact Matt Lozar at m1ozar@nd.edu. 
ERASMUS BOOKS -Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232.8444 


BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer An Irish softball team that Is on a 10-game win streak and a 23-game home win streak will face off against the Boilermakers this weekend. 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles' game canceled again 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's softball team got an unexpected week off and will reopen conference play with its first league home game at Saint Mary's against 
Alma. 

After heavy rains Monday, Tuesday's game at Calvin was rained out and rescheduled to Wednesday. 
When the Belles walked out to board their bus Wednesday morning to travel to Calvin, Saint Mary's head coach John Ganeff informed them that the game was canceled again and that they were to report to practice at 4 p.m. instead. 
"They weren't able to get enough umpires from the league," junior catcher Susan Kutz said. "The game won't be rescheduled this week, because Calvin has a game tomorrow. 
We will probably play them next week." 
Kutz and her teammates had a good practice Wednesday afternoon but had really looked forward to the game. 
"We were all really frustrated that the game was canceled again, but you have to go with the flow," Kutz said. 
-----------­
Contact Sarah Rykowski at 
ryko294S@saintmarys.edu. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
!CAREER SEARCH CITY TOUR.j 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports W ricer 
Carrie Wisen is showing peo­ple more than one freshman pitcher is on the Notre Dame softball pitching staff. In today's game against Purdue, Wisen looks to continue her impressive pitching perfor­mances. 
In her last seven appear­ances, Wisen is 6-0, has a 0.53 ERA and registered 28 strike­outs in 26 1/3 innings pitched. Wisen's success comes from keeping the hitters guessing. 
"Lately, my change-up has been working for me," she said. "I have been able to keep the hitters off-balance." 
Coach Deanna Gumpf needed to use Wisen more with Steffany Stenglein bothered by a groin pull. The Notre Dame head coach knows this experi­ence will help Wisen for more important games in the future. 
"Carrie has been throwing more lately to get here ready for Big East," Gumpf said. "She has been doing very well." 
Third baseman Andrea Loman and right fielder Liz Hartmann both missed Tuesday's doubleheader sweep of Vaplaraiso. Loman broke her right index finger and Hartmann is suffering from a minor back injury. Both Irish regulars are expected back in the lineup today but Stenglein could miss the game. 
"Steff might not go [today]." Gumpf said. "We are going to rest her for the Big East games this weekend. Everyone else should play." 
During their current 10-ga.me winning streak, the Irish have seen their pitching be matched by their offense. As a team, the Irish are batting .361, hit 10 home runs and driven in 7 2 runners. 
"It [run support] gives me more confidence," Wisen said. "I know we are going to score some runs. When I am on the 

"How to Find a Job or Internship" THE CAREER CENTER 
A12ril 11th 

• ATLANTA 5:30
1111 

• BOSTON 6:00 
i


• CHICAGO 6:30 ./!liil1 
April 15th t: 5:30 
* I 

• 
NEW YORK CITY 

• 
WASHINGTON DC •ST.LOUIS :f5o11


0 
A~ril 24th 

• 
SAN FRANCISCO 

• 
SEATTLE 

• 
TEXAS 


• 
LOS ANGELES 


V


6:00 6:30 
CRC CRC CRC 
CRC CRC CRC 

~ 5:30 6:00 ' 6:30 
7:00 CRC
¦ 

SIGN-UP WITH BRIDGET KIBBE: kibbe.l@nd.edu More Information: careercenter.nd.edu 
CRC CRC 
CRC 

Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 


Baseball 
continued from page 28 
is really excited about this opportunity for these next two days. I think our players are really anticipating, with a great deal of emotion, these next four games. Hopefully we're going to go and play our very best baseball. have great crowd sup­port and come away with some good victories." 
After a dis­appointing 
the team win. 
"[Good relief pitchingl just shows the difference in your team when your bullpen per­forms." Mainieri said. "If you're going to be careful about how deep you're going to let your starting pitchers go into the games, you better be strong in your bullpen. Early in the year we lost a couple of games because we weren't strong with our bullpen. but they've been getting better and better." 
Players such as Javier 
Sanchez 
have also 

"[Good relief pitching] stepped up
start to the 
their game

season, the just shows the difference 
to compen­

Irish have ral­
in your team when your sate for the
lied as of late, 
bullpen performs. " rash of
winning nine of 
injuries the

their last· 10 
Irish have

contests. This 
Paul Malnierl 
experi­

recent success 
head coach enced. With
has been due 
to solid overall 
play, offensive­
ly and defensively alike. 
Notre Dame's offense has 
been led by centerfielder Steve 
Stanley, whose .449 batting 
average leads the Big East con­
ference. Stanley also leads the 
team in hits (53), runs scored 
(24), on-base percentage (.508) 
walks (13) and stolen bases 
(19). Third baseman Andrew 
Bushey is second on the team 
with a .379 batting average and 
leads the club with 25 RBIs and 
10 doubles. 
The pitching staff has posted 
a 3.52 team ERA and has seen 
significant contributions from 
freshman pitchers, Chris 
Niese!, Grant Johnson and John 
Axford. This trio has combined 
to pitch 113.3 out a possible 
248.1 innings already this sea­son. 
After a shaky start, Notre Dame's bullpen has strung together several strong perfor­mances that have sealed numerous Irish victories, which has been essential in helping 
Moving to Chicago? 
Contact Ben@ 
NEW WEST Realty 

312.942.1202 bbischmanr@hotmail.com 
both short­

stops Matt Macri and Matt Edwards out for the season with injuries, Sanchez has had success being the everyday shortstop for Notre Dame. 
"I think he's handled it mar­velously," Mainieri said. "There might be additional pressure, but there's also an ability for him to just relax and play the game because he knows he's our shortstop. I feel like he's gotten better every day out there." 
When the Irish take the field on Thursday, they face a Panthers team that has played well for most of the season, en route to already posting 20 wins. Pittsburgh is coming off a doubleheader sweep of Canisius, where right-handed pitcher P.J. Hiser threw a one­hitter in the nightcap. With a sweep of Pittsburgh, Notre Dame could move within a game of first place in the log­jammed Big East. 
Thursday's first game is set for 5 p.m. with the second fol­lowing approximately 25 min­utes after the first game's end. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
The ND Department of Music Presents 
ND Collegium Musicum 
directed by Daniel Stowe Performing Bach's Singet dem Herrn, BWV 225, 
and motets by Gabrieli and Schutz 
Friday, April 12, 2002 
8:00 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel Free and open to the public (574) 631-6201 for information 

page 26 The Obmver . SPORTS Thursday, April 11, 2002 
WOMEN'S ROWING 

Please take a moment to look at the picture below. 
Irish need focus to 
This was NOT lifted from a National Geographic. This is my own personal photo. After I took this 
picture, I wandered among the boats. I smelled the fish in the ocean breeze. I talked to fishermen as 
they worked. I questioned some basic assumptions. Come to Ghana with me this summer and I'll
win Crew Classic take you to this exact spot and introduce you to this strange and wonderful experience. 
By MARK ZAVODNYIK 
Sports Writer 
The women's rowing team will have to get over its solid perfor­mance at last weekend's San Diego Crew Classic in a hurry. 
The Irish must focus to win this weekend, when they face off against Indiana and Purdue in the Indiana Crew Classic. The regatta will take place at the Eagle Creek Reservoir in Indianapolis. 
Notre Dame will see a Purdue squad that was also at the San Diego Crew Classic N the Irish will know before the race what kind of speed Purdue is capable of generating. 
"Purdue was there last week," said Irish head coach Martin Stone. "They were racing fairly well." 
While the Hoosiers may not be as strong as the Irish, they have made improvements this season. 
"Indiana is getting better." said Stone. 
At the San Diego Crew Classic, Notre Dame finished ahead of No. 9 USC, No. 14 Texas and No. 19 Oregon State. But despite the great day for the Irish, they can­not afford to overlook this week­end's race. 
"We'll stay fairly focused," said Stone. The Irish know how important 
each race is. This spring there are only five regattas scheduled before the important Central Region Championship. The Central Region Championship is the race that decides who advances to the NCAA Championships. 
There are so few regattas that the Irish need to show that they are a championship-caliber team at every opportunity. 
"We have so few opportunities to race. We want to take advan­tage of them all," said sopho­more Natalie Ladine. 
In preparation for the race the Irish will have to effectively operate the race plan that worked so well in San Diego. Despite this success Stone knows that the plan can always change given the environment of a par­ticular day's race. 
"You can't predict changes in the race plan," said Stone. "The weather conditions can make the course run longer or shorter by as much as a minute." 
Although the Irish are better on paper than the teams the will face this weekend, there is always the opportunity to get better. 
"We want to see how much of a lead we can get," said Ladine. 
Contact Mark Zavodnyik at mzavoclny@nd.edu .. 


Are you tired of merely reading about the world in books? Isn't it time you venture out to experience things first-hand? If you are interested in exploring the rich culture of the people of Ghana, West Africa, while earning 3 college credits, growing in your faith and reflecting on issues of happiness, holiness and justice, then come to the Final Informational Meeting 
Thursday, April 11, 6:00 p.m. 
in the Campus Ministry Office of Holy Cross College. Walk-ins welcome. RELN 210: "Through Eyes of Faith, An African Learning Experience" is almost closed so act immediately if you are senous. 
Experience the faith of the Brothers of Holy Cross, explore and learn about slave dungeons, walk about the canopy of the rainforest, participate in native displays of drumming and dancing, and reflect on life's most important issues. Why live an ordinary life, when you can live an adventure? 
PETE YORN 
w/special guests Elbow 

:._LIVE FRIDA~ f'A/19/02
·:;.~:·'-.;• 
··doors@ 8_pm show@ 10pm 

THURSDAYS•COLLEGE NIGHT NO COVER BEFORE 11 Pm LOTS OF STUFF FOR A BUCK 
TICKETS 
AVAILABLE@ 77CK5'~~"® 574.272.7979 
& at the heartland 
222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BENO:: 574.234.5200 :: HEARTLANOSOUTHBEND.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 574-251-2568 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
RYAN
TOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
BILL AMEND 

WHAT'S THAT THE IT SEEMS THE ELUSIVE 'YOU'RE "ATTACIC SECRET TO TIME ~AVEL LISTENING To? of THE IS THE INTERNET. 



Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
•

-----------------------~-------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
CROSSWORD 
Note: In a letter bank, the letters of one word are used (and repeated as necessary) to spell a longer word or phrase. For example. IMPS is a letter bank of MISSISSIPPI. 
ACROSS 34 Educator Horace 67 French cheese Loudspeaker 35 Company with a 68 Singer Abdul sound (and a dog m its logo 69 Monopoly card 
letter bank for 38 Applicable 
70 Sound 60-Across) 41 Do away with 71 Ludicrous (and
6 Planets and 43 Moines a letter bank for 
such 
44 Harmony 17-Across)10 Steamy 
46 They have long 14 Howled 

tails DOWN 15 Raise a stink 
47 See 50-Down 

1 London's 
16 Isaac's firstborn 
50 Many states or 2 17 See 71-Across have them 
2 "Love Story"19 Hoosegow 53 Mrs. Chaplin composer20 Freshwater duck 54. Francis 
21 Sporty Fords Breckinridge" 3 "The 23 What's more 55 Present from Fountainhead" 27 Going strong birth author Rand 29 Became an 57 Knock for a loop 4 VCR button 
issue 59 Dutch cheese 5 Touch up 30 See 13-Down 60 See 1-Across 6 More than fancy 33 Neigh-sayer 66 Queue 7 Seeing things as they are 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 "Wanna ?" 9 "Saturday Night Live" staple 

~~N;.;..,;O~ 10 It's often burning 
0 A V A 
11 Jeff Bagwell, notably 12 Hotel staff 13 Derby prize (and a letter bank tor 30-Across) 18 Getting warm 22 Without exception 23 Orchard pest 24 Sierra 
T U  T  U  A  C  I  ..:,;+,;,+:;...,;~ 25 Lord's workers  
A L  A E  T  A N V A  ..,,.+-:-+:+.:-t  26 Approximately  
R A T S  E N D O W  ~...... _._ ....  28 Ruler until 1917  

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Joel Grey, Ethel 
Kennedy, Peter Riegert, Louise Lass­
er 
Happy Birthday: Expect your 
creative abilities to surface; you will 
be in the mood for love and 
romance. You will easily win the 
hearts of those you encounter. You 
will actively pursue pleasure and go 
after romantic encounters with your 
current partner or someone new. 
You would be wise to pass on any 
financial risk that is offered. Focus 
on your talents. Your numbers are 
12, 18, 21, 33, 36, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19):Stay 
calm and do your best but ignore 
anyone who tries to put you down. 
You will have great ideas today so 
don't second-guess yourself. Try to 
bepatientwith others. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Dealing with institutions or govern­
ment agencies, or other people for 
that matter, will be annoying. You 
are better off to do your own thing 
and avoid discord. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You 
can be the life of the party ifyou use 
your quick wit and intellect to daz­
zle those you meet at social events 
or meetings. Put your money in a 
safe place so that you aren't tempt­
ed to spend on luxury items.

50 Football locale 56 Goes back out 
0000

(and a letter 58 Vintners' valleybank for 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You
61 Pitcher's stat. 
may find your position a little

47-Across) 62 Skedaddled 
daunting today. Don't make deci­
sions that could be difficult to

51 Actress 63 Track feature 
reverse. You may not be thinking

MacDowell 64 Ivy Leaguer 
too clearly when it romes to matters 

52 Mindless 65 Leman 
of a personal nature. 00 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel for business or pleasure and you will 

Answers to any ::lues in this puzzle are 
make the connections required to get ahead. You will encounter inter­esting individuals who will help to 

available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
inspire future adventures. 00000

Annual subscriptions are available for the 

Puzzle by Greg Stapl• 
31 Hang tough 32 Popular card 
game 35 Aootin'-tootin' 36 More adorable 37 Out of it 39 Dancer Charisse 40 Opposite of 
ecto­42 Abound 45 Pen up 
47 Made to take 
the fall 48 Main course 49 Spread (on) 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let others cost you money. Contributing to someone else's cause will not sort out your own problems. Purchases made today will not be satisfactory. 000 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0cL 22): New and exciting relationships can devel­op if you get out and take part in events that are of interest to you. Your intellect will bring you atten­tion. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Your mind will be on professional concerns. Progress can be made financially if you are detennined to get others to listen to your ideas. Your reluctance to admit defeat will bring you the success you're looking 
for.000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nm, 22-Dec. ZI.J: You'll be ready for anything that comes your way today. Get involved in physical activities with friends and you will be sure to have a blast. You can learn a lot about yourself in a competitive situation. 
00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may have some difficulties at home tcxiay. You must not let your emotions interfere with your profes­sional integrity. Someone you care about may let you down. You must do what's best for you. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Friends and colleagues will stand 
behind you today. Your ability to 
share your ideas and to creatively 
help others develop their own ideas 
will result in popularity and sup­
port. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
can make money today and you 
will have the added energy to far 
exceed everyone's expectations. 
Give advice, not cash, when asked, 
and you'll feel much better at the 
end of the day. 000 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Birthday Baby: Your ideas will always be practical and well.thought out. 
You will plan everything carefully and leave no room for enm. You will be critical ofthe ones you love, especially with your siblings and close friends. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
10 2002 Universal Pn,ss Syndicate 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
Campus Sports l""\-lHE National Sports
\JnSERVER 

. Women's Rowing, p. 26 
. WNBA, p. 22 
. 
ND Softball, p. 24 . MLB, p. 17, 21 

. 
SMC Softball, p. 24 . Masters, p. 19 


. NCAA Basketball, p. 18

PORTS 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXX I 
. 31st annual 5-on-5 tournam!ent tips off today 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Senior SraffWriter 

Bookstore Basketball XX.XI tips off today starting at 4 p.m. with 16 first-round and preliminary­round games scheduled for the Stepan courts. No. 30 Heteroskedasticity was the only ranked team scheduled to play today. but the game has been rescheduled to later this weekend. 
Head Commissioner Brian Clemency said the 528 teams in this year's tournament are down slightly from the 580 teams in Bookstore XXX but still within the usual range of teams. The goal of the commissioners is to fill at least 512 teams to have at least nine rounds of competition. The largest tournament in the school's history had more than 700 teams, according to Clemency. 
"There is just so much fluctua­tion from year to year we can never predict how many teams we will have," he said. 
Through his unofficial observa­tions, Clemency believes the tour­nament is most popular among freshman males and senior females. 
"Freshman boys play Bookstore like it is their job, while freshman girls on the whole just don't," Clemency said. "That changes as you go on. Senior year, there are less guys playing [than freshmen] and more senior girls [than fresh­men]." 
While participation rates remain 
see BOOKSTORE/page 22 
Hitting the courts 

FOOTBALL 

Mattison makes change 
Addazio a week later, the a spot on his defensive staff 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
defensive coach probably -not as coordinator but as a 
Spores Wrirer 
thought his job was safe. defensive line coach. 
But two lines of falsified "That's part of the profes­
No roller coaster could biographical information sent sion," said Mattison, the lone have more peaks and valleys O'Leary out of Notre Dame in assistant coach to be retained lhan the one Greg Mattison disgrace and knocked from Davie's staff. "You take rode in December. Mattison back into the realm what's given to you, you 
The day former head coach of uncertainty. Even when don't have a choice, you Bob Davie was fired, Tyrone Willingham was don't have to coach. When Mattison held his breath hired, Mattison didn't know you decided to be a coach because he knew his job was for sure if he'd be coaching and coach at the big schools in jeopardy, too. And when the Irish. and the big arenas, things George O'Leary re-hired Finally, about a month like that happen. It happens Davie assistants Mattison, after Davie was fired, Bill Sheridan and Steve Willingham offered Mattison see FOOTBALL/page 23 
. New rules limit number of varsity athletes on teams 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Senior Staff Writer 
New eligibility rules for Bookstore XXXI are designed to level the playing field and produce a more competitive tournament. according to head commissioner Brian Clemency. 
Starting this year, a team may carry no more than three players who have suited up for a Division II or III college in the past 15 years. Any team with a player who suited up for a Division I college in the last 15 years may not carry more than one Division II or III player. 
Division II and III players are now classified the same way as Irish football players. 
"It was a rule whose time had come. It will make the game more open for everybody," Clemency said. 
The only team affected by the new rule was a team of Saint Mary's basketball players, said Clemency. Last year the Hardcore Strokers, which included five Belles players, made it to the finals of the women's tournament. 
This year, Hardcore Strokers includes three Saint Mary's basket­ball players -Anne Blair, Shaun Russell and Katie Miller -and two other Saint Mary's students. 
Blair, a senior, said she was a lit­tle disappointed about having to break up her team this year but understood why the change was made. 
"I understand if they think it's 
see ELIGIBILITY/page 22 
BASEBALL 

Rallying Irish use momentum 
momentum.
By JOE HETTLER 
The Irish (18-11. 5-5) face 
Assistant Sports Editor 
tests against Pittsburgh on Thursday and Virginia Tech on 

After taking two of three Big Friday before having the week­East games from St. John's and end off. pulling off a come-from-behind 
"We obviously need to take win against Western Michigan advantage of these games being 
in the past week, the Notre [at home]," head coach Paul Dame baseball team heads into 
Mainieri said. "I know our team 
back-to-back Big East double­see BASEBALL/page 25headers with confidence and 

. Baseball vs. Pittsburgh, today, 12:05 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. ND Softball vs. Purdue, today, 3 p.m.
SPORTS 
ordin(;:• 

. Women's Lacrosse vs. Duke, Friday, 4 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Tennis vs. Kentucky, Saturday, 1 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 






