
Editorial
PARTLY 

Friday
Notre Dame and South Bend could benefit from the 
CLOUDY 
purchase of St. Joseph Regional Medkal Center. 
APRIL 5,
HIGH 42° 
LOW25° 
2002
Viewpoint . page 12 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary-s 
VOL. XXXV NO. 116 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Spring Vis kicks off with multicultural events 
• Models to strut the latest fashions at the Black Cultural Arts Council fashion show 
By MAUREEN SMITHE Senior Staff Writer 
Though Saturday night's 25th annual Black Cultural Arts Council Fashion Show may be sponsored by a campus minority organiza­tion. coordinators want to make one thing clear: everyone is invited. 
"It's open to everyone. It's not an all-black thing," said coordinator Andrea de Vries. "The models are white, Asian, Hispanic, Black. It's a very inclusive event." 
Unlike years past, the coordinators wanted to bring a tighter focus to this year's show. Uniting the scenes together with one com­mon thread was a challenge de Vries gladly took on with fellow organizer Margaret Mason. 
"This year is a fashion show and play. The basic premise is six couples and 12 singles, and they interact with each other through many scenes," de Vries said. "At the end of the night, five couples break up and one cou­ple gets married." 
The two came up with the name "I See You, I Want You, I'm Yours," meant to emphasize the love and romance storyline. 
Twenty models are participating in this year's show at the Century Center. In addi­tion to BCAC members, representatives from student government and various athletic teams will be strutting their stuff down the runway. 
see FASHION/page 4 

f AMILIES FUED AT RECKERS 

Notre Dame investigates purchasing hosptial land 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assistant News Editor 
Universitv officials are consider­ing the po.ssibility of purchasing the land that will be vacated by St. Joseph Regional Medical Center whim it moves to a new Mishawaka location in 2006. 
If the University purchases the land it would then assume a lead­ership role in assuring that the land was redeveloped, minimizing the impact of the hospital's depar­ture on the community. 
Hospital officials announced plans Wednesday to build a new health care campus in the Edison Lakes Corporate Park area on North Main Street in Mishawaka, east of the intersection of Douglas Road and Grape Road. When the new facility is opened, the Medical Center will occupy only a small portion of its current nine build­ings on the 35-acro site on LaSalle Avenue, approximately one mile south ofNo1rc Dame's campus. 
According to Lou Nanni, vice president for Public Affairs and Communications, the hospital approached Notre Dame several weeks ago when it decided to vacate its current site to gauge the University's interest in assuming a leadership role in the future of the land. 
"The hospital's departure has a very significant impact to the neighborhood and the City of South Bend. When the hospital approached us, our first inclination wa<; to say we are not in a situation where land is scarce; we have areas where we can grow here. However, we cannot afford to have another (abandoned area of town like the] Studebaker corridor and we agreed to become a lead agent in the process," said Nanni. 
If the University were to acquire the land, it would probably not be used for resources that students would use on a daily basis. 
"We are not going to destroy the residential and pedestrian nature of our campus. In my wildest 
see HOSPTIAL/page 8 


• Latin Expressionseducates, entertains through music, dance and culture 
By .MAUREEN SMITHE Senior Staff Writer 
Showcasing a wide variety of Latin music, dance and culture, Latin Expressions kicks off tonight at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Acts ranging from traditional Mexican folk dances to student renditions of favorite Latino pop songs and choreographed dance numbers will keep the show tightly focused on Latino culture. Titled "Noche de Ritmo Latino," the event aims to educate and enter­tain. 
"We recognize that there are lots of talent­ed people on campus, and they should be allowed to showcase their talent but this year we wanted to focus more on the cultural aspect -we wanted the show to be more culturally driven than in year's past," Garza said. 
More than 50 people are involved in this year's production, most of who are involved in the opening act, choreographed by stu­dents Mercedes Boyd and Yan Ortiz. 
"The committee thought that Latin Expressions should be about expressing your 'Latin' talents. Anyone could audition for the show, but we felt that a big part of the act had to be influenced in some way by the Latino culture," Garza said. 
Latin Expressions is La Alianza's biggest event of the year. 
see EXPRESSIONS/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, April 5, 2002 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY
INSIDE COLUMN 


Welcome to the family 

I remember four years ago, when I was a senior in high school, looking for which college I wanted to attend. I had priorities. I'd gone to pub­lic school my whole life. Now I wanted to go to a Catholic school. I mentioned this to my fellow 
parishioners at St. Brigid Parish and someone sug­gested, "Why don't you go to Notre Dame?" Then, all I knew about Notre Dame was it had a famous football team (they showed us Rudy at school). So l, in my inno­cent ignorance, said, 'It's not Catholic.' 


Ok, ok -you have pennis-Angela Campos sion to royally chew me out for that. (Blasphemy! Scandal') But at the time, I Lab Tech didn't know any better. 
I looked into Notre Dame. It wasn't my first choice. I'm an anthropology major now, hut I originally intended international relations. I was looking for good IR programs at Catholic universities, and I listed Notre Dame because it was Catholic. I had my heart set on Georgetown. 
I applied here. I received a letter in December saying I'd been accepted into Notre Dame. I was glad I got in, but I still wanted Georgetown ­they'd sent me a letter saying they had deferred my application. I received a letter later from Georgetown advising me I'd been wait-listed. I visited Georgetown in February and I visited Notre Dame in March, for Spring Visitation Weekend. It was in those two visits that my whole perspective changed. 
At each college, I stayed for an extended period: a week at Georgetown and four days at Notre Dame. In that time, I got to walk around the campus, eat in the cafeteria (GT)/ dining hall {ND), sight see, and talk to students. Well, I talked to students who would talk with me. In the week I stayed at Georgetown, I felt it was a very cold place, not referring to the weather. The students there wouldn't look you in the eye, walked quickly and quietly, and refused to answer 'hello' or 'how are you?' I felt more and more uncomfortable the longer I stayed there. 
My Notre Dame experience started offjust as rocky as my entire Georgetown experience. I saw my hostess only three times in the four days I was here: when she picked me up from Lafortune, in one of her classes on Friday and when she was roaring-drunk at a party. If that'd been my only experience at Notre Dame, I'd have gone to a community college for a year or two. 
But that wasn't all I saw of Notre Dame. I was a pre-frosh, stranded at night in Lafortune. In walks SafeWalk. They talked to me, asked where I was going, if I'd gone to the Grotto yet. They walked me to the Grotto and gave me a mini tour along the way. They wait­ed while I prayed and then walked me to Pangborn by way of Saint Mary's Lake, all the while showing me Notre Dame. 
That's what helped me decide to come here. I found people go out of their way to be friend­ly or helpful. They smile and ask how you're doing. They'll walk you home or invite you to dinner. The people here are a community -a family. 
To all you prospectives, talk to as many peo­ple as you can. Ask questions. Have people take you to their favorite places on campus. Get to know the people. They will share your joys and sorrows. They will be your family when you come here. Welcome to the family. 
Contact Angela Campos at Campos.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 

Th~ Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for che highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, howe'ler, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccpi during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AU reproduction righls art': reserved. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Student may be trapped in Bethlehem hotel 
MADISON, Wis. 
Palestinians and the Israeli army that 
As of the last contact University of overtook the town as part of lsraers Wisconsin-Madison senior Tara response to recent suicide bombings, McKinney had with her family, she Bethlehem and other West Bank was stranded in Bethlehem's Star cities have been declared closed mili­Hotel. roughly 500 meters from tary areas. Manger Square where Palestinian Continued tensions and attempts to gunmen are currently surrounded by evacuate foreigners pinned in the Star Israeli troops. Hotel make determining the status of 
McKinney is part of a study abroad any individual difficult. program in Brussels, Belgium, and McPhail said McKinney was most was visiting Israel. Study abroad offi­likely drawn to the region because of cials do not have information on her the ongoing strife and not surprised whereabouts according to Josh and they went to work on [helping her by the situation. McPhail, McKinney's nephew and a out of Bethlehem). so it wasn't any­"She is studying for journalism or UW-Madison senior. thing through the university," he said. photojournalism. ... She wa definitely 
"They don't have a clue," McPhail A representative from UW­there because of the conflict," he said. said. Madison's study abroad office was Among the other foreigners trapped He added that McKinney's mother is unable to confirm whether McKinney in the hotel are a group of internation­actively searching for her daughter. is with their program or if they are al peace activists with whom 
"She called Sen. [Russ] Feingold [D­aware she is in Israel. McKinney may have been traveling. Wis.] and her other representatives In the intense fighting between The Daily Cardinal 
Two bomb scares threaten ND students 
Friday, April 2, 1976 Early Thursday afternoon classes in the College of Business were suspended while Notre Dame security and officials of the college made an extensive search for a bomb believed to be hidden somewhere in the business complex. Lewis Hall was also threatened by a similar, but unrelated, bomb scare early Thursday morning. 
Saint Mary•s elects new BOG President 
Tuesday, March 30, 1976 The ticket of Mary Lou Bilek won student body president, while 27.9 percent of the campus abstained and 14.1 percent said no to the sole ticket running. Students anonymously posted signs around campus advising others not to vote because only one ticket was running. 



SWARTHMORE COLLEGE 
Campus urges sexual orientation policy 
SWARTHMORE, Pa. 
In the first attempt by a higher education institution to influence corporate social policies since the anti-apartheid divestiture of the 1980s, Swarthmore College is using its shareholder status to press defense giant Lockheed Martin to bar employee discrimination on the basis of sex­ual orientation. The college will introduce a stockholder resolution at the annual meeting April 25 asking for a change in the company's equal opportunity employment policy, which prohibits discrimination on the basis or race, gender, religion and other categories, but not sexual ori­entation. Largely student-initiated, the proposal emerged from Swarthmore's four-year-old Committee for Socially Responsible Investing (CSRI). Morgan Simon, a student member of the committee, helped lead the initiative and will fly to San Diego to present the college's proposal. National press coverage of the action has caught the attention of Lockheed Martin officials, who will meet with the Swarthmore representatives on Thursday. 
· Swarthmore Phoenix 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Feds stop campus researchers 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Fifteen studies run by Harvard University researchers in rural China failed to inform subjects about risks they took by participating in the research, a federal investigation concluded last week. The investigation found no evidence that sub­jects were physically harmed by defects in the stud­ies, which were conducted beginning in the late 1990s and most of which sought genetic and environ­mental causes for ailments ranging from obesity to schizophrenia. But the government cited numerous failings by the researchers to disclose key informa­tion about their studies to participants. When one researcher signed up participants for several studies, he did not make it clear to prospective subjects that the studies were voluntary and that they could drop out at any time, according to the federal Office of Human Research Protection (OHRP). 
Harvard Crimson 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather ® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, April 5. 

~-~,~~~~ (f  ~ ~  
Showof8 T·storms Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pf Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via Associated Press GraphlcsNet  

FRONTS: 
............................. 

O ·2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
@'"'"'co . ~ ~ . ~ fil;J (j ~mb ~@]~ 
High Low Shower• A¦ ln T•elorm• Flurde. Snow lcia sunny Pt. cmudy Cloudy 
Via Assm'ittled Pnms 
Friday, April 5, 2002 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Cancer society to raise money with 2nd annual Chicken Run 
Work features craftswomen as invisible heroines 
tion," Gianturco said. By SARAH NESTOR Featured on the front of the News Writer book that came from the inter­
views and photography, "In Her 

Researching and funding their Hands: Craftswomen Changing own project to recognize the World" is a woman from the women's contribution to their Ndebele tribe in Waterval, 
communities, Paola Gianturco 
South Africa. The women of the and Toby Tuttle started a pro­tribe create complicated bead­ject that kept growing. Visiting ing patterns, murals and hand­90 craftswomen in 28 villages, made dolls to sell. 12 countries and four conti­"We always compensated the nents, they began to share the women that we are interviewing pictures and interviews of and photographing because we are taking them away from
women working to better their 
life and the lives of their chil­their work," Gianturco said. dren. "We always compensated them "My dream was to make invis­for the same amount of money 
ible heroines visible," Gianturco they would have made while working."
said in a lecture Thursday at Saint Mary's. "I began dreaming Traveling through Turkey, this even though I am not a pro­India, Peru, Bolivia and many fessional photographer and I other countries the women of 
was not an author." the villages had the same wish 
Inspiration for ihe project first to provide for their children came from findings by the what had not been provided for United Nations that women sup­
them. port 50 percent of families in "If women have four things, the world and that 25 percent of then they are able to make a 
families are supported by change: information on health women solely. Also, extremely and business and access to cap­poor women living below the 
ital and a market," Tuttle said. UN poverty level, less than $1 a The "In Her Hands: day, were able to educate and Craftswomen Changing the 
feed their children. World" photographic exhibition Researching the cultures con­is sponsored by Saint '.\1ary's tacts were made so that a trans­
Center for Women's 

lator who would introduce them InterCultural Leadership and into the community would meet will continue to be displayed in Gianturco and Tuttle at each the Cushwa-Leighton Library 
country they visited. lobby and O'Laughlin lobby "We presented ourselves not until April 30. as reporters or investigators, but as equals, showing the women pictures of families so Contact Sarah Nestor at that there would be a connec-nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 


By JOHN FANNING 
News Writer 
The second annual Lewis Chicken Run is being held Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m. on North Quad. The two-mile road race is held as a fund-raiser something fun." 


As a result, she combined her own athletic interests with the widespread athletic tradition on campus, and decided that a road race would be the best way to make the event successful. 
rn addition to the two -mile race , there is an obstacle without necessarily participating in any of the events. 

Baranack said, "It's not all about raising money, it's about the sense of community achieved through everyone sup­porting a good cause," she said anyone interested should come to show their support and have a good time. 

for the course, which Those interested in participat­
"It's a cause that

American is planned as ing in either the race or the Cancer Society everyone cares a lot a more obstacle course can still sign up and also fea­relaxed and in the Lewis lobby from 5:30
about and wants to do 

tures an fun event for p.m. until 7:30 p.m. today, or
something for."

obstacle those who anytime after 1 p.m. on North course, free want to help Quad on the day of the race, food and per­Kristin Baranack but do not which does not begin until 3 formances by necessarily p.m.
Chicken Run founder

several cam­want to run. The entry fee for the race is pus bands. This year's $10 in advance and $12 on the 
According to course will day of the race, while the obsta­junior Kristin Baranack, who include several different events cle colll'se costs $20 for a team founded the event last year, "We including a dizzy bat, carrying of four. All those who participate wanted to provide as many dif­an egg on a spoon, bobbing for in the race will receive a Lewis ferent avenues as possible for apples and run-Hall Chicken people to help out." ning in flippers, Run T-shirt, 
After having several friends among others. and all and family members diagnosed Also, the win­"Almost everyone knows m o n e y with cancer last year, Baranack ning team will somebody who has been raised by the decided that she wanted to do receive a golden event will be
affected by the disease
something to combat the prob­chicken trophy, donated to
either directly or
lem. as will the top t h e 
"Cancer is something that male and indirectly. ,, American affects almost everyone," she female winners Cancer said. "Almost everyone knows in the road Society.
Kristin Baranack
somebody who has been affect­race. Baranack ed by the disease either directly Campus Chicken Run founder said, "It's a or indirectly." bands The cause that 
Moreover, after Connor Skammunists, everyone Murphy, a Notre Dame student the Alpha Bet and Nihrn will be cares a lot about and wants to who died of leukemia last year, playing from 1 p.m. until 4 p.m. do something for." 
Baranack decided to take action. to provide additional entertain­Baranack said, "I wanted to do ment for those who want to Contact John Fanning at something, but I wanted it to be come out and show their support jfanning@nd.edu. 



With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of: 

Rev. Michael N. Floreth, C.S.C. 
Rev. Bradley j. Metz, C.S.C. 
Rev. John M. DeRiso, C.S.C. 
Rev. Eric J. Schimmel, C.S.C. 
invite you to celebrate their ordination to the priesthood for lifelong service to the people_of God. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend Daniel R.Jenky, C.S.C. 

Saturday, April 6, 2002 I:30 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way." Constitutions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross, 1.3 

www.nd.edu/ ~vocation 
page4 The Observer . NEWS Friday, April 5, 2002 



Post office closings part of plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Local post office closings, phased-in price increases and possibly even cuts in six-day delivery are among ihe sugges­tions in a postal overhaul plan being sent to Congress. 
The proposal calls for a new law converting the post office to a commercial government agency after 2006. 
In the meantime the post office will start changes to cut costs and improve efficiency. 
If Congress fails to act, the post office would be forced "to oper­ate under its present increasing­ly outmoded business model until enough customers abandon the system to make financial fail­ure unavoidable," the agency said. 
Postmaster General John Potter called the plan "a trans­formation of the Postal Service to protect universal service and enable us to grow our business." 
Battered by declining mail vol­ume and rising costs, the Postal Service had a loss of $1.6 billion la.st year. 
The terrorist attacks and anthrax-by-mail have cost it hundreds of millions more and increasing losses are expected despite the 3-cent postage rate increase planned for this sum­mer. 
The aim is to determine how the post office can continue to provide and finance universal service, said Ralph Moden, postal vice president for strate­gic planning. 

In the near term. through 2006, the focus "is on things we can do under our own control and authority" along with some moderate changes by Congress," saidModen. 
Among the proposals is legisla­tion to allow changes in "service levels and delivery frequency." 
Asked if that meant six-day mail delivery was on the block, Moden said the agency "would like some latitude and some flex­ibility in that area." 
Potter said, however, "We know that people enjoy that si-x­day delivery. we know there is a business value to it." 
With more pricing flexibility and adjustments to operations, he said, "we believe that we can protect six-day delivery well into the future." 
Among other changes would be working with the Postal Rate Commission to streamline the rate process to provide more regular and predictable price changes, including phased-in rates. 
Potter said that might mean small annual increases for com­mercial mailers while the public would get an increase every other year or every third year. 
The agency also would lift its self-imposed moratorium on closing post offices and seek to streamline the process for clo­sures. 
"I want to make it abundantly clear that I'm not calling for wholesale closing of post offices," Potter said. "Offices are part of a very valuable network ... we will continue to provide access to every .American." 
But he also noted that, unlike years ago, stamps are now avail­able in grocery stores and via mail-order, telephone and Internet. 
The post office has not received any taxpayer subsidy for operations for years, although Congress recently voted $500 million to assist in coping with the anthrax contam­ination and to seek ways to pre­vent it from happening again. 
The proposed long-term changes would move to a more private-business type of bargain­ing with unions, including a mediation process similar to that in the Railway Labor Act. 
William Burrus, president of the American Postal Workers Union, called that idea a "non­starter" because the process, he said, can be manipulated by the White House to impose a setl.le­ment. 
The proposed new agency would also drop the current requirement that it break even financially over time for one that allows profits that could be used to fLnance capital improvement.s or for other purposes. 
It would use private business style purchasing rather than government systems and would look for new products and ser­vices to offer, including investing in related businesses and possi­bly permitting other retail opera­tions in post offices. 


Mont. phone probe reaches Washington 
Associated Press 
HELENA, Mont. 
Telephone calls made from­Gov. Judy Martz's office on behalf of a Republican fund­raising group appear to have violated state law. state offi­cials say. 
In a letter sent to the U.S. Justice Department's Criminal Investigation Bureau, a deputy legislative auditor referred to the telephone calls on behalf of the Montana Majority Fund as "an apparent penal viola­tion in the governor's office." 
The auditor's office dis­

closed Thursday that it has referred the case to the state Justice Department. Such a referral is required whenever the legislative auditor discov­ers a potential crime. It marks the latest step toward a formal criminal investigation of phone use in the governor's office. 
At issue are phone calls members of the governor's staff made on behalf of the Majority Fund, a Republican group of which Martz had served as an honorary chair­woman. She has since resigned from that post. 
An investigation by the gov­ernor's chief of staff conclud­ed that two staff members made a total of 113 calls from the governor's office in con­nection with the Majority Fund last year. 
The fund has since paid the state $212 to cover the cost of the calls and the staff time involved. Martz has main­tained she made no calls from the governor's office on behalf of the Majority Fund. 
John Northey, attorney for the legislative auditor, said the referral does not mean the legislative auditor's office had determined illegal activity occurred. 


Student Office Assistant Position Open in the Office ofStudent Activities for 2002-2003 
Applications are now available and can be picked up at 315 LaFortune in the Student Activities Office 
Application Deadline: Friday, April 26 
Call Carol at 631-9314 with any questions 


Fashion 
continued from page 1 
"We believe that diversity of cast is a very essential ele­ment, and something that we value at BCAC.... The models are so gifted and talented and really know how to convey the message we are trying to send in each scene. It's really enter­taining to sit back and watch the kind of creative ideas that they come up with during practice," said Veronica Berger, BCAC president. 
The fashion show is held every year in conjunction with Spring Visitation. a weekend devoted to the recruitment of minority students. De Vries said this is more than just coincidence. 
"They want the recruits to see that Notre Dame is a fun place," de Vries said. "It gives the recruits something to do and gives every one else some­thing to look forward to every year." 
Local clothing sponsors include Gingiss Formalwear, Demo, Casual Corner, Petite Sophisticate, Day Furs. Inspire Me and Boutique Exchange. All proceeds go towards the BCAC Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund, which hon­ors to two freshmen every year. 
Admission to the show is $6 for students and $7 for the general public. Free shuttle buses from campus to the Century Center will leave from Library Circle starting at 7 
p.m. and continuing every 15 minutes until the 8 p.m. show time. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu. 

Latin 
. continued from page I 
The show is scheduled to run tonight from 7 p.m. to 9 
p.m. Tickets are $5 available at LaFortune Box office this week and at the O'Laughlin Auditorium. All proceeds from the show cover the cost of the production. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu. 


NEEDED: WEB DESIGNER ClASS OF 2005 

Show on vour web design skills on a website designed tor vour Class 
If vou are interested, contact an officer Jeremv Lao -iloa@nd.edu Erika Bramlev-ebramlev@nd.edu Kenna Brewer-kbrewer@nd.edu Man Kinsella .. mkinseH@nd.edu 






ATION 
Friday, April 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pope calls for prayers of peace: 
Pope John Paul lI called on the Roman Catholic Church today to hold a world day of prayer on Sunday for the Middle East where, he said, peo­ple are suffering "unprecedented violence." In an open letter to Angelo Cardinal Sodano, the Vatiran's secretary of state, the pope reiterated his alarm at what he called the "dramatic situa­tion" in the region and said that God can change the hearls of "even the most obstinate uf men," 
West Bank fighting continues: 
Israeli tanks and armored vehicles rolled into Hebron this evening, the last major West Bank city to be occupied, while Palestinians and Israelis reported heavy fighting in other parlc; of the West Bank, including Jenin, where Israeli soldiers were searching house to house for weapons and wanted men. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
New Mexico wildfire spreads: 
Firelighters struggled Thursday to control a lightning-caused wildfire that kindled a 25,000­ac re blaze in the Gila National Forest, Firefighters on Sunday had decided to keep a close watch on the 100-acre fire while allowing it to burn brush. But it roared out of control Wednesday morning and had scorched 10,000 acres by nightfall. The blaze was moving east Thursday near the Arizona state line and turned north later in the day, Gila spokesman Tom Williams said. 
F.B.I. workers fail polygraph tests: 
About seven F.B.l. employees with access to highly classified information have been unable to pass polygraph examinations administered as part of the bureau's stepped­up security program after the arrest last year of a senior agent as a Russian spy, F.B.l. offi­cials said today. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Farm numbers reaches record low: 
The number of farms in Indiana has reached a record low, following a trend in the last three years as the farm economy continues to sag. The 63,000 farms counted last year in a federal survey are the fewest since record-keeping began a century ago, the Indiana Agricultural Statistics Service reported last month. The rounded-off estimate has declined by 1,000 each of the past three years, as farmers contin­ue to sell their increasingly valuable land amid encroaching development and slumping grain prices. 
·Market Watch April 4 
Dow 
10,235-17 . +36.88 
Jones 
Composite Volume: 
1,254.759,947 
NASDAQ: .NYSE: : S&P 500: 1,126.17 +0.77 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
t,789.75 +5.40 
'.•·••:': 59•IlDifilt!¥~¥0::z4;;"'.f 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (~) -0. 77 -0. 27 34. 7E BRISTOL-MYER SQ (BMY) -14.72 -5.55 32.1'. SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUM-/) +3.26 +0.29 9.11 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1_63 +0.27 16.8: CHECK POINT SOF (CHKP) -19,63 -5,39 22.0: 
ISRAEL 

Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
The Palestinian leader­ship accepted "without conditions" a new peace effort by President Bush, in a Cabinet statement issued early Friday. 
Bush called for Israel to stop its incursions into Palestinian-contro lied territory in the West Bank and begin to with­draw its forces. The pres­ident restated U.S. demands that Palestinians stop terror attacks and said he would send Secretary of State Colin Powell to the region to try to negotiate an end to the crisis. 
The statement said Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat and his leadership accept cease-fire propos­als put together last year by CIA director George Tenet and a wider plan for restarting peace talks. 
The statement den­ounced the Israeli mili­tary campaign: "We should not be blamed when we face this aggression against our people, against our towns, our refugee camps, and we have the right to defend our­selves." 
Though the Palestinian 
statement said, "From our side we are commit­ted without conditions to the declaration of President Bush," Cabinet minister Saeb Erekat said Bush's harsh criti• cism of Arafat was "unjustified and unac­ceptable." 
In a statement at the White House Thursday, Bush said, "The situation in which he [Arafat) finds himself today is largely of his own making," charg­ing that Arafat had missed many opportuni­ties and was not effective in fighting terrorism. 
Earlier, Israel's Foreign Ministry issued a state­
ment welcoming the Bush initiative, saying, "We note with satisfac­tion President Bush's words on the necessity to put an end to terror." 
Powell is expected to arrive in the region next week. Later Friday, U.S. envoy Anthony Zinni is expected to meet Arafat, trapped in his office for a week by Israeli tanks and troops, 
After earlier rejecting a 
U.S. request to allow Zinni to see the Palestinian leader, Israel Prime Minister Ariel Sharon agreed to the meeting after seeing Zinni on Thursday. 
Jailed Illinois man seeks release 
Ileirens, who is believed to the asked the 13-membcr board to "right
Associated Press 
longest-serving prisoner in Illinois, has wrongs which the courlc; have failed to 
CfIICAGO said he gave a false confession under right." 
A man who has been behind bars duress from police and prosecutors Heirens was a 17-year-old student at more than 50 years in a sensational who were under intense pressure to University of Chicago and convicted Chicago murder case in which ."Catch solve the notorious 1946 killings of a lit­petty burglar when he was arrested in me bf'fore I kill more" was left scrawled tle girl and two women. the slayings of a 6-year-old girl, whose in lipstick on a bathroom mirror asked He has claimed he was given a spinal remains were found scattered in the a clemency board Thursday to free tap without anesthetic, injected with Chicago sewers, and two women. him, claiming he was railroaded. truth serum, subjected to round-the­Then-Mayor Edward Kelly called the 
William Heirens, 73, was not at the clock police interrogation and isolated little girl's slaying "even too horrible for hearing before the Illinois Prisoner from hLc; lawyer and parenlc;. a maniac." The message "For heaven's Review Board, but two Northwestern Steve1i Drizin of the Children and sake, catch me before I kill more. I can­University law professors who have Family Justice Center at Northwestern not control myself' was found scrawled worked to free wrongly imprisoned said Ileirens' case has "all tho ear­on the mirror in one of the victim ·s inmates argued on his behalf marks of a wrongful conviction." He homes. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 5, 2002 
GSU sponsors student health fair this Saturday 
The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott 
email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistanr News Editor 
The Graduate Student Union js hoping that free food, T­shirts and prizes will lure Notre Dame graduate students, facul­ty and staff and law and MBA students to its HeaJthEday fair this Saturday. 
The afternoon event features fitness activities, entertainment for children and interactive presentations on stress man­age men-t. nutrition and 
immuniza­corresponds
"We're trying to address 
tions, accord­with National
nutrition, health andfit­
ing to Health Week, a Adrienne ness needs in a variety of move that orig­
Minnerick, GSU health­care commit­tee chair. The activities were original­ly scheduled to take place 
between Saint Mary's and Saint Joseph's lakes but wintry weather forecasts for Saturday forced organizers to relocate to Stephen Center.The theme of HealthEday, ''Promoting Healthy Lives," marks an attempt by the Health Care Committee to focus on preven ­tative care and maintaining a healthy lifestyle instead of grad­uate student health insurance 
,. 
inally threat­
ened to limit 
the number of 
ways. 
Adrienne Minnerick 
participatingcommittee chair organizations. 
on the field 
-an issue that has dominated the Committee's agenda this vear. 
• "We're trying to address nutrition, health and fitness needs in a variety of ways," Minnerick said. Some of these ways include organized basket­ball, cricket and soccer games along with exercise activities run by RecSports like classes in kickboxing, martial arts and Yoga.CSU has also recruited University and local organiza­tions to run workshops 
throughout the day. The event 
GSU has since 
enlisted a number of organizations to give presentations. The University Counseling Center is sponsoring a stress management presenta­tion by Wendy Settle, a stress management specialist, the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) organization of St. Joseph's County is organizing a presentation on nutrition and University Health Services is hosting a wellness and preven­tion presentation, among other 
a 
. ·····
Heat 
promoting healthy lives 
The Graduate Student Union is sponsoring HealthEday, a health fair for graduate, law, and MBA students, faculty and staff this Saturday. Scheduled events Include fitness activities, entertainment for children and interactive presentations on stress management, nutrition and immunizations. 
offerings.GSU has been plan­ning the event for the past six weeks and has recruited over nine co-sponsors including Martin's Supermarket, the Alumni Association and the Coca-Cola Bottling Co. GSU president Gabriella Burgos and vice-president Kishori Deshpande helped coordinate the event with Minnerick and web manager Katie Moore, publicity and promotions com­mittee chair Ingrid Villa-Real and administrative assistant Donna Frahn have also been involved in tlfo event. Minnerick originally estimated that 300­500 people would attend the event but is concerned that attendance will drop due to bad weather. 
"It's going to be in a warmer place [Stephen Center] so hope­fully more people will come," she said.Minnerick hopes that the event will become an annu­al offering, drawing the large crowds that the GSU/Campus Ministry fall picnic features. 
''The verbal response we've gotten back in the past few days has been extremely positive," she said. "We're really excited, Come for a fun-filled day dedi­cated to healthy living." 
Online signup sheets for orga­nized sports and a schedule of events for the day are available at the GSU website, wyvw.gsu.nd.edu/HealthEday/. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at thagard. l@nd.edu. 



Friday, April 5, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC will open student intercultural residence next year 
By THERESA FRALISH News Writer 
Planning continues for the student intercultural resi­dence. sponsored by the Center for Women's lnterCultural Leadership, to be opened next year at Saint Mary's College. 
Funded by a grant from the 
Indiana 
Elkhart 422 East Bristol 
219-264-4100 
Fort Wa-;rie Coldwater Crossing 5525 Coldwater Rd. 
219-482-7271 
Fort Wayne Covington Plaza 6336 W. Jefferson Blvd. 
219-436-1445 
Lilly Foundation in Jan. 2001 to establish the Center and the student residence, the resi­dence aims to bring together students from diverse back­grounds to share experiences and develop a close communi­ty. 
"Our hope is that. in creating this program, we're bringing together women of different backgrounds," said Mana 
Derakhshani, the Center's director. 
Though interest in the pro­gram has been small, the Center is continuing to move forth with plans for next year, according to Derakhshani. A block of rooms has been set­aside on the fourth floor of Regina Hall North for the resi­dence program and the Center has begun to consider applica­tions for the position of pro­gram director. 
Derakhshani hopes to hire a new director with a strong basis in student living and some background in intercul­tural relations. "We're looking for someone who has experi­ence in ResLife and who has an interest or experience in dealing with other cultures," Derakhshani said. Applicants 
Exclusive College Student Offer 

instant rebate 
with a 2-year Advantage Agreement 
Offer valid at participating Sprint Stores with avalid student identification card from qualifying colleges and universities. 
Or you can receive $25 off instantly when you sign a 1-year Advantage Agreement. 
Val,d II pa<li<ipalitlg SI"'"' SOrcs ooly. ett.10011u wo/h • prelcm;d Sj,i,, PCS Credit llati"J qualify fa, illll.,.,c!>ote-cd an tU5!0f1!<r> will quafffy ., 1'>»1") pn,fm.d ol'!!il -•llllJ!lires p,.rtha,e of JJeW ~-3121/02 81ld 4/J!Y02 and octiv•lioo •t !he point of ,ale oo • Sprint PCS SeMtc l'laoof 1:M 99 « ~w,th a new t..ilon Sprint PCS Pt,n, Nt.wrlJc< limoled to stocl< ooh.md Sn,,Jmt 1O _tt,c presented at bme of pu,clme. Fatully and ""hm not cHgible lor ln».,,t robate Rebate camot Cl<"81 tOO>I retail prloo d putl,ased phu,c $150 ""IY """'™loon fee ,pp1,..to Sprt11l PCS Advanta<Jo Agreern<,,t. Anoo,efundabie m99 pt,ooe aaivatoon lee•~. e,cept t11 selO<t /\Hiltate ..,,!<els. All pla11> Sltljt!CI to credit -•I.Dependt"'J on credit a 11,l oopo,tt and ws....,.""""'charges may apply Olf« myoot be CooPned wtth certaffl ~ ~omohons, dtSUltl~. ainiesb CJ opl.lOOS a!\Q is fiOt availabl.e wllh COOC. inn-);« My Wircle!6. Sec plintecl iH-"stcte material:. fOl fuslilef details. O'fers. ~lO w1lhdfawal withoot ootil:.t'.l. Cop11gtt 02002 Spilllt Spoctrwl LP All rtgf'lt5 fes.liVtid. Spfinl. S.,-lflt .PCS. 5?'ifll PCS Cloef Pay and the-l<>tp are Uilder.iait; ot Sfit/ll CommtIUCaMns Corupa,iy Lr 
must have a master's degree 
and will play a major role in 
designing and facilitating the 
activities of the students in the 
residence. The new director 
may also have some experi­
ence in teaching and may help 
to teach some of the intercul­
tural classes and assist in 
planning the Center's summer 
programs. So far the Center 
has received about 10-12 
applications for the position. 
Currently six students have 
applied for the residence pro­
gram. and the Center is hoping 
for an optimum number of 10­
12 students that could live in 
the residence. Though the 
deadline for student applica­
tions passed yesterday, the 
Center will continue to accept 
applications. The opportunity 
to live in the residence has 
also been extended to incom­
ing freshmen and transfer stu­
dents. 
Oerakhshani believes that 
the Center will receive more 
applications after the room 
selection process. "My hope is 
that after room picks some 
students may take a look at 
this," she said. Even if interest 
remains low, the residence 
program will still operate with 
the students who have already 
applied. 
Despite the small response, 
the students who have been 
accepted in the residence pro­
gram feel that it will provide a 
needed opportunity for dia­
logue and increased diversity 
awareness. 
"I like to support Saint Mary's in its efforts to support diversity," said sophomore Romona Parks. Parks, also a member of the Student Diversity Board, hopes that interest will increase in the program. ''I'd like to see a lot more participation and publici­ty," she.said. 
Freshman Jennifer Hernandez wants the program to draw students out of their typically closed environments. "It will help bring the need for awareness and the need for diversity to this campus," she said. 
Students participating in the program would keep regular journals and share small group discussions on their experi­ences and backgrounds. The students would also have their own budget and funds for pro­gramming such as attending conferences. The residence will contain a resource library with videotapes and other informational material on intercultural issues. 
At the year's end each stu­dent in the program will receive a certificate of comple­tion. Derakhshani feels that this experience will be a valu­able factor for students in completing resumes and grad­uate school applications. "We think it's going to be an asset to have this experience," she 
said. 
Contact Theres.a Frali.sh at fral6395@saintmarys.edu. 
Indiana 
Kokomo Kokomo Plaza 621 South Reed Rd. 765-452-650-0 
Marion W Scuth Western !we. 765-661l-OOOO · 
South Bend Stale Road 23 and Ironwood Dr. 2035 South Bend Ave. 
219-277-7727 
Indiana 
Warsaw Woodland Plaza 3638 East Commerce Dr. 
219-269-5001 
Ohio 
Lima 3215 Elida Rd. 
419-331-9596 
page 8 The Ohserver . NEWS Friday, April 5, 2002 

Nun talks about work with Islam 
By MARY ANN JENTZ News Wri,er 
Sister Marianne Farina led a conversation about her 
recent  article  "Beyond  
Tolerance:  Interfaith  
Friendship  as  Ethics  in  

Action," Thursday at Saint Mary's, focusing on her work with people of the Islamic faith. 
Farina, a Holy Cross nun, received her undergraduate education at ·New York University, where she studied graphic design. Shortly after, sho came to Saint Mary's and taught a course in intensive drawing for a semester. 
She spent five years on the East Coast teaching in high schools until she asked to go overseas. Farina recognized this as an opportunity to extend the mission of the Holy Cross clergy. 
Farina was sent to Dhaka, Bangladesh, and taught in predominately Muslim schools for four years. During the latter portion of her time in Bangladesh, Farina worked to promote education in rural settings in a northern area of the country. She tried to develop the learning of children to include their faith. 
"I wanted the children to see a view larger than one chapter of the Koran," she 
said. 
After working in Bangladesh. she came back to the United States and stud­ied moral theology. She was interested in what people's opinions about how humans should act, and she relates this to her work of building more than tolerance between religions. Her goal with her article, her workshops and her conversations is to move beyond tolerance and develop a friendship and mutual understanding between peo­ple of different faiths. Farina said people should fully understand faiths different from their own and see the good in them. 
One professor at the discus­sion asked Farina about Muslims within the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munities. He asked Farina how the schools could make them feel comfortable on the predominately Roman Catholic campuses. 
Instead of suggesting that the communities start a Muslim student program, Farina said, they should incorporate their Muslim beliefs into some of the cur­rent practices. If the Muslim 
community requested special services, the schools should try to provide them, but a better solution would be to gently weave some of their practices into the interfaith prayer services held on both campuses, according to Farina. 
As part of her study and experience of the Islamic faith, Farina joined an Islamic community more than a year ago. 
This community holds a prayer night every Thursday, but the Thursday after Sept. 
11. the Islamic women were afraid to go. They had heard the tales of their people being persecuted and beaten. Farina suggested that every­one carpool to the service. 
Although she was not Muslim, the Muslim women drew strength from her. Farina wanted to show the audience that people draw strength from people of dif­ferent faiths and beliefs. 
Farina's appearance was the first in a series of events sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Affairs at Saint Mary's for International Month at the College. 
Contact Mary Ann Jentz at jen t96 l 9@saintmarys.edu. 
Germany gives U.N. Berlin Wall piece 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Germany presented the United Nations with a piece of the Berlin Wall as a lasting reminder of the world's Cold War division and a symbol of hope that other barriers between peoples and nations can be torn down. 
In the garden of U.N. head­quarters in New York, Secretary-General Kofi Annan 
and  the  president  of  
Germany's  Bundestag,  
Wolfgang  Thierse,  on  

Thursday unveiled a plaque on the large wall fragment, which is decorated with a painting of a man and woman embracing across the top of the wall. 
The 12-foot-high wall was built in August 1961 to stop the exodus of East Germans to the West. Its fall on Nov. 9, 1989 -the result of the peaceful revolution in East Germany against communist rule -led to the reunification of Germany less than a year later. 
Thierse, who was born in East Germany, said the wall shaped his life "in profound and painful ways" and he wanted the United Nations to have a piece of it to ensure that the memory of the Cold War is kept alive. 

"We owe it above all to the people whose protests against the wall and opposition to being confined within the bor­ders of East Germany cost them their lives," he said, not­ing that more than 230 people 
died trying to cross into the West at the wall. 
Annan said it was appro­priate that a piece of the wall would be at the United Nations, w h o s e efforts to forge peace and security were hob­bled by the U.S.-Soviet ideological 
rivalry. The fall of the wall "helped to liberate the entire international comm unity," he said. 
Standing in front of the col­orfully painted chunk of con­crete, Annan said "it is striking that something that loomed so big in our imagination turns out to be so thin." 
"Perhaps that, too, holds a lesson for us: the lesson that divisions in the human com­munity are not so insurmount­able as we feared; that gaps of misunderstanding and materi­al well-being can be bridged; and that we can, like the cou­ple depicted here, join hands 
"We owe it above all to the people whose protests against the wall and opposition to being confined within the borders ofEast Germany cost them their lives. " 
Wolfgang Thierse president 
OffCampwt Gr1tbuatkwa Wttkmb SpedAl MA1t 16-21. 2001 
Need a pleoe for your family to stay, try Sacred ffe•it'e PaMh Center (St Joseph Hall on C!lfflPUS). 
We 11et a $80.IO pN' penon donation for the weekend. 
"COME EARi..Y (Thursd¦yJ -STAV LAlE (Tllesdayr -11eme 
low price. 
For res~&tJ()ns please eall 
"'-"· ~~_Ed.ct/@t.~74:8;3.Fl~_1_2Mary Fonferko Ill 574--631-fil436 
and unite for a better world," the 
U.N. chief told more than 50 guests at the ceremony. 
Thierse lamented that expectations of "a golden age of peace" after the wall's fall and the end of the Cold War had not material­ized, citing terrorism and 
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
The Berlin Wall fragment, he said, should be "a reminder to us all that lasting peace can only be achieved if we over­come divisions and borders and boundaries," and that takes "patience, persistence, determination, and friends and allies." 
Hospital 
continued from page 1 
dreams, I can't imagine students going to class at a satellite campus a mile down the road," said Nanni. 
Instead, the University would seek to work with retail partners who would use the land and per­haps use another part of it for a specific University purpose. Nanni 
compared the possible pur­chase to the University's recent pur­chase of lots on Notre D a m e Avenue, where it sub­sequently sold the lo1s to fac­ulty members who intended to build hous­es on them. If the University decides to use we might 
make of the land 
if we were to 
''This is something that purchase it," said Moore.
has come up in a very 
The relocation
short period of time ... 
of the Medical nobody has any idea Center might trigger another
what use we might make 
change in
ofthe land if we were to 
University policy: 
purchase it." where emer­gency medical cases from Notre 
Dennis Moore 
Dame are sent. 
University spokesman Currently, all 
intervene by purchasing the land, it would continue a tradition of aiding efforts to revitalize South Bend's Northeast Neighborhood. Last year, the University opened the Robinson Community Learning Center, a facility on North Eddy Street that sponsors a wide range of activities from computer train­ing for senior citizens to tutoring and other activities for elemen­tary-school aged children. 
Both Nanni and University spokesman Dennis Moore said that the University has a goal of maintaining the stability of the Northeast Neighborhood. 
"In terms of our involvement with the Northeast Neighborhood and with all the effort we have been making for that neighbor-medical emer­
gencies serious enough to require hospitalization are sent to St. Joseph's, but the new facility will be more than twice as far from campus as the current facility and Memorial Hospital's Michigan Street location would be closer to campus. Additionally, the trafl:ic-congested Grape Road area separates Notre Dame from the site of the new facility. 
"I think that it's too soon to say if there will be a change, but in an emergency, ambulances will always go to the nearest hospital, but the [hospital's] move is a ways down the road and only time will tell," said Moore. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 

hood, to suddenly have a large unused portion of land in the neighborhood would be a major setback," said Moore. 
However, the University has not yet decided to purchase the land and has not determined how the land would be used to fulfill University purposes if it was pur­chased. 
"This is something that has come up in a very shqrt period of time ... nobody has any idea what 
16" EXTRA LARGE 
Limited Time Only! (introductory price) 
New! Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) 5.99/doz 
(Expires 4/10/02) 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD
[~Of' 
~co 
PIZZA COMPANV9 ~7~t~,u~7j pizzadoneright 
Friday, April 5, 2002 The Obseroer . NEWS page 9 
Women's group decries Bush nominee 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
One of President Bush's nomi­nees for a federal appeals court kept his membership in a pri­vate club that bans women years after telling the Senate that he would leave, a women's group said Thursday. 
U.S. District Judge Brooks Smith of Pennsylvania remained in the Spruce Creek Rod and Gun Club 11 years after telling the Senate that he would leave if the club didn't change its bylaws banning women, said Kathy Miller, president of the Pennsylvania chapter of the National Organization for Women. 
"It basically says that he's not concerned about discrimination against women," Miller said. 
Justice Department spokes­woman Monica Goodling disput­ed that claim, saying Smith has a "long history of helping to pro­tect women" and noted he has been endorsed by Pennsylvania women's organizations. 
"Judge Smith has a good record of protecting women's 
rights," she said. Calls to Smith were not imme­diately returned. 
The Justice Department also provided a letter from Smith in 1990 to the club in which judge says he has been "agitating for several years about a. change in the Spruce Creek bylaws con­cerning the males-only restric­tion." 
The NOW chapter on Thursday sent a letter to GOP Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania outlining its con­tention. A call to a Specter spokesman was not immediate­ly returned. 
A message left on the Spruce Creek Rod and Gun Club's answering machine was not returned Thursday. 
During his confinnation as a 
U.S. District Court judge in 1988. Smith acknowledged to senators that the federal judge's code of conduct required resig­nation from clubs that exclude women if the laws were not changed. 
Smith "did make an active effort to make a change, hut the organization was not responsive to his effort, but he did try to make that change more than once," said Tom Murphy. the club's immediate past president. 
In addition, the judges' code also adds that judges do not have to resign from all-male clubs with purely social purpose and limited membership, Justice Department officials said. 
Smith is no longer a member of the club, resigning in 1999. The club is best know nationally as the place where former President Carter used to fish in Pennsylvania while in the White House. 
A coalition of feminist, envi• ronmental. civil rights and other special interest groups have been advoca,ting against Smith since his nomination by Bush on Sept. 10. If confirmed he would serve on the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia, which covers Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and the Virgin Islands. 
Smith already has had a con• firmation hearing but no vote has been set by the Democrat­controlled Senate Judiciary Committee. 
APARTMENTS 
Cleve/and and Jronu·lJod Road, 1801 I Cleveland Hoad, So11th Bend, Indiana ~66371(219)272-81 JO 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester *Within minutes ofcampus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 Bedroom Apartments still available 

• 
Security patrolled nightly 



ByJOE ACKERMAN 
News Writer 
It has been six weeks since Michiana Telecasting Corp., the parent company of NBC affiliate WNDU-TV, announced the clos­ing of its Golden Dome Media division. 
Golden Dome Media was the video and media production vehicle of the station, which pro• duced many videos over the years for students, faculty and University purposes including the University's Undergraduate Admissions video, produced in 1999. 
Jim Behling, president and general manager of WNDU-TV, while maintaining the confiden­tiality of specific personnel mat­ters, did indicate that those affected by the job cuts at Golden Dome would most likely not be retained in other capaci­ties. However, Behling assured that internships would continue to be offered to Notre Dame stu­dents at the television station . 
"As far as Golden Dome is concerned, it was a concern about long-term profitability," Behling said about Michiana Telecasting's decision to close down Golden Dome. 
A statement on Golden Dome's website read, "Many talented and dedicated people have con­tributed to the work of Golden Dome over the years. We thank them for their contributions and truly regret the impact of the closing upon these individuals and their families." 
In addition to serving as a commercial media production company. Golden Dome served as an educational outlet for Notre Dame students. The com­pany maintained a relationship with Notre Dame's Film, Television and Theater Department in which several students would participate in internships each semester for credit within the department. 
According to Karen Heisler, assistant adjunct professor of FIT and internship coordinator, approximately three to five FIT students worked each semester at Golden Dome. The fate of future students who will be seeking internships in media production remains uncertain. 
"Obviously, these opportuni­ties have disappeared. However, we're hopeful that WNOU-TV will still be able to offer Notre Dame students internship opportunities in news, studio production, location production, sales and promotion," said Heisler. 
ContactJoe Ackerman at ackerman.4@nd.edu. 
A PRIMEquify Line-of-Credit Loan at 2.9%APR* ·4.]5%APR* 
Introductory rate for 6 months -low regular rote 
For information, call our Loan-by-Phone, at 800/567-6328, stop by your nearest branch, or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 
;<; r/j~~J~ct~~~ 
,,·}<p 
,/..£.-;~ . 
< 
,J< ·~_'., .: 
~APR is Annual Percent~e R::rte Property insurance is required, Not vald wih any other offer. Rates are subject to change. ~nsub a tax advisor regard in~ the deductibility of iotefest, A balloo11 payment will result at maturity. After the six-month introductory period, the APR will re....ert to the high~ pnm~ lending rate of the preV10us quart~. The special introductory rate offe, IS only available for new lines opened through May 31, 2002. Minimum amount is $5,000; maxi-mum IS $100,000. In.dependent of the Unr-.-er?iity. 
. .,. , ... 
. . . 
Contact Ben @ NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmanrv.§lholmail.corn 

Friday, April 5, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
U.N., Bush pass Powell's trip 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
The U .N. Security Council on Thursday unanimously endorsed the Mideast mission of Secretary of State Colin Powell and demanded an Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian cities "without delay." 
Diplomats said the coun­cil resolution would add weight to President Bush's effort to end the Mideast crisis, and to a resolution adopted Saturday which also calls for Israel and the Palestinians to "move immediately to a meaning-
Bush ful cease-fire." 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan urged the international community to persuade Israel and the Palestinians to draw back from violence which is threatening the region. Accusing Israel of trying to escalate the 18-month conflict, he warned that self­defense against suicide bombings "is not a blank check." He said forcing Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat into exile "would be reckless." 
Bush announced Thursday he was sending Powell to the Mideast in a new peace initia­tive, and he urged Israel to halt its military incursions and to start pulling its troops and tanks out of West Bank cities it entered in the past week in a search for Palestinian extrem­ists. 
The intensified U.S. mediation effort was announced while Security Council members were discussing an Arab-backed resolution demanding an immediate Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian cities, including l;lamallah where Arafat is surrounded by Israeli tanks. 
Frustrated over Israel's disregard of a coun­cil demand on Saturday to pull back its forces, Palestinian supporters demanded a new reso­lution including the word immediate -which wasn't in Saturday's call for Israel's military withdrawal. 
The United States objected to the word "immediate" because it has been pressing for a cease-fire before an Israeli troop withdraw­al, a position supported by Israel. 
After Bush announced his new initiative in Washington on Thursday morning, U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte proposed new language for the Arab-backed draft resolution 

OP'E'l'f']-[Q'llS'El 
co1vl:E 1o'l'Nrus 'FO'R 1l :.B'A'R'B:EC11:E 1t']\/'1J V'lS'l'T Oril'R 'MO'IJ:EL! 
C~MP'llS V'l!EW qtpqt-J~/T~'NIT's 
soi 2tR1s'1-fW!llY, sorulT''l-f ':B!E'N'D 
(574) 272-1441 

S9l'T'll1l1J~Y 
9-t.P'R'lL 13ir~, 2002 
1:00 P.'lvt. 

demanding that Israel pull out its tanks and troops "without delay" and welcoming Powell's Mideast mission. 
Arab and non-aligned nations agreed to those words, and the final resolution was sponsored by the council president -not Syria as the council's Arab representative ­symbolizing its unanimous support. 
The Palestinian U.N. envoy, Nasser Al­Kidwa, said there was no difference in the meaning of "without delay" and "immediate­ly." 
"We hope that this will help the situation and that finally Israel will heed the unanimous voice of the international community," Al­Kidwa said. 
Israel's U .N. Ambassador Yehuda Lancry said the government would comment on the resolution Friday. He said he wished it had included a reference to Palestinian· suicide bombings which is "a crucial issue not only for the Palestinians, not only for the Israelis, but for our civilization. This suicidal culture must be stopped." 
Lancry told the council before the vote that "Israel pledges to spare no effort to cooperate fully with Powell to make his mission a success to bring about a genuine and meaningful cease-fire that will pave the way for a return to the negotiating process." 
The resolution calls on "both parties to move immediately to a meaningful cease-fire; calls for the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian cities, including Ramallah; and calls upon the parties to cooperate fully with [U.S.] Special Envoy [AnthonyJ Zinni" to work to g;t a cease-fire and start negotiations for a political settlement. 
It also expressed "grav~ concern" over the recent Palestinian suicide bombings in Israel and the attack on Arafat's headquarters in Ramallah. 
It welcomes Powell's mission as well as efforts by the European Union, Russia and the United Nations, "to bring about a comprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Middle East." 
At the request of the United States and some other, countries, a vote on the Syrian-spon­sored draft resolution was put off Wednesday night to avoid a likely U.S. veto because it used the word "immediate." 
After renewed Mideast violence erupted in September 2000, the Security Council remained sidelined because the United States, Israel's closest council ally, thwarted virtually every effort by the Palestinians to get a resolu­tion that would condemn Israeli action. 

U.S. touts coal-bed methane development 
Associated Press 
DENVER A Bush administration official said Thursday that the Sept. 11 attacks and Mideast conflict underscore the need to boost 
U.S. energy production, and coal-bed methane development in the Rockies will help meet that goal. 
Assistant Interior Secretary Rebecca Watson said the Bureau of Land Management, which she oversees, is studying the potential of more gas development in five major areas, all in the Rockies, to meet the goals in President Bush's national energy plan. 
"After the events of last year, the importance of energy to our way of life, our economy and our national security has never really been so clear as it is now," Watson said. 
She gave the keynote address of a two-day conference on coal-bed methane development sponsored by the University of Colorado. 
Much of Bush's plan is being debated in legislation before Congress. 
Energy demands will continue to rise the next 20 years, and more energy will come from natural gas because it pol­lutes less. Watson said. Coal-bed methane is an important new source of gas. 
Methane gas is produced by pumping groundwater to relieve the pressure trapping the gas in coal seams. Commercial production began in earnest in the 1980s. 
The San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado is the country's largest coal-bed methane producer. The Powder River Basin in northeastern Wyoming and southern Montana is quickly catching up, with about 10,000 wells already drilled and a total of 50,000 pre­dicted over the next several years. 
Much of the energy development in the West is on public land. The BLM manages 262 million acres, primarily in 12 Western states, and 700 million acres of minerals. The feder­al government leases the rights to exploit its minerals. 
That leads to clashes between energy producers and ranch­ers who lease public land for livestock grazing, or landown­ers who don't own the mineral rights and don't want oil and gas rigs, compressor stations and new roads on their proper­ty. 
Watson, an Energy Department lawyer in the first Bush administration, said mineral rights trump surface rights. She said the Interior Department is considering ways to reduce the conflicts between producers and landowners, who com­plain federal and state laws don't adequately protect them. 
Watson also acknowledged the negative environmental impacts of coal-bed methane, including the vast amounts of water pumped out of the ground. 
Much of the water is reinjected into the ground in New Mexico and Colorado, but nearly all the water in Wyoming is dumped on the ground because of problems with reinjecting it. 
Water users in Montana have protested releasing the dis­charge into streams because a lot of the water is high in sodi­um, which harms crops and other vegetation. 
100'~
5nlll 
XXXI 
Sign Ups 
EXTENDED!!!!! 
When: Saturday, April 6 and Sunday, April 7 12-2 p.m. and 5-7 p.m. 
Where: l" Floor IAFortune WhatYou Need: creative team name, name and phone # ofcaptain and$$$ 
This year's tournament proceeds to be donated to ND Club ofJ"amica J"umpball Programme 
Questions? Email ns at bkstr.l@nd.edn 
Visitour sponsor 
a1\\a 


r----------------· 
page 12 Friday, April 5, 2002 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIJlWP0INT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto ,;:, ADVERTISING MANAGf.R: Matt Lut7. An DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER! Lori Lewalski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0,.............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 Af>VERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING Eonoa/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE ..••. : ................................................... 631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS........•......••631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly s rudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the edicors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the UniversiryofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer resetves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encoul'll£ed. Letters to che Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies shouU be direct­ed to Editor in Chiefja,011 McFarky. 
Hospital purchase could benefit ND, city 
In another effort to both promote the development of tinue this collaborative effort and would both improve South Bend's Northeast Neighborhood and transfer city the Northeast Neighborhood and enhance the University land to University property, Notre Dame is considering itself. Notre Dame would have the chance to utilize the purchasing South Bend's St. ~oseph Regional Medical location for a variety of purposes and prevent the deteri-Center, which recently announced it oration of South Bend as business move would relocate to the Mishawaka area in out of the core city. 2006. If the University carries out the O Th If Notre Dame does purchase the St.
Hserver .
purchase, it could be a worthwhile Joseph Regional Medical Center, the investment for both the city and Notre University could create a facility that Dame as long as the University uses the would advance Notre Dame's academic 
Editorial
property to enhance the surrounding community and further its own academic goals. 
The University and the Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend have often worked together to establish new programs and centers, such as the Robinson Community Learning Center, that provide a service to the communi­ty. The University's purchase of the hospital would con­
Cru_sading for scholastics 
The student body of Notre Dame has always had a reputation of being well rounded students who worked just as hard as any top 10 academic institution, but have not forgotten how to have a little fun at the same time. I am quite relieved that the University administrators are finally getting around to stomping out these nasty rumors. If all goes as planned, such dis­tractions as social gath­erings, sexual rela­tionships and (the most evil of all) tailgating will be nothing but windy stories told by old alumni. Nearly a decade ago, the admin­istrators had started this campaign to rid your beloved campus of any­thing not related to academics, spirituality, or discipline. They had closed the stu­dent bars on campus 


and outlawed the use Just sit back and let it of kegs by private par­happen. There is really ties. nothing you can do. The 
I was encouraged by this move and anxiously awaited the cer­tain shift in the student population. No longer would this campus be overrun by out-going, socializing youths. Soon a wave of pure intellec­tuals, geeks and hermits would take over. To my disappointment, the turnover was not as quick as I had hoped. 
A few weeks ago, I learned that the University had decided to take anoth­er stab at drastically improving the 
goals and enrich the surrounding commu­
nity. Buildings should not be abandoned, especially with a prominent university nearby that is capable of using the property to help the city. Notre Dame should not be expected to bail out South Bend, but if the hospital's location could be used to help the Northeast Neighborhood, the University would continue to show its commitment to the South Bend community. 
quality of student life at Notre Dame. With an efficient strike, Father Poorman out-did himself and his pre­decessors. He banned one of the only regularly attended social events left on your campus. Pure genius. Honestly, there is no need for dances. I cannot think of a single 
good reason that college-aged men and women should be allowed to enjoy each other's com­pany in a relatively mild atmosphere of sexual 
tension. The adminis­tration was crazy to allow this debacle 
to go on as long as 
it did. What a waste of four perfectly good 
Friday nights each year. Think of the possibili­ties. With this extra time, 
maybe another theology require­ment could be added now. My advice to you is this: Students, do not try to fight this. 
administrators are too smart for you. They have all of the time in the world to slowly turn this University into just another draconian, Bible-th umping private college. You are only here for four years, and then you leave and a new set of students are pushed into the ivory tower. 
Do not think for a second that this University needs you, your righteous opinions, or even your alumni dona­tions. For every one of you who were allowed into this place, three others were rejected. They would happily fill your place. So keep on studying, go to Mass daily and most important­ly, stay in the safety of your dorm room as much as possible. Do not worry about your fellow students who like to party, they will slowly be weeded out, and more decent stu­dents will take their places. 
It is time to join the ranks of Bob Jones University and Brigham Young. We are a moral institution above anything else. There is nothing else to college besides school. Do not waste your time fraternizing with the opposite sex or frequenting certain South Bend establishments. Keep your nose in the books, and some day, Notre Dame will boast a higher suicide rate than Cornell, burnout rate than MIT and lack of social skills than the University of Chicago. 
Since this is the Viewpoint section of the newspaper, I feel compelled to add a few suggestions for Father Poorman and the rest of those tire­less crusaders for justice and scholastic responsibility. I think that the administration should move to ban all social events that are not hosted by Flipside or involve a carni­val. In addition to that, the mandato­ry 11 p.m. lights-out of the pre 1960's era should be re-instituted. And most importantly, we should take drastic measures to get rid of Notre Dame football. It distracts the students from their work. It takes away from the academic prestige of our institution. And worst of all, ­oh wait, that will not work, I just remembered how much money foot­ball puts in the bank. 
Richard Quint 
class of '59 NewPort Beach, California April 4, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghanne Downes Courtney Boyle John Fanning 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
Scene 
Amanda Greco 
Graphics 
Jimmy Atkinson 
Production 
Chris Federico 
Lab Tech 
Angela Campos 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame publicly address the recent cases of sexual abuse involving the Catholic Church? 
Vote at NDToday.com by April 11 at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"After coming in contact with a religious man, I always feel that I must wash my hands." 
Friedrich Nietzsche philosopher 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, April 5, 2002 page 13 
Examining the Church in crisis 
The recent revelations of ongoing, concealed pedophilia by Catholics priests demonstrate a need for change within the Catholic Church in America. In their efforts to protect priests accused of sexual abuse, Boston Cardinal Bernard Law and others within the Church hierarchy compromised the safety and betrayed the trust of the Church membership throughout the country. 
The U.S. Homan Catholic bishops conference's proposal for general policy on sexual abuse in the American Church marks one step toward restoring that trust. However, for the Church to sur­vive the ongoing crisis and thrive in the United States in the next century, it must open its doors to the common believer and give its general membership a greater voice within the Church. 
Too often, decisions in the Catholic Church are made without consultation or explanation. It seems as though Catholic clergymen assume an aura of infallibility, or hold an expectation of blind faith, which allows them to brush away the questions and suggestions of the Church membership. With each transfer of ex-priest Jim Geoghan to another parish to conceal his sexual indiscretions, Cardinal Law operated from and worked to confirm that flawed aura. Law's responses to calls for his resignation reflect the general disregard for the opinion of Church membership, demonstrated by too many Church leaders. "Our faith doesn't rest on the shift­ing winds of public opinion," he said. 
In modern society. Americans have come to cherish their right-to-know. A wealth of knowledge exists at the hands of each individual, on the Internet, on tele­vision and in the newspaper. Church members can no longer accept decisions without questions or explanation, nor should they. Law's actions tragically 

Joanna Mikulski 
Tuesday Voice 
on Friday 
illustrate that the ordained ministers of the faith are upon which learning at this school is based. After 14 human beings as prone to lapses in judgement as the years at Catholic schools, l recognize the worth of rest of us. As a body of human beings, the Church the theological and value-based education that I hierarchy needs to honor the right-to-know of have received throughout grammar school, high Church members. school and college. As a Church member, I am con­
The American Church has begun to address the cerned about the future of Catholic schools in this concerns of the public with the release of the names country. of priests, accused of sexual abuse in other dioceses. As students at this University, we all should be However, it needs to move further and 
concerned. On campus, the Church crisis has open itself to a truly honest, public become lost among protests over the debate on the state of the Aliila--..•••-..111111~..... new alcohol policy. Yet, for the 
Church in this country. Here, at the most visible 
Roman Catholic 
University in the coun­
try, this debate and 
disclosure of infor­
mation needs to begin. The adminis­
tration at this 
University should 
openly address the 
issue of pedophilia 
in the Church. If 
any priests associ­
ated with this University have con­
nections to the scan­
dal, their names 
should be revealed. Furthermore, this University needs to foster 
the open exchange of ideas 
on sexual abuse within the 
Church and on questions about 
Church doctrine that the scandal has 
evoked. Specifically, has the time come for 
married and female priests? The integrity of the education at this University depends upon the public, honest dialogue over the current Church crisis. The mishandling of the cases of sexual abuse by priests has undermined the values 
Roman Catholic majority of the ~--•..-•, student population, the con­cealment of pedophilia by 
Cardinal Law and others stands as a far graver infringement of our 
rights and trust than 
the loss of the SYR or the prohibition of hard liquor on campus. Our 
ignorance of the situ­ation puts the Church and this University at risk to emerge from 
this scandal weak­ened. However, by opening its doors, the Church in America could arise from this crisis strengthened. A new commitment to the gen­eral Church membership needs .-J to be made within the Church hierarchy. The future of the Church in this country depends upon it. 
Joanna Milulski is a junior English and German major, and her column appears every other Friday. Contact her at mikulski. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
Acknowledge terror, stop pointing fingers in the Middle East 
I am frustrated because every time I pick up a newspaper, there is another article trying to figure out who is to blame for the Israeli-Palestinian con­flict. It is worthless to point fingers and assign blame or even to argue poli­
Julie Bernstein
tics, when innocent people are losing their lives at the hands of terrorists. 
Daily Trojan 
How do we solve this problem? Is it possible for Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to control the terrorist factions within Palestine and stop the suicide-murders? The problem is that he can't. Nor can Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, President Bush or the United Nations. The terrorists' purpose in Israel is to continue killing Israelis, regardless of peace talks, regardless of' peace agreements, until there is no longer a State of Israel. Terrorists do not consider the loss of a human life as a true loss. 
It makes me sad to think that these terrorists are my peers: 16. 20 and 25­year-olds who feel they have nothing more to live for. Killing themselves and innocent human beings is worth more than life to them. Young adults. who have suffered so much emotional and psychological abuse, they choose to take their lives in the most horrific of ways, through suicide and murder. 
Perhaps if Arafat presented the Palestinian people with a long-term plan that will revitalize their war-torn country, Palestinian youth will anticipate living through their twenties. I'd like to see Arafat develop an eco­nomic plan for Palestine. Prove to the world that he wants peace and is intent on creating a functioning nation called Palestine. Let's encourage Arafat to build an economic system, create jobs and provide housing and schools for the people of Palestine. Provide Palestinians with the basic necessities in life: food, water, shelter. Perhaps then, the terror will stop. 
Comparing Ariel Sharon to Adolph Hitler, or any part 
ple, it's not true. Hitler systematically 
committed mass genocide, killing not 
only 6 million Jews, but also millions of other non-Aryan types such as homosexuals, Christians and 
political prisoners. We are all college­educated people here 
-let's stop the pro­paganda. It won't bring peace to the Middle East. Sharon is pro­
tecting his country. I do not claim to have any expert infor­mation on the war tactics that Sharon 
and the Israeli Defense Forces are using in 
Ramallah and other hotbeds of terrorist organiza­
a11, tion. I do, however, I 9",. know that a prime.i, minister cannot sit back ~ and watch his citizens die. 
of the Nazi regime. is far from a ~-~ It is difficult for me to under-solution. I understand it makes for stand exactly what goes on inside good rhetoric. Let's make the prime these cities after the Israeli tanks move minister of Israel, the Jewish State, in. What do news reports and snapshots appear to be a Nazi. Not only is it dis­tell us? What do Sharon and Arafat tell gusting and insulting to the Jewish peo-us? 
Well, they tell us whatever they want us to believe. Unless you are there, and experiencing it firsthand, you'll never know. That's politics for you. 
So I suggest we stop talking politics for a second, stop trying to figure out who is to blame and acknowledge the terror. There is no excuse for suicide bombings. There is no excuse for inno­cent civilians to lose their lives while eating at cafes, shopping at supermar­kets, riding on buses or celebrating holy days such as a Bat Mitzvah and Passover. In the last six weeks, hun­dreds of Israeli citizens have died, in Netanya, Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Afula and Haifa, at the hands of suicide-murder­ers. 
I don't have a solution for the peace process. Its complexity is filled with his­tory, anger, Jove and faith, not to men­tion politics. 
However, the suicide-murders have to stop, for both the children of Israel and Palestine. It will be more useful for us, as human beings, to focus on the impor­tance of saving lives, not pointing fin­gers. 
This column first appeared in the April 4. 2002 edition ofthe Daily Trojan, the campus newspaper ofthe University ofSouthern California. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER 

tre 
page 14 Friday, April 5, 2002 

:I 


G l E N. 
By LAURA KELLY Assisranr Scene Editor 
In an exceptional gathering of som1>, of Notre Dame's finest actors, the cast of seven men involved in this weekend's production of "Glengarry Glen Ross" boast as talented and testosterone-driven a line-up as the all-star cast of the play's 1992 movie adaptation. 
And the fact that these students don't rely on Hollywood credentials or the tricks of film to bring David Mamet's play to life proves their worth when compared to the likes of Al Pacino, Jack Lemmon, Alec Baldwin or Ed Harris. 

have them all together."
''The play is about the 
According to the director, Kuennen assigned the 
senior Dave Kuennen, the human tendency to think on parts, noting that some 
play is about much more an individual level, instead actors accepted smaller than what its seemingly sim­roles than they are used to,
oftaking into account other 
ple context suggests: just to be a part of the per­employees in a real estate people around you." formance. office are put at odds over a Rehearsals started the sales contest in which the week before spring break,
Matt Lee
winner will receive a allowing for only four weeks
actor
Cadillac and two losing 
employees ·will be fired. 
"The play is really about capitalism and greed -what money and greed make people do," Kuennen said. 
Actor Matt Lee echoed these larger themes of "Glengarry." "Mamet captures human nature, the struggles of the everyday man," Lee said. 'The play is about the human tendency to think on an individual level, instead of taking into account other people around you." 
Such questions of life in modern society, along with the playwright's signature dialogue-driven style, make "Glengarry" one of Mamet's best works, according to Kuennen and other members of the cast. 
The decision to bring the play to the stage was the culmination of several years of discussion and reflection about theatre at Notre Dame. 
Citing examples of productions that the "Glengarry" cast has been involved in, Kuennen said the selection of plays often tends toward the opposite extremes: established classics like "Oedipus Rex" or ultra-new works like "Crave." 
"Unfortunately we don't get too many plays like 'Glengarry;' solid, modern plays that still use the standard format," Kuennen said. "When the the­atre kids would talk about doing a show like this, 'Glengarry' always came up. This year I said I'm going to make it happen." 
Armed with the necessary experience -having acted, directed, stage-managed and even written plays, in addition to reviving the tradition of the First Year Plays as last year's producer -Kuennen assembled an impressive, experienced cast.• 
"These are truly some of the elite actors of 
Notre Dame," said Kuennen. 
"It's almost unheard of to 
before opening night, as 
opposed to the eight weeks 
usually allotted for a main­stage play. Even with several actors involved in other simultaneous productions, Kuennen said the cast sped right through, and despite such time restraints, their professional grasp on their roles is evident from the play's beginning. 
Unlike so many action-driven plays, almost the entire first act of "Glengarry" consists of seated actors talking to each other. Yet the audience is drawn in by Mamet's quick, harsh exchanges, and the interplay between the characters swiftly 

reveals the dark reality of business negotiations and plottings. 
In a competitive industry such as real estate, which pits coworkers against each other for commissions, characters like Shelly Levene (played by senior Matt Lee) 
,,._ 


I 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, April 5, 2002 page 15 
--, 
I 
I 
....


become obsessed with the idea of luck in order to "The actors play off each other and bring out the win back an edge. right emotions." 
Others, like Dave Moss (senior Brenden Geary), The uniqueness of the "Glengarry" cast is due are so embittered that they turn to marrlpulation not only to their talent, but to the fact that they and W1derhanded tricks to get revenge on a com­are all men. Dressed like young businessmen, in pany that seems to b~ sucking the very life out of suits and ties or shirt sleeves rolled up to their them. elbows, the men fill the stage with an l.ll1IlllSta.k.­
"Glengarry" paints a bleak yet fascinating por­able intensity and yet still manage to keep up a trait of the cruel realities of capitalist business cul­light-hearted atmosphere off-stage. "Every ture: the mind games of negotiation, the dynamics rehearsal is more full of testosterone than the one of marrlpulation and the relentless drive to win, no before," Lee joked. matter the cost. Stage manager Meg Ryan said that all joking 
The characters themselves illustrate the range aside, the all-male cast was "sometimes a chal­of "winners" and "losers" as lenge to work with," but the defined by such a greed-dri-friendships among the cast ven world, from the sly and kept the production going. conniving Richard Roma "While it is a serious play,
"With Mamet, it's difficult 
(law student Matt Holmes) to we still had fun putting it 
not to be drawn right in by
the timid victim of these self­on," said Ryan. ish games, client James the first act." "With Mamet, it's difficult Llngk (senior Adel Hana.sh). not to be drawn right in by 
Hated office manager John the first act," Ryan said.
Meg Ryan
Williamson (sophomore Tom "[The play] is about people Conner) and his nervous, stage manager struggling to make it, com­underestimated employee ing to grips with what George Aaronow {sophomore they've been given and with Mike Federico) complete the the past." office staff, while serrlor Chris Sinnott's character Lee also cited the author's writing style as both Baylen throws an interesting twist into the plot. the challenge and the merit of the play. "Since 
The talent and experience of the entire cast is Mamet writes in stream-of-consciousness, the dia­revealed not only in the clear delivery of their logue can be choppy and difficult to act," said Lee. lines, but in the minute details of their stage pres­"It's the most realistic play I've ever done, and ences: a simple gesture or a glance, even when that's the toughest part." the focus of the scene is elsewhere. As "Glengarry"'s cast is made up of sophomores 
Their command of the play and its characters is and seniors, this weekend's performances will be nothing short of professional, a quality that the last at Notre Dame for some actors. "For my Kuennen feels gives the production its energy. last show at Notre Dame, I couldn't ask for a bet­"The talent of these actors creates an electric vibe ter, more challenging character to play," said Lee. 
on stage," Kuennen Keunnen echoed this satisfaction: "After all this 

-
said. work, I hope tomorrow rrlght will be the pinnacle 
Lee agreed, adding ofmv theatre career." that the friendship The culmination of their work will take place on and camrada i.e Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh between the actors Center Auditorium. Tickets for the non-profit pro­gave the production duction are available at the door for $5. its cohesion. "It's wonderful to work 
Contact Laura Kelly at lkelly@nd.edu. 
with this caliber of talent," Lee said. 



~. Above center, Richard (Holmes, right) confronts John (Conner, left) about a high-pressure sale fig the robbery while Richard (Holmes, right) attempts to qualm his fears. 
... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 5, 2002 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Sheffield blasts 3rd home run in Braves' rout 
-
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Gary Sheffield homered for the third straight game, and Andruw Jones and Chipper Jones homered during a seven­run sixth inning as the Atlanta Braves beat the Philadelphia Phillies 11-2 Thursday night. 
Sheffield, acquired from Los Angeles in an offseason trade for outfielder 
... Brian Jordan and pitcher Odalis Perez, hit a three-run homer in the first inning. Sheffield has seven RBI this year. After getting three hits. he's batting .462 (6-for-13). Rafael Furcal and Andruw Jones sin­gled and Sheffield hit the first pitch he saw from Terry Adams (0-1) over the left-center field fence for a 3-0 lead. The Phillies got to 3-2 off Jason Marquis (1-0) on Mike Lieberthal's RBI double in the fourth and Scott Rolen's first homer in the sixth. The Braves broke it open in the bot­tom of the sixth. sending 10 batters to the plate with seven getting hits and scoring. Marcus Giles, pinch-hitter Mark DeRosa and Rafael Furcal had RBI hits before Andruw Jones hit a two-run homer N his first N and Chipper Jones followed with his first of the season. Both homers came off reliever Ricky Bottalico. Atlanta added an unearned run in the seventh on a double by Javy Lopez, 
who scored when second baseman Marlon Anderson dropped a pop fly by Giles. 
Marquis went six innings. The right­h ander allowed five hits, two runs, walked three and struck out eight. 
Adams. making his Phillies' debut after signing a free agent contract dur­ing the offseason following two years with the Los Angeles Dodgers, allowed eight hits, six runs, walked two and struck out six in 5 2/3 innings. 
Houston 6, Milwaukee 3 
Lance Berkman tied a club record for home runs at the start of a season with his third in three days, leading Shane Reynolds and the Houston Astros over the Milwaukee Brewers 6-3 Thursday. 
Berkman has connected in all three of the Astros' games. Chris Truby homered in three straight to open last year. 
Berkman drove in three runs. He went 2-for-4, raising his average to .462. 
The game at Astros Field drew 21,528, the smallest crowd in three seasons at the park formerly called Enron Field. That broke the mark set Wednesday night when 23,381 fans showed up. 
Reynolds (1-0) allowed two runs on seven hits in six innings. 
Jamey Wright (0-1) went 4 1-3 innings and allowed four runs on seven hits and six walks. 
Wright remained winless for his 

Newly-acquired Brave Gary Sheffield Is greeted at home by teammates Andruw Jones and Rafael Furcal after slugging his third home run In Atlanta's 11-2 win. 
career against the Astros. He is 0-6 with a 6. 71 ERA in 10 starts against them. 
Berkman's RBI single started the scoring in the first inning. His two-run homer in the fourth gave Houston a 3-0 lead. 
In the fifth, Morgan Ensberg singled and went to third on two passed balls by catcher Paul Bako. Reynolds' squeeze bunt scored Ensberg for a 4-0 lead. 
Richard Hidalgo added a two-run sin­gle in the sixth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The char.,-e is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
- NOTICES $250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 Well maintained houses near campus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses  WANTED YOUTH MINISTER. 2 suburban parishes, Chicago-OHare area, seek an innovative, dynamic, faith-filled person to coordinate a com­prehensive youth ministry program. Full time position, requires flexible hours, some evenings, weekends. Compassion, enthusi­asm, motivation, organization skills, dedication to teens. Tasks: coordi­nating faith/formation program;  Summer Employment for College Student. Care for 11 and 9 year old. Fun, relaxing summer Good pay. Hours 9am-5pm. Please call Lisa 631-9947. ---------­Portrait Photographer. Available 30­40 hours per week 1 to 3 years experience working with high school seniors? Fine arts educa­tion? Enjoy career opportunity with award winning studio? Call Priscilla 1-800-844-5725  FOR RENT MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com MMMRentals.com Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-conditioned room in  1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath house with lots of updates. DW/wash/dryer inc. Walking distance to campus. Spacious yard for tailgating, recre­ation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec or $325 ea for 5+ Call 277-8450 or email house@newwebtech.com 3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. C/A. Security system. Close to campus. 616-699-5841  New York City Apt-2 bedroom/con­vert 3 New building in East Village Large kitchen with island A/C, videophone.Dish.Micro.Laundry. Free access to nearby gym,No Broker Fee $2600/mo(heat and hot water included) Bethany ND 2000 (347)524-5823. Have a job in Chicago this sum­mer? Rent my furnished bdr in awe­some 3 bdr apt w/ ND grad. Close to El & Wrigley. M/F. Call Kristin @ 773-388-2704 Summer Rent 2 bdrm, Castle Pt  
4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955  supervising adult volunteers; preparing liturgies, yearly retreat, fostering social justice outreach; guide fund raising program. Preferred candidate Catholic with bachelor deg. in ministry/theology, some experience. Start date: July 1, 2002. Submit resume, reflection on youth ministry, 3 references to:  Ext 124 Reliable businessman looking to rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home tor 9 to 12 months or longer. ASAP. Call Tim 574-250-8552. Lv. mes­sage if necessary.  NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M, 1F) Safe neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1/2 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/month + 1 /4 utilties, call Michelle 202/829-3725, or  SUMMER SUBLET 4Bdm/2Ba house close to ND partially fur­nished, air, w.d. great backyard $1100+uts. 289-5651 Nice 3-4 bdrm, 1.5 bath, CIA, gas heat, W&D, fenced backyard across  part furn Amy 243-0195 short/long term 3 mo. max. Matt 631-2000 3-11 pm M-F $250/mo. 1/2 mile to ND PERSONAL  
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 3 NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND NORTH  Youth Min. Search Comm., 920 W. Granville, Park Ridge, IL 60068. Fax 847-825-3484 by April 6.  FOR SALE Men's new black NOTRE DAME  krup78@hotmail.com HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)1arge (6-9)  from park, VERY SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD, fireplace, 2 car garage $1050/mo+dep. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis• tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
- 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097 FEMALE SUB-LET IN CHICAGO 2 recent ND grads seek a room­mate to share spacious 3 bdrm, 2 bth apartment close to Wrigley, El, very safe 5/1-8/31  SMC alumna looking for someone to do childcare in my Granger home for school year 2002-2003, 2-3 hours per day, M-F. Must have own car. Call 247-0690. Boy Scout Summer Camp Program Director-7 weeks in June & July. Must train, lead & motivate a pro­gram staff of 45 Experience strong­ly preferred.  leather jacket (med) $150. 631-6234 or 616-684-6692 PASSAT VW 1996. $7500 obo. Kel!yBB=$8900. Black, all avail options, heated leather seats, manu trans, no fluid leaks, 150k, tight last sporty sophis­ticated. Call Jason 634-4645  people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call Bill at 532-1896. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cottage .. cute.. DAVE 291-2209 3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM­ 2 Great Homes: 4 & 5 Bdrm, W&O, close to campus. Well Kept! Great Location! ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255-8403. Furn. 1 bedroom house w/ garage. 1 mi N of campus. Avail mid-May to mid-August  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. A lifetime of happiness awaits your baby. Young California couple with stay at home mom and involved dad will cherish your newborn in our warm, caring, secure and joy-filled home Please call Kim and Al toll free anytime 1-866-533-3332. AREA CODE CHANGES Update business cards letterhead &  
Call for details (312)-696-1579  Send resume to info@tasallecoun­silbsa.org or fax to 574-289-0336.  Couch, loveseat, and recliner. $450 or best offer. Less than a year old Perfect condition. 233-0360  PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 272-6306,292-6717  $550/month all util incl. Call Laura 514-8568.  envelopes at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 574-631­COPY  

... 
hiday, April 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Pacers' 5th straight defeat hurts playoff hopes 
Kevin Ollie followed 2:06 Pat Garrity added 14 points Miller, who reinjured his left 1/2 games behind Dallas in the 
. Indiana's 95-94 later with a pair of free throws and a career-high 11 rebounds ankle early in the second Midwest Division. ... to tic it at 90-90, but the for Orlando, which cut its quarter. Miller, who missed Cuttino Mobley scored 24
loss to Atlanta 
Hawks answered with a 3-magic number for clinching a three weeks last month with a points for the Rockets, whodrops Pacers into pointer from Terry. After the playoff berth to four. sprain, was hurt when he lost for the eighth time in 10 
teams each hit two foul shots Armstrong was struggling, stepped on the foot of games.
tie for 8th spot 
on their next two possessions, too. He was shooting 3-for-11 Cleveland's Lamond Murray. The Spurs are 15-4 in the Ron Artest hit two free throws through three quarters and Miller is listed as day-to-day. second night of back-to-backs, Associated Press to end the scoring with 1:09 has shot 14-for-59 (23.7 per­Davis and Zydrunas the best in the league. remaining. cent) on 3-pointcrs since mid­Ilgauskas each scored 21 for Duncan has scored 20 or ATLANTA Terry missed a runner off' March. Cleveland, losers of seven of more points in 22 straight 
Reggie Miller missed a fade­the glass in an attempt to Even more, a third-quarter eight games and seven games. away 3-puinter at the buzzer draw a foul. and the Pacers collision with Cleveland's straight on the road. Andre Houston used a 10-1 run to as the Atlanta Hawks beat got a rebound from Ollie and Andre Miller opened a gash in MH!er added 10 points and 15 open an 18-10 lead with 6:50 Indiana 95-94 Tuesday night, called timeout with 9.9 sec­Armstrong's chin. assists, but had six turnovers. left in the first quarter. But sending the Pacers to their onds to go. Bleeding on the T.D. After Jumaine Jones' fade­the Spurs answered with a 12­fifth loss in six games. Austin Croshere, who hit two Waterhouse Centre's hard­away jumper put Cleveland 0 run, with Duncan scoring six 
Indiana, which never led, fell 3-pointers in the fourth, made wood is becoming a habit for ahead 94-84, the Cavaliers of the points, to go ahead 22­into a tie \Vith Toronto for the an inbounds pass to Miller, Armstrong. On Sunday, a fore­missed six of eight shots and 18 with 3:01 left in the first. eighth and final Eastern who got free from the defend­arm from New York's Kurt committed four turnovers Mobley had nine points in Conference playoff spot. The ing Atlanta's Ira Newbie at the Thomas created a six-stitch down the stretch. the second quarter, but the Raptors, who are 2-0 against top of the key and then tried to gash on his lip. Orlando struggled early, Spurs' balanced scoring Indiana this season, will play win it over the arms of an out­Armstrong began the rally missing 12 of its first 14 shots helped them steadily pull the Pacers on Sunday at stretched Mohammed. with a 3-pointer with 5:45 and quickly falling behind by away. San Antonio had five Toronto and again Wednesday remaining, and his second 3 eight points. Ilgauskas had players with eight points in Indianapolis. Orlando 105, Cleveland 101 cut the deficit to a point two seven points as Cleveland took apiece when it led 49-41 with 
Nazr Mohammed scored 18 With six minutes remaining minutes later. a 15-7 lead. But McGrady 2:49 to play in the half. points and Jason Terry added and their opponent up by 10 After a Cleveland free throw, scored 11 points in three min­At the intermission, Duncan 17 to lead the Hawks, who points, all signs pointed to a McGrady tied the game at 97 utes, and the first period had 12 and Steve Smith 10 as avoided being swept by loss for the Orlando Magic. on a layup and Garrity put ended with the teams tied at the Spurs led 55-45. Indiana for first time since But Darrell Armstrong Orlando ahead for good with 22. San Antonio scored the first 1976-77, the Pacers' first NBA wasn't about to go down with­two foul shots at the 2:21 seven points of the second half season. out a fight -as seen by the mark. It was the Magic's first San Antonio 102, Houston 78 to expand its lead to 62-45. 
Atlanta had a seven-point six stitches in his chin. lead since 28-26 early in the Tim Duncan had 22 points Jason Collier's six points led lead w-ith 10:31 remaining Armstrong scored 11 of his second period. and 11 rebounds for his NBA­a 14-2 Houston run that pulled after Terry fed Shareef Abdur­18 points down the stretch and On Cleveland's ensuing pos­leading 61st double-double of the Rockets back to 64-59 with Rahim for a dunk that turned Tracy McGrady had 35 points session, Ricky Davis missed a the season as the San Antonio 5:38 to play in the third. But into a three-point play. and 14 rebounds Thursday driving layup that would've Spurs defeated the Houston the Spurs outscored the 
The Pacers tied it twice in night as Orlando rallied to tied the score. Armstrong then Rockets 102-78 Thursday Rockets 10-2 to stretch the the fourth quarter. Jermaine beat the Cleveland Cavaliers sealed the win with 1:46 to night to sweep the four-game lead back to 76-63. Duncan O'Neal, who had game-highs 105-101. play on his third 3-pointer, the season series. had 18 as San Antonio led 76­of 22 points and 14 rebounds, In Orlando's game-ending Magic's sixth 3-pointer of the David Robinson added 15 65 after three. hit two free throws to tie the 21-7 run, Armstrong hit three quarter. points, seven rebounds and The Rockets were never able score at 84-84 with 4:25 3-pointers and a pair of free Orlando rallied without three blooked shots for the to cut the lead to fewer than remaining. throws. starting small forward Mike Spurs, who began the night 1 10 points in the final quarter. 

-
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 5, 2002 
NHL NCAA FOOTBALL 
Bure scores twice as Hurricanes' playbook stolen 
arrived by mail at the univer­misplacing them. And any
Associated Pres. 
sity's Hecht Athletic Center player who is cut has to turn
Rangers def eat Leafs
.. 
on March 28. Each envelope it in before he leaves camp . CORAL GABLES, Fla. was postmarked Tampa on The Hurricanes take similar midair. 
The Miami Hurricanes March 22 and had no return precautions.
. Bruins. fall to 
The Leafs didn't get a shot on 
carry the little green binders address. "There's a big policing of Islanders, yet still Blackburn until Bryan 
from meeting room to meet­One was addressed to "Ken our play books," center Brett McCabe's slapper from the 
ing room, keeping tight con­Dorsey c/o LB Coach" and Romberg said. "If you don't
extend Eastern 
point was stopped 6:15 into the trol on the team's formations, "Ken Dorsey c/o QB Coach." have it, you're running.'' 
Conference lead game. 
plays and terminology. Dorsey is the Hurricanes Added defensive tackle Matt The Rangers went ahead 2-0 
They take the 150-page quarterback, in addition to Walters: "Since I've been when Lindros deflected Tom 
playbooks home and to being a Heisman Trophy here, no one's ever lost a
Associated Press 
Poti's centering pass behind 
school, too, always guarding finalist last season. playbook." TORONTO Leafs goalie Corey Schwab. 
them as if they were the foot­The playbooks were taken Still, the Hurricanes didn't Pavel Bure scored twice, The momentum then 
ball equivalent of atomic from the office of linebacker seem too concerned about including the go~ahead goal switched in Toronto's favor as 

secrets. coach Vernon Hargreaves, their X's and O's making their midway through the third peri­the Leafs outshot New York 19­
Well. they're secrets no and the playbook pages were way into cyberspace. od, leading the desperate New 4 during a 20-minute stretch 
more. removed from the binders, "Some guy must have lost York Rangers to a 4-2 victory extending into the second peri­
The national champions' but the binders were left in his welfare check and he's over the Toronto Maple Leafs od. 
two playbooks, one offensive the office, according to the just looking for another on Thursday night. Mogilny made it 2-1 early in 
and one defensive, were report. source of income," Romberg Bure was standing alone at the second period when he con­
stolen last month and parts of "I don't know what they got said. "But if he wants to do the side of the net as linemate verted a 2-on-1 pass with 
them were posted on the but it doesn't matter," that, then he can go to bed Eric Lindros fought off a Maple Travis Green, beating 
Internet. Coral Gables police Hargreaves said. "If nobody every night thinking about Leafs defender and fed him a Blackburn on a sharp angle. 
said someone took the play­knows what we~re doing by selling us out. It really loose puck. The Russian sniper The Leafs outshot the Rangers 
books and returned them now, it's not going to matter." doesn't matter. Every team easily put in the winner. 20-5 in the period. 
March 28 in manila Playbooks have ended up in pretty much does the same Matthew Barnaby added a 
envelopes. enemy hands before. thing; it's a matter of who goal as New York, badly out­Islanders 2, Bruins 1 (OT) 
Team officials only learned Indiana Pacers forward executes the best." played by Toronto most of the Oleg Kvasha scored at 3:29 of 
of the theft when they got the Malik Sealy left his playbook Team officials checked the game and out.shot 37-24, got its overtime to give the New York 
playbooks back. Police and at Kennedy International Internet and found playbook third consecutive win thanks to Islanders a 2-1 win Thursday 
FBI officials are involved in Airport in 1993. The book pages scanned on the Web the solid goaltending of 18-night, but the Boston Bruins 
the case but have no sus­was basically a scouting site "Sandman's 4-3 Defense year-old rookie Dan Blackburn. added to their Eastern 
pects, Sgt. Ed Hudak said report on Indiana's playoff On-Line." The site is named Llndros had a goal and two Conference lead. 
Thursday. opponent, the New York after a popular defense in assists for the Rangers, who The Islanders, who were out-· 
"The focus of our investiga­Knicks, and detailed which four linemen are remained five points behind shot for the game by a 40-16 
tion is twofold," Hudak said. strengths and weaknesses of backed by three linebackers. eighth-place Montreal for the margin, nearly won in regula­
"How it got stolen and how it each player. Team officials told local final playoff spot in the Eastern tion, but Glen Murray scored 
got disseminated through the The contents were read on police that they dido't know Conference. The Canadiens with 2:16 left, ruining Garth 
Internet." a national radio show just how the playbooks were beat Philadelphia 3-1 Snow's bid for his third shutout 
Coach Larry Coker said hours before the teams began removed. Thursday. New York has four in nine wins this season. 
Thursday he wasn't too con­a first-round playoff series, Jeff Merk, Miami's director games remaining and the Snow still got his 100th NHL 
cerned about the theft. and Sealy was fined. of football operations, told Canadiens five. win, capping a day in which his 
"The ones we hand out, Former Florida coach Steve police that "occasionally Alexander Mogilny and alma mater, the University of 
they pretty much don't have a Spurrier closed practice in unauthorized person(s) find Mikael Renberg scored for the Maine, reached the NCAA hock­
lot of meat and potatoes," he 1996 to the media after some their way into the area of the Maple Leafs, fourth in the East. ey finals with a 7 -2 win over 
said. "They do have some of his "ball plays" ended up coaches' offices and occasion­Renberg tied the game 2-2 New Hampshire in St. Paul, 
basic things in them that are on a Web site. ally doors are left unlocked." just 43 seconds into the third Minn. 
important, but nothing they In the NFL, playbooks are Changes in security already period on a power play, com­The Bruins, 1-2 since winning 
can't get off of video." treated like trade secrets. have been discussed and pleting a three-way passing six straight, gained one point 
According to a police Players can be fined thou­implemented, athletics direc­play with Mogilny and Mats from the overtime loss and are 
report, two manila envelopes sands of dollars for losing or tor Paul Dee said. Sundin. five points ahead of 
Blackburn was brilliant at Philadelphia, which lost to times. After not getting tested Montreal 3-1. for the first six minutes, he Kvasha's 11th goal of the sea­faced 30 shots by the end ofthe son was unassisted. He put the second period, stopping all but puck between defenseman Hal one. Gill's skates near the Boston 
The Rangers scored on the blue line, then cut past Sean opening shift when Bure con­O'Donnell, who knocked him to nected for his 30th of the sea­the ice. But as he was falling, son at 54 seconds. Llndros did Kvasha shot the puck between all the work. stealing the puck goalie Byron Dafoe's legs. from Cory Cross behind the Murray had tied it in the third Toronto net and feeding Bure, with his seventh goal in nine who batted the puck out of games. 
TAKE 
PORTUGUESE AT ND 
AND STUDY ABROAD IN BRAZIL 
Course Offerings for 2002-2003 
• ROPO 111-1 I2F: Intensive Beginning Portuguese I & ll ( Fall/Spring: sequence fulfills the language requirement) 
.. • ROPO 121-122: Portuguese for Spanish Speakers l & II (Fall/Spring) 
• ROPO 201: Intermediate Portuguese (Fall) 
• ROPO 202: Advanced Portuguese (Spring)
-
• 
LLRO IS0J: Brazilian Film & Literature in Translation (Fall) 

• 
ROPO 441; Immigrant Voices in Brazilian Literature (Spring) 


Vniversity of Notre Dame 
Dept of Romance Languages & Literatures Portuguese Language Program Director: Isabel A. Ferreira Tel. 631-0460 E-mail: ferreira.5@ml.t!du 

... 

A T u R  The Skammunists aGo music from: Misdirected Energy Emotionally Unavailable anlthe most triumphant return o{: The Jackson 3  
I  free fool, lrinl:;, anJ!Jiveawa3s.....  
N  .Safurla!J, 1lprif6th from tpm to Gpm on the 1<.noffin Molt2uarf  
G  sponsorelb_J the Men of1<.noff 1-faff  

,  I  
l  
~  I  
I  
I  
I  
~  I.  
I  
I  
I  
I  
- 
'  
.  I  
'  
'  

.. 
! 
I I 
I 
) 
I 
t 
~ 
... 
page 20 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 5, 2002 
BASEBALL 
The Irish head into San Diego with only one regatta under their belts this spring, a March 16 routing of Tennessee in which Notre Dame won four of five 
Irish rolVers test the waters of San Diego 
Clemson, Oregon State, Notre 
By MARK ZAVODNYlK 
Dame and Tulsa. The second Sports Writer 
varsity heat starts with Duke. followed by Texas, California­
The Notre Dame women's San Diego, Cal, UCLA and rowing team will get a break Stanford. Even the junior varsi­from the blustery weather when ty race, which is seeded ran­it travels to sunny California for domly, is up for grabs. this weekend's annual San On Wednesday, the NCAA Diego Crew Classic. released the early spring coach­
es' poll. It gave further evi­
"We are ready to get on dence as to the the line. [The time off] depth of the 
San Diego
will help. We are ready to 
regatta. Of test our speed. " those partic­ipating in the San Diego
Michelle Olsgard 
Crew Classic,
Irish captain 
Ohio State was 
races. On March 23 a big match-up with Michigan State was cancelled because of the weather. 
Coach Martin Stone isn't con­cerned with the team's relative lack of competition coming into the regatta. 
"We're just not going to worry about it," Stone said. 
The Irish have used the time off to fuel their fire for competi­tion. 
"We are ready to get on the line. [The time oft] will help," said Irish captain Michelle Olsgard. "We are ready to test our speed." 
This team returns 22 rowers from last year's group that fin­ished the year ranked 16th nationally and just missed get­ting a bid to the NCAA champi­onships, 
This experience, as well as the number of returning veter­ans, has caused many to believe that this team can compete with anybody. 
"I am confident in our speed compared to last year," said Olsgard. 
Coach Stone agreed. 
"We have made good progress this spring. We are stronger on paper. but that doesn't necessarily transmit to the water," Stone said 
The Irish will face some tough competition at the San Diego Crew Classic. The regatta is headed by returning champion, Ohio State. 
In the first varsity heat, Ohio State is seeded first, followed by Southern California, California, 
ranked third, 
with ninth­ranked USC, 11th ranked California and 19th ranked Oregon State following close behind. Notre Dame is ranked 20th. 
"This is the biggest spring regatta in the country," said Coach Stone. 
Team captain Olsgard agreed. 
"It is real important for us to see the other teams," Olsgard said. 
Even though some schools in the regatta are highly touted, this Irish squad believes that it can sneak up on some people. 
"[The other teams] might underestimate us. Our goal is to make it to the finals," said Olsgard. 
The San Die'go Crew Classic provides Notre Dame with a chance to prove that it is among the elite crew teams in the country. The Midwest region, which contains teams such as Michigan. Michigan State and Iowa, will prove to be one of toughest regions from which to get a bid for the NCAA champi­onships. 
In distributing invitations, the NCAA selection committee focuses more on the races later in the season. Throughout its 30-year history, the San Diego Crew Classic has been known as one of the few early spring events to have NCAA champi­onship implications. 
Olsgard and the rest of the Irish are just ready to race. 
Contact Mark Zavodnyik at mzavodny@nd.edu. 
Ready for the Red Storm 
Associated Press 
After scoring 28 runs in their two-game series against Valparaiso, the Notre Dame baseball team will look to con­tinue their improvement against St. John's this week­end in their Big East home opener. 
Seven of Notre Dame's next eight games will be against Big East foes as the team heads deeper into the conference schedule. 
The Irish have reeled off six straight victories on their way to improving their record to 15-10, 3-4 in the conference. 
Freshman right-hander Chris Niese! is slated to start game one of Saturday's dou­bleheader, while another freshman, John Axford, should take the hill to begin game two. 
Sunday's contest will proba­bly see J.P. Gagne starting on the mound. The three-game rotation may seem slightly dif­ferent as freshman pitcher Grant Johnson, who has sever­al starts on the season, may move into the bullpen to occu­py the much-need closer role. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, they will be without starting freshman shortstop Matt Macri for the rest of the season. Macri will have "Tommy John" surgery on his throwing shoulder and will not return this season. 
The Irish have already lost freshman shortstop Matt Edwards for the rest of the season to a compound leg fracture. 
After suffering several early­season injuries, the Irish arc finally settling into their day to day lineup. 
Senior centerfielder Steve Stanley is leading the team in hitting with a .433 average, while also compiling a .496 on-base percentage, 
All-American catcher Paul O'Toole leads the team with five home runs. and his 21 RBIs ties him with third base­man Andrew Bushey for the team lead. 
The two teams will play a doubleheader at noon Saturday, fllowed by the final game of the series at the same time Sunday. 
the notre dame center for pastoral liturgy announces the 4th annual Mork Searle Lecture in Liturgy 
JENNIE WEISS BLOCK 
author of 
(OPIOUS [HOSTING 
ATheology of Access for People with Disabilities 
Thursday, April 11, 2002 • 7:00 pm (edt/cst) 
McKenna Hall, Room 112 -114 • University of Notre Dome 
Boole signing and reception following program. 
for Information contact 
ffiNTER.FQR.,
the center for pastoral liturgy 1224 hesburgh library ~TOBN. univerSity of notre dame • notre dame In 46556 574-631-5435 • ndcpl.1@nd.edu ~ 
. ·:.:; ..• _· ,:.. ·,:. :~--· •:•:,_t:,:,:•.. ' ., : 
·;. ;, . 
i 
,;_,,,., 
·:,,liiil~ggy ii~§ ~miir el@ iffl9[990'll
t~ ~tt 4-tl ~t~II ffltffi@~f9.iQ1 jmliffl~§ > 
:.:::::::;::,;:;·:·:·:········
/=~~f4f~•­
. CaH 11111,-l11.1is •·re_, ·· 
'·-\t'··r 
••,.,1ast! 
.(}o~t;~1··K;~mer: Office: 234*2436 Cell: 274-9955 Voicemail: ~?.~:~~?.:.. . 

;/ Irish Women's Tennis takes on Colon Cancer 
ACE~:: 
CURE 
ThisSundav 
Notre Dame vs. Miami 
12pm -Courtnev Tennis Center 
First 200 students will receive an adidas t-shirt. Giveaways during the match from: Notre Dame, adidas, and Panasonic 
Tickets are now on sale at the Joyce Center Ticket Office and at North Dining Hall -April.3, 4, 5 South Dining Hall -April 3, 4 
All proceeds to benefit Colon Cancer Research 

r,
MEIJER. 
:•Al';, T.J•. HJ'J I 
Ht1J1•01l;~kJ.,. 1! 1·,.,.,,,..,, hi· 
... 
Friday, April 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish top Illinois-Chicago 
. Hot Irish hitting overcomes cold weather en route to 11-6 victory 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
On Thursday, the Notre Dame softball team finally opened its home schedule to 30-degree temperatures. However, the cold weather could not stop Notre Dame's hot bats, as Notre Dame beat Illinois-Chicago 11-6. 
With the win, the Irish reach .500 at 12-12, and extend their winning streak to four. 
Going back to the 2000 home season, the Irish now have a 21 game winning streak at Ivy Field continuing their impressive hitting were senior captain Jarrah Myers and junior Lisa Mattison. Myers went two for two, scored three runs and got on base in all four of her plate appearances. 
Mattison drove in a career high four runners and went three for four. She is hitting .800 in Notre Dame's past four games. 
Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf believes the team's offense is just putting all the pieces together. 
"I think they are clicking. I think it's timing. I think it's rhythm," Gumpf said. "l think they are all believing they should be doing it now. We went through a lot. We played a lot of great teams. We went through a lot of growing pains. 
AT SMC: 
-FREE 
Now l think they believe in each other and believe in themselves." 
After the Flames scored a run in the top of the first, the Irish responded with three in the bottom of the inning. With the scored tied at one, fresh­man Liz Hartmann 's single drove in two and put the Irish ahead 3-1. 
In the second, Notre Dame broke the game open, thanks to two of Illinois-Chicago's five errors. Junior Alexis Madrid reached_ on an error to open the inning. After senior Jenny Kreich flied out to center, Megan Ciolli was hit by a pitch. Junior Andrea Loman singled to score Madrid, and put the Irish up 4-1. 
Ciolli came around to score on a wild pitch and make the score 5-1. Myers walked, and the Irish executed a double steal to take a 6-1 lead. 
· Andria Bledsoe reached on the second error of the inning and scored with Mvers on Mattison's double. · With four innings completed, the Irish seemed to be in con­trol with a 10-3 lead. However, their intensity less­ened, and they let the Flames have another chance. "Illinois-Chicago is the kind of team that can come back at any moment and beat you," Gumpf said. "We let them in the ballgame. We were domi­nating them in the first four innings and we let them back in the ballgame and that's our fault. We got sloppy and we got a little lazy because we were ahead." Freshman Carrie Wisen relieved fellow freshman 
Steffany Stenglein in the top of the fifth with the score 10-3. Stenglein (9-8) went four innings to pick up the win. Sho gave up three runs on five hits and struck out three. 
The first three batters for Illinois-Chicago reached in the fifth. A single from Amanda Rivera gave the Flames their fourth run of the game. On a wild pitch two runners scored to cut the Irish lead to four. Wisen recovered to retire nine of the next 11 batters she would face and preserved the victory for the Irish. 
Notre Dame took advantage of Illinois Chicago's sloppy play. The Flames committed five errors -which led to five unearned runs -and had two wild pitches and two passed balls. 
Gumpf was surprised wHh their bad play. 
"I think that they are not usually like that," Gumpf said. "They are a big strong team. They don't usually make a lot of mistakes." 
This weekend, the Irish trav­el to play St. John's and Seton Ilall in Big East conference action. St. John's is 0-2 in the Big East while Seton Hall is 4­0. 
"Those are big, huge games for us, conference games. They're both good teams," Gumpf said. "St. John's is a really scrappy team. They'll beat you on a bad day. Seton Hall is a great team. So it's going to be a huge weekend for us." 
Contact Matt Lozar at 
mlozar@nd.edu. 
' 
sPRECHER ROOT BEER WILL BE SERVED 
OTHER SODA AND SNACKS WILL ALSO BE PROVIDED 
B. Y .{),B, -BRll"lG Y(JUR (J Wl"l BEDSHEET 
AND JOIN US ON FRIDAY, APRIL 5TH FROM 9:30 TO 1 1 :30PM AT RIEHLE FIELDS FOR 
OLYMPIC GAMES NIGHT 
Ultimate Frisbee, Touch Football, Kickball, Whiffle Ball, Volleyball, Soccer, 
3-Legged Races, Sack Races. Wheelbarrow Races. Relay Races, and More! 
MEDALS AWARDED TO THE BEST INDIVIDUALS AND TEAMS 

Please visit our website for full information: www.nd.edu/~flipside 
HAGGAR BALLROOM 
ADMISSION­
SMC TENNIS 
Belles set for home test against Alma 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Alma Scots brought in some new faces, hoping to find balance between veteran play and young energy, but they still haven't found that balance. As they head into Saturday's match against the Belles, they bring with them only two wins and a preponderance of dou­bles losses. 
However, with six new fresh­man faces, Alma may yet find its groove and hit Saint Mary's 
with  something  the  team  
hasn't seen yet.  
"You  never  know  what  

recruits or new players some­body has," said Dee Stevenson, Belles head coach. "So you have to be prepared for new players somebody might bring 
in." 
Alma's Megan Hlavaty may bring the biggest challenge for Saint Mary's. Switching off at the No. 3 and No. 4 singles spots, Hlavaty has brought home three wins, more than most of the other members of her team. 
However, she will be facing off against Saint Mary's Kaitlin Cutler or Kris Spriggle. Both women are undefeated in MIM play and are focused on keeping their records clean. Despite the fact that neither woman has faced off against Hlavaty, some warm-up time may give them enough to get a feel for her game. 
"Really, [I'm going to} just take it as it comes in the warm-up, get a feel for how they play and what their strengths and weaknesses are, and work with that during the match," Spriggle said. 
The sophomore missed last year's match against Alma, so she will be facing the Scots for the first time. 
The rest of the team is feel­
ing comfortable heading into 
Saturday's home match. In 
addition to facing competition 
that is having a slow season, 
they will be back on home 
courts with surfaces they are 
used to. 
During their last two match­
es at Adrian and Olivet, the 
Belles were playing on a sur­
face referred to as Tartan Turf, 
complete with lines for basket­
ball and volleyball play. 
"You have to learn to adjust to different types of surfaces," Stevenson said. "I just go around reminding them how ~they have to adjust ahead of time. It helps to have experi­ence playing on all different 
surfaces." 
Despite the experience the 
Belles might be getting playing 
on various surfaces, being back 
on a surface they're used to is 
a big relief for them. 
"It's nice to play on some­
thing that you're familiar 
with," Spriggle said. "The 
courts are very nice." 
The Alma doubles teams 
have won a total of four match­
es out of the 18 that they have 
played this season. Alma's No. 
1 doubles team of Sarah Pipas 
and Emily Brookhouse have 
only had one victory and 
should prove an easy match for 
the sister team of Annie and 
Jeanne Knish. No. 2 doubles 
should similarly prove a lop­
sided competition for Elisa 
Ryan and Cutler. Alma's No. 3 
doubles team, even with 
Hlavaty playing, has only taken 
home two victories, and 
Spriggle and Angie Sandner's 
match should prepare the pair 
for tough league competition. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
AIDIIHim 500-Dnlg11 •llmmiians •Marteling, Cansultallfs Seminar· . !' 
:Learn The Methods OfAProfessional BusinessMan's Priceless Achievements 1 An ABC-123 Pfan To Follow, To Hefp You Chase Your Dreams & Win. .dona DavSemlllar,A BoatOtarer Ten Years OfJn-,,aluallle Experieilce. · This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts . you must have iri busi, iess to move forward in high level business. 1 The class ;s taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, •change the course ofan eritlre industry.• · '
/AS• ~ . ­
'ARE For class dates, pnvat,i classes & · 
• . ~OC'!!"OA_B "'.ore information, go to our web 
; llllllldQ1't...tfl:.,_CllnWs site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 . WIII/W.USBStaDd.t:Om /=-mall• inventor@usastand.com 

ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
SPONSORED BYnodofoS 
~~ NOJl,DAMlfOOOllO,,Cll 


page 22 The Oburver . SPORTS Friday, April 5, 2002 
MEN'S GOLF 
Marshall Invitational 
ryone is talking 
to be critical tuneup 
,ross College 
Joining the Irish this year
Special to The Observer 
are Akron, Ball State, Bowling 

.A~ GRE~r WALL 
.. ·t&?fiJ Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row \:-,,~..· '.:, •'.:''1' Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese• American 
' ; Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days ; Lunch Special $4 75 -Mon -Fri 11 30 -3·oo PM J Dinner Starting at $6.45 
, Sunday -Thursday 11 ·30 AM . 1 o·oo PM . Friday · Saturday 11 :30 AM -11 :00 PM II ,, Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday _
, I 
11 a.m. to3 p.m 
58.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 1 0 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 

Quality 
Diamonds 

SENIORSIII 
Ticket sales for Senior Week events will be on 
sale THIS FRIDAY APRIL 5th 
from NOON-5:00pm 
At ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
Last year, the Cubs game sold out quickly, so get there soon! 
•Chicago 
Trip(includes bus and ticket to Cubs game) $30 

•Cedar 
Point(includes bus and ticket to amusement park) $50($45 with purchase of Chicago Trip) •Riverdance $25 

•Formal 
$15($25 at the door) 


***You may only purchase tickets for ONE friend, PROVIDED YOU HAVE BOTH IDs. 
Any questions: Contact LROMPF@nd.edu 
• 
Meet with faculty, staff, administration, alumni and students. 

• 
Tour our new academic and residence facilities. 

• 
Hear faculty and staff presentations on admission, financial aid, academic programs, student life and much more. 

• 
A great opportunity for prospective students and parents to discover an that Holy Cross College has to offer. 


Join us ... and learn more about our 
unique two-year, transfer-intent program. 
Great collegessometimes come in small packages. 
For reservations or more in1ormation, contact sraven@hcc-nd.edu or call 574-239-8400. 
The Notre Dame men's golf team returns to action this weekend for their final tuneup the Big East Championship when the Irish participate in the 33rd annual Marshall Invitational in Huntington, W.Va. The tournament will be played at the par 71, 6,446­yard Guyan Golf and Country Club and features 20 teams from the Midwest. 
Last year, the Irish finished 13th in the 19-team tourna­ment, firing their best 54-hole total of the year. with a 28­over par 880 (298-289-293). Alex Kent was the top finisher with a three-over par 216. Steve Ratay. the only current team member to play last year, tied for 59th with a 12­over par 220. 
The Marshall Iuvitational will be the final tune-up for the Irish before hosting the Big East Tournament at the Warren Country Club on April 20 and 21. 
Green, Eastern Kentucky, Eastern Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa. Kentucky, Louisville, Marshall, Miami (Ohio), Michigan. Ohio University, Ohio State, Toledo, Wisconsin, Wright State and Xavier. 
Ratay has been Notre Dame's top golfer all season with three top-five finishes and five top-20 performances on the year. His average for the year stands at 72.74 which would break the Irish record of 73.13 (Joe Grace, 1955-56}, which has stood for 46 years. For his career, Ratay owns a 
74.53 average for 96 rounds that ranks him second all­time. just .10 off the career­mark of 74.43, which is held by Charles Thurn (1956-58).­
Today's action will include the first 36 holes with play to begin with a shotgun start at 
7:30 a.m. The final 18 holes will be played on Saturday beginning at 7:30 a.m. 
Incorporated 
19G5 
Jewelers/ Gemologists
Goldsmiths / Pla:tinumsmiths 
Key Bank Building, Suit~ 11101 Soutb Bend, Indian.a 46601 
287-1427 
Friday, April 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Irish 
continued from pag~ 28 
Davie's final three years and hadn't won a bowl game since 1993. 
However, Willingham doesn't necessarily think changing offensive schemes or juggling players will lead to success. The most important change he wants to make involves the Irish attitude. 
Willingham called the nega­tive attitude surrounding Notre Dame football a result of the "Eeyore Cloud," named for the pessimistic donkey in "Winnie the Pooh." The goal of the new coaching staff is to break through the downbeat attitude surrounding the Irish football program. 
"There is this sense that something is wrong, that some­thing is not right, that we lost something," he said. "If every­one walks around believing we lost something, the natural ten­dency is for us to put our heads down and start looking around the ground for something that is lost. 
"Well, I bet if we said, 'Gosh. this is a bright sun-shiny day,' [ think we might have more peo­ple pick their heads up and look for the sun as opposed to something that is lost. We've got to start creating that atti­tude, that there are great things that are about to hap­pen." 
It won't be easy, though, to make the switch rapidly. The Irish need to adjust to Willingham's unique coaching style and Willingham needs to adjust his coaching philosophy to his players. 
The Irish also have to address several personnel issues. Just because a player started last year doesn't mean he is guaranteed to start again this year, Willingham said. Likewise, someone who saw limited playing tinie may have the opportunity in spring prac­tice to leap up in the depth chart. 
And Irish players must learn the terminology used by Willingham's offensive and defensive coaches to avoid communication mix-ups. 
But no matter what changes need to be made, Willingham insists the team's focus should never deviate from the ulti­mate goal. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Hettler 
continued from page 28 
1993, the Irish compiled a 64-9 record, including a 5-1 record in bowl games. 
But sadly, as Irish fans know all too well, Notre Dame has fall­en and fallen hard in the years since, tallying a 58-36 record from 1994 to the present, with zero bowl wins. 
To find when Notre Dame's football team struggled this much, you'll have to go all the way back to 1950-1965 era. During this time. the Irish had a few good years (much like 1998 and 2000), but had several los­ing seasons and failed to win a national championship. And while the Gerry Faust years weren't exactly memorable, remember that they only lasted five years before Lou Holtz rode in on his white horse to save Irish football. 
Willingham faces much the same situation as Holtz did. 
He has to turn around a pro­gram that hasn't contended for a national championship in eight seasons. 
And he has to handle the pres­sure ofturning around a pro­gram that is in serious trouble of being looked at by the college football world as an afterthought and a has-been. 
As each football season passes without 10 wins or a bowl victo­ry, the Irish lore fades a little more. And you can bet that sooner tha:n later, the once proud Irish football tradition will become just that -once proud. 
It seems every time Notre Dame's program has gone a few years without a national champi­onship, a new head coach has come in and saved the day. Knute Rockne put Notre Dame on the map with three national titles. Frank Leahy made them a powerhouse by winning four. Ara Parsheghian revived a pro­gram that had had a losing record under coach Joe Kuharich and won two. Dan Devine carried on Parseghian's success and added another. Finally, Holtz catapulted the Irish back to the top with the magical 1988 season. 
In 2002, the Irish football team once again finds itself in need of guidance in order to become a national championship con­tender. Hopefully, Willingham can be the man to get them there. 
But think what will happen if he doesn't. If Willingham doesn't win the way Notre Dame fans expect, the Irish football pro­gram will be in serious trouble of not contending in college football for a very long time. 
Despite not coaching any of his new players in a practice, let alone a game, Willingham understands this dilemma, and knows he must get his teams to win, and win a lot. 
"You want everyone associated with the program to take great pride and feel very good about the program and what we're about to do and what we will do," Willingham said. 
"It's starting to live up to that slogan that 'We are ND' and start living that; that's what it's all about." 
Notre Dame needs Willingham to step up and single-handedly turn around its besieged pro­gram. 
In the end, he will either lead the Irish out of the doldrums and make them national champi­onship contenders, or he'll fall into the company of Faust and Bob Davie as coaches who couldn't get the job done. 
It's all up to Willingham and his ability to back up his promis­es. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in thts column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
········· ... 
. . ... ::JJWNt... ..·..·'>..... · ~W¢;JW:tC:..•, . (Slf.. · 
· · :W:a#fij\,:Jf .• J~imtfflij :tM4~t$PfP:W:tu : Gte: • 
..... . ai1vrn+1tir;,~fi'illffl;l;llli, 
lrie.filllJll¦li11i;lll
•·3~~JW0Wiji1!Jt···•·•···········.····o <~~-•tmliI ....li\ti··.. ,z·••·· iliPl~:,,,~;A>. . 
s 
s s a 

r.U· ....,.,...·. 
I I .·· 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 5, 2002 
WoIDen 
continued from page 28 
rneter. Joining Boyd in the 100 is classmate Kristen Dodd, although Dodd will be running more in the 200-and 400­meters this season. 
"I think Ayesha is probably our top 100-meter runner," sprinting coach John Millar said. "We're going to use her as the one to count on." 
The 200-meter group fea­tures the most depth in the sprinting squad. with Boyd once again leading the group. Joining Boyd in the 200 are senior Liz Grow, junior Kymia Love and Dodd, who make the nucleus of the sprinting team. Completing the 200-meter group are freshmen Latasha Steele and Tricia Floyd. 
"This year is more of a learning process for them," Millar said of Steele and Floyd. "As we get into next year the expectations on those two will be higher." 
ln the 400-meter, it is essen­tially the same girls running who run in the 200 -Boyd, Love, Dodd and Grow. 
"We have some depth in these events," Millar said. "In the 200 we're solid with the individuals that we have, and the same in the 400." 
The relay teams for the Irish women are phenomenal in comparison with relay teams of the past. The mile relay team consisting of Boyd, Dodd, Love and Grow holds the school record both indoors and outdoors and finished ninth at nationals at the NCAA indoor championship. The 4x100 relay team is essentially the same, with Tameisha King taking the place of Love. 
"We should be top eight in the country in both relays," Millar said. 
The last of the sprinting events are the 100-and 400­meter hurdles, in which Gunn and King will be competing. Gunn, who never lost a high school race in the 300-meter hurdles, will be the top runner for the Irish in the 400. 
Distance 
The distance team for the Irish is young but experienced. The Irish will retain all seven girls who took a combined 19th-place finish at the 2001 
Tuesday -Thursday 5:00 to 9:00 

way she's been training, she'll be the one who can run a very, very good 10,000 for us," Connelly said. 
Field Events 
The field events for the Irish women are very deep this year. Just like the distance team, the field events team is both experienced and young, losing only pole-vaulter Natalie Hallett after this year. 
In the long jump, junior Tameisha King has consistent­ly been very strong. She com­peted at the NCAA indoor championships in March, fin­ishing 13th place overall. 
The pole vault features one 
of the deepest groups amongst the field events. Juniors Jamie Volkmer and Jill Van Weelden, combined with Hallett all scored in the Big East indoor meet in the pole vault. Volkmer's best in the pole vault is 3.8 meters, which is the school record, while Van Weelden's is 3.5 meters. 
Volkmer is the sole Irish com­petitor in the triple jump this year, where she finished sixth­place at the Big East indoor meet with a jump of 39 feet, 2.5 inches. 
The high jump is another event in which the Irish show great depth, where Emily Loomis, Betsy Lazzeri and 
Jennifer Kearney all scored in the Big East meet. 
The throw events for the women have been greatly improved with the presence of freshman Kate Duman, who set the school record in the javelin in her first collegiate meet with a throw of 126 feet, 7 inches. Junior Andre Duplechain and freshman Lauren DellaVolpe join Duman iu the javelin, where all three have qualified for the Big East meet. The girls will also be competing in the hammer. shot put and discus events. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 

Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
Friday & Saturday 
(574) 256-1444 
5:00 to 10:00 
Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 25 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Make your reservations now for graduation! Free Bruschetta with this ad (except for graduation weekend). 
j Francesco's needs servers! We specialize in special events and banquets. With private rooms seating 20 or i2.0, we custom tailor each event according to the customer's expectations. We also welcome luncheons and events on Sundays. Be it a 
I bltsim:s5 retreat. Board Meeting. Birthday, or a Holiday Party, we wish to I serve you. Please stop in or call for additional details and a quote.
I FULL BAR AVAILABLE 
L• _________________________(must be 21 or older to pu,chase or consume alcohol) ...J 
NCAA Cross Country Championships. The freshman will have a big impact on the Irish this season. Lauren King and Kerry Meagher had strong indoor seasons, and Christi Arnerich will join them in scoring during the outdoor season. 
In the 800-meter, the Irish feature a strong contingent of four girls -Lauren King, Kerry Meagher, Ana Morales, and Megan Johnson. Meagher, whose high school best was 2:15, has improved her time to 
2:12 during the indoor season. Junior Kristin Flood joins the 800 group with a personal best time of 2:15.59. 
The 1500-meter group is highlighted by the success of King, who was the only fresh­man to qualify for the NCAA Indoor Championships this year. During the indoor sea­son, King posted a personal best mile time of 4:44.60 and in her first 1500-mctcr race of the outdoor season, she ran a ninth-place time of 4:22.89. Both King and Johnson will concentrate on the 1500 instead of the 800 during the outdoor season. 
"[King and Johnson] are the two kids that we're going to rely on in the 1500," distance coach Tim Connelly said. 
Notre Dame's steeplechase specialists will be Arnerich and Emily Showman. Both were soccer players in high school, which serves them well for this event. While Arnerich will make her steeplechase debut on Saturday, Showman has already qualified for the Big East meet with an effort of 11:25.36. 
Completing the distance team are the 5000-and 10,000-meter runners. Junior Jen Handley has been at the forefront of this group all year, finishing fifth in the 3000 and fourth in the 5000 at the Big East indoor meet. Last weekend, she ran a personal best time in the 5000 with a time of 16:28.55, shattering her previous best by 12 sec­onds. 
Also hoping to score for the Irish this season are Jen Fibuch, Katie Wales and Melissa Schmidt. Connelly thinks that Fibuch will be the top runner for the Irish in the 10,000. 
"Based on what she's done in the 5000 and based on the 
Mishawaka 
~-=::-~ r! 
~r· ~ ~0111a 91Q.. 8i1Qa 
.~ _For A Celebration ~ Of Great Taste! 
</At Papa Vino'~ Italian Kit~hen®you'II enjoy ./ · generous portions of ltahan entrees and pastas like: 
• 
Chicken Parmesan 

• 
Shrimp Farfalle 

• 
Chicken Scallopini 

• 
Pasta con Pollo 

• 
Salmone alla Griglia 

• 
Shrimp Ravioli 


And remember, Papa recommends you complement your meal with our delicious appetizers, desserts and wines. 
Magnifico! 
MISHAWAKA Sll0 Edison Lakes Parkway • S74-271-1692 RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED HOURS: Sunday-Thursday 11:00 a.m.-10:00p.m. & Friday-Saturday 11:00 a.rn.-11:00 p.m. 

Friday, April 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

The most beautiful music written for the Broadway stage 
performed by the people who make it come alive 
;every night on the Great :White \¼y. 

Ore. ,·e~~ 
at Place to bnng yout ,~~ arris Prairie Church 14119 State Rd. 2l Granger, IN 46 
. . 
~~c\ jas o21O~sa_ 

healthy in the jumps, they could do some serious dam­age. 
In the high jump, the Irish are led by senior Quillian Redwine, who tied for third in the Big East during the indoor season when he sailed over the 6-foot-7 mark. 
Freshman Chris Staron, a two-time Illinois state champi­on who tied Redwine at the Big East meet, also will be counted on for points. 
In the long jump, the Irish are looking for big things from junior Tom Gilbert, who fin­ished fifth in the long jump at the previous two Big East Outdoor Championships. Gilbert was second in the Big East during the indoor season in the event. 
Sophomore Mbagwu, who has struggled with tendonitis in his knees. will be counted on in both the long jump and triple jump. Mbagwu placed 11th in the Big East in the long jump and fifth in the triple jump during the indoor season. Redwine also excels in the triple jump for the Irish. placing sixth at the Big East meet, just 2. 7 5 inches behind Mbagwu, with a leap of 47­feet-4.5 inches. Junior Scott Kelley also competes for the Irish in the triple jump. 
In the pole vault, the Irish are a one-man show named Josh Heck. The senior, who placed seventh in the Big East with a vault of 15-feet-3, is expected to approach the 16­foot mark. 
"He needs to finish out his career and be happy with the way he finishes out," jumps coach Scott Winsor said. "I know he's not happy with where he's at right now." 
Throws 
In the throws, the Irish are led by senior Derek Dyer in the weights and junior Mike Madigan in the javelin. 
Dyer placed fifth in Arizona with a career-best toss of 53­feet; 11 3/4 inches in the shot put and also finished sixth with a 156-10 throw in the discus. 
Dyer placed second in the Big East in the discus last sea­son. 
In the hammer throw. fresh­man Chip Roberts had a promising start to his outdoor career at Purdue last week­end, throwing 156-5 for a 13th-place finish, tops among Irish throwers. 
"We need some of our upperclassmen hammer throwers to step it up a little bit. Chip Roberts threw great for a freshman hammer thrower," Winsor said. "He's doing a great job." 
Junior Brian Thornburg, who finished 11th in the Big East in the weight throw dur­ing the indoor season, and sophomore Juan Alba also will be counted on for the Irish in the weight throws. 
Madigan, who tossed a career-best 200-6 at the Big East Championships last year to finish seventh, finished 12th at Arizona and fifth at Purdue so far this season. 
"We're trying to make a couple of technical changes with his throw, it's a timing thing with his release," Winsor said. "I don't worry about Mike, Mike is a heck of a competitor." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at 
namstadt@nd.edu. 
You're Ready Now... 
Religious Life... 
Worth exploring! 
For more information, contact: 
Sr. Elyse Marie Ramirez, OP Vocation Director 
DOMINICAN SISTERS OF SPRINGFIELD 
.PhO· 
;',J!A 
)·,123 
$!,ring e . 
e-mail: SE:MR~mir&z@.spdom.org website: ww,;,,,springlleldop.org 
Men 
continued from page 28 
Watson, who missed the entire outdoor season last year with a leg injury. is currently ranked fourth in the nation in the 5,000-meters after break­ing Shay's school record with a 13:44.92 mark at Stanford. 
· The senior was also the Big East champion in the steeple­chase two years ago. Sophomore Todd Mobley, provisionally qualified for the NCAA Championships at Stanford. Mobley posted a time of 29:11.35 in the 10,000 meters and placed fifth in the Big East in the 5,000 meters during Lhe indoor season. "He's been working hard since last summer," Shay-said of Mobley. The Irish also are looking for points during the outdoor sea­son from senior Pat Conway and sophomore Kevin Somok in the 1,500-rneters and fresh­man Eric Morrison in the 800­metcrs, an event in which he finished sixth at the Big East Indoor Championships. Sophomore David Alber and junior Brian Kerwin will be counted on to contribute in the 5000-meters as well. 
Sprints/Hurdles 
In the short-distance events, the Irish will be participating short-handed without their most effective sprinter of the indoor season as freshman Dwight Ellick, who finished third in the Big East in both the 60-meter and 200-meter dashes. spends his spring on the football practice field. There is a chance Ellick might return for the Big East Championships in May. 
The Irish also will be partic­ipating short-handed in the longer sprints, as junior Nicholas Setta, who finished 13th in the Big East in the 500-meters. also returns to football while sophomore James Bracken, the team's best 400-meter runner during the indoor season, has left the team. 
Remaining to lead the Irish in the 100-and 200-meters are sophomores Jules Vandersarl and Ryan Hurd as well as senior William "Red" Croker. The Irish might also get some contributions from long jumpers Tom Gilbert and Godwin Mbagwu, who will run the 100 and 200-meter dashes this weekend. 
In the 400-rneters, the Irish had an impressive showing last weekend at the Purdue Invitational, as four runners crossed the line in the top 20, led by freshman Trevor McClain's seventh-place time of 49.48 seconds. Seniors Mike Mansour and Nick Saracco will also be counted on in the quarter mile, while both Croker and Hurd have experi­ence in the event as :well. 
In the hurdles, the Irish fea­ture talented young athletes in both the 110-meter highs and 400-meter intermediates. In the 110-meters. freshman Selim Nurudeen placed second at Purdue last weekend with a 
14.23 second mark after fin­ishing fourth at the Baldy Castillo meet in Arizona a week earlier. 
Nurudeen also will be count­ed on in the 400-meter hur­dles, where he finished fifth in Arizona with a time of 53.51 seconds. Sophomores Napoleon Suarez and Mark Barber, who took seventh and eighth in the event at Purdue last weekend, will also be counted on. 
Jumps 
If the Irish can remain 
Sponsored by: 
Lt:RDAN ,I+
-VOLVO &~ 
• ABroadway Theatre League Presentation 
April 5, 6, 7 • Fri. & Sat. 8pm • Sat. & Sun. 2pm Group, Senior, Student Discounts Available. Call now for tickets. 
234-4044 or tol Ifree 1-877-315-1234 Morris Performing Arts Center 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 5, 2002 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Rebounding Irish return to road at Butler 
By JOE LICANORO 
Sporrs Writer 
Sometimes playing on the road is not such a bad thing. Just ask the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team. 
After limping to a 1-5 record in the first six games of the sea­son, the Irish found new life last. week with two impressive road victories over Denver and Air Force. The 18th-ranked Irish will find themselves 

on the road "This team has really experienced an again this grown a lot since the offensive explo­Sunday sion in last
beginning ofthe season. " 
when they week's games. travel .to After a crushing Indianapolis Chris Richez 15-5 loss to to take on Hofstra, the Irish
Irish attacker 
they hope to come away with a victory against the Bears. 
"We can't really worry about who we play," said freshman attacker Chris Richez. "We just need to play our game whether it's against Virginia or Butler. We have to play each game the same way in order to be suc­cessful." 
The key to Notre Dame's recent success has been the play of the offense. After struggling to find ways to score through the first six games, the Irish 
the Butler Bulldogs. 
Sunday's contest marks the third game of a four game road trip for Notre Dame. 
"Playing on the road is not always a bad thing," said Kevin Corrigan, Irish head coach. "I think playing on the road can be an advantage. Sometimes it's easier to focus because there's only one thing on your mind to win the game. At home, you have to deal with a lot more dis­tractions off the field." 
This game will be a pivotal Great Western Lacrosse League showdown for both teams. Notre Dame currently sits atop the division with a 2-0 league record, while Butler is 0-1 in league play as a result of an 11­7 loss to Fairfield earlier this season. Sunday's game will be critically important for both teams as they look to remain in contention for the league title, which earns an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
"Butler has been giving us fits for years," said Corrigan. "We expect it to be a tough game, but right now we just have to continue to play hard in prac­tice. Last week, we had a great week of practice, and that gave us the momentum to play with confidence against Denver and Air Force." 
The Irish players know they must maintain their intensity if tallied a season-
high 15 goals against Denver, and followed up that performance with nine goals against Air Force. 
Corrigan believes the play of his second midfield, led by Richez and junior Travis Wells, is the reason for Notre Dame's dramatic improvement. Both Wells and Richez scored their first career hat tricks in the Air Force and Denver games respectively. 
"Before last week, our second midfield only scored three points all season," said Corrigan. "Last week, Travis Wells and Chris Richez, along with Owen Mulford and John Mulfor, played great. We don't have any superstars on offense so everyone needs to contribute for us to win." 
Richez echoed the sentiments of his coach, citing the strong week of practice as the reason for the offensive explosion. 
"This team has really grown a lot since the beginning of the season," said Richez. "The loss against Hofstra was a real wake-up call. We prepared real­ly well in practice for Air Force and Denver. We need to keep practicing hard as we get ready for Butler." 
Contact Joe Lica.ndro at jlicandr@nd.edu. 
Will you be starting Grad school? Get your apartment early! 
Move in right after graduation and store your furniture. etc.. 
No storing and moving a second time 
Quiet. safe and secure apartments 
Never pay another utility bill 
Various sizes. effeciency. 2 room. 1 bedroom 
Tired of sharing an apartment? How about some privacy? 
Shown only by appointment Call the Mar-Main Apartments 574-233-2098 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer Sophon,ore midfielder Steve Clagett tries to elude a defender in Notre Dame's last home game against Hofstra. The Irish have won their last two games on the road and travel to Butler Sunday. 


senior Thank You Picture Frame 
Sold all week from 2:30-4:30 in Lafortune. Sales end April S! 
The 2-sided, 4x6 frame 
Also available is a 4x6 includes a picture of the album holding 24 picture Dome, a quote by Monk, in navy with a gold ND 
a brief thank-you emblem on the cover. A message, and one line of great gift for friends and name personalization. even yourself! 
Cost: $25. Cost: $7. 
• Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! • 
Name (first and last only, please): 
School Address: 
Phone: Email: I want to order frame(s) for $25 each __ album(s) for $7 each 
__ both the frame and album for $30 
. 
Please make checks payable to: ND Management Club, 

. 
You can print an order form at www.nd.edu/~mgtclub or send in this article with your order information to 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Friday, April 5, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

OH, SHoOT. 1HE  Now t HAVE To STICk  THE WATER'S  1T'S NoT THE  ARE You SuRE  DADDY, IF  
PLASTtC PLANT CAME  MY ARM 1N AND FIX IT.  WARM. SToP  WATER THAT'S  llioSE ARE  SAY YoV M~Kf  
LOOSE AGAtN.  TALK ABOUT SttEER AGoNY_  WHINING.  ToRTuRE.  GUf'PtECi1 "!HEY  No  THAT LIME  
I  I  I  Look LIICE  MoRE. 10!(( oN[  
BABY P1RANHA.  /  MoRE  
f1SH To ME.  TIME...  
I  

RYAN
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

Ww,. -r o.sll
I M;,.~ 
o-.r e:. '"' dc);:_s? 

Oh, the joys of a changing alcohol policy 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Gregory Peck, Colin Powell, Bette Davis 
Happy Birthday: You can make money through smart business plans this year. Working for your­self is not a bad idea. You mustn't let personal problems interfere with your professional direction. Your numbersare9, 14, 19,26,32,38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Share your great ideas and you'll become the hero. Your changing attitude mav disturb those who are afraid of losing your attention. You'll have to assure them that you aren't going anywhere. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Follow your own beliefs and you will stay ahead of the game. If you follow someone else you'll lose respect for yourself. Fight back and be prepared to walk away from anyone who tries to put a hold on you.OO 
GEMINI (May n-June 20): It's time to mingle and mix with peo­ple who can contribute some men­tal stimulation to your life. The more you can travel about or get involved in unusual and interesting talks, the better. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your financial adviser may not be telling you the whole truth regard­ing new inveshnents. Don't sign any papers based on trust. You can prosper but it will only be through your ownefforts. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may find yourself going through a change of heart. Take the time to think things through before making a rash decision that could affect the rest of your life. Be observant and 
38 Straight-billed don't make any personal decisions 
todav. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
game bird Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 
40 African money available by touch-tone phone: 
can get ahead financially if you
1 ·900-285-5656 ($1.20 par minute).
43 In the middle of 
EUGENIA LAST 
focus on your job. Changes may occur that are not to your liking but you will discover that you are sit­ting in a better position if you are patient and professional. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may get a slow start but once you get rolling nothing will stand in your way. Leave the most impor­tant tasks to the end of the day. Your creative talent will shine and you will receive the acknowledg­ment you desire. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If you are open and receptive, you can make the changes in your life go much more smoothly You can make some interesting gains if you are willing to move with the times. 
00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your forceful manner will attract attention and respect. Do not hesi­tate to get your point across. Com­munication and transportation are highlighted. 0000 
CAPRICORJ\J (Dec. 22-J an. 19): You can tum your day into a win­ner just by taking on added respon­sibilities and proving how valuable you really are. Advancement can be yours if you play y= cards right. Focus on business and leave your personal life alone for now 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be a little emotional today. Don't be too quick to react to those around you. You may be reading the situation entirely wrong. Ask a close friend for an assessment of your situation 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There are deals to be made and profits to enjoy. Find out all you can about a recent investment you got wind of. You can enjoy making changes lo your home if you con­centrate on your family's needs. 
000 
Birthday Baby: You will never accept defeat. Your drive and detemu­cowboy, with best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
45 Order to a Annual subscriptions are available for the nation will lead to the success you need to justify yourself. You are talented, caring and willing to lend a helping hand.
"up" years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 10 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Naturally" 
9 Sonny boy 15 Bar offerings 16 Much of "The Ed 
SullNan Show" 17 Like a pope, 
old-style 18 Window-shop 19 W.W. II spy grp. 20 Motorcade units 22 Pitter-patter 
maker 23 Pack 25 Tow truck 
hook-up, maybe 26 Animal houses 27 60's dos 29 New Jersey's 
state tree 31 Big name in 
security 33 Canal zones? 34 Nov. honoree 37 Podded seeds 39 Military duty? 41 Head lines, for 
short? 42 Salade ni~ise 
ingredient 44 Heavy 45 Cut corners 47 Bergen sidekick 48 "Adia" singer 
Mclachlan 51 "A should not mean / But be": MacLeish 53 Didn't just tiptoe 
into the water 54 Oaf 55 Op Art and Pop 
Art 
57 Needlefish 58 Welcome offer to a dishwasher 60 Sydney salutation 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

62 Sergeant's order 
63 Currier and Ives, e.g. 
64 Ladybird, for one 
65 Boston Harbor flotsam, 1773 
DOWN 1 Subject to being challenged 2 Like some refrigerators 3 Not allowing to speak one's mind 4 Player with 511 career home 
runs 5 Strong arms? 6 Direct 7 Perteet pitch, 
maybe 8 This shouldn't be loose 9 Foreign 
attorneys' degs. 10 Tune 11 "St. Ludmilla" 
composer 12 Kind of flask used by a chemist 13 " His Kiss" (golden oldie) 14 Choice in choosing up 
sides 21 Knobby 24 "I tell!" 26 Stitches 28 Bandleader 
Henderson 30 Word-of-mouth 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. Men's Lacrosse, p. 26 
. SMC Tennis, p. 21 
. 
Football, p. 23 . Women's Rowing, p. 20 

. 
Men's Golf, p. 22 . Baseball, p. 20 

. 
ND Softball, p. 21 


PORTS 
Friday, April 5, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Spring into action 
~"'~ 
'r" . ... ~ 
·.·.-.·.·. ··•. ··.""~······.·.·.···.·.:.,... ··.
.•..,;.. ·. 
:·· . 
·' ,/  .  .  .  • ·:r,;·~ . ' '••  '  .  
,.  
.  ,_,:·'  .J_ ..  


,1•· ~, 
. ,::~_-•_;i.~\:, 
. ' 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
First-year head coach Tyrone Willingham addresses the media at a press conference Thursday. The football team will begin three weeks of spring practices starting Saturday. Willingham hopes to quickly turn around an Irish squad that went S-7 last year. 
. Irish football returns to live action Saturday for the beginning of spring practices 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
There is a cloud hanging over the Notre Dame football pro­gram that Tyrone Willingham intends to blow away -right away. 
"We've got the best tradition. the best history, the best football lore in the country. Nobody else matches it," the new head foot­ball coach said last week. "You hear other coaches talk about it, this is the Mecca. So why don't we act like that? Why don't our mindsets say that? Why don't we have that type of feeling and spirit when we talk about this program?" 
As the Irish begin their 15-day spring practice schedule Saturday. Willingham faces tremendous pressure from fans, alumni, students and himself to direct the lrish football program back to national prominence. Even before George O'Leary's resignation in December caused a public-relations nightmare, Notre Dame had two losing sea­sons in former head coach Bob 
see IRISH/page 23 
The time is now for the Irish 
Tie's said all the right things in every press conference that's been held and every interview he's done. 
He's told the Notrn Dame com-. munity that his players will win on the football field, in the class­room and in 
life. 
He's talked about striv­ing to be perfect in every aspect of the football 

game and settling for Joe Hettler nothing less than his players' Assistant best. Sports Editor 
Now the only thing Tyrone Willingham has to do is carry out his promises. And carry them out at an especially critical time in the history of Notre Dame football. 
As any Notre Dame fan knows, 1988 was the last time Notre Dame's football team brought home a national championship -14 seasons ago. 
During this time, Notre Dame was where it had been for most of its storied football history ­at the top. Between 1988 and 
see HETTLER/page 23 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Outdoor season opens at home this weekend 
. Senior All-Americans Luke Watson and Ryan Shea lead competitive men's team 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Senior Staff Writer 
With the NCAA-qualifying perfor­mances of seniors Ryan Shay and Luke Watson at last weekend's Stanford Invitational, the Irish men's track and field team served notice that they will be a force to be reck­oned with during the outdoor season. 
But while Shay and Watson were the only Irish athletes to flam All­American honors in the indoor sea­son, this team is more than just two athletes, as fans who come out to Moose Krause Stadium Saturday for the team's annual Spring Opener will find out. 
The Irish take on Central Michigan, Michigan State and Western Michigan, with field events kicking off at 10 a.m. 
Distance 
The Irish distance corps, made up of the same core of veterans that led Notre Dame to a sixth-place finish at the NCAA cross country champi­onships lasl fall, is clearly the team's strength. 
The Irish are led by Shay and Watson. who specialize in the 10,000-meters and 5,000-meters, respectively. 
Shay is the defending national champion in the 10,000 meters and is currently rankPd first in the coun­try after posting a time of 28:39.41 at Stanford. Shay also placed sixth at the NCAA Championships last year in the 5,000-meters. 
see MEN/page 25 
. Women's squad heads into outdoor competition performing at all-time high 
By DAVE COOK Sports W ricer 
The 2002 women's track and field team is a different program than it was four years ago. In the past year alone, the team has set 13 new school records and countless track and meet records around the country. They set the record for number of Irish com­petitors at the NCAA Championships, and during the indoor season they won Notre Dame's first Big East Indoor Championship. 
As the Irish enter the outdoor sea­son, the expectations of themselves and their coaches continue to rise. 
Last week, five new personal records were set, as well as two school records. Saturday the Irish will host the Spring Opener, where Central Michigan, Western Michigan and Michigan State will travel to South Bend for the meet. The women hope they can continue their success as they look to defend their Big East title. 
Sprints 
This year's sprinting team is arguably the best sprinting group to come through Notre Dame. Although the team is not deep, they have a strong nucleus of six girls competing in seven events. 
In the 100-meters, sophomore Ayesha Boyd is the top runner for the Irish. Boyd has taken third place at the last two Big East meets, once in the 100-meter and oncfl in the 60­
see WOMEN/page24 

. Track and Field Spring Opener, Saturday, 10 a.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Baseball vs. St. John's, Saturday, noon 
ontine 
. ND Softball at St. John's, Saturday, noon AT AGLANCE . Women's Lacrosse at Connecticut, Saturday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 





