
VOL. XXXVII NO. 52 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Pasquerilla West RAs w-orried about job security 
. Dorm residents confused over reasons for AR's removal 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
The six resident assistants of Pasqucrilla West say they foe] that lhcir jobs arc on the line aller the dorm's rector a5kcd former a;;sis­lant rector Cynthia Phillips to leave the residence hail. 
Since several dorm residents have been outspoken on Phillips' behalf claiming there was no valid reason for PW rector Sister Sue Rruno's decision, RAs are ques­tioning whether their support of the former AR would result in the termination of their hall staff posi­tions. 
"We are dedicated to our resi­dents and we love our jobs as RAs," said senior IV\ Gretchen Graff. 
She and follow RAs Beth Fruzynski, Elizabeth Kuck, 
Arianne Obering, Kristy Robinson and Llsa TzarefT said they are try­ing to promote unity among the residents in their sections during this time of frustration. 
"Absolutely, unequivocally, 1 do not want to lose any one ofthem," Brwio said. 
Many dorm residents rallied together to support Phillips, a sec­ond-year law student. after for­mally learning last Thursday in a voice mail by Bruno that Phillips would not continue as a PW assis­tant rector. 
In the voice mail, dorm resi­dents said Bruno did not give any explanation. 
During the weekend, some dorm residents protested the deci­sion by hanging signs around the dorm. One read, "PW deserves the truth." 
Dorm residents received a voice mail from the hall staff Wednesday saying they had to take down the signs, but Phillips said the RAs were pressured to send the message from Student 
Affairs. · H.As also said a high-ranking official in Student AITairs warned 
at least one member of the hall staff that she could lose her job if she commented on Phillips' removal. 
Bill Kirk. the a5Sistant vice pres­ident for Student Affairs who is overseeing the situation, said he could not elaborate on personnel matters but added he did not put pressure on the RA">. 
" I'm not in the habit of threat­ening people in that way and that's not something I would do," he said. 
see DISMISSAL/page 6 
Faculty considers reading day proposal 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Editor 
In a push for campus approval for the reading day proposal Student Government President Kim Jensen and Vice President Elizabeth .Jablonski-Diehl gave a presentation to Saint Mary's faculty assembly yesterday. 
The reading day proposal. previously known as the study day proposal. has been a con­cern to student government since 1992. Tho purpose of the reading day proposal is to leave the Friday before exams week open, so students could study, work on projects or meet indi­vidually with professors. 
According to Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl there have been several different proposals writ­ten. including last year's study day proposal, but none have been as comprehensive as the current reading day proposal. 
"Kim and I can be really happy with what we have accomplished," Jablonski-Diehl said. "They [the faculty] had a lot of questions, but a big con­cern is in dropping Friday they lose a class day." 
Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl presented each faculty member with a binder, which included their formal proposal, compar­isons between Saint Mary's and 130 other institutions, a sample class schedule with the reading day included and data from last year's study day survey. Students will also have access to the binders, which will be placed at the front desk of every residence hall, in addition to being available in the library and the student government 
SafeWalk promotes campus safety and security 
members are on patrol. 

"[SafeWalk] frees our officers up to patrol the campus more -one of the benefits of SafeWalk to our department is keeping our officers free [to perform other tasks]," he said. 
As students employed by the Security/Police Department, the members of SafeWalk often work about nine hours per week. Each team of two to four people responds to callc;, patrolc; the cam­pus, speaks with hail rectors and assistant rectors and walks through popular student hangouts like Reckers. 
Safowalk teams often perform recruit walks, approaching groups of one or two femall'S and offering to walk them back to their destina­tion even though they have not for­mally requested an escort. In this way, SafeWalk both advertises its services and promotes a more secure campus, Gagnon said. 
'The best advertising that we can do is walking arowid the campus," Cagnon said. "I think that people know that we are willing to do things at NDSP to help students. I can't believe there is a person on campus who is fearful and doesn't think that we would help," he said. 
Students working with SafoWalk 
see SAFEWALK/page 4 

office. is that faculty hear the student 
"What's really important now 

see PROPOSAL/page 4 

ByJOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 

SafeWalk, Notre Dame's student­employed nighttime escort service, remains a visible presence on cam­pus, according to SafeWalk super­visor and Notre Dame security offi­cer Cappy Gagnon. Although Gagnon said that most students perceive the Notre Dame campus to be safe, the SafeWalk service still receives calls from Notre Dame stu­dents and employees to escort them across campus. 
"We have a widespread feeling among students that this campus is 'safe'. Because of that, we get few call"> for our assistance," Gagnon said. 
In addition to offering confiden­tial walks to students and Pmploy­ees, the SafeWalk teams MO patrol the campus and report any suspi­cious behavior to the Notre Dame Security/Police Department via radio. Over its history, SafeWalk has caught at least two burglaries and has requested medical atten­tion for numerous ill students. Notre Dame Security/Police Department Assistant Director Charles Hurley said that the SafeWalk services allow security officers tlie freedom to concentrate on other tasks while SafeWalk 
City sues Lafayette landlords 
. Lawsuit in response to student parties 
By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 

A lawsuit between the City of South Bend and Taripp Development Corporation may prove costly for students living in Lafayette Square Apartments. 
Following repeated com­plaints of intoxication. con­sumption of alcohol by minors, loud noise. indecent exposure and trash and debris on the property. South Bend filed a lawsuit against Taripp Development Corp., which serves as the landlord for Lafayette. Specific concerns regarding a party on Sept. 6 were cited in the lawsuit. which was filed on Oct. 11. 
The lawsuit stated Lafayette posed a risk to the health and safety of the community, and held Taripp Development Corp. responsible for permit­ting illegal activities on their property. 
Recent letters informed Lafayette residents that they could be evicted or forced to pay a share of the attorney fees if they could not control their gatherings. 
An Oct. 30 letter from Thomas Dixon. attorney for Taripp Development Corp.. explained the lawsuit and its consequences to residents. 
"The lawsuit is the result of your 100 keg party at Lafayette Square Apartments the weekend of Sept. 6. 2002," the letter read. "In a nutshell, your parties have caused great concern from the lead­ers of this community. Quite simply, if you cannot control this problem, you will face eviction proceedings." 
Tracy Clark, vice president 
see LAWSUIT/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Where the ugly things are 
We're all familiar with the disturbing torso I.hat stares at pedestrians as they walk by O'Shaughnessy Hall and that sin­ister rocking chair just a few feet away that for one reason or another gives me Justin the creeps. I'm sur­Krivickas prised these two "works of art" have 
Assistant
not as of yet been publicly desecrated News Editor by an angry mob. All in all, th.is collec­tion of metallic monstrosities is confined to the lawn in front of the art building. 
A giant iron birdhouse stands as a sen­try keeping watch over South Quad's mis­fits. But, the chair and torso have been plotting a coup for years to invade the campus with their hideous minions. They have finally struck. While the birdhouse edifice was distracted exhibiting its sleek living conditions to a prospective winged tenant, the two mischievous sprites have sprung out onto the campus. 'The invasion has begun. 
Just in time for Halloween, three other grisly sculptures have snuck onto the hal­lowed grounds of Notre Dame. Howard Hall, the Kroc Institute and poor Riley, who already hosts the original two gob­lins, have all been coerced to shackle more creatures to the ground and keep them from wreaking havoc on the cam­pus. All three are merely a few steel pil­lions welded together resembling the skeletons of the construction projects cur­rently taking place on campus. 
To counteract the repulsive look of their steel girders, one group of Howard resi­dents has already taken the initiative to cover up their edifice and shield it from the public view. With the help of a white bed sheet, a black marker and duck tape they turned the goblin into a friendly ghost. 
Judging from the reactions of pedestri­ans passing by the new art work I can tell they aren't being well received. Freshman Jerry Beres commented that the cement pad used to support the structure in front of Howard would serve better as a patio to barbecue on. Several students I talked to were eager to share with me their dissat­isfaction with the new art work. 
Modern Art, as it's termed, does not belong on the quads of Notre Dame. It should be gracing the halls of the Snite or in the shadows of ultramodern buildings. The gothic buildings on Notre Dame's campus lack the ability to present th.is art form. Both the art and building style clash strongly in comparison with each other. Perhaps if they were all huddled around the art building, I would never have writ­ten th.is article. 
Only under the watchful eye of the only modern art on campus that looks decent, the "Birdhouse Mosaic" as I've named it, can they be kept at bay. Yet, because the beasts are expanding their territory I felt it was my duty as a Notre Dame student to decry the flaws of this new project that may ruin the beauty of our campus. These wild things ifnot watched closely will mul­tiply and may very well choke the life out of our gothic architecture and traditional grounds that have become a staple of this University. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publiu­tion and strives for the highest standards of jm1rnal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, November 7, 2002 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  

Hardest math Jury finds Subway's 

PW residents problem 
Ryder guilty of profits paying 

question cracked by ND 
dismissal of researcher 
grand theft, off 
vandalism assistant rectress 
Post-doctoral stu­Jury acquits the Pasquerilla WestSales of sub sand­

students voice theirdent Christopher 
actress of burglary whiches have made 

concerns over theMonico has solved 
but found her ND's Subway one guilty of grand 

unknown reasonsarguably the 
of the nation's 
world's most diffi­theft and vandal­
why an assistantbusiest and most

cult math calcula­ism. 
rec tress was dis­profitable in the

tion. 
missed 
nation. 
page 3 
page 5 

page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Flu shots: Offered to ND students, retirees and their spouses, faculty and staff, valid ND ID and short sleeves required, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., located at the Ilcsburgh Library Concourse and the Dooley Hoom in the LaFortunc Student Center. 

. 
Lecture: "Suffer the Little Children? The Psychological Impact of Political Violence" with Ed Cairns 7 p.m. in the Auditorium of tho Hesburgh Contor. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Young Executives Club 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the North Wedge Room of the Dining Hall. 

. 
Pre-Law Lecture: 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Welsh Parlor of the Hagger College Center. 

. 
Self-Discovery Series: "Camping in the Bcwildcrncss" 9 p.m. Hegina Hall-North Lounge. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Spaghettini, spinach tortellini, tri-color rotini, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegatable pizza. pretzel sticks, chicken in the pot, Texas chili, tomato soup, broccoli potato leak soup, meatloaf, scalloped corn casse­role and fried potato triangles. 
Today Dinner: Spaghettini, spinach tortellini, tri-color rotini, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegatable pizza, pretzel sticks, chicken in the pot, Texas chili, tomato soup, broccoli potato leak soup, sauerbratin, zum zum potato salad, curry vegatables, baked sweet potatos, teriyaki chicken, curly sea­soned fries and chinese noodles. 

TODAY TONlGHT 
a: 
I.LI 

:::c 
~ 
I.LI 
3: 
..J 
,ce 




South Dining Hall 
page 13 
0 0 

..J HIGH 51 HIGH 48 HIGH 48 HIGH 60 LOW 38 LOW 37 LOW 37 LOW 40 
Today Lunch: Spaghettini put­tanesca, southwestern pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine, Hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, cheese & vegetable pie, winter-blend vegetables, beef chop suey, cajun-baked pollack, roast top round and baked sweet potatoes. 
Today Dinner: Spaghettini put­tanesca, Southwestern pasta sauce, Basil-Garlic Linguine, Hawaiian Pizza, Potato Pancakes, Hot Chunky, Applesauce, Stuffed Green Peppers, Tuna Casserole, Roast Turkey Breast, Bread Stuffing, Baked Sweet Potatoes, Sautccd Chicken Breast. Steakhouse and Fries. 



THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 

SCENE 

Movie Reviews 
Scene reviews new movies "Sweet Home Alabama", "Jackass" and "Punch-Drunk 
love." 
page 15 

SPORTS 
Injury opens door to let Pauly play 
Irish defensive tackle Greg Pauly gets a chance to play during the Navy game because of an 
injury to the starter. 
page 28 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Hit and run reported 
NDSP responded to a hit and run accident in the C01 parking lot Monday. There were no injuries reported. 

Car vandalism occurs in lot 
A student reported vandalism to her vehicle while parked in the D6 lot between 10 p.m on October 31 and 9 p.m. on November 2. There are no suspects. 

Lost wallet returned to owner 
A wallet belonging to a student was found at an off-campus location on Tuesday and turned in to NDSP for safekeeping. The wallet has been released to the owner. 

Vandalism reported by employee 
A University employee reported vandalism to her vehicle while parked outside the Hesburgh Cent()r on Tuesday. There are no suspects. 

Theft at South Dining Hall 
A student reported the theft of his jacket and keys from the dining hall on Tuesday between 
1:30 p.m. and 2 p.m. There are no suspects. 
Complied from NDSP Crime Blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Cheese pizza, pepper­oni pizza, salad, deli bar, french fries, biscuits, mashed potatoes, hamburg­ers, chicken, grilled cheese, vegetable soup and cream of tomato soup. 
Today Dinner: Cheese pizza, pepper­oni pizza, salad, deli bar, french fries, biscuits, mashed potatoes, hamburg­ers, chicken, grilled cheese, vegetable soup and cream of tomato soup. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 60 HIGH 58 LOW 40 LOW 40 
Atlanta 61 / 44 Boston 43 / 38 Chicago 46 / 38 Denver 64 / 38 Houston 71 / 45 Los Angeles 68 / 56 Minneapolis 40 / 26 New York 52 / 38 Philadelphia 56 / 37 Phoenix 78 / 54 Seattle 56 / 46 St. Louis 57 / 43 Tampa 78 / 56 Washington 56 / 38 

Thursday, November 7, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Notre Dame researcher solves hardest tnathematical problem 





Jntercultural Studies offersnew perspectives 
groups come into contact, histor­
By EMILY FORD 
ically and contcmporarily and News Writer 
the results of that contact. 
Students enrolled in the minor 
The Intercultural Studies pro­must select courses that exam­gram at Saint Mary's has been ine the intercultural dynamics in offering new cultural perspec­the United States and in global tives to studen1s, and the College contexts. has approved a general educa­The courses in the tion course called an Intercultural Studies program Introduction to lntercultural incorporate a myriad of disci­Studies. plines, including English litera­
According to Vincente ture, sociology and business. Berdayes, Intercultural Studies Since the offering is so diverse. coordinator and associate pro­the program's mission statement fessor of com-ensures that munication at the minor is Saint Mary's, compatible
"Students will find that 
the introduc­with many
Intercultural Studies
tory course majors. offers stu­complements work within Berdayes dents valuable 
their major area ofstudy s a i d • 
information "Because
and is revelant to their
that is often this pro­not found in professional interests. " g r a m their majors. encourages 
"The pro­analvsLc; and
Vicente Berdayes
posal was for­reflection
lntercultural Studies Coordinator
warded by the upon the I C S dynamics o!' [lntercultural intercultural Studies] steering committee and interaction in many contexts, the Curriculum Committee of the students will find that College felt the course merits Intercultural Studies comple­being included in the general ments work within their major education requirements in terms area of study and is relevant to of enabling students to develop a their professional interests." breadth of knowledge beyond Although there has been an exposure to the content areas of increased demand for their majors," Berdayes said. lntercultural Studies courses, 
Saint Mary's currently oITers a according to Berdayes, there arc student-designed major and no formal plans to expand the minor in Intercultural Studies. program into a major. The 15-hour minor, which was "So far, there have only been founded in 1999, explores the informal discussions about this "theme of intercultural contact possibility," said Berdayes. and inter-group dynamics," according to the program's Web 
Contact Emily Ford at
site. It exposes students to how 

ford6504@saintmarys.edu
different social and cultural 





a lifetime events: 
Kerrigan's 21 st birthday 
Happy 21¦t Birthday Courtney... 

Finally! 
Love, 
Your 317 Roommates 
!ts annual: 

Economic Forecasting Summit 
Featuring marker urategists.: 
Terry Savage, Chieago Sun Times 
Robert Stovall, Clemente Capital, Inc. Scott Malpass, Univ.rsity of Notre Dame Carol Stone, Nomura Securities International 
Richard Driehaus,Driehaus Capital M.)nagernent, Inc. 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 
South Bend Century Center 
120 S. JoMph StN!et 
South Bend, Indiana 
$20 includes continental breakfast 
For registration information call 574-239-2380 x 234 or e-mail niwlb@nlwlb.com 

Spomor«/hy 
calculations. It took Monico a 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
few weeks to write the pro­Assistant News Editor 
gram and changes to it devel­
oped over a four month peri­
od. 
Christopher Monico. a post­Anyone with access to the docloral researcher has solved Internet could visit Monico's arguably the hardest math Web site dedicated to the problem in history. ECCp-109 problem and help 
Tim com-him with the put al ion work. By involved the "IfI tried this myself. I downloading 
most diffi­would have needed about and running cult elliptic the program
4.000 to 5,000 PCs 
curve dis­he devel­crete loga­working 24-7 on this oped, a 
r i t It m project alone. for one user's idle (ECDLP) computing
year."
ever solved power could and Monico be used by had the help Christopher Monico this program or Jo,308 Notre Dame to help per­computers form the

post-doctoral researcher 
to acquire the right 
answer. 
The Toronto security firm Cerlicom presented tho math problem. Called the "ECCp­109 Challenge," tho company encouraged researchers to test the security of ECDLP by offering a $10,000 prize for the solution. 
To tackle this problem, Monico wrote a computer pro­gram to pnrform tho complex calculations. Being a comput­er science minor as an under­graduate, he was familiar with computer programming and devised an application that could do the advanced 
mathemati­
cal opera­tions and transmit this infor­mation back to Monico·s serv­er. 
''This is the onlv feasible way to solve this problem," said Monico. 
Recently, this type of approach has used the com­puters of hundreds of thou­sands of volunteers all over the world with the Internet to look for extra-terrestrial radio signals and to find more effec­tive drugs to fight the AIDS virus. These projects are so large, and require so much computing power to solve, that they would be impossible 
for any one computer or per­son to solve in a reasonable amount of time. 
Monico highlighted the com­plexity of the project by stat­ing on his website, "We com­puted about 36,507,222,000,000,000 points total. If I tried this myself, I would have needed about 4,000 to 5,000 PCs working 24-7 on this project alone, for one year." 
The only major problems that plagued Monica's efforts included power outages that shut down his server. 
The solution took 549 days to compute and involved 247 teams from around the world. 
By the time the project was completed, Monico had replied to over 1,500 e-mails concerning his work and com­puter program. The project's Web site can be accessed at http://www.nd.edu/-cmonico/e ccp109/. It has been viewed more than 235,000 times since the project's inception. 
Monico has already spcar­hea ded the next effort to solve another complex prob­lem by writing the code for the next endeavor. Others involved in Monico's first pro­ject are heading a new cam­paign that involves a some­what simpler problem than the one they just solved. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 


• Study in the nation's  • Applications for  
capitol  Fall 2003 &  
• Work in aninternship  Spring 2004 are now  
•Fulfillphilosophy,  being accepted online  
theology, and fine arts  •Open to Freshmen,  
requirements  Sophomores, and  
• Study public affairs  Juniors from all  
•live inan exciting city  colleges  

John Eriksen, Director .4pp/jc~ 338 O'Shaughnessy Ja/J tis 01./~ 
Eri-ks_e"a"'n.=,;l@"""1_1c~Le_d=u~.......,.,...---~-t/:




11 ary ~ 


f;+l 
e:--JJVERSITY OF NOT RF DAMr

0 Investment Services JobWorks 
M£N001.4 CUI LF.COF. !lf ¦ l•SLNES.S

.. . · www.nd.edu/~sen1ester · ~ 
., 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 7, 2002 

Lawsuit 
continued from page 1 
of Real Estate Management, the managing agent for the Lafayette complex, was out of town this week and unavail­able for comment. 
Dixon's letter said the party violated the residents' lease because students attending the party broke the City's noise, trash and public indecency laws. The party exposed resi­dents to potential eviction and fines from the City ranging from $50 to $2,5000. 

Clark and Captain Wanda Shock of the South Bend Police Department met with Lafayette residents two days before their party at the begin­ning of the school year to advise them of policies regard­ing gatherings. They said they were worried about a pending lawsuit with the City as a result of trouble the previous year and wanted to make clear that they would not tolerate similar problems from current residents. 
But some Lafayette residents said they are confused about the situation because the land­lords have given them contra­dictory information. 
Senior Reid Platt said police told residents at the meeting they were not allowed to use the parking lot or front yards for parties. He and other resi­dents complied and opted instead to hold their gather­ings inside and in their back­yards. 
But after the party, Platt said Real Estate Management told residents they and police had been mistaken and parties were not permitted in any out­door areas, including back­yards. 
"They didn't know what was going on initially, and they are getting mad at us for breaking the rules, but they should have known what to tell us to do in the first place," said Platt. 
Real Estate Management and the police held another meet­ing with residents after the City announced they were fil­ing suit. Senior Albert Gembara said Clark estab­lished new rules for residents at the meeting. 
"They were random rules, such as we are not allowed over 15 people in apartment at one time because that consti­tutes a party. Backyard parties no longer allowed either," Gembara said. 
The Oct. 30 letter from Dixon issued an ultimatum to students. 
"There will be no more out­do or parties at Lafayette Square," it read. "If you have parties inside your apart­ments, any violation of any law by you or any guest will get you evicted. If a minor gets drunk ... or if you or your guests decide to relieve them­selves outdoors, you will face eviction proceedings." 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu 




NORtliFACE 
at..aJ~ 
CIUTPCIST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
students and faculty who face long walks at lat.c hours.


SafeWalk 
"Although the University is a hos­


Proposal 
continued from page 1 
support and convincing faculty that a reading day is as-impor­tant as a class day," Jablonski­Diehl said. 
The study day survey conduct­at the end of the year." 
Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl were invited back to the Dec. 4 faculty assembly meeting, to address faculty concerns and present more information on the 130 institutions used for comparison. Until then Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl ask that professors and students express 
continued from page 1 
said they like the interaction with fellow ~tudents and enjoy helping to make people feel more secure. 
"I have a chance to go out and meet people and do a good ser­vice," said Josh Towns, an Alumni Hall resident. "It is a good feeling that we have that [those who request escort walks] are really appreciative of the walks." 
According to Student Coordinator Jon Frecceri, applications for SafeWalk employees have gfO'wn this year. Frecceri also said that the extra benefit to security is an essen­tial component ofSafeWalk. 
"[SafeWalk] is a safety measure; it can't hurt to have an extra set of eyes. It is great knowing that we arc an addition to the NDSP," he said. 
Although she does not know that any of her residents have used. the SafeWalk service thls year, Lyons Hall Rectress Sister Susan Dunn said that many of the Lyons mem­bers have called SafeWalk in the past to receive walks after late classes, appointments or on-cam­pus events. She said that the SafeWalk service helps to promot.c a sense of safety and security for pitable and safe environment, I thmk in this day and age you can never be too cautious, so a se!Vice like SafeWalk is a wonderful addi­tion to security," she said. "Anyone can feel free to call, particularly if there is a late night class or appointment." 
SafeWalk was formed over 10 ye.m; ago in response to increasing safety concerns. While earning three degrees at Notre Dame, Dennis Lynch worked in the SafeWalk program for 10 years. Fonner employee R.G. Starman now works as a Secret Service Agent for President Bush. According to Hurley, this year is no dilforent with regard to the quality ofits employees. 
"We arc blessed to have some outstanding people as student employees," he said. 
SafeWalk currently employees about 25 students and offers its ser­vices daily from 8:30 p.m. to 2:30 
a.m. Students and faculty request­ing a SafeWalk can call the Notre Dame Security/Police Department at 631-1555. Security officers will provide escorts outside thb time. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
ed last year found that 89 

percent of stu­"The strength of the 
dents, out of proposal is that is does 763 surveyed, 
not go into effect until the 
were in favor of a reading 2003-2004 school year, 
day at the end as a pilot program. " 
of the semes­ter. Although 

Kim Jensen
Jensen esti­mates that 95 student body president 
percent of the student body supports the reading day pro­posal. Other results from the survey found that 1.071 assign­ments were given the week prior to finals [Fall 2001] to the 763 students surveyed, which ranges from zero to six assign­ments per student. 
"A strength of the proposal is that it does not go into effect until the 2003-2004 school year, as a pilot program," Jensen said. "Then it will be evaluated their con­cerns and together dis­cuss the proposal. 
"I think we shocked a lot of peo­ple today with how prepared we w e re . " Jensen said. "We feel 
really good about it." 
The reading proposal was already unanimously approved by the Student Academic Council and the Board of Governance, and will be pre­
sentAd  to  the  Academic  
Standards  Committee  this  
month.  

Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


>Htilmwtn.mm 
SPEAKER PHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER"' service TWO·WAV MESSAGING JAVA"' GAMES & APPLICATIONS 
DIGITAL CELLULAR 

,o.A"'y I-he .A.iBi+.,..1 w.,..l\:.ie+"'l\:.ie '""'"\:.s oVe., sevey"'\ \,,.l\l\J.,.eJ-""''es. A'-'.A. '""""'""ow, ""'l-io\\wiJ.e. 


NExrEL: 
They've "'11 COl.\\\ti\\B O\\ yol.\. Which is why yo!.\ \\eeJ.. Next-el's J..i,fh,..I w"'l~ie-h,,l\de .Pec::>\t-1.\ve. It-let-s yolA Bet-viBh+-t-hvol.\Bh wit-\.\ t-he pl.\sl-\ o.P "' \,l.\t+o\\. Th"'t-1Mec::>\\\S \\O 1MisseJ.. c"'lls, voice 11\\c::>\il c:,v pho\\e t-"'B· <;t-"'y i\\ co\\t-"'c+ wiH, evevyo\\e -Pvoll\\ H-.e Flo"'+-(Oll\\11\\it+ee t-o t-1-\e All.\11\\\\i (Oll\\11\\it+ee, wiH,ol.\t 11\\issi\\B "' J..et-"'il. Now yal.\1ve ve"'J..y-Bvi\\B It-. 
Now's "'Bv-e"'t-t-iw.e +-a Bel-Next-el: "'11 l'-!otve Dc,,iMe sh,.J..e\\t-s Be+­"' to,t•~lSCCl.\\\t-(l\\ O\\\Y vc,,t-e ploo.\\ oo.\\J.. $\oo• o.P.P """Y pho\\e. 
,o bl.\y: 

"BO to \\e;,ctel.co~vish-stl..\J.e\\t. " ce1.ll toll-{!vee 1-877-5'0,-Z.12.,. " CO\\te1.ct JDl-i\ (OIMIMl..\\\lCO\T"lO\\S 
"'t 5'74-2.4'3-,g,Ig, 





WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Jury finds Ryder guilty of grand theft, vandalism 
Ass<>ciated Press 
BEVEHLY HILLS, Ca. 

A jury on Wednesday found Winona Hyder guilty of stealing more than $5,500 worth of merchandise during a shoplift­ing spree at a Saks Fifth Avenue last year, but the actress will likely avoid jail. 
The prosecutor said she would not try to put the 31­year-old, two-time Academy Award nominee behind bars, saying she would seek proba­tion. community service and restitu tion at Ryder's sentenc­ing on Dec. 6. The charges could have carried up to three years in prison. 
Hyder showed no emotion after the jury, which included former movie studio chief Peter c;ubcr, convicted her of felony grand theft and vandalism, the latter charge for cutting sensor tags off merchandise, and acquitted her of burglary. 
The actress withheld com­ment afterward. "Thanks for asking," she said. "I just can't talk right now." 
Los Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley said in a statement he hoped the court "addresses the problems of the defendant that may have led her to engage in the criminal conduct." 
Cooley did not identify the problems, and there was no tes­timony about any adversities with which the actress may be dealing. Ryder has said she has been treated for depression and exhaustion. 
Defense attorney Mark Geragos said he will ask for a new trial. 
The court bailiff said jurors did not wish to speak to news media until the sentencing. 
Deputy District Attorney Ann Rundle said outside court that she found Ryder to be "very nice" and that prison was never considered. 
"This was never about her character, only her conduct," Rundle said. "We were simply asking for Miss Ryder to take responsibility for her conduct." 
The count on which she was acquitted required a specific intent to go into the store to steal. District attorney's spokes­woman Sandi Gibbons said jurors often believe burglary is a crime of breaking and enter­ing, but it does not require those circumstances. 
Ryder was arrested Dec. 12, 2001, as she left the Beverly Hills Saks, her arms laden with packages. The jury was shown videotapes of her wan­dering through the store's boutiques and taking a large amount of clothes into dress­ing rooms. 
The tapes did not show Ryder cutting off sensor tags with scis­sors, but a security guard testi­fied she looked through door slats and witnessed the vandal­ism. 
Security staff testified that after being caught, Ryder 

claimed a director had told her to shoplift to prepare for a movie role. 
At the start of her shopping trip, she paid more than $3,000 for a jacket and two blouses. The defense claimed Ryder believed the store would keep her account "open" and charge her later. But there was no evi­dence of an account. 
Ryder's arrest drew interna­tional attention. Media interest grew when Ryder appeared on "Saturday Night Live" and MTV joking about her case. During her preliminary hearing, Hyder was jostled by a crush of TV cameras and suffered an arm injury. 
Efforts to settle the case failed, but just before the trial the district attorney's office agreed to dismiss a drug charge against Ryder after a doctor said he had given her two pills found in her possession when she was arrested. 
The 12-member jury included several people with Hollywood connections, including Guber, head of Mandalay Entertainment and previously head of Sony Entertainment Pictures, where three successful Ryder films were made. 
Ryder's films include "Beetlejuice," "Heathers," "Mermaids," "Little Women," "The Age of Innocence," "Edward Scissorhands," "Bram Stoker's Dracula," "Reality Bites, "Girl, Interrupted" and "Mr. Deeds," 

Sniper suspects charged with murder of FBI analyst 
Associated Press 
FAIRFAX, Va. 

Sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad and 17-year-old John Lee Malvo were charged Wednesday in the Oct. 14 slaying of an FBI analyst in Fairfax County, police said. 
The two men have been accused of shooting 17 people, killing 12 and wound­ing five in Alabama, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C. 
Police said in a statement that the two were each charged with capital murder and using a firearm in the commission of a felony in the shooting of Linda Franklin in the parking deck of a Home Depot store. 
Muhammad was indicted by a grand jury; Malvo was charged in a juvenile court petition, authorities said. 
The announcement leaves Washington, D.C., as the only jurisdiction with a con­firmed sniper shooting that has not filed charges. 
State and federal prosecutors have yet to say which jurisdiction will try the pair first, a decision that may hinge on where a death sentence can be obtained with the most ease. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft said the decision on which jurisdiction will conduct the first trial will be made after a "fact-driven analysis" of where prosecu­tors have the best evidence and the best law to permit the death penalty to apply if the suspects are convicted. 
"I think it's well-understood on my part that I believe appropriate penalties for the kinds of atrocities that have been committed to include the ultimate sanc­tion of the death penalty," Ashcroft told reporters Wednesday. 
Fairfax County prosecutor Robert F. Horan Jr. wouldn't discuss specific evi­dence in the case. He rejected the idea that prosecutors have been bickering over who will try the snipers first. He called it "absolute nonsense." 
"It's the duty of each of us to pursue homicide charges," Horan said. 
He said he will respect Ashcroft's deci­sion about who prosecutes first, but if the attorney general defers to the states, Virginia should go first because it has a strong death penalty statute. 
"We have death penalty statue that has stood the test oftime," Horan said. Horan said that if the case is sent to 
Virginia, he'll meet with the prosecutors in Prince William and Spotsylvania coun­ties, where fatal sniper shootings also took place, to decide who will prosecute first based on the best evidence. 
Investigations are pending into several other shootings, including one in Arizona. 
Federal prosecutors earlier filed charges against Muhammad under weapons and extortion laws that could bring the death penalty. Federal charges have also apparently been brought against Malvo, but authorities will not say so because he is a juvenile. 
Montgomery County, Md., State's Attorney Douglas Cansler, who filed six murder charges against the two suspects, said the ultimate decision rests with the federal government, which has the men in custody. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. presents revised Iraq draft to U.N.: 
The United States took a final revision of its Iraq resolution to the Security Council on Wednesday in hopes of winning approval after eight weeks of tumultuous negotiations with wary allies concerned it could trigger a new war against Iraqi leader Saddam llussein. The draft has changed signifi­cantly since it was first introduced last month, but 
U.S. officials said the bottom line remains the same: tough new weapons inspections coupled with a threat of "serious consequences" if Iraq fails to comply. While the revised draft offers major con­cessions to critics, it still frees lhe Bush administra­tion to take military action against Iraq without a second resolution. In an attempt to meet French and Russian concerns, the new U.S. draft gives Saddam "a final opportunity" to comply with U.N. inspectors, holds out the possibility of lifting sanc­tions against Iraq, and adds a reaffirmation of Iraq's sovereignty. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Mentally ill man ready for execution: 
James Colburn believed his execution was God's will, despite pleas from capital punishment oppo­ncmts that he be spared because of his mental ill­ness. "This is what the Lord wanted," Colburn said last week from death row, where he was sent for the 1994 slaying of a woman he tried to rape at his home. "If the Lord wanted me to live, they would have given me a life sentence." Colburn, 42. was to be put to death Wednesday night, one day after the 
U.S. Supreme Court refused to halt his execution. His lawyers had argued that Colburn, a paranoid schizo­phrenic, was unable to assist in his own defense. 
Yale announces end to early decision: 
Yale University is taking some of the stress out of elite college admissions by ending its binding early decision admissions program. Instead, stu­dents will be able to apply early but won't be made to attend if they get in. 

Gephardt passes on House leader post: 
Missouri Rep. Dick Gephardt intends to announce Thursday that he is stepping down as House Democratic leader after eight years, senior aides said, one day after his party suffered historic losses in midterm elections. The expected announcement would clear the way for a succession struggle between Reps. Nancy Pelosi of California and Martin Frost of Texas, who rank second and third in the party leadership, 

Supreme Court hears asbestos claims: 
The Supreme Court was asked Wednesday to limit asbestos lawsuits in a case that will determine if the fear of getting cancer is enough to entitle employees to damage awards. Congress also is being urged to protect companies from asbestos suits which could cost businesses $200 billion. There are more than 600,000 asbestos-related lawsuits before courts today and many more are expected to be filed. 


Thursday, November 7, 2002
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Dismissal 
continued from page 1 
Both Kirk and Bnmo refused to comment on the reasons behind Phillips' removal. saying the situa­tion was a "personnel matter" and the University does not typi­cally comment on such matters. 
Yet Phillips said the fact that Bruno and Student Affairs are referring to the issue as a private personnel matter is what is most disturbing. Phillips, who said she did not plan to file a lawsuit con­testing the decision, claimed her removal resulted from a person­ality conflict. 
"Calling it a 'privacy issue' is a misleading attempt to make it look like there is a legitimate rea­son that I am being forced to leave," Phillips said. 
She added, "It makes it look I did something embarrassing or immoral." 
Under the terms of her agree­ment with the University, Phillips will still receive her AR benefits of free room and board and reduced tuition for the rest of the academ­ic year. 
The confusion surrounding Phillips' circumstance has left many dorm residents questioning the motivation behind Bruno's action. 
"As residents. we feel like we have tho right to know what's been going on," said senior Jenny Theis. 
Phillip's removal also alarmed several ARs in other dorms. Roughly 20 ARs sent a letter to representatives of Student Affairs on Oct. 14 supporting Phillips and questioning the reasons behind her removal. The ARs said they had not received a letter in response. 
"I think that we all deserve to have the support of each other," said Lisa Jarmicki, a third-year law student in Walsh Hall and one of the ARs who signed a letter to Student Affairs. "I feel like as an AR my job could be in jeop­ardy and I don't know how." 
"Although I have no doubt that would not happen to me because ofmy relationship with my rector, as a general policy, I think it is a matter of concern," added Stanford AR Kyle Forsyth. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne ,30@nd.edu 


Universities to end 
binding early decision 
Associated Press 

NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Two collegiate powerhouses, Yale and Stanford, have decid­ed to take some of the stress out of the admissions process by ending their binding early decision programs. 
Starting next fall, students will be able to apply early but won't be forced to attend if they get in. 
The presidents of both uni­versities hope their switch to nonbinding "early action" poli­cies will prompt other top col­leges to end their binding early decision programs, which have been criticized for putting too much pressure on high school students. 
'This new policy offers those who have set their hearts on attending Stanford the oppor­tunity to apply early in their senior year, without the addi­tional pressure of having to commit before they are ready," President John Hennessy said in a statement Wednesday. 
Binding early decision poli­cies are especially difficult for students who need financial aid, because they cannot weigh aid offers from competing schools. 
Yale and Stanford's new policies, however, won't allow 
5minute~­
fr.om CU"T'i=IDST 
Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-tooo for more details 
DEMO TAPES AND APPLICATIONS ARE 
DUE 

FRIDAY ll.a.o2 


201 


:LA FORTUNE 

early applicants to apply for other nonbinding programs ­unlike Harvard, which does. Harvard also does not require students who apply early to attend if they arc accepted. 
Yale President Richard Levin acknowledged that the change may cost the Ivy League school up to 20 percent of its top applicants. 
"Our final thinking was that it would be unfortunate, but the value of making the change outweighs the con­cern," Levin said. "Early deci­sion programs help colleges more than applicants." 
Early decision started at most elite colleges in the late 1990s to allow top students to win admission to their first choice without having to go through the longer admissions process. Students apply in the fall, instead of in the spring. 
It's not clear what effect the changes at Yale and Stanford will have on other top colleges. 
Brown, which reluctantly started offering early decision last year, is considering whether to alter iis policy, uni­versity admissions officials have said. 
Princeton has no plans to change its binding early admissions program, spokes­woman Lauren Robinson­Brown said. 


'Harry Potter' author threatens lawsuit 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

From the jagged, jumbhid let­tering of ihe title to the picture of a youngster flying through the air framed by pillars, the book looks fantastically familiar. But the fig­ure on the front isn't Harry Potter -it's Tanya Grotter, heroine of a Russian series that has the boy wizard's backers cry­ing plagiarism. 
While Tanya Grottcr Lo:; an 11­year-old girl and rides a magical double bass instead of a broom­stick, she shares several attribut­es with her near-namesake: Like Potter, she is an orphan, wears glasses and has an unusual mark on her face -a mole on her nose. And like the Potter books, the Grotter series is full of fanci­ful magic words that set spells in motion. 
The author of both Grotter books, Dmitry Yemets, said his work was "entirely indepen­dent."' However, he also said it was meant in part as a parody of the Harry Potter series, but with rools in Russian culture and folk­lore. 
"It's a sort of Russian answer to Harry Potter," said Yemets, a philologist by training and a spe­cialist in Russian folklore. He said he sees his books as being in a "cultural competition" with the Harry Potter series, which has sold about 1.2 million copies in Russia. 
Saying the resemblance goes far deeper than the cover, lawyers for Potter author J.K. Rowling, her Russian publisher and Warner Brothers have threatened to sue Eksmo, the publisher of "Tanya Grotter and the Magical Double Bass," unless it withdraws the book and promises not to print any more. 
Eksmo's reaction: Go fly a Nimbus-2000. 
"This baseless accusation of plagiarism is no reason for us to carry out their wishes," Eksrno spokesman Alexei Shekhov said. He said a letter from the Moscow office of the law firm LeBoeuf, Lamb, Green and MacRae demanding the withdrawal of the books was "stupid and impu­dent" and derided the threat as a result of "fear and panic." 
"Ifs fear of competition," said Shekhov, who said the first Grotter book has sold about 100,000 copies. The second, "Tanya Grotter and the Disappearing Floor," hit book­stores last week. Legal threats aside, Shekhov said the company plans to publish two more Grotter books this year. 
Rowling herself was cleared of charges of plagiarism earlier this year after American author Nancy Stouffer said that Howling had stolen ideas from her own children's books, including sto­ries about a boy named Larry Potter. 
Neil Blair, a lawyer and busi­ness manager at Rowling's liter­ary agency in Britain, Christopher Little, confirmed in an e-mail that "a cease and desist letter alleging violation of intellectual property rights" was sent to Eksmo. 
"I would suggest that anyone who compares the books (con­tents, sleeve etc.) will agree that the facts of this case speak for themselves," he said. 
Rowling is at work on the real fifth installment, which is not expected to be finished this year. 


O
THE 



BusiNEss 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WJRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 6 
DowJones 
8,771.01 +92.74
~ 

NASDAQ 
1,418.99 +17.82
~ 


S&P500 
923.76 +8.37
~ 

AMEX. 
834.96 +2.32
~ 

NYSE 



490.11 +4.31
~ 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CI:iD SYSTB-'6 (C:ffi) + 2 . 13 +0. 2 7 12 . 96 ~100 IN:B< (cm) +1.42 +0.37 26.47 SUN MICROSYSTEM(SUNW)+l2.62 +0.40 3.57 
-----~­

!NIB. O:W (INTC) +4. 36 +0. 80 19. 15 SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) +1.30 +1.19 93.04 
IN BRIEF 
Ex-Enron CFO enters not guilty plea 
Former Enron Corp. chief financial officer Andrew Fastow pleaded innocent Wednesday lo a 78-count federal indictment charging him with masterminding complex financial schemes that enriched him and helped doom the energy trading powerhouse. 
"Your honor, in answer to each of the charges, I am not guilty," Fastow said to U.S. Magistrate Judge Marcia Crone during a five­minute hearing, where he was arraigned alongside a dozen other accused criminals who were handcuffed and wore orange jump­suits. Fastow wore a gray suit. 
Attorneys for Fastow and the U.S. Justice Department had no comment after the arraignment. 
Fastow, ousted a year ago as Enron spiraled toward bankruptcy, was initially charged Oct. 2 and indicted on Halloween on various counts of fraud, money laundering, conspira­cy, obstruction of justice and other charges. Fastow entered his plea Wednesday afternoon in federal court in Houston. 
GOP urges Bush for Pitt replacement 
The Senate's top Republican urged President Bush on Wednesday to appoint someone who has "the confidence of the American people. the markets" to succeed Harvey Pitt, the embattled SEC chairman who resigned on Election Day. 
The White House, relieved to see Pitt go, insisted his appointment last year was not a mistake despite his numerous missteps thought to have hurt investor confidence already eroded by corporate and accounting scandals. 
Bush wants a Securities and Exchange Commission chairman who will "help crack down on corporate corruption that the presi­dent feels so strongly about and who also will continue Harvey Pitt's very successful record of taking action against corporate corrup­tion," said White I-louse spokesman Ari Fleischer. 
Subway's profits paying off 
. On-campus Subway one of nation's most popular 
By JIM GAFFEY 
News Writer 

While walking through LaFortune. it's hard to miss herds of students in line at Subway. The on-campus franchise has been consis­tently ranked the busiest in the Indiana region, and during home football week­ends has been among the top five (out of 14,311) franchises nationwide, according to Dave Prentkowski, director of Notre Dame Food Services. 
The store handles approximately 1,000 orders every day. "It really can't get any busier," said 
Prentkowski. 

The franchise is so busy, he said, that there is not enough room in Lafortune to bake all the needed bread on-site. About 100 dozen loaves are baked in the Food Services baking facility across Douglas Road and delivered to Lafortune every day. 
Although the store is only a few months old, the thought of expanding it is not altogether out of the question. But Prentkowski wants to wait until Sbarro opens in LaFortune's base­ment and for Subway's novelty to wear off before considering creating more space for it. 
Despite Subway's brisk sales, other Lafortune eateries are not suffering Starbucks." Subway's long lines pro­wich. 
from a lack of customers. But Subway's popularity voke students to seek out "The reason for [the fast­Subway does not, accord­has some students annoyed other lunch and dinner moving line] is that we are ing to Prentkowski, have a with long lines for food. options. adequately staffed," said drastic impact on the During peak lunch and din­Jim Labella, general Labella. The Subway in 
Burger King next door. 
ner hours, Subway's queue manager of Food Services Lafortune usually has six While the line at Burger often extends to the main at Lafortune, said that people on staff at all times, King may be shorter than it east-west aisle through even when the line is whereas a typical Subway used to be, he contends Lafortune. "When I saw backed up to LaFortune's may have only one or two that there is nevertheless the line for Subway, I main aisle the wait time is employees working. the same number of people turned around," said only seven to eight minutes 
placing orders, and he esti­Annamarie Bindenagel. a to reach to the counter, mates Subway has "no senior from Howard, about and then roughly 60 to 90 Contact Jim Gaffey at impact at all on a recent trip to Lafortune. seconds to get your sand-jgaffey@nd.edu 

Fed announces interest rate cut 
left it with little room to lower rates. with branches in the Northeast, and Associated Pres.s But analysts said the Fed appar­AmSouth, a bank with 600 branches ently has grown so concerned about in the Southeast. were the first to cut WASHINGTON, D.C. the weakening economy that it first to respond by cutting their 
The Federal Reserve on decided on bold action. In recent prime rates to 4.25 percent, the low­Wednesday reduced a key interest weeks, economic reports have shown est level for this benchmark rate for rate by one-half of a percentage unemployment rising to 5.7 percent, millions of consumer and business point as the central bank tries to the manufacturing sector stumbling loans since May 1959. Similar moves keep America's stop-and-go recovery further and consumer confidence hit­were expected by other commercial from stalling amid rising worries ting a nine-year low. banks in the coming days. about a war with Iraq. "The Fed wanted to inject an ele­The Fed also returned to a neutral 
Commercial banks were expected ment of surprise in an effort to boost policy stance -indicating that eco­to respond by moving a benchmark financial markets and in that way nomic risks were equally balanced consumer rate to its lowest point lower risks from a wobbly economy between inflation and weak growth. since 1959. and a possible war with Iraq," said In August and September, the Fed's 
The Fed moved the federal funds Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at statement was weighted more rate from its already low 1.75 per­Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. toward economic weakness. cent, where it had stood for 11 Wall Street had climbed to its high­Some analysts said they believed months, to 1.25 percent, surprising est level in two months in anticipa­this switch was meant to signal the many analysts who had forecast a tion of a Fed rate and finished half-point cut would be the only one quarter-point move. They believed Wednesday with the Dow Jones this year. Other economists said they the Fed would want to conserve its industrial average gaining 92.74 thought a further reduction could power to aid the economy, given the points to close at 8,771.01. come at policy-makers' meeting bank's aggressive cuts last year that M&T Bank, a large regional bank either in December or January. 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 7, 2002 
AFGHANISTAN 

Afghanistan's governemnt will form national army 
Associated Press 
KABUL 
Afghanistan's government has plans to speed up the formation of a new national army under President Hamid Karzai's com­mand -a move that would severely erode the power of regional warlords, a senior U.S. official said. 
Authorities so far have been sluggish in building up the U.S.­and French-trained force, which currently totals about 1,000 men -a size now dwarfed by the huge militias of warlords who command private armies each numbering in the tens of thou­sands. 
The U.S. offidal, speaking on condition of anonymity on Wednesday, said an Afghan gov­ernment defense commission met for seven hours Tuesday with regional commanders and warlords before reaching an agreement he called "historic" and "a major step forward." 
Karzai and a host of senior commanders, Cabinet ministers and powerful warlords -includ­ing Ismail Khan and Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum -agreed the new army will number 70,000 men in two years time, the offi­cial said. Previous estimates have said the army would grow to double that size over five years. 
Warlords would be able to offer up their own fighters for recruitment. but only those aged between 22 and 28. The bulk of the new force will be volunteers, while only a small number, per­haps 10,000 men, would join from warlord militias, the U.S. official said. 
Regional commanders and warlords attending Tuesday's meeting pushed for a larger 




Pataronia 

excltlsively 
at-.~ 
Sminute~ from 0UTPDST Camnus s ors 
r Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-2000 for more details 
Discover... il1e power, lhe feeltnglO lhe secrel 
llrnrsda~J 10 pm 

army and said two-thirds of its strength should be drawn from their fighters. But they backed down after it was agreed the gov­ernment could only afford to pay a smaller force. 
A special sub-commission will work out the details of demobi­lization, a vital part of the plan, tho U.S. official said. 
Soldiers who do not become a part of the new army will be given other jobs in local police forces, anti-narcotics squads or as border guards. Some would be 
TURTLE CREEK APARTl\ttENTS 
2 BEDROOMS AND TOVv'NHOMES FROM AS LOW AS $300 PER _._..._ PERSON!!!! ~ 
PLENTYAVAILABLE FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR BEST LOCATION AND SELECTION **APPLY TODAY!!­

theclogstore.com 
1-800-948-CLOG 


friJag. salnrJag 7:30 pm, 10 pm tlclmdolo 101 $3 


retired, while others would be trained in new vocations. 
The plan aims to dismantle and disarm the private armies of each warlord. Weapons for the new army would be contributed from existing militia forces cur­rently spread across the country. 
But disarming fighters who've wielded weapons for decades won't be an easy task. 
"If this plan is implemented, there will be no regional inde­pendent forces after two years," the official said. "It's a tough, tough decision for them to enforce and implement.... It will not be easy." 

The new army has already experienced problems acquiring arms because the defense min­istry has been reluctant to hand them out. 
Many key defense posts, including that of Defense Minister Mohammed Fahim, are controlled by ethnic Tajiks, who swept into the capital. Kabul. last year and ousted the Taliban with the help of U.S. air power. 
The U.S. official said Fahim may have been reluctant in the past but was now "enthusiastic," Most warlords saw the need to bring an end to the decades of war that have destroyed Afghanistan. the oflicial said. 
The warlords themselves will likely retain highly influential positions in government, the offi­cial said. 
The new army will be under civilian command and Karzai will act as its commander and chief, the official said. 

VISlT US ON THE WEB! WWW.TURTLECREEKND.COM 


LAFAYETTE SQUARE
T O W N H O M E S 
DO YOU KNOW THAT APARTMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE 2003-04 YEAR? 
•4 
AND 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES­SPLIT THE RENT 

•3 
FLOORS TALL/PATIO AREA 

•CENTRAL 
AIR/CABLE HOOK-UP 

•STOVE, 
FRIDGE, DISHWASHER 

•WASHER/DRYER 
IN EACH UNIT 

•6 
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 

•ADT 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

•24-HOUR 
MAINTENANCE 

•6 
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 


CALL TODAY FOR APERSONAL WALK-THROUGH! 
5 7 4-234-9223 

TCLARK@CBRESB.COM 
"BEST VALUE PER STUDENT" -ONLY $281 PER STUDENT FOR A 5 BEDROOM PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. 
.------------------------------------------------------------------­
7 
.
I 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 I 
I 


7 charged in drugs-weapons plot_ 
Associated Press 
WASIHNGT0N 

U.S. officials announced charges Wednesday involving alleged plots to sell drugs to finance weapons purchases for Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida organization and a Colombian paramilitary group. 
The separate cases show the throat to national security from the "toxic combination of drugs and terrorism." Attorney General John Ashcroft said. 
One set of charges involves a plot by four people. two of them Houston-based, to trade $25 mil­lion in cocaine and cash for a huge cache of weapons to be sent to the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, or AUC, as the 8,000­mcm ber paramilitary group is known by its initials in Spanish. 
U.S. authorities said the four sus­pects believed they were going to trade the money and cocaine for 9,000 AK-47s and other assault rifles; grenade launchers and near­1y 300,000 grenades: 300 pistols; shoulder-tired anti-aircraft missiles and about 53 million rounds of ammunition. 
In the second case, three people are charged with trying to sell hero­in and hashish to buy four shoul­der-fired Stinger anti-aircraft mis­siles for the al-Qaida terror net­work. An indictment says the al­Qaida link was provided by the sus­pects themselves. 
Top U.S. law enforcement officials hailed the arrests in both cases as a serious blow against terrorism. 
"We have learned and we have demonstrated that drug traffickers and terrorists work out of the same jungle, they plan in the same cave. and they train in the same desert," said Asa Hutchinson, director of the Drug Enforcement Agency. · 
In the Houston case, called "Operation White Terror," under­cover agents videotaped meetings in London, the Virgin Islands and Panama City at which the defen­dants allegedly discussed exchang­ing drugs and cash for weapons headed for the AUC, Ashcroft said. 
The AUC is the umbrella group for right-wing paramilitaries blamed for most of Colombia's massacres and hundreds of assassi­nations. The State Department con­
siders the AUC and the two main left-wing guerrilla armies it opposes to be terrorist orga­nizations. The AU C's leader, Carlos Castano. already is charged in the United States with exporting 17 tons of cocaine into the United States and Europe. 
According to an FBI affidavit, 

"We have learned and we have demonstrated that drug traffickers and terrorists work out of the same jungle ... and they train in the same desert." 
Asa Hutchinson director of the Drug Enforcement Agency 
undercover officers taped an April 28, 2002, meeting at a warehouse in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, in which one of the suspects and a self-described AUC weapons expert called "Raquel" allegedly inspected a cache of Russian-made weapons actually provided by the FBI. 
Authorities also seized numerous e-mails involving the negotiations, including one from a top AUC com­mander saying his associates must have "a visual inspection of the whole farm" -believed to refer to the weapons -before terms could be settled. 
The four were charged in Houston with conspiracy to distribute cocaine and conspiracy to provide material support and resources to a foreign terrorist organization. The charges could carry up to life in prison, Ashcroft said. 
Two suspects were identified as Uwe Jensen, 66, and Carlos Ali Romero Varela, 43, both of Houston. There was less detail on two others: Carlos Lopez and an individual identified only as "Commandant Emilio." 
Jensen was arrested Tuesday in Houston. In a federal court appearance Wednesday, he described himself as Danish but a 
U.S. citizen and was told he would 
be held until at least a Friday hearing. The three others were arrested Tuesday in San Jose, Costa Hica, after traveling there to finalize the deal with 
U.S. undercover agents. They face extradition to the United States. 
In the San Diego case, Ashcroft released an indictment against two Pakistanis and one U.S. citizen originally from India who have been held since Sept. 20 in Hong Kong. They allegedly sought to sell 
600 kilograms of heroin and five metric tons of hashish in the San Diego area and use the money to buy Stinger missiles. 
The three suspects in custody in Hong Kong were identified as Syed Mustajab Shah and Muhammed Abid Afridi, both of Pakistan, and Hyas Ali of Minneapolis. 
They appeared in a Hong Kong court on Tuesday to fight extradi­tion to the United States. Hong Kong, a former British colony now under Chinese rule, has an extradi­tion treaty with the United States. 
During a visit to Asia last month, Ashcroft praised Hong Kong for helping cut off terrorist financing and met with local officials about finding new ways to cooperate in 
the anti-terror war.  He repeated  
that  praise  for  China  on  
Wednesday.  

"They did cooperate with us at a very effective level. and for which we are grateful," Ashcroft said. 
Jewish League calls for probe 
Associated P rcss 
LOS ANGELES 

Relatives and legal representatives of Jewish Defense League leader Irv Rubin called for a full investigation of how he was injured in federal custody on bomb plot charges. Authorities say he hurt himself in a suicide attempt. 
"We want to see the videotapes from inside the jail." Rubin's wife, Shelley, said in a state­ment Wednesday. 
Rubin, 57, was in critical condition at County-USC Medical Center after undergoing a second surgery Tuesday. according to his family. The operation included wiring shut his broken jaw. 
Rubin's attorneys said Monday that their client was brain-dead after surgery, but Shelley Rubin said later that brain activity was detected. 
Rubin was injured Monday morning hours before he was to appear in U.S. District Court on charges that he and co-defendant Earl Krugel had plotted to bomb a mosque and the office of an Arab American congressman. 
Federal officials said Rubin slashed his neck with a prison-issued razor blade and tumbled 18-feet over a railing at the federal Metropolitan Detention Center. 
The trial is scheduled to begin Jan. 21. U.S. marshal's spokesman Bill Woolsey said it remained to be seen if Rubin would be men­tally fit to stand trial. 
"J can't comment on that. I think it's up to God," Woolsey said. 
FBI spokeswoman Laura Bosley said inter­views with witnesses -including officers and inmates -left no doubt about the cause of Rubin's injuries. 
"Without specifying too much, it is still a pending matter, there is nothing to indicate that Mr. Rubin suffered from anything other than self-inflicted wounds," Bosley said. 
Shelley Rubin and lawyers representing her husband plan a press conference Thursday to issue their appeal for a full investigation. 
"My Irv is a fighter and he will survive this," Shelley Rubin said in the statement. 



Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets
~rJi~ for any Occasion
only at -=-_.
~ 
(574) 674-0022

Sminutes~ 
from CUTPCST 
Fax (574) 674-0033


soars .

Campus 
Cold Weather Experts , 

I ND themed baskets our specialM
Call 259-1.000 for more details 



Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support &Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, I-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, I-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 




KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 


Summer Internships 
•




1n Ireland 
Internship includes: 

1. 
Seven weeks' internship (10 June-1 August) 

2. 
Round trip airfare from the United States to Ireland 

3. 
Room and board 

4. 
Stipend 



All JUNIORS with a demonstrated interest in lrish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. 

Applications available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 422 Flanner Hall 
OR 

Online at www.nd.edu/~irishstu/internships.shtml 
Applications due by Friday, 6 December, 2002 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 7, 2002 

/JRJCEWAfERHOUsf(snPERS I 
VOTED•1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

Investors need assurance to make decisions. Help us help them and the companies whose stock they buy, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
FRANCE 

Fire on train in France leaves five A111ericans dead 

NANCY 
A fire on an overnight train in eastern France filled a sleeping car with deadly smoke Wednesday, killing 12 people ­including five Americans from the same family -and driving pan­icked passengers to smash win­dows and jump to safety. 
The train. like others in Europe, had no smoke detectors even though cigarette smoking is allowed in designated cars. 
Fatal rail accidenl'i are rare in Prance, where trains are known for speed, safety and efliciency. /\ccidents. however, are not unknown in Europe; A high­speed train derailed in Germany in 1998, killing 101 people. 

Wednesday's blaze, which also injurnd nine people, was initially blamed on an electrical short-cir­cuit. But the French rail authority SNCF said that was premature and the cause was under investi­gation. 
The owner of I.he sleeping car. German national railroad Deutsche Bahn, said the fire apparently started in the com­partment of a train attendant. Smoke was blamed for the deaths. 
The fire began shortly after 2 
a.m. as the train with 150 pas­sengers passed through the city of Nancy on its way to Munich. Germany, according to SNCF. The train had left Paris three hours earlier. 
An accountant from North Branford, Conn. and four mem­bers of his family were killed. Salvatore Michael Amore. 43, and his family were returning from a one-day visit to Paris when they 
were killed, said Anna Maria 

SEXUAL ASSAULT AWARENESS WEEK NOVEMBER 10 .. 15, 2002 
. Are 'fOU or r,ome-one 1ou \i:no~ a vit.tim/&urvivor of &e-1-ua\ a&&au\t or rape-? 
. Do you wonder how rape is perceived in our culture? 
. Ira vou curious alleut rules, ,oHcles, 111111roc1dur111111Hng wltll sexual assault at Notre aa11a;t 
. Are you concerned about rape and how men and women can stop it? If so, please join the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) in observing 
Sexual Assault Awareness Week, November 10-15 
The events for the week include: Sunday evening: pick up a Teal ribbon and a schedule/resource card at your residence hall mass to commemorate those who have been affected by sexual assault Monday: Movie "The Accused" with Jodie Foster at 7pm in the CSC Classroom Tuesday: Panel Discussion focusing on why rape occurs and the policies surrounding sexual assault on Notre Dame's campus at 7:30pm in DBRT 131 Wednesday: GTC Dramatic Dialogues presentation of 11 What's Goin' On?" by Joel Gori at 7:30pm in Haggar 117 Thursday: Presentation by Patrick Drury focused on how men can help victims of sexual assault at 7:30pm in the Siegfried Hall Chapel Lounge. A survivor will also tell her story. Friday: Mass to commemorate those people affected by sexual assault at 5pm in the Dillon Hall Chapel. 
If you would like more information about any of these events, please contact care@nd.edu 
Amore, his sister-in-law. Also killed were Amore's wife, Jeanne. 43; daughter Emily Jeanne, 12; son Michael Bernhardt, 8; and mother, Susanne, 72. 
Three German men, a Russian man and woman. a llungarian man and a Greek woman were also killPd. 
Authorities in Meurthe-et­Moselle prefecture said one American was among the nine people injured. All but one was treated at a hospital and released. 
A train worker alerted authori­ties at about 2:15 a.m. when he spotted smoke pouring from a car as the train passed the Nancy sta­tion. Flames shot 9 feet into the air. and thick black smoke bil­lowed out of the car's windows. 
Survivors told of panic inside the train as screaming passen­gers escaped by breaking through the car's windows and •climbing out once the train had stopped. 
French survivor Marc Giraud said smoke filled his compart­ment after the door was opened. He grabbed an emergency lad­der, smashed the window of the compartment and those inside crawled out. 

WVFI and SUB bring you: 

OTHE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, November 7, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall. Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SroRTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MAJ!y's EDITOR: Sar.ih Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Man Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/G£N.ERAL INF0.••..••.••..••631-7471 FAX............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63I-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................63I-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWJ>OINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinc. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 

SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene.l@nd.edu 

SAINT MAR.¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ac http://oburoer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spom, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohscm-r (USPS 599 240) U publisllcd Monday through Fri<uy except .during cxun and vac.10011 pt"riods. A 1ub.:ripDon IO Thr Obicrvcr is SlOO for one ac.adcmic year: S55forone~crtcr 
Ilic Ob.ena U. publiWd 41; POSIMASTi:R 024 Suurh Dining I ~all ~d ::1.Jd.rcss uJrn-cl:ions ro: Norrt" Oamc, J!'<l 4f;55r, Th~ Observer 
P.O. &,Q Pc-rioJiul pon:ag,;-piUd a1 Na1rc Dame N0t1c D.mc, IN 465%-0779 a,td ;idd11ion;J m~illng offi1oa. 
l"bc: Ow!Wt i, .a mrrnber of1hr-Associucd l'r&. All reproduction tighu att rc,cf'ffl.1. 

Students must join fight to make Notre Dame an ethical employer 
The rules and regulations set up by the administration can be changed. As members of the Notre Dame family, students, alumni and faculty can impact policies and procedures of the University's admin­istration. If orga­Paul Graham nized, the power and influence that we possess has the 
Another 
potential to be 

Perspective
massive. Students at Notre Dame are able to support campus labor by orga­nizing and demanding that the University respect workers' rights and make a statement of neutrality and a statement of voluntary recognition. 
Students have always played a vital role in struggles for workers' rights. Labor history is covered with instances where struggles were suc­cessful because of the action of youth and students. 
In 2001, Harvard students played a crucial role in the "Living Wage" cam­paign, which had hundreds of Harvard students in support of the campaign and almost 50 students occupying the main building -all for a living wage for workers. Their struggle would not have been successful if were not for the students and their active partici­pation. 
Also. student activists and organiz­ers helped pressure New Era Cap to recognize a union contract in Derby, N.Y., which covered 330 workers, and developed the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC), which currently has a membership of 108 universities and colleges. 
Students at Notre Dame worked to convince the University to join the WRC and off er fair trade coffee at every venue on campus. 
Students now should pressure the administration to make these state­ments of neutrality and of voluntary recognition. Workers have told me that most of the staff on this campus are afraid to speak up about their working conditions out of fear of diffi­culties, reprimands or even pink slips. Workers should be free to organize without threats or fears of actions by their employer that may endanger their pay, their benefits or their job. 
A statement of neutrality is a guar­antee that the school will not hire union busters, will not try to hinder an election process and will give workers more freedom to make the decision on whether or not they feel the need for a union. This statement is essential to give workers the freedom (a freedom they feel does not exist) to organize, to voice their concern about their rights and to try to change how daily opera­tions are conducted. 
If the workers do choose to form a union, then the University should make this process as simple as possi­ble. If Notre Dame made a statement of voluntary recognition, workers would be able to bypass lengthy and timely National Labor Relations Board proceedings. If over 50 percent of the workers in a department on campus signed card checks, then the school would agree to recognize the workers of that department as a union. A state­ment of voluntary recognition by the University would prove Notre Dame's respect for the rights of workers and their decision to form a union. 
There is no question that many of the working conditions on this campus are deplorable. If the University wish­es to maintain its status as a moral university, then the administration needs to make a statement of neutrali­ty, allow voluntary recognition, stop viewing labor as a commodity to be controlled and allow the workers to collectively bargain. 
As seen in the past, the University will not easily surrender such state­ments. These statements will only come from intense pressure from the student body, faculty and alumni. Students can create change on the Notre Dame campus, but it will hap­pen only if students work together to put pressure on the Administration to respect workers on this campus. 
Students need to show solidarity with the workers on campus. We need to talk to the workers, listen to their stories and hear about their families and their troubles. We need to prove to the employees of this University that students will always stand with them. It is our responsibility as mem­bers of this community to work with the staff of the school, discover their needs and help them accomplish what they may not be able to accomplish otherwise. Workers on this campus have tried to organize many times in the past. but each time their jobs were threatened or they were fired. Therefore, students need to help get the workers to the bargaining table and start working for a statement of neutrality and a statement of volun­tary recognition. 
At universities across the country, it is the students who are leading the way for social justice in anti-sweat­shop campaigns, campus worker cam­paigns, global justice campaigns and others that transform how campuses are organized and operated. Students here have the power to influence the Administration. We need to organize our power and work in coalition with others to demand from the adminis­tration a promise that they will recog­nize workers' rights at this Catholic university. 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major and a Catholic social tradition minor. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. His column normally appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Justin Krivickas Joe Hettler Sarah Nestor Rachael Joe Trombello Protzman 
Viewpoint Charee Holloway Kristin Yemm Scene Patrick McElwce Maria Smith 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Chris Naidus Nellie Williams 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Did you obtain an absentee ballot to vote in the midterm elections? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'Poor but happy' is not a phrase invented by 
a poor person. " 
Mason Cooley 
U.S. aphorist 
O
THE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Pasquerilla West residents question dismissal of Assistant Rector Cynthia Phillips 
Dorm administration must be held accountable 
In response to the sudden dismissal ofthe Pasquerilla West assis­tant rector. Cynthia Phillips, we feel that some things need to be addressed. Having lived in Pasquerilla West for over three years, we foe! that we have no voice in issues relating to the dorm that we call home, if we can even call it that. 
Our Assistant Rector was dismissed, and the only information we received was a hollow message stating: "Good evening women of PW. As some of you may already know, Cynthia Phillips will be leav­ing the hall and her position as Assistant Rector in the next several days. The hall staff appreciates Cynthia's service to the hall and to Notre Dame." 
This is all that we know. Our RAs remain silent on the matter, for fear of losing their positions. Wnen the residents are afraid to speak the truth, what kind of community atmosphere is being fos­tered? 
We are all sad that Cynthia is leaving. She was a refreshing presence in the dorm. com­mitted to the well-being and the success of community life. However, this event is just one more in a recurring pattern. Policies and occurrences within the dorm remain unexplained. and there is no evidence of inquiry from the administration. Where is 1ft,,I\ 
:~~~~~z~:~:~~:~ ~:=r.~:,,r;~~:::f ·~~ 

her well. We were sur­
funds available for dorm events; The treasurer 

prised at Cynthia's silence 
is not even permitted access to the dorm check-···.=:-., ~ ,,. 

during the ordeal, especially 
book. This year, the residents have had to pay for ~=

•r,... 
since we are used to her enthu­
interhall sports out of their own pockets, despite the ""' J annual $45 hall tax, and again without an explanation as to why. We are not treated as mature college students who are capa­ble of implementing new ideas and bettering life within our home. 
There is an air of apathy in this dorm, because ideas are simply shoved aside. You cannot get anything done when you are talking to someone who refuses to listen and is rarely available for any discus­sion. We are tired of living in a dorm where our voices fall on deaf ears. 
It is time for a change. 
Jenny Theis Tiffany Festi 
seniors Pasquerilla West Nov.6 

Forced dismissal contradicts University's spirit 
Something is not right in Pasquerilla West. Upon our return from fall break, we found that our assistant rector, Cynthia Phillips, was being forced to leave our dorm suddenly and without explanation. Our firsL knowledge of her situation came to us in the form of an e-mail from our hall president, which stated that Cynthia would "no longer be continuing her ministry as assistant rectress." Today, one week later. we are left 
without an AR and with confusion regarding the method of her removal. Countless questions remain unanswered. and many dorm residents are afraid they may stay that t way. 
The only official infor­mation we have received came in the 
form of an abbreviat­ed voice mail from our rectress, Sister Sue Bruno, which stated 
simply that Cynthia would be leaving the dorm and that all wish 
siastic presence in the dorm. Later, 
we found out that she had been issued a gag order by her superiors forbidding her to release a statement without first passing it through Sr. Sue and the Assistant Vice President for Residence Life and Student Affairs, Bill Kirk. 
When we finally got a chance to speak with Cynthia, after she had moved out, we heard her side of the story. We learned that Cynthia has not been "fired" or "dismissed" from her position, but that she does have to leave Pasquerilla West. She is now living in graduate housing and is no longer our assistant rectress, but she continues to receive her salary and benefits. While some might consider the "free paycheck" situation ideal. Cynthia wanted desperately to be allowed to stay in Pasquerilla West and continue her duties. Cynthia Phillips was forced to leave her position unfairly. 
This decision, which was not based on any action of Cynthia's. has damaged her reputation as people speculate on the reason for her removal. For the record, Cynthia is not pregnant, she has never done drugs and she does not drink alcohol; anyone who knows her well realizes that her behavior is nothing less than exemplary. 
The University of Notre Dame has always pur­ported that people can put aside differences and learn to get along; that's why we call ourselves the Notre Dame family. A computer randomly matches freshmen roommates, and they are expected to learn to live together. We can't help but wonder whether roommate switches are ever granted on the basis of one roommate "not lik­ing" the other. If freshmen are expected to resolve their differences and live with a random­ly selected person for a year, surely we can expect our rectress to maintain a professional relationship with her handpicked staff for one year. Ifit happened to Cynthia, who's next? This incident cannot be ignored; the University should be held accountable for similar situations in the future. 
Cynthia only wanted what was best for our dorm. Everything she did as assistant rectress was aimed at helping Pasquerilla West residents. As stated in Du Lac. "Residential life has a rich tradition at the University of Notre Dame. The University strives to provide opportunities for students to prepare themselves for constructive and responsible living in an environm~nt which recognizes and values the needs of both the indi­vidual and the larger community." It is not fair to keep Notre Dame's hall staff in constant fear for their jobs when they are the very core of the sense of community at Notre Dame. 
Jennifer Belliveau Madeleine Heck 
freshmen P3S<Juerilla West Nov. 6 

Work for and with the poor to improve their lives 
As students at an institution that is committed to promoting social justice, many of us are involved in programs and service projects designed to help the poor and homeless. Notre Dame students arc encouraged to work for poor people, but rarely do we have the opportunity to work with poor people. 
However, the Progressive Students Alliance (PSA) invites students, faculty and members of the community to hear a speaker who is paving the way for poor people in America to secure their basic economic human rights. Cheri Honkala, the spokesperson for the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign. will be speaking about this growing national movement by poor people at 6 p.m. today in 155 DoBartolo. 
Honkala, who was once homeless herself. is an activist for equal econom­ic human rights at the Kensington Welfare Rights Union in Philadelphia. This group is one of the many emerg­ing poor people's groups working for social change in the United States to better ensure rights guaranteed by the 

U.N.'s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These rights include: the right to jobs at a living wage and just condi­tions of work; the right to well-being of a person and his or her family, includ­ing food. clothing, housing, medical care and necessary social services; and the right to education. 
Here in the United States, the richest country in the world, we would expect to find that these rights of our citizens are being fulfilled. However, the fact is that there are close to 65 million Americans living in poverty. 
These people in many cases are denied access to resources that are clearly available in our wealthy nation. For example, there are more aban­doned houses in this country than there are homeless people, and the number of surplus luxury housing units in the United States is equal to the entire housing stock in Canada. Not only this, but the state of California produces enough food to feed everyone in the world, yet Americans still go hungry. And in a country that values free enterprise, it is almost a crime that many people who have been brought up to understand the impor­tance of working hard are only reward­ed for their work by being exploited in the workplace. 
These facts are evidence that changes are needed to help poor peo­ple -changes that we, as students and moreover as Americans, should be working to achieve. 
The Kensington Welfare Rights Union teamed up with other groups led by the ranks of the poor in 1997 to form The Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign. The campaign has planned a bus tour called the New Freedom Bus Tour: Economic Human Rights for All, which will stop in 25 poor communities across the nation to document the face of poverty in each area. 
The month-long tour, which begins Sunday, will conclude with a presenta­tion of its findings to the United Nations on Human Rights Day, Dec. 10, and with a call to the United States to end human rights violations in this country. Members of the tour hope to engage poor people, students and oth­ers in their effort to learn about and fight against injustices to poor people. 
In addition to hearing Honkula speak on Thursday, I also invite you to Chicago, the closest stop of the New Freedom Bus Tour, next Tuesday to learn about the campaign. I truly feel that, as students of this University that focuses on social issues, we are obligat­ed to show our support of this move­ment to end poverty. I strongly encour­age all students to come hear Honkala speak and to learn how you can take an active role in the campaign to end poverty in America. 
Kathy Peterson 
freshman Lewis Hall Nov. 5 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, November 7, 2002 
page 14 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Stay home rather than go to 'Alabama' 
ByC. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
After sitting through "Sweet Home Alabama," audiences will probably remember the words to Lynard Skynard's famous rock anthem of the same name better than the plot of this film. 
Melanie 

Carmichael (Reese "Sweet Home Alabama" Alabama" suffers Witherspoon) has 
from a severe case it all; she's got of lack-of-plot-itis. great friends, At first, the audi­she's the hottest ence thinks that new fashion Director: Andy Tennant the movie will be designer in New Writer: Douglas J. Eboch about Melanie tor­York and her JFK Starring: Reese Witherspoon, Josh Lucas, turing her ex into 
Jr.-esque Mr. Patrick DempseyRighUson of the mayor has just proposed to her. There's one snag: before she gets mar­ried, she has to get her estranged hus­band in her small Alabama hometown to agree to a divorce. 

So, Melanie makes a clandestine trip back home and back down memory lane to the life she left behind eight years ago. Enter Melanie's Mr. Not-So-Right­Anymore-B ut-Sl.ill-Oh-So-Right redneck husband Jake (Josh Lucas) and the rest of her childhood cronies who don't take so kindly to Melanie's big city ways. 
Hilarity ensues. 
"Sweet Home 

a romantic comedy that's not nearly as engaging a "Sex in the City" or as heart­warming as "Sleepless in Seattle. " 
The eerily waifish Witherspoon serves up a decent performance. As always she's cute, charming and looks some­what like a Power Puff Girl on crystal meth. Bergen, who can deliver the uptight white woman act in her sleep at this point, adds a bit of star-powered oomph to a slightly lethargic cast. 
One the philosophical side, there's one thing that's slightly disturbing about the way this movie plays out. If the sex roles had been reversed here and a man behaved as obnoxiously to everyone as Melanie does, he'd be considered the biggest dog in history. But somehow it's OK for Melanie to be a completely ungrateful airhead. Somehow the fact that she's in love is supposed to amelio­rate the fact that she is self-centered and has a total disregard for everyone else's time, feelings and dignity. 
And the very fact that Mr. Perfect (Andrew Dempsey) gets walked all over in this film sends a disturbing message to the masculine half of those watching this film as date: Men who treat women with respect are chumps. 
In the end, "Sweet Home Alabama" is just another cookie cutter romantic com­edy that will be coming to a Cinemax channel near you soon. Very soon. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
signing the divorce papers, but he succumbs to her dirty tactics in the first 10 minutes. Then, it seems that the movie will be about Melanie hiding her white trash roots from the mayor's wily spies. But 
that too is cleared up rather quickly. And then, it seems that the movie will be about Melanie mak­ing nice with her soon to be mother-in­law, but again the film just keeps on switching plotlines. 
This film is a run of the mill "girl redis­covers her roots" films. And by the umpteenth reprise of Skynard 's famous song that lends this movie a credible title, the audience should be more than a bit

Melanie {Witherspoon) gets engaged to Andrew 

chagrined that they
(Dempsey), son of the mayor (Candace Bergen). paid $8 for a ticket to 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Jackass' cuts the plot, goes for stunts 
the pranksters were ever allowed to get
By SHAWN NEWBURG 

away with doing on television. From 
Scene Movie Critic 

eating yellow snow cones to getting beaten mercilessly by Butterbean, the Abbott and Costello, The Three heavyweight boxer, the stunts are a lit­Stooges and Buster Keaton are all tle more dangerous than ones from the rolling over in their graves after the television show. Each stunt seems even recent release of "Jackass: The Movie." funnier than the one preceding it. The They are finally best part of the realizing that all movie is the sus­
that time they "Jackass: The Movie" 

pense of waiting
wasted on coming 

for what insane up with silly plots 
thing the guysonly took away 
will do next. from their time In comparison
Director: Jeff Tremain

onscreen to per­to the television 
Writer: Jeff Tremain, Spike Jonze, Johnny

form their slap­show, the level of stick routines. Knoxville ingenuity and The men of the Starring: Barn Margera, Chris Pontius, 
creativity of their crew of Jackass, Johnny Knoxville stunts decreased. led by Johnny Rather than real­
Knoxville, bril-ly doing anyliant as they are with their comedy, clever pranks, which were hysterical in 
finally cut away all that unnecessary the television show, the Jackass crew extra stuff and get right to the heart of pretty much sticks to a slapstick. kick­what every young male wants to see -in-the-groin type of humor. Although
tollet humor and guys getting hit in the they do come up with really creative balls. and funny ways of hurting themselves Audiences either love the humor of llamas, will love "Jackass: The Movie."
And the result? A pretty funny movie. in order to make the audience laugh, 
"Jackass: The Movie" or hate it. Audiences that do not find slapstick
Fans of the original Jackass television they fail to pull any pranks more cre­Audiences who like circus clowns hit­humor funny should probably go watchshow, produced by MTV, will not be dis­
ative than butchering unsuspecting ting each other with bats, love watch­"Punch-Drunk Love." appointed. Those who never got the people's hair with hair clippers. The ing any sort of wrestling entertainmenthumor of Jackass still will not. best pranks are, unfortunately, missing or just can't get enough of home videos Contact Shawn newburg at 
Many of the stunts go beyond what in this movie. of dads getting kicked in the junk by Shawn.P.Newburg. l@nd.edu 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, November 7, 2002 page 15 
THE ARBITER OF TASTE 
'Punch-Drunk Love': a delightful knockout of a film 
"Punch-Drunk Love" is an offbeat, unlikely knockout that sneaks up on you from behind and keeps you reel­ing for more. 
Barry Egan (Adam Sandler) has seven very loud and very unruly sisters. who have undoubtedly kept him unable to relate well to women. He is the owner of a small business. whlch 
produces unusual 
washroom appli­ances. Lena Leonard. (Emily Watson, "Red Dragon"), is the radiant woman who has an unabashed desire to be a part of his life after only seeing his picture and takes him on a romantic adventure toward self-affirmation. Their first days spent together are what make up the basis of "Punch-Drunk Love," and an interesting few days they turn out to be. 
The film is based on a true story about u University of California civil engineer who stumbled upon a lucra­tive frcquent-11yer promotion. By pur­chasing 12,150 cups of Healthy Choice pudding for just $3,000, he accumulated millions of air miles. It begins with Barry dialing the 800 number on the back of Healthy Choice dinner package in the early hours of the morning to inquire about one of their promotional deals, only to be followed by the next scene wherein an unknown van drops off a small piano on the side of the road for no explained reason. 
The rest should be left to be discov­ered in theaters. What makes this film great is that it manages to be unusual while still being engaging. 
Writer and director Paul Thomas Anderson ("Magnolia," "Boogie 

Anne Hamilton 
Scene Movie 
Critic 
Nights") is up to his old, and some of his new tricks in his latest film. The story is quirky and seemingly without punch line or moral. It flows from scene to scene without giving its audience much rhyme or reason for why it moves the way it does, until finally some­thing in the viewer clicks. 
This is not a typi­cal film, but it reveals truth about people and life that is much needed and is, in a word, hon­est. Almost half the running time of the three-hour "Magnolia," "Love" exchanges falling frozen frogs from the sky for random­ly placed harmoni­ums, and promo­tional deals involv­ing large amounts of pudding. The script involves mostly situational absurdity, which 


Barry Egan (Adam Sandler), who has never been In love, gets acquainted with the mysterious har­
monium player Lena Leonard (Emily Watson). 
has the capacity to leave audiences 
either gasping in disbelief or giggling 
in their seats. The directing is outstanding and 
Anderson captures his characters in a 
winning combination of cliches and. 
intimate portraits. The film's scope 
takes some of the footage to Hawaii, 
and there is a beautifully constructed 
scene composed entirely of silhou­
ettes when Barry and Lena meet each 
other from across a hotel lobby. A 
great deal of the action takes place at 
night, and Anderson capitalizes on this through is use of interesting angles and muted lighting. Anderson's strongest point in this film, however, is his ability to tol­erate long stretch­es of silence with­out dialogue or score. "Punch­Drunk Love" is a rare film in that it does not bombard its audience with sound and picture in an effort to be entertaining. The acting is equally subtle. Sandler plays a character similar but not identical to those in previous films. Neither crazy nor sane, Barry Egan is a frustrated and at times comic char­acter in a very serious world. Jle is obviously a mis­understood loner, and Sandler's experience with this type of char­acter in other 
roles shines through. Barry is, how­ever, prone to outbreaks of crying or destruction, (he tears apart a restau­rant's bathroom on his first date with Lena), and Sandler carries out this apparent absurdity with a high degree of grace. Barry's crazy out­breaks of anger or grief indicate an imbalance; however, as the story developed, I began to wonder whether his "imbalance" was not due simply to his having an over-sharp­ened sense of what is going on around him. 
As he wanders through the wonder­land of "Punch-Drunk Love" he meets the larger-than­He orchestrates a medley of bright colors again in "Love," and he and Anderson add interesting synesthetic "scenes" of music behind moving watercolor "paintings," which appear alone on the screen between scenes. 
The original score, composed by Jon Brion, is also outstanding. It integrates music by The Beatles and a wonderfully desperate rendition of Shelly Duvall's "He Really Needs Me," which add to the playful mood of the film. 
The sum total of "Punch-Drunk Love" is that is overall a great film, not for any one of its qualities, but 
because it is 

life character. consistent in
"Punch-Drunk Love"
Lena. She is per­what it tries to haps the most 
accomplish by engaging and its humble plot attractive char­and unusual acter I have characters. Not
Director: Paul Thomas Anderson
encountered in fitting into any
Writer: Paul Thomas Anderson
film a very long one genera of
Starring: Adam Sandler, Emily Watson,
time. I don't film, "Love,"
Philip Seymour Hoffman
know whether to like its name 
attribute her suc­cess to Watson's ability or the writer's genius. I sup­pose it would have to be a marriage of both. Lena is wearing red. and this could symbolize the life she brings to Barry's frustrating exis­tence. (It is also a strong contrast to the royal blue suit that Barry wears throughout the film as a symbol of his downtrodden state.) 
The characters' honesty about themselves and their motivations are a refreshing delight, as Barry's coworkers randomly fall off chairs, crash machines into walls, and make other very human failings. One clear message of this film is centered in its honesty. These people clearly are not perfect, but because of their honesty, they don't have to be. 
Cinematographer Robert Elswit, who worked with Anderson on both "Magnolia" and "Boogie Nights," con­tinues to develop his style in this film. 
suggests, is a 

film a little bit on the edge. It is on the edge of being defined as a comedy, a romance. a mystery or any kind of usual film. It defies the normal senti­ments, which would demand from it a logic that, for its completeness. this film really should not have. "Punch­Drunk Love" is an edgy romantic comedy that doesn't stumble over sentiment or slapstick, and should be on everyone's list of films to see this year. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
You can contact Anne Hamilton at ahamilton@nd.edu. 

Thursday, November 7, 2002
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Iverson scores 34 points in 76ers' 101-99 win over the Clippers 
Associated Press 
PHILAD ELPI IIA 
The Philadelphia 76crs had a pair of starters foul out in overtime, but they still had Allen Iverson. 
Iverson scored six of his 34 points in the extra session as the 76ers held on for a 101-99 victory over the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Iverson missed a shot at the end of regulation that would have given Philadelphia the win and watched as Eric Snow and Keith Van Horn fouled out 16 seconds apart in the over­time. But Iverson made 1-of-2 from the line to forge a 97 -97 tie with 1:41 left. Todd Macculloch added a free throw to break the deadlock 23 sec­onds later. 
Los Angeles failed to score on its next possession and the Sixers looked stagnant when they got the ball, but Iverson bailed them out with a long jumper with 44 seconds lo go. 
Andre Miller sank two foul shots to cut the deficit to one 1O seconds later and Los Angeles' full-court pressure resulted in a turnover by Philadelphia. The Clippers iso­lated Elton Brand. who missed a short jumper in the lane, and Michael Olowokandi failed on a follow attempt. 
Iverson added a free throw for the final margin. He made 12-of-15 at the line as Philadelphia converted 86 per­cent (30-of-35) of its foul shots. 
New York 95, Sacramento 88 
The fourth quarter belonged to the New York Knicks for the first time this season. 
Lee Nailon scored 10 of his 
20 points in the opening 5 1/2 
minutes of the final period as 
the Knicks pulled away for 
their first victory of the season 
over the struggling 
Sacramento Kings. 
New York squandered fourth-quarter leads in each of its first three games, losing to Detroit, Philadelphia and Boston. But Nailon, who signed as a free agent on Oct. 30, reversed the trend. He helped the Knicks extend a two-point lead to 86-77 with 6:37 to play. 
Allan Houston added two 
baskets to make it 90-77, and 
New York was able to hold on 
for its 16th win in the last 17 
meetings with Sacramento at 
Madison Square Garden. 
The Kings made just one 
basket in a 10-minute stretch 
of the fourth quarter and were 
just 3-of-15 from the field in the period. 

Chris Webber led all scorers with 22 points and grabbed 11 rebounds while Peja Stojakovic added 19 and five for Sacramento. which concluded a four-game road trip with three straight losses. 
Houston finished with 21 points and Charlie Ward and Shandou Anderson had 15 apiece for the Knicks. 
Washington 107, Cleveland 100 
After a one-year absence, Jerry Stackhouse is back as a primary scoring option. 
Stackhouse scored a season­high 35 points to lead the Washington Wizards to a victo­ry over the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
A year ago, Stackhouse aver­aged 21.4 points for the Detroit Pistons, who received signifi­cant contributions from at least five players on a nightly basis en route to a surprising 50-win season. 
In 2000-01, Stackhouse aver­aged a career-best 29.8 points as the Pistons' go-to guy and showed an ability to carry an offense for long stretches. 
Acquired in September for Richard Hamilton as part of a six-player deal, he has led his new team in scoring in every game. Against Cleveland, Stackhouse had three fewer points than Washington's other four starters combined. 
Stackhouse scored 14 points in the first quarter, helping Washington to a 28-13 lead. He added eight in the second period, when the margin was trimmed to 46-43, then totaled 13 in the second half and made two free throws for a 97-75 advantage with 4:58 remain­ing. 
The Wizards put away the Cavs by starting the fourth quarter with a 12-2 run that made it 85-68 with 6:43 to play. Michael Jordan scored all of his six points during the burst, which he capped with a driving layup. 
Ricky Davis scored 27 points for Cleveland, which fell to 1-3 on the road. 
Dallas 106, Toronto 92 

Dirk Nowitzki and Michael 
Finley combined for 50 points 
as the Dallas Mavericks 
defeated the Toronto Raptors 
for their best start since the 
1995-96 season. 

Nowitzki scored 28 points on 
10-of-15 shooting and pulled 
down 13 rebounds while 
Finley was 3-of-3 from the arc 
and added 22 points. 


Shawn Bradley made a strong contribution at center in place of injured starter Raef LaFrentz, scoring 14 points and pulling down 13 rebounds. 
The Mavericks improved to 4-0 for the first time in seven years. In 1995-96, they fol­lowed the 4-0 start by losing 22 of the next 26 games. 
Toronto took its first lead, 
67-66, on Voshon Lenard's 3­pointer with 2:56 left in the third quarter. But Dallas answered quickly, restoring a five-point lead heading into the final period before pulling . away with a 29-10 run. 
Lenard led five Raptors in double figures with 20 points. Lindsey Hunter chipped in 17 and Morris Peterson and Jerome Williams added 16 apiece. 
Toronto was without Vince Carter and Antonio Davis for the second straight game. Last season's leading scorers are sidelined at least a week with injuries suffered in Saturday's loss to Houston. 
The Raptors lost for just the third time in their last 16 games without Carter in the lineup. 
The Observer accepts da.ssifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
,.At Last Spring Break" Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free T rips,LowestPrices. sunsplash­lours.com 1fill~2!2Z7lQ 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacations•Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234· 7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 
COACH· Need Jr High boys basket­ball coach:responsible and depend­able student or grad student to coach ?-8th grade reserve basket­ball team, Nov 5-Feb. 20, tor south side private elementary school located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Must be available for practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­
3: 15 Game schedule varies with 9­10 games beginning after school at 4 or 5 pm. Paid position. Call 291­4200 to apply 
WANTED• OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296, 

FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMODELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. 
$99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available tor 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com W'fM..mmmrl:!ntats.@m 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Oame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 
3-Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, alarm system, A/C. Avail.immed , $650/mo. 
Call 220-0499. 

HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. 
1-bdrm apt. in downtown South Bend. $395/mo plus dep .. 
Call 233-5285 or 220-2964. 
TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. 
WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go ii alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. see our ad in THE OBSERVER 
SPRING BREAK 2003 Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 
To EPS -22 .. already!?! Happy Birthday! Much love, M, D, "H" and B xxxxxooooooo 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 ­
COLLEGE BASEBALL 
Texas placed on two-year probation for NCAA violation 
Associated Prrss 
AUSTIN, Texas 

College World Series cham­pion Texas was put on two years' probation by the NCAA on Wednesday for illegal job benefits given to a former vol­unteer assistant coach. 
The NCAA determined that assistant Hichard Couch took a $40,000-a year marketing job at a beer distributorship owned by former university regent Lowell Lebermann but never did any work. Instead, Couch spent all his time work­ing on activities related to the baseball team, especially recruiting. 
NCAA rules prohibit volun­teer coaches from being on an athletic department's payroll or receiving preferential treat­ment in an outside job arranged by the department. 
They are allowed to have jobs but must do the work they're paid for. By not work­ing, Couch violated NCAA stan­dards of honesty. 
Although the NCAA's report attributed only one recruit who signed with Couch, it con­cluded that he gave Texas a competitive advantage by spending all of his time on baseball and dozens of recruit­ing trips. 
It also said Texas failed to monitor whether Couch was going to his job, which was arranged with help from head coach Augie Garrido. 
The Longhorns won their fifth national title and first in 13 years by beating South Carolina 12-6 at the College World Series in June. Couch left the team in October 2001 and was not with the Longhorns last season. 
Tom Yeager, chairman of the NCAA Division ( Committee on Infractions and chairman of the Colonial Athletic Association, said the violation was considered "major." 
The NCAA accepted Texas' self-imposed penalty to prohib­it Garrido from recruiting off campus until August 2003. 
The team also will have one fewer scholarship for the 2003-04 school year, and only one assistant coach will be allowed to recruit off campus until next August. 
The penalties do not keep Texas from playing in postsea­son championships. 
Texas Athletic Director DeLoss Dodds said the school stands by Garrido and that UT officials believed the violation to be "secondary" in nature, which would have brought a lesser penalty. 
"We felt it was a secondary violation and still do," Dodds said. "[But] we did violate a rule and we're big folks. This is a wakeup call for everybody to find out what their coaches are doing. We're going to make some corrections." 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 7, 2002 
NFL 

Frustrated Stewart talks about demotion 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Kordell Stewart played the role of Michael Vick as the Pittsburgh Steelers began preparing for the Atlanta Falcons. He would much rather go back to being Kordell Stewart. 
Relegated to the insignificant duties as scout team quarter­back only a season after lead­ing the Steelers to a 13-3 record and making the Pro Bowl, Stewart is clearly hurt and frustrated with his latest benching. 
Speaking out for the first time since coach Bill Cowher yanked him for Tommy Maddox six weeks ago, Stewart said Wednesday he will be a starter 
guest artist 

a.gain in the NFL, not just a guy who imitates another team's starter in practice. 
But he wouldn't criticize Cowher's abrupt decision, say­ing doing so would only distract from how well Maddox and the division-leading Steelers arc playing. 
"I can't control what other people do," Stewart said. "I've proven myself time and time again, so to express myself and explain myself again, what would that benefit? ... If this is the direction they want to go, fine, so be it, but everybody else knows, and this organization knows, what I can do." 
Stewart hasn't written off this season or his seven-year career with the Steelers. but realizes they won't keep him and his $6.3 million salary after this 
TI MOT HY s 
season to be a backup. 
So, even if they cut him or trade him, he said, "It's no sweat off my hack, I'll be ready to move on." 
Stewart also was benched in 1999 and 2000, but this demo­tion was the least expected 

P A R K S 
tenor 

J AME S CLYBURN 
ptano 

THE ROMANTIC TENOR 
a collection of love songs sunday, november 10, 2002 2 pm, annenberg auditorium tickets ($3-10) Lafortune box office 631-8128 
call (574) 631-8128formore information 


because it came so early, and after so successful a season. 
Maddox replaced Stewart in the fourth quarter Sept. 29 against Cleveland and rallied the Steelers to a 16-13 overtime victory, preventing an 0-3 start. With Maddox throwing at least two touchdown passes in all but one game since, the Steelers (5­
3) have won five of six to open a comfortable lead in the AFC North. 
With Maddox playing so well, Stewart knows he would be out of line to lobby to play again. 


AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 19 

around the dial 
NHL 
BRUINS AT RED WINGS, 8 p.rn., ESPN2 
NBA 
LAKERS AT CELTICS, 7:30 p.m., TNT 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL CINCINNATI AT LOUISVILLE, 7:30 p.rn., ESPN 
MLB 


end. immediately. is free to talk to other 
Associated Press 

A three-time NL At 53, Baker just com­teams, and has expressed 
Manager of the Year, pleted his 10th year with interest in the Cubs' 
SAN FRANCISCO Baker has had differences the Giants. He led San vacancy. The Cubs were 
Manager Dusty Baker is with Magowan, mainly on Francisco to its first World waiting until after Baker's leaving the San Francisco who deserves the most Series since 1989 before contract had expired ­Giants less than two weeks credit for the franchise's losing in seven games to officially at midnight after leading them to the recent success. the Anaheim Angels. Wednesday -before con­World Series. General Baker becomes the first But Baker apparently tacting him. manager Brian Sabean manager in nearly three felt slighted because Cubs general manager made the announcement decades to leave a team Magowan always pointed Jim Hendry hasn't inter­Wednesday, the day right after guiding it to the out everybody else's con­viewed anyone to replace Baker's contract expired. World Series. Dick tributions when asked the fired Bruce Kimm. 
"It has become increas­Williams led Oakland to what he thought of Baker's and is in Arizona for the ingly apparent that Dusty's the 1973 championship role in the team's success. team's organizational interest in exploring and then retired -he was Baker also became angry meetings. opportunities elsewhere is hired by the California when Magowan said in The Mariners identified paramount in his mind," Angels during the 1974 spring training that this four finalists for their job Sabean said. "There season. was the best team the Tuesday and Baker was remained non-compensa­The Chicago Cubs and Giants had fielded in his not on the list. But gener­tion issues that he seemed Seattle Mariners are likely 10 years of ownership. al manager Pat Gillick reluctant to embrace." to express interest in Baker thought that put too has said he has a "mys­
Sabean said he recom­Baker. much pressure on the tery candidate" to replace mended to owner Peter Sabean said he will have players. Lou Piniella. who left for Magowan that negotiations a short list of candidates Beginning Thursday, he Tampa Bay. 
IN BRIEF 

Warner hopes to return at home against the Chargers. Coach Edgerrin James and Hicky Williams Mike Martz quashed a potential will miss their second straight games
Kurt Warner starts throwing on Thursday, confident he'll have to quarterback controversy on after being ruled out of Sunday's Wednesday for the second time in contest at Philadelphia.
miss only one more game because of 
a broken pinkie. three days. Colts coach Tony Dungy made the The St. Louis Rams' quarterback, "I've just never been part of the announcement Wednesday at the who won his '".:cond MVP award last amnesia crowd, I guess," Martz said. end of practice. "How in the world could you turn James had been playing on a surgi­
season,· also agrees with his coach that he deserves his job back when­your back on a guy that's done so cally repaired left knee before par­
much?" tially tearing his right hamstring.
ever he's healthy. Backup Marc 
Bulger has led the team to its only Three pins were removed from Dungy said James also has rib carti­three victories; Warner was 0-4 Warner's finger on Monday and he's lage damage. lie had been listed as before getting hurt. spent the last two days strengthening doubtful. 
the hand in a tub of rice, with grip­Williams, no relation to the Miami
"Marc's played tremendous. no 
question about it,"' Warner said pers and putty of different consisten­Dolphins running back of' the same Wednesday. "But I feel I've earned cies. He plans to throw the ball every name, was expected to replaced the right to call this my team and day starting Thursday to slowly build James in the starting lineup last when I'm healthy I'm going to be up strength. week but injured his hamstring in back in there." practice Friday and was placed on 
Warner could be back for the Nov. James and Williams the Colts inactive list against 18 Monday night game against the sidelined Tennessee. He was listed as ques­Chicago Bears, with Bulger starting Indianapolis Colts running backs tionable. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 7, 2002 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Irish finish off season with Eck Classic this weekend 
-
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's womens ten­nis team will play host to the 15th-annual Eck Classic this weekend in lhe Eck Tennis Pavilion in the final event on the Irish fall schedule. Indiana, Louisville, Purdue and Syracuse round out the field for the tournament, which will run Friday­Sunday, getting underway at 
9:00 a.m. each day. The Eck Classic will feature two 16­player singles flights. as well as a 16-team doubles tourna­ment. 
Notre Dame, which has fin­ished in the national top 25 in each of the last seven sea­sons, competed in three other tournaments this fall in preparation for the 2003 dual-match schedule, which gets underway Jan. 22 with a home match against Western Michigan. 
Junior Alicia Salas has had a successful fall season in both singles and doubles. In singles action, the 86th­ranked player in the nation has posted a 7-4 mark, high­lighted by a pair of victories over ranked players. Salas won four matches to advance to the final of the OSU/Prince Cup before falling in a match tiebreaker to Lisa D'Amelio of Eastern Michigan. In last month's Omni Hotels Midwest Championships, Salas reached the round of 16 before falling to the top seed, No. 23 Marine Piriou of Northwestern. 
Salas paired with freshman Kristina Stastny in the first two events of the fall, reach­ing the quarterfinals in the OSU/Prince Cup before losing to eventual champions, D'Amelio and Rebecca Hawkins. The following week­end, the Irish pair won four straight matches to win the 8 flight doubles championship in the prestigious adidas Invitational, defeating dou­bles teams from Duke, Tennessee and two from Northwestern. Stastny, who reached the round of 16 with senior captain Katie Cunha in the Midwest Championships, leads the Irish with a 7-2 doubles mark this fall. 
Freshman Lauren Connelly played with Salas in the Midwest Championships and the pair lost a tough 9-7 deci­sion to the top-seeded team, 13th-ranked Karie Schlukebir and Linda Tran of Indiana, which will be in action this weekend. In the Prince Cup, Connelly and junior Emily Neighbours fell in the first rnund, but rebounded with three straight wins to capture the consolation title. 
Connelly has had a strong first collegiate fall in singles. as well, defeating a pair of top-70 players. Connelly topped No. 52 Jessica Rush of Northwestern in straight sets in the opening round of the adidas Invitational and then defeated Ohio State's Erica Fisk, ranked 69th, in the first round of the Midwest Championships. 
Classmate Kelly Nelson also has had a hot start to her col­1egi ate career, leading the Irish this fall with eight sin­gles victories. 


TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

Senior Katie Cunha hits a ball in last year's Big East Tournament. The Irish will end their fall season this weekend at home in the Eck Classic. 
11~a11 2002 
NOVEMBER/ DEC~EMBER) 
NOVE1\1BER 
4-2vlon.  Graduate School: Things to Consider  12·00 ­ I :00  G-20  
5-Tuesday  Resume/Cover Letter Writing *unlock Your Non-Profit Career Search R~ume Writing for SEO  12:30-1 ;30 5:00 ­6:00 6:00 · 7:00  CRC CRC G-20  
6-Wed.  Interviewing Workshop Alumni Networking Session .Think Tank Opportunities/Panel  J.2:00 ­5 30 ­5 30 ­ J:00 6:20 6:30  CRC G-20 CRC  

****~******•****•*••*•********••*•*••~··~·~~•*···••**•*•**************••·************••~· 11-Mon. How to Prepare for an Intern-,hip 5:30 -6:30 G-20 The Notre Dame Job Search Club 7:00 -8:00 G-20 
i 2-Tues. Resume/Cover Letter Writing 12:(l(J -l :00 G-20 Alumni. Networking Session 4:00 -4:50 CRC 
Office Visits: The Site Interview 4:15-5:15 G-20 
__ aGU amt~ 

13-Wed. Interviewing Workshop 5:00 -6:00 G-20
TennitL l\iniG 

. Human Rights Con'J.D.ission Presentation 5:00 -6:00 CRC 
14-Thurs. The Job Search-Beyond Campus Inter\'iews 4: 15 -5:15 G-20
Tuesday, November 12 

·~··~·~~•*••·····-···~~···~·~·•~t••+••••*•~+•~*·~•********•*•***••*~•·~··~·~~-··~~-···~••*• 
18-Mon. Graduate Scl:,ool: 'Ihi.ugs to Cor,$ickr 5:30-6:30 G-20
5:30 PM -7:00 PM 

The Notre Dame Job Search Club 7:00 -8:00 CRC
Eck Tennis Pavilion 

l9Tues. Interviewing Workshop 12:30-1:30 CRC
Z?---~z+=-­

. Preparing for the Written Foreign Servlce Exam 5:00 -6:00 204 O'S.b.ag How to Break into TV/Sports Br.oadcasting 7:00 -8:00 G-20
Stroke Analysis & 

.. 4-++ ,.,, *•..*!,!,I~..*..,_,. =t **:.; **•*~•*****#*~* **7',.:t. ******,,..**.....!fl!** ....*••!iltltl¥1'<1 . •1< .,..,,.. ,t..,tz:. *•l-*>11'.***""JI< *M<. -.j,IJI< *•• 20-Wed. The Job Search Beyond Ca111pus Interviews 1215-l.l~ CRC
Playing Situations 

Resume/Cover Letter Writing 4:00 -5:00 G-20 Alumni Net,..,-ork1ng Session. 6:30-7:20 G-20
Presented By: Men's &Women's 

. =Co-sponsored w/Pohtical Science.
Varsity Tennis Teams 

DECEMBER 
Free of Charge 

2-Mon. Rosume/CoverLetterWriting 12:00-1:00 G-20No Advance Registration Necessary The Notte Dame Job Sea.rch Club 7:00 -8:00 CRC 
Bring Your Own Racquet ··························································-·······························' 
4-Wed, Imerviewmg Workshop 12:00-1·00 G-20
ennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed 

Alum.ai Netv.rork:ing Session 4:15 -5:05 G-20 
pen to All Notre Dame Students, Faculty, Staff and their families. 


Thursday, November 7, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Football 
continued from page 28 
and tries his hardest to get as good as he can," Mattison said. "I le never, ever complains about getting half the reps in practice and not many plays in games." 
But Pauly was still looking for his chance to put those reps to use against an opponent. Ile got that opportunity two weeks ago when Hilliard took a hit against Florida State and could not return to the field. Pauly stepped in. 
"He played well," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "For the first time out of the box, he played good. He got his feet wet." 
Pauly didn't just step in because Hilliard was down. The Irish defense doesn't work that way. Pauly stepped in because he had earned the right to rotate. He had proven himself as a player that could step up. 

"You don't just get thrown in there because somebody goes down," Mattison said. "You have to earn the right. That's why it's so important that each kid know his role. The second unit guy has to get himself ready so he's earned the right. When his time comes, he's ready to play." 
When it became clear that Hilliard would not be able to play against Boston College, Pauly's name started coming up more and more often. The junior was going to have to step up one more time. It was an honor. 
"It's definitely rewarding to get a start with that defense," Pauly said. "We have a tremen­dous defense, and to get the start is really something spe­cial." 
Pauly turned in a solid perfor­mance for the Irish, but he and the coaches recognize that reps in practice aren't quite the same thing as reps on the field. 
"It was his first start, his first time playing for a length of time," Mattison said. "But Pauly is a good football player and like Cedric, like Darrell, like Kyle (Budinscak]. the more they play the better they get. and that's exactly what we expect to hap­pen with Greg." 

On Saturday, Pauly will be in the starting lineup again. Hilliard is still out with no chance of playing against Navy. 
The Midshipmen will be play­ing an option, and the Irish might miss Hilliard with that kind of an offensive attack. Hilliard recorded seven tackles against a similar offense when 
playing Air Force. But Pauly feels he is ready to step up and try to fill those empty shoes. 
"Ced always had a good per­formance," Pauly said. ''I'm just trying to follow in his footsteps 
-
the best l can. follow his exam­ple." 
Pauly earned the right to rotate and found himself on the field. When Saturday comes. he'll have to show why he earned that right one more time. 
"He's always ready when his time comes, and that's what I respect most about him," Mattison said. 


Diwali 
Festival of Lights 
-\-Thursday November 7th -Diwali Dunce and Dinner Alumni Senior Club, 9 pm 
Come ea.t traditional Indian food and dance to non-traditional mu.sic.(Westeml Indian fusion music.) 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5965@saintmarys.edu 



Close to campus! t and A,\r 
tra\ \\ea 
(Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) (el'\ 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way 
(57 4) 272-1441 

page 22 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 7, 2002 
CAL TOPS 'CANES IN LATEST POLL 
1 
CAL 
MIAMI(FL)
2 

-
OKLAHOMA
3 
4 COLORADO 
5 TENNESSEE 
6 TEXAS 
7 FLORIDA STATE 
8 FLORIDA 
9 UCLA 
10 UNIV. OF TOLEDO 
11 WASHINGTON STATE 
12 ALABAMA 
13 OREGON 
14 OHIO STATE 
15 WASHINGTON 
16 LSU 
17 NEBRASKA 
18 USC 
19 BOISE STATE 
20 AUBURN 
21 SOUTH CAROLINA 
22 MARSHALL 
23 TEXASA&M 
24 LOUISVILLE 
25 PENN STATE 

Can the 'Canes repeat? Can the Sooners make it two out ofthe last three? Who will win the 1-leisman? I-low many polygons does a Butkus Award winner get? \A/here is Berkeley? 'The answers to these (No. No. Look to Texas. Thousands. Take 1-80 west and follow the signs.) and other pressing questions can be found in this year's College Football Top 25 poll: 
1 CAL 

So they went 1-10 last year. Big deal. Serious time spent in the Blue Chip Recruiting Mode has made this team into a rough bunch on the gridiron. That combined with a new Power I formation adds an unexpected threat for this tum-around team. 

How good is this team? Eight or nine oftheir starters should be in NFL GameDay" next year. The 'Canes may have the toughest schedule in football, with games against Florida, Tennessee, Virginia Tech and the Florida State Seminoles. About the only qual­ity teams not on their schedule are in the NFL. 
3 OKLAHOMA 

New Hot Routes can put the 2000 NCM champs right back at the top. Which means almost as much to this Sooner team as beating their heated rival, the Nebraska Comhuskers. 
4 COLORADO 

Will the Buffs defend their Big 12 crown using the wishbone? The flexbone? The full house? Only the coach controlling the play­book knows for sure. 
5 TENNESSEE 

New high-low tackling might give the Volunteers their toughest defense in years. 
6 TEXAS 

Can their quarterback capture the Heisman Trophy against what may be the toughest conference in Division I football? Can the defense come up Texas big? Not even ourhighly evolved anificial intelligence can answer that one. 
8 FLORIDA 

Look for the Bruins to utilize a sensational receiving core and Hot Routes to vie for a national cham­pionship. Then look for them to vie for a championship all over again in NCM Final Four" 2003. 
10 UNIV. OF TOLEDO 
A great run in Career Mode gets these overachievers a major BCS Bowl bid and a Top 10 finish. And their coach the chance to take over a major college powerhouse. Enjoy that animated contract, coach. 
11 WASHINGTON STATE 
A strong passing offense makes them a team to beat. Explosive gameplay makes this perennial Pac l Olittle brother into a legiti­mate head-turner. WAZZU is ready to tangle with the big boys. 
12 ALABAMA 
The Crimson Tide has the polygons and offensive line to muscle anyone in college foot­ball. If that's not enough, new high-low tackling gives their defense the bite it needed. 
13 OREGON 
Blue Chip recruiting made the loss oftheir 2001 Heisman can­didate easier to stomach. A new wishbone offense could help the 2002 Ducks rain on just about anyone's parade. 
14 OHIO STATE 
More control over the running game puts them at the top oftheir conference. But they must beat arch-rival Michigan for the Big 10 Conference title first, which won't be easy, but definitely a possibil­ity for the Buckeyes. 
15 WASHINGTON 
Unproven defense must come through for a Rose Bowl berth. Total Control Passing gives this Husky team a very potent attack. 
16 LSU 
Tigers ---------are looking to claw their way to another SEC title. Louisiana.State University's pass-and run-blocking is top­notch this year. 
Justavengethe Colorado University mauling and beat the Sooners for all to be right in Huskerland. 
18 USC 

Must tum off "Injuries· for the thin Trojans to succeed. Con­trolling the playbook is crucial with USC's quarterback. 
19 BOISE STATE 
Say hello to the first "Houston Bowl" winner. Increased frame rates show that this year these boys are definitely on their way up. 
AUBURN 
,,· /tk
_.:t" .. '.'.. .JIIIJ<~f -..i..~.......... 
Old coach sacked in Career Mode. Tigers should improve drastically on both sides ofthe ball. 

Lots ofexcitement building for 'Cocks this year. Volatile offense could be a threat with the addi­tion of a full-house formation. Could make some noise this year, despite the fact that they are in a tough conference. 
22 MARSHALL 
A weak schedule equals strong wins. Will Keith Jackson, in GameBreaker's booth, call them "rumbling" or "bumbling"? 
23 TEXASA&M 
Several players converted to defense. Too bad they're in the country's toughest conference. 
24 LOUISVILLE 
Gamebreakers on both sides of the ball. Look for the Cardinals to go to their Wing T offense for big points. Look for them to top Conference USA. 
. 
Same classic CGI uniforms. Same classic stadium. Same classic coach. Same classic spot in polls. 

Play5tation.2

I ~ 
II. 
The "Officially Licerned Colkgldle Pwducis· label 1s lhe exdusiv< property ofTh< Collegiate Licensing Company. The 'Collegiate Ucensed Product" lahel is th< propertY oflhe Independent Labelin~ Group. All names, logo•, team icons and mascois a.sociated with the NCAA, universities, bowl. and conference., are the exclusive property of the respccuve mstitutions. lleisman MemonalTrophy and likeness of the actual trophy are registered service marks owned by the Downtown Athletic Club under registration numbers 936,853 and 935,852, respec­tively. Heisrnan and Heisman Trophy Award are service marks owned by the Downtown Athletic Club ofNew York City, Inc. The NCAA Football logo is a registered trademark of the NCM licensed to NCM Football USA, Inc. GameBreaker, 989 and the 989 Sports logo are regis­tered trademarks, and Total Control l'assmg and Analog Camera Sy;tem are uademarks ofSony Computer F.ntertainment America Inc. 11e,;igned and developed hy Red Zone Interactive, Inc., and 989 Sports devel9prnent team. "PlayStation" and the •ps• Family logo are registered trademarks ofSony Computer Entertainment Inc. e2002 Sony Computer Entertainment America Inc. 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
FOOTBALL
MENS BASKETBALL 

Walton selected
Brey's mentor Wootten retires 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Wri1cr 
When Mike Brey received a phone call from legendary DeMatha High coach Morgan Wootten Tuesday night, the Irish head coach wasn't surprised to hoar his longtime mentor say he was hanging up his whistle. 
"I spoke to him a lot over the past two weeks, and I think he feels good about it," Brey said. "I think he was 90 percent of the way there this summer. and he finally made his decision in the past couple of weeks." 
The 71-year-old Wootten, who announced his retirement from coaching after a 46-scason career Wednesday, coached Brey in high school and gave him his first coaching job as an assistant at DeMatha in 1982. When Brey left DeMatha in 1987 to work at Duke, he kept in con­stant contact with Wootten. 
"Certainly, he has meant a lot to me." Brey said. 'Tm not in South Bend, Ind., if it wasn't for his impact on my life at a very young age and back through my early years of coaching. I was spoiled, having my first coaching job with him." 
Wootten is only one of three prep coaches to be inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame. He never had a losing season, com­piled a 1,274-192 record and coached seven teams that were voted national champions. 

and Wootten watched Notre Dame's quadruple-overtime vic­tory over Georgetown last win­
Special to The Observer ter. 
"He's a legend, a Hall of 
Notre Dame senior corner­Farner," Brey said. "When you 
back Shane Walton has been think about him, you think about 
named one of 14 semifinal­
Wootten turned down numerous col­lege coaching jobs, choosing instead to stay at the high school level. Among the NBA players he coached in high school included Adrian Dantley, Kenny Carr, Danny Ferry, Sidney Lowe and Adrian Branch. 
Since 1977. the coach also served as chairman of the McDonald's All-American Game selection committee. which fea­tures the top high school talent in the nation. 
Brey and Wootten have kept in contact throughout the years. Wootten and his wife visited 
Department of 
Film, Television, and Theatre ND Cinema Presents 
MUHAMMAD ALI 
WHENWEWERE 
KINGS 
Academy Award winning documentary of the 1974 heavyweight crown fight be­tween Muhammad Ali and George Foreman 
Thursday, November 7 
7:00 p.m. Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library Free Admission 



Brey in South Bend last summer 
as semifinalist 
-
"Certainly, he has meant a lot to me. rm not in South Bend, Ind., ifit wasn't for his impact on my life at a uery young age and back through my early years ofcoaching. ,, 
Mike Brey Irish basketball coach 
ists for the Jim Thorpe Wooden and 
[John] 

Award presented annually to Dean Smith_ 
the nation's best college That's his 
defensive back. company." 
Three finalists will be 
selected on Nov. 25. The 
winner will be announced on 
A day after 
Injured Irish 

ESPN's College Football injuring his 
Awards Show, broadcast ankle early in 
from OisneyWorld on Dec. a scrimmage, 
12. Formal presentation of Jordan 
the award will be in Cornette hob­
Oklahoma City. Okla_, at the bled around 
annual Jim Thorpe Awards the hallways 
ceremonies on Feb. 11. of the Joyce Center 
Wednesday afternoon on crutch­es. Brey remained optimistic that Cornette would be able to play in 
B-ball Notre Dame's exhibition Monday. 
continued from page 28 "If he's not ready Monday. I 
Jones insists he did nothing spe­know what Jordan can do," Brey cial, just worked hard in the off-said. "He's a veteran, he'll do 
season.
fine." 
But when Brey
While Cornette sat out most of 
looks at Jones,
Tuesday's scrimmage, the Irish 
he sees a player
welcomed Jere Macura back to 
that has finally
the practice court. 
developed bas­
Macura missed Notre Dame's 
ketball skills to
exhibition last Friday after 
compliment his
Cornette fell on his knee, 
raw athletic abil­
prompting Brey to compare the 
ity. ln the
injury to one suffered last year 
absence of an
when Harold Swanagan fell on 
established big
Tom Timmermans. 
man, the Irish
Then, Timmermans had to 
have Jones. who
miss two months. Brey was glad 
can slash to the basket or hit aMacura is already back in the lineup. 
short range jumper, pulling pressure away from Notre
"I don't think he's 100 percent Dame's young big guys. 
yet, he's not quite jumping, but "We certainly don't want tohe's moving," Brey said. "Having 
take away from what hishim back is always a good 
strengths are, guarding people thing." 
and being an athletic presence," 
Brey said. "But now. for him to Contact Andrew Soukup at look for it a little more offen­asoukup@nd.edu sively. that's something he 

Fremantle, Australia 
"the land down under" 
Application Meeting 
Thursday, Nov. 7, 2002 
5:00-6:00 PM Room 107 DeBartolo AL & BA Majors 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
2003. 
The Thorpe Award has been presented since 1986, based on the winner's per­formance on the field, athlet­ic ability and character. 
Voted the 20th century's greatest athlete in a poll by ABC's Wide World of Sports, Jim Thorpe was a two-time All American running back and defensive, the winner of 

-
decathlon and pentathlon gold medals in the 1912 Olympics, and a standout in both professional football and baseball. He was the first president of what became the National Football League. 

"When you have that guy 
Jones. 

who can get everybody "He's a motivated, I know it's team guy, 
he's one of

uery important. And I 
those kids

value that role." you get spoiled coaching,"
Torrlan Jones 
Brey said.

Irish guard 
should do." 
Jones' unselfishness and acceptance of his supporting­player role is what makes him so well liked by Irish coaches. Brey in particular praised the guard for his work with Quinn, a guy who could potentially take minutes away from 
"He wants 

his team to do well, he wants his team to win. He's never looked at Chris Quinn as a guy who could take his minutes. even though he could. That's how secure he is and how much he's thought about the group." 
For Jones' part, he's just going to keep doing what he's doing -talking in practice and working hard on the court. 
After all, it's all part of helping the Irish win, no matter what it takes. 
"You can get lazy in a game, and guys naturally take time off," Jones said. "But when you have that guy who can get everybody motivated, 1know it's very important. And I value that role." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to abl: 
Tundlly through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232"'444 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Selection 

5minutes ...... 
from  OUTPOST  
Campus  1?Nif  
Cold Weather Experts  

Call 259-soaa for mare details 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 7, 2002 
U-WIRE 
No. 2 player in the country cotnn1its to Duke basketball 
-By PAUL DORAN 
The Duke Chronicle 
DUHIIAM, N.C. 

After one of the biggest recruiting battles in the Class of 2007. the No. 2 player in the country. Luo! Deng. officially announced his verbal commit­ment to the Duke men's bas­ketball team at a press confer­ence Tuesday at his high school, Blair Academy (N.J.). 
The 6-foot-8, 217 pound

-small forward chose the Blue Devils over Indiana. Virginia and Missouri. Deng is the sec­ond and final mem­ber or the Class of tually every recruiting guru, is considered by many to be the best high school player avail­able. 
"After visiting Duke I got tho idea of what I wanted to do," Deng said. "My dad came over and my brother came down and I sat down with them a made the decision this week­end." 
The Blue Devils hope that Deng, who is known for his stingy defense. will be able to fill in the small forward role that will be vacated by senior Dahntay Jones at the end of the season. Last year at Blair, 
Deng 


aver­
"It was a very difficult 

2007, joining Minn., aged 22 native power for­decision. The schools we points 
ward Kris considered all treated us and 12 Humphries on the boards
wonderfully ... 

team next season. w hi lo 
Deng was not the leading only Blair standout LuolDeng h i s announcing his No. 2 college recruit team to 
decision Wednesday. Teammate Charlie Villanueva. also a consensus top-five recruit, announced he would spend his collegiate days at Illinois. The only school both were considering was Indiana. 
"It was a very difficult deci­sion," Deng said. "The schools we considered all treated us wonderfully. Charlie and I shared our experiences and ultimately needed to make the decisions we felt were best for each of us." 
Deng said that he talked with his family and made the deci­sion over the weekend before informing the coaching staff Sunday night. 
t h e 
s ta t e finals for his high school's class. 
A world traveler, Deng's trek to Durham has taken him through three continents. He was born in Sudan before moving to Egypt and finally England. Ile then came to the United States to board at Blair despite the fact his parents stayed in London. 
Head men's basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski and assistant coach Chris Collins made a visit to the United Kingdom to meet with Deng's parents ear­lier in the year. 
Deng's announcement con­firmed The Chronicle's report 

The announcement came on Tuesday that Deng would the heels of Deng's official visit attend Duke. to Duke -the Sudan native Deng, however, will play one visited Durham Oct. 25 to 27, a game in Durham before weekend that gave him the matriculating at Duke -Blair chance to see the Blue-White Academy is set to take on Scrimmage in Cameron Indoor Bishop O'Connell in Cameron Stadium. Jan. 11. 
With Sports Illustrated cover "I enjoyed it, but I'm glad it's boy LeBron James almost cer­over," Villanueva said. "Luo! tainly making the jump from and I can now focus on our high school to the NBA, Deng, final season at Blair and hope­who has been placed in the fully make it a year to remem­second slot in his class by vir-ber. 
Senior Class Rotating Dorm Mass 
Class of2003, would you like to attend mass with other seniors? Have you 
ever been to any other chapels besides your own dorm?  Would you like to  
hear the different homilies ofother priests on campus? ­ This is your  
opportunity:  

AffENTio~ 
8ENIORS!! 

Want to be pictured in the Yearbook?? 
The Dome yearbook is collecting senior CANDIDS to include in this year's Senior Section 
*Drop-off photos in the Blue collection box at the LaFortune Info Desk or to the Dome office located in the basement ofSouth Dining Hall Due By December 2 
ff you want your photos returned include a return address on the back ofthe photo and please include the names of all those who appear 
We will also accept high resolution digital photos with quality ofat least 3 megapixels. Email to dome@nd.edu 


Celebrate the mass with other seniors from both on and offcampus 
-Attend a different dorm's chapel each week, hear a new celebrant each mass with your classmates, see the different traditions in each dorm service 
November 10th @ Morrissey Manor-10:00PM November I 7th @ Knott Hall -1 O:OOPM November 24th @ Lewis Hall -10:00PM 
... and more throughout the rest of the semester. 
Visit www.nd.edu/~class03 for more information and a complete schedule of services · 


Organized by the Class of 2003 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 page 26 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 7, 2002 

This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
Freshman•Retreat #44 
Retreat Date: December 6-7 Sign-up dates: November 11-December 2 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Learning To Talk About Race Retreat #23 
November 8-9 Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #43 
November 8-9 Sacred Heart Parish Retreat Center 

RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m. -11 :30 a.m. 
Coleman-Morse Lounge 
CHuav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #5 
7:00-8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
lttnesdav 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 -11:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Ministry with a Song 
¦ by Trevor Cickovski Graduate Student, Fischer Graduate Residences 
The power of music co reach the inner depths of a person's soul and bring such joy truly cannot be underestimated. As humans, it has been a part of our lives for thousands ofyears. Many would agree rhac there is something inexplicable about how having it as an outlet to all of the hustle and bustle of the modern world can simply wash away our cares away and put us in a state of mind where we are temporarily taken out of our busy lifestyle and into a state of relaxation and peace. 
Some of us have been given the wonderful gifi: of musical ability and the desire to share it with others. Personally that desire has been something I have possessed for as long as I can remember. When I first came to Notre Dame, I wanted badly co have music as a part of my life and to be able to bring people joy with any abilities that have graciously been bestowed upon me. However, I like most college students had a fear of committing to music groups on campus because of time constraints. I wanted co make sure to not forget the main reason that I was at college and paying such a high price to go, which was to achieve my engineering degree. W'hat I was looking for was a group to whom music was not simply a weekly obligation, but something that was regarded as fun and joyful. A group that was laid-back with regard to having to miss practice once in a while because ofother, more important 
commitments. A group that wanted nothing more than 
Sing unto the Lord a new to share the inherent joy that is provided through music 
with others. 
song, and his praise in the 
What I found during the first week of freshman year was the Celebration Choir, directed by Karen Schneider 
congregation of saints.... Let 
Kirner (also Handbell Choir director and assistant direc­them praise his name in the tor of the Folk Choir). Not knowing a great deal about the choir at first, I was reluctant to audition. I also was
dance: let them sing praises 
skeptical -what ifl was not good enough? I did not have unto him with the timbrel and a great deal of experience singing in high school, and I figured that in general people who auditioned for choirs 
the harp. 

at the University ofNotre Dame probably had been sing­ing throughout their entire lives. What I would come to find was that the attitude taken by this 
Psalm 149:1-3 
group was completely different from what I would have imagined. 
The first thing I noticed at the audition was that Karen was deter­mining my vocal range, bur was doing it as if I had already made it into the group. This confused me at first, but when the audition was finally over I asked Karen when I would know ifl made it. She cold me that I already had. In fact, with this group once you audition you are automatically considered a pan of the ministry. This fact is such a wonderful quality, and one of the best I believe, that the Celebration Choir has to offer. While attending the first practice, I could just feel the common ground and sense of togetherness among the group members ­though I had never met any of them it was like we were instantly friends. This common desire that we all possessed about bringing people joy through music, and our common love for the song and the instrument, was all the connection that we needed. 
Over four years later as a computer science graduate student and still a member, I cannot express how much of a blessing being in this group has been. Although there is no pressure co attend every single rehearsal, I find myself even on busy Wednesday nights wanting to go to rehearsal and actually feeling something missing from weeks in which I do not attend. The many privileges that I have had while being in the group include singing at Interfaith Christian Night Prayer every week, dorm masses, Stepan mass after the football games, and various Basilica events. And off-campus, singing at places like Hope for Rescue Mission, Center for the Homeless, and the Juvenile Detention Center. 
This year our choir is planning two very special events for the second semester -one on campus and one of£ Our big on-campus event will be a joint concert with the Notre Dame Handbell Choir entitled "W'hen In Our Music God Is Glorified" in the Basilica. The off-campus event will be "Reaching Out '03" -a tour co the eastern Michigan area around Detroit. 
As a message to students, I would like to invite any of you music lovers out there who are reluctant to partici­pate in campus music groups because of time constraints, to consider being a part of the ministry that the Celebration Choir or other choirs on campus have to offer. It is a wonderful way to help others and to do something that you sincerely enjoy at the same time. Singers and instrumentalists are always welcome. If you have any questions regarding our group, please contact our director, Karen Schneider-Kirner at 1-9326. I hope to see some ofyou reading this at our rehearsals, that you may have some of the same great pleasures that I have had throughout my five years in the group. 

¦ Basilica of the Sacred Heart ¦ Around Campus 
Saturday, November 9 Sunday, November 10 5:00p.m. · Spanish Mass 
Rev. Samuel J. Peters, c.s.c. 1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
Sunday, November 10 Law School Mass
10:00 a.m. 

5:00 p.m., Law School ChapelRev. Samuel J. Peters, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m.  MBA Mass  
Richard V. Warner, c.s.c.  7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge  
Rejoice! Mass  
10:00 p.m., Coleman-Morse Chapel  

¦ Sundav·sscriPIUreReadings 1st Reading Wis 6:12-16 2nd Reading 1 Thes 4:13-18 Gospel Mt 25:1-13 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
~~IE. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter lo each square, I've had ii to form four ordinary words. 
ten years 
SOITH 
± 
I I t IJ 
02002 Tribune Medin Servlc61, Inc. All Rights RuserYEM;L 
BYMAL 
j
I trtKEGATS I 
wwwTumble,eom
tSATTLE ± 
Answer: ON ( 

l I )rI I I ) ( I I I ) 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: STEED UNITY MARMOT FAMOUS Answer: The runners turned the street into this -THE ROAD TO FITNESS 

THE TRl=ADMIL-L. BROKE DOWN Bl=­C.AUSI= IT WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 28 • To order, Nhd your h¦ m11, ¦ ddteu ahd $5.Dl5 •nd make check payable to Tdbune Media SarvlcH, P.O. BoJC: 4330, Chicago, IL 60880-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 39 Mars's Greek counterpart

1 Go soft 41 Highway
5 Meter reading 
behemoths

9 Stogie 
43 Race's finish

14 Home to billions 
line

15 "Thi~k nothing 44 Gin's go-with 46 Odd-numbered16 Eyes 
page

17 Done in 
48 Preceded

desperation 
49 Bygone autocrat

19 Dismissed 
51 Sticks in the

20 Walk quietly 
snow? 21 Moray, for one 
53 Domains of 23 Dele canceler influence 24 Olympic sled 56 Dance unit 26 Whippers 57 "Your Show of 28 Unlike½ Shows" regular 32 Equal 58 _canto (singing style) 
33 Mal de 60 Come up with
34 "Horrible" comics 64 Arizona home character 66 Surfer's stop? 36 Painter Max 68 Iranian money 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S I X A B A T E R H A T M Y R A E E D Y 

WILLSHORTZ 
69 Shredded 70 Gossip tidbit 71 Clotho, 
Lachesis and Atropos 72 "Ars amatoria" poet 73 Thomas Hardy heroine 
DOWN 
1 Brewery supply 2 Actor Morales 3 Saying "th" for 
...s" 
4 Spill the beans 5 Pate meat 6 Back at sea? 7 Houston 
university 8 Neighbor of Lucy 
9 Rank aoove maj. 10 Polar cover 11 Not-so-super 
bowl? 
Puzzle by Ed Early
12 "Ragged Dick" 

35 "Casablanca" 53 Winter 61 Prefix with date
author 

cafe accessory
13 Major melees 62 Golfers' needs
37 Sporting blade 

54 Lecterns
18 Moolah 
63 Shade trees
38 Cinergy Field 

55 Argument
22 Drink like a dog 
athletes 
65 Coveted

59 Ukrainian city
40 Large Scrabble tile 
near the Polish
42 Like letters on 

border 67 Dernier_
28 •_my wit's shirts end!" 45 Geo or Reo 29 Detective Wolfe 47 Kiri Te Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Kanawa's milieu are available by touch-tone phone: with private 50 Gray-clad 1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). eyes soldier Annual subscriptions are available for the 31 Fabrics with 52 Gift-giver's best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 metallic threads request years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christopher Daniel Bames, Joni Mitchell, Billy Grnham. Dana Plato 
Happy Birlhday: Your positive 11ature will help you make a leap of faith this year that should result in some wonderful gains. Oear up old issues so that you can make the most of your good fortune. 1l1is is a year of progress; however, how far you get will be directly linked to what and how you i:lear with past issues. Your numbers ,_.e 10, 13, 24, 27, 32, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This could be mi upsetting day. Someone who may not have been completely honest with you may be threatening your position. Don't be pressured into confi-ot11ations. *** 
TAURUS (Apnl 20-May 20): Problems with older females may be distressing. Try to stay calm and don't bite off your nose to spite your face. Think ;tbout whether you really want to become involved in tllis sttuatton. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may find that w1 emotional partner is somewhat upset by your lack of attention. Try to spend some quality time togctl\Cr i[_you want to revive the relatio11ship. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should be busy working in order to take ~our mind off ~•st unpleasant experiences. Let go of the past and move on . tai~~~,~~11~~*;ibeen watching you from a distance. Open your eyes and 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Organize an indoor sports event with friends that will be competitive and challenging. It will be a great success mtd wonderful fwt for everyone. Be Slll'e not to leave anyone out. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may find it difficult to feel sympathetic toward those who really haven't pulled tl1eir weight. Think carefully before you start to criticiz.e others. Try to rcmam impartial. ** LIBRA (S?.:" 23-Oct. 22): Travel or getting out with friends will be most 
e~u°r~~;10~ker;f~~tn1. Y.t'/:.W:rdrobe and sec what additions would make 
SCORPIO (bet. 23-Nov. 21): You can make quantum leaps in your profossional direction today. Don't hesitate to go for interviews or start your ~w~~t~~:isiness. You have Lhe motivation Wld the discipline to accomplish 
SAGITIARit:S (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be in seventh heaven when you receive recognition for your accomplishments. Your hard work is paying off andyou are gai11ing the respect you ww11. Continue to work diligently. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you get involved in behind-the-scenes activities you will discover tliat there is more to !cam than you first thought. Pick up books that will prepare you adequately and talk to those who have Jots ofexperience. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Try lo be patient with children or tl1osc less experienced than you. Orgauize fuud-raising events that will help the less fortunate. Use your abilities and your connections to help give back to the community. **** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Get caught up on your letter writing and reading. You need to have u vast knowledge in order to address groups interested in your ideas. Do your research so you are prepared to answer w1y queries.*** 
Birthday Baby: You will be II fierce competitor and a loyal friend. Your ability to be a team player will bnng you popularity. You will show strength and dctennination throughout your lite. 
§ici~}RYbm~}~rJM~ss1t.'.5~~1".svN151~a1as1.com, astroma1e.com. 


Friday 11/8 
*Saturda : Mini 
Saturday 11 /9 
hockey sticks to 
7pm -Joyce Center 
the 1st 1,000 fansl 
-
Thursday, November 7, 2002  The Observer . TODAY  page 27  

.... 

PORTS 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

Pauly steps into spotlight 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
There is a right that you have to earn on the Notre Dame defense. When you take the field. you don't do it before you've earned that right. 
It starts with the right to rotate. 
Irish defensive tackle Greg Pauly earned that right early this season and proved it to the world last Saturday. 
"We always talk about you have to earn the right to rotate," defensive line coach Greg Mattison said. "Greg earned the right to rotate very early by his effort, his work ethic, by his technique. and so from day one Greg has really rotated." 
By the time summer camp was over, Pauly had begun to rotate in and out of plays with the starting nose guards. He and starters Darrell Campbell and Cedric Hilliard took the same number of reps in practice. But when game time came, Pauly generally found himself on the sidelines. That could be frustrat­ing. 
"I always want to get in the game, and you always want to be out there and help out as much as you can," Pauly said. 
The coaches never saw Pauly complain. He came to practice every day, took every rep that was offered him and then stood quietly on the sidelines while Campbell and Hilliard took the field. 
"The thing that I really, really respect in Greg Pauly is he's a guy who comes out every day 


BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
and works as hard as he can 

Irish nose tackle Greg Pauly tries to sack Florida State's quarterback Chris Rix during Notre Dame's win over the Seminoles. see FOOTBALL/page 21 Pauly stepped up following Cedric Hilliard's injury in the Florida State game. 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Vocal Jones thrives in supporting role 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
At times in practice, Irish coach Mike Brey stops play to teach his proteges a lesson. But while the average coach might repeat his words to reinforce his point, Brey simply stops talking and walks away. 
That's because before Brey turns his back. he often hears Torrian Jones repeating his words. 
"I think our guys are looking at him a lot just because he's our most vocal guy," Brey said of the junior guard. "Even though he's not a captain in title, I want him to act like a captain." 

Strong words for a player who only averaged 15.5 minutes and 
3.9 points a game last season and isn't expected to see those num­bers rise dramatically this season. Yet at the beginning of the sea­son, when Brey mentioned team leaders, he threw Jones' name into the mix along with Matt Carroll, Dan Miller and Chris Thomas. 
It's a role Jones both acknowl­edges and accepts. He's content with providing a spark off the bench during games and a spark on the court in practices. 
"f see it as keeping guys' spirits up when they aren't having a good practice," Jones said. "The main thing for me is to be vocal. We lost three big leaders last year. and just being able to step in and be a vocal leader is a big thing." 
Jones' role on the court last season was clearly defined. He came off the bench to provide a boost of energy, and his defensive abilities were often counted on in late-game situations. 
When the Irish struggled during the middle of the season, Brey moved Jones into the starting lineup to provide a boost of ath­leticism. The result -the Irish won six in a row. 
Jones' role this year is a little less clear, as is the number of minutes he might play. Notre Dame added depth around the perimeter by substituting Dan Miller for David Graves at small forward and adding a guard in Chris Quinn. 
Yet he. and Brey, don't expect his minutes to get cut. fn fact, Brey said Jones might even be 
called on to start a game or a half. 
But it doesn't matter to Jones when he enters the game -he knows he's going to have an impact regardless. 
"I like coming off the bench a lot," Jones said. "I know I'm just as influential in the game as any other guy, and sometimes you need to have a guy who can spark you again." 
For the second straight sum­mer, Jones' teammates called him the most improved player. 
see B-BALL/page 23 


MENS BASKETBALL  FOOTBAU.  WOMENS TENNIS  
Leading the team  Wootten retires  Right to play  Finishing at home  
Irish guard Torrian Jones plays  Mike Brey's mentor Morgan Wootten  Irish defensive back Greg Pauly  Notre Dame will end its fall season  
the role of captain without the title.  retires. Jordan Cornette remains hopeful after injury.  stepped into the spotlight this weekend, and the Irish will need him against Navy.  this weekend with the Eck Classic.  
back page  page 23  back page  page 20  

-









