
Uncle Tupello reflects influential career
SNOW 

Tuesday

The St. Louis threesome that innovated the popular alt-country music now emulated by many other bands released a new anthology, 89/93, which 
MARCH 26, 

HIGH 33° 

recaps the group's career. LOW2S0 
2002
Scene . page 11 



By JASON McFARlEY 
News Writer 

As nearly 200 students sur­rounded him on three sides Monday, the man behind pro­posed changes to the University alcohol policy welcomed student input into the writing of the revi­sions but closed the door on reversing the planned crack­down on campus drinking. 
"I don't want to build false hope," Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, said, receiving grumbles from the student audience."This does appear to be a definitive direction we're moving in. If we look at that again, it'll be down the road." 
Poorman's words came at a divisive Campus Life Council meeting, where the administra­tor formally introduced amend-
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 111 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 




Poorman stands firm on alcohol changes 
who sit on the council. Comments throughout the meeting reflected the division. 
''With the amount of effort we put into alcohol awareness, edu­cation, discipline, we could be doing so many other things," said Keenan Hall rector Father Gary Chamberland, who asked Poorman why he hadn't taken the more drastic action of ban­ning all alcohol on campus. 
Poorman, a former Dillon Hall rector, restated his belief that alcohol abuse is a problem at Notre Dame but said his pro­posed changes to outlaw "hard" liquor in undergraduate resi­dence halls. ban in-hall dances and loosen tailgating rules address the issue. 
Poorman announced the changes March 18, after a two­year study into abusive drinking 
see ALCOHOL/page 4 
ments to the alcohol policy a week after announcing them to students. He spoke in front of hundreds of undergraduate stu­dents who filled the chairs in the LaFortune Ballroom after the crowd had packed another room to capacity. 
On a day when CLC members and several students at the 2 1/2­hou r meeting directed frank comments and questions to Poorman for the first time pub­licly, the council's defeat of a Student Senate resolution also thwarted hopes for an eleventh­hour stand against the policy changes. 
The CLC voted 11-7 in closed ballot in favor of the resolution to overturn the proposed ban on in­hall dances, leaving the measure one vote short of passage. The vote likely reflected a split between the students and the rectors and lone administrator 

ND raises tuition 
4.9 percent 
By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 
University officials recently announced an increase in undergraduate tuition that rais­es average costs to $32,020 for the 2002-03 academic year and matches last year's 4.9 percent. touting the two as the lowest percentage increases in more than 40 years. 
The 4.9 percent hike, which University President Father Edward Malloy revealed in a recent letter to the parents of freshman, sophomore and Junior students, translates to a $1,490 total increase in current costs. It raises tuition to $25,510 and room and board to $6,510. 
The Board of Trustees has approved annual increases in tuition for the past four decades. The past two years' percent increases have been the lowest since 1959, when there was no increase from the previ­ous year. 
The tuition hike was primarily due to growing expenses and a slowing economy. officials said. 
"When we consider every­thing taking place at this University in order for it to grow and become better, we see some extraordinary expens­
see TUITION/page 6 


Quadruplets call SMC home 
By THERESA FRALISH 
New• Weiter 
Most people enter college expecting to leave their family and close friends behlnd. They generally make new friend­ships and are often hundreds of miles apart from loved ones. But for the Taylor sisters, junior Lynn, and freshmen Katie, Julie and Laura, a face to face conversation is only a short stroll away. Katie, Julie, Laura and David, who attends Purdue, are quadruplets, and Lynn is their older sister. 
Staying together was not an issue for the sisters of New Palestine, Ind.; rather each happened to choose Saint Mary's for separate reasons. 
"We definitely made the choice on our own," said Julie Tayor. 
While each sister made her own decision, they were all looking for similar characteris­tics in a college. Saint Mary's small and welcoming atmos­phere was a main reason for their choices. 
"It's a lot like our high school: small and Catholic," said Laura Taylor. "Saint Mary's just seemed to fit with me -academically and social­ly," said Lynn. "There were just a lot of benefits to coming here." 
The women did apply to other schools, but simply found Saint Mary's to be a good match. 
"I also applied to [Indiana University] and Dayton, but I 
Eldred recovers from throat surgery 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 

It may have been quieter than ' usual in the Office of the President at Saint Mary's the past two weeks. President Marilou 
Eldred recently underwent throat surgery that rendered her unable to speak above a low 


rasp. Earlier Eldred in the year, Eldred had been experiencing hoarseness in her voice, and it was discovered that her vocal cords had sustained damage. 
"As you know, this job involves talking all the time, and my voice had been sounding very raspy, and so when I went back to see [the doctor]. he said my vocal cords were deteriorating from 
see ELDRED/page 4 


"When I came to visit Lynn, I felt like I really got to know [Saint Mary's] and really liked it," said Katie Taylor. 
The four sisters share close bonds while maintaining indi­vidual interests and friends. 
"We definitely all have our 
see SISTERS/page 6 

liked it here because I've always been in small Catholic schools," said Julie Taylor. "I liked the atmosphere." 
While the sisters did not all purposefully choose to attend Saint Mary's together, oldest sister Lynn did play a role in their coming to the same school. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Breaking barriers 
Halle Berry won the Oscar for Best Actress, Denzel Washington won Best Actor and Sidney Poitier received a lifetime achievement award. Then, ofcourse, all is well with race relations in the film industry-or so some would like to think Monday's Washington Post boasted about the "golden night for black 
actors," and many people are talking about the Oscar year that made history by break­ing down the race barrier. However, the way some quickly have jumped on the "black actor wave," is actual­ly a perpetuation of that bar­rier. 
There is no doubt that the 


success of this trio offilm  Helena Payne  
stars does represent a unique  
moment in Oscar history, but more than another moment  News Editor  
to tack onto the month of  
February for a black history  

fact. The 2002 Oscars, the "golden night for black actors," show that Berry, Washington and Poitier­all of whom have completely different ethnic back­grounds -are still seen as just black actors (emphasis on "black") in the eyes oftoo many. 
The three actors represent various branches on this racial tree that has taken root through history: Berry is actually biracial. Washington is an African American. and Poitier, a Caribbean American whose parents are from the Bahamas. 
Granted, Berry, who was raised by her mother, has primarily identified herself as African American or black rather than biracial. Berry's self-identifica­tion as an African American is not surprising con­sidering she grew up in an era when mixed identity meant the "other" box on the census and the stan­dardized test form. Even in her acceptance speech, Berry paid homage to former African-American actresses who came before her. Yet this notion that the former African-American actresses like Dorothy Dandridge and Lena Horne have paved the way, acknowledges the idea that there is a separate path for black actors in the film industry. 
On the contrary, there is no separate path. So­called "black actors" win awards for great perfor­mances just as so-called "white actors" do. Unfortunately, there are few highlights in the Academy's history that demonstrate this fact, but it is getting better. This is not to minimize the histori­cal significance ofthis year's Oscars, but it is to refute the fixed ideas that many ofus have about the differences between whites and blacks in all fields. 
Ideally, Berry should never have had to choose between identifying herself as "white" or "black." She should be able to be an actress, a talented Oscar recipient who won not for the "black race" but for her individual talent. There should not have been 7 4 years of history that she must represent when she stood at the podium to accept her award. 
I'd like to see people recognize the varying ethnic­ity among blacks and whites while recognizing the beauty in those differences rather than broadly grouping people in the vague categories of "white" and "black," which leave many people out and per­petuate the historical racial divisions. 
The Academy has honored Berry, Washington and Poitier with awards that hold great value in the performing arts. 
Berry has spoken out against the limited roles for women of color. Now that she is "legitimately" one of the best actresses in Hollywood, I wonder if this will change. After playing a widow, a crack addict, and several other demeaning and pathetic charac­ters, (which I realize she did decide to portray) maybe Berry will get more offers for the roles that, say, Julia Roberts, gets? 
After all, Roberts won Best Actress last year for playing the girl-next-door role that makes her so agreeable to the American audience. If Julia can just be Julia, can't Halle just be Halle? 
Contact !Ielena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards icself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please contact us at 631-4541 so that we can correct ow error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday ,hrough Friday except during exam and vacation ptcriods. The Ob.server is a member of the A"'ociaccd Press. All rcproduc<ion rights arc reserved. 
CORNELL UNIVERSITY 

Officials probe forged application 
ITHACA, N.Y. 
Cornell University's "open doors" closed for a senior at the Culver City High School in Culver City, Calif., March 13, as the admissions office for the College of Engineering reported the applicant to Cornell Police for submitting a forged application. The student, whose name remains undisclosed, a young male, sent an application to the College of Engineering, "and in reviewing his documents, the admissions officers discovered some of the material had been altered," said Llnda Grace-Kobas, director of Cornell News Service. In the complaint recorded by inves­tigator Scott Hamilton of Cornell Police, the admission offi­cers noted the high school guidance counselor's signature was forged on the application. In addition to this, the sub­mitted transcript also was forged. The incident then was reported to the U.S. Attorney's Office for consultation, to decide what measures should be taken against the high school senior. 
Cornell Daily Sun 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Boston 40 35 Milwaukee 34 24 St. Louis 41 25
~-~-~~@.~ ~ ~ s 
Chicago 38 24 New York 42 38 Tampa 83 66 VUI Associat&d Pres9 GraprncsNst Houston 67 48 Philadelphia 48 44 Washington 55 42 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Clout:Jy Cloudy 
The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"The SYR is a major part of  "To come back and go  "This is about dorm unity.  
Notre Dame tradition, and  lifetime-best after being  This is about a hell ofa lot  
it's a huge part ofthe  out for a year is pretty  more than hard alcohol. "  
residential community that  incredible. "  
we try to foster here at Notre  Joe Muto  
Dame."  Bailey Weathers  O'Neill Hall president-elect at a  
women's swimming head coach on  student demonstration in protest of  
Brian Moscona student body vice president on proposed alcohol policy changes  Carrie Nixon's seventh-place finish after she sat out last year because of shoulder surgery  proposed changes to the University's alcohol policy  
that will ban in-dorm dances  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 


University of Kentucky allocates funds for scholarships 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
to hear about it. 
Part of the money allotted for "It shows their (the deans, associ­raises to University of Kentucky's ate provost and provost) level of provost, associate provosts and interest and willingness to sacrifice undergraduate deans now will go to for these scholarships," he said. support scholarships for prospec­The contribution from roughly 20 tive students. different individuals will amount to 
UK Provost Mike Nietzel said a more than $20,000, Nietzel said. decision has been made to con­Nietzel added the potential schol­tribute 1 percent of the individual's arships are a strong appeal to UK's 3 percent merit raise to UK's new best prospects when they are mak­Governor's Scholars/Governor's glad to give part of it back. ing decisions about what college to School for the Arts scholarships. "I felt great about reinvesting a attend. 
"This example is an excellent ges­portion of what I would have Todd said not enough money has ture to faculty and students about received in scholarship support for been raised yet for the GSP/GSA the importance that administrators students," Smith said. "That's a key scholarships. which are set to begin place on undergraduate education," to building a better university." next year. The decision to donate he said. UK President Lee Todd, who in this money. in addition to help fund 
Scott Smith, dean of the College February announced that he would additional scholarships, could of Agriculture. said UK's adminis­decline a possible $100,000 perfor­prove to have a much greater tration dug deep in a difficult bud­mance bonus, said this decision impact, he said. get year to give raises, and he is was not his idea but he was thrilled Kentucky Kernel 


UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 

Tuition increases loom over school 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
While students at Virginia's colleges and universities face mounting tuition costs, institutions of higher learn­ing throughout the country also are charging their stu­dents more money to attend school. Tuition increases have averaged 4 percent at public colleges over the past five years, according to the Chronicle of Higher 
. Education. Yet next year's tuition is expected to increase by a much larger percentage at many colleges and universities. These problems have caused many public schools to raise tuition due to a lack of state funding, Sheehy said. Two schools most affected by tuition increases are University of North Carolina­Chapel Hill and University of Iowa. North Carolina's tuition will increase by 20.9 percent for in-state stu­dents, while Iowa will charge 19 percent more for in­state students next year. Last week Texas A&M University announced it will charge $30 more per credit hour, the largest tuition increase in the school's history. 
Cavalier Daily 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~ ~ 
C 2002 AecuWeather, lnc. cow STATIONARY 
'

~ ~, ~ [;:ill. <,J \k~t~• 1i~t* 
T-•torm• Flurr... Snow loo Sunny P\. Cloudy Cloudy VJ.I A~t$d PnJs:, 

Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group agrees to sponsor 2 events 
------------cover will be charged. BOG 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writ~r 
On the day when lhe 2001­02 Board of Governancfl offi­cially handed the reins of stu­dent governmenL LO the new Board, it was business as usr1al in Haggar Student Center. BOG agreed to co­sponsor two events, one for Flipside and another for the senior class. 
"We have a dance coming up on April 6," Shannon Maloney, Saint Mary's flipside representative, told BOG. "Our l'unds are running low. We want to have more events at Saint Mary's, and we arc hop­ing BOG could help us out." 
flipside will be hosting a toga party in Haggar Parlor, from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. The $350 BOG agreed to donate will go to purchase a keg of root beer. among other things. 
"I think it's a great idea," Erin Casey, HOG's representa­tive to Notre Dame's Student Senate, said. 
Meghan Meyer, the presi­dent of this year's senior class, also came forward asking BOG to co-sponsor a concert at AlumnirSenior Club for Saint !Vlary's and Notre Dame seniors. 
"Senior Board is bringing Cupajo to Senior Bar," Meyer said. "We do have money now, but we need to save some for sPniqr wePk." 
The concert is free and will be held on April 13, although 
agreed to donate $600 to the 
senior class to help defray the 
costs of bringing the band to 
campus. 

In her last presentation to BOG as student body presi­dent, Nagle encouraged BOG members and the rest of the student body to participate in the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership's lntercultural Living Experience program, living with students of different eth­nic backgrounds starting next year. Saint Mary's Leadership Commission ceremony will be held on April 29, at either 7 
p.m. or 7:30 pm. Nagle also thanked BOG and the student body for their participation in Midnight Madness. 
"I was very proud of that night," Nagle said. 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, student bodv vice-president­elcct, and outgoing sophomore class president, made a report from the committee currently studying security on Saint Mary's campus. 
"I encourage calling security whenever you see suspicious people on campus or in the dorms," Jablonski-Diehl said. "Construction workers should not be in any buildings on campus. Please spread this to your friends. Security will be able to come and take care of it." 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
ADYANC'EO-COMf'~eR WOR¥:S-T-'TION 
r::::-=,;;;;;;;;;.==_·,~.·-,. i r--,
---=~
--==_·.
-,..--:.

L-~s:i-•-Ul.c""°'•--..,,....... -r-i' -..J,, r 
·-,; cc_-,?,-f= 1;~, ,,->) 1_l-~ · · 
Series investigates Pass~ver 

By KIFLIN TURNER Associate News Editor 

It only takes an idfla, and the 
rest is history -literally. 

This is the first year that a 
series focusing on the Passover 
and Judaism will take place at 
Notre Dame. and on Monday 
night an informal talk bringing 
faculty and students together to 
address issues relating to 
Judaism from cultural. religious 
and scientific perspectives came 
to campus.· 

After noting a surprising dis­
crepancy of interpretations of the 
Old Testament by his fellow 
classmates in one of his Program 
of Liberal Studies classes, sopho­
more C. Spencer Beggs initiated 
the first steps in organizing a 
forum to openly question, debate 
and perhaps dispel common mis­
conceptions about the Passover 
and Judaism. 

"My real goal in the whole series is to make Christians better -Christians, Jews better Jews. and Atheists better Atheists," said Beggs, who is Jewish. 
Passover, as told from the book of Haggadah, is a response to four questions asked by children about the plight of the Jews from Egypt in the Exodus. In re-telling this historical event, one is able to transcend historical boundaries in symbolically becoming a slave and experiencing the freedom from oppression, according to government professor Peri Arnold, who is Jewish. 
"It's evocative of one's own past," said Arnold. "It involves a set of stories that intertwine: the story of freedom and liberation." 
Becoming a storyteller and remembering Passover allows the participants to reflect on the 
2002-2003 
struggles of the past and the pre­
sent, said Arnold. 
"It's about inscribjng yourself 

into the tradition," said Hindi 
Najman, assistant professor and 
Kapson Chair in .Jewish studies. 
"Everyone shares the bloodshed." 
She identified the Torah as an 

intluential text used to bring the 
Hebrew historical experience to 
the forefront in initiating unity 
among present-day Jews. 
"We all share that text. we 

share the same origins," said 
Najman. 
Arnold also related to the unify­

ing and inspiring ceremonial tra­
dition of the Passover. 
"Passover reminds me, too, of 

that personal struggle that all of 
us have," said Arnold. 
Located at the center of 

Passover is the Seder feast, a 
symbolic meal that represents the 
time of Jewish slavery in Egypt. 
For Najman, Passover embod­ies above all the importance and immediacy of family. She described it as an "ordinary" event in terms of the little things that are capable of bringing the community together and in edu­cating future generations. 
Responding to a question about whether Judaism could be defined on an ethnic, religious or hereditary basis, Arnold pointed out that Judaism is non-denom­inational and is first and foremost a commitment to living an ethical and moral life. 
"What binds us together is far more deep," said Arnold refer­ring the historical experience. 
Instead of accepting a pre­scribed set of beliefs, Najman argued that Judaism does not require a dogmatic confirmation. 
"It's important to say there is no doctrine of beliefs in Judaism," said Najman. 
KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 

Professor Hindy Najman, Kapson Chair in Jewish Studies reads from a Haggadah, the order of ser­vice for Passover. 
Maintaining this connection to the past and continuing to hold these beliefs in the present, how­ever beneficial to those of Jewish origin, has unfortunately created a rift of separation between Christians and Jews. 
"I think that Jews have object­ed to the Christian interpretation of the Old Testament in that it tended to be subsumed," said Henry Weinfield, associate pro­fessor of the Program of Liberal Studies. 
Sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters, the second night of the three-day series will cover "The Symbolism and Meaning of Passover" tonight at 8 p.m. in the Morrissey Manor Chapel. 
As a closing activity, the tradi­tional Seder dinner will take place Wednesday at 7:04 p.m. (sundown) in Greenfield's Cafe. The dinner is free and ·seats are still available through the PLS office in 215 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Contact Killin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 
1 
' -t=,;e ; ,. tri and Panel Cartoonist__:.:· ....
......... 
_,___,,, 
u.,..,. ~,-,.~,.,.-:: 1, . '"-'t\~~ ...... __. 
~y,·i,, 
u ' 
/~.J:J~ 

' I/~ ---•-·.r-•-·••i
:: ,J!]!fJ.

=-----~~,..,"":}:--:_.::);: ·v. .,;. ;'. > ;· -· j, -~~·--" . 
,_ 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
Alcohol Students travel to capital for social work 


continued from page 1 
on campus. Approval by University officers of the changes likely will be a for­mality, and the revised policy will take effect in the fall. 
Students were critical of the changes and decried being left out of the policy­making process. 
Chris Manuel, co-chair of Lhe Hall Presidents Council, said Poorman should release survey and focus group results that were part of the study. 
"I know that you feel that they are private, but l feel entitled to them," said Manuel, a member of the CLC's alcohol use and abuse task force, who sat next to Poorman at the meeting. "Your report loses a consid­erable amount of credibility without these statistics." 
Poorman said the data was best used for internal plan­ning and "wouldn't advance the discussion at this point." 
Poorman compiled and dis­tributed a one-page list of what he believed were the questions students have asked him most in the week since he announced the changes in a campus-wide e­mail. 
In the document, he answered concerns about enforcing the liquor ban, saying hall staff won't search for and seize the contraband unless individual rooms or gatherings draw undue attention to themselves. 
He also responded to sug­gestions that the changes would drive more students to consume alcohol off campus and increase drunk-driving cases. 
"We can't be held hostage by threat of students drink­ing and driving because the alcohol policy isn't liberal enough," he said. 
Poorman acknowledged that he considered student safety played a role in the changes. He linked incidents of sexual assault and alcohol poisoning to abusive drinking and said the changes would have a "huge impact" on cre­ating a campus culture that isn't alcohol-focused. 
Freshman Adam Istvan said the changes were the result of the University want­ing to disown liability for stu­dents' well being. 
But Poorman said, "If we were interested in liability, we would have gone 'dry.' The thing that would have reduced or eliminated our liability was going dry." 
Following the meeting, Libby Bishop, student body president-elect, said Poorman hadn't fully 
· answered students' ques­tions. "l still have a problem with the process of how this policy was formed," she said. "After the CLC meeting, Trip [Foley, student body vice president­electl and I realized we need a new way to empower stu­dents. We want to channel the energy we saw today from studenis are working on a new way to do that." Bishop, who enters office April 1, said she would con­tinue to contest thfl in-hall dance ban. She and Foley expect to meet with Poorman in early April. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Wrirer 
Indianapolis isn't really that 
far away, but to the students 
and professor traveling from 
Saint Mary's to speak to legisla­
tors and advocates, it might as 
well have been the moon. 
After two earlier trips were 
cancelled due to bad weather, 
members of Saint Mary's social 
work department ventured to 
the [ndiana state capital to 
speak to Lt. Gov. Joe Kernan 
and Annette Craycroft, director 
of the Indiana Commission for 
women. as well as several other 
state leaders. 
"It was nice to go after build­ing up those expectations three times," Esther O'Connell. a . sophomore, said. "The first time we were one-third of the way there and we had to turn around. It was so disappointing 
both times." 
According to O'Connell's pro­
fessor, Fran Kominkiewicz, who 
led the group. the first trip was 
cancelled due to an ice storm 
and the second trip was called 
ofT in the early morning hours of 
one of the South Bend area's 
biggest snowstorm of the year. 
But both spells of bad weather 
made the actual trip all the bet­
ter, she said. 
"Through the bad weather, we 
were able to add more speak­
ers," Kominkiewicz said. rn 
addition to speaking with 
Kernan and Craycroft, students 
also met with Pat Rios, director 
of the Hispanic and Latino 
Commission of Indiana; Joseph 
Smith. director of the 
Commission on Community 
Service and \ ,lunteerism; Rep. 
Peggy Welch. chair of the 
Indiana Women's Caucus; and 
Rep. Vanessa Summers. 
"Annette Craycroft got [the 
other speakers] set up around 
the lietJ.tenant governor's sched­ule," Kominkiewicz said. "She worked hard to get all those individuals in one place at the same time." 
Incidentally, Kominkiewicz and her students received assis­tance in scheduling from a Saint Mary's alumna, Megan Murphy, who is Kernan's chief of staff. 
"Wherever we go there is an alum lo pave the way," Kominkiewicz said. "It always helps." 
Kernan also has ties to the South Bend area. Before he became lieutenant governor, he was the mayor of South Bend from 1987 to 1996. According to junior Laura Porto, Kernan told students that he never thought he would end up in government­elected office. According to Porto. Kernan also spoke his vis­itors about Indiana's tax struc­ture, calling for a reevaluation of the system, which ho declared outdated. 
"He talked a lot about how he intends to run for governor," Kominkiewicz said, "A lot of their questions had to do with economic and social justice. The budget was also put back to the executive branch, and they have to make some very hard deci­sions." 
Originally, the students were only given 15 to 30 minutes with the lieutenant governor, but when they arrived at his office, he pulled chairs from three dif­ferent offices, learned all of their names and spoke with them for over an hour. 
"I took it as a vote of confi­dence in Saint Mary's and our ability to turn out leaders," Kominkiewicz said. "He gave us so much knowledge. I felt like the students also gave much back. He was trying to get their opinions of what was happening in their home states to compare to Indiana." 
O'Connell thought Kernan was the highlight of their day in Indianapolis. "He is one of the higher-ups in government, and he spoke to us about specific issues," she said. "That was really impressive. He took his lunch hour to meet with us. He took time to explain why money was being taken away from parts of the budget." 
According to Kominkiewicz, O'Brien asked Kernan about taxation issues and the Indiana tax structure and Tebbe asked what effect the current economy and legislation has on rural farmers. 
"The students modeled great leadership in speaking with the lieutenant governor," Kominkiewicz said. 
Rios, Smith and Summers all spoke to the students about intercultural leadership. According to Korninkiewicz, Rios mentioned the presence of a very active Hispanic communi­ty in South Bend. As a result, the students plan to invite mem­bers of this community to the Community Legislative Forum they will hold on campus April 
15. 

"Commissioner Rios encour­aged the students to become involved in working to improve the educational accessibility of all Hispanic students across the state," Kominkiewicz said. 
The students completed a sur­vey after their trip, which they turned in to Kominkiewicz. Based on those results, the stu­dents learned about intercultur­al leadership, state leadership, and intercultural communica­tion. 
"Saint Mary's College and the Social Work Program encour­ages student leadership in our community," Kominkiewicz said. "It is only one of twelve social work programs national select­ed to participate in the Intergenerational Program Pilot Project, through social work ed~1cation, which has provided support to the Social Work Program, infusing gerontology throughout the social work cur­riculum. Students are working with REAL Services in South Bend in conducting policy assessments in the community, and are using the results to plan the Community Legislative Forum." 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 

Eldred 
continued from page l 
overuse and the straining, so that's why I had the procedure," Eldred said. 
According to Eldred, the pro­cedure involves taking a piece of fat from the stomach that is uti­lized to rebuild the vocal cords. It left her without an incision but with ample recovery time, requiring her to completely rest her voice the entire week follow­ing the surgery. Eldred did not allow the vocal restriction to keep her from communicating or from business as usual. 
"Somebody from the office came over everyday with the mail and I just wrote notes, thousands of pages of notes and e-mail," Eldred said. 
According to Eldred, it is rare for her to be absent from her office for such a lengthy period. She credits her staff for helping her work while recovering. 
To relate to those who were not aware of her condition, Eldred constructed a card that stated in large print that she had throat surgery and was unable to speak. She used this when she had to run errands and go to the grocery store. She found the responses of others to be amus­ing. 
ophomore 
"I would show it to people and they would read this and say, 'Oh, that's too bad,' and then they would start screaming at me or they whispered," Eldred said. 
Eldred will have to use this card for approximately a month when it is projected that she will 
. regain more complete usage of her voice. Even then, it may be determined that she has not fully healed and may require more surgery. 
"I might have to have the pro­cedure again because they just don't know ... frequently it has to be done twice." Eldred said. 
This has been a learning expe­rience for Eldred who has gained a new appreciation for speaking and sensitivity in com­munication. 
"I feel that I have more respect for my voice maybe than I did before,"Eldred said. 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6S04@saintmarys.edu. 


ATION 
Tuesday, March 26, 2002 COMPIUm FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Poland defends War on Terror: 
Poland's president urged Europe to mute its criticism of Washington's War on Terror, telling a summit of prospective NATO mem­bers Monday that American lives were the lirst ones lost in the fight against "the evil" threatening the world. The meeting is one of a series being held before a NATO summit in November in Prague, where the U.S.-led alliance will decide which countries to admit. 
Illness delays Milosevic war trial: 
The trial of Slobodan Milosevic will not resume for two weeks to allow the former Yugoslav leader to recover from the flu, the war crimes tribunal said Monday. The disrup­tion meanl the lrial. which began Feb. 12, will be well behind schedule when it resumes April 8. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Kava could lead to liver damage: 
The popular herbal supplement kava may be linked to serious liver injury. the Food and Drug Administration warned Monday, urging consumers to see a doctor at the first sign of symptoms. People who already have liver problems, or who take medications that can harm the liver. should ask a doctor before taking kava, the FDA said. 
Blood vessels made from stem cells: 
Cells extracted from a human embryo have been nurtured into tiny blood vessels, a key step toward someday using embryonic stem cells to aid ailing hearts or fix blocked arter­ies, researchers say. For the first time, researchers have demonstrated that human embryonic stem cells can be coaxed to spon­taneously form blood vessels and organize themselves so they could nourish tissue in the body. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Volunteer parents patrol mall: 
Several parent groups, equipped with radios and parents' intuition, have started patrolling the Circle Centre mall in downtown lndianaoplis to keep an eye on the youths who descend there each weekend. The patrols, the result of a task force created in 1999, are aimed at eliminating problems before they start -a change from the late 1990s, when fights and other problems were common among youths at the complex. Drawn to shop­ping, shows and restaurants, about 200 teens are at the mall on a typical weekend night. 
Market Watch March 25 

Dow 
10,281.67 -146.00 

Jones 
Composite ~S~c 
Volume: 1,032,441,984 
AMEX: 895.88 -3.09 NASDAQ: 1,812.49 -38.90 NYSE: 592.43 -7.66 S&P 500: 1,131.70 -17.00 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (cm) -3 . 05 -1.12 35.56 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2 . 35 -0.39 16.18 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUI\W) -3.27 -0.29 8.57 l<l()RLOC0'1 INC-WJ (W::CM) -6. 59 -0.46 6.52 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.93 -0.59 30.00 
SOUTH KOREA 

Associated Press 
SEOUL 

South Korea is sending a presidential envoy to North Korea next week to discuss improving rela­tions, the rival nations said Monday, moving to resume dialogue and ease tensions in one of the world's most militarized regions. 
The joint statement marks a resumption of the reconciliation process on the Korean peninsula, which stalled last year after President Bush focused criticism toward the North's communist regime. 
Lim Dong-won, a special adviser to President Kirn Dae-jung for diplomacy and national security, will visit North Korea in the first week of April, said Park Sun-sook, a chief presidential spokes­woman. 
In a report carried by its foreign news outlet, Korean Central News Agency, North Korea con­firmed Lim's scheduled visit and said the two sides will discuss "the grave sit­uation facing the nation and issues of mutual con­cern related to the inter­Korean ties." 
Inter-Korean relations warmed after a historic summit between South 
Korean President Kim Dae-jung and North Korean leader Kim Jong II in 2000. Kim Dae-jung won that year's Nobel Peace Prize for his effort to reconcile with the North. 
In January, relations dipped again when Bush said North Korea was part of "an axis of evil" along with Iran and Iraq, accus­ing them of trying to develop weapons of mass destruction. 
During a visit to South Korea in February, Bush said his view of North Korea had not changed but he offered to start talks aimed at resolving 
the communist country's alleged development of nuclear weapons. North Korea rejected the offer. 
South Korean President Kim expressed disappoint­ment at the rejection, but said that his country should do its best to help mediate between the two sides. He said that inter­Korean ties were closely related to progress in U.S.­North Korea relations. 
"The United States wel­comes and supports dia­logue between South and North Korea," said State Department spokeswoman Jo-Anne Prokopowitz in Washington after hearing the announcement. 

Bush wants Arafat to join summit 
opens Wednesday in Beirut, headquarters in Ramallah, Fleischer
Associated Press 
Lebanon. said, "The president believes that 
WASHINGTON Bush welcomes the proposal by Prime Minister Sharon and the Israel 
President Bush urged Arab nations Crown Prince Abdullah, and "he government should give serious con­Monday to approve a Saudi peace thinks it would be very helpful in the sideration to allowing Vasser Arafat offer to Israel and asked Prime search for peace in the Middle East," to attend." Minister Ariel Sharon to let Yasser Fleischer said. Secretary of State Colin Powell Arafat join an Arab League summit The Saudi offer to Israel of ''full pressed the point in telephone con­where the U.S.-backed initiative may normalization" of relations with Arab versations with Sharon Saturday and be considered. · governments depends on Israel giv­Sunday, saying also that Arafat 
"The president believes it is time ing up the West Bank, Gaza and the Should be permitted to go back to the for Arab nations in the region to Golan Heights and accepting a West Bank after the Arab League seize the moment, to create a better Palestinian state with its capital in meeting. environment for peace to take root," Jerusalem. U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan White House spokesman Ari Leaning on Israel to drop its con­also urged Sharon to let Arafat Fleischer said of the meeting that finement of Arafat to his West Bank attend the Arab summit. 
page 6 The Oburver . NEWS Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
Tuition 
continued from page I 
es," said Dennis Moore, univer­
sity spokesman. Moore cited 
the new Center for Performing 
Arts as an example of an addi­
tional expense to the operating 
budget. Alumn.i donations 
financed the construction of the 
Center, but the University's 
annual budget must now cover 
maintenance, staffing and other 
operations expenses. 
"We are a tuition-driven insti­

tution ... and if the operating 
budget is to grow -and this 
includes increases in salary, 
additional operating costs ­
that necessitates an increase in 
tuition," Moore said. 
According to Scott Malpass, vice president for finance and chief investment officer, tuition and fee revenue make up about 55 percent of the total budget, so in effect students pay 55 per­cent of the actual cost. Revenues from the bookstore and athletic programs as well as earnings from the endow­ment make up for the differ­ence. 
Notre Dame's endowment, which is among the 18 largest educational endowments in the nation, is valued at approxi­mately $3 billion. Most of this money is donated for a specific purpose and cannot be used to defray tuition costs. Only about 10 percent of the endowment is comprised of unrestricted funds that may be used freely. 
A downturn in the economy presented an added challenge to the budget this year, as growth in the endowment slowed. 
"We're operating in a differ­ent economic environment now, and this may affect the endowment and the budget. Nobody is certain what will happen in the next few months, so we have to account for that," Moore said. 
In his letter to parents, Malloy acknowledged that other private institutions increased their rate of tuition growth to respond to the slow­ing economy, while Notre Dame maintained its previous percent increase. Instead, University officials would respond by lim­iting salary increases and bud­get additions. 
While increasing tuition, the University strove to maintain its dedication to financial aid. 
In the past decade, the infla­tion rate has been in the 2 to 3 percent range, while tuition has increased in the 5 to 6 percent range, said Malpass. Students often raise this criticism, but Moore called it an inaccurate comparison. 
"Inflation takes into account the normal cost of living and maintaining a household. We have to consider atypical expenses like salaries, new equipment, books, technology, competing for the best profes­sors and facilities which are built through alumni donations but whose operating expenses are not covered by the gifts and then become part of the bud­get," said Moore. 
The Doard of Trustees also approved three other tuition increases. Graduate school tuition is up 4.6 percent. to $25,410, and tuition for both the Law School and the Master's of Business Administration Program will increase by 4.8 percent to $26,110, 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu. 
LEBANON 
Arab ministers agree on formula 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT 

Arab foreign ministers dis­cussed an Israeli-Palestinian peace initiative Monday that has captured the world's attention, but said they did not go into details and were waiting to hear what Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah has to say about his proposal. 
As they wrapped up six hours of consultations in preparation for a summit Wednesday that Abdullah V>ill address, the min­isters also said they had agreed on a formula for supporting the Palestinians but did not offer specifics. 
On Iraq, they expressed oppo­sition to any U.S. military strike on a fellow Arab state, which is widely viewed as potentially destabilizing for the region. 
Still unclear as the summit approached was whether Israel would allow Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to attend. Arafat has been under an Israeli travel ban and fsrael has said the price for his freedom of move­ment is a cease-fire that's proven elusive. An Israeli deci­sion on whether Arafat could go was expected Tuesday or possi­bly even Wednesday morning. 
Leaning on Israel to drop its confinement of Arafat to his West Bank headquarters in Ramallah, White House Spokesman Ari Fleischer said in Washington, "the president believes that Prime Minister Sharon and the Israel govern­ment should give serious con­sideration to allowing Yasser 
Arafat to attend." 

Secretary of State Colin Powell pressed the point in telephone conversations with Sharon Saturday and Sunday, saying also that Arafat should be per­mitted to go back to the West Bank after the Arab League meeting. 
An aide to Palestinian Planning Minister Nabil Shaath, speaking in Beirut on condition of anonymity, said Shaath had spoken with Arafat on Monday evening and was told things were looking "positive" for the Palestinian leader to attend Wednesday's summit. Earlier, Shaath had assessed the chances of Arafat showing up as slim. 
The Kuwaiti minister of state for foreign affairs, Sheik Mohammed Al Sabah, told reporters that ministers "did not discuss the (Saudi) initiative in detail and did not entP-r into for­mulas." 
"We are cager to listen to his highness directly," Sheik Mohammed told a small group of reporters at the Phoenicia Hotel summit site. 
Lebanese Foreign Minister Mahmoud Hammoud, host of the meeting, concurred at a sep­arate news conference held with Arab League Secretary­General Amr Moussa. 
"There is no specific formula 
Arab summit for peace 
Members attending the Arab League summit in Beirut, Lebanon, will take up a Saudi peace proposal calling on Israel to withdraw from occupied territories and returning the land to 1967 prewar boundaries in return for "full normalization" of relations between Arab lands and Israel. The league was formed in 1945 to promote political, economic and military cooperation among its members. 
SAUDI SYRIA IRAQ 
ARABIA 
1945 1945 1945 
I 

-OMAN 
1971 
YEMEN 
1945 
;,.., 
DJIBOUTI ... 1974 1977 

,coMOROSI 1993 
Arab League member Date joined 
•Palestinian Authority headquarters are in Ramal/ah and Gaza City. 

OURCES: Associated Press; ESRI AP 
(for the Saudi initiative) -there are ideas, a vision and a frame­work," Hammoud said. "We should not make predictions and jump the gun." 
Pressed for further details, Hammoud said: "Our under­standing (of the initiative) is that it has to do with Arab rights and 
tain a close friendship with their brother, who attends Purdue University. Though Julie Katie and Laura are used to seeing him every day, they do think being separated has its benefits. 
"I think it's been good for him to get away from the stereotype [of being quadruplets]." said Julie Taylor. 
While each sister has a dis­tinct personality, they do share some interests in common. Both Lynn and Laura are interested in medicine, although Lynn intends to enter medical school and Laura is a nursing major. 
"We're similar. but I think we're going in different paths," said Lynn Taylor. 
Katie and Lynn both play for the Saint Mary's soccer team 
Sisters 
continued from page I 
own group of friends, and we'll all go to the same parties and see each other at the same places," said Lynn Taylor. " 
Julie Taylor said, "It's been really nice. We've all done our own thing and been our own people, but we still have each other as friends." 
The sisters periodically plan events together, such as going out to dinner. 
"We try to have sister night, where we all catch up on things," said Katie Taylor. 
While all four sisters have lived together while at home, attending college did bring some changes for them com­pared to high school. 
"We hung out a lot more because we had to drive togeth­er, but we each still had our own close friends," said Laura Tyalor. "In high school, it was very blown out of proportion. That's why I like Saint Mary's -because it hasn't been a huge deal. I've only had one person come up to me and say, 'Hey, you're in a quad, right?"' 
Though they have been stereotyped as sisters, the girls try to take a carefree attitude toward their relationship. 
"We haven't made it a big deal," said Katie Taylor. A brother completes the set of quadruplets. The sisters main-

Undergrads • Graduate Students 
• 
Engage in provocative summer study with Stanford foculty 

• 
Live 011 campus -just minutes from West Coast beaches 

• 
Develop friendshi,-,s with students from around the world 

• 
Earn full-yet1r credit in foreign languages and physics 

• 
New 3-week Institutes m Cret1ti1Je WritmcJ & fnternati011al s~urity 


Courses offered in: Psychology, Philosophy, Economics, Rdigious Studies, Chemistry, Computer Scknce, Biology, Engineering, History, Political Science, Music, Drama, Classics, Athletics, Art & Art History, Mathematics, and English for Foreign Students 
Stanford University Summer Session Building 590, Room 103 • Stanford, CA 94305-3005 Ph: (650) 723-3109 •Fax: (650) 725-6080 • Email: summersession@stanford.edu 
summersession.stanford.edu 

constants.... It aims to defend and protect Arab rights, asking for what we all want." 
"Assuming that Israel does what is required of it, then the level of normal relations between the Arab countries and lsrael would be looked into," he added. 
and enjoy sharing the field together. "I think we get to see each other a lot more," said Katie Taylor. "[Lynn's] just another teammate, but more than that." 
At heart, the women couldn't imagine not being sisters. 
"We don't really know any different, there is nothing to compare it to," said Julie Taylor. "We go through the same things. We understand each other, we share clothes, we share friends, we share birthdays," said Laura Taylor. "I wouldn't change it for the world." 
Contact Theresa Fralish at fral6395@saintmarys.edu. 

£xl,-,1 ~ 
~~ ~~one ':,~ .. 
~ 0 ~ topping · ~~ 
16" EXTRA LARGE ~ 
Limited Time Only! (introductory price) 

New! Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) 5.99/doz 
(Not Good With Other Offers. 

.~. Expires 4/10/02) 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD
~ 
; PIZZA c.oMPAN'r! 
~711~1211
pizzadonerightl 

Tuesday, March 26, 2002 The Oburver . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Internet filtering 
Cadbury buys Nantucket Nectars 
Associated. Press 
BOSTON 

British beverage giant Cadbury Schweppes is buying the Nantucket Nectars brand from Ocean Spray, the grower's cooperative whose signature product is cranberry juice. 
Terms of the deal, announced by both companies Monday, were not disclosed. The transac­tion still requires regulatory approval. 
Nantucket Nectars, which makes a variety of fruit juices and drinks, now joins Snapple, Mistie and Yoo-hoo in Cadbury's Snapple Beverage Group. 
Nantucket Nectars was started in 1990 on Nantucket Island by college buddies Tom First and Tom Scott, known in their ads as the "Juice Guys." Ocean Spray bought the company, known for­mally as Nantucket Allserve Inc:, for about $70 million in 1997 but now wants to focus on its core cranberry juice business, said Ocean Spray spokesman Chris Phillips. 
Ocean Spray has about 16.2 percent of the $3.6 billion bot­tled juice market, with $57 4 mil­lion in sales in the 52 weeks ending Feb. 24, according to Information Resources Inc., which tracks sales at supermar­kets, drug stores and mass mer­chandisers excluding Wal-Mart. 
Ocean Spray, which it has been looking for a buyer for the brand since last fall, said it can now turn its attention to its tra­ditional cranberry juice and new white cranberry juice product, which it hopes will increase 
Thirst-quenching deal .f!!ffl 
British beverage giant Cadbury Schweppes pie is buying C-_,_-=­the Nantucket Nectars brand from Ocean Spray Cranberries inc. 
Cadbury Schweppes Ocean Spray 
The candy maker is also The company controls the world's No. 3 soft drink about 50 percent of the firm. Its main brands U,S, cranberry drinks include 7Up, A&W Root market and is owned by a{;. 

Beer, Canada Dry , Dr 
Pepper and Hawaiian ~o~~!~~~~~~~~~~f 
Punch. growers. Lakeville-London Headquarters Mlddleboro, Mass. $6.8 billion 2001 sales $1.3 billion $742 million 2001 net income n/a 36,460 Employees 2,200 
Selected market share for shelf-stable bottled J·uices 52-weeks ending Feb. 24 
t

T~1'fo!::~£.,...'8'111?~ ,~·,"' ,:• ~r.:'149,S!i 
~ 
1.1::=-= , iw,··1-util • 
NECl'J\J
I:! 
,_ 
.,, 
., ~p" , 
l!=Ssed ,\nple.
~ ·"'/i}.,t:,:~~~~:)f)~'"s 
.-.:tr -~• if 

Private Ocean Motts Tropicana/ SnapplE;) Nantucket \ label Spray 6.4% Dole 3.2% 0.3% . 
18.7% 16.2% 5.6% 


SOURCES; Hoover's Online; lntonnation Resources Inc. AP 
demand and raise prices for growers who are suffering through a cranberry glut. 
"For Ocean Spray, it's purely a matter of focus," said Phillips. "This will allow us to continue to focus wholeheartedly on build­ing the Ocean Spray brand which has made substantial gains over the last 18 months." 
"We're really thrilled to have the 'Juice Guys' on board," said Cadbury chief executive Jack Belsito. 
John Sicher. editor of industry newsletter Beverage Digest, said Nantucket Nectars would benefit from access to Cadbury's distrib­ution channels and would now likely be able to expand beyond the East Coast. Ocean Spray recently suffered a setback when it lost a distribution agree­ment with Pepsi. 
"It takes Ocean Spray back to their roots of focusing on its own trademark," Sieber said. "It gives Cadbury an additional, albeit small brand, which really rounds out their (non-carbonat­ed drinks) portfolio in a positive way," he said. 

trial begins in Penn. 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

A trial over the constitution­ality of a federal law requiring libraries to screen out Internet pornography opened Monday with librarians complaining the government is trying to turn them into the "thought police." 
The case is being heard in federal court by a three-judge panel. The trial is expected to last for nine days. 
Leading the challenge to the Children's Internet Protection Act of 2000 are the American Library Association and the Multnomah County, Ore., Public Library. They contend the law puts unconstitutional restraints on free speech. 
Th"ey want to offer patrons a choice between filtered and unfiltered Internet access, con­lending that parents and chil­dren should be the ones who determine what content they find unacceptable. 
"There are some 5-year-olds whose parents do not want them to know where babies come from and there are some th at do," testified Ginnie Cooper, director of the Multnomah County library, which serves 500,000 people. "We don't try to presume the values of parents." 
Libraries stock numerous materials, ranging from sex education manuals to Playboy, that would probably not get past filtering software, testified Candace Morgan, a Washington state librarian for 37 years. 
The law requires that libraries receiving certain types of federal technology funding use filters to block access to objectionable Web sites. Opponents say the software can also block access to sites providing valuable information on topics such as breast cancer and sexually transmitted dis­eases while failing to block pornographic sites. 
"Librarians are uniquely qualified to teach library patrons how to find the content they want and avoid inappro­priate content without the gov­crnment trying to deputize them into the thought police," said Ann Beeson for the American Civil Liberties Union, which is arguing the case ·ror the plaintill's. 
Sally Garner Recd, former director of the Norfolk, Virginia Public Library, said libraries are reflective of their commu­nities and could be stifled by a one-size-fits-all approach from the government. 
The government argues that filtering has vastly improved since the law was enacted, making fewer mistakes and allowing libraries to unblock sites that were blocked in error. The government also contends that printed porno­graphic materials are not in many library collections. so there is no reason why online obscenity should be. 
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/-ministry 
¦~d_a_v_______ 
Outdoor Campus-Wide Stations of the Cross 
7:00 p.m. Starting at the Grotto 
Confirmation Program 
Stations of the Cross & Sacrament of Reconciliation 
7:00 p.m. Starting at the Grotto 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 

1nesdav 

Sant' Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. log Chapel 
RCIA-Practice for Easter Vigil 
7:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Conversation on Vocations for Women 
7:30 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 

dav 
Holy Thursday 
5:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Stations of the Cross 
7:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Via Crucis 
Pilsen, Illinois 
Good Friday 
3:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

__._.urdav 
RCIA-Morning Retreat 
10:00 a.m. Coleman-Morse Center 
Easter Vigil 
9:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 

Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Senior Retreat #6 
Retreat Date: Apr. 5-6 
Pick up applications: 

Monday, Mar. 18 -Thursday, Mar. 28 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
ltLav 
Easter Sunday 

8:00 am, 1 0:00am & 12:00 noon Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Sacrament of Reconciliation 
¦ Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Tuesday 

11 :00 am, 5:00pm & 7:00 p.m. 
Wednesday 

11 :00 am, 5:00pm, 7:00 pm & 9:30pm 
Holy Thursday 
11 :00 am & 7:00 p.m. 
Good Friday 

11 :00 am, 12 noon, 1:00pm & 7:00 p.m. 
Holy Saturday 
11 :00 am & 7:00 p.m. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 014 South Dining Hall, Noere Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarlcy 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nageng:ast  Kevin Ryan  
Ass!, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C Spencer Beggs SAINT MAJly's EDITOR• Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Willi.uns GRAPHICS EDITOR, Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER• Man Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer C0NTROU£R1 Lori Lewalski DEVUOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
O,FICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.................... ·•... .. ..............................63 1-6927 ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEf........................................631--4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAfly's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire at http://oburver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather fur up-to-the 
movies/music fur 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives ro search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Edimr and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed snd must include contaa itifdrrtlation. ·" 
Qwstiom regarding Observer pol~s should wdirect­ed to Editor in Chief/awn McFarky. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Scott Mike Schmuhl 

Brodfuehrer Graphics Justin Krivickas Andy Devoto Elizabeth Lee Production 
Sports Katie McVoy Katie Hughes I,ab Tech Viewpoint Amanda Greco Kristin Yemm 
Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
Notre Dame students got what they deserve 
Notre Dame students don't deserve alcohol in their dorms or alcohol period for that matter. Let's look at this how it ought to be seen. About six years ago, with the administra­tion's blessing, bars around town started getting busted. Notre Dame students did nothing, just moved on to the next bar. This was understandable at the time. Later, the administration John Litle banned the football ticket distribution campout. Notre Dame students did nothing. They just rolled over like the Frankly sheep they are and accepted the plate Obnoxious they were given. The next year, the Graffiti Dance was cancelled. Notre Dame students had nothing to say because it didn't affect them, only upcoming freshmen. And last year, out of the blue. a tailgating task force of power-tripping rent-a-cops started busting everyone they could see at tailgates under a new ResLife edict. You, Notre Dame students, whined in the Viewpoint. 
Now, the administration is banning hard liquor in the dorms. Let me tell you what Notre Dame students are going to do -nothing. You're just going to take it. Why? Because upper-classmen are going to say, 'Tm moving off campus anyway," or, 'Tm only here for next year." Without a criti­cal mass of students, anything anyone else does won't mat­ter. And you know what's best -you deserve it. I'm not going to sit here and say this policy change is bad. It's not. It's just a continuation of a consistent policy move over the last six years that Notre Dame students have ratified with their apathy. 
Oh sure, student government is making a grand hulla­baloo about getting back the SYR. This is because it specifi­cally serves their and the administration's goals. When the administration "gives" us back the SYR, student government will get to claim a victory, students will think they have a voice (so they shut up) and the administration will have car­ried out its carefully crafted plan to herd its sheep. You think you've won so you don't protest, your stupidity earns you your liquor ban. 
What's next after hard liquor? Beer and underage drink­ing are next. And the sooner the better. If students aren't willing to stand up for what they want now, then they deserve what they get in the future as far as I am con­cerned. 
Of course. I could be wrong. Maybe there will be some sort of student push to stop this legislation. Maybe 15 stu-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
dents will go have a sit-in while the rest of the campus mocks them because they themselves are too frightq1.ed to stand up for what they believe. Maybe someone will take a dump on the porch of the Main Building. I'm sure someone is going to send an "Oooh, oh so nasty" letter to the editor. You go get 'em pal. I'm sure they'll care what you have to say if you think it out real hard and write it to The Observer. (Note hypocrisy here.) 
And here's the problem with the impromptu student gov­ernment sponsored "protest": a herd of sheep, no matter how large, is not frightening. Standing up on a podium and complaining to a bunch of passive students is no protest. Try perhaps holding a no-class day, a sit-in in the ResLife office or painting horns, a tail and a bifurcated tongue on touchdown Jesus -that's protest. I am in no way advocat­ing this sort of activity. 
Is. there going to be any sort o.f civil disobedience to protest the administration's decision? No. Is there going to be any organized effort to stop what is happening? No. Will there even be a campus petition opposing the proposed changes to du Lac? Nope. Why? Because ND students are one of five things: a.) Convinced they don't matter and their opinion won't be heard by the administration (probably true); b.) Convinced that any sort of opposition to University policy undermines the University's ability to function as a private institution (just plain stupid); c.) Mindless little sheep that have yet to question any authority known to them; d.) So morally self-righteous that they condemn any­one for caring about their own living situation when there are poor people in some other country; or e.) So sick and tired of trying to get people to care that they have decided maybe this is a just punishment for student apathy. 
So go ahead, write your mean-spirited letters to the edi­tor, sit in your room and drink beer while complaining to your friends about the big bad administration, but by no means take any steps that might show you are displeased with the situation being shoved at you. Remember not to care at all about the future of the school you attend, and above all, hold true to that most sacred of Notre Dame tra­ditions: Conformity. 
John Litle is a Junior MIS major who would love to receive your mail at jlitle@nd.edu. His column runs every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Alcohol is sole motivator 
The Vietnam War, apartheid, the Civil Rights Movement, the Women's Rights Movement, respecting diversity, the Kent State student shootings. election fraud, the Aids epidemic, the Church's crackdown on academic freedom, the Gulf War, gay and lesbian rights, health care debacle and alcohol policy. 
Of all these things, among others, only one has been capable of mobilizing the students of Notre Dame to assert their right to expression and voice loud protest. No, not Vietnam, not women's rights. Only alcohol policy has had this power to gather the student community around an issue to make its opinion heard. 
I arrived on campus the year after the 1984 alcohol protests, "the keg riots," and was regaled by upperclass-persons with tales of civil disobedience and stu­dent audacity. During the course of my years as an undergraduate, I tried sev­eral times with others to tap into this largely unused reservoir ofstudent activism: the anti-apartheid movement, the pro-choice movement, Presidential elections, women's ordination, social justice issues of all stripes -even peace and justice in Northern Ireland. Nothing. 
I finally had to come to the conclusion that the particular causes which were relevant during my time there were just not of sufficient interest to arouse, anger or move my compadres on campus. 
I was wrong. In fact there is no cause but the cause of alcohol which can arouse the students of Notre Dame to action. So sleep easy tyrants around the world and at home. So long as your evil intentions do not disrupt the steady flow of booze to SYRs, tailgaters and the like, you will face no opposition from the stu­dent body of the University of Notre Dame. 
Mary Ann Hennessey class of'90 Strasbourg, Franct: March 25, 2002 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
To what extent do student protests affect administrators' decisions? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We must learn to welcome and not fear the voices of dissent," 
James William Fulbright former senator 

O
THE BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 26, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students' role in University policy examined 
In need of a true voice in campus affairs 
There's something rotten on the cam­lence. pus of Notre Dame. Festering beneath Alas, we are left with the question: the surface of the University's ideal exte­What can we do to assert our voice and rior is a force more frightening than pull the curtain back from the eyes of anyone realizes. For years, Notre Dame those blinded by the notion that Notre has given us fleeting gifts of bread and Dame is a picturesque institution? circuses while denying us what is far Robert Pazornik's idea for a coali­from our grasp: a voice. tion to "Change ND" is a step 
Father Poorman's naive proposal to in the right direction, but change the alcohol policy on the campus we need so much more. 
However, we should not overexert our­money in the selves with this one small battle and for­future. After all, get that we have a greater conflict right how many will beneath our eyes. The student's voice succumb and was largely absent from the proposal donate money and soon enforcement of the new policy, to obtain foot-and Father Poorman knows it. ball tickets if 
But is he the one to blame? Does not we ever return the Board of Trustees, already known to to the status of perpetuate its own archaic "vision" for a football pow­Notre Dame, bear the bulk of the erhouse? 

Ifyou don't like it, you 're free to leave 
Try jumping up and down in the rotunda of the Main Building. That seemed to get the administration's attention in 1984. But it didn't change anything. The alcohol policy was implemented anyway. 
Fight as hard as you want. as hard as you can -you will not change a single mind. Remember, at this private -very important word, private -institution, the only due process you receive is that which the administration grants you. The only voice you may raise in opposition is that which the administration allows. You may think that what you do behind closed doors is your business, but you'd be wrong. The doors and everything behind 
Perhaps this will make it clearer: "As long as you live in my house, you'll obey my rules." Sound at all familiar? How about the corollary: "If you don't like it, you're free to 
leave." 

The University has the option to dismiss anyone it chooses for violations of the alcohol policy. For any of you who think they won't, you are probably right. 
Ifyou think they are more interested in curtailing the social life on campus than in stopping binge drinking, don't lose sight of this fact: There are, annually, many, 
many, many more qualified applicants than there are avail­
"our money makes you possible," ema­ND" to act on this press­nating from their eyes. ing issue. Once we pull 
At some point, they forgot that our back the curtain and discover annual tuition should cover more than the source of our discontent, we the cost of attending classes and eating must develop a true student voice. quarter dogs. The ability to make a change as we see fit is a modest propos­Bi.II Rinner al to say the least, but the trustees sophomore would rather eat their own children Siegfried Hall than grant it from their own benevo-March 25, 2002 
you could deposit your excess alcohol consumption in the hedges beside the business school, you wouldn't be at Notre Dame. Remember why you chose this place. Or choose another. And another thought -the rotunda has been refurbished since back then. It may stand up to the abuse even better than the adminstration. 
Patrick Grady class of '88 March 25, 2002 
Mauritanian grandmother offers example of a well-lived life 
My relationship with my Mauritanian grandmother is interesting. My American life and her Mauritanian life have almost no similarities. She speaks no French or English and I am just now starting to speak Pulaar. Despite this, our 
relationship over Maite Uranga 
the last six months has developed through non-verbal Life in Africa 
communication. 
She loves banana and egg, and I can afford them. Often she becomes my body­guard. Kids follow me home on a fairly regular basis, but once they enter a cer­tain space she tells them to leave. She is my Pulaar teacher. I have taught her to play Frisbee, listen to a walk.man, hold a pen for the first time and develop a taste for candy canes. 
She is around 83-years-old but does not know exactly. Her face shows every line of 83 years as her eyes nearly disappear. She wears a headscarf, a long robe and a wrap skirt underneath. Some days all of these match and some days they do not. Her remaining teeth are brown and can fall out at any moment. 
Life here involves sitting, eating and sleeping on the ground. Getting up from any of these positions always verges on disaster for her. Despite this she is always shuffling around somewhere within our compound getting the food ready, which is an all-day activity. Whoever walks by greets her so she is always talking, and if no one is walking by she talks to herself. Or possibly to me -I am not quite sure. Despite this we have an affection for each other. 
Every day since I arrived in my village she scuffles off to her older sister's house for lunch and dinner. Each time she tells me where she is going. After about four months she began inviting me to go with her. A week ago the guilt built up and I told her I would go with her. Her wrinkles smiled and her eyes glowed. Anyone she saw for the next few hours was told that I was going to eat with her that night. 
At 9 p.m. she yelled at me from across the compound to tell me it was time to go. The normally two-minute walk took about 
25. The whole time my grandmother talked to people passing by or to me. When we reached a certain section she warned me about a major dip so I would not fall. We finaHy got there and her sister and three ofher friends were all asleep on a bed {a raised wooden platform). 
The house that they were all sleeping in front of is a mansion in Mauritanian terms and is a fairly large house in American terms. There are high ceilings, marble floors, a refrigerator and furni­ture. Her son built the house for her and also as a place to come back to on vaca­tion. Despite the relative luxury inside, all of these women are more comfortable sleeping, eating and living outside. The irony of the situation hits me as Ijoin them on their bed. 
We talk about normal things: food, weather and family. Their 60-year-old friend brings the food awhile later. We all start arranging ourselves around the food bowl. My grandmother's sister yells at her to hurry up and my grandmother yells back, "Slowly, slowly ... I'm old." They both tell me how crazy and old the other one is and continue to bicker until we are all arranged and start eating. 
Despite living here for nearly a year, on some days eating with my hands still pre­sent.<; a major challenge. These 80-plus year-old women were my peers as we all periodically dropped food all over our­selves. Although I think I was the only one with vision good enough to notice. We fin­ished eating and one of their grandsons from the next house came over, cleared the plates away and started making tea for them. 
Everyone lay down, drifted into sleep and had rambling conversations during their moments of wakefulness. Their grandson woke them up one by one when their tea was ready. After my grandmoth­er drank her three rounds of tea we slow­ly walked home. 
I realize this is what I want when I am her age. She has no 401K retirement plan, health insurance or life insurance. She was not thinking at 28 if her stock portfolio would allow her to retire at 60. Yet everyday she lives the life she wants. She gets to eat lunch and dinner with her friends that she has known all her life. She lives in her own house. If something were to happen her family would mobilize around her in support and money would be found for medical care. She is not a burden for her family and instead is looked up to with much respect. I hope I will have that. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 
page 10 Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Multi-dimensional Gorillaz experiment on G-Sides 
By TOM O'CONNELL Scene Music Criric 
Gorillaz is a band that exists on two planes of reality. The first is that of the characters who make up the band: lead singer 2-D, drummer and rapper Russel. bassist and mastermind Murdoc and child guitar prodigy Noodle. Their self­titled debut album has sold millions of copies worldwide since this summer. They are currently in the middle of iheir first world tour, have appeared at numerous press conferences and have experienced the same successes and problems that a normal band would. 
There is only one thing about them that is different. The four members of Gorillaz are cartoon character fabrications; each with their own invented story and per­sonality. In other words, they do not real­ly exist. 
In the second plane of reality, Blur lead singer Damon Albarn, beat producer Dan "The Automator" Nakamura, animator Jamie Hewitt and several other human collaborators invented Gorillaz as a way to take the concept album to new heights. Blending many genres of music, including rock, rap, pop, techno and jazz, Gorillaz debut album was an eclectic, original and likeable mix. At con­certs, the human musicians would appear backlit behind a series of translucent screens while the ani­mated frontmen were projected in different two and three-dimen­sional ways. This is not just a concept album; it is a com­pletely conjured con­cept band. 
G-Sides is a nine song B-side album that contains re­
mixes, alternate versions and original music that had previously only been available in the U.K. There are two ver­sions of the current single "19-2000." The first is a light, upbeat, pop version of the· original, while the second is a fast­thumping techno remix. "It's the music that we choose" is repeated again and again during the chorus, and it tells a bit about what this song, as well as the whole album is meant to accomplish. Both songs are interesting in their ability to make completely different songs with opposite moods out of the same original material. 

A new version of last summer's hit "Clint Eastwood" is one of the most inter­esting songs on the album. The familiar harmonica, bass and drum beats that made up the melody is all present, but acoustic guitar and additional electronic sound effects have been added. Missing is the memorable hook and chorus sung by 2-D, and replacing it are two new rap­pers who trade fast-paced rhymes back and forth. The result is a catchy song that is as good if not better than the original. 
The new song "Faust» tends to get repetitive because it stays instrumental for several minutes before bringing in lyrics. "Hip Albatross" is a casual song with a smooth, electric guitar-led melody. 
"Ghost Train" is the best new song on the album. It starts oui stripped down, slow and creepy with a hollow cho­rus backing up 2-D. Soon the drumbeat enters and the song takes a techno turn. New sounds and instruments are added periodically, and the eventual arrival of the electric guitar turns the song into a full-blown rock anthem. 
"1203," the album's final 
song, slows down the pace to a stroll. Led by acoustic guitar and piano, this song and puts the album to bed on a good note. 
The world tour is reportedly experienc­ing some technical and stylistic problems, and the people behind Gorillaz are still working out the kinks of how to present the visual aspect of their concept to the world. However, the musical side of Gorillaz is still a breath of fresh air and has the ability to entertain fans of almost any musical genre. 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Eels squirm with optimism on new album 
By JOE LARSON 
Scene Music Critic 
On the back of the Eels' new album, Souljacker, appears an essay entitled "Do You Like Rock Music?" by DJ Killingspree. In this essay, DJ Killingspree welcomes the listener to the fourth studio album from the Eels, call­ing it "the hardest rocking substance known to man." Although this boast may be a bit hyperbolic, the album does lend itself to some pretty hard rockin' moments. 
The Eels first appeared with their 1996 album, Beautiful Freak, which featured their most popular song to date, "Novocaine for the Soul." That album was drenched in sarcasm towards all things pop and commer­cial that guitarist/singer, E, could get at. It was an ambi­tious album that established the Eels as a truly original band with their own distinct sound. Two more albums, Electro-Shock Blues and Daisies of the Galaxy, followed 

Photo courtesy of Oreamworks Records The Eels (from left to right, Butch, E and Adam) try and live up to the originality of their earlier albums with Souljacker. 

Beautiful Freak and were well received by 
critics but did not have a radio-friendly hit like "Novocaine for the Soul" and were not very successful com­mercially. 
But. that's kind of the whole point for the band. They rebel against the Backstreet Boys and Britney Spears and they've never been afraid to talk about it in their songs. 
Though cer­tainly not catering to the average 15­year-old TRL fan, the Eels do not really pen any songs about how alternative they are on their new album. This album is chock-full of groov­ing trip-hop beats on some songs and also crunching electric gui­tar on others. 
Like their other albums, this album is a conglomeration of alternative music. They jump from heavy rockers like "Souljacker Part 1" and "Dog Faced Boy" to smooth, hip songs like "Fresh Feeling" and "Friendly Ghost" without batting an eyelid. Overall, the album plays like a freaky rollercoaster ride over and around all kinds of alternative music. Some songs sound like Beck while others sound more punk-influenced like early Spoon. 
The Eels strength is in their softer, slower songs where E's lyrics and the smooth jams of the band are in full swing. The besi song on this album is ''Fresh 

Feeling." After one listen, it gets in your head and stays there. It couples a bouncing bass line and a beautifully arranged string section with upbeat and optimistic lyrics that stress hope and love. The song is so uplifting it almost sounds like a pat on humanity's back. E sings. "Some people are good/ Babe in the 'hood/ So pure and so free/ I'd make a safe bet/ You're gonna get whatever you need." 
The albums follows up the optimistic "Fresh Feeling" with the downtrodden tale of a couple trying to make it through hard times in "Woman Driving, Man Sleeping." The acoustic guitar and drumbeat provide a mellow, melancholic backdrop for the story of a mundane exis­tence and faded dreams. 
Although the soft songs are the most powerful, the Eels make a case for themselves as a band that knows how to rock. "Souljacker Part 1" tears through the story of con­fused and angry youth with a thumping lead guitar riff and some seriously strained vocals. 
They also bring almost a Moby-esque kind of jam in "Jungle Telegraph," which is a song that you could easily dance to. It samples a horn section and follows up with some rocking slide guitar. It tells the story of a character whose mother had hoped he was a girl and is now living in a tree. He asks, "Send me some lovin'/ Send it now/ Send it by giraffe/ Or jungle telegraph." 
Another powerful song is "World of S***," in which the narrator tells his lover "In this world of s***/ Baby you are it." The song is a sad and slow cry about solitude and depression. The narrator is begging for his partner to marry him and begin a new life that will change the way he looks at the world and his place in it. 
Although the Eels delve into some dark and harrowing places in their songs. the message is always a move towards a more positive life. They discuss the darkness of life with a reverence and an optimism that makes their stories not only tolerable, but also hopeful. They do so either with hard and heavy guitar and strained vocals or with a softer keyboard arrangement and acoustic guitar with jumping bass and drum beats, but either way, their craft is evident and this is an album that gets better each time it is played. 
Cont.act Joe Larson at jlarson@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 
Tuesday, March 26, 2002 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Uncle Tupelo recollects influential career 
By BRIAN KORNMANN Scene Music Critic 
Perhaps no band in the past 10 years has had as much influence on their genre of music as Uncle Tupelo. The St. Louis threesome innovated the popular alt-country sound, which manv other bands now emulate. One can­not listen to the Old 97's. Jayhawks or Whiskeytown with­out thinking of the revolution in sound Uncle Tupelo started in 1989. 
Jay Farrar on guitar and Jeff Tweedy on bass mixed a sound consisting of punk, blues, rock and country influ­ences that quickly gained a follovving in and around the Midwest 

Photo Coortesy ol www.sony.com Uncle Tupelo live in concert in London. The band's new album 89/93: An Anthology recaps the group's career. 
Their first album, No Depression, mixed classic country and folk songs such as "Whiskey Bottle" and "John Hardy" with melodic guitar based tracks, "Screen Door" and twang-laced punk rock, "Graveyard Shift." The end result is an album considered by many to be the defin­ing work of the alt-country musical move• rnent. 
As time passed. the group expanded their sound range from the hard-hitting album Still Feel Gone. to the Peter Buck (REM) produced all acoustic March 16-20. The band added members, namely Brian 
Hanneman, later of The Bottle Rockets, to 
play mandolin and acoustic guitar. The 
album captured a more soulful sound, 
and quickly became a favorite of many 

Tupelo fans. Following the 1992 release of March 16-20, the band began to grow apart as the style and direction of Tweedy and Farrar began to drift apart. 
Despite the troubles, the band was picked up on SireJReprise records in late 1993 and released their last album, Anodyne. The album was a perfect accumulation of the entire scope of the bands history, capturing all aspects of Uncle Tupelo's diverse sound. The band played their last shows in a two-night set at Mississippi Nights in St. Louis. 
Following the break-up, Farrar and Tweedy went their separate ways. Farrar became the lead singer/guitarist for Son Volt and Tweedy assumed the bass and vocal duties for Wilco. The band's presence lived on however, and due to popular demand, the decision was made to re-master and re-release the entire Uncle Tupelo cata­log, beginning with the Anthology album. The 21-track Anthology album captures a perfect sampling of Uncle Tupelo's sound, as all of the bands albums are repre­sented on the album in a fully re-mastered edition. Five 

.· 
. ~-. ,• '• 

additional songs, either unreleased. live or from obscure 
EP's are also included on the album. The songs on the 
album are represented chronologically on the album. 
which helps paint a picture of the way the sound and 

presence of the band evolved over time. 
The album itself is fantastic; sound is clear and sharp 
and the album flows from beginning to end quickly, leav­
ing you wanting more. Because Anthology is a greatest 
hits album, it is difficult to find any weak songs through­
out the entire disc. however fan's of the band will proba­
bly question the inclusion/exclusion of certain songs on 
the album. That being said, "Screen Door," "Whiskey 
Bottle," "Still Be Around," "Moonshiner," "Effigy," 
"Chickamunga" and "New Madrid" can be considered the 
highlights of the album. 
Taken as a whole, the album is very strong and music 
fans who enjoy blues, grassroots, punk, country and rock, 
will find this album as an ideal purchase. 
Contact Brian Korrunann at bkornman@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Kweller's youth creates crafty melodies 
By JULIE BENDER 
Scene Music Critic 
Just when you thought music with a melody could only be contrived by paid pop songwriters and spit out through prepped and primed teens with slick dance moves, there comes a savior. He has arrived out of Greenville, Texas, and brings with him an album full of humorously modern lyrics and master­ful melodies that linger on your tongue for days. His name: Ben Kweller. On his second solo record, Sha Sha (released on Dave Matthews label), Kweller dis­plays his slightly punk-flavored charm on both the guitar and piano. If you can imagine a combined effort of Ben Folds Five, Dashboard Confessional and a modern-day Buddy Holly, the result would be Sha Sha. 
Opening the album is a bouncy piano number entitled "How it Should Be (sha sha)." As the song proceeds. it slowly fills with bopping background vocals, the twinkling of keyboard effects and a punching drumbeat. Kweller seems to be singing his lyrics straight-faced and serious when really they are quite laughable: "And don't bother me when I'm watching Planet of the Apes on TV/ That's right/ That's how it should be/ Sha sha/ Sha doo." The quite sudden ending of this song in a blast of silence leads right into the next track, "Wasted and Readv." 
A more-guitar oriented song, "Wasted and Ready" oscillates between acoustic strumming backed by a French horn and an angry, grunge-like guitar chorus. In the same manner, the lyrics change between quiet introspection: chirping background vocals, "Family ''I'll continue to be my worst enemy/ It's Tree" is an easy listener. Amidst a ram­easy but it seems so hard/ You're near bling piano filler at the end, Kweller 
but you seem so far," to loud mock­ery: "She is a slut but X thinks it's sexy/ Sex reminds her of eating spaghetti/ I am wasted but I'm ready." With no apparent mean­ing, the lyrics of this song actually evolve from the movie Doom Generation, in which one of the characters com­ments "Sex is like eating spaghetti." 
Perhaps the best song on the album, "Family Tree" has Kweller harmonizing with himself beautifully in his Texan drawl. With this song, Kweller con­fesses his depen­dency on his lover as he struggles to give advice to oth­ers attempting to 
Sha Sha 


Ben Kweller 
ATO Records 
Rating 

··,,;:66 


melodiously "bops" his way out of the song and leaves you nod­ding your head and tapping your foot. 
As much as Kweller tinges his album with irony and humor, he also reveals his ability to pen songs of a more somber and seri­ous nature. "In Other Words" is a quietly chilling song that winds its lyrics around a haunting piano melody. The song offers up ques­tions about what is beautiful and what is real in life. Kweller speaks of an unidentified "he" and touches on the ambiguity of the movement of time. He sings: "In his eyes I see catchy rhythm that bleeds into a quiet first verse. The songs take on a crescen­do and build to every chorus eventually leading to an ending that filters out. 

One song on the album that veers from this pattern is the quiet "Lizzy." This track opens with some bluesy gui­tar picking which reiterates itself peri­odically throughout the song. Tackling the issue of being far away from a girl­friend, this song is softly touching. Kweller sings reassuringly, "Telephone/ Tellin' you/ I'll be home soon/ Dienu/ I love you." 
The final song, "Falling," closes the album on a high note. A beautiful piano melody that all at once seems new and somehow nostalgic is central to the song. Kweller sings of a fast paced world where all he wants to do is slow down and enjoy the pleasure of love: "We could talk if days weren't so fasV And mistakes just leave it so unsure/ Wanna hold you like never before/ 'Cause we're falling and I love you more and more." The perfect ending, this song leaves you softly humming and anxious to press the repeat button. 
Sha Sha, though by no means a mas­terpiece, shows promise for the future career of Kweller. Only 20-years-old, this musician has lots of time to perfect his musicianship and song-writing abili­ties. A wonderful musician, Kweller's knack for melodies promises us this won't be the last we hear of him. Catch him on tour this spring and also as an opening act for both Dashboard Confessional and Dave Matthews Band. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
make it on their own: "But who am I. to preach a word or two/ When I can't lift my own head without you.?/ ... A broken branch I'd be if you weren't grown to me/ Oh, you are my family tree/ Be good to me." With a countrified guitar and a the fear/ That only time can disappear/ If only time could reappear/ Now is the time." 
If there is any complaint about this album, it's that the songs are all struc­turally very similar. They all start with a 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
MEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT WOMEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Jayhawks will only nest at top 
Asoodated Press 
KANSAS CITI, Mo. This much the Kansas Jayhawks know: 
Their season will end in Atlanta. at the Georgia Dome, in their first Final Four since 1993. 
But you have to look five years back from then, to a March night at Kansas City's Kemper Arena. to see what really drives this team. 
"Our goal wasn't to reach the Final Four. It was to win the national championship," said junior forward Nick Collison, who scored 
25 points and 
"Our goal wasn't to reach held off Holy 
had 15 Cross 70-59,
the Final Four. It was to
rebounds on blew out 
Sunday as win the national Stanford 86­Kansas beat 
championship. " 63 and 
Oregon 104-scored a 86 in the hard-foughtfinals of the Nick Collison 73-69 win Midwest fo,ward over Illinois 
locker, along with the message: "What did you do to get here today?" 
"It was just kind of a reminder every day when you don't feel like practicing,'' Collison said. "You see that and rea,l,ize what you're playing for. 
What Kansas (33-3) did to get to Atlanta was sweep the Big 12 regular season. 16-0, and win its first two conference tournament games before being beaten in the finals by Oklahoma -another Final Four team. 
Seeded No. 1 despite that 
loss, the 
Jayhawks 
Regional. 
The other Kansas players echoed that sentiment: Now. nothing short of the Jayhawks' first national title since 1988 -the year before Roy Williams took over as coach -will do. 
"It was joy out there," cele­brating the win over Oregon, freshman point guard Aaron Miles said. "But we know it's not done. We don't want it to stop here. It feels good to be one of the four teams that can possibly win the championship, but we want to be the ones to do it. 
"We want to do it for coach Williams, because of all the things people have said about him, but we also want to do it for ourselves as a team," Miles said. 
The Jayhawks, who meet Maryland in the national semi­finals on Saturday, have held that goal since the preseason. Williams taped pictures of the Georgia Dome in each player's 
before run­ning over the Duck.5 on Sunday. 
Along the way, they weath­ered injury (guard Kirk Hinrich's ankle sprain), foul trouble (Hinrich and Collison played just 37 total minutes against Illinois) and crowd hos­tility (Wisconsin fans have never forgiven Williams for comments they thought dispar­aged the Badgers' 2000 Final Four team and coach Dick Bennett.) 
And in the end, they put to rest -for this year. anyway ­Kansas' recent reputation for underachievement in the NCAA tournament. 
"This means a lot," said All­American forward, Drew Gooden, who had 20 rebounds against Oregon. "I knew there were a lot of doubters out there. I know people have given Coach some heat in the past for not reaching goals. But coach Williams is a great coach. This is his year. 
Huskies dethrone Old Monarchs 
MILWAUKEE 
Sue Bird and the unbeaten Connecticut Huskies bounced the party crashers right out of the NCAA Tournament. 
Bird scored a career-high 26 points and dished out 11 assists as UConn advanced to its third straight Final Four and fifth in eight years by beating Old Dominion 85-64 on Monday night. 
The Lady Monarchs (28-6), miffed at their No. 7 seeding, had used the perceived slight to fuel upsets of second-seeded Purdue and third-seeded Kansas State. 
But they could only watch helplessly as the top-ranked and top-seeded Huskies (37-0) made their first 13 shots and sank their first five free throws in rac­ing to a 34-14 lead less than 10 minutes into the Mideast Regional final. 
Over the weekend, Old Dominion coach Wendy Larry, whose team lost to the Huskies by 14 in December and had won 21 in row, said: "We're in a posi­tion now to ruin parties." 
To which UConn coach Geno Auriemma jokingly retorted: "Party crashers usually get beat up or arrested, don't they? At least they did where I come from." 
They were turned away at the door Monday night. 
With a dominating display of crisp passing and accurate shooting, the Huskies jumped out to a 20-4 lead in less than five minutes and sank 19 of their first 21 shots from the field before "settling" for a 75 percent mark (21-of-28) at halftime, when they were up 55-33. 
Their lead never dipped below 14 in the second half. 
They'll play the Vanderbilt­Tennessee winner in San Antonio next weekend in search of their third national title and second unbeaten season under Auriemma, who won champi­onships in 1995 and 2000. 
It's the third Final Four appearance for seniors Bird, Asjha Jones, Swin Cash and Tamika Williams -considered the top recruiting class in the game's history. 

Old Dominion was seeking its first Final Four trip since losing to Tennessee in the 1997 cham­pionship. 
But Lucienne Berthieu, the Monarchs' leading scorer and second-leading rebounder, got into early foul trouble and fin­ished with just six points and four rebounds in 17 minutes. She had no points and one rebound after halftime. 
She didn't check into the game in the second half until 11 :33 remained with the Monarchs trailing 68-50. 
Old Dominion got within 14 points at 72-58 with 6:12 left when Okeisha Howard, who led the Monarchs with 20 points, made two free throws. 
UConn responded with four free throws, two by sophomore Diana Taurasi, who scored 22, and two by Bird, and the Monarchs were done. 
Bird broke her previous care~r high of 25 points with an eight­foot jumper from the left base­line with 1 :09 remaining. 
The Huskies finished with 25 assists, the first of which broke their own NCAA record of 786 in a season. 
UConn has been the top­ranked team all season, beating opponents by an average of nearly 37 points -a pace that would break its own NCAA record of 33.2 set in 1994-95. The Huskies also are on pace to challenge the mark for lowest average points allowed. 51.1 set by Utah last season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 
1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 
Also leasing tor 2003-2004 
Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES· TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 
3 NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND NORTH 3-6 STUDENTS 
2TT-3097 
WANTED 
2000 grad seeking room or apart­ment to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 or email krup78@hotmail.com 
Camp Counselor for children w/ dis­abilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $7­$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 6 sites in Summit County Must enjoy outdoor activities. 
Call 800-CYO-CAMP for an appli· cation. 
In-home NANNY needed to care tor 1-year-old infant, mornings and/or afternoons, all summer (mid-May to mid-August). Experience with infants, references, and transporta­tion required. Contact Dr. Knoedler: 631-4264 or aknoedle@nd.edu 
YOUTH MINISTER 2 suburban parishes, Chicago-OHare area, seek an innovative, dynamic, faith-filled person to coor­dinate a comprehensive youth min­
istry 
program Full time position. requires flexible hours, some evenings, weekends. Compassion, enthusiasm, motiva­lion, organization skills, dedication to teens. Tasks: coordinating faith/formation program; supervising adult volun­teers: preparing liturgies, yearly retreat, fostering social justice outreach; guide fund raising program. Preferred candidate Catholic with bachelor deg. in ministry/theology, some experience. Start date: July 1, 2002. Submit resume, reflection on youth ministry, 3 refer­ences to: Youth Min. Search Comm., 920 W. Granville, Park Ridge, IL 60068. 
Fax 847-825-3484 by April 6. 

FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 
mmmrentals@aol.com 
MMMRentals.com 
4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available atter 6/1. 3 block from campus. 
Call (773)-486-8862. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)large (6-9) people 2) medium (3-5 people) 
Call Bill at 532-1896. 
2 Great Homes: 4 & 5 Bedrooms. Well Kepi! Great Location! ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR 
Call Karey 255-8403. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bed­room cottage..cute.. 
DAVE 291-2209 

3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM­PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 
272-6306,292-6717 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 
For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER A lifetime of happiness awaits your baby. Young California couple with stay at home mom and involved dad will cherish your newborn in our warm, caring, secure and joy-tilled home. Please call Kim and Al toll free anytime 
1-866-533-3332. 

Are you mad tor March Madness: Write Observer Sports Call Chris at 1-4543 
Do you want to be there when breaking news happens? 
Write for Observer News. Call 1-5323 
Is your photo album more like a work of art? 
Take photos for The Observer. Call 1-8767 

Are you up on the latest music and the latest movies? 
Write tor Scene. Call 1-4540 

Tuesday, March 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish head into Big East 
By JOE HETTLER 
Assistant Spores Editor 
Notre Dame softball coach Deanna Gumpf believes that the softball season is divided into three parls. 
In the first part of their sea­son, Notre Dame's softball team battled through a tough early schedule to an 8-12 record. 
The team now heads into the second part of their 
"J think we're hitting 
schedule c o u n t r y tonight better than we have in because against now they
the past. I think that if
Western know what 
we hit the ball, we'll win. 
Michigan it takes and looking to The pitchers know what that's a improve and tough to
they need to do.. " 

take control figure out." of the Big So far East. Deanna Gumpf this season. "I definitely head coach Stenglein 
the season, particularly from freshman Steffany Stenglein and Carrie Wisen. 
"Stef has improved and improved and improved," said Gumpf. "She's gotten better every day that she's been out there. Both the freshman jumped right into the fire and I think it took them both a couple of games just to figure it all out. They needed it. It was great for both of those girls to play the best teams in the 
think the season is divided into three sections: our presea­son. our Big East season and the post-season," said Gumpf. "Right now, we have gone through the first part and said 'OK, where do we need to get better? We need to not walk as many batters and we need to hit the ball.' That pretty much sums it up." 
The Irish have relied on young pitching throughout has a 7-8 
record with 
a 2. 52 ERA and has struck out 81 bat­ters. She also leads the teams in games pitched with 19. 
The Irish offense has been led by unanimous preseason All-Big East selection, Andrea Loman who is hitting a team-leading .327 batting average as well as a .422 on-base per­centage. Freshman outfielder Megan Ciolli is second on the team with a .308 average and leads the team with three round trippers. 
According to Gumpf. the older players have a major influence on the younger players and have helped them adjust to college soft­ball. 
"Jenny [Kriech] and Jarrah [Meyers] are returning All­Americans so their leadership is pretty much on the field," Gumpf said. "They're there to play ball, and they lead by example. Kas [Hoag] is a great leader because she's the one the girls can go to at any time. She's there for everybody on the team and she's got a lot of heart." 
The team hopes to correct its early-season problems and put together a string of victo­ries before Big East play opens Saturday against Pittsburgh. 
"I think that we're hitting better than we have in the past," Gumpf said."[ think that if we hit the ball, we'll win. The pitchers know what they need to do. We had a lot of walks early in the season, pitching around a lot of hit­ters, and now we can go right at them." 
Contact Joe Hettler at hettler.l@nd.edu. 
page 13 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
left fielder Dan Trubia knocked a grand slam to tie the score at eight runs apiece. 
The score would remain the same until the bottom of the 11th inning when Connecticut's David Tokarz reached base on a throwing error by third base­man Andrew Bushey and then advanced to second. After mov­ing to third on a sacrifice fly, ving home seven runs in the sixth and seventh innings on their way to a 13-6 victory. 
The three losses over the weekend overshadowed a mile­stone weekend for the senior captain and centerfielder Stanley. The four-year starter surpassed 1989 graduate Pat Pesavento to set all-time records at Notre Dame for career hits and consecutive starts, with 297 and 205, respectively. 
"I felt wonderful to become a 
part of the 
r e c o r d 

"/felt wonderful to books,"
Burnham 
Stanley

slapped a two­become a part ofthe 
said. "But.

out RBI single 
record books. But I really 
I really

to bring home 
wanted to get those out wanted to
the game-win­
get those

ner. ofthe way so we could 
out of the
Even though 

really focus in on the 
way so we

the Irish lost 
team goals." could really
both games, 
focus in on

they outhit 
the team

Connecticut 19­
Steve Stanley 
goals."

12. but left 15 
centerfielder After the
runners on base in the los­ing effort. 
"The biggest thing we have to work on as a team is sowing up our infield defense and hitting in the clutch," O'Connor said. "It's not that we don't have any opportunities to score; we do. We're just not taking advantage of them right now." 
In the final game Sunday, the Irish again fell behind early, suffering a 5-0 deficit after four innings. O'Toole cut Connecticut's four-run lead to two in the fourth inning with his second homerun of the series and fourth of the season. 
The Huskies would put the game away, however, by dri­
slow Big 

East start. it is important for the Irish to rebuild quickly with a double­header Thursday at West Virginia and another Saturday at Georgetown. 
"We need some of our players to step up a little bit coming into this weekend," O'Connor said. "We need to stick together as a team and try to get every­one healthy. I believe when that happens, we'll be in a great position." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

If you were a Notre Dan1e professor, what would you say in your... 
Last Lecture? 
Alexander Hahn 
Department of Mathematics Director~ AL/SC Honors Program 
Tuesday!! March 26 
7pm 

Welsh Farnily Hall Lounge 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED!!! 
SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT, 
WELSH FAMILY HALL, AND KEOUGH HALL 
.----------------------­
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 26, 2002 

,. 
I 
I 
' 
csc Center or Socia{ Concerns 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

ttM ~oon~~ Wt
CONCERNS 

http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: M-F 8AM-10PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
With gratitude... 
The weekend of March 15th-17th approximately 200 alumni/ae gathered here on campus for the Alumni Social Concerns Forum, " ... Toward a More Just and Humane World ... ". This year the Forum celebrated the Center for Social Concerns' Executive Director, Fr. Don McNeill's, servant leadership, vision and passion for justice. The Forum also lifted up our shared call to love tenderly, act justly, and walk hum.bly with God in our personal lives, our local and parish communities, and our global community. 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••s•••••••••••••• 
The Center for Social Concerns extends its deepest gratitude to all who attended, and to all who were involved in the celebration's planning . 
On the behalf of the staff of the CSC, we say "Many thanksr' to Father Don McNeill, C.S.C. whose long­time history at the University has greatly touched and transformed many lives. And, Blessings Padre Don! as you transition beyond the Center for Social Concerns this year! 
Current Volunteer Needs 
Easter Celebration for local children -Jim Baumgartner -235-5709 Staying for Easter? If you want to participate in a worthwhile cause, come to the College Football Hall of Fame Easter Celebration on Sat. March 30, from noon-4:00. You can hide eggs, play games, and help bring a happier Easter to children coming from disadvantaged backgrounds. Volunteers with also receive lunch and a complimentary ticket to tour the Hall of Fame. 
Tutor for 12 yr old -Reading help Ken Stacy -287-2316 x 334 -ken@tirerack.com 
Senior Send Off Plannini: 
The Senior Send Off is held on the Saturday of Commencement Weekend to celebrate with approximately 10% of the Class of 2002 who are committing to Post-graduate Service Programs. If you are interested in helping to plan the event, please come to the meeting TONIGHT, March 26th at 7:00 P.M. at the Center for 
Social Concerns. 
He is looking for a tutor to help his son Joshua with his reading skills. Time commitment would 
be about 3 hours a week. He can bring Joshua to campus if the tutor would like. 
Tutor for 6 yr old & 10 yr old-need help in reading -Wendy -254-7652 
She would like a tutor for her children who are struggling with reading. She can bring the 
children to ND on Tues and/or Thurs after 5 pm. 
Tutor for 7th grader -Loise Treft -256-5070 
She is looking for a tutor to help her 7th grade son Raymond with his science and english skills, 
including sentence structure. He can come to campus if the tutor prefers. 
McKinley Elementary after school program -Tom Werge -631-7679 Starting an after school program that will take place on Weds. from 2:30-3:30 and looking for some students to assist the kids with their homework, especially Math & Reading. Transportation from ND to the school can be provided. 
Female Mentor for 12 yr old softball pitcher -Carol Gropp -237-4007 (w) 234-3395 (h) Do you like to throw a softball around? If so, a 12 yr old girl Nikki would love to spend some time with you. She is a good student in school, but needs a role model in her life to give her 
some encouragement and improve her self-esteem. 
LOGAN Camp Amigo Trip -Marissa Runkle 289-4831 x1043 • marissar@logancenter.org Several students are needed to accompany adults with disabilities on the annual camping trip to Michigan. We will leave in the morning on Sat., April 6th and return in the afternoon on Sun., April 7th. Transportation, meals, and lodging are provided free. Volunteers will assist the Logan campers in basketball and volleyball games as well as games using the pool table, ping-pong, and foosball tables. 
Library Program at St. Joseph County Jail -Jane Ragle -245-6578 They are trying to improve their library program for inmates and need help with computerized entry of reading material, physical help arranging books, and distribution and pick-up of reading materials. Volunteers wouldn't have to have inmate contact; they will work with the comfort level 
of the students. 

*If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu. * 
STATIONS OF THE CROSS IN CHICAGO LA VIA CRUCIS 
(The Way ofthe Cross) 
In Chicago's Pilsen Neighborhood 
"The heart of Chicago sLa,tino Community" 
Good Friday, March 29th 
Join Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns as we celebrate with over 2000 faithful the traditional Latin reenactment of our Lord's Passion and Death in the streets of Pilsen, fol­lowed by reflection and a simple lunch. 
Please sign up at 114 Coleman-Morse by 
Wednesday, 
March 27th 

Seats are limited! Cost is $5 (includes transponation and simple lunch) 

.. .. .....-.,,, --. -......... 
--i 
I 
Tuesday, March 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
No. 15 Irish look to rebound from loss 
By CHRlS COLEMAN Sports Writer 
When the Irish women's lacrosse team matches up today against Delaware, both teams will be corning off similar heartbreaking one-goal losses. The No. 15-ranked Irish luok to improve their record to 5-1 while the normally top-tier Blue Hens will be searching for just their third win in seven games. 
"Last year they were the first ranked team wo boat, it was a really tight game." said senior Natalie Loftus. "They are defi­nitely going to come out ready to play tomorrow." 
Delaware played Ohio State on Monday. The Buckeyes, ranked No. 20, jumped out to an 8-4 first half lead. Delaware played a strong second half but almost delivered an upset, before losing 12-11. Like Notre Dame's loss to Cornell. this game will be fresh on Delaware's mind. 
"Delaware is a traditional lacrosse powerhouse," said captain Alissa Moser. "Even though they are not as good this year, they arc still a threat. We need to be on our toes." 
The Irish look to play for a rnmpletc game after a subpar first half in a one-goal loss to Cornell last week. Cornell went up 8-3, and despite a strong second half, the Irish lost 10-9. 
"We all knew we weren't playing [in the first halfl the way Notre Dame lacrosse should be played. We realize what we did wrong and defi­nitely have corrected it," said Moser. "That was only our first loss of the season, but we reallv don't want to lose. We are out for a win tomorrow." 
The Irish expect to come out strong, but be patient in the first half today. They hope to take immediate control of the game. 
"We need to be aggressive," said Moser, who has scored the first Irish goal twice this sea­son. "We are ready to take it to them in the first couple minutes and keep pounding away." 
Offensively. the Irish have been scoring goals in bunches throughout the season, and these scoring bursts have been able to carry them to wins. The Irish also have scoring depth, as six girls have recorded five or more goals in as many games. 
The Irish have been off since their March 19 game and have used this time to work on their fundamentals. 
"We are really excited to play again," said Loftus. "We've had time to work some kinks out and get ready for Delaware." 
The Irish will face Delaware at 4 p.m. at Meyo Field. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolemal@nd.edu. 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles earn MIAA honors 
Special to The Observer 
The MIAA recently honored three players from the Saint Mary's basketball team, fol­lowing the Belles' 9-17 sea­son. 
Senior Anne Blair was named to the MIAA All-
Conference first team, while sophomore Katie Miller and freshman Emily Creachbaum were named to the Honorable Mention team. 
Blair. a three-year captain, averaged 12.8 points, 6.0 rebounds and 1.2 blocks per game. 
Miller ran the Belles offense for most of the sea­son and averaged 6.2 points and 3.1 assists per game. Creachbaum, second in Belles scoring, averaged 9.2 points per contest and also excelled defensively, grab­bing 5.2 boards per game. 


ATTENTION JUNIORFINANCE, 
ECONOMICS, OR ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
--ANational Economic/Financial Consulting Firm Is Looking For YOU! 
Information Session: 
When: Tuesday March 26 @7:00PM 
Where: The Mendoza College of Business Room 162 
-The information session will discuss what INTECAP does & the opportunities available. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Finance Club 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Spom Writer 
The men's golf team traveled south last weekend, but the same cannot be said for its scores. 
After firing a collective total of 913, the Irish finished sev­enth in the 13-team field at the Pepsi-Cola Invitational. Michigan State's Eric Jorgenson won the event with a 212 total, held at the Tanglewood Resort Golf Course in Texas. 
The rela­tively high 
team score "I thought we moved in cumulative that placed a 
the right direction ... The s c o r e s 
staggering 44 weren't
play was substantially
shots behind much better 
tournament better." 
than the ones 

champions 
posted a 

Michigan 
week ago,

John Jasinski
State was 
the Irish did reminiscent 
head coach 
of last week's rather dismal effort in Florida, but misleading according to John Jasinski, first-year head coach. 
"I thought we moved in the right direction," Jasinski said, "The scoring was similar to last week but the conditions were much tougher. The play was really substantially better. It was windy out there and very tough to score well." 
However, senior Steve Ratay, who finished 13th to once again led the squad, captured his coach's favor for the second week in a row. 
"Steve is the only player who really seems to have a handle on getting the ball into the hole," Jasinski said. "The rest really need to make some improvement in their short games." 
Ratay agreed. 
"Certainly we need to work 

,n our short games," he said. 
"But I think that's something that comes as the season pro­gresses." 
While the unfavorable weath­er conditions make practice and the task of finding one's short game touch difficult, Jasinski said it's a skill issue as well. 
"I think for some of our guys it's a matter of learning some different shots," Jasinski said. "It's a mental thing too. When par is in question you need to have the grit and the skill. It's about having the right mental approach and the confidence in 
the shot." 
While the 
enjoy  some  
better  play  
from  one  
player.  Freshman  K.C.  

Wiseman pieced together three rounds in the 70s to finish tied for 20th in the 74-playcr field, the best finish of his young col­legiate career. 
"K.C. played well,'' Ratay said. "HeOs one of the guys that's really coming along." 
Jasinski sees the team improving in the coming weeks. 
"We have a couple more events left before the Big East Championships," he said. "We just need to keep getting bet­ter." 
Getting better and scoring lower will be the focus of the team when they travel to Lexington, Kentucky to com­pete in the Johnny Owens Invitational this weekend. 
Contact Kevin Berchou at kberchou@nd.edu. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
MEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Terrapins won't stop until they reach the top 
Associated Press 
Juan Dixon and Lonny Baxter already have done their share to lift Maryland to elite status, taking the Terrapins to the Final Four not just once, but twice. 
The seniors now plan to attach a spectac­uIar ending to their productive college careers. 
Dixon and Baxter are the first players in the rich history of the Maryland basketball program to take part in at least 100 wins. Dixon has pJayed a part jn 108 victories, Baxter in 105. 
They won't be satisfied until they get two more -Saturday night against Kansas in the NCAA semifinals and in the champi­onship game next Monday night. 
"It's my last time doing this, and I'm going to do whatever it takes to win," said Dixon, a multifaceted shooting guard and an integral part of the most successful senior class in Maryland history. 
Dixon scored 27 points and Baxter had 29 points and nine rebounds Sunday as top­seeded Maryland won the East Regional and advanced to the Final Four for a sec­ond straight year with a 90-82 victory over Connecticut. 
The Terrapins already had a run of five straight NCAA tournament appearances when Dixon and Baxter began their fresh­man seasons in 1998. But Maryland never before reached the Final Four until the duo, with aid from Tulane transfer Byron Mouton, lifted the program even higher. 
Maryland coach Gary Williams says the best part oftheir game is resiliency. 
Last year, the Terrapins rebounded from a home loss to lowly Florida State to reach the Final Four for the first time. This year, they entered the NCAA tournament coming off a deflating loss to North Carolina State in the semifinals of the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. 
"Along those four years we've won over 100 games, but we also had some tough losses. Yet we've always been able to come back," Williams said. "We've never let any­body take us off of what we were trying to do. I think our seniors -Juan, Lonny and Ryron -have had a lot to do with that. Over a four-year period, they have been mentally tough." 
Ac; juniors, the trio guided the Terrapins to where no Maryland team had gone before. Maryland lost to eventual champion Duke in the national semifinals, but virtual­ly everyone associated with the program still considered the season a rousing suc­cess. 
This time, there will be no moral victo­ries. Only a national championship will do, even though the Terrapins (30-4) have accomplished plenty, capturing their first regular season ACC title since 1980 and winning 30 games for the first time. 
''This year's team is much more mature than last vear's," Mouton said. "I think that's why we are the situation we are in." 
After reaching the Final Four last year, the three could have focused on potential NBA careers. Instead, they channeled their energy toward going out with a national championship. 
"Our seniors did a tremendous job this year, because going to the Final Four last year only made them work harder," Williams said. "That isn't always the case. They've done a great job with the other players, trying to get them up to the level we can play at." 

Price is right for Sooners 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. 

Oklahoma guard Hollis Price needs extra time to warm up before games. When he's on the sideline, a heating pad helps keep his injured right arm loose. 
It must be working. 
The Sooners are back in the Final Four for the first time since 1988 in large part because of Price, who went down with a gruesome elbow injury in the first round of last year's tournament. 
He's averaging 18.2 points in the NCAAs this year, a remark­able turnaround for a player who needed three operations. 
Price tore the triceps tendon and had nerve damage after coming down hard on an Indiana State player's lower teeth during a drive in the Sooners' loss. Price ended up with a piece of the opponent's tooth in his arm. 
"I didn't know it was that severe when it happened, but it turned out to be it was," Price said. "I thank the Lord he got me through that. Coach always says that adversity makes a man, and I think it made a man out of me and a better player, too." 
He's been outstanding for Oklahoma (31-4) all season. 
At 6-foot-1 and just 165 pounds, Price looks almost frail on the court. But he has tremendous speed, a sweet jumper and toughness, too. 
While other Sooners strug­gled in the first half of the regional semifinal against Arizona, Price made six 3­
pointers. He had 22 of the Sooners' 33 points at halftime, keeping them close enough to rally in the second half. 
"I've never seen that kid have any fear," Oklahoma coach Kelvin Sampson said. 
After scoring 18 points in Saturday's regional final against Missouri, Price shared a long hug with Sampson, then called his grandfather in New Orleans -just as he does after every game. 
Price's grandparents, George Carraby and Ann Dennis, raised him and his two siblings because their single mother was often injail. 
Price grew up in New Orleans' Desire neighborhood, which Sampson called "one of the toughest projects in that city." 
But with his grandparents providing guidance, Price was drawn to sports and stayed clear of trouble. 
"He had a beautiful home," Sampson said. "He lived in a project apartment, but he had a beautiful home because of his grandfather and grandmother. Hollis was brought up the right way, and that was his con­stant." 
The "right way" meant com­ing home straight from school, doing homework before going out to play, and being home on time at night. It meant going to church on Sunday, being thankful for little things and respecting others. 
"The distractions were there," Carraby said. "But he was always above that fray because he had folks who impressed on him that there 
are things much more impor­tant than to waste your life." 
Like any youngster, Price occasionally got out of line, but he never got into any serious trouble. 
"You didn't need a whip or a switch. He's the kind of kid who comprehends," said Carra.by, a counselor at a drug rehab center. "He looks you dead in your eyes when you talk to him, so that when you talk to him, you can get a good read on whether or not you're connecting. Hollis and I could always connect." 
Price played several sports, and excelled at basketball. At St. Augustine High School, he averaged 25 points as a senior and led his team to the Class 5A state title. He also led his under-17 AAU summer team to a national title. 
He started 22 games at Oklahoma as a freshman, aver­aging 7.2 points and 3.5 assists at point guard. He played the first 16 games at the point the next season before moving to shooting guard, and wound up averaging 11.8 points and 4.7 assists. 
With the arrival of his high school teammate, Quannas White, at point guard, Price has been able to stay at shooting guard this season and was an All-Big 12 pick after averaging 17 points. 
The elbow still hasn't healed, but Price's game is perfectly healthy. 
"I don't think it'll ever be 100 percent," Price said. "But I haven't had many problems with it. Once I get into a game, I reaUy don't think about it." 
Perry to cover for Coverdale 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
While starting point guard Tom Coverdale hobbled around campus on crutches Monday, Indiana practiced with Coverdale 's likely replacement, freshman Donald Perry. 
Coverdale, the Hoosiers' second-leading scorer and the player most responsible for getting his teammates into the right spots, sprained his left ankle Saturday during Indiana's 81-69 regional final victory over Kent State. 
Two days after being wheeled off the court, Coverdale wore a boot over the injured ankle but still could not put any weight on the leg. 
"It's 10 times better than it was yesterday, hopefully it will keep improving," Coverdale said. 
Coach Mike Davis said he expected Coverdale to play Saturday against Oklahoma in the first of the two national semifinals 
"He couldn't even walk before we played North Carolina-Wilmington and he played," Davis said about the original injury Coverdale suf­fered in the Hoosiers' first­round game against Utah. "I think he 'II definitely play because I know Tom." 
Coverdale sprained his left ankle against Utah, but train­er Tim Gari said the second injury was in a different spot. 
Davis said the Hoosiers would not know until Thursday whether Coverdale could play. 
Even if does, Coverdale wouldn't be 100 percent. 
So at their first practice since advancing to the Final Four, Perry, from Tallulah, La., was playing with the Hoosiers' starters. 
Perry has started five games this year and has steadily improved. 
Davis and his players expressed confidence in Perry's abilities even though he appeared rattled at first Saturday when Coverdale was injured with about 9:30 remaining. 
"Donald Perry is ready to go," Davis said. "It's been a team game since Day 1. We depend on him (Coverdale), but we'll do it by committee if they press us and spread us out." 
Perry acknowledged Monday that he was nervous when he first replaced Coverdale. but said that he would be prepared to do whatever is asked this week­end. 
"Saturday was different because I looked up and I was getting ready to cele­brate," Perry said. "When be went down, it caught me off­guard. It's like my dad always said, you have to be ready for anything." 
freshman Michal Sobieraj  him to finish fifth at last year's  the fourth Irish fencer in 2002  
rebounded after a tough first  NCAA Championships, junior  to earn that honor, the most in  
day to finish with 12 wins and  foil captain, Ozren Debic, fin­ Irish history.  
earn third team All-American.  ished fourth this year, return­ Debic went 18-5 in pool play  
Sobieraj and Viviani combined  ing to the first team All­ but expended so much energy  
to win 29 bout:, and finish in a  American status he attained as  attempting to earn as many  
tie for second overall.  a freshman. By earning first  points for the team as possi­ 
After a foot injury caused  team All-American, Debic was  ble, he ran out of gas in his  
semifinal and third-place  
match.  
"I did not have the energy to  
compete with those guys on a  
high level," Debic said. "Both  
of them [St. John's Jonathan  
Tiomkin and Stanford's Steve  
Gerberrnan] are· good fencers.  
But if I was not even 90 or 100  
percent, if I was fencing well,  
then I would have won at least  
one."  
Freshman Derek Snyder  
joined Debic on the men's foil  
team this year. Snyder went  
15-8 at the NCAA  
Championship. including 7-2  
on the second day. His efforts  
earned him second team All­ 
American.  
'Tm somewhat satisfied. My  
goal was to make top four, but  
I missed that by a little bit,"  
Snyder said. "I think the first  

University of Notre Dame 
Department of Mathematics 
MATH CLUB SEMINAR 
Laszlo Lempert 
Purdue University 
Will give the lecture entitled: 
Fixed point theorems 
On 
Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
at 8:00 pm in Room 129 
of Hayes-Healy Hall 
Abstract 

Foced poITTI theorems say that an equalion of form f(~)=x mue1 have a solu1ion, provided the funcli-on (or map) f on the left hand side satlafles appropriate 
condf!lons. The l:!!Tk wtff he abt1ut Brouwer'! fixed point 1heorem, whose proof brings 1oge1her combinatorics and anafys10. Wo shall also d,scu:s.s .studting mathematics on the graduate level. 
As a warm up, those interested mlgh1 consider the following problem. After dinner a 10 foot snake goes lo bed. The bed '8 also 10 feet !ong, so lhal our snake Riis the bed snugly. Que to the heavy dinner the snake tosses and tumbfes alf night, some of i1!l' part,; contrect. otheni. expend, so that iri the morning it is in a completety dilterent position in tho bed; it may not even fill the 
entire bed. 

The problem is to show that there will be at least one point of the snake that Is exactfl,-in tt'1a same position In The rnoming a.s i1 was at b~tin1e. Consider both snake and bod one dimensional. 

page l 7 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
Fencers take individual NCM honors 
• day we kind of lost our cool as
Alonnno 59D •Desiga• lllatwalians •llarieUng, Cans»llal1f's seminar· 
far as judging and stuff like 
Learn The Methods Of A Professional Business Man's Priceless Achievements:­
• that, so we lost our focus a lit­
An ABC-123 ~Ian To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
tle bit. The second day we did 
A on, Da,Semlaar,ABaat 0101111 Ten Ynrs Oflnl/alllallleExJJt:ril:IlCB. · 
a lot better." 
This class is de~ignect to short cut you to the.Sif1!ple focused thoughts 
Debic and Snyder had 33 
you must ~ava m bus1,:ess to move forward m high !eve! business. ' 
total wins to finish in a tic for 
The class rs_ tt:1~ght by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
second overall.
V.P. say~ will, 'change the cpurse of an entire industry." ~'ARE~For class dates, private classes & · 
Contact Matt Lozar at 
:"f:&ttr:SOAII ~ore information, go to our web 
mlozar@nd.edu.
,._..,.,.__•~e,-site. or cal/Mr. Adams at 277-8104 
•Wflllll!I.USBSIJl_lltl..COBJ E-mail ~ lnventor@usastand.com 
FENCING 
. McCullough, Crompton, Viviani Sobieraj, Debic· notch strong finishes for Irish 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sport W ricer 
Several Notre Dame fencers earned individual honors at the NCAA Championships this past weekend. 
Senior women's sabre cap­tain Carianne McCullough, a former walkon, achieved third team All-American honors in her final NCAA competition. Her 12-11 record put McCullough in 12th place and made her an All-American for the first time. 
"It was really more to help the team than to get All­/\merican," she said. "I mean sure it was in the back of your head. We had the last six bouts to try and get the most wins." 
After finishing the first day in ninth place, McCullough won four matches on day two to accomplish her goal of earning All-American status. 
McCullough finished in 19th in 2000 and 15th in 2001 at the NCAA Championship. In 2002, she compiled a 42-9 regular season record and a 161-38 career record. At the Midwest Conference Championships, McCullough took third and she finished second at the regional compe­tition. 
Teammate sophomore Destanie Milo combined with ~1cCullough to give the Irish 20 points in women's sabre to finish sixth overall. 
In men's sabre, senior cap­tain Andre Crompton used an 8-1 record on the second day of the sabre competition to fin­ish in fifth and was second team All-American for the sec­ond straight year. Crompton went 18-5 and lost the tiebreaker on indicators (touches earned minus touches received) to miss out on first team All-American honors. 
Knowing a win might put him in the top four, Crompton battled back to win his final bout 5-4. 
"I was down 4-2 in my last collegiate bout ever. · [I thoughtJ just relax and pull it together," Crompton said. "It was the last touch of my colle­giate career and I just wanted to finish strong." 
A 10-4 record on day one put Crompton in fifth. He made an inspired run on Sunday, losing only to two­time champion Ivan Lee of St. John's. 
"I fenced better and stronger than [Saturday]." Crompton said. "I think what really helped was the six of us [male fencers] had a meeting and we talked about what we needed to do to win." 
Crompton and junior Matt fabricant combined to win 27 bouts and finish fourth overall. 
Junior epee captain Jan Viviani finished fifth to earn All-American honors for the third consecutive year. He fin­ished 17-6 and missed first team All-American by one vic­tory. 
After starting Saturday by going undefeated in his first two rounds, Viviani did not have energy to keep up the strong start in the last four rounds. 
"I got a little tired. I think things were going so well, that you stop thinking about things," . Viviani said. "Sometimes it helps, but I think it hurt a little. In certain situations, I probably should have been a little different." 
In the regular season, Viviani went 42-3 and his win­ning percentage of .933 was third best in epee history. His career record of 118-14 gives him a winning percentage of .894 and is the best in career epee winning percentage. Viviani won the conference championship for the first time this season and finished sec­ond at regionals. 
Midwest Regional champion 

r----------------------------------­
page 18 Tuesday, March 26, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS 

Irish gymnasts find luck at Clover Classic 
Sailing with Rockville. dropped the opener to host South Driscoll at Cox, Lhe lrish finished 
Special to The Observer 

A cold St. Joe Lake was host The Irish came out gunning Bend, 8-3, and then lost the sec­behind two crews from Michigan again to the Notre Dame against Rockville, riding the arm ond game to Purdue, 12-4. as and a third from WesternThe Notre Dame-St. Mary's Freshman Icebreaker, an apt of Jay Deimel to a 3-1 lead. But winds continued to intensity. The Ontario. The final B race sawGymnastics club hosted its annu­name for the weekend. Despite as the game wore on, latigue set Irish jumped on an overmatched Western Ontario cross the finishal Clover Classic at Gymnastics cold temperatures. the event was in and Rockville clawed back to Michigan B team, 11-2, before first, trailed by Michigan, GrandMichiana with the women claim­again well run and a huge suc­eventuaHy tic the game at four, dropping their third game of the Valley State and Notre Dame.
ing first place and the men taking cess for all competing teams. The with 17 seconds left. Mike Doyle's day to No. l seed, Michigan A, This crew consisted of Margaret second. Competing schools Irish entered two boats and backhand attempt at the buzzer 11-5. Durant, Cox. Chris Ban at Stroke. 

included Purdue, Indiana, claimed second and fifth place. was just short of outright victory. Sunday's action found !'our Terence Fitzgibbon at Bow, andMinnesota, Ohio State and Michigan garnered first place, !lather than play the usual over­starters lost with injuries as the Kevin Sibbernsen. Hoss Bartels.

Xavier. 

with Ohio and Michigan State time period, the tournament for­Irish managed to defeat Oberlin John Martell, Ryan Carlson, ChrisEmily Smith paced the placing between the two Notre mat called for a shoot-out, and 11-9 before dropping a much Reilly and Chris Szefc.
women's squad, as her 9.35 on Dame crews. Wisconsin, Western despite goalie Devlin closer rematch with Purdue, also In the Men's JV 8+, the menbars captured first, and an 8.7 

Michigan, John Carroll, and McCormick's great effort, the by an 11-9 score. tied Michigan Stato for secondfor fourth on beam propelled her Indiana completed the order of Irish fell 4-3. The women's squad placed behind Michigan in heat one,
to third all around. Caitlin 

finish. Deimel and Doyle paced the sixth overall in the tournament, Christina Aune at Cox. beforeO'Brien also finished in the top Commodore Jack Gaither's attack throughout the weekend, second in the B division. dropping to fifth in the Final A,five all-around, with third place club will next race April 5-7 at with 10 goals each, while Pat Standout players for the weekend with Katie Fiorda at Cox. Nickon both the vault and floor. Marv Miami's April Fool's Regatta. Watts and Steve ''The Enforcer" included Mia Stephen as top Petrella was Stroke, Patrick RossBlazewicz' 8.1,_yvas good for filth Schrantz scored two goals defensive player and a reliable at Bow, with a crew of Matton Hoor, edging teammate Katie apiece. Danny Wiederkehr domi­handler in the wind, Karen Chu, Zatorski, StevP Kettler. SeanBonchonsky who placed sixth, Men's Water Polo nated in the defense. With four whose speed and athleticism
contributing vital points to the A depleted men's water polo Dennis, James Hill and Brad 
starters missing, freshmen Mike established the zone defense, and Voller.
team score. The women narrow­club reached the finals of the fifth Grow and Jack Spittler played Naoi Cordell, the top offensive Men's Novice 8+ placed third inly edged Purdue _and Minnesota annual Gobbler Classic at very well in their first extensive player for the Irish this weekend. 
for the title. Virginia Tech last weekend. heat one, with Porscha Radcliffe 
game action. 

Guido DiStefano claimed sixth Playing after an eleven-hour trek at Cox, and then went on to cap­all around for the men, with top and with no reserves, the Irish Men's Rowing ture first in the final B, with Kalie 
six finishes on pommel horse. opened with a 9-5 win over Ultimate The men's rowing club was Fiorda at Cox, and crewed by rings, parallel bars and floor. The Virginia and then notched wins Strong winds made play unable to defend the Lubber Cup Alex Schaefer, Stroke, Mike Sanchez, Nie Iverson, Rich
Irish closely followed Purdue in over North Carolina State, 8-4, extremely difficult this weekend it had captured last year as the the standings, with Ohio State and Charlotte, 7 -5, in building to at the South Bend Invitational. varsity 8+ placed fourth in both Mciver, Mike Gibek, Andrew Jaco placing third. a dramatic championship game The Irish women's squad its races. In heat one, with Tara and Andy Hronick at Bow. 
Going beyond that restraining line 
I've been to one lacrosse game times, but it's not like rregularly there a lot of trash-talking in ly. It's kind of like everything. check, which is like checking in my life, which left me with an do it. rcan go across ... in transi­women's lacrosse? Every time the draw goes, that's their stick towards their face. inescapable conclusion: I didn't tion or if I'm up ahead of every­TINA: (Laughs) Not really. I going to be my ball. Every If you check them in the head, really get it. body else, really wouldn't trash-talk when I ground ball, I think, Tm getting that's the yellow card. (Both 
Sure, I could tell there was a TED: Do you think that's the scored a goal because it doesn't to that.' When I don't get it. I get laugh) Then you get kicked out. ball being most unique lacrosse rule ... or is happen that often. And the next a little frustrated, but it makes Yeah, I've got a few of those. thrown at a there anything else that, just time down, I'd probably get me work harder. TED: [Lacrosse) isn't an net, and looking at it, is kind of goofy? pounded. TED: If you could change any Olympic sport yet, is it? when the TINA: I think the things that I say some things on the field one rule [in].lacrosse, what TINA: No. Curling is an ball went in, are the most confusing are that I shouldn't say; I get frus­would you change? Olympic sport but not lacrosse. the team whenever there's a whistle, you trated with the referees really TINA: I would change the stop­It's very silly. shooting got have to stop. So everyone easily because there's a lot of ping on the whistle. It would TED: When you're watching a point. But freezes. And that's kind of weird, whistles and I think they're silly. change the game a lot, but it's any other sport, can you identify beyond that, because like in soccer, you can Our team -we talk to each just such a frustrating rule. more with the player who is on I might as just wander around. But in other a lot ... I think that's intimi­TED: Do you basically have to defense who doesn't get the well have [women's] lacrosse you have to dating to other teams. stop dead in your tracks? credit? been Keanu stop. TED: If you had to pick a car­TINA: [Yes.] When the whistle TINA: Definitely ... when Reeves at TED: The differences between toon character that represented blows, you stop, no matter Charles Woodson got the an acting men's and women's [lacrosseJ­you, that you think that you play where you are, if you're out of Heisman Trophy, rwas all about class, 1 [are] there differences in terms like, [who would it be)? position, if your girl is like 10 that. [It was) 'Yes, defense!' r couldn't of the amount of contact? TINA: I don't have the best feet past you, you have to stop. always identify with them. appreciate TINA: Everything -it's like a speed, so rcan't go with any of TED: What are some of the dif­the art on different sport. Men can body the speedy cartoon characters. I ferent types of fouls that they Contact Ted Fox at display. check. Women, it's kind oflike like the Tasmanian Devil, I can call? tfox@nd.edu. The opinions 
So what better way to learn soccer, shoulder-to-shoulder. guess, because sometimes I get TINA: Empty-stick check, you expressed in this column are about the game and the athletes You can have contact ... but it's very wound up and wrapped up can't hit their stick when they those of the author and not nec­who play it than asking Notre not as aggressive. in the game. I'll do dumb things, don't have a ball in it; dangerous essarily those ofThe Observer. 


Dame senior defensive standout It's more of a finesse [game], dumb fouls, and then Coach will Tina Fedarcyk about the finer that's what they say. You can have to yell at me. Once I'm in it, points of the sport? turn that into being pretty rough, I'm very aggressive. 
Well, the finer points were: still. TED: When someone you're what cartoon character she's TED: So we established that marking scores ... do you take like on the field, which lacrosse it's rare for you to score a goal, that pretty personally? rule should get the hoot and why so when you do score a goal is TINA: Yeah, I take it personal-a Michigan cornerback deserved the 1997 Heisman Trophy. !just asked the essentials, starting with an explanation of which {?r<>"'.>"······;players can go where. ;::::.:;::••: /\ ·•:: 
TINA: I play third man, which is defense. Basically, you have attackers, midfielders and defenders. You have a restrain­ing line in lacrosse and only seven people can go across and play attack, and seven can go back and play defense. 
Your attackers and your mid­fielders will go down and be on the attack, and then your low defenders, which is what I am, and the midfielders come down on defense. 
TED: So you can never go across [the restraining lineJ? TINA: I can go across some­

~ 
. UNl\l.R'>iTY l 11 Nurnr DA\1r. ! 
RecSports has openings for this summerand the 2002-2003 academic year in the following positions: 
~ludenl ~upervi~or~ front De5ik ~upervi~or~ fitne~~ l!oom ~upervi~or~ 
•~~ue l!oom ~upervi~or~ Lifeguard~ 
Any one who is interested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an application. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1:00-5:00. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 8, 2002. 
-

Tuesday, March 26, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 28 Soak (up) 58 What the fat lady sings 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON have your best interests at heart. 
Race car 30 Prepares for a 
THIS DAY: Diana Ross, James 000 
gauges, for short tough battle 59 Goal in musical 
Caan, Martin Short, Tennessee VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It 6 Mesa dweller 34 Took the cake? chairs 
Williams would be safe to say that you will 60 Go for another 
Happy Birthday: Expect to be a little sensitive today. Try to
10 "No way, _,. 35 Fan mags 
have a heavy workload tliis year. take things in stride and refuse to 
12 issues, say
14 Gonzalez from 37 Laissez-_ Added responsibilities may be let anyone who is tactless upset 
62 Treaty 

hard to handle but if you put you.000
Cuba 
38 See 20-Across 

63 Fictional Jane your mind to it you will find that LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): You 15 Soon, to a bard 41 Book that refers your determination and disci­may want to stop and take anoth­
64 Field of play 
16 Third to "People of pline will help you accomplish er look at your present direction. the Book" 65 Actress your goals. Be sure to eat proper­Are you heading toward the
afterthought in a 
Sommer ly and get enough rest. You will goals you set for yourself or have 
letter: Abbr. 42 Kind of power 
find happiness and harmony in you become idle for whatever
66 Does and bucks 
17 Even if, 43 Inc., abroad the partnerships you form. Your reason? Consider where you are familiarly 67 Disorganized numbers are 3, 7, 11, 25, 31, 47 and where you want to be. 000
44 Historic London 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
18 Big cat theater 
Someone you are trying to make As long as you don't lend, donate 19 Butcher's goods 46 Sow's pen DOWN plans with may let you down or let others take advantage of 1 It may be high today. Be prepared to go it alone you financially, you should do
20 What 2002 is, 47 Gets the picture 
if necessary. In the end you may quite well today. Travel, educa­
according to the in the afternoon
48 Thingy find that you have a better chance tion and sharing with others will 
38-Across 
2 Friend in war of getting the advancement you highlight your day. 0000
50 Part of a smoke

23 Temperature deserve. 000 SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
3 Refer to
screen? 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Slow down and think before you
24 Clairvoyant 4 Big laugh 
52 Annual greeting Consider getting involved in speak today. You will have a ten­25 Mournful appropriate to 5 "Zzzzzz .: social outings that are not going dency to be a little too uptight trumpet sound this puzzle to cost you too much. You will regarding your peers. Let every­
6 Intermediate 
meet some interesting people and one do his or her own thing. 00
shades. 
may even end up getting a job CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 "Put a lid !" offer out of the deal. 00000 You will find different cultural GEMINI (May 21-June 20): backgrounds interesting today. 
8 Exclamations of Puzzle by u.nny Nosowaky 
You aren't likely to get along well Try to take part in a community u L E disdain 29 River to the Rio 49 "That's 54 Short cut with the people you spend the event that will open your eyes to M O F 9 Like a have-not Grande most time with. Back off and different means and methods of
nonsense!" 

55 Taxi rider refuse to let someone goad you doing trungs. 00000
•..t::-+:':+:+.:-t"lM 10 U.S. Steel 
31 Move crabwise 51 "Begone!" into an argument. 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
founder 
56 Snake eyes CANCER (June 21-July 22): Hold on to your cash even if you
32 Fit to be tied
11 Phone abbr. 52 Stare agog Think your plans through care­do come across a deal that is 12 Hot tubs 33 Unpopular ones 57 Hankerings fully. If you help someone else tempting. In the long run you'll53 _ Mountains you'll be helping yourself as well. be glad you held on to your
13 Italy's Villa d'_ 35 Highest point (Asian border) 61 Road to take The right people will recognize money.000 --1--1_--t_ 21 Rest area your efforts. 0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
36 Kind of taffy 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You You will be in a romantic mood
22 Member of a 
39 Find a route Answers to any clues in this puzzle are can make financial gains if you today. Be sure to get out and have herd available by touch-tone phone: get involved in products or serv­some fun. The more entertaining 25 Off the wall 40 on the line ices for the home. You must how­you are the greater the response 
1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
ever be careful not to be led will be that you receive from oth­
45 Discontinued
--+-+-+--+-e-1 26 Playwright Annual subscriptions are available for the astray by someone who doesn't ers. 000 T R .,,,+,,.,+,,,+,,-, N O Fugard 47 Place for best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 0 D ..............-.. T H E R 27 Kooky influence? years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: You will be responsible and ambitious throughout life. You will communicate in an exciting and refreshing way. You are intuitive and progressive in all that you do. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom, astromate.com.) © 2002 Univenal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on_ the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
fighting Irish Women's Lacrosse 
vs. Delaware Tuesday, March 26 -­
Best Bo's outfits Free ND pompons
4:00pm

will win prizes! to 1st 150 fans! 
80'sDay
..~~ 

ad1aas ->To Be Played In Loftus Sports Center 
• 


FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
SHADES OF  
HOW WAS  FALL •qq  
THE 81&  WITH DARIN(;,  
MATH TEST?  OUT­ REMll'IOERS Of  
STANDING.  Fn,IALS 'ol.  

TOM KEELEY 
I AM CEATHLY AFRAI!.) 
OF 8EAUTIFUL, BIG-BREASTED WOME_N____ 

BILL AMEND 
'YOU KNOW, I STILL
IMA(.;tNE THE PLA.'l'FULNESS 
THERE'S A THIN HA\/£ AN
oF A MID-TERM •oo, 
LIN£. Sf.TWEEN oLD'<ffi
CoUPL.EO WITH THE 
"'coNNOISSEUlf'

01FF1CULT'f oF A LA TE 
UPSTAlflS. ''Ii oR ''lS. . ANO "~UT CASE," 
I REALLY 
\ 

:fASoN. SHOULD TAICE IT
" 

AGAIN. 
I 
J~
-f' 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

~f'e-'> ..-io,e 
.\-l,M f-l.-ee 
"';'\\.lte, ow 
o,Kot,+I'<\ -1-,-.....e 

Every classroom should be outfitted with this device 
~HE

Campus Sports Campus Sports
VbSERVER 

. Club Sports, p. 18 
. SMC Basketball, p. 15 
. 
Column: Fox, p. 18 . Men's Golf, p. 15 

. 
Fencing, p. 17 . ND Softball, p. 13 

. 
Women's Lacrosse, p. 15 


PORTS 
Tuesday, March 26, 2002 
FENCING 
Bednarski still No. 1 on the list 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The search for a new fencing head coach should be complet­ed within the next few weeks as current assistant coach Janusz Bednarski remains retiring head coach Yves Auriol's preferred replacement. 
"I plan to do something in the next couple of weeks," Bernard Muir. associate athletic direc­tor, said after the 2002 NCAA Fencing Championship. "Hopefully we '11 solidify some­thing after we talk to a few more people." 
Bednarski said he was very interested in the job while Auriol reiterated his support for his current assistant. 
"Coaching is my life," Bednarski said. "Notre Dame is the place where everyone wants to be. Of course I am interested." 
Muir said that Auriol's rec­ommendation would play a large part in choosing the next coach. 
"Yves is going to be a key part," Muir said. "What he's done is tremendous and cer­tainly we are going to use his expertise in choosing what direction we head with this program." 
Bednarski who has been an assistant coach with the Irish since 1996 is also the popular choice among current Irish fencers. 
Foil captain Ozren Debic believes Bednarski will be a strong head coach•but hopes that first-year assistant coach Zoltan Dudas is retained as well. Bednarski's expertise lies in sabre while Dudas is primar­ily an epee and foil coach. 
"I think Janusz is a great coach especially if Zoltan stays on," Debic said. "I think the two of them are a good combi­nation." 
Debic, however, believes the Notre Dame needs to hire addi­tional assistant coaches and increase the fencing budget to include training trips if the Irish are going to win the national championship. 
If Bednarski is selected as the next head coach, he plans on strengthening recruiting and building on Auriol's already strong foundation. 
"It is not easy but you can always improve on something," he said. "You are learning from the past. We can improve a lit­tle bit in recruiting but the most important thing is to keep the kids together and make them into champions." 
Bednarski was born in Poland, where he was a mem­ber of the national sabre team. 
He coached the Polish Olympic team from 1978-88 before moving to the United States in 1988. In addition to his duties with the Irish, he is also the head coach at the Indiana Fencing Academy in Mishawaka. In his seven years at Notre Dame, he has coached two national sabre champions, Luke LaValle in 1998 and Gabor Szelle in 2000. His squads have also produced seven All-Americans -most recently Cari McCullough and Andre Crompton in 2002. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

BASEBALL 
Huskies shock Irish with sweep 
. Stanley has milestone weekend, breaks 2 career records 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Spores Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team suf­fered one of its most disappointing series in Big East history this weekend as the team dropped three consecutive games to conference rival Connecticut in Storrs, Conn. 
The Irish. who entered conference play as a favorite to defend their-regu­lar-season league title, are still reeling from the effect of injuries to several key starters. The injuries forced sever­
-
al major changes in the Irish infield as third baseman/catcher Paul O'Toole returned to his former high school position at second base and sophomore Javier Sanchez started at shortstop in place of the injured freshman Matt Macri, who has been relegated to the designated hitter position most of the season. "There were such high expectations on our team going into the year," Notre Dame associate head coach Brian O'Connor said. "The injuries that we've suffered really show when you go on the road and play in the confer­ence." The Irish fell on some rough luck during the road trip, dropping each game of the Saturday doubleheader by one run, before being dismantled Sunday by the Huskies, 13-6. "It was a tough weekend," O'Connor said. "Those are the kinds of things that happen on the road, and it's tough to win on the road. That's why you've got to be that much better. We just didn't get the job done." In the series opener, Connecticut 
jumped out to a 3-0 lead on the Irish freshman Grant Johnson through the strength of a Cy Hess' RBI double and a two-run home run bv left fielder Peter Soteropoulos. • 
In its half of the fourth, Notre Dame got back within one run as centerfield­er Steve Stanley led off with a single and senior Matt Bok followed with a walk. An RBI single by Macri scored Stanley and a throwing error on right­fielder Brian Stavisky's single allowed Bok to score the team's second run. 
In the next inning, the Irish plated the tying run as Sanchez scored on Bok's double down the left field line. 
The Huskies broke the tie in the bot­tom of the fifth when Hess drew a leadoff walk and then advanced to sec­ond on a bunt and to third on a ground out. The go ahead run came as Johnson's pitch got past Bok, allowing Hess to scurry home. 
The conclusion of the doubleheader provided for an even more dramatic, 11-inning 9-8 victory for the Huskies. Once again, it was Connecticut who took the early lead, moving on top of the Irish 3-0 after four innings. 
In the fifth, the Irish surged back, plating five runs on the strength of RBI singles by first baseman Joe Thaman, Sanchez, Stavisky and O'Toole to grab their first lead of the series. 
The Irish added three more in the seventh inning on O'Toole's three~run homerun to take an 8-3 lead. 
The five-run advantage would not be enough for the Irish, however, as Niese! ran into trouble in the bottom of the seventh after six solid innings of work. 
After surrendering a pair of one-out hits, Niese! hit second baseman Brett Burnham to load the bases. After a bases-loaded walk by Soteropoulos, 
see BASEBALUpage 13 


ENRESTO LACAYO/The Observer 
The Irish baseball team opened the Big East season to disappointment, dropping three consecutive games to the Huskies. 
. Women's Lacrosse vs. Delaware, today, 4 p.m. 
OBSERVER

. ND Softball at Western Michigan, today, 2 p.m.
SPORTS 
on!ine 

. Baseball at West Virginia, Thursday, 1 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Track at Purdue Invitational, Friday-Saturday http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 








