
Welcome Junior Parents
CLOUDY 
Friday 

The Observer extends a warm welcome to all -rarents here for Junior HIGH 43° Parents' Weekend. We hope you enjoy this weekends events. · 
FEBRUARY 15, 
LOW28° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO 90 HTTP://OBSERVER_N D.EDU 



Bishop edges Moscona in election 
By ERIN LaRUFFA Associace News Editor 
In a race that was almost as close as Monday's primary, Notre Dame elected its sec­ond female student body president in history on Thursday. 
Libby Bishop and running mate Trip Foley received 52. 7 percent of the vote, just enough to give them a 211­vote victory over Brian Moscona and Keri Oxley, who received 46.6 percent. 
"You really realize how good the other candidates are. It could have gone either way," said Bishop. 
The fact that Bishop is a female will shape her admin­istration, she said, especially with the 30th anniversary of women being admitted to· the University coming up in the 
fall. 

· "I think it will add to the gender relations viewpoint," said Bishop, whose mother was in the second class of females to attend Notre Dame. 
"It's so funny that her expe­rience was so different," Bishop said. 
Both she and Foley said they plan to start work on their platform goals immedi­ately. 
"There's a lot of things I can do before April 1," Bishop said. In particular, she mentioned bringing new head football coach Tyrone Willingham to the dorms, as well as expanding Flex Point meal plan options. 
"I'm just ready to get to work," Foley said. "I think Libby will do a great job." 
Foley was out to dinner with his parents when 
Judicial Council vice presi­dent of elections John McCarthy announced the election results. 
Campaign manager Pat Hallahan had to call Foley on his cell phone to tell him he had won. 
Foley's parents, who are in town for Junior Parents' Weekend, were in for a sur­prise. 
"Ile never told his parents he was running," said Bishop. 
However, once he told his parents he and Bishop had won, Foley said they were happy for him. 
"They think it's great. They were just surprised -happily surprised," Foley said. 
As Bishop and Foley pre­pare to begin their term, Moscona, currently serving as student body vice president, 


see ELECTION/page 7 

Charting new paths 
Cancer Center continues research with $2.1 million grant 
current head of the Center for Transgene Research, the organi­zation was established "in a small way" in 1995 with a 50,000­60,000 dollar grant from the Walther Cancer Institute of Indianapolis. The lnstitute's grant was designed tb establish a basis for an organization that would effectively seek research grants, like the one given by the Department of Defense. 
Since its founding, the Center has grown rapidly. What started as an organization for which a few Notre Dame faculty members researched under, has expanded to include 30 members of the fac­ulty and numerous graduate stu­dent researchers. Today the Center boasts a multi-million dol­lar budget that allows it to focus on pre-clinical cancer research using state of the art facilities. 
"The scientific community is starting to realize the stuff that goes on here," Navari said. "We feel that at thls point, in certain areas of cancer research, we're as good as anywhere in the coun­try-including schools with med­ical schools." 
What adds to the uniqueness of the Walther Cancer Research Center, according to Navari, is the close relationship researchers enjoy from the different academic departments. 
see CANCER/page 6 


Parents arrive for 50th JPW 
By JOHN FANNING 
News Writer 
The 50th annual Junior Parents' Weekend officially begins at 9 p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center, and continues through Sunday afternoon. However, the weekend's upcoming events have been in planning with various campus groups since last April. 
The group leading the effort is the JPW committee, which was formed last April when students applied for positions through Student Activities. Chuck Lamphier was appointed chair of the group and has worked with a vice-chair and a committee of 17 other students since last spring, to facilitate the planning of all of the week­end's events. 
"It's a bigger thing than I expected it to be," said Lamphier, who added that all preparations are essentially complete. "It's been a lot of fun, and I have a great group of people that I've been working with." 
What the junior class and their parents will witness this weekend is merely the end­product of many months of 
see JPW/page 7 


By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
For an organization pioneering new methods to diagnose and treat cancer, the Walther Cancer Research Center calls little atten­tion to itself within the Notre Dame community. The organiza­tion is spread out throughout campus, and because the Center has no central building, faculty members use their own laborato­ries for research. 
"I don't think if you think of Notre Dame and the College of Science you think cancer research," said Rudolph Navari, Center director. 
But this perception may soon change with the arrival of an additional $2.1 million in grant money from the U.S. Department of Defense. The money, according to Navari, will be used to fund new projects and expand on addi­tional research including studies focusing on cancer growth and development, genetics and drugs used in cancer treatment. 
From humble beginnings 
Today's Walther Cancer Research Center arose from rather quaint beginnings ~begin­nings so quaint, it seems, that the Center's diredors cannot agree on when it was founded. 
According to Francis Castellino, the Center's first director and 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, February 1 S, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Non-voting halls postone election results ND student wins $25,000 in sweepstakes


Journeys 
Thursday, Feb. 13, 1997 Thursday, Feb. 14, 1991 
It all started on a chilly February weekend in 1977 in the hills of eastern Pennsylvania. 
Braving snow drifts several feet high, hun­dreds of guests witnessed an important event in my life -a life that had yet to begin. 
Yes, on February 12, 1977, my parents, Walter and Kathy Kronk. were married. 
The coupling of my mother and father could not have been more coin­cidental. Introduced by mutual friends -my father co-worker to the husband, my mother co­worker to the wife -Mom and Dad instantly hit it off, and were married not far from my mother's home­town of Kutztown, Pa., within a year of being introduced. 
Looking back, my par­en ts are the definition of the cliche "opposites attract." My mother, a rural girl, went to school at Penn State. My dad, however, was born and raised in New York.City, and went to a rival Big Ten school in Ohio State. Somehow. someway, they made it work back then. 
And now, 25 years later, this weekend, in honor of their 25th anniversary, they are vacationing in ... South Bend?!? 
That's right, you heard me correctly. In honor of the 25th year since they were mar­ried, my parents felt it was a greater priority to make their presence known at the Notre Dame tradition known as Junior Parents Weekend, than to immediately jet off to some tropical paradise and sip exotic beverages with parasols in them. 
While I think their priorities might be a lit­tle.misaligned, I appreciate the fact that my parents have at the very least postponed their anniversary voyage in order to first spend time with their son who has been along for 84 percent of their married journey. 
That, in my opinion, is what makes JPW such a unique weekend. Each junior parent that visits campus this weekend has made some sort of journey in order to be able to make it here. My roommate's parents, for example, are making the trek to tropical South Bend from the polar climate of North Dakota. I'm sure I will hear some interesting stories about snow and hockey and all things icy. 
Everyone has made a unique journey to make it to South Bend here and now. And while some of these stories might be more mundane than others'. that does not render them any less personal. Each of our parents -as well as each of us has a very personal, very special. and I'm sure, very interesting story to tell. And JPW is one of those few times in our lives when these stories will be shared. 
To all junior parents: welcome tp Notre Dame, and welcome to Junior Parents' Weekend. l hope you enjoy your weekend here, and I hope the weather holds out this weekend like it has for most of the winter. I also hope you get a chance to share your sto­ries, as you all are the lifeblood of the Notre Dame family. 
And, in closing, I would like to wish my par­ents a very happy (and very belated) 25th anniversary. I truly appreciate all you have done for me for the past 21 years. If anyone sees them on campus, wish them a happy anniversary as well. I'm sure they will appreciate it ... seeing as how I forgot about their anniversary and, consequently, this serves as their only gift. I hope you like it. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Bryan Kronk 
Sports Copy 
Editor 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards icsclf as a professional publication and strives for the highest scandards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday tluough Friday except during exam and vacation l"'riod.<. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press~ All rt>production rights are reserved. 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Faculty members tackle grade inflation 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Harvard University is about to enter a new phase in its battle against grade inflation. By Friday, all of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences' departments must report on their grading practices to the Educational Policy Committee, the body that advises the Faculty on most curricular mat­ters. The departments' reports will inform the EPC's dis­cussion this spring of how to best bring grades down from their lofty heights. By the end of the spring, the committee hopes to present the faculty with concrete pro­posals. And as the faculty begins this new investigation, professors widely agree that Harvard's grades are inflat­ed. But they hold varied opinions on why and to what degree these high grades present a problem. As data released by the faculty this fall shows, grades at Harvard are higher than they have ever been. Over half of the grades distributed among undergraduates last year were in the A-range, and during the last 16 years, mean grade­point averages have risen a full point. 
Harvard Crimson 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
INS detains possible GWU student 
WASHINGTON 
A man identified as a possible George Washington University student was arrested Monday night at the Pentagon for falsely identifying himself and is being held for immigration violations, according to court records. The man, whose United Arab Emirates passport identifies him as 23-year-old Sultan Rashed Sultan Jasmon Alzaabi, was riding in a tow truck on an off-limits road near the Pentagon on Monday night, according to a court affidavit. The driver of the truck, identified as Imad Abdel-Fattah Hamed, was also arrested and is being held ½ithout bond. Alzaabi and Hamed carried several forms of false identifi­cation and were taken into custody after Virginia state troopers arrested them for driving on Route 110, which runs east of the Pentagon. Trucks have been prohibited there since Sept. 11, according to the affidavit. The affi­davit reads: "Hamed said he met the passenger at the Northern Virginia Community College, although the pas­senger was now at George Washington (University)." 
The CW Hatchet 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 15. 
C 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. GOLD WARM STATIONARY 
®,.,_..© CJ EJ D CJ . . 
High Low Shower• Rain r..,to,ma Flun-1e• snow k• Sunny Pt. C~Udy Cloudy Vis A9SOClarod Pros.9 
Allanta 62 41 Las Vegas 66 43 Portland 44 34 Baltimore 52 35 Memphis 61 34 Sacramento 61 41 Boslon 49 40 Milwaukee 38 27 St Louis 52 30 Chicago 40 22 New York 48 38 Tampa 74 55 Houston 70 44 Philadelphia 52 39 Washington, DC 54 39 

Officials unexpectedly rendered student body election Notre Dame sophomore Annie Cahill accepted a $25,000 
results incomplete after discovering that Keough and check from the Publisher's Clearing House Prize Patrol 
O'Neill hall residents hadn't voted. Presidential can-in her Siegfried Hall room. She accepted the money in 
didate Matt Griffin and running mate Erek Naas won lieu of a red Nissan 300 ZX. The decision to accept the 
the close, belated election the next day. capturing check was an easy one for Cahill, who said she would 
about 52 percent of the vote. apply the money toward next year's tuition. 
BEYOND CAMPUS Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Syracuse graduate student TAs to establish union 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. "We're hopeful that we can graduate assistants as possible A group of Syracuse University within the next month to under­
work cooperatively with the 

graduate student teaching assis­stand the issues important to them tants hopes to establish a union to SU administration in moving and to gauge interest in unioniza­bargain collectively with the admin­this proces along as quickly tion, said Menno Welling, a member istration for improved compensa­of the UGE working committee and 
as we can."

tion and working conditions, mem­a second-year anthropology doctor­bers of the TA organizing group al student and TA said. Richard Drucker The results of the survey will clar­
The students' goal is to form a ify what issues TAs are concerned
SEIU organizer

union United Graduate about, but stipends, health care and Employees -to give graduate resent themselves collectively and working conditions are issues UGE assistants a collective voice that come to be able to have discussions could address, Butts said. must be recognized in discussions with the university about their con­UGE has not yet contacted SU's with the university, said J.J. Butts, ditions," Butts said. "As a union, administration, said Richard an English graduate student, TA you are legally able to sit down and Drucker, an organizer with SEIU and a member of the UGE working bargain as partners in the arrange­who is working with the TAs. committee. ment." "We're hopeful that we can work 
The students formed a working UGE, which is affiliated with cooperatively with the SU adminis­committee of about 20 graduate Service Employees International tration in moving this process along students in mid-January. Union, hopes to distribute surveys as quickly as we can," Drucker said. 
"People want to find ways to rep-to as many of the university's 3,600 Daily Orange 



Friday, February 15, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
HCA celebrates 25 years of service 
By LIZ KAHLING News Write! 
This fall's Holy Cross Associates will be the 25th group of post-graduate stu­dents to embark on the year­long service program. 
It began with five volun­teers in Portland, Ore., and one in Chile. The program now has expanded to six more domestic sites in Phoenix. Ariz.; Coachella, Calif.; Colorado Springs, Colo; South Bend; Brockton. Mass.; and Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
The anniversary celebra­
tion begins in August with reunions in Portland, Chicago, New York and Washington with the pro­gram's more than 700 alum­ni. The administration is also hoping to compile a book of letters and correspondences as a written history of the program and its people. 
The planning is still in the works, but this year's accept­ed associates should expect even more excitement in anticipation of their future experience as well as the cel­ebration of the tradition of this post-graduate service program. 
The tradition of HCA strikes a timely national chord in light of President Bush's State of the Union Address, calling for more volunteer corps to rebuild communities, mentor children and teach in troubled schools -much of what the associates have been doing for years. HCA continues to be a model for other faith-based volunteer services, providing training and development. 
"We are focused on how we can connect with other pro­grams that will benefit all service programs," said Rebecca Go, South Bend 

··.· .. ··.·.· .. ..·····k··•
. . ·· . ... ·.···
Cast
. •, . ' .·· ..·. 
APARTM ENTS 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes ofcampus* 
• 
Renovated. spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 BR Appartments w/ lofts and dens still available! 


presents 
Room 
Calligraphy pens, pap , and everything you need provided FREE! .Join us 9-llpm Friday! 
***Sponsored by yourfriendly neighborhood SAO. For more information call 1-7308. *** 
assistant director. 
John Pinter. the South Bend director, said, "The anniver­sary celebration is kind of an indirect form of recruiting by example of what people have gone on to do." 
Pinter explained that HCA provides recently graduated students a chance to discern how to use their talents as students in service and a way to test their skills. 
"Some people say it's a year off, but it's really a 'year-on,' focusing on your God-given strengths and applying your­self," he said. 
Alumni, according to the director, continue to draw from their experiences and find different ways of recon­necting with the program's four pillars: commitment to service, community, living a 
simple lifestyle, and spiritual­ity. 
Although additional sites have been added, officials do not foresee any future sites in the immediate future. The idea is to be big enough for plenty of options in sites and jobs but not so big that the associates would not get to know the other 40 associates, according to administrators. 
The process of establishing another site can be slow. 
"It takes money and the local community has to be ready for it, as opposed to us saying 'we'd like to send some people to you,'" Pinter said. "There needs to be some pull from the communi­ty." 
Contact Liz Kahling at ekahling@nd.edu. 

'lfotfiing to Wear? 
Come in and"see our Latest ?trrivafs for Syrina! Winter Safe stiff in yrogress! 

WHERE: J~pire ff/el CORNER Of COLFAX AND HILL DowNTOWN SoUTH Brno 
HERE'S OUR PHONE MUMBER: 
232-1822 
JUICY COUTURE NOMINATION HARDTAIL BETSEYJOHNSON LAUNDRY THEORY LILLY PULITZER FRANKIE 8 



page 4 The Observer . NEWS February 15, 2002 
Bob Jones U. seeks minorities 
Associated Prcss 
GREENVILLE. S.C. 

Bob Jones University, the fundamentalist Christian school that banned interracial dating ban up until two years ago, is recruiting minorities in hopes of shaking its racist image. 
More than 40 minority stu­dents have applied for aid through two new funds that are sponsored by private dona­tions, and nine have won scholarships so far, school spokesman Jonathan Pait said Thursday. 
The university first admitted black students after the IRS moved to revoke its tax-exempt status in 1970, citing discrimi­nation. The school said that is has few blacks but no precise ligures on its racial makeup. 
Pait said the scholarships reflect a growing interest by blacks in the 4,200-student school. 
"Another reason is that we're so often pointed out as being so racist,'' he said. •·we wanted to take a stab, at least, to over­come that stereotype." 
· That task will be tough, said Bill Whitney, president of the Urban League of the Upstate. 
"This is an institution that hasn't been friendlv to blacks," he said. • 
The school was thrust into the national spotlight when George W. Bush stopped there during his presidential cam­paign two years ago. 
Bush was criticized for not addressing the school's ban on interracial dating and state­ments by Jones that were per­ceived as anti-Catholic and anti-Mormon. 
In the wake of the criticism, Bob Jones III, president of the university founded by his grandfather 75 years ago, announced that the school would drop its ban on interra­cial dating. 
HONORING DISTINGUISHED STUDENTS 

PHOTO SUBMITTED 

University President Father Edward Malloy poses with senior Robert LeBlanc and second year law student Susan Prchal earlier this week. LeBlanc and Prchal were recipients of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association Distinguished Student/Graduate Student awards. 

Late-Night Co-Rec 
~"'\,\\eyW 
Starting at 1oPM RSRC Court4 
Co•Aec6cn 6 
• Minimum of Two Females on the Court ot all Times. Register o Teom in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline Is Thursday, February 21 Limited to 6 teoms, Double Eliminotion 
HAVE You HEARD? 

Turtle Creek is FILLING UP FAST! 
Bring your parents this Saturday from 10am-5pm
and sign for your apartment that day! Availability for 2-Bedroo~ townholl)es1 
one bedrooms, and furnished studios. Take advantage of Junior Parent Weekend 
and end your worries for housing next year! 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS, STUDENTS# 1 CHOICE FOR OFF CAMPUS HOUSING!! 
P: 272-8124 EMAIL: info@turtlecreekND.com visit us on the web: www.turtlecreek.com 
% 
APR* 

It'll Get Your Motor Runnin'! 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 

•Annual Percentage Rale. As Iowas 6.5%APRis available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 



ATION 
Friday, February 15, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bahrain King sets up election: 
Bahrain's ruler declared his tiny Persian Gulf state a constitutional monarchy on Thursday and set legislative elections this year in bold steps toward bringing more democracy to the oil-rich region. Sheik Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, 49, gave his royal assent to constitu­tional amendments that create a bicameral legislature. 
3 Israelis killed in Gaza bombing: 
Three Israelis were killed and two wounded Thursday when a bomb went off next to a tank in the Gaza Strip, Israeli military officials said. Palestinians opened fire on a civilian convoy guarded by soldiers and set off a bomb, the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The Israelis sent a tank into the area and a huge bomb exploded under it. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Poindexter returns to Pentagon: 
Retired Adm. John Poindexter, who was President Reagan's national security adviser during the Iran-Contra affair, is directing a new Pentagon office that will focus on new kinds of military threats, including terrorist organizations. Poindexter became head of the Information Awareness Office last month. The office is one of two created recently by the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. 
Prison for investment adviser: An investment adviser who stole $50 million of his clients' money and lavished it on cars, oil wells and a Playboy-centerfold girlfriend was sentenced to more than five years behind bars Thursday. Mark Yagalla, 24, was given nearly a year longer in prison that the federal guide­lines specify. Yagalla pleaded guilty to securi­ties fraud charges for his mismanagement of a private hedge fund. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
LCEOC under investigation: A u.s. 
attorney has begun a preliminary investiga­tion into a nonprofit Hammond agency that handles millions of dollars a year in state and federal funds to assist disabled, elderly and low-income residents in six northwest Indiana counties. "'We're just looking at the thing to see if there is any basis to believe there's any criminal conduct," U.S. Attorney Joseph Van Bokkelen said Wednesday:" At this point we have no position on that." They are investigat­ing LCEOC Inc., formerly the Lake County Economic Opportunity Council Inc. 
Market \Vatch February 14 
Dow 10,001.99 +12.32 
]~ Same: 
Composite Volume:
~ 223 1,263.032,547 
AMEX: 846.82 -1.14 NASDAQ: 1,843.38 -15.78 NYSE: 575.66 -0.43 S&P 500: 1,116.47 -2.03 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURllY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0.57 -0.21 36. 74 QWEST COMM. (Q) -13.85 -1.19 7.40 WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -0.84 -0.06 7 .10 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.11 -0.02 17. 50 JUNIPER NE1WORK (JNPR) -16.37 -2.13 10.88 
IRAN 

Associated Press 
KEY-MIRZAVAN 
Helped by clear weath­er, search teams began the grim task of retrieving the bodies of the more than 100 people killed when their Iranian airlin­er crashed into a snow­covered mountain. 
An army helicopter car­rying five or six bodies in a metal box hanging from a rope landed at Lorestan army base on Thursday. Many of the bodies were dismembered or mutilat­ed. 
The helicopter made two trips before darkness set in. each time being greet­
ed on arrival by wailing relatives who beat their heads in grief. 
Some were allowed inside the base to identify the victims. 
"I couldn't identify any­one. All the bodies are dis­figured beyond recogni­tion," said an emotional Masoud Hashemi, whose brother, sister-in-law and their child were among the passengers. 
Up to 12 bodies were brought to the base from the crash site. 
The official Islamic Republic News Agency revised the number of people aboard the Russian-made Tu-154 air­liner that crashed Tuesday to 107 passengers and 12 crew. Earlier reports had put the number of people to 117. All were presumed dead. 
Ali-Reza Towhidi, head of state-run Iran Air Tours, which operated the plane, said the company was taking all 12 Tupolev aircraft in its fleet out of service, IRNA reported. 
As the weather cleared for the first time since the plane crashed early Tuesday outside Khorramabad, about 230 miles southwest of the Iranian capital of Tehran, a few helicopters took off for the foggy reaches of the Sefid Kouh mountain where dozens of bodies have been spotted in the snow. 
At a makeshift base at the foot of the mountain, trucks rolled in with dozens of coffins to trans­port the victim's remains. 
Col. Heydar Paknejad, one of the helicopter pilots, cautioned that strong winds would make more flights impossible, IRNA quoted him as say­ing. Rescue teams have tried to reach the site sev­eral times by air, only to be forced to return by bad weather. Climbers trying to reach the site suffered broken bones. 

Ex-sergeant charged with spying 
not guilty in federal court. charged.
Associated Press 
Regan was named Thursday in a It quoted Regan as saying in the 
WASHINGTON four-count indictment, said Deputy letter to Saddam that he was an ana­
Federal prosecutors on Thursday Attorney General Larry Thompson. lyst who was close to retiring and charged a retired Air Force master The indictment quoted Regan as that the espionage would represent sergeant with attempting to spy for telling Iraq's president in a letter: "I repeated violations of an oath he had Iraq, Libya and China, accusing am willing to commit espionage taken to defend his country. Brian P. Regan of writing Saddam against the United States by provid­Prosecutors said the letter was Hussein to offer his services for $13 ing your country with highly classi­written between 1999 and 2001, but million. fied information." they were not more specific. 
It was the second time that Regan, The charges characterized Regan's Regan said in the letter that $13 who worked as a civilian at the activities as a "systematic and calcu­million was "a small price to pay to National Reconnaissance Office, had lated plan to damage U.S. security." have someone within the heart of been indicted on charges of attempt­Regan demanded $13 million from U.S. intelligence agency providing ed espionage. Iraq in exchange for providing classi­you with vital secrets," the indict­
Last November, Regan had pleaded fied ,information, the indictment ment said. 
.. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS February 15, 2002 
Cancer 
continued from page 1 
Researchers from the University's departments of Chemistry, Biochemistry and Biology collaborate on research focusing on four main programs. These programs include a trans­gene group led by Castellino, a cell biology group and a drug design group led by Paul Helquist. The groups include faculty from the three departments and may work on different aspects of the same research project. Even the labora­tories used for the Center's research are spread out around campus. 
"Many times people will work in their own labs independently," Navari said. "We think that for cancer research [if people] work together, more progress will be made in a shorter period of time." 
This spirit of collaboration, how­ever. doesn't stop within University departments. The Center also works with Purdue's school of pharmacy in drug devel­opment and with Indiana University and Michigan University on product testing. In addition, IU medical students studying at the Notre Dame branch have the option of earning a dual M.D./Ph.D through both schools and research opportuni­ties through the Center. 
The organization also selects a limited number of Notre Dame undergraduate researchers and the Center for Transgene Research recruits students from German and Canadian universities for undergraduate assistant posi­tions. 
The road to drug development 
Researchers from the Drug Design Group are busy studying compounds that effect cancer cells and may be used in diagnosis and treatment. 
Currently. the group is working with antigens that are capable of binding to the outer membrane of prostate cancer cells. The antigen binds to a specific protein present only in the prostate cancer cell ­then just sits there. 
The research team used a super computer to create models of the molecules in computational chem­istry. Then, these molecules were manufactured in the lab and test­ed on tissue cultures. Soon, the team hopes to begin testing on animals. 
The antigen acts as what Helquist calls a "biological scaf­fold," and could lead to earlier cancer detection or prevent exist­ing cancerous cells from spread­ing to other parts of the body. 
The group is also looking into ways in which the antigen could serve as a target for cancer drugs. localizing treatment and minimiz­ing damage to healthy parts of the body. 
"One of the problems with con­ventional cancer treatment is that the drugs involved are very toxic. The drugs are not selective -they affect cancer cells and normal ered compounds that may affect cancer. If one of the compounds appears promising, Notre Dame researchers may take it on as a project. 
For example. Richard Taylor, a chemistry and biochemistry professor, is working with a com­pound that is capable of inducing apoptosis ­programmed cell death -in cancer cells. The compound may eventual­ly be converted into a drug capable of uprooting cancer growths. 
Drug development is a slow process, however. It takes on average 12 to 15 years for the evolution of new drugs, according to Helquist. 
A cellular approach 
Across campus, researchers in the cell biology group are using cell cultures to look at movement of cancer cells. 
According to Crislyn D'Souza-Schorey, a Walther Cancer Institute assistant professor, the team is studying how cells detach from a tumor and spread. The group is also looking at how cellular movement is regulated. 
"We're looking at not just the invasive process but also what leads to it," D'Souza-Schorey said. 
It's all In the genes 
Meanwhile, researchers from the transgene group are tak­ing a genetic perspective, studying how removing, changing or adding genes to a mouse chromosome will affect cancer. 
The group is especially interested in genes involv­ing blood clotting and anticoagulation because of their association with cancer. 
"We want to find out what genes are up regu­lated or down regulated when you proceed from a benign state to a cancer state," Castellino said. 
Approximately 50 peo­ple work in the transgene group -including a sup­port staff of veterinary technicians and animal surgeons who watch over the Center's 5,000 experi­mental mice. The group conducts experiments with the special trans­genic mice and detects the effects of gene alter­ations using $600 chips. An average experiment requires six different ani­
r-----~------------------,
East of Chicago Pizza FREE BREADSTICKS! 6 Free Breadsticks & Sauce with Any Regular Pizza (with coupon) 
Not good with other discounts or otters One Free breadstick order per customer 
271 ·1277 
54533 Terrace Lane 
(Off of S.R. 23) 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! We Take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 3/3/02 
L-------------------~----~ 
cells," Helquist said. "One can use mals and 18 chips, according to these molecules to deliver a drug Castellino. specifically to the site of cancer." 
Looking toward the future
This antigen is just one of many In total, the Center has over $3
compounds the Drug Design million in grants from theGroup is investigating. 
Department of Defense to workResearchers also comb scientific with over the next four years, injournals in search ofnewly discov­
addition to grants from other 
sources and funding from the Institute and University. This funding, along with a talented fac­ulty and appropriate resources, places the organization in an excellent position for basic. cancer research in the future, according to Navari. 
"The big advances in cancer [research] in the next five years are going to come from the labo­ratory," the researcher and prac­ticing oncologist said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagacd@nd.edu 


9 pm Feb 15 Washington Hall free admission 

"' 

Congregation of Holy Cross 
, 


lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, February 15, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nom Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike ConnoUy 

M/.NAGtNG EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Kerry Smith Pat Pcters 
NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINI EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrcr 5c£NE EDITOR: C. Spenq:r Beggs SAINT MAll\"s EDITORJ Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MM'A.GER: Alex Meni:e SYSTEMS ADM!NISTRATOlb Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROi.LERi Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDTroR, Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL [NF0.. -........... 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING......... , ........................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63I-4542 MANAGING EmToRIA.ssr. ME....................63I-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS....., .................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT......,..........,...............................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. .......................................................63I-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0................................... , .....................631-876-7 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................63I-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobseroer.nd. edu for daily updaces ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
we,,.tber for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasrs 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campl.lS coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Obsetver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studenrs ofthe Universicy ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including ~dverrisemenrs, is noc governed by policies of the administration of eicher insrirution. The Observer reserves the righc to refuse advertisemencs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tions regarding Observn-policies should be direct­,,:/ to F.diwr in ChefMike Connolly. 
Senate should have approved fee increase 
When the Student Senate voted down a proposal addition, there needs to be far fewer new events each year Wednesday to increase the student activities fee, it made and more improvements made on existing, already sue­the wrong decision. The senate should have granted the cessful events. $10 increase for the upcoming school year, but have been In order to curb the expense of bringing to campus high-cautious about subsequent biannual $5 increases. cost people and bands for lectures and performances that 
The resolution called for a $10 increase this few students attend, it seems reasonable to year and $5 every two years after that. A $10 O The thoroughly gauge student opinion to evalu­jump now is very reasonable; however, that is oserver ate who they would want to see and which where it needs to en for the time being. By pay-Edi •a1 events they would attend. ing more attention to where the money is going, A $5 increase in subsequent years needs
t-:on 

additional fees may not be necessary for the Student Activities Office. 
The way the' student activities budget functions now, large amounts of money are put into activities sponsored by the Student Union Board and office of the student body president that very few students attend. An evaluative process that would judge the worth of individual events based on students present and money spent is in order. In 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Monologues' promote freedom 
Value open minds 
My letter is in response to Sean Dudley's letter on Feb. 
14. I guess it has to happen every so often that someone decides that he or she must change the University with a letter to The Observer. 
Yesterday, Mr. Dudley chose to do this with an attack on the "Vagina Monologues," "academic freedom" and "open-minded­ness." I already understand his issues with the "Monologues," but I am real­ly confused with what is wrong with academic free­dom and open-mindedness. I guess we could make this University a sheltered haven in which we can all share identical views of Christianity. We could, but we won't. 
Mr. Dudley does not seem to understand that without various views, one does not learn, but rather just regurgi­tates a single person's thoughts. 
I have recently read Chesterton's novel, "The Ball and the -Cross," (I suspect we may even be in the same class), and I have to say that I believe my worthy opponent is in error. He really does not qualify the quotation and I am also left wondering if he wishes to challenge the writ­ers and performers of the "Monologues" to a mortal duel. Chesterton was an avid proponent of Catholicism, but he also listened to opposing views, even embraced the arguments that they present­ed, as any true scholar would do. 
See, in order for one to truly understand one's own views he must also under­stand those of this "oppo­nent." 
Mr. Dudley does not seem to realize that "academic freedom" and "open-minded­ness" are what make Notre Dame a great place. All philosophies should be wel­come here, including atheism and lesbianism as well as other philosophies with which he does not agree. Understanding is listening, and apparently some do not value the latter as others do. 
I do not even wish to chal­lenge his views on the offen­sive nature, as Mr. Dudley just does not seem open to anything. He is obviously an avid Catholic and cannot bear to hear anything said against Catholic doctrine. On that note, I would appeal to the University to continue its approach towards a diverse education and to even take greater strides to diversify Our Lady's University. 
Dan Tyszka $Ophomore Sorin Hall Feb. 14, 2002 
U to be contingent upon whether the money is 
being put to good use. If students are going 
to events. the money is being spent well. And if students 
still feel that more money is needed, a further increase is 
something the senate, Campus Life Council and Board of 
Trustees should consider. 
Embrace femininity 
I would like to respond to Sean Dudley's letter con­cerning the vulgarity of the "Vagina Monologues." First, a small disclaimer. As luck would have it I know the author of said letter and therefore do not wish to condemn his intentions because I believe they were good. I must, however, strongly disagree. 
If I had to pick one word to describe Eve Ensler's play, (which I have seen and read many times) it would be "empowering." Women discussing their vaginas, learning about their vaginas, loving their vaginas and so on, is not disgusting or rude. On the contrary, it is extremely important. 
I'm not a psychology major, but I think one can make a connection between the epidemic of low self­esteem among females and the taboo surrounding their genitalia. Why is it that words like "cunt" and "pussy" are designated a~ vulgarities, while "wang" and "schlong" are accepted and common? Why are girls raised to be quiet and embarassed about a part of their body while the other half of the population campares the sizes of theirs? It's not fair. No one asked for their vagina. The least they can do is be proud of it. 
As for religion, there is no reference to it in the Monologues. The play cannot be compared to dung on a statue of the Virgin Mary when there is nothing similar to dung or the Virgin Mary in the play. Where the story of the young girl and the 24-year-old woman is concerned, there is no question that it is a little scandalous. However, nothing about it is "violent," and after one hears the story from the girl first hand through the monologue, the age difference question is lost in the beauty of her own self-realization. 
I'm a Catholic, I'm in the "Monologues," and I would be lying if I said that some parts didn't make me a little uncomforatable. But I embrace those feel­ings and consider them a challenge. I push myself not to be ashamed of how God made me. 
Molly McShane 
junior Badin Hall Feb. 14, 2002 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Andrew Thagard Katie Rand Jason McFarley Sports Bryan Kronk Viewpoint Kurt Bogaard 
Scene C. Spencer Beggs Graphics Jimmy Atkinson Production Chris Federico 
Lab Tech Kylie Carter 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What is the most important issue for the next student body president's administration? 
Poll courtesy of NDToday.com Total Voles: 289 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When she stopped conforming to the conventional picture offemininity she finally began to enjoy being a woman." 
Betty Naomi Friedan author 

February ] 5, 2002 The Ob;erver . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
order to fairly distribute its much desired rooms to the parents
JPW 
coming in for the weekend. Overall, the weekend, which is
continued from page 1 
themed "Love Thee Noire hard work and preparation 
Dame," should be a great time involving not only the JPW com­
for everyone involved. All the mittee, but also the staff of the 
events take their name from the Alma Mater, with the gala on
Joyce Center, Catering by Design and the Center for Continuing 
Friday entitled "Gleams Thy Gold and Blue" celebrating NotreEducation, among many others. 
Dame's pa.st. The biggest event isAccording to Lamphier, all the "Golden is Thv Fame" dinnerthree groups have been extreme­on Saturday night, which focuses ly helpful The CCE was hired to on Notre Dame's present, and
handle all of the registration for the event. The staff members of 
the accomplishments of its cur­. the Joyce Center will be doing all 
rent students. Finally. the "Our of the setting up and taking Hearts Forever" brunch on down of the approximately 475 
Sunday is a kind of send-off for the parents, and features speak­tables that will be used to seat ers looking forward to the future 
the almost 4,000 participants. Moreover, as a result of the 
of Notre Dame. high attendance for this year's 
As a result of the work of so many members of the Notre
event, Catering by Design, a campus department responsible 
. Dame community. it seems almost inevitable that JPW will
for providing all of the food for the upcoming weekend, has 
be a huge success, as it has been been extremely busy. According 
for the last fifty years. Or in the to· Lisa Wenzel of Catering by 
words of Junior Class President Design, the group has been 
Matt Smith, it will continue to be, preparing since September, 
"One of those traditions that just using both dining halls and the 
makes sense." food service reserve space to get ready for the weekend. In fact, even the Morris Inn has been 
Contact John Fanning at
involved, hosting a lottery 
John.R.Fanning.1 l@nd.edu. 
through the JPW committee in 
,. 
r!/; 
. 
. 
.,;i•;
71~ 
~ 
;.) 
!i:fji.........
,\j,~ 
Election 
continued from page 1 
said he will work with them to ensure a smooth transi­tion. 
"We '11 do everything we can to help Libby and Trip transition into office," he said. Moscona added that he and Oxley. sophomore class president, are grateful to their supporters and the effort they gave to the cam­paign. 
Although neither Moscona nor Oxley have plans for when their terms end, each said they remain committed to working for students. 
"Our love for this University and our working to serve the student body will in no way end," Oxley said. "We'll continue until we graduate." 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 
It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful seivices, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program 

ERIN LaRUFFA/The Observer Libby Bishop views the results of Thursday's election with Kevin Berchou (left) and Brian Moscona (right). 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties1 Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cashl Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426· 7710 

fA' THE FRESHEST ITALIAN IN 
i>' TOWN 
I 2ll-1000 I 
The NEWEST FAVORITE of STUDENTS, PARENTS and FACULTY 
Family Owned Tradition
Fresh Prepared LargeGroups
Original Family Recipes
Dinnen, Welcome i,ss. Middpn St.
Pizza, Fine South Bend, In 46601
Wine 
www.catalin01.com 
dine In/carry-out retervatlona recommended 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 

that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and services designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
(574) 654--2250 
3 I 869 Chicago Trail 
I

~ 
New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836
HAMILTON 
Website: http://www.hamiltoncomm.org 
_i\etors Frorn rl1he J.Jn1do11 Stage

COMMUNITIES 
Macbeth 

A Rich Tradition of Caring for Older Adults Since 1922 ~ ·j ·To find out more, clip and mail the following information to: · · · · · · i 
I~~;:_•:_•,_•C_o_m_m_u_n_lt-le_s_,3-1-8-69_C_h_lca-~::. N_e_w_Ca_r_li_sl-e._l_N_4_65:~p ____ I 
Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame 

l.Te~e.pho~~:-(·-·····---·••··•··•···-·•··--··-·······-•·•-·••·••·••·•-·•·•-·--··-·-···•·•-·••·-··-·········-··?'._~__ j@ 
Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 




O
THE BSERVER 

tre 
page 10 Friday, February 15, 2002 
Beauty i 

FJ7'presents the 'New Playwrights Workshop 2002' and the R 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Edimr 
The campus spotlight doesn't always illuminate the real work that goes into a show. Actors are not the only people who produce a show. Some of the hardest work in any production is completed before a show even starts. 
Writers and directors must decide how the show will be presented and what it will say long before the first line crosses an actor's lips. Unfortunately, students are often removed from this creative process; most campus shows involve a com­plete professional script or director. 
But. the seven one-act plays pre­sented in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre's "New Playwrights Workshop 2002" are all written, directed, produced and per­formed by students. The authors of the shows participated in the FTT 
351: Playwriting and Screenwriting class last semester. but the directors, stage managers and actors come from other campus performing arts groups. In fact, the show will be the Notre Dame premiere of some of the actors. 
Although each show is credited with . a writer and a director, the two posi­tions collaborated on the shows. 
"In the "New Playwrights [Workshop 2002]," the playwrights would be at the rehearsal ... There was a lot of changing and reworking of the scripts," Meg Ryan, one of the direc­tors, said. 
Ryan, who directed senior Kelly Hart's play "Love Hurts," often had Hart attend rehearsal to help shape the show. Ryan found the process to be productive, especially for a show 
said. Kalman, deals with the effects of alco­Smirk {played by sophomore Mikethat was partially based on Hart's 
Two of Williams' actors have never holism on a family. She feels that the Romano), a daemon sent by Godreal life. 
been in a play at Notre Dame before; psychoanalytic show reflects aspects {played by sophomore Adel Hanash) to"Love Hurts" is a romantic comedy 
in fact, one has never done any the­of both the Notre Dame campus and order the campus.
about college students dealing with a atre at all. "Linedrive to Right," a many students' family lives. Overall, the shows have been a
long distance relationship (or break­
commentary on the teachings of orga­"I think the issue of alcoholism is a learning experience for the group.
up as the case may be). The dialogue­nized religion on justice and forgive­really important issue on this campus "Especially for theatre majors con­heavy show was particularly difficult ness, is certainly a large undertaking especially for children of alcoholics or side ring a career in writing, it's
for the group to get a handle on 
for a first play. people with alcoholism in their family. important to see your work expressed
because both Ryan and Hart were The short rehearsal process made And it's not really dealt with on this on stage because it looks so different
involved in other theatre shows dur­
the groups producing each show campus," Smith said. on paper... it can get so manipulateding the two-week rehearsal process. 
develop their characters and concepts "So Far Gone" features familiar going from the paper to the stage,"But Ryan thinks 
quickly.. With the campus theatre Williams said.
that the entire 
rewriting that the faces like junior The "New process was worth 
"[The 'New Playwrights directors and Monica Kerschner .Playwrights
it because of the 
writers did, a pol-and sophomores "Especially for theatre majors Workshop 2002"benefits it gives to Workshop 2002 • is] important ished product Sean Nelson and considering a career in will be presented
the theatre com­because it gets to showcase didn't develop Cheryl Turski. The in two sections. 
m unity at Notre writing, it's important to see
some ofthe talents ofthe until the night piece features a The first section
Dame, especially 
flashback your work expressed on stage the plays
because the "New theatre majors here other bf'foro opening. conven­with 
Williams and tion in which the "Solitaire,"
because it looks so different

Playwrights than acling and design." Horner actually play takes place in "Dance is Life,"
Workshop 2002" on paper ... it can get so
wont back and two time periods at "Love Hurts" and
highlights some 
choose a different once for dramatic manipulated going from paper "So Far Gone"
Meg Ryan
more unknown 
draft of the script effect. to the stage. " were presented
aspects of theatre Workshop director 
than the one that Another drama, yesterday and
production. 
had been submit­senior Suzanne last Wednesday.
"[The 'New 
Justin Williams 

ted to the class to Dietman's "Dance The second set ofPlaywrights Workshop 2002' is] 
better convey the meaning. is Life," delves into Workshop director shows that is
important because it gets to showcase "It's definitely different directing a the thought comprised of some of the talents of theatre majors student-written show because you can process of perfec-"Going Away,"here other than acting and design,.. 
work directly with the writer ... if you tion ism: a theme Lined rive toRvan said. 
find something that doesn't work you reminiscent of over-achieving and Hight" and "The Moral Tale of
·sophomore director Justin Williams, 
can rl'write it, but there's a lot you over-stressed Notre Dame students' Everystudent" will be presented in the
who is directing junior Derek 
can play with," Williams said. . personal drama. Lab Theatre in Washington Hall atHorner's play "Lincdrive to Right," 
The plays in the "New Playwrights On the other hand, "The Moral Tale 7:00 p.m. tonight and tomorrow night.
agrees that the show gives aspiring 
Workshop 2002" run from serious of Everystudent," satirizes the Notre Admission is free. 
actors a chance they might not other­
pieces like senior Babs Smith's play Dame campus and its traditions. The
wise have. 
"So Far Gone" to irreverent satire like show is the story of Everystudent
"It's good for beginning directors 
sophomore Chris Sandrork's "The (played by freshmen Steve
like myself... lit also gives usJ more 
Moral Tale of Everystudent." Hoeplinger), the student hero, and his Contact C. Spencer Beggs at
chances more chances to get actors 
Smith's play, directed by junior Bill battle against the nemesis of Phil beggs.3@nd.edu.
involved in the first place," Williams 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Friday, February 15, 2002 page 9 
A tale of two Notre Dame parents 
For last year's Junior Parents' Weekend, I urged students to appreciate the weekend they were about to share with their parents and classmates. I recalled how I, as the coordinator ofmy JPW, had little time for my family. 
I let slip away an opportunity to share my family with my classmates and their parents. I failed to expose them to the diversity of my student family on campus. 
Our Church and our nation are strongest when we embrace tolerance and diversity. The coexistence of Bible­thumping fundamentalists with "Cafeteria Catholics" enriches our faith. Until the Sept. 11 attacks, Democrats and Republicans were last congenial "loyal opponents" prior to 1994. In light ofSept. 11, those ofus middle-aged people who are set in our ways should reflect on how we can learn to better tolerate and appreciate the diversity that makes us the renowned American or the fabled Notre 

Dame family. 
This parents' weekend, I tell a tale of two Notre Dame Gary Caruso parents -a father whose son graduated from Notre Dame and a mother whose two children currently attend the University. Each has read this column and communi­
Capitol
cated with me via e-mail. 
Comments
I. in turn, always respond to both the nice and nasty comments. Below are excerpts from each that are as opposite in tone as can be charted. 
Having seen that I worked for President Clinton, the man replied like a "freep­er," a conservative who bands together on the Internet on so-called "free repub­lic" sites to respond en mass like the old "moral majority" did with their letter writing campaigns. My Dec. 7, 2001, column citing the horrors ofwar from my father's World War II experiences and my generation's bout with Vietnam riled him. 
He wrote, "Ifyour phony, perjury-riddled, sorry excuse for a Commander-in­Chiefwere still in charge we'd probably be engaging in some country-wide hand-wringing instead ofresponding with the only thing that these maniacs understand. My son, a Notre Dame grad, was in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11 and barely escaped with his life. For you to suggest [between the lines] that the United States is somehow responsible for these hideous attacks makes me wonder how you'd feel if you or a family member were victims of these animals." 
I replied, 'Tm not quite sure which lines you were reading between, but I agree that the United States must strike back in the manner we set forth. I was trying to bring some reality to the students on campus who have no idea what war and suffering and death is ... unlike my generation that faced going to Vietnam. 
"Why not re-read my column without your emotion and see ifthe lines between which you have read are not exactly the same ones I intended for the• readers." 
He then e-mailed me, "I re-read your column v.rithout emotion, and you're even further off-base than I originally thought. What really frightens me, almost more than bin Laden, is that you have access to some very intelligent, fertile minds [at Notre Dame]; we can only hope that their parents have prepared them to deal with misguided souls like you." 
He went on, "What do you mean 'our' generation, do you think you're the only one who had to face the potential of war, Vietnam or otherwise? The world doesn't revolve around liberals only!" 
When my sister, also a Notre Dame graduate, and I cited Web sites that offered countering points ofview, he replied, "Doesn't anyone else read your col­umn? For someone who worked for [Clinton] would suggest to me that you haven't even earned the right to the little Observer column that is read by no more than a handful of people ... good thing!" 
A Notre Dame mother wrote, "I felt I had to contact you over 2 years ago when I read your article about Father Robert Griffin, 'Live Each Day as if it Were Your Last.' But I got busy and the thought faded away. That is why after reading February 1, 2002 column, 'Savoring the Semester,' I had to respond." 
She went on to say, "I too let a sighting of Father Griffin go by. I had often thought about him and considered him one of the people at Notre Drone who had the most impact on me as a person, along with my roommates, a few friends and a professor or two. I did not have the courage to tell him what an influence he, his sermons, and his writings had on me for the past 20 years. 
"When I read ofhis passing, I was quite upset over the loss of him for the University and for this world and upset with myself for not contacting him before he died ... I had Jet a moment slip away that could never be recaptured." 
"You can't know how proud and overjoyed I am that my children are attending Notre Dame and loving every minute of their experiences. I feel I should still be a student. I do not have clear, sharp memories. I know I enjoyed myself, studied hard, made great friendships that have endtrred, but my mind is fuzzy on real recollections. I am trying to instill in my children to treasure each and every day, the good days and the bad, the beautiful weather and the snow and ice, for they'll be moving on before they know it." 
After exchanging more stories via e-mail, she wrote, "I really look forward to being on campus again and sharing experiences with my son and daughter and gathering fresh memories for me to hold on to." 
She concluded, "All in all, I have been blessed and I certainly attribute a lot of my blessings to Notre Dame and what it gave me -intellectually, personaJly, emotionally and spiritually." 
We can attribute that to diversity and tolerance. 
Gary J. Caruso, a 1973 graduate ofNotre Dame, served in President Clinton ·s administration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director. His column appears every other Friday. and his e-mail address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o[The Observer. · 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Increase in activity fees 
would benefit students 
Wednesday night we attended the percent of undergraduates who participate Student Senate meeting to present argu­in a club during their four years here. As ments supporting the proposed increase in costs rise, clubs are forced to either cut student activity fees. By virtue of our active activities or require their members to pay and long-term involvement in the alloca­for expenses out of their own pockets. For tion of Student Union funds, we believe instance, the Experiential Learning Council that we can offer insight into the Student has been forced to cancel some of its popu­Union's financial needs. The Senate reject­lar seminar service trips and several clubs ed the proposal, however, before all parties charge annual dues of over $100. An were heard. We would like to use increase in Student Activity Fees would this forum to present our case. ,z. help clubs maintain their current 
Simply put, we deal with lim­~ J levels of activity and would ited resources and increasing i -/) encourage future growth. expenses. As we all know, a ~ I. In comparison to our cur-dollar today doesn't buy as , rent $65 fee, students at St. much as a dollar did four Mary's pay a $150 student years ago, the last time the Student Activity fee •t proposed increase, Notre was increased. 3 Dame students would pay Maintaining the same f -1'0 only half of that. We firmly level of programming _:.:ui::..r--:"'!:::;;r. llf ~~ believe that the student and student services e...ll!!~~r • 4t activity fee should be year to year has become IJJ ti> increased to account for increasingly more diffi­inflation -permitting the cult. Student Union to maintain 
For example, the cost of ~ the status quo -and benefit
!. bringing a speaker or musi­W T all students. cian to campus has increased One of the hallmarks of the dramatically over the past sev­MDNE'(/ Notre Dame family is its excep­eral years. Additionally, general tional commitment to active com­operating costs have increased each munity involvement. Our hopes in writ­year, while the amount of money available ing this letter are to bring light to this issue has remained relatively constant. as well as to foster dialogue between stu­
To offer some r ~::pective, the organiza­dents and their senators on this issue. We tions within th~ ..it1,uent Union requested are committed to providing high quality over $1 million doJ.lars last spring. Only activities to students. From our positions $600,000 was available for allocation, and with our knowledge of the Student however. The Student Union is comprised Union finances, we feel that only with ade­of the Senate, Executive Cabinet, Office of quate funding will the Student Union be the President, SUB, Judicial Council, Officer able to continue its current level of activi­of the Treasurer/ Financial Management ties. Board, Hall Presidents Council, Club Coordination Council, all four Class Audra Hagan Councils, Off-Campus Council and clubs Controller, Office of the Scudent Body President and organizations. This money must also John Hagan cover the expenses of Senior Week and Club Coordinator some administrative salaries. Even a slight Amy O'Connor increase in the Student Activity Fee would Club Coordinator -Elect result in more programming and better Jennifer Wolfe services for students. Student Union Treasurer 
The limited resources of the Student Chairperson, Financial Management Board Union also have a direct effect on the 75 Feb. 13,2002 
Attacking the 
State of the Union 

This letter is in response to Mike Marchand's Feb. 11 column. 
President Bush did not shine with his State of the Union Address. He basked in the glow of a nation eager to rally behind their leader. There was no "plain-spoken eloquence." Implying that America is the unquestionable good opposed to "evil," categorically group­ing three cowitries whose situations are very different into an "axis of evil," and saying things like "let's roll" and "make no mistake about it" is not eloquent. It is sensationalist, plays upon the American public's ignorance of foreign affairs and simplifies difficult ques­tions. There was no "bold, visionary changes for both the immediate and the long-term future of the union." 
Bush repeatedly returned to his patriotic rallying cry throughout the speech, not going into detail about domestic policy. His policies do not work for "America's hardworking families." Just take a look at his tax cut. He does not govern "from the center as much as possible." The nation has not heard rhetoric like his since Reagan. He is not "more of a rapid-fire texas gunslinger than a poet, linguistically speaking." He is a rapid-fire Texas gunslinger who is appreciated by people like Mike Marchand who can take pride in saying that"America will now work to annihilate the enemies of the 21st Century -before they can do it to us." His State of the Union Address confirmed that Bush is an "intellectual lightweight" who makes that point clear every time he opens his mouth. 
Gina Cora junior off-campus Feb. 11, 2002 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 15, 2002 
Irish look to rebound in crucial Big East games 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spores Editot 
Call it a tale of two teams heading in very different direc­tions. · 
When Notre Dame lost to Syracuse a month ago, the Irish couldn't find their shot and the Orangemen were ranked No. 7 in the nalion. The loss prope!Jed the Irish to a three-game losing streak. 
Then Notre Dame's fortune changed and the Irish reeled off five consecutive wins before losing Thursday night. The 0rangemen, on the other hand, lost five of their next seven and tumbled out of the Top•25. 
On Sunday, these two teams will meet in a game that has tremendous implications on Big East play. 
"Everything we do with our basketball program starting Sept. 1 when our kids get back is to be fresh in February and make a run," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "It worked last year and so far it's working this year." . 
The Irish have the ability to control their own destiny in the Big East. At 7-4 in Big East play, Notre Dame is tied for second place in the West Division with Syracuse, one game behind Pittsburgh. Should the two teams finish with the same record at the end of the season, the Irish would win the conference 14, their 2-3 zone defense lane against the 0rangemen Shumpert; DeShaun Williams his team will change its focus, because they beat the Panthers caused major problems for will be an important factor in and Kueth Duany. The trio typ­even though they are consid­twice this year. Notre Dame's perimter shoot­breaking Syracuse's zone ically score two-thirds of ered a virtual lock for the 
Meanwhile, the Orangemen, ing trio of David Graves, Matt ·defense. Syracuse's points in any given NCAA Tournament. who led the West Division with Carroll and Chris Thomas. The • "[Brey] told me to push the game. "We've been a group who's a 5-0 record the last time they three only scored a combined ball more," said Thomas, who The only reason the Irish had to work for everything," played the Irish, lost four 19 points in that game and was named Sports Illustrated's stayed close to Syracuse last Brey said. "We started out the games and tumbled to third in shot just 5-for-24 from 3-point Player of the Week this week. game was because the Irish season not marked as a team the West Division before tying range. "We have to get our speed up were able to get the ball to and fourth in the division. the Irish for second after their A few weeks ago, Brey told and going because he knows Ryan Humphrey. The senior We've really had to earn loss last night. Thomas that in order for Notre we have fun when we run and forward was the only player to everything we've gotten so 
But just because Syracuse is · Dame to be more successful on he knows that we have a great score in double figures against far." on a slide doesn't mean the offense, the freshman point offense when we run." the Orangemen, finishing with team is any less dangerous. guard needed to drive the ball Notre Dame will also have to 28 points. 
When the 0rangemen edged to the basket more. Whether shut down Syracuse's offense, With the NCAA Tournament Contact Andrew Soukup at the Irish 56-51 back on Jan. Thomas can penetrate into _the which reHes on Preston looming, Brey doesn't believe asoukup@nd.edu. 

COACHING 
When the Irish fall behind, they don't lose

LLI 
their poise. That's a

:I!: 
testament to Brey's

c::c 
style of coaching. He lets his players play 

Q 
I.LI 
and doesn't worry

a:: 
l­
about controlling

o 
small things. If the

z 
Irish struggle early, he won't call a time out. 
Boeheim has coached for 25 years ­

LLI 
all at Syracuse. He's a

tlJ 
master at maximizing

:::, 
CJ 
the potential of his 

c::c 
players and his zone

a:: 
defense frustrates

> 
opponents no matter

VI 
how many times they face it. 

STYLE OF PLAY 
Notre Dame played much more aggresive­ly during its five-game winning streak. Rebounding and defense have been the keys for the Irish. When their defense is rolling, they can't be beat. 
Syracuse uses the 2­3 zone defense almost exclusively. The 0rangemen also have . the ability to stretch their defense out to the perimeter to cut down on long-range shoot­ers. They usually score from the perimter. 
POST 
PLAYERS 
Humphrey has been 
.the inside presence for the Irish all year long. While his free-throw shooting leaves some­thing to be desired, he hits them when the game is on the line. Swanagan is a major factor in the recent Irish resurgence. 
Inside game? What's that? No player aver­ages more than six rebounds a game, and Forth is the only player above 6-foot-9 who sees signi.ficant playing time. 
PERIMETER 
PLAYERS 
Thomas is the spark­plug to the Irish offense. If he plays well, the Irish play well. Carroll and Graves broke out of their mid­season shooting slump and are deadly from the perimeter. 
BENCH 
While Brey rarely went to his bench in the beginning of the season, the emergence of Timmermans and Cornette have allowed 
Humphrey  and  
Swanagan  to  rest.  
Jones  is  an  early  

defensive presence. 
INTANGIBLES 
The test for the Irish will be how they rebound from Thursday's loss. But they'll havea boilster­
ous home crowd behind them and have gained a lot of momentum the last six games. 
::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::: 
When the 0rangmen score, they do it from outside. Shumpert is a versatile player who averages over 20 points a game. Shumpert, Williams and Duany scored 44 of Syracuse's 56 points last time they played the Irish. 
Syracuse receives solid, but not spectacu­lar, production from its bench. Like the Irish, the 0rangemen usually play eight men, but their subs don't really do more than fill a spot on the floor while the stars rest. 
Quite simply, the 0rangemen are reeling since they last played the Irish. They've lost five of their last seven games and, if they don't improve, are in danger of not making the NCAA Tournament. 

==========....----------------------------------...... 
A month ago, the

Syracuse must.stop
Boeheim knows how 
The game won't be
Irish guarded Williams 

Humphrey by forcing
The last time these
to coach his players to 
decided by the players 
closely, but Duany hurt

him to shoot turn­
two teams played, 
With the home crowd 
fit a system, but Brey 
them big time. The

!!! 
around jumpers. If he 
on°th~ bcp.c~·k·'.Fh~Lton 
behind them, the Irish
!IS"'gr';ea . ~''*malting 

Syracuse's defense
tlJ 
'.ifo,ux ,, ., 1 ~a:ch:f
Irish also struggled

can get the ball on the 
should come out
:,adju~ ,s,,diiri,~g, 

caused major prob­
~ 
floor and drive to the 
against the zone -no 
'iltiam iygi~1 
~tho ' d ff' tH'~ 
inspired. And they'll be

lems for the Irish. If
ii:~~:v:· ,.-tl ~'

c::c 
·Bv~r m t~s a'
player other than

b'asket, he'll 4o@ll.ate
z 
Notre Dame can't get 
angry.. after losing
gamo. The style of 
Humphrey had more 
game. This will be a

the game. tastctime 
Thursday.

good shots, they'll be
coaching on both

<C 
these' two team1fimet, 
than eight points. They 
gut-it-out contest for

in big trouble. 
teams essentially can­

Humphrey had 28 
can't allow that to hap­
both teams. 
cels each other out. 
pen again. 

points. 
---7 

Friday, February 15, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Leading by exa01ple 
Senior captain Humphrey has no problem filling the big shoes ofa vocal leader 
By KERRY SMITH 
Spores Writer 
The while adi<las sneakers Ryan Humphrey wears on the basketball court tell much · about where the senior captain has come from and where he 
wants to go. 
· While his dedication on the 
court shows his love for the 
sport he has played most of his 
life, his shoes show that his 
personality runs much deeper. 
Inked in royal blue on the 
outside of his left high-top, 
read the initials "MAH" and 
Bible citation "Romans 8:28." 
Humphrey wrote the initials, 
a reference to his mother 
Melodi Ann Humphrey, on his 
sntJakers to remind him of the 
person he has become. 
"Y!y mom is very important to 
me," Humphrey said. "She is 
the person I get who I am from. 
It also serves as a reminder to 
me so I don't do anything to 
embarrass her." 
That reminder is just as 
important as the maxim 
Humphrey has chosen to model 
himself on. Romans 8:28 reads, 
"We know that in everything 
God works for good, with those 
who love him, who are called 
according to his purpose." 
"Romans 8:28 is something I 
always take with me," he said. 
"It's something I want to live 
my life by." 
The references on 
Humphrey's sneaker form the 
bedrock of his character: fami­
ly and faith. 
"Being that my father is a 
minister, that is very important 
to him," Humphrey's twin sis­
ter Robyn said. "Being close 
and committed to God has 
always been important." 
Family and faith have 
brought the senior far during 
his college career -a five-year 
journey that has taken 
Humphrey from Oklahoma to 
Indiana, through three coach­
ing regimes and many role 
changes on and off the court. 
The Tulsa native began his 
career at Oklahoma, making an 
immediate impact for the 
Sooners. Despite being diag­
nosed with iron-deficiency ane­
mia which limited his playing 
time most of his freshman sea­
s on. the McDonald's and 
Parade All-American still 
earned a spot on the 1997­
1998 Big-12 All-Freshman ros­
ter. 
During his sophomore sea­
son, Humphrey continued to 
make strides, helping his team 
to a Sweet 16 berth in the 
NCAA tournament.. 

But despite his early success­
es, Humphrey needed a change 
after two years with the 
Sooners. 
"Transferring was tough, but 
I made that choice and took 
that on myself," Humphrey 
said. "I needed to get out of 
Oklahoma. It was nothing per­
sonal with my coach or the 
team." 
Humphrey had been recruit­
ed out of high school by Kansas 
assistant coach Matt Doherty, 
so when Doherty took over the 
Irish program, Humphrey 
decided to make the transfer to 
Notre Dame. But he didn't come alone. Robyn came along for the 
rid·e. 

"Coming out of high school, we made a package deal. We would go to college together," Robyn said. "And so when he wanted to transfer, I decided to follow." 
His sister's presence made the 800-milc transition easier. 
''She's great. She's my best friend." Humphrey said. "We talk daily and we keep each other rooted." 
Because Humphrey had to sit out his junior year at Notre Dame as an NCAA-sanctioned stipulation of Lhe transfer, he never saw court time during the Dohertv-era. 
Almost a·s soon as the former Tarheel player arrived at Notre Dame, he left to accept the head coaching position at the North Carolina. 
Humphrey found himself again in the predicament of a new coaching staff and a new coaching style. 
"It was tough, but it worked itself out," Humphrey said. "That's just part of life. You just have to take on another role after the changes." 
Those changes, including the arrival of current head coach Mike Brey and the departure of Troy Murphy, have only helped Humphrey emerge into a respected leader on the Notre Dame squad and a dominant force under the basket for the Irish this season. 
"He was pretty much a man when I got him," Brey said. "He's always handled his busi­ness very maturely." 
Humphrey's maturity and leadership has elevated him to a virtual coach on the team. 
"He's doing a great job in his role as a captain. And not every senior captain takes that role seriously," Brey said. "He's taken it very seriously and helped me lead the team ... This year, I think our commu­nication has been a key as far as keeping our group moving forward." 
He is dominating force on the court. He is a teacher to his teammates in practice. He is a powerful voice in the locker room. And he is an example of hard work and determination for his squad members. 
"He's a little bit of whatever it takes," Brey said. "It's almost as if he has good read on the pulse of our group and he does what's needed." 
Tuesday was not an atypical day for the Irish as they pm­pared to practice in the Joyce c~nter. 
As most of the team hung out in the locker room a half an hour before practice began, the steady beat of a lone basketball echoed throughout the Joyce Center: four pumps to the floor, a two-second pause and then a shot from the foul line. Humphrey repeated the beat from both ends of the floor as student manager Malcolm J-!armer, a junior who Humphrey considers his closest friend on the team, rebounded. 
Humphrey's dedication to improving his free-throw 

shooting, a facet of the game he has taken much slack for this season, is an indication to his team of how great hls work ethic is. . 
"He spends a lot of time out­side of practice working on his game," Farmer said. "People don't see all the work that he puts into it. People may get frustrated with his free throw shooting, but there isn't a time when he goes to the line that I don't think it will go in because I've seen too many of them go in." 
Humphrey's dedication is also not lost on Brey. 
"[His work ethic isl awesome ... to the point where J worry about him wearing himself out because he wants to do so much extra stuff," Brey said. " He's a guy who's made himself a better player. He was always a great athlete but he's made himself a better basketball player." 
Humphrey's work ethic and dedication is so great that despite spending upwards of 20 hours a week tuning his game outside of practice, his biggest regret is that he did not start working harder sooner. 
"1 wish I had worked harder at a younger age," he said. "I think my work ethic is good now, but that's separate. I didn't have that work ethic at a younger age." . 
It is that maturity that has allowed Humphrey to teach the younger members of the Irish squad. 
"He's been great with the younger guys and put them under his wing," said fellow senior captain David Graves. "You come in as a freshman and you feel like you have to prove things, and you don't need to, and he helps them realize that." 
Freshman forward Jordan Cornette is one of those players Humphrey has taken under his wing. 
'.'He knocks you around, but he also tells you how to defond those kind of moves so you become a better defensive play­er because he breaks you down and then tells you how to stop that," Cornette said. "I take his confidence level and learn from 
that so when I'm in the games I try and play at that confidence level so when I'm out there I . feel like the opponent I'm going against -I'm no less than him, 
but I'm better than him." 
Humphrey's attitude toward 
his team and its performance 
has turned in big numbers for 
the Irish this season. 
The senior leads the team, 
averaging 18. 7 points and 9.8 
rebounds a game. 
With a core set of upperclass­
men and a talented class of 
underclassmen who have 
quickly matured under senior 
leadership as the season has 
progressed, Humphrey has 
high hopes for his final season· 
in a collegiate uniform. 
"My goal is to make it to the 
NCAA tournament four years 
straight. The farthest I went 
was the· Sweet 16 and this year 
as senior I'd like this team to 
go farther," Humphrey said. 
"Everyone on the team knows 
what we're capable of." 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 

page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 15, 2002 
Breaking down the Big East Conference 
The only guarantee in the 13ig East Conference this season is that there are no guarantees. No other conference in America has experienced the same degree of parity as the Big East. With .two weeks left to go in the regular season, both the East and 
West 
Divisions of the Big East are still up for grabs. Upsets and surprises have painted a cloudy picture at the top of both conferences. 

As we head down the final stretch, nine teams still have legitimate shots to win their respective divisions and com­pete for a coveted dance ticket to March Madness. No single team has been able to separate itself from the rest of the pack. 
There is an old sports adage that beautifully describes Big East basketball -"Any given team can beat any other team on any given night." 

Case in point, Boston College lost to lowly Virginia Tech last week, only to turn around and defeat No. 11 Miami three days later. 
Enough of the confusion already. It's time to break down the Big East. 
Who's hot 
Notre Dame is simply on fire 


_right now, running its record to (17 -6, 7 -4 l. With five straight victories before their loss last night, the Irish haVfi put them­selves in prime position to repeat as champions of the West Division. Notrn Dame sits in second place in the West Division 
Who's not 
Syracuse is fading and fading fast. Last Sunday's second-half meltdown against Pittsburgh has left the Orangemen (18-7, 7-4) tied for second with Notre IJame and a full game behind Pittsburgh in the West Division. Even worse, the Orangernen are no longer a sure bet to make the NCAA tournament. 
This Sunday's game against Notre Dame has huge implica­tions for both teams. The win­ner will likely have assured itseU' of a bid to the Big Dance. 
Biggest surprise 
Pittsburgh has shocked the entire nation this year en route to a (21-4, 9-31 record. With a favorable remaining schedule, the Panthers should lock up a bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Perennial doormat Rutgers (15-8. 5-5) has also been strong this season, posting two huge upset victories over Connecticut and Georgetown. 
Miami (18-6, 7-4) has also been surprising during their rise to the No. 11 ranking in the country. 
Biggest disappointment 
This dubious honor goes to Boston College (16-7,5-5). After last year's East Di-vision cham-pionship, big things were expected of the Eagfos. The Eagles have struggled to l.ind any consistency all season with a huge loss at the hands of Virginia Tech. 

Despite the veteran leader­ship of Kevin Braswell and the strong inside play of Michael Sweetney, Georgetown (15-8, 6­
5) has been mediocre this sea­son. 
As lousy as Boston College and Georgetown have looked at times this season, they still have outside shots to compete for Big East regular season crowns and improve their March Madness prospects. 
What it all means 
Right now, Pittsburgh is tied for the lead with Notre Dame in the West Division, while Conne (18-6, 8-3) is a game ahead of Miami in the East Division. 
The Panthers, Irish, Huskies, and Hurricanes all seem to have the inside track to NCAA tournament bids, but there is still a lot of basketball left to be played. 
Notre Dame still has three critical showdowns left with Syracuse, Miami, and St. John's. 
The division leaders have a very small margin for error. Syracuse, St. Johns, Boston College, Georgetown, and Rutgers all currently sit within two games of the division lead­ers. All of these teams have the potential to win the Big East Tournament in a few weeks. 
If the regular season is any indication, the tournament promises to be filled with even more close games and surpris­ing upsets. 
After all, anything can hap­pen in the Big East. 
Contact Joe Licandro atjli­candr@nd.edu. The views of this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I 
I 
I . 
I I ­

• I Do it all :night long 
' 

. I I one m.ore 
•
t1m.e. 
I 
! 
I I 
i . 
i I 
i 
iI . ! 


The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, February 15, 2002 
page 11 

creation 
tory/Performance Workshop presents '2002 Dance Spectrum' 
By EMILY FORD 
Scene Writer 
Those who are children of the '80s grnw up mesmr-rizcd by dance-charged films like "Fame" and "Flashdance." Some even dared to don leg warmers and sweatbands in an attempt to attain the ability that those movies showcased. They hurried excitedly into their first dance classes, eager to learn and even more eager to perform. 
However, those who failed to even walk to the correct beat resigned them­selves to the fact that dance ,vas left only to those who possessed coordina­tion. Dance became something that could only be appreciated by the elite: the dancers themselves. This miscon­ception of dance as being only for the artists .is what the "2002 Dance Spectrum" aims to move aside. 
With a wide variety of dances ranging from ballet and modern to jazz, the audience is promised to find something it will appreciate. The mission of the "2002 Dance Spectrum" is to bring dance to the entire community. 
<;If you can make dance more accessi­ble, that it's not something on a big, high pedestal, but something that they can see and want to see more frequent­ly, they can incorporate it and say, 'Oh, that was so neat, I want to see some more.' And there's such a variety that hopefully they'll each have a little sam­pler," Indi Dieckgrafe, artistic director and choreographer, said. 
The dancers also want the audience to capture the versatility of the concert. 
Otis Cortez-Hill, a senior Film, Television and Theatre major at Notre Dame and the company's only male member, believes that everyone will find a piece that appeals to them. 
"I want the audience to gather the sense of eclecticism, a sense of universal dance. There's something for everybody and no matter what you like, if you like ballet you have the ["Silver Variation"], if you like pseudo-improv modern dance, there will be something for everyone," Cortez-Hill said. 
Cortez-Hill is a vehicle of the eclectic nature of the concert, appearing in "At the River," "What to Do" and "References New." 
Saint Mary's has always kept its dance performances from being restricted to just one genre of dance. The title of the concert, "2002 Dance Spectrum," reflects its wide span of movement stvles. 
·.. It seems like we have always been known for presenting an eclectic array of dances. We do have· all those different techniques and styles that we teach. I don't know if I can really say themati­cally flxcept that it will give you a range, because there isn't a certain thing that we're focusing on, that we're letting everyone have their individual expres­sion," Dieckgrafe said. 
With nearly 10 pieces being per­formed, an idea of what Dieckgra.fe calls openness and acceptance arises. This concept has given Saint Mary's the opportunity to showcase diverse works and the diverse dancers of the Repertory/Performance Workshop: Otis Cortez-Hill, Therese Cullen, Katie Decoste, Adrienne DeGraff, Emilie DesJardins, Emily Fagan, Erin Flynn, Walton. with guest dancers Kathy Ornish and Justin Smith. The unseen, but necessary contributors to the con­cert arc lighting designer Tom Boclman and costume designer Ginger Moritz. 
The concert utilizes thr creations of various choreographers from various disciplines. The show opens with a tra­ditional piece entitled "Silver Variaiion and Coda from 'The Sleeping Beauty,"' choreographed by faculty member Jill Tulchinsky and performed by soloist Emily Fagan. 
Ballet is taken into another direction by Laurie Lowry, an adjunct professor of ballet and Pilatcs at Saint Mary's. She has danced professionally with multiple companies, including the California Ballet and Ballet Hawaii. She has taken her vast experience in dance to create "Vivaldi," a ballet that possesses both upbeat moments and serenely sophisti­cated ones. 
"The beginning and ending are light and the middle section is quiet and ele­gant," Lowry said. 
The piece exhibits a Spanish style, meant to be executed with both. grace and precision. 
"Collection/Essence" is a piece that not only utilizes dancers, but art as well. Donald Stikeleather, a professor in dance at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame and an experienced modern dancer, col­laborated with artist Kathy Ornish for this work. Ornish was fascinated with the idea of boxes both constricting and protecting; she constructed movable sculpture to explore this concept. This piece is unique because it possesses qualities that are not typically associat­ed with dance. 
"It has sculpture that moves, dancers that stand still instead of moving, it has silence with no. dancing," Stikeleather said. 
Unlike dances that are a blur of con­stant motion, "Collection/Essence" has moments when nothing kinetic is hap­pening. 
"We have tried to make a balance so that it's not too much all the time," Stikeleather said. 
The collaboration of the two art forms was a positive experience with a positive result for the artists. 
"What we created was different than what the two of us could have created alone," Stikeleather said. 
The second act opens with "At the River," by guest choreographer Kevin Magee. Magee is a renowned choreogra­pher and currently dances with the Ellen Sinopoli Dance Company in New York. He has devised a theme meant to captivate the audience while the dancers attempt an escape. 
"His piece is a compelling work for nine dancers with an intriguing move­ment vocabulary that supports a ritual­istic and tribal atmosphere," Dieckgrafe said. 
"Psalm" is a piece of personal impor­tance to Dieckgrafe. 
'"Psalm' is 10 years old and it's kind of poignant that it's being done at this concert because my husband gave me the music for that ten years ago on 

KATIE LARSONffhe Observer 
Valentine's Day," Dieckgrafe said. 
The religious content of the music and choreography is meant to convey an experience of spiritual elevation. Though this piece has been performed in many different arrangements, soloist Amy Lazzarotto ventures to capture the emotional, yet reverent message. 
Dieckgrafe continues to innovate with the modern piece, "Emevese." Though most traditional modern pieces are danced barefoot, "Emevese" is per­formed in pointc shoes. Oieckgrafe's dancers led her to this variation. 
"Just in working with them, I knew they weren't going to be happy in the modern genre. So I decided if these girls want to dance on pointe, they'll just do it on pointe ... The piece became about them, about the three dancers that I had, and that's why I did "Emevese," a section of each of their names," Dieckgrafe said. 
The concert continues with the pres­ence of choreographic flexibility in "What to Do." It is a piece that is not dictated by strict choreography, but by vocal cues in the music. 
'"What to Do' is my own question of what to do and so I didn't know where to go with that, and that led me to the fact that I kind of wanted to be told what to do and that became the substance for the piece. I'm really happy with the way it turned out with the input of the dancers and the fun idea that actually brought this piece to life," Dieckgrafe said. 
The final piece, "References New" employed the input of another artist, sculptor Lanny Bergner. It has been performed previously this year at the installation of Bergner's sculpture at The South Bend Regional Museum of Art. To recreate the setting created by Bergner, screens similar to his will be hung, providing the background for slide projections of his actual work. 
The focal point of the piece is a simu­lation of a nest constructed by Bergner that will house eggs containing wind­shield glass and pins. The collaboration with Bergner and sound designer Cloud Tiger will culminate into a work encom ­passing visual and auditory art forms. 
The final piece, "Diamonds," was 
choreographed by Courtenay Lauer, a 
student company member. The piece 
showcases a contemporary jazz style 
with intended sassiness and finesse. Its 
music, from a blockbuster movie sound­
track, strives for mass appeal as well as 
sex appeal. 
The "2002 Dance Spectrum" will pro­.vide the audience with grand vision of the shades of dance. Oieckgrafe believes that the audience will want to see more. Perhaps they'll want to do more: per­haps they'll want to dig out those leg warmers and dance. 
The "2002 Dance Spectrum" opens 
tonight and runs to Sunday. Tonight 
and tomorrow nights shows begin at 7 
p.rn. and Sunday's show begins at 2:00 
p.m. "2002 Dance Spectrum" will be presented in the O'Laughlin Auditorium in the 1\1oreau Center for the Arts. Ticket are $4.50 for adults, $3.50 for senior citizens and Saint Mary's and Notre Oame community members and $2.50 for students. 

Emily Ford, Caitlin Gillen, Courtenay The Repertory/Performance Workshop presents "Diamonds," a piece of the Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@saint­Lauer, Amy Lazzarotto. Sara Pendley, "2002 Dance Spectrum" show playing at O'Laughlin Auditorium. marys.edu. Eva Polizzi, Quinn Shern and Lisa 
Saturday, August 25, 2001 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 
7th-ranked Irish take on Purdue, Wisconsin 
Associat.:J Press 
The seventh-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team will play host to Wisconsin and Purdue this weekend in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The Irish and Badgers meet Saturday at 2 
p.m .. while Notre Dame and Purdue will play Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Wisconsin carries a 3-0 rrcord into Saturday's match with the Irish. The Badgers. ranked 64th. have defeated Northern Illinois, DePaul and Western Michigan this season. Wisconsin will play two matches in the Eck Tennis Pavilion this weekend. also fac­ing Ball State Sunday at 9 a.m. 
The Badgers are led by Danny Westerman, who is ranked 37th nationally in singles. He cap­tured the title at last fall's Omni Hotels Region IV Championships where two Badgers suffered straight-set. opening-round loss­es to Irish players. 
Last season, the Badgers were 14-10 and finished 57th in the final rankings. 
The Irish and Badgers will meet for the 57th time and for 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Irish into committing an unchar­acteristic nine turnovers in the first half, Notre Dame still held a narrow 35-32 lead heading into half-time. 
"Their perimeter pressure brought the crowd into the game and really rattled us all night," said Coach Brey. 'Their defense made it tough for us to find open looks throughout the game." 
Rutgers' momentum at the end of the first half carried over to the beginning of the second half as the Scarlet Knights built a 10­point lead with ten minutes remaining in the game. Rutgers' half-court defense put the clamps down on the Irish offense in the second half holding Carroll to only two second-half points. Thomas was never able to get on track either. as he finished with the 17th season in a row. Notre Dame leads the series 40-16 and has taken each of the past 10. 
Purdue is 1-2 this season and ranked 53rd. The Boilermakers beat Hutter and have taken loss­es to PepperclinB and Northwestern. Purdue will face Western Michigan on Saturday afternoon in a road match before coming to Notre name. 
The Boilermakers have one singles player and one doubles team ranked. Andrew Wakefield is 101st in singles, while Scott Mayer and Dan Swan are 23rd in doubles. Last season, Purdue was 14-9 and finished 55th in the nation. 
The Irish and Boilermakers will meet for the 50th time on Sunday. Notre Dame holds a 41­8 advantage in the series and has won 11 in a row. The teams originally met in 1937 and have played in each of the past seven seasons. In 2001, the Irish gained a tight 4-3 victory. Purdue won the doubles point, but Notre Dame rallied for four singles wins -including a pair in three sets -to take the match. 
only six points, all on free throws. 
"They shut us down for a long time in the second half," said Brey. "They really went after Chris Thomas tonight. I think the law of averages caught up with Chris. He's a tough kid, and he'll bounce back." 
For the second straight game, Notre Dame had to contend with another strong physical post player. Last Saturday, Georgetown's Michael Sweetney scored 35 against the Irish. 
Tonight was Rashod Kent's tum. Kent muscled his way to 18 points, 15 rebounds. four blocks, and four steals. 
Notre Dame's interior defend­ers Ryan Humphrey, Tom Timmermans, and Harold Swanagan tried valiantly to keep the wide-bodied, 6-foot-6. 275 pound Kent from establishing inside position, but Kent was just too tough. 
Despite hitting only two 3­pointers the entire game, the 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish host weekend pair 
By COLIN BOYLAN Sports Writer 
The 18th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team will continue its tough sched­ule, playing host to eighth­ranked Tennessee and No. 51 Brigham Young this weekend at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Notre Dame and Tennessee will meet Saturday at 10 a.m., while the Irish and Cougars will face off Monday at 4 p.m. The match against the Volunteers will mark the third top-10 opponent faced by Notre Dame in the last four matches. 
"I think our experience against top teams this early in tho season will definitely help," said senior Lindsey Green. "The further we get into the season, the better we're going to play together." 
The Irish will need every­one to be on top of their game against Tennessee, who is ranked eighth nationally after being listed sixth in the preseason rankings. 
The Ladv Vols are 4-3 in 2002 heading into their match at Michigan on Thursday. Tennessee's losses 
Irish still only found themselves down seven points with two min­utes remaining in the game. 
When Rashod Kent fouled out, sending David Graves to the free-throw line, the Irish seemed poised to make another come­back. but they would come up just a little short in the end. Graves hit both of his free throws, cutting the Rutgers lead to five. 
Over the next minute and a half, the Irish would whittle the Scarlet Knights' lead down to one after Chris Thomas sank two timely free-throws. The Irish then quickly fouled Rutgers' Mike Sherrod with 26 seconds left. Sherrod nailed both free throws. pushing the Rutgers lead to three, 65-62. 
Out of timeouts, Notre Dame looked confused on their next position and quickly turned the ball over. With 14 seconds left, Rutgers freshman Ricky Shields missed two free throws, giving the Irish one final hope to tie the have all come to teams cur­rently ranked in the top six in the nation. 
The team boasts an impres­sive singles lineup consisting of All-American Alison Ojeda (16th in the nation). Vilmarie Castellvi (20th), Kim Gates {66th) and Agnes Wiski (77th). 
Against such a formidable lineup, the Irish will need to fully utilize their singles depth. but the team believes it's only a matter of time before that happens. 
"Everyone on this team is so good that they can play with anyone else," said Green. "rt's only a matter of having everyone in a position where they fer,! comfortable." 
The Irish and Lady Vols will meet for the 13th time and the ninth time in the past 10 seasons. Tennessee leads the series 8-4 and has won three of the last four meetings. 
The Irish arc 3-5 against the Lady Vols in the Jay Louderback era. Last year. Tennessee defeated Notre Dame 6-1 in Knoxville, Tenn. Notre Dame's only point came at No. 6 singles where Kimberly Guy gained a victo­ry. 
game. With three seconds left to go, Chris Thomas' 3-point shot from the corner rimmed out, giv­ing the Scarlet Knights the 65-62 victory. 
"We put ourselves in a position to win at the end of the game," said Brey. " Rutgers was a very confident team tonight. We gave ourselves a chance, but we just came up a little short." 
Ryan Humphrey led the way for the Irish, registering the 23rd double-double performance of his career. Humphrey finished with 18 points and 19 rebounds. Rashod Kent was the leading scorer for Rutgers with 18, while Rickey Shields chipped in 16. 
The Irish will not have a lot of time to recover from the loss. On Sunday, Notre Dame returns home to fa.ce Syracuse at the Joyce Center. The Irish will be looking to avenge an earlier 56­51 road loss to the Orangemen. 
"I love our team. We have been playing great lately," said Coach Brey. "We don't want to 
ThA Lady Vols rnturned their entire starting lineup for 2002. 
The team's Sunday match against Brigham Young does not figure to be as difficult. but the Cougars are no slouch either. 
BYU is currently ranked 51st, but a disappointing 1-4 start dropped them from their preseason position of 35. 
The Irish and the Cougars will meet for the ninth time overall and the eighth in the last nine years. Notre Dame has won five of the previous eight meetings, including each of the last three. BYU won the initial meeting in 1991. 
·Notre Dame may have home court advantage on its side. This will mark only the second trip for the Cougars to Notre Dame. In the only other visit. BYU lost 9-0 in 1999. 
Contact Colin Boylan at 
cboylan@nd.edu. 
be swept by Syracuse on Sunday. I know we will be excited to play. and I know our fans will be excited as well." 
Game Notes: 
. 
With the loss Thursday. the Irish fell into a second place tie with Syracuse in the Big East West Division. 

. 
Despite the loss. the Irish still appear to be in good position to make the 64-team NCAA tour­nament with an RPI ranking of 25. 

. 
Thursday's game marked the eighth consecutive time the Irish have lost on national televi­sion, dating back to the end of the 2000-'01 season 

. 
Sunday's. game against Syracuse will be televised on ABC, with coverage beginning at 


3:30 EST. 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 
4 and 9-bedroom hOuses. 
Call Bill at 532-1896 
2­story, 3 bedrms, formal dining & liv­ing rooms. All appliances good. Carpeting & drapes throughout. Many closets. Gas heat & upper and lower air conditioners Finished basement w/pool table 
Call 574-234-9782. 
Lost Gold Cross w/ Rhinestones 
Sentimental Value 
Please call 634-4464 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Womens reading glasses with tortoise shell rims. Lost between Nieuwland & Campus Ministry on Jan. 30. Email: emcnas­sa@nd.edu 
WANTED 
TestMaster is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1-800-929-7724 
TestMasters is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. 
$10/hr. 1-800-929-7724 
IM LAX officials needed. Good 
Pay!! Some exp. necessary. 
Contact Tara Fisher@ 1-3536. 
FOR SALE 
92 Eagle Summit (Mits. Mirage) Ssp. loaded, bright red, clean comfy, $2650. 
Parked 82 n. end. 1 ·4639 
Collectors plates -Avon, Norman Rockwell. All in perfect condition with boxes and papers. Chnstmas Past, Easter and Mothers Day plates also available. Call 574·234·9782. 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
5 mins trom ND 14-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291­2209 THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU­DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT AREA 2773097 
SUPER HOME GREAT AREA CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STU­DENTS 2773097 
MMMRentals.com 
3­bdrm. 1-1 /2 bath tri-level, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage, fenced yard. A/C, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
New 3-4 bdrms, 3-bath homes fea­luring lireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, tamily room. 10x20 deck, 2-car garage. $1500/mo. 
Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
3· 4 person house, Close to campus, c/a Available June 1 
Call 219-298-3800 Room in DC. 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-conditioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M, 1F) Safe neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1/2 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/month + 1/4 utilties, call Michelle 202/829-3725, or krup78@hotmail.com 
River Condo For Rent $1050 MO 
Mishawaka 219-532-1537. 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 
www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1 · 7819. 
For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 
1-800-234-7007 
www.endlesssummertours.com 
ADOPTION Young. loving happily married couple interested in adopt­ing a baby. 
Please call Matt & Robin 1-800-484-6411 Pl N#6463 
Good luck to the mens and womens basketball teams. 

Friday, February 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Woinen's 
continued. from page 20 
and triple jump. After struggling a little at the begin­ning of the season. Volkmer took first place in both events at the Meyo Invitational. 
"I am a little nervous because the first two meets were a little rough. But it's all looking uphill now," saicl Volkmer. 
The women's sprinting corps will be sending seven runners, under the senior leadership of Liz Grow, who currently holds the 111.h best time in the country in the 400-meter dash. This is the fourth year in a row Grow has made it to the conference meet. where she took second in the 400 her first two years and won it last year. Grow is also a mernbf'r of the nationally ranked mile relay team that will also be competing this weekend. 
Joining Grow in the sprinting events are Amanda Alvarez, Ayesha Royd. Kristen Dodd, Tiffany Gunn, Kymia Love and Latasha Steele. 
As a sophomore, Boyd in particular has had con­siderable success this year going into the conference meet. She took first in the 60-meter dash at the Meyo lnvilational aud is also part of the mile relay team. 
"It seems like every meet my time has gone down faster and I've matured in so many ways. l\ly goal 
[this weekend] is to get a medal in the individual races," said Boyd. 
In the distance events. Notre Dame will be sending nine women to New York: Jennifer Fibuch, Kristin Flood, Jennifer Handley, Megan Johnson, Lauren King, Kerry Meagher, Ana Morales, Jill Van Weelden and Katie Wales. 
Leading the distance team is the junior Handley who is competing in the 3,000-meter and 5,000­meter runs this weekend. 
This year Handley is only four seconds off a nationally qualifying time in the 3,000-meter. 
"I want to run my personal best this week in the 5,000 and the 3,000. That would be ideal for me. I would love to make nationals: that would be my goal right now. Hopefully we will come out on top too," said Handley. 
Rounding out the women's squad are the seven women of the field events. 
Joining Volkmer and Tameisha King will be Natalie Hallett, Jennifer Kearney, Betsy Lazzeri, Emily Loomis, and Kaitlin Meiser. Emily Loomis is less than two inches from nationally qualifying in the high jump. Kearney, Lazzeri, and Meiser join Loomis in the high jump, Notre Dame's deepest event 
Contact David Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 

I GR an entire Month of bed~for only $40.. I I AND when YOIJ bring in this coupon get 281'4, off our wide selection of tanning lotions( I 
I 272-7653 NEW University Loc:ation Stat.e ~oaGl 2B & lronwG>Od. I I.. 256-9656 cor:n-r of Gr:ape and MeK_lnley 291-2000 5ouThland Plaza Ireland fi!c Ironwood · 
----·-,.... -----~----........ ---. ...ii. -------_ J 

Friday the 15th @ 11:00pm -1:00am LaFun second floor Notre Dame Room 
Sponsored by student activities. Call 1-7308 for info. 
Men's 
continued from page 20 
features the deepest contin­gent of athletes traveling to New York this weekend. Of the 32 athletes that have qualified for the conference meet, 15 of them are in the distance events. 
Behind Shay and Watson. sophomore Kevin Somok looks to get a victory at the confer­ence meet this weekend. 
"Last year as a freshman I wasn't really sure what to expect, and I was kind of wide-eyed. And this year I know what its all about and I hope to make some more noise. Certainly qualify for the final and score some points," said Somok. 
Somok is also part of the dis­tance medley team that is cur­rently ranked third in the country, but will not race this weekend. Joining Somok on the medley team are freshman Eric Morrison, Watson and sophomore James Bracken. 
Seniors Sean Zanderson, Tom Lennon, and Pat Conway add depth to the long distance corps. Zanderson, who has run a personal best 4:09 mile this year, will be running in the mile, and Lennon and Conway will most likely be running in the mile. 
Also strengthening the dis­tance team are Morrison and sophomore Todd Mobley. Morrison ran a stellar 1: 51 800-meter run against Michigan State earlier in the year, and Mobley ran a fourth­place 4:07 mile in the Meyo Mile at the Meyo Invitational. 
The sprinters are led by a contingent of underclassmen this year. Freshmen Dwight Ellick, Trevor McClain-Duer and Bracken look to score points for the sprinters. Ellick will be running in the 60-and 200-meter dashes, McClain-
The Uni..-enity n-f Notre O,une Department of :O,.tui.ic l"T,esenl1. 
'Vir1H1e5 S{,-fi.rf 
CLaude-Cym.e:rm.ax
_jl«KfJ 
Perfonning works by Bach, Chopjn, l-Va.g.ner, Liszt and Stravinsky 
!/,c co,i.cmSatJ<,-da,y, ;re/,rxa,y -t6, 2002 11:oo_JHL, .!An11en.bc3 a,,d;toriH.m. 
..).,{,,ufrr c~I' ::rrld4.Y, ~J,n,,uy ~5, 2002 -10 l!f.Nt, ,!;lx.xtxbc-ra 91.H.rliltJr,i(JI( 
:Free and (?Jen. to t/..c'YxMic 
Duer will run in the 500, and Bracken will compete in the 400. 
McClain-Duer won the 500­m eter run at the Windsor Team Challenge last week and looks to improve on that this weekend. 
"I was really happy to get my first [collegiate] win. I've been getting better and better as the weeks go on. I'm hoping that I get all Big-East, that's my goal." said McClain-Duer. 
McClain-Duer also feels con­fident his team can win. 
"We have a really good chance of winning the team competition. And we have a pretty balanced distance and sprints corps. So if everyone wins like they can, we can win it," said McClain-Duer. 
In the field events, seniors Josh Heck and Quill Redwine lead the team. Heck is cur­rrmtly ranked 10th in the Big East in the pole vault. He took second in the pole vault last year. 
Redwine has been discour­aged with injuries the past two years, but he still looks to get points for the team. Last year he was having trouble with his right knee, and this year he has been having problems with his left ankle. 
The Irish will need strong performances in all events if they want to beat defending champion Georgetown. The Hoyas have kept the Irish from winning the conference meet three times, winning the con­ference meet the last four years. 
The Big East conference meet begins Friday night and concludes Saturday night. 
Contact David Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 

:-----------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 15, 2002 
WINTER OLYMPICS 
Le May Doan skates to second gold medal 
tightened up after 300 meters, so "I actually think I have a lot of Associated Pre5s 
she _just focused on doing enough speed considering how little I've to win the gold. worked the la.st few days," Witty SALT LAKE CITY 
"I knew with about 50 meters said. "I feel comfortable with Bonnie Blair can rest easy. that."
to go, it was enough," she said. Catriona Le May Doan won't be "It wasn't a great race." Witty won the only two going for a third straight gold Le May Doan was an over­American specdskating medals medal. whelming favorite in the 500. at Nagano four years ago. She 
The Canadian became just the She arrived at Salt Lake City still has lingering doubts about second woman to repeat as 500-having won 18 or her last 19 how she'll perform in the 1,000 mcter speedskating champion on 
races. including all six World and 1.500. her stronger races. Thursday night, putting her Cup events this season. "When you rest. the one thingwithin one gold of matching "I hope with this medal people you lose first is the strength," Blair's three Olympics streak. are sort of re-encouraged." Le Witty said. "I havma't had time to 
"People ask me all the time if I May Doan said. "The Olympics do a lot of' speed work. so doing 
compare myself to Bonnie Blair," are not even half-over. They'rn races is going to hdp me. I just Le \1ay Doan said. ''Not at all. just beginning. WP. can still have hope that'll be enough. Each We're two completely dif'fenmt a great competition." race I get better, so hopefully by 
people. She's an amazing Garbrecht-Enfeldt, skating in the 1,000, J'II have it... skater." 
the final pair with Le May Doan. 
So is Le May Doan, who insists clinched second place with a run 
that she won't be coaxed into Men's figure skating free skate 
of 37.60. She picked up her sec­
pursuing Blair's record of three More Hussian gold in Olympic
ond Olympic medal 10 years
in a row. set in 1988. '92 and figure skating -this time with
after the first, having won a 
'94. perfection, not controversy. 
bronze in the 1.000 at 
The 31-vear-old. who carried Alexei Yagudin won his duel
Albertville. 
the !lag fo1· Canada in the open­with teammate and rival Evgeni
"It's really hard to put into ing ceremony, plans to retire Plushenko. and Tim Goebel fin­
words," she said. "It's been a 
after next season. ished third, the first time since
tough, long time since I won that 
"This is over and above anv­1992 that an American man won
medal." 
thing I ever dreamed of'." she a medal in the event.
Garbrecht-Enfeldt finallysaid. "You get to the point where Yagudin received all 5.9s on
claimed a 500 medal after finish­
you want to do other things." the scoreboard -except for four
ing sixth in 1994 and eighth four Le May Doan crossed the line perfect 6.0s for artistry. 
years ago.
in 37.4G seconds. giving her an Goebel showed whv he is the
Volker earned her first aggregate time in the two-day "Quad King." becoming the first
Olympic medal and will be one of 
event of 1 minute, 14. 75 ser,­Olympian to hit three of the four­
the contenders in the 1,000, onds. along with Garbrecht-Enfeldt nwolution jumps in tho games. She easily clefoated a pair of He also displayed improved
and Le May Doan. 
Germans. Monique Garbrecht­artistry in becoming the first
The top two finishers from the Enfeldt (1:14.94) won the silver American to win a medal since
first day held their position. but 
and Sabine Volker (1:15.19) took Paul Wvlie won silvr.r at Urn
Andrea Nuyt of the Netherlands the bronze. Albertvillr. Games. 
dropped from third to fourth Surprisingly, Le May Doan "I skated as well as I can skatf',
aft.er a slight slip on the final failed to break her own world and I was just so happy to go out
turn. causing her left hand to 
record of 37 22. even though she there and put it out under prns­the "Man in the Iron Mask." won the gold medal here," he
scrape the ice. 
finished on the more favorable surc," Goebel said. wearing a costume with a said.
Volker moved up from fifth to 
outer lane. She did leave with a As for getting a medal, he bronzed breast plate and wield­His head was buried in his
third. beating Nuyt by 0.18 sec­pair or Olympic records: 37.30. added: ''I was sweating it a little ing an imaginary sword as he hands while the 5.9s and (,.Os
onds. 
set Wednesday. and a two-day bit." flashed around the ice. 11ashed across the scoreboard.
"When I finished I didn't think 
total that eclipsed her mark of But when Alexander Abt and When the 21~year-old Yagudin He became the first man at any
I had won a medal," said Volker. 
1:16.60 from four years ago. Takeshi Honda couldn't match was done. he collapsed to his Winter Olympics to score more
who was fourth in the 1,000 at 
"I would have loved for the Goebel's performance, he was on knees, then kissed the ice. 1-lfl than one G.O.
Nagano. "I said, 'Oh my god.
record to drop again." Le May the podium. knew this was a moment of' a "I was just thinking of' the hard
please don't let me be fourth 
Doan said. "I didn't race my best, Yagudin stood proudly on the lifetime. and by the time he times I went through," said
place again."' 
so I wasn't able to break my The Americans were not a fac­top step as the third straight reached the "Kiss and Cry" area. Yagudin. who had a high fever in record." · tor. Hussian men's champion. For he was bawling. Nagano and was plagued by This was the second straight the three-time world champion The quirk-witted Yagudin, who injuries last season. "Last season
Chris Witty. still weak after a 
event in which the previous who finished fifth at the Nagano spends much of his lime in the was like hell. but I am strong
bout with mononucleosis. was 
world record stood up. So much Games, it was a dynamic show­· United States, said he was show­and Ijust showed tl~al.
14th out of 31 skaters with a 
for those predictions that all 10 ing. ing his appreciation for his part­"It is one ofmy best."
time of LlG.73. The 500 is not 
marks would fall on the fast ice Ile nailed everything, including time home. And one of the best the
her best event. but she wanted to 
of the Utah Olympic Oval. two quads, one as part of a "I just fell to my knees and kiss Olympir,s have ever seen.
use it as a warmup for Sunday's
Le May Doan said her legs three-jump combo. Ile skatBd as tlrn ice because I live hern and
1,000. 


OLYMPIC FIGURE SKATING 
IOC may consider awarding two gold medals 
award the gold to Jamie Sale should not consider awarding Gougne is at the center of the But Thursday, Gailhaguet
Associated Press 
and David Pelletier. who nar­a second gold medal." controversy in Salt Lake City. said his remarks had been rowly lost to the Russians in a It's happened before. Didier Gailhaguet, head of misinterpreted.
SALT LAKE CITY questionable vote. In 1993. the IOC awarded a the French Olympic committee "I totally reject the interpre­

Two gold medals? 
"Nothing is impossible," second gold medal in synchro­and the country's figure skat­tation placed on words attrib­The International Olympic Ottavio Cinquanta told NBC nized swimming from the ing federation, told an uted to me," Gailhaguet said in
Committee wouldn't rule out Sports. "We do not understand Barcelona Games to Canada's Associated Press reporter she a statement released by thethe possibility that a second 
why we should be deciding Sylvie Frechette. The IOC's was pressured before she French National Olympic
gold medal could be awarded 
something so important as a executive board agreed voted for the Russians on Committee. 1-!e did not elabo­to the Canadian pairs skaters 
medal in one day. We want to Frechette was placed second Monday night. rate. 
as a way to end the judging 
make the proper decision. It is because of a judging error and During an interview in Le Gougne is one of five
controversy that has marred not easy." should have been awarded the French. he said she was judges who favored thethe sport and dominated the Canadian officials said they gold. "somewhat manipulated," but Russians despite the couple's
Winter Games. 
don't want Elena Berezhnaya The decision came after the he denied any wrongdoing by obvious technical error. That"The IOC will consider any 
and Anton Sikharulidze Canadian swimming federa­his federation. was enough for a 5-4 decision.
request from the ISU," presi­
stripped of the gold medal, but tion protested because a, "Some people close to the She voted along with thedent Jacques Rogge said, 
they believe Sale and Pelletier Brazilian judge was not judge have acted badly and majority, which included for­
referring to the International should be rewarded if any evi­allowed to correct the 8.7 have put someone who is hon­mer Eastern bloc members
Skating Union. 
dence of wrongdoing is uncov­score she mistyped into her est and upright but emotional­Russia, Poland. Ukraine and
IOC member Kevan Gosper 
ered. computer. The intended 9. 7 ly fragile under pressure," China.
said the committee hasn't dis­
"We are not here to pull would have given Frechette Gailhaguet said Wednesday International Skating Unioncussed such a proposal, but 
someone down, we are here to the gold. The IOC's decision night. "We cannot continue to rules prevent judges from
added, 'Tm not saying it can't 
pull somebody up," said did not affect Kristen Babb­let our judge be lambasted in commenting publicly about
happen." · 
Michael Chambers. president Sprague of the t.:nited States, this way. What is true is that their decisions. Le Gougne
The head of the skating 
of the Canadian Olympic who was originally awarded Marie-Heine has been put refused to accept calls to her
union said it would be "very 
Association. "We see no rea­the gold and kept her medal. under pressure. which pushed hotel.
difficult, not impossible," to 
son why the council of the ISU French judge Marie-Heine Le her to act in a certain way." 

Friday, February 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
ND VOLLEYBALL 


Belles look to send seniors out with win 
NOTRe Dame

Dance Spectru111 
Friday & Saturday, Feb.15 & 16 at 7 PM Sunday, Feb. 17 at 2:30 PM * O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Campus Mznzsny 
For ticket information contact ,.;,,.,.,,.,c....,.~ the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
1M8_3{-'Jk.,/ 
InTe"ffflSbzp P-rwq-Ram
284-4626 ~:O~/:.~,IN 
South Bend's Best Breakfast and Lunch 
127 S. Michigan 288 -PEEP 

LeBntnch LeLttrich 

Saint Mary's College Program in Dance presents 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's does not want to remember the last time they faced KalamaLoo. In late January the Belles traveled to Kalamazoo and came back with a 7 4-51 conference loss. 
This time the game is at Saint Mary's, it's the seniors' last reg­ular season home game and the Belles want revenge. 
But, for the Belles to get their revenge, they need to accom­plish a few goals, one of which is trying to contain Kalamazoo's Nikki Grubb. 
''They havo a transfer that came in, she's a fifth vear senior, Nikki Grubb, who· just had a really good game against us," said head coarh Suzanne Smith. "They just put on the defensive pressure a little bit, and 
handle it. We just have to be stronger with the ball and more confident." 
The Belles will also need to rebound better which they have struggled with for most of the season. Heading into this week­end's final game. the Bel!f1s are dead last in the conference in rebounding. 
"What should help is that we have a lot more height than they du," said Smith. "They are a lit­tle bit quicker, which is what hurt us last time. So we should have some height, so lwe can] hopefully work the ball inside and bfl able to get the rflbound." 
Kalamazoo presents another problem in that they lead the conference in 3-point shooting and field goal percentage. 
Saint Mary's will try to neu­tralize Kalamazoo's outside shouting by getting the ball to their two top scores. senior co­captain Anne Blair and fresh­man forward Emily Creachbaum. Blair is coming off of a 22 point, 10-for-16 shooting performance Wednesday versus Albion. 
For seniors Blair, Jamie Dineen and Elizabeth Linkous. it will be their last home game as Saint Mary's basketball players. Everyone on the team wants to send the girls out as winners. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettle@nd.edu. 



b'~:i Sinus Infection ~ Research Study INOW enrolling! 
Have you been suffering from any of the following symptoms for at 
least the past weelo: but less than a month? 
• Yellow-to-green discharge from nose 
• Pain, pressure or tightness on cheeks 
• Nasal congestion Ifyou answered YES and you are older than 18 years ofage, you may be eligible to participate in astudy evaluating a research medication for sinus infections. Volunteers participating in the study 
will receive 
• Associated medical care 
• Study medicine 

If you are interested or would like to leam more, please contact Irene Ege at (219} 239-1576, Robs. (219} 237-9337 
. 
A post-graduate one year internship with Campus Ministry for one male and one female. August 15, 2002 -May 30, 2003 

. 
Work in and learn from a creative and dynamic ministry environment. 

. 
Housing and monthly stipend provided. 


This internship is ideally designed for students who are discerning a career in ministry and who have a special interest in Religious Studies. 
For further information and an application, please contact 
John or Sylvia Dillon at 
631-7163. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
...:. 


Friday, February 15, 2002 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish start season against top-ranked Wildcats 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sporrs Writer 
Not many teams would look forward to starting the season with a new coach, a heavy reliance on freshman pitching shortstop. Moving from first to third base is junior Andrea Loman. Her career fielding per­centage of .986 is second all­time. Alexis Madrid ,.viii be the second baseman for the third consecutive year. 
Along with returning junior 
winning streak. In thn national polls, thri team peaked at No. 8. 
In last year's opening tourna­ment in Florida, Notre Dame started off 5-0 with two upset victories. Thev look to continue that early season SUCt.;eSS in Arizona. · 
"\!Ve feel it is very important to get off to a strong start," said Myers. "Getting experience and being prepared for the Big East season is the main purpose for these prcseason tournaments." 
The Irish will face Auburn, Louisville, New Mexico State, and No. 25 South Florida this weekend. But first, the Irish have their big test against No. 1 Arizona on Friday. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mloz¥@nd.edu. 

and playing its first game pitcher Jessica Sharron. who 
against the defending national onlv appeared in seven games ******************************************************* 
* * 
champions and preseason No. l. · last season, Rut that scc>­the Irish * *
* f%I * 
nario doesn't "We feel it is very will rely on * * bother the f\otre important to get ojJto a two fresh­i* Interested in being a *i
Dame softball man pitch­team. strong start. " e r s 
This weekend, Freshmen * @ * 
* * 
the Irish start Sleffany
Jarrah Myers * * 
their season in Stenglein * * 
Tucson, Arizona Irish senior and Carrie : SMC C1ass Officer in$ at the Arizona Wisen will 
: 2002-2003? !
Pepsi Classic. play major Despite a school-best prcsea­roles in the Irish pitching rota­
* * 
son ranking of No 14, the Irish tion this year. Stenglcin and * *
* * 
do not foel intimidated hy the v\'isPn, both from California, ! Then come to one of the mandatory ! Wildcats. bring the Irish total from the 
! informational meetings held: !
"We look at it as a challenge, state lo seven. 
* * 
bul it's just not another game When fonner coach Liz Miller 
* * 
for us," said captain Jarrah retired after t!Hl 2001 cam­* 18th *
! Monday, February @ 6: 30 in !
Myers. "We are just as good as paign, top assistant Deanna 
* ~ * 
them. WP feel as ir we are on Gurnpf' took ovi•r the team. ! Room 303 Haggar ! the sanrn level as them." Since Gumpf has been with the 
* Or * 
The Irish return almost their team during the past four sea­
* 19th * 
entire infield, headlined by sons·. the transition for the team ! Tuesday, February @ 5: 30 pm in ! Myers. The captain catcher was easier than most coaching !* Haggar Parlor !* committncl just four errors last changes. year vvhile batting a team-lead­"It hasn't been that different * * ing .380. She was recently from last season," Myers said. !* Tickets for class elections are ! * named the 2001-02 Big East "[Coach Gump!'] has b!!en 
Aeropostale Female Scholar­great." ;* composed President, Vice President,!* Athlete of the Year. Last season, tlrn Irish had 
! Treasurer and Secretary. ! 
Junior Andria Bledsoe, after their best season in school his­
* * 
two seasons at third base, torv. Thev compiled a 54-7 
* * 
moves to lrnr natural position of record that included a 33-game * *
! Only l person from each ticket is ! 
FILE TAX RETURN ONLINE 
Refund in about 14 days with direc! deposit 1040EZ -$9.95 1040A -$14.95 Log ontowww.l040.com/ctstax 

! required to attend the meetings !
* Questions? Call Mary Crawford-ext. 4453 * ; Sponsored by SMC Board of Governance ! 
i f%I f%I i 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* * 

Friday, Februaryl5, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
~ :no~ 1=--c-:::e--"',_,.·teY.'h:'.w;,:;p:.l'."::,op,e:·s !.T,'?, t:J;:b~~-:-te,:k...7..Jse,::,: :1,:•:-n: :~e!L,ra to th-:-:J £ fi:<M or r::-:0-z-...,·ui:e::h!X:Si.?C,:0;,e::s. \.t.!: 3:}C o::h,:-:-:-c,x..,,·:l,3;:·;:-of. t:h,.~ w.:-J:J;:;i,.,:~..::r:-:.~:i.-:.. ,:~a-:::-:~:hc:.,,.L~-eCo:,;e:·::-: ::,:~;-x-·d.;,..r1.t.Lon. we -xn:-p:·-:00 ~):, ;:e -:-.n .&.:f;.m•:1t.i·.•e 1\c'..:i,:n -:t-~d ;:;~.:..."l~. ~:«:t~Uty ~:plcy'l:?r, 



InvE~;to.r.s 111.:?"-::!!l amsuran,~:: t«::) rt•:tkf:~ d~=~ci::;:i.{:r.;:::, Hr:?:i.p u;:~ help th?:!n and thE: can~iietni.(:.:s \..,,·hc•se r:;tock they r.iuy, 3tY.l. vJ.;;'11 nr:1lp yr-JU b.ri.ld a ca.....,..x-x-. 
w•-,,,w. pwcglohal. com/lookhere Q.T..co:tJ..Jr.i.ties. Info. i:l'ree tickets. 
Look beyond the nurobr::rs . 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 15, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish look to extend streak without Batteast 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Rutgers Scarlet Knights have a lot going for them as they head ipto a conference face-off against the Irish. They have home-court advantage in an arena the Irish have strug­gled in before, and they have a solid defense and talent that could take off at any moment. 
And the .Irish will be playing without their leading scorer. 
Notre Dame, who is on a six­game winning streak, will be playing in Saturday night's game without Jackie Batteast, who has a partially torn poste­rior cruciate ligament. She tore the ligament during Wednesday's victory against St. John's and will be re-evalu­ated on a weekly basis. 
With Batteast out of the line­up. freshmen Katy Flecky and Teresa Borton arri the proba­ble choices to start in her posi­tion. 
"Katy or Teresa, we'll go with one of those two," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "We feel like we need someone who can score on the block and rebound." 
Fleckv had her first career double:double· on Wednesday off the bench, and Borton has hit double figures in scoring on several occasions this season. 
Despite the fact that playing without Batteast is not the best possible scenario, it does pro­vide some other Irish players a good opportunity to get some playing time. 
"I think everybody's ready to step up and pick their games 
Have an interesting sports story to tell? Call Observer Sports at 1-4543 to get your story out. 
up," senior Ericka Haney said. 5-2 all-time against the Irish "There are a lot of people who on their court, and handed haven't had the opportunity to Notre Dame its first loss of the 
play a lot." season last 
"I think, actually. it's a great opportu­"/ think everybody's nity right 
ready to step up and pick
now," McGraw 
their games up. They 're 
said. "I feel that at this are a lot ofpeople who point in the 
haven't had the opportu­
season some­
nity to play a lot. " 
times you rely too heavily on someone, so Ericka Haneythis is a great 
Irish senior
time for Kelsey 
year at Louis B r o w n Athletic Center. "I think Rutgers is a very hostile place to play," Haney said. "Every year we've gone there, it's always been a hard test. I think we have to be focused 
[Wicks], Allison [Bustamante! and ready to play. I think that and Katy [Fleckyl I've been will be the key to the game." saying all year I've got too many good players, I can't get them all in the game. Now I can get them in the game." 
Rutgers (7-16, 4-8) is 11th in the Big East. However, their solid defensive play may prove to be tough competition fur the Irish. 
"They play great defense and they want a low-slwring gamo," McGraw said. "And [Wicks], [Bustamante!. and [Hecky] are more offensively­minded so I think it's going to be a great opportunity for them, hopefully if [Rutgers! plays .~one, to get a lot of threes. 
But Rutgers' biggest advan­tage is playing on ils home court. The Scarlet Knights are 
"A-FRIEND" 
DRIVER TUTORING 
• Specia/i;ed to Individual Need • 
~ 
Free Orientation • Free Pick-up Friendly Prices • Friendly Service Instructor >Mth 1O+ years Experience 
Gene Eckerley -Mishawaka 
Learn to Drive with "A-Fl/END" 
CALL (574) 250-2761 
geneinc@juno.com 
<AHST LESSON ffiEE wmt lHIS AD > 
Private Transportation Service Available Individuals, Sm. Groups -Airport Assist 
Like Notre Dame, Rutgers has a sole senior this vear. Five freshmen arc on the Scarlet Knights' roster, and the fact that they're rebuilding is pretty clear. After finishing last season 25-8, the Scarlet Knights are only 7-16 this sea­son. 
But McGraw thinks that the tallrnt on thr Hutgcrs team could break out at any time, and for that reason, her team has to stay focused. 
"They're very talented," McGraw said. "They have a lot of freshmen, a lot of new play­ers and they haven't seemed to gel as a team yet. So I think they have the talent. They have the talent and at any time they 
could put it together." Tip off is at 8 p. m. on Saturday. 
Note: 
. Freshman guard Allison Bustamante is probable for Saturday. After suffering a sprained ankle in Wednesday night's game, she was on the court for prai;tice on Thursday. 
Junior guard Jeneka Joyce is still questionable for play. Still bothered by an Achilles injury, she sat out practice on Thursday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Well maintained houses near campus 
• 
W;1shers and dr)'ers provided 

• 
Sccuritr systems 

• 
24-hour maintenance staff 


• Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, 4-, 5-, 6-& S:bedroom houses 
On.' 7 left for tbe 2002-2003 sc/Jool year 
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571 



Friday, February 15, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
-


RYAN

TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED

FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 
V~le'\\te.'~ Da.y S&,e.s to.1 ~, ,~ A+~(?J-h\C).tl 

BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 

..., 

HA! YOO OARE THE 
KING of ICICLE FENCING.' 

NOTRE DAME SPORTS WEEKEND 
/RISH TENNIS /RISH HOOPS 
.,..... -'5 ~[E:~~~ ~~-ffi\0..0.. 
-

Sil</., q.r:IJ. t6 Sil 1., q.c11. 16 VS. <JCJihE:SSU: VS. WJSefJJvSJh ---~lffll 10.-00 llM 2..-00 PM a.5111Aa15E 
~ 
S:301'11

ALL TENNIS MATCHES 
SUJV., tf/.C/1, 17 
WILL TAKE PLACE AT 
VS. PUR31J Wt 
(]f)COME WATCH THE llilSH IN THEIR
THE ECK TENNIS PAVILION 1:00 PM RACE FOR THE BIG EAST CROWN! 
; 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Words from 1 Assortment Caesar 9 Nickelodeon's 33 Boombox button parent 
35 Turkey part 15 Kind of 
37 Onetime 

correspondence 
celebrated 16 As a precaution movie couple 
17 Noted judge 
41 Like some 18 It acts on income impulse 
42 Partner of plata19 Wall St. news 
43 Pop music's 

20 Marked by 
Vanilli 

turmoil 
44 White House 

22 Literary 
financial grp.

monogram 
46 Something to let

23 15th-century 
off

vessel 
50 Grade sch. subj. 

25 Manifesto writer 
51 Chronicles

of 1848 27 Churchyard tree 
54 Prefix with centric

in "Romeo and Juliar 55 Cobb and 28 Story1eller of Hardin yore 56 Land of Canaan 30 Assent 58 Gymnast's goal 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
59 They may be found in long halls 
62 Academic work 64 Ones in an instituteur's care 65 Old-fashioned 
gathering 66 Kind of value 67 Orphans, often 
DOWN 
1 Tirsode_, Spanish dramatist who introduced Don Juan to literature 
2 Where to find baked blackbirds 3 Elementary 
gases 4 And more 5 Executes 6 Nightcluo 7 B.C. eulogist 8 37-Across in 
"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" 9 Collectible records 
10 Dvorak's Symphony No.9_minor 
pressure 12 Tote 13 Pavarotti 
standard 14 Haberdasher's stock 
Shadow" 24 Like a major artery 

26 Instruments with 47 Unabridged 53 •-Evil" (Mia teakwood necks 
Farrow film) 48 Latin song 29 Midwest city starter 57 Arctic native founded as Fort 49 Receipts 60 Lab cells
Clark 32 Western critter 52 Friendly goblin 61 Sniggler's catch 34 Atlanta's in Scandinavian 63 Work at Center folklore lacemaking 36 Z preceder 37 False directions, Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 
e.g. _ available by touch-tone phone: 
38 Balancing act? 1·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 39 Enjoys Annual subscriptions are available for the 40 Ages best or Sunday crosswords from the last 50 45 Trumpeted years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2002 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jane Seymour, Bran­don Boyd, Renee O'Connor, Matt Groening 
Happy Birthday: Greater inter­action with other family members will result in a closer bond this year. You will become emotional if you have a concern with family finances but if you put your mind to it you can tum your financial sit­uation around. You have the know-how, so believe in yourself and push your plans into motion Your numbers are 7, 12, 22, 34, 38, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get involved in investments that you know will pay off. Real estate will be profitable. Your involve­ment in groups will bring you added popularity due to your energetic nature and enormous contributions.000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take an early look at your taxes and find ways to invest wisely and save yourself some money. Don't Jet someone you work with cause emotional upset 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Relationships will be going through changes. Acceptance will be the key to moving forward in a positive manner. You will find yourself involved in a worthy cause that will raise your self­esteem and your popularity. 
0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let anyone get the better of you today. You may be emotional and oveneact to comments made if you aren't careful. 00 
LEO '(July 23-Aug. 22): You've got the goods, so go after your goals. It's time to revamp your financial future. Your popularity will grow if you are generous and 
Birthday Baby: You have no problem dealing with others. You intu­itively know what others need and therefore should achieve tremendous success throughout your life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) e 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
sincere in your gestures of friendli­ness. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): You should be taking a closer look at your financial situation You may need to update some of your investments or your personal papers. Don't let your health suffer because you are putting in long hours or not eating properly. 000 
UBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Part­nerships may not go according to plan. If something doesn't work out. it will be to your benefit in the Jong run. Bide your time. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
You can make gains if you socialize with colleagues, clients or employ­ers today. Your genuine warmth and sincere desire to lend a helping hand will be your ticket to future advancement 000 
SAGITTARIUS {NO\t 22.-Dec. ZI): 
You'll be in a social mocxl, so make sure that you have lots of entertain­ing plans made in advance. You will dazzle those around you with your wit, charm and worldly knowledge. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Be careful: The emotional well­being of those you have to deal with may be close to the edge. Prcr ceed with caution instead of hav­ing regrets later. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have so much to offer so stop sitting back and letting everyone else enjoy the praise that you should be receiving. Take the initia­tive and step into a leadership position 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Take your time and refrain from 
letting anyone put too many 
responsibilities on your shoulders. 
You have a good heart but that 
doesn't mean you should Jet others 
take advantage of you. 000 


O
THE
National Sports Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. Olympic Speedskating, p. 14 
. ND Women's Basketball, 
. 
Olympic Figure skating, p. 18 

p. 
14 . ND Softball, p. 16 


. SMC Basketball, p. 15

PORTS 
. NO Tennis, p. 12 

Friday, February 15, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Rutgers ends Irish streak 

• Irish blow 10-point first half lead in 65-62 loss 
By JOE LICANDRO Sporrs Writer 
What a difference a week makes. 
Last week, Notre Dame blew out Rutgers 89-72, thanks to a career-high 32-point perfor­mance by Irish freshman Chris Thomas. 
Thursday's game was a differ­ent story. 
Chris Thomas did not hit a shot from the field the entire game, as the Irish dropped a 65­62 heartbreaker to the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers in front of a raucous crowd at the Louis Brown Athletic Center. 
The loss snapped a five-game winning streak for the Irish, dropping their overall record to 17-7, and 7-4 in Big East play. 
From the opening tip-off, the Irish knew they would be in for a 
dogfight wi_th the Scarlet Knights. The loud crowd and physical play of the Scarlet Knights made for an extremely hostile environment. 
On Notre Dame's very first basket, Matt Carroll was thrown to the floor after drivi'ng for a lay-up. This type of rough play set the tone for the rest of the game as the Irish struggled to get open looks at the basket. 
"This is the first time we played on the road at an on­campus facility," said Irish head coach MikP Rrey. "Their fans made it really tough on us. Rutgers is a totally different pro­gram this season." 
In the early going, Notre Uame showed no ill-effects of fatigue coming after last Saturday's four overtime thriller against Georgf1town. The Irish appearnd to be well on thAir way to anoth­er route jumping to a quick 10­point lead with eight minutes remaining in the first half. 
Last week's reigning Rig East Player of the week, Matt Carroll, continued his sharpshooting, leading the way in the first half, scoring 13 points on 6-of-9 shooting all in the first ten min­utes of the game. 
"We got off to a great start," said Coach Brey. "I was proud of the way we came out at the beginning of the game, but the crowd and their athleticism kept them in the game." 
Rutgers quickly overcame the ten-point deficit by picking up their defensive intensity on their full-court press. A rare four­point play by Rutgers' Ricky Shields, followed by two consec­utive steals and fast break buck­ets by the Scarlet Knights, cut the Irish lead to two. 
Even though Rutgers' frenetic defensive pressure forced the 
see IRISH/page 12 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish men, women ready for conference meet 
. Young but experienced Irish squad hope to improve on last year's seventh place finish 
By DAYID COOK Sports Writer 

'When the women's track and field team travels to Syracuse this weekend for the Big East conference meet, it will be going with a squad that is both young and experienced. 
Of the 23 qualifiers for this weekend's conference meet, 15 are returning qualifiers from last year's conference team, and only three of the 23 women are seniors. 
Last year's team finished seventh at the meet, and they hope they can improve on that this year. 
"Last year around this time, I went into the conference meet trying to qualify lfor nationals], when now I've already qualified. 
And now I just want to perform well," said junior Tameisha King. 
King has qualified for nationals in the long jump, and she will be competing in both the long jump and the 60-meter hurdles at the conference meet. Last year, she was in the 60-meter hurdles, the long jump, and the 60-meter dash at the Big East meet. 
'Tm not as doing as many events this year. I feel I'm going to do better because of tl1at. My goals this weekend is not only to win, but to qualify Lfor nationals] automati­cally," said King. 
Junior Jamie Volkmer will be joining King in the field events. For Volkmer, this will be the third time she will travel to the confer­ence meet. 
"This year I know more about my compe­tition. and being an upperclassman I feel more comfortable and more confident this year," said Volkmer. 
Volkmer will compete in both pole vault and triple jump. After struggling a little at 
see WOMEN'S/page 13 
. Irish look to win their first Big East Indoor conference meet 
By DAYID COOK Sports Writer 
The men's track and field team has always been right at the front. 
Since the Irish joined the Big East conference in 1996, they have fin­ished in the top three in 11 of the 12 indoor and outdoor track meets. In 2000, I.hey won the conference meet during the outdoor season. 
But the Irish are still looking for a victory at the indoor conference meet where they have taken second place four times, and third place once. This year won't be any easier. 
"When we won by 50 points in out­door [in 2000], I still wasn't confident. 
You have to look at the competition and realize that UConn is tremen­dous, so is Georgetown and Villanova. Rutgers is the team that is the most up and corning in the conference. It's one of the better conferences in the country," said head coach Joe Piane. 
Against the high level of competi­tion that they will see at the confer­ence meet, the Irish will feature a team that is one of the best they have 
. had yet. 
Leading the team is Ryan Shay and Luke Watson: two seniors who have had spectacular indoor seasons so far. Shay is currently third in the country in the 5000-meter run with a time of 13:46.80. Shay is also nation­ally qualified in the 3000. Watson holds the second best time in the country in the 3,000-meter with a time of 7:54.02. 
The Notre Dame distance squad 
see MEN'S/page 13 


. ND Softball at Pepsi/Arizona Classic, Today, 3 p.m. 
0
OBSERVER 

. ND Women's Tennis vs. Tennessee, Saturday, 10 a.m. 
onUnc 

. Men's Tennis vs. Wisconsin, Saturday, 2 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Women's Basketball at Rutgers, Saturday, 8 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 






