
---------·-----------·-­
Authors on display
SNOW 

Monday 

Notre Dame's 35th annual Sophomore Llterary Festival kicks off on 
Wednesday featuring six authors including playwrights and poets. 
HIGH 27° 

FEBRUARY 4, 

Scene . pages 1 O and 11
LOW15° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 76 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


More females seek elected ND offices 
ROOT FOR THE UNDERDOGS 

five _vears. 68.5 percent of the All three of this year's female to run for the office. tickets were all male, 22.5 per­candidates emphasized that "It was very encouraging to cent had a male president run­gender is not the most impor­see that Notre Dame is ready ning with a female vice-presi­tant fact in a ticket's platform for a qualified female presi­dent, seven and a half percent and said they would have run dent. Seeing Brooke succeed had a female this year this year really helped to ener­president regardless of gize me in my decision to run. running with '' ... in the past few years, whether or but it was a very individual a male vice not one of' decision ... if Brooke wouldn't
we really have seen
president and the three have won, I don't think it
females taking many
only one tick­women can­would have been because she's et -two and leadership roles on didates was a woman," said Bishop. a half percent elected this Presidential candidate Nikki
campus.
was all y e a r . McCord, who is running with females. This Presidential vice-presidential candidate year, one tick­Brooke Norton candidate Nick Williams, said last year's et is all male, student body president L i b b y election showed students were one ticket is a Bishop, run-ready for a change. male vice ning with "What I think about Notre president running with a vice-presidential candidate Dame students is that they get female vice president and two Trip Foley, said she felt that in a rut sometimes and they tickets are a female president last year's election helped to with a male vice-president. clear the way for more women 
see FEMALE/page 4 

Zorich's rise from poverty sparks his philanthropy 
The Christopher Zorich FoundationBy JUSTIN KRIVICKAS was established in 1993, and is commit­
News Writer 
ted to the realization of human poten­
tial -mind, body, and spirit. Its mis­
Notre Dame and Chicago Bear foot­sion is 'One Purpose. One Goal.' which ball great Chris Zorich gave a speech is to provide assistance and opportuni­Sunday in the Coleman Morse Lounge ties to disadvantaged Chicagoans. The on the importance of community ser­organization strives to foster a sense of vice. Students clustered around Zorich caring, which crosses race, religious, on couches and chairs as he spoke economic, and social boundaries. about his life growing up in poverty and The foundation runs a food drive, the significance community's assistance awards Notre Dame scholarships, played in his life as a child. donates new toys and clothing to needy 
While Zorich was growing up in the children, sponsors a 5K race, gives cor­far East side of Chicago, his family was sages to women in shelters on Mother's in a state of' poverty. He grew up with a Day. and partakes in various other single mother and only through the activities in the Chicago community. On help of government assistance was the one Thanksgiving, he distributed 97 family able to receive the bare essen­turkeys to needy families in his commu­tials for survival. There were times, nity. explained Zorich, when there was no Zorich told students that to make a food in the house and he would scour difference in someone's life you must the garbage behind the local grocery try to.put yourself'in that person's posi­store for anything edible to eat. Because tion. of the conditions he had to live with, "By understanding your client, you're attending college never crossed his opening your heart to what they had to mind. Yet, fate was on Zorich's side and go through," he said. he was able to play football at Notre Zorich is currently attending law Dame. school at Notre Dame and plans to stay 
"I knew a chance to go to college involved in the betterment ol' would open better opportunities for Chicagoland families in the future. me,'' said Zorich. The lecture was Lhc kPynotc spe11ch 
After college, Zorich was drafted to of the Blessing Unto Others series spon­the Chicago Bears, a thought that he sored by the Notre Dame Stud1!nl did not think would ever be possible. Government. Now in its second year, 
"Playing for the Dears was a dream the Blessing Unto Others Week centers come true," said Zorich. on the goal of raising student aware­
After achieving fame and fortune, ness on campus of how blessed stu­Zorich knew he had a duty to help fami­dents are to be rnemb,~rs of Notre Dame lies that are experiencing the poverty Family. Blessing Unto Others seeks to he faced as a child. motivate the entire student body to 
··1 remember standing in line at our come together each year and raise church waiting for a food basket," said money for a foreign charity that is Zorich. "That makes an impression on served by current Notre Dame students. you when you're a little kid. I promised myself that if I was ever able to help 
Contact Justin Krivickas at
others, 1would. That's why I created 

jkrivick@nd.edu.
The Christopher Zorich Foundation." 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
A.ssiscant News Editor 
One vcar uf'tP.r Nolre Darrrn elcctrct" its first female student body president. half of the four tickets running in this year·s 1ilm,tion fpat.urn a f'Pmale presi­d1)nt and a third tickd has a fpmah• vice-prnsident. 
Student body president Brooke '.'Jorton, who served as vict>-presidPnt last year, said she attributes the changing gender make-up of the tickets to an overall change in the mindset of students about wonum in leadership roles. 
"Our generation has grown up being used to having fomales right next to males in leadership positions ... in the past fow years, we really have s<1cn females taking many lead­ership roles on campus,'' Norton said. 'Tm very proud of Molly Kinder [the f1rst t'emale on the Irish Guard! and Tambrc Paster [the first female head drum major!. It's just a coincidenC'P that I was in the right place at the right time to become Notre Dame's first female president." 
The past five years have seen major changes in the gender make-up of electoral candi­dates. Out of' 80 candidates who ran for election either as president or vice-president in the previous five years, only 14 people, or 18 percent of' the candidates. were females. This year, three out of eight, 37.5 percent arc. In the previous 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Horoscopes that are relevant 

Has anybody seen these horoscopes lately? I have yet to see one of my horoscopes actual­ly be useful or true, rather than the obvious, boring events that happen in everyone's life, every day. I ~ill have an argument with someone today? She must be psy­chic! It's like Eugenia Last dug through a pack of for­tune cookies and ate her way into being an astrologer. My advice for you is that you skip all together the horoscopes for today, and take to 


Adam Turner

heart what the stars are really saying for you. 
Web

Don't worry, I went out­
Administrator

side and checked. What 
follows is what was seen to be the events for today, January 31, 2002. 
Aries -You will find that no one in your Philosophy class appreciated your rendition of the Hall & Oates hit "Maneater." Consider sitting in the back from now on. 
Taurus -You are supremely disappointed when you discover that jotting down the equation "Steak & Shake = Delicious" netted you zero points on your organic chemistry exam. 
Gemini -Lunacy occurs when a situation similar to the Spanish Inquisition occurs, except that the Spaniards are dressed like clowns and are handing out balloon animals rather than executions. 
Cancer -If there's one thing that should be admired, it's courage. Wait, not admired, liked. And not courage, Taco Bell. 
Leo -In a shocking turn of events, you will find that nothing pleases the opposite sex more than a well-timed bout of flatulence. 
Virgo -Although they are in short supply. virgins are preferred to promiscuous youths almost 4 to 1 by professional volcanoes. 
Libra -Now that your nacho influx has reached 47 kilopascals, you find yourself in a Zen-like state, except that you are surround­ed by singing, dancing cans of Spam. 
Scorpio -Disease occurs as you gorge yourself on a turkey sandwich from the din­ing hall along with a bag of medical waste. Don't worry, something had to have been wrong with that turkey. 
Sagittarius -Life slaps you in the face yet again when you discover that you have spent more time in the bathroom in the past week than looking for a job after graduation. 
Capricorn -The smell coming from your ro.ommate 's wardrobe is nothing to be con­cerned about. Just make sure that you help him or her get rid of the body before room inspection. 
Aquarius -New relationships ensue as you clumsily enter class, a little bit late. Henceforth, you will be known as "That jerk that tripped over my bag" to your many fans. 
Pisces -Strangely, you find yourself con­templating rather or not a kumquat belongs in the tuber family as you eat your 400th career tater-tot. Try to keep your mind in the present, man. 
Contact Adam Turner at aturner@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itsc!f as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize thar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ac 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi.hcd Monday dirough Friday ua:pt during exam and vacation period.,. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Pn,.ss. All reproduction rights an: rc1Crved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 

School to begin inflating grade scale 
ST. LOUIS 

For the first time in 22 years, the Washington University School of Law (WUSL) has decided to inflate the grades of its graduating students. The decision, prompted primarily by grade inflation at peer schools as well as an increase in the quality of the School of Law's student body, is aimed at giving more of a competitive edge to WUSL graduates. The grading scale was changed from 65 to 100 with a forced median score of 83 to a scale of 70 to 100 with a forced median of 87. Professor of Law Daniel Keating headed the commission that sought faculty approval. Keating stated that a study conducted by WUSL found that there had been a steady creep in the grades of peer schools over the years. "In a survey that we did of the 35 schools in U.S. News and World Report that we are in the middle of, we looked at schools numbered 10 to 45 and we found that on average the middle score at those peer schools is a B-plus. We did a mini-poll of our employ­ers to ask them what they viewed as an 83. The gen­eral response was a B-minus," said Keating. 
Monday 
. 
Film: "The Killing Floor," 4 p.m., Hesburgh Center 

. 
Review: "Becker Conviser CPA Review." 5:30 p.m. to 10 p.m., Debartolo Rm. 126 


BEYOND CAMPUS 


drugs, particularly protease inhibitors," Craik said. He added these results are "quite disturbing." 
Although the researchers are con­cerned about resistance mechanisms, they hope the data presented in the paper will help scientists to develop more effective treatments. 
"The hope is now we can make new drugs that can attack the mutated virus so no matter how it changes it still [will be treatable] -a master skeleton key of the virus," Craik said. 
UC-Berkeley's chemistry depart-
Wednesday 
. 
Lecture: "Hispanic Self-fashion­ing: The Making of a Mexican­American Middle Classldentity," by Jose Limon, all day, McKenna Hall 

. 
Film: "With a friend like Harry," 9 p.m., Lafortune 


Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Univeristy of California labs study drug resistant HIV 
BERKELEY 

University of California-Berkeley and UC-San Francisco researchers have discovered how HIV becomes resistant to pharmaceutical treat­ments, according to a study published Friday. 
"[Our research] shows that the [Human Immunodeficiency Virus] is really able to mutate dramatically," said professor Charles Craik of the pharmaceutical chemistry department at UCSF, who directed the study. 
The work of Craik and his col­leagues showed that resistance stems from changes in the virus, not changes in tire patient. It also demon­strated how the virus mutates to evade drug treatments. 
"The virus can completely change its form to avoid the effects of these 
Tuesday 

. 
Lecture: "Promoting Security in Central Asia," by Kathleen Collins, 4 p.m., Hesburgh Center 

. 
Event: "Blessing Unto Others Week," 7 to 9 p.m .. Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 


ment developed the technology used by the UCSF team. Professor Jonathan Ellman, director of the project, emphasized the importance of collab­oration to accomplish the study. 
"Science is becoming more and more interdisciplinary," he said. "By working together we were able to develop some things that a lot of peo­ple are using, including [pharmaceuti­cal giant] Merck." 
Stanford University medical profes­sor Thomas Merigan, head of the uni­versity's Center for AIDS Research, said the study may lead to break­throughs in AIDS treatment. 
"The work between the University of California people and ViroLogic is interesting because it's possible it can lead to the development of new drugs that are active against drug-resistant strains of HIV," Merigan said. 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Campus mourns death of student 
COLUMBUS 

While the parents of Christopher "Gersh" Gerspacher make arrangements to lay their son to rest, the Ohio State University community mourns the loss of an incredible student. "[He was] one of the best students I've ever had at OSU," said Ahmad Sikainga, associate professor, who had Gerspacher in several of his classes. Gerspacher, a senior, whose body was found Tuesday in a ravine off of North Old State Road in Delaware County, had been missing since Dec. 22 from his apartment in Columbus. Gerspacher had a great interest in studying African history. "He was a very good student and very seri­ous about his studies," Sikainga said. "He never missed class." Gerspacher spent six weeks in Africa this past summer wlth the OSU Study Tour 2001. "He was close to graduation and [had] applied to grad school," said his father Bob Gerspacher, in a previ­ous interview last month. "He did well this fall quar­ter. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 4. 
40

AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
50s ...... .5r-­


1-:i~=--~~..,...-'\....­
FRONTS: 


............ ------~ 


Cl 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pr,uu,-; 

, High low Shower1 Rain T•1torm1 FIUl'flea snow Ice 
® © . [J [3] D. m .. ..)'.:.::·. 
Atlanta 55 32 Las Vegas 61 54 Portland 47 32 Baltimore 48 36 Memphis 45 38 Sacramento 61 54 Boston 32 22 Milwaukee 31 25 St. Louis 54 43
8,Q,~Q.~Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 29 18 New York 28 12 Tampa 77 61 
Showers T•slorms Rain Flurries Snow Jee Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Houston 62 46 Philadelphia 40 21 Washington DC 44 29
\lio,.._;-p,_~ 
----~--------------------------------­
Few activists protest World Economic Forum 
trations at the international  Chinese government's crack­ disorderly conduct.  the characteristic black and red  
Associated Pres.<  business and political leaders  down  on  their  movement.  Before Sunday, police had  of the anarchy movement.  
NEWYOHK Police guarding the World Economic Forum had the streets around lhe Waldorf-Astoria hotel mostly to themselves Sunday as few protesters braved chilly winds to vent their frus­ inside. A day after about 7,000 activists for various causes massed near the hotel. the only large group was about 150 yel­low-scarvcd members of the, spiritual group Falun Gong, whose protest was aimed at the  Gathered at a designated protest arrested 46 people in the first area two throe days of the blocks forum, which has from the "People cannot even get been t'ree of vio­Waldorf, close to the venue and lence that has t h e y make their voices heard." a cc O m Pan i e dexercised protests at to taped international  Protesters also said tho Sept. 11 terror attacks changed per­spectives. "After Sept. 11, I think people are seeing cops in a different light," said Robert Wing, 19, who said he had attended major protests against international  

HAVE MORE FREEDOM IN YOUR LIFE! LlFE OFF CAMPUS HAS A LOT TO OFFER 




HAVE FREEDOM 

HAVE TRADITIO~ 
HAVE IT Alt AT TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS! 
l.lMiTED SPACES AVAJLABLE! FOIIGIT HOUSING CONTRAC'IS, 
APPLY TO LIVE W!Tf-1 US TODAY! 
P:'.ln-1124 
'tf..Y{W lURTL€CREE~ 
~illiM.\.IB.Il..Kllli~~ 

music, Matthew Pontillo summits in recent economic meetings in Seattle chat led years. and Genoa, Italy. both the
deputy inspector 
w i t h Police and pro­scenes of lixtensivc rioting. police testers say ''Instead of people thinking the a n d changes in tactics police are against us, I think handed and perspectives people now realize that that's ouLlcullets. have kept the streets peaceful. not the case." 
One of the few incidents of In the days before thA forum, Police also made a point of let-property destruction came late police made a pub-t i n g Sunday afternoon about a mile lic display of their protest­to the north. Protesters in an crowd-control . "After Sept 11, I think e r s animal rights march heading training, and news­gather
people are seeing cops in 
toward the hotel smashed a papers trumpeted near the glass door and threw a balloon the securitv mea­a different light. Instead hotel, filled with red paint ai an apart­sures with. front­ofpeople thinking the allowing ment building. Police halted the page headlines call­them to
police are against us I
march, which had grown to 200 ing midtown an be seen
think people now realize
people, but let it start up aiain. "Armed Camp." a n d 
Police later took 67 of the pro­The city braced for thats not the case. " heard testers into custody after some the worst, assign­b y !av down in an intersection ing 4.000 officers to forum
Robert Wing 

about 15 blocks from the forum security. partici­Waldorf and refused to move. "People were protester pants. Officers halted the march and more afraid -it r n dispersed the activists. was such a show of o th c r 
Earlier in the day, police said force. And now that there has cities, "people cannot even get they arrested 87 activists for been conflict at several of these close to the venue and make disrupting traffic by marching in types of events, I think police their voices heard," said Deputy the street on the Lower East have a lot more leeway to use Inspector Matthew Pontillo, who Side, about 3 1/2 miles from the that force,"said one activist, oversaw the downtown police hotel. They were charged with Alabama Evers, 19, who wore command center. 


THE 
BSE 
is currently accepting applications for the the 2002-03 term for the following positions: 

MANAGING EDITOR 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. An in-depth understanding of newspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Any sophomore or junior business major interested in gaining valuable work experience is encouraged to apply for Business Manager or Operations Manager. Applicants should be comfortable in a management position, demonstrate strong organizational skills and possess a solid understanding of accounting principles. 
Applications for any of the above positions should be a statement of five or more pages explaining applicants' qualifications and what they want to accomplish during their term. 
Managing Editor and Business Manager applications are due by 5 p.m. Monday, Feb. 4. 
Assistant Managing Editor and Operations Manager applications are due by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 6. 
Submit all applications to Jason McFarley in the Observer office in the South Dining Hall basement. 
• 

Please direct questions about the positions or the application procedure to Jason McFarley at 631-5323, Editor in Chief Mike Connolly at 631-4542 or Business Manager Bob Woods and Operations Manager Pat Peters at 631-5313. 
ARGENTINA 

President unveils econoIDic plan 
As.sociated [' ress 
BUENOS AIRES 
President Eduardo Duhalde's embattled govern­ment worked to put the final touches on an economic plan that could spur the nation's devastated economy and ease an unpop­ular bank­ing freeze. 
T h e plan's details were to be unveiled Sunday evening at a press confer­ence, which marks the first month since Duhalde took over as Argentina's caretak­er president. 
Presidential spokesman Eduardo Amadeo said authorities were still decid­ing whether to go ahead with a "banking holiday" Monday and Tuesday that would bar most currency and financial transactions. 
The recovery package comes after Argentina's Supreme Court ruled Friday that the banking freeze was unconstitutional. The freeze, which began Dec. 1 and locks many dollar deposits into the banks until 2003, is a highly unpopular symbol of the crisis. 
Amadeo, speaking on local radio, said the new plan would give Argentines unfet­tered access to their pay­checks, which are deposited into banks and subject to the freeze. 


Whereas only $800 a month could be previously withdrawn from the salary accounts, the new plan would let workers remove the entire amount in cash. 
"The salary accounts will be absolutely freed up," Amadeo promised, adding the plan intends to allow more cash into the stifled economy. ,. 
Still, many parts of the banking freeze were expect­ed to remain intact, after Duhalde told Argentine depositors the court ruling doesn't mean they should expect immediate access to penned-up savings. 
"Let me tell you, 'Don't be deceived,"' he said. 
The banking restrictions were put in place Dec. 1 after a run on banks by jit­tery investors yanked $2 bi!­lion in a single day. 
Separately, the newspa­

cy devalue nearly 30 percent on the open market where it now trades at 1.95. 
The International Monetary Fund had harshly criticized the dual exchange rate, sig­naling that it wanted it elimi­nated if Argentina wished to receive emergency bailout aid. 
Locally, reports said that Argentina is seeking between $15 billion and $20 billion from the lMF. 
The country's banking freeze and wave after wave of austerity measures have led to near-daily protests around Argentina. But the country was calm over the weekend as it awaited the measures. 
On Sunday, however, hun­dreds of protesters banged pots and pans in major Spanish cities to show soli­darity with Argentines and to urge creditors to forgive the South American nation's $132 bil­lion foreign 
per Clarin 'The salary accounts will debt. reported b b z t l fi d ., Spain,
Sunday that ea sou e Y ree up. which sent 
the govern-hundreds ment would Eduardo Amadeo of thou-also end a spokesperson sands of 
much-criti­cized dual exchange rate for the peso. Authorities had no immediate confirmation. 
After taking office Jan. 2, Duhalde ended the peso's decade-old peg at one to one with the dollar. He set an official rate for importers and exporters of 1.4 pesos per dollar but let the curren­immigrants 
t o 
Argentina 
in the past century, has tens of billions of dollars invested in this South American nation. The rallies in Madrid, Barcelona, Granada and Salamanca were called by Argentine expatriates and Spanish groups seeking relief for Argentina. 
FeD1ale 
continued from page 1 
are looking for a change. Kids on campus are tired of the same old-same old. Sure the whole gender thing plays into it, but I think students on this campus are smart enough to see who will be enacting the most change and elect that candidate," said McCord. 
Vice-presidential candidate Keri Oxley. running with presidential candidate Brian Moscona, emphasized that it was Norton's service to the entire student body that caused her to run, not her gender. 
"I don't think that {Norton] has an agenda with women's issues and that she's very open to all types of -views and I truly hope that when people look at the candi­dates, they don't factor in race or gender into that equation," said Oxley. 
Norton said the biggest change her election brought about is the Joss of a stigma associated with women run­ning for student body presi­dent. 
"There's not a barrier any­more ... I think the biggest change is that gender really isn't an issue anymore. When my class first got on campus. we were really sur­prised Notre Dame had never had a female presi­dent. Now. new students may be as equally surprised to learn that I was the first female president. Over time, it won't really matter any­more," said Norton. 
The candidates all empha­sized that there have been an increasing number of women involved in student government during the past years. 
"I do think that Brooke's impact overall has caused more females to get involved ... it is Notre Dame's time for women to get involved. Now that women have been on campus for 30 years, things are equalizing as we go on," said Oxley. 
McCord emphasized that while the fact that she is a woman puts her more in tune with women's issues, it is the job of a leader to listen to the entire student body. 
'Tm a woman, but that's not my vibe ... it's possible for people to be caught up in the image of, 'Look at me, I'm a woman and I'm run­ning.' But when people look at me. I want them to say. 'Oh look, there's a person who's willing to take a bullet for the student body.' " 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 

got news? 631-5323. 
Gates threatens to leave Harvard 
Associated P rcss 
NEWARK 
The head of Harvard's black studies program, Henry Louis Gates Jr., said he will decide this summer whether he will follow a colleague 
t 0 
Princeton University. 
G a t e s threat­ened in December to leave for Princeton. saying Harvard President Lawrence Summers had not adequately backed affirmative action. 
Last month, Princeton appointed his former Harvard colleague Anthony Appiah as a full professor in the universi­ty's philosophy department. Novelist Toni Morrison, a Nobel Prize laureate in litera­ture, is also at Princeton. 
''Anthony Appiah has left four institutions so that we could be together," Gates told The Star-Ledger for Sunday's editions...Maybe it's my time to pay that friendship back.'' 
Gates, the author of "Loose Canons: Notes on the Culture Wars" and a winner of a 1998 National Humanities Medal, said he would welcome the chance to build a strong black studies program at Princeton. He said he hadn't decided yet. 


Princeton spokeswoman Marilyn Marks said the univer­sity was considering expand­ing its black studies program into a full, degree-granting department. 
At Harvard, several mem­bers of the black studies department have been at odds with Summers, who became president last year. 
Summers reportedly rebuked Corne! West for recording a rap CD, for lead­ing a political committee for the Rev. Al Sharpton's possible presidential campaign and for allowing grade inflation in his introductory black studies course. 
West said he had been "dis­honored," and threatened to leave for Princeton. Acquaintances have said there is little chance that West, who is on leave recovering from prostate cancer, will return to Harvard. 
Appiah, the only professor who has made the move, said he had no grudge against Summers and left for personal reasons. 
Three days a~er he announced his departure, Harvard said it had hired Michael C. Dawson, an expert in black political behavior from the University of Chicago. 


What do you want? 
What do you need? 
What do you desire? 
... in terms of access to Internet library services? 
Tell us by participating in brief focus group interviews during the month of February at places conveniently located around campus. 
Dates and times: 

Type "ND Libraries" in Type "ND Libraries" in the comment section of I the comment section of 
) ' 
-
the form and receive an ~. the form and receive an extra gift. extra gift. 
Food and Prizes Food and Prizes Food and Prizes Food and Prizes Food and Prizes 
Sign up and learn more at: http:// dewey. library .nd. edu/f ocus group/ 
Sponsored by the: Digital Access and Information Architecture Department University Libraries ofNotre Dame 
Questions? Contact; Eric Morgan at 631-8604 orerno,gan@nd.edu 

ATION 
Monday, February 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russian official visits Afghanistan: 
Hussia's foreign minister comes to Afghanistan today promising that Russia aims Lo help rebuild the country from 23 years of war that began with a Soviet invasion. Igor Ivanov represents a Kremlin whose policies are stunningly different than those in force at the time of the 1979 inva­sion. With its military in slow-motion collapse and its economy staggering back from catastro­phe, Russia now makes only pro-forma preten­sions of being a world power and has become increasingly cooperative with the West. 
Hong Kong kills I00,000 chickens: Health workers completed the slaughter of more than 100,000 chickens Sunday at a Hong Kong farm where the deaths of thousands of birds had raised fears of a second outbreak of avian flu in less than a year. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Priest sex cases shock parishoners: 
Parishioners at two Randolph, Mass., churches outside Boston were stunned Sunday to learn their priests had been suspended as part of the Catholic Archdiocese's efforts to root out priests accused of sexual misconduct. The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston announced Saturday it had suspended Father Paul Finegan and Father Daniel Graham, both 57. The deci­sion followed public criticism that it had ignored past allegations of priest misconduct. 
Man wants money for sex change: 
A man sentenced to life in prison without parole for strangling his wife is trying to force the to pay for a sex change operation and hormone therapy to allow him to live as a woman. Robert Kosilek, who uses the name Michelle, planned to be in federal court today to ask a Boston judge to order the state Department of Corrections to cover the treat­ment. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Freight trains collide: Two Norfolk Southern freight trains collided in LaPorte city limits early Sunday, damaging a commercial area and injuring four railroad employees who were on the trains. Norfolk Southern spokesman Rudy Husband said three of the employees were treated for minor injuries and released from a nearby hospital in the north­west Indiana city, while the fourth was being held with non-life threatening injuries. "Somebody was smiling on us today," Husband said. Each train had two locomotives -one train had 148 cars, the other 125 cars. 
Market Watch January 31 

Dow 9,907.26 -12.74 
Jones  
~ s~r •  ~Yo;i;,~:  
AMEX: NASDAQ: NYSE: S&P500:  843.67 1,911.24 575.76 l,122.19  +l.26 -22.79 -2.74 -8.00  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC-WO -4.38 -0.44 9.61 SUN MICROSYSTEM -3.62 -0.39 10.37 NASDAQ-100 INDEX -0.96 -0.37 38.14 CISCO SYSTEMS ·2.98 -0.59 19.21 ORACLE CORP -5.04 -0.87 16.39 

PAKISTAN 
Associated Press 
KARACHI 

The Wall Street Journal appealed Saturday to the kidnappers of reporter Daniel Pearl to show evi­dence that he is still alive after an all-night search of Karachi graveyards turned up nothing. 
Pearl's wife and an American Muslim group issued separate appeals for his release, and e-mails purportedly sent Saturday by the kidnappers gave conflicting accounts of his fate. 
An e-mail received Friday by U.S. news orga­nizations claimed Pearl, 38, had been killed and his body dumped in an unspecified cemetery in this city of 12 million peo­ple. He was abducted in Karachi on Jan. 23 while working on a story about a Muslim extremist group. 
After an exhaustive search, Pakistani officials and the Journal concluded that the e-mail was a hoax and expressed hope that the newspaper's South Asian bureau chief was alive. 
The last e-mail that included pictures of Pearl was received Wednesday by Pakistani and American news organizations. The Journal urged the kidnap-
II 
pers to free Pearl or at least resume contact. 
"We urge them to release Danny," Managing Editor Paul Steiger said in New York. "If that is not possible, we call on them to demonstrate that Danny remains alive. They can do this by providing us with a photo of Danny holding today's newspaper." 
Police said they believed a ransom demand, tele­phoned to U.S. diplomats Friday, also was a hoax. The caller demanded a $2 million ransom and the release of a former Taliban diplomat. 
In Islamabad, an Interior Ministry official speaking on condition of anonymity said one person had been detained for interrogation on suspicion of calling in the ransom demand. 
Mukhtar Ahmad Sheikh, governor of Sindh province, which includes Karachi, expressed hope that Pearl would be found "as we believe the man is still alive." 
Pearl's French wife, Marianne, is six months pregnant with their first child. In a letter published Saturday in the Urdu lan­guage newspaper Jang, she asked the kidnappers to free her husband "as people inspired by Islam's ethics." 

Bush proposes $2.12 trillion budget 
Associated Preas 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush is sending Congress a $2.12 trillion spending plan today that seeks to recognize the "new realities" confronting the nation since Sept. 11. ft proposes the biggest jump in defense spending in two decades and a record increase in money devoted to making Americans more secure at home. 
The budget tries to revive an anti­recession stimulus package that stalled late last year in the Senate. It also seeks billions of dollars more in future years to make permanent the biggest economic victory of Bush's first year in office. a sweeping, across-the-board tax cut. 
But the spending plan for the 2003 budget year must face the new reali­ties of a reduced financial situation -$4 trillion in disappearing sur­pluses because of the recession and that tax cut. 
To do that, Bush wants to squeeze government programs from highway construction to job training and envi­ronmental projects. 
Congressional Democrats are pledging a fight to restore spending for their priorities and to oppose tax breaks in Bush's stimulus package for the wealthy and corporations. 
'"There are a lot of us who question whether or not we really need to have a major stimulus package. Many people think we're coming out of this recession," Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., said Sunday on CNN's "Late Edition." 
White House budget director Mitchell Daniels said Bush was pre­pared to negotiate the elements of a stimulus package and the overall budget as long as it did not compro­mise his top goals. 

AFGHANISTAN 
Warlords, UN draw cease-fire agreement 

EPA revamps diesel engine laws 
Associated Press 
CORNING 

Within fiyp years, ,every new diesel vehiclP on America's highways will need to be equipped with filtflrs and cata­lysts that trap soot and convert lung-choking gases into carbon dioxide. nitrogen and ·water vapor. 
To kePp pace with ever-tight­e ning emissions standards, diesel manufacturers came up with a flurry of enginP refinfl­menls in the 1990s, such us electronic fuel-injec-tion sys­tems, and fitted oxidation cata­lysts that limit carbon monoxide and hvdror.arbons. 
Thi; dean-air mandates com­ing thick and fast in the United Slates. Japan, Europe and beyond over Urn next decade rcquirf.' much more stringent steps: filters that dispose of at least 90 percent of soot and 95 percent of nitrous oxides, a prime ingredient in urban 17,600 cases of' acute bronchitis smog. in children each year, the 
The new federal agency projected. They'll also Environmental Protection raise the costs of new diesel Ag~nry 2007-model diesel stan-. vohicles by $1,200 to $1,900 <lards will prevent as many as and fuel costs by four to five 
8. 300 prern ature deaths and cents a gallon. it said. 
~~'.1l~)~~f:f.~:~:.nx.t.ulJ.,S'. ; .J UK.·.: 
CONY~:~~i~l~~H~~ 
is seeking university grddUdles for aone year leachina position in Japan. Allraclive salary, benefits and !ravel opporlunilies. 
NECKl/lTIN6 DATES: February 13 Er 11/J 2002 at Career and Placement Services. ./ll!PIJf)f!.!$/l /llJ@tfi/1Jj]fG§ $/JOl!UJ.$ /jfl.ff2ff..l~!f/flffl/1/Blf(!;, Open to all mt?iors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
Saint Mary's 
College Program 
in Dance presents 
2002 

Dance Spectru1n 
Friday & Saturday, Feb.15 & 16 at 7 PM Sunday, Feb. 17 at 2:30 PM ,.,, O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact ...........,,,,,.,,~ the Saint Mary's Box Office at /M/Jf!;Qf,!'R.., / 
284-4626 ~,:O~:/~~~' IN 
Associated Press 
GARDEZ 

Afghan and United Nations mediators, joined by American officials, on Sunday extracted a conditional cPase-tirc agrePrnent from two rival tribal warlords in an eastern Afghan town that was rocked by two days of fight­ing last week. 
With factional fighting threat­ening government efforts to assert control throughout the country. the delegation hopes to avert more tribal clashes in Gardez, a town of about 40,000 people that is the capital of Paktia, a strategic bordu province. U.S. forces want to ensure that al-Qaida fugitives cannot f1ee through Paktia's bor­der passes into neighboring Pakistan. 
On Wrdncsday and Thursday, soldiers for warlord Bacha Khan e:xrhangt>d artilluy f'ire with forces loyal to Gardcz's tribal council, or shura, which bittfirly opposes Khan's appointment as provincial governor. At least 61 pP-ople were killed. 
Just before meeting the media­tors, Khan said he was ready to fight on to assert his rights as governor -an appointment that was initially self-declared, but later sanctioned by the govern­ment of interim leader Hamid Karzai. 
"I am olflcially the governor of Gardez. I am ready for more fighting," Khan said, gesturing toward 200 of his soldiers stand­ing near a mud-walled outpost outside of' Gardez, where the delegation traveled to meet him. "You can see my fighters." 
Shura leaders say Khan is cor­rupt and brutal and have appealed for another governor. 
During a break in the talks, Khan said he had agreed to a request by mediators to hold off until Friday on any new assault on Gardez, 60 miles south of the Afghan capital, Kabul. But Khan said he would resume the attack if he was not satisfied with the pace of prisoner exchanges and return of the bodies of slain fighters. 
In an early sign of trouble, the Gardez shura said it had returned the bodies of Khan's dead fighters, but he denied hav­
ing received any. 
Mediation efforts were to wn­
tinue Monday. 
Townspeople said U.S. air­craft dropped leatlets Saturday night urging an end to the fight­ing, the worst clashes between rival warlords since Ka.rzai's government took onice on Dec. 22. 
"We are all in Afghanistan," said llrn leaflets in Dari and Pashtu, the two !or.al lan­guages. "We must be united and one together." 
B-52 bombers circled over the Gardez region on Sunday for what residents said was the first lime in two weeks. U.S. Special Forces are hunting al­Qaida fugitives in the region, where Osama bin Laden's ter­ror network had extensive training camps and arms caches. 
"There contintH' to remain pockets of Taliban and al-Qaida in the area," said Capt. Tony Rivers, a U.S. Army spokesman in Kandahar. "We continue combat operations all ovPr Afghanistan." 
The mediators included Ashraf Rafi Ahmedzai, an adviser to the U.N. special envoy to Afghanistan, Lakhdar Brahimi. as well as Shahboz Ahmedzai, a special adviser to Karzai who is also the Afghan leader's uncle. 
Although U.S. forces did not intervene in last week's clashes, several U.S. armed escorts stood guard while the separate talks with the two sides went on. Two American officials look part in the talks, several partic­ipants said, describing one as a 
U.S. Embassy olTicial. 
The Americans standing guard outside would not identify themselves or their unit but said they were based "around here." 
U.S. forces have a sizable base just outside the nearby city of Khost and a smaller outpost on Gardez's southern outskirts. 
Instead of uniforms, the sol­diers wore rough Afghan wool caps, jackets and scarves ­dress common among U.S. spe­cial forces operating in the region. Vlost of the soldiers were bearded. 
Last week's fighting ended 

vvith Khan's forceH retreating into mountains around Gardez. But after resupplying his troops, he threatened to attack again Sunday. 
Without a national army, Karzai's government has little power to force peace on feuding regional warlords. 
Karzai, who returned to Kabul on Saturday, used a high-profile visit last week to Washington and London to push for a stronger international security force in Afghanistan, with a mandate not just limited to Kabul. 
But Im was unable to win any pledge that the peacekeeping force would be significantly enlarged or its deployment expanded. 
Continued unrest here and elsewhere has led many Afghans to call for a larger. nationwide peacekeeping force. 
In northern Afghanistan, two main militias worked Sunday to finalize an accord aimed at keep­ing clashes from spreading into the region's largest city, a media­tor said Sunday. 
The pact, being worked out by representatives of warlords Rashid Dostum and Atta Mohammad, seeks to pre-empt a possible dangerous escalation of recent skirmishes. The lighting so far has been confined to relative­ly remote villages. 


CUBA Ex-Enron chief refuses to testify 
Associated Press 
Fox visits Cuba 
WASHINGTON Former Enron chairman Kenneth Lay pulled out of
for trade talks 
this week's scheduled con­
i\stc,ciated Press 
HAVANA 

Mexican President Vicente Fox faced perhaps his most difficult foreign policy dilem­ma yet Sunday as he traveled to Cuba for trade talks under pressure to meet with internal opposition groups -a move Lhat could damage relations with Cuban leader Fidel Castro. 
Fox was greeted Sunday morning by Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque, then swept away to the Palace of the Revolution to be formally greeted by Castro before head­ing into private talks. 
"This trip is very important for us," Fox told reporters at the airport. "We are doing this at the beginning of our admin­istration because we want to tighten, we want to strength­en, our relationship with Cuba." 
Mexico has described the 24-hour visit as "a working trip" focusing on ways to increase 
engaged in wrongful or crim­
"This trip is very Mexico

Mexican trade 
inal conduct," the attorney
and investment important ... we want to ranks 10th 
wrote Democratic Sen.
among

with the island. strengthen our 
Ernest Hollings of South
Cuba's for­

But at the 
Carolina and Republican
relationship with Cuba. " eign part­

same time, the 
Rep. Michael Oxley of Ohio.
ners with

United States 
Hollings chairs the Senate
combined

and Fox's own Vicente Fox 
Commerce Committee, Oxley
trade top­

conservative Mexico's president 
the House Financial Services
P i n g

National Action Party are pres­suring the Mexican leader to meet with Cuban dissidents. Trip organizers. citing Fox's tight schedule, said no such meetings were planned. 
Meeting with dissidents would send a strong pro­democracy message but likely anger Castro, possibly harm trade talks and leave bilateral relations in worse shape than before. 
Several opposition groups also have asked Fox to press Castro privately for the release of political prisoners, a move that could allow Fox to show human rights concerns with­out risking bilateral talks. 
In addition to meetings with Castro, Fox's scheduled included an official ceremony outside the Palace of Revolution and placing a floral wreath at the monument to 
A spokesman for the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which had planned to invite Lay to testi­fy later this month, said, "It was clear to us that he was looking for any little excuse to wiggle off the hook. 
"As the old saying goes, 'you can run but you can't hide,"' said the spokesman, Ken Johnson. If Lay refuses to testify, "he'll be subpoe­naed like everyone else," said Johnson. 
Appearing Sunday on NBC's "Today" show and on MSNBC, Sen. Peter Fitzgerald, R-Ill., said that "Ken Lay obviously had to know that this was a giant pyramid scheme -a giant shell game." 
Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., called Enron "almost a cul­ture of corporate corrup­tion." Rep. Billy Tauzin, [R­La.]. asked whether "maybe somebody ought to go to the pokey for this." 
"They were doing almost no business, but they manu­facture income from a bank loan." said Dorgan, who appeared with Tauzin on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
"That's the kind of thing that went on over and over and over again. We want to know what Ken Lay knew." 
Dorgan was to preside at a Senate Commerce Committee hearing Monday where Lay was scheduled to testify. Tauzin's panel plans three Enron hearings this week. 
An internal probe of Enron led by University of Texas law school dean William Powers stated that a key doc­ument was missing from a partnership deal. Lay says he was unaware of the transac­tion and former Enron chief executive officer Jeff Skilling says he was unaware of the terms. 
"We have not located any Enron Deal Approval Sheet. 'DASH,' an internal docu­ment summarizing the trans­action and showing required approvals," stated the report. The report noted the same type of situation in another transaction as well, and the report raised the possibility that no approval sheet was ever prepared. 
Tauzin said that Skilling backed away from signing his name to off-the-books partnership deals. 
"What does that say about his knowledge of whether these deals were honest 'or corrupt?" Tauzin said. 
"We found out that one of the good guys ... went to Skilling and brought him all these deals to get his signa­ture on it," Tauzin said. "He refused to sign it." 
Citing a company rife with conflicts of interest, Tauzin said that in one deal. a man and his girlfriend at Enron actually negotiated with each other. 
"They were really sweet­he arts, ended up getting married," said Tauzin. "When they signed the deals, they signed as married part­ners, one against the other." 
Dorgan said the question of criminality is "a judgment for the U.S. Justice Department" to make, but he added that "$1 billion in profit was booked here that didn't exist. That's trouble." 
Cuban independence hero Jose Marti. He also planned to pre­sent Havana City Historian Eusebio Leal with Mexico's highest honor. the medal of the Aztec Eagle, for Leal's rehabilitation efforts in Old Havana. 
Traveling with Fox was Mexican entrepreneur Carlos Slim, ranked by Forbes maga­:1:ine last year as the wealthiest man in Latin America. 
Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque said Fox's visit "could really contribute to giving a new push to rela­tions," which cooled under Fox's predecessor, Ernesto Zedillo. 
Cuba has long counted on its friendship with Mexico, the only Latin American country that refused to succumb to 
U.S. pressure to break diplo­matic ties after Castro's 1959 revolution. Mexico was an important Cuban trade part­ner, second only to Eastern bloc countries before the Soviet Union collapsed in 
1991. Today, 

gressional testimony on Sunday, with his lawyer say­ing that hearings have taken on a "prosecutorial" tone. 
"I have instructed Mr. Lay to withdraw his prior accep­tance of your invitation," Lay attorney Earl Silbert said in letters to the Senate and House panels that were to hear from him Monday. 
"He cannot be expected to participate in a proceeding in which conclusions have been reached before Mr. Lav has been given an opportunf­ty to be heard," Silbert added. 
Lay had agreed to appear voluntarily and thus was not obligated to show up. 
In the letters, Silbert cited remarks on Sunday talk shows by various members of Congress suggesting there was rampant criminality at Enron. 
"These inflammatory state­ments show that judgments have been reached and th:e tenor of the hearing will he prosecutorial," wrote Silbert. 
"Mr. Lay firmly rejected any allegations that he 
Committee.
$237.3 million in 
2000. Mexico ranks No. 6 in foreign investment in Cuba. Fox's visit "is an important 
PHILIPPINES 
gesture at a good moment" that could kick start Cuba­Mexico trade, said Manuel Orella, commercial attache for the Mexican government's 

Troop_s kill 20 Muslim rebels 
National Foreign Commerce Bank, or BANCOMEXT in Havana. 
The last time a Mexican president visited Cuba was in 1999. when Zedillo set a precedent by publicly airing his concerns about the island's human rights record at a gath­ering of Ibero-American lead­ers. 
During that trip, Mexican Foreign Secretary Rosario Green met with human rights activist Elizardo Sanchez, of the Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation. 

were still "We 're flushing them out Thursday a chasing training
and when we see them in 
rebels who 

exercise in 
splintered the open, they'll be 
the southern and fled, neutralized.,, port city of the official 
Zamboanga
said. 

and Basilan
Romeo Tolentino
Army 

but actual
soldiers army commander 
maneuvers
caught up 

are to begin
with some 

in a few
rebels Sunday in Indanan, 
weeks. Left-wing groups have
setting off a brief firefight 
opposed the controversial
that ended without casualties, war drills. called Balikatan or
said Col. Romeo Tolentino, 
"shoulder to shoulder."
Friday 2:00?M~5:00PM 
Jolo's army commander. 

About 160 U.S. Special
"We're flushing them out
Saturday 10:00AIA-3:00PM 

Forces among a 660-strong
and when we see them in the
Sunday l 2;00PM-4:00?M 

open, they'll be neutralized," U.S. military contingent could Tolentino said. be allowed into war zones in
;Golf Shop -Rockne Memorial -1-6809 
An offensive was under way Basilan to observe Filipino against the Abu Sayyaf group troops battling the rebels,
ENTAL RATES 
in Jolo and nearby Basilan raising concerns the 
island, where the rebels are Americans could be drawn holding Wichita, Kan., mis­into clashes. 
5.00 
FOR DAILY RENTAL 

6.00 FOR OVERNIGHT RENTAL 

sionaries Gracia and Martin Critics say U.S. military Burnham and Filipino nurse involvement in the fight
7.00 FOR TWO DAY RENTAL 
Deborah Yap. U.S. and against the Abu Sayyaf could violate Philippine constitu­tional limits on the presence of foreign combat troops and escalate violence in the coun­try's impoverished south, where Islamic radicals have been fighting for indepen­dence for decades. 

The Abu Sayyaf guerrillas pursued by troops in Indanan were with followers of former Muslim regional governor Nur Misuari, who is detained in a police camp south of Manila on a rebellion charge, Tolentino said. 
Misuari and his group, the Moro National Liberation Front, led a quarter-century Muslim separatist uprising that killed more than 120,000 people in the southern Mindanao region, home to about 5 million Muslims in the predominantly Roman Catholic Philippines. In 1996, Misuari signed a historic peace accord and was elected governor of a Muslim autonomous region. 
Misuar,i has been accused of plotting a deadly attack on a Jolo army camp in November to disrupt elections held to choose his successor as governor. Misuari was arrested as he fled to Malaysia. The country later handed him over to Philippine authorities. 
Police and soldiers have periodically clashed with Misuari's followers in the southern Philippines. 
Associated Press 

ZAMBOANGA 
Helicopter gunships fired rockets and troops· bombed a suspected Muslim guerrilla camp with mortar shells on the southern Philippine island of Jolo, killing at least 20 rebels, a military official said Sunday. 
The assault on the Abu Sayyaf camp in the mountain­ous outskirts of Indanan town took place Friday, and gov­ernment troops Philippine officials have linked the Abu Sayyaf to the al-Qaida terror network. 
The United States has been providing Philippine troops with weapons and training to crush the Abu Sayyaf, a loose band of a few hundred men in both islands. They are notorious for kidnappings, piracy and bombings that have killed scores of people 
. and scared away investors and tourists. 
U.S. and PhHippine military officials opened last 


THE 

OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, February 4, 2002 · 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Perers  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley V!EWl'oINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter Sc.ENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT M,uty's EDITOR: Myra McGrilf PHOTO EDITOR! Peter Richard.son 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoro 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFU ..............631-7471 
FAX. ............................................................ 631-6927 
ADVIRTIS!NG .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmmR/Assr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICL ......................................631-53l3 NEWS ..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCE."IE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYs.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up--co-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements. is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include conracr information. 
Q"'stiorn regarding Obsem:-rpo/;cie, ,hou!d b, direct­rd ro EdittJr in Chief Mik, Connolly. 


.,,..~~,..-~~!,.,:~.;:::;.:.:.,,..,,~...""""1'."!';;·H~W"l".,1~t,,~..,,-o:J,•!'~,1,ik~..,,,_.,..:=t,, . ..,..~..;ir.;~-,a.a.;,1c,•~.:.~~•--~--, 
... -,,J1.~,~ ~-.?'..,,~ 



Justice and Johnny Walker 
Johnny Walker Llndh would be a col­lege sophomore today. However, instead of dorm events and coursework he trained at an al-Qaeda camp and met Osama bin Laden. Walker sought reli­
gious truth and  
found meaning in  Scott Flipse  
the strict values  
system of Islam. It  
was his unquench­ 
able search for  Urbanities  
truth and meaning  
that brought him to  
Afghanistan, where  

he was captured by Northern Alliance troops. Is it possible to wrap our minds around his choices? Can we find a just punishment for his actions? 
The discovery of an "American Taliban" set off media frenzy. The story took on a life of its own when it was revealed that CIA operative Johnny Spann's last minutes were spent interro­gating Walker. 
Spann and Walker were raised across an American cultural divide. Spann was the All-American boy. He grew up in small-town Alabama, worshipped at a conservative Protestant church, played football and joined the Marines after col­lege. He was patriotic and was sure of America's role in the world. 
Walker, on the other hand, was the embodiment of the northern California lifestyle. He was the product of a permis­sive upbringing that urged him to find his own path to truth. From an early age, he carried with him the liberal guilt of American power in the world -equat­ing it with repression and racism. \Vhat he found in radical Islam was a way to both identify with the oppressed and rebel against the oppressor. 
The worldviews of these two young men were shaped by different values. One felt guilty about America's power and institutions. The other represented and honored it. At a basic level, both symbolize historically grounded and legitimate parts of the American political discourse. If Walker had marched against globalism or worked against 
sweatshops his foreign policy perspective 
would find sympathizers and adherents. 
Those who protest International 
Monetary Fund meetings and disrupt 
World Bank proceedings share his dis­
trust of American capitalism and military 
might. But their actions do not lead them 
to shoulder an AK-47. 
Sixty-two percent of those polled in a 
recent USA Today poll want Walker tried 
for treason. Most surprising, 69 percent 
of San Francisco Chronicle readers want 
him to face the death penalty. The polls 
show a deep anger and a desire to 
avenge the deaths of Sept. 11. 
There are those who argue that 
international law allows the death penal­
ty for the crime of genocide. And is not 
al-Qaeda's plan for violence against 
Christians, Jews, liberal Muslims and 
Americans genocide? As this argument 
goes, Walker was trained and proudly 
took part in this plan. As a participant he 
is guilty of helping to carry out genocide. 
The Nuremberg Trials, after World 
War II, made the case that those. who 
plan genocide are as criminally liable as 
those who carry it out. I believe bin 
Laden and his lieutenants planned geno­
cide and would have little qualm seeking 
the death penalty against them. It would 
be best if they were judged and executed 
by an Islamic Court, by the very law they 
purport to uphold, but that is not going 
to happen. It is up to the United States to 
seekjustice for the victims of Sept. 1l 
and against al-Qaeda's crimes against ·humanity. 
But do Walker's actions raise him to 
this level? The answer is plainly no. I 
base his conclusion on the facts. Walker 
was mobilized to fight against the 
Northern Alliance before the United 
States entered the war. It is not clear he 
even knew the United States was in the 
war. He was a recent recruit to al Qaeda 
who never had the opportunity to 
become a terrorist because his own com­
mander sold out the unit to the Northern 
Alliance. He may have had the intent, 
but he never got a chance to carry out 
the crime of genocide. 
So what would be a just punishment'? 

Presently, there are many voices argu­ing for leniency. Washington Post colum­nist Richard Cohen refuses to blame Walker for his actions. He says that every parent can recognize the romantic and rebellious kid who needs love, not punishment. Walker's father wants to give him a "small kick in the butt ... and a big hug." And President Bush, perhaps thinking of his own rebellious youth, urged compassion when he called Walker a "poor fellow." 
The calls for retribution and the calls for mercy do not fit the crime. Justice for Johnny Walker Llndh will require much more than love and much less than death. Willingly or unwittingly, he took up arms against his country. His journey of faith made him become an enemy of the United States. For that he must pay. 
But can we punish the outcome of his earnest search for truth, while protecting all sincere journeys of faith? 
1believe that Walker should receive a stiff prison term, but that his sentence should be contingent on the successful completion of the war on terrorism. Let President Bush promise to commute his sentence once al-Qaeda is wiped out. Such a sentence tempers justice with mercy. It penalizes Walker's actions. but signals that his beliefs -whether moti­vated by religious zeal or youthful ideal­ism -can be tolerated in the United States. 
This message of democratic and reli­gious pluralism is one of our nation's strengths. We should use the case of Johnny Walker Lindh to preach it to the world. 
Scott Flipse is associate director of Notre Dame's Washington Semester and a Pew Civitas Fellow at the Brookings Institution. For more information on the Washington Semester, please visit the website at www.nd.edu/~semesterl. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Myra McGriff C. Spencer Beggs Kelly Hager Graphics Jason McFarley Katie Malmquist 
Sports Production 
Matt Lozar Chris Federico 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kristin Yernm Peter Richardson 

ND TODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
For which ticket do you plan on voting in the upcoming student government elections? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Recompense injury with justice." 
Confucius philosopher 


O
THE 

VIEWPROINT 
Monday, February 4, 2002 page 9 
Facing the fear of female dorms 
Dishes in the hallway, in the scheme of things, are not a huge deal. In my dorm, they would pass without comment. In fact, on a daily basis, the hall outside my room is littered with various arti­cles of clothing, pieces of athletic equipment, drug paraphernalia 
and the occasional animal carcass. 
But I live in a guy's dorm. A girl's dorm is a different story. 
Such was the case with my friends in an unnamed women's dorm. They were con­fronted in an intervention-style meeting by the entire hall staff, who then proceeded to tell them they were "obstinate." More 19th Century-style adjectives followed. most of which had not been used since the writing of the Look ''The Secret Garden." 
Joe Muto 
livin' on a Prayer 

Antiquated insults are sadly the least of the problems of a resi­dent of a female dorm. Those of you still with me at this point will recognize that I'm turning my attention to a previously ignored yet well deserving topic: the terror that is "The Female Dorm". 
Before college, I'd always just assumed that the worst things a woman would have to deal with in her residence hall would be pillow fights, panty raids and the like. 
But no. Not at Notre Dame. Our women are too good for these harmless yet endlessly videotape-able traumas. Instead, Notre Dame women are subjected to verbal intimidation, contempt and numerous violations of personal privacy. And that's just from the Detex card. 
My lady friends seem unable to convey to me the indignity of Jiv­ing under 24-hour lock and key, having an honest-to-God nun watching over them, and being hassled in their own 24-hour space by an overactive, blue shirt-clad lunatic. 
But in my opinion, none of these things can top the fear that grips the-common Notre Dame man when he decides to visit the Capri pant and tank-top strewn bowels of a girl's dorm. 
Don't get me wrong -during the day, most female dorms at Notre Dame are almost visitable. However, as parietals approach, and the hall staff prepares the castration shears, a girl's dorm changes significantly. 
In all honesty, I would rather walk into an al-Qaeda cave blind­folded and waving an American flag with my pants around my ankles and a George W. Bush sock puppet covering my bare geni­tals than walk into a female dorm within two hours of parietals. Even with the most innocuous of intentions, a male visitor is stared down as if he is planning to rape all of the residents before stealing the painting of the dorm benefactors. 
Let me convey this fun little anecdote to illustrate: One night, I visited some friends in a women's dorm. I heard the jingly keys at 
11:50 p.m. and started getting ready to leave. Less than 10 min­utes later, I stepped out of the elevator onto the first floor, only to be confronted by the sight of the security guard and about five RAs chatting amiably by the front desk. As I stepped off the eleva­tor, they froze and turned their gaze to me. 
My initial reaction was to panic, but a quick glance at the offi­cial dorm clock told me that it was literally midnight and 20 sec­onds. I headed past the gathering, confident in my righteousness. As I attempted to walk out the front door, I heard a voice behind me. 
"Hey." One of the RA's had stepped forward to challenge me. "Be more careful next time. You're a couple of." She paused to look at the clock. 
"Seconds late." She wasn't even able to say "minutes" with a straight face. 
Lest any naysayers out there accuse me of unconstructive criti­cism, I thought I'd provide female hall staff members with some friendly advice. 
Security guards: First of all, coming into the 24-hour lounge every five minutes admonishing occupants to "keep at least one foot on the ground at all times" not only makes you sound like an idiot. it's counterproductive. You're just forcing would-be nookie seekers to be more creative in their positioning and faster to fin­ish. 
RAs: Just because everyone says that women RAs are embit­tered shut-ins doesn't mean you have to prove it on a daily basis. Live a little, and for God's sake, lighten up. 
Rectresses: Not every guy who walks into your dorm is ready to pluck one of the virgin roses placed under your care. Some of us are there to pick up books or something. Also, it greatly diminish­es your nunly authority when you refuse to wear the full habit. 
And one final note to all hall staff: it's parietals, not a nuclear missile launch. Precision is not a necessity. Next time I get yelled at for leaving 30 seconds after midnight, I can't be responsible for my own actions. 
Joe Muto is a sophomore FTT and English major who would like to congratulate the male dorm residents who stole the Farley pink gorilla and took the Holy Cross girl photos, respectively. Contact Joe Muto ajmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
"Joke" ticket inspired real change 
As Notre Dame's "exciting" student body elections descend upon our icy campus, I wish to remind you all of a couple of crazy guys who attempted to get elected last spring. 
Chris Zimmerman and I were deemed the "joke" ticket of last year's race, but as I look at this year's campus developments, it seems as though we were more successful than anyone expected us to be -and we weren't even actually elected. 
We wanted to trim the fat from student government, which has put on the fresh­men 15 several times over. We were told, however, that we should learn to work "with the current system." Not long ago, Erin LaRuffa and Jason McFarley of The Observer graded student gov­ernment, and those grades were short of the Dean's List. Also, the University recently decided to form a task force to examine the role of student government on campus and what that role should be in the future. 
We wanted to renovate LaFortune. We were told that it could never happen, that it would cost too much. Now, Starbucks, 
Sbarra and Eddie Peppers (whatever that is) are on their way to our lovely student center. We wanted to evaluate the grading system so that excellence would be rewarded more fairly in each college. This fall, to the chagrin of the class of 2005, new Dean's List requirements were
1 

00'2. announced. Grades in the College of Engineering are no longer held straight up against grades 
• fron~ the Mendoza College of · Ac.T 10~ Business.
"J.t . NOT 
We wanted to add more ail­

1" 11"LE. school masses, and this year's tickets are all promis­ing the exact same thing for 
~ next year.Apparently, good
1 

) ideas can come from a couple ~ of "jokesters." As you can see, Chris and I have accomplished more this year than the actual elected student body officers. Seems odd -tha~ a couple of guys who were treated as a joke last year inspired so many actual changes this year. 
Andy Nelson former vice presidential candidate junior Fisher Hall Feb. I, 2002 

Notre Dame outdoes 
Saint Mary's with "Vagina Monologues" 
I would like to applaud Notre Dame's Program in Gender Studies and the Filin, Television and Theatre Department for participating in the V-Day Initiative through the production of Eve Ensler's play, The Vagina Monologues. 
It's unfortunate that the administration of Saint Mary's College is unable to see the value and importance of sponsoring a performance such as this. It's hard to believe that a college that claims to have the interests of women among their top priorities would turn their backs on such an impor­tant issue. 
Erin Reese junior St. Mary's College Washington Semester Program Jan. 3 I, 2002 

Judicial Council deserves 
,: . i('. ,(
•

sanctions 
What is wrong with speaking freely about one's opponents? The Observer editorial hit the nail on the head Friday with its stance against the Judicial Council's decision to sanction Moscona/Oxley, but permit me to add a nail to the coffin. 
Why not sanction the Judicial Council for breaking its own rules? After all, the same election bylaws that were perverted to reprove Moscona/Oxley require that a six­member committee sanctions candidates, not just two Judicial Council leaders. Regardless of past precedent, Jarotkiewicz and McCarthy had a procedural directive to fol­low, which they blatantly disregarded. While it is not at all clear that discussing the feasi­bility of opponents' platforms with one's campaign staff comprises "insulting or 
defamatory" actions, it is explicitly clear that 
two people are not six, and that the Judicial 
Council should be reprimanded for its hasty, 
unauthorized judgment. 
Somebody tell me how to force an apology from the Judicial Council to the student body 
• for breaking the very rules with which they are entrusted to enforce. Such an admission of fault seems to me an appropriate and pro­portionate response. 
Jacob Rodenbiker 
junior Keenan Hall Feb. I, 2002 



page 10 Monday, February 4, 2002 
ords, wo: 

Notre Dames Annual Sophomore Literary Festival celebrates its 35th annii 
By IA.URA KELLY 
Scene Associ,ac Edi tor 
Like many good storifls, it all startP.d with one man's dream. 
During his sophomore year at Notre Dame in 1967. J. Richard Hossi envisioned a literary festival. a gathering of schol­ars to celebrate the 1ife and writings of William Faulkner. 
Rossi was inspired by a convention he had seen at the University of Mississippi while in high school, and wanted to bring something of the sort to Notre Dame. 
Dream became reality. and during the week of March 5. 1967. four Faulkner scholars lectured and pre­sented a film series on the renowned writer. 
Rossi wanted the tradition-to con­tinue. and he approached sophomore John Mroz to organize the next festi­val. Mroz accepted. and as the cliche goes, the rest is history. 
At the beginning 
Kurt Vonnegut. Joseph lleller. Norman Mailer. Ralph Ellison. The lineup or guests from No1.re Dame's 1968 Sophomore Literary Festival sounds like the reading list from a English class on gre(lt American authors. 
Yet the storv of how these liter­ary giants got to Notre Dame is far from lofty and academ­ic. 
"We were just a small band of des­perado s. gutsy and maybe a lit­tle· nuts." said Mroz of the 18 sophomores who orga­

Feb. 7 Jean and Robert Hollander 7 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 

----==o::::::=====:::s:::J.c::::::c::::::::::===-=-=,-­

nized the second festival. 
Determined to energize the campus with an infu­sion of good literature and important contemporary authors. the group of students traveled around the country, urging writers to come and speak on cam­pus. 
"We were pretty aggressive, to say the least." said Mroz. describing trips out to New York and California where the students literally knocked on the authors' doors to persuade 
them to come to the festival. 
The famously reclusive Ellison was stunned to see a group of col­lege kids on his doorstep. 
"Ile said. 'I told you 'No' by let­ter. I told you 'No' by phone and now here you are at my door in New York!." remembered Mroz. "But we got him to come." 
During the tumultuous Vietnam years filled with protests and unrest at colleges across the nation. many found it hard to believe that students would have any interest in such a festival. 
But MPoz and his fellow students approached several important lit­erary critics fo1· connections to 

bring authors to campus. 
"[The critics] got a kick out of iL," said Mroz. "A group of sophomores interested in literature at the lime of Vietnam, a time of negativity on cc,llegc campuses, ran counter to everything that was going on nationally." 
But the group's porsistenr.e and hr.lief in their work paid off. Although many of the letters they sent out came back with regrets. they still assem­bled an impressive list of' guests. 
"Most of' the authors were amazed by our gutsi­ness and our vision." Mroz said. "We wouldn't take no for an answer." 
Due to the 
cost of bring­ing such well-known authors to speak. the student group
Feb.6 
had to raise 
money in 
alternative
Jose Limon 
ways -collnc­ti on s in the
7 p.m. 101 
cafeteria, small concerts. 
even donations from their par­ents. 
Getting money from the University was difficult, 

said Mroz. but finally Hev. Charles Sheedy, dean of 
Arts and Letters, agreed to give the group some 
funding and eventually enough ""as raised to make the festival possible. "The festival was a huge success and it really 
Debartolo 

motivated the campus." said l\1roz. "Seeing the lines of people wailing out­side Washington Hall -it was good for the University and good ror tlrn student body." 
SLF drew national attention as well, with many literary critics in atten­dance. 
/\ccording to Mroz, the group or sophomore organizers were pictured on the covM of the Saturday Review. an important literary magazine. with the caption "livery Mother's Dream Sons". 
Extraordinary events that took plac£\ during the week of the festival ­Martin Luther King, Jr. 's assassination and President Johnson's decision not to s0.ek reelection -gave the festival an "electrifying" atmosphere, said Mroz. 
"It was an exciting time, a very 
strange time," he said. 
B.ut overall. the festival's early and immediate success established a long-standing tradition at Notre Dame. 
The tradition continues 
Organizing the festival is still a long and involved process. The student committee (now open to all undergraduates, not just sophomores) begins work on the next year's plans in April, immediately fol­
lowing the festi­
val.  
Feh.8  According  to  
Jean Hollander  this year's chair,  
Poetry Workshop  sophomore Katie Ellgass, the  
10 a.m.  biggest problem  
()'Shaughnessy  faced is funding,  still due  
Conference room  largely to  recent  
(limit 25: lmari­na11@11J.eJu)  budget cuts from declining atten­dance.  
Maura Stantun  Most  writers  
7:30 p.m. Lafortune  are now repre­sented by agents,  
Ballroom  unlike the early  
davs  when  
Mr.oz's  group  
could  con tact  
them directlv.  

Speaking f'ees of $15,000 and above l'or major authors make it difficult i'or SI.F to attract the big names it hosted in the past, like Allen Ginsberg, Tennessee Williams. Arthur Miller. Margaret Atwood, Chaim Potok and Seamus Heaney. 
Yet recent guests such as Gloria Navlor. Tim O'Brien and W.P. Kin.sella prove that SLP's repu­tation is still solidly recog­nized in the literary com­munity. 
"We try to find pooplt' who ar<> inspiring and are willing to givP their ti nm to speak to us," said E l I ­gass. 
Acc­

o rd in g t () Ellgass, even the rejection let­ters the com­mittee receivea this year were pos­itive. 
"Robert Pinsky Ia previous guest of the festi­val] wished us r,ontinued suc­cess and good luck," said Ellgass. "Isabel All,rnde wrote that she had heard so much about the festival. but couldn't attend because of commitments to hnr family." 
Turning the page 
The committee is optimistic about SLF's future. 
Partner-ships with the Creative Writing department. the Institute for Latino Studies and the Core program have helpod with funding and strengthened the connection betwerrn authors and stu­dents. 
Faculty members continue to be an integral part of the SLF's success, offer­ing assistance and professional conner.­tions to the student committee to bring writers to campus. 
"The faculty know of these rising stars," said Ellgass, "and the future depends on strengthening the connection 
'"sop 
literary 
<pron 
I. 35 yeaDame lite tion 2. op for studen and comm 
bers to l interact emulate auth 
SLFW 


O
THE 

,._
BSERVER 


CENE 
campus
Monday, February 4, 2002 
page 11 

ds, words 
Feb. 6 -12 with a diverse group of writers from across the country 
between facultv and students." 
omore festival' . s-l-J> "old Notre ary tradi­rwrtunity '.s, f acuity, mity mem­isten to, uith, and notable 
,, 
ors 
!b site 
for example, this year's Core classes 
are reading the translalion of The 
[nferno that will be presented 
at the festival, a connection 
that Ellgass hopes stu­
dents will find "fasci­
nating" and will 
encourage them 
to attend. 
Workshops with th P guests and b o o k ­signing rccep­ti ons f o l ­
lnw­
i n g 
their 
presen­
tations 
are other 
chances for 
students to 
interact with 
published 
authors. 
"Her,ently we've 
been trying to revive 
the festival," said Ellgass. 
"Wp're trying to spread the 
1,,vord that Lhis is for all students, 
1a.culty and the general public." 
An underapprHciation for the festival is what drove Ellgass to become involvPd. 
"Lust year I went to the reading of 
C.K. Williams, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet." said Ellgass. "There were only about 30 people there -I was very dis­appointed that more didn't come and I wanted to change that." 
This year's SLF r,ommittee, now under the direction of SUB. has there­fore emphasized publicity. A display in the Hnsburgh Library concourse will feature biographies and books of this year's guests. 
The committee's Web site www.nd.edu/-su b/slf.html -includes write-ups on each presenters and addi­tional links to their Web pages. 
"We're also gotten in stall notes, had an article in the South Bend Tribune, and we're passing out bookmarks [to advertise]," said Ellgass. "But the best way is still word of mouth." 

This year's lineup 
(JvAr the last 35 years oft-he festi­val's existence, the range of guests has come to include poets. playwrights. screenwriters and songwriters. 
From a slam poet to the author of 
"Sex in. the City," 

Lafortune
this year's group ex em pIifies the diversitv that 
Ballroom Ellgass hopes will draw people from all over campus. 
The festival will open on Wednesday night with a presentation by Prof. Jose Limon of the University of Texas at Austin. 
Limon will discuss two of his books that highlight his interest in Mexican-American cultural studies: "Mexican Ballads and Chicano Poems, History and Influence in Mexican American Social Poetry," and "Dancing with the Devil: Social and Cultural Poetry in Mexican American South Texas." 
:\'ext is a reading on Thursday night by Robert and Jean Hollander, 
way to show­

authors of a new translation of 
case student

Dante's "Inferno." 

talent. since
Feb. 11
This collaborative project between 
there are

husband (a Dante scholar and pro­
unfortunatelv

Jean Hollander
fessor at Princeton University) and 
so few oppor·­

wife (a Vienna-born poet and 
12 p.m. Hammes 
tunities to pro­

teacheri is part of a complete trans­
mote writing at

lation of the "Divine Comedv," with 
Bookstore 

Notre Dame,"

the "Purgatorio" and the "P~radiso" 
she said.

Adriana Trigiani
due out in 2002. 
Friday night features a reading by 
The story

7:30 p.m.
Maura Stanton. winner of Notre 
continues

Dame's Richard S.ullivan Award in 
WTashington 
In true liter­

Short Fiction. Her latest book, a col­
ary tradition.
Hall

lection of short stories entiiles "Do 
SI F's Web

Not Forsake Me, Oh My Darling," 
page offers a 

was published as part of the award 
::>-;c:-:: 
humorous defi­

--= ---==== =---­
by the University of Notre Dame press in 2002. 
Stanton tearhes in the M.F .A. program at Indiana University and has had poems and short stories published in many magazines. 
The artist known as muMs will perform his slam poetry on Saturday night. 
As an actor, writer, poet and activist, Bronx­native Craig Grant has appeared in several major motion pictures -Martin Scorcese's "Bringing Out the Dead" and Spike Lee's film "Bamboozled". mu Ms has also pPr­formed on 
"Big Stone Gap'' and "Big Cherry lloller," on Feb. 11. Trigiani was Lhe first student in the ND/SMC theater pro­gram to write and dirnct her own play on the uni­versity main stage. 
Since her graduation in 1982, Trigiani has gone 
site and used by permission.] 
Contact Laura Kelly at lkelly@nd.edu. 
on to write and produce many plays, TV sitcoms, documentaries and screenplays, including the cur­rent film adaptation of "Big Stone Gap." 
Feb.9 
n1uMs 
8 p.m. 

nition for the festival: '"sophomore literary festival'<pron. s-1-f> 
1. 35 year old Notre Dame literary tradition 2. opportunity for students. faculty, and community members to listen to, interact with, and emulate notable authors 3. a week-long ritualistic carnival focusing on ancient papyrus celebrations native to the Nile Hiver Valley 4. FUN! 5. free admittance 6. warning: seating is limited, so come early! 7. a reception will follow each evening event." 
read before Stanton's presentation. 
Senior English major Gregg Murray precedes Trigiani's reading, and senior PLS major Eric Long will present his writing on the festival's final night before Bushnell's talk. 
The three student readers were chosen by the SLF committee at an open coffeehouse last November. 
and Ellgass considers this  an  essential component  
of the festival.  
"It's  a  great  

While this definition may not be able to include the names of every guest the festival has hosted over the years, its solid tradition continues to attract writers from around the country to the halls of DeBartolo. Washington 
-
Hall and Lafortune -keeping the dream of one Notre Dame sophomore 35 years a reality today. 
Ellgass and the rest of the SLF com­mittee are looking forward to seeing the fruits of their labors pay off this week. "But the most important thing," said Ellgass. "is getting the word out so that people come from all over campus to enjoy the opportunities the festival offers." 
[Editor's note: All photos of festival guests provided courtesy of SLF Web 
The final night of the festival, reb. 12, features Candace Bushnell, author of the bestseller "Sex in the City", now a popular comedy series on HBO. 
An aspiring actress turned fea­ture writer, Bushnell will address the topic or "The Responsibility of Journalists in the Twenty-first Century." lier second New York Times' best­seller, "Four Blondes." was pub­lished in 2001. 
In addition to these outside guests, the literary festival will feature three of Notre Dame's own students presenting original works. 
Michael Rampolla, a junior English Education major, will 

Lollapalooza tours and has a recurring role as the Poet in the Emmv-nomi­nated HBO prison drama 
"Oz." 

Saint Mary's alumna Adriana Trigiani will present her two best-sell­ing novels, 

Feb. 12 Candace Bushnell 7 :30 p.m. Washington Hall 

p:i.ge 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 4, 2002 
Bowl 
continued from page 20 
vear for the Patriots, who were 5-11 last year, slarted 0-2 and lost quarterback Drew Bledsoe to a chest injury. 
Bradv took over and led them to the AFC East title with an 11­5 record. But few expected them to beat the Rams. who at 14-2 had the league's best record and best offense and were trying to win their second Super Bov,,I in two years. 
The Patriots had twice lost in the Super Bowl, both times in New Orleans. And it was the first championship as a ht>ad coach for Bill Belichick. who as defen­sive coordinator of the New York Giants. 11 years ago won a ring when Buffalo's Scott Norwood missed a 47-yard attempt in the final seconds. 
There was plenty of drama, too, especially at the end. Warner's 2-vard sneak with 
4:31 left -his first rushing TD this season -pulled SL Louis within 17-10. After holding the Patriots. the Rams got the ball back at their own 45 and needed only 21 seconds to tie it 
Favored by 14 points. the Rams were billed as the "Greatest Show on Turf." But if they expected to breeze, they discovered early that the Patriots wouldn't let them. Warner was sacked only three times but pounded on almost every play even as New England used five, six or even seven defensive backs to shut down the St. Louis offense. 
The Patriots showed their tenacity early, giving up yards grudgingly and moving from their own 3 to near midfield after being pinned deep on their first possession. 
New England stiffened on St. Louis' second possession, limit­ing the Rams to Jeff Wilkins' 50­yard field goal after they had moved from their own 20. 
The Patriots let the Rams reach their 34 early in the sec­ond quarter. but this time Wilkins' 52-yard attempt was short. 
New England had trouble moving, but it was still the Patriots' pace at this stage of the game. 
Everything was slow as the Patriots' varying defenses -as many as seven defensive backs on some plays -made Warner and the Rams work for each yard. 
With 8:49 left in the half, New England got the break it was playing for. 

On a first-and-10 from the St. Louis 39, New England line­backer Mike Vrabel broke clear on a blitz. As he was about to hit Warner, the St. Louis quarter­back unloaded -right to Law, who raced untouched 47 yards down the sideline to give New England a 7-3 lead. 
The second TD came after the Rams got the ball on their own 15 with 1 :52 left in the half. 
On the third play, Warner found Proehl over the middle. He was hit by Antwan Harris, who scored in the AFC championship game last week on a blocked punt. This time Harris knocked the ball loose and Terrell Buckley picked it up and returned it 15 yards to the St. Louis 40. 

Five plays later, it was 14-3 as Brady found David Patten in the cornir of the end zone for an 8­yard score. Patten made a leap­ing catch after turning Dexter McCleon around with a double move. 
New England continued to stalemate the Hams through the third quarter Richard Seymour's sack of Warner ended a drive that reached the Patriots' 41 on the first drive. 
The Rams turned to the run to try to get New England ouf of its nickel and dime defenses as Marshall Faulk ran four times for 30 yards. But on third down came what seemed to be the inevitable turnover -Warner missed Torry Holt and Otis Smith picked it off, returning it 30 yards to the St. Louis 32. 
Three plays later, Vinatieiri's 37-yard field goal made it 17-3. 
The Hams then put together their first sustained drive, get­ting inside the New England 32 for the first time. On a fourth­and-goal from the 3, Warner fumbled and Tebucky Jones took it all the way back for what appeared to be the clinching touchdown. 
But Willie McGinest was called for holding Faulk -replays showed it was obvious -and the Rams got the ball back at the 
1. On the second play, Warner went in for the touchdown to cut it to 17-10 with 9:31 left to cap a 73-yard, 12-play drive. 
Then came the tying TD and the winning drive. 
"We beat all the odds," Milloy said. "No one can ever take that away from us." 
No one is likely to try. At least until next season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES WANTED 
SPRING BREAK Looking !or Eagle Scout Cancun, or anyone interested to volunteer as Jamaica, Asst. Leader with 
S. Padre. & all Florida destinations. Boy Scout Troop 453. BEST Meet at Clay United Methodist Hotels. Church. FREE on cleveland Rd., parties, north of Ironwood. LOWEST Monday nights 7-8:30 pm. prices' Call Chuck Trundle www.breakerstravel.com 277-5194 
FOR SALE 
Why rent when you can own a qua!­ity 3 bdrm, 2 ba villa, less than 2 mi from campus. Fireplace. BsmL Low $85/mo fee. 1948 Creeksedge. $138,000. Call Rachel 235-3906. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Really. 
Dodge 93 Intrepid, 3.3L clean, 128K mi. $2,000 282-1162 after 5pm. 
FOR RENT-.. 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9­bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532-1896 
HOMES FOR RENT 2002/03 YR.FURN. 
272-6306 
PERSONAL ., 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! Book your trip with StudentCity.com 
'' and save up-to $100 per person to Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre or 
Florida. 
Most popular student hotels including the Oasis and the Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! Prices start at $399! Sale ends soon! CALL NOW! 1-800-293-1443 or go to StudentCity.com! 

evenings information, see our weekly ad in Spring Break Tickets! 
(800) 985-6789, 70s retro mauve couch & chair. 5 mins from ND!4-6 student house THE OBSERVER. Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to 
Website help needed to revamp Great cond. $185 obo. 292-1175 or w/large common areas-prkg lot. select shows when you $400 existing site. 236-7846 appL Fall #1 Spring Break Vacations! book your Spring Break through CCTour page . 2002 Dave 291-2209 Cancun, Jamaica. Bahamas & StudentCity.com! Go to MTV.com
... 
&Travel Florida FrontPage. Florida! Best Parties, or call 
SpringBreak pkg. 1998 Saturn Great Winter Car, Excellent house 3-4 students. Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is StudentCity.com at Good Pay. IHRD Sweet Stereo, 40mpg $8,600/offer, Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Limited!!! 1 ·800-234-7007 1-800-293-1443 for details! Call 258-0718 273-8857 8-5 M-F. 283-0901 Dave 291-2209 www.endlesssummertours.com Tours and tickets are limited! 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall short against Calvin, co01e out on top of Al01a 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writ.er 
Af'tr,r a narrow loss Saturday to Calvin. the Saint Mary's bas­kr,tball team bouncr,d back on Sunday against conferr,nce rival Alma. 
Tlw Belles. 3-7 in MIM play and 7-14 overall. fell short of bnating thP Knights of Calvin by a singlP poinL. 52-51. in front of a season-high number of fans. But the team dnfoated Alma. 50­43, on Sunday playing a make­up game for a contest that was can.celled earlier in the week due to bad weather. 
Whilr tlw dose loss to Calvin was disappointing for Saint Marv's. tlw vir.torv over Alma is both. an <>motional°and necr,ssary twtical virtory for the Belles. 
,\ft<'r losing at Alma G(i-52 on .Jan. 5. Saint Mary's was ripe for rc\vengr and in m'f'd of a victory after recording four losses in a 
row. 
"We arp so thrilled. I don't even remember tho last time Saint Marv's bPat Alma. We are just so pu.mped after this win," said sPnior Jainw Dineen. "Beforo the game was cancelled, Wt' pn'p,u·pd rnally well and we wr,n• all so excited to play Alma hr.cause il was such a rival for us. It was such a close game wfrnn we played a~. Alma. and we wanted revenge. 
Freshman Emilv Creachbaum lr,d thP BPlles with 14 points. in addition to contributing 12 boards and srv,~n assists. Because of her play, she was named an honorable mention for the MIM player of the week, as slrn and her team shut down for­mer MIAA players of week Shelly Ultig and Janelle Twietmeycr. Both were limited to L3 points each. 
"She has done an amazing job this year," said Dineen of Crnachbaum. "She's br,en guarding top play­ers. Shn has stepped up in every game." 
Senior Anne Blair, who had a game-high 23 points versus Calvin, had eight points and eight rebounds against Alma. 
Improving its rebounding has been an important goal for Saint Mary's and thr. increased attt~ntion they devoted lo this skill seems to bP paying off. In recent games, Saint Mary's has been out­rebounded by as many as 20 boards, but Saturday they had 40 to Calvin's 39 and on Sunday, 36 to Alma's 39. 
"Wr.'ve been focusing on being disciplined ... You have to do the little things. It's not abou.~ records anymore, Dineen said. "Every team is pretty much equal. Each night we 

have to come out, get the A Saint Mary's player goes up for a basket while surrounded by Alma players in the Belles' 50-43 victo­

offensive rebounds, 

ry on Sunday.
make the free throws." A problem Saint Against Alma, the Belles wereMary's has boen dealing with is 

down 30-25 at the half. but 
losing steam during the second came back to outscore the Scots 

hair. but this weekend they 

25-13. 
gained momentum as their 

"We concentrated on staying games progressed. After being real positive during the second
down 26-19. they outscored 

half, and I think we did," said Calvin :-32-26 in the second half. 
Dineen "We played incredible 
Congregation of Holy Cross 

lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
team defense during the second half." 
Saint Mary's will play at Hope, ranked number one in the con­ference, on Wednesday night. Hope has only one loss this sea­son. For the Belles, they hope to carry Sunday's intensity through the week. 
"We had so much fire in our bellies [Sunday]. We were real intense," said Dineen. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Smith resigns after misrepresentation 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
Rick Smith was forced to resign as Georgia Tech's defensive coordinator after a committee concluded he mis­re presented himself in his media guide profile. 
Smith, hired last month by new coach Chan Gailey, admit­ted Monday he never played on the football and baseball teams at Florida State, as his profile said. He offered his res­ignation Friday. 
"You don't want to bring anyone in ... where they don't have a wide base of support from the faculty, the students and the alumni," Bill Wepfer, associate chairman of the School of Mechanical Engineering, said. "There's a sense that we are in a new era where everything has to be perfect. 
"So there was a lot of con­cern from people in the Georgia Tech community that felt we needed to rise to this new level." 
Athletic director Dave Braine said Gailey called Smith to tell him the decision. 
"I offered to do it for him, but he said he wanted to do it," Braine said. "It was tough for [Gailey). But he also under­stands the policy." 
Smith had served as assis­tant head coach, recruiting coordinator and defensive backs coach at Kentucky before taking the job at Georgia Tech. Reached at home in Lexington. Ky., Smith said his plans were unclear. 
"I'm unemployed," he said. "I don't have a job at Kentucky. I don't have a job at 

-
Georgia Tech. I'm basically ruined." 
The school was embarrassed in December by revelations that former head coach George O'Leary lied on his resumo, costing him a job at Notre Dame just five days after he left the Yellow Jackets. 
The false information in Smith's bio was removed from 1997 to 2000, but it reap­peared last season when he went to Kentucky as a defen­
sive backs coach. 


page 14 7he Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 4, 2002 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Double trouble for Notre Dame in -weekend losses 

MEN'S TENNIS 

Notre Dame dominates Ohio State in 6-1 victory 
Talarico finished first, upset­After the outcome was deter­Perrin at No. 2 by a 9-8 (8-6) Axler's 12-match winning
Special to The Observer 

ting 16th-ranked Phil Metz 6-mined, 83rd-ranked sopho­score. streak in dual matrhes. Scott 2, 6-1 at No. 2. The win more Luis Haddock-Morales Smith, ranked 88th, tied the has won all seven of his sin­
The 10th-ranked Notre 

marked the second time this turned in a 7-5, 6-3 win at No. match with a 6-3, 6-0 win at gles matches this spring and
Dame men's tennis team cap­

season Metz has been upset by 4 to improve tu 10-0 in singles No. 3 singles, but Hanus 13 of his last 14, dating back
tured the doubles point and 

an Irish player. Scott defeated matches at home this season. immediately put Northwestern to last fall. 95th-ranked
then won the five singles 

him in the second round of Vinre Ng got the Buckeyes on ahead again with a 7-6 (7-5), Taborga then won 6-4, 5-7, 6­matches at the top of the line­last fall's Omni Hotels Region the board with a win at No. 6 6-2 victory at No. 2. 3 at No. 1. He has won nine of up to defeat No. 24 Ohio State IV Championships. before Smith, ranked 88th, The Irish claimed the final his last 11 matches.
6-1 Friday at the Eck Tennis Talarico has won all six of registered a 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 7-5 four matches on court to win Notre Dame will return to

Pavilion. Seniors Javier his singles matches in straight win over 72nd-ranked Adrian . the match. Sophomore Luis action on Thursday, takingTaborga and Aaron Talarico sets this spring and has been Bohane at No. 3. Haddock-Morales finished part in the USTNlTA National

highlighted the victory, each 

victorious in 18 of his last 19 On Saturdav, the Irish ral­next with a 7-6 (9-7). 6-4 win Team Indoor Championships
upsetting players ranked in 

dual singles matches, dating lied from a 2:1 deficit to move at No. 4 and senior Andrew in Lexington, Ky. The Irish arethe national top 20 in singles. 
back to last year. Metz is the to 6-1 with a 5-2 road victory Laflin won 7-5, 6-4 at No. 6 to scheduled to open play with aThe Irish. who defeated Ohio 
highest-ranked player Talarico over No. 46 Northwestern set up the clinr:hing victory. match against seventh-rankedState for the 14th consecutive 
has defeated in his career. Sundav afternoon at the Sophomore Matthew Scott pro­Pepperdine at 9 a. m. on
time, improved to 5-1 for their 

Taborga, ranked 95th newly:dedicated Combe vided it, registering a 6-4, 1-6, Thursday.
best start since 1997. The 

nationally. followed his class­Tennis Center. The Irish lost 6-2 win at No. 5, snapping
Buckeyes lost for the first time mate offthe court with a 6-4, the doubles point, but took five in four ma.tchcs in 2002. 

6-2 win over 20th-ranked of the six singles matches to 
The Irish captured a hotly­

Wurtzman at No. 1. After gain the win and their best con tested doubles point to never playing at No. 1 singles start since 1997. Northwestern r----------------------------~-----­
take a 1-0 lead. Taborga and prior to this season, Taborga lost for the first time in five Casev Smith, the sixth-ranked 

is 3-0 at that position in 2002. matrhes this season. 
doubles team in the nation, 

lie has won nine of his last The doubles point came SUPER SAVINGS! 
PIZZA COMPANY;!) 
By COLIN BOYLAN Sporrs Wrirer 
While the formula for success for the Notre Dame wom<'n's tennis team is bv no means set in stone, a certain tre11d seems to be emerging five matrhes into the spring snason. 
When the team wins the doublfls point, they win the match. When they lose the doubles point. the results are much less desirable. 
A pair of losses Ia.st weekend to opponents Kentucky and Indiana dropped the Irish to 3-2 on the sea­son and will likely drop the team from their 13th spot in the national rankings. In both matclws, losing the closely contested doubles point set a negutive toue for the rest of the com­petition. 
"Even though its only one point. I think the doubles matches have a lot of sif;nilicance." said head coa,h Jay Louderback. "We didn't play very well and that carried over to our sin­gles." 
Doubles certainly set the tone for the lrish in their 4-3 Saturday loss to Kentucky. After splitting the first two matches, the Irish tandem of Lindsev Green and Becky Varnum fell jus·t short in their effort to defeat Kentucky's seventh ranked doubles team of Carolina Mayorga and Sarah Witten. losing 8-6. 
Kentucky followed by rattling off the first three singles victories to clinch the match. 
Nina Vaughan, Alicia Salas and Katie Cunha rallied with three con­secutive wins of their own to stage and impressive comeback, but it was a case of too little, too late. 
On Sunday, the match seemed to follow a similar script in the team's 5-2 Joss to 40th ranked Indiana. 
The Irish suffered a close doubles loss, but actually gained a brief upper hand when Salas and Sarah Jane Connelly quickly disposed of their opponents to give the team a 2-1 lead. Salas' 6-1, 6-0 victory was par­tirularly impressive ronrlusion to a weekend in which she finished 3-1 ­the only Irish player lo have a win­ning record. 

"I was disappointed that we didn't pull through in doubles, so I wanted to start out as strong as I could in sin­gles," she said. 
However, the momentum was halt­ed when Gre('n's second set rally against Indiana's Karie Schlukebir fell short in a tie-breaker and Vaughan lost a close match lo Linda Tran 7-5. 6-4. Indiana then took the final two singlfls matches and the vic­tory. 
Toward the t-md of Sunday's compP­tition, the Irish seemed to be worn down by Indiana's "We've had a cou­plr, of tough matches over the past week. but I don't think that was a big issue." said Salas. "We played well against Kentucky, but we just didn't come out with as much intensity against Indiana." 
Louderback agreed with that assessment. 
"That's just the way the season goes," he said of the team's five matches during the past week. "We need to be ready to play out there." 
Despite the relatively disappointing weekend, Louderback says he has no immediate plans to shuffle the lineup. 
''I'm going to see how everyone does in the National Indoors this week before I make a decision like that." 
Next week, the Irish will travel to Madison. Wisconsin for the USTNITA National Team Indoor Championship. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylanl@nd.edu. 
dre,\ first blood with an 8-5 

11 matches and has now nig­down to a tiebreaker in the 
win at No. 1. The Buckeyes 

istered four wins over ranked f'inal match before 
struck back at No. 2 when 

opponents, including back-to­Northwestern claimed a 1-0 
Conor Casev and Jeremy 

back triumphs over top-25 lead. Irish seniors Casey Smith 
Wurtzman notched a win 8-5. 

players. Taborga defeated and Javier Taborga, ranked 
Talarico and sophomore 

24th-ranked Mirhael Yani of sixth in the nation, gained an 
l\latthew Scott broke serve in 

Duke 6-3, 6-3 on Tuesday. 8-5 win at No. 1, but the 
the final game of thP match to 

Scott clinched the Irish victo­Wildcats won the remaining
win 9-7 at No. 3, clinching the 

ry with a 6-1, 7-6 (7-4) win at two matches. Josh Axler and 
doubles point for the Irish. 

No. 5 singles. lie has won all Thomas Hanus notched an 8-4 
Notre Dame won the first 

win at No. 3 to set up the
six of his singles matrhes this
four singles matches off the (not good with other discounts or offers)
spring and has won 12 of his point-rlinching victory by 
court to open up a 5-0 lead. 

last 13. dating back to last fall. Jackie Jenkins and Chuck Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1,49! 
$2 off any Medium or $3 off any Large 

We'll match any Papa John's,Domino's or Marco's Coupon We take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 2/2/02 
-----------------------------------~ 
-

HOCKEY 
Notre Dame learns lesson with 2 weekend losses 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Spores Wrire .. 
Sometimes speed kills. Thai was the lesson the Notre Dame hor.kcy team learned this week­end, losing twice to the Alaska­Fairbanks l\lanooks. 7-5 Fridav and then 6-5 on Saturday. · 
"Teams look fast when they react well." said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "[Alaska­Fairbanks) was jumping on rvery loose purk." 
The two losses dropped the team to 9-14-5 overall, and 7­11-S in !hP CCHA. 
Saturday night's game proVf~d to be a study in two different tnams. In the first period Alaska­Fairbanks startc1d off fast. The Nanooks scored th0 first three goals of' thr game, and the !irst period endPd with a 4-1 Alaska­Fairbanks lead. Connor Dunlop scored the only Irish goal or the first with 2:13 left in the period. 
Morgan Cry started the game Saturdav for Notre Dame. hut he didn't finish it At the start of the sec:ond period l'oulin pulled Cey in favor of senior. Jeremiah Kimcnto. 
The second period started much like the first ended for the Nanooks. Two minutes into the pPriod Alaska-Fairbanks scored their fifth goal of the night to make it 5-1. 
Then tlw Irish started to relax and make plays. Hob Globkr scored 4:49 into the period to make it 5-2. Alaska-Fairbanks added another goal when Aaron Voros tapped in his second goal of the night to make the score 6­2. 
Then the Irish rallied. Yan Stastny and Kylr Dolder scored 34 seconds apart to cut the lead Lo 6-4. The Irish got another goal with 1:08 left in the period from Neil Komadoski to make the game 6-5. It was Komadoski's first goal of tho year. 
"In the second we finally relaxfld," said Poulin. "We didn't ovcrthink the game, just went out and made plays." 
In the third Alaska-Fairbanks pulled Preston McKay in favor of Lance Mayes in goal. The deci­sion proved to be the right one l'or the l\anooks. Mayes shut down the Irish in the third. Notre Dame couldn't get anything going offensively, and the game ended 6-5. 
In Friday's game the Irish just couldn't get over the hump. Down Ci-5 lati,, Alaska-f<airbanks got an cmpty-n<'tter to put the game away. 
The game started out fast for both teams. Alaska-Fairbanks scored 31 seconds into the game. 
1:48 later the Nanooks were up 2-0. But the Irish fought back. Connor Dunlop and David Inman both scored late in the period to make it a 2-2 game. 
15 seconds into the second period the Irish took a 3-2 lead 

Please Recycle The Observer. 

on an Evan Nielson goal. 
Alaska-Fairbanks then responded by putting three straight goals on the board for a 5-3 lead. That lead stood through the end of the second. 
Stastny put one in 43 seconds into the third to pull the Irish within one. Through the third both teams traded goals, with Globke netting a goal for Notre Dame. 
With the score 6-5 at the end of the game the Irish pulled their goalie for a shot at the tie. Instead Alaska-f'airbanks put in the empty-netter to seal the win. 
A big loss in Friday's game was junior winger Mike Chin. Chin crashed into the boards in the second period and had to be helped ofT the ice. Initially train­ers thought he broke his ankle, but it turned out to be a high ankle sprain. Nonetheless the loss of Chin's firepower will be crucial going into the final few weeks of the season. 

Next weekend the Irish take on CCIIA powerhouse Michigan State. With their CCHA position­ing falling fast the past few weeks, Notre Dame needs a win. Next week the Irish will have to play at their best to stay in con­tention. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles win, set personal bests 

IT][illCT][[][filrnJ0@l[fil Creating an 
nlerracial -l==amily 
J,.· 

Raising Black & Biracial Childten 
Wednesday, February 6th 5:30 pn1 Center for Social Concerns 
Please RSVP@ 1-6841 

There will be a panel discussion. as well as Soul Food served. All are welcome. 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
Sports Wrirer 
Swimming for personal bests and not worrying about earning points helped Saint Mary's win Saturday against Albion by the score of 126-118. Saturday's win is Saint Mary's first victory in a dual meet against an MIM team other than Olivet in the school's history. 
"This was one of our best meets of the year," head coach Gregg Petcoff said. "The win really helps to give the women confidence and shows them that all their effort is worth it." 
Just beginning its taper, the team looked to drop time at their double dual meet against Hope and Albion Colleges. Some of the most exciting races came in those in which personal records were made. 
Also, Meg Ramsey set. a new team record in the 200-yard freestyle with her second place finish of 1 :57 .56. Michelle Stanforth swam a personal best and finished third in the 100­yard breastroke coming in behind first place finisher Lauren Smith with times of 1 :13.81 and 1:13.02 respectively. Diver Angie Osmanski should be in the top twelve of the MIAA after her career high of 165. 90 points in the one-meter event. 


The team is going to focus on "sharpening up" in turns, starl'>, streamlines and the little things that make the difference. Junior co-captain Lane Herrington thinks Saturday's victory will add to the team's confidence. 
"Now we are looking to sur­prise some other teams who don't expect a lot from us at our conference . meet," said Herrington. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail l 407@saintmarys.edu. 
ONE, 
TWO, 
TWENTY-ONE 
TIMES A LADY! HAPPY BDAY LISA! 
Love, Roomie & the 1A crew 



MEN'S SWIMMING 
Notre Dame dominates in win over St. Bonaventure 
By SHEILA EGTS Spores Writer 
The St. Bonaventure men's swimming and diving team loaded back onto its busses Saturday afternoon, heading home after its 26th loss to Notre Dame in the dual meet's 35-year history. The Irish r,on­trolled the meet from beginning to end with first place finishes in 10 out of 13 events. 
The Irish squad has been focusing their efforts on mak­ing Big East qualifying times in these final meets and added sophomore Adam Cahill to the Big East roster on Saturday. 
After swimming the 50 freestyle time trial in 21.42 seconds, Cahill hugged team­mates and waved up to his mom who had traveled more than six hours from their home in,Ric.hmond. Ky. to support him. According to Cahill, the ' 

A FREE SPRING BREAK! 

Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Tnps on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 
Never Down Sized or Laid Off Again 

Seeking Referral agents. earn $13,600+ per month starting the first month, can work at home call . 888-4( ~-0077 
pure adrenaline rush from the team's encouragement helped him make the 21.47 time cut in the event. 
"I could have swam through a brick wall at that point because the team was going crazy for me," said Cahill. 'Tm really an emotional swimmer and do it all for the excitement. I know the Big East will be electric" 
Cahill ,-vas the only Big East qualifier from the meet, but 


t ' '1 I I-: ,J' 11 I I i' •' 1 
You can have it all: 
No minimum balance requirement No monthly service fee No per-check charge 
David Horak swam a season­
best time of l:51.81 in the 200 breaststroke and took a first place finish for the Irish. 
Head coach Tim Welsh was pleased with David Moisan's first place finish in the 200 IM at 1:55.76, a time fairly wnsis­tent with his 11th-ranked Big East qualifying time of 1 :54.26. 
Andy Maggio set a pool and university record with 383.5 finish in the three-meter diving event. Maggio won the one-and three-meter diving events with season best scores in both events. 
Matt Bertke, Malt Englehardt, Michael Flanagan, Matt Obringer and .l. H. Teddy also contributed with first place fin­ishes. Bertke finished at 
9:43.39 in the 1000 freestyle, Englehardt posted a 2:13.44 in the 200 breaststroke, Flanagan r,ame in at 4:49.62 in the 500 
No ATM surcharge 
Plus, nine (9) ATMs on campus! 
Call, stop in, or visit our web site to apply for membership. 
~ ~ 
l'rcestyle, Obringer took thP 200 J'reostyle at 1:42.33 and J.H. Teddy topped the 200 butt,1rl1y at 1:53.71. 
The men swim in their final meet before the Big East Championships against Cleveland St. on Saturday in the Holl's Aquatir, Center at 2 p.m. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys. ed u. 

B-ball 
continued from page 20 
time they got in, we were down. We got down early." 
1lowllvcr, rlecky, the freshman for­ward. kept tlrn lrish in the game in thoso opening minutes, sr,oring the first seven points for a Notre Dame squad that had it's worst shooting game of the season, hitting only 32.1 percent of their shots from the field. Those seven points helped make up the nine that tied Flecky's career best. Flecky attributed some or that success to reeling in control of her game early on. 
"It kind of folt a little like high school when I played my game the way I knew how," she said. "Thrre have been a lot of chances, but it felt like before and I had a lot of ronf"idcnce going in." 
Those seven points set Batteast up to bring the game within one with a trey. before th<\ Irish fell behind by 1O with eight minutes to go in the first half. 
"We just couldn't put the ball in the basket and, really, that was our only problrm," Mr,Graw said. "Drfensivcly we played pretty well. We just couldn't make a shot." 
In the first 20 minut<1s of the ganrn, the Irish shot 25 percent from the field. ForLunately, three of th,i 10 shots they made wore thrcn-pointers. Bustamante and Wicks made conseru­tivr tnws that allowed Wicks to tie the game ~ilh two frne throws with !'our seconds left in the iirst half. A buzzer­beater by Seton llall's Cecilia Lindqvist put the Pirates on top 28-25 at the half. 
In the second halt'. tho Irish managed to squeeze out a lead and, thanks to a tightly called game, bring home thr, 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 

to be better 574/239·6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent ollhe University 

win. 
lfatteast. who had only sr,ornd !'our points in the first half' added another 17 points to claim her ninth double­double of the season with 21 points and 12 rebounds. 
"I think she really settled in in the second half," McGraw said. "She was· really the playrr we were looking f'or." 
Although the Irish upped their shoot­ing percentage to 40 in the second half', it was really foul shooting that allowed the victory. In a dosely called game, the two teams together totaled 44 personal fouls. 
"They called it really tight," McGraw said. "Tlrnre were a lot of sti('.ky spots. JL1st really some that we could havn done without." 
While there were some fouls the Irish could have done without, them wern even more fouls that were imper­ative. Notre Dame scored 18 points on ~4 trips to the free-throw line in the srcond half, enough to give them thn win. 
"We definitely won by free throws,'' Flecky said. "Wn're a pretty good free­throw shooting team and if' you put us at tlrn li1rn, I think we can do a lot. of damage and I think that was a deter­mining factor." 
The Irish took their first lead of' the second half on a lay-up by Ilaney live minutes into the half' and managed lo hold onto it for most or that half'. In th<1 final minutes, Seton llall guarant.P,-!d that it would not bn overlookml. bring­ing t.he game within three b11 fore Batteast hit two foul shots to put the game away. 
Notre Damn will have onlv a dav ol' rest before the team takes t~J thn 1:oad again to face Pittsburgh on Tuesday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Monday, February 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish leaders top team with NCAA qualifying times 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Wrirer 
Senior leadership combined with superb underclassman tal­ent has bc0n the story of the 2002 men's and women's track and field teams. In the Mcyo Invitational this weekend, Notre Dame's seniors led a deeply tal­
P.n tcd underda.ssmcn tea.m to several NCAA qualifying tinrns and many victories against one of the most competitive fields in the nation. 
The highlight of the weekend was in tiw women's mile relay race. Under thn lnadersbip of senior and anrhor runnM Liz (;row. the team took first place in thr~ invitation,d with a time of' 
3:38.58. a time that is currently scr.ond best in the nation. 
The team consisting of Grow, sophomores Ayesha Boyd and Kristen Dodd, and junior Kymia Love has been together for almost two vears now and am looking take first at the NCAA indoor rhampionships in early March. 
"We're all like sisters. We trust each other and we want to do our best." said Grow. "We knew this would be one of our only opportunities to qualify for nationals. This has been my drnam." 
Their blazing NCAA provision­al qualifying time set a school. trar.k and meet record, and was over an 11-second improvement on their time in last year's Meyo Invitational. 
"I wasn't expecting to be sec­ond in the nation," said Grow. "When I crossed the finish line and it said we ran 3:38. I started crying. It's befm so exciting." 
The mile relav team also had a lot. of sucr.ess in other races in the meet. Bovd won the GO­meter dash with Dodd finishing behind Boyd in 4th place. Grow and Love finished second and third rf'spectively in the 400 meter dash behind prospective Olympic athlete! Foye Williams. Their limes were NCAA provi­sional qualifying times. 
Senior Amanda Alvarez was also looking strong on Saturday. Alvarez won the 500-meter run in 1 : 14.'J4 to earn her lirst vicLo­rv of' the season. 
· Sophomore Megan Johnson, the school record holder in the outdoor 1500 meters, was com­ing into top form on Saturday. Johnson won the mile run in a time of 4:51.39. just thn·e sec­onds off a NCAA provisional qualifying time. . 
Jamie Volkmer, after strng­gling thi> last two weeks in the pole vault. took first place with a 12-foot vault. Volkmer also took first in the tripln jump. an event she has excelled in this year. 
Rounding off the strong women's showing was Tameisha King, taking second place in the 60-meter hurdles and first place in the long jump by almost 2 feet. Her long jump distance of 20 feet 7 inches was a provision­al qualifier. 
Senior leadership was also dis­played in the men's events, espe­cially by the distance runners. 
David Kimani of Alabama won t.he 5000-meter race with Irish senior Ryan Shay right behind him in 13:46.80, Kimani and Shay are ranked first and second resper.tively in the nation right now in the 5000. and both run­ners posted NCAA automatic qualifying times. Shay's time was events. Ellick finished second in the 200 meter dash and fourth in the 60 meter dash. 


Overall. the Irish had 10 victo­ries in 38 events. Eight runners or tearns also qualified for the NCAA indoor championships in March. That is not including the men's distance medley team who qualified last weekend for the indoor championships. Of those 8 qualifiers, five are seniors or included seniors on the team. 
Next weekend the Irish look to continue their success at the Windsor Invitational in Windsor. Ontario. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
also a personal best time and school record. 
Shay and classmate Luke Watson worked off each other in the 3000-meter run. They exchanged the lead several times, but in the end it was Watson with a strong kick in the last several hundred meters that pushed him in front of Shay for the win. Their times of 7:54.02 and 7:58.73 respectively, were also NCAA automatic qualifying times. 
Senior Sean Zanderson was at his best on Saturday. Zanderson posted a personal best 4:09.12 in the Meyo Mile. The Meyo Mile is 
famous around the country because it is the race that top runners around the country compete in to try to run a sub-4 minute mile. This year the best time was 4:03.26 by Steve Sherer of Michigan State. 
In the·regular men's mile, freshman Eric Morrisson was on top with a time of 4:09. 76. Fellow freshman Dwight Ellick had great success in the sprint 

Roundtable: "Cuban Catholicism in the Diaspora" 
Tuesday, February 5, 2002 McKenna Hall, Roo1n 200 PART ONE 4:00 pm REFLECTIONS PART TWO 4:45 pm DISCUSSION 
5:30 pm Reception Featuring: 
Dr. Gerald E. Poyo, Historian, St. Mary's University, TexasNisiting Professor University of Notre Dame "Cuban ·catholics in Exile" 
Dr. Maria de los Angeles Torres, Political Scientist, DePaul University "Politics and Exile: The Peter Pan Children" 
Rev. Mario Vizcaino, Director, 

I'
Southeast Pastoral Institute "Cuban 
1or 

Catholic Pastoral Issues and 
Men's 
continued from page 20 
pulled out their first lead of the game, 18-1 7, on a Torrian Jones jumper with 7:10 remaining. 
Irish head coach Mike Brey entered reserve forward Tom Timmermans into the lineup in the final minutes of the half, freeing up the pressure on Humphrey down low, and the Irish pushed their lead to 33-26 to end the half. 
Notre Dame's defense was key in its first-half comeback, as the Irish outscored the Pirates 31-11 in the last 12 minutes of the half. 
The second half proved to be a back and forth battle between the two Big East teams, as the Irish relied on key 3-pointers by Graves and Matt Carroll to hep the Irish in the game. 
Carroll. a junior. ended the game with 10 points, just 13 shy of a career 1.000 mark. 
Humphrey and Swanagan picked up four fouls each with eight minutes remaining in the game, forcing Brey to give Timmermans and freshman Jordan Cornette some extra court time. 

The Pirates, who dropped to 11-10 on the season and 4-5 in the Big East. found some unexpected offensive help to stay in the game. While the usual high-scoring duo of Barrett and Lane contributed 26 points, the Pirates also found some help from quieter players. Manga turned in his best performance of the sea­son with 14 points, an unchar­acteristic 3-pointer and 12 rebounds, while Greg Morton, also a traditional post player .connected on two quick 3s to throw the Irish defensr. off kil­tflr. 
John Allen added 10 for the Pirates, 
The Irish return to action Wednesday when they takr. on Rutgers at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 
Concerns" 
Dr. Sixto Garcia, Theologian, St. Vincent DePaul Seminary, Boynton 

Beach, Florida "Reconciliation" Theology and Practice among 
Cubans" 
Latino Stud.ies 
--·----­

WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Former swimmer, coach meet on opposites sides of pool 

Irish head coach Bailey Weathers (right) first swam under Wolverine head coach Jim Richardson (left) when he was 14. Saturday, Weathers topped llis former coach -with an Irish win at the Notre Dame -Michigan dual meet in Ann Arbor. 
MIKE CON NOLL Yffhe ObserverMIKE CONNOLLY{fhe Observer 

"He was my first coach." he ship, Hichardson said. concerned about those kids far so you kind of' know what to By NOREEN GILLESPIE says. with a smile spreading The two have followed each beyond how fast they swim." expect." Sports W ricer arross his facn. "And he was other's coaching careers Both Richardson and But no matter how closo the 
hard." through Richardson's tenure Weathers have steered their matches get, the two don't let 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. Saturday at the University of as an assistant coarh at the teams to national rankings, the rivalry get in the way of' 
On a pool deck in North Michigan, Weathers and University of Iowa and loaded the rosters with All­their friendship. Carolina years ago. 14-year­Hichardson coached against WMthers' time as an assistant Americans and NCAA quali­"It's one of those rnlation­old Bailey Weathers stepped each other during the Notre at Texas. to their head coach­fiers. and can boast numerous ships in sport that makes doing out of the locker room and Dame-Michigan dual meet. ing positions at Michigan and conference titles in their what you do very special." onto Jim Richardson's YMCA Both of the rivals were coach­Notre Dame. tenures as head coach. Richardson said. "Of course, team. ing in one of their most impor­Today, the two talk about That makes for hotly contest­he wants to see his kids get 
The teenage breastroker and tant dual meet of the season, their programs, trade work­ed duals between Michigan their hands on the wall first ­distance freestyler wasn't the but animosity was absent. outs and training stories, and and Notre Dame. Since begin­and I want to see my kids get best kid on the team, but he Weathers and Richardson have molded a common coach­ning the series in 1992-93, their hands on the wall first. had a work ethic far and have been friends since the ing philosophy they believe has Michigan has won the match­loo. But that doesn't get in the beyond the other athletes, Notre Dame coach's competi­enhanced both of their pro­up four times. But Weathersa way of what's more important, Richardson remembers. tive swimming days, when he grams. Irish have snatched the last and that's our relationship." 
"He wanted to do anything began to develop a deep "Jim has inspired me to try three victories from Michigan, But laughing, Hichardson he could to get better," said friendship with his swim club to coach for the right reasons," letting the series record stand admits it might be time he gets Richardson. who is now the coach. Weathers said. "Jim does it the at 4-3. a little more competitive with head coach of Michigan. It was· when he returned for right way, and for the right Still, that doesn't make his former athlete. "Anything you asked him to do summer visits during college to reasons. He really understands coaching against his friend and "I need to get some faster as a coach he would try and train with the people very well, and that's mentor easy. swimmers in here," he laughs. kill himself to do." Winston-Salem YMCA that important." "He's tough," Weathers said. "Because he's kicked us the 
When Weathers thinks back Weathers' and Richardson's "It's made us both better "He knows what he's doing. last three years in a row." to his club swimming days. he relationship began to be less of coaches, and better people," You can't underestimate him. laughs when he talks about his a coach-swimmer relationship Richardson said. "Notre Dame He swims lo have his kids do Contact Noreen Gillespie at former co-ach. and more of a peer relation-has a teacher in Bailey who is well at the end of the season, gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

Irish finish unblelllished season with Michigan defeat 
focused on being undefeated," freestyle tied the scorn at 18-Irish. It was Notre Dame's wins from Lisa D'Olier in the By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
said Irish head coach Bailey 18. depth that enabled the win, as 200-yard butterfly and Marie Sports Writer 
Weathers. "But I think it gave The tie was only temporary. the Michigan squad struggled Labosky in the 400-yard indi­, us something to fight for at the The Irish surged ahead with a to get its 19 athletes into point­vidual medley. Senior Alison ANN ARBOR, Mich. end of the season." sweep of the 200-yard scoring positions. Lloyd combined with sopho­
When Michigan freshman For the seniors who compet­freestyle one event later. With four athletes benched more Laurie Musgrave for a 2­Amy McCollough powered past ed in the final dual meet of Junior Heidi Hendrick won in due to illness or injury, the 3 finish in the 100-yard breas­two Notre Dame swimmers for their collegiate careers, the 1:52.69, followed by sopho­battle-bruised Michigan squad troke. and Garcia, D'Olier and a win in the 1,650-yard achievement hadn't quite sunk more Lisa Garcia in second. didn't have much room to freshman Hannah Pawlewicz freestyle. the Wolverine bench in. freshman Sarah Alwen in third _move in the meet's line-up. rerorded a 2-3-4 finish in the came alive. "We knew this was a possi­and Hillenrneyer in fourth. "We had some areas where 100-yard butterfly. 
And after Michigan sopho­bility," said co-captain "It was just a matter of we just didn't perform as well The Irish will next compete more Emily-Clare Fenn Maureen Hillenmeyer. "It's knowing one of the two events as we should have," said at the Big East Championships touched the wall for second. kind of a rush of emotion right would be good for us," said Michigan coach Jim in Uniondale, N.Y. Feb. 21-24. the cheering just got louder. . now. It's all a little unreal." Weathers. "It's a kind of scary Richardson. "We haven't got 
But that would be one of the The senior class had stand­thing, but at the same time, it's the depth this year." Contact Noreen Gillespie at only bright spots for the 17th­out performances throughout not." The Irish were also aided by gilI0843@saintmarys.edu. ranked Michigan team the Michigan competition, The early tie was enough to Saturday afternoon, as they headlined by senior Carrie put the Irish on guard. howev­suffered the same fate as every Nixon's wins in the !HJ-yard er. especially in light of Irish opponent this season. In freestyle (23.06 seconds) and Michigan's win against a 175-124 decision over the the 100-yard freestyle (5J. l0). Northwestern Friday night. Happy BirthdayWolverines, the Irish put the Senior Heather Mattingly won The Irish beat the 16th-ranked finishing touches on an both the 1-meter and 3-meter Wildcats 201-99 at home Karolyn! 
· unblemished dual meet record. diving Bvents. Senior Kelly Thursday, but the Michigan 
It is the second time the Hecking won the 100-yard win had been closer ancl per· 13th-ranked Notre Dame backstrnke (56.24 l. formances wern J'astBr. May all your squad has gone undefeated in But oven though the upper­"We were a little thrown off, 
dreams continue

duiil meet competition in three classmen's performances but it wasn't anything we 
years. But it wasn't ever a goal sPa!ed the victory, thf> Irish couldn't handle." Hillenmeyer to come true... for the team, which has struggled to establish the lead said. "We saw how close the repeatedly emphasized the at the start. meet with Northwestern was. success of its season rests on A 1-3 finish in the 400-yard and we knew this would be a We're so proud of performances at the upcoming medley relay put the Irish lot harder." Big East Championships and ahead 12-4 after the first Despite a confidence-instill­you. Our love, 
NCAA Championships. event. but the ~foCollough• ing win against the Wildcats, "I don't think we ever really Fenn finish in the 1,650-yard Michigan couldn't defeat the 
Mom, Dad & Kristin 



GENTLEMAN.. WE HAVE A 
THE ATHLETIC 8Ub6ET 

HOW CAN we POSSIBLY 
PR08LEM ON OVR HANbS. 
IS $l O MIU.ION IN THE 

MAKE TH-4T MVCH MONEY 
THE FOOTBALL CE&ACLE 
HOLE ANt> WE NEEO TO 

ANI> 1>0 IT SO QUICICI.YI
HAS I.EFT VS WITH ONE 
MAKE IT VP 8Y THE ENO 

HEAO CO/IICH FOR THE 
OF THE SEMESTER 
PRlCE OF THREE 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
29 Slobber 58 Train tracks MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2002
ACROSS 
1 Cry a river 31 N.Y. Islanders' 60 On one's back CELEBRITIES BORN ON You can make headway if you THIS DAY: Pamela Franklin, are honest, upfront and to the
org.

5 Hair untangler 61 Bit of a bug David Brenner, Lisa Eichhorn, point. Your ability to get along 9 High school jrs. 33 Rob of "The 65 Sicilian spouter 1 Oscar De La Hoya with others will help you when West Wing" Happy Birthday: Your emo­it comes to getting support.
take them 66 Desert brick 
tional instability will make it dif­0000
35 Vintners' vessels 

14 Buffalo's lake 67 Spanish ficult for you to get along with LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You 38 Loud, as a Surrealist Joan friends, relatives and peers but if have to be reasonable when it
15 "Hard_!" 
crowd you listen and observe you can comes to your spending habits. 
(ship command) 68 Gulf war missile 
benefit from other people's expe­If you aren't happy with your
39 Bi-halved

16 To whom a 69 Handled riences. You will have to be well current career choice you should Muslim prays 40 Scratch inducer clumsily organized if you want to stay on be checking out something more track. Focus and discipline will suitable. 000 · 
17 "Rambling 42 To and 70 Item in an 
be required in order to accom­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
Wreck From actor's hand 
43 Dismiss plish your goals. Your numbers Get involved in group discus­
Georgia_" 
71 "Egad!" are 3, 17, 22, 31, 33, 45 sions that will open your mind
45 "Uh-huh"

18 Sponsor's spiel ARIES (March 21-April 19): to all sorts of new information. 46 Uncertain Financial limitations may hold Travel and getting involved with 
20 Turkish capital 
DOWN you back. Talk to someone who people from different back­
47 Clear, as a drain

22 Key of may have an interest in partner­grounds will be enlightening.
1 Alphas' followers tn--t---t-1--;

Schubert's 49 Roman Empire ing with you. Being frugal will 000 Symphony No. 5 conquerors 2"You_ be the first step toward financial SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. kidding!" recovery. 000 21): Get busy and do for yourself.
23 Apple 51 BigApple 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20)): You will not be let down if you
3 "The Wizard otco-founder Jobs gallery district 

Being stubborn will only back­take the initiative to finish what
Oz" figure 

24 Smart_ whip 52 Lawyers' org. fire on you today. Compromise you start. Opportunities to 4 French port or expect to have problems with invest in something worthwhile 
25 Inventor Elias 55 Hawkish whomever you deal. 000 should develop. 0000
5 Ladies' man 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 6 Suffix with pay Put your time and effort into 19): You have a lot to offer. If
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
your work. Money will slip there is a cause you believe in,
7 Peach_ 

Puzzle by Nancy Salomon and Marjorie Berg through your fingers if you get involved and make a differ­LAST R.M ASS A8 Gripes aren't careful. 000 ence. Your outgoing nature will
30 Lord's mate 50 Capote, to 59 Got gray
0 N T H E M O V E E L L E S 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): help you to help others. 0000
9 One of the 

32 "That's a laugh!" friends Get out and socialize and you AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.
S T E E R A G E S S L A P S 
Three Bears 61 Kind of dance 
53 Dirigible will meet some interesting peo­18)~ Don't put up with a bully
S O R B I T O L S C O N T E 
33 Doozies

10 Move like a 62 Lupino of "High ple. You will attract attention if who has nothing nice to say
54 Up and about 

E N N I S D A N T E S 
snake 34 Bridge bid, Sierra" you are warm, affectionate and about anyone. You need to take SYSTEMSANALYSTS 
56 Per _ (yearly) kind towards others. 00000 better care of yourself both phys­
briefly11 Height Abbr. 


63 This instant LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Plan ically and mentally. 00
57 Query before 12 iic-_-toe 36 7 up, e.g. 

some indoor activity at your PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
iOTFOR-

S A P S N A O M I S P E D "Here goes!" 64_-Magnon
13 "Pipe down!" 37 Like bachelor place. The more you do to help You will dazzle everyone with 
A L A E I S R A E L 
those you love, the better you your outgoing, caring nature.
parties

19 Bed board will feel about yourself. Home Get out and meet new people
WI LL I EHERNANOEZ 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are
40 Ghostly greeting improvement projects will turn who can offer you friendship
21 Antique auto
A A 
V 0

S T 
I L Ll!J 
p 
available by touch-tone phone: 

out well. 00 and good conversation. New
41 Hot car garage
S MAN 

26 Two-way toggler 1-900-285-5656 {$1.20 per minute). 
L SPOKE 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): romantic partners will surface if
44 "Good gracious!" 

A L 0 N E 
27 Fishing spot Annual subscriptions are available for the Get out and interact with others. you get out and about. 00000 R I 
46 "Let it be true" best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
R

N G S 
28 Crazy Legs 

Birthday Baby: You are an optimist, cheerful, full of great ideas and 
Hirsch 48 Author Sheehy years: 1·888-7-ACROSS.
S A Y S T 
s 

always looking for adventure. You have no problem communicating 
and can usually captivate a crowd with your colorful personality. You 
are fun to be around. 

(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialaslcom, aslromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
KNOCK ICNOCI<. I HEAR 
You HA\JE A LOT OF HOMEWORK TONIGHT. 
I 
YE.S. So Go AWAY. 
I HAVE A FtVE.-l'AC:,E ESSAY DUE IN 14 1-tOURS AND I'M STILi. ON THE. oPENIN(;, 
PARAGtRAl'l-f. THE LAST 
THING I NEED 1?11;,HT NoW 
15 MY MOTHER COMING IN 
To BUG ME. 
'­

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
I &UESS I'LL 1UST BUG MYSELF WITH THESE CHOCOLATE CHIP coo1C1ES, I THEN. 
/J Sur:, ME! UG ME! 
\ 

C ")' 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name 
Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-

Campus Sports Campus Sports
OBSERVER 
. Men's Swimming, p. 16 
. Men's Tennis, p. 14 
. 
Track and Field, p. 17 . Women's Tennis, p. 14 

. 
Hockey, p. 15 . Women's Swimming, p. 18 

. 
SMC Swimming, p. 15 . SMC Basketball, p. 13


PORTS 
Monday, February 4, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish earn 63-61 win at Seton Hall 

By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Wrirer 

Quick lhinking by Hyan Humphrey in the waning ser,­onds of Notre Dame's conf'er­encc showdown at Seton !tall Sunday propelled the Irish to a 63-61 win over the Pirates at the Meadowlands. 
In a closely-matched game with 11 lead changes, Pirate point guard Andre Barrett missed a driving lay-up with seven seconds re·maining in the game and the score tied at 
61. llumphrHy pulled dmvn the rebound and connected on a long pass down court to Irish point guard Chris Thomas who tossed in the open lay-up with 
5.8 seconds left on the clock for the two-point lead. 
After two consecutive time­outs, the Pirates had onA last look at the basket, but forward Charles Manga failed to drain a wide-open 3-pointer at the buzzer, giving the Irish their second win over the Pirates in just eight days. 
Forward David Graves pro­
vided a spark off the bench for the 15-6 Irish, as the game­high scorer with 20 points. 
Darius Lane ·was the high­scorer for the Pirates with 17. 
While the Irish eked out another conference win. they struggled to put points on the board carlv in the lirst half. 
The Pinttes came out strong at the opening buzzer with two quir,k 3s from Lant' and a short jumpPr by BarrPtt for an 8-0 lead before tlw Irish got on the board with a llumphrey foul shot. The Pirates then ran the score to 15-'.1 for their largost lead of the game before the Irish connected on their first field goal attempt more than eight minutes into the half. 
Spurred by two baskets on straight possessions by for­ward Harold Swanagan, tlw Irish switched up tlw tempo. and went on a 12-0 run to bring the Irish to within one at 15-14. 
The two teams tradod bas­kets and the Irish finally 
see MEN'S/page 17 
SUPERBOWL XXXVI 

Patriots upset Rams 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
The New England Patriots made this a Super Bowl to remember -for all the right reasons. 
Adam Vinatieri kicked a 48­yard field goal as time expired, capping a thrilling final two min­utes and giving the Patriots a 20-17 upset over the St. Louis Rams. 
"We shocked the world," New England safety Lawyer Milloy said. 
The Patriots won on a day filled with patriotic themes inside the Superdome and high security outside. Fans were urged to show up five hours before kickoff to get through a perimeter that looked more like a military compound than a football stadium, with soldiers on the ground and sharpshoot­ers on the roof. 
The winning kick came after the Patriots had lost a 17-3 lead 
ii:i the final 1 O minutes. The game appeared headed for the first Super Bowl overtime after St. Louis tied it on a 26-yard pass from Kurt Warner to llicky 
"We beat all the odds. No one can ever take that away from us.,, 
Lawyer Milloy New England safety 
Proehl With 1:30 left. 

But MVP Tom Brady, whose status as the starter was in doubt until midweek, drove the Patriots 53 vards with no time­outs to set up the deciding kick. 
"No one gave us a chanre to win this game." said running back Antowain Smith, who gained 92 yards in 18 carries. 
After bypassing individual pregame introdudions in favor of running on to the 11eld as a team, the Patriots -wearing uniforms splashed with red, white and blue -went out nnd won with contributions from up and down their unsung roster. 
They did it with Vinatieri's r,alm-as-r,an-be kicking, Brady's late leadership and a defense that scored one touchdown, set up two other scores and shut down the most high-powerod offense in the NFL. 
Brady was just 16-for-27 for 145 yards. cpmpared to 28-of-46 for Warner. 
But Brady, a fourth-string rookie last year, was mistake­proof while Warner, a two-time league MVP, threw two intercep­tions and the Rams also lost a fumble that set up a score. 
The key play in the final drive was a 23-yard pass from Brady to Troy Brown to the St. Louis 36. 
Three plays later came the kick by Vinatieri. who had made two field goals in the snow to give New England a playoff win over Oakland. But the game was won by the defense. which held the NfL's best offense without a touchdown until less than 10 minutes was left in the game. 
"They say it's the best trar,k team in the National Football League, but l never saw anybody win a 100-vard dash with some­one standing in front of them," said New England corncrback Ty Law, whose 47-yard inter­ception return gave New England its first touchdown. 
Defense was the answer all 
see BOWL/page 12 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish overcome slow start for win 
By KATIE MCVOY Associate Spam Editor 

Your mom always said it's a bad idea to rnnrn honrn past your bedtime. But that advice rnight not have hit home !'or five Irish players until Saturday at tip-off as the Irish squeaked by Seton I lall 65-60. 
A late-night Friday dinner sent five players, including four starters. to the hotel after curfnw. Of Notre Dame's usual starting line-up of Alir,ia Hatav. Jackie Batteast, Le 'T;nia Severe, Amanda Barksdale and Ericka llaney, only Ratay was at the hotel when the 11 o'rlock curl'ew rolled around. For that rea­son, only Ratay was on the court !'or the opening tip-off. 
"Thev went to dinner next to the ·hotel and the servir.e was really slow and they got back about twenty minutr,s after curfew," said head coach Muffet ~1cGraw. "And that's a tr.am min -ii' you miss curfew, you don't start." 
So three Notre Dame play­ers got their f'irst career starts. Junior Karen Swanson, who until recently had walk-on status, and freshmen Kelsey Wicks and Katy Flecky took tlrn floor for tip-off. Th0y joined Hatay and Allison Bustamante, who had only started once before Saturday's game, to face off against a team they defeatHd by 34 points at the .loyr.e just four weeks earlier. The result on Saturday was a little differ­ent. 
The new starting line-up, radically different than any other combination this sea­son, left the Irish a little shak­en in tlrn opening minutes of thP. game. Seton Hall had taken an early 9-2 lead beforn McGraw started checking in some ol' the usual starting line-up. 
"[The change I did affect the team." McGraw said. "By the 
see B-BALL/pagc: 16 


. Men's basketball vs. Rutgers, Wednesday, 9 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Women's basketball at Pittsburgh, Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
onlinc 

. Fencing, Ohio State duals at Ohio State, Saturday,
AT AGLANCE 9 a.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 








