
VOL XXXVII NO. 34 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Irish Guard w-on't inarch Saturday 
declined to comment on the sus­
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES 
pension. Messages left by The 
Assistant News Editor 
Observer with band director Kenneth Dye were not returned. 
The legendary Irish Guard wilJ "I suppose the unit has to take not be on the Notre Dame side­some responsibility for their per­lines at Saturday's game against formance," associate vice presi­Pittsburgh after University offi­dent for news and information cials who watched footage of last Matt Storin said. Saturday's Notre Dame-Stanford This is not the first time mem­game were upset with what they bers of the Guard have been sus­called lackluster behavior by the pended for misconduct. Guard. Following a 1986 game against 
ESPN's SportsCenter and NBC Penn State, the Guard was dis-
ran footage of  banded  for  
s o m e Guardsman sleeping on the  ..At this point the plan is to not have them on the  alcohol con­sumption and misconduct  
sidelines dur­ field. We were a little  while in  uni­ 
ing Notre Dame's 31-7 victory over  concerned with their behavior.··  form. And in 1992, the University dis­ 
Stanford. David  banded  the  
Moss, assistant vice president for Student  David Moss Notre Dame official  Guard after receiving reports of alco­ 


Affairs, did not say what specific behavior caused University officials to sus­pend the Guard, but he did say the video clips played a role in Notre Dame's decision 
"At this point the plan is to not have them on the field," said Moss. "We were a little con­cerned with their behavior." 
No decision was made regard­ing whether the Guard will be present at the remaining home football games against Rutgers and Boston College. Moss said the University, along with the University Band office, will con­tinue to investigate the matter following this weekend's game. 
A member of the Irish Guard contacted by The Observer 
hol violations and improper orientation activi­ties. In both instances, the Guard did not appear at football games for the rest of the season but returned the next year. 
The Guard, originally founded as the Irish Pipers in 1949, con­sisted of a group of bagpipers. In 1951, the Guard was created to protect the band on their pre­football game march to the Notre Dame Stadium. The Guard is a fixture at Notre Dame football games and is known for cheering on the sidelines, marching with the band and performing the Irish jig after the Irish score. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
Student li,,es up to the challenge 
. Professor inspires student to start an online business 
By JIM GAFFEY News Writer 
Inspired by professor David Hayes' Introduction · to Entrepreneurship class, Joseph Shepherd, 2001 Notre graduate, started his own business by selling his own campus photography online. 
During the spring semester Professor Hayes is famous for his "$20 challenge," in which students are charged with the task of growing $20 worth of capital into at least $150 by the end of the semester. 
When presented with the $20 challenge, "everyone in the class was shocked," Shepherd said. He thought, $20 is hardly enough money hit: sell photography of Notre for dinner for two, much less Dame's campus. Shepherd to start a business. already had a stockpile of 
But finding a creative low­hundreds of shots of the cam­cost business concept was a pus that he had been collect­challenge Shepherd was will­ing since freshman year. ing to undertake. After strug­From there it only took a trip gling for a month, inspiration to Hobby Lobby for framing supplies to turn his artwork into a finished product. 

Shepherd marketed his pho­tography online during the semester-long class, and the orders started rolling in -40 
see CHALLENGE/page 4 

LaFortune changes to be completed in Nov. 
By CALLIE WHELAN News Writer 
When students return from fall break they will be wel­comed with a new addition to the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
The newly renovated base­ment will be complete with the opening of Sbarro, a pizza and pasta eatery on Monday, Nov. 4. 
Students such as sophomore Maggie Novario are lauding the renovations. 
"[In the current conditions, the basement is]not very wel­coming, and the poor light quality makes it an insufficient space for studying or socializ­ing." 
To combat the poor lighting quality and dreary atmos­phere, the entire Lafortune basement lounge will be gutted and freshly painted, carpeted and lighted. New booths will be added to appease students' comfort wishes. 
"The purpose of this project is to draw students into Lafortune,,., said Mary Edgington, assistant director of facilities and Student Activities. "Hopefully in the end, it'll be much better for studying, eat­ing and socializing." 
Sbarro hopes to open Nov. 4 for a "practice mode" trial, during which students will be invited in for free samples of pizza. It will open officially for business Nov. 5. 
Sbarro will occupy the space where Allegro was formerly located. To fulfill students' late night pizza cravings, it wil1 be open until 2 a.m. Sundays through Wednesdays and four 
a.m.  Thursday  through  
Saturdays.  
Like other food  venues on  

campus, Sbarro will be operat­ed by University Food Services and will provide more jobs for student employment. 
"We are looking for student workers who possess some expertise in tossing pizza dough," said Dave 
see CHANGES/page 4 

Friday, October 11, 2002
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Looking back, remembering what was 
The panoramic picture is nearly tom in halfnow, the comers folded and the once­glossy sheet wrinkled so that it rises and falls in waves for 30 inches across my desk. 
It's three-and-a­
Jason McFarley
halfyears old but already is fading; time and poor care 
Editor in Chief 
have served a dou­ble-whammy on the 1999 picture ofmy former classmates and me. Layers ofdust hide some ofthe 250 faces underneath; still Ifind myself easily enough, sitting on the far right in the front row while 11 other rows stretch behind me and up the South Bend Riley High School gymnasium bleachers. 
Emily Hollister is five people over from me. She's sitting cross-legged on the gym floor, dressed in jeans and a long-sleeve white T-shirt, her bright smile plastered on for the occasion. Her mom, one ofthe class parents, is two rows back, beaming the same grin as Emily and with shoul­ders turned as ifgazing down on her daughter with parental pride and excite­ment. 
Beneath us all , at the very bottom of the photo and in reverse white type are the words: "Riley High School Class of 1999." The "1999" ends conveniently under Emily, like a numeric cushion she's seated on top of. 
Inever paid attention before to that detail. Inever scanned the photo for much besides silly facial expressions, bad outfits or obscene gestures toward the camera. A few months after it was taken, the class picture found its way into the bottom of my closet and became little else than a snapshot offaces I would soon for­get and names that were already begin­ning to escape me. 
Three years ago today, I vowed to never forget Emily. She died in an Oct. 10, 1999, accident near Texas A&M University. She and five friends were killed walking along the highway to a fraternity party when a pickup truck driver fell asleep at the wheel and plowed into them. 
Emily was 18 and fewer than two months into her freshman year at Baylor University. She was going to be a doctor. The local television news brought me word of Emily's death the next morning. In the aftermath ofthe accident, the enduring media image ofthe tragedy was video footage ofa brown leather sandal -Emily's sandal -strewn in a field off the Texas roadside after its owner was apparently knocked from it. 
The image is hard to shake. Even tougher to forget, though, are the positive memories ofEmily: Working on student council projects together, taking two years of French with "Mademoiselle." sharing the English award at the school honors assembly. The Emily I remember was captain ofthe softball team and a National Honor Society member. The Emily I remember was bubbly enough, talented enough and influential enough to make everyone who knew her even in passing to mourn her death and grieve the loss ofher youthful potential and ambition. 
The Emily I remember sits five people over from me in a taped-up. dusted-off old class photo that will hang on my bed­room wall from today on out. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. I@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In Thursday's Senate article, "Security on height­ened alert for alcohol-related activity," Jake Teske was misidentified as the Keough Hall Senator, when he is a Dillon Hall Senator. The Observer regrets chis error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Placing public 
FCC rejects
Palestinians
Nobel Peace 
service over
proposed
Prize nominee 
march in 
personal
merger
spoke at SMC 
funeral 
feelings
procession 
Gary Caruso, of
The Federal
Kathy Kelly 
Police and milita­
Capitol Comments, 
Communications
spoke Thursday 
men marched in a 
speaks out on
Commission
night in hopes of 
funeral procesion 
White House
blocked a proposed
bringing the mes­
for a police colonel 
Administrations.
$18.8 billion merg­
sage of the Center 
er of EchoStar and
for Women's 
Thursday. 
Hughes Electronics
Intercultural 
Leadership to the 
Corp. 
table. 
page 5
page 3 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Book signing, Khalil Matta, pro­f'cssor of' management, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore,
') r::
,"> -a p.m. 
. Mens swimming v Kalamzoo, Holl's Aquatic Center, 7 p.rn. 
W.HA~_:s/NAPPENING @ SMC
..• 
. 
Board of Trustees, Stapleton Lounge. Haggar College Center, \Vclsh Parlor and campus wide, all day. 

. 
Abroad student pizza party. Haggar College Center, 4:30 p.m. -7 p.1n. 


WHAT'S COOKING North Dining Hall 
page 17
page 7 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Two students injured 
A student was injured at Rolfs Sports Rec Center Thursday after­noon. The student was transported by NDPD to University Heath Services for treatment. Another student also suffered a sports injury at Stepan Field Thursday. This student was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment. 

Employee loses money clip 
A University employee reported los­ing his money clip somewhere on campus Wednesday between 8 a.m and 5 p.m. 
Su~icious person reported 

at Grotto 
A University employee reported a specious person at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes between 4 a.m and 5 
a.m. on Wednesday. 

Employee lost Kontrol Kard 
A lost Kontrol Kard was reported lost by a University Employee on Wednesday. The employee lost her card at an off campus location. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Chicken and seafood gumbo, tomato soup, shrimp spaghetti, apple turnover. walnut-plum chicken breast, beef & pepper stir-fry. cheddar-crumbed scrod, scrambled eggs, sunshine french toast and California eldo­rado casserole 
Today Dinner: Tomato soup, chicken and seafood gumbo, shrimp spaghetti, apple turnover, honey-glazed ham, baked beans, mixed vegetables, apple cobbler, seafood medley stir-fry, mushroom quiche, vegetables marinara 
and corn dogs 
TODAY 
a: 
I.LI 
:c 
~ 
I.LI 
== 
...Ier: CJ 0 


HIGH 75 HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 54 LOW LOW 
TONIGHT SATURDAY 

SCENE 
FTT puts on "The Mandrake" 
Scene reviews FTT's prodcution of Niccoio Machiavelli's, "The Mandrake." 
page 18 
EmRloyee involved in 


confrontation 
A University employee was involved in a verbal confrontation at an off campus location on Wednesday. NDPD has closed the case. 
complied from NDSP crime blotter 
SPORTS 
Moonlight Madness kicks off season 
Irish mens basket­ball kicks off season with its first official practice 
tonight. 
page 36 
Today Lunch: Linguine with vegetables, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, rotisserie chicken, winter-blend vegetables, boulangere potatoes, herb-baked pollack, wild rice with pine nuts, honey-orange glazed carrots, tangy grilled chick­en, steakhouse fries, soft pretzel and Hawaiian pizza 
Today Dinner: Cauliflower au gratin, zum zum potato salad, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie. sauerbraten rice, valencienne lemon-baked perch, BBQ chicken, steakhouse fries, soft pretzel, beef and pepper casserole, roasted corn and peppers and BBQ Caribbean chicken 
SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH LOW 
HIGH 55 HIGH 56 LOW 44 LOW 46 
Atlanta 75 / 67 Boston 61 / 56 Chicago 77 / 57 Denver 74 / 41 Houston 82 / 63 Los Angeles 74 / 57 Minneapolis 70 / 49 New York 63 / 59 Philadelphia 62 / 60 Phoenix 94 / 67 Seattle 56 / 38 St. Louis 77 / 60 Tampa 89 / 73 Washington 65 / 63 
.. 
Friday, October 11, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 




Nobel Peace Prize nominee visits SMC 
Nobel Peace Prize, spoke at By MElANIE BECKER Saint Mary's Thursday in hopes 
News Writer 
of spreading the message of the Center for Women's Kathy Kelly, a nominee for the Intercultural Leadership. 
. 
:S.atun:iEiY Schi:Jler Ser~ 
F';\JI 2002 

Meredith Sarkees, director of CWIL, felt that Kelly would be able to bring the message of CWIL to campus. 
"Kelly highlights awareness 
A diN81r4Jnt. gaJna, pliJ.-. lrotn tt"IE! Cdlege al .A.Its and LeHe.rs 

''The Historical Jesus'' 
with Rev. John P. Meier, William K. Warren IV Professor of Theology 
1O a.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Join us for all upcoming Saturday Scholar presentations: 
Nov. 2, 11 a.m. -"The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict" with Alan Dowty. professor of political science and a faculty fellow in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Nov. 23, 1 O a.m. -"Art and the Religious Imagination" with Meredith Gill, assistant professor of art, art history and design and a historian of the Italian Renaissance. Further information on Saturday Scholars is at 
http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 

N 



~:Y . ~ ..1"£,'f 

orI•er 
Pumpkin Painting 

Get ready Cor Hallow-een! This is sure to put you in the Hallow-een spirit w-hen w-e paint pumpkins. Pumpkins and paint will be provided. 
Friday" October II" 2002 9:00pin 11:00pm ID-the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Rooin 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
on intercultural dialogue and specific women's leadership in this dialogue." Sarkees said, "She exemplifies women's lead­ership in educating the public on foreign policy and fosters leader­ship among the next genera­tion." 
Originally from Chicago, Kelly holds a bachelor's degree from Loyola and a master's in reli­gious education from the Chicago Theological Seminary. For years, Kelly worked as a teacher in high schools and com­munity colleges. 
Kelly was one of the founders of the organization Voices in the Wilderness. The organization campaigns to end the sanctions that have been placed against Iraq by the United Nations and the United States. 
In the past 12 years, Kelly has traveled to Iraq 16 times to study the effects of war on the Iraqi people. Much of Kelly's time was spent with young children who have spent their entire lives in poverty without adequate med­ical care for the injuries that have been inflicted on them by warfare. 
Since the Gulf War there has been a rise in cancer and defor­mities among children that is believed to be linked to the materials used by the United States on Iraq during the Gulf War. 
Kelly argued that economic sanctions used by the United States and the United Nations have been the cause of added deaths of hundreds of thousands of Iraqi children since the Gulf War. Putting pressure on Iraq to do as we wish has punished innocent Iraqi civilians. 
"It is the need to control 
another nation's precious 
resources in which we are so 
dependent on," Kelly said. 
Kelly asked the members of the audience to examine George Bush's words, "The American way of life is non-negotiable." High consumption and material possessions has, Kelly argued, led to the United States forcing its will on other nations and ter­rorizing the people in them. 
While the United States has been consumed with the events of Sept. 11, it does not realize the terrorism that has been imposed on other nations and peoples as a result of war and its foreign policy. 
"People that would understand the grief of Americans in New York are the people I know from Iraq," Kelly said. 
Voices in the Wilderness are dedicated to speaking out and encouraging an American life that includes simplicity, service, sharing and an avocation of non­violence. The members of Voices in the Wilderness believe that if Americans do not learn to look into alternative energy sources, America will not be able to escape global terrorism that it is creating. 
"She [Kelly] made us socially aware of our own country as well as countries similar to Iraq. By comparing the Gulf Veterans to children in Iraqi hospitals she brought the point home," senior Laura Porto said. 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck0931@saintmarys.edu 
CELEBRATING THOSE WHO SERVE AND PROTECT 


page4 Friday, October 11, 2002 
The Observer . NEWS 

Challenge 
continued from page 1 
orders total. and he was swamped trying to keep up with them. Shepherd spent many late nights packing the framed pictures so that they would ship safely. It was a struggle to keep up with other coursework, he said. Despite the long hours, Shepherd contends, "It was a thrill." 
By the end of the semester, Shepherd had turned his $20 into $6,000, leaving his class­mates far behind in the class competition to see who could make the most money. For his success. Shepherd's name was inscribed on a plaque that hangs in the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. 
One year after graduating from Notre Dame and professor Hayes' class, Shepherd now works for Los Angeles-based Intercontinental Art, the nation's largest artwork manu­facturer. His interest in produc­ing pictures of Notre Dame hasn't died out. One day Shepherd approached his CEO and asked about the possibility of selling some of his photogra­phy. She agreed, and since then, Shepherd's second online start-up business has taken off. 
His first mass-produced photo of Notre Dame, a shot of the grotto with both the dome and basilica in the background, is now available for purchase on his website at www .QuickArtwork. com. Shepherd hopes that this is his first of many photographs to be sold from his website. In con­junction with this article, Shepherd is offering a special discount for students, parents and alumni at Quick.Artwork.com/observer. 
Since graduation Shepherd has remained in contact with professor Hayes and the Gigot Center. Shepherd's success is a source of pride for Hayes. "He brags about it," Shepherd said. "If it wasn't for his class, I would never have thought of the idea," Shepherd admits. In the future Shepherd wants to con­tinue producing college artwork, which he sees as a vast untapped market for artwork. 
Contact Jim Gaffey at jgaffey@nd.edu 

Changes 
continued from page 1 
Prentkowski, director of Food Services. "Interested students can pick up an application in the Huddle." 
"Pizza delivery will hopefully be set up by January 2003," said Edgington. 
Contact Callie Whelan at cwhelan@nd.edu. 

NORWAY 


Jimmy Carter wins Nobel Peace Prize 
committee made its decision last week after months of secret deliberations as it sought the right message for a world still dazed by the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, the war on terrorism that fol­lowed and concern about a possible U.S. military strike against Iraq. 
L a s t 

Associated Press 
OSLO 
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter won the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday "for his decades of untiring effort to find peaceful solutions to international conflicts, to advance democracy and human rights, and to promote economic and social develop­ment." 
The Norwegian Nobel Committee cited Carter's "vital contribution"to the Camp David Accords between Israel and Egypt and his efforts in conflict resolution on several continents and the promotion of human rights after his presidency. 
"In a situation currently marked by threats of the use of power, Carter has stood by the principles that conflicts must as far as possible be resolved through mediation and international co-opera­tion based on international mittee received a record 156 nominations -117 individu­als and 39 groups -by the Feb. 1 deadline. 
The list remains secret for 50 years, but those who nomi~ nate sometimes announce their choice. 
Many known nominees, including former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, reflected the 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States and their aftermath. 
President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair were nominated, but their chances for winning seemed doubtful at a time when they are poised to launch a mili­tary strike against Iraq. 
The first Nobel Peace Prize, in 1901, honored Jean Henry Dunant, the Swiss founder of the Red Cross. 
The prizes were created by Swedish industrialist Alfred Nobel in his will and always are presented on Dec...;J.0, the anniversary of his 1896 death. 
law, respect for human rights, and economic develop­ment, "the citation said. 
The award is worth $1 mil­lion. 
"I don't think there's any doubt that the Nobel Prize itself encourages people to think about peace and human rights," Carter told CNN. 
"When I 
was at the year's
"/don't think there's any 
W h i t e award was House I doubt that the Nobel Prize shared by was a fair­the United
itselfencourages people to 
ly young Nations
think about peace and
man and I and its sec­
realized I human rights. ,, retary-gen­would have eral, Kofi maybe 25 Annan.

Jimmy Carter
more years T h e

fonner U.S. President
of active peace prize life," announce­Carter m e n t said, adding that he decided capped a week of Nobel to "capitalize on the influence prizes, with the awards for lit­I had as the former president erature, medicine, physics, of the greatest nation of the chemistry and economics world and decided to fill vacu­already announced in ums." Sweden's capital, Stockholm. 
The secretive, five-member The Norwegian Nobel com­
'CJ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us 
to be.better 
Indiana and Michigan 
574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 ·, ' 
Whether your next step is buying a new home or refinancing the one you have, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union offers some of the lowest interest rates around. There's never been a better time to see us for a fixed-rate mortgage. Plus, we offer first mortgages nationwide. Clearly, when it comes to home financing, nobody puts out the welcome mat like Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
.. 

Friday, October 11, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

GAZA 
20,000 Palestinians march in funeral procession 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY 
Twenty-thousand police and militiamen marched in a funeral procession for a police colonel Thursday in the biggest Palestinian display force in years and a clear warning to the slain officer's Barnas killers to end their challenge to Yasser Arafat's government. 
In violence Thursday. two Palestinian youths died in Gaza clashes and an Israeli woman and Palestinian attacker were killed in a Tel Aviv suicide bomb­ing. 
The funeral was a show of force by Arafat's police and secu­rity after a flare-up of violence that started when members of a Hamas militia kidnapped and killed a senior Palestinian police officer on Monday. 
It came at a time when Arafat's power was already greatly eroded by Israeli military incursions into Palestinian areas. Barnas is regarded as the second strongest Palestinian political faction after Arafat's dominant Fatah movement. Barnas leaders distanced themselves from the killing, calling it an individual act of vengeance, but many Fatah activists blame Hamas itself. 
A light blue flatbed police truck adorned with three floral wreaths and packed with armed security officers in military-style uniforms led the funeral proces­sion of Col. Rajeh Abu Lehiya, head of Palestinian riot police. Abu Lehiya's coffin. draped with a Palestinian flag, lay on a sec­ond police truck. 
Thousands of men followed, many of them armed, represent­ing all the secular Palestinian factions and security units, a demonstration that Arafat's backers still have much more firepower than does Hamas. 
Some mourners fired pistols and rifles in the air, but the pro­cession was otherwise strangely quiet compared with funerals of activists killed by Israeli troops, when the air reverberates with calls for revenge. 
Among the banners carried by the crowd was one that read: "All factions have to respect the Palestinian Authority, the only legitimate authority," referring to Arafat's government. 
The family of Hamas activist Emad Akel has said that he killed Abu Lehiya in revenge for his brother's death at the hands of police during a Gaza City demonstration against the U.S. attack on the Taliban regime in Afghanistan last year. 
On Monday, Palestinian gun­men disguised as police officers set up a fake roadblock and abducted Abu Lehiya when his car stopped, later killing him with 10 gunshots. 
In clashes that followed, police refugee camp, where the Akel killed two Hama.'i members while family lives. It was the bloodiest trying to arrest the killers in flare-up between the two rival Gaza City. Two other people died forces in years. when police fired on a pro-Hamas does not accept the Hamas protest in the Nusseirat concept of a Jewish state in the Middle East and opposes Arafat's attempts to make peace with Israel in exchange for a Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and the Arab section of Jerusalem. 



Police link another death in Virginia to D.C. sniper 
Associated Press 
MANASSAS, Va. 
The death toll from the Washington­area sniper rose to seven Thursday as authorities said ballistics evidence had linked the killer to a man gunned down at a Virginia gas station. 
Dean Meyers, 53, of Gaithersburg, Md., was felled by a single shot Wednesday night, moments after filling his car's tank. Six other people have been killed and two have been wounded since the attacks began Oct. 2. 
Prince William County Police Chief Charlie Deane said the results of an autop­sy on Meyers and ballistic evidence had linked the cases. He pleaded for the killer to give up: "There's enough damage been done." 
Police earlier said they were searching for a white minivan seen leaving the gas station in this bedroom community. but Deane said the van's occupants had a rea­sonable explanation of their actions. He refused to say whether there were surveil­lance cameras at the station, but said some cameras were in the area. 
..It's a difficult case but we are develop­ing more information as the minutes go by," Deane said. 
Manassas is about 35 miles southwest of the Maryland suburbs where most of the attacks happened. The shooting is the sec­ond in Virginia: A woman was wounded by the sniper Friday in Fredericksburg, 30 miles south of here. 
Police in yellow slickers walked shoulder to shoulder through a drizzling rain, look­ing for evidence near the gas station. Deane did not say whether they had found anything, but said there had been no com­munication from the killer. 
A tarot death card with the taunting words "Dear policeman, I am God" was found near a shell casing outside a school in Bowie, Md., where a 13-year-old boy was critically wounded by the sniper Monday. Authorities have refused to dis­cuss the card or any other evidence. 
Investigators say the sniper, or snipers, fired from a distance with a high-powered hunting or military-style rifle. Like Meyers, all the victims were felled by a single bullet. 
The slayings have heightened fear across the densely populated suburban 
area around Washington, with schools keeping children inside and residents war­ily watching over their shoulders in public. 
More than 80,000 people are expected at FedEx Field in Landover, Md., for Sunday's football game between the Washington Redskins and the New Orleans Saints. The stadium is less than 10 miles from where the boy was wound­ed . 
Police refused to disclose security details for the game. Fans' bags are searched before entering the stadium. 
At a news conference, Commonwealth's Attorney Paul Ebert said he would seek the death penalty against the killer. He said a new Virginia law allows the death penalty in killings "in which the perpetra­tor tends to terrorize the general public." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Pro-Taliban groups win Pakistan vote: 
A coalition of pro-Taliban religious parties swept the frontier provincial legislature near the Afghan border, in the first solid results Friday in Pakistan's election. Campaigning on a strong anti-American platform, that called for an end to Pakistan's support for the U.S.-led war on terror in Afghanistan, the coalition of six hard­line parties had a clear majority in Pakistan's North West Province legislature, the election commission said. 

Officials see Yemen blast as terror act: 
U.S. and French officials concluded Thursday that a fiery explosion aboard a French oil tanker in the Arabian Sea was the result of a deliberate attack on the ship. The Americans said it was an act of terrorism most likely car­ried out by people with links to al-Qaida. Investigators from France, Yemen and the United States had been try­ing to determine what caused the blaze Sunday on the Umburg that killed one crew member and sent 90,000 barrels of oil pouring into the Gulf of Aden. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bridge collapses in upstate New York: A pedestrian bridge under construction collapsed Thursday as concrete was being poured onto its steel girders, killing one worker and injuring at least nine others, authorities said. One of the injured was in critical condition, and two were under evaluation with severe injuries. The workers were standing on the bridge when the girders crashed onto an unfin­ished highway 20 feet below, said Paul Obemesser, regional construction engineer for the st~te Transportation Department. 


School bus and truck collide in Mich.: 
A truck hauling steel coils crashed into the side of a school bus taking youngsters on a field trip Thursday, injuring more than three dozen children and adults, eight critically. The impact sent the bus. carrying kindergartners and first-and second-graders on a field trip. spinning across the road and threw at least five children onto the pavement and into a yard. 
House passes Iraq war resolution: 
The House voted 296-133 Thursday to give President Bush the broad authority he sought to use military force against Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein -with or without U.N. support. The Senate was poised to do the same and to deliver Bush a major national security pol­icy victory. "The House of Representatives has spoken clearly to the world and to the United Nations Security Council: The gathering threat of Iraq must be confront­ed fully and finally," Bush said immediately after the vote. Senate sponsors later succeeded in defeating all efforts to weaken the proposal, opening the way for a final vote late Thursday or early Friday. "It is clear that we have lost this battle in the Senate," said Sen. Hobert Byrd, D-W.Va., the most outspoken Senate foe of the resolution. Byrd accused Congress of "handing the president unchecked authority." While Bush hailed the strong showing, a majority of House Democrats voted against the resolution -even though their leader. Dick Gephardt of Missouri, was one of its authors. 


page 6 Friday, October 11. 2002 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 




Slain prosecutor's family is frustrated 
Associated Press spokesman Ray Lauer. "We have full confidence in this." Investigators have eliminated SEATILE many potential suspects. But. A neighbor heard the late-Lauer confirmed, among those night gunshots and saw the who have not been eliminated assassin hustle to his car, leav-is a 41-year-old commercial 
ing behind spent shell casings airline pilot from Bellevue. and a dying federal prosecu-The pilot, who owned several tor. guns, was involved in a busi-
But a year later, despite a ness that sought to build civil­high-profile investigation and ian helicopters using military the promise of a $1 million parts. Wales had prosecuted reward, the FBI doesn't know the company and the pilot for who killed Assistant U.S. fraud. Eventually, the company Attorney Thomas Crane Wales, pleaded guilty, but the charges or why. The apparent lack of against the pilot were dropped. progress in the case has frus-The pilot then sued the gov­trated those who knew him. ernment, seeking to recover 
Wales, 49, was slain as he more than $125,000 in legal sat at a computer in the base-fees for its "mean-spirited, col­ment of his home the night of lateral attack" on his charac­Oct. 11, 2001. The gunman ter. fired at least four shots A U.S. District Court judge through a window, striking denied the claim. The pilot is Wales in the torso and neck. appealing the case to the 9th 
The investigation has led U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. agents on a tour of Wales• per-In his pleadings, the pilot sonal and professional rela-wrote that the case had taken tionships. They've looked into over his life. dozens of white-collar crime "My house was searched in cases he handled. and at his 1997 by several armed work as president of agents," he wrote. "As a result, Washington Ceasefire, a gun-my reputation within this tiny control organization. community has already suf­
"The lack of progress in the fered a great deal." criminal case has made any In response. the government type of closure impossible," called his claim a "transparent says Mark Bartlett. a prosecu-attempt to obtain information tor who had worked with concerning the identity of all Wales since 1985 and once witnesses who would have tes­climbed Mount Rainier with tified against him." and said him. some witnesses had made ref-
Despite their work looking erence to his "violent and ret­for potential terrorists follow-ributive nature." ing the Sept. 11 attacks, FBI FBI agents believe the pilot officials in the agency's Seattle may have been further office say they have made the angered by a television case a top priority. Four appearance Wales gave two agents and support staff are weeks before his death. In the dedicated to solving it. In fact, interview, which aired repeat­
the agency lists it as a "major edly on Northwest Cable News, case" --a designation given to Wales argued against arming fewer than 200 cases in the airline pilots. and, without FBI's 94-year history. mentioning anyone by name, 
"Obviously this is a real con-said he knew pilots who cern to us, and as such. it will weren•t qualified to carry guns be solved," said FBI in the cockpit. 
House OKs $355 billion bill 
. Bush can't stall Congress'defensebudget any longer 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The House overwhelmingly approved on Thursday a com­promise $355.4 billion defense bill brimming with money for new destroyers. helicopters and missiles and granting President Bush most of the Pentagon buildup he requested following last year's terrorist attacks. 
While the day's spotlight shone on the congressional debate over authorizing Bush to use force against Iraq, the massive defense spending package -one-sixth of the entire federal budget -under­lined the bipartisan consensus behind beefing up the military. Quick Senate approval was also expected, and White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said Bush looks forward to signing the measure into law because it will "ensure that we provide our troops in the field with the resources they need to fight terrorism and defend freedom." 
The bill's 409-14 passage, less than four weeks before congressional elections, also reflected a desire by Democrats to head off campaign-season accusations by Bush that they had delayed a measure urgent­ly needed in the U.S. effort against terrorism. Most of Congress' budget work has been stalled because Bush 
wants  to  spend  less  than  
Democrats and  even  some  
Republicans want.  

The bill's popularity was also a tribute to the billions it would spend from coast to coast for weapons and other equipment. Included was $3.3 billion for 15 Air Force C-17 transport air­craft -$586 million more than Bush requested -which the Boeing Co. has been building in Long Beach. Calif.; and $270 million for 19 Army Blackhawk helicopters -seven more than Bush sought -built by the Sikorsky Aircraft Corp. of Stratford, Conn. 
As lawmakers sorted through a pile of legislation in hopes of recessing soon for the elec­tions, the House approved a $10.5 billion military construc­
tion bill, 419­
0. The Senate later passed the measure on a voice vote. 
By 272-144. the House also approved a bill keeping federal agen­cies open for another week, a mea­sure necessi­tated by the spending bat­tle between Bush and Congress. A 
later Senate voice vote sent the bill to the president for his sig­nature. And it voted 357-48 for a measure to help state and local governments revamp their voting systems. 
For now, all was colored by the Nov. 5 elections, when con­trol of the House and Senate for the next two years will be decided. 
Hoping to focus voters on issues that could help Democrats, the party's leaders invited press coverage of a forum they were staging Friday on retirement security, corpo­rate responsibility and whether 
"For the next four weeks there·s going to be a lot ofdebate about the economy. Once we get this question ofIraq behind us, I think the American people are going to focus even more" 
Tom Daschle Senate Majority Leader 
the economy is on the right track. 
To counter that, House Republicans were preparing a tax-cut package that includes bigger breaks for stock mar­ket losses and for people try­ing to rebuild depleted indi­vidual retirement accounts and 401(k) plans. 
"For the next four weeks there's going to be a lot of debate about the economy." Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., told reporters. "Once we get this question of Iraq behind us, I 
proposal for a$10 billion fund he could tap without congres­sional input for combating ter­rorists overseas. 
From weapons procurement and research to the costs of training troops, virtually every category of Pentagon spending is being beefed up. Included in the bill was money for a 4.1 percent pay raise for military personnel. for two more AEGIS destroyers and a new attack submarine, and nearly all of the $7.4 billion Bush requested to keep developing a national missile defense sys­tem. 
think the American peo­ple are going to focus even more." 
The defense bill, for the federal budget year that started Oct. 1, represents a $34 billion. or 11 percent, increase over last year. Bush sought $ 36 7 billion, but ran into bipartisan dis­t aste for his 


CABARET Xcen*trick 
I ¦ 
¦ 

A CAIARET PERFIRMANCE 
AN AltT F..XHIIITIIN 

A RICI SHIW 
featuring: 

CLARK 
and 
COSTUMES AND OUTLANDISH DRESS ENCOURAGED Presented by the South Bend Regional Museum of Art 
rar OCTOBER 12TH (.,,.. 7 PM -MIO.NIGHT (.,,..WARN ER GALLERY 
DOORS OPEN AT 7:00 PM• CABARET PERFORMANCE BEGINS@ 7:30 • BALL BEGINS@ 9 PM IA$DMISSION MUST BE 17 YRS AND OLDER W/ VALID ID • MUST BE 21 W/ VALID ID TD PURCHASE ALCOHOL 
7 
(PROOF OF MENTAL AGE NOT REQUIRE.DOR REQUESTED) 
SOUTH BEND REGIONAL MUSEUM Of ART LOCATED IN THE CENTURY CENTER DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND• 120 S. ST. JOSEPH STREET• 574.235.9102 

Ce/ebratin.t/ the food, drink, music, 6 d811Ce ofthe Sm/en CelticNations 
Full-service menu &bar for lunch &dinner Live entertainment Friday & Saturday nights 
Friday, October It,,,  Chorus of Two & Kennedy's Kitchen  
Satun/4y, October tZ...  David James with Paddy's Racket  
Fresh from his 3rd All-Ireland win on the  
hammered dulcimer!  

1Z7Notth Main Street (US Bus 31) .,_ South Bend, Indiana 46601 
(574) 232-2853 


O
THE 
BSERVER 
Friday, October 11, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page? 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch October 10 
Dow Jones 
7,533.95 " +247.68 

NASDAQ 
1,163.37 " +49.26 

S&P500 
803.92 

+27.15 
AMEX 
775.24 +3.36
•


NYSE 
434.17 +13.08
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMP ANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICI 

21.08 14.18 80.63 2.47 

IN BRIEF 
EchoStar, Hughes merger blocked 
The Federal Communications Commission 
on Thursday blocked a proposed $18.8 billion 
merger of the two largest satellite TV compa­
nies: EchoStar Communications Corp. and 
Hughes Electronics Corp. said they would 
revise the deal to try to win approval. 
The FCC voted 4-0. saying the deal would 
create a virtual monopoly that would be par­
ticularly hurtful for millions of Americans 
without access to cable television. 
It was the first time the commission had 
blocked a major media merger since 196 7. 
The commission gave EchoStar and Hughes 30 days to amend their proposal. The compa­nies also are continuing negotiations with the Justice Department, which is scrutinizing whether the deal conforms with antitrust laws. 
"Everyone is going to put forth best efforts to get this deal and all the companies want to see this merger approved. We're still moving in that direction," said Hughes spokesman Richard Dore. 

Two more WorldC,om execs plead guilty 
Two more WorldCom executives pleaded guilty Thursday to charges stemming from a federal probe of the company's multibillion­dollar accounting scandal, bringing to four the number of officials at the Mississippi-based telecom who have admitted to wrongdoing. 
Betty Vinson, the former director of man­agement reporting, entered her plea to charges of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and securities fraud in U.S. District Court in Manhattan before Magistrate Judge Andrew J. Peck. 
Later in the day, Troy Normand, the director of legal entity accounting, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud before Judge Gerard Lynch for his part in the same scheme. 
Normand, 35. and Vinson. 4 7. were top executives in the company's general account­ing department. overseeing financial record­keeping. 
West Coast dockers back to work 
. Ports are open but report work going slow 
Associated Press 
OAKIAND, Calif. 
West Coast ports creaked 
back to life Thursday, but 
resentment simmered as 
managers watched for 
slowdowns and dockwork­
ers accused them of look­
ing for an excuse to drag 
the dispute back to court. 
The Pacific Maritime Association spent the day poring over data from ship­ping companies and termi­nal operators at the nation's 29 major ports in Washington, Oregon and California, looking for any sign of slacking on the part of the dockworkers. 
A spokesman for the Pacific Maritime Association, which repre­sents shipping lines and terminal operators, first order was to expire Oct. plant in Normal, Ill., said hers be compelled to work described work as "ade­16, when he would deter­production would remain at a normal pace. quate," but as Thursday mine whether to extend it suspended through at least Union spokesman Steve wore on, was more pes­into an 80-day "cooling-off Friday as workers await Stallone said he expects simistic, saying the pace period" under the Taft­key parts. the association to seize on had become "sluggish." Hartley Act. On Thursday, The shutdown began statistics from the least 
"We're certainly not the International when the maritime associ­successful port reopening where we wanted to be Longshore and Warehouse ation locked out the long­and run to court with today," association Union and government shoremen, complaining claims of a slowdown. spokesman Steve lawyers agreed to extend that they were engaged in "What they're doing that Sugerman said. "We're the order for the 80 days an illegal slowdown. for is to come up with hoping to see improvement without going back to After the docks something they can use to tomorrow." court, lawyers for the reopened, both sides press the case," he said. 
The 10,500 dockworkers union and association said. acknowledged that the Officials at the began returning to their On Thursday, Gap Inc. work pace is likely to be International Longshore jobs Wednesday after became one of the first slower initially because of and Warehouse Union President Bush obtained a major retailers to reveal the mountains of cargo and have promised to work as court order ending the 1O­the impact of the shut­other problems, such as hard as they can without day shutdown that caused down. The clothing chain misplaced containers and sacrificing safety. cargo to pile up and cost said shipping delays could equipment. Even under ideal circum­the U.S. economy as much shave as much as $60 mil­If the association sees stances, it will take weeks as $2 billion a day. lion from its holiday season evidence of a slowdown, it to ease the bottleneck. 
U.S. District Judge profits. can go to a federal judge Perishable products have William Alsup's original Officials at a Mitsubishi and ask that union mem-first priority. 







Shopping slump dims holiday cheer 
Major chains had warned of disap­Department offered a dose of opti­Associated Press p oi n ting sales over the past few mism when it announced that new weeks on the heels of a dismal back­claims for jobless benefits unexpect­NEW YORK to-school showing. But the latest edly dropped last week to the lowest 
Shoppers, jittery about their own results further cemented a bleak out­level in nearly two months. job security and the shaky stock mar­look for the holiday shopping season, For the work week ending Oct. 5, ket, continued to penny pinch in the industry's most important. new applications for unemployment September, dimming prospects for a "This has made it more certain that insurance fell by a seasonally adjust­solid holiday season. holiday will be lousy," said Michael P. ed 40,000 to 384,000, the lowest level 
As the nation's retailers reported Niemira, vice president of Bank of since the beginning of August. weak sales Thursday for the critical Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd. Many analysts expected jobless fall selling period, many department In fact, several merchants, includ­claims to rise. stores and mall-based apparel retail­ing Talbots Inc., TJX, and Federated Still, Niemira was not encouraged. ers again languished. But even lower­Department Stores Inc., reduced their "One week doesn't change the priced stores like Wal-Mart Stores earnings outlook. broader uncertainty that's out there," Inc., Target Corp., TJX Cos., and September is the third most impor­Niemira said. Kohl's Corp., which have been the tant month in a retailer's calendar, He expects same-store sales for the beneficiaries of a difficult economy, behind December and June. combined November and December posted disappointing results. The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd.'s months will be up no more than 3 
There were a few exceptions such survey of sales at stores open at least percent as consumers remain tight­as Limited Brands and Saks Inc., both a year, known as same-store sales, fisted when it comes to buying holi­of which announced sales that was up only 1.5 percent for day gifts. exceeded Wall Street expectations. September. Th'lt was the weakest Adding to retailers' headaches is 
While unseasonably warm weather performance since the year-ago peri­the 10-day shutdown of West Coast played a role in hurting apparel sales, od, when sales, derailed by the ter­ports that left mounds of holiday mer­consumers appear not be in the mood rorist attacks, were up only 0.9 per­chandise backed up on docks and on -or too cash-strapped -to shop. cent. ships. While the ports were reopened 
'Tm broke. I'm working two jobs to The September sales figure was in temporarily Wednesday night, a lead­try and keep all the bills paid," said line with Niemira's reduced projec­ing industry organization expects it Robert Miles, a 40-year-old tions, which he had pared down sev­will take four to six weeks to get the Philadelphia resident, who works as a eral times over the past month and a merchandise onto store shelves. hairdresser and housekeeper. "I stick half from an original forecast of a 6 That's barely in time for to what I need, not what I really percent gain. Thanksgiving and the traditional start want." The results came as the Labor of the holiday shopping season. 
Friday, October 11, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Napster negotiates emergency loan 
Associated Press 
WILMINGTON, Del. 
Napster Inc. is in talks with prospective buyers on an emergency loan to keep the company afloat until it is sold. 
The defunct online music­sharing service continued an emergency hearing to consider approval of the loan Thursday after it said it needed more time to work out the specifics of the proposed $200,000 interim and $350,000 final loans with Napco Lending LLC. 
Napco Lending is the just­created lending arm of the prospective purchaser, whose name hasn't been revealed. 
Napster is also in talks with other prospective purchasers for sale deals that would include a loan, said William E. Chipman Jr., an attorney with Greenberg Traurig LLC, the firm representing Napster's committee of unsecured credi­tors. The creditors' committee and a court-appointed Chapter 11 trustee are leading the sale effort. 
Chipman said Napster hopes to submit a loan agreement next week. In the meantime, the company is considering selling some of its hard assets to generate cash flow for the Chapter 11 estate. 
The trustee, the creditor panel. secured creditor Bertelsmann AG, several music publishers and record­
ing companies will meet Friday to discuss the sale and loan deals, Chipman said. 
Napster said it also hopes to reach an agreement to use Bertelsmann's roughly $400,000 in cash collateral. Napster needs the cash to pay some worker-related expens­es, including a bonus for its lone employee, Chipman said. 
To date, Bertelsmann has balked at allowing Napster to use its cash collateral. 
On Sept. 3, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington barred the sale of Napster to Bertelsmann, a German media giant, after Napster failed to demonstrate the $92 million deal was made in good faith. 
Days later, Trenwith Securities began soliciting bids for a sale while Napster's com­mittee of unsecured creditors fought to keep the company in Chapter 11 bankruptcy instead of Chapter 7, which entails liq­uidation. A handful of uniden­tified bidders emerged at the Trenwith Securities auction. The bidding started at $6 mil­lion. 
Redwood City. Calif.-based Napster attracted millions of fans and numerous copyright infringement lawsuits after its launch in 1999. It suspended operations in July 2001 and started work on a legitimate, fee-based subscription service that was never officially launched. 






Simon regrets allegation 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Republican gubernatorial candidate Bill Simon expressed "sincere regret" Thursday over his now-dis­proven allegation that Democratic incumbent Gray Davis illegally accepted a cam­paign check in the state Capitol. 
Simon did not apologize to Davis or directly accept responsibility for making the false claim. 
"I find it necessary to express to everyone my sin­cere regret for the way this matter was handled," Simon said in a Los Angeles speech. "You may have seen my last commercial where I say I am not perfect, and that's indeed true. And now we know of course my campaign is not perfect." 
Simon continued to defend himself for making the allega­tion after a debate with Davis on Monday. The claim was based on photographs released by California Organization of Police and Sheriffs. 
The photos showed Davis, then lieutenant governor, tak­ing a campaign contribution. COPS and Simon contended the transfer took place in Davis' Capitol office in Sacramento. It is illegal to give or receive a campaign contri­bution in a state building. 
It became clear almost immediately, however, that the pictures were not taken in the Capitol, and the law enforcement group later retracted its allegation. 
Davis had called on Simon to drop out of the race. Simon's aides said he'll con­tinue to run. 
The governor's aides said Simon's regret wasn't enough. 
"Bill 
Simon, as "Bill Simon, as has been and Simon late has been the case throughout this Wednesday. The 
the case group had yet to
campaign, is trying to 
through­provide the 
out this weasel his way out of written, person­c a m -accepting responsiblity al apology 
paign, is Angele demand­
for his actions. ,,
trying to ed. weasel Ed Rollins, his way Roger Salazar Simon's senior 
strategist, apol­
0 u t Of Davis campaign press secretary
accepting responsi­bility for his actions," said Davis cam­paign press secretary Roger Salazar. "He owes Gray Davis a direct apology for accusing him of committing a crime. We expect nothing less." 
The Davis camp disclosed Wednesday that the photos were taken at a fund-raising breakfast in the Santa Monica home of Davis backer Bruce Karatz, chairman and CEO of KB Home. Karatz no longer owns the house but a spokesman for KB Home confirmed it was the setting of the photo. 
Al Angele, the former executive director of COPS who was shown giving Davis a check in the photograph, demanded an apology Thursday from Simon and the group. 
His attorney said he was considering legal action against Simon and COPS. 
COPS did apol­
ogize to Angele 
ogized to both 
Davis and Simon 
on Thursday and took the blame for the episode. 
He said the campaign didn't get a good look at the photos until after COPS released them Tuesday, and Simon was not supposed to tell reporters he had evi­dence. 
"Some people on our cam­paign thought this was a sil­ver bullet. I think it was a bullet, I think we put it in a gun wrong and shot our­selves in the head," Rollins said. 
Wii-ness ofi-he Saini-s 
The Ninth Annual 


Folk Choir Concert 
for the 
Holy 


Saturday, October 12, 2002 
(Pitt Weekend) 
7:30pm 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
A contribution will be collected to benefit the Missions of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
C-M 
Campus MJnlst:ry 

Friday, October 11, 2002 page 9 
The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS 

EchostarIs CEO fights for top competitor merger 
Associated Press 
LITTLETON. Colo. 
Federal regulators may have quashed his attempted acquisi­tion of his top competitor, but Echostar Communications Corp. head Charlie Ergen may not be ready to walk a way from the fight. 
Ergen, chief executive of the No. 2 satellite company, might just keep going, analysts said. 
"I would imagine at this point, Charlie is not saying he lost, "Lehman Brothers analyst William Kidd said. "I imagine he's still trying to make it work, no matter how daunting that seems." 
EchoStar said it would keep trying for merger approval after the Federal Communications Commission on Thursday unani­mously rejected its $18.8 billion deal to merge with DirecTV parent Hughes Electronics Corp. 
Win or lose, Ergen's proposal for Hughes has kept DirecTV out of the hands of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp., and it's given EchoStar a closer look at its rival, SG Cowen Securities analyst Thomas Watts said. 
"It was brilliant of him to try it," Watts said. 
EchoStar is working to amend its FCC application in the next 30 days and plans to present the Justice Department with changes on Oct. 28 that are aimed at easing antitrust con­cerns. 
One possibility could be divest­ing enough assets to allow a new 
N.onetto Lar>ore • 'Trina Tork 
lilly Pulitzct • Vara Bradley 
Sharagano • Brighton Tracy Reese • Poleci • Petit Pois custo barceJona • Norninations tioi ., Cynthia Stctffe Nally and Mime • BCBG 
Betsey Johnson • Rayure Patis (} 
•• I • 
-~:::::::: Jnjpired & :Jired 
INSPIRE MEI INSPIRED AND FIRED 

Lulu Guiness • ABS 
Downtown South Bend Granger Area Nicole MiUer • MaxStudio 528 E. Colfax, Suite #2 312 W. Cleveland .Rd. South Bend, IN 46617 Granger, IN 46~30
Jam&s Par-se • and more... 

574/232-1822 574/277-6693 
satellite company to compete, an 
idea FCC Commissioner Kevin 
Martin called "interesting." 
There isn't much time, · though. Ergen has until Jan. 21 before Hughes can officially abandon the deal and Murdoch could step in. 
Ergen has been on the ropes before. In 1997, a failed merger plan with News Corp. left Echostar scrambling for cash. After emptying his pockets and threatening News Corp. with a $5 billion breach-of-contract lawsuit, Ergen walked away with broadcast licenses and assets. 
But after Jan. 21, Ergen could be socked with a $600 million breakup fee and have to buy Hughes' stake in PanAmSat for $4 billion in cash and stock ­payments EchoStar would most likely try to dispute, analysts said. 
Over the long term, to com­pete with cable TV, Ergen will have to find a way to offer more local TV stations and deploy Internet, high definition televi­sion and video-on-demand ser­vices that EchoStar has argued would be staggering to do on its own. 
"They have to really figure out how to address those issues without having a deal happen," Janco Partners analyst Matt Harrigan said. 
In the meantime, Ergen's company is growing faster than rival DirecTV. In the second quarter. EchoStar added 295,000 net new subscribers. 



Pregnancy bill loses support 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration 
says it no longer supports leg­
islation adding pregnant 
women to a government 
health care program. It's no 
longer needed, administration 
officials say, because they've 
accomplished the same thing 
by providing health coverage 
directly to the fetus. 
Last month, the Department of Health and Human Services ruled that "unborn children," from the moment of concep­tion, are eligible for health care under the State Children's Health Insurance Program. 
HHS brushed off complaints from abortion rights support­ers who argued the adminis­tration was trying to lay legal groundwork establishing inde­pendent rights of the fetus as a step toward abolishing abor­tion. 
The only goal, the adminis­tration said, was to offer criti­cal prenatal care to more pregnant women. Because CHIP, as the program is known, is aimed at children, it does not typically cover par­ents or pregnant women. 
Legislation has been pend­ing in the Senate to change that, overtly giving states the option of including pregnant women in their CHIP pro­grams. And HHS Secretary Tommy Thompson has said repeatedly that he supports that effort. 
Early this year, Thompson defended the proposal by say­ing that he also supported the legislation in Congress, argu­ing that his ultimate goal was prenatal care. 
But when proponents tried 
c:... If"' kl.. it? 
2:-,,,-,-~ /.,J.;.,.,, ~.,J.J t""' ,.. ..,.ii. h!nJ .•,.J 
(;~....,, •• ,. fJ.111~ ,,../ 
.. 
c 
this month to move their legis­The regulation also makes lation through the Senate, clear that care aimed at the Thompson sent word that he pregnant woman, but without had changed his mind. benefit to the fetus. is not cov­
"The proposed legislation, ered. Lincoln said that could which has been pending in put doctors into a terrible Congress for some time, would position of fearing that they amend SCHIP law so as to wouldn't get paid if they do duplicate what we have treat a particular problem, but already established as admin­fearing they would face a mal­istration policy," Thompson practice lawsuit if they didn't. wrote Sen. Don Nickles, R­But the regulation is more Okla., this week. "I believe the comprehensive in other ways, regulation is a more effective said HHS spokesman Bill and comprehensive solution to Pierce. this issue. Therefore, there is He noted that under normal no need for the Senate to pur­CHIP rules, many immigrants 
sue this leg- do not quali­ 
islation now." Supporters  "/ believe the regulation is a more effective and  fy for cover­age. Under this regula­ 
of the legis­lation are outraged, saying it is  comprehensive solution to this issue. Therefore, there is no need for the  tion, the unborn chil­dren of immigrants  
disingenuous f o r Thompson to  Senate to pursue this legislation now ...  do qualify because they will be citi­ 
reverse  zens  once  
course. "I'm  baf­ Tommy Thompson HHS Secretary  they born.  are  

fled," said Sen. Blanche Lincoln, D-Ark., who joined other Democrats in a letter to Thompson Thursday demand­ing an explanation. 
In protest, Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., put a hold on the nomination of Mark McClellan to head the Food and Drug Administration, stalling any Senate action on the matter. 
The legislation has biparti­san support; it's co-sponsors include Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle and Minority Leader Trent Lott. 
Abortion politics aside, Lincoln argued that the Senate bill is considerably more com­prehensive. Under the HHS regulation, postpartum care isn't covered, so a new mother who had hypertension or com­plications from an episiotomy would be on her own. 

In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mission. The mission was to provide a personal, caring. educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year institution of their choice. 
Holy Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fundamental mission. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
Our mission is what has made us successful. So while many things change, our mission is one thing that will not. 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 • 574-239-8400 • FAX 574•2.•3-7427 • www.hcc-nd.edu 
Pierce said 
the secre­tary's earlier support of the legislation must be considered "in context." At the time, he said, the HHS regulation had not been finalized. He added that the Senate has had almost an entire year and has yet to approve the legislation on its own. 
And despite Thompson's let­ter, Pierce said the depart­ment still supports flexibility for the states. "We're just try­ing to give them more options," he said. 
There has always been another option. States can get special permission to include pregnant women in CHIP ­something two states, New Jersey and Rhode Island, have already done. 
Abortion rights groups said the reversal confirmed what they already believed. 

r-·­ ..  
r  
[  page 10  The Observer .  NEWS  Friday, October 11, 2002  
I\  
r,  
•. . I.  U-WIRE  
I',·~ 
r  

" 
~ 

,, Harvard
;, "I 

professors take case to high court 
By NURA HOSSAINZADEH Harvard Crimson 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Harvard University Law 
School professors Charles R. 
Nesson and Jonathan L. Zittrain 
argued before the U.S. Supreme 
Court Wednesday that a con­
gressional act creating stricter 
copyright laws is unconstitution­
al and hinders academic 
progress. 
The case -Eldred v. Ashcroft 
-will determine the constitu­
tionality of the 1998 Sonny Bono 
Copyright Term Extension Act, 
which prevents the free dissemi­
nation of copyrighted material 
for 20 more years than past leg­
islation had. Under the act, new 
copyright terms will last the life 
of a work's author plus 70 
years; renewed copyrights will 
last 95 years. 
Nesson, who is Weld professor of law, and Zittrain, Berkman assistant professor of entrepre­neurial legal studies, are long­time advocates of easier public access to intellectual works ­especially through the Internet. They see such access as neces­sary for progress in the arts and sciences. 
Along with co-counsel Lawrence Lessig, a Stanford professor who used to teach at Harvard Law School, they told the court that CTEA violates the Constitution's Copyright Clause, which states that the work of authors and inventors may be protected by government copy­rights only for "limited terms." 
Multiple extensions of copy­right terms over the past 40 years, they said, have caused the terms to be closer to unlimit­ed than limited. 
Society's right to benefit from intellectual advancements is being compromised, they said. 
"The only thing being promot­ed is the continued wealth of corporate copyright holders," said Donna Wentworth, an affili­ate of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, an institu­tion founded by Nesson and Zittrain. 
"Not only is the public domain of ideas -our shared cultural history -robbed, but the public has to pay a 'copyright tax' to make use of creative works that, barring Congress' repeated extension of copyright, would already have been theirs." 
Nesson and Zittrain could not be reached for comment in Washington, D.C. Legislators counter that extensive copyright terms support intellectual progress by protecting authors and inventors and making American copyrights compara­ble in length to international terms. 
They contend that CTEA does not make copyright terms "unlimited," only extended. 
The current case came about when CTEA prevented New Hampshire computer adminis­trator Eric Eldred from publish­ing copyrighted literary works on his website for an additional 20 years, prompting him to chal­lenge the act. 

Sex columnist creating a stir at U. Kansas 
By AARON PASSMAN 
University Daily Kansan 
IAWRENCE, Kan. 
Meghan Bainum never thought a little sex would take her this far. 
Bainum's weekly sex column in The University Daily Kansan has garnered her unexpected attention from media outlets such as Inside Edition, Playboy.com and The New York Times. 
The column, which started in fall 2001, grew out of a journal­ism class project on fetishes and turn-ons. The Topeka senior said she had to "beg" Kansan editors for an entire semester before they finally caved and gave her the column. 
"The University needed more sex in the paper," Bainum said. "It shouldn't just be a once in a while thing." 
Bainum's media exposure bloomed last semester with an article by the Kansas bureau of The Associated Press, followed by a Chronicle of Higher Education story in June and another Associated Press article in September. 
"After that it just kind of exploded," Bainum said. 
Within the last month The New York Times, Fox News, Inside Edition, Playboy.com, Esquire Magazine, radio sta­tions in Mexico and Spain and student papers nationwide have all done stories on her. 
"It's crazy because I'm really kind of a shy person in real life," Bainum said. "I prefer to be behind the media rather than being the focus of it." 
But Bainum was in front of the cameras Tuesday when Inside Edition came to Kansas to film an interview with her for an upcoming segment on their program. 
Alanna Stack, Inside Edition story coordinator, said the idea for the segment came from a recent New York Times story featuring Bainum, but his show had been planning a program on college sex columnists for a while. 
"We found it representative of a growing trend towards more open discussions of sexuality," Stack said. "Obviously college has always been a very sexual place, but what's interesting here is that it's basically a University sponsored discus­sion." 
Bainum said she wanted to help people become more com­fortable with their sexuality and end discrimination against those that didn't have "normal" sex lives. 
She said her family was proud of her, though sometimes her column made them a bit uncomfortable. 
..It's made people look at our family a little bit differently," said Bainum's freshman sister, Amy. "But nothing in our family has really changed. She's still just who she always was." 
Amy said her sister's campus notoriety had brought her 
attention, but stressed the two had different personalities. 
"It leads to some interesting comments from my friends each Thursday," Amy said. "I get a lot of 'Viva la vulva!' and the fisting article, too -I haven't heard the end of that one yet." 
Bainum said she hoped to keep working as a sex writer after graduating in December, but was open to anything. 
"I'll write for anything that would let me be experimental," she said. 
Bainum will fly to Chicago later this month to do a shoot for Playboy.com. 
She said she would be paid $1,500 for the shoot, but would get "substantially more" if the pictures ended up in the maga­zine's print edition. 
Bainum, however, wasn't sure if she would end up totally nude in those pictures. 
That attitude still seems to allure students to her tales of sexual debauchery. 

> 

SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER"' service TWO·WAY MESSAGING JAVA"' GAMES & APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 
Now's "" ~"e"'-i-H~e to ~et Next-el:  
"'-11 Nohe D""~e si-lAAe\\i-s ~et  
l10c  ""\0¾+ ~iSCCIA\\'t' o" "'-"Y n-,..te r'"'-" """J. $\00+ c,.P.P "'-"Y pho\\e.  
-roJ."'y the J.i~H-c,,.l wc,,.l'kie+"'l'kie wo"''ks eve"" seve"'"'1 hl.\\\J.yeJ.. ~iles. A'""-J.. to~on-ow, \\c,,.tiol\wi.J.e.  'T'o '\,IA.y: # 8" to \\e)Ctel.co~vlsh-stv.c:A,e\\t.  
#  c~n toll...Pv-ee I-n7-50'-24l2,.  
#  co\\t~ct JDM Co1M1Mv.\\ic~Ho\\s  
~t 574-24'3-'38 I8  

Friday, October 11, 2002 page 11
The Observer . NEWS 
U-WIRE 
'Anti-intimidation' pledges causes stir on college campuses 
Bacow's stance separates himBy RACHEL RUBENSON from 15 other New England col­
Tufts Daily 
lege presidents who signed the 
statement, including the presi­
MEDFORD, Mass. dents of Brandeis, Boston 
Tufts University President University, Wellesley, Amherst, Larry Bacow refused to sign a Bowdoin, Clark, and the statement pledging to keep cam­University of Massachusetts at pus "intimidation-free" that has 
Boston. Brown University was the 
beencirculating among college only Ivy League school to sign. presidents for the last week, say­At Tufts, leaders in the Jewish, ing it was "castfar too narrowly." 
Muslim, and Arab communities The six-paragraph statement praised Bacow's decision not to was drafted in August by former sign the pledge, saying that the 
Dartmouth President James 
statement 
Freedman and divides commu­
several other 
"Other groups besides nities in a time 
university 
when they
Jewish students have also 
presidents in 
should be unit­response to a been subject to ing.clash between 
intimidation on college "Post Sept.
pro-Israeli and ,. 
11, there has
campuses.
p r o 
been a rise in 
Palestinian intimidation 
protesters. It attacks on
Larry Bacow 
calls for col­
Arabs and
president
leges to main­Muslims" in the 
tain "academ-
United States,
ic standards in the classroom and 
Arab Students Association 
... sustain an intimidation-free President 
campus." However, a portion 
Abdul-Wahab Kayyali said. The 
decrying "death threats and 
pledge is "a kind of segregation -­
threats of violence" against 
saying that some people deserve Jewish students and supporters protection from intimidation and 
of Israel has caused many in some don't." higher education to feel that the 
Students also say there is no pledge is too exclusive. 
need for an '.'anti-intimidation" 
"Other groups besides Jewish pledge at Tufts, as the Universitystudents have also been subject to already maintains an open and intimidation on college campus­accepting atmosphere. 
es," Bacow said. "I believe Martin "Disagreement exists between Luther King, Jr. said that we can­
different groups on campus, but it not prioritize incidents of injustice is usually handled in a respectful,
since injustice anywhere is injus­productive manner," Hillel tice everywhere." 
President Erika Robbins said. 
Both Robbins and Rabbi Jeffrey Summit point to the dialogue between Jewish and Arab stu­dents that has been going on for two years as an example of how the Tufts community has used intellectual dialogue to set the norm that violence is not a way to resolve differences. 
Muslim chaplain Imam Nourredine Hawat agreed that this dialogue is the right way to solve problems of intimidation. 
"Dialogue is the only way where people can express their minds," he said. "Dialogue is the only solution to solve problems." 
Kayyali, the chaplains, and Bacow agree with the assessment of the atmosphere at Tufts. 
"Our Jewish, Arab, and Muslim students have, to date, modeled the kind of behavior we would hope to see elsewhere," Bacow said. "While students have strong views which they express pas­sionately, they have also done so respectfully." 
Other college presidents, how­ever, felt it was necessary to sign the statement -despite a lack of problems on their campus -to show support for students around the country and as a preventive measure for the future. 
"Jewish students are being intimidated and harassed on many campuses in the country, and I felt that this should be brought into the open that this is not something for a few Jewish organizations to deal with," Brandeis President Jehuda Reinharz said. 
Reinharz defended the para­graph on Jewish students, saying Kenneth Brandler, the Director of that they have been ..systemati­Communications for the cally intimidated" throughout the American Jewish Committee, country and attention needs to be which circulated the statement brought to the issue. The last around the country and pub­paragraph of the statement, he lished it in a New York Times said, showed that it applies to all advertisement on Monday. groups. Though Summers has been 
There have been several inci­outspoken on the issue of anti­dents of intimidation of Jewish Semitism in recent months, he students on college campuses in did not sign the statement. His the last year. When pro-Israel decision had nothing to do with and pro-Palestinian protesters at the wording of the text, but with San Francisco State University the fact that he generally does 
clashed  in  not participate  
August, one student  ..Disagreement exists  in mass signa­ture drives,  
allegedly said that Hitler should have killed all Jews.  between different groups on campus. but it is usually handled in a  according to Harvard Director of News and  
Additionally, faculty at Harvard and  respectful. productive manner.··  Public Affairs Joe Wrinn. "He has cer­ 
MIT circulated  tainly made his  
petitions last  Erika Robbins  opinion known  
semester ask­ing that their  Hillel president  and his views very clear on  
universities·  it," Wrinn said.  

endowments not include invest­But these incidents do not merit ments in Israel until the country singling out one group for special complied with United Nations protection, he said. "I don't human rights resolutions, while believe that anti-Semitism is on 16 people at Tufts signed a simi­the rise ... This country is proba­lar statement. In a speech that bly more relaxed about race, reli­sparked much controversy in gion, and ethnicity than it has higher education, Harvard ever been." President Lawrence But Brandler. the AJC 
Summers called such actions spokesman, called the response "anti-Semitic in their effect." to the statement positive. "I 
These incidents prompted the would not read anything into the drafting of the statement that is large number of presidents who currently being circulated. Over have no signed the statement." 300 college presidents have he said. "It's an amazing signed it so far, according to return." 
"May the Blessed Mother bless this "This CD reaches out to ND.friends, "You have n1uch to be proud o_l in this work and all who enjoy it. " faniily, and.fans ofall ages." 111usical endeavor.'" 
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C. Jim O'Connor Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Notre Dame President E1neritus Manager, Ham1nes ND Bookstore Vice President for Student Affairs 
A NOTRE DAME 
...
EXPERIENCE _.. 
"J ,a,n an NIJ parent and have just "This one should be a big hit 
returned.fron1 seeing niy two sons with the ND crowd during the get settledfor another year. I 
upcon1ingfootball season!" be/ieve that you have tnt!y cap­tured the Spirit r~f()ur Lady's Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C. University. Thanks!" Executive Vice President -The H uebners · Emeritus Winston-Salem, NC ND Parents 
Exclusively available at the Hammes·Notre Dame Bookstore 
Titn & Ryan O'Neill (ND '94 & '97) have sold over 700,000 copies oftheir re1axing piano music. Tkir music has been featured on HBO's, Sex & the City, and they recently perfonned for George Bush. 
To find out 1nore about their 15 CD's available and future perfonnances, visit: 
www.pianobrothers.com 
--------------------------------------------------------------~--' 

REFLECTIONS ON THE CURRENT CRISIS IN THE CHURCH 
4:30 p.m. Welcome and Introduction: 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Dallas and Beyond: The Experience and the Future 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels Editor, Commonweal Prof. Scott Appleby, History Rev. Richard P. McBrien, Theology 
PERSPECTIVES AFTER DALLAS 
4:30 P.M. • MONDAY, OCTOBER 14 McKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY THE CHURCH STUDY COMMITTEE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion: Emerging Issues for the Church 
.· Prof. Gerard V. Bradley, Law Prof. Mary Rose D'Angelo, Theology Rev. Brian Daley, S.J., Theology 
9:00 pm. Prayer Service Followed by Reception 

page 13
Friday, October 11, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 

Rooney slams NFL sideline reporters 
Associated Press 
WHITE PlAINS, N.Y. 
Have you ever noticed those sideline reporters at NFL games? Andy Rooney has, and he's as cranky about them as he is about everything 
else. "Mr. Rooney has proven Club to admit Rooney was its first female
by his remarks he is 
interviewed member.
indeed sexist.,. 
on MSG "Mr. Rooney Network's has proven by "Boomer Martha Burk his remarks Esiason he is indeed
NCWO chairwoman
Show" last week and said, 'Tm not a sexist person, but a woman has no business being down there trying to make some comment about a football game.·· 
When the Journal News of White Plains called the curmud­geonly "60 Minutes" commenta­tor to ask him about the remark, Rooney didn't back down, and added that he doesn't think much of male sideline reporters, either. 
Rooney's comments got back to Martha Burk, chairwoman of the National Council of Women's Organizations, who's also leading a fight to have Augusta National Golf 
sexist," Burk 
told the Journal News. 
Don Hewitt, executive produc­er of "60 Minutes," told the paper he was unaware of Rooney's comments and wasn't interested in hearing them. 
'Tm interested in what Andy says on this broadcast, which I edit. I'm not his father or his mother," he said. 
SWEDEN 
Hungarian wins Nobel Prize 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM 
After Auschwitz, to write poetry is barbaric, a philoso­pher once concluded. A long line of poets and novelists have thought otherwise, and on Thursday, the Nobel Prize in literature went to Imre Kertesz, a Hungarian novelist and Auschwitz survivor. 
Honoring the 72-year-old Budapest Jew for his uncom­mon, single-minded gift for saying the unsayable, the Swedish Academy singled out his 1975 debut novel, "Sorstalansag" ["Fateless"]. about a young man who is taken to a concentration camp but conforms and survives. 
"For him Auschwitz is not an exceptional occurrence," the academy said. "It is the ultimate truth about human degradation in modern experi­ence." 
Kertesz was deported in 1944 to Auschwitz in Nazi-occupied Poland, then to the Buchenwald concentration camp in Germany, where he was liberated in 1945. Of the 6 million Jews killed in the Holocaust, some 600,000 were Hungarian. 
Kertesz is the first Hungarian to win the award, worth about $1 million. 
"My immediate reaction is one of great joy. It means very much to me." he told The Associated Press in Berlin, where he is on a teaching scholarship. 
"There is no awareness of the Holocaust in Hungary. People have not faced up to the Holocaust. I hope that in the light of this recognition, they will face up to it more than until now," he added. 
Since the end of World War II, writers and scholars have debated how to make art out of the Holocaust and whether they even can and should. "To write poetry after Auschwitz is bar­baric," the philosopher Theodor Adorno wrote in 1949. 
But Primo Levi, Elie Wiesel and Paul Celan are among many survivors who turned their experi~nces into acclaimed literature. Even some Jews who were spared the Holocaust. such as Cynthia Ozick, and non-Jewish authors such as William Styron ["Sophie's Choice"], have writ­ten highly regarded books. 
Approaches vary in style and format. Wiesel's "Night" is an autobiographical novel, while Levi's "Survival in Auschwitz" is a philosophical memoir. The telegraphic violence of Celan's poem "Death Fugue" mirrors the madness of the camps ["he whistles his Jews into rows has them shovel a grave in the ground". 
Aharon Appelfeld, a Romanian-born Israeli, has written about the prelude and aftermath of the Holocaust but has shied from recording his experiences of the concentra­tion camps, likening them to a flame you dare not touch. 
(574) 288-7777 CHECKER CAB OF NORTHERN IN. The South Bend area has a new cab company, formed by the former drivers of Yellow Cab of Michiana. We are serving ND/St. Mary's and all of St. Joe County. Ask about our special student rates Reservations Accepted  

fRorco~s · Pizzo 
Quick Carryout & Free Delivery! "' · ¥1F•·i' 
; ;,..,411. J ~·.. 
~ ~u,u,t,l ·½. 
Medium Pizia ;, 
Cheese & 1Topping ., 
• • 
• 

Serving Noire Dame & SI. Mary's 52750 IN 633 .......574-243•1122 
Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday!
No Coupon Necessary. Plus Tax. FREE DELIVERY. mo Mmrmum For Delivery. Not Valid Witn Any 
Serving Bethel College
Other Offer. Valrd On~ At Listed Marco's P1Z1.a Locations. Expires 12-15-02. 
326 N. lronwood...574-243-1111 Corner of Ironwood &McKinley
!:13 ale!ill ACCtmo HERE 
Must provide credit ca/II ilfonnalon m Oideling f!lf defil!ery 
HAVING A BIG PAR1Y? ,· 
WE CAN CATER YOUR EVENT! 
Friday, October 11, 2002
page 14 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 
Bonnie's 'Life' is busy yet charming
Ex .. Grateful Dead 
Associated Press 
members will tour 
Associated Press 
ROANOKE, Va. 
The remaining members of the Grateful Dead are going back on tour, with the first stop scheduled for the Roanoke Civic Center on Nov. 14. 
The band, renamed The Other Ones after leader Jerry Garcia died in 1995, announced the 14•city tour on its Web site. 
Surviving band members include Mickey Hart, Billy Kreutzmann, Phil Lesh and Bob Weir. They'll play in cities including Washington, New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Chicago. 
The last time the Dead played in Roanoke was July 7-8, 1987, when 21,000 people converged on the civic center and more than 50 people were arrested, mostly for drug-related offens­es. The number of complaints about drugs, noise and garbage made city officials question whether they'd allow the band to play in Roanoke again. 
Civic center marketing direc­tor Robyn Schon expected no trouble this time. 
"It seems like most of the problems are in the past," Schon said. "Most Grateful Dead fans are laid-back people. We don't anticipate any prob­lems." 
NEW YORK 
On her new sitcom. Bonnie Hunt glories in a frenzied com­posure, an agitated calm. Playing Chicago's busiest wife, mother and local talk-show host, she hurtles through life outpaced by its demands -but no less amused. 
Hunt's longtime fans will realize that Bonnie Molloy, the blond, fresh-faced heroine of ABC's "Life with Bonnie" (air­ing Tuesdays 9 p.m. EDT), has a striking similarity to TV reporter Bonnie Kelly of "The Bonnie Hunt Show" and to would-be actress Bonnie Kennedy of "The Building" ­two short-lived past series that charmed the viewers there just weren't enough of. 
But this time things are dif­
ferent. Besides critics' raves, Hunt is snaring healthy ratings; already "Life with Bonnie" is renewed for the full season.
Library creating Bob "As far as television goes, it 
feels like the best combination 
for me as an actress and
Dylan collection writer," Hunt [who handles 
Associated Press 
HIBBING, Minn. Bob Dylan rarely visits his hometown. 
Still, the town's library has been putting together a collection of artifacts about the singer-song­writer, known as Robert Zimmerman in his Hibbing days. 
Dylan, whose songs include "Like a Rolling Stone," "Blowin' in the Wind" and "Mr. Tambourine Man," left town in 1959 to become what the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame calls "the pre-eminent poet-lyricist and songwriter ofhis time." 
Librarian Nancy Riesgraf says hundreds of visitors come to Hibbing to see where Dylan spent his childhood. 
"They just want to breathe the same air that he breathed," said library worker Roberta Maki, who's spearheading the Dylan 
Better yet, this Chicago gal could be reunited with longtime chums, some of whom go back to her Second City improv days. They include Holly Wortell (the "talk show's" makeup artist who gives first priority to her own makeup} and Don Lake (who will appear as various "guests" on the "talk show," besides serving as Hunt's real­life co-producer, co-writer and best friend). 
"If you can have kindness and talent surrounding you, you've succeeded," sums up Hunt, who can say things like that without sounding corny. 
She also gets valuable input from the so-called "Chicago connection" -her family. The sixth of seven children from a working-class neighborhood near Wrigley Field, she remains close to her mom and siblings. They help account for her authenticity -and help her maintain it. 
"My family meets on Sunday nights to brainstorm ideas, then fax them to me," she says. "The ringing of the doorbell and cleaning up the living room -that was theirs. And when the squirrel gets loose in the house -that really happened to us, too." 
Meanwhile, Sunday nights in Santa Monica, where Hunt lives with her investment-banker husband, John Murphy, she arranges flowers to take every­one at work Monday morning. 
Not only does Hunt grow them [her begonias and impa­tiens are in bloom right now, she reports], hut also admits splurging on the purchase of lots more. A preferred source: her nearest Costco. 
Among those who enjoy Hunt's floral bounty is Mark Derwin, who plays her doctor­husband. 
"I wrote the part for him," says Hunt, who in 1995 cast 
cessful in securing some personal items. "We know he comes to Hibbing 
Saint M$s College 
NOTRE DAME•-INDIANA
every once in a while, but people 
The Nation's Premier Catholic Women '.s Coll•ge
want to respect his privacy," 
Maki said. 
30TH ANNUAL 
Derwin as her news director on "The Bonnie Hunt Show." But since 1999 he had been a regu­lar on the daytime soap "One Life to Live." When he was unable to break free, she signed another actor for the pilot episode. 
"Then the network came to me and said. 'We think there might be more chemistry with someone else as the husband.' And I said, 'That would be Mark Derwin.' So I called him again and he said, 'It's perfect timing. I'm in a coma.' And I said, 'What are the odds?!' And he said, 'You better have them call before I wake up!'" 
Hunt is also pleased with the casting of her character's grade-school-age kids, played by Samantha Browne-Walters and Charlie Stewart. 
"We wanted the least 'actor­y' kids we could find," Hunt explains. "When Charlie came in, he saw this bowl of candy in the office and said, 'Who's eat­ing those candy bars ­because I've been out there awhile and I'm starving.' No 'Hello, nice to meet you, I think you're funny' or any of that stuff. 
"I said. 'You are SO hired!"' 
The show's unorthodox pro­duction routine calls for filming at-home scenes on Mondays, then, on Tuesdays, winging Bonnie Molloy's "talk show" in front of a studio audience. 
It seems to be a winning hand for "Life with Bonnie," not to mention a long-sought TV victory for Hunt. 
"But I've always worked," she notes, dismissing the idea she had anything to prove. ''I've always done things I've been proud of. Is there a better form of success? Maybe there is, where you're more popular. But even in high school that was never my thing." 
It's never too late to start. 
project with Riesgraf. 
The collection is mostly out of public view, although portions are placed in rotating displays. However, virtually everything Dylan that the library owns is available to the public. 
It includes about 2,000 maga­zine and newspaper articles, 22 collector posters, 50 albums, 40 compact discs and 45 rpm records in their original sleeves; publicity photographs, sheet music and scripts; and a 1959 Hibbing High School yearbook that's kept in a vault. 
The plan is to have a Dylan museum in the library's auditori­um by May 24, 2006 -his 65th birthday. By then, Maki said, the library hopes to have been suc­both duties, as well as produc­ing] said recently. even before getting ABC's happy news. 
Hunt has enjoyed solid suc­cess in films such as "Jerry Maguire," the "Beethoven" comedies and [as director­writer-actress] her much­praised romance "Return to Me," which starred David Duchovny and Minnie Driver. 
She also was courted for another shot at TV -as host of a daily talk show. 
"But I love storytelling and working with actors, .. she says. "So I thought, what if I played a talk-show host in a sitcom? Then we could improvise the talk-show part, and I could also have the family life that I love to write about." 

EUROPEAN SUMMER S'I,UDY PROGRAM 

Happy 21st 
Birthday to the 

Courses offered in History,girl withALL the 
Education, English and Culture. 
For further information contact:
right moves! 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
Love, 
(574) 284-4462·­e-mail: dstefanc@seintmaryi,.edu
Your TC girls. 
Fax: European Summer Study Program (574) 284-4866 
page 15
Friday, October 11, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 
WB on hot streak early in TV season 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Thanks to dramas about a teenage Superman, a transplant­ed widower and a romantically challenged mother-and-daughter team, the WB television network is on a hot streak. 
Two weeks and two days into the new season, the network had 29 percent more viewers than in the comparable period last year. The season's second week was the WB's best ever among people age 18 to 34, the network's tar­get audience. 
"I think the brand has come into its own now as standing for a place where young people ­and the young at heart -know where to turn," said Jed Petrick, the WB's president. 
Wednesday's premiere of the series "Birds of Prey," with the daughter of Batman fighting another generation of criminals in Gotham, drew the network's second best ratings ever in the 18-to-34-year-old demographic, according to a preliminary Nielsen Media Research tally. 
The second-year drama about a hunky young Superman, "Smallville," has been one of the surprise strong performers for the WB. Petrick said "Smallville" gradually built its audience through summer reruns and fans were primed for a new season. 
This week, "Smallville" gave the WB its biggest Tuesday night audience in the network's histo­ry. 
With "Everwood," a family drama that stars Treat Williams as a neurosurgeon who moves with his two children to Colorado after his wife dies, the WB finally has a worthy ratings partner on Monday nights to "7th Heaven." 
In its seventh season, "7th Heaven" has remained consis­tently the network's most popu­lar show. 
Ratings for "Gilmore Girls," the drama about a quick-quipping mother and daughter from Connecticut, finally seem to be catching up to the show's critical praise. 
The supernatural drama "Charmed" has also helped the WB set some ratings bench­marks on Sunday night. 
"You put Alyssa Milano in a Mermaid outfit and you'll get viewers," said Brad Adgate, senior vice president of the advertising firm Horizon Media. 
The new shows are enabling the WB to make a smooth transi• tion from another era. The drama "Felicity" ended last sea­son, and "Dawson's Creek," while it started strong this fall with a long-sought romance between lead characters Joey and Dawson, is considered near an end. 
The WB has so successfully built itself as a destination for teenage girls and young women that "it's a training ground for Lifetime viewers," Adgate said. But now some of their boyfriends are showing up too; the network has seen ratings increases among young men. 
As is often the case with two networks that began operations within a week of each other in 1995, the WB's good fortune is matched by suffering at UPN. 

UPN's ratings are down 26 percent so far this season. Ratings for professional wrestling and the previously popular "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" and "Enterprise" have faded. 
The WB has been less success­ful trying to establish comedies like "Family Affair" and "JKX: The Jamie Kennedy Experiment" on Thursday nights. Many of the network's younger viewers turn to "Friends" or "Survivor" on that night. 
"The dramas seem to be work­ing," Adgate said. "I think they still need some work on their sit­coms." 
October is traditionally the WB's best month of the year, with its fans excited about new, hot shows. The challenge will be to maintain the gains. Some ana­lysts suggest the WB benefits from this year's slow rollout of Fox's fall shows because of the baseball playoffs. Fox targets many of the same young viewers. 
"I think we're really on a tear and there's nobody at the net­work ready to concede November to anybody, even when Fox comes back," Petrick said. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 16 Friday, October 11, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lun 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
obsc:rvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAsST. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 obsc:rver.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 obsc:rver.sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 obscrver.scene. l@nd.edu SAINI' MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint .space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th< Obmvtt (USPS 599 240) is puhlisl.ed Monday through Friday ~pt during ,...,, and vacation p<riods. A subscription to Th, Ob,,,.,.. is Sl 00 for orw, acadnnic yc-ar; S55 fur on, ..,,,...,,. 
Th, Obwrvo: is publish«! at: POnMASTER 024 South Dininc Hall Send add.rcu corn:ctio~ to: 
Non.. Dam,, IN 4'556 Th<Obocrv..­
P.0. Box Q Pmodiul poullfF paid at Nom, lhin, Notn, Ihm<, IN 4'556-0779 and additional mailins ollkef. 
Th, rn...,,....., is amanbcr of chc Aaociarcd Pras. All "'Production right1 at< raavcJ. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Courtney Boyle Chris Federico Meghanne Matt Lozar Downes Joe Lindsley Sarah Nestor Scene Viewpoint C. Spencer Beggs Kurt Bogaard Lab Tech Graphics Ryan Greene Jimmy Atkinson Illustrator Pat Quill 
Guys aren't so bad 
This is in response to Hannah Gornik's Oct. 10 letter "Pornography is no laugh­ing matter." To summarize Hannah's article, she claims that men objectify women with our blatant display of naked women and Britney Spears posters. Well, Hannah, I am not sure if you have heard of this phenomenon, but girls like pornography too. There. I said it. 
Go check out any "normal" Notre Dame or Saint Mary's girl's room and you will see lots of Abercrombie and Fitch posters. I admit that guys like naked women, and it is pretty apparent that girls like naked men as well. These are not men that are fully clad in the lat­est A&F apparel, but are guys who are naked striking poses, just like us Notre Dame guys have women who are naked, striking poses hanging on our walls. 
Hannah, humans are sexual beings, and yes, we like looking at naked people. It is a fact of life, and at a University that does so little to foster sexual activity, these posters are really our only means of comfort. So, stop taking life so serious­ly, and maybe you'll realize that we Notre Dame guys aren't so bad after all. 
Peter Prina semor 
off campus Oct. 10 
Irish Guard must uphold excellence 
Fans watching the first half of Notre Dame's 31-7 win reflects poorly on the University as a whole. against Stanford last week could have fallen asleep because The only glimpse of Notre Dame some people see is on tele­they were so bored. They could have sat down, stopped cheer-vision, as they watch the players, the coaching staff, the ing or left the game, and nobody would have noticed or cared. cheerleaders and the Guard during football games. All of 
But wisecracks about a five-second SportsCenter clip of these groups of prominent students have an enormous members of the Irish Guard slouched in responsibility to project a positive image of their their seats showed how the tradition-filled Oliterver school. They send a message to thousands of view-group must be held to a higher standard. Edi •a1 ers, and these viewers form their impression of the 
And when word reached Notre Dame offi-t-:on l!niversity based on this elite group_ of representa­cials that the television clip showed some U t1ves. Guardsmen dozing during the game, the Obviously, the Guard must participate in certain University swiftly responded by suspending activities to preserve their mystique, but falling the Guard from marching in Saturday's game. asleep at a home football game isn't one of them. The most 
In suspending the Guard from Saturday's game, the Office of important duty of the Guard is to remain attentive and spirited Student Affairs sent a powerful message to the rest of the Irish during the games in order to uphold Notre Dame's honor and community. When students who serve as visible symbols of prestige. the University shirk their responsibilities, they will be repri-Despite its lethargic appearance last weekend, the Irish mantled. Guard is a unique Notre Dame tradition and should continue 
The Irish Guard represents a football tradition that stands to exist. Its members dedicate countless hours to practicing for dignity, class and excellence. For over half a century, the and marching with the band, and the University should not Guard has led the band into the Stadium, inspired pride in eliminate the Guard based on this isolated incident. Irish fans and served as an impressive symbol of Notre Dame The University acted prudently in suspending the Guard for football. Saturday's game. Notre Dame will not and should not tolerate 
But when national television cameras catch these highly vis-anything less than excellence from those who embody a hal­ible students sleeping on the sidelines of a football game, it lowed school tradition. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Questioning pornography at Notre Dame 
Centerfold article demeans spirit ofco-education 
Upon reading Joe Muto's Oct. 9 col­ence of women is not enough. The umn, "Centerfolds: Apply here," I was presence of our thoughts and ideas horribly appalled. During the 30-year needs to be appreciated as well. anniversary of co-education at Notre Women come to Notre Dame expect­Dame, I expected articles to be of a eel• ing to be active participants in the fur­ebratory and reflective nature, cen• therance of intelligent thought. In com­tered on the appreciation of women as ing to a school known for its grace and intellectual equals. However, when I spirituality, a student would expect saw the title of Muto's article, my that the level of thinking would rise hopes came crashing down. above seeing women as mere sex 
The lack of respect Muto holds for objects. A general respect for the women in general is disgusting and whole woman is expected; respect for upsetting. Just to note, this is ironically the body. mind and spirit. The last the same boy, and I use that term pur­thing I expected in coming to this cam­posefully, who on Sept. 12 wrote an pus was for someone to be seeking me article about the beauty of Notre Dame out as a possibility for Playboy maga­women, stating, "There are not enough zine. pretty things matriculating at this The Observer seems to be bombard­school." ed with people seeking to know why 
However, his view of the beauty of gender relations on this campus are Notre Dame women obviously changed still such a prevalent issue. \\'ell, peo­after he was given the opportunity by ple, here is your answer. Muto's article Playboy to ask for our naked pictures, personifies why the tension still exists. assuming Notre Dame women are Though 30 years have passed since the dumb enough to send them. admittance of women to this campus, I 
The fact that this campus now has an am still left with a question that contin­official representative to Playboy mag• ues to plague my mind: how far have azine is not only disturbing, it tears we really come? apart the relationship formed between men and women over the last 30 years. Joanna Basile Muto's article demeans the spirit of the freshman week of celebration of co-education. Pangborn Hall Celebrating simply the physical pres-Oct. 10 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Are \\ omen and men treated equally at Notre Dame? 
"Poll appears c,1u rtesy of l'\f1Tr-day.cr,m and 1s t-.a.,ed on 237 respon~t!s. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ninety-eight percent ofthe adults in this country are decent. hard-working Americans. It's the other two percent that get all the publicity. But then -we elected them.·· 
LIiy Tomlin comedian 
, 

O
THE BSERVER 

Friday, October 11, 2002 page 17 
Placing public service over personal feelings 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Politics are catering to big business 
During the waning years of the Reagan Administration, an obscure colonel in a basement office at the White House took it upon himself to arrange arms deals with Iran. In his blind zeal to serve his president, Oliver North let his warm feelings for Reagan cloud his personal and legal judgments. 
Fast forward a decade and it seems that another public servant, former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Louis J. Freeh.annoyed Justice Department and Clinton White House officials who often complained about his independence. The question remains: how much of Freeh's conduct contributed to intelligence errors that prevented this nation from thwarting ter­rorist attacks? 
Former Clinton administration national security officials have written a book crit­ical of Mr. Freeh. They have said that his personal animosity toward President Bill Clinton and his fixation on a few cases, like thJ Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia in 1996, blinded him to larger ter­rorism issues and thwarted efforts by Clinton's national security aides to obtain information about the growing threat from al Qaeda. 
Earlier this week, Freeh, who ran the agency from 1993 to 2001, testified before the U.S. Congress. It was the first time he has publicly spoken about his stewardship at the agency since terrorists leveled the World Trade Towers and damaged the Pentagon. He resigned his postjust three months before the al Qaeda attacks last fall. 
Freeh acknowledged that he met with many foreign leaders on trips that bypassed protocol at the Justice 

Department and White House. "I met 
with dozens of presidents. prime minis­
ters, kings, emirs, law enforcement, intel­
ligence and security chiefs around the 
world," he said. 
Freeh's testimony, to the surprise of many, also blamed the Republican-con­trolled Congress for failing to adequately fund the bureau's counter terrorism work. The FBI still has fewer agents today than it had in 1999, Freeh said, even after Congress gave the bureau $745 million to pay for 823 new staffers in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. That is less FBI agents than the Chicago Police Department has sworn officers. He said that he resents the notion that the bureau was not pursuing terrorist sus­pects as vigorously as it should have dur­ing his 8-year tenure. 
"While the CIA and the FBI should be intensely examined regarding Sept. 11, they should not be examined in a vacu­um," said Freeh, noting that other agen­cies such as the Federal Aviation Administration knew that U.S. airliners have long been a target of radical Islamic groups, including al Qaeda. 
Freeh said that other branches of gov­ernment also deserve scrutiny for failing to adequately fund the bureau's counter terrorism work. In 2000, for example, Freeh said he requested $380.8 million to fund 864 additional personnel to combat terrorism. After the Office of Management and Budget and Congress were finished evaluating his request, Congress funded the bureau five new staffers and $7.4 million. 
Yet Freeh's critics point out that from the early to mid-1990s, Congress funded the agency with several initiatives to improve its computer system, yet Freeh used some of those funds to hire agents. Then on several occasions. as in 1995, the agency faced technological setbacks. In the late 1990s, the agency started accepting bids by private companies to handle necessary upgrades. However, due to numerous problems within the agency, Congress canceled the project in 
1999, leaving the FBI to continue using 
technology from the 1960s and 1970s. 
During the September terrorist attacks, the FBI was still using computers that could not interface with a mouse and that provided limited access to e-mail and the Internet. According to the Wall Street Journal, photos of the 19 hijackers were rushed to the bureau's 56 field offices shortly after the attacks by overnight mail, because the FBI network couldn't transmit pho­tos by e-mail. The sit­uation existed despite the fact that since 1993, Congress designat­ed $1. 7 billion to upgrade the FBI's technology. 
Freeh also emphatically swept aside widespread com­plaints that dur­ing his tenure the FBI refused to cooperate with other agencies and failed to prepare for a terrorist attack in the United States. He responded to a commit­tee report that concluded that the FBI "did not fully learn the lessons of past attacks," like the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. 
The report also accused the FBI of responding unevenly at home, with only some field offices devoting significant resources to Islamic extremists. An over­all risk assessment was not prepared, and much of the FBI's counter-terrorism effort was concentrated abroad. This sit­uation reflected a huge gap in the U.S. government's counter terrorism struc­ture, a lack of focus on how an interna­
tional terrorist group might target the United States itself. 
Freeh offered no apologies or admis­sions of mistakes. During his tenure, the FBI doubled the number of overseas offices to 44 total. In 1999, he created a separate division for terrorism, splitting it off from a unit that also had jurisdiction 
over espionage cases. Representative Ray LaHood (R-Ill.), asked Freeh, "Was the FBI on war footing with Al Qaeda prior to Sept. 11. 2001 ?" Freeh replied: "Absolutely. In 
1999, not only had we indicted Osama bin Laden 
twice, he was on our Top 10 list. Al Qaeda was the number one priority." 
It may seem ironic that the number one pri­
ority was able to attack in such dramatic and deadly fashion. However, in hind­sight, it appears more certain that like 
Oliver North before him, the clouds of per­sonal sentiment negatively 
affected Freeh, thereby detracting from stellar public service. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame class of 1973, served in President Clinton ·s administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
In Michael Derocher's Oct. 9 letter, "Don't believe Democrat's economic complaints," he points out that the Democrats complain "that Bush and the Republicans' supposed ties to 'big business' are the cause of the numerous corporate scandals." He proceeds to blame the Clinton administration for these slack business ethics in the first place. 
I would like to point out, first, that no, we should not trust the Democrats when it comes to corpo­rate fraud. Democrats have many close ties to "big business" that are probably inappropriate for the proper functioning of our govern­ment, particularly in the oil indus­try. 
However, companies such as Enron and WorldCom not only make political contributions to the Republican Party, they are a part of the Republican party at the high­est level. Or, in the current situation in which President Bush is apparently steering us towards a state of perpetual war, have we forgotten that Dick Cheney, Bush's vice-president, was intimately involved with Enron at the highest levels? Have we forgotten that President Bush has, in what business regulations have thankfully come about since all the scandal, made illegal the type of lending from one's own company that he himself once partici­pated in? Have we forgotten Bush's pledges to run this 
administration like a business {which, in demanding total unfailing loyalty as he does, is very undemocratic)? Republicans also have ridiculous ties to the oil indus­try. I am thoroughly displeased with the way that the current administration has insisted upon making policies that do not consider the environmental impact of what is being done, but rather consider the policies of business. It is an undisputable fact that the ice caps are melting. Go 
ask a geologist. They know. Why are they melting? There's increased levels of carbon dioxide 
in the air. What produces large amounts of carbon dioxide? Fossil fuels such as gas and coal. What is the Bush administration, environmentally. all about? Oil and coal. 
Drilling in the Alaskan wildlife refuge for oil, destroying the beautiful hills of Appalachia for ~....-.,, coal. While it is true that eventually carbon dioxide levels will go down, 
that may not be for thousands of years. These plans were made exclu­sively with members of big business, and 
Environmental groups were excluded from the design process for the national environmental policy. While it may also be true (and may also be false) that in making the switch to renewable sources ofenergy a few jobs may be lost, in faiHng to do so life as we know it wiil be lost. 
A further point on Mr. Derocher's article: generaliza­tions. His article assumes that all big business is bad, and that all Democrats are tainted, though he only gives an example of one such democrat. I implore you: don't trust generalizations, especially in politics. Politics are not simple, and issues are almost never as black and white as politicians would have us believe. It is up to us, particularly at an institution like Notre Dame, to seek out the facts on both sides and decide for ourselves what is true and what is not. It requires a little extra effort, it requires skeptically looking at what everybody says, even "your" party and it requires accepting our respon­sibilities as American citizens to know what is going on. 
It also involves looking beyond the previous adminis­tration for the source of problems occurring now (as Mr. Derocher does with the Clinton administration). This may mean disagreeing with someone, this may mean you have to take a stand, this may result in your decid­ing you don't even like the America you see. However, if we, the best and brightest of this nation, do not, who will? 
In conclusion, if big, bad business is really your stick­ing point in elections, based on the facts, Democrats are less intimately involved than Republicans, but they're still in it deep. Ifyou really want to get away from big, bad business, vote Green or Libertarian. Have a nice day. 
Danny Richter sophomore Keough Hall Oct. 10 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 18 Friday, October 11, 2002 




ByC. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
It is said that all the world's a stage and all the men and women merely puppets of manipulative other pup­pets bought for a few dollars or a cheap bottle wine ...or something like that. That phrase is much more help­
ful after watching the Department of Film, Television and Theatre's first mainstage production of the semester, "The Mandrake.'' 
The play, written by Niccolo Machiavelli in the early 15th century, is a dark sex comedy that made the author's more famous in his era than his political writings. 
When the love-foolish Callimaco ijunior Tom Conner) returns to his hometown of Florence after living in Paris, he is smitten with the nubile wife of his neighbor, the foolosopher Lord Nicia (senior Jeff Eyerman). Struck with every literary symptom of love, Callimaco decides that he must have his prize and colJudes with a man of means, Ligurio Uunior Sean Nelson), to trick Nicia into urging his shrewish mother-in-law, Madonna Sostrada (junior Katy Kertez), to con­~ince her daughter to visit her confes­sors so that he can advise her to ·sleep with another man so she can have children. Of course, it's all a big set up because Ligurio bribes the priest to give the advice, so that by hook or 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer The elaborate set of "The Mandrake" was painted in vivid pastels. The surrealistic set makes to play look like a flat panel comic strip. 
crook Callimaco will end up with his beloved. Confuse? It's an easy place to find oneself when discussing morality with well-spoken pundits. 
PTT rented Summer Shakespeare's set from "The Taming of the Shrew." With the set in place early on in he rehearsal process, Scott said the con­cept for the show developed in stages each piece developing one 
"The Man
another. Rick 
Donnelly added a full set of lav­ish costumes built from 

scratch and The Depart, Scott had the 
Film, Television 
set painted in a vivid pastel Director: Sirri Scott 
scheme, trans-Writer: Niccolo Machiavelli 
forming the 
Shakespearian Stage Manager: Chris Sandrotl Padua into a Starring: Thomas Conner, Jeffret s u r r e a I Mark Ross, T.J. McNally, Katy Kert 
Renaissance 
Florence. The Katherine Walsh, Kate Dolack, Torr 
performers even changed Tonight and Saturday n translations of and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. i the script part 
$10 general admission, $9 tor si 
way through the rehearsal process. In the end, Scott made the play aesthetically resemble a flat panel comic strip. 
Scott feels that this type of show offers an artistic stretch for her because she normally does represen­tational theatre. The presentational theatre "The Mandrake" uses required both Scott and her cast to take risks. 
"I guess for me it hasn't been the same," Scott said. "Conceptually, I've have to share more with them. Normally you're creating something that you don't necessarily have to tell them, 'Oh I'm doing this because I want to see such and such.• But with this kind of show, I've had to share a lot more of the conceptual ideas with them because you can't play a concept you can only play and action." 
Cast members agreed that Scott's directing style was new and challeng­ing. 
"Besides (giving me] a history lesson and showing me what a difference a translation makes, it's taught me it's only funny if you're playing your action," Conner said. "The audience only laughs at the reality of the situa­tion. The more real it is, the better it is." 
The cast really steps into their roles as cartoons. Everything in "The Mandrake" is extremely big and delib­erate. And though the cast looks like they stepped off of the Cartoon Network on stage, it took them a while to build up to that level. 
"At the beginning, we were like, 'Oh, no. What do we do? We have to break all the rules we've been taught,"' Nelson said. 
The talented acting is what this show depends on and, for the most part, they work together remarkably 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, October 11, 2002 page 19 

well. Conner's boundless energy fuels the show and when he leaves stage for an extended period of time during the first act, there is a noticeable hole in the crescendo of energy. 
The cast has developed a strong rapport with each other. "How hard was it to get our rap­port?" Ross said. "In one word: easy." "In two words: really easy,"
1drake" 
Eyerman countered. 

"The rapport was practically immedi­ate," McNally chimed in. 
ment of Eyerman stands out as the in his
and Theatre 
portrayal as Lord Nicia. The lisping lost love child of Yosemite Sam, Richard Simmons pJ. Eyerman, Sean Nelson, and The Ladies' Man, Eyerman's
tez, Amanda Greco, 
disingenuous Nicia 
1Degnan 
keeps the audience on its toes; Eyermanright at 7:30 p.m. is a master of inter­in Washington Hall. preting new, and almost always sexu­
eniors and $7 for students. 
al, meanings in any 
line. But before Eyerman accepts a Tony, someone should point out that the lisp is, at least partially, natural. 
On the other side of the gender line, Kertez's Madonna Sostrada is an equally perverse character. Wearing a Raggedy Ann-style red wig and a bustle that would make J-Lo jealous, Kertez gives the slut you love to hate a new creepiness. 
But the real standout this time is freshmen Mark Ross as Brother Timothy, the corrupt monk. Though blessed with the most interesting character in the script, Ross manages to do a lot with a little. During his numerous soliloquies, Ross keeps his body fairly quiets but musters a seductive intensity in his voice that keeps the audience transfixed. Ross stands apart from the rest of the cast; while they maintain the audi­ence's focus by exuding more and more energy, Ross' quiet, spiteful reserve is fascinating and provoking on stage. 
As usual with FTT shows, the natu­ral talent and hard-earned skill of its cast is not met by the show's concept. Scott's cartoon style is intriguing at first, but it never pays off except in potty-mouthed humor. The actors use emphatic gestures and overblown facial expressions to push their cari­catures to the audience and the cast entirely overuses the phallic refer­ences in the script. And though we all enjoy a good penis joke, Machiavelli's manuscript hasn't survived half a millennium because it was the Renaissance "American Pie." FTT leaves a wealth of content buried in script without ever trying to uncover it. It's a shame that the big laughs in commentary. 
But that's not to say that "The Mandrake" is not entertaining. The talented cast pushes the cartoonish humor hard and even the most cyni­cal intellectuals will laugh at Eye rm an's homoerotic slips or Conner's melodramatic intensity. 
In the end, the cast overcomes the difficulties presented by the show's concept with shear force of will. "The Mandrake" is certainly the best FTT production in the past two years, but that's not the highest compliment in the world. And while "The Mandrake" is entertaining, it is merely entertain­ing. It turns a blind eye to a much deeper and darker side of Machiavelli's comedy, sacrificing poignant social commentary for base albeit humorous penis references. 
"The Mandrake" opened in Washington Hall on Wednesday and will be presented tonight at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. and on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. General admission is $1 O; $9 for senior citi­zens and $7 for students. Tickets are available at the door or in advance. For reservations call the LaFortune Student Center Box Office at (574) 631-8128. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 


C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer Amanda Greco as Madonna Lucrezla, at left, is slowly persuaded by her mother to take Brother Timothy's advice. 
this show come from pelvic thrusts Junior Thomas Conner as Callimaco, at left, and junior Sean Nelson as Ligurio, at right, hatch a plan to convince senior rather than Machiavelli's ironic social Jeffrey Eyerman as Lord Nicia, at middle, to have another man sleep with his wife. 
Friday, October 11, 2002
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Giants jump to 2-0 lead over listless Cards 
come back to win a best-of­
Associated Press 
seven series -it's never hap­pened in an LCS. 
ST. LOUIS ..You come in here, probably 
Rich Aurilia, Jason Schmidt at first, you look for a split," and the San Francisco Giants Aurilia said. "This is awe­set down the Cardinals with­some." out much of a fight. Lofton, in the middle of 
Aurilia homered twice, Game 1's skirmish and booed Schmidt pitched shutout ball because of it, caught a fly ball into the eighth inning and the in short center field and threw Giants shut down St. Louis 4-1 out J.D. Drew at the plate to for a 2-0 lead in the NL cham­end the third inning. pionship series. Backup Ramon Martinez 
A day after the teams nearly also made a neat contribution. came to blows in a noisy open­After replacing Aurilia at er at Busch Stadium, there shortstop in a double switch, were no hostilities. Barry he had a suicide-squeeze bunt Bonds was quiet aside from in the ninth for insurance. overrunning a fly ball in left "It'll probably be five years field, but the Giants didn't before we call another one," need their slugger as -for Baker said. the first time in franchise his­The Cardinals finally scored tory -they opened a postsea­on a pinch-hit homer by son series with consecutive Eduardo Perez with two outs road victories. in the eighth. Robb Nen got 
"To come in here and win four outs for his second save two games, you think about of the series. how many times we've been All was calm at the ballpark heartbroken in the bottom of following Wednesday night's the ninth in this park," Giants fracas. La Russa and Baker manager Dusty Baker said. were each fined $500, and "We had a number of heroes non-roster players -many of tonight." whom left the dugout to join 
Aurilia kept up his power the pushing and shoving ­surge with his fourth homer of were banned from the bench. ahead of Bonds, his drop-off he wears for the Giants. game. this year's playoffs, connecting Umpire crew chief Randy hurt the Giants. : Aurilia was up next, and he Drew opened the third by on Woody Williams' fourth Marsh, after talking with com­But Aurilia homered twice quickly hushed the fans when beating Schmidt to the bag for pitch of the game. Schmidt missioner Bud Selig and other with seven RBI as San he followed by hitting a high an infield hit, Mike Matheny made the lead stand up, baseball officials, decided not Francisco beat the Braves to drive over the left-field fence. singled and Williams sacri­
I 
helped by another key play to issue a warning to the clubs win the opening round, and Aurilia struck again in the ficed. Fernando Vina followed I from Kenny Lofton. about inside pitches. There broke loose against Williams fifth for a two-run homer with with a fly to shallow to left­
I 
I "It was probably my best were no problems, either, dis­for his first two•homer game two outs. After Lofton struck center that Lofton caught, and game because of the circum­pelling thoughts that the rivals of the year. out looking for the second his one-hop throw home beat stances," Schmidt said. had become Arch Enemies. The crowd of 52,195 got time, Aurilia reacped out­Drew. This Busch-whacking com­Schmidt didn't need to buzz right into the spirit, jeering too far, it looked on contact -Catcher Benito Santiago plete, the Giants headed home anyone to silence St. Louis. He Lofton when he walked to the and still managed to loft a fly made the tag and pointed his to Pacific Bell Park for Game 3 gave up four hits and struck plate to lead off the game and hall over the wall in left-cen­finger. Lofton and Bonds 
' 
Saturday. Russ Ortiz will start out eight, reaching 98 mph cheering even louder when he ter. jogged off the field together, for San Francisco against with his fastball. It was fine flied out. When the inning ended, confidently. Chuck Finley. redemption for him, having Lofton scored three times in Aurilia stood up in the dugout "We were all yelling, includ­
"In one sense, it's a perfect lost to Atlanta this month in Game 1, and the way he twist­and got ready to go onto the ing myself, 'Send him! Send setup for us,.. St. Louis manag­his only other playoff start. ed out of reliever Mike field. Lofton came by and, with him!,"' La Hussa said. "They er Tony La Russa said. "It's Aurilia's big night was even Crudale's high-and-tight fast­a big smile on his face, play­made the pitch, they made the been a hard year, this has more unexpected. ball in the fifth inning trig­fully pushed Aurilia on the play." been a hard start." After hitting 37 home runs in gered the craziness. To upper chest with his right Bonds went 0-for-3 with a 
Only three times in postsea­2001, he dipped down to 15 Cardinals fans, his display hand. walk. He struck out twice for 
son history has a team lost the this season. Batting at the top made him Public Enemy No. 1 Earlier. Lofton made the just the fifth time in a game 
first two games at home and of the lineup and mainly -coincidentally, the number biggest defensive play of the this year. 


( 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including aJl spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
CJs Pub See whats happening www.cjspub.com 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable www.sunsplash­tours.com 1-800-426-7710 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 
1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Lost Kairos (waffle) cross. Believed lost near west entrance to library. Has burgandy piece of velvet tied around top and two pins, a celtic cross and a footprints pin. PRICE­LESS to owner. REWARD offered. PLEASE can Cristin at 634-1057 
Flowers for you Belle:) 
RecSports Basketball officials NEEDED Apply at Rolfs Sports Rec Center Clinic: Wed. 11/6 7PM, RSRC Contact hadams@nd.edu 
LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold initials JME, size 1O 3/4; engraved within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14 Michigan game, stadium student section or on field. 
Jon Mack 309 Zahm, 634-1090. 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 
1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­tours.com 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Free! 1-800· SUNCHASE ext. 123. 
WWW.SUNCHASE.COM 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Wi11iamson.1@nd.edu 
1991 Honda Civic Hatchback. 135k miles.Good cond. $2200. 
57 4-277-3189. 
2-1988 National Champion footballs signed by Lou Holtz, coaches, and players. (271-2843) 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available tor 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. 
CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4·5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL • WASHER/DRYERS ­CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST • CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 • (574)674-2471 
Alum owned, 5Bdrrn/2Bath, W/0,Security, 10 ft ceilings, HUGE Yard,very close to campus&well kept.2Bdrm w/view of dome also available. 
Gall 674-0709. 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame • Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 
B&B-Pitts & Rutg. Best Area (574)-287-4545 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896 
TICKETS 
N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. 
WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 
251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 
289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Need Home GA lix. Call 276-8507, after 5 call 288-2877. 
NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) bringing family, friends & girlfriend to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmal­ley@global.t-bird.edu 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Happy Birthday Dad -Love Kate 
I will win, Jules 
CFM Boots 
The Return lo Glory is upon us. 
Flip, flip, flip, flip! 
And with a flute up his nose... 
Sports Cups will have all your moms. 
Friday, October 11, 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA 
NCAA names IU's Brand new CEO 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The NCAA hired Indiana 
University president Myles 
Brand as its president and chief 
executive, ending a seven­
month search for a new leader. 
Brand will assume his new 
duties Jan. 1 and his contract 
will run through 2007. 
Brand, 60, has been president at the university in Bloomington since 1994 and was the man who oversaw Bob Knight's fir­ing as the school's basketball coach in September 2000. 
"I look forward to a very pro­ductive time at the NCAA," Brand said. "A lot of good activ­ity is already in place, but I also look forward to being a change agent." 
The NCAA interviewed 11 candidates for the position. Brand was one of three finalists interviewed by the NCAA Executive Committee. The NCAA did not disclose the iden­tities of the other finalists, but .said at least one was a minori­
ty. 
The decision was unanimous, said Robert Lawless, chairman of the Executive Committee and president of the University of Tulsa. He said choosing a uni­versity president sends a mes­sage that the NCM is interest­ed in the academic success of student-athletes. 
"He's a proven educational leader," Lawless said. Brand said he would resign from his position at Indiana. "I believe the IU community will be very surprised," he said. 
Brand said he did not seek the NCAA position but was nominated for it and became involved in the search earlier this year. He said he did not know who nominated him. 
Brand will succeed Cedric W. Dempsey, who is retiring after serving as president since 1994. During his tenure, the title was changed from executive direc­tor to president to reflect the NCAA's direction. 
Dempsey announced in January that he would retire at the end of his term at the close of this year. The NCAA execu­tive committee hired Baker­Parker, an Atlanta-based firm, to help screen candidates. The NCAA said there were 118 can­didates for the position. 
Lawless said the search com­mittee did not make a recom­mendation to the executive committee among the finalists. 
Brand gained national atten­tion when he fired Knight after 29 seasons and three national championships at Indiana for violations of a zero-tolerance policy that university officials had imposed four months earli­er. 
A few months later Brand called for wide reforms of col­lege athletics during a speech before the National Press Club. 
Brand said then it was time to scale back the basketball and football "arms race" that he said has become a "threat to the academic integrity" of uni­versities. 
"We are not sports franchis­es," Brand said. "I do not want to turn off the game. I just want to lower the volume." 
Brand called in his speech for "academics first" solutions, led by college presidents, to the problems of overcommercial­ization, poor graduation rates and questionable academic standards used for athletes. 
Brand also suggested limiting the dates and times games can be played, the number of televi­sion timeouts and the amount of advertising permitted in a college arena, including on uni­forms. 
Brand went to Indiana from the University of Oregon, where he was president from 1989 to 1994. At Indiana, Brand served as chief executive of a Big Ten Conference school with eight campuses, nearly 100,000 stu­dents, 17,00 employees and a budget of $3.4 billion. 
He was chairman of the board of directors of the Association of American Universities and served on the board of the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
A-Rod gives some of his millions to Miami 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
Alex Rodriguez grew up near the University of Miami cam­pus, spending nearly every weekend at Mark Light Stadium where the Hurricanes played. 
He shagged balls, took bat­ting practice and worked as a batboy -constantly picturing his name on the scoreboard. 
Now it will be there forever. 
Rodriguez, an All-Star short­stop with the Texas Rangers, donated $3.9 million to Miami's baseball program. The gift, paid in annual install­ments over six years, will be used to renovate the stadium -which will then be called Alex Rodriguez Park. 
"It's something I feel is a responsibility for me," he said. "The city of Miami has done so much for me in my childhood that it makes me feel really great coming back and helping out. This was my Yankee Stadium, my Candlestick Park, my Dodger Stadium." . The 27 -year-old Rodriguez. who signed a record $252 mil­lion, 10-year contract in December 2000, also vowed to return to the university and get a degree. Having already taken a few classes at a community college, he hopes to graduate by age 35. 
"It's one of my greatest goals, as important as being a major league baseball player," said Rodriguez, who hit .300 with 57 home runs and 142 RBIs this season and is a leading contender for the AL MVP. "A degree is something that is a great personal challenge of mine. I promised it to my mother. 
"And just because I'm a major league baseball player, I'm not going to let that get in the way of going to college and getting my degree." 
Rodriguez's gift also will be used to fund an annual schol­arship to Miami for a member of the Boys & Girls Club of America. 
Rodriguez signed with Miami out of nearby Westminster Christian High and came close to playing for the Hurricanes -about 50 feet to be exact. 
He was on campus, walking to his first class in fall 1993, when a Seattle Mariners scout stopped him just before he got to the door. The Mariners had drafted Rodriguez with the No. 1 overall pick in the June draft and offered him a $1 million contract. 
But his mother turned down the deal. 


THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 
' 
--' 
..., 
r 
Friday, October 11, 2002 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 
Cleveland defense in shambles 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio 
Forget Tim Couch's bruised ego, the Cleveland Browns· primary concern is a depleted and damaged secondary. 
Safety Robert Griffith will be sidelined 4-to-6 weeks with a broken bone in his right shoul­der, the latest blow to a defen­sive backfield that could be missing three starters this Sunday against Tampa Bay. 
Cornerback Corey Fuller and safety Devin Bush are also nursing injuries. 
Griffith initially hurt his shoulder while tackling Tennessee's Eddie George in Week 3, but the 31-year-old played the next two games despite lingering soreness. 
Doctors thought he had only sprained his shoulder joint, Griffith said. 
However, early in Sunday night's loss to Baltimore, Griffith said his shoulder wors­ened after hitting Baltimore running back Jamal Lewis, and the pain became unbear­able after he made a tackle in the second quarter. 
"My whole arm just felt like it had no strength in it," Griffith said. "I knew it was 
going to be a tough game for me. It went numb for a while and I knew then that I wasn't going to be effective and help the team. So I took the pads 
{~=.. ­
Party Wings 
.......~ 
-'FfOBa 
18-Pack Budweiser,
·Coors Or Miller • 1a-o.m~I'....
.....,...........,.
~,v.,..,..,... 
off." 
Griffith said he underwent his third MRI exam in three weeks on Monday, but nothing unusual was detected. Only after the nine-year veteran had a CAT scan performed did doctors discover a hairline fracture of the chromium bone in his shoulder. 
"They said 4-to-6 weeks so we'll see," said Griffith, who the Browns listed as question­able on Wednesday. 'Tm nor­mally a quick healer, so I'm doing everything I can possibly do and we'll go from there." 
Browns coach Butch Davis blamed "a clerical error" as the reason Griffith was given a 50-50 chance of playing on Wednesday. He said Earl Little will start at one of the safety spots. 
The Browns may also be without Bush (pulled groin) and Fuller (torn hamstring) for Sunday's game at Tampa Bay. Both players practiced on Thursday, and remained listed as questionable on the latest injury report. 
Bush got hurt during the first half of Sunday's loss to the Ravens, and said it was difficult to run after halftime. 
Fuller was inactive last week after getting injured during the Sept. 29 game at Pittsburgh. Fuller, who was replaced by an ineffective Anthony Henry last week, said 
he heard something pop behind his knee. 
The hard-hitting Griffith signed with the Browns as a free agent in March after eight seasons with Minnesota. Cleveland was desperate for a big hitter to help the run defense, and so far Griffith has been just that. 
And although he's hurting now, Griffith said the injury will not change his aggressive style. 
"That's what everybody wants to say, but I've been playing like this my whole career," Griffith said. "What am I going to do? Am I going to change how I play? Not at all. Am I worried about being 31? 
"I feel like I'm one of the most physically in-shape peo­ple in this business. Things happen. I threw my body around and that's just what happened." 
This is Griffith's second major injury in two seasons. Last year, he missed six games after breaking his leg during the opening kickoff against Chicago on Sept. 23. 
"Before last year, I didn't miss a game in 90 starts," Griffith said. "I'm hitting big backs, and this conference is filled with big backs we have to face twice a year. But I'm not going to change the way I play because of the injury." 

~ '.;, 
:-~ ••~ •••:......·,,i;; ',­
r 
;::
\·· 
(f I •~~~~; &I : ~ 
:.: ' : u 
04: .. :-. ··· ' · 
Chicken Drummettes 
Sweet 
Italian Ham Sub 
fSilnclwich 
j,............. --·--­
~-":,,;:~ :-~.\-..-.'.· .~ill.('lf,-,;.!Jl!i/flf!:/'':li 

Johnson to start in place of Vick Sunday 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. 
With Michael Vick unable to finish practice, coach Dan Reeves selected Doug Johnson as the. starting quarterback for Atlanta's game at New York on Sunday. 
Vick was optimistic after receiving treatment on his sprained right shoulder before lunch, but the pain worsened in passing drills. He shut himself down after 45 minutes of the two-hour workout. 
"It wasn't getting any better, so I just quit throwing." Vick said. "It was starting to feel less stiff as practice wore on, but it kind of got sore again. I'm going to give it a night of rest and try to throw tomorrow, but I proba­bly won't play this weekend." 
Vick, who had to leave last week's 20-6 loss to Tampa Bay, remains listed as doubtful for the game against the Giants (3­2). 
The Falcons (1-3) will wait until Friday to decide if Vick is fit enough to serve as the No. 2 quarterback. Rookie Kurt Kittner. a fifth-round draft pick from Illinois, was the emergency backup and did not play in the first four games. 
Vick entered last week leading the NFC with a 101.1 passer rat­
' ' . ;'•~·• ..'' _:f7-~.. ~~----~~:..........~. :·;~-~~·~: 
. -: ­
•·• ~ 
_,.:·..............
~?:..L.,.. 
. . .... ·•···· 
_.,.....•.. .;~~:·:·: ~·>r_· .: • i j; ,~ . . 
<::·::::-·.,.._-.. r 1~,,,. " .. 
,.,:· ··t ~ -~J ~-" ' 
ing, but he dropped to second behind Green Bay's Brett Favre after the Buccaneers held him to 4-for-12 for 37 yards. Vick, the NFL's No. 1 overall draft pick last year, is in his first year as a starter. 
He is the only quarterback with 70 or more attempts who hasn't thrown an interception, but Vick has attempted only 89 passes. Vick was leading the league with 7.7 yards rushing per carry before Tampa Bay held him to 1 yard on one carry. 
"We won't rule him out. but he won't start," Reeves said. "He needs to practice some in these two days, so Doug will start and we'll make a decision on whether he'll be two or three." 
Johnson relieved Vick in the third quarter last week and immediately led the Falcons on a six-play, 43-yard drive to a field goal. 
The Falcons went downhill from there. Johnson's last three possessions ended with an inter­ception, the first of which Warren Sapp picked off and lat· eraled to Derrick Brooks for a 12-yard touchdown. 
"I'm as ready as I've ever been," Johnson said. "I've been taking a lot of reps, and I feel like I know the offense better than I ever have." 
' 
l 
: ·-"--. . 
•'"'~a¼~~:.. ''ft•'i .;;'·· -·· 
Friday, October 11, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
... 
' 

Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the 
Eucharist this weekend. 
• 
Pittsburgh 
.' 
Football Weekend October 12-13, 2002 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:30, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am 

Campus Ministry 
' 
• ·-... i 
' 
' 
I I I I I I 
' 
I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
i 
•
• 
•
c 
•j 
j j 
. 
. 1. l 
. 
~ 
_;_;,, 

Friday, October 11, 2002 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Pittsburgh keeping McClendon for 2003 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Pittsburgh Pirates manag­er Lloyd McClendon will return in 2003 but will not be offered a contract exten­sion, and all but two of his coaches were fired or reas­signed. 

The Pirates are 134-189 in McClendon's two seasons, but lost 11 fewer games than in 2001 and improved from last place to fourth place in the NL Central. 
After McClendon and gen­eral manager Dave Littlefield met in Bradenton, Fla., during the team's annual organizational meet­ings, first base coach Tommy Sandt and catching instruc­tor Russ Nixon were fired. 
Hitting coach Dave Clark, one of McClendon's closest friends. Third base coach Trent Jewett and field coor­dinator Jeff Banister were offered other jobs in the organization. Jewett's posi­tion has not yet been deter­mined, and he could return to the Pirates in some role. 
Bench coach Bill Virdon, a Pirates coach on-and-off since the late 1960s and a former manager with the Pirates, Yankees, Astros and 
. ".. .~ 
Expos, stepped down at the end of the season to take a part-time job with the team. 
The only coaches returning are pitching coach Spin Williams and bullpen coach Bruce Tanner. The Pirates' pitching staff made a signifi­cant improvement this sea­son, lowering its earned-run average from 5.05 to 4.21 after adding starters Josh Fogg and Kip Wells and bringing back reliever Mike Williams. who set a club record with 46 saves. 
Mcclendon said he expect­ed all along to return. 
"Our guys played hard," he said. "We were short on tal­ent, but we haven't used that as an excuse. We played the game the way it is supposed to be played. We're heading in the right direction." 
None of the moves was considered to be a surprise. Littlefield has made major changes in the organization since replacing the fired Cam Bonifay in July 2001. In his most recent move, he asked longtime scout and adviser Lenny Yochim to take accept a part-time job and a lower salary, causing Yochim to leave the Pirates after 36 years. 
Pirates owner Kevin McClatchy was believed to 
·, The First: Biennial Blessed P<>pe 
.. . 
~~­
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hokies hang on against Eagles 
Crawford intercepted the 2-point We knew we had it under con­
Associated Press 
conversion attempt. trol." "They fought until the end," The Hokies regained the lead, BOSTON Virginia Tech safety Willie Pile 21-14, on their next drive when Virginia Tech stayed unbeaten said. "We were fortunate to Jones scored on a 5-yard run 
by doing what it does best-run come out with a win." with 42 seconds left in the third the ball and force turnovers -Suggs rushed for 154 yards quarter. and passed its toughest test so and two touchdowns, Jones ran Sandro Sciortino's 49-yard far. for 144 yards and one score, and field goal with 10:35 left in the 
The fourth-ranked Hokies the Hokies amassed 334 yards game cut the lead to 21-17. improved to 6-0 for the fifth on 61 carries in their Big East Then Suggs broke loose for a straight season as Lee Suggs and opener. That was still less than 27-yard touchdown run with 
Kevin Jones both rushed for their season high of 395 yards in 5:41 to go. more than 140 yards in a 28-23 a 47-21 win over Marshall. The game might have been victory over Boston College. The Hokies have only one closer had the Hokies not come 
"Basically, it was run it and game left against a ranked team, up with those three turnovers pound it," Hokies coach Frank No. 1 Miami in the regular-sea­deep in their territory. Beamer said. "For the overall son finale. Boston College (3-2, 
In the second quarter, Garnell goals of this football team, we 0-2} already has lost to Miami. 
Wilds recovered Knight's fumble need to throw it better." Jamal Burke's 83-yard punt into the end zone for a touch­That hasn't been necessary so return 1:03 before halftime back. and Pile intercepted St.
far as Virginia Tech has aver­made it 14-7 and was the first Pierre's pass at the goal line and aged 240 yards rushing and the touchdown in the first half returned it 43 yards. 
defense has produced 20 against Virginia Tech this sea­In the third quarter, Boston turnovers. The offense has com­son. 
College trailed 21-14 and had amitted just five. "That was a big play," O'Brien 
fourth-and-6 at the Virginia
The Hokies, second in the said. "It got us back in the game. 
Tech 32. But Vincent Fullernation in turnover differential, We were able to go in at half­intercepted St. Pierre's pass atneeded three of them in or near time and say we stopped our­the 1. 
the end zone to stop Boston selves, they didn't stop us." 
"It was a tough night," O'Brien College drives and win their sev­The Eagles tied it 14-14 on said. "We can't make the mis­enth straight game against the their first drive of the second takes we made against a goodEagles. Virginia Tech had three half, moving 80 yards on 10 football team and expect tointerceptions against Brian St. plays to Derrick Knight's 5-yard come out on top."
Pierre and one fumble recovery. run, only the second rushing The Hokies had taken a 14-0"All in all, that's a good night touchdown against Virginia lead early in the second quarter against that defense," Boston Tech all season. St. Pierre com­on Randall's 44-yard touchdown College coach Tom O'Brien said pleted all four of his passes for pass to Ernest Wilford andof St. Pierre, who threw for 232 70 yards on the drive. 
yards and was sacked once. "I don't think anybody's head Suggs' 1-yard run. It was Suggs' He also scored on a 1-yard run was down," said Hokies quarter­39th rushing touchdown, break­that made it 28-23 with 49 sec­back Bryan Randall, who was 4-ing a tie with Amos Zereoue of onds to go. Then the Hokies for-7-for 86 yards and a touch­West Virginia for most rushing came through again as Michael down. "We all kept our poise. touchdowns in Big East history. 
' __ ,.,.~ 
John XXIII Lect:ure Series in Theol<>gy and C:ult:ure 


1T
it 
!;\ ___..,. 

·.~··--,
G,.__,,
. .
. 
~.•
'~--~ 





h---~-'-' ' . ! ' ,..,. , ..  ,<'---.-, :•:~'J:-:-,~:' ~----·•-f'  r--p---.., :. ·ji\;; _, ..\.  "'"'.'fP,"'"'"v~: !4~ ~·~1 ,.-,f\.__  rr ~J }j\-'~­ ·~~~ ,;' ·,\i -.i,__  
Rev. John W. C>'Malley s.J.  
Prof"essor of" Church Hist:ory  VVest:on Jesuit: School of" Theology  

AUTHOR OF The F;rst Jesuits <1993) AND Trent and All That.· Renaming Catholicism in the Early Modern Ero c2000) 
Tuesday and Thursday nights C:> c tober 8., IO~ I S & 17 
7:30 -9:30 pm 138 DeBart:olc:> Hall 
Students may earn ha.If" a. credit by registering f"or the course. THEO 3878 4 Cultures \;Vest Christianity. Please ce>nt:act Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department: (631-78 I I) f"or more lnf"ormat:ion. 
THESE LECTURES ARE SPC>NSC>RED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY, MADE POSSIBLE BY A GRA,.._,T FROM THE DILENSCHNEIDER FAMILY. 
---------------------------------------------------------···-1I 
Friday, October 11, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Twins enjoy current success despite future's uncertainty 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Enjoy Torii Hunter, Doug Mientkiewicz and the rest of these Minnesota Twins during their remarkable playoff run. They might not be together for much longer. 
The next time some of the 
Twins' stars play on a national 
stage in October, they could be 
wearing New York Yankees 
pinstripes. 
Without a new stadium that includes lucrative luxury boxes, or a new owner who's willing to spend some of his own money, many Twins players might be forced to look to base­ball's big markets to get the salaries they deserve. 
"This is a great moment for this team, and we ought to enJ·oy it. With the kind of young 
club they have, they're going to 
have a lot of these moments in 
the years to come," said com­
missioner Bud Selig, whose 
attempt to eliminate the Twins 
during the offseason was 
blocked in court. "The question is, how long can they keep those players?" General manager Terry Ryan 
and his staff have done an 
impressive job developing the young talent that has the Twins tied after two games in the AL championship series againSt the Anaheim Angels. 
The Twins' players have been developed through the draft, picked up as minor league free agents or acquired in smart trades -like the one that brought shortstop Cristian Guzman and lefty Eric Milton from the Yankees for Chuck Knoblauch in 1998. 
The only major league free Mike Jackson, who signed a 
$500,000 contract during the 
offseason -far less than the 
multimillions some teams pay 
out. 
If this year's postseason has 
proved anything, it's that a big 
payroll isn't necessarily the key 
to winning. 
In the first round, the team with the smaller payroll won every series. While big spenders like the Yankees and Mets, Arizona, Atlanta, Texas, Los Angeles and Boston are home watching, the Twins are three wins away from their first pennant in 11 years. 
"I think it's great for base­ball, but I think also it shows that if you use your resources wisely, you can build a team that can contend," Angels man­ager Mike Scioscia said. "We've certainly done it. The Twins 
have done it. "I think the challenge is not 
so much keeping them together 
for one year or building them, 
it's keeping them together for a 
period of time so you can really 
reap the fruits of the team. And that's being perennial con­tenders." 
h h m
That's w ere t ings get di 1­
cult for Minnesota. 
f k l
While none o their ey p ay­ers will be eligible for free agency until after the 2004 sea­son, the Twins will have some difficult decisions to make in salary arbitration this winter. 
Hunter, Mientkiewicz, Jacque Jones and A.J. Pierzynski will be eligible for arbitration this offseason. It will cost much more than $3.25 million -the amount the four made com­bined this season -to keep those players in Minnesota, sparking speculation that Mientkiewicz or Jones could be 

AFPPHOTO Minnesota's A.J. Pierzynksi tags out Anaheim's Brad Fullmer in Game 2 of the ALCS on Oct. 9 In Minneapolis. The Angels defeated the Twins 6-3 to tie the series 1-1. 
"I don't want to go any­where," Mientkiewicz said. "We have a lot of special individu­
als. The reason we didn't want to get contracted is because we have great guys in this room, from the general manager to the equipment manager. "Small-market teams can compete, it's just a matter of for how long. We'll see if we can keep this team together." The Twins began the season with the 27th-highest payroll in baseball, at about $40.2 million -less than one-third of what the Yankees paid their players. While increased revenue sharing and a postseason run should make Minnesota more 
ticket base for 2003, the Twins aren't sure how much they will be able to expand their payroll. 
Plans for a new stadium have stalled in the state legislature,and no potential buyer for the team has been found. 
"We aren't thinking about next year yet," team president Jerry Bell said. "A lot of it will depend on how far we go into the playoffs and what effect the new revenue-sharing plan will have. We just want to enjoy this run right now." 
Losing players doesn't always lead to losing games. The Oakland Athletics, who have become the model of small-market success, tied with the 
ag¦e•n•t•o•n•t•h•e•r•o•s•te•r-is-re•l•ie•v•e•r-d•e•a•lt•t•o•c•u•t•c•o•st•s•.--•q)~a•n•d-b•o•os•t••th•e-se•a•s•o•n••-Y-a•nk•e•e•s-fo•r•t•h•e-m•o•s•t•w•i•n•s•i•n 
CIIAIJMIERESPRES DU uc· 
_·:;~}~:-1.:'.">' ·.•: :··.. : ..:-_·.:: .:· 
•,, .. · ............. •' .. --· .? ·' ,, 
,~' 
:: . :..? ... -· 
Qonveniently located in northwest Indiana, an \:Phours drive from Chicago and only minutes from lake Michigan, this new community features European-style stucco homes situated among 150 
wooded acres and ponds. 
• Prices starting from $170,000 -including lot, basement & garage. 
• 
A maintenance-free, multigenerational community. 

• 
Perfect year-round or a great summer home. 

• 
Newest resort community in Harbor Country. 


Chaumieres Pres du Lac Sales Office: 4004 North State Road 39, LaPorte, IN 46350 
Call toll free: 866.325.0850 
www.. nearthelake.. com 
Driving directions.------------------------------~ 
From Chicago, take the 1-80/90 Toll Road east to Exit 49 (LaPorte). Left on SR 39; 114 mile on right. Look for Chaumitres signage. __
-
the majors this season (103) despite losing slugger Jason Giambi, leadoff hitter Johnny Damon and closer Jason Isringhausen to free agency. 
But despite their success over the past three years, the A's haven't been past the first round of the playoffs during that time. They lost to Minnesota in five games this season. 
"It wears on you that you put out a product, but you can't do more to improve it," A's gener­al manager Billy Beane said. 
The Twins, who play in base­ball's weakest division -the AL Central -don't need many improvements to play in October again next season. What they need is to keep the core of the team together as they blend in some of their tal­ented prospects. 
"We're not like the Marlins, who went out and signed all those free agents and won the World Series. These are all homegrown players," Twins infielder Denny Hocking said. "We're stocked in the minor leagues with talent. We're not going to just disappear.... Our payroll is not going to jump from $40 million to $80 mil­lion, but we are going to be able to compete." 
The question is. for how long. 
'vi4it, 7it '/l/6lfld,~ 1.dlf9Ut ~'tt ~ theclogstore.com -800-948-CLOG  

Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion (574) 674-0022 Fax (574) 674-0033 ND themed baskets our wcialM  




page 26 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, October 11, 2002 


I . 

around the dial 
FRIDAY MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Minnesota at Anaheim 7 p.m., Fox 
SATURDAY 
', ) I ( , 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
' FSU at Miami 11 a.m.., ABC { Pittsburgh at NOTRE DAME 1 :30 p.m., NBC Penn State at Michigan 2:30 p.m., ABC 
NBA 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Latrell Sprewell filed a formal appeal Thursday with the New York Knicks over his $250,000 fine, the latest step in a process that could take more than two months to resolve. 
In a letter from union director Billy Hunter to Knicks president Scott Layden. Sprewell and the union said "We hereby grieve the discipline in con­nection with article 31, sec• tion 9 of the collective bar­gaining agreement." 
Sprewell was fined for failing to report an injury to the Knicks in a timely man­ner. He injured his right hand when he slipped and fell aboard his yacht in early September, but the Knicks didn't find out about it until the day before train­ing camp opened Oct. 1. 
Sprewell contends the fine was unwarranted because he did not realize the seriousness of his injury. He also will argue that the fine was excessive. 
"In most instances a case of this magnitude, it could take six to 10 weeks. At the end of the hearing or after final briefs are submitted, the arbitrator has 30 days to render a ruling," union spokesman Dan Wasserman said. 
Arbitrator Roger Kaplan will hear Sprewell's appeal. 
Under collective bargain­ing rules, the $250,000 must be placed into an interest-bearing escrow account until the case is settled. 
Sprewell's fine is believed to Qe the largest ever imposed by a team against one of its players. 
Sprewell remains ban­ished from the team, although he is in contact with the Knicks' medical staff regarding his recovery from surgery to repair a broken bone below his right pinkie. 
The locker Sprewell has occupied for the past four seasons did not have his nameplate above it prior to New York's game against San Antonio on Thursday night. Instead, the space wa~ occupied by journey­man center Todd Lindeman. 
Shandon Anderson start­ed in Sprewell's small for­ward spot, hoping to improve on his poor perfor­mance in the Knicks' defeat against Boston on Tuesday in the exhibition opener. Anderson had a shot blocked and committed two turnovers the first three times he touched the ball, finishing with four points, one assist and four turnovers. 
IN BRIEF 
Authorities not fearful of that are in place or that we're asking Avalanche forward Vaclav Nedorost attacks at Redskins game anyone to do anything different," he dragged him down near the Colorado said. goal. He'll be out of the lineup 10-14
Although Washington-area resi­
Defensive tackle Dan Wilkinson days and will be re-evaluated then. 
dents are on edge because of a 
said he was concerned.
recent string of sniper shootings, 
police aren't saying much about "It raises a tremendous amount of Tigers hire Trammell security plans for Sunday's Redskins concern," Wilkinson said. 'Tm wor­The Detroit Tigers know Alan 
game. ried about one person at the gas sta­Trammell was the popular choice to 
The Redskins play the New Orleans tion. Eighty-thousand fans, that's be their next manager. More impor­Saints in a game that's expected to heaven for this lunatic out here." tantly, they're also convinced he was draw more than 80,000 people, the right choice. 
including thousands of tailgaters. Stars' Arnott placed on "People don't come to your games FedEx Field in Landover, Md., is less injured reserve to see your manager," Tigers presi­than 10 miles from a Bowie, Md .. Center Jason Arnott, who was hurt dent and general manager Dave middle school where a 13-year-old shortly after being acquired from Dombrowski said Wednesday after boy was shot and wounded Monday. New Jersey last season, was placed signing the former star shortstop to a Seven people have been killed and on injured reserve Thursday by the three-year contract. "But if your two wounded in the weeklong shoot­Dallas Stars because of a sprained manager makes your team perform ing spree. "Security measures will be right ankle suffered early in the sea­better and conduct itself better on 
in place, but I can't say what they son-opening tie against the Colorado and off the field, then people will will be,.. said Cpl. Joseph Merkel, a Avalanche. show their support. Prince George's County, Md., police Jon Sim, one of the last cuts in "I can understand why some peo­spokesman. training camp after having four goals ple will feel that this was based on 
He added that fans are not being in five preseason games, was Alan's popularity here. But really, we asked to refrain from tailgating or to recalled from the Utah Grizzlies. could not afford to make this deci­alter their game day routine. Arnott was hurt during the first sion based on that because we need ''I'm not aware of any new policies period Wednesday night when to right this ship." 
• 
Friday, October 11, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Farley blown out, but have good time 
By ERIN CARNEY, 
HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN AND MIKE 
McGINLEY 
Sports Writers 
Anyone who walked onto 
Stepan Field Thursday might 
have been a little confused. 
The Farley-Breen Phillips 
game was an event not easily 
forgotten. 
Breen-Phillips blew out Farley 30-0, yet the score wasn't the only focus of the game. The Finest were decked out head-to-toe in everything but football gear.­Coach Mike Krish, sporting a coon hat and ski goggles, kept up the motivational comments even to the refer­ees while James Gieszelman encouraged the players in tight plaid pants and a pur­ple sparkly boa. 
It wasn't just the coaches with the spirit -all of Farley had their own "makeshift" outfits. The girls had every­thing from wacky pants to track shorts with mis­matched socks. 
"It was our last game, we had to have a good time," sophomore receiver Kate Brady. 
The actual football game was not a blowout exactly. Farley was optimistic start­ing the second half. only down by one touchdown. 
Yet Babes quarterback Atasha Potter dominated the field, throwing two touch­downs to Lauren Ohlenforst. 
The Babes, focused on the playoffs. let Farley gain momentum halfway through the second half. The Finest might have scored a touch­
down but a motion penalty 
denied them. The penalty 
doubled when the Finest 
coaches had words with the 
referee. 
Yet the cute outfits must 
have paid off, because no 
sooner had the referees 
moved the ball back, Farley 
quarterback Katie Popik 
threw a pass which deflected 
off the Babess defense and 
settled into the arms of 
Brady. Farley was merely 20 
yards from the end zone, 
with desire in their eyes. 
"We [BP] have to get into it on defense, we can't let the ball bounce off of us, and especially not into their hands," BP coach Corey Timlin said. " ... These gimpy plays aren't going to make it in the playoffs." 
The Farley drive was cut short by a Kelly Landers interception, who returned it to the 10-yard line. The game ended quickly with a completion to receiver Chrissy Lavinger. 
Welsh Family 35, 
Pasquerilla West 6 
In their last flag football game at Notre Dame, Pasquerilla West seniors Beth Fruzynski and Jill Houghton made the most of their opportunities, as they each played both ways. Fruzynski, normally just a wide receiver, played line­man as well, while Houghton, normally a safety, played lineman and wide receiver as well. 
"The seniors tonight showed really good stamina, playing both sides of the ball," Houghton said. "Even though we were disappoint­
.,.,:r·~-.....-. ,, ,
r,~r'.-; 
' ' -... 
ed, it was a lot of fun, and we 
had a good season." 
The Purple Weasels came 
out from the beginning with 
nothing to lose. They ran 
numerous trick plays, includ­
ing a flea flicker and an 
unsuccessful play that 
resembled a field goal with­
out the kicking part. 
However, Welsh Family (5­
1) was too much for PW (1-5) to handle on Thursday night in the Whirlwinds 35-6 win. 
They scored two touch­downs on the first plays of their opening two drives. By the end of the game, four dif­ferent Whirlwinds had scored. Bethany Barker, Maggie Forester and Jenny Yee each had one while Alex Callan scored two. 
Defensively, the Whirlwinds were able to overcome the sole touch­down of the Weasels with solid man-to-man coverage. They also had one jntercep­tion. This convincing victory gives the Whirlwinds solid momentum going into the playoffs after fall break. 
"We would like to continue the Welsh Fam tradition, with clinching another victo­ry in the Stadium," Barker said. 
It is no secret that Welsh wants to continue their three-year reign as champi­ons, and they are confident in their chances. 
"As always, we are the team to heat," Callan said. 
Walsh 14, Badin 0 
Thursday night Badin was able to hold off Walsh for the second time this year. The Bulldogs used their defense in blanking the Wild Women 14-0. 
Walsh's quarterback Carrie Campbell used the option to drive down the field often, but most of those dri­ves ended in Badin intercep­tions. 
..We would move down the field, but then they would intercept a risky pass," Walsh freshman offensive lineman Claire Hadley said. 
Badin's defensive effort was led by a pair of Jenn's. Jenn Carter, a junior free­safety, had three picks and Jenn Craig also pitched in with an interception of her own. Not to be outdone by the defensive backfield, Badin's defensive line put pressure on the Walsh back­field all night. 
The Bullfrog offense struck by air mostly, using plays such as the hook-and-ladder 
and deep streaks  on  the  
scoring drives.  
With  the  win,  Badin  

improved to 4-2 heading into the playoffs. 
"They are going to be great playoffs," Carter said. "We are really excited." 
Meanwhile, Walsh dropped to 2-4 with the loss. Yet, they remain optimistic about their playoff chances as well. 
"Playoffs are always a new start," Hadley said. "We just need to concentrate more. Tonight was kind of a sloppy game on our part." 
Contact Erin Carney at ecarneyl@nd.edu, Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu and Mike McGinley at 
BASEBALL 
Gold takes series on runs 
Special to the Observer 
The Blue team's four-run first inning was 
not enough to win the Notre Dame baseball 
team's annual Blue-Gold intrasquad series, 
as the Blue won Thursday's battle (6-1) but 
lost the war -with the Gold capturing the 
series title thanks to its four-run edge in run 
differential (9-1, 7-6). 
Sophomore righthander Tyler Jones_ ­
who saw limited duty on the deep Irish 
pitching staff last spring -had ~ strong m~t­
ing to pick up the win, scattermg two hits 
and three walks over four innings. Fellow 
sophomore Martin Vergara followed wi_th 
three shutout innings, allowing three hits 
and one walk. 
Freshman Ryan Doherty had a rocky debut, as the 7-foot-2 righthander was touched for four runs in the top of the first. He allowed one run over the next three innings, with his four-inning totals including nine hits, two walks, six Ks and 93 pitches. 
Senior Mike Holba -who again played left field for a Gold team that fielded just eight position players -.completed a s~rong all-around series, battmg 3-for-7 with 4 runs, 3 RBI, a pair of doubles, a solo home run, two walks, two times hit-by-pitch and a stolen base. 
Blue manager Brian O'Connor shook up his lineup for the series finale, with junior Javier Sanchez moving from catcher to shortstop, sophomore Geoff Milsom from shortstop to second base, junior Zach Sisko from second to third, freshman Steve Sweeney from third to first and freshman Steve Andres from first to catcher. 
Freshman centerfielder Craig Cooper started the early rally by poking a full-count pitch into right field. Milsom then drove the next pitch in the left-center gap for a double and Cooper scored on a wild pitch before Sanchez walked on a full count. Senior rightfielder Kris Bill maier, Andres and freshman leftfielder Alex Netty added RBI 
mmcginle@~n;d;.ed;;u;_____.,.~s~i!!ng!!l!!!es!ffl!!fo!"-r'-!th!!!e!!!!!e~arffllfflyffl4ffl-O!'!IIe d. :ffl!ffl!ffllllffll
1a111
··=.: ..,..•}::;:::;:;::::.:•:::~::•:•·::::.:•~~; :f:~:.:S ~ W· ..._. :.y: .::S;;.' :.;~g-··· 
Pages in Time has absolutely everything you need for your college scrapbook! Make memories last .. .forever! 

41 50 Grape Road, next to Don Pablos,
~-.,._._,!!,,... (574) 252-5300 
GO IRISH! BEAT SPARTANS! 
Friday, October 11, 2002
page 28 The Observer. SPORTS 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Miller eager to see action after year on bench 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
All Dan Miller could do was watch every game from the 
bench.  In  street  clothes.  
Virtually helpless.  
He  watched  the  team  he  

played against every day in practice take the floor without him. He watched Notre Dame struggle through the middle of the season without him. He even watched the team he left, Maryland, win a national championship without him. 
Now he's itching for the chance to make an impact. 
"I think it's exciting for me and I'm really looking forward to it," Miller said. "A lot is being asked of me, and that's 
Men 
continued from page 36 
summers ago, when he stared at a team that narrowly missed making the NCAA Tournament, not one that almost knocked off a No. 1 seed. 
"That is incredible, where we're at now," Brey said. " ... Now our guys are talking about how can we get to that second weekend, and what they talk about has raised our bar amongst ourselves, our fans and nationally." 
But there's a big difference from the first two Brey-coached teams and this year's version. When Brey took over in 2000, he had Troy Murphy and Martin Inglesby helping him through his what I'm looking forward to, I want that." 
When Miller was looking to transfer away from Maryland two years ago, after having a less-than-stellar impact, he looked at the Irish. When Irish coach Mike Brey learned Miller was looking to transfer, he took a look at his own team. 
Brey noticed a team that could be reeling after it gradu­ated a trio of high-caliber seniors. He saw how the Irish might have trouble on the perimeter without Miller's experience. 
Mostly, though, Brey took a look at Miller and decided he had to play for Notre Dame. even though Miller only had one year of college eligibility remaining. 
first season. When he entered his second year, Brey sought ­and received -tremendous leadership from Ryan Humphrey, David Graves and Harold Swanagan. That amounts to a pair of first-round NBA picks and five solid basketball players Brey saw graduate under his watch. 
Now, as the Irish gear up for another run at the NCAA Tournament, Brey stares at his team and notices a lot of youth looking back at him. The biggest challenge for the Irish this sea­son will be how they compensate for their relative lack of experi­ence. 
Brey praised the work senior tri-captain Matt Carroll did in the summer helping organize practices and getting younger players acquainted to college basketball. Transfer Dan Miller, 
So Miller sat out the NCAA­required one season for trans­ferring to another school and helped the Irish improve each day in practice. Ryan Humphrey. who transferred from Oklahoma earlier in his career, helped Miller adjust to approaching practice even though he wouldn't play. 
Quickly, Miller emerged as a leader, and Brey named him a captain even though Miller had been associated with Notre Dame for a little over a year. 
"I think when you sit out a year, certainly it's a little bit of a clean slate," Brey said. "He's ready to attack his last go­around. When Ryan came in, he attacked his clean slate with vengeance, and I feel Danny is going in with a similar frame of 
guard Torrian Jones and Thomas will also be counted on to provide the leadership that comes with experience that the Irish are so desperately lacking. 
"I think we just reload," Carroll said. "We've got some good talented young guys, and I think its our turn for Chris, Torrian, Danny and I to step it up." 
Right now, the biggest question mark for the Irish comes on the inside. The graduations of Humphrey and Swanagan leave a gaping hole on the inside, and Notre Dame's most experienced big man is Jere Macura, who averaged a mere 11 minutes in the 17 games he played last year. 
However, Brey said he has no problem plugging freshman Torin Francis into the mix inside. Managing Francis, Brey 
MAYBE YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT US. 
USDA "Prime" Steaks 
Dry Aged & Cut to Order. 
Exquisite Fresh Fish and Seafood. Wine Spectator Awars ofExcellence. Live Entertainment. Reservations too! 
We're Eastern Pacific Grille and Bar. Featuring the Fusion Cuisine ofChef Sean Garrett and his staff. 
Private Dining Rooms Available. 
. ­
FRIDAY: "Ll'{TLE FRANK AND THE IMPERIALS" -Friday Night SATURDAY: "E2 ED WRIGHT" -Saturday Night. 
,, 

'. ? 
EASTERN PACIFIC GRlllE AND BAR· 501 NORTH NllES AVENUE· SOUTH BEND, IN 46617 · 574-233-1300 
mind." 
Miller brings a unique style of play to the Irish, a style that somewhat resembles Notre Dame forward Jordan Cornette's. While the 6-foot-8 Miller can hang around the basket and grab rebounds, he can also fall back to the perimeter and shoot long­range jumpers. 
While his statistics with the Terrapins were merely respectable -he averaged 5.8 points and 2.6 rebounds per game over his three-year career -Miller's greatest asset to the Irish is his versatil­ity and experience. And when Brey starts to think about how Miller matches up defensively with Big East opponents, he gets a huge grin on his face. 
said, will be a lot1like handling Thomas last year. , 
"When I watched Torin walk around campus, he walked around with the body language Chris had last year," Brey said. "That Tm not really a freshman, I'm ready to go, you know what you need from me and I can do it' attitude." 
But even Francjs' presence causes restless nights for Notre Dame's coaches. That's why the Irish say they'll count on their perimeter players to help bal­ance their inside game. 
On the perimeter, Notre Dame can rely on Carroll, Thomas and Jones. Brey also said Miller and Jordan Cornette, who are 6-foot­8, can pull their men outside and play along the perimeter. When Notre Dame throws freshman guard Chris Quinn into the mix, Brey feels pretty good about his backcourt. 
"Miller can guard anybody because he's played so much basketball," Brey said. "He can have a huge impact with his seniority and the little things he brings to the game." 
For Miller's part, he's finally glad he can play for the Irish and have his stats count. His versatility enables the Irish to either have Miller crash the boards or hang out around the perimeter and stretch out an opposing defense. 
"Sitting out a whole year and watching has given me a lot of drive," he said. "I think that's just made me a better basket­ball player and its going to help me in the long run." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

their graduates will go a long way toward determining how good their chances are of return­ing to the NCAA Tournament. But Notre Dame is already reap­ing the rewards of two successful seasons under Brey. 
Just the-national television exposure alone -the Irish are scheduled to play 10 regular­season games on national televi­sion -shows how far Notre Dame's basketball program has come. When Notre Dame's head coach met an ESPN network executive earlier this year, Brey thanked the executive for putting the Irish on the schedule. According to Brey, the ESPN guy said, "You played your way on." 
"We're really in the rockpile now," said Brey, drawing on an analogy a sportswriter used last year to describe Notre Dame's resurgence. "And every now and then you crn emerge and go. We want to see if we can be even 
Friday, October 11, 2002 page 29
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Flecky steps it up in Europe over summer 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Ask anyone on the womens basketball team who the most improved player was during the squad's trip to Italy over the summer and the same name always comes up -Katy Flecky. 
"I think we saw in Italy that Katy Flecky is one who really stepped up in terms of her lead­ership and in terms of her play­ing ability." Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She really has made the most improvement." 
Flecky doesn't say much about her play. She'd rather talk about the team's new offense or how well they all get along on and off the court. 
"It's totally a different team this year than what we had last year, even though we only grad­uated one," Flecky said. "We have the new freshman class and they're going to be really good and just our team chem­istry is so different that it was last year and it's a huge change for the better. I think that's going to be a huge asset for us. It's going to help us out. We're very close, like sisters." 
But Flecky's play on the court has turned some heads and her teammates have noticed improvement from her freshman year. 
"She's just worked harder over the summer and got herself where she's running the floor well and she's very versatile at both guard and post and that really helps out the team at both positions," senior Le'Tania Severe said. "We know that we can rely on her and also it helps us with our running game. With her running the floor like she is, it's going to really help us." 
Last season was frustrating and rewarding at the same time for Flecky. She was nagged by injuries throughout the year and struggled somewhat in adjusting to college life and basketball. But when freshman Jacqueline Batteast got injured mid-season, Flecky was given more playing time and made her mark for the young Irish. By season's end, Flecky had played in 27 games, averaging 4. 9 points and 3.3 rebounds per game. She tallied 12 points and a career-high ten rebounds against St. John's and added a career-high 14 points against Georgetown. Flecky was also named Big East Rookie of the Week for her play during the week of Feb. 18-25. 
"(Flecky] had a number of injuries throughout the year that took her in and out of the lineup at times," McGraw said. "She didn't come to summer school and I think it took her a little longer to adjust to life as a col­lege student. Then when Jackie got hurt she jumped into the starting lineup and really started to grow at that point and then heading into this year she really had a great summer." 
Notre Dame will run the Lakers triangle style of offense this season, which should give Flecky more opportunities to shoot perimeter shots. By taking more outside shots, Flecky takes pressure off shooters like Alicia Ratay and opens up the offense for the Irish. 
"Katy has done an awesonrn job in transitioning to improve on her outside game," sopho­more Kelsey Wicks said. "She's taking people off the dribble-drive, she's shooting the three. She's just improved in a lot of areas. It just adds a new dimen­sion. Whenever a player expands her capabilities on the court it opens up options for everyone else because they're so much tougher to guard so the other team has to make adjustments." 
Flecky said the whole team, especially the five sophomores, know what to expect this season and that should make a signifi­cant difference when games begin. 
"This year is going to be a lot easier adjustment," Flecky said. "We are a different team, but it's not as new for us and we know what to expect at practice and how to manage our time." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Easier said than done. The offense is a mobile one.
Women 
requiring that players are continued from page 36 capable of reading the defense 
and locating scoring opportu­new offensive scheme. Last nities. Although the offense is season Notre Dame struggled still only partially installed, to find an offensive scheme McGraw is confident the talent that was consistently effective. on her team is perfect for this This year, they're trying the kind of offense. triangle. "We have 
During their just great
"If[the triangle offense] 
summer trip to perimeter Italy, the Irish worked for the Lakers, it players," began to McGraw
should work for us ... 
install a new said. "The triangle key to that offense that's Kelsey Wicks offense is similar to the Irish guard having offense the Los someone Angeles Lakers that can use. They figure, why not? come and face the basket, and 
"If it worked for the Lake rs," we have that in Katy Flecky sophomore Kelsey Wicks said, and Jackie {Batteast] and "it should work for us." Courtney [Lavere]." 
The players say they're -execution. In the early-sea­beginning to settle into the son games, the young Irish new offense, but that it's going team had trouble executing, to take a little more time often turning the ball over and before they're ready to show­missing scoring opportunities. 
case it.  With a more  
"We haven't  experienced  
mastered it yet," said Batteast, last year's Rookie  "The key to that offense is having someone that can come and face the  team, but a more com­plicated offense, the  
of the Year. "We're still learning it. So some of the  basket, and we have that in Katy Flecky and Jackie [Batteast] and  problem of execution is one that still requires  
basic stuff that we did, it  Courtney {Lavere]. ,,  focus. "I  think  
worked really well with the  Muffet McGraw  just e v  e  with r y  
team."  Irish coach  offense the  
This  new  challenge  
offensive  lies in exe­ 

scheme presents the same cution, how well you perform," challenge to the Irish as last Wicks said. "I think it fits the year's offensive schemes did strengths of our team very well and I think we're going to see a lot of success in it." 
The Irish are hoping that the installation of this new offen­sive scheme will give them the push they need to move back into the national spotlight. After winning a national championship in 2000, falling in and out of the polls was dis­appointing last season. However, the Irish are hoping to turn last season's negatives into building blocks for a new team and a new season. 
"I think we just want to look at what happened last year and transform it into a positive light and use it to motivate us this year," Wicks said. "We definitely have some fire behind us this year." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
'YOV'"VE SP/EN <J!Jl!E (]0£(JYE9{(J)O;M<:E ... 
9VOWC09rf.f£ S'E/E TH!E <RSJ~O!ME! 

ROME PROGRAM 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday, Oct. 15, 2002 
5:00 PM 101 DEBARTOLO 
Internatiunal Study Programs: http://www.nd.edu/~intlstud Rome On-line Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 (for academic year, fall & spring semesters) 
CARDINAL CHARTERS 
IF QUALITY COUNTS... eo,u ~ ~1 

•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 




-

....aura 
uentes 
Songs fromArgentiha, Chile, Mexico, Peru, Puerto Rico, and Venezuela 
I I 
I 
' .. 
..
' , 
! ;_ 
' 
I 


ROWING 
Rowers head back to debut race in Illinois 

By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 
Sports Writer 
Four years ago, the Irish made their varsity rowing debut at the Head of the Rock Regatta, a 2.75 mile race, in Rockford, Ill. 
On Sunday the team returns to the Rock with four years of expe­rience, a 16th place finish in the NCAA's this past season and a confident group of hard-working rowers. 
"For now. our immediate focus has become next weekend, when we will race at Head of the Rock. This should give us a good indi­cation of where we stand for the end of our fall season, and expectations are high," Kathleen Walsh said. "Up until now we have been trying to build intensi­ty and improve technically." 
In that very first race, the Open Eight team, with a time of 16:21, finished sixth out of 24 teams. Two additional Notre Dame boats finished 12th and 16th. In the Lightweight Eight, the Irish finished with a first-place time of 
16:57. The team also excelled in the Open Four with one boat having a third-place finish. 
Notre Dame traveled to Pittsburgh and competed against top national teams such as Ohio State, Michigan, Michigan State and Boston University in their very first Head of the Ohio Regatta last weekend. Like the Irish, the Buckeyes, Wolverines and Spartans qualified for the 2002 NCAA Championships, while Boston narrowly missed an NCAA invitation. 
The Irish won two races last weekend, including the open four. The open eight of coxswain Cassie Markstahler, Natalie Ladine, Ashlee Warren, Elizabeth Specht, Alice Bartek, Rachel Polinski, Erica Drennen, Kerri Murphy and Welsh took fourth place. Notre Dame also finished in third through sixth places in the pairs race. 
"We saw the most competition in Pittsburgh that we have seen thus far this year," Welsh said. "This gave us a better idea of how much work we will need to do between now and the spring, when we will meet up with these teams such as Ohio State, Michigan and Michigan State again." 
As evidenced by the team per­formance, the Irish are ready to take on the competition. The team is aiming high and expects further success. 
"This weekend went well, we had a great team performance. The success of so many Notre Dame boats again speaks to the tremendous depth that our team has. It shows that we have many, really, good boat movers on our team, not just one or two," Murphy said. "We are looking forward to bringing home some gold." 
Contact Christine Armstrong at c;armstro@nd.edu 
Friday, October 11, 2002 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS 
HOCKEY 
Irish ready to open season 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
The Irish hockey team opens its season tonight against Minnesota-Duluth for a pair of games this weekend. 
Notre Dame will hope to carry over the momentum that led them to the CCHA Super Six in Detroit last season. The Irish were only 16-17-5 during the 2001-2002 season, but ended the year on a 7 -2 kick that car­ried them to the round of six in the Joe Louis Arena, where they lost 3-1 to Northern Michigan. 
The Irish return to the ice in 2002 with nearly an identical 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Hornets sting Belles, 3-0 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 
One stat stuck out for Saint Mary's Wednesday in MIAA play against Kalamazoo ­.000. The Belles had 19 team kills and committed 19 errors for a hitting average of .000 in a 30-13, 30-17, 30-21 loss to the Hornets. 
"We didn't have too many good opportunities for hits Wednesday." Belles setter Bridget Wakaruk said. "The 
passes weren't so great, and if the passing isn't that good, we don't have opportunities to hit." 
Middle hitter Elise Rupright led the team in hitting percent­age with a .154, recording three kills and committing only one hitting error. Freshman middle hitter Shelly Bender paced the Belles with 6 kills. 
Defensively, the Belles were more solid as three players ­liberos Michelle Gary and Jenny Wilkins, and Bender -each had eight digs, holding Kalamazoo to a .221 hitting percentage. 
roster from last season. Notre Dame lost only one of its top 13 scorers, senior David Inman, who led the team with 19 goals and was second in points. 
Minnesota-Duluth, on the other hand, will have to replace three of its top four scorers from last year. The Bulldogs return 16 letter-winners from a 2001-2002 squad that finished 13-24-3. 
The Irish already have one solid victory under their belts this season, an 8-1 preseason win over the University of Toronto. Notre Dame racked up 61 shots in the match, getting half of that total in the five-goal third period alone. 
Freshman center Matt Amado 
The Belles return home tonight to play Adrian, third from the bottom in the MIAA with a 2-6 conference record. 
"We're optimistic about the game and having a home court advantage," Wilkins said. "We know that wasn't our best game Wednesday, and we're ready to go out against Adrian and prove that we are better than that." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

tallied two goals in the game, while Connor Dunlop, last year's top scorer, had a goal and an assist. 
Sophomore goalkeeper Morgan Cey, who earned a 15­14-3 record last season with a 
2.72 goals against average, recorded two scoreless period in net, before being pulled for senior Tony Zasowski. 
After Notre Dame's pair of games at Minnesota-Duluth, the Irish will return home next weekend for their CCHA opener against Western Michigan Oct. 18 in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


Friday, October 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Stanford and Morrissey battle for playoff berth 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER, LISA REIJUIA and HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writers 
By the end of Sunday, either Morrissey or Stanford will have three wins. 
The Manorites (2-0) take on the Griffins (2-1) in a game that will virtually assure the winner of a spot in the playoffs. 
At the approximate midway point of the season, both teams feel they have strengths and weaknesses.
l "Our line really executed well 
and our offense just really clicked in our last game," Stanford captain Adam Oyster said. "We're still working on our blocking, picking up blitzes. That's something we've been struggling with all year." 
The Manorites need to get their offense to be more produc­tive to complement their impres­sive defense. 
"We'd probably like a more balanced offense," Morrissey captain John Caver said. ''I'd say we need to push it into the red zone and gain more yards. 
"I think so far [our strength] has been on defense. We haven't allowed hardly any run yards in our games and our pass cover­age hasn't been too bad either." 
Each team will be coming into the game on a high note. Morrissey squeaked by Alumni 7 -6 last week while Stanford shut out O'Neill 20-0. 
Both captains realize that those scores mean nothing now. 
"I know it's a game we're not taking too lightly," Caver said. "We don't know too many specifics, but we know they're a solid team and we'll have to play well to beat them." 
"From what I hear, they're pretty disciplined," Oyster said. "Their defense is pretty good. It should be a good defensive bat­tle." 
Oyster was especially proud of the way his defense performed in the O'Neill game, and said that he hopes to see the same intensity on Sunday. 
"Anytime your defense gets a shutout it's a plus," he said. "That's the main goal on defense." 
Caver was impressed with his team's defensive line against Alumni, especially defensive line­man Dave Esparza. 
"Our line had a big game, and we're looking for them to have another good game [on Sunday]," he said. 
Knott vs. Siegfried 
The Knott offense will have its work cut out for them Sunday against the Siegfried defense. The Ramblers have yet to sur­render a single point this season. 
Last week Siegfried (2-0) beat Carroll team handily 41-0. Quarterback Bill Bingle, running back Tim Breitbach and receiver John Kaup led the offensive explosion for the Ramblers. 
The emergence of Breitbach 
Toledo, Spain 
Information Meeting 

Don Quixote by Pablo Picasso 
Bridget Franco, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
Tuesday, Oct. 15, 2002 
6:00 PM 101 DeBartolo 
Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud Toledo On-line application deadline: December 1, 2002 ( for academic year, fall & spring semesters) 
has given the talented Ramblers 
yet another offensive weapon. 
"Tim did a great job last week," coach John Torgenson said. "He is a really solid runner, very quick and an awesome complement to Bill [Bingle]." 
Siegfried is looking forward to 
a very competitive game with its 
Mod quad rivals. Torgenson 
knows Knott (1-2) needs a victo­
ry to secure a playoff berth. 
"They [Knott] have a tough passing game," he said. "Our defensive backs haven't been challenged an year. Knott has big athletic receivers, and I can't wait to see our backs in action against them." 
Quarterback Ben Gilfillan will lead the offense. which wel­comes the return of senior wide receiver John Smith from an ankle injury. 
The Juggs' other starting receiver, Brian Price, is out for the season. Freshman Michael Peters, the only Jugg to score against Fisher, will start. 
Smith and the other seniors are not ready for their interhall football careers to end. Smith, who was previously a member of the varsity as a receiver, said a good defensive effort is essential against Siegfried. 
"They have a strong offense, so we want to keep points low and go from there," he said. "Our quarterback has been improving so we hope that continues and that the defense holds up." 
St. Edward's vs. Fisher 
Going into the final game of 
the regular season, both St. 
Edward's and Fisher are fired up 
and ready to go. Fisher has the 
momentum as they come off a 
22-6 victory over Knott, while St. 
Ed's needs a victory after being 
shutout by Zahm last week. 
These two teams are polar 
opposites when it comes to 
offense. The Green Wave run a 
high-powered offense behind 
wide receiver and captain Tom. 
Gorman and his counterpart, 
quarterback Jimmy Costanzo. 
Costanzo has played well as of 
late, completing 1O-of-15 passes 
last weekend, including a 25­. yard touchdown to Gorman. 
The Steds, on the other hand, 
rely on their defense to spark 
their offense. They have been 
shut out in their last two games . 
However, they look to build on 
the fact that only 6 points were 
surrendered to Zahm as opposed 
to the 20 given up to Sorin. 
"We played a very good game 
last time out. It was hard fought 
and we played with a lot of 
heart," linebacker Jim Kleckner 
said. "This week we just need to 
play with that same determina­
tion and heart." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd .. edu, Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu and Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


--
! a· 
__l 
Friday, October l 1, LUUL
page 32 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS GOLF 
Despite youth, Irish take on nation's best 


By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
Having a collective roster slightly greener than the course they will compete on, the young Notre Dame mens golf team will play in the Fresno State/Lexus Classic this weekend in Fresno, Calif. 
With competition to make the five-member traveling squad fierce, head coach John Jasinski went with potential over experience in selecting his roster. The Irish lineup includes four freshmen and lone senior Brandon Lunke, making 
Joaquin Country Club. 
.. We'll have the four freshmen, and just the one senior." Tom Hanlon, an administrative assistant with the team, said. "But I think the kids have adjusted well. They'll get stronger as we move along." 
The quartet of which Hanlon speaks, is perhaps the most tal­ented recruiting class in recent Notre Dame history. Scott Gustafson, Eric Deutsch, Tommy Balderston and Mike Baldwin, all highly touted junior level players, represent more than the future of the program. They're also the here and now. 
While some might say the team is in over its head compet­ing in such a high level colle­giate event featuring some of the country's best teams and players, including defending champion Nick Watney of Fresno State, Jasinski feels this weekend will be a valuable learning opportunity. 
'Tm a firm believer that to be the best you have to beat the best." he said. "We're going to have to see first hand the high­level of play that some of these programs compete on if we're going to ever reach the ranks of the elite." 
Significant improvement is necessary if the Irish are to compete with the nation's best. In their last outing the Irish fin­ished ninth at the 14-team Kansas Invitational, 41 
strokes behind
it easily the "I'm a.firm believer 
winner Baylor.
youngest of 
that to be the best you 
Despite the dis­
the 16 teams 
have to beat the best. •· tant finish, the
set to tee off in 
Irish took with
the 54-hole 
them some
tournament at John Jasinski 
bright spots.
the San 
Irish coach 
Gustafson 
leads the team 
with a stroke­
average of 75.00, and finished 17th at Kansas after firing a sizzling 69 in the second round, the best outing by a Notre Dame golfer this year. 
Jasinski is acutely aware of the team's development. He wants his young team to improve by learning from some of the country's best. 
Not only does the second year coach feel this group gives Notre Dame its best chance for a good finish, he knows that playing in events like this now will pay dividends for his green team down the road. 
Contact Kevin Berchou at kberchou@nd.edu 

PIZZA & STICKS -NO SALES TAX Large 1 Topping Pizza & Breadsticks 
Only $9.00! ! 
Delivered to your Door! We Pay the Taxi 
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER OFFERS. EXPIRES 10/27/02.
•No SALES TAX• OFFER GOOD WITH ABOVE PROMOTION ONLY. 
VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. WE WATCH COMPETITOR'S COUPONS. 

!j,,.,,6-'~0f­
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD
l OIIC«iO 
(Next to Subway)
1 PIZZA COMPANY" .plrzadonerfghtl 271-1277 
A Heritage of Fa111ilies at Not ;e~ffie 

~~ .. *}
,~· 
Cele i " the 

University Village 
Student Family Housing 

October 12, 2002 Pitt Ga111e 
Concession Stand Badin Hall Location 2 Hot Turkey Dogs and a Coke $5 
Party horn w-ith every purchase! 
Also featuring the 40th Anniversary University Village International Cookbook available at the Concession Stand and at the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore. 
Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
At the Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
7:30 PM 
• •Bring your gear ready to practice 
•Practice will be run by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff •Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 
-
-


Friday, October 11, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
MENS SOCCER 
Slipping Irish attempt to slip a loss to high-flying Eagles 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 
It doesn't get any more impor­tant than this. 
Entering the home stretch of its Big East schedule, the Notre Dame mens soccer team seems headed in the wrong direction ­down the standings. The Irish currently stand in the middle of the pack in the Big East, tied for sixth place with a 2-2-1 confer­ence record, and a 5-3-3 overall record. 
Meanwhile, the squad the Irish will be facing Saturday -Boston College -is heading completely in the opposite direction, as the Eagles have won five of their last six matches en route to a 7-2 overall record, a 4-1 Big East record and a No. 15 ranking in the most recent NSCAA Coaches Poll. The Eagles currently stand alone in third place in the Big East behind conference leaders St. John's and Connecticut. 
The Irish have won only one of their last four games -a 1-0 victory over Akron on Sunday ­and have not scored more than one goal in a game since Sept. 22, when the Irish poured five goaK in against Big East door­mat Providence. 
One goal from the Irish will likely not be enough to contain the offensive power they will meet from the Eagles in Chestnut Hill. Senior forward Casey Schmidt enters the match coming off his first career hat trick in the Eagles' 4-0 victory against Dartmouth Wednesday. Schmidt has already notched six goals on the season for the Eagles. 
Offensively for the Irish, the high-powered offense seen early in the year for the Irish has faded, as leading scorer Erich Braun has not scored a goal since the Irish victory over Providence. However, junior midfielder Chad Riley has been consistently dishing off assists, as he notched the assist to sophomore defender Jack Stewart for the game-winning goal against Akron on Sunday. Riley now has eight assists on the season, and has tied himself with Braun for the team lead in points with 12, as Riley also has notched two goals this season. 
Despite the Irish's recent offensive struggles, the game is likely to be a high-scoring affair, as the lrish have scored 20 goals in their 11 games, while the Eagles have scored 17 goals in 9 games. 
The key for the Irish in the game is to take advantage of the Eagles' young defense. With two sophomores and two juniors pro­tecting goalie Danny Caruso, the Eagles have allowed an average of almost 17 shots per game. If the Irish front line of Braun and Rafael Garcia can get quality shots off against Caruso, look for the Irish to put more than one goal on the scoreboard Saturday. 
The game kicks off at 1 p.m. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at 
bkronk@nd.edu 

ANDY KENNA/The Observer 
Freshman forward Katie Thorlakson takes the ball downfield during a 3-1 Irish loss to Purdue at Alumni Field on Oct. 8. 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Numbers and Courses" 
INFORMATION 
MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
econd meeting with us/1 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
7:15 PM 209 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 Academic Year 2003-2004 Fall 2003-Spring 2004 Applications available: www.nd.edu/---intlstud 
ND WOMENS SOCCER 
Irish face key game at home against Huskies 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame womens soc­
cer team will be looking to turn 
its season around this Sunday 
when it return to action against 
Big East rival Connecticut at 
Alumni Field. 
The Irish, losers of two straight and four out of their last five, will be looking to come up big in their final push to qualify for the NCAA Tournament. With a record of 7-6 and only five games remaining, every game has become more crucial for the Irish considering they will not be participating in the Big East Tournament. 
The Irish are also in the midst of playing four consecutive games against teams in the NSCAA National Rankings. and a win against the No. 8 Huskies would go a long way toward pro­pelling the Irish into the NCAA's at the end ofthe year. 
"This is a crucial must-win game for us," junior forward Amy Warner said...We need to pick up a game like this for strength of schedule points to help with the NCAA's." 
Notre Dame has not had a lot of success against the Huskies in recent years, dropping a game played in Connecticut last year, and playing to a scoreless tie two 
years ago. Even though the 
Huskies are a Big East team, this 
game does not count toward the 
conference standings. 
The Huskies come in with a 
record of 10-1-1, having won 
their last seven contests. 
Connecticut is led by sophomore 
Kristen Graczyk, who leads the 
team with 10 goals. The Huskies 
are in excellent position to win 
the Northeast Division of the Big 
East, needing only one win in 
their last two conference games 
to overtake Miami. 
The Irish will be hoping to rebound despite continuing injuries. Senior captain Ashley Dryer returned to the Irish line­up against Purdue, but was only able to play less than ten min­utes. The Irish lost another defender to injury when Gudrun Gunnarsdottir was sidelined after a collision late the Purdue loss. Junior Melissa Tancredi should return Sunday after sit­ting out against Purdue due to receiving her fifth yellow card of the season against West Virginia. 
Despite the injuries and losses the team looks to be focused come Sunday. 
..We can't give up any more games," \Varner said. "Every game is a key game." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
TAILGATE BAR-B-QUE 
INSIDE TAILGATE PARTY 
EVERY GAME WINGS -TIPS -CHICKEN -RIBS ­
BUCKET OF BEER $650 
WINGS AND TIPS SPECIALS 
--·-------·--·· ---------···------------------------•---. ---.I 


Friday, October 11, 2002
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer Outside hitter Jessica Kinder returns the ball against Cal-State Poly at the Shamrock Invitational on Sept. 1. 
Heading east, Irish face Hoyas, Wildcats 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

ByMATILOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Building on last weekend's easy victories and maintaining the energy in facing two oppo­nents at opposite ends of the Big East spectrum will be key for the Notre Dame volleyball team as they travel to Georgetown and Villanova this weekend. 
Last Saturday, the Irish faced Rutgers and simply dominated the Scarlet Knights in game one winning 30-16. The next day, the Irish contin­ued that domination winning game one against Seton Hall 30-14. 
As the defending Big East champion, the Irish (13-3, 4-0 in the Big East) want to send an early mes­sage to their 
opponents, "We talked about playing thing in doing especially on strong ... to place a seed the best you 
the road, that can each time 
ofdoubt in the minds of
they are the you go out on 
our opponents ...
team to beat. the floor." 
"We were Brown said. playing "We have
Debbie Brown
Rutgers who intelligent
Irish coach
had been one of the top teams in the Big East last year and we went knowing we had to play well to beat them," Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown said. "We talked about playing strong in game one to place a seed of doubt in the minds of our opponents." 
Georgetown was the last team to beat Notre Dame and that win came in the 1999 Big East Tournament Championship. Since then, the Irish have won 31 straight conference matches. 
In the 2001 Big East Tournament Championship, the Irish needed five games to defeat the Hoyas. This Georgetown team is similar to last year's edition. 
"They are not a whole lot different," Brown said. "I think from their starting team they lost two outside hitters. They still have the starting setter, an outside hitter and both middle [blockers]. I think they have returned consider­able experience." 
Georgetown (11-7, 3-1) boasts the Big East's leader in kills and aces. Outside hitter Lauren Warner averages 4.57 kills per game and Natasha Nguyen is averaging 0.83 aces per game. Irish outside hitter Jessica Kinder is second in the conference with 0.47. 
Georgetown middle blocker Sara Albert was named co-Big East Player of the Week for her play last week. Albert recorded a triple-double against Miami with 11 kills, 11 digs and 10 blocks. The sopho­more had 11 kills and 11 digs along with a .500 hitting per­centage against Virginia Tech. 
On Sunday. the Irish face a different challenge-avoiding a letdown. Villanova (9-12, 0­
4) has lost seven straight matches and in its last five matches, Villanova has won only one game. The Wildcats have never defeated the Irish in 10 previous matches. 
"What we talked to the team about is that it's a pride 
players and 
we know we are going to come up against a team that hasn't been as suc­cessful but we shouldn't approach that team any differ­ent. 
"Our goals go way beyond playing Villanova. We have to make ourselves better each time we go on the floor to get out there and compete and improve so we can get to where we want to be at the end of the season." 
Notes 
. The Irish are first in the country in blocks averaging 
3.79 blocks per game. Also, the Irish are now 30th nation­ally in hitting percentage and second in the Big East with a .265 team average. 
. Middle blocker Lauren Brewster is 12th nationally and leads the Big East in blocks per game. Outside hit­ter Emily Loomis is eighth in the conference in blocks and kills. Lauren Kelbley is ninth in blocks and Katie Neff is 10th. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
SENIOR FRIDAY ATTHE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB! 
JOIN YOUR CLASSMATES FOR LUNCH AND DRINKS AND GET 
ADVANCE INFORMATION ABOUT WHERE TO STAY AND WHERE 
TO GO FOR THE FLORIDA STATE GAME IN TALLAHASSEE! 
ALL THE SUBWAY YOU CAN EATFOR $2 
FULL CASHBAR 
WHEN: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11 
WHERE: ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
TIME: NOON -2:30 P.M. 
***MUSTBRING VALID, OVER21 DRIVER'SLICENSEAND STUDENT/.D. 
SPONSORED BY THE CLASS OF 2003 
WWW.ND.EDU/-CLASS03 
Get your Game Da Towel today! 
• ~-, CV , • , -,,'. ' 
· ·.:;rl,;: ":"If:~-J 
Available at the following locations for only $5: 
-Alumni Association, Eck Center -Notre Dame Bookstore -Varsity Shop 

On football weekends, you can also find your green towel at: -SARG Tent 
(North ofEck Center, 1-5pm on Fridays) 
-Alumni Association Hospitality Area 
(Joyce Center Fieldhouse, on Saturdays) 
-Adidas Tent 
(Outside ofJoyce Center, Gate 10, Fridays before and after Pep Rallies and Saturdays) 

-Stadium Concession Stands 
(Saturdays) 

~..~.u"'.....,,.,,",._..,;..,.,.,
-G
• 




Friday, October 11, 2002 page 35
The Observer . TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMS.LED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrton 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, n.n..-111111 

llpt:IIJ'' 
-
to form four ordinary words. 
TESED 

j 
YUINT 
I .tI 
IRAMMOT 

-.jumble.can . 
tSUFOAMj Now arrange the circted letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.
J I C 
An•: THE[ I I I)TO[ I I I I I I)
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday' r· Jumbles: BASSO HONOR SPEEDY CAUCUS s Answer: The comedians turned the poker par1or into this -A HOUSE OF "CARDS• 
JUIIILE CUSS1C SERIES NO. r, • To onlllr, .-Id your -....,_ and SS• Md ll'IIU llhNII ,.,_.. to Tribune Madia ServloN. P.O. lox 4330, a-ago, 1.IOIICMS1G 
CROSSWORD 
Note: Visual hints to the answers to the asterisked clues (*) 
can be found in the grid. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
57 Relate 59 Aging agent 61 One with a lot 
ot pull 62 August 63 *They may be 
at the end of the line 64 *Bad points 
DOWN 
1 Man, e.~. 2 Ends, e.g. 3 Improvement 4 Topic of some 
?-Down 5 Abbr. on old maps 6 Times when le mercure rises 7 Service 
deliveries 8 Imitated a witch 9 It may be 
standing 10 Rush attraction 11 It may contain 
10-Down 12 Recital numbers 13 Polished 14 Cruel bunch 21 What borrowers 
do 27 Indian title 28 Junipero _, 
founder of San FranciscQ 29 Tighten, maybe 30 Sprite 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Patrlc:k MefT811  
32 Prefix with metric 34 Daily riser  41 Something to prove 42 Some fuels  54 Gobs ss_Valley, Calif.  
37 Bitter liqueur: Var. 38 Fully attended 39 Ramshackle structure 40 They put out  43 Like some triangles 44 Souvenir shop stock 47 Lunar holiday 53 Its players know the score: Abbr.  S6 It's taken after an order is given 58 With 52-Across, eroded 60 Match ender, maybe  

Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($~ 9.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name -----------------------------­
Address ----------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
,·u.i-:Hf<ITn:s Ul)Jl'\i n, TJIJ:,.. 1) \\": r ul..1 i'1 II_!-D,11:,1 11.111 1--:..-llir \f.111111 J..-,, ,,.-.; 1~--•l•l•m• I, ,111 . II•.•. I.. ILi1lOf•J IU1Eltd:1_t. •,.., li•n: ,:, :"" .11: 111 11111111h.1\1 ~ 11 11 t11II I" hi. i.!-111 i-.1H 
JH-.1 ,, .,._. v.1th •••·"l ,u-,n:rn-.-111,. 1.h1, \L·,1r 1:1.,~~\ JL'll:.l•:•11~ \\11! r..: \Qui ,!,•',\ ,,1..11. II \•··II i'.'11.l-c \1•1.11 111111 ,111d kl. 1t1111•.i; 1Jllt•·•hl lh)llll.1lh. • \L·u ,1 ,II I i111l ,. ,11r•i1 II 111 a rl'lti, r, :-, lkr r-.,,il i1111. I ht• i; ,, , \ ilr ,~, rd,n. t Ill"' ·1w .. 1,-,.\1, 1,111 qm•I,· 1n11,t 1,•.~1.ml •.-,·•11 .:,.._,,.. ·1·.••11 1111111r-:r~ ;11: -: P•. :::{ ..~-1 
I ; .1') \ltll•:!oo. 1\hn,rlll :,. \1irU 1'J1: ·,,,., ,lw•11ld ::;..-1 nor ;,ml min;:li 1, 1111....-h .J-. 1• ,.._-,il-k rilh,·1 ,r ·,rn i:,! 1. 1,:111'-. ,,11 i11 ;:r1111p; Ih.JI .,_fu tl' ,im 1htr mln,:d, I .<l"hJtl, n1II "f'tt< 111••••·11•.a, ,,,Ii 1•.l-rin! ~1~11nf1·-1111:li1111 ; •l;tr'• T .\, ·1u -~ .,..... ?0-'-111~ !II L: •\ .111 t, ! '•w 111·.dth .1111! l.1!-.1 .:,m· .. ,1 .' "I.II 1-f•~ •H· ..1
I 
, .. -, ,1'-. I:•• , .... ,t\,1 •1'·1'11.1 1·-~· 1111·• 1 ,111 ..1,:111~, .......u11l Ifl~l'll1111: t-., 1...-.11111,:, :-11111 
h•, Ill,: 11u.11t..-i-, ~ •l.11, (,r:,11,1 ,,...... ?1-JWIW lw,; h.llh Jt1,·-r,1l 1.•111~1.·~ v.1ll mm 1111,, ,I ft'.•flll ,,.,, \·llt.l rr.,,mm: r,1 i"' ·, ,_..,, Ix,irr,111 •. 11. 1ll 1,,.--111111 ,sl.11 ,11:.-,1111.I 1lh pu I flt: ·1111J Jrt llir.d \ 1,: r,..:d ,,111i,,•ir.· 1, t:, ,,r;l, ,,ii I r.r,.,u~•h >Uh.11.·in •; } ~\u l's.,; lrt... j,j :'i ~r.:ir:. <: \:'Ii<.: I·. I( .tu"'" :: J, ,1111,, J.:! •: I h,· ·., ·.•rk. , 11 u pu 1 1Ill.•' , 11111 h,,11~, \1111 hdr •··• 111,:r,·~,.....-11~.., .1l•h I r, t·.• 11,, 1"-.· 1.11-,·-r \ •"(J~c II n-.1 ~n ,: lll•-'r11.•\· ) .....11 rr.~·• 1-.. 111nlt r>,.!••in,: ~,:,m: 1Jn,:, r1ain1 ,:! fl i:.,11.:lin;: \ 111J1 m.1., Ill i.. Jl'1t1JI 1r. 'I ~lar-. 
t. .·o 1,111•.\ !.\-\i•:it !!1: ,, .•. lim,· 1111 ·, ra;",\ irr,,:.., ),,.. ,·.111 111;•1..l' 1•h~"'ll',tl 111tr{ 11·, l"llll'III '•· I t.11 ,•• ii I t,, ,.-,·u:.:m ll"'' .Im.I ;..hm 11: :I h_, r' ii:1111• 'r',111 ... ,II 111;11..1 ••,W•:,•.,r.. 1 [11111 h.1•,:, ii ~•-111 :,:-., ,l111ppin,: '•J.w, \' I lti ;o ..\ .., . .!.l-:0..rJll. .2.21: ~, .: ,...1 h 1111 ·,111 l1 II:_! ,,ul 1111" 1111"•' .,, t•. ,,m· ~I _. ..,.,·,di .,,,1111 l'l .,lllltl'• ....,. 111,,_, \',411~ i,,,·h1·•. L -.H.;r :••ul r•-··•·. t.11 '"""'" ,.:ira.'l u,.u.,· ,1. r.1ll-•, 1 r • hJ1U1.•; ,1h r1.·1111u-.ll . .= ~u,·. 1.11111., ,~pt. 2.1.ot1. ?.:1. -. .•111 111111111u111-• .tt,,.,11 >ltlh v.111 l'ir111r :,L•u f"·'['"'·•r.::, .111.J llllld •._,1m·.,11L v.11r, v.h,,111 ·'''" 111.1:, i..-_ 11111:1..::.kd tt11111t,. 111.1.ll~ 
li'I .: ,,:,11r um; ;11111 I 111•·-,. 1••• 1IIJI .:,11 !hl 1,·•.~n ···r \'J--11. ,:l.lkr, l~-,:'trlJl•ll~~;,J t,., ,·111, rr.,1 r,m!.! JI t,.,r.-... .t ~1.,r, st·111:-e1•111,, le-I. .:.,.,.:,,.m. :1 -··,,,u, 1h,11J.:ht--1l1ll t-, ,111 v.-,r,.,rnJ .,..,w, ,,, 111.ikt 
,·\If;! t,';,,h I un,i1,l.·1 lh,· l"''"rltilir:, •,II ~ ..111 """ ·,111;111 h11•.lfll'"·' ·r11ll In ,., •IT•,, .no: ,•• ilh ,., 1•,rk,.. " in lh1·, .ir,·;1 'I ,1;11, :.. \1.rr r ,u n·!',. ,,.,. !!-11,.... : 1·'. , "" 111.,~ 1,,111 .1 iJ, 11 inill '" lk;,1 \\it" ~•.1111 ,·111, (ll'lt•. 'di 111 .1 ·,111li!r11 l·.•11 .111 111 It,.-1111·••..1 I<• ••·II Ii· 111·••• II hul \ •·-u 1'1111I 11 11111t: 1, 1111,: 't, •u .11,; .. h I , ,j ...., ,1mh 1,:1 .1111I ;, ,·-u. \ ,alu1· ~ ,,111 ft<"l'll1·-1;1 t~u. t;:1\ r tit: 11 l~l 1.•1r,l111' ,, .-l1.11t. 1· :. ,1.11, C .\J1ft(lc"OM '.' I 11,r,. ?!-,I .u.....~ j .).,11\ llll \ l'ilblllL-., V. II h pl, lHlfl' I 1•11111.J(ln, ,, 1:h, 11,·ul"i ,:,r, 11-1.1. .•IL.tr:. 11 di ,:uh 1L,·•rl.. J~,1111:.1 _;,·uu Ill 1.t...: k•ni:-rur, lX•lll. IL·l,,11 \ ,,m r•n 1.11L-.,JI lJ ~ l..:• (~t..·1•;, 1 ,1,,r·. 
\(.J\ \MI l :,_ 1.J,1... .,,, 1-'d1. IJ!; ·: I.ii Tl :.:r111J i'" I hJI. .'JFI.' ,:,,r,,::\'rlll 1J 'It I lh --: II 11111'1 ••· l rt,; r1. i'lll-:1 rtl'.• s. .:al s.•nh,lllls.'111\'III · 1hi~ TI ,I\·'.• •"J :r[,Jl\' .J '-lll"l'"-•rt. n !~·WI h'f \ 11tJl'H II ih,1. v. ill lllo'tll.' 1t l-1~1,•1. , ,·4J .... r,.,ulJ 1•.•1t~id, r .J d1Jt<-l t.,1" 111 \ 'l'i'IOO '""' ,:i1i·k 111 !tint.I, i ·,1:11•. 
i~1 loil •I~ 1Fvla. t•t. \f:ir,rh !It,: 'l, 111 •.h-.,111,J hl 1. ,id 111 n-.,1 tu , li,d1-......· 1..-1-.. ,rul 111!-11111.llh•II .• ,, I hr I(' 1·,1111,j t-: 1·1111~i.:111J1.·111.•1·... Y,•11 111.1;. 11ml ~ •.•111·,1 II ,.,,utn.1 ,I :, •·•u h.1•, 1· 11• •l t.a·u , ••1111 ,1>.-.,1<•• ..111· (.• ,,\ .u,I ,, I111·111.1 ,, 1111 ti 11,.tr,I ~ ,,u Hr 
I.IIIUl."1°,IMl._11111,: :: ',l,10 m, U1d..,U IIJh,: ': ••II II, II tlll:' .. t 11 •'.I ,I I I) 1...1.1Kt·f J.t.J J..hlu,u-.:11 '.1 11 V. II I IJH.IJll·, 11 r'-1, ti·\ ,,u, 1~·1:t 11 .~ t.:L·r1.illl th,·1! lln r~ ,, , II t,, 1,101,; r.h.1l.; ,..• ~ \\ ,,u't . .; ·,,u11~·;r, 
mu ,t 1,~ ;1radk.J 10 \ 1:•1.1 n d't. I r11111 il,I\ ,_,,._.. • , ·11i:1 k ,·-c.11 I ·U!.ll'lli:"1'•.' ~~ l I• ~ii,~ .11 ,tJ.ri·:...:t, is.\.'.:,111. l nc, nul~l\•m J.'(11,.,m.11, ...,.,m , ·,: • ··, I{!• iH i°::, t ,: 1 ,,'• 1J..:~ \1.11~} , .......... ~1:t, · •,J°I. 
ACROSS 
1 *Fringe benefits 8 ·cathedral sights 15 Insult follower, 
perhaps 16 Saintly glow 17 Travelers. e.g. 18 Picked up 19 Act like a baby 20 Burning 
evidence 22 Searchers for a baby 23 Seit-examiner's query 24 Harry Potter's Hedwig, e.g. 25 Profs may 
employ them 
26 Some bills 
28 Cynic's 
response 
30 Be in need of air, perhaps 31 Meshes with 33 Cuts it out 35 Seit starter? 36 The best man may be in it 37 Kind of knowledge 41 Least 45 Not keep secret 46 "_ Girls Go" (1948 musical) 48 Series finales?: Abbr. 49 At least six games so "Told ya!" 51 "Told ya!" 52 See 58-Down 54 Lots are seen in lots 56 Saharan land 



Friday, October 11, 2002 
It begins 
College basketball season officially begins at midnight tonight 


Observer File Photo Irish point guard Chris Thomas brings the ball upcourt in the Big East Tournament last year. The Irish begin their season tonight at midnight. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
The Duke game. 
Three words. Seven points. One clear sign that the Irish are on the brink of becoming one of college bas­ketball's elite programs. One loss that showed the Irish aren't quite there yet. 
Since Notre Dame's 84-77 loss to Duke in the second round of the NCAA Tournament last year, the Irish have had the close call in the back of their minds. 
"I didn't think [after the game] it 
should have been us, because it wasn't us," point guard Chris Thomas said. "You can never say, 'It could have been· unless it really is." 
For Notre Dame to  
have that attitude as  See Also  
Mike Brey enters his third season as Irish  "Miller eager to  
head coach showed  play after year  
the rapid rise of Irish basketball. After all,  on bench"  
Brey remembers all  page 28  
too clearly that first  

meeting he had with the Irish, three see MEN/page 28 
Observer File Photo Notre Dame guard Alicia Ratay drives past a Purdue defender last season. The Irish had a productive off-season with a European Tour of play during the summer. 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
An 89-50 loss is not the best way to end a season, but it may be the best way to begin one. 
As the Irish begin practice this weekend, install a new offense and look ahead to their first game in November, last year's season-ending loss to Tennessee in the second round of the NCAA Tournament will stay fresh as a reminder and a motivator. 
"We know that it was embarrassing for us to lose like that," junior point 
guard Le'Tania Severe said. "We have to come back and show everybody that we're a better team than that and we've worked hard to get where we're 
at... The Irish have had See Also plenty to work on. Fl . 
This season, with " ecky steps 11 sophomore post play-up in Europe ers Jacqueline over summer" 
Batteast and Katy 
Flecky settling into page 29 collegiate ball, Irish coach Muffet McGraw will be trying a 
see WOMEN/page 29 
FOOTBALL 
Starting quarterback game time decision again 
ByKATIEMcVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The questions were the same. The responses were the same. The status is the same. 
For the second week in a row, Thursday's practice left Notre Dame without a named starter at the quarterback position. For the second week in a row, Carlyle Holiday said his shoul­der was feeling better and he was ready to play. Although Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham did not say when he would name Saturday's starter, he refused to name one on Thursday. 
"We have 
not [named a starter]," Willingham said. "Both men have looked good going through the week. It's 

exciting to Holiday 
see both of 
them moving around that well." Both possible quarterbacks have been preparing for this week's game against Pittsburgh; they've seen equal practice time. This week, Holiday and back-up Pat Dillingham have been taking an equal number of snaps in prac­tice. The sophomore who start­ed against Stanford saw more snaps than the original signal caller last week. However, Holiday said that the final deci­sion had not been made yet. 
"We're still out there practic­ing like we're in game situa­tions, both me and Pat," Holiday said. "And I think that's the way it's going to be up to game time." 
Holiday is secure in his recov­ery. According to the quarter­back, he has regained full range of motion, his shoulder rotation is fine and his ability to pass the ball has not been neg­atively affected by the injury. 
"I've been loosening up all week and it's just a matter of time before I get back to my normal shape," he said. 
Holiday does not take hits during practice, hut the little contact he has had with his shoulder during the week has 
not sparked any pain. However, the question still remains whether he can take a solid hit from a defender. 
"I haven't taken a straight on hit to the shoulder. but those are the kind of things I think that worry us a little bit," he said. 
Willingham said that the coaching staff has been pleased with Holiday's progress, but did say that it is always a possibility that both men could play in 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
ND WOMENS SOCCER
MENS SOCCER 
MENS GOLF 
BASKETBALL 
FOOTBALL
I­
a:iLLI 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 
Connecticut at 
Fresno State 
Moonlight 
Pittsburgh at 
Georgetown 
Boston College 
Notre Dame 
Lexus Golf Classic 
Madness 
Notre Dame 
c:,; 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Friday, 11 p.m. 
Saturday, 1:30 p.m.
Friday-Saturday 
The Irish will have their 
The Irish face a Hoya 
The Irish offense 
The mens basketball 
The Irish attempt to
Notre Dame's young
a. cc 
needs to get on track to 
hands full with No. 8
team they defeated in the 
team kicks off its 2002­
go 6-0 with a victory
lineup will need to carry 
top the Eagles. 
Connecticut.
Big East Championship. 
over the Panthers. 
the team. 
2003 season tonight. 
en ti 
page 33
page 33
page 34 
page 32 
back page 
Irish Insider 

~EZ.) 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 11, 2002 
Putting the pep back in the rally 
When I heard Taylor Richards wasn·t the emcee for the pep rallies this year, I was more than excited. 
"Finally," I said to myself, "Notre Dame's going have some good pep rallies." 
couldn't have been more wrong. 
Let's face it, the pep rallies are terri­ble. It's like going to class at 6 p.m. on a Friday night. They're too long, the student speeches are just awful and no one gets excited until the team comes out because the whole 45 minutes up to that point are a total waste of time. 
I hate to complain, because everything else sur­rounding football is going great right now. The players seem to like the new coach­ing staff, the fans are excit­ed and the Irish are unde­feated. But the worst thing about football weekends is definitely the pep rallies. 
I just have a few questions for those in charge of orga­nizing the pep rally's because I don't understand some of the thinking behind some of the things that hap-pen. 

First, why are the pep ral­lies an hour long? Is that really necessary? It's pretty hard to stay "pepped" for more than 20 to 30 minutes; so at least half of that time is wasted. And why in the name of Moses does the lep­rechaun have to stop in the very middle of the pep rally and announce upcoming events? I can't think of a better way to suck the ener­gy right of out the Joyce Center. 
Most people go to pep ral­lies for sev­eral rea­Correct me if I'm mistaken, but I thought the pep rally was to unite the fans against the other team. not have them booing each other over , dorm pride. 
Another thing, who are the student speakers and why are they consistently bad every week? The guy who tried to impersonate Chris Farley for the Stanford game was easily the best this sea­son and that's just sad. I'm not saying it's easy talking in front of the whole student body, but if I hear one more 
person try 
and 
sons. 1) To IfI hear one more person change the 
hear words of
try and change the words
Tyrone The Night Willingham ofThe Night Before Before 
speak. 2) Christmas and relate it to Christmas 
To hear the and relate
the upcoming game, I
guest it to the speaker think I may throw up. upcoming 
like Regis or Dick Vitale speak. 3) To watch the pom­pom squad. 4) To hear the band and see the team. 
Those are the only rea­sons. Fans don't want to hear every single dorm's name called out every single week. Frankly it gets annoy­ing. I can understand a shout out for the first pep rally, but after that its just overkill. Only the dorms hosting the pep rally should have their names announced. Plus, when dorms are announced that most other people don't like 
(a.k.a. Zahm) students boo. 
game, I 
think I may 
throw up. 
I also don't understand why Chuck Lennon is speak­ing at these things. I mean the guy definitely has spirit and I actually like him a lot, but do we really want a 60­something year-old man leading us in cheers? Although some would argue with me that he has brought back a very trendy and cool move from the 90s -raising the roof. 
The excitement surround­ing the pep rally should be like it was when Vitale spoke earlier this year for the Michigan game. Everyone was standing, clapping, 
making noise and, most 
importantly, really getting 
excited about the game. 
That's all people want any­
way. They don't go to pep 
rallies just to go, they go to 
get jacked about the game. 
The pep rallies this year just 
aren't doing that and it's 
turning more and more peo­
ple off from pep rallies. 
The organizers of these rallies need to sit down and figure out how they can cre­ate something that will pump people up. They don't have to be long and they don't need a lot of extra stuff with them. Just send some­one out to say something that's worthwhile for a cou­ple of minutes and then introduce the band and the team. The guest speaker's speech is usually good and Willingham always has the crowd's attention. 
Just please stop doing the same thing over and over again because people are getting tired if it. 
But if it keeps up like this, people may start getting desperate for something new. 
Worse yet, they may just start calling for the long­haired, dorky radio person­ality to come back and save the day. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
game hype 




Walt Harris Panther coach 
~'All I know is who we play this week and I couldn't be more serious than that right there.·· HThe bottom line is we have to prepare to play in a championship game on the road." 
Kent Baer defensive coordinator 
"/don't expect to take the job. It's Carlyle's team.·· 
"May the Blessed Mother bless this "This CD reaches out to ND friends, "You have much to he proud r?f' in this work and all who enjoy it. '' family, and.fans ofall ages." musical endeavor." 
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C. Jim O'Connor Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Notre Dame President E1neritus Manager, Ham1nes ND Bookstore Vice President for Student Affairs 
A NOTRE DAME 
..

EXPERIENCE 
"/ am an ND parent and have.Ju.st "This one should be a big hit returned.from seeing my two sons with the ND crowd during the gel settledfi1r another year. I 
upcon1ingfootball season/" believe thal you have truly cap­tured the Spirit <~f()ur Lady's Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C. University. Thanks!" Executive Vice President -The H uebners Emeritus Winston-Salem, NC ND Parents 
Exclusively available at the Hammes·Notre Dame Bookstore Ti1n & Ryan O'Neill (ND '94 & '97) have sold over 700,000 copies oftheir relaxing piano music. 
Their music has been featured on HBO's, Sex & the City, 
and they recently perfonned for George Bush. To find out tnore about their 15 CD's available and future perfonnances, visit: 
www.pianobrothers.com 
' , ., .. ' ..... 
Friday, October 11, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
•
No Faine, no 
a1n 
Irish center JeffFaine says it would take a broken back to keep him offthe field. Thats good news for the Irish. 
ing never crossed his mind
By KATIE McVOY again.
Associate Sporrs Editor 
..It's one of those things that I 
want to reach out for it to be on 
lie doesn't want to jinx him­the field all the time. to give all I 
self, but Jeff Faine will say that can to give us the W," Faine said. 
there may not be anything that "It's one of those things that has 
can keep him off of the field. For just always been there for me. I 
him, that's what football is all didn't really miss a game in high 
about -being tough. Sure, the school and I didn't miss a game 
other things are nice -learning here. I just want to keep it going 
the play · book, developing team and not miss a game." 
unity, winning games. But what 
it really comes down to is hitting 
Staying up front 
hard. 
That "play no matter what" 
"I love this game because It's 
attitude has had the effect of 
the only game where you can go more than just
out there and 
keeping Faine 
run full speed 
..The things we do on the on the field. It
and hit some-
has also kept
one," Faine field are illegal offthe 
him in front ­
said. "The 
field.,, in front of the 
things we do on 
quarterback
the field are and in front of 
illegal off the Jeff Faine 
his team as its
field." Irish center 
leader. 
Faine has When you
proved that he talk to Faine, 
can go out and hit hard. He's 
he doesn't strike you as vocal.
proved that he can lead a team. 
He's soft-spoken and, despite hisMost importantly, he's proved 
size. he doesn't have that in­
that he's tough enough. 
your-face-attitude on which some of his teammates pride Staying on the field themselves. But as soon as he 
Eight years ago football didn't steps on the field, it's clear why know Faine and Faine didn't he's the leader. know football. The Florida native "He's not a really vocal guy all grew up playing soccer and bas­the time," offensive line coach ketball. Mike Denbrock said. "When he 
Neither sport quite seemed to does say something it's some­fit. thing that people really pay 
Faine was too big for soccer attention to and listen to. He's a and basketball was a little too person that leads by example. All low-contact. Then it happened. you have to do is watch the way 
After a week of practice at he plays the game and it gives Seminole High School, the fresh­you a very good blueprint on man was thinking this wasn't for how you should be playing it." him. Football was hard and he Teammates have taken that 
was already hurt. blueprint and built something on 
"The first week of freshman it. Faine's attitude has spread to football in high school was kind the rest of the offensive line and of rough," Faine said. "Actually, I to the rest of the team. And almost quit." that's just the way Faine wants 
But his father talked to him. it. 
Told him to try one more week ..I hope they look at it to want and see how it went. That one to be out there and help the team more week made all the differ­out," Faine said. "I hope they ence. look at me to always be able to "That second week something depend on me. That's very clicked in me and I fell in love important for me to have them with the game," Faine said. not worry about my position." 
And he stayed. Taking that leadership role has 
In eight years of football, Faine been key in the last few games. has not missed a game. He has With a new quarterback step­not let injury or illness keep him ping in, Faine has had to step up off the field. I le was a constant and take some of the pressure off on the field for his Seminole of Dillingham's shoulders. team in high school and remains "The center is kind of a second a constant for the Irish. You can quarterback," Denbrock said. count on two things on football "On the field he directs a lot of weekends -touchdown Jesus things we're doing protection­and Jeff Faine. wise, blocking-scheme wise and 
"That says a lot," said quarter­such. So he really helps steer the back Carlyle Holiday. "That says offense in the right direction he'll do what it takes for this scheme-wise." 
team. . .. He's our leader up "It's a little more important for front and when you have a guy me to make the right calls to give like that on the team, it's going him a lot of opportunity to get a 
to take you a long way." lot of time out there on the line 
That "play no matter what" so he can make the right deci­attitude is something Faine sions and the right reads," Faine claims he comes by naturally. said. After that first week, when he Faine is used to breaking in almost quit. the thought of leav-new quarterbacks. He worked with four new quarterbacks in Back-up center Ryan Scarola his first two seasons as the start­even had to hike the ball a few ing center before working with times. But Faine waas not going 
Three days after the Michigan 
Dillingham  to  stand  on  
when he came  the sidelines.  
in against Michinga State. He worked with  '"That,s the hardest part -keeping Jeffof/the field.••  "I don't want to jinx myself, but it's just ben  
Arnaz Battle,  something  
Gary Godsey and Matt LoVeccio.  Mike Denbrock Irish offensive line coach  inside that I don't want to be taken off  
Then worked  the  field,"  
with Holiday  Faine said.  

last season when he took over for LoVecchio. game, Faine was convinced he 
would be back in front of the"Not only was he a great cen­
quarterback for their next
ter, but he also talked to me, game. He claimed that nothingtried to keep my head up during but a broken back would keepthe game when something bad him off the field. And if Fainehappened," Holiday said. "Those claimed nothing but a brokenare the kind of players you want back would keep him off theon your team." 
field, who are the Irish coaches to argue? 
Staying tough 
'Tll let Jeff speak about that,"Leadership aside, determina­Irish coach Tyrone Willingham tion aside, size aside, there is said that day. "If he said noth­something that sets Faine apart. 
ing's going to keep him out that He's tough. 
sounds fine to me." 
Four weeks ago, a Michigan 
"That's the hardest part, keep­player was blocked into Faine's ing Jeff off the field." Denbrock 
ankle and it looked like the cen­said. 
ter was going to be on the side. The toughness that was appar-ent to teammates from the first day Jeff stepped on the field was clear to the rest of the world. 

"He's tough," Holiday said. "You can see it on replays, what he uoesn, that he doesn't let peo­ple go. He may get personal fouls sometimes because of it, but that's the kind of guy you like. Every lineman should have that mentality." 
That toughness is part of Faine through and through. I le loves football because it's tough. He loves football because it's about hitting and hitting hard. Faine is tough, he just wishes football would let him be a little tougher. 
"It's a physical game," Faine said. "It's just not a clean sport. My game is definitely very physi­cal and I love it that way. I wouldn't want it any other way. In fact, with some of the rule changes they're making this game a little softer than I want it to be." 
It's clear that only one ques­tion remains: Faine is tough enough for football, but is foot­ball tough enough for Faine? 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Friday, October 11, 2002
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 5-0 AP: No. 8 
Coaches: No. 8 


WIDE RECIEVER 
8lhltn111H 
21-Stovalt 
LEFT TACKLE CORNERBACK
TAILBACK 78-Black 
5-Cox
4-Grallf 73-LeVoir 3-Gray
11-Wllson 

LEfTGUAAD 
79-Mlllall 
QUARTERBACK Sl-Gil!is 
7-Hollday 
DEFENSIVE ENO
l·D1111npa · ; 98·Haniott 
~ 55-Smitll 
E tlll . 
us 
RIGHT TACKLf 83-Curllll :..;70-Mollnaro STRONG SAFETY 
31-Gllllard 22·1.eichty 
FREE 
SAFETY 
28-Morrls 
27·Ferouson 
Pittsburgh Jll 
DEFENSE_.._ 
QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 

Willingham head coach 
Tyrone Willingham first season at Notre Dame career record: 
82-52-1 
at Notre Dame: 
5-0 
against Michigan: 
2-3 

No. 
1 2 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 9 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 19 20 21 23 25 26 26 27 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 
34 
35 
35 
36 37 38 39 39 40 41 42 43 44 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 
60 
61 62 63 64 65 
66 
67 68 69 70 71 71 
72 
73 74 75 76 
77 
78 79 80 82 82 
83 
85 
86 
87 87 
88 90 
91 92 93 94 95 97 
99 
Roster 
Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
Jared Clark TE 6-4 228 JR Carlos Pierre-Antoine ILB 6-3 245 SR DanNovakov QB 6-1 218 SR AmazBattle WR 6-1 213 SR Ryan Grant RB 6-1 211 so Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 190 FR Carlos Campbell WR 5--11 194 so Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 214 JR Matt Krueger QB 5--10 180 JR Jason Beckstrom CB 5--10 188 SR Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 209 so Marcus Wilson RB 5--11 199 so Chris Olsen QB 6-4 220 FR NickSetta KIP 5--11 177 SR Gary Godsey TE 6-6 259 SR Preston Jackson CB 5--9 176 JR Stan Revelle QB 5--11 182 so Joey Hildbold p 5--10 191 SR Ronnie Rodamer WR 6-4 206 JR Glenn Earl FS 6-1 205 SR 
D.J. Fitzpatrick KIP 6-1 192 so Gerome Sapp ss 6-0 218 SR Maurice Stovall WR 6-3 205 FR Chris Yura FB 6-0 220 SR Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 220 FR Garron Bible FS 5--10 197 JR Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 207 so Lionel Bolen ss 6-0 195 so Mike Profeta TB 5--11 208 so Cole Laux FB 5--10 236 JR Quentin Burrell CB 6-0 178 so Mike Richardson DB 6-1 180 FR Jake Carney DB 6-0 180 FR Jeff Jenkins RB I 6-0 195 FR Courtney Watson IU3 6-1 232 SR Vontez Duff CIP• 5-11 194 JR David Miller K 5-11 210 SR Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 172 SR Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 245 SR Dwight Ellick CB 5--10 179 so Preston Jackson CB 5-9 176 so Brandon Hoyte ILB 6-0 226 so David Bemenderfer ss 5-11 195 JR 
LI.I 
Nate Schomas WR 5-10 160 FR Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 243 JR 
:E 
Shane Walton CB 5--11 185 SR 
cc 
Rashon Powers-Neal TB 6-2 224 so 
Q
Justin Tuck DE 6-5 238 so Corey Mays ILB 6-1 235 so 
LI.I
MikeMcNair FB 6-0 230 SR 
a:
Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 256 JR 
t­
Derek Curry ILB 6-3 233 JR Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 290 SR 
o 
Jamie Ryan OT 6-5 285 FR 
z
Jeff Faine C 6-3 298 SR John Crowther C 6-2 239 SR Jason Halverson DL 6-1 246 SR Zachary Giles C 6-3 281 so Pat Ryan ILB 6-3 231 SR Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 243 SR Chad DeBolt ILB 6-0 202 SR Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 288 SR Charles Hedman LB 6-1 215 SR Scott Raridon OT 6-7 285 FR 
::c 
Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 305 SR 
C,
Casey Dunn OT/OG 6-4 255 so 
a:
Sean Milligan 0G 6-4 300 SR Derek Landri NG 6-2 275 FR 
::::, 
Ryan Gillis 0G 6-3 305 SR 
m 
Ed O'Connell LB 6-3 212 JR 
rn 
Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 280 so Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 297 SR 
I= 
David Kowalski 0G 6-2 249 JR 
-
James Bonelli OG/OT 6-6 285 FR 
a. 
Ryan Scarola C/OG 6-5 310 SR Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 309 so Dan Stevenson 0G 6-5 292 so Chris Frome DE 6-5 240 FR Bob Morton C 6-4 305 FR Greg Pauly OT 6-6 280 JR Jordan Black OT 6-6 305 SR Sean Mahan OT 6-3 285 SR Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 204 so Bernard Akatu WR 5-10 193 SR Matt Shelton WR 6-1 172 so Matt Root TE 6-6 258 so 
rn 
Billy Palmer TE 6-3 251 JR 
-
Brendan Hart TE 6-2 240 JR 
!!I
Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 240 FR Patrick Nally TE 6-3 246 so 
~ 
Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 237 FR Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 269 so 
z 
Jeff Thompson NG/DT 6-4 273 so 
<C
Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 269 JR Dan Santucci DE 6-5 250 FR Brian Mattes DE 6-6 250 FR Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 258 SR Travis Leitko DE 6-6 250 FR Jason Sapp DE 6-3 249 JR 
COACHING 
Willingham and his  Holiday hasn't been spec­ Notre Dame is comiong off  Notre Dame is not pulling  
coaching staff have  tacular for the Irish, but at  of its best rushing perfor­ in good passing numbers  
proved that no matter  least he's been consistent.  mance of the season. The  and with the quarterback  
what the obstacles, they  Dillingham showed  Irish have nearly doubled  situation still unclear, it's  
will lead their team to  promise on Saturday  their opponents run yards  difficult to say how eff ec­ 
victory. They've faced  against Stanford, but had  and the offensive line has  tiye the Irish can be. The  
tough competition in  some trouble connecting  proved that it can open  receivers are still having  
Michigan and Michigan  with receivers. If  huge holes for Grant and  trouble keeping their  
State and overcome the  Dillingham starts Saturday,  Powers-Neal. Both running  hands on the ball and,  
loss of a starting quar­ Pitt's defense could enjoy  backs tallied more than  with Dillingham, the long  
terback and are still 5-0.  some more interceptions.  100 yards last week.  pass is not an option.  
Harris took a team that  Rutherford is averaging a  The Pittsburgh defense is  The Panthers pass  
begin last season 1-5 and  56.2 completion percent­ is strong point. It has  defense is solid. Spencer,  
coached them to a post­ age. He's thrown for 1351  only allowed opponents  Postell and Hayes have  
season appearance. He has  yards this season, averag­ an average of 111 rush­ all tallied two or more  
led his team to three post  ing more than 225 yards  ing yards a game. Led by  interceptions and oppo­ 
season appearances in five  a game. Rutherford isn't  Hayes, the team aver­ nents are only passing for  
years, but is 2-1 against  particularly versatile,  ages over eight tackles  an average of 166 yards.  
the Irish. His team is off to  however, running for a  for a loss per game. The  A team total of nine  
a good start this year, but  limited number of yards  Panthers have forced 17  interceptions and 12  
against several unchalleng­ and he ha..,;; thrown seven  fumbles and recovered  sacks are seriouis stats  
ing opponents.  interceptions.  12 of those.  for the Irish to consider.  
Willingham is the more  Notre Dame's running  The Pap hers, could  
experienced CQtlCb. He  game will offer Pittsburgh  cause for  
has led his tea:rif,0 vic­tories againsfg:everal  the first real challenge it  the Iri decisi  
ranked teat;rus a.nd has found a way. fq win. Harris has coa.:ell~d a solid iearnJbtit lia~< not faced serious opp<>sition yet tlif~year, putting  E~~t~ who down first. The Irish offensive line will have to find holes in Pittsburgh's  Pant up eit pr ,,#f ·:1;rntl l~~sive backs·w:~\t  
him at the disadvantage.  game to make progress.  force to contend with.  



For all the talk about the vaunted Irish Pittsburgh has built a 5-1 record, feasting on defense, Pittsburgh's unit is statiscially the likes of Ohio, Alabama-Birmingham, Rutgers, 
just as good. With Holiday still a question Toledo and an unusually weak Syracuse team. 
Irish 
mark and the Irish offense still waiting Pittsburgh boasts a solid pass defense, allowing for its breakout game, Notre Dame will only 166.8 yards a game. But look for Grant and have to rely on another strong defensive Powers-Neal to each have 100 yards rushing
experts performance. They'll get it, and the Irish again, as the Irish should control the line of will improve to 6-0. scrimmage on both sides of the ball. 
Andrew Soukup 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 assistant managing editor Pittsburgh 10 Pittsburgh 13 
' • l', 
Chris Federico sports editor 

Friday, October 11, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Pittsburgh Panthers
) EAD Record: 5-1 AP: unranked Coaches: unranked 
Walt Harris
Pittsburgh 
PITTSBURGH 
sixth season at
OFFENSE A 
Pittsburgh
.____________. TAILBACK 
2002 Schedule 
43·1Urldey 
career record:
Aug. 31 OHIO-W
CORNERBACK 
42-WaUon 
43-56
37-Elllck 
~ff 
at Pittsburgh
Sept. 7 TEXASA&M-L 
FULLBACK LEFTGUARO 
32.Pollll 52·laCat1e 
37-39 
23·Murplly 66-Semaia 
Harris
Sep. 14 atUAB-W 
against Notre head coach
Dame: 2-1 
Sept. 21 
Roster
Sept. 2,S,t:"'" ...
FREE 
SAFETY 
i'-. 
19-Eat1 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR
29•8urreH 
Oct.5 ·~ · 
1 Larry Fitzgerald WR 6-3 210 FR 2 Marcus Furman RB 5-8 185 so 3 TaronGray DB 5-11 195 SR
Oct. 12 at Notre Dame
RIGHT TACKLE 
4 Chris Curd DB 6-3 230 JR
75-Morpan 
5 Torrie Cox DB 5-10 185 SR 6 Malcolm Postell LB 6-1 220 so 
74-Wilhams 
Oct. 26 BOSTON COLLEGE 
7. Shawn Robinson DB 6-1 190 SR
TIGHT~NO . 
8 Donny Patrick WR 6-2 215 so
STRONG 45-Gill SAFETY 
83·WIIIOII 
9 Bernard Lav DB 6-2 195 FR 
20-Sapp 
Nov. 2 at Virginia Tech 
10 Tyler Palko' QB 6-2 210 FR 
, :), \ 26-Bibte 
11 LukeGetsy QB 6-2 210 FR 12 Rod Rutherford QB 6-3 220 JR 
,::~ _) 
OUTSIDE 
Nov. 9 TEMPLE 
14 PatHodemy QB 6-6 230 so
LINEBACKER 
15 Brian Beinecke LB 6-1 230 SR
49-Cllrry
57-Thomas 
16 David Abdul PK 5-10 175 FR LEFT END -. CORNEf\BACK ...J i, . 

Nov. 21 at Miami 
17 Corey Humphries DB 6-2 205 JR 112-ludiDIClk ' J
34-0ufl / 
NOTRE DAME 
18 Jay Junko WR/P 6-4 220 SR
15-Jackson · ·
90-Beidatsch 
19 Shawntae Spencer DB 6-2 175 JR
DEFENSE 
Nov. 30 WEST VIRGINIA 
20 TezMorris DB 5-10 185 FR 21 J.J. Home LB 6-3 225 FR 22 Reggie Carter DB 6-0 190 FR 23 Tim Murphy FB 5-10 230 FR 24 Mike Jemison LB 5-11 225 so 25 BrandonMiree RB 6-0 235 JR 26 Darren McCray DB 5-9 195 FR 27 William Ferguson DB 5-10 185 JR 28 Gary Urschler DB 5-10 195 SR 29 Billy Gaines WR 5-7 170 FR 30 J.B. Gibboney PK 5-9 175 so 31 Tyrone Gilliard DB 5-11 190 so
PANlllER RUSHING PANnlER PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
32 Lousaka Polite FB 6-0 240 JR 34 Jawan Walker -R9 1J 5-10 190 FR 35 Larry Moore DB 5-9 170 DB 
p 
z 
The Irish run defense has been very solid. They allowed Stanford only 69 yards. Hilliard and Campbell have pro­vided solid defense up the middle and Watson and his crew consistently stop the outside rushing game.  Notre Dame's secondary is top of the line. Walton already has five inter­ceptions, Sapp has three and Duff and Earl are both looking to add more. They have been tested against Michigan State's Rogers and showed that they can play with the best.  Notre Dame's special teams have been less than impressive. Setta seems to have hit a big­time slump, connecting on only two of his last eight field goal attempts. Hildbold's punting hasn't been much better, falling short several times in the past two games.  The Irish are on a roll. They are 5-0 for the first time since 1993 and, no matter what happens, always find the will to win. They have home field advantage and, with Willingham's push for a "Sea of Green," they have obvious fan support.  

The Panthers are picking up just 130 rushing yards per game. Miree leads the rushing game but is still averaging just 52.8 yards a game. Polite and Kirkley each add about 25 yards a game. However, they will have trouble picking up any real yardage against the Irish.  Pittsburgh is averaging more than 227 passing yards a game. Rutherford has a solid corps of receivers in Slade, Fitzgerald and Bynes. Pitt has picked up 11 passing touch­downs this season.  Pittsburgh's kicking game is inconsistent. Abdul is only 5-of-10 on field goal attempts and Gibboney is 3-for-4. Combined, they have missed four PATs. Cox and Spencer are both picking up serious yards on kick returns, however.  They're a 5-1 team com­ing into Notre Dame Stadium. They're look­ing for the chance to prove themselves against a real football team. Their opponents have a combined record of 11-20, so this may be their chance to really shine.  

Notre Dame's rush defense should be able to shut 'Pittsburgllidown without too much prob­lem. Starting with a team that is rushing for only 130 yards a ga.me.<the Irish defensive U.oe ind strontcorps of lineback­ers should be able to dominate.  Notre Dame's ~~coIJ,dary is just unstop.pable. Although pitts1?_ur$h may have Jmen avet'~g­in g good yardage, Walton. Dufft:·!la.rl and Sapp wilt make sttre they get their h{ijids on the balf:t.s ofter{"a1s pos­sible.  Neither team is looking very good on special :t!~ ultimately, neither team can count on thier spe­cial teams to really come through.  Despite the Panthers strong start, Not,r9,J)ame has tbe agvanta,gtt' The Irish wiH"9e playil),g in their home stadium with the best start~ any rtiem­ber of this .team has ever had. Not to mention, there seems to be some­one orsomething making sure Notre Dame wins.  

36 Andy Lee 6-2 205 JR 37 Azzie Beagnyam LB 6-1 230 FR 38 Tyre Young DL 6-0 275 so 39 A.J. Schneider FB 5-11 245 FR 40 Joe Dipre LB 6-4 245 FR 
41 Scott McCurley LB 6-0 235 SR
0 
43 Raymond Kirkley RB 5-10 215 so
-t 
44 Brian Bennett LB 6-0 215 FR
:0 
45 Erik Gill TE 6-5 255 FR
ffl 
46 Sam Bryant DB 6-0 205 FR 47 Brian Guzek DL 6-2 255 SR
0 
48 Lewis Moore LB 6-2 245 JR
l> 
49 Abdur Abdullah RB 6-0 235 FR
3:: 
51 Gerald Hayes LB 6-3 245 SR 
ffl 
52 Dan LaCarte OL 6-4 295 JR 53 Troy Banner DL 6-3 295 so 54 Charles Sallet LB 6-0 210 FR 55 Thomas Smith DL 6-4 265 FR 56 Charles Spencer DL 6-5 320 FR 57 Andy Alleman DL 6-4 235 FR 59 Nick Pietracatello OL 6-3 290 JR 60 John Simonitis OL 6-3 290 FR 61 Eric Fritz DL 6-3 295 FR 
:t 
-a 62 Justin Belarski C 6-3 290 so 63 Darrell McMurray DL 6-4 295 JR 64 Chad Reed C 6-3 295 SR t./) 
66 Penny Semaia OL 6-5 330 JR 
m 
68 Matt Maiers OL 6-3 275 so 
69 Kurt Johnson LS 6-1 260 JR 70 Jason Capizzi OL 6-9 300 FR 
C: 
:0 
71 John Schall OL 6-4 295 JR 72 Zach Schlundt OL 6-4 290 OL 
G) 
:z: 
74 Dale Williams OT 6-5 285 OL 
75 Matt Morgan OL 6-7 295 JR 
77 Bryan Anderson OL 6-5 320 SR 
78 Rob Petitti OL 6-6 320 so 
80 MarcoTinor WR 5-11 190 so 
81 Joe Stephens WI{ 6-0 190 FR 
82 Yogi Roth WR 5-10 195 JR 
83 Kris Wilson TE 6-3 240 JR 
84 Steve Buches TE 6-3 215 FR 

85 Princell Brockenbrough WR 6-3 200 JR 86 Lamar Slade WR 6-4 210 SR 
87 Roosevelt Bynes WR 6-1 175 so 
88 Darryl Weston TE 6-4 285 so 
90 Claude Harriott DL 6-4 255 JR 
91 Jonathon Sitter LS 6-1 275 JR 
92 Charles Steffy DL 6-2 295 SR 
93 Jake Holthaus DL 6-1 280 so 
94 Dan Stephens DL 6-2 285 so 
95 Malcolm Pinder LB 6-1 230 JR 
96 Vince Crochunis DL 6-4 285 so 
97 Kevin Harris DL 6-5 275 FR 
98 Vemun Botts DL 6-4 230 FR 



Notre Dame's run game will be key this 
Pittsburgh"s defense may give Notre Dame fits much week as the Irish offense faces off against a like Stanford's did last week. The Irish will need solid Pittsburgh defense. The Irish pass another solid performance out of their running game offense may suffer at the hands of the to win. Look for Grant and Powers-Neal to wear Panthers, but the running backs should be down the Panthers' defensive front and the Irish to able to get the job done while Notre Dame's pull away in the second half to reach 6-0. defense holds off the Panther attack. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Pittsburgh 17 Joe Hettler Pittsburgh 7 associate sports editor 
• I ' ! t 
(E~> 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 11, 2002 

Sizing up the Irish and the Panthers 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE PITTSBURGH'S OFFENSE VSAVERAGE PER GAME PITTSBURG~~S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 
total yards gained 

PITTSBURGH 

-~1358 
total yards allowed 
273.6 
rushing yards gained 
163.2 
1130.71 
rushing yards allowed 

passing yards gained 

P1TISBURGH .?> .· ·-'JiF ,•,i/ 227 .31 passing yards allowed 200____, 
kick return yards gained ll ~ ~ 23.91 kick return yards allowed PtTI:SBURGH •· •·• 21 
punt return yards gained ~Hldl•~:j~12.5 punt return yards allowed• PITTSBURGH .·· 8.7 

yards per punt 1 

43.5
~ll•Hdl'l+111_..qQ­
NOTRE DAME 0
punts blocked PITTSBURGH 0 
turnovers lost 
NOTRE DAME 1.4 turnovers recovered 1w --3.5 

l 

••'.
yards penalized PITTSBURGH . .. 48. 7 yards penalized 64.8 
points scored :'.!"!rl.. 
28.8 
f: points allowed 12.8 
KEY MATCHUP 
NOTRE DAME'S PITTSBURGH'S RUSHING GAME RUSH DEFENSE 

Notre Dame's passing game has been inconsis­tent and Pittsburgh's pass defense has been solid this year. The real face-off will come when running backs Ryan Grant and Rashon Powers­Neal face off against Pittsburgh's defensive line and linebackers. 
If the Irish offensive line can open holes in the Pittsburgh defense like they did against Stanford, the Irish will be able to gain ground and score points. 
by the numbers 
last time the Irish began a season 6-0 } g g 3 
12 
number of their 17 forced fumbles that the Panthers have recovered 
rushing yards the Irish tallied last weekend 2 4 g
against Stanford 

,. 
.....,__ 

Friday, October 11, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page7 
Tuck and roll 
. Tuck is stepping up for the Irish and putting QBs down 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
Stanford quarterback Chris Lewis got very familiar with the turf in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. Lewis was the latest target of a Notre Dame defensive line that has steadily put more and more pressure on opposing quar­terbacks. 
On third downs, that rush is often led by defensive end Justin Tuck. Playing just his first season on the defensive line -Tuck started as a line­backer at Notre Dame -the sophomore adds an element of speed to the Irish pass rush that has not been seen in South Bend for a long time. 
''Justin could be one of the first fast pass rushers that we've ever had -a person who can really get on the edge and put pressure on a quarterback," Irish defensive line coach Greg Mattison said. "He's accepted that role, he really likes that role, and I think he will only get better." 
Indeed, Tuck has shown steady improvement over the season, growing into his role of a pass rusher on the defen­sive line. 
"I know that rushing the passer has a lot to do with my responsibilities on the field," Tuck said. "Defensive ends Ryan [Roberts] and Kyle [Budinscak) are quick guys, but their skills are more as power, inside rushers. I think I definitely have the advan­tage of bringing a little more speed to the outside." 
Tuck had his strongest per­formanc e of the season against the Cardinal last weekend. Lining up against Stanford's All American tack­le Kwame Harris, Tuck still managed a season-high five tackles, with two of those for loss and a sack. 
Tuck has 11 tackles, with three for loss and two sacks on the season. Entering the game in pass rush situations, he is almost always in the opposing quarterback's face, or coming around the outside to force him out of his com­fortable spot in the pocket. 
"Justin can make it difficult on other tackles, because he is definitely more of a speed type rusher. whereas Kyle lBudinscakJ and I are more power, up-the middle guys," Roberts said. "But he's come very far in his transition. He started out here as a line­backer ... and he's just taken great strides with his tech­nique and learning the posi­tion. He's gotten to where he's adding to the defense on nearly every third down play." 
sive lineman, but the speed of defensive line surge. you're looking for," Mattison
Tuck's style of pass-rush is 
a running back. His play has "With him putting pressure said.
reminiscent of NFL ends 
complemented the inside rush on the outside, Cedric and
Javon Kearse and Michael 
of senior defensive tackles Darrell put pressure on the
Strahan -guys that have the 
Darrell Campbell and Cedric inside, and you really start to Contact Chris Federico at 
size and strength of a defen-
Hilliard to complete the Irish get the kind of pressure cfederic@nd.edu 

Baer can't get no satisfaction from his defense 
ByJOE HETTLER Associate Sports Editor 
The rest of the college foot­ball world may be impressed with Notre Dame's defense this season, but Irish defen­sive coordinator Kent Baer isn't. 
In fact he thinks there's still a lot of improvement needed. 
"I always strive for more," Baer said. "I couldn't be more serious when I say we can play a lot better than what we play. At times it's been excit­ing, but we're capable of being that kind of football team defensively on every snap." 
It's this type of attitude that has pushed the Irish defense to improve more each week. This improvement has helped rank Notre Dame's defense in the top ten in seven different defensive categories. They are ranked fourth in rush defense 
(73.6 yards per game), sev­enth in total defense (273.6 yards per game). and eighth in pass efficiency defense. But the most important statistic may be Notre Dame's scoring defense, averaging 12.8 points per game for the Irish. 
Numbers like these should make any defensive coordina­tor happy. But if Baer's pleased, he's doing a good job of pretending not to be. 
"We can play so much better then what we're playing right now," Baer said. "We're still making a lot of mistakes, like 
we're not communicating well enough. I think we can come · up with more turnovers, we can play harder, play smarter, we can play, certainly, more consistently. I'm still looking for a game where we can play four full quarters, instead of two or three. So there's so much room for improvement." Baer's players have already 
adopted his attitude of striv­
ing for perfection and winning 
all aspects of the game. 
"The most important thing is 
to win," defensive lineman 
Darrell Campbell said last 
weekend. "That's the number 
one objective. That's our goal 
every week, is to go out and 
win the game," 
Baer also has his players 
focusing on the task at hand 
and not looking ahead to 
other games on the schedule. 
This is especially true this 
weekend when Notre Dame 
faces Pittsburgh. With two 
ranked opponents, Air Force 
and Florida State, lurking on 
the horizon, it would be easy 
for Notre Dame to look past 
Pittsburgh. However, Baer 
won't allow that to happen. 
"I haven't even thought 
about {Air Force and Florida 
State]," Baer said. "All I know 
is who we play this week and I 
couldn't be more serious then 
that right there. I don't even 
care about the rest of the sea­
hands full this week. If we 
son right now. I just care 
continue to play the way we're 
about this week. We haven't playing and continue to play 
even mentioned anybody else 
one [game] at a time, our 
right now. We've got our 
chances are OK." 

The Irish will need another solid defensive performance this weekend to stop the Panthers offense. Even if they do though, Baer probably 
-
-
won't be quite satisfied. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd..edu 

---·~---~ 
O
THE Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh BSERVER Friday, October 11, 2002 











