-; 
. 
--, 

VOL XXXVII NO. 15 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Spectator dies of heart attack at game 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
An elderly man died of a heart attack Saturday in the upper level of Notre Dame Stadium during the final min­utes of the football game, University officials said. 
The man, whose name was not being released Sunday, suffered a "massive cardiac arrest and didn't respond to resuscitation," said Ann Kleva, director of University Health Services. 
The Northbrook, Ill., man was about 70 years old, said 
Chuck Hurley, St. Joseph County coroner and assistant director of Notre Dame Security/Police. He collapsed about 4 p.m. in his seat in Section 118 of the Stadium as the clock expired in Notre Dame's 25-23 win over Michigan. 
Nearby spectators per­formed cardiopulminary resuscitation on the man but couldn't revive him, Hurley said. Notre Dame and South Bend fire personnel used a defribilator on him but were also unsuccessful. 
Susan Federico was sitting in Row 25 at the south end 
zone of the Stadium when the man collapsed in the row behind her. 
"We were just standing, watching the game, when I looked around and saw people around him doing CPR," said Federico, of Pass Christian, Miss.. whose son Chris is a Notre Dame junior. "I immedi­ately just started yelling for a doctor." 
At least six spectators responded to the cry for help, including three who identified themselves as cardiologists, Federico said. Fifteen to 20 minutes passed, she said, before police and fire officials reached the man in the sellout crowd of more than 80,000 people. 
"Granted, we were in one of the worst possible locations in the stands," she said, ..but it was amazing how long it took to get help." 
Rescue workers man two emergency stations, one each at the northeast and south­west corners of the Stadium, said Hurley, of NDSP. Personnel from both stations responded Saturday, he said. 
A South Bend fire crew transported the man's body to 
the morgue at Memorial Hospital. 
The man attended the game with at least one male friend, Hurley said. Hurley and wit­nesses said they were not sure if the man was a Notre Dame or Michigan fan. 
The Saturday death wasn't the first in Notre Dame Stadium. Fans die of health problems every year inside the venue, Hurley said. 
Last year, two or three peo­ple died in the stands, he said. 
Contact Jason McFarley at 
McFarley.l@nd.edu 
College tops list 
•


again 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's is once again ranked as the top Midwest comprehensive college, according to U .S News a n d World 
R e ­
port's annual publi­cation 
0 f 
"Ame­rica's B e s t Colle-ges" which hits newsstands today. 
..The rankings reaffirm that we're doing the right things at Saint Mary's," College President Marilou Eldred said in a press release. "The greatest measure of our education­al success, however, will always lie in the academic and professional success of our students." 
Since its U.S. News and World Report's annual publication in 1985, Saint Mary's has been ranked among the top 10 colleges in the category of Midwest liberal arts colleges and has been ranked No. 1 for eight of the last nine years. 
"J want to thank each and every one of you for your hard work and many contributions to this insti­tution," said Eldred in an e-mail to the entire cam­pus. "It is through your efforts as students, faculty and staff that our excel­lence is recognized time and again in so many 

see RANK/page 4 


Two F-16s flew over Notre Dame Stadium at the start of Saturday's 25-23 win over Michigan. After the victory, In which Notre Dame's offense scored Its first three touchdowns of the sea­son, students rushed onto the field to celebrate with the players. 

Students 
•

swipe for entry 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 

The Office of Residence 
Life and Housing recently 
announced Notre Dame 
students can enter almost 
dence halls when locked 
between regular visiting 
hours with one quick 
swipe of their identifica­
tion card. 

By sliding their student identification cards through a card reader on residence hall doors, any Notre Dame student can enter another campus dorm between 9 a.m. and midnight Sunday through Thursday and between 9 
a.m. and 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday. Their cards will continue to work for their own dorm 24 hours a day. 
Also under the new sys­tem: 
. 
All residence halls with card access will be locked between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. 

. 
Students can enter locked dorms with card access by swiping their cards and entering the month and day of their birthdays 

. 
The primary entrance will be identified by a green dot on the card reader. 

. 
After parietals, only hall residents can access their dorms. 


Currently. all residence halls have swipe access except Alumni, Dillon, Keenan, Stanford and St. Edward's. 
The swipe access is in response to proposals made by former student body president Brooke 
see SWIPE/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Monday, September 16, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Remembering football glory 

Remember what student life was like here at Notre Dame in 1988? When football national championships seemed to grow on trees? When the question wasn't if the Irish would defeat their next opponent, but by how much? 
When hanging 60 Colin Boylan 
points on Rutgers 
did not mean that 
the Irish defense somehow managed Production to return eight 
turnovers for 
touchdowns or that 
Nicholas Setta improbably kicked 20 
field goals in one game? 

No, you probably don't remember those days and you probably don't real­ly care. Nonetheless, it's a favorite pas­time of sportswriters, alumni and even some of our fellow students here to invoke 1988 as some sort of glorious benchmark for Irish sports -the year when Notre Dame ruled the sporting world and all other athletic programs cowered in fear. 
While it's true that 1988 is the year of Notre Dame's last national football title, those who would look back on these supposed "good old days" with rever­ence need to take a look around them right now. 
This weekend, for instance, three of Notre Dame's athletic teams performed a remarkable feat. The football team, mens soccer team and volleyball team each rose to a tough challenge and knocked off a top 10 opponent. 
Of course we all saw the football team's emotional upset over sixth ranked Michigan last Saturday. But later that night, the volleyball team scored their first victory over a top 10 foe in over seven years with a thrilling win over 10th-ranked Pepperdine. And the No. 5 ranked mens soccer team proved that they were capable of living up to that billing by notching a 2-1 overtime victory against seventh ranked Furman. 
Even though Notre Dame may not yet be the football powerhouse they once were, the depth and diversity of athletic talent of this school should be enough make any fan proud to root for the Irish. 
While alumni from the past can hang their hats on Dan Devine and Lou Holtz, we can point to a resurgent mens bas­ketball program and the continued excellence from both mens and womens soccer squads as proof that Notre Dame athletics are every bit as prestigious as they once were. 
Last year, Notre Dame students were priviledged to watch our baseball team defy the odd, topple Florida State and qualify for the College World Series. The last class that was lucky enough to see such an accomplishment? They graduated in 1957. 
So go to the football games and cheer for the Irish to continue their ascent to the top. But don't forget that we have a pretty special group of athletes compet­ing in all sorts ofevents on this campus. And even if the Irish don't win a nation­al title this year, we still may be looking back on these days as a golden age for Notre Dame sports. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 63I-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Lecture series 
Arabs want discusses 
U.S. to avoid future of the 

war with iraq Church 
At a United lecture focused on 
This Saturday's 

Nations meeting on where the Catholic 
Sunday, Arab lead­Church will go 
ers expressed desires to avoid a
frrom here. war between the 
U.S. and Iraq and to discuss the Palestinian-Iraqi 
conflict. 
page3 

page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
Gallivan program advisory board, McKcnna Hall 100-104 and 106, all day. 

. 
The Coming \'Var with ,Jraq, · George Lopez, David Cortright, the Kroc Institute, 4:15 p.m. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Destination Visioning Exercise, Stapleton Lounge, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 

. 
Hecital forum, Little Theatre, 12 to 1 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 

North Dinlrig Hall 

Today Lunch: Minestrone soup, pasta faziole soup, meatless zit, smoked flank steak creole, roasted poupon potatoes, apple crisp, sweet and sour chicken, pasta primavera, bake swiss chicken, oriental vegetables, scrambled eggs, sausage links, apple pancakes, philly steak sandwich, chicken fiesta califor­nia rancho rice 
Today Dinner: Pasta faziole soup, minestrone soup, meatless ziti, supreme pizza, pork loin with apples, hot chunky applesauce, peas, apple crisp, cantonese BBQ chicken, baked jardinere haddock, lemon mint cous­cous, romanoff noodles 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
II.I
:c 
~ 
II.I 
~ 
_, 
C 
(.) 


0

..J HIGH 76 HIGH 70 LOW 61 LOW 50 
BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT
NEWS 
Investors 
Notre Dame 
female gives
angered by 
her opinion of
ousting of 
ND males 
company's CEO 
In response to the 
After observing 
ousting of Telekom 
male students at 
CEO, Ron Sommer, 
Notre Dame for lit­
investors have 
tle over three years, 
sued the chancellor 
Mary Henrick 
and finance minis­
gives her honest 
ter of Germany. 
opinion. 
page 7 
page 11 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Money found 
Money taken from an unlocked desk of an unlocked office in the Galvin Life Science building was found. The victim told NDSP that she found the money at an off campus location Thursday. 

Wallet taken from woman 
A female student reported to NDPD that her wallet was taken from an off campus location on Sept. 13 between 12 and 3 a.m. 
Reflecting pool excitement 

leads to inJury 
A student was taken to the University Health Center for treat­ment after sustaining an injury while reflecting in the pool outside of the Hesburgh Library Wednesday. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta shells primav­era, gorgonzola sauce, french bread pizza, London broil wine marinade, cheddar baked pollack, shrimp creole, grilled turkey sandwich, chicken teriyaki, flatbread pizza chicken 
Today Dinner: Chicken cacciatore, gorgonzola sauce, french bread pizza, oven fried chicken, fresh grilled polish sausage, rotini with vegetables, polish style kluski noodles, boiled cabbage, honey mustard chicken, onion rings, chicken and snowpeas with soy dress­ing, flatbread beef pizza 
SCENE 
Mindless books saves from insanity 
Tired of the monotony of homework and typical off-campus forms of entertain­ment? Scene reviews books written for mind­less enjoyment. 
page 14 

SPORTS 
Irish teams come up on top against top 10 teams 
Irish football, mens soccer and volleyball all beat top 10 teams this weekend. 
page 24 


Bike recovered 
A bike reported missing last week was found outside of Lyons by the victim Saturday. 

Two car pile up at the circle 
NDSP responded to a two car accid­net at Library cir~le Wednesday. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Chef's pasta, oven roasted potato wedge, garbonzo bean patties, sauteed vegetables, sesame chicken and lo mien noodles, beer brats with onions, BBQ pork sandwich, jumbo pretzels, cinnamon churros, cheese enchiladas, cilantro rice, refried beans, pepperoni stromboli, three cheese pizza, deli bar with hummus 
Today Dinner: Teriyaki tofu, vegetar­ian Boston beans, steak au poivre with buttered noodle, vegetable patties, herb roasted chicken, visuvio potatoes, deli bar with hummus 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 83 HIGH 77 HIGH 77 HIGH 77 LOW 52 LOW 56 LOW 58 LOW 45 
Atlanta 86/ 70 Boston 73/ 59 Chicago 76/ 54 Denver 84/ 57 Houston 82/ 69 Los Angeles 79/ 61 Minneapolis 82/ 60 New York 77/ 60 Philadelphia 80/ 62 Phoenix 106/ 78 Seattle 65/ 55 St. Louis 80/ 62 Tampa 82/ 64 Washington 75 / 49 

Monday, September 16, 2002 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel discusses future of the Catholic Church 

MICHELLE OTTO/The Observer John Cavadlnl, chair of the Theology department, offered his opinion at Saturday's panel, "The Crisis Facing the Catholic Church." 


Fall Presentation 
Come learn about what Bain has to offer: 
Date: Wednesday, September 18, 2002 
Time: 6:oo pm 
Place: Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
Bain and Company invites all interested seniors 
to apply by September 23rd, 2002. 
All students are request!!d to apply online through www.bain.com. 

BAIN & COMPANY 

springboard to opportunity 
For more informotion, plecue visit www.boin.com An equol opportunity employer 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiii -------------~--------------·-·-···----------------------______J 







got news? 1-5323 
By MARIA SMITH News Writer 
Notre Dame professors con­fronted the issues of sexual abuse in the church, Catholic teachings on sexuality and the subject of a gay subculture in the priesthood during the Saturday Scholar Series lec­ture. 
Theology professors Richard McBrien and John Cavadini and law professor Carol Mooney sat on this weekend's panel for "The Crisis Facing the Roman Catholic Church." 
The latest policy of the Catholic Church promises to remove priests as soon they are accused, and they will not be allowed to continue in the min­istry if they are found to be sex­ually abusive. McBrien said that there is a range of views regarding the 
lack of fidelity to the church's teaching on sexuality. 
..The problem goes much deeper than a lack of fidelity to towards church teachings," said McBrien. "Pedophilia is a deeply addictive psychological behavior." 
Panel member also did not feel that the root of the prob­lem lay in a greater permissive­ness in seminaries in the 1950s and 1960s. "Seminaries in the 50s and 60s were not open, where you could do anything you wanted, they were mini­mum-security prisons," McBrien said. 
The panel also discussed the increasingly prominent number of homosexual priests, often referred to as a "gay subcul­ture" in certain seminaries. Panel member stressed that homosexuals should not be blamed for the current crisis. 
"If there is a 

new policy, gay subcul­
"The renewal ofthe
but most peo­ture, it is only
ple agree with Church should not be more evident the current reduced to politics or now than in changes. the '60s,"said
political action. " 
T h e McBrien. "If Catholic there is a 
Church's Richard McBrien homosexual course of panelist culture in 
action is to quickly remove accused priests, expel known abusers and screen can­didates for the priesthood more thoroughly. They felt that most people supported this attitude put forth by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops in June. The bishops ruled to bar priests who have engaged in sexual abuse from continu­ing in the ministry. 
The panel. held in Hesburgh Center Auditorium, was the second lecture of the Saturday Scholar Series being held on home football game days. The lectures, covering a variety of topics, start 3 1/2 hours before kickoff. The series covers a variety of topics, including Shakespeare in Film and the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict. 
Saturday, alumni and stu­dents listened to the lectures and asked questions regarding the Catholic Church's problems with sexual abuse of children in some priests and parishes and future preventative measures. 
The panel dismissed the idea that the problem was with a 
some semi­
naries, it is 
because there are a smaller 
number of priests, so a larger 
percentage may be gay. There 
is nothing wrong with being 
gay and nothing wrong with 
gays in the priesthood." 
The panel also explored the opinion of some bishops and Church members who said the Church needed systematic change. This might include allowing more participation of laity in policy making or allow­ing priests to be married. This step would probably increase the number of priests and aid priests who serve multiple parishes. The panel said these steps would be more controver­sial. 
"The renewal of the Church should not be reduced to poli­tics or political action," said McBrien. "However, there is a separable issue of governance -the real issue for the public is a lapse of governance." 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


hursday, September 19 6:00p Riehle Sand Courts 
Co-Rec -6 on s• 
*Minium of Two Females on the Court at all Times Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadli.ne: Tuesday, September 17 
R~"o/...,. ...z:;r 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 

Monday, September 16, 2002 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
still working to iron out is swipe access for off-campus

Swipe 

students. Because of the cod­
continued from page I ing for student ID cards, off­campus students were left 
Norton and vice president Brian Moscona. Their initia­tive, which was aimed at making it more convenient to get into other dorms, was continued by current student body president Libby Bishop and vice president Trip Foley. 
Bishop said she met with assistant vice president of 

out in the procedure, but ResLife is working to correct that problem, Kachmarik said. 
He also said the new sys­tem has an advantage over using keys to enter the dorms. 
"Ifs safer than the old key system because in the past if 
you lost 
an out­
ResLife Bill s i d e
"It's so much more
Kirk and asso­k e y •
welcome and it's so much
ciate director t h e n
. ..
S C O t t easier. that key Kachmarik would during the f 1 o a t
Libby Bishop 
summer to around ensure that student body president a n d 
the plan would be car­ried out. 
"My fear was that they would have a uniform policy where every dorm would be locked dur­ing the day,'' Bishop said. 
She said she was pleased with the flexibility of the new system, which allows rectors to decide if they want to restrict or allow entrances during the day. 
"It's so much more wel­coming and it's so much eas­ier," Bishop said. 
Prior to the expanded swipe access, students often had to call their guests, especially in women's resi­dence halls, which are often locked at all times and only accessible by detex or ID cards. 
Although the swipe access has been installed since the beginning of the school year. ResLife waited to announce it. 
"We did not make it public because we wanted to make sure that the bugs were out,.. Kachmarik said. 
One wrinkle the office is 

there 
a r e 
proba• bly [keys] floating for years and years," he said. 
However, when students lose their identification cards, they can call and deactivate their cards. 
"From a security stand­point, this is actually better than the old key system," Kachmarik said. 
Though the new access will allow more free movement of students between the dorms, Kachmarik said ResLife holds the right to deny access to students as a result of disciplinary sanction, for example. 
"As a rule, we're not track­ing to see who's coming or going," Kachmarik said. "There really is no need to do that at this point." 
He also added that the hours of student accessibility to dorms other than their own could change for special weekends or during breaks. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 

TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY., Sept. 20 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level. LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 
1st Place: $100 gift certificate from BEST BUY 2nd Place: $75 gift certificate from BEST BUY 3rd Place: $25 gift certificate from BEST BUY 
Space limited to first 20 pEople who sign up-­Sign up at ND Express. (Must present I.D. when registering.) 
Sponsored bu th@ Student Activities Office. 
DANCING Duo 

tion rates, faculty resources, student selectivity, financial



Rank 

resources and alumni giving. 
continued from page 1 Saint Mary's was given an overall score of 100, the high­ways." est score possible in the rank­
U.S. News and World Report ings, placing the College first uses several factors to rank over 109 other institutions in schools including peer assess­its category. ment, graduation and reten-"I was excited to see Saint Mary's ranked as No. 1 again. It's a great refection of the students and faculty." said Rachel Finely, senior class president. "I'm pleased to graduate with a degree from a No. 1-ranked college." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at N est9877@saintmarys.edu 


Pira.mides, Palacios. y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY,MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5:00 PM 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2002 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2002 240 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre-Professional Students Huge variety of internships available in Puebla 
Engineering courses offered in Monterrey AL, BA courses offered in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 FOR SPRING 2003, DECEMBER 1 FOR FALL 2003 AND AY 2003-4 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 


Monday, September 16, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

UNITED NATIONS 




Arabs seek to head off United States-Iraq war 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

Arabs sought on Sunday to head off a war between Iraq and the United States. but also pressed the United Nations for action on another destabilizing dispute in their region, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. 
Arab countries joined other nations that have called on Iraq to comply with U.N. resolutions to avert a showdown with Washington. And Saudi Arabia, the richest Arab state. signaled a policy shift likely to put more pressure on the Iraqi govern­ment. 
Saudi Arabian leaders previ­ously had ruled out any use of Saudi bases by U.S. forces to attack Iraq. But Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal said Sunday on CNN that if the U.N. Security Council authorizes military action against Iraq, "Everybody is obliged to follow through." 
In another interview, with the London-based newspaper Al Hayat, Saud urged Saddam Hussein's regime to quickly allow U.N. weapons inspectors back into Iraq to head off a new Security Council resolution that could open the way for military action. 
President Bush demanded last week that the United Nations force Iraq to comply with resolu­tions requiring U.N. supervision of the destruction of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. He warned that America will act, alone if necessary. if the Security Council doesn't. 
Jordan, a neighbor of Iraq that faced an influx of refugees dur­ing the 1991 Gulf War and wor­ries about the repercussions of another war, also called on Iraq to implement Security Council resolutions, including the return of U.N. weapons inspectors. Compliance would spare the region "the dire consequences" of war, Jordanian Foreign Minister Marwan Muasher told the U.N. General Assembly on Sunday. 
Iraq's foreign minister, Naji Sabri, said late Saturday he hoped the crisis could be resolved without new action by the council. 
Although the Iraq crisis has taken center stage at the current session of the General Assembly, Arabs said the conflict with Israel continues to dominate their lives, as it has since the establishment of the Jewish state in 1948. 
Syria's foreign minister accused the world of ..blind bias" in dealing with Iraq while ignor­ing what he said was Israel's refusal to abide by similar inter­national demands. 
"Is it reasonable for the world to request Iraq implement Security Council resolutions while some assist Israel in being above international law?" Farouk al-Sharaa asked in a speech Sunday to the General Assembly, clearly referring to the United States, which Arabs consider Israel's main protector. 

Arab countries maintain a war in Iraq could destabilize a region already tense over Palestinian­Israeli violence. 

Georgia debates new touch-screen voting machines 
Associated Press 

ATIANTA 
Georgia voters going to the general election polls in a few weeks will face ranks of new ATM-style touch-screen vot­ing machines instead of paper ballots that must be marked with special pens or cards that have to be punched. 
Georgia hustled to overhaul its election system after Florida's disastrous 2000 presidential election. Now that another Florida election has ended in new disar­ray, partly because of its new touch­screen machines, some worry that Georgia may have moved too far too fast. 
"I think Georgia is making a mistake in rolling out new equipment on the general election day without having had it in place for the primary to test it and for people to get used to it," said state Sen. Eric Johnson, Republican leader of the Senate. 
Not everyone shares that opinion. 
It will be a smooth election, said Democratic state Sen. Jack Hill, who served on the commission that helped devise the switch. 
"Frankly, we have a reputation for get­ting the job done, and Florida doesn't," Hill said. 
Florida spent $32 million on an election overhaul that did away with its notorious punch-card and butterfly ballots. Counties were given the option of buying touch­screen systems or less expensive optical­scan machines. 
While some Florida counties reported problems with the new technology, many other problems were the result of human error, including poll workers failing to show up and voters being confused about 
where to vote. Georgia, on the other hand, spent $54 million on its overhaul. 
All Georgia counties were required to install the same touch-screen technology. Officials say that makes it much easier to train poll workers and educate voters. 
"When you've got one system in all the counties and media markets in all regions of the state, you are able to speak with one voice at one time to everybody: This is how you are going to vote," said Chris Riggall, a spokesman for Secretary of State Cathy Cox. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Swiss Social Democrats claim victory 
Sweden's ruling Social Democrats claimed victory in national elections Sunday after a close race with the center-right opposition, and were positioned to form a minority government. 
"This is an important moment for me as party leader -to win an election and go against a European trend. to win so clearly when in govern­ment."Prime Minister Goeran Persson said. "I'm happy and moved, but not so surprised." 
With nearly 100 percent of the vote counted, the long-governing Social Democrats are positioned to stay in power, provided they gain the support of the Left and Green parties in the 349-seat Riksdag, or parliament. 

Macedonian P.M. concedes defeat 
Macedonia's prime minister conceded defeat for his ruling party early Monday after the troubled Balkan country's first elections since convulsing in ethnic warfare last year. 
Prime Minister Ljubco Georgievski confirmed that the ruling Macedonian party, known as VMRO, was ousted from the government in Sunday's parliamen­tary elections by the opposition Together for Macedonia coalition led by former communist Branko Crvenkovski. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Train carrying acid derails in Tenn. 
Derailed railroad cars leaked billowing fumes of highly corrosive sulfuric acid in a residential area Sunday, forcing the evacuation of about 100 homes within a mile of the site. 
No serious injuries were reported, said Alan Lawson, deputy director of the Knoxville-Knox County Emergency Management Agency. 
Some people exposed to the acid fumes com­plained of minor skin and lung irritation and a few were taken to a hospital, where they were treated and released, said Lt. Jeff Devlin of the Metro Special Hazards Team. 


Boston FBI agent to be sentenced 
To some, John Connolly is a hero, an FBI agent who risked his life to help bring down the New England Mafia. 
To others, he personifies the corruption that has tainted the agency's reputation. 
Both sides have come out in force to try to influ­ence the judge who will sentence Connolly on racke­teering charges Monday. 
Connolly's lawyers filed more than 200 letters last week from people who described Connolly's devotion to his three young sons, his charitable works and his dedication to his job as an FBI agent. 

Mich. house explosion }Qlls family of 5 
An explosion flattened a farmhouse Sunday and killed a family of five just a day after they moved in. police said. 
The bodies of three adults and two children, ages 1 and 4, were found in the wreckage. police said. 
State Police Lt. Tim Young said the family had been hired to manage the farm by an Indiana company and had just moved in Saturday. 
The cause of the explosion, reported about 2:30 a.m., had not been determined, Young said. Officials said they believe it was accidental. 
Debris was scattered up to a quarter-mile away. 

Immigrant pleads with INS for asylum 
Bernard Lukwago says he was forced to serve as a human shield for rebel forces in his native Uganda when he was 15, and all he wanted at the time was to return home. 
Now, that's the last place he wants to go. 
'Tm very scared for my life," Lukwago said. 
Lukwago, 20, is one of thousands of people trying to win asylum with an Immigration and Naturalization Service made more cautious by the Sept. 11 attacks. 
His supporters say the terror attacks have created a climate offear that has caused immigration officials to reject asylum-seekers with legitimate claims. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, September 16, 2002 
U-WIRE 


Students, professors react to Bush's speeches 
www.white-house.gov. These 1995, so when an official in legal justification to go in andBy BETHANY KROTTINGER resolutions include overseeing the weapons program assassinate Hussein."
Daily O'Collegian 

the destruction of weapons of exposed the lie, the regime Bush said with every step 
mass destruction, stopping had produced thousands of the Iraqi regime gains toward 
After Saddam Hussein development of new weapons, anthrax litters, war heads deploying weapons. the nar­repeatedly ignored United stopping the support of ter­and aerial bombs. rower the options to confront Nations Security Council reso­rorism and preventing terror­To make sure the world. is the regime will become. lutions, President George W. ist organizations from operat­out of danger, a change in "If an emboldened regime Bush announced the United ing in Iraq. Iraq's government is needed were to supply these weapons States return to the United "If Iraq's regime defies us to develop a more reliable to terrorist allies, then the Nations Educational, again, the world must move government, Habiby said. attacks of September the 11th 
Scienti fie deliber­"War is would be a n d· a t e l y not the a pre­
"If an emboldened regime 
Cultural l a n d J answer to "Saddam's actions have lude to 
Organ-iza­were to supply these decisively remove proven to the free world that f a r 
tion on weapons to terrorist allies. to hold one person greater
the only way to ensure peace
Thursday. Iraq to f r o m h o r ­
then the attacks ofSeptember ..
"As a account," power," and stability in the region is to rors,
the 11th would be a prelude
symbol of Bush said. said Fahd end his oppressive tyranny B u s h 
our com­to far greater horrors ... He said Jamil, con­said in
over the Iraqi people. " 
mitment to t h e struction h i s human regime manage­address.
George W. Bush
dignity, the will have m e n t Frank Luca Bush is 

President
United to comply senior not the

congressman
States will with the f r o m o n 1 y return to resolu­Islamabad, politi­UNESCO," Bush said in an tions if it wants peace, he Pakistan. cian who has presented his address to the U .N. General said. Hussein is one person who opinions on the Iraq regime.Assembly. Bush has not said there will never wanted to compromise, Repub-lican Rep. Frank Lucas 
"This organization has been be an invasion, the concern of Jamil said. The United States of Okla-homa recently shared reformed and America will an invasion and the conse­has no reason to invade his views. participate fully in its mission quences are prevalent. because there is no solid evi­After observing the Sept. 11 to advance human rights, tol­Oklahoma State University dence proving it should. ceremonies, Lucas "pledges to erance and learning." students and Bush said do whatever it takes to keep
Bush said since the attacks faculty have assuming the Hussein from creating anoth­on America, the enemies' varying opin­"War is not the answer to good faith of er day of remembrance." 
destructive intentions are ions about the regime is ..Sad dam's actions have
remove one person from 
present, and the fear that hid­military like gam­proven to the free world that den terrorist groups will be action power. •• bling on the the only way to ensure peacesupplied with the technology 
against Iraq. lives of mil­and stability in the region is 
to kill many people is greater "We have lions and to end his oppressive tyranny

Fahd Jamil 

than ever. to take the world peace. over the Iraqi people,"he said.

construction manager
"In one place, in one word of the "I feel we The debate about whether 
regime, we find all these dan­president," are not fin­to invade Iraq is welcome and gers, in their most lethal and s a i d 
ished with will give the president a 
aggressive forms, exactly the 

Raymond Habiby, professor our campaign in Afghan­chance to explain his case to kind of aggressive threat the emeritus of political science. istan,"said Haylee Congress and the people,United Nations was born to ..We are afraid that they are Hager, political science Lucas said. confront,"he said. developing nuclear biological junior. "An executive·order "One memorial service was 
In the past 12 years, weapons." 
says we cannot assassinate too many and two were sadly
Saddam Hussein has violated Bush said the Iraqi regime heads of state unless rescind­familiar,"Lucas said."A third 16 U.N. Security Council reso­

denied having biological ed by the president. would be a national tragedylutions, according to weapons between 1991 and Therefore, wedo not have any we should work to prevent." 

Advisory board holds discussion 
Special to the Observer 
• A panel discussion titled "American Journalism: A Year's Lessons" will be held Sept. 16 at 3 p.m. in Rooms 100-104 of McKenna Hall at the University of Notre Dame. The event is free and open to the public. 
Panelists will discuss the 
changes and challenges con­
fronting the news media in the 
post-Sept. 11 world. Members of 
the advisory committee of Notre 
Dame's John W. Gallivan 
Program in Journalism, Ethics & 
Democracy will take part in the 
forum. The committee, which 
oversees the curriculum and 
activities of the University's 
undergraduate concentration in 
journalism, was formed in 1997 
and is composed of Notre Dame 
graduates involved in various 
aspects of communications. 
Committee members include 
Tom Bettag, executive producer, 
"Nightline"; Bill Dwyre, sports 
editor, the Los Angeles Times; 
John W. Gallivan, former chair­
man of the board of Kearns­
Tribune Corporation and pub­
lisher emeritus of the Salt Lake 
City Tribune; Monica Yant 
Kinney, metro columnist, the 
Philadelphia Inquirer; John 
McMeel. chairman, Andrews 
McMeel Universal; Jim 
Naughton, president, Poynter 
Institute for Media Studies; Anne 
Thompson, national correspon­
dent. NBC News; Kelley Tuthill, 
anchor-reporter, WCVB-TV, 
Boston; and Don Wycliff, public 
editor, the Chicago Tribune. 
Endowment and operating gifts from the family of John W. Gallivan support the work of the journalism program. 

JOil\J A I\JEW 
COHHUI\JiTY 
(ZEFLECT 01\J ~CQiffUQE 
~-l-lAQE '-10UQ 


FAiT-l-l 
g-AQT T-l-lE 
JOUQI\JEY.... 


Communities ofFaith Sharing and Scripture Study 
TO JOil\J Al\J f;:t-'1t-'1AU5 ~r20UP 

QGl\J-lAP-­

4t?H riL' MiDIViG~T 
cOLEHAI\J-HOQSE 
WcLCOHt c6NT6Q 
(Qt--1.111) 
For more information contact: Jemar Tisby,jtisby@nd.edu; 1-3389 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, September 16, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch Se tember 13 
Dow Jones 

8,312.69  -66.72  
1,291.40  NASDAQ ft S&P500  +11.72  
889.81  *AM.EX  +2.90  
870.05  
 +3.65  
482.35  NYSE *  +1.01  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -23.64-0.39 1.26 





iiAioi;;jji;~::~Noe,,;,:r~~,:;~~::~~:'!'~~!~:~~'.~ 
PALM INC (PALM) +5. 26 +0. 04 0. 80 
ffli:t':m~imiisr11si:1~:1i~~l~ilii~~!:::~~:~~j!,1::m!:::~~~::!~ 
CISCO SYSTEMS(CSCO) +0.08+0.0113.05 
IN BRIEF 

America's rich getting poorer 
The rich are getting less rich in America. For the second straight year but only the fourth time in 20 years of rankings, the com­bined net worth of Forbes magazine's 400 wealthiest Americans declined this year, reflecting the economy's continuing troubles. 
Their total net worth of $872 billion was down from $946 billion in 2001 and $1.2 tril­lion in 2000. Even the benchmark for being ranked dropped. The 2002 survey included individuals with a minimum net worth of $550 million -down from the required $600 million in 2001. 
The top 10 remained the same, with some reshuffiing of the order. 
The biggest loser on the list released Friday was also the richest person: Microsoft co­founder Bill Gates. 
Gates lost $11 billion for a net worth of $43 billion. He now has lost $20 billion since the tech meltdown began in 2000, due largely to the drop in value of his Microsoft shares. 
The biggest winner was investor Warren Buffett, who remained No. 2 on the list. His net worth increased -to $36 billion from $33.2 billion. 

Clairol to launch large ad campaign 
The Procter & Gamble Co. is starting a mas­sive ad campaign to try to revitalize the Clairol hair care brand it acquired from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. in November. 
"This intensive initial campaign is just the beginning of our efforts to re-energize Clairol as a global hair color leader," said Rob Matteucci, president of P&G's Clairol division. 
The saturation campaign, which begins Monday, will include broadcast ads, a bill­board in New York's Times Square and eight­page inserts in leading women's magazines. 
"We're really trying to surround the con­sumer," said Paul Scoggins, Clairol group products manager. "We really want to rein­force Clairol as a leader in color." 
Telekom investors file law suit 
• The ousting of a former CEO sparked the suit 
Associated Pn:55 
BERLIN 

Shareholders in Deutsche Telekom have filed a suit against Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Finance Minister Hans Eichel, alleging that the way they handled the company's ouster of chief executive officer Ron Sommer dam­aged their investments. 
The German govern­ment had encouraged small investors to buy Deutsche Telekom stock as the former state tele­phone utility went public in 1996, and many lost money when the stock plunged by 90 percent from a peak of 100.85 euros in March 2000. 
Sommer quit July 16 after the company's low stock price became an issue in the election battle between Schroeder and conservative challenger Edmund Stoiber. 
Eichel has acknowl­edged helping force Sommer out of the compa­ny, which is 43 percent government-owned, say­ing the government "joined in this initiative"when it took 
should have brought the a spokesman for Eichel ernment caused Sommer's
shape in the supervisory 
company before the feder­called it "absurd" to try resignation.
board. Schroeder has 
al audit office. Instead. and hold the two politi­"There was no inappro­
denied any personal 
the suit claims, Schroeder cians responsible for what priate influence by theinvolvement. 
and Eichel pressured the was a company decision federal government con­The 40-page complaint, 
supervisory board to to replace Sommer. cerned with Ronfiled in Berlin regional replace Sommer, the Telekom board chair­Sommers 
court Friday, claims that 
weekly newsmagazine Der man Hans-Dietrich resignation,"WinkhausEichel had information 
Spiegel reported on Winkhaus said in a state­said. "It was the develop­
that Deutsche Telekom 
Sunday. ment Sunday that the suit ment of opinions on the
had overpaid for U.S. sub­The federal press office pulled numbers "from the supervisory board that led
sidiary VoiceStream and 
would not comment, while air" and denied the gov-to his resignation." 

Next market leader a mystery 
any. It is going to be very fragment­mends oil and defense stocks, say­
Associated Press 
ed," said Scott Bleier, president of ing they will benefit the most if Hybridinvestors.com. there is a war with Iraq, and high­
NEW YORK 

Of the 10 sectors tracked by dividend-paying blue chips, whichOne great mystery on Wall Street Standard & Poor's, consumer staple at least give investors some cashhas been which stock sector is going issues -quite defensive given that return.
to lead the rest of the market into they are makers of such banal "That is the most defensive situa­recovery. It's not about to be solved 
necessities as toothpaste and tion," Herrick said.
anytime soon. 
deodorant -are the lone leaders, Bush recommends drug stocks,
Investors, having gotten past the up 1 percent so far this year. which were a winner last year but
Sept. 11 anniversary of the terror 
No surprise who the biggest losers have fared less well this year. 
attacks, must now factor the possi­
are -telecommunications, down He also favors "early cyclicals"
bility of war with Iraq into their 45.2 percent as companies continue such as trucking firms and thosesearch for leadership. And a wide to suffer the glut of the late '90s, that produce basic materials. "If you
range of companies -this past 
and information technology, down see any signs that (other) companies
week, chip maker Philips 
37.6 percent, once loved but no are on a capital spending spree
Electronics and manufacturer 
longer providing hope that it will be again, those are the first companies
Honeywell International -are 
the market's savior. that are going to feel it," he said.
warning that business remains 
"We are getting increasing signals The market's major indexesdepressed. 
from the technology sector that {the recorded their third straight weekly"We are just mired in a situation rebound) is not going to he in the declines.
where the economy is not giving you 
second half of '02 or early '03," For the week, the Dow lost
the high sign. We are post-Sept. 11, Bush said. "I don't think technology 114. 51, or 1.4 percent, after falling
but staring possible war in the 
is going to provide the leadership." 66.72 Friday. The Dow closed theMiddle East in the face," said Brian Given the political and economic week at 8,312.69.
Bush, director of equity research for 
certainty, analysts say the best The Nasdaq composite index had
Stephens Inc. "That is a difficult strategy for investors is a defensive a weekly decline of 3.90, or 0.3 per­environment for the market to go 
one. And, that means choosing cent. On Friday, the Nasdaq rose
forward in." 
stocks that pay high dividends or 11.72 to 1,291.40.
There may not be any clear-cut 
those will fare best if the United For the week, the Standard &
leaders on Wall Street for a while. 
States goes to war. Poor's 500 index slipped 4.11, or"In terms of market leadership, I 
Tracy Herrick, chief market 0.5 percent. On Friday, the S&Pdon't think we are going to have 
strategist at Jefferies & Co., recom-advanced 2.90 to 889.81. 
Monday, September 16, 2002

page 8 The Observer . U-WIRE 
U-WIRE 

International college students face obstacles 
. Texas A&M 
students respond to visa restrictions 
By MELISSA McKEON 
Texas A&M Battalion 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Many students all over the world hope to come to the United States to pursue a high­er education. But in October 2001, additional restrictions on student visas were placed by the Bush administration in more than 20 countries in response to the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Triwahyu Widodo, vice presi­dent for the International Student Association and a senior industrial engineering major, said it took him about a month to receive his visa from Indonesia so he could come to Texas A&M University to study. 
"I did not experience any dif­ference because I renewed my visa for this year before Sept. 11," Widodo said. 
His brother, he said, should also be here attending classes, but he is still waiting for his visa to be approved. 
"Indonesia is one of the biggest Muslim countries in the world: I think that has a lot to do with the delay," Widodo said. 
Suzanne Drolesky, executive director of International Programs for students at A&M, said the application process is taking about 6-8 weeks longer this year than last year. 
According to a group of for­eign student advisers from the Association of International Educators, tuition and living expenses gleaned from the 550,000 foreign undergraduate and graduate students studying in American schools added $11 billion to the economy last year. 
Until recently, international students could have their visas re-issued to them while still in America, but they must now get them in the country where their passport is issued. 

"My friend left after the semester to get his visa renewed in Indonesia and now he can't come back," Widodo said. "He got rejected. And if you're rejected three times, the chances of getting a student visa are zero." 
International students at A&M are a little disappointed with the new regulations, but they understand that new secu­rity measures must be imple­mented, Widodo said. 
The situation may be more difficult because of a plan by the Bush administration to check foreign students even more if their area of study could possibly be used in an attack against the United States. 
Most of the screening is con­centrated toward specific areas of study, such as high tech and science fields, Drolesky said. 
Screening people coming into the United States is done with good intentions, but the screen­ing must be reasonable, she said. 
..The heightened security must be fair so students are not unduly scrutinized or stressed," Drolesky said. 
Student visas should be close­ly monitored, but the United States should not go overboard, senior English major Lauren Jones said. 
"Visas should not be handed out to just anyone," Jones said. "We all want to keep the United States and our campuses safe, but we have to keep in mind that not everyone from another country is out to harm us." 
Student visas comprise less than 2 percent of all visas issued to people around the world for admittance to the United States. 
"I'd be a lot more concerned about the other 98 percent," Drolesky said. 
"Students in general are easi­ly trackable and the same is true for international students as well." 
2002-03 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

Aclt)rs f1r()r1111l1e lj()ll(1<)t1 Stag·e 
.... Much Ado About Nothing 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 19 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, September 20 ... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, September 21 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
. Iowa State reacts to online INS record policy 
By NATALIE SPRAY 
Iowa State: Daily 
AMES, Iowa 

Iowa State University officials said they are frustrated with bureau­cratic red 
tape that '7NS wants an easy and 
released to the is holding fast solution, but you universities. 
up the 

can't provide that in a Iowa State has
installa­

ordered the soft­
tion of a limited amount oftime.·· 
ware that will be 
computer used to keep track 

program 

Pat Parker of the required
that will 

assistant director of admissions information, but it
tr a c k 

has not yet
interna­Iowa State University arrived because 
month for part of the system. 
Parker said the system could end up with less information than it started with if it isn't tested before the operational due date. 
"INS wants an easy and fast solution. but you can't provide that in a limited amount of time," Parker said. 
Dennis Peterson, director of international educational ser­vices, said the final require­ments for the sys­tem have not been 
tional students. 

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has mandated that the records of all international students, including the 2,572 at Iowa State, be tracked through an online computer system called Student Exchange Visitor Information System. All univer­sities must have the system in place by Jan. 30, 2003. 
Pat Parker, assistant director of admissions. said she thinks the deadline is unrealistic. 
"The government, because they haven't been working with the university, doesn't realize what they're asking," she said. 
Parker said the INS originally said universities would have a year from Jan. 1, 2003, to get its systems together, but the new deadline allows only a 
the regulations have not been released. 
"We are expecting the soft­ware sometime by the middle of October," Peterson said. "But it's all speculation on our part." 
SEVIS is taking not only time, but also money and resources from the university. Parker said the computer system will cost somewhere between $25,000 and $30,000. 
Peterson said the university will spend about $36,000 per year for technical help with the system, in addition to hardware costs. He said Iowa State will not receive reimbursement for operating costs from the gov­ernment. 
SEVIS is not a new concept. 
Peterson said in the past when the INS wanted informa­tion on international students, it would call the university. 
Then the university would send it the information. With SEVIS in effect, the INS will be able to go online to find whatever information it wants to see. 
He said the INS has not asked for any information about an ISU international student since 1994. 
SEVIS was started nationally in February 1993 after the first bombing of the World Trade Center under the name CIPRIS. 
"We were excited because INS and higher education were working together," Parker said. 
Peterson said a similar sys­tem to the one Iowa State will be using was tested in 22 southern states during a period of three years. 
After the Oklahoma City bombing, the deadline for the system's employment was pushed forward and higher education was no longer work­ing with the INS. 
Peterson said the system was to be implemented by 2005, but after the events of Sept. 11, 2001, Congress passed the Patriot Act in October, moving the date to Jan. 30, 2003. 
RESUMES 
Anyone can write a resume -but will it be effective? 
A+ Resumes is the answer. <p Resumes that work <p FREE consultation <p Located near campus 
A+ Resumes 
243-3140 www.aplusrez.com 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay, or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 
7:30 PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 Academic Year 2003-2004 Fall 2003-Spring 2004 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-intlstud after Oct. 2, 2002 
Monday, September 16, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
'The Sopranos' returns to HBO 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A lot -too much -has hap­pened since "The Sopranos" completed its third season. 
That was in May 2001 as HBO's great drama wrung out a finale of unrelieved foreboding. 
Sunday at 9 p.m. EDT. "The Sopranos" kicks off another 13 weekly episodes. And not a moment too soon. 
Set in New Jersey, where Tony Soprano presides as husband, father and mob boss, "The Sopranos" has clipped a glimpse of the Twin Towers from its opening titles. But it wastes no time addressing the tragedy of 9-11. 
"Ma really went downhill after the World Trade Center," Soprano soldier Bobby Bacala tells Tony in Sunday's opener. Then the none-too-bright Bacala adds, "Quasimodo predicted all this." 
"Nostradamus," Tony impa­tiently corrects him. "Quasimodo's the hunchback of Notre Dame." 
Whatever. Season 4 of "The Sopranos" seems poised to do something far more valuable for its audience than underline the painfully obvious. In its own way, it is bridging the abyss between Before and Now. 
On "The Sopranos," no one rests easy. Not before, and cer­tainly not now. 
Now Uncle Junior is awaiting his RICO trial. The Feds have infiltrated Tony's ranks. Christopher, the surrogate son being groomed by Tony to suc­ceed him, is not only a screw-up but also, unbeknownst to Tony, hooked on heroin. 
On the home front, Tony's wife, Carmela, is pressing him to diversify their holdings beyond cash stuffed in mattresses "at zero growth." 
"Stocks?!" he snorts, as if bowing to a better class of crimi­nal. "We don't have those Enron-type connections!" 
Full of headaches and hassles, life goes on for Tony, just as it does (with bloody exceptions) for the many others inhabiting his rancorous world. Tony's con­flicts, foibles and psychotherapy continue as our rich escape. 
"The Sopranos" arrived in January 1999 with Tony collaps­ing in an anxiety attack and landing in a psychiatrist's office. The audience fell in love. 
major broadcast networks. 
Season 4 was filmed from October 2001 through this July, in the gap between Before and Now. 
But weeks earlier, on the morning of Sept. 11, Falco was part of an unthinkable reunion with her co-stars. 
"I ran into Jim [Gandolfini] on the street," she recalls. "He was riding his bike downtown to see what was going on. He said, 'Go to my apartment."' 
She did, joining others gath­ered around the TV. 
"Then Jim came back and told 
us what he 
saw. It was 
Since then "'Good to see you!' 'Like surreal. the series, in There's my
your haircut!' That,s 
the sure fake husband
something I'll never get 
hands of its and all our creator-pro­used to.., friends from ducer David the show. Chase, has Meanwhile,
Edie Falco
grown into a out the win­phenomenon actor on "The Sopranos" dow you could 
not even 
Nostradamus 
could have foreseen. 
It scored back-to-back Peabody awards in 2000 and '01, while James Gandolfini and Edie Falco (who play Tony and Carmela) have won two Emmys apiece. (Its 16-month hiatus means no Emmy consideration this year.) 
"All this chaos!" marvels Edie Falco, who merely walking about Manhattan meets herself on magazine covers and bus­shed posters. "It's this whole tornado that goes on around us just coming to work and doing a show we're proud of." 
Gale forces! Consider: During its third season, "The Sopranos" drew as many as 11.3 million viewers to a specialty, for-pay cable channel. thus rivaling the audience that watches any of the see the fire." 
A year later, New York in many ways is get­ting back to normal. Among other signs: a resumption of the city's famous incivility. This makes Falco's rising fame even odder for the 20-year Manhattan resident, who grew up on Long Island: People she doesn't know are being nice to her. 
'"Good to see you!' 'Like your haircut!' That's something I'll never get used to," Falco says. 
She'd better. This summer, she appeared in the John Sayles film "Sunshine State," for which she won critical raves. Then, shortly after "The Sopranos" wrapped, she opened on Broadway in a hit revival of Terrence McNally's "Frankie and Johnny in the Claire de Lune," co-starring Stanley Tucci. 
O'Reilly upsets right wing groups 
Associated Press 
. Talk show host draws criticism over comments on gay adoption 
NEW YORK 

There's nothing unusual 
about pugnacious talk show 
host Bill O'Reilly being in a 
fight. The real surprise this 
time is who he's fighting. 
In the past two weeks, O'Reilly has come under attack from the right, from the same ideologues who helped make the Fox News Channel person­ality one of the most popular figures on cable television. 
Earlier this month on "The O'Reilly Factor," he had a riv­eting confrontation with Bible­toting Stephen Bennett, a Connecticut minister who speaks out against the adop­tion of children by gays and lesbians. 
After O'Reilly called Bennett a "religious fanatic," two con­servative groups, Concerned Women for America and the American Family Association, urged its members to protest. 
Last week, The Wall Street Journal -normally friendly "Factor" territory -published a column by its chief editorial writer, William McGurn, who called O'Reilly "unhinged" for his behavior toward the writer as a guest. His headline: "The Blowhard Zone... 
So many battles, so little time. It's not as if he's ignoring other ends of the spectrum, either. The rapper Ludacris and his fans are mad because an O'Reilly segment led Pepsi to drop the musician as a spokesman. O'Reilly's fight with Hollywood personalities over disbursement of Sept. 11 charity funds continues. 
Whether calculated or not, the dispute with conservative groups may be as shrewd as a politician who adroitly posi­tions himself in the center just before an election. 
When Bennett came on the show. he tried to appeal to O'Reilly's Irish Catholicism by reading Bible quotations against homosexuals. 
O'Reilly would have none of it. He couldn't understand why Bennett would object to a troubled child in foster care 
for six years being adopted by 
a loving gay couple. Bennett 
couldn't understand why 
O'Reilly was advocating for 
gay rights. 
The Concerned Women for 

America seemed hurt, as if 
slapped across the face by a 
brother. Writing to O'Reilly to 
protest, the organization's 
president slipped in a proverb: 
"Faithful are the wounds of a 
friend." 
"If you do something wrong, 

if your slip is showing, your 
family is the one that rushes to 
your side and helps you and 
corrects you, because they 
love you," said CWA president 
Sandy Rios. "He embarrassed 
himself and, as a friend of his 
show, I was embarrassed." 
Rios reacted just like an ide­

ological opposite who went on 
the show and couldn't get a 
word in edgewise. 
"He was completely twisting the facts," she said. "He manipulated the entire discus­sion. Even if he disagrees with Stephen, he should have at least let Stephen have his say. I would never support any­body, including Bill, who bul­lies their guests." 
Not surprisingly, O'Reilly sees things differently. 
"We've always said, 'Don't let your ideology hold you cap­tive,"' he said. "Now if they feel betrayed because I make a point that it's better to have a child with a stable home, even if it's run by homosexuals, than to be in the unbelievably chaotic atmosphere of foster care, if they feel thafs a betrayal, then that's on them. We gave them more than enough time to come on the program and explain their point of view." 
People who pigeonhole O'Reilly as a conservative wouldn't have expected the exchange. O'Reilly is conserva­tive on some issues, but he supports gun control, opposes the death penalty and is an environmentalist at heart. He fashions himself a populist. 
O'Reilly says now what has always been hard for people at Fox News to admit: that he once had a hard-core, right­wing audience. 
"I think our audience has changed," he said. "The e-mail reflects a very wide cross-sec­tion of America watches the 'Factor."' 

R~3/-~ -/1.,/~J.t, 
Registration: 9/17, 8am, RSRC 
YOGA 
Performance Enhancement 
Sundays 
Training

9/22-12/8 
FRI 9/27, 10/4, II, 11/1, 8
6:15-7:30pm $40 
12:15-1:30 $23 
PILATES

Relaxation Training 
Mondays

FRIDAYS 
I 
9/23-12/2

9/27,10/4,11 
7-Bpm 

4-5 $12 
$40 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, September 16, 2002 
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kev:in Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VlEWPOINf EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 

ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CoNTR0ll.ER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us OFFJCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING................. ....................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..••.••..•.••....••.•.••.•..•.••.•...•..••.•.••.•..•••....631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................63 l-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARrs.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

V1Sit our Web site at http:llobservcr.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm,er polidts should bt direct-
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Thc oi..,,.., (USPS 599 2-4000) it published Monday mrough Friday """"I" during cum and ','atabon periods. A ,uba:ripcion Ill The: Observer is SI 00 for one illC:wkmic ,_,.,, $55 fur one rcmcsrcr. 
Th< oi..,,_;. pubfuhcd "" POSTMASTER OH Soum DiRing Hall Send adJtcss am..:tion, a,: Noue Dame. IN 46556-0779 Thc Obo<n'cr Pcriodiul potug,: paid at N""" Dame P.O. Bo,Q ond additional mailinc ofli<.a. Oli South Dining Hall No.,. D>m<, IN 16S56-0Tl'J 
The Oboa,a i, • member of the Aaociaoed Pra.. All r<producrioo, righu arc ,aaycd, 

The moment I remember most about Sept. 11, 2001 wasn't any of the horrific images from New York City, Washington, D.C. or Pennsylvania I watched on television, but rather a real, tangible event I was pre• 
Mike Marchand 

sent for -the hastily arranged Mass on South Quad in which Undistinguished7,000 people Alumnus united in a show of both mourn• ing and support. I was never so proud to be a member of the Notre Dame family as I was then, and I still feel that way. 
Unfortunately, I wasn't there for the Mass on Sept. 11, 2002, which drew 5,000 people, according to news reports. But it seems appropriate that reflections on that terrible event one year before took place at the reflect­ing pool in front of the image of Christ on the Hesburgh Library. 
Have we really changed? Yes and no. There aren't as many American flags hanging from windows, car antennas or jacket lapels anymore, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing. No emotion can be felt forever. Alan Jackson's song was wrong-the world didn't stop turning on Sept. 11. The world has kept turning, and time's march has continued unabated. 
That day may be a watershed moment in American history and all of our lives, but we can't be expected to feel the same way a year later and forever after that. And just because we don't all feel patriotism at this time as actively as we might have last year doesn't mean that it's disap• peared from our lives entirely. Like anything else, it's settled. After a year, we've all figured out, in our own way. how to reach an equilibrium between looking back and looking for­ward. 
The memorial services at Ground Zero, the Pentagon and the Flight 93 crash site also struck that delicate balance between remembering and moving on. Reading the names of all the people that perished in the World Trade Center took more than three hours. But the circle where victims' families left tributes and the eternal flame lit by New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and President George W. Bush will be part of the permanent memorial. whenever that is decided upon. 
At the Pentagon, the theme was a return to normal. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld commended the workers who rebuilt the Pentagon so well that it can hardly be seen where the damage was done to it. And although names weren't named, there was a vow to continue the war-against terror to ensure that such an act of heinous barbarism won't be repeated. 
In Shanksville, Penn., the memorial was probably the most celebratory, commending the heroes of Flight 93 who refused to accept their fate and took over the plane. guiding it into the ground rather than allow it to be flown into what we now know was going to be the U.S. Capitol. The "Let's roll" vow uttered by Todd Beamer will be echoed as the theme of the permanent memorial erected there. 
For the rest of us watching, the day was somber. The endless repetition of violent images of the planes tearing into the World Trade Center and the towers collapsing, and the orgy of war rhetoric and jingoism predicted by so many didn't happen. Instead, we focused on the human aspect: families missing loved ones, firefighters strug­gling to continue in their duty without some of their brothers. In a way, the television presentations were our way of going to a funeral and showing soli• darity and paying our respects. 
But even still, the events of the day were nearly overshadowed by the uncertainty of our future. America was put on high alert for terrorism, Code Orange, which scared everyone. Would the terrorists use the anniver­sary of Sept. 11 to attack us again? Terrorists, as a general rule, like symbolism. It's no accident that the targets were the centers of American financial, military and political might. 
However, the vigilance paid off and there were no repeat attacks. But there is an even more ominous anniversary that may be looming ­Oct. 7, the date the bombing of Afghanistan started a year ago. It's probably more lik~ly that the terror­ists will use that day to demonstrate their continued presence than on the anniversary of their most successful attack. 
But that's just proof that we must continue to look forward. And as the days continue to tick by, the memo­ries of Sept. 11 may fade a little. The tragedy won't be in the forefront of our minds. Sept. 11, 2002 was known as Patriots' Day, but as the years go on, the day won't have the same sig­nificance. That's a good thing. Life will go on, but we must never forget. We won't live continually in fear, but we can never surrender. And that's the way it should be. 
Mike Marchand, class of 'O 1, not to be confused with Michael Marchand, freshman from Stanford Hall, is either on his way to an Aerosmith concert right now or working, depending on how well he can beg. His column appears every other Monday. Contact him at marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Meghanne Chris Federico Downes Bryan Kronk Laura Coristin Colin Boylan Tim Hine Scene Viewpoint C. Spencer Beggs Teresa Fralish Lah Tech Graphics Nellie Williams Katie McKenna Illustrator 
Pat Quill 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Has the new alcohol policy prompted you to tailgate off acampus? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Mankind must put an end to war, or war will put an end to mankind.,, 
John F. Kennedy president 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, September 16, 2002 page 11 
Appreciating the best of both worlds 
I just got back to Mauritania after three weeks in the United States. I defi­nitely needed to go home, but I am also happy to be back here. I arrived about 20 hours ago and the bizarre thing is that Africa is no longer strange. 
I am sitting on Malte Uranga 
the balcony at the Peace Corps house in the capi-Life in Africa 

tal overlooking the street. A group of six boys is playing soccer in the sand as goats and pedestrians walk through the game. People yell greetings to each other in at least six different languages, most of which I understand. It is humid, hot and dusty. Men and women wear long flow­ing robes. This is all so normal. 
A year ago finding a subject to write letters and articles about was easy; everywhere I looked I saw potential sub­ject matter. People I talked to provided large amounts of material and of course the painful weather caused by the Sahara filled many pages of self-pity in letters. I am still aware of all of this, but it just is not as interesting or as painful. For example, writing about the chaos of the market would be like writing about the speed of 7-11. Few Americans take time to marvel at the speed of a 7-11, and I no longer look in wonder at the chaos of the markets. 
My life here fills the same old day-to-· day routine that my life at home did. Sitting at a table and eating dinner with a fork and knife seem just as normal as sitting on the floor eating with my hands. The same for running water or lack of running water, church bells or the call to the mosque and interstate freeways or donkey cart paths. 
I watched a National Geographic pro­gram about West Africa when I was home and in many ways felt like I was watching a home video. Americans want me to describe Africa and Africans want me to describe America. I live in a space between the developed and developing worlds. I see the joy and sorrow that both provide. 
Some Mauritanians look to the United States as a dream and an unattainable perfection of freedom and wealth. Others see it as a colossus that reigns down on the rest of the world. Some Americans are horrified by the living conditions of Mauritanians, the conserv­ative manifestations of their culture and their Muslim and North African connec­tions. Others see village Africa as some­thing that was lost and with it a dramat­ic and detrimental change in the quality of life. 
Before I left I knew about these differ­ent views. Now I actually understand them. I go through all of these various opinions multiple times a day. I appreci­ate the freedom and respect for human rights that the United States generally provides. I find it funny that Americans work 60 or 70 plus hours a week to give their children a "better life." I still do not understand how anything ever gets done in Mauritania with the pace at which things happen. I love that in Mauritania, grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins generally live, if not in the same house, at least within walking dis­tance of each other. 
I have given up trying to figure out which is better and which is worse, and it usually depends a lot on the day. The longer I live here the more similarities I seem to find, and the differences fade away. I hope living in the middle of the developed and developing worlds will allow me to take the best from both. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 and is currently seruing as a Peace Corps volunteer in the Republic ofMauritania. Her column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

SMC ranks 
number one in 
polls, hearts 
My immediate reaction to Courtney Boyle's Sept. 13 Inside Column, entitled "Is SMC No. 1 or lacking?" was a combination of offense, confusion and pity. 
As a Saint Mary's alum, I agree with Ms. Boyle about not choosing a school simply based on the rankings. After all, U.S. News and World Report states directly about their methodology, "The U.S. News rankings provide an excellent starting point for families because they offer the opportunity to judge the relative quality of institutions based on widely accepted indicators of excellence." These rankings combine factors that are good as an overview for both the student and parent. It is not meant to be the end all, be all deciding factor for them. 
It is recommended by many in the college search process that spending one-on-one time with current students and seeing the campus first hand is the best way to really experience a col­lege or university. Saint Mary's also highly rec­ommends this process and has a great organiza­tion on campus through the Admissions office to help students in this very tedious time in their education. As a former member of this club, VISA (Volunteers in Support of Admission) I hosted and gave tours to many prospective students and gave them my honest opinion of Saint Mary's. It can be an emotional and intellectual barrier attending a school that is not properly meant for you. and seeing and learning of that first hand is the best way to avoid that problem. 
For what Saint Mary's has, it is a great school: the education, the location, the close-knit family feeling you get while on the beautiful unified campus. And for the factors that U.S. News ranks upon, it deserves to be No. 1. Also, ask tens of thousands of current students and alums and I bet they will say they would rank it No. 1 with them as well, and on entirely different factors. Also, it makes me wonder, where does it rank in your heart, Ms. Boyle, after reflecting on all the time, energy, money and love you have invested in Saint Mary's as you enter your senior year? 
Katherine Middlemas Saint Mary's College class of 200 l San Francisco, Calif. Sepr. 13 
Notre Dame girls don't deserve cr1t1c1sm 
I have had enough, and it's time I spoke up about athleticism and ability, but congratulations boys, it. I am writing this letter in a state of wounded you've found our Achilles heel. Why do I call you rage, inspired by the actions of the biggest drunk­boys? Because real men would not pick women as en jerk I have been unfortunate enough to the easy targets of your cruel and might I say, at encounter. Thank you, drunken jerk, for ruining this point, terribly unoriginal jokes. one of the few remaining football games I will And while I'm addressing this pathetic excuse for attend as a student. You may not remember your humor, I would like to say, "Saint Mary's, I feel for hurtful remarks, but I will. You were, so to speak, you." Whatever blows we've received, you've had it the straw that broke the camel's back. ten times worse. Here's a clue, boys. That 
This is a letter to all the arrogant, con­.----joke got old a long time ago. The real 
ceited boys -and I use the word "boys" intentionally -who have treated the beautiful and intelligent women of Notre Dame with disdain and who have publicly assaulted their self-esteem. For those of you who are gentlemen, and most of you are, I'm not address­ing you. 
We women of Notre Dame have endured years of being called ugly and now I think it's time you boys got a reality check. If the ladies that I live with and learn beside are what you consider ugly, then either your standards are completely and utterly unrealistic, or I no longer mind being called ugly. And while, as a whole, the male popula­tion of Notre Dame is attractive, your personali­ties more than make up for any God-given gifts. We may appreciate a handsome face, but it's not going to win our hearts, boys. 
I don't believe you boys could have chosen a more hurtful or destructive insult. Women are already constantly bombarded from all directions with the pressure to look perfect at all times. It has come to the point that many girls starve them­selves, work out compulsively and exist in a constant state of self-consciousness. 
Look around you. Do you think girls are that thin without effort? I don't blame you for these prob­lems, but you certainly aren't helping anyone. I know we are intimidating, with our intelligence, 
men on Notre Dame's campus are the ones who can appreciate all that we've brought to this school, the ones who aren't intimidated by an intelligent, ambitious woman, the ones who don't use alcohol as an excuse for ungentle­manly behavior and the ones who stick up for us ladies when imbeciles like you put us down. We are half of what makes this school 
great. What are you saying about Notre Dame when you per­sonally insult half the student population? 
I can take a joke, honestly. But enough is enough. I know that many of you will just 
dismiss me as the ugli­est of the bunch, and this scathing letter will 
only lead you to add another derogatory adjective to the lot. I don't deserve that. I don't deserve a drunken jerk falling all over me at the 

football game and insulting me either. But most of all, we don't deserve your criticism. If we 
aren't pretty enough for you, that's fine. You boys aren't good enough for us anyway. 
Mary Henrick 
senior Pangborn Hall Sepe. 14 


OTHE

BSERVER 
I 
i 
,\ l 
\ \ 
1! hi 
~ 
r 

page 12 Monday, September 16, 2002 
ti 
!: ~ 
JI 
" 
·~ 
,, 
ti\i 
l' 
J' 
" 
I 

or 
a
1. 
Scene looks at five books that even those with the at 
Dear Alice In the ultra-litigious society of the new sex. If you must practice abstinence myBy C. SPENCER BEGGS Reality television has taught us two millennium, many are asking for legal tip is to abstain from something you
Scene Editor 

things. First, if you put 14 ridiculously advice. But the delusional need extra don't like, such as being run down by a attractive 20-somethings on an island special counsel. For example, one man lawnmower or sticking your fingers in a Let's face it. The last thing most col­
and dangle $1 million in front of them, asks whether he will have to pay child toaster." lege students need is another book to they will eventually form Lord of the support to the chicken that he believes For those struggling to get out of the 
read. Between Boat Club, Corby's, 
Flies-esque clans and urinate on each he has impregnated and a college stu­cannibal closest Appleby explains that 
Heartland, The Library, Coach's, The 
other for no apparent reason. Second, dent asks under what terms he can the "only problem is that it is illegal.
Backer, McCormick's, Club 23 and that people that are incredibly weird love the legally kill his roommate. However, in today's overcrowded and one place we go to, like, learn, there's spotlight. While some of the letters seem con­permissive society, I'm sure it won't be 
just not enough time in the week to fit in Any reader of Viewpoint knows that trived, in the age of "Jerry Springer" and long before you're on my menu, or vice 
pleasure reading anymore. And in a day the true cracked pots on campus just "C.O.P .S.," they don't sound that implau­versa. And I'm sure we'd both taste deli­
and age in have to get their sible. The only downside to this book is cious. Serve with green salad." 
which the typi­

opinions in that Ryniak doesn't give us the respons­Appleby's book is a constant reminder cal college stu­print. But filter­es. After all, it would be good to know that no matter how weird you think you
dent is exposed "Abstinence: the masochistic 
ing the daily under what circumstances it is legal to are, there's probably a cross-dressing,to nightly mind­decision to deny yourself something deluge of letters kill your roommate. hypochondriac Nazi Eskimo dental assis­exp anding you want such as food or sex.,, is a tough job. tant named JoJo LaVeine who thinks 
marathons of 

The process The Encyclopedia of Personal that the mothership is coming for him 
"The Anna 

breaks down Problems any minute and makes you look like the Nicole Smith Steven Appleby into a triage Finally, an abnormal psychology hand­picture of mental health. This book is 
Show" and 

"The Encyclopedia of Personal Problems" operation sepa­book that describes the real life situa­Prozac in print.
high-culture 

rating the print-tions that therapy couch junkies ask 
relationship 

ably sane, the their analysts about. Who need Freud? The Smoking Gun 
advice from "elimiDATE," our attention 
semi-printably less-than-sane and the Nobody really wants to know why he or 
spans have been reduced to ... wait, 
completely unprintably insane. she keeps dreaming about his or her 
what were we talking about . . . oh yeah, The last category write-ins generally mother swimming in pool of frosting.to less than the lifespan of a suicidal 
are immortalized in an age-old file for Steven Appleby's "Encyclopedia of 
fruit fly with liver cancer born in a fly generations of tired journalists to laugh Personal Problems" gives future psy­swatter factory. But the media mogul 
about. Writer Steven Ryniak supposedly chotherapists, or psycho therapists as 
powers that be have responded in kind 
sifted through 2,000 advice column the case may be, a solid reference for 
by producing a new type of reading: 
rejection piles worldwide culled from these situations. 
short attention span literature. So, sit 
60,000 different publications. The result: For example, Appleby aptly describes 
back, relax and pop a couple Ritalins as "Dear Alice," a collection of 70 of the personal problem of abstinence as "the we look at the latest and greatest in this 
craziest submissions anyone has ever masochistic decision to deny yourself
exciting, if quickly, forgotten genre. 

read. something you want such as food or 
Dear~ 
by Steven A roundup of 70 le of shame of advi 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 16, 2002 
page 13 


Bureaucracy is an amazing thing. When the printing press was invented, Guttenburg used it to print the really important stuff: the Bible, porn, Chicken Soup for the Oppressed, Lice-Ridden, Dark Age Serf's Soul. Now, in an age when more books are being printed each year than there are people who are even semi-literate, it seems that nobody can sneeze anymore without somebody filing a report accurately documenting who, what, when, why, where and how it effected the migratory habits of the South African Yellow-Bellied Swallow. 
And the champions of writing com­pletely useless documents, the U.S. gov­ernment, gave the keys to the ultimate library of stupidity to the general public in 1966 by passing the Freedom of Information Act. 
"The Smoking Gun" is a printed collec­tion of the greatest hits of obscure, inane and bizarrely interesting documents pro­cured by the book's dot-com incarnation. For example, the book includes the depo­sition of a witness that begins with the phrase, "I think I had my pants on when I cut my penis off." 
But "The Smoking Gun" isn't all good old fashioned genital-severing fun. There are a number of intensely interesting documents such as the now unclassified Secret Service report of a nurse who was on duty the day that Kennedy was shot. 
Of course, no book of obscure docu­ments would be complete without police reports detailing the arrests of all our favorite celebrities. The affidavits describing the 1999 arrest of a stoned and strikingly naked Matthew McConaughey and a public dessert­slathered massages of naked women administered by Robin Leach are two gems in this category. 
It's good to see that investigative jour­nalists are finally finding interesting things to bring to the public's attention, like Elton John's contractual preferences in floral arrangements and President George W. Bush's DUI citation, rather 
than the usual pointless nonsense such 
as the number of times they can use 
the word terrorism in an article. 
The Good, The Bad & The 
Difference 

"The Good, The Bad & The Difference" is a collection of columns by "The Ethicist" from The New York Times Magazine, Randy Cohen. Despite Cohen's dry wit, the collection actually is a fascinating look at ethics in the real world. 
Cohen fields topics from all corners of the ethical sphere that are right up a col­lege student's categorical imperative such as infidelity in relationships, the ethics of MP3s and dating professors. 
Some of the most interesting material comes from reprints of instances when Cohen adds a dissenting opinion from a guest ethicist such as the sinfully syndi­cated Dan Savage or meat is murder maniac Peter Singer and when readers argue with his opinion. Though Cohen is very persuasive in his arguments, he doesn't let his ideas be the only ones on the page. 
Cohen also includes a section for reader responses in the "Ethics Pop Quiz" in which he asks readers to answer ethical questions not posed to him in print. The most interesting of these submissions will be included in the upcoming paperback edition of "The Good, The Bad & The Difference." 
Readers will find themselves thumbing though "The Good, The Bad & The Difference" for hours on end. Unfortunately, Cohen doesn't illuminate whether liberating two pieces of fruit from the dining hall is ethical or not ­perhaps we'll never know. 
101 Damnations: The Humorists' Tour of Personal Hells 
Forget Dante. This compilation of 101 essays describes the nine circles of damnation though the eyes of the coun­try's leading humorists. With comedic heavy-hitters like Henry Alford, Andy Borowitz and Randy Cohen venting their frustrations with the blemishes of this earthly paradise, this book is a scorching good read. 
Alford pens a raucously funny look at his fear of analogism: the recurrent belief that one is British. Cohen ignites his fury against the obligatory American pastime of baseball. And Borowitz smolders about people who use the phrase "all that good stuff" to describe things that are not drug-related. 
If The Observer staff had read more than seven and a half chapters of this book, they probably would have found a burning hatred for overly witty college journalists that overuse play-on-word humor. 
Unfortunately, the editors of this partic­ular compilation of infernos didn't include the Domer hell: the day the Pope declares beer the eighth deadly sin. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 


edited b:i~!:;'1°king Gun
lice Th ne, Green 
Ryniak e obscure b. and Glaub 
, izzare and t er 
er from the hall rue e columnists 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 16, 2002 

NFL 

Strong defense leads Saints over Packers, 35-20 
"We came in knowing this tive runs. ~ last week as the reason we 'Tm starting to be a leader
Associated Press 

was a good defensive team," Atlanta coach Dan Reeves didn't make it." on this team," said Carter, NEW ORLEANS said Packers tackle Earl then decided to settle for a Not even Corey Dillon could who was 14-of-24 for 240 
The New Orleans Saints' Dotson. "I don't think they did field goal attempt. make a dent against a team he yards, one shy of his career relentless defense gave Brett anything we didn't expect. Feely, who booted a 52-has routinely shredded. Dillon best, with no interceptions. Favre fits all game. They were just the hungrier yarder to force overtime the ran for 108 yards, caught a Carter won his third straight 
The Saints held Favre and team today." previous week at Green Bay, team-high eight passes and game at home and improved the Green Bay Packers in hooked his kick a couple of had to leave to get intravenous to 5-6 as an NFL starter for a check, and Aaron Brooks Bears 14, Falcons 13 feet wide of the left upright, fluids for dehydration late in team that's 11-23 since the threw two touchdown passes Another week, another close leaving the Georgia Dome sell­the second quarter. start of the 2000 season. His in a 35-20 victory Sunday. call for the Chicago Bears. out crowd of 68,459 in Dillon was in the trainer's status was questioned, though, 
"You make it easier on them, Atlanta's Jay Feely missed a stunned silence. room when Frerotte -known after he threw for just 131 get the crowd into it, and you 45-yard field goal with 56 sec­"Those are easy kicks," for hurting his neck by head­yards against the Texans with take yourself out of the dri­onds remaining and the Bears Feely said. "I just didn't get butting a wall during a touch­as many near-interceptions as ver's seat and put them in it," held on for a 14-13 victory the job done for my team." down celebration with completions. Favre said. "And they were in Sunday, giving Chicago its first Washington in 1997 -turned Critics were after him, too, the driver's seat from the first 2-0 start since 1991. Browns 20, Bengals 7 the game around with another and Carter seemed to be lis­snap." A week earlier, the Bears No hurled helmets, no spur-of-the-moment gaffe. tening for the first time. His 
Brooks, who spent the 1999 rallied from 10 points down in haunting ending. Cleveland let Trailing 10-0, the Bengals trademark confidence had season as Green Bay's third­the fourth quarter, beating Cincinnati quarterback Gus were driving when Orpheus been replaced by defensive­string quarterback, was 16-of-Minnesota 27-2 3 when Jim Frerotte provide the follies Roye broke through the line ness. 28 for 217 yards and two Miller threw a touchdown pass this time. and bear-hugged Frerotte as But given a game plan that touchdowns as the Saints to David Terrell with 28 sec­Frerotte heaved a pass with he looked for a receiver. let him throw downfield more 
-jumped out to an early lead. onds left. his left hand to avoid a sack, Frerotte throws with his often, and forced to make "We're happy, but a lot of Miller and Terrell hooked up and Kenard Lang returned the right hand, but he was pro­plays because of the way the credit goes to the defense," for another TD against the interception 71 yards to set up tecting the ball in his other Tennessee stuffed Emmitt Brooks said. "They stuck in Falcons, a 14-yarder early in a pivotal touchdown as hand. He flipped it downfield Smith, Carter came through. there against Brett at a time the third quarter that put Cleveland rolled to a 20-7 vic­and immediately proved he's He perfectly executed a play that he was at his best." Chicago ahead to stay. tory over Cincinnati Sunday. not ambidextrous. fake for a 17-yard touchdown The Saints (2-0) used the This time, the Bears had to "Those kinds of things make "I didn't want to take a in the second quarter, then same pressure defense that hold on at the end. They got you sick," said Frerotte, who sack," Frerotte said. "The guy strung together a series of helped them win their season help from an overturned call also threw three interceptions turned me as I was throwing nice plays before throwing a opener. Green Bay (1-1) and Feely's second miss of the and was sacked five times. it. Kenard was in the right 38-yard touchdown pass to gained 357 yards in total game. Kelly Holcomb had another place at the right time. I didn't Joey Galloway that led to his offense, but only 95 yards "Neither game has been solid game as Tim Couch's fill­see anybody there. I was just glorious celebration. Earlier in rushing. They completed just pretty, but we'11 take it," said in, throwing for two touch­trying to get rid of it, to have that drive, he threw a 12­22 percent of their third-down Bears receiver Dez White, who downs and 198 yards behind a an incomplete pass." yarder to Ken-Yon Rambo on attempts (2-of-9} compared to dropped a touchdown pass. depleted line as the Browns third-and-11 and hit Antonio 70 percent for the Saints, who Brian Urlacher was a domi­(1-1) sliced up an overmatched Cowboys 21, Titans 13 Bryant in stride for 44 yards also had 357 yards total. nating force against the defense. Standing on the blue star at on a pump-and-go route. 
"We're trying to establish Falcons for the second year in Linebacker Dwayne Rudd midfield, his head and arms "I think Quincy is a competi­ourselves as one of the most a row. promised fans a great perfor­pointed at the hole in the tor, and I'll go into war with a i physical teams in the NFL," He recovered a fumble, mance to atone for his helmet­Texas Stadium roof, Quincy competitor any day," Dallas 

' 
I Saints defensive tackle sacked Michael Vick twice and throwing blunder a week ear­Carter let it all go. coach Dave Campo said. Norman Hand said. "And finished with a game-high 12 lier, which let Kansas City get Whatever anger, bitterness The Cowboys were expecting we're doing that right now." tackles. a 40-39 win. But the Browns' or other emotions he'd felt all big plays from their defense 
Favre, who was 9-0 in the On one play, Urlacher hur­defense didn't have to be great week didn't matter c1nymore. this season, but didn't get any Superdome coming in, includ­dled a would-be blocker to against the Bengals (0-2), who He'd just thrown his second against the Texans. This game ing preseason games -a pressure Vick into an incom­finally got their first touch­nice touchdown pass and was featured Coakley's and a sack Super Bowl win -and two pletion. Another time, the down of the season in the clos­leading Dallas to a 21-13 vic­by Greg Ellis that threw college victories, was on the Bears linebacker dived at Vick ing minutes, when the game tory over Tennessee Sunday, McNair for an 8-yard loss on run all game. and missed, only to crawl off was out of hand. securing his job and possibly third-and-9 with 2:31 left. 
He was 29-of-44 for 270 the turf and make the sack. The helmet fiasco was for­saving the team's season. After going down by 11, the yards and two touchdowns. Vick put the Falcons (0-2) in gotten -for now, anyway. Both were in jeopardy after Titans mustered only a 52­
He was sacked once and position to win at the end, dri­"It only shuts the door if we Dallas was humiliated by the yard field goal by Joe Nedney. broke his string of 158 ving his team 44 yards with a are able to go out and do what expansion Houston Texans in Tennessee had overcome a 14­straight passes without an quarterback draw and two we are capable of, and that's the opener. point deficit against interception when Darrin completions. making the playoffs," said But as Carter danced back to Philadelphia in the opener. Smith grabbed one in the first On second-and-1 from the Rudd, who had just one tackle. the sideline after his best pass "They just made plays at the quarter. Chicago 28 and more than a "We won't want to be one win of the season, his display critical times and we didn't," 
He also had two intentional minute left, Warrick Dunn and away from the playoffs and showed that he knew he was Titans cornerback Andre grounding calls against him. Vick both failed on conserva-have everybody look back to back in charge. Dyson said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
PART-TIME WORK $14.05 base-ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 1( appt. Flex. around classes. We RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. t 
train. A:I ma1ors. Gust. service & CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. 
LOST AND FOUND WANTED TICKETS PERSONAL
' sales. No doer-to-door telemarket­
' 
ing Build resume. Internships. cond. DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW If any photographers at the football $250 a day potential/bartending. apply.www.WQCKfQrstugents cQm LEASING FOR 2003-2004 N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do game on Saturday lost any items, Training provided 574-282-2357 SCHOOL YEAR· WELL MAIN• check our prices. not go it alone. If you or someone please contact The Observer photo 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM· 273-3911. you love needs confidential support editor Nellie Williams at 631-8767. PUS-2-4-5-6-7·8·9 & 10 BED· or assistance, please call Sr. Mary 
RIDING INSTRUCTORS; ENGLISH ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For 
/ WESTERN PART-TJME POSI• FOR SALE NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY GAME. CALL JACK more information, see our bi-weekly 
TIONS TO WORK AROUND SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF 674-6593. ad in THE OBSERVER. 
NOTICES CLASSES 20 MIN FROM CAM-ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS· PUS. Large one-bedroom condo for sale. CALL TODAY • HOUSES GOING Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. Give adoption a chance ... we are Contact Mitch Nihart Magari-Ya One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER 289-8048 or astrog999@aol.com happily married and need your help 
CJs Pub See whats happening Stables and Equestrian Center 574-remodeled. Fully equipped. (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 • in starting a family. Will provide a WNW cjspub cQm 299-1607 $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu (574)674-2471 WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST lifetime of love, laughter and end• PRICES PAID less opportunities. Call our attorney 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable 
WNW sunsplasntQurs.cQm 
1-800-426·7710 
Available Game Weekends: COUN­TRY EST ATE Three Bedroom Home, Country Setting on Operating Horse Farm, 20 min from campus. Contact Mitch Magari-Ya Stables and Equestrian Center 
57 4-299-1607 or magariyastables@aol.com 
WNW worktorstugents com 
57 4-282-2357 

Nanny wanted for 3 children Approx. 12-15 hrs. per week (very flexible) 271.0766 Kim 
AFTER SCHOOL CARE FOR TWO CHILDREN, 3PM-5:30PM, MON THRUTHURS. GOOD PAY! CALL LISA AT 631-9947 OR 2n­8564. 
SOCCER & VOLLEYBALL REFER­EES needed for south side elemen­tary school located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. $30.00 per soccer game; $20.00 per VB match to qualified refs. Call 291-4200. 
91 HONDA ACCORD EX, 4-DA, TEAL, CLEAN, 1-0WNER, VERY GOOD CONDITION. $4200. 277­0189. 
Dratting tables -$25-30 Student desks $25 631-4969 

99 Jeep Wrangler. Maroon w/tan top. Good cond.,CD,hitch,rack. 43K b/o. 315-4176 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 
W'/i:!i. rnmm~ .1a1s ~m 

HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003: We have a variety of houses includ• ing two of the best undergrad hous­es you can rent. Call Bill at 532­1896 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for football/par­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit 107 800-41 8-9487. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT ­WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL: leopei@hotmail.com 
251-1570 

ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PAiCES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND vs. USC tix and Hotel, Irish Fest in CA! NDCOC.com Beat SC! 
Buy/Sell N.D. vs. Michigan State Football Tickets 289-8048 
toll free at 866-215-2229. 
ND grad with Ph.D. doing child care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home near campus. 234-8004 

Needed: 2 male actors, 22-38 yrs. to play the hilarious, romantic Costazuela brothers in the Saint Mary s College production of Neil Simon's THE ODD COUPLE (female version). Auditions Sept. 18, 19,20 at 7:30 pm. Call 284-4640 for more information. 
Jason, next time I'll have to duck out before the singing begins. 
Mary ... she's a good woman! 

-
Monday, September 16, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

Twins shut out Indians, clinch AL Central title 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND 
The Minnesota Twins refused to be contracted. Instead, they conquered. 
The Twins, targeted for con­traction last November, clinched the AL Central on Sunday with a 5-0 win over the defending champion Cleveland Indians. 
"Bud Selig couldn't get rid of us," Jacque Jones said during a wild celebration in Minnesota's clubhouse. "The White Sox couldn't get rid of us. The Cleveland Indians couldn't get rid of us. Here we are. and we're staying." 
Kyle Lohse (13-8) pitched six shutout innings as the Twins secured their first playoff appearance since 1991, and then held a raucous party that threat­ened to last all night. 
"It's been a long haul," manag­er Ron Gardenhire said. "It start­ed this winter when they tried to kick us out and take away our team. There's been a lot of buildup here, and we're going to let it all out." 

After doing their part by win­ning, the Twins had to put their postgame party plans on hold for about 20 minutes as they waited for the final score of Chicago's game in New York. 
When the second-place White Sox lost 8-4 at Yankee Stadium in a game called by rain, many of the Twins ran into the train­er's room to fetch champagne bottles that had been on ice since Friday. 
At one end of the room, reliev­er Mike Jackson, wearing swim­ming goggles, taught a few play­ers how to uncork a champagne bottle and spray it. In the middle, Torti Hunter dropped to the floor and did some break dancing as his teammates cheered. And reliever Eddie Guardado, who got the final out, broke down and cried. 
"I'm glad I was out there," Guardado said before having to stop. "Excuse me." 
He wasn't the only Minnesota player choking back tears between swallows of bubbly. 
The Twins have been on an emotional roller coaster since the day last November that Selig announced his intentions of shut­ting down two franchises. 
"People said, 'Get rid of the Twins'," Guardado said. "But we stuck it out. That's what we're all about." 
Mariners 6, Athletics 3 
If nothing else, the Seattle Mariners would like to spoil the fun for some team that is headed to the playoffs. 
While Seattle still has slim postseason hopes after a 6-3 win over the Oakland Athletics on Sunday, nobody in the Mariners' clubhouse is counting on it. Especially with the way Anaheim and the A's are playing. 
Oakland dropped a game behind first-place Anaheim in the AL West after the Angels beat Texas. 
Boone and Edgar Martinez each drove in two runs as the Mariners finally found some offense to end a six-game losing streak. Martinez hit a two-run homer, Mike Cameron added a solo shot and Boone had three hits as Seattle snapped a 21­inning scoreless drought and stopped Oakland's 12-game home winning streak. 
The A's won the first two games of the series with domi­nating pitching, but they didn't get it Sunday. 
Eric Chavez hit his career-high 33rd home run for Oakland, which dropped a half-game behind first-place Anaheim in the AL West. The Angels played a night game against Texas. 
After a rough first inning. Seattle starter Joel Pineiro (14-6) settled down to retire 10 of his next 11 batters before giving up a solo homer to John Mabry in the fifth that tied it at 3. Pineiro allowed three runs and five hits in six innings, striking out seven. Kazuhiro Sasaki pitched the ninth for his 35th save in 41 opportunities. 
Angels 13, Rangers 4 
Troy Glaus hit three homers as the Anaheim Angels took sole possession of first place in the AL West for the first time this sea­son and set a club record with their 94th win, beating the Texas 

\ 

Sigma [fly] Alpha 
Army ROTC may not be a fraternity or sorority, but at times it can feel like one. After 
all, you'll find the same kind of teamwork, camaraderie and friendship. Plus, you'll 
get to do challenging stuff like this that can help make you tougher, mentally as well 
as physically. Come talk to us at the Army ROTC department. We won't rush you. 
ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 

For more information on our Scholarship Programs, ,,._ contact Captain Hennessey at (219) 631-6264 or 631-4656 

Rangers 13-4 Sunday night. 
The Angels' 16th victory in 17 
games -coupled with Oakland's 
loss to Seattle -gave them a 
one-game lead over the Athletics 
heading into Monday's opener of 
a four-game series at Oakland. 
Anaheim's magic number for 
clinching a playoff spot is six. It 
would be the franchise's first 
postseason berth in 16 years. 
The last time the Angels led their 
division alone in September was 
Sept. 15, 1998, when they were 
81-69 with a one-game edge 
over Texas. But they lost eight of 
their final 12 and finished three 
games behind the Rangers. 
The last time the Angels led 
the division by themselves at any 
point in the season was April 11, 
2000. 
Glaus tied a career high with 
six RBI, giving him 101 this year 
and making him the second play­
er in team history with three 
consecutive 100-RBI seasons. 
Garret Anderson also accom­
plished the feat this year. Glaus 
hit a solo homer off Kenny 
Rogers (13-8) in the fifth inning, 
a two-run shot off Jay Powell in 
the seventh and a three-run 
drive against Juan Alvarez in 
the eighth for his first career 
three-homer game. 
Ramon Ortiz (14-9) won his 
fifth straight decision, allowing 
four runs and five hits in seven 
innings. The right-hander struck 
out six and improved to 9-1 
career against Texas. 
The Angels, who overcame a 
5-0 deficit in the first inning to 
beat the Rangers 7-6 Saturday, 
scored five times in the first 
against Rogers en route to their 
sixth straight win. 
Braves 6, Martins 4 
Javy Lopez capped the best 
weekend of his most frustrating 
season with the game's biggest 
blow. 
A pinch-hit grand slam gave 
Lopez 10 RBI for the series, and 
the Atlanta Braves beat the 
Florida Marlins 6-4 Sunday. 
Lopez hit a homer for the third 
game in a row but has just 10 
this season. He's 4-for-7 in the 

series to raise his average to 
.233, still well below his career 
mark of .282. 

Florida rookie Justin Wayne shut out Atlanta for five innings but couldn't get through the sixth. Gary Sheffield's pinch-hit RBI single made it 2-all, and Lopez's two-out homer off Graeme Lloyd put the Braves ahead. Lopez was batting for Damian Moss (11-5), who won his fourth consecutive decision by allowing two runs and four hits in five innings. Lopez also had a pinch-hit homer Friday. 
John Smoltz pitched a perfect ninth for his major league-lead­ing 51st save. 
He has blown only four save chances and needs six saves to tie Bobby Thigpen 's big league record set in 1990. 
A crowd of 7,844 was the smallest to see the Braves play in Miami. 
Florida's Kevin Millar hit a solo homer in the sixth to extend his hitting streak to 21 games, longest of his career and the longest active streak in the majors. Millar also provided footage for TV highlights when he tripped over himself and fell on his rear after catching a rou­tine fly in left field. 
"That darn football field." Millar said. "I must have stepped in a Ricky Williams divot. I wanted to move, but I couldn't. My spikes got caught in the shoelaces." 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 16, 2002 
TENNIS 

Kournikova ousted in Shanghai Open final 
. Russian now winless in all 115 WTA tournaments she entered 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI, China Anna Kournikova is still seek­ing her first wrA singles title. 
Anna Smashnova dashed Kournikova's hopes with a 6-2. 6-3 victory in the final of the Shanghai Open on Sunday. 
The 21-year-old Russian, bet­ter known for her glamour and 
lucrative commercial endorse­ments. has lost all four finals she has played in her career. 
"I am quite disappointed. She played her game, and I didn't 

"Not only did the fans 
Smashnova 
here wish me to win, but w o r e Kournikova
so did the fans all over 
down, return­
the world." 
ing shot after 
shot until the 
Russian made
Anna Kournikova 
an error.
tennis player 

play the right way," Kournikova said. "I tried to mix it up. I should have been more aggres­sive, gone to the net more." 
Kournikova was slowed by unforced errors. repeatedly hit­ting balls too long from the baseline and missing key shots at the net. 
Smashnova, ranked No. 19, was precise and controlled throughout the match. hitting perfect winners in stride. 
Smashnova seized control of the match early, breaking Kournikova's serve in the first 
game, and then easily holding her own serve. 
Kournikova didn't score a point until the third game of the first set when Smashnova hit a shot wide. 

"She was like a wall today, hitting everything back," l I. Kournikova said. 
Kournikova, playing in her first singles final since 2000, was looking for her first singles title in 115 WfA tournaments. 
This final appeared to be one of Kournikova's best chances at a title. She beat Smashnova in their last two matchups, most recently in August in the Acura Classic in California. 


"Not only did the fans here wish me to win, but so did the fans all over the world," Kournikova said. 
But Smashnova's experience seemed to pay off as the 26­year-old Israeli claimed her sixth WTA title since turning pro in 1991 and fourth this year. 
"She's still young and will have more chances to win," Smashnova said. "Anna's not an easy opponent to beat, and I've lost to her a couple times." 
At times, Kournikova was 
overpower­
ing. But 
"In the 
match, I tried 
to play my game. I tried to stick to my game. In fact I played better than Kournikova, so I won," Smashnova said. 
Kournikova's frustration began to show in the second set. 
Several unforced errors, including a drop shot that sailed into the net, allowed Smashnova to break serve in the first game. 
In the second game, Kournikova argued calls and was visibly angry. 
After a final missed shot clinched the victory for Smashnova, Kournikova smiled and kissed her opponent on the cheeks. 
A few hours after the singles final, Kournikova returned to the court with partner Janet Lee and beat Ai Sugiyama and Rika Fujiwara 7-5, 6-3 in the doubles final. 
The victory was Kournikova's 16th Wl'A doubles title. 

WANT TO HELP FAMILIES COPING WITH CANCER? Become involved in 

Camp Kuem is a weeklong summer camp (August 2003) being planned for children who have/had a parent with cancer. YOU~ help is needed to create this unique summer camp experience. All students are 
crw.ourased throughout attend the  to becom• involved. Students the year as well as for summer meeting if you are interested.  Gre staff positions.  naaded for planning Please  
Interested??  

Come to an informotional meeting TONI6HT 7t00 pm at the Center for Social Concerns Auditorium 
if yeu have any questiens er seek flrther inf• please centaet: 
ctdall&nd.edu or ddohert1End.sdu or http://www.cctmpkesem-nd.org 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni 
Student Returnees 
Tuesday, Septerµber 10, 2002 129 Hayes-Healy 6:00-7:30 p.m. & Wed.,Sept.18,2002 129 Hayes-Healy 4:45-6:15 pm. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 
Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall '03 and All Year 2003-04 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
-----------------•-----­

FINE ARTS LECTURE SERIES 
Presents... 
Arthur Velasquez 
Please join us in celebrating 
Dia tie bulepe11de11cia 
(Mexican Independence 
Day) and the start of 
Hispanic Heritage Month. 
Please bring a friend and 
FOOD will be provided. 
Mo11day 

Septe111ber 16, 2002 
7:00p111 

McGli1111 Hall 
24 Ho11r Lo1111ge 
Dreami11g, /1ivesti11g, a11d Givi11g 
1-)fJ011.,·ore<l b_J' Multic11/t11ra/ Stuclent f-YrO$!J·anzs· a,ul Services 
"-­
tvlc CJIi1111. Alun111i, J;"j5,·/zer. /Jreen-J:>l,i/liJJS c~ L_vons· 

·.• 
,, 
j 
Monday, September 16, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 

After two years of losing records, Joe Paterno and Penn State are back in a big way. 
Larry Johnson and Michael Robinson had two touchdown runs apiece and Rich Gardner turned his first career intercep­tion into a touchdown as the Nittany Lions routed Nebraska 40-7 Saturday night. 
Paterno, who has more major­college wins than any other coach, got No. 329 in front of a record crowd of 110,753. It was the Nittany Lions' first victory over a top-10 team since Sept. 18, 1999, when they beat eighth-ranked Miami 27-23. 
Penn State had two lean sea­sons after that, going 5-6 and then 5-7 -Paterno's first con­secutive losing records in his long career. But with this one victory, the Nittany Lions showed their 75-year-old coach how much they have improved. 
"I think this put's us right back on the map and opened a lot of eyes," said Bryant Johnson, who had eight recep­tions for 14 7 yards. 
Penn State (2-0) dominated the third quarter, eating away 
7:10 before Robinson's 8-yard t~uchdown gave the Nittany L10ns a 19-7 lead. Mills faked the handoff to Sean McHugh, then gave it to Robinson -the backup quarterback -on the end-around. 
Gardner intercepted Jammal Lord's pass, intended for Ben Cornelson, and returned it 44 yards for a touchdown to make it 26-7. After holding Nebraska (3-1) to three and out, Penn State got the ball on its own 45. Larry Johnson took the first play 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 
, 

Nittany Lions run all over Nebraska, 40-7 
35 yards up the middle, and bigger and better things." Robinson -lined up now at tail­Quarterback Craig Krenzel back -ran for 9 yards, then an kept the drive going with a 6­11-yard touchdown to give the yard pickup on third-and-4 to Nittany Lions a 33-7 lead with the Cougars' 29. Clarett then 
2:15 left in the third quarter. skirted right and collided with 
Larry Johnson ran the ball six defensive backs Erik Coleman times in the possession, includ­and Jason David. They both col­ing a 2-yard sweep around the lapsed, and Clarett -last year's right side for the score and a 40-USA Today national offensive 7 lead. player of the year -rumbled 
for 20 yards to the 3. Ohio St. 25, Washington St. 7 He powered in off right tackle 
Maurice Clarett had a simple on the next play and scored to assessment of his latest accom­put the Buckeyes ahead to stay plishments. at 13-7. 
"I was always told, 'Big play­
Califomla 46, Michigan St. 22
ers make big plays in big 
California is 3-0 for the first
games,' " the freshman said 
time in six years and has beaten with a grin after rushing for 230 a top-15 team for the first timeyards and two touchdowns in 
in 28 years. Yet the Golden
Ohio State's 25-7 victory over Bears and first-year coach Jeff
No. 10 Washington State Tedford aren't all that
Saturday. 
impressed with themselves. 
Clarett was shackled by the Cal quarterback Kyle BollerCougars' defense in the first half accounted for four touchdowns-36 yards on 11 carries -but -two throwing, one running
he ran 44 yards on his first and one receiving -as the
carry of the third quarter and 
Golden Bears humbled 15th­
never let up. 
ranked Michigan State 46-22 onThe Buckeyes (3-0) trailed 7-6 Saturday.
at halftime on Jason Gesser's 5­The last time the Bears beatyard touchdown pass to Devard such a highly ranked team wasDarling. 
Oct. 5, 1974, when they defeated 
After Ohio State's defense 
No. 14 Illinois. Cal is 3-0 for thestopped Gesser and the Cougars first time since 1996, which was(2-1) near midfield on their first coach Steve Mariucci's only sea­possession of the third quarter, son before leaving for the San
Clarett took over with the 
Francisco 49ers. 

Buckeyes pinned at their own 9. 
The Spartans (2-1) fell behindOn first down, he burst off left for the second straight week,tackle and then cut outside for but unlike their victory over44 yards until he was run down 
Rice, they couldn't mount a
from behind. 
comeback.


Ohio State coach Jim Tressel 
"The guys weren't ready to
said the run lit a fuse under the play. We never even showedteam. 
up," Michigan State coach"You could see it in our guys' Bobby Williams said. "It's veryeyes," Tressel said. "All of a frustrating. I'm mostly disap­sudden, that gave you that rush pointed in myself. I'll take theor that raise you need to do even hit. Put it all on me." 
The Bears stunned Williams' that time the crowd of 51,758 team by scoring 18 second­had thinned considerably. quarter points and taking a 25-0 lead at halftime. The scores 
Georgia 13, South Carolina 7 
came on a punt return, a safety, On a team loaded with offen­a trick play and three field goals. 
sive stars, Georgia coach MarkMichigan State opened the Richt knew who won this game. 
second half with two touch­
"One of my first observationsdowns, but Cal responded with is that David Pollack is a war­three consecutive TDs to wrap rior," Richt said. 
up the win. 
No one who watched the
Boller was 19-of-33 for 232 sophomore defensive end domi­yards with two touchdowns and nate South Carolina on Saturdayan interception. He caught a 14­would argue. 
yard TD pass from receiver 
Pollack recovered a fumbleLaShaun Ward in the second 
near Georgia's goal line in the quarter and scored the first of second quarter and then had aCal's three second-half touch­strange interception return for adowns on a 2-yard run. 
touchdown in the fourth as theReceiver Charles Rogers might Bulldogs held on to beat Southhave been the only Michigan Carolina 13-7 Saturday. 
State player who didn't have an 
"I don't know how it hap­awful game. He caught nine 
pened," Pollack said. 
passes for 166 yards and a 
Neither does South Carolinatouchdown, quarterback Corey Jenkins. He 
was looking for an open Andrea 
Florida St. 37, Maryland 10 Gause after dropping into the 
Step One in Florida State's end zone. Pollack swarmed over 
effort to regain the Atlantic Jenkins, but did not appear to 
Coast Conference championship get much of the ball. 
is complete. "When I hit it," Pollack said, "I 
Chris Rix threw two touch-noticed it kind of stuck to my 
downs passes and ran for anoth-hand." 
er score as the fifth-ranked So did the referee, who put up 
Seminoles took a 30-point half-his arms to signal touchdown as 
time lead and rolled past Pollack ran toward his jumping 
Maryland 37 -10 Saturday night. teammates. 
After having their nine-year "That's when I thought, 'Oh 
run as ACC champions halted by my goodness. this is just one of 
Maryland last season, the those days when everything is 
Seminoles (3-0, 2-0) re-estab-going to go wrong,"' Jenkins 
lished their superiority in said. 
authoritative fashion. He was just about right. 
"Even though they didn't beat Pollack recovered a fumble by us, they earned the ACC title and Andrew Pinnock in the second we want that back," Rix said. quarter on Georgia's 3 after "Obviously we had to go through Tony Gilbert knocked the ball them, being the defending away with his helmet. champion. Ifs definitely a good Georgia (2-0) ended a two-feeling to get the win here." game losing streak to the 
Turning three turnovers into Gamecocks (1-2), who have lost touchdowns, Florida State went two straight under coach Lou up 30-0 at halftime and Holtz for the first time in two improved to 13-0 against years. Maryland (1-2, 0-1). Since join-Georgia's defense rose up one ing the ACC in 1992, the last time with South Carolina Seminoles have won 11 straight driving late. Pinnock, the over the Terrapins by an aver-Gamecocks' goal-line specialist age score of 50-15. with 22 career touchdowns, had 
Unlike last year. when the Jenkins' pitch bounce off his Seminoles fell behind 14-0 and chest with 12 seconds left. needed a late surge to beat the Thomas Davis recovered and Terrapins, this one was decided Georgia ran out the clock. when Florida State scored 24 "I dropped the pitch," Pinnock points in the second quarter. said, "and we lost the game." 
"It doesn't take a rocket scien-Holtz said offensive coordina­tist to figure out that you can't tor Skip Holtz wanted Jenkins to turn the ball over against run a tighter option on the final Florida State and expect to play. But the coach thought he win," Terrapins coach Ralph would succeed with Pinnock "in Friedgen said. the open field going north-
Maryland finally got a field south," Holtz said. "It looked goal in the third quarter, but by like a good pitch. I can't tell." 
r--~-------------•
I 
I I I I PIZZA & I I I 
·---OIICAGO
I PIZZA COMPA~ POP I I Large 1 Topping Pizza I I I
& 2 Liter of COKE Only
I I I $9.99!!! I I Delivery or Carryout Only. I I We match competitors' deals! I I Visa & Mastercard Accepted. I I Expires l 0/3/02 I I I 
I 271-1277 I I SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to Subway) I 
~----------------~ 





page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, September 16, 2002 
,, 
l ~ 
' ~ 
\ 
) 
'. ~ 
f 
·,.
i! 
" 
l 

' 
ti ' ,'
l 
! : 
. J 
I 
'' 
, I ' I 
: f 
, I 
' I 
/ 
',,
I,
j 


around the dial 
NFL 

Philadelphia at Washington 9 p.m., ABC 
NFL 

Associated Press  Baltimore Colts' fight song. The team then showed a  Unitas wore while throwing his last touchdown pass in  was one of them. Zyriek and his friends wrapped up  
BALTIMORE  video montage of Unitas in  Baltimore, was placed in  their tailgate party early to  
For one last time, Sunday  action while noting many  front of the jersey in a glass  see the pregame ceremony.  
afternoon  in  Baltimore  his  accomplishments,  case. The replica jersey and  "We want to be in our  
belonged to Johnny Unitas.  including throwing a touch­ cleats will be displayed for  seats for the tribute. We  
The Baltimore Colts' Hall  down pass in 47 straight  the rest ofthe season.  were at the Maryland game  
of Fame quarterback died  games, a record that still  Finally,  there  was  a  last night, and they had a  
of  a  heart  attack  stands.  moment  moment of silence and a  
Wednesday at 69. Although the two-time  T h m o s  e t  "There's an incredible  of silence t o  tribute on the video screen," Zyriek said. "You  
NFL MVP never played for  touching  bond between this  r e m e m ­ could have heard a pin drop  
the Baltimore Ravens, the team on paid homage  moment c am e  community and Johnny.••  her the star who  in Byrd Stadium. Everyonejust froze and watched."  
Sunday to the man who  w  he  n  brought  Zyriek, who cheered for  
epitomized football in this  Unitas'  Art Modell  N  F  L  the Colts before they left  
city.  former  Ravens owner  champi­ town for Indianapolis in  
"There's an incredible  team ­ onships to  1984, always enjoyed see- 
bond between this commu­ mate.  the city in  ing Unitas at Ravens games.  
nity and Johnny," Ravens  Lenny Moore, and several  1958  and  '59.  He  also  It's a  tradition he won't  
owner  Art Modell said.  members of Unitas' imme­ played for the Colts' 1970  abandon.  
"This will give many of his  diate family  unveiled  a  Super Bowl championship  "The first thing I thought  
fans the opportunity to pay  white Colts No. 19 jersey,  team.  of this morning was focus- 
tribute to him."  painted onto the sideline  Dozens of Ravens fans  ing on the No. 19 with my  
Before Baltimore's game  where Unitas watched the  wore blue Unitas jerseys  binoculars," he said. "He's  
against the Tampa Bay  Ravens play on Sundays.  instead of the home team's  not going to be there, and  
Buccaneers, The Marching  A pair of black high­ purple  colors.  Donald  that will feel strange. But I  
Ravens band played the  topped cleats, the  ones  Zyriek, 70, of Lusby, Md.,  can still look at the spot.''  

IN BRIEF 
Hurricanes goalie suffers seizure during practice 
Carolina Hurricanes goaltender Kevin Weekes was taken to the emer­gency room Sunday after having a seizure and collapsing on the ice dur• ing the first day of training camp. 
Weekes was later released from Rex Hospital in good health after undergo­ing evaluations by team doctor Jay Stevens and team neurologist Ken Carnes. 
Weekes, 27, was acquired by the Hurricanes on March 5 for forward Shane Willis. He played in just two regular-season games as Arturs Irbe's backup before leading the team to two wins to close out the New Jersey Devils in the Eastern Conference quarterfinals. 
Weekes, who subbed for a slumping lrbe in Games 3 and 4, beat the two­time defending Eastern Conference champions 3-2 in overtime in his first career playoff start, then 1-0 on the road in the Game 6 clincher. 
He stopped 72 of 74 shots in the wins. 
FBI investigates disappear­ance of former NBA player 
FBI agents met with prosecutors Sunday to discuss the investigation into the disappearance of former NBA player Bison Dele. 
Half a dozen FBI agents had already arrived in French Polynesia and more were expected Monday, officials at the gendarmes headquarters in Papeete said. 
The FBI issued an arrest warrant for Dele's brother on Friday, the day after Dele's sailboat was found docked on the east coast of Tahiti. 
The 55-foot catamaran, which Dele had named the Hakuna Matata, was found in the Tahiti port of Taravao. It had been repainted and renamed. 
The FBI agents and local prosecu­tors were expected to set a date to carry out a full search of the boat, perhaps as early as Monday, the offi­cials said, speaking on the customary condition of anonymity. 
The 33-year-old Dele, also known as Brian Williams, hasn't been seen since July 8, along with his girlfriend Serena Karlan and the boat's captain, Bertrand Saldo. 
FBI agents are searching for Dele's older brother, Miles Dabord, also known as Kevin ~rm; Am<. 
_. 


Monday, September 16, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MENS GOLF 

Irish golfers open season at site of only championship 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame mens golf team opens a new season at the site of the program's greatest moment as the Irish travel to Toledo, Ohio, to par­ticipate in the second ·annual Inverness Intercollegiate Invitational at the Inverness Club on Monday and Tuesday, Sept. 16-17. 

The Irish won the 1944 NCAA Championship at the Inverness Club, the only national title for the men's golf program in its 73-year history. 
Notre Dame coach John Jasinski is no stranger to this tournament. 
He served as the head coach 


...............
. . ,. ,.
¦ 
.,.,. 
¦ ¦ I.,¦ ¦ •I W ¦ 
..., .J.. '.&. 
COMMUNICATIONS 
1639 N. Ironwood Drive South Send, Indiana 46635 
(574) 243-3818 
www,jdrncom.comlnd 


at the University of Toledo for the first tournament in September of 2000. 
Last year's tournament was cancelled due to the terrorist attacks of September 11. 
The Inverness Club was founded in 1903 and has host­ed four U.S. Opens, one U.S. Amateur, two PGA Championships and will host the 2003 U.S. Senior Open. 
The 14-team tournament will feature some of the top men's golf programs in the nation. 
Joining the Irish are the University of Alabama­Birmingham, the University of Florida, the University of Georgia, Fresno State, Illinois, Kansas, Kansas State, Kent State, Kentucky, Long Beach State, Michigan State. Northwestern, Oklahoma State and the host University of Toledo. 
The Irish enter the new sea­son looking for someone to replace Steve Ratay. one of the top golfers in the program's history. 
Last season, Ratay set Notre Dame's single-season scoring record with a 73.03 average and just missed the career average mark by .03 with a 
74.46 mark. 
Jasinski's opening lineup with feature three freshmen, a sophomore and a junior in his second season with the team. 
Playing in the No. 1 spot will be Scott Gustafson who comes to the Irish after a stellar career at Eden Prairie High School where he won the Minnesota State AA Championship last spring, set­ting a tournament scoring record along the way. 
In the No. 2 spot will be fel­low freshman Tommy Balderston, who played his high school golf at St. Andrew's High School. where he finished sixth in Florida in November 
of 2001. 
The third spot in the lineup will be filled by junior Bill McGaughan, who worked his way into 

the Irish Jasinski lineup last season and turned in a 78.00 average in three tournaments, including a 10th-place finish at the Big East Championship. 

Freshman Eric Deutsch will play at the fourth spot for Notre Dame after winning the Minnesota State A Championship while at Lourdes High School. 
Rounding out the Irish five in Toledo is sophomore K.C. Wiseman, who played in seven of the team's 12 tourna­ment's last season. 
He finished third in average on the team with a 76.90 mark. 
His best finish came at the Treasure Cove Classic last March with a seven-over par 151 total. 
Following the Inverness Intercollegiate, the Irish men's golf team will next be in action Sept. 23-24 when they travel to Lawrence, Kan., to partici­pate in the 2002 Kansas Invitational. 

Need a ride to the Michigan State me?? 
Take the Student Activities Charter! 
Tickets are $20..00 and include transportation only. 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk beginniny September 12. Buses leave for Lansiny at 8:15am and return af­ter the game. Buses have wheelchair accessability. please contact Student Activities if you require this service. 


For more information contact the Student Activities Office at I-7308. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 16, 2002 
MENS TENNIS 

Young players perform well in season opener 
Freshman Eric Langenkamp
By JOE LINDSLEY 

defeated Minnesota's Nate 
Sports Writer 

McLain. 6-3, 6-2, and Patrick Buchanan won over Virginia'sPlaying its first matches Dillon Walker, also by a score 
without graduated All­of 6-3, 6-2. Americans Javier Taborga and "We were all happy with the Casey Smith the Notre Dame way the freshmen played," mens tennis team dominated sophomore Brent D'Amico at the Fall Tribe Classic at the 
said. 'Tm excited about that. 
College of William and Mary in We're definitely going to need Williamsburg, Va. help from the younger guys on 
Notre Dame defeated oppo­the team." nents from Virginia, William Last year as a freshman. and Mary and a Minnesota D'Amico was squad that was one of the one of the few younger
"We were all happy with 
teams to pre­players who 
vail over the the way the freshmen 
often came Irish last sea­played . ... We 're through for son. 
de.finitely going to need the team. 
The Irish fin­"I expect­
ished the tour­help from the younger ed to have a 
nament strong guys on the team. ,. lot of fun." Sunday, with Langenkamp every player said of his
Brent D'Amico 
winning his thoughtssingles match Irish sophomore 
before the 
against players tournament. f r o m "I expected all the matches to Minnesota and Virginia. be really hard and the compe­
Minnesota was playing without tition to be tough. And all two of its starters. those expectations came true." 
Junior Luis Haddock, playing Although the Irish dominat­at the No. 1 position for the ed over the weekend. theyIrish. pulled a 5-7. 6-4, 1-0 know there are areas in which {10-1) upset over Gopher they have to improve. Their Aleksey Zharinov, who was doubles play, which sometimes ranked 51st in the nation. hurt the team last season, con­The incoming freshmen also tinues to figure prominentlyperformed well for the Irish, on that list, despite the ulti­
who need to fill the void after mately successful weekend. graduation so many starters. "We need to continue to 

Irish junior Luis Haddock returns a shot last year in the Big East Tournament. The Irish won 
their first tournament of the year, the Fall Tribe Classic. 
work on doubles, although we still in it," Lagenkamp said. fall season. starting Sept. 19 actually did really well in dou­"We want to compete with and continuing through the bles," D'Amico said ...[We have every college out there." weekend as they host the Tom to} continue to work on com­This was Notre Dame's first Fallon Invitational. Notre petitiveness so we can become tournament with new assistant Dame will take the courts the best team we possibly coach Todd Doebler. who against Harvard, Purdue, can." came to South Bend from William and Mary and Ball 
As of yet, the team has no Pepperdine, where he helped State. specific goals besides that -his team to the NCAA tourna­becoming the best that they ment. can early on in the season. The Irish will be at home for Contact Joe Lindsley at 
..We're still fighting, we're the first and only time of the jlindsle@nd.edu 


ATTE~ION STUDENT LEADERS! 
VENDOR FAIR 
MONDAY~  SEPTEMBER I6~  2002  
5:30  p_M_  -7:30  p_M_  
BALLROOM  

LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 


Promotional Illerchandise 

You·re invi-ted -to come and mee-t a. va.rie-ty of loco.I businesses.. including: ap­parel companies.. wholesale merchandisers.. DJ·s & o-t-her valuable servicesl 
Sponsored by Student Activities. For more information contact Student Activities at 631-7308_ 
AND DON'T FORGETI 
If' you are planning on hosting any social events vvhere you vvill be serving Food (SYR, semi-Formal, club dinner, campus-vvide event, etc.), you must have mem­bers of' your group certified in Food service training. 
FOOD SERVICE TRAINING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16 
5:00 PM MONTGOMERY THEATER 
i 
I 
I 
lI l 

Friday, September 16, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

ANDREW KENNA/The Observer 
Irish defender Kevin Richards dribbles down the field Friday against Cornell. The Irish tied Cornell and beat No. 7 Furman in double overtime. 
frames and the game ended 
a 1-1 tie. 
"I thought we controlled 
Cornell better than we con­
trolled Seton Hall," Clark 
said. "but the goals just 
weren't there. Cornell had 
a lot of emotion in the 
game, and we were just a 
little flat, so that's the way 
it goes sometimes." 
Next up for the Irish is No. 24 Bradley, who was also a participant in the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament this weekend. That match will take place Thursday at 7 p.m. in Peoria, Ill. 
Notes: 
. 
Despite the Irish finishing the tournament undefeated, the Bradley Braves won the tournament on a tiebreak­er. Since the Irish and Braves were tied in both overall record (1-0-1) and goals scored (3), the Braves took the tournament on goals allowed. The Braves allowed no goals in two games while the Irish allowed two. 

. 
Bradley goalkeeper Chris Dunsheath earned tourna­ment MVP honors for not allowing a goal in two games. 

. 
The only reported injury for the Irish is senior mid­fielder Alan Lyskawa. who has not seen action since Notre Dame's first exhibi­tion game on August 23 against Bethel. 


Contact Bryan Kronk at kronk.3@nd.edu 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
seconds left to send the game into overtime. 
"You've got to give [Furman] credit, for them to lose a goal with three minutes left and get back into the game -you've got t 0 always 
University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 


INNSBRUCK 
2003-04 Academic Year 
BERLIN 
2003-04, Fall '03 and Spring '04 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
Tuesday, September 17, 2002 214 DeBartolo 
4:30 pm -5:30 pm 
Application Deadlines: Questions??? Innsbruck: Dec.1,2002 Weber.15@nd.edu Berlin: Oct. 1, 2002 for Sp '03 Applications: 
Dec. 1, 2002 for F '03 www.nd.edu/-intlstud and AY 03-04 

said. 
The Irish victory came off the heels of a lackluster performance Friday night against Cornell. While the Irish had many scoring opportunities in the first half, they were unable to convert on any of those chances into goals. 
The Big Red, who opened their season in the tourna­
m e n t , 
induced a 
g i V e "... I thought we had goal for some -their side to
gotten a hold ofthe
thing to open the 
t h e game, and it was just a scoring in 
other matter oftime ... the second team for half. A shot making by Cornell
Bobby Clark
it a midfielder game," Irish coach K e v i n 
Clark 
said. 

The first overtime passed 
relatively evenly and 
uneventfully, with no major 
scoring chances for either 
side. 

The Irish would once 
again capitalize on the man 
advantage in the second 
overtime. After a shot by 
Goldthwaite with six min­
utes left went just wide of 
the net, an Irish corner kick 
by Riley found Martin wait­
ing in front of the net. 
Martin's redirection of 
Riley's ground kick sent the 
Irish home victorious just 
2:31 short of a tie. 
"I thought they gave in a little bit in the first [half], but in the second half, even before the red card, I thought we had gotten a hold of a game, and it was just a matter of time." Clark London was 
mistakenly tipped past Sawyer by Irish defender Dale Rell as, giving the Big Red a 1-0 lead with 
35:40 remaining in the game. 
"When they scored the first goal. I think it was the first time we'd been behind this season, and that's including Scotland," Clark said, referring to the team's 4-0-1 record on its presea­son tour of Scotland in early August. 
Notre Dame responded less than 10 minutes later as Irish midfielder Justin Detter took a brilliant pass by forward Devon Prescod and blasted it past Cornell goalie Doug Allan to tie the game with 28:43 remain­ing. 
Sloppy play would plague the Irish in both overtime 
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
paced the squad with 22 kills, while outside hitter Jessica Kinder led the team in digs with 
22. 

Setter Kristen Kinder contin­ued to provide the catalyst for the Irish offense with a team­high 67 assists. 
The Irish opened play in the tournament Friday afternoon against Northwestern with a quick three-set victory 30-28, 30-26, 30-21. 
Neff set the standard for hit­ting in the match with an impressive . 526 hitting percent­age and 11 kills. Kristen Kinder contributed 33 assists to the offensive production and had nine digs. 
In their second match of tour­nament play Saturday morning, the Irish cruised to an easy victo­ry over Loyola College 30-17, 30­16, 30-14, hitting an impressive .374 as a team. Jessica Kinder lead the team's offensive pro­duction with 14 kills. 
Notre Dame moved to 8-2 on the season with the three wins over the weekend and extended its current streak of victories at home to 28 games. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
BREAKING THE CYCLE OF VIOLENCE: LIVING AFTER GENOCIDE 
A lecture by 
Martha Minow 
Professor, Harvard Law School 
Thursday, September 19 -8:00 pm CCE Auditorium, McKenna Hall 
Sponsored by the The Notre Dame Holocaust Project 
in co-operation with the Nanovic Institute Center for Ethics and Culture .., Center for Civil and Human Rights 
page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 16, 2002 


YOTE0 1 1 IOEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNrV'ERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

• ·-i:­
. 
. e: _;...... :: 


~:s .. 
!"..-, f;._,
-~-itt/ 

) ' 
,, 
i' 

; 

Investors need a~surance to rnaka decisions. Help us help thl:\m and the cr.,mpani~s woosa stock they buy, and v.-e'II tl(?lp ym.1 build a c,1mer. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the number-a. 
-


Monday, September 16, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 27 Family pair who 56 Fair share, are hard to tell maybe
1 Panorama apart 60 Song for a diva 

6 "I dare you!" 

33 56·Across + 61 See 17-Across 10 Meal-in-bed 56-Across 
63 Dovetail supporter 
34 For takeout 

64 Powerful auto 14 _ and aahed 35 Enamored of engine 65 Remove from 
15 Upper hand 36 Writer Wharton 

the blackboard 16 Hearty's 38"_about 
66 Feathery
companion that?!" 

scarves 17 With 61-Across, 40 Hertz 67 Shipped a fictional pair competitor 
68 So far
who are hard to 
41 Satellite TV 
tell apart receivers 
DOWN 
19 Jane Austen 43 _ is to say 1 Novemberheroine 

45 Court subject catchword 20 Toward sunrise 
2 Dubuque's state46 Routine that's 
21 Res hard to tell 3 The Rolling loquitur (legal apart from past Stones'"_ a phrase) routines Rainbow'' 
4 Prepare to bite?
49 "It's c-c-c-cold!" stocks 5 Say further 
22 Face-valued, as 

50 Minipie 6 Sound that's 
23 Scurries 51 Laugh-filled 

heaved 25 El _ (Pacific 
54 Prefix with 7 Bookie's quote (noodlephenomenon) potent everything man with "· dish)
8 Big lizard Proverbs
31 Wanderer
9 Chairman pro 57 24 hours
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 7 Be half asleep 

32 Frequent Arctic forecast 58 _-majeste
48 Not these or

-"!"'t'~~-:+-,,....,.,+.-,,+.,,.,,.i 10 What a loser may throw in 33 British refs. those 
59 Centipede's .....+.,...._,,... 11 Interstate 37 Malaise 51 Window's multitude entrance/exit support
39 "And then ...?" 
61 Show showers 
.-+.,...+-,........--4 12 _ mater 52 Creme cookie 
42 Popular camera ....+.....+--.....,,.+--1 13 1ne or 1945 type, for short 53 Actress Bonet 62 Pasture .....+.-+--+-+-......, 18 Deceive 
22 Aardvark Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. 
24 On paper -,,,+.,.._,,,-+-,,,,....,,,.~i-,,,.+.,.+,.-4 26 Sort Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
27 Place for a Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
~~~+.!,-t-""4 sacred cow 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year)...,..,..,_..,_N..._S+E-+-L-t 28 Godly belief 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, 
__E...._E_._D_._S_. 29 Codgers 
nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://ooserver.na.eou1 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
Name _______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Copperfield, Lauren Bacall Peter Falk, B.B. King 
Happy Birthday: Through your own life experience, you are prepared to heir others avoid the same mistakes that you once made. Your attitude toward lift will bring you great popularity this year, enabling you to gain the support anc help you need to achieve your personal goals. Onlookers will admire yom humanitarian interests, which will put you in a key position for futurt advancement. Your numbers are 3, 7, 12, 24, 31, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may be feeling surly, but picking fights wil: bring no solace. Overreacting and being too sensitive is likely to upset yom loved ones and, as a result, you may find yourself brooding alone. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You need to surround yourself with like-mindec individuals who will be inspiring and encouraging. These people may even leac you to some new interests.***** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can increase your property value by doinE some renovations. If you're bold enough, do the work yourself. Once the plact is refurbished, have a party that may lead to something romantic. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep your thoughts to yourself today. II possible, plan a day away from home where you stand a much better chance ol enjoying yourself. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stay the extra 10 minutes and really finish everythin! off at work; your boss will notice and consider you when a promotion come! available. Then join your peers and enjoy a social night on the town. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A sudden infatuation may seem to have undll( importance for the moment. Be advised: This new charmer may have somt serious drawbacks and some unfinished business to contend with. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): It's going to be one of those days when you have tc double-check everything: the gas, oil, water, electricity, kids. Talk to famil) members about wastefulness, conservation and general budgeting. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A family member may actually help you solve , dilemma today rather than complicate it further. You should listen to the advice The information you receive will be useful to you in the very near future 
**** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can get ahead of the game if you an careful with your spending and consider safe, long-term investments. Don'1 gamble with money that doesn't belong to you.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your usual steady way of approachini everything may be shattered today. This will probably confuse the people whc love you the most. Try to explain your game plan so no one becomes upset 
*** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone may say something behind you1 back if you confided in him or her about your personal secrets. Don't be toe: willing to give in to those looking for a free handout. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): If you get out and get involved in somethin~ you believe in, you will expand your knowledge as well as your friendships You need a place to go where you can share your ideas and contribute tc something worthwhile. **** Birthday Baby: You will be strong, independent and helpful. You will be ir the forefront of whatever direction you chose to follow. You will be intent or helping others to help themselves. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com astromate.com. ('()PYR rr.HT ,no, rTNJVFR" A I PRF"" ~YNnTr A'TP 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
fiwi·1[1•11;i~ii··-~u·.~i-ri--.i·'.';~;-;.··i:"~0-•. I·!·fflSE;_ ,;:li:;JN;::_ ,11(11::~_):'E;.,:JSr:w~w.,:":·-~:.,=..:_,i
t;:;·.rJ·.~mE:i !"":.,m_.irs~vri•-=--_:;_:_-=-~,t,lf~.---T.:U:.&::. ~­
r:.-~;;­
~1Offt'-tH,.,~ 9£(".U¥0 ---~HO, ·A.u~rN4 ~lifl~w\U.• Sf. 1>t~• . . ~J~t)cd.'f ,V::(t,U,.1.J"-A(fAf.1' 1ti-a.tAN(1~ o.tua. YHi Sl"VKNT~YH -f!ff"'W..tt.4"~ m1~rx.v At-"G-1~tl1l-""l &Y \i'Ot.1'.H'l-t~ 61NC1'Cf'~ff!fJV·nor,1.~~ WAVtWCli-"~l•~ . ~u.. 6' ~ttJe-,'-0' F~ ,rtM'Ol' ~ 
t'ff:ErJ\${.Wf W(U, --• ttt-:1 ~ · -VttY~~-~P~ ~~¢1' .1 
"4ttt~~o-u~ st;; · ~f ._ -· ---· · · -· · · · ~-_ _,,...___""11 
• $.. ~~J> IMf'lc-Y&lt.. '4AV 
. -~ 
... 
.I'':'~
.....
. 
. 
,.,,, 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, ...And the winner is... to form four ordinary words. 
HURCS 
t 
I I IIJ 

Cl002 Tri>une Media Se,v.,., Inc. 
, All Rlghlll Rese,ved_ 
'{. 
!I
,·•

OVEEK ..
j 


FEEDAM 
THE: Bf:AUTY C.ON­
rJ I I (] 
TE:5T TUl<NE:D THE: 

www.juni>le.com 
6f:.A.C.H INTO THIS. 

SEPORC 
t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
I rJ J I 

Answer: THE "[ I I ]" rI I I I )
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: FUNNY PIETY CATCHY GAMBLE Answer: What the hungry pilot did when he was run• ning late -ATE ON THE "FLY" 
DOUBLE JUMBLE 2, Ooui. Jumble la Jumble tun llrMa two. Each i-1i19 '-two NII of puzzlN 1111d carmon riddlN. Send $4.98 (Incl. ~and handling) » P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, l. 60680­<4330. Include your name, ilddrN8 and zip code and mab check payable» Trlbul-. Media s..-.tc., 


Irish midfielder Kevin Goldthwaite charges down the field with the ball In action Friday night against Cornell. Notre Dame tied Cornell and beat No. 7 Furman 2-1 over the weekend. 
season and currently stand at Goldthwaite.
. 7th-ranked 

3-0-2 on the year, after tying With an 11-on-10 situation,Furman falls to Cornell Friday night, 1-1. the Irish seemed poised to "I felt we really controlled
Notre Dame in strike. 
[Sunday's] game from start to With just over 16 minutes
Berticelli Tourney 
finish," Irish coach Bobby left in the second half, an Irish Clark said. "I think it was nice indirect kick found Erich to play against a team like Braun in front of the net. His
By BRYAN KRONK 

[Furman] and really control shot was tipped out by
Spores Writer 

the tempo of the game. And a Furman goalie John Hanley, nice thing about [the victory] but Irish defender Greg Martin It was a performance that was that they beat us in over­redirected the save back at the would have made a late Irish time down there last year, so it net. Unfortunately for the soccer coach proud. was good to get a little bit of Irish, Martin's shot landed 
In a very physical contest, a revenge." right in Hanley's hands. goal by Greg Martin in the sec­The Irish got off to a slow Notre Dame finally capital­ond overtime helped the mens start in Sunday's contest with ized on the Furman ejection soccer team knock off seventh­the Palladins, allowing with 2:27 left in the game. 
,.. ranked Furman, 2-1, to con­Furman some early chances. After another Furman foul just clude the Mike Berticelli No major scoring opportuni­outside their own penalty Memorial Tournament held ties materialized for either area, Chad Riley booted a per­this past weekend at Alumni side, however, in a very back­fect ball that found its way Field. and-forth first half. around the wall of Palladins 
The tournament is named The second half began much and past a shielded Hanley to for the former Notre Dame like the first, with the give the Irish an apparent vic­mens soccer coach who died Palladins getting some early tory with a very little time suddenly in January of 2000. chances offensively. But the remaining. This was scheduled to be the Irish retaliated later with The Palladins would not go second annual Berticelli some attacks of their own. The down without a fight, howev­Memorial Tournament; how­tide appeared to turn for the er. Off of a Furman corner ever. the events of Sept. 11, Irish with 19:34 left in the sec­kick, Palladin forward Kenny 2001, cancelled last year's ond half when Furman 's Penn lobbed the ball past Irish inaugural tournament. Sergei Raad was ejected from goalie Chris Sawyer with 34 The Irish are now unbeaten the game after a hard foul 
4 in their first five games of the against Irish midfielder Kevin see SOCCER/page 21 
l 
I 

FOOTBALL 

Monday, September 16, 2002 
What though the odds 
Irish teams defeat top 10 opponents over weekend 
MENS SOCCER 




VOLLEYBALL 

• Irish top No. 10 Pepperdine, win Golden Dome Invite 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame volleyball team accomplished a feat it hadn't in seven years -the defeat of a top 10 opponent. 
The Irish knocked off No. 10 Pepperdine Saturday night 30­32, 30-24, 29-31, 30-25, 15-10 to sweep the Golden Dome Invitational, their second tourna­ment title of the young season. 
Notre Dame also won the Shamrock Invitational two weeks ago, when the team swept through its three games in the Joyce Center for the victory. 
"It is a huge win for us," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. 
"We played with tremendous poise. We lost by two points in each of the games we dropped, but the team did not fold. Losing games one and three is the hardest way to get to a five­game victory. but our team showed its character and played very well." 
The marathon Irish victory came in large part from the strong hitting performance of middle blocker Katie Neff. The junior had 21 kills and a .409 hitting percentage and added 5 blocks at the net for the Irish defense. 
"Katie was outstanding all weekend," Brown said. "She had a great spring and was one of our most improved players. This weekend she had the opportuni­ty to step up, and she seized it." 
Sophomore Emily Loomis 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 21 
MENS TENNIS 
Notre Dame 25 
Notre Dame at Fall Tribe Classic 
Michigan 23 
In its first match of the season, the mens tennis team showed its potential 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham led his team to its third consecutive victory 
with victories over Virginia, Minnesota and host William and Mary. The Irish 
Saturday over rival Michigan. Comerback Shane Walton deflected a pas.son a 
lost All-Americans Javier Taborga and Casey Smith to graduation last year 
Wolverine two-point conversion attempt late in the game and then had an 
and were playing for the first time without their contributions. The squad fin­
interception on the final Michignan drive to seal the victory. The Irish jumped 
ished solid Sunday, with each player winning his singles match against com­
to 12th in both the AP and ESPN /USA Today Coaches' Polls with the upset. 
petitors from Virginia and Minnesota. 
page 20
Irish Insider 
tTf 

O
THE 

Monday, September 16, 2002 BSERVER Notre Dame 25, Michigan 23 
Ain't that a Shane 
With big plays, Notre Dame upsets Michigan 25-23 
ByMAITLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
After Shane Walton prevented 
Michigan from converting its 
two-point conversion, Notre 
Dame coach Tyrone Willingham 
knew who to ask to seal Notre 
Dame's upset victory. 
"[Coach] Willingham pointed 
to me and said I had to make a 
play," Walton said. When 
defensive tackle Cedric Hilliard 
caused Michigan quarterback 
John Navarre to float the ball in 
the air, Walton fulfilled his 
coach's wishes. 
"He broke on it and as soon 
as you saw it hit his hands, you 
are thinking, get down, get 
down, get down, because the 
game is over," Willingham said. 
In a game featuring eight 
turnovers, two blocked field 
goals and six Wolverine sacks, 
the Irish hung on for a 25-23 
victory. 
"Whatever it takes for us to 
win," Willingham said after the 
game Saturday. "Obviously you 
get to look at charts and you 
want to do all those things 
about goals that you set. You 
want to rush for this many, 
pass for this much. But the con­
cern for me is to win." 
With 2:5 3 seconds left in the 
game, Michigan quarterback 
John Navarre hit tight end 
Bennie Joppru in the end zone 
to bring the Wolverines within 
two. Walton wasn't about to let 
them get those two points. On 


LISA VELTE/The Observer
the two-point conversion 

Shane Walton celebrates with his teammates following his Interception that ended the final Michigan drive and guaranteed the 
attempt, Walton broke up 

Notre Dame upset victory. 
Navarre 's attempted pass to Braylon Edwards, holding the Irish lead at two. you can't beat a good football Grant had a breakout game Michigan on its own 6-yard line, again using the deep ball. 
But five plays later, Michigan team if you turn the football for the Irish. The sophomore tackle Courtney Morgan held Holiday connected with wide had the ball again and Walton over like we did," Michigan gained 132 yards on 28 carries Notre Dame defensive end receiver Omar Jenkins for a had to make one more big play. coach Lloyd Carr said. and scored twice. His only mis­Justin Tuck in the end zone and gain of 27. 
As the Wolverines drove After being scrutinized all take was a fumble on the goal the Irish got a safety on the "I thought the most disap­down the field, hoping to get week for its inability to score a line in the second quarter. penalty call. pointing play for us was the place kicker Philip Brabbs into touchdown, the Irish offense "I thought today that Ryan, On the Wolverine's next pos­long pass to start the fourth place for a field goal, Walton came out firing. On the first other than the one fumble going session, wide receiver Tyrece quarter because we had just made sure Navarre knew that play from scrimmage, Notre in, I thought he played a really Butler was stripped by Walton taken the lead 17-16," Carr the ball he threw belonged to Dame quarterback Carlyle good football game," Irish and Vontez Duff recovered the said. "We had began to run the Walton just as much as it Holiday overthrew receiver offensive coordinator Bill fumble to give the Irish an football relatively well and we belonged to anyone on the Arnaz Battle at the Michigan Diedrick said. opportunity at the Michigan 27. had the wind in the fourth Michigan team. 35. Holiday then connected with Grant's fumble wasn't the The offense capitalized and quarter and we felt good at that 
"[Coach] Willingham pointed freshman wide receiver only Irish mistake either. Like scored on an apparent fumble stage. Notre Dame did the job. " to me and said I had to· make a Maurice Stovall on the next play the Wolverines, Notre Dame by Holiday with 23 seconds left On a play-action fake, Holiday play," the senior said. "It wasn't for 41 yards. 4:52 into the sea­turned the ball over four times in the half and led 16-7. hit Jenkins again, this time for tipped, [Cedric Hilliard] hit son's third game, sophomore in a game that left fans wonder­But Michigan wasn't going to 4 7 yards to set up Grant's sec­[Michigan quarterback John Ryan Grant scored Notre ing what exactly happened. go down so easily. In the third ond touchdown of the game. Navarre]. If he doesn't hit the Dame's first offensive touch­Holiday threw an interception quarter it came back with some But a failed two-point conver­quarterback, maybe he makes a down. with three minutes left in the scores of its own. Philip Brabbs sion left the Irish ahead 22-17. good throw." "It gave us more confidence. first on an intended slant for made a 19-yard field goal and Perry fumbled on the next 
Instead, WaltonJntercepted. It allowed us to open the field, Battle. Wolverine cornerback the Wolverines recovered Michigan play and Setta nailed 
The fourth \Volverine run the ball a little bit more and Marlin Jackson returned it 19 Battle's fumble on the ensuing a 46-yarder to put Notre Dame turnover of the day was just put the defense back on their yards to tie the game at seven. kickoff. Running back Chris up by eight, a lead they never one of their problems. heels a little bit," Holiday said. The strange play didn't end Perry scored from the two and relinquished. 
"It was a hard fought football "It let us be more aggressive with turnovers. Scoring took a the Irish were behind for the game, lot of turnovers, lot of and that just started the whole new turn as well. first time this season. Contact Matt Lozar at penalties and certainly for us, game for us." After an illegal block put The Irish offense responded mlozar@nd.edu 
player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Ryan Grant The sophomore running back had 132 total yards and two  8 number ofturnovers in saturday·s  Shane Walton's deflection to prevent the two-point conversion  "Do I think it was an upset? All I know is that we won. ••  
touchdowns.  game. Both teams had one  The deflection allowed the Irish to  Vontez Duff  
interception and three fumbles.  h.old the lead and win the game.  Irish cornerback  

('E.L) 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 16, 2002 
report card 
B B+ B 
A­A­A 
B­
B+ 

first touchdown, the whole team showed poise against 
3.14 

Michigan and, despite some sloppy play, they won. 
adding up the numbers 
yards of the first reception of the game, only nine short of the 50-yard passing total last 
41 
weekend 

8 total number of turnovers -each team had one interception and three fumbles 
last time the Irish started the season 

19g6 
3-0. They did not go to a bowl game that year. 

number of rushing yards gained by
132 
sophomore Ryan Grant 

number of blocked field goals. The Irish blocked 
2 
one and the Wolverines blocked one 

8 
rushing yards recorded by Michigan in the first half of play 
number of yards of the first Notre Dame scor­
80 
ing drive that ended in a touchdown 

12 
Notre Dame's ranking in both the AP and the Coaches' poll following the Irish upset victo­
ry, two places ahead of Michigan. 
quarterbacks: Holiday was solid. He ran well, made smarter decisions than last week and was patient in the pocket. However, he did throw an interception and fumble the ball. 
running backs: The Irish showed a lot of improvement this week in their run game. They ran for 15 7 yards and two touchdowns. But Grant fumbled once and the blocking still needs work. 
receivers: Three receivers only caught five passes. However, there was not a huge opportunity for receptions con­sidering the limited number of passes Holiday threw. 
offensive line: The offensive line looked lousy. They allowed six sacks and allowed Michigan to penetrate on numerous plays. forcing Holiday to mobilize the entire game. 
defensive line: The line had a good game, put good pressure on Navarre and had one sack. They pressured Michigan into the safety and Hilliard hit Navarre to force the final inter­ception. 
linebackers: Although they weren't quite as strong as last weekend, Watson, play­ing his first game, had nine tackles and Goolsby had six. 
defensive backs: The Irish defensive backs 
once again proved to the nation they are solid. They forced fumbles and Walton 
broke up the two point conversion and 
intercepted Navarre. 

special teams: Special teams had a mix of good and bad. They blocked one field goal, but allowed Michigan to block one ofSetta's two attempts. 
coaching: This team is still plagued with penalties. However, the coach­ing staff gets points for keeping this team focused despite the hype sur­rounding the rivalry. 
overall: The offense scored it's 

Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham looks on as his team defeats Michigan. Willingham, who claims not to have a five-year plan for his team, Is looking to reach Just one goal -win. He Joined the ranks of Frank Leahy, Ara Parseghlan and Dan Devine as the only Irish coaches to win their first three games. 
The proof is in the play 
A passing F-16 jet generates a thunderous boom few machines can rival. Its prestige is unparal­leled, its power unquestioned. 
But those ear-splitting jets failed to match the din 
of long-dormant echoes awaken­ing as 80,795 Irish fans focused on the fighters on the field, not the ones in the sky. 
At the center 

of the South 
Andrew Soukup 
Bend thunder­storm stands Tyrone 
Irish

Willingham, 
Insight

who joined Frank Leahy, Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine as the only Irish coaches to win their first three games. Credit him with doing the impossible -getting the alumni in the gold seats to stand during a football game. 
This is the man who noticed The Shirt was green and donned an emerald green shirt to match the students. This is the man who commands the attention of every­one from his 100-person football team in the locker room to dozens of writers in a press conference. This is the man who raised a fin­ger, silenced 11,000 fans in a rowdy pep rally and orchestrated a single deafening clap that echoed from the bowels of the Joyce Center to Notre Dame homes across the country. 
This is the man who taught the Irish how to fight. Sometime in the middle of the 
summer, when everyone else asked, "Why?" Willingham asked his team, ..Why not?" Very early on, he made it clear there would be no rebuilding period, no calm 
before the storm. 
"I don't have a five-year plan," Willingham said. "After living in the Bay Area and seeing what happens with the dot-com indus­try, you can't afford to have a five­year plan anywhere. We win for today." 
Against Tennessee a year ago, key fumbles kept the Irish out of the game. Against Nebraska two years ago, the defense faltered in overtime. Willingham 
guaranteed "I'm just in it to win it. returned to the 
there would be I'm sorry it comes offso land of football no similar col­dominance.
simple.··
lapse against Willingham Michigan. could have picked Remember, Tyrone WIiiingham his excuse -any Willingham 
Irlsh head coach excuse -and got­
Willingham stood still, arms crossed, sunglasses covering his eyes as students rained onto the field from the bleachers. The eye of the storm saw everything and smiled. 
Everyone wanted Willingham to have a honeymoon. In their hearts, Notre Dame fans were willing to give the new coach a few years to adjust. Willingham needed to recruit players who fit his system, more talent, an easier schedule, time to get used to the pressures of Notre Dame. The slogan embla­zoned on The Shirt -"Return to Glory" -was supposed to take a 
few years before 
Notre Dame 

didn't break up the two-point conversion. Willingham didn't intercept the final pass. Willingham didn't kick the deciding field goal. Willingham didn't throw the flag to signal holding in the end zone. 
All Willingham did was remind his players that they are the Fighting Irish. 
So when Arnaz Battle fumbled on a kickoff and set up a Michigan touchdown, forcing the Irish to play catch-up for the first time all season, Notre Dame didn't fold. When John Navarre led the Wolverine offense on a final drive, the Irish defense drew a line and didn't flinch. 
And at the end of the game, ten away with it. 
But he glanced at 

the list for a sec­ond, said "Thank you very much," stuck his honeymoon where the sun doesn't shine and led the Irish to their first 3-0 start since 1996. Players call him "The Prophet" for a reason. 
''I'm just in it to win it," he said. 'Tm sorry that it comes off so sim­ple." 
This is Tyrone Willingham's team. If you didn't believe it before Saturday, you know it now. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 



Monday, September 16, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Grant finds focus despite fumble 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 

Last year Ryan Grant fumbled. During 
an Irish loss to Tennessee, the freshman 
running back dropped the ball and Bob 
Davie took him out of the game. He didn't 
see much playing time for the rest of the 
season. 
On Saturday against Michigan, Ryan Grant fumbled. During an Irish victory against the Wolverines, the sophomore running back dropped the ball. And Tyrone Willingham didn't change a thing about his lineup. 
"I thought today that Ryan. other than the one fumble going in, I thought he played a really good football game," said Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick. 
On the second Notre Dame offensive drive, Grant reached his arm out, trying to reach the end zone. Instead of scoring, he fumbled. But he didn't let that stop his game. 
"I just tried to stay focused," Grant said. 
Grant stayed focused enough to amass 132 rushing yards during the game, marking a new career best and the first 100-yard rushing game of his career. He pushed his way through the middle, he found holes in the Michigan line, and he ran outside to pick up yards for the Irish. 
Oh, and he caught a pass. 

"I just take it," Grant said. "We were running it up in the gut and running out­side. Ifs a matter of reading it and being patient." 
But what has been the most important statistic for the tailback was the fact that he finally found what had been eluding the Irish offense since the second quarter of their season-ending victory against Purdue last December. Grant scored Notre Dame's first offensive touchdown of the season, crossing the goal line less than five minutes into the first quarter. 
Grant took a pitch right and, with a block by Tom Lopienski, rushed three yards to be the first Irish offensive player to cross the goal line this season. "It was great to see him run through the "That's something I try every week ­
"It was great to get up in there and get field." run as hard as possible," Grant said. "As things rolling," Grant said...Now points So what was the difference between a running back you don't let the first one are going to come in bunches for us. It's a this week and the 66 yards he had take you down. That's something I was matter of staying on top and executing. against Maryland? Irish coach Tyrone trying to do." There's more coming." Willingham will attribute it to evolution. Whether it was aggression or evolution, 
And there was more coming for Grant. "I kind of relate it to an evolution," he Grant made strides on the field this week­In the third quarter, with the Wolverines said. " ... We keep playing the game week end. After recovering from a fumble in up by one, Grant took advantage of a after week. Hopefully we improve." the end zone, he moved on. beautiful setup on a 47-yard pass to Grant might attribute it to aggression. "That's something I take pride in, get Omar Jenkins. Two plays later he rushed Notre Dame's offense took the offensive. stronger as the game goes on," Grant again for three yards, right into the end Grant made it clear that one tackler was said. zone. That gave Notre Dame a lead that" not going to be enough to stop him. If he they didn't relinquish. had to, he would drag a Wolverine with Contact Katie McVoy at 
"[Grant] stepped up a lot," Jenkins said. him. mcvo5695@saint--'aiys.edu 

Navigating in a sea of green students 
Observer Staff Report 
When Tyrone Willingham looked up from his NBC inter­view, he saw green. And it wasn't because he was green with envy. He was surrounded by students. 
Following the Irish upset against the Wolverines, the stu­dent section rushed the field, hugging players, chanting "We are ND" and rejoicing in every way imaginable. 
Willingham was concerned. 

"What I get concerned about when I say help applies to me because I need to get off the field," he said after the game. "But it also applies to your players. I mean how many guys have you seen in a crowd like that on the field, when everybody is jumping around and all of the sudden somebody gets hurt. That's my concern. That's why the word help jumps into my mind so quick­ly." 
Although none of the football players were injured, there was at least one student bleed­ing from the stampede down onto the field. 
"It was crazy," quarterback Carlyle Holiday said. "I tried to get out." 
Making the call 
With 11 minutes left in the fourth quarter, Lloyd Carr faced a big decision. The Michigan coach had to decide whether or not to accept a penalty. With the Irish on the Michigan 29-yard line and a third and eight situation, the Irish were charged with a hold­ing penalty. 
If it had been accepted, the Irish would have faced third­and-8 from Michigan's 39 yard-line. 
Carr said that he assumed that the Irish would have made a third-down play that would have at least put Setta close enough to hit the field goal. But what's worse, they could have scored a touchdown. 
Carr opted to decline the penalty. "I thought about that penalty, and yet [Nicholas] Setta's going 
to make that kick," Carr said. "I saw him before the game. I don't think 10 yards would have made a difference." 
Setta made the 46-yard field goal and put the Irish up by eight. 
Playing tt safe 
In a game full of the unex­pected, the difference between winning and losing came from being safe, or rather, from get­ting a safety. 
In the second quarter, with the game tied at seven, Wolverine tackle Courtney Morgan held Justin Tuck in the end zone. The ensuing penalty call resulted in the Irish scoring a team safety and going up two. 
The safety was the first since the Irish scored a safety in the 1996 Orange Bowl. 
Returning In style 
Irish inside linebacker Courtney Watson returned to the starting lineup after a two­game absence due to a viral infection and led the Irish with nine tackles. 
"I think Courtney exemplifies what a leader is," Willingham said. "I told him he has not been standing on his feet very long coming off his illness and for him to be able to step right back in the lineup and start is what you expect from one of your leaders. He provided lead­ership, communication and leadership. I think it was a real asset to have him back in the lineup." 
Injured or not 

Carlyle Holiday, Jeff Faine, Vontez Duff and Rashon Powers-Neal w~re all helped off the field at some point dur­ing Saturday's game. Although Powers-Neal did not return to the game, none suffered seri­ous injuries. Faine, Holiday and Duff all returned to the field before the end of the game. 
Game-time captains 
Saturday's game-day cap­tains were Jeff Faine, Jordan Black, Vontez Duff and Darrell Campbell. 
•
scoring 

summary 
-
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 7 9 o 9 25 Purdue 7 0 10 6 23 
First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 0 Ryan Grant 1-yard run with 10:08 remaining (Nicholas Setta kick) Drive: 11 plays, 80 yards, 4:52 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 7 
Marlin Jackson 19-yard Interception return (Troy Nienberg kick) with 2:52 remaining 
Second quarter Notre Dame 9. Michigan 7 
team safety with 3:35 remaining 
Notre Dame 16, Michigan 7 
Carlyle Holiday 3-yard run with 0:23 remaining (Setta kick) Drive: 4 plays, 27 yards, 1:12 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 16, Michigan 10 Philip Brabbs 19-yard FG with 2:49 remaining 
Drive: 10 plays, 72 yards, 3:22 elapsed 
Notre Dame 16, Michigan 17 
Chris Perry 2-yard run (Brabbs kick) with 0:04 remaining, Drive: 6 plays, 32 yards, 2:34 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 22, Michigan 17 
Grant 3-yanl run (Holiday rush tailed) with 13:01 remaining, Drive: 5plays, 76 yards, 2:03 elapsed 
Notre Dame 25, Michigan 17 
Setta 46-yard FG with 10:41 remaining Drive: 5plays, 14 yards, 2:02 elapsed 
Notre Dame 25, Michigan 23 
Bennie Joppru 8-yanl reception from John Navarre (Navarre pass failed} with 2:53 remain­ing, Drive: 11 plays, 81 yanls, 4:10 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 
!l;&ll~il1lrnI :••~~~;rJ 230 
return yards 
126 

50-157  rushes-yards  26-91  
8-17·1 8-44.6 3-3  comp-att-int punts-yards fumbles-lost  19-42-1 8-41.4 3-3  
8-57 16  penalties-yards first downs  10-88 15  

passing 

Holiday 8-17-1 Navarre 19-42-1 
rushing 

Grant 28-132 Perry 16-79 Holiday 15-53 
Askew 5-15 

Powers-Neal 2-8 Navarre 3-10Lopienskl 1-2 Edwards 1-0Wilson 
1-0 
receiving 

Jenkins Stovall  3-83 1-41  Joppru Edwards  7-80 4.95  
Godsey  1-16  Askew  4-22  
Clark  1-9  Butler  3-15  
Battle  1-5  Bellamy  1-18  
Grant  1-0  

tackling 

Watson 9 
Hobson 10 

Walton 8 
Diggs 8

Goolsby 6 
Drake 6

Sapp 6 
June 6

Earl 5 
Kaufman 5

Bible 4 
Jackson 5

Tuck 3 
Orr 3

Curry 3 

A!,HE 

Notre Dame 25, Michigan 23 vnSERVER Monday, September 16, 2002 


' 
' 
: I 
. ) 
, I \I iI 


NBELIEVABLE P s 

I 
' ' 
rI 



NELLIE WILLIAMS and LISA VELTE/The Observer 

Safety Gerome Sapp signals the Irish safety (top left). The Irish block Troy Nlenberg's field goal attempt during the second quarter (top right). Shane Walton Inter• cepts John Navarre to end the final Wolverine scoring drive (bottom left). Students celebrate the unexpected, if sloppy, Irish win (bottom right). 











