
Playing games
SHOWERS 

Wednesday
Scene recommends "Tony Hawke Pro Skater 3" above other video games for advanced combo tricks. 
MARCH 27, 1ow30° 
HIGH 38° 
2002
Scene . page 10 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 112 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 



Midnight alcohol rally escalates 
• Police respond to calls reporting vandalism at Main Building 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
In the latest student demonstra­tion against proposed alcohol poli­cy changes, more than 100 stu­dents burned copies of the Notre Dame rule manual, du Lac, and hurled glass bottles of alcoholic beverages at the Main Building steps early this morning. 
The midnight rally, which lasted for 30 minutes, ended abruptly when students quickly scurried away from the scene after Notre Dame Security/Police arrived at 12:3Oa.m. 
NDSP Sgt. Greg Pavnica said police received a call about a dis­turbance outside Main Building and "some vandalism along with a fire," which they are investigating. 
The rally ended in no injuries or arrests. 
"Don't give up the fight," said O'Neill Hall President-elect Joe Muto, a sophomore who has been vocal about his contempt for the alcohol policy, which will ban in­hall dances, "hard" alcohol in the donns and will allow students 21 years old or older to host tail­gaters with alcohol in a designat­ed lot. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman offi­cially announced the new policy at Monday's Campus Life Council meeting, although students received an e-mail about the changes on March 18. Since the e­mail, there has been an ail-cam­pus rally sponsored by student government. 
Students said they were partic­ipating in the latest rally because it was another chance to show the administration that their voices would be heard. 
"I feel that Father Poorman's decisions are an invasion on our rights," said sophomore Cindy Adimari. who attended the rally with fellow Badin Hall residents. 
Muto. who spoke to the crowd, said he was satisfied with the stu­dent response. 
"We're very powerful," he said. "I don't think students realize that." 
The idea for the rally, called "Give Back du Lac," came from sophomore Walsh Hall residents who wanted to prove that stu­dents weren't apathetic about campus issues. One of the coordi­nators for the demonstration, Krista Seidl, said she was disap­pointed with University adminis­trators after the CLC meeting. 
"I was really frustrated after­wards," said Seidl, adding that she had expected more of a student response at the meeting. "I was surprised that only a small crowd of the students was being proac­tive." 
Later Monday, Seidl, along with sophomores Gabby Sopko, Leah Bertke and Mary Miksch decided to take action. The women made posters and began spreading mes­sage of the du Lac demonstration by word of mouth. 
However, Seidl and the other planners advertised that students should bring copies of du Lac and old gifts from in-hall dances to the rally, not the bottles of Absolut, Bacardi, Jose Cuervo and lighters to burn du Lac that participants also added to the list. 
"We didn't intend for people to start lighting things on fire," said Seidl. "[The people who started fires] went to extremes to try to 
see RALLY/page 4 



Hahn shares stories in 'Last Lecture' 
By MEGHAN 1'.1ARTIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Alexander Hahn may have claimed to be out of his element, but the mathemat­ics professor, entertained and inspired his audience with ease during Tuesday in the final installment of the student gov­ernment-sponsored Last Lecture series. 
"Mathematicians," he said, "always have their 'security blankets': a piece of chalk, a blackboard and logic to the flow of their studies. Here, there is no couches of Welsh Family Hall's family room Tuesday night, Hahn imparted the wisdom and insight he has gained throughout his life, from his childhood in Austria to his tenure as director of the Science College Honors Program at the University. 
A 37-year veteran at the University, he discussed his early experiences in a "formidable" grade school rw1 by Benedictine monk and related the tale of his family's subsequent move to America, predicated by the dis­astrous Hungarian revolution. 
His initial frustrations with the English language and the sug­Los Angeles. 
He took his friends' advice to heart, and it eventually led him to graduate school at Notr Dame, an arrangement that would eventually lead to his cur­rent position as full professor of mathematics at the University. 
Realizing that he was asked to speak in the Last Lecture series, a theme which itself evokes a melange of emotions, Hahn reflected on the relevance of his work, asking himself, "What has your contribution been?" and "What will your living days all have added up to?" 
His own response, he says, 
Mathematics professor Alexander Hahn, a 37-year veteran-at  blackboard, no chalk."  gestion of a college friend led  was to initially rule out all mate- 
the University, entertains and imparts wisdom to his audience  To the friends, colleagues and  him to the study of math during  
at Welsh Family Hall Tuesday.  students gathered among the  his years at Loyola University in  sec HAHN/page 4  

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, March 27, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Students vs. ND 
It seems apparent that the student war on Father 

Mark Poorman's drinking resolutions is going to 
plague student publications, in particular the glorious 
Observer. Essentially, ifs not my problem anymore. I 
am "of age," and I live off campus. 
Ilike to fight, argue and gen­

erally make people feel uncom­
V. Van Buren 

fortable, but Iam not about to 
Giles

take on the administration of 
lhis Urtiversity. Ifthere is a stu­
dent petition, I will sign it. If News Copy 
there is a march on the Main Editor 
Building, I will show up and 
watch people burn lhe student 
handbook and revel in the raucous behavior ofthe 
angry mob. But I am not going to organize my own 
movement in support of a student body that cares 
more about scholastics than drinking-oriented social 
interaction. 
I believe students should have alcohol. lots of it. l 
think before a student earns the right to drink beer, 
they should be forced to drink two shots ofEverclear. 
for those of you who arc not familiar with Everclear, 
it's not the one-hit wonder band from the 1990s. It's 
grain akohol, and frankly, it's the toughest shot I 
have ever had to do. The point is that you would 
rather strap yow-self into a dentist's chair and 
endure three hours of root canal than swallow this 
liquid. 
In essence, drinking is part of the Not.re Dame 
experience. I guarantee most people will remember 
the night they yacked on their roommate from a top 
loft rather than the day they received a good grade 
on a test or paper. 
I honestly hope undergrads retain their drinking 
rights. Drinking is a part of college. Just walk into the 
Alumni Association on a reunion weekend and you 
will see the proof for yourself. Every alum over 50 
has a head ofwhite hair, a well-defined beer gut and 
has an extremely red complexion. Their faces wear 
the marks of a drinking life which I bet started either 
in college or before. I bet they never got busted tail­
gating or handcuffed for drinking at a Lafayette St. 
Patrick's Day celebration. 
This is a tier-one private school, and people would 

kill to get in here. If you don't like it here, the 
University has no problem replacing your spot with 
another student who could care less about the 
University's policy on student drinking and who will 
spend their entire four years ofcollege handcuffed to 
their computer, cranking out work. 
I am going to get my degree, and I plan on coming back next year and tripping the lights fantastic at a couple of home football games. This colwnn is not to gripe at the school or to voice a more personal peti­tion on behalf of the student body. I am writing this out of joy for never having been in trouble with Hesidence Ufe or any other disciplinary office on this campus. No autographs, thank you. 
Unless I have jinxed myself something terrible by writing this, I will leave South Bend with a fair amount of partying under my belt while meeting some of the greatest people it has ever been my plea­sure ofkno½ing. I have even gone so far-as to steal paper out of the computer cluster. Now while these offenses would probably land me in Poorman's dun­geon of despair, it's all in the past, and I have already been to confession and made my penance with a power higher than the administration ofthis University. 
I successfully escaped the long arm of Notre Dame law. Granted, I have had more than my share of parking tickets. and I have almost gotten into fist­fights with the gate attendants over not being able to get my car on campus. But l am going to leave in May with a clear conscience. 
Anyone who has visited their high school after graduating knows that the school belongs to the stu­dents. Notre Dame b no different. Undergrads, the problem remains is your hands. I wouJd give you advice, but you wouldn't know what to do with it. For nuw, work on two things: Fight un and raise hell. Good luck guys -show 'em what you got. 
Contact Van Giles at vgiles.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
On Monday, Scene accidentally omirced the last band on the NAZZ concert, Dr. Curve, and also incorrectly reported the ending rime of rhe announcement of che winners as 1 a.m. Also, m Tuesday's Observer, Bill Rinner was cited as a sophomore. He is a freshman. The Observer regrets rhe errors. 
The Observer (USP5 599 2-4000) i• published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associarcd Pttss. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

DARTMOUTH UNIVERSITY 
Murder suspect seeks 2 trials 
HANOVER, N.H. 
Lawyers for Robert Tulloch argued in a court filing Monday accusation he and alleged accomplice James Parker planned the killings of Half and Susanne Zantop months in advance should not be heard at the teen's murder trial. Tulloch pleaded not guilty to the charge of conspiracy to commit murder -the fifth charge brought against the Vermont teen accused of killing the two Dartmouth College profes­sors at an arraignment hearing at Grafton County Superior Court on March 6. In a motion to consoli­date the conspiracy charge with the four existing first-degree murder charges, state prosecutors have alleged the Zantop murders were only part of "an overall scheme by the defendant and Parker to raise $10,000 illegally, to eliminate witnesses and to trav­el to Australia." 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
I 
I 

Wednesday 
. Lecture: "Varieties of Secularism in Antebellum America. Leaves of Grass as Spritual Exercise," Michael Warner. professor of English, Rutgers University, Rooms 210-214, McKcnna Hall. 5 p.m. 




BEYOND CAMPUS 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Amid reporters, cameras, lights and concerned students, Indiana University-Bloomington Chancellor Sharon Brehm held a press confer­ence Monday in the Maple Hoom of the Indiana Memorial Union to make public her decision on the Benton mural featuring Ku Klux Klan mem­bers in Woodburn Hall 100. 
Brehm stated the mural would not be covered because of moral issues and could not be moved because the painting could suffer irreparable damage. "I am convinced that mov­ing or covering the mural would be morally wrong, "Brehm said. "It would, in effect, do what Benton refused to do: That is, it would hide the shameful aspects of Indiana's past." 
The two sides of the issue present-
Thursday 
. Lecture: "Women and College Sports: A Legal and Practical Discussion," JiJI Bodensteiner, Office of General Counsel. department of Athletics, Room 129, Rolrs Recreation Center. 8:15 a.m. 
Indiana University officials won't cover Klan mural 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

ed a philosophical juxtaposition that Brehm also addressed. 
"Freedom of expression requires indifference, of perspective and of opinion, to be any freedom at all," Brehm said. "And without freedom of expression, diversity is restricted, oppressed and excluded from posi­tions of power in the society." 
After discussing why the mural would not be moved or covered, 

Friday 

. Good Friday: Campus offices closed, March 29-April 1 Easter Holiday; no classes in sesssion 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Brehm talked about the bigger issue that helped to create the mural argument in the first place: The lack of an obvious commitment to diversi­ty at JU. The campus has a black stu­dent population of 4 percent. and nearly 4 percent of the faculty is black. The numbers are even smaller for other minority groups. 
'There is no question that we need a stronger, more vigorous and more joyous commitment to diversity on this campus," Brehm said. 
With that, Brehm revealed her plan for dealing with the mural problem and also for dealing with diversity issues on the Bloomington. Ind., campus. 
A revamped mural education pro­gram will be instituted to ensure all students and incoming freshmen know about the mural. 


BAYLOR UNIVERSITY 
Former student dies in car crash 
WACO, Texas 

Services for a former Baylor University student who died in an automobile accident Thursday night will be held at 10 a.m. Tuesday in Georgetown, Texas. Martin Esteban Aleman, who was a junior when he last attended Baylor in the fall, was involved in a one-car automobile accident at about 11 :20 p.m. Thursday on State Highway 21 near College Station, Texas. A spokeswoman at the Department of Public Safety said Aleman, who was traveling alone, appar­ently lost control of his 1996 Ford Explorer when he ran off the right side of the highway into the grass. The spokeswoman said Aleman then overcompensat­ed to the left and crossed the grass median, where the car rolled over three times. Since he was not wearing a seatbelt, Aleman was ejected from the car. He was pronounced dead at the scene by Ramiro Quintero, a Justice of the Peace. Aleman's is the first Baylor student death since August. 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Wednesday, March 27. 
FRONTS: 


........r ~ ~ 
COLO WARM STATIONARY

O 2002 AccuWeather: Inc. 
Pflaww.' 
. ~•,-:::,,

® © CJ BJ [IT] ~ E3] D -i:)· ~;@;,) ~r=~~~~ 
High L-Shower• Rain T-•1orma Flurr..• Snow 1.. Sunny Pt Cloudy CloUdy Vla Assoc1Sled Pr8SS 
Atlanta 64 37 Las Vegas 77 52 POo11and 54 39 Bal1imore 53 29 Memphis 58 38 Sacramento 72 37 
Boston 51 30 Milwaukee 42 32 St. Louis 54 39
~-~-~~~~!) ~ ~ Chicago 46 33 New York 54 30 Tampa 79 56 
Showers T-storms Rain FtC:r;ies ~a::; Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 71 56 Philadelphia 55 34 Washington 55 34 
Via As$0Clatttd Ptesa GraphicoNst 
Wednesday, March 27, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Poet Gonzalez speaks at SMC 
Yanez said. "Rigo and I have comes the reactions of the 
By SARAH NESTOR many different ties. from audiences. 
News Writer Arizona and beyond." "It's ok to be freaked out by 
Gonzalez was born in my work," Gonzalez said. 
Poet and writer Rigoberto Bakersfield, Calif., but spent "Part of me expects that, Gonzalez read excerpts from a majority of his childhood wants that and gets off on it." his upcoming memoir and traveling between the United Gonzalez also said that poems from his first collec­States and Mexico. As the son despite the graphic nature of tion of poetry to an audience and grandson of migrant some of his work. he is very at Saint Mary's in Haggar workers, these experiences squeamish when it comes to Parlor Tuesday. are reflected in his work. His seeing something in real life. 
Richard Yanez, an English memoir, "Butterfly Boy," Gonzalez ended the session professor and a Center for expresses these journeys. with a reading of "The Man Women's Intercultural "It is an emotional journey, Who Gives You Nightmares," Leadership fellow. introduced going from migrant farm stating that he wanted the Gonzalez to the audience and worker to going around to excerpt to give the audience was the main supporter in colleges and reading poetry. bad dreams. bringing the talented poet to My memoir tries to under­Gonzalez attended the campus. The writer read from stand this journey," Gonzalez University of California at his upcoming memoir said. Riverside and Arizona State "Butterfly Boy" and his first The first poem that University. collection of poetry, "So Often Gonzalez read, "Blizzard," He now lives in New York the Pitcher Goes to Water was about the first time he and is anticipating the release Until it Breaks." saw snow while in New of his books, "Soledad Sigh­
"One of the reasons I came Mexico. It reflected the Sighs," a children·s book, and to CWIL was to bring differ­weather he saw Tuesday in "Crossing Vines," a novel. 
ent guests to campus. his first trip to Indiana. Because of my own literary While some of Gonzalez's 
Poet and writer Rigoberto Gonzalez reads selections of his 
upcoming memoir, "Butterfly Boy," to Saint Mary's students in 
background, I want to bring work includes graphic details Contact Sarah Nestor at 
Haggar Parlor Tuesday. 
many different writers," of sex and violence, he we!-nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
SICB talk centers on U.N. contracts 
Williams. By KATIE VINCER Kofi Annan, secretary-general News Writer 
of the United Nations, created and sculpted these principles. He The Student International announced these principles in Business Council held a council January 1999 at the Davos coffee break Tuesday evening at World Economic Forum. This Saint Mary's compact is an attempt to stabi­
"We're trying to bring every­lize the world market. one together in a comfortable Williams is organizing a con­atmosphere to discuss issues," ference this April addressing this said senior Mary Campe, SIBC contract. "The purpose of this director of marketing. conference is to familiarize U.S. 
Father Oliver Williams, direc­businesses with this compact," tor of the Notre Dame Center for said Williams Ethics and Religious Values in SIBC has eight divisions:


senior Thank You Picture Frame 
Business, provided the United Accounting, Business Consulting, Nations Global Contracts as the Finance, Global Development,
Sold Wednesday 

discussion topic. Human Resources, Information "The UN Global Contracts is a Technology, Internships and

from 7:30-9:30 and 
set of nine principles concerning Marketing. 
human rights, environmental

Thursday from 2:30­
issues, discrimination, and aboli­Contact Katie Vincer at 
tion of child labor," said vinc0858@saintmarys.edu.


4:30 in Lafortune. Sales end April 5! 
LARGE ONE TOPPING 
The 2-sided, 4x6 frame 
Also available is a 4x6 includes a picture of the album holding 24 picture 

WITH 2 LITER
Dome, a quote by Monk, in navy with a gold ND a brief thank-you emblem on the cover. A 

OF POP $9.99! 
message, and one line of great gift for friends and name personalization. even yourself! 
Cost: $25. Cost: $7. 
• Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! • 
Name (first and last only, please): 




PIZZA COMPANY•
School Address: 



Phone: Email: 


plzzadoneright
I want to order frame(s) for $25 each __ album(s) for $7 each 


__ both the frame and album for $30  NOW OPEN THURSDAY·SATURDAY till 2 am!  
.  Please make checks payable to: ND Management Club,  
.  You can print an order form at www.nd.edu/~mgtclub or send in this  Not good with other offer. Expires 4.10/02 
article with your order information to 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556  SR 23 at Ironwood (next to SUBWAY)  
271-1277  


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 27, 2002 


ophomore 


• Become one of our highly sought graduates 
• Prestigious Indiana University degree on the IUPUI campus 
• All majors accepted 

• Convenient times; part-time or full-time; 12-24 month completion 
• Specialize in financial reporting, taxation, auditing, information systems, management consulting 
• Internationally recognized faculty 
For more information contact: 
(317) 278-3885 


Lies becomes CSC director 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Father William Lies, a guest scholar for the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, will become the new executive director for the Center for Social Concerns this summer. 
He replaces Father Don McNeil!, who is leaving for sabbatical. 
Lies, who is getting his post­doctorate in political science from the University of Pittsburgh, has shown the leadership qualities that the CSC staff and Notre Dame administration wanted for McN eill's successor. the departing director said. 
"We shared a similar passion for justice and for the social mission of the church," said McNeill, who has been with the CSC for 19 years. 
More than a year ago, University President Father Edward Malloy and Vice President for Public Affairs and Communication Lou Nanni considered the possibility of a Holy Cross priest becoming the new executive director. 
"Everyone agreed that if we could find someone that had the gifts and the passion of the Center, that we would very much like that person," McNeil! said. 

Lies, who received his mas­ter of divinity degree from the University in 1993, was also ordained on campus at the Sacred Heart Basilica in 1994. Ile had worked in Chicago, Iowa, Chile and many U.S. Latino communities before returning to Notre Dame. 
"This job is an exciting assignment for me -for the entire Center staiT. And I look forward to working with them and with so many others in the effort," said Lies. 
Lies said he looks forward to the new challenges of reaching out to more students and get­ting faculty involved with the 
csc. 

"I see the Center's job as helping to round out the intel­lectual and spiritual formation of our students," McNeil! said. "We look to enhance what Notre Dame as a university is trying to do. and we do it by collaborating with a lot of oth­ers to offer formative educa­tional and service experiences for our students." 
The CSC has existed since 1983, when McNeil! helped found the office alon g with students and administrators who wanted to extend the social service and experiential learning options available at Notre Dame. 
"It's been a great joy, and Lhe joy has been to share as a Holy Cross priest with many lay women and men the com­mon commitment to respond to the call for a more just and humane world," said McNeil!. who will begin his one-year sabbatical on July 1. 
McNeill said he plans to engage in the three "Rs": relaxation, renewal, and recre­ation. 
"I'm not retiring like many of my classmates. I'm seeing this as a transition to another type of Holy Cross ministry," said 66-year-old McNeil!. 
During the sabbatical, McNeill said he plans to travel to Bolivia to improve his Spanish and work with the Maryknoll order there for two months. Afterward, McNeill said he wants to work in the Pilsen neighborhood of Chicago to do social outreach work with Latinos, as well as spend some time in San Antonio and Mexico. 
"I feel gratitude for my years at Notre Dame," said McNeill. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 


Rally 
continued from page 1 
get their point across." 
"The point is to give another opportunity to students," Seidl said. 
Some students, however, dis­agreed with how the rally's par­ticipants used the opportunity. 
"I think this behavior is indica­tive of the same sort of irresponsi­ble behavior that the policy seeks to address," said Carroll Hall Senator Jesse Flores as he lis­tened to students shout anti­administration sentiments and light small fires. 
Flores looked at the crowd and began to point out the danger of starting fires and leaving broken glass bottles and paper on the steps of the Main Building. 
"All that is ludicrous behavior in my opinion," said Flores. 
Freshman Hanni Masserer said he agreed with the proposed alco­hol policy changes to du Lac and that the students at the rally were behaving childishly. 
Masserer, who is a 23-year-old student from Germany, said he is used to drinking beer in his coun­try rather than the hard alcohol that the new policy bans in under­graduate residence halls. 
"It's a private University. So basically, either you like it or you transfer." 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 

Hahn 
continued from page 1 
rial accumulations, a point dri­ven home "with stark finality" by the estate sale of Evelyn George, a local restaurant proprietor, that he attended nearly a year ago. 
"Every bit of matter she had accumulated was there, and it sort of struck me as a demean­ing exercise." 

Further citing such material marvels as the cathedrals of medieval Europe and the ancient Egyptian pyramids, Hahn emphasized the fact that although these are "the creation of genius, these are environmen­tal things [with] an environment making a contribution. All of us are going to be called upon to make a contribution to this ever­evolving tapestry of art, of litera­ture, of science, of medicine," he said. ''I'm old, you're young; you can make a contribution." 
A past recipient of the Madden Award for excellence in teaching first-year students and former chair of the Math Department, Hahn conveyed to his audience the encouragement he was able to find in the story of another celebrated professor, Morrie Schwartz, as written by Schwartz's former student Mitch Alborn, in his book "Tuesdays with Morrie." 
"[Mitch] represents us -per­haps and older version of you, perhaps a younger version of me. I think about my situation through the eyes of Mitch," he said, reading passages from the book. which served as a segue to Hahn's own parting words of wisdom. 
"Morrie's seminar was meant for an older audience, but it is never too early to embark on its central lesson: create your own culture. Here at Notre Dame, opportunities abound." 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu. 

AlanaSOB· Ddll•1111.U¦s•llartcUng, liansaltaBl's SIJllllnar
Iteam The Methods OfAProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievement{f An ABC-123 Plan To Foffow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. Jo,,,aa,senilllar,ABoat Ill Ow Tea rears atlnualuallte.Ex,n:rtence;' This class is designed to short cut you to the simple fodiJsed thoughts ..YOU must have in btisi,:ess to move forward in high level business. ·J The class is taught by a man whose work, onE? Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, •change the course ofan entire industry.• · 

,.• .Ill: For class dates, private classes t · 



·~ .~
• 2.0AB more information, go to our web 

, ......,., · --site. or call Mr. Adams at ZTl-8104 lllfl/lW.IISIIStand.com E•mall • lnventor@usastand.com 
• • AL-~ --~ --~•--• • • • • •---.••----~-~. -•• • 
mpabus@iupui.edu http://bus.iupui.edu
KEllEY 
School of Business Indianapolis 







ATION 
Wednesday, March 27, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arafat not attending Arab summit: 
Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat will not attend the Arab League summit in Beirut this week because of Israeli conditions for his departure and return, the Palestinian Cabinet said Tuesday. The Arab League summit, set for Wednesday and Thursday, is to focus on a Saudi plan under which Israel would with ­draw from all the territories it captured in the 1967 war -the West Bank, Gaza Strip, east Jerusa. 

Earthquake destroys Afghan city: 
An earthquake measuring 6.1 razed an entire city and several villages in a remote area of northeast Afghanistan, with initial reports say­ing that it killed as many as 2,000 people and left legions homeless. The earthquake struck early Monday evening. "The whole city of Nahrin was destroyed," said an Afghan official. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Wis. bus crash kills 4: A tour bus carrying residents of a retirement home col­lided head-on with a delivery van Tuesday, killing at least four people and injuring i"8 others, authorities said. Twenty-one people were aboard the bus. authorities said. The van, which carried only the driver, burst into flames during the accident 30 miles west of Milwaukee. More than a dozen people were taken to area hospitals. At least four were in critical condition. 


Lawsuit filed for slave descendents: 
Three federal lawsuits seeking unspecified reparations for the 35 million descendants of African slaves were filed Tuesday against the Aetna insurance company, the FleetBoston financial services group and railroad giant CSX. The lawsuits also claim that 1,000 unidentified corporations may have profited from slavery and helped it continue in the United States between 1619 and 1865. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Gunman's history of mental illness: 
The gunman who killed four co-workers at an aircraft parts factory in South Bend and then took his own life had a history of mental ill­ness and once plotted to shoot passersby from a courthouse tower, police said Tuesday. Lockey planned to use his 6-month-old daughter as a hostage to force a deputy to give him the key to the clock tower, and then to use the baby and the deputy as hostages to keep police from shooting at him while he fired on the town, the newspaper said. 
Market Watch March 26 

~ C 
Dow 
10,353.36 +71.69 

Jones 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
~LOC01 INC-WJ (\.(01) -6. 29 -0.41 6.11 NASD,AQ-100 INDEX (@) +0. 93 +0.33 35.89 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.90 +0.47 16.65 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -1.75 -0,15 8,42LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -4.21 -0.19 4.32 
AFGHANISTAN 


Associated Press 

KHARWAR 
In the mountains and gorges of eastern Afghanistan, U.S. aircraft are hunting for al-Qaida and Taliban fighters after local Afghan commanders reported sightings of al­Qaida's second in com­mand. 
Egyptian Ayman al­Zawahri reportedly was traveling on horseback with three senior clerics and 26 al-Qaida officials, all Arabs. U.S. officials, however, say there is no credible evidence al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden or his top aide is among the group. 
Al-Zawahri, 50, spiritual adviser and personal physi­cian to bin Laden, was last seen about a week ago near the site of this month's Operation Anaconda battles between U.S. troops and al­Qaida fugitives in neighbor­ing Paktia province, according to Mohammed Momen, an Afghan intelli­gence officer from Gardez. 
From there, Momen and other Afghan authorities believe al-Zawahri made his way to this part of east­ern Afghanistan's Logar province, about 55 miles southwest of Kabul. It is a region with a long history of support for the Taliban. 
"We are sure, 100 per­cent, they came in this direction," Momen said as his car lunged and lurched over a rock-strewn road through the Darang Gorge that leads to Kharwar a forlorn and parched plain flanked by snow-streaked mountains. 
Overhead, a U.S. recon­naissance plane could be heard prowling the skies. Four distinctive jet streams of B-52 bombers were seen against the blue sky. 
Momen said he had received word that al­Zawahri plans a meeting with his supporters some­time this week in one of three places -Kharwar, Charkh or Sur Tangi Gorge. All are within 50 miles of each other. 
At the Pentagon, U.S. mil­\tary officials played down reports that al-Zawahri or bin Laden himself have been sighted. In December. 
U.S. officials. acting on tips from Afghan allies. said they believed bin Laden was cornered in the Tora Bora cave complex. When the area was overrun, no trace of bin Laden was found. 
"It's almost' a weekly occurrence that we get a couple of reports," of sight­ings, Pentagon spokes­woman Victoria Clarke said at a briefing Tuesday. 
COLOMBIA 

Man arrested in archbishop slaying 
Associated Press 
BOGATA 

The head of a Cali-based gang that allegedly trains young assassins was arrested in the slaying of the city's archbishop, officials said Tuesday. 
John Jairo Maturana was arrest in a joint police-army operation Monday in Cali, Colombia's third largest city. Authorities said they believed Maturana either had infor­mation on the slaying of Archbishop Isaias Duarte or took part in the 
killing. Maturana's was the first major arrest in the March 17 killing. 
The archbishop was killed as he left a group wedding in a poor Cali neighborhood. He was the highest ranking Roman Catholic clergyman killed in this country plagued by drug violence and a 38-year civil war. 
Authorities have said they suspect cocaine traffickers were behind the murder. Duarte had recently denounced the use of drug money to finance candidates in legislative elec­tions. 
Army 3rd Division Gen. Francisco Pedraza said Maturana, nicknamed "Marimba" and believed to be in his late 20s, is the leader of one of the city's most feared gangs. 
"Maturana ... is the head of the assassins school," Pedraza told local RCN television. 
"He should be able to give informa­tion ... or could have even participat­ed in the death of the bishop, because he is a person who deals in the business of death," Pedraza said. 
page 6 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 27, 2002 
ZIMBABWE 

Voting figures expose alleged election foul play 
FRANCE 

Gunman kills at least 8 near Paris suburb 
city council meeting in 
Assodau:d Press 

Nanterre, a middle class neighborhood near a business
NANTERRE 

district of western Paris, offi­A gunman opened fire near cials said. 
the city hall of a Paris suburb Prime Minister Lionel Jospin

early Wednesday. killing at rushed to the scene. Rising

least eight people and wound­crime has risen to the top ofing 18 others, rescue officials 

France's political agenda
said. 

ahead of presidential elections At least eight of the wounded in the spring. 
were in serious condition. 

Thousands of police officersDozens of police vehicles and 
held nationwide strikes in
more than 100 rescue officials flooded the scene in the west­December, saying they deserve ern Paris suburb of Nanterre, more pay and better equip­
said Cmdr. Christian ment because their jobs have Decolloredo of the Paris rescue become increasingly risky. squad. The protests started after 
He said police arrested the two officers were shot and suspected gunman but did not killed during an armed rob­provide any other detail on bery in a Paris suburb in 
how the apprehension October. occurred. The suspect was not In October, a masked gun­identified. Police said the man opened fire in the central motive was not immediately French city of Tours, killing clear. four people and sending terri­
The shooting took place at fied bystanders running for around 1 :15 a.m. following a cover. 
SK & lOK RUNS 
PLUS 
2MILEWALK SATURDAY, APRIL 6, 11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
~ SPONSORED Bl.nodefoS 
R ~ #OTlfllAf,lt,ooa11..,.1<11 
turnouts where the figures Mugabe, 78, led the nation violence and reprisal attacks show otherwise and vice to independence from Britain against his supporters. versa," he said. "These figures in 1980 and faced little dissent At least 150 people have must be explained by the rele­until recent years, when the died and tens of thousands vant authorities." nation's economy collapsed have been left homeless in the 
In one instance, the supervi­and political violence erupted. past two years of violence, sory com-Several for-which human rights groups mission eign election say was part of a government showed "We have evidence oflow o b s e r v e r plan to scare opposition voters 46,993 groups have away from the polls. 
turnouts where the 
votes were said the poll The report said a reduction
figures show otherwise 
cast in was biased to in the number of urban polling B u b i and vice versa. These ensure a stations and an increase in Umguza figures must be Mugabe victo-rural ones was intended to district in ry. favor voters in Mugabe strong-
explained by the
western T h e holds and disenfranchise Zimbabwe, relevant authorities. " Commonwealth urban opposition supporters. compared of Britain and Despite long voting lines in to the its former one Harare district, Mudede
David Coltart
29,340 colonies has announced a 32 percent
legal affairs spokesman
V O t e S s u s p e n d e d turnout, while the supervisory Mudede Z i m b a b w e commission reported a 51 per• 
from the orga-cent turnout. announced, a shortfall of nization's meetings for one In the rural Mugabe strong­17,653 votes, the MDC said. year, citing the "high level of hold of Mudzi. three voters 
Tsvangirai lost that district politically motivated" violence reportedly cast ballots every by about 4,000 votes. in the vote. two minutes, while in the 
The MDC also found that Tsvangirai has called for a opposition-dominated nationwide there were new vote and vowed not to Dzivaresekwa township, one 185,961 "missing votes" and hold talks with Mugabe's party vote was cast every three min­106,731 "extra votes." until authorities end political utes, according to the report. 
.·~:;If?c?s~,fr:;,rt11~;::~:''P:·,:;::;:~;}•;·;'•tx~~1:~v?~·:~··jr:;•..·::>~---~.--~­
·· ··,.· •.·• ...·· .· ~.,·.···.··
·· ~ 
,•A-~­
A»ociated Press 
HARARE 
Widespread disparities in official voting figures should nullify Presjdcnt Robert Mugabe's victory in presiden­tial elections earlier this month, Zimbabwe's opposition said Tuesday. 
Official results show Mugabe won the March 9-11 election with 56 percent of valid votes cast to 42 percent for Movement for Democratic Change leader Morgan Tsvangirai. 
But state Election Supervisory Commission vot­ing tables differed widely from results announced by Registrar-General Tobaiwa Mudede, opposition officials said in a report that included purported copies of the voting tables. 
The supervisory commission organizes the logistics of the election, while Mudede is in charge of voter registration, supervising the ballot boxes and announcing the results. 

To bring Mugabe's vote total below the required 50 percent majority and force a potential runoff. the opposition would need to prove that 200,000 votes were improperly cast. 
MDC officials said the dis­parity calls into question enough votes to invalidate Mugabe's entire 434,000-vote lead, and it was considering legal action to challenge the results. 
The tallies showed unusually high voter turnouts in ruling party strongholds and a decline in voting in urban opposition strongholds since parliamentary elections in 2000, opposition legal affairs spokesman David Coltart said. 
Coltart said both the com• mission's statistics and the announced results amounted to about the same total of votes, but adjustments from district to district had weighed heavily in Mugabe's favor. 
"We have evidence of low 
Wednesday, March 27, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Hesburgh earns honorary degree 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame President Emeritus Father Theodore Ilesburgh added to his record number of honorary degrees at Ohio State University's winter commencement exercises on March 22. 
The new honorary doctor of humane letters degree will bring Hesburgh's total to 148, the most ever bestowed on one per­son, according to the Guinness Book of World Records. 
One of the 20th centurv's leading figures in higher educa­tion, Hesburgh served as Notre Dame's president from 1952­
87. His 35-year tenure included the transfer of governance from the Congregation of Holy Cross to a predominantly lay Board of Trustees in 1967. and the admission of women to the undergraduate program in 1972. 
Since his retirement, Hesburgh, 84, has continued to serve on the boards of national and international organizations, write articles and deliver speeches. 
Highlighting a lengthy list of awards to Hesburgh are the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest honor awarded by Congress, and the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, bestowed on him by President Lyndon Johnson. 
We did your homework 
Sprint Pcs· found 2 great instant rebate offers just for college students! 

. Receive a$25 instant rebate on anew handset with a1-year Advantage Agreement 
. 
Receive a$50 instant rebate on anew handset with a2-year Advantage Agreement 

. 
Offer valid at Sprint Stores with avalid student identification card from qualifying colleges and universities 


Indiana Kokomo Warsaw 
Kokomo Plaza Woodland Plaza Elkhart 621 South Reed Rd. 3638 East Commerce Or. 422 East Bristol 765·452-6500 219-269-500] 219-264-4100 
Marion 
OhioFort Wayne 3022 South Western Ave. Coldwater Crossing 765-668-0000 

Lima
.Sprint Stor, 5525 Coldwater Rd. 
South Bend 
3215 Elida Rd.
111•/'t:6­
219-4li2-727I State Road 23 and Ironwood Or. 
419-331-9596 

Fort Wayne 2035 South Bend Ave. CovinQton Plaza 219-277-7727 6336 Jefferson Blvd. 219-436-1445 
Va.id 111-1qa,..S,piWII SitnaMtf ~--1~tlntll:I Sfrl'ltJ'\'.Sfnr:111. R111111qialilvkt Ntllllnhlla. llllfallMlir!lltlwdlqtialdy•ll'"'Dinflltld trld~ llllba,19 l'lqlNl!l,utlliaftal 118W11 r:tn,,ll! \IIIW1811Jn1!Jl; MCi4.lll,02 lllldld.Mlldlal lltl ipDlf'll!al,....m1Spmtf'CSS...icePlit<lol$34.!ftorkpwi111,-Hcri11111Sj,rin'11'CSl'hr.11Nuni:lei'.IMfotlclt01tcckCJ'll'IIOO.S100llllll0m,11th!prnmtMllln.t!Mp,rdlaRt.c.JllrWm1ra1all!lali!;l~flM'IISIMllrob.tf,R-sti.l:l(.lflll(llP:oadtolll1el&il iparil~~l15D~llllhil00!1111-11tlc~l'CSAlh~~~Alll(l(~lio.S'.Ml9~1dR.IG'l(M~etq:,!ilSM!l;IN.IYll'-mart.Bt&.ALli;tl,aa.tUl.jclHlutditil,lllf,INILOtiOIMill!Ollldil•l1~~11dtw.111ME 
SIIIWldillQll/llllf-.'lllllflbl'i'llllolbe~wiUtmv,rlodlfl"lltM!OtiW.ifllCOunil.«:NltMllt11-ion&Nal'IICM111blllvnlflCJitil!IIOl'l11tOIMrWl'f!lriaSetfl'IUIM•1!Gl'tl'IIW,,._f0tJL1111etOll.am.Oller,~IIC"I.O~.,;tllorllPIQlin ~0:1002 Sp,n ~L:I. ll1~1~ Sp,11(. ~ l'CS. Sp-v,tPCSCiolrhy-=i llltilMlll'<lftl K,ga~rell.idllrNiboj Sp-n1c.:-ma1-~LP. 
Blood vessels made from stem cells 
. Despite ethical debate, scientists plan to continue research 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Scientists seeking new ways to repair damaged arteries and ailing hearts have coaxed stem cells from a human embryo into forming tiny blood vessels. 
It's the first time human embryonic stem cells have been nurtured to the point where they will organize into blood vessels that could nour­ish the body, according to Robert Langer, leader of a laboratory team at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
But it isn't likely to be same stem
the last, as "There are thousands of 
cell cul­

scientists 
operations a year now tures, which
p u r s u e 
where doctors take w e r e
research into 
obtained

uses for stem vessels from one part of 
from thecells despite 

the body and transplant 
Rambam

debate over 
the ethics of them to another." Medical Center in
using the 
Haifa,

cells. 
Robert Langer 
Israel. MIT laboratory team leader Embryonic The new 
development 
is reported in Tuesday's online issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
Dr. John Gearhart of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine said the research is a "nice illustration" of how stem cells can serve as a source of various types of cells, in this case for blood vessels. 
"I think this is terrific," said Gearhart, who was not part of the research team. "It's another good example of the isolation of an important cell type from human embryonic stem cells." 
"These are the kinds of papers we are going to see a lot of," Gearhart added. 
Langer said the work shows that endothelial cells can be made from human embryonic stem cells. 
Endothelial cells line veins, arteries and lymph tissue. They are key to the structures that carry blood throughout the body. 
He said if the technique is refined, scientists may eventu­ally be able to make in the laboratory blood vessels that could be used to replace dis­eased arteries in the body. 
"There are thousands of operations a year now where doctors take vessels from one part of the body and trans­plant them to another," said Langer. Eventually, he said, such vessels might be made outside the body from embry­onic stem cells. 
Langer said endothelial cells also might be used to restore circulation to cells damaged by heart attacks. He said the processed stem cells may be able to re-establish blood flow to hearts failing due to blocked arteries. 
The research was conducted under a private grant, but Langer said the cell culture used is one of 61 worldwide that have been approved by the National Institutes of Health for federally funded research. 
The use of embryonic stem cells is controversial because extracting the cells kills a liv­ing human embryo. President Bush last summer decided that federal funding would be permitted only for stem cell cultures that already existed and were made from embryos that were to be discarded by fertility clinics. The aim was to prevent further killing for research purposes of other human embryos. 
Langer said his lab will seek federal money to continue 
research 
using the 
stem cells 

are the ancestral cells of every cell in the body. 
In a developing embryo, they transform into cells that make up the organs, bone, skin and other tissues. Researchers hope to direct the transformation of such cells to treat ailing hearts, livers, brains and other organs. 
Langer said his team cul­tured the cells in such a way that they were allowed to develop into the various types of cells that are precursors to mature tissue. 
From this colony, the researchers extracted cells that were following a linage that would lead to mature endothelial cells. 
These were further cultured and some eventually formed primitive vascular structures. 
Some of the cells were injected into laboratory rodents, called SCIO mice, whose immune system will not reject foreign tissue. 
Langer said the cells contin­ued to transform themselves and after 14 days they devel­oped the tiny tubes and struc­ture of capillaries, the small blood vessels. 
He said some of the vessels contained mouse blood cells, suggesting that they had actu­ally incorporated the_mselves into the mouse circulation sys­tem. 
The result, said Langer, shows that embryonic stem cells can spontaneously trans­form to vessels and organize themselves into a pattern like that which occurs during the formation of an embryo. 
"This is the first time this has been done with human cells," said Langer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, March 27, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No,re Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hali, Nmre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Sheila Egos P~~TO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHIC~ EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINlSTRAT0R: Scort Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski DEVl'LOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO............. 631-7471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING .................................... 63 !-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu [D!TOR IN CHIEF. .. .. ...............................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53!3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. t@nd.edu SCENE.. .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMSIWER ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: weather for up--to-the movies/music for minute fo,ecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet rhe editors and August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither inscirution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers ro the Ediror must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q,mriom regarding Observerpolicies ,haiddbe direct­ed tu Edimr in ChiefJason McFar0,. 

What with all the protests and hul­labaloo surrounding the new alcohol policies and everything, I was remind­ed of an idea I had a long time ago. before this column existed and back when drinking liquor was still 
Joe Larson
A-OK with the powers that be at this University. 

Principles of
This idea 

Idiocracy
comes from that peculiar and astonishing time in all of our lives, freshman year. Strangely enough, it was a class that sparked this little nugget of theory and even more mind-boggling is the fact that it was a philosophy class and a discussion about Rene Descartes. I know, this is ridiculous. I promised never, ever, to include academic sources in my column and now I'm going and doing it. Don't worry, though, you'll see how quickly we'll turn away from the actual academic theory. 
Anyway, that old codger Rene said once "I think, therefore I am," right? 
Right. 

Now, I learned in class that Descartes' quote was really supposed to prove that humans existed in the world and not just in some bizarre world inside their own head. But then where would the head be located? This is why I hate waxing philosophi­cal. Also, I think it's probably perti­nent to note that on the paper about old Rene for this class the only com­ments I received back were as fol­lows: "D. This is wrong." So, using my position as a columnist, I'm going to basically present my "D. This is wrong" refutation of what I assumed Descartes was trying to get at all those years ago with those confusing circles and such. 
If you, like any other person who hasn't read for class, take "I think, therefore I am" out of context, it seems plausible enough. What a per­son thinks is what defines them. Simple, to the point. Wow, Descartes was really great. 
But herein lies the problem. What a person thinks is a pretty good indica­tion of the kind of person they are, true. But is what you think really who you are? 
I don't think so by a long shot. A person can sit around in a classroom or their dorm room and spew opinions until the cows come home and that doesn't actually tell you anything about the person from where the the­ories and ideas were coming from. 
I know it wasn't Descartes, but someone, Kierkegaard or Dick Van Patten probably, who said, "Easier said than done." This is the point. Aimless talking is a waste of breath and nothing more. There's also that saying about how opinions are like earholes. Everybody has one. 
What you think means nothing unless you act on those thoughts and opinions. In other words, you can't attempt to define yourself by talking; show people who you are by the way you conduct yourself. 
If you are really concerned with the homeless and underprivileged in this country, then don't go back to your dormroom after class and play Nintendo all afternoon long. Volunteer and prove you really care about it. 
If you don't disapprove of homosex­uals, then don't use the terms "gay," "fag" and "homo" in a derogatory manner. 
If you say you're a really great bas­ketball player, then go to The Rock and dominate. Don't just show up and be mediocre. If you're mediocre, say you are and then we won't expect so much. 
The problem is that there are so many people around here who think, in their heads, that they are so supe­rior to everyone else. We, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, are composed of mostly lucky and overprivileged kids who have always been able to answer the important questions correctly and then go home and sit in their cushy, suburban houses smiling about what good people we all are. Half the time, people are just yakking and yakking about what they perceive as the right answer while not really having an actual opinion or even any knowledge about what they are so vehemently standing up for. 
The boasting and complaining has to stop somewhere. 
Last week, there was a group of stu­dents who spoke up against Father Mark Poorman's new alcohol rules. The group very nicely made a stink, but can you imagine the foul odor and, scarily enough, the progress that would have been made had everyone who has complained, even once, about the new alcohol policy shown up? Can you imagine if 75 percent of the student population had shown up at Stonehenge that day to try and save the SYR, hard liquor and tailgating? 50 percent? Whoa, something might have gotten changed for the better. 
A message may have been sent to the people in charge. Maybe the stu­dents could have obtained a voice on this campus that stands for some­thing, instead of a bratty murmur heard in the hallways and dining halls about how we're being mistreated. But these kind of numbers didn't show up. Instead, a smaller group of spirited protesters showed while the rest of the complainers sat around and well, complained. 
The message here is clear. Descartes was wrong. Well, not really. but taken out of context. I'm saying it anyway. It's not what you think; it's what you do about those thoughts. So, to all the people who've been sitting around complaining or boasting or whatever, maybe you should try and put your money where your mouth is, and then people will listen. 
Joe Larsen is a senior English and history major. His column appears euery other Wednesday. He can be reached at jlarson@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Sheila Egts Laura Kelly Van Giles Graphics 

Jill Maxbauer Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Kerry Smith Noah Amstadter 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 

Teresa Fralish Angela Campos 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
To what extent do student protests affect administrators' decisions'? 
Vote at NDToday.com by 5 p.m. today. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You must be the change you wish to see in the world." 
Mohandas Gandhi Indian nationalist leader 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 27, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alcohol is not students' only concern 
Service and concern mark Notre Dame students 
In her March 26 letter, Notre Dame grad­uate Mary Ann Hennessey remarked Lhat "there is no cause but the cause of alcohol which can arouse the students of Notre Dame to action." Let me add one cause to that list, at least -refuting vitriolic attacks by bitter Notre Dame graduates. 
Hennessey cited the AIDS 
epidemic, the Gulf War and health care, among others. as causes which Notre Dame students don't care about. Hennessey is just plain wrong. Notre Dame students are socially-con­scious and have always been interested in learn­ing and discussing such worthy topics as these. 
Ms. Hennessey should be invited to virtually any class in the law school, the government department or many of our other fine depart­ments to hear the intelli­gent dialogue that stu­dents have over many of today's "hot topics." The fact that we don't regularly hold open protests on campus concerning these issues proves nothing. Did Notre Dame give anyone AIDS? Is it responsible for the abominable health care situation? Did Notre Dame order the Gulf War? Of course not. If it was, then I guarantee that student protests would be off the charts. If you want to protest the health care situation on the campus of Notre Dame, go ahead, but don't expect that it will do much good, even if many of us join in. Effective protests should be directed at people or organiza­tions that have a say in the matter, not col­leges that are much more focused on edu­cating students and not leading them into battle. 
Of course, Hennessey also ignores the fact that many Notre Dame students join the March for Life in Washington, D.C. -a protest that supports a worthy cause and which occurs in a venue that has some pos­itive effect. Where do you protest if you want to end abortion? In Washington, 
which is conveniently full of judges and legislators. not politically inactive college administrators and teach­
In addition, many Notre Dame students have protest­
ed the University's stance on gay and lesbian issues, a topic that Hennessey 
points to as one that stu­dents could care not less about. I've found these public protests on cam­pus to be informative and useful mechanisms of possible change at the University. 
Hennessey ignores the many Notre Dame students that aim their future lives towards service, politics and teaching. After four years of ·,J education, Notre Dame stu­dents are primed and ready to engage actively in politics and to 
make a difference in front of an audi­ence that can affect social change. In the meantime, students here are more focused on learning the issues and probing their beliefs. Don't blame us if we choose to read and observe before we act. 
In short, Hennessey assumes way too much about a campus that is probably as interested in social justice as she purports to be. 
Andrew Malahowski 
law student March 26, 2002 

Misplaced pro.tests accomplish nothing 
On March 26, Mary Ann Hennessey expressed in her letter that the student body is concerned solely about alcohol and was apa­thetic to other, more important caus­es, such as women's rights or the Gulf War. This is not the first time I have heard this view expressed. It has been implied in several Viewpoint letters, and I have been lectured by some fellow students as to why protesttng the alcohol policy serves as evidence that the student body has its priorities completely out of whack. 
Allow me to make two points to these types. First, I'm insulted that you would judge the compassion of the general student body based on the subject matter of mass demon­strations. You want to know the real reason why we don't hold demon­strations for, say, the AIDS epidem­ic? It has nothing to do with apathy -it has to do with pragmatism. 
The AIDS epidemic is not an issue that the Notre Dame as a whole has any control over -it :is an issue that has been left to national bureaucrats and independent organizations cre­ated expressly for that purpose. If you want to help the AIDS epidemic in South Africa, organizing small demonstrations at a university is a waste of time at best, because no one of importance, such as foreign aid commissioners, will listen. It would be much more sensible to work with­in the inherently pluralist democracy we live under and help found an organization at the University, or join one if it already exists, that devotes time and resources to the cause. Which, by the way, is the approach of many students -as proof I offer the success of the Center for Social Concerns. We protest the alcohol policy because it's one of the few issues that involves only the persona of Notre Dame and therefore one that demonstration has a realistic chance to a!Tcct. 
Secondly, the reason why so many of us are irked by the policy has nothing to do with hard alcohol. We know that as long as we keep things low-key we will be able to continue drinking even the harder stuff in the privacy of our rooms; RAs are not out to get us. What does irk us, how­
. ever, is the fact that dorm life is tak­ing a huge hit with the no in-dorm SYR policy. and. more importantly, that students, other than "drinking­is-evil" focus groups, were not con­sulted in the policy decision. As students, we came to this University in the hope that we could escape the grip of our parents and learn to live on our own. Instead, we are living under the Fourth Reich. Our lives are not run by our own volition, but by a not-so-invisible hand whose job seems to be to pro­tect us from our own rationality. We are annoyed because we came to Notre Dame to make our own deci­sions, not to have our growth stunted for four years. I close by saying to the administra­tion, get off our backs and-let us live our own lives. And to you who com­plain about our lack of demonstra­tions, which I'm sure you all regular­ly attend, how about dismounting your high horse so that you can pull your head out of the clouds? 
Brodie Butland 
freshman Saint Edward's Hall March 26, 2002 

Lack of participation not a new problem 
Although sadly I am no longer a student, I am an alumna of Notre Dame. Yet it seems nothing has changed; I don't remember being consulted about this policy either. Not that it surprises me. 
I understand that Mr. Litle was not around when the administration's crackdown on alco­hol began, but I was. I was at Bridget McGuire's. I was at the last ticket campout before they were banned. I was an opponent of the cancellation of the Graffiti Dance. And I was there when the students were denied a seat on the Board of Directors. 
The difference between myself and most stu­dents at the time was that I was a member of the Student Union Board staff for three years at Notre Dame and witnessed firsthand the efforts of the Student Union to try again and again, without avail. to have a voice in the truly important decisions at Notre Dame. Instead, intelligent students with good inten­tions are rebuffed, or worse, ignored. Notre Dame kids are touted as some of the brightest and best students in the country today by the same people who. behind the closed doors of Student Affairs, treat students as though they do not even merit expressing an opinion. 
If the alcohol policy is what the administra­tion thinks it will take to ensure the safety of its students, so be it. As some have said, you are free to leave; there are others who would give up alcohol entirely to attend Notre Dame. 
My problem is this: until the higher-ups at this University learn that Notre Dame students and alumni should have a place in the deci­sion-making processes that affect them. situa­tions like these will continue to contribute to the sad public commentary on what is other­wise known as a bright, progressive, student­oriented university. Sadly. l am sure the cur­rent propective students visiting at this time are getting quite an earful from some angered freshmen. 
In my years at the Student Union, I finally realized that our efforts to have a voh;e were futile and unfulfilled. I am beginning to realize that. in the absence of a capital campaign, the majority of alumni are overlooked as well. Father Mark Poorman, the majority of alumni and students and l respect your leadership, intelligence and good faith. Please help ensure us that you respect ours. 
Kathleen Leicht 
class of '01 March 26, 2002 

Comparisons extend too far 
I 
American policy is not perfect. However, the radical com­I I parisons made in Colman McCarthy's guest column on 
-I 
March 22 are extremely irresponsible. 
Equating the deaths of starving human beings with the deaths of animals for food is absurd. I hope that beef pro­ducers donate a few hundred thousand tons of veal to allevi­ate hunger in Africa. I wonder how McCarthy would respond to that moral dilemma. 
Furthermore, the columnist states that the Bush adminis­tration's domestic and foreign policy is following the "famil­iar script" of Nazi Germany. Now, call me an oppressive warmonger if you will, but it's just a bit excessive to charac­terize the Bush government as the Fourth Reich. 
McCarthy exhorts his readers to "withdraw support ­political, financial and emotional" from entities that commit any sort of violence. How far should this withdrawal go? Should Americans refuse to give their political support by voting? Tax evasion and money laundering are great ways of refusing financial support of the government. And who real­ly believes in that hokey Declaration of Independence. any­way? 
As the Gospel tells us, "Give to .Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's," (Matthew 22:21). 
Matt Bramati 
sophomore 
Knott Hall 
March 25, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CE 
E
Vt eo games
page 10 Wednesday, March 27, 2002 
Tony Hawk completes holy trinity 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

For the most part, sequels are always a leldown. Not so for the "Tony Hawk's Pro Skater" series, in which each game has been better than the last. 
Neversoft and Activision 02's newest addition to the series takes advantage of the Playstation 2's high-end process-. ing capabilities and large storage capacity of its DVD format. while remaining true to the old addictive style. The game strikes the perfect bal­ance between tweaking and overhaul­ing. 
One of the biggest gameplay improve­ments in "Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3" is the addition of the "revert" trick that allows players to string vertical ramp tricks into combos. The biggest scores in the last installment of the game were only possible during grind moves, slid­ing the board on an edge of a structure. By adding the connecting revert move, players will be able to explore a whole new world of combo tricks. 
Of course, there are tons of other new moves to try out and most of the old levels that are based on real-llfe skate skaters are present, with the notable parks. exception of Bob Bumquist who has The most fascinating aspect of "Tony 
recently added his moniker to the "Konami" skateboarding game series. 
Although Burnquist was a favorite among "Tony Hawk Pro Skater" aficionados, gamers may not miss him as much as they initially expect. Barn Margera of MTV's sophomoric daredevil show "Jackass" has been added to the lineup, and gamers will be able to put a digital rendition of themselves in the action with the "Create-A­Skater" mode, which features an enormous amount of customization options, including body styles, cloths, glasses, tattoos and accessories. 

Hawk's Pro Skater 3" is 
that it is the first PS2
Tony Hawk 

game that can be played
f!ro Skater 3 

on line. Online players can purchase the Playstation 2's modem adapter. connect using a USB modem or connect directly through an Ethernet hub (perfect for college dorm rooms). Most gamers report favorably on the feature even though network lag can severely sway a match that is only two minutes long. 
The physics engine in "Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3" is very advanced, and playing the game is fairly intuitive; there's a lot to learn in the game but 


players will find them­
The leveI editor has also been supped selves improving almost unconsciously. up if gamers get bored with the built-in Game designers also took a lot of time 
designing the new levels and addressed anti-aliasing issues often complained about in previous editions. 
One plus side of the game is its soundtrack, which features artists like KRS-One, Redman and Alien Ant Farm. The game has a large selection of music and players can utilize the playlist fea­ture to turn off any songs they don't like. 
But "Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3'"s real strength lies in its playability: This game is perfect for a study break or a marathon all-nighter with friends. With a number of different games to play both competitively and cooperatively, "Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3" is sure to please almost all game fans. In fact, even gamers who don't like sports games will appreciate the beguiling gameplay. 
"Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3" is proba­bly more dangerous to a student's social life than the new alcohol policies. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at Beggs.J@nd.edu. 
'Ancients' Gate' opens way for role playing games 
By ADAM TURNER Scene Video Game Critic 

Role-playing games (RPGs) are the under-appreciated, often overlooked children of the gaming industry. Gaming companies spend up to a year in devel­opment, trying to create hype for a game, and only the RPG enthusiasts are likely to pick up a copy, unless it hap­pens to display a large stamp proclaim­ing "Squaresoft" or "EverQuest" some­where on the cover. 
The sad part is that sometimes a real­ly great game gets published, hits the shelves and just collects dust on fts way to the bargain bin. Hopefully this will not be the case with Surreal Entertainment's "Drakan: The Ancients' Gates." 
As the title was slapped with a mature rating for blood and gore, gamers find themselves in the middle of a huge, lushly designed world that fully takes advantage of the Playstation 2's process­ing abilities. This world is seen through the eyes of Rynn, a well-modeled Lara Croft look-alike, and her dragon, Arokh. 
The quest is typical RPG fare: save the world from the oppression of the evil desert lords by opening the ancients' gates and bringing back to life all the dragons that have been slumbering since the Great War. This will bring jus­tice back to the world of Drakan. 
Although tired and cliched, the game can stun players on almost every front. When Rynn isn't riding Arokh, the game flows a lot like any of the "Zelda" games on Nintendo 64, with lots of running and gutting monsters with all sorts of Trogs, a scimitar should be darn near weapons. While on Arokh, the game broken. This addition lends to the real­can't be compared to anything. Hours ism and the fun, and encourages the use can be whittled away as goblins are of weapons that a gamer might typically incinerated by large balls of fire from avoid. With over 50 hand-to-hand above. The screams are a bit weapons and 30 disturbing but add more to the 
spells, "The game than they take away. 
Drakan: The 
Ancients' Gates" The animation and voice act­
provides a verita­

Ancients' Gate 
ing, almost always looked over in the lesser RPGs, are just great. The mission maps are huge and densely populated with monsters, traps and sub­quests. From time to time, mis­sions are added to Rynn's jour­nal, which help players remem­ber what it is they are sup­posed to be doing. Some mis­sions are required to finish the game, but some are 

optional, which really adds to the replay value. 

Surreal Entertainment system turned on.
" T h e ble arsenal with which to dispatch the hordes of evil. 
On the other side of the playing field are the annoyances that can plague all great games. The hand-to-hand fighting system is not altogether perfect. A swing of the spiked mace can result in


•it>•• 
a miss just as like-

out offive shamrocks ly as a hit, even with the targeting 
Ancients' Gates" does have a lot of great features. For instance, the problem found with platform version of games (as opposed to PC versions) is that it is impossible to save the game's progress at all points. Not an issue here. The save menu is always avail­ab le to save progress, eliminating annoying backtrack­ing that is ever-pre­sent and frustrating in RPGs. 
Another feature of "The Ancients' Gates" is that weapons a player buys can be broken. This makes sense. because after slaugh­tering about 500 

That miss leaves just enough time for a Trog to gut an unsuspecting gamer with its razor-sharp claws and result in a thrown controller. 
Any game that encourages abuse of the hardware deserves another run­through at the bug department. The controls in "The Ancients' Gate" can also be difficult to learn. For example, Arokh is very hard to control at first because of the degree of freeness that the programmers wished to give the gamers in flying. This results in much confusion for the gamer, wondering where he is going and if this is the right way, and then staring at the map for two minutes. 
Expect nothing and a bounty of good shall be received. "Drakan: The Ancients' Gates" isn't a spotlight in the gaming world, but it still adds a fantas­tic adventure to the realm of RPG gam­ing on the 128-bit consoles. 
Contact Adam Turn er at Tu.rner.50@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CE
E 
eo games
Wednesday, March 27, 2002 
page 11 

By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene: Editor 
PlayStation game developing power­house Naughty Dog Inc., author of the ultra-successful "Crash Bandicoot" series, has started what hopefully will not become a running series for the Playstation 2 with its newest release of "Jak and Daxter: the Precursor Legacy," its first foray into the three-dimensional platform genre. 
Following its convention of having purposefully light plots, "Naughty Dog" set this game in a tropical utopia whose residents have strange mystic rites cen­tering on an energy substance known as "cco," which comes in a number of vari­eties. Eco can be harnessed for a num­ber of purposes, from giving the main character, Jak, superpowers to provid­ing mechanical energy for a whole vil­lage. 
The fluffy plot follows Jak's quest to find a cure for his buddy Daxter, who has fallen into a pool of "dark eco," which has turned him into a wise-crack­ing, orange, ferret-type creature. The pair set off to explore their fantasy world and uncover the secrets of the mysterious Precursors, a race that left ancient machines lying around that can be activate by -you guessed it -the proper colored eco. 
"Crash Bandicoot" fans will recognize the gameplay style of "Jak and Daxter" because they are almost identical. Jak even whirls Daxter around his body in a suspiciously bandicoot-like manner and can do a leaping drop kick analogous to the face plant move in the "Crash Bandicoot" series. 
The striking difference between "Crash Bandicoot" and "Jak and Daxter" is the latter's 30 free-roaming platform environment. The "Crash Bandicoot" series was limited to more or less linear levels, much like the original "Mario Brothers" were, but not necessarily side-scrolling. "Jak and Daxter" features an impressive design in which gamers can move about freely. If Jak is standing high up on a lookout point, he can see levels that are very far away. Normally, these are represented by scaled down models, but in "Jak and Daxter" garners actually see the real realms in the dis­tance. As Jak moves thought the game, the Playstation 2 doesn't have to reload sections of the landscape back in to memory causing a pause in gaming. As a result, "Jak and Daxter" has a seam-cells. 
There are a number of enemies in "Jak and Daxter," but gamers are given a wide berth to run around enemies, ignoring them completely. Besides, the enemies are extremely easy to defeat 


less feel. 

The graphical capabilities of "Jak and Daxter" are phenomenal. While games like "Final Fantasy X" strive for real­ism, "Jak and Daxter" takes the exact oppo­site approach and makes its characters and landscapes car­toonish. The intricately detailed tex­tures in the game give it a polished and precise look. The sound fol­lows suit, deliv­and there are only a few wimpy bosses to take on. The real 
Jak and Daxter: the Precursor Legacy 

challenge of "Jak and Daxter" is find­ing all the relics in an area to open up new areas to be able to find all the relics there to open up yet another area, etc. 
Furthermore, the game often neglects its three-dimension­al realm by creating situations with only one path to com­plete the objective. These are usually based on an ascending structure like a mountain or scaffolding, which means that as soon as Jak falls off, garners will have to 

ering a fantastic three­start over again to complete the task, dimensional quality. which gets very frustrating. 
The down side to "Jak Finally, "Jak and Daxter" wastes a lost and Daxter" is that it's of potential with so many search-and­not that much fun to play. retrieve type missions. Gamers will The objectives of the spend a lot of time running around look­game mostly involve ing for the relic they are missing. It is searching various areas frustrating to have completed all the of the world to collect challenges in a level and then have to "power cells," relics that backtrack looking for one stupid orb. It open up other areas for seems that Naughty Dog has created a the duo to explore. The beautifully designed game targeted at pair also collects "precur­the obsessive-compulsive market. sor orbs" which can be 
traded to non-player Contact C. Spencer Beggs at characters for power Beggs.3@nd.edu. 
Wednesday, March 27, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 12 
NBA 

Jamison leads Warriors past Timberwolves 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Antawn Jamison scored 25 
points Tuesday night to help the 
Golden State Warriors end a 
10-game losing streak with a 
115-106 victory over the fading 
Minnesota Timberwulves. 
Reserve Chris Mills added 18 
points for the Warriors, who 
had seven players score in dou­
ble digits and won for just the 
third time in their last 29 road 
games. Even with Tuesday's 
win, Golden State has lost 20 of 
23. 
Kevin Garnett scored 31 points and Wally Szczerbiak had 24 of his 28 in the first half for Minnesota, which lost for the seventh time in eight home games and is 2-9 in the last three weeks. The Timberwolves have slipped to sixth place in the Western Conference playoff race. 
The Warriors, whose last win came March 8 at Houston, built a 12-point lead in the third quarter, although Garnett scored 17 of his team's 29 points in that period. 
But Minnesota couldn't come closer than five points in the fourth. 
Marc Jackson, who came to Minnesota on Feb. 21 from Golden State in a trade for lit­tle-used center Dean Garrett and a 2007 second-round draft pick, had four points and four rebounds against his old team. He and Danny Fortson got tan­gled up underneath and each drew technical fouls in the sec­ond quarter. 
With the Timberwolves' chance of grabbing one of the top four seeds in the West near­ly gone, coach Flip Saunders said before the game his team -while still concerned with winning -has already begun preparing for the postseason. 
Judging by the first half, the Timberwolves have a lot of work to do. 
Szczerbiak had 17 points on 7-for-8 shooting in the first quarter. but his teammates were 3-for-16 from the field. 
Robert Pack's pull-up jumper just before the first-period horn cut Golden State's lead to 29­25, but the Warriors wouldn't let up in the second quarter. 
Felipe Lopez's 3-pointer put Minnesota ahead 49-48 with 1:37 before halftime, but Jason Richardson gave Golden State the lead with a jumper, and Gilbert Arenas added two more layups to make it 54-49 at the half. 

The Wolves shot 38 percent (18-for-47) from the floor in the first two quarters. 
Bulls 96. Magic 82 
Tracy McGrady had 20 points, 11 rebounds and seven assists in his first game back after suf­fering back spasms last week. and the Orlando Magic beat the slumping Chicago Bulls. 
Monty Williams contributed 18 points and a season-high 11 rebounds for his second double­double of the season, Reserve Troy Hudson added 16 points as Orlando snapped a two­game losing streak. 
For Chicago, Jalen Rose scored 20 points, 14 in the third quarter, and had six assists and six rebounds. Marcus Fizer had 11 of his 15 points in the first quarter. 
The Bulb have lost 13 of their last 15 games. 
McGrady, who hadn't played since after being wheeled off the court on a stretcher last Friday in a loss to Charlotte, shot 7-for-17 in his return, He put the game away in the fourth quarter. scoring the first six points of a 13-3 tear, and sat down with 3:45 left and the Magic holding a 91-73 lead. 
After allowing the Bulls to hang close into the third quar­ter, the Magic finally opened up some breathing room behind a 10-2 run that put them ahead by 11 points. Four players scored to give Orlando a 66-55 lead with 4:06 left in the period, with McGrady assisting on three baskets. 
From there, Chicago never came closer than eight points. The Bulls' comeback chances were sabotaged by their 6-for­14 foul shooting in the fourth quarter. 
Wizards 103, Nuggets 87 
Michael Jordan wouldn't have to worry about his playoff streak if he could schedule the Denver Nuggets more often. 
Chris Whitney and Richard Hamilton scored 22 points apiece as the Washington Wizards beat up the Nuggets 
for the second time in seven 
days. following last week's 32­
point rout. 
The game was never that competitive as the Wizards pulled within 2 1/2 games of the Indiana Pacers, who lost 96-77 to Detroit. The Pacers hold the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference, and the Wizards play nine of their remaining 11 games against teams with winning records. 
Donnell Harvey had 18 points, and former Wizards for­ward Juwan Howard, booed every time he touched the ball, scored 17 to lead the Nuggets, who had a come-from-behind, one-point victory in New York the previous night. 
Courtney Alexander scored 14 points and Etan Thomas had a career-high 13 for the Wizards, playing their first home game in two weeks. They went 3-4 in seven straight road games. 
Jordan, who has never missed the playoffs in his career, wasn't needed much for this one. Still recovering from knee surgery, he came in as a substitute to play 20 minutes, scoring nine points on 4-for-9 shooting with six assists. His first shot, a long-range jumper, was stuffed by Voshon Lenard, and Jordan and Lenard talked trash much of the game. 
Jordan spent considerable time at point guard because Tyronn Lue was out with a sinus infection. Some of Jordan's passes were master­ful, including a no-look feed to Tyrone Nesby for a dunk, and a 70-foot pass to Hamilton for a fast-break layup. 
Hawks 103, Nets 77 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim figured the Nets would be sticking close to him. So he decided to let his teammates share the fun. 
Abdur-Rahim was among six Atlanta players scoring in dou­ble figures, leading the Hawks to a rout of New Jersey, the best team in the Eastern Conference. 
It was the worst loss of the season for the Nets, eclipsing a 22-point defeat at Washington on Dec. 31. 
Abdur-Rahim averaged 32 points in two previous games against New Jersey this season. He didn't think the Nets would let that happen again, so he focused on getting others involved. 
"My mindset was not to score, score, score," said Abdur­Rahim, who still managed 18 points. "J wanted to make them pay by finding the open guys." 
Vaughn kept getting open. The backup point guard equaled his career high with 18 points and also contributed nine assists, four rebounds and three steals. 
Vaughn had a chance to beat his previous scoring high in the final seconds, but he passed up a layup to give the ball to Leon Smith for a dunk. 

"Why not share the ball?" Vaughn said, who was aware of his personal mark. "The biggest smile on my face was seeing Leon get a dunk and get on the scoring sheet." 
The Hawks, winning for the seventh time in nine games. took control with a 36-point second quarter. They hit 16-of­24 shots (67 percent) in the period to build a 59-44 lead at halftime. 
Four Atlanta players were in double figures by halftime. Six finished there, with Jason Terry and Toni Kukoc scoring 13 each, Alan Henderson 12 and DerMarr Johnson 11. 
The Hawks shot 50 percent (40-of-80) overall, while hold­ing the Nets to 29-of-72 (40 percent). Richard Jefferson paced New Jersey with 21 points, but no one else scored more than 11. 
"That was a very solid 48 minutes," Hawks coach Lon Kruger said. "That was as con­sistently as we've played all year. The guys played really good defense." 
His counterpart couldn't fig­ure out what happened. 
"We got beat in every facet of the game," New Jersey coach Byron Scott said. "They outhus­tled us. I have no way of know­ing why that would happen, to be honest with you. To me, they should be very embarrassed." 
The Nets played without Kenyon Martin, who began a two-game suspension for throwing an elbow at Abdur­Rahim on Sunday. His presence probably wouldn't have helped. 
"This wasn't the effort we should have given," Jefferson said. "They played with the enthusiasm and excitement that a first-place team should play with." 

Detroit 96, Indiana 77 

Detroit's Corliss Wi'.liamson won two battles Tuesday night against Indiana -the one on the scoreboard and his skir­mish with Jermaine O'Neal. 
Williamson scored 23 points before he was ejected near the end of the game, leading Detroit to a 96-77 victory over Indiana on Tuesday night. 
The Pistons were cruising late in the game when Williamson drove the baseline and was fouled hard by O'Neal. Williamson bounced the ball off O'Neal's back and the two stood on the baseline jawing before O'Neal made the first move. He threw an elbow as Williamson backed away. Several players stepped in to separate them, and O'Neal threw a punch that didn't land before he was wrapped up by Pacers assistant coach Tree Rollins. 
Both players were ejected. 

"I don't know the reason for that kind of foul," Williamson said. "My reaction was the ball slipped out of my hand. Our team is like a family. If you pick on one of us, you pick on all of us. We are always there to pick each other up." 
Williamson. who was 9-of-13 from the field and 5-of-6 on free throws, received plenty of support on the court. 
Chucky Atkins, who hit three straight 3-pointers in the third quarter to spark a 13-0 run that gave the Pistons a 15-point cushion, finished with 18 points. Clifford Robinson added 13 points and Jerry Stackhouse 12 for Central Division-leading Detroit (42-28). Ben Wallace grabbed 14 rebounds. 
Pistons coach Rick Carlisle was angered by O'Neal's con­duct. 
"From my understanding, he (Williamson) will not get sus­pended," Carlisle said. "I can't speak for O'Neal, but that was one of the worst cheap shots I've ever seen." 
Brad Miller, who scored eight points in the first quarter before getting into foul trouble, had 18 points and 15 rebounds for Indiana (35-35). which holds the final playoff spot in the East. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Camp Counselor for children w/ dis· Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 abilities. Must have strong work furnished, air-conditioned room in bedroom house, wshr/dryr/secNOTICES WANTED ethic and be interested in making a NW DC hOuse, mem. day wknd. to sys/prking... PERSONAL 
difference in the life of a child. $7• sept 1 2002, three roommates (2M. Nice 3.4 bedroom house-air.sec S250 a day potential/bartending YOUTH MINISTER. 2 suburban $11 hr , 35 hr/wk, summer only. 6 1F) Safe neighborhood, free street sys/parking 2-bedroom Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it Training provided parishes, Chicago-OHare area, sites in Summit County. Musi enjoy parking, washer/dryer in house. two cottage.. cute .. alone. If you or someone you love 
seek an innovative, dynamic. faith-outdoor activities Call 800-CYO-blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1/2 DAVE291-2209 needs confidential support or assis­1·800-293-3985 filled person to coordinate a com-CAMP for an application. miles from Tacoma Metro, lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise ext. 556 prehensive youth ministry program. $390/month + 114 utilties, call 3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM• Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For more 
Full time position, requires flexible In-home NANNY needed to care for Michelle 202/829-3725, or PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES information, see our weekly ad in Well maintained houses near cam-hours, some evenings, weekends. 1-year-old infant, mornings and/or krup78@holmail.com 272-6306. THE OBSERVER. pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 Compassion. enthusiasm, motiva-afternoons, all summer (mid-May to 292-6717 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for lion, organization skills, dedication mid-August). Experience with 4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available A lifetime ot happiness awaits your 2003-2004 to teens. Tasks: coordinating infants, references. and transporta-after 611. 3 block from campus. 1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath house baby. Young California couple with 
faith/formation program: supervising lion required. Contact Dr. Knoedler: with lots of updates. OW/wash/dryer stay at home mom and involved Call Kramer adult volunteers; preparing liturgies, 631-4264 or aknoedle@nd.edu Call (773)·486-8862. inc. Walking distance to campus. dad will cherish your newborn in our 234-2436 yearly retreat, fostering social jus-Spacious yard for tailgating, recre-warm. caring, secure and joy-filled 
or 274-9955 lice outreach; guide fund raising HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)large (6·9) ation, or just relaxing. home. Please call Kim and Al toll 
program. Preferred candidate FOR RENT people 2) medium (3-5 people). $1400 + sec or $325 ea for 5+ Call tree anytime 1-866-533-3332. LIVE IN A GREAT NOT Catholic with bachelor deg. in min-277-8450 or email QUESTIONABLE istry/theology. some experience. MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm-Call Bill al 532-1896. house@newwebtech.com Are you an Olympic-caliber skiier? NEIGHBORHOOD 3 NICE Start date: July 1, 2002. Submit rentals@aol.com Did you score a hole-in-one or bowl HOMES CLOSE resume, reflection on youth min-2 Great Homes: 4 & 5 Bedrooms. 3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. a 300? Are you the best athlete on TO ND NORTH istry, 3 references to: Youth Min. SUMMER SUBLET 48dml26a Well Kept! Great Location! ND CIA Security system campus we've never heard about? 3-6 STUDENTS Search Comm., 920 W. Granville, house close to ND partially fur-Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE It so, the Observer Sports depart-
Park Ridge, IL 60068. Fax 847-825• nished, air, w.d. great backyard LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255-Close to campus. menl wants to know about it. 2773097 3484 by April 6 $1100;-uts. 289-5651 8403. 616-699-5841 Call Chris al 1-4543. 
Wednesday, March 27, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NHL 
Simon's last-minute goal lifts Capitals over Sabres 
Danius Zubrus had a goal and place Capitals three points
Associated Press 
three assists, and Ken Klee and ahead of the Sabres and New Brendan Witt also scored for the York Rangers. It also improved BUFFALO, N.Y. Capitals, who rallied from a 2-0 Washington's record to 4-3 on 
Chris Simon scored with 1 :58 deficit in a critical game between its eight-game road trip, which left, lifting the Washington Eastern Conference teams striv­concludes in New Jersey on Capitals to a 4-3 victory over the ing to stay in playoff contention. Friday. Buffalo Sabres on Tuesday night. The victory moved the ninth-Miroslav Satan, with two goals, 

N.E.R.D. In Search OI... No Helmets, No Pads..Just Balls 
Parental Ad,iiary 
·--~·· 

BIG HEAD TODD & THE MONSTl!RS ~ 
Riviera 

MEDIN'PLA.Y. 
Your Entertainment Superstore For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1·888-60-MEDIA. 
Selection, pricing and special offers may vary by store and online. 
804832 11615 Sale ends April 6, 2002. www.mediaplay.com 
SIMPLE PLAN 







and Taylor Pyatt scored for the Sabres, who dropped to 2-4-1 in their last seven games. 
After the Sabres controlled the play. outshooting the Capitals 10-2 over a 12-minute stretch, Simon scored courtesy of a neu­tral-zone turnover. 
Witt poked the puck off the stick of Buffalo's Curtis Brown, and Zubrus pvshed ahead to Simon, who was coming off the bench. Simon snapped a 25-foot­er that beat Martin Biron on the stick side. 
The Sabres fell behind 3-2 when Zubrus scored a power­play goal 41 seconds into the third. Buffalo tied it when Satan deflected in Alexei Zhitnik's point shot five minutes later. 
The goal was Satan's team­leading 28th, and marked his fifth two-goal game of the sea­son, and third in 10 games. 
Capitals goalie Olaf Kolzig stopped 28 shots. His best save came midway through the third when he kicked out his left pad to block Jay McKee's 20-footcr. 
Maple Leafs 7, Lightning 2 
Tie Domi and Alexander Mogilny had two goals apiece as the Toronto Maple Leafs rallied for a victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning. 
Mats Sundin, Robert Reichel and Paul Healey also scored for the Maple Leafs, who had four goals in a span of 1: 2 5 in the third period. 
Reichel's goal at 5:10 gave Toronto a 4-2 lead. Dieter Kochan then replaced goalie Nikolai Khabibulin, but it only got worse. 
Kochan allowed three goals on his first four shots. After Sundin got his 36th goal, Dami scored just 16 seconds later and anoth­er 26 seconds after that. 
The Maple Leafs won despite missing forward Gary Roberts (abdominal muscle strain), start­ing goalie Curtis Joseph (broken bone in his left hand), forward Mikael Renberg (strained left hamstring) and defenseman Dmitry Yushkevich (blood clot). 
Bruins 3, Hurricanes 2 
Brian Rolston broke a 27-year­old Boston record with his eighth short-handed goal as the Bruins won their season-best sixth straight, beating the Carolina Hurricanes. 
Rolston scored with less than a minute left in the second period to put the Bruins ahead and break the single-season fran­chise mark of seven held by four players -the last being Gregg Sheppard in 1974-75. 
Glen Murray took a tripping penalty with 6:24 left, but Carolina failed to record a shot during its power play. Murray then scored 10 seconds after getting out of the box. 
Rod Brind'Amour scored his second of the game and 20th of the season with Carolina playing 6-on-3 with 29.3 seconds left. 
The Bruins, who failed to make the playoffs a season ago, have 94 points -four better than Philadelphia for tops in the Eastern Conference. Boston has already clinched a postseason berth. 
The Bruins have also won nine of 10 and six straight on the road, their best road winning streak since 1997. 
Southeast Division-leading Carolina hadn't lost at home since a 7-5 setback against Vancouver on Jan. 21 (1-0-7). 
Arturs Irbe made a great div­ing save on Sergei Samsonov in the slot midway through the sec­ond period to preserve Carolina's 1-0 lead. 
But Samsonov beat Irbe from nearly the same spot 2:23 later to tie it. 
Rolston then scored his NHL­leading eighth short-handed goal when Jeff O'Neill fanned on a bouncing puck in the Carolina zone, and the Boston center broke free up ice alone. He faked lrbe to his left and tucked the puck into an open net with 55.5 seconds left in Boston's 18-shot second period. 
Panthers 2, Canadiens 1 
Marcus Nilson scored a power­play goal with 4:19 left in the third period, and Wade Flaherty earned his first NHL win in 14 months as the Florida Panthers ended a five-game losing streak by beating the Montreal Canadiens. 
Nilson scored his 14th goal at 
15:41 of the third, just 10 sec­onds after Stephane Quintal was sent off for high-sticking. Nilson deflected defenseman Eric Beaudoin's point shot past goalie Jose Theodore to break a 1-1 tie. 
Flaherty, recalled from Utah of the AHL on March 20, made 32 saves in his first start -and appearance -of the season for his first win since Jan. 26, 2001, when he was with the New York Islanders. 
Niklas Hagman also scored for the Panthers, who earned their first points since Pavel Bure was traded to the New York Rangers on March 18. 
Yanic Perreault scored his 24th goal for Montreal, which dropped into a tie with Washington for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Canadiens right wing Andreas Dackell dressed for the game and played two shifts early in the first period despite not appear­ing on the official lineup. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 27, 2002 
.... 
NFL MLB 
Spurrier gets down to business in practice 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 
Steve Spurrier took the field in chilling fog and drizzle Tuesday for his first practice as an NFL coach. The Fun 'N Gun is defi­nitely not in Florida any more. 
"Sort of like playing golf in Ireland," s a i cl Spurrier, w h o exchanged his trademark visor for a black baseball cap because of the weather. 
The Washington Redskins' three-day, non-contact mini­camp is a 


January to sign a five-year, $25 million contract with the Redskins. "Yeah, I sort of believe you give the players a whole bunch of stuff so they don't get bored." 
As expected, Spurrier spent his entire time with the offense, leaving defensive coor­dinator Marvin Lewis in charge of the defense. There were no tantrums or heavy lectures, just a reminder to the players to have fun. 
Wuerffel said Spurrier hasn't changed since the Florida days. 
"Not really a lick," Wuerffel said. "He's just a ball coach. That's what he wants to be, and that's what he's doing. He's in there just drawing plays up there on the board, and we're learning them." 
About 50 players were on the 
field, but 

chance for the depth was
"There's a lot ofstuff... I 
new coach to lacking at
sort ofbelieve you give
get to know many posi­his players the players a whole tions. The and learn the first-string
bunch ofstuffso they
feel of coach­guards were
don't get bored. " 
ing in the big Alex Sulfsted leagues, but and Ross the first prac­Steve Spurrier Tucker, who tices skipped have just
Redskins head coach
the preamble 
and went straight to Chapter One. 
"We put in -gosh -more plays in one meeting than l've ever seen in any offense," quarterback Danny Wuerffel said. "I was thinking, 'How would these guys adjust to this?' You go to another team, and you'll spend a week on three plays and you'll run them over and over. We've got just about the entire playbook in one meeting." 
At least Wuerffel was famil­iar with it all, having won the Heisman Trophy playing for Spurrier at Florida. Spurrier has signed other former Gators -Jacquez Green, Reidel Anthony and Chris Doering ­and it wasn't hard to tell who understood what was happen­ing and who didn't. 
Receiver Rod Gardner com­pletely misunderstood an audi­ble call and ran the wrong route on the first play in the morning's final drill. Gardner heard what he did wrong from both Green and Spurrier when he got back to the huddle. 
"There's a lot of stuff," said Spurrier, who left Florida in three games of 

NFL experi­ence between them. The team is negotiating with free-agent guard Tony Semple, who visit­ed Redskin Park last week. 
The first-team quarterback was Sage Rosenfels, a second­year player and the only holdover quarterback from last year's team. Even so, he actu­ally looked much sharper than the Spurrier-savvy Wuerffel, who wore gloves. 
Dam eyune Craig was the third quarterback in camp. The Redskins have been unable to work out a trade with Chicago for ex-Florida quarterback Shane Matthews, and free agent Jeff Blake didn't accept Washington's initial offer and is considering other options. 
"If opening day was tomor­row, we'd be able to go play," Spurrier said. "I don't know how well we'd do, hut we got enough ball players {that) after one day we could go play. That's how simple this offense is.... We don't need five exhi­bition games to be ready, but unfortunately we've got to play all of them." 
Coors signs 5-year 
deal as NFL's sponsor 
As.,ociated Pres. 

NEWYORK Coors has become the NFL's official beer sponsor in a five-year deal that includes the right to use the league's various logos. 
Brian McCal'thy, the NFL's director of corporate communications, confirmed the deal Tuesday, but would not release terms. Sports Business Daily reported the contract is for $300 million. 
Coors obtained rights to use the logos of the NFL, the Super Bowl and Pro Bowl in advertising and promotions. Coors can also do pro­motions or advertising with team logos, but it must use all 32 logos at the same time. The Coors contract does not prevent each team from cutting it.s own deals with other beer companies or with Coors. In the past, Anheuser-Busch and Miller Brewing shared the category. 
The NFL will receive the rights fees from Coors, and all 32 teams will share the money. The various NFL franchises also retain money from local team deals. 
Patriots' effort inspires Indians' GM 
Associated Pr<:ss 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. 
Mark Shapiro has been wearing a New England Patriots baseball cap around the ballpark this spring. Don't accuse the Indians' general manager of jumping on the Super Bowl champi­ons' bandwagon, though. 
Shapiro was a big fan long before Adam Vinatieri kicked his game-winning field goal. 
"The Patriots are a good lesson for everyone," said Shapiro. Cleveland's rookie GM. "They are an affirmation of everything we're trying to do here." 
Team first. 
That's the message Shapiro an<l Indians manager Charlie Manuel have been preaching to Cleveland's players for weeks. Sacrifice personal success for the good of the team and watch what hap­pens. And if you don't believe it, they say, just look what it did for the Patriots. 
Less talented than many other NFL teams, New England won it all anyway. 
And it wasn't just their dra­matic win over the St. Louis Rams that impressed Shapiro. 
Instead of being introduced one by one before the Super Bowl, the Patriots came out as a group. 
"When they said, 'The New England Patriots are being introduced as a team', I had goose bumps," Shapiro said. "That said so much about them. I want us to feel that way." 
Shapiro didn't know the Patriots would come out on 

"The Patriots are a good lesson for everyone. They are an affirmation ofeverything we're trying to do here. " 
Mark Shapiro Indians' general manager 

the field en masses, but once they did, he wasn't surprised. 
Scott Pioli, the Patriots' director of player personnel, has been a friend of Shapiro's for more than 10 years. The two became close when Pioli was beginning his career with the Cleveland Browns in the early '90s and Shapiro was starting in baseball oper­ations with the Indians. 
While watching games together at old Municipal Stadium, the future big­league executives shared philosophies, values and thoughts about sports. 
"We would always talk about the way we would do things if we would have a club," Shapiro said. 
So a few weeks ago, Shapiro invited Pioli to Cleveland's camp to talk to the Indians. Before his speech, Pioli showed the players a highlight film of the Patriots, which began with their group pregame Super Bowl introduction. 
Pioli then took two polls. First, he asked how many Indians had played on All­Star teams. Several hands shot up. Then, he asked how 
many  had  won  a  World  
Series.  
Only  two  hands  were  

raised. One was reliever 
Mark Wohlers, who was on the mound when the Atlanta Braves beat the Indians in 1995. The other was hitting coach Eddie Murray, who then spoke about how 1.vin­ning the Series in 1983 with Baltimore was the highlight of his career. 
Shapiro has been reshaping the Indians on and off the field. 
Under orders to trim the club's payroll. he traded All­Star second baseman Roberto Alomar to the New York Mets this winter and then passed on re-signing outfielder Juan Gonzalez. 
They've been replaced by Ricky Gutierrez and Matt Lawton, lesser players but better clubhouse guys and the kind the Indians want to find more of. 
"When we add a player, we want to bring a person of character with strong moral values and not just a talent," Shapiro said. 
Chemistry is underrated he believes, and it all begins with the right mix of players -just like the Patriots had. 
"They made a statement with how they won, and with the type of players they had," Shapiro said. 
Manuel said Pioli's presen­tation was well received by the Indians. 
"He gave a good talk," Manuel said. "He said a lot of what I like to talk about." 
Manuel enjoyed Pioli's film, too. Edited or not. 
"The Patriots were hitting pretty hard," he said. "But they didn't show that play (quarterback Tom Brady's fumble) against the Raiders that got them there." 

page 15 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 27, 2002 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Mouton finds inspiration in tragedy 
Kansas calmly deals 
season. and 11.3 points this year. 
• Maryland senior 
He hopes to play a pivotal part The senior's biggest contribu­
with media crush 
leads team after Saturday when the Terps tion has been on defense and his almost quitting attempt to slow a presence in speedy Kansas the locker 
Associated Press 
"He's de.finitely played
team in a national room.
Associated Press 
semifinal in well since that happened. I 
LAWRENCE, Kan.

COLLEGE PARK, Md. Atlanta. ,Maybe he's refocused . ., preached to 
Jeff Boschee moved smooth­
A second straight trip to the Mouton has my team 
ly from a national radio inter­
Pinal Four and a showdown used December's this year 
view to a press conference. 
Steve Blake 
against the top team in the tragedy as moti­that it 
Kansas' shooting guard
nation isn't enough to faze Byron vation late in the junior guard would be a 
Mouton. season and in the Maryland's senior forward NCAA tourna­nearly didn't make it this far. ment. Mouton considered quitting the "Ever since that day, I don't 
want to take anything for grant-
team in December after his brother, Kevin, was shot to death in Houston. 
Mouton learned of his brother's death during a game against Connecticut. 
"I wanted to be with my mom and stop whatever I was doing," Mouton said Tuesday. "But she made me realize that the most important thing is to keep doing what I've been doing. She said his summers in Finland with his mother's family, and that coach Roy Williams once threatened to send him back to Oakland on a bus if he didn't buy into Kansas' game plan. 
Gooden doesn't shy away from the attention -and if he gets a bit prickly fielding questions about the Jayhawks' inside toughness, he generally remains gracious even through long interview sessions. 
"Coach told me that I was going to get a lot of media attention this year, and the media can either make you or break you,'' Gooden said. "So I try to get along with the media and not turn anybody down. I know everybody's got ajobtodo." 
Fans also know that Boschee and Hinrich have had dates interrupted by fans, and that there was a Boschee impostor was on the Internet -until the university tracked the culprit down and put a stop to it. 
The Jayhawks, and even Williams, seem more amused than distracted by the offbeat questions and the spotlight. 
"This team's composed of old guys and a couple of freshmen who have really handled themselves well this year," Boschee said. "We don't let the media hype get to our heads. We've still got a job to do." 
That job, Collison said, is winning the Jayhawks' first national title since 1988. 
"We realize how close we are to our goal, and we real­ize we can enjoy the journey and get into the media hype after the season," he said. "We realize now that it's all about basketball." 
That's exactly what Williams wants to hear. 
"I think this team's mature enough to handle the atten­tion," he said. "Every once in a while, they'll say a little bit more than maybe they should." 
"I preached to my team this year that it would be a big disappointment if we didn't make the Final Four. It would be great ifwe would get to the national championship because ofall I went through." 
Byron Moulton senior foaward 
ed," he said. "Every time I step on that court, I want to give lt my best effort." 
\i\'hile the death of his brother has been the biggest challenge Mouton has faced in his two seasons at Maryland, it hasn't been the only one. 
Mouton trans­ferred from Tulane without knowing much about the success of Mary-land's program. 

one thing my brother always wanted me to do was to keep playing ball and get an educa­tion." 
Mouton's physical play and defense have been key compo­nents in Maryland's success this 
"Coming in my first year, I wanted to be in a different envi­ronment." he said. "I just wanted to help the team and win the national championship." 
Mouton averaged 9.6 points in his first season with the Terps 
big disap­

pointment if we didn't make the Final Four," he said. "It would be great if we get to the national championship because of all I went through." 
Steve Blake said Mouton can set the mood for the team with his antics in the locker room. 
"He's a character -he's a guy that brings a lot of energy to us," Blake said. "He'll come in and do a flip or start barking like a dog." 
Antics aside. Blake said, Mouton has stepped up his game since December. 
"He's definitely played well since that happened," Blake said. "Maybe he's refocused." 
Por now, Mouton said he's focused on beating Kansas and advancing to the championship game. 
Is there anything special Mouton is working on for Kansas? 
"Transition," he said. "We have to slow them down. Transition is the key." 
Not a surprise coming from someone who knows about change. 


Offering: 

• 
A transfer-intent curriculum 

• 
The shared resources of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 


• A residence life program 
Call (574) 239-8400 or visit www.hcc-nd.edu for more information. 
02002 Holl' (),-Oollog• 


fielded questions ranging from 3-point shooting, to the .layhawks' Final Four matchup with Maryland, to a couple who named their infant daughter "Deavynn Boschee Christine Schlesener." 
"It's flattering," Boschee said. "I guess it's a credit to what I've accomplished here in my career and what the team has accomplished." 
The Jayhawks have handled the media crush all season and are about to step onto a bigger stage, making their first Final Four appearance since 1993. 
Kansas players have had a sampling of what to expect from the national media from their fans in Lawrence. 
The Jayhawks are treated like a boy band -especially Boschee, the team's designat­ed heartthrob. 
"They crowd in on us, scream at us, grab at us," for­ward Nick Collison said. "It's good to know that those peo­ple support you, but some­times it's tough when all those people are up in your face, screaming for an autograph from like a foot away." 
The Jayhawks have received plenty of national attention throughout the season with media reporting on the squad that spent a number of weeks as the top-ranked team. 
"It seems like you just keep answering the same questions over and over," guard Kirk Hinrich said Wednesday at the Jayhawks' final news con­ference before heading to Atlanta. "It's a good problem to have, though." 
In addition to basic statisti­cal information, Jayhawks fans now know All-American forward Drew Gooden spends 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 27, 2002 
MLB 
Selig pledges not to lock out players 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Baseball commissioner Bud Selig pledged Tuesday not to lock out players through the W o r l d Series but left open the chance that owners w o u I d impose new work rules during the oITseason. a move that could trig­ger another strike this summer. 
The players' union, operating without a labor contract since Nov. 7, quickly interpreted Selig's statement as a veiled threat to impose vast economic changes as soon as the postsea­son ends. 
In 1994, the union struck on Aug. 12, saying the move was its only recourse to fight manage­ment's plan to implement changes. including a salary cap. The walkout, baseball's eighth since 1972, lasted 232 days and caused the World Series to be canceled for the first time since 1903. 
Union head Donald Fehr called Selig's statement "a tacit acknowledgment of the clubs' continuing intention" to make changes after the World Series. 
"He thinks what we do not: that the fans can be more easily fooled, fooled into thinking this 'pledge' is a concession of sorts on his part," Fehr said. 
Selig said for months that a lockout was not "on my radar 


Fehr did not say whether play­ers would make a similar no­strike pledge, and history sug­gests they won't. 
"All I can say, the players set­ting a strike date is always a last resort," Fehr said. 
Negotiations for a new labor contract have been slow, at first delayed by the owners' failed attempt to eliminate the Minnesota Twins and Montreal Expos. Talks, which recessed March 13, are to resume next week but the sides are far apart. 
The union also fears that own­ers also could lock out players following the World Series or stop negotiating player contract, a strategy the NBA used after its 1998 playoffs. Baseball's outside counsel is Howard Ganz, the NBA's outside lawyer during the lockout. 
"He specifically limited the pledge to the season and post­season, reserving for himself the right to kick off the same strate­gy the NBA did," Fehr said in Tampa, Fla., after talking to the New York Yankees, the final stop on his tour of the 30 spring­training camps. 
During the strike, owners implemented a salary cap on Dec. 23, 1994. However, the players' association filed an unfair labor practice charge, the National Labor Relations Board issued a complaint and on March 31, 1995, a federal judge ordered owners to restore the old work rules, which caused players to end their strike. 
Negotiations resumed and the sides signed a new contract on March 14, 1997. 
Owners say baseball is losing 
hundreds of 
millions of 

screen," but he "Our fans deserve to dollars had refused to annually
know that the 2002
rule one out. His and has a promise not to season will be played to competitive­
impose new completion." balance terms and con­problem. ditions of They have
Bud Selig
employment for proposed a players through MLB commissioner V a S t 
the end of the World Series bore little significance because players already have signed their 2002 contracts. 
A rules change in the offsea­son would affect new contracts signed for 2003 and beyond. 
"Our fans deserve to know that the 2002 season will be played to completion without interruption and they deserve to know that now before we begin the new season," Selig said. "Therefore, on behalf of the clubs, I pledge that we will not take any economic action either in the form of a lockout or uni­lateral implementation against the players' association through­out the course of the season and postseason. 
"The sanctity of the season, however, is only partially within my control. Since we do not have a new collective bargaining agreement, the players have the right to strike at any time. I sin­cerely hope that they share my strong feeling about the impor­tance of playing the entire sea­son." 
Asked why he made the announcement Tuesday. Selig said during a telephone inter­view: "I thought the timing was good. In my judgment, this way was a very good way to reassure fans." 
increase in 

revenue sharing and a 50 percent luxury tax on the portions of payrolls above $98 million. 
Players are skeptical of man­agement's claims of losses and haven't agreed that competitive balance is a problem. The union doesn't want to drain the high­revenue teams of money they would otherwise spend on salaries, and it has no interest in a luxury tax that would slow the increase in salaries. 
"The inability of the clubs and the players' association to reach closure on a new basic agree­ment that would resolve the basic inequity of competitive imbalance that exists in our game today should not, I believe, be a burden borne by our fans," Selig said. 
Yankees pitcher Mike Stanton said players would strike if they think it's necessary. 
"If we were pushed to it, we've proved in the past it's not just a threat,'' he said. 
New York Mets pitcher Al Leiter said he hoped Selig's announcement "will lead to an agreement sooner rather than later." 
"It is encouraging, and it's a positive gesture to the great fans of this game," Leiter said in Port St. Lucie, Fla. 
Injury gives Banks a shot 
. Burkett's sore shoulder opens spot for ex-Cub 
Associated Press 
FORT MYERS, Fla. 

In one corner of the club­house, Boston Red Sox pitcher John Burkett was talking about disappointment over an injury than will sideline him for the start of the season. 
A few lockers down, pitcher Willie Hanks was thankful to be getting a second chance because of that injury. 
Manager Grady Little told Banks he had made the team Tuesday. Banks probably would have been the last pitcher released if Burkett hadn't got­ten hurt. 
"My hands arc shaking right now," Banks said with a smile after meeting with Little. 
"I've been sent down (to the minor leagues) the last day a couple times," he said. "For him to tell me I made the team. I don't know what's better, graduation day, winning the championship or making this club right now. I worked hard and it all paid off." 
Banks, a first round draft pick in 1987, missed the entire 1996 season with severe nerve dam­age in his right shoulder that caused the muscle to deterio­rate. 
He came back for brief stops with the New York Yankees in 1997 and 1998 before begin­ning an exile that took him through the minor leagues and Japan. He landed in Boston at the end of last season. 
This offseason, Banks, 33, headed for the Venezuelan win­ter league, hoping to pitch a lot of innings and persuade any this way here." remaining doubters that his Burkett, 37, salvaged his shoulder was healthy. He came career in Atlanta last year, to spring training strong and going 12-12 with a 3 .04 ERA has a 4.20 ERA in 15 innings after being cut by the Tampa this spring. But it looked like he Bay Devil Hays. Boston signed was the 12th man on Little's him to a two-year, $11 million 11-man pitching staff. deal this winter, and he looked 
"I woke up this morning and I good this spring, posting a 0.90 was just praying to God, man," ERA in 10 innings. 
Banks said.  B  u  t  
"My knees are all bent down and  "I don't know what's better, graduation day, winning  Burkett said the pain in his right  
dirty right now." Little liked  the championship or mak­ing this club right now. "  shoulder hit a peak when he pitched 3  
Banks'  2-3 innings  
aggressive­ness this spring, and  Willie Banks Red Sox pitcher  in a minor league game last week.  

said the life on his fast­ball and curve persuaded him that Banks was as good as ever. He said he will use Banks out of the bullpen in a variety of roles. 
"I feel like a rookie all over again," Banks said. 
Burkett, meanwhile, was resigning himself to a longer stay at Boston's training camp in Florida because of shoulder tendinitis that hasn't gotten bet­ter. He was placed on the 15­day disabled list on Tuesday, retroactive to last Thursday. 
Shoulder soreness is normal for him during spring time, Burkett said. The difference this year is that instead of grad­ually getting better, it got worse. 
"We've been trying every­thing to try to get it to calm down, but nothing's worked," he said. 
'Tm trying to be optimistic about it, but I'm (angry)." Burkett said. ''I've only been on the (disabled list) twice in my career. I don't want to start out 
I 
He was 
scheduled to start against Texas on Tuesday. but decided to step back and give himself time to heal instead. 
Burkett declined to put a timetable on his return. guess­ing it might take two weeks. 
''Believe me, I want to get out there as quickly as I can, but I've got to be smart, too," he said. 
With Burkett out. the Red Sox early season rotation is set. Pedro Martinez starts opening day, followed by. Dustin Hermanson, Derek Lowe and Frank Castillo. Darren Oliver would be the fifth starter if Burkett isn't ready when the first time the team needs a fifth starter, April 12. 
Burkett's return could also mean the end for Banks. 
"I can't worry about that," Banks said. "All that stuff is out of my control. I'm just happy to make that trip ... to Boston, for Grady to come out and say. 'You're my guy."' 

LEARN <JO FLY 

Intro Flights $49 .00 Private Pilot Instruction Introductory Flights Available 
Eric Hull: 219 363-5187 Call for details. 


Wednesday, March 27, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Cubs send phenom Hill to minors 
Associated Press 
MESA, Ariz. 

Chicago Cubs phenom Bobby Hill is going to have to wait a little longer to make his major league debut. 
Hill was sent back to minor league camp Tuesday night, despite having a spring most major leaguers would envy. He'll stay with the Cubs through the end of the week and then report to Triple-A Iowa. 
"No disappointment. It's more reality than anything," he said. "The spring training I had gave me all the confidence in the world that I know I belong. I'm going to take that with me down to Triple-A, continue to do my best and work my butt off to get back here." 
The Cubs also returned non­roster invitees Kevin Orie, Luis Ordaz and Mike Mahoney to minor league camp. Chicago's roster is now at 30 players. 
It's no secret that Hill, the second round pick in 2000, is the Cubs' second baseman of the future. And the way he played this spring proved he's ready for the majors. 
Despite intense scrutiny on him, he hit .300 with four homers and 10 RBIs, commit­ting only three errors in 22 games. 
"We all think the world of him and don't have any doubt he's going to be an everyday 
--­
""""'...,.... 
~t
;.·1 
t'r 

major leaguer for us for a long time," said Jim Hendry, the Cubs vice president of player personnel. 
"It's a situation clearly where we want Bobby -when he is introduced here -to play every day and not just get half­time work," Hendry said. "When he comes up, we want to play him every day." 
Hill, who will turn 24 on April 3, hasn't even played two full· seasons of professional base­ball. He was drafted by the Angels in 1996 and then again by the White Sox three years later, but didn't sign with either team. Instead, he spent three years at the University of Miami, leading the Hurricanes to the College World Series title as a junior. 
He played one season at Newark of the Independent Atlantic League, where he hit .326, He also spent 57 games last season with Double-A West Tenn., where he batted .301 despite missing two months with a groin injury. He then hit .345 in the Arizona Fall League. 
The Cubs wanted to see if he could duplicate those numbers in spring training, and he did. 
"I did all I could," Hill said. "I played the way I needed to play. I hit the ball the way I needed to hit. I got on base the way I need to get on base. I scored the runs the way l need to score runs for guys to hit me in. 
.l 

1 •
The Observer is now accepting ,_ applications for the positions of 
, · 

2002-2003 
and Panel Cartoonist 
-· :~~::lf;;:f).~~lt~',,.:--:2..:.'...:~~~::,._·~>~·?::...~~~-;,:~~-=------'=~='?ll""J="":;i
__ _.\_ .. 
T,{£•<0!'65,il,,..._..t. : 

__,..,..,.,,..__"""'""'ji;,, 
,~t.--~--1~\ ­

RE OW,( ~\l\AAEl :::;: ~1 _{__.L!Ji.= 
·~ 

"q'// ,\ --­
Drop off 5 samples at the Observer office by April 5th to apply. 
nd.edu for more information 
"I showed every game that I know how to play." 
But the Cubs also have a vet­eran second baseman in Delino DeShields, which meant there wasn't a place for Hill. 
"What am I going to do with him?" Cubs manager Don Baylor asked. "I've gone over every scenario you can imag­ine." 
Though DeShields was .444 as a pinch-hitter last season, Hendry said he's earned the right to play every day. DeShields, who is going into his 13th season, also has more experience as a leadoff hitter. 
'There's no timetable. It's not like, 'Oh, Bobby, you're going to be the guy next year.' That's not the case," Hendry said. "We feel he can help the ballclub in 2002. Things can change in short periods of time." 
And Hill intends to be back. He doesn't know when, but he's sure he'll be back with the Cubs before too long. 
There won't be any pouting in the meantime, either. 
''I've got to be a grown-up about it," he said. "If I let it get to me too much, then all I'll do is go down and fail and it's going to take me longer to get back to where I need to be. This is where I want to be. This is my goal, my dream. 
"Someone told me you'll know when you're close. You'll taste it, you'll smell it, you'll be able to feel it. And boy, I felt it this spring." 
~ 

Boston bats nail Rocker for 11-8 win 
Associated Press 
John Rocker might not be up to replacing the injured Jeff Zimmerman as Texas' closer. 
Rocker allowed four runs in one inning during an 11-8 loss to the Boston Red Sox 
o n Tuesday a f t e r Zimmer-

Rocker 
man was placed on . the 15-day disabled list with tendinitis in his right elbow. 
"I need to make a few more quality pitches. I did some good things, and I'm trying to focus on them," Rocker said. 
Zimmerman, who hasn't pitched since March 6, is expected to miss at least one month. The news was better on Rangers starter Ismael Valdes, who returned to Florida on Tuesday night after tests showed no ligament dam­age in his right elbow. 
Cubs 13, Oakland 11 
Moises Alou played for the first time in more than a week, going 2-for-3 with an RBI in the Chicago Cubs' 13-11 loss to Oakland in Mesa, Ariz. Alou 
. 

had been sidelined for much of the spring with a strained muscle on his left side. 
'Tm feeling OK," he said. "I think I'm going to be all right. Just get in these final three or four games. and tune up for the opening of the season." 
Miguel Tejada's two-run homer capped a seven-run Oakland rally in the eighth inning. Sammy Sosa. Chris Stynes and Joe Girardi home­red for the Cubs. 
In other news: 

. 
Marlins catcher Charles Johnson returned to limited action, catching and hitting for the first time in three weeks. But the two-time All-Star likely won't be ready for the season opener. Johnson sprained his left thumb March 5 when he ran into Montreal first base­man Joe Vitiello. 

. 
Texas right-hander Ismael Valdes returned to Florida on Tuesday night after an exam showed no ligament damage in his right elbow. Valdes returned to Texas to be exam­ined by Conway after com­plaining of elbow stiffness Monday. An MRI exam deter­mined that there was some irritation but no damage in the ligament. The Rangers haven't made a decision on the status of Valdes. 


...WOt,l,.1,t f),l'f,~<'!, 
,... 
•,cl(.T"l 



page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 27, 2002 

Irish senior Nina Vaughan returns a serve during Notre Dame's recent match against Miami. The Irish host the Fighting Illini of Illinois today. 
Women's 
continued from page 20 
dent, the team knows that the 7-10 Illini cannot be taken lightly. 
"We know Illinois is going to be a tough match. They've always played us close in the past," said junior Katie Cunha. 
One pressing concern for the Irish will be to make sure that the top of their lineup plays as well as they are capable of. No. 1 singles play­er Becky Varnum hopes to end her slump against top competition today. Varnum. ranked 75th nationally, will face off against Illinois' No. 1 player, 54th-ranked Jennifer McGaffigan. Things should get interesting as McGaffigan herself is looking to end a six­match losing skid of her own. 
Louderback is confident that once the team finds its rhythm, it should have no problem playing Illinois. 
"Alicia Salas and Lindsey Green have been very solid 
for us all year in the middle of the lineup," he said. "We just need to pull out some more of those tight matches in the top and bottom spots." 
The road doesn't get any easier after today, however. After the Irish complete their match against Illinois, they will fly to North Carolina Wednesday for an Easter­break trio of matches against Wake Forest, Duke an:.i North Carolina.· 
All three teams are ranked in the top 25 and should pose a significant challenge t'or the Irish. 
Still, the team is confident that a recent weekend off and a series of' solid practices are good signs for its upcoming competitions. 
"Last weekend, was the first one the girls have had off since classes started," said Louderback, "and they have come right out and followed that up with some great prac­tice sessions this week." 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 
Men's 
continued from page 20 
matches at both No. 1 and No. 2, as well as two of the last four at No. 3. 
"I think our team is confident, but I think we need to regain a little of what we had a week and half ago," D'Amico said. "We haven't been competing as well as we could have in the last cou­ple of matches." 
Against Indiana last week, the fifth-ranked doubles duo of Taborga and fellow senior Casey Smith fell to the Hoosiers' Zach Held and Ryan Recht, who were not ranked. 
"(Lately] we've been losing the doubles point after really solidify­ing it for the bulk of the season," Bayliss said. "I think [Taborga and Smith] need to have their antennae up and realize they have a target on their back and people are coming after them. They have to meet that challenge. They've lost three of their last four matches, so it's been a little bit of a downward spiral." 
Taborga also was upset in his singles match at Indiana, but 
Bayliss is not worried about his top player. 
"It's hard to get on Javier because in singles he's really car­ried us," Bayliss said. "He's been playing that No. 1 position. He's been reeling off the wins. To see him stumble a little bit, I'm not concerned. Everyone has due a bad match every now and then, and ITaborga] had one." 
However. Bayliss is concerned with ensuring that the Irish are not .obsessed with their ranking and instead just maintain their intensity. 
"We've had a marvelous year to date, and it's difficult to keep your focus when the wins are flowing as they have been," Bayliss said. "My concern is that we not get caught up in the suc­cess we've had and [that the Irish do not] fail to keep doing the little things that got us where we were. 
"We've never been an over­powering team," he continued. "We've been a team that scrapped hard for every match and every point. And if we lose that identity, [winning becomes] difficult, because sometimes all of the sudden you wake up and say, 'What happened?"' 
The Irish recognize that they must continue to work hard to be rated in the top 10 in the nation. 
"I think we may have become a little satisfied [for a while] and forgot that we still have to improve if we want to go towards our goal of winning a national championship," D'Amico said. 
With opponents such as Indiana State, No. 41 Southern Methodist and No. 4 Kentucky approaching, the Irish will not be gliding through the remainder of the season. 
"The next two or three matches we play are extremely danger­ous. They're all teams that are good enough to beat us," Bayliss said. "They are teams that were ranked preseason pretty high and · have had one or two losses." 
So Bayless says the Irish won't take any opponent lightly as the team approaches the NCAA tour­nament. 
"Eastern Airlines used to have a slogan: 'You've got to earn your wings every day,"' Bayliss said. "And we need to do that." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
hard on the field." 
The Blue Hens had a chance to make it 8-8, but White made a key save to get the ball back in Irish hands. 
"She definitely came up with some key saves, espe­
cially  at  the  end,"  said  
Coyne.  
White, however,  was  more  

praising of her teammates than her own play. 
"My defense gave me the shots that I am supposed to save," said White. "They are keeping [attackers] out and giving me off-angle shots. I've always got my defense in front of me." 
The combination was good enough to keep Delaware down. 
The Irish face Big East opponent Virginia Tech Saturday at home. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolemal@nd.edu. 

'Wlud'd-tlte djuiwie, alt tl,,u R~"-"TV.V, 
. 
wlu:d~ Med:~ (m4 ~~~? 

. 
wlu:d Me wme ~~m ~ did~ ~? <BY.; 

. 
wlu:d~ ~in~~~~a ,,-~ ~? .... 


Please join us for an aternoon of reflection and discussion designed for dating coup~ who are discerning the next stage of a relationship commitment. 
Sunday, April 7, 1 :00-4:00 p.m. 
Pre-Registration is required by Friday, April 5, at noon. 


Applications are available in 114 Coleman-Morse Center or 319 Coleman-Morse at the Reception Desk.
C-M 
Questions: Call Darrell Paulsen at 631-5827. 
Campus Ministry 

Wednesday, March 27, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 33 Hipster's 66 They may be 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON what you start today. 000 High-hatter eyewear mowed down THIS DAY: Quentin Tarantino, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
5 "Where's ?" 35 Military inits., 
67 Conductor Maria Schneider, Sarah Vaughan You will be receptive to the per­Happy Birthday: Social activi­sonal problems that a friend is .,
(1970 film-) -1946-92 Klemperer 
ties will be plentiful this year. facing. Helping someone else will 10 Smooch 37 Make out Expect your creative abilities to make you feel good about your­
68 City on the Aare 69 Steps over a surface. You will be in the mood self. Some limitations may occur
14 Lift 38 Middle of the 
fence for love and romance and should at work if you try to push your
quip

15 Hearing-related take advantage of this. This is not opinions on colleagues. 000
70 Yucca plant 
16 Blunted blade 42 Bear greeting? the best year to take financial LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): You
cousin 
risks but if you are conservative may find it difficult to get along 
17 "I'll get _!" 45 Hirsute 
71 They often in your investments you can with some of the people who
Himalayan

18 Bundle-of-joy begin with "To" make gains. Your numbers are 8, don't agree with your tactics. Fol­bringer 46 Least furnished 14, 16, 24, 32, 39 low your gut feelings and you
72 Like many 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): will know that you are on the
19 Peak near brandy casks 
50 Habituate You may have to fight for what right course. 000
Taormina 
73 Jersey group? you want today. Be quick to uti­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If
53 Mouse's place 

20 Start of a quip lize your talents and be prepared you've got the time, a pleasure55 Buttinsky to go the extra mile. Socially you trip will be worth your while. You
23 Actress 
DOWN 
should make plans to get out and will discover things that will ben­
Marie Saint 56 Church laws 
1 April forecast do something lively. 000 efit you in the future. Keep an 24 Part of a poker 58 Southern TAURUS (April 20-May 20): open mind. 0000
2 Assyrian capital 
pot constellation Get involved in activities that will SAGITfARIUS (N°" 22-Dec. 21):3 Pacific battle help you expand creatively. You There will be greater activity in
25 Washington site 60 Downing Street 
site should be able to win the respect your home that should lead to
number

27 Add luster to of colleagues if you mix business positive changes. This may be a
4 noire 
29 Hide-hair link 61 End of the quip with pleasure. 00000 make-it or break-it time with
5 Easy stroll 
GEMINI (May 21-J•me 20): someone you've been dose to. 00
32 Brief fight 65 Diva's moment 
6 Beat to the tape Things may not go according to CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): plan if you are trying to make The more you listen to others the 
7Some 
alterations to your home. A rela­greater your own knowledge will
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Olympians, 
tive or someone you live with will become. You should have an
nowadays 
leave you with added responsibil­opportunity to take part in some­
T A C H S H O P I J O S E P=i. by Steven Plcu1
8 Prefix with ities. 00 thing that will allow you to expe­
E L I A N A N O N P P P S 36 Hack 49 Practiced an
graph 59 Out of bed CANCER (June 21-July 22): rience different lifestyles.0 LION M T Arthur Murray You will be able to help someone 00000
-:-,-t-,,-+-,-+-:-9 Durable resin 39 Big, fat mouth 62 Pro
lesson with his or her problems if you AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18):10 Retro car 40 Uxmal builder tell them about some of your past You should be thinking about
51 Mountain ashes 63 Composer Salie 
11 Raises, in a way experiences. Your sensitivity your financial picture. A property41 Poetic 52 Wind dir. 64 Ham's father toward other, will be appreciated. investment or making valuable
12 Having feelings 
preposition 0000 additions to your home will be 
54 Lollygag 
65 Blood-typing

13 Swell place? LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You prosperous in the long run. 00042 Lush sound? 57 Final authority system may have trouble getting others PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
21 Foxy lady 
to believe in what you are ~ Someone you like may not be
43 Never broadcast 

22 Showy moths to achieve, but if you are hard­telling you everything. You may
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are
26 Future fish 44 Oater sound working, you will accomplish have added responsibilities today effect available by touch-tone phone: your goals without the help of if an older relative or younger
28 Flap 
1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). others. You can be proud of your­family member needs your assis­30 Honshu city 47 Make a baron, self and your ability to finish tance. 00
Annual subscriptions are available for the
PA RE ARENA 31 Cleaning need say 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Birthday Baby: You are friendly and you can easily adapt to environ­
E L E R M E S S Y 
34 Like Reynard 48 Loud speaker years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. mental changes. You will do well in your life shtdies. You are rurious and can be a real chatterbox. You will love to travel and meet new peo­ple. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
@ 2002 Universal Pres.s Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
'J'ASoN, GET oFF 
I HAVE 
HoMEWoRI<

THE COMPUTER. 
I 

TO FINISH. BUT I'M IN 
_) THE MIDDLE
WHAT 

OF AG/lo.ME..
FoR? 

I
I 

YUP, THE Al>MIN­lSTilATION MOVED 
THEM OFF-CAMPUS 
A COUPLE Of YEARS 
AGO 
WOW, I REALLY CAN'T IMAGINE' SYRs TAKING PUCE ANYWHERE ill! THE LOCAL TEXACO 
Too BAD. MOM SAYS HOME­
WoRIC HAS PR10R1TY o"ER 
(r°" &AMES. NOW 
PROBLEMS YOU KNOW, 
,, b 

MOVE IT! 
13-25'? I'M PRETT'Y \ 
CERTAIN
G! / 
THIS ISN'T WHAT MOM MEANT. 
c:: l 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
HOW 00 
I Do 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


-
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip.______ 
-
National Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. NFL, p. 14 
. Final Four, p. 15 
. MLB,p. 14,16, 17 . NHL,p. 13 . NBA,p. 12
PORTS 
-
Wednesday, March 27, 2002 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Ready to feast on the Wolverines 
No. 7 Irish head north to take on No. 40 Wolverines 

By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
The seventh-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team, wary of a string of upcoming opponents who have the potential to upset the Irish, travels to Ann Arbor today to play No. 40 Michigan. The team will then head to Terre Haute, Ind., to take on No. 32 Indiana State Saturday. 
The Irish, coming oIT a 6-l win at Indiana, are confident but not com­placent. 
"We're expecting a pretty tough match," freshman Brent D'Amico said. "(:-.1.ichigan) is possibly a little under-ranked at this point. They have a lot of players that could defi­nitely give us trouble." 
Many of those players have given Notre Dame trouble in the past. The Irish shut out the Wolverines last year, but Notre Dame struggled to overpower Michigan at the Tom Fallon Invitational last fall and lost to the Wolverines two years ago. 
'They have a lot of seniors on their team, much like we do, so it's pretty much the same cast of characters," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. 
At the Tom Fallon Invitational, the two teams essentially squared off in a hidden dual match, with the Irish achieving the victory, but not without getting bruised by a Wolverines squad that was missing a few of its players due to injury. 
"We won, but everything was really skewed," Bayliss said of the September 2001 tournament. 
At that invitational, Greg Novak, Michigan's No. 5 player, upset Notre Dame's No. 1, senior Javier Taborga, who is currently ranked 11th nation­ally among singles players. Novak was eventually defeated by Notre Dame senior Aaron Talarico. Irish senior Casey Smith was upset by Michigan's Matt Lockin. 
Today, the Irish will also be looking out for Henry Beam, ranked 54th in the nation, who will play Taborga at No. 1. Beam is 15-8 this season. 
Bayliss asserts the team rankings can be deceitful and that disparity between Notre Dame's No. 7 ranking and Michigan's No. 40 ranking is really not as advantageous or as great as it may seem. Many of the Wolverines, who are currently 9-5, have beat Irish players before and are probably keen on staging an upset. However, Michigan has yet to defeat a team in the top 30 this sea­s on and the Wolverines are 2-3 against teams that the Irish have gone 4-2 against this season. 
Although the Irish own a 16-4 record and have posted only one loss to No. 2 Illinois in their last 10 match­es, the past two matches have exposed a particular weakness in doubles play. The Irish have lost three of their last four doubles 
see MEN'S/page I 8 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish hold off Blue Hens 
By CHRIS COLEMAN Sports Writer 
Behind a 10-save effort from goalkeeper Jen White Tuesday, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team defeated Delaware 9-7. 
The teams locked at 7-7 with less than three minutes to play when Eleanor WeiHe scored the winning goal off a pass from Natalie Loftus. Lauren Fischer added an insurance goal as the 14th­ranked Irish improved their record to 5-1. 
The Irish opened the game strongly with Fischer scoring her first goal of the day on a free position ~hot only 39 second into the game. Fischer, who scored three on the day, has had a breakout year for the Irish. She has started every game and is fourth on the team in scor­ing. 

Delaware fought back and scored two goals, to make it 2-1, but it would be their only lead of the game. 
The Irish answered with a solid defensive effort, when Captain Kathryn Lam stole the ball and set up Natalie Loftus' eventual free-posi­tion goal. 
The attack continued to bombard Delaware's net, but the effective goalkeeping of senior captain Laurie Tortorelli stopped several Irish scoring opportunities. 
Delaware shifted defenders to double-team Irish scoring threat Danielle Shearer, but this proved ineffective as Shearer scored the next two Irish goals and one more in the second half. 
It was Notre Dame goal­keeper Jen White who sto1e the end of the half, however, making two spectacular point-blank saves to keep the Irish lead 4-3 into half­time. 
The teams traded goals back and forth throughout the second half until Weille, from off the bench, sparked the team with her goal, mak­ing it 8-7. 
"She has really come on this season," said head coach Tracy Coyne. "She really gives us another dimension, she always works hard on the field." 
see LACROSSE/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish start tough stretch against Illini 
By COLIN BOYLAN 
Sports Writer 
With three tough matches against top-25 teams on the horizon, the Notre Dame women's tennis team could be forgiven for overlooking their matchup with No. 65 Illinois today. 
But after coming off a two­match losing streak against a pair of inferior opponents, no one on the Irish squad expects that to happen. 
"I think we'll be well pre­pared for Illinois," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "At this point in the season, we understand how dangerous it is to look past any one match." 

While the Irish have strug­gled in recent losses to Air Force and Purdue, the Illini will be wrapping up what has been a tough road trip during which they dropped six straight matches. 
Notre Dame hopes to push that streak to seven, but both teams have matched up equally in terms of common opponents this year. Both the Irish and the Illini emerged victorious over Illinois State and Michigan, while both schools dropped decisions to Purdue, Indiana, North Carolina and Tennessee. 
With that kind of parity evi­
see WOMEN'S/page 18 
. Men's Tennis at Michigan, today, 3 p.m.
-OBSERVER 
. ND Women's Tennis vs. Illinois, today, 3:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
on!inc 

. Baseball at West Virginia, Thursday, 4 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Softball at Pittsburgh, Saturday, 11 a.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 



