
Editorial
PARTLY 

Friday

The Observer speaks out on the sexual abuse scandal in the Catholic 
CLOUDY 
church. 

APRIL 26, 
HIGH 51° 
LOW 40° 
2002
Viewpoint . page 10 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVI NO. 138 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




Seniors wait, search for jobs 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 
As graduation looms closer for seniors, they are bombarded with the ubiquitous question, "What are you doing next year?" Most of the seniors have an answer, but there are a number who are still weighing options and still looking. 
It's been a discouraging year for hiring with the recession that begin in March 2001, the Sept. 11 tragedy and the Enron and Andersen scandal. 
"It's a very different job mar­ket in comparison to years past, " says Lee Svete, director of the Career Center. He reports national on campus recruiting down 36 percent this year. Making matters worse is the fact that last year's class was over-hired and some are now only starting their jobs. 
Particularly hard hit were the 65 Notre Dame juniors and seniors who were affected by the Andersen meltdown. Alums have also contacted the Career Center to help them relocate. In response, the Career Center has held two meetings to discuss research on the Web and utiliz­ing alumni contacts. Additionally, a listserv was formed to report any internship or job possibilities. 
Senior Catherine Sanders is among the group who is still waiting to hear from a partner in Andersen if her position will still be available. 
"Everything is uncertain right now, a lot of us are just waiting for things to shake out," she said. Sanders Is among a group who still hasn't heard for sure if her offer has been rescinded. She is on an e-mail list at the Career Center that notifies her of possible alternatives or strategies to make it through this unpredictable time. 
"It's hard to look for a position now because a lot of jobs have been snapped up at this point of the year. A lot of seniors don't know what they're doing. It's a touchy subject," Sanders said. 
But there has been a lot of late recruiting this year as the economy begins a slow recov­ery. Just this week, Pace Global Energy Services and Hewitt Associates called the Career Center about job positions. Hewitt is hiring 50-60 business analysts. Svete also reports that the government is hiring like crazy because anywhere between 25 to 30 percent of the government workforce is retir­ing, many of them baby boomers. 
A new service available at the Career Center this spring is the City Tour informational meet­ings that highlight job opportu­nities in 12 major metropolitan cities including. 
"We collected the best info we could find on each city," said Svete. 
Students can visit the website and find a short description of the city life and connect to links to major employers in the public and private sectors, the fastest growing companies in the city, and sample companies by industry. 
Career service doesn't end for students after graduating. 


Leprechauns entertain the crowd 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
News Writer 
Cheering on the crowds in a traditional green suit, the Notre Dame Leprechaun has become a legendary symbol of Irish spirit. This figure is the ambas­sador of t h e University both on and off the field and can be seen at most varsity sporting events. 
To ensure that most sports can have the Leprechaun pre­sent, the University now has two positions: a Varsity and Olympic leprechaun. Varsity Leprechaun Michael Macaluso performs at football games, men's basketball games and pep rallies, while Olympic Leprechaun John Bisanz per­forms at men's and women's 

soccer, volleyball and women's basketball games. 
Watching Notre Dame foot­ball games as a kid, I thought the Leprechaun had the best job in the world," said Bisanz, "You really can't beat 
being out 

on the playing field with the athletes you've admired for so long and joining 
Bisanz the Notre Dame faith­ful in support of them." 
The Leprechaun can be seen in the national spotlight at parades and benefits. "To be honest. those visits are my favorite part of the job," said Macaluso, "because it's the time when I get to really inter­act with different people." 
The selection process to become the Leprechaun is long and detailed. The first facet includes writing a one-
page essay and involve three weeks of practicing with the cheerleading squad in early April. Outgoing varsity Leprechaun Adam Urra worked with the group and exposed them to situations that arise, such as interviews with the media and interaction with opposing fans. 
"We also did a lot of physical training to get used to the rig­ors of being the Leprechaun," said Bisanz. 
The selection panel consists of an athletic department member, an alumnus, a mem­ber of the university adminis­tration, a staff member, a for­
mer  Leprechaun  and  the  
cheer coach.  
The  culmination  of  the  

three-week tryout process ends with a mock pep rally for the Leprechaun hopefuls and a formal interview with a panel of judges to answer questions about the University. 
Once two Leprechauns are 
see LEPRECHAUN/page 4 

Students will have access to Go Irish all summer and for 30 days after graduation, seniors will be able to access Irish Online, the online alumni direc­tory that contains nearly 100,000 alum contacts. Students can add their names to a listserv for a particular city and receive notices about job opportunities available in the area. 
"It's great for networking and picking their[alumniJ brains to 

· see SENIORS/page 4 

ResLife listens to 


alleged rape case 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
The University held a closed dis­ciplinary hearing Thursday for the 20-year-old female student who alleged she was raped March 28 in an off-campus house by four male students associated with the Notre Dame football team. 
The alleged victim and the four suspects, one former and three current football players, were pre­viously scheduled for an April 17 hearing with the Office of Residence Llfe and Housing that was postponed until Thursday. 
The hearing began around 9 

a.m. and lasted through most of the afternoon, television state­ment WSBT reported. 
Because of the hearing, the three suspects were not present at Thursday's football practice, the last one before Saturday's Blue and Gold game. 
Head coach Tyrone Willingham told reporters Thursday that the players had not been removed from the team. 
see RESLIFE/page 3 

BELLES RING IN ANTOSTAL 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, April 26, 2002 
r 


INSIDE COLUMN 
The sweetest 



Cupcake 

When my friends and I moved into our off-cam­pus house last August we had the hardest time making it a home. Courtesy of our parents, we all con­tributed used furniture and a varied and colorful assort­ment of silverware and dish­es. Even with these tokens from home, our house just couldn't feel right. 
Until I brought an adorable little white fluflball back with me after a short weekend home in September. 
Cupcake, a Persian-like barncat with blue eyes and a calico tail, made herself wel­come in our house right from the start. 
For the first 13 years of her life, Cupcake spent her days outside, chasing mice and catching birds. Growing up a barncat, she never had the little luxuries afforded to her indoor counterparts. When she breezed into our house back in the fall, she brought with her a breath of life and humor we never knew. 
It took her a few days to warm up to her new surroundings. She wasn't used to the confinement of a house and she chose to hide underneath my bed until I drew her out with the promise of food and affection. Since then, she hasn't spent one minute alone ifsomeone was in the house. According to Cupcake, every open lap is an invita­tion for attention. 
Everyting Cupcake does makes us laugh. She finds great interest in paper, batting it aroWld as though it were a prized shrew. Whenever we all sit together deep in coversation, Cupcake looks as though she is listening intently and contributing in earnest. She even willingly takes rides in our homemade papoose when the mood strikes her. 
Surprisingly. our guy friends love her almost as much as I do. They've nicknamed her Mrs. Norris or Mrs. Jinx, depending on who you ask. Whenever they come over for a visit, she jumps right up and takes a nap on any willing lap. Cupcake especially likes it when they sleep over on our couch, finding a warm nook in which to snooze for the night. 
I don't want to sound like one ofthose "cat peo­ple" who obsess over their feline with the same ferociousness as a teenager at an N'Sync concert, but Cupcake is by the far the world's cutest kitty cat. I adore her and I make a point of telling her this several times a day. As a result, my room­mates claim she is the most spoiled and egotisti­cal cat they've ever witnessed. She expects con­stant adoration and attention. Without it, she complains. Loudly. 
Granted, Cupcake may try our patience at times. She'll meow outside our bedroom doors early in the morning. She leaves long white strands of fur all over our black pants. She's even been known to cough up a few hairballs. 
But, we all agree, this yearjust wouldn't have been quite as complete without our little Mups. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hed Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation period... The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
TODAY IN NOTRE DAME HISTORY  
Academic commission presents code  Student wins ugliest man award  
April 26, 1974  April 26, 1988  

The Academic Council met to propose new academic regulations, including additional fees for credit hours taken over a 17-hour limit, mandatory class attendance on each class day before and after vacations, a grade referendum policy and revisions of the standards for the Dean's Honor List from a 3.25 to a 3.5 average. The meeting was the first time all provisions of the Academic Code have been compiled. Many campus stu­dent organizations expressed resentment for not having enough of a voice in the changes. 
Notre Dame student Phil Marzolf swept to victory in the Ugly Man on Campus competition, easily outdis­tancing all competition while raising $526 for charity. Donations were taken during the week of Antostal. with candidates receiving a vote for each penny they received. In total, the event raised $1,750.44 for the Notre Dame/Jane M. Beres Leukemia Foundation. Candidates raised money by various methods. including going door-to-door and begging at the Senior Bar. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 

Fifth rape in a week occurs in Arizona dormitory 
TUCSON, Ariz. tall, with a thin build. blue eyes and 
An attempted sexual assault dark clothing. allegedly took place in a residence hall UAPD security officers were shower Tuesday evening, the fifth sex­assigned to a foot patrol of all campus ually related incident to be repeated residence halls Wednesday night. in a University of Arizona dorm bath­Seastone said UAPD was working room in a week. closely with Residence Llfe to restore 
The alleged incident happened at a sense of safety to all residents. about 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, when a man Maintenance workers were working wearing a ski mask entered a on tightening security in La Paz women's restroom in a university resi­Wednesday by updating the key sys­dence hall and attempted to sexually tem. assault a resident as she was shower­Residence Life Director Jim Van ing, University of Arizona Police Arsdel said a majority of the exterior Department Cmdr. Brian Seastone doors of the building used to have a said in an interview. delay time of up to 1.5 minutes before 
On Saturday evening, a Manzanita­the alarm went off. but all doors now Mohave resident was confronted by As of Wednesday evening, have only a 20-second delay. Tucson, Ariz., resident Esteban Rodriguez was still in Pima County On Wednesday night a few students Rodriguez. Rodriguez was arrested Jail. held on $50,000 bond. assured themselves by manually clos­that evening by UAPD officers at his Seastone described the man in ing the main door, but many unlocked home on the west side of Tucson. Tuesday's incident as 5 feet, 9 inches the door with their key cards. 

BROWN UNIVERSITY 

Students create Internet magazine 
PROVIDENCE, R.l. 
Glimpse, an Internet magazine founded by Brown University students last year, is looking to hit the big time. Glimpse examines international issues and cul­tures from the perspective of students studying abroad. The National Geographic Society contributed $15,000 and nine computers to The Glimpse Foundation, the student-run nonprofit that publishes the magazine, to fund an office in downtown Providence, R.I. Glimpse likely also will receive a $38,000 grant from National Geographic, said presi­dent and publisher Nick Fitzhugh. This summer the online magazine hopes to become an online resource center for study abroad students, a syndication ser­vice, an organizer of international conferences and a scholarship fund, Fitzhugh said. He said the maga­zine will be distributed in print to colleges across the country. Students studying abroad write most of the articles in Glimpse and draw on their experiences and conversations with the local population. 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 

Students deal with limited daycare 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Senior Erin Fagg had to wait nearly 17 months before she could register her 3-year-old son in the daycare she wanted. A single mother, Fagg said she wanted the best for Kaiden Thomas, but she wound up on a lengthy waiting list for one of Indiana University's best daycare centers. In the meantime, she enrolled Kaiden in an unlicensed center unaffili­ated with the University. "I was very discouraged," Fagg said. "You want your child -if you're not rais­ing him -in just as good of hands as you would take care of him." But at Indiana there aren't enough hands. University childcare offers eight spaces licensed by the state for infants, creating a waitlist of about 65 families at the only center offering such ser­vice -Campus View Child Care Center. Knee High Day Care Cooperative, an unlicensed co-op. also tends to children as young as six months and enrolls up to 14 families. A parent would have to sign up for infant care when she is pregnant. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather • forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Cl 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM SIATIONARV ~ffUff: 
® © B ~ CJ. [83 ~. [ill () "~ &$.& 
High ~•w Showen Rain T-•torma Flurrioa Snow loo Sunny Pt. Cloud~ Cloudy 
Via Associaf9d Pmss 

A!lanta 71 56 Las Vegas 67 39 Portland 52 32 Baltimore 63 32 Memphis 63 41 Sacramento 68 41 Boston 54 40 Milwaukee 49 34 St. Louis 57 37 Chicago 52 40 New York 58 45 Tampa 73 50 Houston 81 74 Philadelphia 54 40 Washington 65 37 


The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, April 26. 
lOsl 4os Lines separate high temperature zones !or the day. 


-----------------, 
Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
the cvent.s ofher alleged assault. St. Joseph County officials also

ResLife 
have been handling the case continued from page l since the woman reported the -----------alleged rape April 6. Prosecutor 
"As of now, [they're still on the Chris Toth received the ca.se last team), and as far as the week and said he would decide University is concerned, we'll whether or not to file charges work through all the University against the men with.in the fol-
procedures," said Willingham. lowing week. 
The alleged victim told The Andrew Soukup contributed Observer two weeks ago that to this report. she brought her case to ResLlfe April 10 when she submitted an Contact Helena Payne eight-page statement detailing at payne.30@nd.edu. 
Ohio recalls hot dogs 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

A Cincinnati meat processor is recalling 140,000 pounds of frankfurters and hot dogs that may be contaminated with a germ that can cause a poten­tially fatal disease, the Agriculture Department's food safety service said Thursday. 
John Morrell & Co. volootarily reported the danger of Listeria monocytogenes, the service said in a statement. It produced the food on March 5 and distributed it to retail outlets nationwide. 
Listeria can cause listeriosis, a rare but potentially fatal dis­ease. Healthy people are rarely susceptible, but people with weak immune systems are par­ticularly at risk. Especially sus­ceptible are infants, the frail, the elderly, chronic disease suf­ferers, HIV-infected people and patients undergoing chemother­apy. 
"Because of the potential for foodborne illness. we want con­sumers to be aware of the recall," said Llnda Swacina, the service's assistant administra­tor. Shoppers should return the products to the point of pur­chase. 
The meat industry wants to rewrite rules from the former Clinton administration that would require makers of hot dogs, cold cuts and other ready­to-eat meat products test plant equipment for Listeria monocy­togen es, saying they are too restrictive. 
The Bush administration is undertaking an analysis of the risk and has delayed enforce­ment of the Clinton-era rules. 
The food service statement did not explain where and how John Morell discovered the dan­ger. 

This Week in the Department of Music 
Tue. April 23:  Peter Kurdzeil, graduate organ recital  
8:00 pm, Basilica Free admission.  
Thurs. April 25:  Rexphil Rallanka, graduate organ recital  
8: 15 pm, Basilica. Free Admission.  
Fri. April 26:  ND Opera: The Magic Flute  
7:30 pm, Washington Hall. Tickets ($3-6):  
Lafortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128  
Sat. April 27:  Daniel Tonozzi, senior cello recital  
w/ Jacqueline Schmidt, piano  
2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission.  
Sat. April 27:  Sean Downey, graduate tuba recital  
5:30 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium.  
Pree admissioIJ.  
Sat. April 27:  ND Opera: The Magic Flute  
7:30 pm, Washington Hall. Tickets ($3-6):  
Lafortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128  
Sun. April 28:  ND Brass Ensemble  
3 pm, Band Bulding. Pree admission.  

Call 631-6201 for more information 

-HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES. 
.... post-graduate service program 

We>nd~rio~ wh~t te> de> with Ye>Ur tim~ ~rt~r :;r~du~tie>o? Ce>n~id~rin~ pe>~t-:;r:1du~te ~~Nie~ t7~ ~D ~pti<:>Dr 
If so...consider joining graduating seniors from all over the country who are looking to serve others, live in community, grow spiritually, and explore a simple lifestyle! 
The HCA program is still accepting appli­cations for the 2002-2003 domestic year of service. 
Sites include: Phoenix, AZ; Coachella, CA; Colo­rado Springs, CO; South Bend, IN; Brockton, MA; Wilkes-Barre, PA; and Portland, OR. 
~ http:holycrossassociates.nd.edu @ ~ nd.hcassoc.1@nd.edu 
1-5521 P.O. Box 668 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

GSU honors Krum and Hahnenberg 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Ediror 
The Graduate Student Union recognized graduate students Carly Krum and Edward Hahnenberg for their teaching abilities. 
The organi­zation awarded K r u m Outstan­d i n g Graduate Teaching Assistant 

a n d Krum Hahnen­berg Outstanding Graduate Instructor of 2001. 
"It's so shocking. I've never taught before," said Krum after receiving the designa­tion. "I told my class right away. Teaching them is such a joy and any recognition [beyond that] is just icing on the cake." 
"It's a wonderful recogni­tion," echoed Hahnenberg. "I think I had such great stu­dents -that helped for sure. Their questions and insights really made it a great experi­ence." 
The two received their des­ignations after an intense selection process, according to Stephanie Arnett, chairperson of the GSU Academic Affairs Committee. GSU received 13 nominations from graduate students and faculty members. The committee reviewed TCEs and additional information submitted by the applicants including letters from students and the course syllabus. 

"People included different things," Arnett said. "It made it interesting, but it also made judging more difficult." 
Hahnenberg and Krum stood out, according to Arnett. because of the difference they made in undergraduate edu­
cation. 
"I really saw that these peo­ple were having a big impact on under­graduates," Arnett said. "A lot of times grad­

uate students are removed by research. It's really a great experience for the graduate students to get to know the students and share their expe­riences." 
Both Hahnenberg and Krum are Notre Dame alums. 

gradu­

"The goal is not to give
Hahnenberg ates, she is a fifth year answers but to get didn't rule out graduate stu­students to ask big the possibility dent of of returning
questions."
Theology. to education. 
Krum is "I think working Edward Hahnenburg later on in life toward a I'll go back to
teaching assistant 
Masters in French liter-a t u r e through the Department of Romance Languages and Literature. 
Krum, who helped teach "Beginning Intensive French," and Hahnenberg, who inde­pendently taught two classes of Foundations of Theology in the fall semester, both attrib­uted their awards to their pas-
got news? 1-5323. 

"Education that works for working adults" 
Accelerated Bachelor's Degree Completion Program 
. 
Organizational Management Program 

• 
Management Information Systems 


(OMP and MIS available as stand alone certificate programs) 
. Bachelor of Science in Nursing for RNs 
Class once a week 
6:00 p.m. until 10:00 p.m. 
4 to 6 weeks per class 18 to 20 months for the complete program 
Goshen College Division of Adult and External Studies (800) 390-3490 www.gosh en .edu 
sion for the subject matter and an ability to relate to under­graduates. 
Krum, in fact, referred to undergraduate staples like Boat Club and SYRs to teach her students about imperfect verb forms. She also has had her class over for dinner. 
Hahnenberg, whose classes studied the Bible, had his stu­dents watch movies and ana­lyze how Jesus was portrayed in artwork, including Notre Dame's "Touchdown Jesus_" But, he also tried to empha­size the importance of being a proactive student. 
"The goal is not to give answers but to get students to ask big questions," he said. 
Hahnenberg will continue teaching next year, joining the department of Theology as a visiting assistant professor. Although Krum plans to work at Sotheby's, an art auction 
house, after 
she 
teaching," she said. "It's so fun, it's the 

highlight of my day." 
Both award winners received a $100 gift from GSU and will be formally presented with their designations at the Graduate Student Awards Dinner on May 17. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu, 
TLC singer killed in car crash 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Lisa "Left Eye" Lopes, the effervescent, sometimes volatile rapping member of the Grammy-winning trio TLC, was killed in a car crash in Honduras, her record company said early Friday. 
Lopes, 31, was in the Central American nation for a vacation, Arista Records' senior vice presi­dent of publicity Laura Swanson told The Associated Press. Lopes was reportedly among seven people in the car Thursday night and the only fatality. 
"No words can possibly express the sorrow and sadness I feel for this most devastating loss," said Arista president L.A. Reid, who helped shape the career of the Atlanta-based R&B group, one of the best-selling female groups in history. 
''Lisa was not only a gifted and talented musical inspiration, but more importantly, she was like a daughter to me. My thoughts and prayers are with Lisa's fam­ily and friends. Her legacy will be remembered forever." 
The location of the car crash 
was not immediately deter­
mined. It was unclear whether 
she was wearing a seatbelt. 

.. 

page 4 The Observer. NEWS Friday, April 26, 2002 
12 hurt in New York City explosion 
Associated Press 
An explosion that may have been caused-by chemi­cals stored in a basement rocked a 10-story commer­ci a I building Thursday, hurling glass and rubble across a city block and injuring 42 people, at least 10 of them critically. 
Authorities quickly ruled out terrorism, though the blast conjured up memories of Sept. 11 for some in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. 
"It was a giant boom -a real giant boom," said Bill Beek, who lives a half-block away. "It sounded like an airplane crashing." 
"First we thought it was a bomb," said Alex Vargas, 
28. a student at Apex Technical School next door. "We all had to leave by the back stairs. People were yelling· and screaming. 'Hurry up!"' 
Victims were taken to the hospital with burns, severe head injuries, broken bones and cuts after the 11: 30 
a.m. blast. 
Chemicals stored in the basement by a sign compa­ny were being investigated as a possible factor, said Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta. Plumbers had been working on the boiler in the building at the time, hut that did not appear to be the cause, investigators said. 
Kaltech sign company's general manager Phil Morgan said he felt two consecutive blasts in the company's ground-floor offices. 
"One pushed me up from my chair, the second one had me out of my chair," he said. When it was over, the ceiling and a wall had come down. "Everything moved. The air was filled with 
dust.n 
Windows along the block of West 19th Street between Sixth and Seventh avenues were blown out, and sever­al people were injured by flying glass. 
The facade of the building was damaged and several walls were blown out, but it appeared to be structurally sound, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said. 
Police and more than 100 firefighters poured into the area. Some victims, dazed and bloody, sat on the curb awaiting medical attention. 
The building housed the sign company and other commercial tenants, said Sid Dinsay, a spokesman for the city Office of Emergency Management. Neighbors said the building was also used for storage by the Apex school, which teaches welding, automotive repair and other trades. 
Property records show that the building is owned bv 19th Street Associates 
LLC. The office of Steven Kaufman, a principal in the firm, said he had no imme­diate comment. 

continued from page I 
selected from this arduous try­out, the work just begins for them. Practice is four days a week for two hours each day. Also, there are mandato­ry lifting sessions three io four days a week for an hour. 
"With the preparation, games and community com­mitments, being · the Leprechaun is a pretty work intensive position," said Bisanz. "But it is completely rewarding and the work pays off. Being the Leprechaun pri­marily requires an insatiable love for Notre Dame and I've had that ever since I can remember. I am just going to try my best to keep the,fans fired up and wanting to come back for more." 
Scholarships are not given out for the holders of the Leprechaun position. Additionally, a Leprechaun must participate for three years on the cheer squad in order to attain a monogram. Many sports give monograms for playing only one year or even one play. Monogramming, a distin­guished honor for Notre Dame athletes, requires three years of hard work. 
Even though students must participate in countless hours of practice, the downsides to being the Leprechaun has not deterred Macaluso and Bisanz. 
"I've always loved this University and its athletic pro­gram and I thought becoming the Leprechaun was the best opportunity to share that love with others," said Bisanz. 
Macaluso remembers when he first wanted to be the Leprechaun. 
"Watching Mike Brown and the cheerleaders as a fresh­man, I thought it looked like so much fun and something that would be very worthwhile and an amazing experience," he said. "I was just looking to have fun with [my] time here at Notre Dame." 
Last year, Macaluso served as the Olympic Leprechaun, which he said greatly pre­pared him for the Varsity posi­tion. 
"The most important part 

about this job, though, is being willing and able to show your love and enthusiasm for Notre Dame," he said. " There's a ton of Notre Dame nuts out there, and I'm just another one of them." 
"I know that I'll have the support and help of the cheer­leaders and my coaches when­ever I find myself in a tough situation," said Macaluso. 
Bisanz added, "I can't wait for next year to get started and begin what looks to be another successful year in Notre Dame athletics." 
"Every time I'm in that suit, on a court or field, I know I'm not out there just for me," Macaluso said. 'Tm there for the fans -to make them have a good time and to represent Notre Dame and all it stands for. Over a century of fans, alumni, teams. faculty, stu­dents, service, and Catholic faith, the Leprechauns are the foremost collegiate icon in the country, and not only that, we represent the best university in the country." 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd..edu. 
,you take. care of the patients, 'ill help take care of the 
[tuition]m 
If you want to give your nursing career a shot in the arm, you need experience ­
not the headache of how to pay your tuition. Qualify for an Army ROTC nursing 
scholarship, and you'll not only get hands-on clinical training, you'll develop­
leadership skills you'll be able to tap into for your entire career. Talk to us at the 
Army ROTC department. We'll take care of you. 
ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 


For more information about our Scholarship Programs, 9aU'Captain Bart Hennessey at (219) 631 -4656 or 1-800-UND-ARMY 
Seniors 
continued from page l 
find out how they broke into the field," said Kevin Monahan, assistant director for Alumni Career Programs. 
Other online employment directories can be ex cell en t sources for students still looking. Svete recommended www.directemployers.com, which is a nonprofit Website set up by companies to bypass mon­ster.com. Another link on the Career Center Web page that may be useful is interncenter, which is password protected and only has 28 schools participat­ing. 
Monahan reminds seniors that they still offer career counseling including career assessment, resume review, cover letter proofreading, and mock inter­views. They also assist students perform company research and find alumni contacts within the company or industry. 
"The important thing is not to lose faith and remain aggres­sive," Svete said. 
Contact Liz Kahling at ekahling@nd.edu. 




ATION 
Friday, April 26, 2001 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Mexico accuses Cuba of blackmail: 
Mexican President Vicente Fox apologized to those who believe he lied about rushing Cuban President Fidel Castro out of' Mexico, but Mexico's foreign secretary on Thursday accused the Cuban leader of trying to black­mail Fox. Foreign Secretary Jorge Castaneda accused Castro of trying to blackmail Mexico into voting against a U.N. resolution targeting Cuba's human rights record -and then, after Mexico voted for it, trying to embarrass Fox by making public a private conversation between the two leaders. 
Chechnyan warlord killed by Russia: 
Russia claimed on Thursday its forces killed one of Chechnya's most elusive warlords, a Jordanian said to have connections with the al-Qaida terrorist network. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Blake won't face the death penalty: 
Prosecutors won't seek the death penalty against actor Robert Blake if he is convicted of murdering his wife, the district attorney's office said Thursday. Prosecutors will instead seek a sentence of life in prison without parole, the office said. Blake was charged Monday with fatally shooting his wife, Bonny Lee Bakley, 44, after a dinner outing last May. Prosecutors said the 68-year-old actor and his bodyguard, Earle Caldwell, plotted the slaying for months. 
Man convicted of killing co-workers: 
A man who shot to death seven co-workers at a software company was convicted of murder today after failing to convince a jury that he was so delusional he thought he was killing Hitler and his henchmen to prevent the Holocaust. The defendant. Michael McDermott, 43, stood impassively as he heard the verdict in a courtroom full of relatives of the victims. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Fisherman prevent suicide attempt: 
Three fishermen rescued a man who jumped from a bridge into the White River in an apparent suicide attempt. "He said he had got­ten to the bridge and didn't feel like living any­more," said Eddie Brochin, a professional fish­ing guide. "He said the only thing he thought about before he jumped was his daughter and granddaughter. I told him it wasn't his time to go." The man, whose name was not released, was sent to Methodist Hospital for treatment. Police said the man likely would have drowned had the fishermen not intervened. 
Market Watch April 25 
Dow 
10,035.06 +4.63 

Jones 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) +1.44 +0.05 3.53 TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) -19.88 -5.15 20.75 NASOAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0.25 -0.08 32.42 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +l.11 +0.16 14. 5c; SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -3.12 -0.27 8.3S 
WEST BANK 


Associated Press 
BETHLEHEM 
In a day punctuated by exchanges of gunfire and the evacuation of a small number of Palestinian men at the Church of the Nativity, Palestinian and Israeli negotiators failed today to reach terms to end a three-week-long siege but agreed to inter­im steps toward a settle­ment. 
The two sides committed to releasing about a dozen youths from the compound -including two who the Israeli military said were 10 years old -and to removing the remains of two gunmen killed in the first days of the fighting. 

But negotiators remained unable to agree on the central question of which people inside the basilica were to be consid­ered terrorists, and how they would be handled upon their surrender. 
Talks were scheduled to resume on Thursday. Salah Taamari, the chief Palestinian negotiator, struck a moderate tone late tonight. "The meeting was constructive," he said. 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon also expressed confidence that the issues could be resolved soon. "I believe that it will not take too long," Mr. Sharon said. 
Tonight's meeting, the third session in two days, began moments after a brief gun battle at the church had killed one Palestinian and slightly wounded an Israeli soldier and sent the Palestinian negotiators and their Israeli military escorts scrambling for cover. 
It was further under­mined by the intractability of both sides on the cen­tral questions about iden­tifying the terrorists and d.efining their fate. 
Israel wants the Palestinians to provide a full roster of people within the compound's walls, from which it would select men it accuses of terror­ism. 

The Palestinians have refused, and instead have asked Israel to hand over a list of people whose arrest it seeks. 
Virtually all the estimat­ed 250 people in the church are thought to be civilians, clergymen or Palestinian Authority police officers or security officials. 
But a senior Israeli offi­cial said today that about 30 gunmen are wanted for terrorism, including two men accused of killing an American-born architect, Avi Boaz, in January. 
Troops seek al-Qaida in Pakistan 
areas that are traditional rallying and the tenets of Islam. Tribesmen
Associated P rcss 

·points for fighters fleeing Afghanistan. who Jive in high-walled compounds WASHINGTON The operations carry considerable have warned against U.S. soldiers on 
U.S. government personnel are risk, physically for the Americans and their territory. Publicly, Islamabad searching for al-Qaida fighters in the politically for Pakistani President denied any knowledge of U.S. opera­rugged tribal regions of northwest Pervez Musharraf, who faces a refer­tions. "No U.S. personnel are present Pakistan, and the American military is endum on Tuesday to extend his term in Pakistan's tribal areas searching for set to send in troops to join the hunt, as president for five years. He has al-Qaida men," Aziz Ahmad Khan, officials said Thursday. defied strong anti-American sentiment spokesman for the Pakistani Foreign 
The United States and Pakistan to support President Bush in counter­Ministry, told The Associated Press. reached an agreement several weeks ing terrorism. However. Pakistani intelligence and ago allowing American military opera­Pakistan's tribal belt is ruled by Interior Ministry sources confirmed tions on Pakistani soil, U.S. officials deeply conservative and fiercely inde­that civilian U.S. officials, with the said. This will allow Americans to pendent tribesmen who swear little help of Pakistani authorities, are qui­hunt in a suspected al-Qaida haven allegiance to anyone but their tribal etly working in the areas to trace the previously closed to them -tribal elders and to laws laid out by tradition remnants of al-Qaida. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, April 26, 2002 
Tenn. doctors sue over managed care program 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Tennessee ·s largest physi­cian's organization sued the state's four biggest health insurers Thursday, alleging their managed care practices threaten patients' health. 
The Tennessee Medical Association's class-action law­suits filed in state court name Aetna Inc.• Blue Cross Blue Shield of Tennessee, CIGNA HealthCare and United HealthCare. 
They allege that because of the "extra.ordi­nary unequal could not comment in detail, but he called it "shortsighted." 
"We do everything we can do to keep health insurance afford­able," he said. 
Representatives of United, Aetna and CIGNA said they had not seen the lawsuits and declined comment. 
Dr. Mickey McAdoo, president elect of the TMA, said the asso­ciation and its individual mem­bers have been bringing their concerns to the insurance com­panies almost daily, but to no avail. 
In addition to the TMA law­suits, four individual physician 
lawsuits 
were filed 
bargaining  "We do everything  against  the  
positions" between the medical associ­ we can do to keep health insurance  companies seeking mon­etary dam­ 
ation and the  affordable. "  ages on the  
insurance com­ s  a  m  e  
panies, the association's 6,600 mem­ Ron Harr spokesman for BCBS  grounds. They cite claims not  

bers are forced into entering one-sided contracts. 
The association says the four companies comprise 70 percent of the HMO market in Tennessee and insure nearly 
2.4 million people in managed care plans across the state. 
The lawsuits seek to stop a number of business practices that TMA alleges delay, deny or reduce payments to physicians. 
For example, they claim the insurance companies "bundle" several physician services together to lower reimburse­ments and deny higher reim­bursements for complicated medical cases in which doctors spend extra time and resources. 
Ron Harr, a spokesman for Blue Cross Blue Shield, said he had not seen the lawsuit and paid in full, 
interest due for untimely or slow payments and payments never made but rightfully due. 
The TMA lawsuits do not seek monetary damages; they ask that the court stop "these wrongful and financially puni­tive practices." 
Managed care has been under legal challenge in several states. 
Physicians' groups in New York and South Carolina have filed similar lawsuits this year. A federal lawsuit against major health care companies is pend­ing in Florida by 600,000 doc­tors who claim they are rou­tinely shortchanged on reim­bursement claims through "institutionalized underpay­ments." 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Motorists can rest assured that their gas-guzzling SUVs won't be threatened by new energy legislation moving through Congress. And there's good news there too for farm­ers and wind turbine opera­tors. 
But environmentalists are in an uproar, and California law­makers predict gasoline short­ages and price spikes. 
The impact of a broad ener­gy bill passed by the Senate on Thursday can be expected to .touch a wide array of peo­ple, industries and businesses -that is if it ever gets out of Congress. Although passed by a wide margin, 88-11, it must still be merged with a starkly different bill that the House passed last year. 
After the Senate vote, President Bush appeared con­fident a compromise could be reached. Between the two bills, he said, there were "the elements of a comprehensive energy policy" that include "the major conservation and environmentally responsible production measures needed to reduce our reliance on for­eign sources of energy." 
This legislation "should increase our energy indepen­dence," said Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., although he made clear there were dif­ferences with the House. He call the Senate-passed bill "a far more responsible, progres­sive, consumer-friendly ener­gy policy" than the House bill, which largely mirrored the president's priorities. 
The Senate rejected Bush's top energy priority: oil drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. That is 
Energy bill favors SUVs, farmers 
expected to trigger a fight tive director of Environmental with the House. which Defense. approved such drilling and In rejecting a proposal to whose Republican leaders require automakers to meet a have shown no signs of back­fleet average of 35 miles per ing down. gallon over the next dozen 
The Senate bill calls for years, opponents of the mea­$14.1 billion in energy tax sure argued that it would subsidies ranging from help to force manufactures to stop refiners to meet sulfur-control making large cars and threat­regulations and reduce the ened suburban soccer moms cost of power from wind tur­with the loss of their sport bines to a credit for home-utility vehicles. owners The claims who want were rebutted
"Finding
to buy a by supporters solar panel environmentally of the fuel or put economy
friendly provisions in 
more insu­improvements,
this bill is like looking 
lation into who argued their attic. for a needle in a the technology Overall, exists for cars
haystack."
the tax to be more benefits fuel efficient
Elizabeth Thompson
were about and still save evenly legislative director of the SUV. In 
divided Environmental Defence any case, nei­
between production and conservation and support for renewable energy sources. its supporters said. 
The Senate's refusal to open the Alaska wildlife refuge to oil companies was one of the few victories for environmen­talists over the six weeks that senators deliberated energy policy. 
The disappointments ranged from rejection of even modest steps to improve automobile fuel efficiency to -in the final hours ..:_ stripping the bill of a requirement that the Energy Department impose the more aggressive efficiency stan­dards for air conditioners that had been proposed by the Clinton administration. 
"Finding environmentally friendly provisions in this bill is like looking for a needle in a haystack," complained Elizabeth Thompson, legisla­ther the House 
nor Senate bills address the issue in any significant way, so the SUVs are safe no matter who's right. 
The bill also would require more ethanol use in gasoline, resulting in a tripling of ethanol production to 5 billion gallons a year by 2012, a boon to farmers. 
The ethanol mandate sur­vived despite repeated attempts by senators from California and New York to have it removed, or at least phased in more slowly. When the Senate refused even to postpone its implementation for a year, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., accused farm-state senators of ignor­ing the harm that might come to California, where she said a lack of ethanol could produce gasoline shortages and price spikes. 


START HERE. Ga PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you · can get a job anywhere. Because the skills 

you learn in business

SPEND $BO. ,... ON A SH .W THAT LASTS 12 MINUTES 
-strategic and analytical thinking, 
TRAVEL 6,760 MILES 
communication,
T. OPEN A f7LAGSHIP ST. RE IN TOKYO 
and leadership ­are always in demand.

CHARGE $1,699 FOR A PIECE OF FABRIC 4 FT LONG 
In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in fashion. 
H.W D. Y.U GET A JOB LIKE THIS? 

www. START HEREGaPLACES.C OM/B127 
Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 


r
Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Catholics see child abuse as-global 
Associated. Press 
DUBLIN 

Catholics worldwide on Thursday welcomed Pope John Paul II's unprecedented summit with U.S. cardinals as a good start to tackling child abuse within the Catholic church, but court cases kept surfacing to remind the Vatican that this is a global scandal. 
In Ireland. 70-year-old Morris Tobin. a retired member of the Christian Brothers teaching order, appeared in court Thursday to face 173 charges of molesting 25 schoolboys in act unless the problem is already in great proportions," said the Rev. Robert Reyes, a parish priest in the Philippines, where another priest has been jailed on suspicion of raping a 14-year-old girl. "We don't real­ize the defect .until it is too big to solve." 
The Vatican has not offered a blanket policy for Catholics worldwide on whether they should report alleged abuse to church officials or civil authori­ties, leaving the advice to bish­ops. 
In Puerto Rico, Archbishop Roberto Gonzalez Nieves said 
anyone who 
had been sex­

the l 960s. "You'd think based on ually abused More than 30 recent headlines that the by church offi­
Catholic cials should go
church only has problems

priests and directly to brothers in in America. " police. But he Ireland have refused to been convict­comment on
John Kelly

ed of sexually at least six
director of Irish Survivors

abusing chil­cases in
of Child Abuse

dren in the Puerto Rican 
past decade. 
"You'd 
think based on recent headlines that the church only has prob­1ems in America," said John Kelly, director of Irish Survivors of Child Abuse, which represents about 800 people abused in church-run schools and orphan­ages. "The pope needs to take a long, hard look at what his church has tried to cover up in Ireland. in Canada, in Australia, in his own Polish homeland ­probably everywhere, if the truth ever comes out." 
In many countries, church offi­cials and Roman Catholic faith­ful were weighing the U.S. cardi­nals' words versus the policies on sexual abuse being adopted by their own clergymen. Some suggested the church's response looked like too little, too late. 
"The Catholic Church does not 
dioceses 
under the jurisdiction of other bishops, nor on a case he announced last week in his own parish. 
"It's better that complainants go straight to civil authorities because it creates an impression of impartiality in the church," Nieves said. 
Newspaper editorials world­wide remarked on the unprece­dented nature of the Vatican summit. Many expressed hope that the church would build momentum toward wider reforms. 
"This was a landmark occa­sion, which ... has broken through the atmosphere of silence and denial hitherto marking the Vatican's approach to this issue," declared the Irish Times, the paper of record in this predominantly Catholic nation. 
''Dirty linen washed in public," read a headline in the La Stampa newspaper in Rome. 
The rival Corriere della Sera newspaper credited the U.S. media's "daily hammering" for forcing the pope and his visitors to behave with uncharacteristic openness. 
In Britain, an officially Protestant nation, the conserva­tive Daily Telegraph warned that some of the church's sternest critics had an anti­Catholic agenda." 
"A minority wishes to destroy the church and will use pedophilia as a handy weapon to do so," said the Telegraph, Britain's top-circulation broad­sheet. It said calls for the church to soften its policy of priestly celibacy represented a "gross fallacy." 
"A man does not become a pedophile for want of a wife," the paper said. 
In Austria, too, church officials djsmissed any connection between the priestly celibacy and deviant sexual behavior among a minority of priests. 
"It must be mentioned that many cases of child abuse occur in families. There, the celibacy duty plays no role at all," said Bishop Egon Kapellari. 
But the Irish Times questioned whether the church's policies on the priesthood could withstand a future wave ofscandals. 
It noted that ordinations had already fallen to unacceptable levels. 
"The Vatican has clearly set its face against any move to change celibacy rules or to open up the question of women priests," the Irish Times said. "In the longer term it is likely to find these issues cannot he held at bay and may come to be seen as the most rational way to renew the church." 

Twelve die in bomb explosion in Pakistan 
Associated Press 
ISI.AMABAD. Pakistan 

A bomb ripped through a Shiite Muslim mosque deep in the interior of Pakistan's east­ern Punjab province, killing 12 worshippers, all of them women, and wounding several others, hospital officials said Friday. 
It's not known who planted the powerful device that exploded near midnight Thursday in Bukker, about Pakistan's military president Gen. Pervez Musharraf. The organization reviles Shiite Muslims. 
Since January, dozens of Shiite Muslims have been killed in Pakistan. Many of the deaths have been target killings and have occurred both in the Punjab province and in the country's southern Sindh province, of which Karachi is the capital. 
During the last week in Karachi a Shiite Muslim doctor 
was shot and 
killed as well 

300 miles "The bomb was planted as the Shiite southwest of Muslim
on the women's side and 
the federal owner of a
all the dead were
capital of pharmacy. No Islamabad. women ... arrests have The bomb been made in was appar­· the two drive­
Mohammed Nlsar
ently planted by shootings. 
Pakistani doctor 
It's not

near the sec­tion of the mosque where women pray, said Mohammed Nisar, a doctor at the only hospital in Bukker where the dead and wounded were taken. Mosques are segre­gated. 
"The bomb was planted on the women's side and all the dead were women," said Nisar, who was contacted by tele­phone. 
Police have not made any arrests, but Pakistan, and east­ern Punjab province in particu­lar, has been wracked by reli­giously motivated violence in recent years. 
Previous attacks against Shiite Muslims have been car­ried out by members of the vio­lent Sipah-e-Sahaba or Guardians of the Friends of the Prophet group, banned by known if the 
killings were carried out by the same people or organization. 
No one has claimed responsi­bility for any of the killings. 
Previously Hasan Turabi, the head of a banned Shiite Muslim group, Tehrik-e-Jafria, blamed the upsurge in killings of Shiite 
Muslims  on  the  return  to  
Pakistan  of militant Sunni  
Muslims  from  neighboring  

Afghanistan following the col­lapse of the hardline Taliban. 
Turabi said the Taliban, a movement dominated by Sunni Muslims, espoused the same philosophy as Pakistan's radical Sunni Muslims. and harbored those who had killed Shiite Muslims in Pakistan. With the fall of the Taliban these radical elements returned home, he said. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross 
congratulates our two new candidates from the Class of 2002 entering Moreau Seminary next fall 




"We heard a summons to give our lives in a more explicit way." (Constitutions I.3) 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
r 
page 8 The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 26, 2002 
US. government won't Bush, House may clash over Israel 


meet with Moussaoui 
Associated Press 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. 

Zacarias Moussaoui, the man indicted as a Sept. 11 accom­plice, tried to speak with prose­cutors about the death penalty and classified information but they refused, the government said Thursday. 
Prosecutors said they were informed of the request Tuesday by a jail official, an indication that Moussaoui -who wants to represent himself in the case ­already is trying to do so. 
Moussaoui, however, cannot make that decision on his 
own. U.S. "Although we believed interest in crop 
meeting Tuesday with senior
District Judge duster planes. 
lawmakers from both parties
that it would be legally 

Leonie Public 
that his peace efforts were at a
Brinkema said permissible for us to defender 
delicate stage and that he
she would rule speak with the F r a n k 
hoped Congress would not 
a f t e r Dunham Jr .. 
inject itself into the issue. 
defendant, we would

Moussaoui, a s t i l l 
A House resolution, spon­
French citizen, not have contact ... Moussaoui's· 
sored by Majority Whip Delay, 
has a mental without defense counsel lead defense 
R-Texas, and Rep. Tom
examination. lawyer, said
present or without 

Lantos, D-Calif., condemns
Moussaoui's the examina­

"the ongoing support and
court-appoint­permission from the tion of 
coordination of terror by
e d lawyers, court." Moussaoui 
.Yasser Arafat" and other
who remain in should be far 
Palestinian leaders. One
the case for more extensive 
source said Powell told the
United States prosecutors

now, were than the gov-
informed of the request by government attorneys and have asked Brinkema not to allow the meeting. 
The lawyers continue to file briefs on Moussaoui's behalf. They submitted a pleading Thursday contending the gov­ernment misread the law by making this a death penalty case. 
In a written motion, prosecu­tors said, "Although we believed that it would be legally permissi­ble for us to speak with the defendant, we would not have contact ... without defense coun­sel present or without permis­sion from the court." 
Moussaoui shocked a court hearing Monday when he asked to represent himself, said he prayed for the destruction of the United States and Israel and accused his lawyers of conspir­ing with the government for his execution. · 
The request for a meeting with prosecutors demonstrates the 
WASHINGTON
complications set in motion by 

The Bush administration
his request, given the extensive 

opposes extra aid to Israel at a
classified information in the 

time of delicate Middle East 
case. 

diplomacy, a top official said
If Moussaoui is allowed to rep­

Thursday, setting up a poten­
resent himself, Brinkema would 

tial clash with powerful GOP
have to decide how to handle 

Rep. Tom Delay, who sup­
secret material that no'rmally 

ports $200 million in hurry-up 
would be provided to defense 
assistance.
lawyers with security clear­

In a second sign of party dis­
ances. 

cord, House Republican lead­
The government has said it 

ers brushed aside pleas from
would seek Moussaoui's execu­

Secretary of State Colin Powell
tion if he were convicted of con­

and tentatively set a vote for
spiring with the 19 hijackers. 

next Tuesday on a resolution
The indictment says his activi­

of support for Israel "in its
ties mirrored those of the attack­
fight against terrorism." 
ers, including taking flying 

Several sources, speaking on
lessons and 

condition of anonymity, said
expressing an 

Powell told a closed-door 
legislators that at least for
ernment pro­

now, Arafat's involvement in
posed. 

the peace process is essential.
It must be determined whether 

Officials said it was possible
he was thinking rationally so he 

the vote would be postponed
could knowingly and voluntarily 

and that the resolution's word­
fire his lawyers, Dunham' 

ing could change after discus­
argued. 

sions with the White House. 
Prosecutors said a complete 

But the administration
mental exam is not needed to 

seemed adamant when it came
find out whether Moussaoui was 
to fresh aid for Israel. 
rationally able to consult with 

Talking to reporters, White
counsel and understand the pro­

House budget director Mitchell 
ceedings against him. 

Daniels said the administra­
"The defense apparently seeks 

tion opposes the extra aid now
to stretch the court's call for a 

and wants it excluded from an
competency examination into 

anti-terrorism package the year, more than any other House plans to begin writing nation. next week. The House Appropriations 
"It's under review, but not Committee plans to write its right now and not in this bill," version of the anti-terrorism Daniels said. bill next week. 
Daniels said the White House Rep. Nita Lowey of New opposes using the anti-terror­York, top Democrat on the ism package for items that are House Appropriations subcom­not needed immediately and mittee that oversees foreign that cannot be paid from other aid, said she and other law­existing funds. makers of both parties hope to 
His comments highlighted an include aid for Israel in that administration reluctance to legislation. She provided no 
do anything that would 

"I don't believe in 
worsen U.S. tensions with Congress end-running Arabs, angry 
the president on any­
over per­

thing in the Middle East. 
ceived American On this one, we ought to bias toward 
follow the president's 
Israel in its 
lead."

conflict with t h e Palestinians. David Obey 
DeLay sup­

congressman
ports provid­ing $200 mil­lion for Israel in the anti-ter­the idea. 
details. 
B u t Democratic support for the aid s c e m s uneven. 
Rep. David Obey of Wisconsin, top Democrat on the Appropria­tions com­mittee, said he opposed 

rorism measure, said his "I don't believe in Congress spokesman, Stuart Roy. Delay end-running the president on and Bush discussed the issue anything in the Middle East," privately two weeks ago. Obey said. "On this one, we 
House Speaker Dennis ought to follow the president's Hastert, R-lll., has not decided lead." whether to support additional House Minority Leader Dick aid for Israel, but any money Gephardt, D-Mo., was non­provided would be economic committal when asked if he and not military, said a GOP thought Congress should pro­leadership aide speaking on vide more money for Israel, condition of anonymity. While saying lawmakers "should the administration opposes the work with the president." money, Congress is strongly Gephardt also signaled a pro-Israel and wants to desire to cooperate with the demonstrate that, the aide White House on the pro-Israel said. resolution. 
President Bush sent "If the administration feels Congress a $27.1 billion anti­we need legislative action on terror proposal last month any of this, all they need to do that included no additional aid is say it and we will try to be for Israel. Israel is already due cooperative," he said. "If they to receive $2.8 billion in mili­don't think we need legislative tary and economic aid this action, then we will try to 
psychiatric consultation.... This attempt should be rejected," the government said. 
Dunham said Moussaoui's 

LAFAYE1TE SQUARE TOWN HOMES request to fire counsel "could be viewed as contrary to the best 
"The Best Value per Student" 
interests of an individual facing capital charges." Moussaoui's lawyers said they should step down if their client 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWN HOMES OFFER
was found to be thinking clearly 
-objecting even to the judge's suggestion they remain as 

• 4/5 Private Bedrooms 
"standby" counsel. 


• 
Fully Equipped Kitchens 

• 
Washer & Dryer in Each Unit 

• 
Central Air Conditioning 

• 
Assigned Parking Spaces 

• 
ADT Security Systems 

• 
24hr Emergency Maintenance 

• 
1 O -month Student Lease 


St Vincent de Paul 

Professionally Managed by: 
Real Estate Management Corporation 
Societv. 

P.O. Box 540 130 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46624-0540
Barrels will be in vour dorm April 25 lbrougb Mav 13. 
Thank you for yoor generosity in helping us help others. Hall Presidents Council &The Sl Vincent de Paut Society -234-6000 

ONLY A FEW LEFT FOR 2002-2003 RESERVE YOURS TODAY! 
GET ON THE 03-04 WAITING LIST NOW! 
Call 574-234-9923 
email: REMCorp@aol.com 
Ci) 
.Equal Housing Opportunity 

Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Malaysia installs king 
As.ociated Pre,s 
KUAI.ALUMPUR 

In an elaborate ceremony broadcast to millions nation­wide, Malaysia's new king was installed Thursday under a unique system where mon­archs are chosen by their peers and take turns at the throne. 
Syed Sirajuddin Syed Putra Jamalullail. 59, underwent for­mal rites at the national palace. watched by govern­ment leaders and foreign digni­taries in the chandeliered throne room. 
During the ceremony, Syed Sirajuddin, wearing a regal black suit embroidered with golden thread, raised a tradi­tional Malay warrior's dagger and kissed its hilt, symbolizing grandeur and power in his hands. 
A trumpet blared as palace officials repeatedly shouted. "Daulat Tuanku," which is Malay for "Long Live His Majesty," to the rifle-crack of a 
Friday and Saturday .s 
;i.. 
J 
UniversUy or Notre Dame
'0 
2: 
1 
~ ti 
re.
~ 
;j
N 
g 
S3 Senior Citizens/Students 
N 
Tickets available al LaFortune Box Office or by phone: (574) 631-8128. Call (574) 631-6201 for information 
21-gun salute, followed by a police band playing the nation­al anthem. 
Syed Sirajuddin is Malaysia's 12th king under a rotational system created after indepen­dence from Britain in 1957 to spread the power among the sultans and rajas who had ruled over fiefdoms for hun­dreds of years. 
Malaysia's kings do not inherit the throne. Instead, hereditarv rulers from nine of Malaysia's 13 states meet every five years -earlier if a reigning monarch dies -and appoint a successor by secret ballot. 
But political power resides with Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, who has led Malaysia for 21 years. and a parliament elected every five years. 
Under changes instituted in 1990, the king can reject a parliamentary decision and lawmakers have to reconsider it. But if they pass it again, the bill becomes law. 
7:30 pm, Washington Hall 

French continue rally against Le Pen 
Associated P rc:s• 
PARIS 
Hundreds of thousands of people marched in French cities Thursday in opposition to far-right presidential can­did ate Jean-Marie Le Pen, who blamed rival incumbent Jacques Chirac for encourag­ing the protests. 
The marches were part of the continuing rise street protests following Sunday's first round of the presidential election, when Le Pen quali­fied to face the conservative Chirac in a 

Aix-en-Provence in southern France. 
As the protests swelled, Le Pen issued a statement say­ing he was the victim of a "campaign of hatred and lies." 
Le Pen, a member of the European Parliament, also criticized what he called the "scandalous interference of prime ministers" from the European Union. 
His fiercely anti-immigrant platform has been criticized by British Prime Minister Tony Blair and German Chancellor Gerhard 
Schroeder, 

May 5 run­among oth­
"The worry. the
off election. ers.
discontent, the demand 
Artists If elected and anti­for a new direction, I president. Le racism and Pen says he
heard them ... and I want 
political 

to respond. " 
g r o u p s Thursday u r g e d Jacques Chirac broader 
French president
protests 
against Le 
Pen, while 
Muslim and Jewish leaders 
united behind Chirac. 
Student-age protesters led Thursday's rallies after many universit•ies canceled classes so students could debate the country's political situation. 
Le Pen, leader of the 
National Front Party, told 
French radio that Chirac was 
behind the protests. 
"I don't believe in spon­
taneity," Le Pen said on 
RMC-Info. 
He said the protests "have 
been initiated by Jacques 
Chirac because he has 
•draped himself in the flag of the Republic by calling, in a way, for popular support ­including support in the streets." 
Chirac, in a prime-time television interview Wednesday, praised the protests against Le Pen. Speaking on France-2 televi­sion, he urged protesters to show "determination" -but in a "dignified and reason­able" manner. 
France-Info radio reported that 330,000 people marched across the country Thursday. Protests occurred in cities including Nantes and Brest in the west, Lyon in central France and Toulouse and 

azine the Spectator, Le Pen . denied being an extreme rightist. 
"It's not me who has become extreme right. It's the whole of soci­ety which has become extreme left," Le Pen was quoted as saying. 
will move to cut France's ties with the European Union, restore bor­der controls to limit immi­and phase out 


gration 
income taxes. He opposes abortion, supports the death penalty and has been accused of being anti­semitic. 
In an interview published Thursday in the British mag­
"What is at stake ... is moving aside the old demons of extremist temptation that has already caused so much pain in the history of humankind. " 
Jacques Chirac French president 
He also said Chirac has been "formally crowned as the uncontested leader of the French Left." 
"But I am the candidate of France -against euro-glob­alization," Le Pen was quoted as saying. 
France's best-known intel­lectuals including Bernard-Henri Levy and Andre Glucksman 
endorsed Chirac in a state­ment published Thursday in the newspaper Le Monde. 
Jewish and Muslim leaders in southern Marseille also united behind Chirac, saying Le Pen was the "candidate of hatred and xenophobia." 
Until last Sunday, France was preparing for a sleepy presidential race, with all polls predicting a run-off between Chirac and Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin. 
Bored with the top con­tenders, a record 28 percent of voters abstained. Chirac received nearly 20 percent of votes, Le Pen nearly 17 per­cent and Prime Minister Lionel J ospin about 16 per­cent. 
At a campaign stop Thursday, Chirac said voters delivered their message clearly. 
"The worry, the discontent. the demand for a new direc­tion, I heard them ... and l want to respond," he said in Lyon. 
He also said he was con­cerned about the extreme right in France. . "What is at stake ... is mov­ing aside the old demons of extremist temptation that has already caused so much pain in.the history of humankind," 
he said. 
Human rights groups and political parties jointly called Thursday for weekend protests in m a j o r French cities. 
L a r g e protests also were called for Wednesday 

to mark May Day, when Le Pen plans his annual march honoring Joan of Arc. 
One anti-Le Pen group said its protest would begin on a central Paris bridge, where on May 1, 1995, a 29-year­old Moroccan man drowned after being pushed into the Seine by a group of National Front supporters at an anti­immigrant rally. 

A·PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan at 
2.9%APR* 4.75%APR* 
Introductory rate for 6 months Low regular rate 
For information, call our Loan-by-Phone, at 800/567-6328, stop by your nearest branch, or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 
r~ NOTRE DAME
w.1 FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

'APR is Annual Percentage Rate. Property insurance is reQULreG. Not '.a!icl wilh any other offer. Rates are subject to change. Consult a t;ix advisor reQarding the deductibility of lnlatest. A balloon p.aymen! wil! resull a! maturity After the six-month iniroductory period, tile APR will revert to the highest prime lending rate of the previous qua11er. The speclal lnlroductory rate offer ts only available for new lines cipened through May 31, 2002. Minimum amount is $6 1000: maximum is $100,000. lnde1,1e11dent of tne University. 
THE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, April 26, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nottt Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFadey 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOJNr EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS .EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Sheila Egrs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGUI! Mm Luiz AD DFSJGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvcl Chin WEB ADMINISTIIATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer 
CoNTR0llER: Lori Lewalski 

DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .............631-7471 
FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISJNG.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!F.F........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT, ME....................631-4 541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT..... ,......................... ,............. ....631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARrs ............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO............... ,, .. , ....................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINJSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ohserver.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from The Associated Pres... 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews
minute furecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage
and rates of print ads 
about The Observer
acchives to search for 
to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
staff
Augusr 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor musr be signed and must include comacc information. 
Quations regarding Obseron polidts should he dimt­ed to Editor in Chiefjllfon McFarb:y. 
Church can't tolerate sexual abuse 
The Catholic Church took a commendable step forward on eliminating sexual offenders from the priesthood. Any priest Tuesday when Popti John Paul II acknowledged that sexual accused of sexual abuse in the past, present or future must abuse by priests is not only an American scandal but also a face an internal investigation by the Church. The Church global issue that the entire Catholic Church needs to needs to dismiss any priest it deems responsible for sexual address. While the pope recommended a strong zero-toler­offenses, whether the accused is a repeat or first-time ance policy for cases of sexual abuse in the Church, offender. 
American cardinals issued a vague proposal Furthermore. Church officials should recog-Wednesday that failed to establish a clear O Th nize their moral and ethical obligation to turn
!:>server
strategy for handling sexual offenders, leaving over materials pertaining to sexual abuse alle­victims unsatisfied and the Church at risk for gations to the proper legal authorities. The future problems. Church is negligent if it fails to disclose infor­
Editorial
The cardinals presented a proposal not as mation and thus hinders a decision to press severe as the plan the pope recommended. charges,. regardless of whether or not legal The cardinals' plan only addressed priests who have a his­institutions decide to prosecute accused priests. Only the tory of sexual abuse and called a one-time offense a mere Church has the authority to dismiss or retain priests, but it "fall from grace." This response is insufficient and irrespon­is not in a position to determine legal guilt or innocence. sible because it allows sexual offenders to go unpunished. Azero-tolerance policy is the only way to enforce unam­
The cardinals' statement suggested the abandonment of biguous and stringent guidelines for penalizing offenders if Catholic moral teaching caused the sexual abuse scandal, the Church intends to stop sexual abuse by priests. The but they need to go further. When the cardinals reconvene Church cannot allow any room for mistakes in an issue this in Dallas in June, they must determine what motivates cer­grave. It is time for American leaders of the Catholic tain priests to commit acts of sexual abuse and find a way Church to set an international example and establish a to prevent them from occurring. firm, universal position that announces the Church does 
While identifying and examining the roots of the problem not, under any circumstances, tolerate sexual abuse by its is imperative, Church leaders should also invest effort in priests. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Protecting constitutional freedoms 
Freedom of speech was in short supply throughout American history. Civil liber­is exercising her free speech to combat in 177 5 on the eastern seaboard of the ties suffer during times of great national intellectuals whom she and her col­United States and practically nonexistent distress or wars, and not just since 1945, leagues deem wrong, that is irrelevant to elsewhere in the world. By 1789, free­which date you randomly cite as the the military. That being the only anec­dom of speech was comfortably beginning of "unnecessary" sacrifice by dote you provide as evidence that civil enshrined in the highest law in America our fighting men. Wilson arrested dis­liberties suffer during "every large-scale and that law was being enforced. We senters during World War I; after the military operation," I urge you to consid­might wonder if Michael Flannery is war he proposed the Fourteen Points. er the reasons why that may or may not familiar with the events that tran-
Read them; freedom hardly suffered be true. spired between 1775 and 1789. in their argument. Lincoln In any case, the Constitution has never His letter yesterday casts doubt moved cannons into the streets proved weaker than the judgment of on his familiarity with the his­of New York City to quell individuals. Every generation has passed tory of the subject he has draft riots during the Civil on our constitutional liberties, intact and 
.taken upon himself. War; Lincoln also delivered strong, to their children. Those rights 
Flannery couches naive, the Emancipation were not guaranteed until the United illogical assertions about Proclamation and the States fought to win them and hold onto the military as an institu­Second Inaugural them; they were not won by any other tion, in respectful defer­Address. means than by blood, toil and tears. ence to the soldiers of the Lincoln, and Wilson That is where the military comes in. United States. One is left after him, delivered con­The Constitution would not have been to wonder why, ifhe stitutional government, passed on if our military had ever failed respects them so much, he replete with the Bill of in its mission of national defense. has apparently opted not to Rights, on to their succes­Sometimes wars are fought that should familiarize himself with sors. They are part of a not be; that is at the discretion of our their historical role in our pattern, evident throughout elected civilian leaders. In every case free society before condemn­American history. First, when where our national security has been ing that role. It was no coinci­civil liberties suffer, they suffer threatened, it has not been the protest­dence that freedom of speech at the hands of civilian, elected ers but the United States military that went from suppressed to constitution­authorities; tanks have never rolled has poured out its blood in defiance of ally protected in the space of 14 years. into the streets of Washington D.C., and the enemies of freedom. This nation of Our forefathers happen to have fought a the military has never ordered itself to ours is the child and steward of our con­War of Revolution which resulted in the do anything to American freedoms. stitutional liberties. establishment of an independent, consti­Second, when civil liberties do suffer, Do not be so naive as to consider that tutionally governed federation of colonial at the discretion of democratically-elect-. our enemies would now, or ever, allow states. ed representatives, the decline is tempo­our freedoms to endure. Our military is 
They did not establish that indepen­rary and brief. Flannery's convenient the last line of defense, and the guaran­dence through protest -protest had anecdote of a "blacklist" being compiled tor of our nation. God bless the United been tried to little avail. When protest by Mrs. Cheney, is evidence of this pat­States of America. was exhausted, our forefathers turned to tern. You ignore the evident truth that force of arms. They held the peculiar Mrs. Cheney is the wife of an elected offi­Padraic McDermon conviction that freedom is worth fighting cial. not in any way affiliated with the sophomore for. military other than her husband's place Morrissey Manor 
Analyze the various effects of wars in the military chain of command. If she April 25, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Meghanne Matt Nania Downes Graphics Maureen Smithe Jimmy Atkinson 
John Fanning Production Sports Chris Federico Bryan Kronk Lab Tech Viewpoint Nellie Williams Kurt Bogaard 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Is the United States being sufficiently proactive in the Middle East? 
*Poll courtesy of NDToday.com and based on 26 l votes. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"History is bunk." 
Henry Ford businessman 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Friday, April 26, 2002 page 11 
Bidding farewell to seniors 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Coverage of "Galileo" was simplistic 
I was very frustrated by both the review of the spring Film, Television and Theater (FIT) mainstage, "The Llfe of Galileo," as well as the accompanying editorial charging departmental shows with blandness and a "general lack of proper theatrical focus." 
I personally believe that all the conceptual choices came together in a subtle but cen-­trally cohesive way to stimulate our under­standing of the beautifully complex and multi-layered text, though I don't have the space to explain why here. But while I don't propose a wholesale rejection of the criti­cism -whether or not the choices ultimate­ly worked is a subjective judgment -critics have a responsibility to provide intelligent and, wherever possible, objective reports about what their experiences were like so that readers can make a well-founded choice about attendance. The articles were so fraught with over-simplification and self­contradiction that the campus community was done a great disservice in this respect. 
The review. for example, discussed "alien­ation effect," a central element of the show's aesthetic, as though it was a nega• tive thing. Alienation effect does not merely use "overly philosophic or exaggeratedly straightforward lines and stage settings that [don't] appeal aesthetically," associating it only with a didacticism that is by implica­tion unappealing to the average Notre Dame audience member. Actually, alienation has more to do with a way ofseeing, with an ability to be self-aware of one's responses to what one witnesses onstage. The techniques used to accomplish this can be highly varied and, believe it or not, very aesthetically stimulating. Its intended use in a show should thus not be used to frighten people away who perhaps aren't familiar with the term, as it appears to have been used (per­haps unintentionally) in the review. 
In addition, the author appears to funda­mentally misunderstand what it means to stage a text. He writes, "It is irrelevant if FIT agrees with the portrayal of Virginia [in the scriptJ as weak, or not." Actually, as a theater artist, that is precisely the decision one must make. The text does not dictate its meaning clearly in black and white -it must be interpreted. 
But the most frustrating element was the author's self-contradiction. While early in the article he claims that "the show is intel­ligently put together" and that "aesthetical­ly, the show is a knockout," he goes on to claim that "the production has a number of dubious choices," with central elements that are "pointless," that the show is pulled "down into a bit of an incoherency," and ultimately that "while Brecht wanted his audiences to leave thinking, the audience of this production will leave wondering what the hell FIT was thinking." I can only won­der how the author hoped his readership could reconcile these polar statements. 
The review and the editorial call for a more intelligent conceptualization of FIT mainstages. Perhaps that is a fair statement to make -but what is ce.rtain is that the campus community is in need ofmore intel­ligent criticism on behalfof The Observer. 
Beth Hoffmann 
senior 
off-campus April 25, 2002 

Inconsistencies in Pax Christi proposal 
I would like to point out a couple of the inconsistencies in Pax Christi's ideas about the ROTC programs. These inconsistencies are generally focused on their idea that all ROTC students should be required to take a class on just war theory. Now, I think that ifwe are to force these cadets and midshipmen to take these classes, we should take a closer look at the motives behind this wish. 
The class would supposedly educate them for tough moral decisions that they will have to make upon entering their careers in the services. The ques­tion I pose is this: Why would the University not require morality classes for every student at Notre Dame? Each and every student will be going out into the world and will be forced to make hard moral decisions at some point. While we, as students, are required to take two theology classes, these class­es do not necessarily have to address morality or even Christianity. (Try tak­ing Chinese Ways of Thought.) Why not make it mandatory for every student to attend Mass? Why not make every student memorize the Catechism? 
The truth is that, as students, we are given the choice to learn about moral­ity in the method that we feel best approaches our needs. A student that is an atheist can attend this school, meet every requirement, and leave with a high moral code without ever attending a single mass or writing a paper about the Catholic Church. Forcing the ROTC students to take classes on just war theo­ry is a ridiculous proposal. Having the class available to the students is appro­priate. Offering retreats for the ROTC students during which they can discuss issues of morality in the armed forces is appropriate. Having open forums where the ROTC students can go and discuss with professors and other stu­dents their concerns for the future is appropriate. All this has been done. However.., forcing them to take a class on just war theory because they appar­ently can not possibly come to any kind of moral code without the help of the infallible Catholic Church makes as much sense as taking attendance at church. 
To burst Pax Christi's bubble ofignorance. not every student at Notre Dame is a Catholic, nor should every student be. The ROTC students have every asset they need in order to learn more about just war theory and what kind of morality is expected of a Catholic during war should they wish to do so. In this, University President Father Edward Malloy has not failed them at all. 
Shawn Newburg 
junior O'Neill Hall April 25, 2001 

As inevitable as seasonal changes, classes of students march through educa­tional institutions. With spring comes the departure of Notre Dame's class of 2002. This year's seniors will be known as the first terror-hardened graduates since Pearl Harbor and the last hard alcohol con­sumers on campus. 
Today's seniors enter a much more unstable economy, more so this year than during the entire preceding decade. They leave their Catholic Disneyland campus setting dur­ing a time of moral crisis in the Catholic Church. What lies ahead for them is not as bad as the 1970's raging Vietnam War nor as good as the booming 1990's economy. What lies ahead of them is what they make of it. · 
A wise father once told his son, "At the end of your life, it's not what you did in life that matters. It's how well you did it and who surrounded you." 
The quote comes from a fictitious par­ent in a Disney movie, but it rings true as seniors prepare for the "real world." All of us cannot be president. discover the cure for cancer or make the largest finan­ciaJ contribution in the history of the University. Most of us never meet the president, can barely prepare tea and honey for an ill relative or miserably bal­ance our checkbooks. Yet each ofus 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol 
Comments 
makes an impact within our communities. 
At the very least, Notre Dame students learn of community through the religious aspect of the University and the concen­trated campus setting. If nothing else, osmosis develops an appreciation of the Catholic Church. How many times have students wondered why parish services could not be as personally rewarding as those on campus? 
Catholics are saddened about the cur­rent crisis in the American Church com­munity, but we should also be relieved that through an open dialogue it is being corrected. It can be a catalyst for change within the Church in less open countries throughout the world. lt may also finally bring the debate regarding married and women priests to the forefront of the mind of the cardinal who will succeed Pope John Paul II. 
A truly pure community is not one based on the Nazi pure-blood theory. Rather, a true community is one of inclu­sion. To achieve community everyone must embrace acceptance and reject exclusion. While an overwhelming majori­ty of Notre Dame students as well as fac­ulty are Catholic, the University has expe­rienced its best moments when accep­tance and understanding were the basis for its actions. It is a tragic commentary on the University's history that it took until this year to hire its first African­American head coach. 
As a nation we are at our best when we embrace and understand others rather than selectively discriminate. Political campaigns tend to accent the nasty nega­tives in hopes of persuading voters to reject an opponent. 

As individuals, we are most civilized when we are not hypocritical but tolerant. Those who say they are right and will not compromise have a false sense of commu­nity, one of selectivity and limitations. Those who think their god is the only god are examples of why Northern Ireland or Israel are such killing fields. 
House Majority Whip Tom DeLay. R­Texas, recently told a gathering of evan­gelical Christians in Pearland, Texas, that two of his state's major universities no longer provide a "Godly educa­tion." He said, "Don't .send your kids to Baylor. And don't send vour kids to [Texas] t\&M." 
The problem, accord­ing to reports on the Internet, is that DeLay was expelled from Baylor. He was report­edly known as "Hot Tub Tom" for his frequent trips across the border to Mexico during his stay at Baylor. Maybe he thought that Baylor should have dealt with him sooner. 
The keys to a successful life include the advice from the Disney father to surround yourself with good people and do well whatever interests you. It sometimes calls for bold action to create an atmosphere of community. The Pope apologizing to Muslims for past ills of the Church is probably the single most important act of community outreach in our time. 
Successful persons are the ones who teach and encourage little leaguers rather than pressure them to win. Successful persons are like my fellow Notre Dame classmate, not the one who contributed the largest single financial contribution to the University but the one who has no realjob except playing the ponies. He and his heart of gold support disadvantaged, uneducated and poor neighbors in his modest midwestern town. Every month, another family or drifter spends time eat­
ing the equivalent of a feast and feels the warmth and love of my 
unselfish classmate. The Class of 2002 will dis­perse throughout our 
nation and the worlc:\. 
Many will become finan­cially wealthy. Many will work in positions that they love. Most will not achieve fame out­side their local commu­nities, but that is a uni­

verse in itself where the smallest of gestures can be the most effective. But if the Class of 2002 can collectively sift through divisive issues with a live-and­let-live attitude, they will be the gre<!_test class to ever graduate. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director. His column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


tre 


page 12 Friday, April 26, 2002 

Freshmen Shantha Ready and Tom "Doogie" Sutton rehearse for "Slop Culture," one of the four one-act plays being performed tonight as part of the "Freshmen Four." 
The4 freshman of the theatre 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
Some remember their first time on stage as being paralyzed in a spotlight while play­ing a tree in a third-grade production of "The Wizard of Oz." Some never made it to the auditions. 
Tonight, a group of students will get to put whatever theatre experiences they've had behind them and take the stage at Notre Dame for the first time. 
"The Freshmen Four" or "The Frosh 4," consists of four short one-act plays where all the acting, directing and technical work is done by freshmen. Sophomores Justin Williams, Meg Ryan and Cheryl Turski serve as producers and resource persons for the show. Williams and Ryan each directed a play in the show last year and Turski starred in another. 
"It was one of the best experiences of my freshman year and we felt if we didn't put it up nobody would," Turski said. 
Though some members of the production have had previous theatre experience, the production is a unique opportunity for first­year students who are curious about cam­pus theatre or were unsuccessful in getting a part in other campus productions to take a little bit of the campus spotlight in a learning and supportive environment. 
"I tried out for these plays because I hadn't done theatre in months and it felt really strange," freshman Shantha Ready said. 
This year's plays are all comedies. "Slop Culture," which is directed by freshman Steve Hoeplinger, is a humorous commen­tary on the shared experience of the chil­dren of the '90s: hours upon hours of bad television. "Naomi in the Living Room," a comedy by Christopher Durang, is directed by Hallie Taylor. The show is a manic evening in the life of Naomi, an insane woman whose son, John, and his new fiancee have come to visit. 
"Date with a Stranger," directed by Paul Sifuentes, is a candid peek into a date where a man and woman attempt to get to know each other through sexual innuendo and back-and-forth statements, counter­statements and retractions. "Time Flies," directed by Molly Topper, is the life of two mayflies that live for only 14 hours. 
For the most part, the rehearsal process for thfl shows is laid back. Thfl casts get very close because it is a learning experi­ence for all of them. lloeplinger thinks the rehearsal process has allowed him to apply and understand many of the techniques he learned in his "Acting: Process" class this semester, hut he credits his cast with mak­ing the process a positive experience. 
"It's been really easy because I tell my actors to do something and they usually do something better than I asked ... it's been a blast, and H's what I look forward to every night," Hoeplinger said. 
"The Freshmen Plays" will be performed tonight in the Hesburgh Library auditorium at 7:30 p.m. General admission is $3. Tickets will be available only at the door. 
. Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 


By MIKE SCHMUHL 
Assistant Scene Editor 

After a 42-year haul, the long·est-running musical on Broadway, "The Fantasticks," recently closed its doors on Jan. 
13. However, the famous love story that has become so memo­rable in American society lives on. This weekend on campus, The Farley Hall Players will perform their own version of "The Fantasticks." 
The musical itself is relatively simple and small. This is not "Les Miserables" with swarming crowds and intricate subplots. "The Fantasticks" is a clever and charming story filled with love, deception and eventually, renewal. In the words of Lizzie Bracken, the show's director, the production "is a great size musical for Farley Hall Players and is told in a simply beautiful way. The characters are interesting and provide a great oppor­tunity for the actors." 
The set is very plain, consisting of two chairs, an imaginary wall, a curtain backdrop that changes throughout the perfor­mance and a few props. This humble setting works well with the basic storyline and cast of eight characters. "There aren't many boundaries so every person involved in the production can be as creative as they want," Bracken said. 
The musical starts off with an overture presented by the pianist, Lauren Prieto. 1'hroughout the show, Prieto skillfully plays each melody. Her timing and rhythm keep the show going at a constant rate. 
The short intro segues into "Try to Remember," perhaps the 


page2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 26, 2002 
Expectations raised high one more time 
It's spring and the usual signs that spring is here have hit campus:_ Pig Tostal, fris­bee on the quad, snow and the Blue-Gold game.
This . year, like 
every year. expecta­tions are 
high as spring practice ends and fans look ahead to the fall. They're thinking that maybe, just maybe, this will be the year the Irish come home with a national championship 
Fans, coaches and players this vear sound a lot like the they·did last year. 
Bob Davie had high expecta­tions of his team last year. 
"Things look pretty good and I think we have a good chance to be successful," he said at the start of spring. 
He wanted to take his pro­gram to the next level. 
Wide receiver David Givens also had high expectations last year. 
"I think it's possible that we could win a national champi­onship this coming year," he said. " ... It's an attainable goal." 
Unfortunately for last year's Irish, those expectations fell a 

little flat. So it's something of 
a surprise that the fans arc 
back on the bandwagon this 
year, talking about how many 
games the Irish will win and 
mulling over opinions about 
the new Irish head coach. 
Despite the 5-6 record last 
season, that little black rain 
cloud that followed the foot­
ball team last year seems to be 
disappearing. 
"There has been this cloud, I 
think I labeled it the Eeyore 
cloud, there is this sense that 
something is wrong, that 
something is not right, that we 
lost something," said Irish 
head coach Tyrone 
Willingham as his team began 
practice this year. " ... That's 
the first thing we've got to cre­
ate is a positive feel, a positive 
nature about this program." 
That seems to have hap­
pened. at least for the fans. 
And they have a lot to expect 
this year. 
There are expectations of 
the new head coach who is so 
different than head coach Bob 
Davie, the silent coach who is 
going to return Notre Dame to 
national prominence. 
There are expectations 
about the new West Coast­
style offense that promises to 
be more explosive and more 
exciting than the usual play up 
the middle. Expectations that have kept fans on the edge of ·their seat waiting to see who 
will line up behind center 
come fall. 
There are expectations that 
Notre Dame will stun the 
nation in the Kickoff Classic on Aug. 31 and that maybe, _just maybe, the Hail Mary pass will really work this year. 

The coaches have high expectations as well. Willingham will accept nothing less than the pursuit of perfec­tion. Wide receivers coach Trent Miles expects his play­ers, who are adjusting to a totally new offensive scheme, to give up the excuse that they're learning and be suc­cessful today. 
"I personally expect us to be good now," he said."... I don't expect them to settle for [a bad practice], to just put if off as if Tm only learning.' That's bullcrap. Lei's go out there and expect to be good right now." · 
So that's where things stand. Coaches, fans, players expect to go out there and be good right now. Saturday they'll see how realistic those expecta­tions are. 
As the Irish take the field on Saturday in front of some­where around 20,000 fans, avid Irish watchers from all over the country will get their first taste of 2002 Irish foot­ball. They expect to see a pre­view of next season, from offensive plays to defensive schemes and special teams line-ups. 
They expect to be able to spend the next four months talking about what the Blue­Gold game says about the fall season. Maybe if Carlyle Holiday or Matt LoVecchio takes more snaps, they can talk about who they expect to be the quarterback. Maybe they can talk about who they expect to be the go-to receiver for those third-and-15 plays. 


But there's something we all must keep in mind. 
Our expectations may not be met. The 2002 season could end and they could be unful­filled or they could exceeded. 
Expectations are high. Now it's just a matter of time to see if those expectations are placed on a team that can meet them. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Players to watch 


Quarterbacks 
Which player will be taking the snap come fall is still up in the air. Carlyle Holiday was Notre Dame's man last year after sophomore Matt Lovecchio (bottom right) struggled in the first two games of last season, but LoVecchio started seven games as a freshman, including the 2001 Fiesta Bowl. Holiday worked well in a duck-and-run offense but it is still unclear how his passing game will develop. LoVecchio has had more experience with the pass and it is quite possible that he will line up behind center in the fall. Third-stringer Jared Clark pulled himself out of the running last week and moved to tight end. 
Running backs 
With the graduation of running backs Tony Fisher and Terrance Howard, the main running backs responsibility will probably fall on rising senior Julius Jones (top left). Fifth-year senior full­back Tom Lopienski should see some more carries, although the new offensive style will make less use of the run. Rising sophomore Ryan Grant (bottom left) and fifth-year senior Mike McNair may also make solid contributions to the Irish run game. 
Offensive line 
The Irish offensive line is probably the most experienced part of the team. Despite the gradua­tion of Kurt Vollers, the Irish return five lineman with loads of experience -Jordan Black, Jeff Faine, Sean Milligan, Sean Mahan and Brennan Curtin. The line has two years of experience and looked as if it was really beginning to gel at the end of last season. Black, Milligan and Mahan bounced between positions but seem to have settled into place in spring practice. Rising sophomore Mark LeVoir could step in if one of those five gets injured. 
Wide receivers 
With the new West Coast-style offense, the wide receivers should receive some new national atten­tion. After graduating David Givens and Javin Hunter, the wide receiver position wide open. Arnaz Battle, who did nothing extraordinary in his first year as a flanker, has spent most of spring practice on the sidelines nursing an injury. Rising junior Omar Jenkins leads the returning receivers in receptions with seven. Ronnie Rodamer (top right), Lorenzo Crawford and rising sophomore Carlos Campbell have one each. 

Defensive line 
The loss of Tony Weaver and Grant Irons will be a blow Lo the Irish defensive line. Returning starters fifth-year senior Ryan Roberts and rising seniors Darrell Campbell and Cedric Hilliard will have to lead the defensive line, which suffers from a lack of depth. Rising junior Kyle Budinseck will probably step in place as starters. 
Linebackers 

With the exit of Rocky Boiman and Tyreo Harrison, Courtney Watson is the lone returning starter. The linebackers will have some adjusting to do, but the Irish have the numbers to fill the holes. Fifth-year sflnior Carlos Pierre-Antoine, ris­ing junior Mike Goulsby and rising sophomores Corey Mays and Brandon Hoyte may be able to crack the starting line-up. 
Secondary 

The secondary is Notre Dame's strongest unit. With only Ron Israel graduating, the Irish have plenty of depth. Fifth-year seniors Donald Dykes and Shane Walton, rising seniors Glenn Earl, Gerome Sapp and Jason Beckstrom, rising juniors Vontez Duff, Abram Elam and Preston Jackson and rising sophomore Dwight Ellick can all make solid contributions. The leading safeties, who provide a combination of talent and experience, should begin to emerge on Saturday. 
Special teams 
Nicholas Setta will return for the Irish after being the leading scorer on more than one occassion last season, but will have to find a new holder with the graduation of Adam Tibhle·. Setta will be joined by classmate Joey Hidbold, who was the Irish punter last season. Who will return kickoffs and punts remains questionable hut Jones and Vontez Duff, along with Walton and speedy wide receiver Matt Shelton, have seen action in practice. 



A Habitat for Humanity fundraiser 

South Quad by the Flagpole from noon-6 pm!! Only $5 to jail someone!! Concession stand -NDSP --Free Snow Cones -Collection to jail Fr. Poorman 
The following people have signed up ... jail them now 

Alexandra Amaro  Liz Doyle  Ryan Kaple  Katie Mercy  Selena Santillo  
Troy Androli  Michael Donohue  Candace King  Adam Minick  Chris Scaperlanda  
Emily Badrov  Joe Dubbs  Joshua Kington  Luis Moctezuma  Jenny Scherer  
Melanie Barge  Sister Susan Dunn  Matt Kinsella  Julia Monczunski  Greg Sech  
Matt Barringer  Chris Edwards  Tim Kogge  Brian Moscona  Mike Sena  
Robert Bauchman  Mark Ersfeld  Karis Kornfield  Rich Naponelli  Charles Senkier  
Elizabeth Bax  Elaine Ellis  Margaret Kuluichi  Andrew Nerlinger  Pat Shea  
Michelle Beasley Kathy Bekhit  Justin Feeney Ben Ferguson  Megan Land Betsy Lazzeri  Kelsey O'Connor Tim O'Connor  Cassie Shum Rashelle Simpson  
Andrea Blyth  Bill Ferreira  Soran Leahy  Julie O'Gorman  Missy Spurr  
Bill Bonner Daniel Boston  Leslie Fitzpatrick Jesse Flores  Elizabeth Lee Jim Lee  Matt Osburn Erik Oswald  Joshua Stagni Angela Stanga  
Jessica Brock  Jazmin Garcia  Matt Lee  Dan Parziale  Jeff Steedle  
Cristina Ceballos  Cecilia Garza  Alissa Lemmon  Lisa Pendarvis  Joseph Tan  
Katie Coleman  Russ Giancola  Lindsay Lichtenberg  Michael Pfaff  Katie Tidwell  
Meghan Colgan Laura Coss Kelly Crecelius  Joseph Golden Maryellen Goodman Erin Guimaraes  Igor Lima Lisa Lombardi Susan Longenbaker  Amy Piroutek Fr. Mark Poorman Mike Porco  Sister Pat Thomas Whitney Thompson Chris Trice  
Erin Daly Pete Daly Dan Degen  Kevin Haas Brian Hart Claire Hess  Joseph Lucero Lindsay Lutz Maggie MacDonald  Melissa Price Ellie Radigan Keith Rauenbuehler  Abby Tucker Jim Ungaro Scott VanVelsor  
Christina Dehan  Seth Hiland  Maria Mahon  Michael Reiss  Adrian Velez  
Jen Dewitt  Kim Howe  Kevin McCormick  Sarah Resch  Kieuhoa Vo  
Pat Dillon Timothy Dolezal Colin Dowdall Andrea Doyle  Monica Hritz Brian Jarvis Mary-Claire Jarvis Megan Johnson  Annie McDonough Tim McKenzie Aaron Medlock Alissa Mendoza  Kristy Robinson Pam Ronson Tim Ruggaber Jackie Rycyna  Tia Vonil Victor Wong Don Wozinca Daphne Zeringue  



page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 26, 2002 
Hearing t 
Willingham established his reputation because he relentlessly rich Irish football program ba 


Leland made a light-hearted comment. set school, but as a little kid the only thing u 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

"I know you've got great respect for Ty, you knew was that's where your friends 
Sport$ Writer

Willingham' s 
and at some point, you're going to try to were." hire Ty," Leland told White. Willingham loved playing baseball and e; A few days after Notre Dame hired Kevin Little did he know how right he was. basketball with neighborhood children. ~ 
White, the new athletic director received a But football was his favorite sport. While
coaching career 
lunch invitation from Donald Keough, for­most of his friends played in the street or e
Different frequencies
mer chairman of the Notre Dame Board of at the recreation center, Willingham would SE
White had a short list of candidates he
Trustees. During that first meeting with lie on his back in the front lawn throwing a
wanted to contact about the possibility of 
one of the most powerful men at Notre football in the air, itching for his chance. VI>
replacing Davie and Willingham was at the
Dame, Keough told White something he Jacksonville integrated when Willingham 
top. After announcing Davie's firing, White 
would never forget. was 12. And as one of a handful of blacks h
1977 After gr 
g from picked up the phone, dialed Leland's mun­
"Here's what you have to do to be suc­in former white-only schools, Willingham e;
ber, and asked for permission to interview
Michiga in 1977, cessful," White remembered Keough say­quickly realized the only way he'd be able ir
Willingham. The next day, White made
ing. "Whatever you do, you've got to learn to take advantage of the few opportu­
contact with the Stanford head coach. 
Willing ed as a to be able to hear the music." nities that came his way would
"He was the guy that I felt I knew the
White learned how to listen to Notre be through hard work.
graduat nt under best in terms of personal ego and reputa­
Dame's complex symphony of history, tra­"It was two societies,"
tion," White said. "I guess Ty's been on my
Darryl Rogers. dition and lore that echoed from the racks Jerome Willing-ham
list for a long time. I've always respected 
of candles at the Grotto to the locker said. "As long as we
and admired and thought seriously about 
rooms inside Notre Dame Stadium. High were in our neigh­
him.... I've already come out of the closet.
1978 Willingham goes to academic standards didn't stop Notre borhood, it was
If I was at Arizona State, I would have
Dame from winning national titles in the wonderful.
Centra to coach tried to recruit him. If I was at Michigan, I
past, and White saw no reason why they When we
would have tried to recruit him."
should in the present. Athletic expectations stepped out of
But something happened during the
weren't lowered in the past, and White that environ­
interview. The two just didn't connect. 
didn't drop the standards when he took ment, we
White wanted someone who had a 
over. found out
tremendous passion for Notre Dame, and
When you're at Notre Dame, you act a that we
he wasn't getting that from Willingham.
certain way, and with the way White con­weren't
White also said several people close to
ducted his orchestra, he made sure every­w e l ­
1980 Willingh_~m .rE!turns to Willingham told him the Stanford coach 
one understood that very clearly. If one come."
was considering making a move to the NFL
Michig~ .B as the instrument was off, White didn't hesitate to W i 1 ­
in the near future.
replace it. lingham
defens"" ndary and "It wasn't as gushing as I hoped it would 
That's why, less than 12 hours after the found
be," White admitted. 
2001 season ended, White fired former that he
special oach But Willingham isn't a gusher. He fierce­
head coach Bob Davie and went looking wasn't
ly guards his personal emotions. Every
for someone who could to live up to Notre particu­
word that comes out of his mouth is care­
Dame's expectations. Someone who could larly
fully chosen. And when football is the sub­
restore credibility and respectability to a w e 1 ­
ject, Willingham is deadly serious. 
1983 Willingham moves to program accustomed to national champi­come on
"He can loosen up now, it just depends
onships, not sub-.500 seasons. the high
on the situation and who he is around, but
White wanted someone who could hear school
North 5·r.~ ~r·•.State as he loosens up pretty good," said Charlie
the music. football
the se ndarJ1!nd Baggett, Willingham's college roommate.
So he called Tyrone Willingham. team.
"But it does take a lot, and he doesn't
special ~s coach The first
come out of that very often." 
b I a c k
under Tam Re6d. Crossing paths Willingham shouted on one frequency 
quarter­
Willingham and White first crossed paths how badly he wanted the job, but White 
back in
at Central Michigan University in 1978. At heard only whispers on another frequency. 
Jacksonville
1986 Willingham switches to the time, White coached the school's track The two parted ways, and Willingham High history, 
and field team while Willingham, in his stayed at Stanford while White continued 
Willingham
first college coaching job, worked with the his search. A week later, Notre Dame hired 
didn't play until 
Chippewas' secondary. George O'Leary, who didn't have a prob­
andthe a.._r. i.Rice staff

:.,.,,... e.._ of the ball mid~ay through
White saw how Willingham, even as a lem gushing to White about his love for as t · e. · ·· · s coach young football coach, demanded perfection Notre Dame, and the Stanford coach was his junior year of 
high school, and he
from his players. He established a reputa­all but forgotten.and speaafi:;ams coach. tion as a coach who refused to tolerate Willingham didn't dwell on the missed only got into the game 
because the starter was
laziness and held high expectations for opportunity. In three weeks, Stanford 
injured. But unlike several
everyone around him. would play in the Seattle Bowl. So, just like 
of his black teammates who
1989 Willingham joins Dennis "I don't think anybody dared not to live he'd done his entire life, he focused on the couldn't handle the lack of playing 
up to his expectations," said Muddy task at hand and didn't think about any­
Green:a 'nford as the Waters, who hired Willingham as sec­thing else. Notre Dame had passed him by. time, Willingham never stopped practicing. "' "Some players reacted by quitting," a1

ondary coach at Michigan State in 1980. "I "I think there's a work ethic instilled in
s coach. 

Jerome Willingham said. "He didn't. It d1
think they respected him so much they him from the time he was very young that 
didn't seem to bother him. I never saw any tt
wanted to do the best they could for him." when there's a job to do, you make sure The two parted ways when Willingham the job gets done," said Indianapolis Colts anger or frustration." st 
After working so hard to earn a spot on rn

left Central Michigan after two years for head coach Tony Dungy, who worked with 
the team, Willingham didn't want his foot-tb
Michigan State. While White gained a rep­Willingham in Minnesota. "And that 
ball career to end in Jacksonville. He sent
utation as one of the best athletic directors becomes the most important thing at that
1992 Willingham travels to the in the nation, Willingham emerged as one time." letters to more than 100 Division I colleges ti1 asking for a chance to walk onto the foot-
of the best young coaches in the nation

Minnes~a,Vikings with ball team. Only two responded -Michigan s,
because he demanded so much out of him­

Segregation 
State and Toledo. Willingham chose Big ir
Green. ,~ self and his players. Lionel Tyrone Willingham grew up as 
.,... 7. Ten powerhouse Michigan State, and iI1
UNothing is acceptable outsidfl of the 

.. :.-.:r,..l!! :~ · one of four siblings in segregated
,' ~.,.. ... vowed to his parents he would earn a te
pursuit of perfection," Willingham said. 

Jacksonville, N.C.. the son of a landlord
~,:-scholarship so that they wouldn't have to d1
"Very few will be perfect, matter of fact, 

1 who built his own rental houses and a 
pay for his college education. 
there is no player, no person, that I've schoolteacher who served as the first black 
It was in East Lansing, Mich., where

been around that will be perfect. I know in woman on the local Board of Education. 
Willingham first learned to listen to the
1994 Wilingha 
most cases, I \Nill probably fall short, but From them, Willingham discovered the music.that doesn't diminish my desire, my enthu­value of hard work and opportunity.siasm to reach that goal." "I wish everyone in the world could have 
The pair reunited in 1996 when both had my parents," Willingham said. Striving for perfection worked for rival Pac-10 schools. Bv the "They've been as good a role model and as In his room at Michigan State, time the VVhite joined Arizona State as ath­good a coach in terms of the fundamentals Willingham constantly kept watch over his
Nov. 2 

letic director, Willingham had a year of they established within me.'' diverse music collection. He organized his head coaching experience at Stanford, Jacksonville wasn't exactly a hotbed of records by stacking them alphabetically in where several of v\'hite's former track ath­civil rights conflict during Willingham 's plastic milk crates. Whenever someone letes at Central Michigan worked as coach­youth, but he and his family could easily took a record out of the sleeve, Willingham es on Willingham's staff. sec the effect of segregation. Black families made sure it went right back in the spot. 
"There were always these tentacles could only live in a designated area of the Perfection in every part of life, that was between Ty and myself," White said. city and all black students in the county Willingham's ultimate goal. 
White's respect for Willingham was had to attend one school. "He expected the best," Baggett said. plainly obvious and he admired the way "We seldom thought of the racial prob­"He wasn't the fastest guy in the world, but the football coach ran his program. And lems when were growing up," said he used to beat us in wind sprints. We when White left Arizona State for Notre Willingham's brother, Jerome. "It's a wanted to run them at 50 percent, but he Dame, Stanford Athletic Director Ted racial problem when you have to go to a wouldn't do it, he wouldn't go along with 

Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
•

le IDUSIC 
ursued perfection. Now hes expected to lead the tradition­
k to national prominence. 
,. He never slacked off." It took the walk-on just one season to ake good on his promise to his parents to 
rn a football scholarship. 
And the two-sport standout also distin­ished himself on the baseball team and rned a spot on the All-Big Ten team his 
,nior year. But football was his first love, and he anted to be perfect at it Every Saturday, Willingham would rouse s roommates out of bed at 7 a.m. for 
rly-morning workouts. They'd be shak­g off hangovers while Willingham, who didn't drink, ran at the front of the 
pack. 
Willingham never com­plained about the lack of playing time he got in college, At one point, he was sixth on the quarterback depth chart. But he im­pressed his teammates and his coaches with his hard work and his no-non­sense atti­
tude. 
" H e would do anything to help us win," s a i d Darryl Rogers, w h o coached Willing­ham dur­ing his final year of college and offered him a grad­uate assis­tant position with the Spartans. "The players respect­ed him because he wasn't kidding and he wasn't jacking around. What he was saying was solid and 

sound.ff Willingham's hard work paid off when Baggett got injured. 
illingham drove his friend to the hospital d then promptly took his spot on the pth chart, starting the final six games of e season at quarterback. He lost the 
arting job next season, but his team­ates had seen enough -they voted him e team's most inspirational player. 'Tm constantly in the pursuit of perfec­

n, and I want to be the best I can be and ant to be perfect today," Willingham id. "But I qualify that by saying I am patiently patient about that code. The patient part is that I want to have it yes­rday. The patient portion of it is that if I n't get it yesterday, I want it tomorrow." 
ming respect Tomorrow came quickly for a former liege athlete who wanted to coach foot­
IL He served a one-year stint as a gradu­
assistant for the Spartans before going ,o Central Michigan. Willingham then noved from Michigan State to North :arolina State to Rice, where he also umped into an internship program with ;he San Francisco 49ers designed to help 
inority coaches move into the NFL. 
There, Willingham got to know Dennis reen. The two had coached on opposite teams 
d had been mutual acquaintances for veral years. But Green, who worked with e 49ers, needed a racquetball partner in e morning. Since Willingham didn't mind aking up early, he agreed to play. The two clicked immediately. 
"We had that opportunity to get a feel for each other and to get a feel for what he thought on certain issues and what I thought on certain issues," Willingham said. "We had very similar minds." 
A few years later, when Green was look­ing to fill a position on his staff at Stanford, he hired Willingham as the running backs coach. And when Green left for the Minnesota Vikings in 1992, Willingham fol­lowed him. 
"I think there are a lot of people Coach Green could have picked," Willingham said. "l feel very fortunate that he picked me." 
Those who have worked with both Green and Willingham saw similarities in coach­ing styles when Willingham left Minnesota for his first head coaching position at Stanford in 1995. Willingham opted to teach and instruct rather than scream and yell. 
"He grew up under the Denny Green sys­tem and he's very similar to Denny in the way he approaches the program, his sys­tem, his philosophy and his values," said Irish secondary coach Trent Walters, who worked with Green and Willingham in Minnesota. 
In practices, when a player makes a mis­take, Willingham will raise his voice only once -only because it's necessary to get the player's attention. He motions for the player to come next to him and in low, controlled tones, calmly explains the mis­take. He trades flashes of greatness for consistency and treats All-Americans the same as walk-ons. 
Willingham wants to create a well­rounded person, not just a football machine. He evaluates success based on the physical, mental and spiritual develop­ment of his players. The poster boy for micro-managers, Willingham instructs his players on everything from how to read a blitz to how to hold a fork at the dinner table. 
The result is lasting admiration for the head coach. 
"I think he demands a whole lot, but everything he demands, he can do," said former Stanford receiver Troy Walters, now with the Indianapolis Colts. "He's a guy you want to go to war with. He's been in the same situations, he's had to over­come a lot of things, and he's had to work hard in life. You believe what he says and that he can do stuff because he's coming from the same situation." 
"Just because he's not vocal with screaming and yelling doesn't mean he's not intense," Notre Dame receivers coach Trent Miles said. "He knows exactly what he wants, and he doesn't have to scream and yell to get it out of people all the time." 
With respect came success. Willingham led the Cardinals to a 44-36-1 record over six years, a Rose Bowl berth and a top 10 BCS finish. He was selected Pac-10 Coach of the Year twice. Coaches longed to work on the same staff with the man who had a reputation for ,getting involved in every facet of the team without stepping on assis­tant coaches' toes. 
But Wil!ingham will have none of the praise. 
"I don't see myself as being any different from anybody else," he said. "In the greater scheme of things, I'm just another man." 
The second meeting 
\Vhiie didn't agree. It had been nearly three weeks since O'Leary resigned and White was reluctant to select another coach until Stanford's season was over. He wanted to talk to Willingham again, 
Willingham certainly didn't expect anoth­er call from White. He remembered look­ing at the television on the morning of Dec. 14, the day headlines screamed across ESPN that O'Leary had been forced to resign as head coach of the Irish, But Willingham wasn't planning on fielding another call from Notre Dame. 

"I didn't expect to hear from them again," Willingham said. "There was noth­ing that would lead me to believe that." 
Mere hours after Stanford lost to Georgia Tech in the Seattle Bowl, White was on the phone asking Leland for permission to talk to Willingham again. He talked to the coach the next day. 

"Ty, would you have a sincern inten)st in this thing?" White asked. 
"Kevin, you made a mistake," Willingham said. "You should have hired me, I'm the guy. I would love to be at Notre Da.m.e.n 
II. was as if someone cranked the volume knob to full blast. 
"I was looking for a gusher," White said after Willingham finally gushed. He had the same passion for Notre Dame as the fiery O'Leary -he just showed it different­ly. 
Over the next day or two, Willingham evaluated the possible scenarios. He talked with nearly every major person involved in his life. He talked about the increased pres­sure at Notre Dame with his brother. He talked about moving to Indiana with his wife. He talked about the thrill of a new challenge with Dungy. And he talked with Leland. 
"He was sort of, to me, casual about his interest in the job," the Stanford athletic director said. "Until he took it." 
Suddenly, the two-year-old joke between Leland and White didn't seem all that funny anymore -at least to Leland. White, on the other hand, was giddy. It took near­ly a month, but he finally found the man who could hear the music. 
Facing the music 

Notre Dame welcomed the new Irish football coach just as quickly as he left Stanford. The mayor of South Bend pre­sented him with a key to the city. Fans praised the hire. Players welcomed him with open arms. 
"He's got his hands in everything," Notre Dame center Jeff Faine said. "Offensive line, running backs, defensive backs, you feel like he's coaching everybody. I love it." 
"The way he came across and the things he said, it was so easy to talk to him," said Irish kicker Nicholas Setta. "There was no hesitation. You knew the guys were going to have great respect for him and you knew it was going to be a great thing." 
After the pomp died down, Willingham looked a Notre Dame community starved for football glory in the eye and promised he would win. 
Pressure didn't matter to Willingham. He saw a challenge. He took the job. He won't change. Instead, he believes things around 
him will. 

"His whole thing is that he's got to win there because that's the best college job in the country," said Baggett, who has stayed in weekly contact with his former college roommate. "It's a big challenge for him, hut he's fired up about it." 
Willingham is nearly settled into his new life at Notre Dame. He still lives out of a hotel room, but he already has his prized stereo system set up in his office. Sometimes, during the day, sounds of the Notre Dame marching band faintly res­onate from Willingham's office. 
"Other days, I might listen to gospel, rhythm and blues. But today," the head coach said with a grin, "today is my fight song day." 
Willingham has heard the music. He knows what is expected of him. He under­stands that nothing less than perfection is expected at Notre Dame. 
And he loves it. 

"That's the goal, to be perfect," he said. "That's the goal, that's the joy. The chase is better than the capture. That, to me, is a great way to live as a person and an ath­lete, to be perfect, to be the best I can be." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Whal people are saving about Tv Willingham 

"I guess Ty's been on my list for a long time. I've always respected and thought seriously about him." 

"Whatever his assignment was, he was going to make sure it got accomplished and nothing was going to stand in 

Tony Dungy

the way." 
Indianapolis Colts head coach 


"Coach Willingham picks and chooses his words very carefully ... He's not a real big 
Courtney 
talker and that 

Watson Irish 
makes what he 

linebacker 
says taken more to heart. " 

"Number one, he isa professional. He treats everyone with a great deal ofrespect. He allows you to do your job. " 



"I think his emphasis tends to be on day-to­day effort and not flashes of brilliance." 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 26, 2002 
Coaches bring experience, 
Mattison finds stability after riding coaching roller coaster 
Mattison helped the new staff 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
become accustomed to Notre Dame. 

Spores Writer 
He provided a link for the recruiting efforts from Davie to Willingham. 

No roller coaster had more peaks And the transition was easier for the and vallevs than the one Greg players because Mattison knew their Mattison ro·de in December. capabilities. 
Ffrst, Bob Davie's firing left But more importantly, Mattison Mattison unsure 
wanted to stay at Notre Dame so he where he'd be could help coach the players he'd coaching in 2002. spent time recruiting. Then George "I've put a Jot of time into these O'Leary was kids, and I've recruited a lot of hired, who in them," he said. ''I'm just thankful I turn re-hired get to work with a lot of them. You Mattison. get real close to kids when you 
But just five recruit them. You put a lot of work days later into them, you see them grow, and Mattison was Greg Mattison 
you want to be part of their success­again thrown into defensive line es." 
limbo when While he doesn't want to compare O'Leary resigned. working with Davie to his current job Finally, about a month after Davie under Willingham, he said it has 
w11.s fired, Tyrone Willingham been easy to work with the new offered Mattison a spot on his defen­staff. sive staff -not as coordinator but And without any specific coordi­as a defensive line coach. nating responsibilities, Mattison can "That's part of the profession," focus solely on coaching. said Mattison, the lone assistant "Coordinating is something I've 
coach on Willingham's staff to be had the opportunity to do, and I like retained from Davie's staff. "You doing it, but I really like coaching," take what's given to you, you don't said Mattison, who served as defen­have a choice, you don't have to sive coordinator at Michigan in coach. When you decided to be a 1995-96 before coming to Notre coach and coach at the big schools Dame as defensive coordinator in and the big arenas, things like that 1997. "I really like spending all my happen. It happens all the time." time with the defensive line. That's 
Having a familiar face on the staff what I was hired to do, and that's also made the transition remarkably what I'll do." easier for both the players and the new coaches. Contact Andrew Soukup at 
During the winter months, asoukup@nd.edu. 

Denbrock makes the move to stay with quality coach 
now. By CHRIS FEDERICO "I can't speak about anything Sports Editor that's happened in the past," he said. 
"I think we have some talented indi­It didn't take much coercion to get viduals up front that we're trying to offensive line coach Mike Denbrock mold into a unit that the University of Notre Dame is worthy of and can
to leave his position at Stanford and be proud of."
follow head coach Tyrone 
Willingham to Denbrock comes from a very Notre Dame. Even 
diverse coaching background that though he had includes professional and collegiate only coached with coaching experience on both the offensive and defensive sides of the
Willingham for that one year with football. 
the Cardinal, Prior to his one-year term with Denbrock already Stanford, Denbrock coached a two­had reason year stint with the Arena League enough to make Buffalo Destroyers, occupying the the move to South Mike Denbrock positions of assistant coach, defen­sive coordinator, offensive line and
Bend. offensive line "The main [rea-defensive line coach. son] is the type of person The bulk of Denbrock's experience [Willingham] is, and the type of comes from coaching at his alma 
things he brings to the table as a mater, Grand Valley State, where he head football coach," Denbrock said. coached on the offensive side 
as coordinator, quarterbacks and wide"It's something that's hard to find receivers coach from 1992-95, but

out there. He's a guy that has the ability to focus a football program in then switched to the other side of the the direction that it needs to go. He's ball from 1996-98 when be was just a quality individual -period. defensive coordinator and lineback­So, it made the decision easy when ers coach. 
It was at Grand Valley State thathe asked me to come along." 

While with the Irish, Denbrock will Denbrock got his first coaching expe­focus on working with the tackles rience as a graduate assistant in and tight ends, while fellow offensive 1986-87. line coach John McDonell will mostly Denbrock also coached two yp,ars 
apiece at Michigan State and Hiinoiswork with centers and guards. 

State, working predominantly with

Even though teams in recent histo­ry at Notre Dame have had trouble the offense. putting together a dominant offen­sive line, Denbrock chooses not to dwell on that but to focus on the 
Contact Chris Federico at 
cfederic@nd.edu.

future and the resources at hand 


Walters finally finds himself at Notre Dame 
Willingham, who coached his son
By KATIE McVOY 
Trent, was on his way to Notre Dame 
Associate Sports Editor 
and Minnesota head coach Dennis Green was about to be fired from theLife has a funny way of working Vikings, it seemed like it was time to out. That's something to which Notre start looking toward South Bend one 
Dame secondary coach Trent 
more time.
Walters can attest. 
"Denny was in the process of leav­
Nine years ago 
ing the Vikings and he said, 'Well 
WaltPrs worked this tenure is going to run off,"'under defensive 
Walters said. "He's the one who got
coordinator Bob 
to let me know ahead of time that heDavie at Texas 
might be stepping down and that 
A&M before Davie 
affected me to call Ty and start Notre
came to working on things. If you're going to 
Dame. When he 
be gone, then I'm going to be gone
arrived in South 
somewhere." 
Bend, Davie want­
So Walters ended up at Notreed Walters to 
Dame. 
come with him The Indiana graduate is back in 
and coach the sec­
the state, leaving in 1980 after 
ondary. And that coaching the Hoosier secondary for left Walters in a tough position. 
eight years. He began his coaching"I always wanted to coach here career with Indiana overseeing the and one time I was at Texas A&M, freshmen and junior varsity team inBob Davie [who had just started his 
1968.
first year as Notre Dame's defensive 
Now, 21 years after leaving
coordinator] was considering me for Indiana, Walters knows that things a position here and I thought about have a funny way of working out. 
it, thought about it," Walters said. 
He's back in the state and, for the 
"My wife said, 'Why go to Notre 
first time, at Notre Dame. 
Dame, why don't you just stay here "You never know how things are at Texas A&M?' But just because it 
going to work out," Walters said. 
was Notre Dame I considered it." 
"The Lord has a way of workingAlthough Walters passed over 
things out and they'll fall into place." 
Notre Dame in favor of Texas A&M, just weeks later he accepted a job with the Minnesota Vikings. 
However, nine years later, he found Notre Dame calling again. When Walters heard former Contact Katie McVoy at Stanford head coach Tyrone mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
McDonnell brings lifelong offensive line mentality to Irish 
By CHRIS FEDERICO practiced it before, and they under­Sports Writer stand what's going to happen," he said. McDonell comes to Notre Dame
He's done it nearly all his life. 
after spending one year coaching
From his days as a tackle and four­
under head coach Tyrone
year starter at small Carroll College Willingham at Stanford.
in the late 1970s to his life now 
"I feel very fortunate that Coach
beneath the 

Willingham asked me to join himGolden Dome, here," McDonell said. "I think that
first-year offen­this is an outstanding university,sive line coach 
and I feel very honored to be coach­John McDonell 
ing here and to be a part of whathas always 
we're hoping to get."
thought like an 
Last season, the Cardinal rankedoffensive lineman. 
23rd nationally in rushing, whileAfter all of 
averaging over 200 yards per game.
these years, it's 
With the Irish, McDonell will con­
fair to say John 
centrate on centers and guards
McDonell has McDonnell 
while working with fellow first-year
seen a lot and offensive line 
offensive line coach Mike Denbrock,learned a good bit who will handle tackles and tight
about how the 
ends.
position should be played. 
McDonell spent the majority of his"It's been too long ago as far as 
career coaching at Washington
playing, but I think coaching -once State. From 1989-93, he served asyou coach and play a specific posi­the offensive line/tight ends coachtion so long, you really start to think 
and then from 1994-2000 he took
and see the things out there," 
over offensive coordinator duties inMcDonell said. "That's what you try addition to coaching the offensiveto relate to the players. You talk to 
line.
one another and you understand McDonell's experience alsoone another, and you understand includes stints as offensive line
the situations out there." 
coach at Weber State and almaWith all of his experience, 
mater Carroll College. 
McDonell hopes that some of his 
In addition, he served as headknowledge will rub off on those coach of Scobey High School in
young players. 
Montana for two years.
"You want to teach them want happens out there, so that when it comes to t.hem on the football field, 
Contact Chris Federico at
they won't get rattled, because 
cfederic@nd.edu.
they've seen it before and they've 
Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
class in quest for success 
Preston pushes for victory on and offthe field 
By JOE HETTLER Assistant Sporn Editor 
When talking about football, Notre Dame running backs and special teams coach Buzz Preston sounds a lot like head coach T y r o n e Willingham. 
Both expect the same things out of their players and have simi­lar philoso­phies on foot­ba11 -they want their Buzz Preston players to win running backs in every aspect of life. These similar beliefs may explain why Preston fits so well on Willingham's staff. 


"I expect them to give their best every time and try to not only be good football players but good peo­ple," Preston said. "Hopefully, try to reach for everything they want, try to be everything they can in life." 
What if his players do not give their best? 
"That's not an option," Preston said. "I don't give up on kids. I don't ever think you should give up anyone unless they give up on themselves, that's the only way it's not going to happen. In coaching you 're here to help young men grow in every phase of their life and that's what I feel very strongly about." 
Preston started his coaching career at his alma mater, Hawaii, as a graduate assistant for three years. He then headed to Southern Illinois in 1984 to become the wide receivers and defensive backs coach. lirom there, Preston went back to Hawaii as the special teams, wide receivers, defensive backs coach and strength and con­ditioning coordinator. During his time there, Preston helped lead the Rainbows to their first two bowl games in the history of the school's football program. He also was part of the 1992 Hawaii team that went 11-2. 
After five seasons at Washington State and a year at UNLV, Preston was hired by Willingham in 1999 to be the running backs coach at Stanford. During his tenure there, Preston helped build a running game that led the PAC-10 in rush­ing for the first time in its history by notching 201 yards per game. In the first season after taking over, Stanford's running backs doubled their yardage from thfl year before. 
During his years as a member of Willingham's staff, the two have developed a friendship that is strongly based on their beliefs about football and life. 
"[My relationship with Tyrone Willingham] is one of a great deal of respect and admiration," Preston said. "He's a class act. He holds true to all the virtues that I feel that you have to have as a coach and what you want to do for young men and for the game. I consider him a friend and I've just been blessed to have the opportu­nity to part of his program." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jbettler@nd.edu. 

Miles focuses on coaching from the beginning 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
In 1986, Trent Miles played his last football game on a Thursday night. By Monday, the Indiana State graduate was coaching. 
Miles, Notre Dame's newest wide receivers coach, had aspirations of playing in the NFL but wound up coaching there instead of playing. 
"I wanted to play pro foot­ball but that didn't work out and I real­ized my senior year that that wasn't going to work out," Miles said. "My last game was a Thursday night, an ESPN game and that Monday I became a coach." 
Miles coached wide receivers with Irish head coach Ty Willingham last year at Stanford and followed him to Notre Dame this winter. Before that, he was at Green Bay as an offensive assis­tant. coaching wide receivers and doing quality control. But if you ask him now which he liked better, coaching in the pros or coaching college, his answer is pretty straight forward."Coaching, just coaching," he said. 
Miles, like most coaches, has been all over the country coaching. He began at his alma mater Indiana State, moved to Fresno State, had an internship with the Seattle Seahawks and spent some time at the University of New Mexico and at the University of Oklahoma. He's coached on both sides of the ball, working with defensive backs and wide receivers and worked with a West Coast offense at Stanford and an option offense at Oklahoma. With that kind of experience, he's taken a lit­tle bit from each place he's been and come up with a coaching phi­losophy ofhis own. 

"I've been able to pull a little bit of different philosophy from every­body," he said. "I was able to work with guys at differrmt places, I felt like I made some good relation­ships." 
And his coaching philosophy is as simple as what he likes to do. 
"Win," he said. 
Miles is a part of a transition for the Notre Dame offense. moving from an option-heavy game to a West Coast-style offense. But the Indiana native, who is finallv back near his family, is ready for anoth­er coaching challenge. 
"I always love a. challenge," he said. "We're in this because of the challenges. If you didn't like chal­lenges you wouldn't be coaching or playing." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Baer comes from Japan to Notre Dame 
ByJOE HETTLER Assistant Sports Editor 

Defensive coordinator Kent Baer did not begin his colle­giate football coaching career in the United States, but over­seas in Japan as the head coach of t h e Yokosuka Seahawks {United States N a v y } team for f o u r vears. Once he got back on to American soil, Baer coached linebackers at Utah State for 5 years, before being their defensive coordinator for three more years. 
After eight more years at defensive coordinator for the University of California and Arizona State, Tyrone Willingham hired Baer as the defensive coordinator of Stanford in 1995. Last year at Stanford, Baer's defense gave up only 109.6 yards on the ground, which was good enough to lead the PAC-10 conference for only the sec­ond time in school history. Surprisingly, from the staff Willingham assembled in 1995, only Baer remains 

with  the  coach  at  Notre  
Dame.  
"I've  been  with  

[Willingham] longer than anybody now," Baer said. 'Tm the only coach left on the staff when we came in, when we first went to Stanford, so we've been through a lot together. He's such a tremendous person, first of all. Not only is he a good person, a great family man, but he's a tremendous football coach." 
Throughout his years of coaching, Baer has made some lasting memories, but one particular memory sticks 
out in his mind most vividly. 
"The ll 999] Rose Bowl comes to mind right now," Baer said. "What a tremen­dous opportunity. I think that's number one, playing in the Rose Bowl, having the kind of year we had, repre­senting the PAC-10 and being the PAC-10 champion was just a special time in my life and coaching career." 
On the field, Baer wants his teams to be aggressive and shut down the oppo­nents running game. However. Baer also pushes his players to become better people off the field as well. 
"Hopefully [his players] walk away saying 'I learned something not only about football, but how to handle situations and about life,"' Baer said. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jbettler@nd.edu. 

Simmons and wife are a perfect match 
ByJOE HETTLER Assistant Sports Editor 

Linebackers coach Bob Simmons has been through more than most in his profes­sion. 
F o u r years ago he needed a kidney trans­plant. His wife hap­pened to be a per-


f e c t Bob Simmons 
m a t c h , linebackers and she donated a 
kidney to her husband. 

"It was very much an unselfish act on her part," Simmons said. "It was just the true meaning of marriage 
is all about ... The joke is that she's always with me and that I married the right women." 
While his role at Notre Dame is slightly different from his role with his old team, Bob Simmons don't mind. 
The head coach at Oklahoma State for six sea­sons, Simmons took a year off in 2001 before being hired by Tyrone Willingham to be the linebacker's coach for Notre Dame this season. 
Simmons compiled a 30-38 record at Oklahoma State and led the Cowboys to an Alamo Bowl appearance in 1997, while also collecting Big 12 conference Coach of the Year honors that season. Previously, Simmons had worked as outside lineback­ers and defensive line coach 
at West Virginia and Colorado. At Colorado, Simmons helped lead the Buffaloes to a bowl game in all seven years he was there. 
Simmons left Oklahoma State to become a volunteer consultant for the Big 12 conference. 
Simmons has known Willingham for many years since his days at Oklahoma State. 
"[At Oklahoma State]. we developed, what I think is a real good relationship with him and he wife over the year," he said. "I've always had a lot of respect for Coach Willingham. He's always been a dynamic person with a great intensity for what he wanted to do." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jbettler@nd.edu. 

Diedrick returns from Canada to family 
ByANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

ff Bill Diedrick didn't have a family, chances are pretty good he'd still be in Canada. 
The current Notre Dame offensive coordina­tor spent two years in the Canadian Football League as offensive coordina­tor for the Edmonton Eskimos. Life was good for Diedrick, who coached in a league that featured high­octane offenses. 
"A.-, an olfonsive coach, it was a lot fun," he said. "I don't think I'd like to be a defensive coach." 

The only problem was that Diedrick's family still lived in the United States. And after Diedrick's middle son, Justin, won a high school state cham­pionship, Diedrick realized he missed watching his sons play football. 
So he took some time off coaching football to be with his family. But just one year later, he landed a job at Washington and in 1998 accepted the role or offensive coordinator at Stanford under Tyrone Willingham. 
"He's the reason J wanted to go to Stanford and the reason I followed Wm to Notre Dame," Diedrick said. "I think when you look at how he's not only a wonderful, out'>tanding person he i'l exactly who he is." 
Diedrick utilizes an offensive system that emphasizes bal­ance between the run and the pass, a philosophy that evolved from his coaching days in the CFL. In Canada, teams could pass at will. But teams were 
separated by their ability to run 
the football. And when Diedrick 
went to Washington, he added 
a running game to his wide 
open, West-Coast style of 
olfonse. 
Now an established offensive 
coordinator, Diedrick doesn't 
feel the pressure he once felt 

•early in his career to keep mov­ing from position to position. ­Notre Dame is his reward for coaching for 30 years. 
"When you're young, you feel like you need to move to keep moving ahead," he said. "As long as you can keep moving ahead and each opportunity is a higher level, you get forced to that. Once you get to this level and have an opportunity to stay at some place, that's really the goal of a coach. The last four years have been wonderful and I'm looking forward to a won­derful career here." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

page 8 
-
-
I I I I I I I 
I ­
I 
I I 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 26, 2002 




Oetfu-e,,,,1'trJ Tk/}:!:k! Rzza/ 
Good Luck Coach Willingham and Staff! 
Thank you 2001 Fightin' Irish Football Good Luck & God Bless our Outgoing Seniors Thanks For the Memories! 
r-------------, 1r---------------,1
Breads fix 

I I 1 7 Large, 1 Topping 1 I 1. 99 I : $8.~90R : : Cheesestix : The Big Spring Game April 2002 
1 2 Large, 2 Topping 1 I 3. 99 I Go Bluel : $13.99 : : w/ any pizza purchase: 
Go Gold! 
L --!~£}~!1~E~°.22_ --.J L --_!=~i!,;S~!Y E~~~ --.J 

r--------------,I Irish Special I .-------------, Notre Dame Saint Mary's 1 1 Large, 1 Topping, 1 I I I I 271-1177 271-7272 
, Large Cheese ,

: breadstix, & 2 liter : 1 soda 1 : Pizza -$7. 99 Monday-Thursday 11 am -1 am I I Friday-all night
: $ 10. 99 : (Only ND nore . Limited Delivery 3am -11am} 
L-_ ~~~ ~a!,_1~ ~~-__ .J L!!i~s!1~~-..:~2-____J Saturday 11 am -3 am Sunday Noon -1 am 
•The most popular # on campus" 

Camnus View Anartments 
Campus View Apartments...elegance abounds in both the one bedroom I one bath and the two bedroom I two bath suites. Each is furnished with carpeting, blinds, dishwasher, refrigerator, range, disposal and an abundance ofcloset and lounging space. Luxurious living at affordable prices -a tough combination to beat. 
Campus View Offers Quality Apartments at affordable prices. Here are some amenities offered: 
•
Walking distance to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's & Holy Cross Campuses 

•Pool, 
Outdoor Tennis, and Basketball Courts 


•
Individual Heating & Central air conditioning controls 

•
Each apartment has a refrigerator, range, dishwasher & disposal 

•
Furnishings include carpeting & blinds 

•Convenient 
on-site laundry facilities 

•
Professional on-site property management ~12 or 9 month lease arrangements 

•24 
hour answering service for maintenance 

•
We take security and safety seriously 



Campus View Apartments 180 I Irish Way
Send e-mail to: · South Bend, IN 46637campusview@sbinet.com 

Ph. (574) 272-1441 

Now Leasing For Fall 
OTHE BSERVER 


Friday, April 26, 2002 page 13 

most well-known song from the musical. With deep inside, the two proud fathers meet to discuss and powerful vocals, The Narrator lplayed by Zack "the futures of their children. They agree that Linnert) establishes one of the central themes of the their phony plan has worked thus far, but play -to remember the good times, even through Matt must rescue Luisa so he appears wor­times of sorrow or depression. He sings, "Try to thy of her hand. Hucklebee tells Bellomy remember when life was so tender/ that he has propositioned That no one wept except the wil­a villain to appraise their
"The F antasticks" 

low." situation and to abduct 
Next, the Narrator presents the 
the innocent Luisa. primary characters. Luisa, played El Gallo, also played by by Devon Candura, is a beautiful, Zack Linnert, is a greedy young, self-absorbed and self-pro­and sneaky character
FTT

claimed "princess." She desperate­whose world revolves ly wants to try new things and dis­Director: Lizzie Bracken around money and cover the outside world. Matt, deceit. He bargains with
Stage Manager: Becky Ford 

played by Matthew Curtin, is a lit­the two fathers on what
Starring: Mary Beth Asmussen, D11von

tle more experienced through age type of "rape" Luisa 
Candura, Matthew Curtin, Tommy Curtin,

and education, and believes he should receive in the knows everything there is to know. Zack Linnert, Molly Mcshane, Lauren dark number "Depends Ironically, the two hopeless roman­Prieto, Meg Ryan and Christopher Scott On What You Pay." In tics live right next door to one 1960, when the play was another. originally performed, 
Yet, their love does not come easy. The lovers' there was much controversy over the subject fathers have constructed a wall between the two matter and language_in the song. Even in properties and have organized a fake feud between 2002, a viewer's initial reaction may be one the families. Comically shadowing Shakespeare's of surprise or shock, but the carefree and "Romeo and Juliet," the lovers secretly meet against confident performance of the song reassures the phony wishes of their fathers and talk about their the audience. 
grand future. At this time, El Gallo introduces his part­
While love ners in crime. Molly McShane plays the per­brings Luisa petrating poet, Henry, and Mary Beth and Matt Asmussen plays the incognito Indian side­together, the kick, Mortimer. This criminal odd couple strange hobby seems out of place at first, but their absurdi­

Chris Scott and Tommy Curtin plot to make their children
of gardening ty parallels the ridiculous deal made with El 

think they are feuding to get the kids to fall in love -all
allows the Gallo and the fathers. 

over their garden patch vegetables. 
fathers to bond Eventually, the time comes for the pretend and talk of attack to occur. All three of the criminals their own fall and play dead as Matt emerges as the hero of the searching for was right next-door. p I a n s . night. The fathers are elated and publicly allow Matt All in all, the production is a great success. The tal­Christopher and Luisa to continue their relationship. The closing ent of the actors and their vocal skill is very impres­Scott plays scene of the first act shows the two lovers embracing sive. At times, the show seems a little congested, with Luisa's father, as their fathers observe affectionately. Still, the multiple things going on at once, but this is a result of Bellomy, and Narrator asks the question, "Will it last?" the space limitations of the staging. Also, the ending Tommy Curtin In the beginning of the next act, the question is is somewhat brisk, and the play seems to jump from plays Matt's answered with the tune "This Plum is Too Ripe." The confusion to instant happiness. However, the strong father, classic lesson of "things being too good to be true" is parts of the play, such as the amusing interactions Hucklebee. taught as the characters realize things have changed. between Luisa and Matt, and Bellomy and Hucklebee, Their quirki­Luisa and Matt each have different perceptions of one make the production very worthwhile. ness, physical another in the sunlight. After the song "I Can See It," Perhaps the element that makes the musical so comedy and Matt believes he knows the secrets of the outside enjoyable, however, is its comic and witty take on hilarious inter­world and leaves home in a hurry. Meanwhile, Luisa love. Everyone can relate to innocent love, goofy actions are falls into a miserable state, sadly daydreaming each friends and the dorky parental figures found in the some of the day. .. show. To Bracken, '"The Fantasticks"' is about letting highlights of Just as things seem like they could only got worse, go of youthful illusions and finding the joy in reality. the musical. the two fathers run into each other and reconcile It's about growing up and learning all the terrible and Bellomy is con­their differences by starting up a conversation on veg­wonderful truths about the world particularly those stantly water­etables. "Plant a Radish" is an entertaining song and truths about love. It's an interesting story because I ing his garden dance number, which has the fathers kicking their think everyone in the audience will be able to relate, and proclaims, feet and tipping their hats. At the same time, El Gallo but which character they relate to and why will vary "Vegetables are has taken Luisa to the city and is trying to seduce her quite a bit." dependable," as Henry and Mortimer am torturing Matt. The Farley Hall Players will perform "The w h i I e Luisa and El Gallo next perform "Beyond That Fantasticks" this Sunday, April 28 at 3 and 6 p.m. in Hucklebee is Road," a song that corresponds with "I Can See It." the Lafortune Ballroom. Admission is $5 and tickets wearing goofy This time around, Luisa is trying to discover what the will be available at the door. A special Farley Hall suspenders and outside world holds. Zinnert's deep, serious and con­performance will be also take place on Saturday at 8 always trim­vincing voice bellows with the beautiful and clear p.m. ming his bush-voice of Candura. Shortly after, Matt and Luisa meet es. again and rekindle their romance. They realize that 
After the the happiness they were looking for in other places lovers go was false, and that in reality, what they were really Contact Mike Schmuhl at mschmuhl@od.edu. 



,­

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 26, 2002 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 


..,.. 
r 
-
Lofton's 3 RBIs lift White Sox past Indians 
much going on offense, getting runs in the fourth inning to a single. Martinez left after 2) when Ramirez doubled and
Associated Press 
only six hits. make it 5-0. throwing 103 pitches, which scored on a sacrifice fly by 
CLEVEIAND Cleveland is batting just .218 was close to the pitch-count of Brian Daubach. 
It was supposed to be tight (69-for-316) and averaging 2.5 Red Sox 7, Orioles 0 110 to 120 that" pitching coach between the Cleveland Indians runs in its last lO games. As far as the Baltimore Tony Cloninger set for him. Athletics 6, Yankees 2 and Chicago White Sox this sea• "It's just not happening right Orioles are concerned, Pedro "Tony told me afterwards, if After listening to three days son in the AL Central. now," Omar Vizquel said. "It's Martinez already is back to I had gone to my pitch limit of boos from the fans who 
So far, it's not even close. amazing. How docs a team win peak form. with a no-hitter going, I was once adored him, Jason For seven games, it's been all 10 in a row and then lose seven The three-time Cy Young going to be taken out," Giambi left Oakland without a White Sox. in a row? We need to play con­Award winner made his second Martinez said. "So regardless word. 
Kenny Lofton had three RBI sistent baseball." straight exceptional start, limit­of what the situation was going Miguel Tejada hit a three­as Chicago looked like the team Garland didn't allow a hit ing the Orioles to one hit in to be, we were going to stick to run homer, and Barry Zito to beat in the division, winning until the fifth inning, giving up seven innings as the Boston Red the program." pitched seven strong innings their third straight against three runs and four hits in 5 2/3 Sox avoided a three-game Martinez retired the first for his first victory of the sea­Cleveland on Thursday, 6-3 innings. He walked four, but got sweep with a 7-0 victory nine Orioles before walking son as the Athletics beat the over the reeling Indians. the Indians to hit into double Thursday. Jerry Hairston leading off the New York Yankees 6-2 
After sweeping Cleveland last plays after three of them. Martinez (3-0} had a season­fifth. He then retired six Thursday. week at home, the White Sox "With the young guys we have high 10 strikeouts and held straight before hitting Brook But the eyes and voices of won the final three games of the ouL there we have to turn Baltimore hitless until Gary Fordyce with a pitch starting the fans in the unusually large four-game series at Jacobs Field those," Clayton said. "Jon did a Matthews Jr. lined a clean sin­the sixth. Two outs later. Coliseum crowd were again to improve to 6-1 this season good job. It kept us out of some gle to right with two outs in the Matthews hit a 2-2 pitch sever­fixed· on Giambi, who now against the Indians. pretty good jams." sixth. He walked one and hit a al yards in front of right fielder knows just how much he 
The White Sox outscored Keith Foulke pitched the ninth batter. Trot Nixon. angered those who watched Cleveland 46-18 in the series. for his sixth save. "Pedro has done this to a lot Martinez dutifully ran to him develop into a player good Their lineup outhit the Indians Manuel tried a new lineup, of other clubs," Baltimore man­back up third base after the enough to be signed away by (.310 to .212) and Chicago out­dropping Lawton from the lead­ager Mike Hargrove said. "Good hit, which drew groans from the big-market Yankees. pitched Cleveland {2.47 ERA to off spot and making several pitching will stop good hitting, manv in the crowd of 31,353. After dressing in a sharp 5.61), too. other changes. But the shakeup and Pedro was awfully good Martinez struck out David cobalt-blue suit and tie that he 
"It kind of lets Cleveland know made no difference through today." Segui to end the inning, then wouldn't have been caught we're not going to roll over for four innings against Garland, In his previous outing on April worked a perfect seventh dead wearing in the other anybody this year," said Jon who didn't allow a hit until 19, Martinez allowed only one before departing. clubhouse, Giambi hugged the Garland (3-1), who cruised for Brady Anderson's bloop single hit in eight innings against "He's throwing the ball well clubhouse attendants and five innings and won his third with one out in the fifth. Kansas City. and he's still progressing very departed without taking any straight start. "We're going to Garland then walked Travis Limited to just 18 starts last good. We like what we're see­parting words for the city come out and we're going to Fryman but got Russell Branyan year because of tendinitis in his ing," Boston manager Grady where he was a beloved blue­attack." to hit a grounder up the middle right shoulder, Martinez has Little said. "And we like the collar hero. 
Royce Clayton hit a two-run to Clayton, who was playing given up just four earned runs way he's feeling after these "We knew when we signed homer off Ryan Drese (2-2) and behind the bag at second and in his last four starts after being starts. The next time, he'll him that he was tough," was in on all four double plays easily turned two. tagged for seven earned runs in come back on five days for the Yankees manager Joe Torre turned by the White Sox, who Despite hitting into their three innings against Toronto first time this year." said. "Coming home has been have won 13 of 16 and have a fourth double play, the Indians on Opening Day, dropping his Martinez said he isn't quite in the back of his mind since three-game lead on the Indians. put together a three-run rally ERA from 21.00 to 3.38. 100 percent, but on his way. the beginning of the season. I 
Cleveland can't stop its slide. with two outs in the sixth, clos­"The day a no-hitter is going "Every day is a new adven­think the anticipation is over After opening the season 11-1 ing to 5-3 and chasing Garland. to happen, it's just going to hap­ture," he said. with. I'm excited to watch him -9-0 against the Central -the Jim Thome hit an RBI single, pen," he said. ''I'm not going to Sun Woo Kim allowed one go from here." Indians have gone 1-9. and Lawton, batting fifth for the try to go look for it, or try to hit in the eighth and Willie Giambi, who left Oakland to 
"I think if we played the Blue first time this season, hit a two­overdo anything. I'm just going Banks finished the two-hitter. sign a $120 million, seven· Sox right now we would lose," run double. But lefty Damaso to keep my poise and try to Nixon homered and Ramirez year contract with the Indians right fielder Matt Marte came on and got pinch­pitch my way through my injury had three hits and two RBI for Yankees during the offseason, Lawton said. "That's the way it hitter Milton Bradley to ground and ,,hopefully get better every the Red Sox, who averted their couldn't solve Zito's looping is sometimes and we're not out. day. first three-game sweep in curve in the final day of the doing anything right." Lofton, who was rested for the He may not have gotten the Baltimore since 197 4. former MVP's only appearance 
The Indians reshuffled their first time this season chance to complete the no-hit­Boston got a run in the sec• back in Oakland during the starting lineup, but didn't get Wednesday, doubled in three ter, even if Matthews didn't get ond against Calvin Maduro (1-regular season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
OBLATES OF BLUES CJs-Friday, 7:30-11:30 "Blues" and Gold Weekend 
Position Available in New York City Starting Early September 
Looking for a teachers assistant for bright, articulate, and delightful sixth grader with cerebral palsy (in wheelchair) at the Bank Street SchOol tor Children. 
8:30 am-3'15 pm. 
Great Salary! Experience with phys• ically challenged children a plus. 
Good attitude a Must. One year commitment. ND Alum mom. 
Call 212-233-4802 or 
email Peggy.Foran@pfizer.com. 
LOST & FOUND 
University Hair Stylist Lost black leatl1er CD case with CDs Missing since April 12th. Reward 631-5144 
WANTED 
Looking for single Castle Point roommate coming summer and/or fall. Free high-speed DSL internet. currently $323 per month + utils. 
Call 574.277.9322 
if interested. 
99 ND grad seeks male to share spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. for 3-9 months. Great location & fur• nished. Call George Carr at (773) 975-0563 or e-mail at George.E.Carr@us.andersen.com 
SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFER­ENCES REQD CALL LYNN @ 616-849·7022 
Full-time work with refugees for church-related agency. Word pro­cessing and auto required. Send resume to Refugee Services, 711 E.. Colfax, SB 46617 or 
email relugee@michiana.org. 
FOR SALE 
Selling all household goods. Good quality & cheap. 
For info: 277-1379 after 12 pm 
daily. 
Photography Equipment: Nikon N90s camera with MB-10 Grip, SB28 Flash, Nikon Video & School Handbook, UV 52.0s & 77.0s Lens Filters, Polar 52.0s Lens Filter Nikon 50mm 11 .8, 80-200mm 12.8, and 28-70 13.5 Lenses, Sekonic L·508 Zoom Speed Light Meter, and Lowepro Nova4 camera bag -used 10 limes; MINT CONDITION. $1575. -Call (574)875-7877 
1995 Saturn SL2; Low Miles; Excellent Condition; Dark Blue; $5,000 or best offer. Call Tomi Gerhold at 243· 8765 or e-mail at Gerhold.3@nd.edu. 
Hotel Rm. for Grad wknd. 1 dbl rm @SB Marriot. May 16-20. $299 or B/0. Call Michaela @277-8297. 
Grad Wknd 1 dbl hotel rm @ S6 Marriot $299 or b/o Michaela @277-8297 
FOR RENT 
MMMAentals com 272· 1525 mmm­renta1s@aoJ.com 
MMMAentals.com 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cottage .. cute .. DAVE 291-2209 Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. Garage. Must See! 

Call Tammy(616)684-1049. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9 people) 2) medium (3-5 people) 
Call Bill at 532-1896. 

Upstairs apt., single person, no smoking/pets. All util.paid. Avail 
now or Fall 02. 

For info, call 574-255-1738. Close to NO. 
3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, AND A DECK. WASHER & 
DRYER. CORNER OF EDDY AND HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF LOGAN CENTER. 
FREE KEG WITH RENTAL. Call Gary or Lynne 616-699-5841 
HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03, 5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2 bath, central a/c, washer & dryer, alarm system, 
call 773-486-_8822. 

Two bedroom cottage 5 min from campus $325. 
Dave 291 ·2209 

5-Bedroom.5 min from campus. 
All the goodies ..dancing•O. K. I 
Dave 291 ·2209 Need a place to stay for graduation weekend or just anytime? Our little cottage situated on 127 acres sleeps 2-3 and only 20 minutes from campus._Call 616-687-1080 or email: jlizma@aol.com 

3-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. 

$180/PER PERSON/MO. SUM­MER/2002.272-6306,292-6718 
AWESOME CHICAGO SUBLEASE THIS SUMMER! call 773-844-1885 
Law student looking to sublet this summer • Oakhill, NC, Pool, Dishwasher, Washer, Dryer -rent negotiable. 243-2621 
B&B 2 mi N of ND Room w/football !ix 574-277-4759 or Annette.M.Grooms.1@nd.edu 
Newly Constructed Studio Apartment Available Friday thru Sunday. 
Walking distance from University. Rates vary on event and number of guests. 
Call 574•272-3116 
TICKETS 
2 Dave Mathews Tix for sale Sat.4/27 
call 247-1775 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Do not go it alone. If you or some• one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1­7819. 
For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
FAX IT FAST! Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP 
Lafortune Student Center FAX# 574-631-FAX1 
GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by local PGA professional. 
Call Dick at 276-9670 
Do you love to sit around and watch ESPN all day? Write Sports. 
Call Chris at 1-4543. 
Write News. 
Call Helena at 1-5323 
Please remember to recycle The Observer. 

-
Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Blues advance, grab series from Blackhawks 
Associatrd Press 
ST. LOUIS 

For Brent Johnson, the end of his long shutout streak was no big deal. 
He allowed three goals in the second period, but wore an ear­to-ear grin after the St. Louis Blues overcame a two-goal deficit to advance to the second round of the NHL playoffs with a 5-3 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks in Game 5 on Thursday night. 
Johnson, in his first season as the starter, blanked the Blackhawks in Games 2, 3 and 4 and is one of only five goalies in NHL history with three shutouts in a playoff series. After 3 hours, 26 minutes and 45 seconds without allowing a goal, he gave up the three, the last two on consecutive shots, as the Blackhawk.s took a 3-1 lead. 
Sure enough, the Blues rallied to tie it at the end of the second period. 
Jamal Mayers' second goal of the playoffs at 6:23 of the third was the difference as the Blackhawks' first playoff appearance in five years was a short one. 
Mayers. who scored a career­best nine goals in 77 regular­season games, snapped the tie by whipping a turnaround shot from the right circle that went between Passmore's pads. Ray Ferraro set up the goal by kick­ing the puck to Mayers from behind the net. 
Mayers thought he surprised Passmore. 
Keith Tkachuk made it a two­goal lead, scoring on a break-in with 4:04 to go. 
Scott Mellanby got his third goal of the series for the Blues. Scott Young and Chris Pronger also scored for the Western Conference's fourth seed. 
Steve Thomas ended Johnson's shutout streak at 4:34 of the second period, the Blackhawks' first goal in the series since Alexander Karpovtsev's game-winner with 
3:10 to go in a 2-1 Game 1 victo­ry. Kyle Calder and Steve Sullivan also scored for the Blackhawks, the fifth seed in the Western Conference, who totaled five goals in five games in the best-of-seven series. 
Bruins 5, Canadiens 2 
A high-scoring but relatively tame playoff series between the Boston Bruins and Montreal Canadiens turned ugly Thursday night. 
With 1:17 left in Boston's 5-2 victory that evened the best-uf­seven series after four games, Bruins defenseman Kyle McLaren caught Richard Zednik, Montreal's leading scorer, with a vicious elbow that knocked out the forward. McLaren was given a five-minute match penalty. 
Zednik was motionless as he was treated on the ice for about five minutes then was removed on a stretcher and taken to a local hospital with a suspected concussion and facial injuries. 
Montreal coach Michel Therrien threatened retaliation against the Bruins' top players in Game 5 on Saturday in Boston. 
Ftorek refused to comment on the hit, but McLaren said he did nothing wrong. 
The Bruins took a 3-0 lead in the first period on goals from 












OREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan • Hunan -Cantonese • American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75. Mon -Fri 11 :30 • 3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday· Thursday 11:30 AM· 10:00 PM Friday· Saturday 11:30 AM -11:00 PM 

Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
7 
$8.95 for Adults $4. 50 for Children under 1 O 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend {.?191 272-737& 

SUMMERJOBS • ENVIRONMENT 
Don't let Indiana become the nuclear crossroads of America 

top the Transportation of High-level Nuclear Waster Mobile Chernobyl 
The propa,ed storage facility 1w repeatedly failed ail 8cientific critma for containment 
Me you staying in the South Bend area this summer? The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to staff environmental and consumer rights campaigns. 
Citizens Action Coalition is a twenty~ght year old citizens lobby organi7.ation. Wttti 350,000 memben 1tatewide, "e routinely baffle the htrgett utilities and pollute.ra In IndJua on behalf of elflzem ••.and 1'l'ln! We are woricing to stop the transportation ofhigh-level nuclear waste toYuoca Mtn. in Nevada Help stop thirty years ofradioactive railroads and highways in India.na. 
Work M-F 2-10:30 pm,¢-Earn $350-$425/wk-¢-Work outdoors-¢­Sleep Late-¢-casual atmosphere ...Serious work 
Call 232-7905 for more information. 
For oU,er offt,ees., Chee!G us 01,1,t Dl'\.L~v,,e www.e~tact.ore 
Fort W•ync: 260·425-092 Indina:,x,lis: S1'7•!0!1-!!5!!S Nrw Albany, U2-941-1170 
Stock, Bill Guerin and Martin Lapointe. Brian Rolston added a key short-handed goal in the second and Sergei Samsonov got a goal in the third. 
Zednik scored both Montreal goals on power plays and leads the team with eight points in four games. 
The nastiness started before the hit on Zednik. The Bruins sent Stock,-a fourth-line tough guy, on for a power play with two minutes left to play and Therrien sent out his fighter, Gino Odjick. 
The two squared off and were sent off for fighting. 
The Canadiens were also upset with Guerin, who brought down defenseman Andrei Markov with an open ice knee­check in the second period. Guerin got two minutes for clip­ping. Markov finished the game, but is questionable for Saturday. 
Both Therrien and Odjick compared McLaren's hit on Zednik to the elbow thrown by Tie Domi on New Jersey defenseman Scott Niedermayer during last year's playoffs, which resulted in an eight-game suspension for the Toronto enforcer. 

. NHL spokes~an Frank Brown declined comment, but said the league was aware of the inci­dents. 
Therrien and Ftorek had a shouting match at the benches and the game ended with more fighting in the final minute. A few fans among the jeering capacity crowd of 21,273 threw beer and soda at the Bruins bench. 
Zednik looked to have taunted Byron Dafoe after scoring his second goal of the game, per­haps hoping to put the Bruins goaltender off his game. 
In Game 3 on Tuesday· night, Dafoe allowed three third-period goals in a 5-3 comeback win for Montreal. 
There was no Boston collapse this time. 
Red Wings 4, Canucks 0 
Things are quite different for the Detroit Red Wings than they were a week ago. 
Sergei Fedorov scored two of Detroit's four first-period goals and assisted on another as the Red Wings beat Vancouver 4-0 Thursday night for their third consecutive victory in the best­of-seven series after losing _the 

"Big E" Pizza $8.99! ~ 
Hurry...Limited Time Only! 
--'illOf ~GO
IPIZZA COMPAl'fV9 pluadoneright 

VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. EXPIRES 513/02 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD 
(Next to Subway) 
271-1277 
first two games at home. Game 6 is Saturday in Vancouver. 
The last time the Red Wings played in Joe Louis Arena, on Friday night, they were booed, cheered sarcastically and even offered suggestions via chants from their red-clad rabid fans when the Canucks took a 2-0 lead in the rrrst-round series. 
Just 4:02 into the game, Fedorov put Detroit ahead 1-0 with a slap shot between the cir­cles, after Brendan Shanahan's shot rebounded off Dan Cloutier. 
Then the Red Wings chased Cloutier and seemed to take the life out of the Canucks with two goals in a 1:57 span later in the period. 
Dominik Hasek, who made 25 saves. played his third consecu­tive solid game for the Red Wings. 
While the Canucks were failing to score on their third power­play opportunity, Fedorov car­ried the puck through the center of the ice then passed it to Mathieu Dandenault, who beat Cloutier for a short-handed goal from the right circle. 
Chants of "Let's Go Red Wings" replaced the rants of "Shoot The Puck," from Game 2 when Detroit was struggling to score. 
Boyd Devereaux's goal off another rebound gave Detroit a 3-0 lead and sent Cloutier to the bench after stopping just six of nine shots. He was replaced by Peter Skudra, who made his first postseason appearance since playing one playoff game for Pittsburgh two years ago. 
The Red Wings essentially ended the game with their fourth first-period goal, which illustrat­ed the type of night it was for their collection of future Hall of Famers. 
Brett Hull backhanded a pass from the left boards to the front of the net, and Fedorov, with only his right hand on his stick, poked the puck past Skudra as the crowd went wild. 
Vancouver president and gen­eral manager Brian Burke called a news conference to strongly criticize the officiating on Wednesday, After four games Detroit had a 17-16 advantage in power plays. 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Allen Iverson shook off the rust, but his Philadelphia 76ers couldn't shake off Paul Pierce. 
Pierce hit the go-ahead 3-pointer with 1:36 left Thursday night to lead the Boston Celtics to a 93-85 victory over the 76ers and send the defending Eastern Conference champions to the brink of elimination. 
"It's a whole different 
game in the fourth "It's a whole different Only six teams have quarter because every­game in the fourth ever come back to thing's on the line," win a five-game
quarter because 

said Pierce, who sur­series after being 
vived early foul trouble everything's on the line." down 2-0 and just and 10 consecutive one -Dallas against misses to score 11 of Utah la"st year -has
Paul Pierce 

his 25 points in the final done so since 1994. 
Celtics guard

quarter. "That's when The win was the 
the pressure is on." 
Boston took a 2-0 lead despite 29 points from Iverson, who missed the final 14 games of the regu­lar season and struggled in the playoff opener. Game 3 of the five-game series is in Philadelphia on Sunday. 
Antoine Walker had 24 points and 10 rebounds, and Pierce also had 10 rebounds as the Celtics pleased a rau­cous crowd and stayed perfect in the playoffs at the FleetCenter. The last time they made the playoffs was in 1995 -the final season of the Boston Garden and before Walker or Pierce entered the NBA. 
The Sixers led 81-77 with 3:21 left to play when Tony Battie hit a basket and Pierce followed with a jumper -just his second basket of the half -to tie it. Pierce, who led the league in fourth­quarter points in the regular season, followed with a 3-pointer from the right side to give Boston an 84-81 lead it never relinquished. 
Lakers 1.03, Blazers 96 
Portland's state of desperation didn't 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 26, 2002 

NBA 
Sixers' comeback fails, Celtics take 2-0 lead 
18th in the last 19 
playoff games for the Lakers, who are attempting to become the fifth team in NBA history to win three or more consecutive champi­onships. 
The Lakers are also trying to elimi­nate the Blazers from the playoffs for the fifth time in six years. 
Before this game began, many fans in the capacity crowd of 18,997 began chanting "three-peat, three-peat" ­just as they did in the final seconds of Game 1. 
Two wins down, 13 to go. 
Derek Fisher added 18 points and Rick Fox scored 13 for the Lakers, who outrebounded the Blazers 48-35. 
Bryant was only 5-of-21 from the field and missed his last nine shots, but in the end, it didn't matter. 
O'Neal, who was 12-of-20 from the field and 7-of-9 from the free throw line, seemed to seal the verdict by making consecutive baskets -the sec­ond a flying left-handed dunk with 8 1/2 minutes remaining that put the seem to faze the two-time defending NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers, who handled the Trail Blazers again Thursday night despite a late scare. 
Shaquille 0'Neal had 31 points and 14 rebounds, and Kobe Bryant added 19 points despite a poor shooting per­formance as the Lakers held off the Blazers 103-96 to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series. 
The best-of-five matchup shifts to Portland for Game 3 on Sunday and a 
fourth game, if need­
ed, Wednesday night. 
Lakers ahead 8 7 -6 7. 


NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
SOME REASONS WHY You SHOULD JOIN OUR COMMUNITY 
• 
Over 1,000 SF of Living Space 

• 
2 Bedrooms / 1 Bathroom -Double Vanity Sinks 

• 
4 Blocks South From Notre Dame Campus 

• 
On-Site Laundry Facilities 


Call 574-234-9923 

• On "Transpo" Bus Line email: REMCorp@aol.com 
• 
Professional Management 

• 
24hr Emergency "On-Call" Maintenance 

• 
1 4-Bedroom "Double Unit" Available 


NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS CONTINUES TO OFFER QUALITY HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES AND HAS BECOME 
THE BEST VALUE IN OFF-CAMPUS UVING 
Professionally Managed by: Real Estate Management Corporation 
P.O. Box 540 130 South Main Street 


Equal Housing Opportunity 
South Bend, IN 46624-0540 

Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles to play final 3 games 
By NATALIE BAlLEY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off two losses against Calvin Wednesday, the Belles enter their three final games of this season this weekend. The Belles will face 
Hope College 
"Our coach hadjust told

today at 3 p.m .. 
Ancilla us about his resignation, 
Saturday at and we were all kind of noon and 
flat and not really there; 

Franklin 
Sunday at we weren't into it" lp.m., all on their home 
Katie Frigge

field. 
first baseman

No. 3 Hope College will be the Belles' last MIAA con­tender. Sophomore first base­man Katie Frigge believes the will otfer the most competition. 
"Hope is in our conference and will be a tougher match for us," said Frigge. "But we will have more fans and more sup­port on our home field.'' 
The Belles did not move from their seventh-place ranking after losing 5-0 and 6-0 in their doubleheader against Calvin on Wednesday. 
Frigge cited a lack of focus 
for their underachiev­ing perfor­mance. 
"Our coach had just told us about his resignation, and we were all kind of flat and not really there; we weren't into 
it," said Frigge. 
The Knights took charge and set the tone for the games with a run in the first inning of the first game. The Belles showed some promise in the third when Erin Sullivan doubled to center 
The Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
, ....,, 

JacqueliJ:'l~: ,.€~)11idt, piano 
Performing wor · alnt-Saens & Martinu

-->~:-,,,.\ 
.. ~~i\ 
Saturd .; J27}2002 
2:00 pm, ~!I .. ~.!r.g1'uditorium 
SnlHP~of"Art Free and Opertto._the Public 
\ 
field and made it around the bases, only to be thrown out at home. After a dry spell, with four hits, Calvin got two runs in the fourth inning and then wrapped up the game with two more runs in the sixth. In the second game, Calvin earned two runs in the second, two in the third and the final two in the seventh. 
Despite their two losses, the team plans on entering this weekend's games using the same starting lineup, perhaps with a little variation. Graneff fielded the games against Calvin with Libby Wilhelmy or Kristin Martin as the pitcher, Marnie Walsh as the shortstop, Frigge in left field, Katrina Tebbe in right field, Mandy Hayes at third base, Susan Kutz or Sandy Harmon as catcher, Lynn Lapshan at first base, Rebekah Solmos at second base and Sullivan in center field. 
"Our biggest problem on Wednesday were the errors of not knowing where the play was at," said Harmon. "This weekend we have to get on the ball earlier and improve offen­sively. Just one inning makes the game." 
After a trying season due to the weather, new coaching staff and tough competitors, the biggest challenge for the Belles this weekend will be to enter their games with courage, focus and confidence. 
"Playing hard, playing like a team and having fun in our last games -I think that is what we need," said Harmon. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill407@saintmarys.edu, 

2002-2003 JOB OPENINGS! 
The Student Activities Office still has the following positions open for the 2002-2003 academic year; 


Responsible for setup and breakdown .of LaFortune _conferer:ce rooms, Ballroom and lounges. Requires moving tables, chairs, stagmg, and set up & breakdown of Acoustic Cafe on Thursday nights. Hours vary. 



Responsible for monitoring lower and first floor lounges, laundry room, and computer lab in LaFortune. Shifts 2am-5am Sun-Wed, 2am-6am Thr, 2arn-8am Fri/Sat (1-2 shifts per week). Must be dependable and able to work at night. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish bounce· back to whip Wildcats 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Spores Writer 
Maybe all the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team needed was a wake-up call to remind them that they are the 10th best team in country. 
The Irish put Saturday's loss to Georgetown behind them in an 11-3 victory over Northwestern Thursday. 
The women showed flashes of brilliance, holding a young Northwestern team scoreless for the last 36 minutes of the game and spreading the ball around on the offensive end; however the Irish continue to be plagued by turnovers. 
"A win is a win, but we didn't go out and execute as good was we should have," said Danielle Shearer. 
Execution may prove to be the difference in Notre Dame's final two games of the year. If 10-4 Notre Dame defeats Rutgers and No.12 Vanderbilt, they are all but guaranteed a spot in the tournament. 
"All we need is to win, and we are in the tournament," said captain Tina Fedarcyk. ''They are definitely beatable teams, so as long as we come together and play our game, we'll be fine." 
The Irish have come out slow in several games, and that's hurt the team. Three of Notre Dame's four losses have been by one goal in games where the Irish had mounted a comeback and had momentum 
when time expired. Players know they cannot afford another game like that. 
"Approaching the tourna­ment, we need to play our best and up to the level we know we can." Shearer said. "There are only two games left. We need to step up." 
Shearer, who led the team in points against Northwestern with three goals and one assist, converted a pass from Eleanor Weille to open up the scoring. 
Anne Riley, Alissa Moser and Meredith Simon, who each scored two goals, then gave 
I
the Irish a substantial lead. I 
• I
The Irish were up 6-1 when Northwestern scored two free \ position goals to make the game 6-3 at the half. Those goals were the last looks Northwestern would get all day. 
"We held them scoreless for the whole second half, that's a good thing," said Fedarcyk who is one of the cornerstones on defense. 
Kristen Gaudreau and Lisa Lombardi scored their first goals of the year during the second half of play. Shearer and Simon-also added in to the all-Irish scoring party in the second half. 
The women travel to face Big East opponent Rutgers this Sunday. Rutgers is 7-8 overall and 2-3 in the division. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolemal@nd.edu. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 26, 2002 
Men's 
continued from page 24 
Lustig opened the game by scoring the first five points for Project Mayhem en route to a 5­1 early lead for the third seed. However, Robster Craws were able to capitalize on Project Mayhem fouls to bring them­selves as close as 17 -14 late in the game. 
Unfortunately for Robster Craws, hot shooting by Lustig, Luke Mueller, Jason Mayes, Doug Wilson and Brian Rush led Project Mayhem to a late run to seal the win. 
No. 4 Lazy Boys beat a scrappy Irish Men squad, 21-17 in other round of 16 action. 
Irish Men, playing without Irish assistant basketball coach Lewis Preston, could not match Lazy Boys height inside. 
Jason Ditsch's strong inside­outside play helped Lazy Boys build a 20-12 lead before Irish Men mounted a last-ditch come­back effort. 
Nick Williams' scrappy point guard play and Brian Kahn's shooting touch rallied the Irish Men to 20-15 before Tommy Walz ended the game with a free throw for Lazy Boys. 
"We are a real fundamentally sound team," Ditsch said. "Toward the end of the game, we started getting away from that and playing a lot of 1-on-1. When we went back to funda­mentals, we were line." 
Williams' refused to use Preston's absence as an excuse for the loss. 
Preston was away on a recruit­ing trip. 
"We've won without him before [in the first round and the round of 64]." Williams said, but acknowledged that his team wa.,; vastly different without Virginia Military Institution's all-time leading shot blocker. "Without him, we have to play five guards." 
In the last game of the night, No. 2 AdWorks All-Stars shot well from the outside and defeat­ed cold-shooting NDToday.com, 21-15. 
Jason Sullivan and Ryan Ostick shot well from the outside for AdWorks, while Carlyle Holiday, Abe Elam and Justin Tuck forced NDToday to defend inside. 
"We were hoping that Sullivan wouldn't shoot well today," NDToday's Ali Tahmasbi said. 
NDToday's zone would have posed a problem for AdWorks if it hadn't shot so well. 
"That's the first we've seen all tournament," Sullivan said. "When you face a zone, you have to shoot well and force them to come out of it. They never came out of it, so we kept getting good looks from the outside." 
AdWorks' strategy on defense was to deny NDToday from get­ting any shots inside. 
"We've got some great athletes that can bai,ically shut down the point guards," Sullivan said. If a team does manage to get inside on AdWorks. Justin Tuck's shot blocking skills give the team a "security blanket," according to Sullivan. 
With the inside denied, NDToday tried to hit long-range shots but couldn't find its shoot­ing touch. 
''I tried to shoot myself out of the slump, and it just didn't hap­pen. That really hurt us," Tahmasbi said. 
AdWorks will play No. 7 Mourning Wood today. 
Notes 
. Saturday's semifinal games are scheduled for 4:45 and 6 
p.m. on Stepan courts. 
. The championships begin at noon Sunday with the women's championship followed by the Hall of Fame game at 1 p.m. and the open championship at 2 p.m. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 


Bball 
continued from page 24 
"We knew they'd come out playing hard," said J.A.C.K.S' Kevin Muempfer. "They actually out-hustled us and played really well. Our size helped us and got them in foul trouble." 
"They're a great team and would be favored on paper," said Team 524's Matt Parsons, "but there's a reason they play the games. We wish them good luck the rest of the way." 
"We have the most rabid fans," added 524's Dan O'Boyle. "We were well-hydrated, which was key to our success." 
The only lower-seeded team to advance was No. 9 We Get Wet who defeated No. 8 seed 5 Degree Guarantee 21-18. Down 14-12, Wet went on a 7-2 run to take a 19-16 lead before holding on for the win. 
"We stepped up our defense in the second half," said Wet cap­tain Justin Funk. "We thought we could run on them early, but instead they ran on us. We were more successful once we took our press off." 

No. 5 mmm ... Cheese took an early lead then held on in the second half to advance over Kelly Kapowski 21-18. After Cheese took a 16-13 lead, Kapowski closed to within two on four occasions but could never get closer. 
"Our offensive rebounds by Tony [Carney] and Grant [Gholson] led to some cheap bas­kets," said Cheese's DJ Lipke. "We've been able to do that the last couple games." 
Games continue in the elite eight beginning at 3:45 today on Stepan courts. 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu. 

WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE 
Who's Getting Lucky Tonight? advances to final 4 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Senior Staff Writer 
No. 4 Who's Getting Lucky Tonight? finally met its match athletically in No. 5 Tanned Mullets Thursday afternoon, but still pulled out a 21-15 win. 
Lucky, with four current or former Welsh Hall interhall foot­ball players, were challenged by the height and athleticism of five members of the Notre Dame women's soccer team. 
"They were obviously great athletes," said Vanessa Llchon of Lucky. "Easily the most athletic team we have played in the tour­nament so far." 
Both teams played strong pres­sure defense and looked to run 
RECTORS I 

Congratulate the seniors in your dorm with a special ad in the graduation edition of the Obseruer! 
Reserve your space by April 30th! 
Call 631-6900 
when they had openings. Lucky was a little more successful, in large part thanks to the gritty play of Lichon. With her team leading 7-6, Lichon went on a tear. She scored the next five points for Lucky to build a 12-10 lead. 
Kelly Tulisiak, Kate Morrell and Liz Wagner traded buckets with Alex Callan and Anna Benjamin of Lucky to get Tanned Mullets back within one at 14­13. 
Llchon then drove through the lane and hit a one-handed run­ner to spark a 5-0 run for Lucky. Lichon and Callan each scored two, while Benjamin chipped in one. 
Benjamin finished off Tanned Mullets with a jump shot from just inside the foul line an few possessions later. 

The Tanned Mullets, named for women's soccer coach Randy Waldrum's unique sense of style, forced Lucky to shoot mostly from the outside. Mullets' tight 2-3 zone stopped Lucky's usually strong interior passing. 
"We're not really strong shoot­ers so we have to rely on defense," Wagner said. 
The Mullets' strategy was in part aided by Lucky's downgrad­ed roster. Post player Mary Murphy missed her second game in a row while attending her grandmother's funeral. Benjamin has filled in well for Murphy, but Lucky's lineup is much smaller without Murphy. 
"It's tough playing against those packed in zones without our post player," Lichon said, "We are trying to play high-low with five guards." 
"As You Wish" i.. ( • .., :rt~k~H
-Q•_, •
INCENSE '-"' • HAMMOCKS
IMPORTs ,,,,. \ "­
.CHANGE PURSES 

LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY. SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE.. , 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India 
May 6-1 O 10-5pm LaFortune Room 108 
(Near Telephones) 
April 30-May 3 10-Spm St. Mary's 
If. "Gorgeous" -in front of Haggar, if not -Le Mans Lobby 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, as well as funds for their education. 
Lucky advances to the final four to play No. 1-seeded Sindone's Slamming Divas. The Divas defeated unranked Almost Famous, 21-6. 
Almost Famous was playing its second game of the day with it lost to the Divas after surviving a 22-20 game against the Sharks earlier Thursday afternoon. Because of the thunderstorms Wednesday, the Sharks and Almost Famous suspended play with the game tied 8-8. They continued the game Thursday. 
The Sharks jumped out to a 17-11 lead and seemed to be in control of the game before Almost Famous made a run. Scoring eight of the next 10 points, it knotted the game at 19. 
With the score tied 20-20 and headed for overtime. Almost Famous point guard Christa Gray drove the lane twice and hit running one-handers to win the game. 
Despite trailing for most of the game, Gray said her team never lost confidence. 
"All of our games have been close so we know we are never out of it," she said. 
The second-seeded Hardcore Strokers advanced to the final four by running Team 7 into the ground for a 21-14 win. 
The Strokers. led by point guard Katie Miller's defense and passing score most of its points on fast breaks and off turnovers. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 


Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish look to salvage some pride against Crimson 



ByJOE LICANDRO 
Sports W ricer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team will be looking to shake off the disappointment of its last two games when they travel to Cambridge, Mass., to take on the Harvard Crimson Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Two weeks ago, Notre Dame's offense sputtered in an 11-8 road loss against Army. That loss ended a three-game winning streak for the Irish in which they played their best lacrosse of the year. 
Sunday's one-goal loss to Fairfield was even worse. After struggling most of the contest and finding themselves down six goals with six minutes left in the game. the Irish finally woke up. 
Notre Dame staged a furious comeback, scoring five goals in three minutes to pull within one goal of the Stags. 
Unfortunately, a six-goal 
deficit proved to be just too much as the Irish fell just one goal short of tying the Stags and sending the game to over­time. 
The tough defeat eliminated the Irish from playoff con­tention, and denied them a top finish in the Great Western Lacrosse League for the first time in four years. 
For Notre Dame's seniors, the loss was especially difficult. 
"I've seen the best and worst of Notre Dame lacrosse," senior captain John Flandina said Sunday after the loss. "The year before my freshman year was the last time Notre Dame didn't make the tourna­ment. Last year, we made it all the way to the Final Four. This will be the first time in my career I won't be in the tour­nament. It's just embarrass­ing." 
Even though the Irish know they will not compete in the NCAA Tournament this year, Notre Dame's pride is at stake 


Congratulate this gear's 
in their remaining two games on the road against Harvard this weekend and at home against Ohio State on May 4. 
Head coach Kevi.n Corrigan hopes his team can correct its recent mistakes. 
"I don't know if that last game revealed anything new or profound to us," said Corrigan. ''Real simply. what we ar~ doing in practice is going back to the fundamentals. You have to play hard and passionately every time you play." 
Corrigan does not plan to make any drastic changes in these final two games. He plans to continue using the same lineups and player com­binations that he has played all season. He is not looking toward next year yet. 
"I don't have any major line­up changes planned," said Corrigan. "If I had somebody who could have helped us, they would have already been play­ing. I'm not looking at next year. I'm just looking for us to win these last two games." 
If there is any team that can relate to Notre Dame's frus­trating season, it is Harvard. The Crimson started the sea­son on fire, opening their sea­son with four straight wins. 
Since their initial success, the Crimson's season has been nothing short of a disaster. Harvard has lost seven straight games to fall to 4-7 on the sea­son. 
Just like the Irish, the Crimson are hoping to end the 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 26, 2002 
Federico 
continued from page 24 
shambles. The team had gone 15­
29 the previous year, had only four 
scholarship players and had failed 
to finish a season with a winning 
record for five consecutive years. 
In just his first year, Murphy turned the Irish into a 39-22 team. The next year, the Irish won a school-record 48 games and advanced to the NCAA tournament for the first time in 19 years. In each of his next five seasons, the Irish would win at least 40 games, and made the NCAA tournament from 1992-94. 
"I had taken over a program [at Notre Dame] that hadn't won a lot," Murphy said with a chuckle. "It was kind of fun being part of the rise, even though I wasn't the rea­son we got good. The reason we got good is because we had great kids." 
But the Irish did soar under his leadership, from a baseball nobody to a team to be contended with on a yearly basis. 
In 1992, at the height of his suc­cess as coach, national-power Miami offered him a lucrative head coaching deal, but Murphy turned it down. 
"I still believed l had more work to do at Notre Dame," Murphy said. "The [new] stadium wasn't built yet. There were things to still get done." 
Indeed, in 1993 Notre Dame built a 3,000-seat stadium for its base­ball team. In each of those next two years. the Irish went 46-16, and fell just one win short of the College World Series in 1994. 
After his third straight NCAA tournament bid in 1994, it was Arizona State that came knocking on Murphy's door, and this time, he was willing to listen. He accepted the position. 
"In leaving for Arizona State, the time was right in my life," Murphy said. "I needed to do some different things and make some adjust­ments. But just because you leave Notre Dame, it doesn't mean that it doesn't have a lasting effect on you the rest of your life. It was a very special time in my life." 
With the departure of one of its most successful coaches, Notre Dame had some giant shoes to fill. 
Enter current head coach Paul Mainieri. 
Mainieri picked up right where Murphy had left off, leading his Irish squad to a 40-21 record, the most wins ever for a first-year coach at Notre Dame. 
'Tm glad that Coach Murphy left because it gave me an opportunity to come here," Mainieri said with a smile. "It was a very big thing for me to get the opportunity to come to Notre Dame. I've worked very hard to try to continue the excel­lence that he had established and to try to improve upon it. I feel very proud of what we've accomplished in the seven-plus years at Notre Dame." 
In those years, Mainieri has made a significant contribution to the Irish legacy. From 1995-2001, Mainieri and the Irish have stretched Murphy's string of 40-win seasons to 13, highlighted by appearances in the NCAA tourna­ment the past three years and the program's first No. 1 ranking, which occurred during play last season. 
"I knew [the team] was in very capable hands -those of the guy I recommended for the job and thought of as a tremendous coach and a friend," Murphy said of his successor. "With the success they've had, I see that they're always in there. I couldn't tell you the names or the exact stuff some­times. but I can tell you they con­tinue to be very, very good." 
Now Mainieri is becoming a coaching commodity across the nation to teams hoping to lure him away from South Bend. Word was that several teams made some lucrative offers but were turned down by the Irish skipper. 
"I can tell you this: I don't have any deep aspirations that there's a better job out there for me," Mainieri said. "I don't sit around and say. 'Boy. if only I could go to that school.' I don't have any feel­ings about any other school out there." 
Although Mainieri was careful not to pull a Rick Pitino by guaran­teeing that he would never leave, it seems safe to say that he feels very comfortable in his present position. 
"You never say 'never' to any­thing," Mainieri said. "If I were to say that absolutely, unequivocally there would never be anything else, and then something blew you away with the opportunity or if you just wanted a new challenge at some point in your life, you don't want people to think you're a liar. That's why I never say 'never' to anything. But I can tell you that I don't have any other aspirations of any other job out there. I think I've got the best job." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
*College Appreciation Week* 
at Beacon Bowl 
April 28th -May 4th 
All You Can Bowl, Ana Shoe Rental! 





Baseball 
continued from page 24 
California and a two-run victory at Oklahoma, the Sun Devils are 26-15 and 9-6 in their conference. 
"We're real young this year, real young," Murphy said. "We are very inexperienced and very injured. It came at a bad time, but we're still hanging in there." 
Arizona State is led at the plate by outfield­ers Andre Ethier and Jon Sheaffer, both hit­ting . 36 7 on the year. 
Even though the Sun Devils will prove a daunting opponent for the Irish, especially during a Big East break week, coach Paul Mainieri says his team relishes the opportuni­ty to play such top competition. 
"We are extremely excited about the opportunity to play Arizona State University because ifs a school that has represented excellence in college baseball through the years," Mainieri said. "They represent great­ness. That's where Notre Dame wants to get in the sport of baseball. They are to college baseball what Notre Dame is to football. From that standpoint, I think our players are very excited about that challenge." 
Conditions around Eck Stadium Thursday were extremely helpful to hitters as a steady 20 mile-per-hour wind blew straight out to center field. With an Arizona State team that has been known for its power and the emer­gence of several long-ball hitters for the Irish, conditions could be difficult for pitchers dur­ing the two-game series. 
"If this wind blows like it is today, it's going to be a bizarre game," Mainieri said Thursday afternoon. "There will be a lot of things happening, but I don't know who it will be an advantage to. I know that we get the last at-bat, and that's always important when the wind's blowing out, because they'll have to get us out in that last inning." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
i\TTENTION SENIORS!! 
FINAL CLASS MASS 
THIS SUNDAY, APRIL 28TH 
7PM THE GROTT FATHER BIL 
REFRESHMENT 
COME CELEBRA CLASS OF 
Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Men's and women's squads to race at Drake 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Senior Staff Writer 
Both the Irish men's and women's 4x400-meter relay teams qualified to compete at this weekend's Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa. 
But when they take the track, they face completely dif­ferent odds. 
The women's squad -com­prised of sophomores Ayesha Boyd and Kristen Dodd, junior Kymia Love and senior Liz Grow -currently ranks near the top in the country. 
While the team is confident it can come away from Drake with a gold medal, the focus is on running an NCAA Championships automatic qualifying time of 3;33. 
"We should run a 3:33 and hopefully automatically get into nationals," Grow said. "We know our team's capable of doing it, so we just now want to get this out of the way." 
The same team competed at Drake last season, beating a highly ranked Baylor team in the prelims before finishing fourth in the finals with a time of3:37.&3. 
But, as Grow says. that was Mansour, a Creston. Iowa, then, and this is now. native who competed at the 
"We're a lot better team Drake Relays while in high now, a lot faster and more school. experienced," Grow said, not­"It's something I've wanted ing the importance of experi­to do all four years here, and ence at a meet that is as com­to get the opportunity my petitive as Drake. "You kind of senior year is especially excel­have to know what you're lent," Mansour said. 'Tm run­doing in order to get through ning with some really great 
that exchange  guys.  That  
safely  and  makes it a spe­ 
still run fast. Last year Ayesha Boyd knocked a girl off the track."  "Ourfirst goal is to run our best time ofthe season and compete. We didn't come here just to  cial experi­ence, too." But when the Irish take the track Saturday  
While the women are in a position to  fool around or just rnn and call it a day. "  with Arizona State, one of the best teams  
sit  out  the  in the country,  
finals,  the  Mike Mansour  in  their pre­ 
men's squad -made up of  Irish runner  liminary heat, the team is not  
seniors  going to back  

William "Red" Croker, Nick down. Saracco. Mike Mansour and "Our first goal is to run the freshman Trevor McClain -best time of the season and was unsure a week ago compete," Mansour said. "We whether or not it would even didn't come here just to fool qualify for the meet. around or just run and call it a 
But with a 3:14.75 time at day. We're looking to compete the Missouri Invitational earli­with the best teams in the er this month, the team quali­country, and that's why we're fied. here." 
Qualifying for the meet was The Irish have athletes com­especially gratifying for peting in other events at 
. ·-.s•~<-.--· 

Drake as well. Junior Betsy Lazerri is competing in the heptathlon. the only female athlete outside the relay team running for the Irish. 
On the men's side, both freshman Selim Nurudeen and sophomore Napoleon Suarez competed in the 400-meter hurdles Thursday. Suarez fin­ished seventh in his heat, fin­ishing in a time of 54.22, while Nurudeen finished eighth in his heat in 56.72. Nurudeen also competes in the prelims of the 110-meter hurdles today. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane has been highly impressed with Nurudeen's progress this season, even comparing him to former Irish All-American Errol Williams. 
"Selim's consistent," Piane said. "He's doing very well when you consider he's only a freshman. He's running proba­bly as well or better than Errol Williams did at the same stage." 
The Irish distance squad is fielding a 4xl-mile relay group, with senior Pat Conway, sophomore Kevin Somok, freshman Eric Morrison and senior Luke Watson comprising the squad. 
"It's a great field, and Drake is one of the most fun meets that we go to all season," Watson said. "A victory would be great. Other than that, we just want to have a good time." 
The Irish are also sending two field events athletes to Drake -junior javelin thrower Mike Madigan and senior dis­cus thrower Derek Dyer. 
Madigan, who sat out of competition last weekend to take the MCATs, is recovering from a sore elbow. so field events coach Scott Windsor thinks he took his tests at the right time. 
"I think his elbow is better," Windsor said. "He got past the MCATs, he did okay. That weekend off actually turned out to be a blessing in disguise for him." 
Dyer, who competed in California at the Mt. SAC and Pomona invitationals last weekend, is looking for consis­tency in the discus. 
"He had between a 170 and 175 [foot) discus warm-up [throw in California]. and he gets to the competition and it's like he tightens up," Windsor said. "He just needs to learn how to relax and let his body do what it's trained to do, and it'll do it. He's getting way too tensed up." 
The rest of the Irish athletes compete at the Boilermaker Open at Purdue on Saturday, with events beginning at 9 
Contact Noah Amstadter at 
namstadt@nd.edu. 
CallID:11·1.l·· IDlli,IS''rt:-._._,, ..:<t 
i,',''::,.--f·· ...... ·....· 
··••f~_~!..-....•· 
,,::,;;;;~t.i<ra"'ert·:otti~•: 2a4:2436 · 
CeU: 274-9955 Voie;~,i!;_!?~=~~It 

IIMAILBOXES ETC~ 
''May Move Out '02'' 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 10 am -Spm 
Flanner Circle 
Monday, May 6th-Saturday. May 11th 
Wednesday. May 15th -Saturday, May 18th 
Monday. M..ay 20th 
Lyons Basketball Courts 
Wednesday, May 8th -Saturday, May 10th 
Welsh Family Hal! 
l0-5 _pm Monday -Fru.luy
Mav 6th -11th 
In The Lobby Of Le Mans Hall 
Wednesday, May 8th -Saturday. May 10th 
Friday, ~y l 7th'nft111151._ 
,$1.00 Off Shipping 
PER BOX 

FREE PICKUP 
Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted wirh pickup. 
Permanent Location 
Marti.n's Plaza -S.R-23 
Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm 
Sat: 1Pam-6pm 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 26, 2002 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
Big East field up next for Irish ro-wers 
By MARK ZAVODNYIK 
Sports Writer 
After a week off, the Notre Dame Women's rowing team returns to action this week­end at the Big East Rowing Challenge in Worcester. Mass. 
Other than Miami and Villanova, the Irish have yet to face any Big East foes this year. 
"This is a chance for our region to see others in the league," said head coach Martin Stone. 
Over the past two weeks, the Irish have taken advan­tage of the opportunity to do some late-season training. 
Head coach Martin Stone made sure that the Irish uti­lized the sunny weather by doing some rigorous work. 
"We used the last two weeks to gain speed. We went through some of our most difficult training cycles," said Stone. 
The Irish will enter teams in five of the six events in the regatta. Notre Dame will race the first varsity eight, the second varsity eight, two boats in the•varsity four, the first novice eight and the second novice eight. 
Notre Dame is seeded sec­ond in all of the races except the second varsity eight race, which they are seeded first. 
"We are very excited; every boat has the capability of winning," said sophomore Jayme Szefc. 
Even though the Irish were ranked ninth nationally last week and No. 10 this week, they are not concerned abnut not getting more No. 1 seeds in this weekend's regatta. 
"Seeding is an inexact sci­ence. Everybody gains speed over the course of the sea­son," said Stone. 
However, this acclaim on the national level has had some effect on the team's training. 
"Coach expects us to train even harder now that we are ranked in the top 10," said Szefc. 
There is more at stake at the Big East Rowing Challenge than just bragging rights. This is the first in a number of races that deter­mines which teams get to race in the NCAA Championships on June 1 and 2 in Indianapolis. 
"If we win, it helps solidify our chance for the NCAA Championships," Stone said. 
The location for this week• end's race is an ideal for a big regatta. The teams will be racing at Lake Quinsigamond. 
"It's a great traditional rowing course. They have had Olympic trials there in the past. It holds major races each year," said Stone. 
With their earlier strong performances this year, cou­pled with intensive training, Stone and the Irish are feel­ing confident. 
"I feel really positive. All of our boats have gained speed. There is no indication that we have slowed down at all," said Stone. 
As with any other regatt,a the Irish expect to win this weekend. 
"We are going in to come out Big East champions." 
Contact Mark Zavodnyik at mzavodny@nd.edu. 
THE DEPARTMENT Of MATHEMATil'S PROUDLY PRHsENTS 
The GE Prizes for Excellenca in Mathematics 
to 
Senior Honors in Mathematics Major 
KatJe Ponto 
Senior Mathematics Major 
Grsta Mikelonis 
and 
Aumann Prize for First Year Honors Mathematics Students 
Andrew Rupinski 
and 
Haase, Scholarships to 
Jear,ne Amond;,, and Donovan McFeron 
arid 
The Kolettis Award in Mathematics to 
Son/a Mapes 
and 
R. Catesby Taliaferro Competition to 
1st Place: Geoffrey Johnston & Andrew Lynch 2nd Place: Victoria Barone 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish hope to avoid letdown 
Antienzo and giving the ByMATILOZAR 

Mastodons the early 1-0 lead. Sports Writer 
The Irish came back in the bottom of the third to tie the After defeating a top-ranked game. Kriech sent a one•out sin­opponent. all of the hard work is gle to left and stole second. She lost if the team suffers a letdown moved to third on Megan Ciolli's in its next game. groundout. An error by 
Coming into Thursday's game Grabczak on Andrea Loman's against 5-24 IUPU-Fort Wayne, ground ball enabled Kriech to the Notre Dame softball team score. knew maintaining a high energy Coming right back in the level for the sec-fourth, Lisa ond straight Mattison
"For our freshmen to 
game would be reached on 
come in and do what
difficult. an error by 
"Games like they've done is huge. And Mastodon today are very second base­
what that does, itjust
tough to play, man Tierni
takes pressure off
especially after a Green. big win," said everybody else." Hartmann head coach then sent a 
Deanna Gumpf. 1-1 pitch
Deanna Gumpf
"We talked about f r o m it going in, and Irish coach Pomeroy 
we knew it was going to be hard. It's tough to really get excited and get up. We just had to take care of busi­ness today, and we did." 
Using Liz Hartmann 's second game-winning home run in as many games and senior Jenny Kriech's first career home run at Ivy Field, the Irish defeated the Mastodons 5-1. The victory extended Notre Dame's win streak to eight games and improved the squad's record to 29-13. 
IUPU-FW jumped on the board in the first with its only run of the game, off Notre Dame pitcher Carrie Wisen. IUPU-FW third baseman Sonia Atienzo led off the game with a single. After Wisen struck out pitcher Mindy Pomeroy, shortstop Angela Grabczak drove a triple to the gap in right center, scoring 
over the left­field fence, giving the Irish a 3-1 lead. 
"(Batting] feels good right now," Hartmann said. "I feel relaxed, and I feel like my hands are flowing where they should." 
With three wins in the past eight days coming on go-ahead hits by freshmen, the Irish are finally benefiting from giving the first-year players early playing time. 
"For our freshmen to come in and do what they've done this year, is huge," Gumpf said. "And what that does, it just takes the pressure off everybody else. I think a big part of it is putting those freshman into the fire like we did in the beginning of the year. So now, they have experi­enced everything. And it has really helped." 
Kriech used her glove and bat to seal the game for Notre Dame. Her diving catch on Mandy Jaffe's fly ball prevented the Mastodons from getting the lead off hitter on base in the fifth. 
Then in the sixth, Kriech made IUPU-FW pay for their fourth error of the game. Second baseman Alexis Madrid reached the miscue by Nicole Stoppenhagen. the second short­stop on the day for the Mastodons. Kriech hit the 2-0 pitch over the center-field fence and finally got her home run at Ivy Field. 
"I think Jenny had a great day," Gumpf said. "I think Jenny hit the ball, and she played great defensively." 
Wisen went the distance for the Irish and improved to 12-4 on the season. The freshman gave up four hits, walked two and struck out 11 but didn't have her best stuff. 
"I just don't think she [Wisen] was as sharp as she usually is," Gumpf said. "I think she just wasn't as sharp." 
This weekend, Notre Dame plays its final Big East road games, with doubleheaders at Boston College Saturday and Providence Sunday. The Eagles are in fourth place in the confer­ence, while the Friars are 4-12 in the Big East. 
"They are both scrappy, and they are both good," Gumpf said. "BC just swept Syracuse, so that tells you right there {how good they are] .... They are two good teams that are going to be pumped and ready for us. We have to go in there and just get after it." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 



----· 
Friday, April 26, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
.. 

Baseball traditions collide 
Notre Dame rizona State 
Tonight at 6pm Saturday at 3pm 
• First 300 fans receive a • First 200 fans receive a 
Notre Dame baseball Notre Dame green bean bag bear 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 2002 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Your DAY: Carol Burnett, IM Pei, Oiarles drive and detenninatioo to complete 
Richtei; Bobby Rydell projects will win respect and recogni­Happy Birthday: You should tion for your remarkable achieve­take a serious look at your insurance ments. You ran gain respect and sup­
policies, investments, wills or any 
CELEBRITlES BORN ON 1HIS 

port by voicing your opinion to other personal papers that may superiors. 000 
require updating or changes. You will LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): New have a greater concern with unusual friendships will spark enthusiasm in subjects and this lDUld lead to greater you If you travel, you will discover interaction with people from different all sorts of interesting information 
walks of life. Travel and visiting that will be valuable to you later en friends or ni'latives who live far away Use discrimination when it oomes to will be inspirational. Your numbers intimate relatiCI1Ships. 000 are 10, 14,25,3.3,41,43 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You Keep your eyes peeled for anything must get out and about today. out of the ordinary today. Secret Romance will develop at social func­intrigue will develop through asscxi­tions. An intellectual approach to ation with large corporatioos or insti­someone who interests yoo will be tutioos. 000 your best bet If you're already in a 
SAGl1TARllJS {Nmt ZZ-Dec. 21): 
You would be wise to get involved in TAURUS (April 20-May 20): an intellectual group that shares your Your aeative energy will flow freely beliefs. You ran meet potential part· 
today, allowing you to rnme up with relationship, rekindle !he flame. 000 

ners who can be of interest to you unique and progressive ideas that personally or of help to you profes­will help you receive the advance­sionally. 0000 mentyou've been waiting fct. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): GEMINI (May 21-June 20): As long as you don't overreact emo­Romantic opportunities with some­
tionally you will do just fine today. one you are already with or someone Your ideas and suggestioo.5 concern­new will be enhanced. Your vitality ing your work will be right on and will attract interesting people and 
therefore you should be able to your popularity with friends will accomplish what you set out to do. grow. 000CX) 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It 

Changes are in order and should ings to yowself today. Hyou haven't result in feeling better about yourself been happy with someone you are may be hard to keep your true feel­as well as your new directioo. Travel 
close to today will likely be the day will bring you positive results and that you let this person know exactly you will find yourself sitting in a pret· how you feel 00 tyenjoyable positicn 00000 
LEO Ou!y 23-Aug. 22): Your high PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): energy should be directed toward There is mmey to be made ifyou are doing things with your friends or quick to respood to the offers at your family. Pleasure hips will be reward­disposal. Property investments may 
ing from a personal point of view be long-term but they will be lucra· and will result in newfound friend· tive. Put some effort into adding 
value to your home. 000
ships.0000 

Birthday Baby: You will be extremely proud of your home and your farni. ly. You are kind, generous and you will not stand for an outsider speaking neg• atively about the roes you love. You love activity, and will open your door for 
an~~dvice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Univen;al Pn:ss Syndicate 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
YEAR-END SCHOOL RITUAL #53: 
UHH .. &UYS? 

CLEANIN& THE ROOM FOR THE YOU OIO THE VERY FIRST TIME SWEEP THE FLOOR Ai SOME 
POINT IN THE YEAR, AI&HT? 
BILLAMEND

FOXTROT 
n.e c:e11ti-a1 cba1'11:te1-ii Dt•.ibfP 
FEEL FREE To
Eneti He111inrw.rt "A J&n,,all

MOM, CA"' 
and the main th•-an, yq;tn· 
FIX ANY TYPOS,
i.. Arlnl" ii al>v\lt liW<f.oltll lln<l

YOU READ MY I'D SE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Astronomer 46 Get going Tycho 
48 For less 25 Seine sights 49 Not totally 

1 Some beets 
7 Handles 29 Clothier, in amateur 13 Spiro's Cambridge so Happen to
predecessor 
30 Supporters 51 _fly14 Where toys may 
31 Cooks, in a way 52 Defeated in abe displayed face-off, with32 Where the

15 Baseball's 1998 "down"
worldly-wiseAll-Star Game have been

M.V.P. 
DOWN 16 Record 
33 Ranch area 1 Director and34 Heredity, so tocompany receipt star of "Armour speak

17 Chuck Berry of God" 
35 Big zero

title girl 2 Dances in 
36 Not up 
grass?

18 Painted vessel, perhaps 37 Oath 3 Quarters 
19 _legs 42 Word in a 4 Edit for radio,prohibition maybe20 Siren 
43 Master's 5 Had a shot 22 Take nothing in superiors? 
6 Best Actress 23 Unlike wild 44 Begin winner of 1968 horses participating 
7 They can deliver 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Old self-realization program 
~..,,,+.,+.-l 10 14-Across entrant ...,.,~~1!!11,.:..:.i.;:;..;..-....,,_.;~~;.fl!ll!l!l!II 11 Track record? 28 Almost forever 45 Not just desire 
11!'.-~:-t.r:::+=+=-I 12 Some display 40 Broadcastingletters 29 Great things to worl< at 41 "The Canterville 47 Part of an even
14 Wet, in a way Ghost" author exchange30 Wiccan, e.g. 
16 Get clean, so to speak 31 Saint known as 21 Start of a "The Venerable" Answers to any clues in this puzzle are conclusion 33 Kind of alarm available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·285-5656 ($1.20 per minute).
~-=.+~~~+=-1 22 Delicate 35 Give the O.K. 37 Whal a Annual subscriptions are available for thei-.-1----24 "Marmaduke"cartoonist certificate may best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Anderson represent years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


(·..,•" .!:F'P, we, 5° ovt -X:-+s our \,,,st weate,,-.d. r+ Cc,vi«) b. l"\1 \1:1J. cl...;"C.e 

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Women's Rowing, p. 22 
. Men's Lacrosse, p. 19 
. 
ND Softball, p. 22 . Women's Bookstore , p. 18 

. 
Track, p. 21 . SMC Softball, p. 17 


. Women's Lacrosse, p. 17

PORTS 
Friday, April 26, 2002 

BASEBALL 
Showdown at the Eck 
• Former Irish coach brings 17th­ranked Sun Devils 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
Today, the Notre Dame baseball team hosts 17th­ranked Arizona State, led by former Irish coach Pat Murphy. The game marks the first time the former Irish coach returns to campus after taking the head baseball coach job with the Sun Devils in 1995. 
"I don't want [the games] to be about me," Murphy said. "I want it to be about the play­ers. I think the most special thing about Notre Dame is the people that go to school here. That's what I learned from being here seven years. The people that go to school here are really special, and I want our kids to experience what it's like." 
The Irish have been playing some of their best ball of the season, winning 11 straight and 20 of their last 22. 
The usually powerful 
BRIAN PUGEVICH/The Observer 

Arizona State squad has expe-
Irish head coach Paul Malnleri patrols the third-base line in a game this year against Chicago State. The Irish are looking to upset No. 17 Arizona State this weekend. 
see BASEBALL/page 20 


Quality coaches collide 
Sometimes it seems like things just work out for the best. 
Today the Irish baseball team hosts Arizona 
State-and former Notre Dame head coach Pat Murphy -fora two-game series against the 

17th­
Chris Federico 
ranked Sun 
Devils. 
It will be Murphy's Sports Editor first trip back to campus since 1995, when he became the first head coach in Notre Dame history to leave for anoth­er position. 
"It's really special just to be back," Murphy said. "It's a spe­cial place in my life because it's done so much for me. Notre Dame has been a part of my life even before I coached here ­just being a tremendous fan." 
In 1988, Murphy took over a Notre Dame baseball squad in 
see FEDERICO/page 20 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
No. 6 Splitters knock out SP Shockers again 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Senior StaffWriter 
Van Giles inside game opened up the Splitters outside shooters as the No. 6 seed beat No. 11 SP Shockers II, 21-14. 
Giles consistently scored on the inside, picking up six points and demanding double teams almost every possession. 
"Usually if I can start hitting some bas­kets, they have to start putting two peo­ple on me; then I can kick it out for open shots," Giles said. 
While the Splitters moved the ball around effectively for open looks, the Shockers went cold early on and couldn't
... 
buy a bucket. The Splitters opened a 12­3 lead before the Shockers finally started scoring. 
'They were a tough team. I give them a lot of credit but we just couldn't hit any shots early on," the Shocker's Ben Gilfillan said. 
This is the second year in a row that the Splitters have eliminated the Shockers. Last year the Splitters beat the Shockers in the round of 32. 
"We were hoping for some revenge but it just didn't happen. They are a senior team so that's all right. We are all just sophomores. We'll be back next year," Gilfillan said. 
The victory was in part a statement a game, according to Giles. He said his team, the pre-tournament No. 4 seed, was very upset about being dropped down to No. 6. Commissioners cited an ankle injury to Splitter's Matt Wolbeck as the reason for the downgrade in ranking. Wolbeck played Thursday's game with a brace on his ankle, but it did not appear to affect his game. 
"Everyone keeps talking about the ankle, but you saw he played fine today," Giles said. "We are tired of hearing about the ankle." 
The Splitters will face third-seeded Project Mayhem in the elite eight. Thanks to the hot shooting of Dan Lustig, Project Mayhem defeated What the Hell are Robster Craws?, 21-16. 
see MEN'S/page 18 

. Mourning Wood and Dime Pieces go to extra time for decision 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
While the top seven seeds were chal­lenged in Bookstore Basketball action Thursday, all of them held form to advance in tightly contested games. 
The most competitive game of the evening came in the No. 7 seed vs. No. 10 seed game where seventh-ranked Mourning Wood knocked off 10th­ranked Dime Pieces 23-21. 
"It was a real good game," said Wood's Brett Gansen. "There were a lot of fouls. Matt Panzer and Steve Llckus came up big for us." 
The game was tied at 10 before Wood rolled to a 15-12 lead. Pieces tied the game again at 17, but again Wood rolled off consecutive hoops to regain the lead at 19-17. That lead was short-lived as Pieces quickly closed to tie the game again at 19. 
With the game tied again at 20, both teams missed three opportunities to take the lead, including two missed free throws by Pieces. The tie was broken when Panzer hit a basket to give Wood a 21-20 lead. Pieces came back to tie it at 21 on their next possession before another Panzer basket gave Wood the lead for good. Lickus scored the final point in Wood's win. 
"The game was fought hard to the end," said Pieces' Phillip Madonia. "We had our chances, but it was a great game. They just ended up with more points than us." 
"We were a little bigger," added Gansen. "and our size helped us out in the end." 
No. 1 seed black J.A.C.K.S. was chal­lenged by Team 524 before advancing 21-17. Team 524 jumped to a 5-3 lead and tied the game at 11 before J .A.C.K.S scored three straight to take the lead for good. 
see BBALL/page 18 
. Baseball vs. Arizona State, today, 6 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. ND Softball at Boston College, Saturday, noon

SPORTS 
onUne 

. Football Blue-Gold Game, Saturday, 1:30 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Lacrosse at Hartford, Saturday, 2p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 







