

Congratulations
CLOUDY 

Friday

The Observer congratulates all Notre Drune and Saint Mary's students who will graduate this weekend and wishes them the best of luck in the future. 
MAY17, LOW37° 
HIGH 50° 
2002 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Sening Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVI NO. 135 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, May 17, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A common bond 
Four weeks ago, I gathered at the South B1md Marriott with 100 other current and former Observer staff workers to celebrate the 35th anniversary of the founding of the paper. 
Although many ofus had never met before, we 


shared a common bond. The problems of the paper 30 years ago were very similar to the problems of the paper today. The war stories were all different but everyone understood them. 
There was a connection between us all. 
Ten days later, a smaller group of Observer editors from around the countrv gathered again in Sacre·d Heart Basilica. Ryan Ver 
Berkmoes, one of the manag­
Writer
ing editors from the early 
1980s, had lost his mother to 
a stroke. Two editors and I 
arrived at the Basilica a little after 9:30 a.m. for 
the funeral. A few other faces from the reunion 
were there as well. We didn't really know Ryan 
very well. Other than a few short conversations 
before and during the reunion, I didn't really 
have a connection to him. 
But for some reason, we knew we had to be at 
the funeral. 
When I told people I would be attending a 
funeral that morning, many expressed sorrow for 
my loss. When I explained to them that I didn't 
know the deceased at all and only barely knew 
one of her family members, no one questioned 
why I was attending the funeral. They understood 
that somehow there was a connection that oblig­
ated me to be at the funeral. 
As I walk away from this school with my degree in hand, I take with me much more than a sheet of paper. There is a strong bond I have between those who graduate with me, those who will graduate after me and those who have graduated before me. 
I am not going to throw out cliches and pre­packaged Go Irish sappiness. I don't believe in the Notre Dame Family and I could fill this entire issue with bitter, spite-filled prose about this school and the administration that runs it. 
But as I graduate I get to leave that all behind. Now, I get to treasure the connections that I have made and the experiences I have shared. 
When I call The Observer's phone number in 15 years, I know that I will be speaking to an editor who has not slept more than five hours in the last four days, whose professors wonder if he is brain dead and who has listened to countless com­plaints about the crossword puzzle from angry history TAs. 
There will be a shared experience that will somehow bond us together. Any way he can help me, he will. Any way I can give him assistance, I will offer it. 
The same guys that I lost Bookstore Basketball games with will somehow still be there for me when we are all 20 years old, 30 pounds heavier and hoping to God that our kids never do the same things we did in college. 
So as I transition from tuition-generating entity into donation-generating entity in the eyes of the University, I will hold fast to the connections that really matter. I will bind my checkbook to Notre Dame because if I don't, I won't get any football tickets. But my heart will remain connected to those common experiences, those shared memo­ries and those in the future who will feel the same way. 
None of us will be able to explain it or justify il, but we all understand the bond. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication am! strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rime•. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. ff we have made a mis rake, please cunract us at 63 1-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Ob~1ver \U~llS )')() l-..OOU) i, pu.Wish~d Mo11-tlay thtougti frid..y eaccpr dutin1, eiw;:;.m .wU va....i.non p.;tKJdJ., A 1ubKnptw11 LO The Ohr..1:,-,.1,,.r U. JIOOforonc ;o...ackmu:. yi.:.u; $,5'5: for ont Joemat.:.r. 
n.. Obkrv~r N, puhli1hcd ~~ i1f).STMI\STl:Jt ~nd ~Jdio:D Lo,r~'--iiona ru: 024 Suuth Dining, Hilll rhc on~ivcr Nuu\' D.unc, lN 46SS6-077'J P.O. BuxQ Pcriodic.d ro~r.ap: p.1.id ar Nu1u Dune.i.r,d 024 Smnh Dinm& H.,11 ~dinonil tnailit\i! offii;ei Norn: Dam<, IN ~65%-~) 
Mike Connolly 
Senior Staff 




,Events of the Weekend 
Friday, May 17 
2-4p.m. 

:,COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS {('. ::: l-IQ.~QllS:fONVOCATION :Jf•/:;Ji~ii~~~!(}~ Hall 4 p.m. 
·:::1\ ti=!\;:/·.. 

,.. . •·•·····•· .. •·•.·,•·....... BACCALA~lli~SS 
·· 1 p~~'l a;Ji!. Angela Ath~~:F.'a.cilit)'.: ,,. 'tHlADUATION MASS }~-' ""'·~ .;,-;,~•;,: :'..• 
1oY~ Center -North7~;::;0,30 i '-:f;J'J} 
SENIOR REOEfll()tJ>t''
·::.~·...~........ Century Center · · 

Sa~11rday, May 18 
~.............,.•-:. 

../ :ROTC COMMISSIONING 


'~~1J;:::::17t~Pti
COMMENf;'.~·.. /;j 
Court of Le~f_}f,,!iaJffe 

Smyth wins Laetare Medal 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assisranr News Editor 

Notre Dame alumnus Father John Smyth will receive this year's Laetare Medal at the 2002 Commencement exercises. The Chicago priest has spent the last 40 years working at Maryville Academy. a residence for orphaned and homeless 

Smyth
children. 

"Father Smyth is a man who has spent his entire adult life in ministry to vulnerable, disadvan­taged children," said University spokesman Dennis Moore. "Maryville Academy has been one of the most successful institutions in the country." 
Smyth, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1957, was a stand­out athletically. He served as bas­ketball team captain and was rec­ognized as an honorable mention All-American player. After gradu­ation, Smyth was selected by the St. Louis Hawks in the third round NBA draft pick. He turned down the offer, however, to enter the priesthood. 
Since his ordination in 1962, Smyth has worked at Maryville Academy in the Chicago archdio­cese. He entered into service at the academy in 1962 and assumed the job of executive director in 1970. 
"The Notre Dame family has been proud of Father John Smyth since his days as a student here 50 years ago," said University President Edward Malloy. "[TJhis year we particularly wish to cele­brate the exemplary manner in which he has served Christ in the children who are victims of neglect, prostitution. sexual abuse and family violence." 
Smyth was selected to receive Catholic America's oldest honor in March. A committee of Notre Dame staff, faculty. and adminis­trators made the recommenda­tion, which was approved by the Officer's Group. The medal, estab­lished in 1883, is named after Laetare Sunday, because the recipient is announced on the fourth Sunday of Lent on the Church calendar. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 



LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather"fonxast for daytime conditions and high temperntures 

4,~-~P.Q.~ !) ~ L1 
Showers T-storms Ra,n Flu;les S~;;; /CO Sunny Pr. Cloud), Ctovdy 
Via As.soaarsd Pross Qr aph,'c:t',Nel 
<···.•···•·•········•·•·······•· .• ••···...... s. 
6~~:~NCEM/l~~~S
··· b:45-8 p:m~ Joyce Center -SpuUVDQme/ . >GRAJ)UATION DINNER t.~t·:•~t':1: :,:•/' 
•:;;:,, Joyce Center and North Dining Hall "'"'·",..,_ 
s~~day, May 19 
9:45 and 11 :45 a.m. 



tr::~~~.~:?,\ 
COMMENCEMENT LtnU"RG"f 
1.2•lS m Church of Loretto \(.. ~s.'rf .;i
. p. . •. . .:'. ·, .y: DISTRIBUTION OF BACHELOR ANJ'.5:,,.. .. MASTER DIPLOMAS 
1oyce ~enter -North Dome 7 Guests ·may begin entering Gate 10 
..... • 
·2•4p.m. .. • .. COMM'.ENCEMENT AND CONFERRING .. OF DBG:REES )oyce·Center -South Dome 
4:30 p.m. LAW SCHOOL DIPLOMA CEREMONY Hes.burgh li.brary Reflecting Pool 
ND, SMC award honorary degrees 

Notre Dame will present 11 honorary 
degrees at its Commencement exercises on 
Sunday, and Saint Mary's will award three 
on Saturday. 

Notre Dame recipients include: journalist 
and principal Commencement speaker Tim 
Russertt; Margaret Bent, the first female 
senior research fellow at All Souls College in 
Oxford; Lord John Browne, group chief exec­
utive of BP Amoco; Alfred DeCrane. retired 
chief executive officer of Texaco; Cardinal 
Walter Kasper, president of the Pontifical 
Commission for Promoting Christian Unity; 
Helen Lieberman, founder of a nonprofit 
organization serving the needy of South 
Africa; Sydney Pollack, an actor, director and 
producer; Helen Quinn, a renowned physi­
cist; Diarmuid O'Scannlain, a member of the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, William Sexton, outgoing vice president for University Relations; Patrick Toole, a devel­oper at IBM; and Cicely Tyson, an actress, activist and humanitarian. 
The College is honoring James Jack, execu­
tive vice president and chief financial officer 
of Medallion Financial Corp.; Marjorie 
Hamel, an alumnus and former national 
chair of the Madeleva Steering Committee; 
and Sister M. O'Flynn. a Holy Cross Sister 
and adviser to former College presidents. 

Saint Mary's will also award the President's Medal to Dorene Hammes, a -College donor and confidant to College 
President Mary Lou Eldred. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathere forecast for noon.Friday, May 18. 


COLO WARM STA TIDNAR Y 
~2001 AccuW oather ,Inc. 

. r:zZl D f:.·'.::J ~ 0 (.,~ ~ Wslt 
Showers Fl..oln T-slorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud)I 

Atlanta  76  57  Las Vegas  
Ballirnore  77  51  Memphis  
Boston  69  50  Milwaukee  
Chicago  53  39  New York  
Houston  89  63  Philadelphia  


93  68  Penland  66  44  
85  67  Sacramento  83  50  
49  37  St LOUIS  62  46  
77  60  Tampa  88  72  
77  54  Washington  79  56  

Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Notre Dame class of 2002 leaves its mark 

By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 

The 1,872 members of the Notre Dame undergraduate class of 2002 will enter a new phase of their lives, leaving four years of memories filled with academics and service, along with tragedy and hope. 
Since the day they stepped foot on the 1.250-acre Notre Dame campus in August 1998, prepared or unprepared to attend their freshmen orientation graffiti dance or the Sunday mass for 
election as well as the accomplishments of fellow classmates, has made the class of 2002 stand out. 
"It just seemed like the turn of the cen­tury, the turn of the millennium equals a new phase, a new destination for Notre Dame," senior Tambre Paster said. 
Paster, who was the first African­American head drum major in the Notre Dame marching band, said she believes her accomplishment was significant but one that began with members of the previ­ous class of 2001, such as the first African­
Amc rican Leprechaun 

broken traditions, as well as coped with tragedy. 
"We've dealt with the loss of three class­mates," said Gawrych. "We're also tho graduating class in the year of one of the greatest tragedies in our history." 
Gawrych said the events of Sept. 11 challenged the class and also bonded them together to help the world. 
He added that social activism was a way that students addressed the issues of poverty and inequality in the world. Gawrych, who conceived the idea for the University's first Blessing Unto Others Week to fight poverty and promote social service, said the class of 2002 has made a conscious effort to get involved with com­munities outside of Notre Dame. 
"Being so blessed at the University, we need to share those blessings with other people and help make this world a better place," said Gawrych. 
As Gawrych prepares for the candidate program at the Moreau Seminary, he said he is excited to hear about the future accomplishments of the class of 2002. 
"We're ready to make a big impact on the world outside of Notre Dame," said Gawrych. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 

students and families, Mike Brown or the first
"We're ready to make a 
the class of 2002 has female Irish Guard Molly
big impact on the world 
seen many changes at Kinder. Paster identified the University. They outside ofNotre Dame." those individuals as rep­entered a campus with resentatives of a trend a new South Quad toward increasing diversi­
Drew Gawrych

restaurant, Reeker's, a ty in the University as well senior as discovering new types
recently opened Eck Visitors' Center and a renovated Morrissey Hall. The same class is leaving the campus with the onc-year­old Coleman-Morse Center, Malloy Hall, Hayes-Healy and a renovated Fisher Hall. 
While witnessing the construction of the University, the class of 2002 has also left its own marks. Included in the class of 2002 was the first female student body president and the first African-American drum major among other firsts and stu­dents who added new things to the University. 
'Tm really glad that I decided to run for student body president," said Brooke Norton, the first female student body pres­ident during the 2001-2002 academic year. "It's an amazing experience to be able to meet so many different people," said Norton of her four years at Notre Dame. 
Norton, a graduating senior, said her of leadership. 

"With our class in particular, we're just carrying on that trend," Paster said. "We're carrying on the torch and hopeful­ly this will be something continues on for years to come." 
In addition to sprinkling new flavor to the leadership roles of the University, the students of the class of 2002 banded together during times of heightened tragedy in the nation and on campus. The death of three students in the class of 2002 inspired bone marrow drives, cancer walks and runs, scholarships and masses to deal with the losses. 
"f think that is one of the most difficult things our class had to deal with," said Norton, referring to the deaths of Brionne Clary, Conor Murphy and Miranda Thomas. 
Senior Drew Gawrych said that drn class of 2002 has shown resilience as they have 
. CONGRATULATONS TO THE 2002 OBSERVER GRADUATING CLASS . 

THE




BSE~ R 
BETH AMER  ERNESTO LACAYO  
NOAH AMSTADTER  MYRA MCGRIFF  
DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT  ALEX MENZE  
ANGELA CAMPOS  MAIT NANIA  
KYLIE CARTER  KENT NELSON  
RICO CASARES  MATT 0RENCHUK  
PAHVEL CHIN  LIZ OVERLAN  
MIKE CONNOLLY  PAT PETERS  
RYAN CUNNINGHAM  PETER RICHARDSON  
STEVE CURASCO  LAURA ROMPF  
SAM DERHEIMER  SARAH RYKOWSKI  
BROOKES EBETSCH  CHRIS SCOTT  
COLLEEN FAHERTY  CHAD SILKER  
VAN GILES  KERRY SMITH  
NOREEN GILLESPIE  MAUREEN SMITHE  
CHRISTINE KAAI  KIMBERLY SPRINGER  
TOM KEELEY  ADAM TURNER  

Thank you for years of friendship, hard work and commitment to the pursuit of quality journalism. Your contributions will be missed. Best wishes in all that you do in the future. From the 2001-02 staff 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 17, 2002 
Dolezal, Furman to be honored as valedictorians 
• Furman achieves highest GPA while working as baseball manager 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Editor 
In addition to having the high­est grade point average of all of her classmates, Saint Mary's valedictorian Katie Furman also serves as the head manager of N o t r e Dame's baseball team, the equivalent of a full-time job. 
Furman has a 3.98 grade point average and is dou­ble majoring in marketing and management with a minor in mathematics, but she said she was very surprised ball games. 


Furman said that she spends a great deal of time studying when she is not traveling and said that being busy helps her be more productive. 
"I take a computer on the road and I do a lot of work before I am on the road and I spend a lot of hours in the library. I also think that when your time is filled up with other activities like [base­ball], I get more stuff done. I think if I sat at home and didn't really do anything, I wouldn't be motivated. In a way being really, really, really busy has been a benefit to make me do my work," she said. 
Furman said that her speech at Saturday's commencement exer­ci'les will be a fun one. 
"The main focus is on the memories that we have had over the past four years. It will be kind of light-hearted; there will be sad parts, but not a whole lot. 
Furman, an Akron, Ohio native, attended Our Lady of the Elms High School and knew Saint Mary's was her first choice 
after visiting the 
campus. 

to be "The main focus [of the "I liked the named atmosphere, I
speech] is on the
valedicto­liked how friendly
memories that we have 
rian. everyone is and I "I obvi-had over the pastfour like how challeng­
o u s I y ing Saint Mary's
years. It will be kind of
d o n ' t is," said Furman. 
light-hearted; there 
t h i n k Following grad­about that will be sad parts, but uation, Furman kind of will work with the 
not a whole lot. " 
s t u f f baseball team because I through the end am [at the Katie Furman of their season, baseball Saint Mary's valedictorian which could last 
field] all the time, so I would never really have thought about being valedictorian," said Furman. 
Since her freshman year, Furman has been a manager. During her freshman and sopho­more years, she worked with many sports but for the past two years she worked solely with the baseball team. 
The baseball team was her main extracurricular activity, requiring her to work almost 10 hours a day during the season and travel extensively for the first part of the season, when the team is on the road for the first 22 games because South Bend weather is not conducive to base-
until late-June if 
the team reaches 

the College World Series. Furman said she has aspirations to work in the man­agement of a professional base­ball team. 
"I would actually like to work for a baseball team in the front office. I would like to own my own baseball team someday. but that's a really, really long time away and a lot of money away from me right now," she said. 
The Saint Mary's valedictorian is the student with the highest grade point average in the grad­uating class. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 
~~p..MEC(& Congratulations&~t Seniors! 
Z~IT1 

.. From the Notre Dame lVIINNESOTA Club of Minnesota 
Be proud! Years ofhard work have finally paid off. 
For those of you heading to Minnesota, the Notre Dame Club of Minnesota would like to welcome you to the area. On July Izth and 13th we will have an alumni tent at the Cities 97 Basilica Block Party in Minneapolis and you are invited. 
This yearly event is a great time, with 12 bands playing during the two days. Some of this year's bands include Big Head Todd and The Monsters, Dishwalla, and Midnight Oil. Tickets are available at a discounted price for alumni. 
For more infonnation, please contact the Club's Young Alumni Coordinator, Brian Matzek, at (612) 825-1077 or checkout our website at http://www.ndrnn.org. 
. Dolezal balances academics, service and spirituality 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Edi tor 

Valedictorian Tim Dolezal has lived in Carroll all his life. 
In fact, he's lived in two comm uni­
t i e s named Carroll ­a small Iowa town and Notre Dame's smallest residence 


hall. Both Dolezal h a v e helped Dolezal become the member of the senior class who will deliver Sunday's valedictory address. 
Dolezal, a finance and busi­ness economics major with a 
3.97 grade-point average, said his address will highlight the significance of the Notre Dame experience and discuss the responsibilities that are connected with earning a Notre Dame degrees. 
Dolezal said he is very humbled to be named vale­dictorian. 
"I don't think anybody with their feet on the ground can look at the mirror and feel worthy of being the valedicto­rian in the class of so many wonderfully talented people, so it's a very humbling feel­ing," he said. 
A third-generation Notre Dame student, Dolezal knew that he wanted to come to Notre Dame at a very young 
age. His father. Fred, gradu­ated in 1965 and his grandfa­ther, Robert, graduated in 1926. 
"My only dream my whole life was to come to Notre Dame. It was the only school I applied to, it was the only school I wanted to go to,'' he said. "[Being valedictorian] is definitely a storybook ending to my dream come true." 
While at Notre Dame, Dolezal served as Carroll Hall president during his sopho­more year and as hall liturgi­cal commissioner this year. He was involved with Campus Ministry, where he led a team at a Notre Dame Encounter retreat, coordinated a senior retreat and served as an ele­mentary school catechist for two years. He also participat­ed in the Appalachia Seminar this spring, helping a family 
in  Dungannon,  Va.,  to  
improve their home.  
Dolezal  said  that  he  is  

extremely satisfied with his four years at Notre Dame and said the only thing he gave up on during the last four years was sleep. 
"What we all strive for is to really just milk the Notre Dame experience for all it's worth -in every facet, start­ing with dorm life, socializ­ing, spiritually and with ser­vice and student govern­ment," he said. "If you want to look at what a successful Notre Dame career is, you have to look at all those ele­ments and all those have an equal weight." 
After graduation, Dolezal will stay at Notre Dame and work in the University's Investment Office where he will help manage the University endowment and analyze the market. Dolezal was hired after speaking to his applied investment man­agement professor, Scott Malpass, who is also the University's chief investment officer. 
"I started thinking about the idea of working for the mission of Notre Dame and using what Notre Dame has given me to help put the University in a position where it will be able to achieve it's dreams and that was all I needed," Dolezal said. "I was so excited and I told Mr. Malpass that if he offered the job that I'd take it on the spot and a few weeks later I was able to talk him into hiring 1ne." 
Eventually. Dolezal said he plans to attend graduate school to obtain his master's of business administration and said one day he hopes to manage an endowment fund or a pension fund. 
The selection of the Notre Dame valedictorian begins in February, when the regis­trar's office generates a list of the two students with the highest grade point average in each college. These candi­dates then submit recommen­dations from the dean of their college, a peer and a draft of a 3-minute speech. The vale­dictory selection committee then anonymously ranks the candidates and the committee interviews the final two or three students. From these finalists. the committee selects the valedictorian and the second place candidate is asked to give the invocation at graduation. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 



Congratulations Past and PresentLewisites ! 
.,

/·'L ~.... t. 
.. 

;-. F ~• 
:>

'.•. :, . ,.•, ·-,:.. .. '•. •' ' '··~.
...

' ' ·• 
YO u wILL BE M Iss ED 

FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Top 10 Observer news stories from the 1998-2002 academic years page 5 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's respond­ed in a dramatic fashion to the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and rural Pennsylvania. 
Classes were cancelled mid-session as representatives from the registrar's office vi5ited individual classrooms. Seven-thou­sand students and faculty attended a mass on South Quad at 3 p.m. on the day of the attacks, which was concelebrated by all campus priests and Auxiliary BL'ihop John D'Arcy. Throughout the day, students streamed to the grotto and took advan­tage of free cab service to donate blood. 


5 
Student alleges 
gang rape 

ND student alleges gang rape 

f;w;,f•i,:,a.:"° 

!>.~1rn!e tables budget protm~al ' .,...,,, 
A 20-year-old Notre Dame student alleged that four football players gang-raped her at an off-campus house. The University expelled the students and University President Father Edward Malloy denied their appeals. The prose­cutor's office is still deciding whether to press charges. 
April ll, 2002 
'Monologues'8 spark controversy 
This year, Notre
I. ~??,, ~:::c ..:~:a­
Dame held a perfor­mance of the
OssERVER 
" ...,, • .,,,.. . .,..,,., .... ,~..,,.--1'-·> 

"Vagina Monologues" under protest from various groups, including the Knights of Columbus. Last year, Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred can­celled "The Vagina Monologues" but it was performed despite her decision. 
2001 -2002 
Campuses react to terrorist attacks 
September 11, 2002 
Phone lines and Internet connections at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were overwhelmed as students called home to check on their family and friends. 
Like all athletic events nationwide, Notre Dame's football game against Purdue on the following Saturday was cancelled as the nation mourned the loss of thousands of citizens. At the Sept. 22 home football game against Michigan State, the entire stadium paused as University President Father Edward Malloy said a prayer and fans raised printed American flags into the sky in an event televised nationwide by NBC Sports. 
Four alumni were killed in the attacks: Robert Ferris, class of 1962, who worked on the 102nd floor of the south tower of the World Trade Center; Army Lieutenant Colonel S. Neil Hyland Jr., class of 1977, who worked at the Pentagon; and Peter Batacan. class of 1983, and Dora Marie Menchaca, class of 1977, who were killed on American Airlines Flight 77. which crashed into the Pentagon. Suzanne Kondratenko, a 1996 Saint Mary's gradu­ate who worked in the World Trade Center, was also killed in the attack. 
Trustees reject 3 Big Ten 

~jo.£.~-.:~ ~tf.f~:t-U p:~~>ttt.i,i; :':t«":"Y!t1 U-:-\W.t.. :.J f<i:Cit.:O)
iid ;.;Eli,~::!'. ..... ---... ~~~:;~~1~; 
Fearing the loss of a unique identity as a university, the Notre Dame Board of Trustees voted against joining the Big Ten conference. If Notre Dame had joined the Big Ten it would have been one of only two pri­vate universities and the only mem­ber with a religious affiliation. 
February 8, 1999 

Bush speaks at6 Commencement 
President George 
W. Bush spoke at Class of 2001 Commencement, becoming the fifth President to speak at a Notre Dame com­mencement. House representatives and Notre Dame alumni helped to court Bush, whose visit was gen­erally welcomed but protested by some who objected to his policies. 
May 20, 2001 
9 Class loses three to leukemia 
11 .,,,,..-..:::~·--y .,r-, 1c:~...... .:;;~-; 
··· ··oeHsERVER 
,............,. .......... ,..._:,...,.... 
Jl'UTI : (:&m,.-n,i,i IW1>f'rl ltl!to.Jllog 
-:,-:::;;~~ : l11flt1i':<m.~l ltlsp..i1h.:s


'~Tli 
Three members of the Class of 2002 -Brionne Clary, Conor Murphy and Miranda Thomas -died of leukemia during the class' four years at Notre Dame. Memorial services were held for all three and the class has worked to estab­lish an annual bone marrow drive that will be held in their memory. 
1999-2001 

II•·z,,:12·•::·· ,:,7lf@,,,· .. ~ 
·oBsiRvEi···· 
lrlsb rE'tlpond to NCAA 111mction,; 

4 NCAA sanctions ND for violations 
The NCAA handed Notre Dame it's first ever major violation in connection with Kimberley Dunbar's gifts to a number of Irish football players. Dunbar's membership in the Quarterback Club made her official University representa­tive, said the NCAA. 
The University lost two scholarships and received a two-year probation. 
Jan. 19, 2000 

7 
Norton elected first female pres. 

Last spring Brooke Norton accepted a position no female before her had held -student body pres­ident. Norton and her vice president Brian Moscona won 56 percent of the votes. 
Norton is also the first incumbent vice president to win the role of president since 1973. 
Feb. 15, 2001 

Hononng a lifo 

::,,2,-:::;; •.' . Si_~
,,., '-''.'' t ,

~ ,.w... 

Hesburgh
10 

receives medal 
University offi­cials, Congressmen and former President Bill Clinton gathered in the U.S. capitol rotunda July 13, 2000 to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame, for a lifetime of public service. 
Aug. 23, 2000 
page 6 

The Observer . THE YEAR IN REVIEW Friday, May I 7, 2002 
Campuses respond to Sept. 11. University completes construction. Coaching fiasco. U2 plays at the Joyce. 



By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
Sept. 11 Attacks 

By far the most shocking and 
memorable event of 2001, the 
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the 
World Trade Center towers in 
New York and the Pentagon in 
Washington canceled classes for 
one day, but traumatized 
Americans forever. Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's initial response 
to the tragedy was prayer as 
approximately 7,000 people 
gathered for Mass on South Quad 
and an additional 400 filled 
Regina Hall's chapel that unfor­
gettable Tuesday afternoon. 

In the months that followed, as airport security tightened and White House press conferences revealed information about the hunt for Osama bin Laden in the caves of Afghanistan, the cam­puses continued to pray and started to act. 
A series of panel discussions, prayer vigils and fundraisflrs filled the fall semester -includ­ing one such effort during the Notre Dame-Michigan State game that raised $270,981 for the families of firefighters and police killed when the towers crumbled. In the spring, a num­ber of classes were created across academic departments to focus on the history and after­math of the attacks and America's relationship with the global community. 
Now, more than eight months later, soon-to-be graduates searching for jobs continue to feel the economic effects of the attacks on the American econo­my. 

Campus Construction 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's also continued campus expan­sions and renovations this year. Notre Dame completed construc­tion on Malloy llall, renovations on Hurley Hall and the Hayes­!lealy Center and broke ground for the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The University also began additions to the Ifosburgh Center for International Studies and the Stepan Chemistry Building. The Stepan and Hesburgh centers' renovations are scheduled to be complete in the fall. The DeBartolo Center will not be ready until summer 2004. 
Saint Mary's broke ground for the Student Center/Noble Family Dining Hall April 19. 


2001 • 
The three-level, 80,000­square-foot, $17 million struc­ture will be built in two phases. Phase I is construction of the new Noble Family Dining Hall, which is scheduled for completion in June 2003. Phase II, which includes demolition of the old dining hall and construction of the student center, should be fin­ished by December 2004. Saint Mary's student government donated $12,000 to the project. 
U2 Elevation Tour 

After months of anticipation and another chaotic ticket distri­bution, U2 kicked off the third leg of their Elevation Tour on Oct. 10 at Notre Dame's Joyce Center. The crowd of 11,000 with the most fortunate packed inside a heart-shaped catwalk that lead singer Bono and guitarist The Edge strutted across throughout the show, was awed by hits from U2's most recent album All That You Can't Leave Behind as well as their classics. 
In their typically politically sen­sitive manner, the band paid tribute to the heroes of Sept. 11 by bringing New York police and firefighters on stage when they performed a verse of "Peace on Earth" as an introduction to their closing number, "Walk On." Bono also honored students who participate in service programs such as the Alliance for Catholic Education and "change the world" with their dedication to teaching. 
Senior Tim Collins was reunit­ed with Rono after first meeting the legend while visiting his girl­friend who studied abroad in Dublin during the spring of 2000. In Dublin with Collins Bono had said of Notre Dame, "It's a place with a lot ofsoul." 
Coach Fiasco 

If any chapter in Notre Dame history could be erased, the ath­letic department would probably pick the coaching search that rocked the University in December. 
The torrid month began when Rob Davie was fired less than 12 hours after coaching the final game of his live-year career at Notre Dame. Davie had led the Irish to a BCS berth in the Fiesta Bowl a year before, but after a 5­6 season last fall -the second losing season in three years ­fans clamored for his head. 
After Athletic Director Kevin White fired Davie, he launched a 
Nov. 28: Hoadley sues University for a lift on his suspension 
Aug. 30: SMC responds to DOE complaint about sexual assault reporting procedure 
k---:,-,o·c,· •• 

Oct 12: Rego banned from campus despite Notre Dame­West virginia game for alleged rape of ND alumna Sept. 6: Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts groundbreaking 

Dec. 2: Bob Davie fired 
AVr~·:'~'~-~-·-~,:~W:~::~r.s~:m~:~~:;~~~~~i:E;i~::~;;;;;~f:r:~~2;;imitleSiifie.i~:;~~::;~7 
Dec. 9: ND hires O'Leary
Sept. 11: World Trade Center attacked by terrorists Sept 21: State and local police begin tailgating crackdown at ND-MSU game 
Aug. 31: SMC student reports alleged rape in Keough Hall 
Oct. 10: U2 performs at ND 

Dec. 14: O'Leary resigns 

Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Vagina Monologues performed. Officials introduce new alcohol policy. Campus deals with sexual assault. 



ID 
ev1e 

• 2002 
nationwide search for his replace­ment. A week later, White returned with former Georgia Tech head coach George O'Leary. At a public press conference where O'Leary was introduced, the University distributed T-shirts that read "By George, it's O'Leary." 
But while Davie's reign lasted five years. O'Leary's lasted only five days. 
After a reporter discovered that O'Leary's biography contained false information about his college playing career and academic cre­dentials. O'Leary resigned in dis­grace after he admitted to Notre Dame he had lied about earning a master's degree and playing foot­ball for New Hampshire. 
White then resumed the coach­ing search. ln December, White had said he had seven candidates on his list and he had interviewed five face-to-face. He offered the job to two. The first was O'Leary, the second was Stanford head coach Tyrone Willingham. 
White actually interviewed Willingham during the first phase of the coaching search, but didn't feel he had a strong love for Notre Dame. When the two talked in late December, Willingham opened up about his love for the Irish, and White had found his man. 
Willingham was formally intro­duced as Irish head coach on New Year's Day, finally ending the month-long nightmarish coaching search that publicly embarrassed Notre Dame. 
Monologues strike back 
When Saint Mary's banned the performance of Eve Ensler's con­troversial play "The Vagina Monologues" on campus in winter 2001, students protested with a speak-out, a sit-in and a petition. Although 20 women eventually gathered to read the play before approximately 150 students in the lobby of Regina Hall, the show never received any official recog­nition from the College. 
In February, however, Notre Dame welcomed to its campus the show sponsored by the depart­ments of Film, Television and Theatre Department and Gender Studies as part of a nationwide initiative al<;O developed bv Ensler called, "V-Day: Until the Violence Stops." 
Directed by senior Kerry Walsh, 35 women performed Ensler's work in DeBartolo Hall before standing-room-only audiences two nigh ts in a row. 
This year's performance, too, was not without controversy. Representatives from the Pro-Life Action League of Chicago distrib­uted fliers to play-goes as they entered the theater, describing their belief that the "Monologues" is steeped in vile sexual language, denigrates heterosexual love and marriage and is verbal pornogra­phy that donates its proceeds to pro-abortion groups. Members of the Knights of Columbus also wrote letters to The Observer's Viewpoint section and prayed in DeBartolo's upstairs chapel before performances of the play. 
Alcohol policy 
. For a student body typically criticized for its apathy, Notre Dame students responded vicious­. ly to alcohol policy changes Father Mark Poorman, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, announced March 19. The new policy targets drinking among undergraduate students by ban­ning "hard" liquor in residence halls, eliminating in-hall dances and rewriting the tailgating policy to permit students of legal age to drink in designated parking lots 
on football weekends. 
More than 600 students 
marched to the Main Building 
chanting, "We need a voice" 
March 21 and lit copies of the stu­
dent handbook, du Lac, on fire. 
This initial rally was followed by 
student speeches at a Campus 
Life Council meeting with 
Poorman present, a petition with 
more 4,000 student signatures 
and Student Senate resolutions 
proposing alterations to the pro­
posed policy, none of which 
inspired any change to date. The 
policy is to be formally written 
this summer and take effect next 
fall. 
The spring policy changes were 
foreshadowed, however, by tail­
gating crackdowns this fall when 
state and local police cited hun­
dreds of students for violating du 
Lac's rule banning students from 
organizing tailgaters where alco­
hol is served. In a full-page letter 
published in The Observer in 
November, Poorman said alcohol 
use and abuse has become the 
most serious health and safety 
issue at Notre Dame and that tail­
gaters had become "an opportu­
nity to engage in behavior that 
would not be tolerated at any 
other time on our campus or any­
where else." 
Sexual Assault 
Campus sexual assault also was a divisive issue. 
Since September, four cases of alleged rape and sexual miscon­duct have fueled debate at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and prompted some tough stands from administrators. 
It began in September with the alleged rape of a Saint Mary's stu­dent in Keough Hall. Saint Mary's security officials indicated that the woman may have ingested a date rape drug while at an Aug. 31 party in the 4A section of Keough. The student also reported the alleged assault to Notre Dame Security/Police, whose crime log made no mention of a drugging. 
The incident prompted scores of letters to The Observer from stu­dents, many upset about the paper publishing the hall room numbers where the alleged rape occurred. The allegation eventu­ally was referred to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor, and NDSP closed the case after the prosecu­tor declined to move forward with criminal charges. 
Controversy also swelled in October, when a former Notre Dame football player planned to visit campus as a member of another school's team, despite his alleged expulsion and permanent ban from campus in 199&. 
Kori Pienovi, a 2001 University graduate, brought to light Cooper Rego's possible return to campus for the Oct. 13 Notre Dame-West Virginia football game. She called for administrators to uphold the punishment they imposed on Rego following a campus discipli­nary hearing for the athlete's alleged rape of Pienovi. 
After three days of public out­cry, Notre Dame officials released a thinly veiled threat that didn't mention Rego by name but implied he would be arrested if he travele&i to campus with his West Virginia tearninates. Rego did not come to South Bend. 
In November, a Notre Dame student who allegedly fondled and sexually assaulted another stu­dent turned the tables on the University by suing the school fol­lowing his October expulsion and ban from campus. · 
Former student Ryan Hoadley appealed Notre Dame officials' decision in late October to University President Father Edward Malloy, who reduced the pw1ishment in to a two-year sus­pension without guarantee of readmission. Hoadfey's ongoing suit seeks a cow·t order to bar the University from enforcing the 

JASON McFARLEY/The Observer Jesse Hensley holds a flaming copy of dulac as Ryan Schildkraut looks on during the alcohol town hall meeting. 
suspension. 
In December, a St. Joseph County Superior Court judge denied Hoadley's request for a preliminary injunction that would have temporarily lifted his punishment. 
Hoadley was expelled on grounds of sexual misconduct. The allegation stems from a female Notre Dame student who accused him of touching her in an inappropriate manner and subjecting her to a 30-minute sexual assault at Hoadley's Turtle Creek apartment follow­ing a night of drinking in September. 
Meanwhile, four former mem­bers of the Notre Dame football are awaiting word of whether the county prosecutor will file criminal charges against them in connection with a March 28 alleged gang rape of afemale Notre Dame student. 
The men were expelled follow­ing an April 25 campus discipli­nary hearing. Officials on Tuesday upheld the decision on appeal. 
A 20-year-old woman claim the men took turns raping her after luring her under false pre­tenses to a house east of cam­pus. Expelled were former sophomores Lorenzo Crawford and Abram Elam, senior Donald Dykes and Justin Smith, a 2001 graduate who was taking gradu­ate courses while finishing a fifth year of athletic eligibility. 
As allegations of sexual assault surfaced at Notre Dame during the year , the U.S. Department of Education's investigation into crime reporting procedures con­tinued at Saint Mary's. 

The DOE completed an on-site investigation into the way the College compiles and reports crime statistics. The review came in response to a complaint filed by a Saint Mary's student who claimed the school wasn't in compliance with the Cleary Act. The act mandates that schools update crime statistics annually, give students timely warning about crimes that have occurred on campus and educate students about sexual assault. 
The Saint Mary's student claimed she reported to Saint Mary's security officials in 1999 that she was raped but that the College·s crime statistics listed no incidents of rape for that year. 
Saint Mary's and the DOE exchanged correspondence for several months prior to the agency's on-campus investiga­tion. While the DOE said in December that results of the investigation wouldn't come for at least 30 days, officials to date have released no results. 
Jason McFarley and Andrew Soukup contributed to this report. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at nagengast.3@nd.edu. 

Jan. 1: ND hires Willingham April 19: S_M-Q:9r9.undbreaking for Student Center/ Nob_t~_f'Famliy t°;)}Qing Hall 
March 28: ND student allegedly gang rap'dI;i* ::;~r·:,'.1 by four ND football players L·-.1~1\ .:> : . t 
'\ :;. ·:~;:~~:· ,.~:j
Fab. 25: ND performs "Vagina Monologues" 
t:,i>,,../ff:< ;JM1.y 3: Four ND football players ~,~.,._. ""' accused of rape expelled 
May 14: Malloy denies all four 

March 21: Students hold alcohol policy protest 
alleged rapists' appeals to 
overturn their expulsion 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 17, 2002 
Notable ND seniors will tie the knot 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Senior Staff W ritet 
At last count, graduating seniors Alison Lasseter and Jess Donnelly figured 25 couples from the Oass of 2002 are engaged. Like many Notre Dame women. they've been keeping the count since the first day ofsenior year. 
"We were talking about it one night over a few drinks. and we realized that there were a lot of people getting engaged," Lasseter said. 
Their unofficial grapevine calcu­lation provides insight into this unsurprising I.rend. 
Each spring, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students await to hear which couples will be among a different rank -engaged. Popular estimates among the sLu• dent body suggest that up to 60 percent of Darners marry a fellow Domer, although exact figures remain elusive. 
According to a study published by Notre Dame Magazine, howev­er, co-education at Notre Dame caused a drop from 1 in 4 Saint Mary's students marrying a Notre Dame man to 1 in 10 by the late 1980s. · Without a doubt, the sacrament of marriage is an important one in the Catholic Church. Campus Ministry offers five retreats a year for both married and engaged couples. Most of the retrea1s fill up quickly. 
The student body president 
When former student body pres­ident Brooke Norton met her fiance Andrew Lais for the first time, she wasn't necessarily dressed to the nines. Out on an Appalachian house-building trip, the two were living under less­than-desirable conditions. 
"We were both wearing old, ratty clothes that we cared nothing about. I was wearing no make-up. When you showered, you smelled worse [the showers had a putrid sulfur odor]," Norton said. 
Lais, a 2001 graduate, said the sloppy appearances turned out for the best. 
"We were both able to be our­selves when we first met, and that made all the difference," Lais said. 
The two hit it off and began dat­ing shortly after their return to campus, despite some major dif­ferences. 
"He's from South Dakota, I'm from southern California. He's a Republican, I'm a Democrat," Notron said. 
Lais said his family's impression of Norton is what made him real­ize that she was "the one." The two planned a trip to South Dakota to visit his family. Norton's flight got there 10 hours before his, and she had to make herself comfort­able -without him. 
Norton said she knew Lais was "the one" for her during a big mil­lennium celebration with hPr fami­ly. 
"It was a great time, and he really hit it oil with all of my fami­ly," Norton said. 
Just two years later. they shared another important New Year's cel­ebration -their engagement. Lais proposed to Norton on New Year's Eve at a hotel party in Chicago. The two were dancing ""ith a few of his good friends. but when the 10-second countdown came, Lais prepared to pop the question. At the stroke of midnight, he asked Notron to be his wife. 
The two plan their wedding for June 28, 2003, at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Leprechaun 
Notre Dame Leprechaun Adam Urra usually never has a problem voicing his excitement. The spirit­ed voice of the student body, Urra is knovvn for doing pushups on the crowd at football games and pep­ping up fans at basketball games. 
The person who would initially silence this vocal titan. however, turned out to be his future wife the night they met at an in-hall dance. 
"She was only there for two sec­onds, but I saw her smile and just was blown away," Urra said. 
His fiancee, graduating senior Sarah Affleck-Graves. also noticed the instant attraction even though she attended the dorm dance with someone else. Initially attracted by his good looks and personality, Aflleck-Graves soon learned that there was more to this green-tuxe­doed mascot. 
"[My favorite thing about Adam] is his sense of humor and laid­back attitude. I'm the exact oppo­site, and he helps me relax and have fun," she said. 
Three months after they started dating, Affieck-Graves said she knew Urra was "the one" for her. Urra knew for sure that summer when he told his sister in confi­dence that Affieck-Graves was "the one" for him. 
"My sister laughed at me then, but I proved her wrong," Urra said. 
The two dated for a year and a half before getting engaged in last fall. Urra planned the big moment with their faith in mind. 
"Sarah and I always go to the 
Grotto before Mass at Siegfried ... Well. one night we went down and said the rosary and at the end I just asked Mary to pray for our marriage and gave her the ring, and she said ves," Urra said. 
Urra and Affleck-Graves said that Notre Dame's focus on faith and communitv enabled them to envision married lifo in a special way. 
"Notre Dame has definitely impacted us and will impact our married lite. Religion has become such a part of our relationship, and that is due to the role it plays here on campus. It has definitely brought us closer together." Aflleck-Graves said. 
The two have planned a wed­ding for Aug. 10 at Notre Dame's Basilica of the Sacred Heart. A reception at the South Dining Hall will follow. 

"Apparently I didn't get enough of the SDH on campus,'' Affieck• Graves joked. 
The 'Double Domers' 
When Chad Silker met Beth him. but he also knew he'd have to together. sat on her regular bench Sheehan in a history class sopho­ask her father first. An opportunity and began talking about their rela• more vcar, he knew she was "the to drive to her hometown of St. tionship. Before she knew it, one" ilnmediately. Louis seemed unlikely -until a Silker was down on one knee with 
"She'd never believe me. but the stray cat came into the picture. a ring in hie; hand. first time I felt she could be 'the "No one had claimed the cat so I Sheehan and Silker agree that one' was long before we were dat­was going to keep him. Since he the Notre Dame experience pre­ing. She finished up an exam was only 6 months old and not .pared them for marriage. before me, and after I finally fin­declawed he couldn't really stay at "Once I came to ND and grew to ished up sometime later I walked my house here," Sheehan said. love it and everything special out of the classroom, and she was "We got home to St. Louis in time about it, I hoped that I would waiting there for me. It would be for dinner and left early the next marry someone who also had the much longer before we finally morning, but after dinner my Notre Dame experience," Sheehan started dating, but I somehow mom and I went to check on the said. knew that day that Beth was dif­cat and while we were gone Chad In fact, Notre Dame's impact on ferent from other girls." Silker asked my dad." the couple will continue this fall said. A week after that fateful trip to when they both start law school 
The two remained friends for Missouri, Silker popped the ques­here. Notre Dame was a perfect fit another year before they started tion at Sheehan's favorite place on -just like them. dating in March of their junior campus, the Grotto. It had always year. been a special place for them, so 
A year later, Silker knew he after his last time as a campus Contact Maureen Smithe at wanted to ask Sheehan to marry tour guide, they walked down msmithe@nd.edu. 



Prom sundown to sunrise... 


you were a(ways there. 
Late nights .... ear(11 mornings ... San 'Francisco ... 'l'fewsyayer efthe Year ... worn arm on the ~ffi,ce chair ... the ''Backer ... Sun,ivor cuys ... 'Bookstore '.Basket6atT ... Shame(ess activity ... So, 3uys, want toy(an a reunion? ... 'Desk tf Shame ... 'Die( we rea((y fose theJisFi.6ow{ contest? ... Los 1\.n3e(es ... 'Becomin3 re3u(ars at 'CBacker (unch ... ~fie yrinter 6roke a[Jain? ... '1 wou(c(n't fiave dime 
it with anyone efse.... 


Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Senior Army cadet earns national di~tinction
-



Commence 
Videotapes are available! 
Commencement 
Co1nn1ence1nent Mass 
ROTC C01nrnissioning 
Law School Cere1nony 
:MBAJEMBA Diplmna 
Ceremony Architecture Graduation Latino Ceremony 
Order onljne at: l,ttp://www.nd.eclu/~gradvideo 
Or contact: 

i'lultimedia Services Center 
Office of Information Technologies 
8002 DeBarto!o Hall 
University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
219.631.0961 
M MSCtr@nd.edu 


. Cadet enters Transportation Corps of Army as No. 1 cadet in U.S. 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
News Writer 
Graduating Notre Dame senior Nathaniel Hicks has been ranked nationwide as the No. 1 cadet entering the Army's Transportation Corps. 
N o t r e Dame pro­fessor of military studies Lt. Col. David Mosinski contacted Hicks and told him about the award. 
"I was really surprised," said Hicks. "My parents were very proud of me, and they are really excited for me both for the award and for my 


opportunities with the Army." 
The Office of the Chief of the Transpor­tation Corps. in Fort Eustis, Va. will present the award to Hicks at the Association of the United States Army Logistics Transfor­mation Symposium. held May 20­22 in Richmond, Va. 
Hicks has 
also received other awards through the ROTC program this year. 
"At our own Army ROTC 

The University ofNotre Dame's 
The Iohn J. Reilly Center 
for Science, Technology and Values 
Is pleased -to announce that the following students have been awarded the distinction of 
John ,. Reilly Scholar 
In The Five Year Double Degree Progra,n in Arts and Letters/Engi,neering 
Class of 2003 
Mellissa A. Geppert David P. Saracino Jennifer s. Spanbauer 
Awards Ceremony ... Nate received the Society of American Military Engineers Award, and he received the Distin-guished Military Graduate Certificate," said Mosinski. 
"I feel like Notre Dame's ROTC program prepared me extremely well for the Army," said Hicks. "One of the many good things about the pro­gram here at Notre Dame is that the combined academic rigors and demands of ROTC force cadets to develop time management skills and grow to be very balanced individu­als." 
Hicks will be graduating from Notre Dame with a chemical engineering degree. and although his position in the Army will not make use of this education directly. Hicks plans to use the degree after he leaves the service. 
"The management training I will receive in the army will help me with job opportuni­ties in the future," said Hicks. 
On July 17, Ilicks will begin 
"One ofthe many good things about the program here at Notre Dame is that the combined academic rigors and demands of ROTC force cadets to develop time management skills and grow to be very balanced individuals." 
Nathaniel Hicks senior 2002 top cadet in nation to enter Transportation Corps of U.S. Anny 
training at Ft. Eustis and after­wards will be stationed in Germany as a Second Lieutenant. 
· The Army transpor­tation officer works with logistics and is in charge of the man­agement and movement of people and goods with air. rail and truck. This officer pro­cures, pro­vides, arranges or 
manages all surface trans-· portation assets required to support and sustain the armed forces in peace and war. 
Branch assignments in the military are determined dur­ing the cadets' senior year of college after they have com­pleted Advanced Camp. This exercise is the culmination of ROTC training and takes place at Ft. Lewis in Washington the summer after each cadet's junior year of college. These cadets are evaluated numerous times while at Advanced Camp on various leadership roles and training exercises, and these scores are then added to all the other evaluations that each cadet receives through­out their four years of ROTC. 
All these evaluations, physi­cal fitness test scores, ROTC class performance, ROTC activities and academic per­formance are included in a packet that is sent to Cadet Command in Washington, D.C. Included in the packet is each senior's requests for branch assignments and duty loca­tions. Cadet Command then ranks all the cadets nation­wide into an Order of Merit List. There are 16 different branches in the Army. and based on this order of merit list, cadets are branched into their choices until the needs of the Army are satisfied. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at krivickas.3@nd.edu. 

page IO The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 17, 2002 
H~~h11vr1h tn 
receive his 150th honorarv degree
• -~ • • • • • i::::!.J 1 ¦v
.:. ~ '-'...., ~ '-A. .L .::::, " 
• President emeritus holds record for most honorary degrees 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Just one day before his 85th birthday, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh will receive his 150th 
honorary degree from the University of San Diego during Mav 26 Commencement exercises. 
Hesburgh, who received an hon­orary doctor of laws degree from the school in 1980, will receive a doc­tor of humane let­ters degree and deliver the princi­
pal address during graduation. 
"I think no president before or after him could have done it," Hcsburgh said. 
In addition to working on the civil rights legislation of the 1960s. Hcsburgh has also helped lower the number of nuclear arms in the world as well as reduce world hunger. 
"He's an optimistic person at heart," said Conklin. "No mat­ter what the issue, be it a civil rights issue or whether it be the 
proliferation of 
"There is hardly a university president. and certainly none alive, who can match that double career of [higher education] as well as public service. " 
Richard Conklin fonner associate vice president for University relations 
Hesburgh currently holds the record for having the most hon­orary degrees, according to the Guinness Book of World Records. 
"I think the reason he's received so many honorary degrees is he's had a distin­guished career in public service as well as education," said Richard Conklin, 
c i t e d Hesburgh's national and acade­mic work as reasons why he has stood out among other university leaders. 
"There is hardly a univer­sity president, and certainly none alive. who can match that double career of [higher education] as well as public service," said Conklin. 
Hesburgh, who still works for Notre Dame in several ....) capacities, spends many of 
-his days presiding over Masses, writing or auto­graphing books and traveling for various international and national committee meet­ings. Although Hesburgh sits high in his campus office on the 13th floor of the library named for him, he said he tries to remain humble. With 16 presidential appointments under his belt, and soon, 150 honorary degrees. he even commented sarcastically. "I think it's time to quit." But Hesburgh was refer­ring to receiving honorary degrees. not to the work that he has done to earn the dis­tinctions. He said he was most proud of his role in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. "I think that legislation changed the face of this country," he said. Through that act. a civil rights commission was established. Hesburgh, who 
instrumental force in elevating the national status of Notre Dame and overseeing its many changes. Under his 35-year tenure from 1953 to 1987, the University went from an all­

USA VEL TE/The Observer 
male undergraduate liberal 
arts college governed by the Father Theodore Hesburgh, 84 years old, stands in his office on the 13th floor of the library 
nuclear weapons, 
h e ' s 
always been a person w h o w o u Id believe that you can make things better." 
At the University I eve I , Hesburgh was an 

former "/ think the reason he's trustees. stance on moral issues. 
"His presidency

associate "He was unafraid to speak
received so many 
saw the transi­

vice presi­out on moral issues," said 
dent for honorary degrees is he's tion of Notre Conklin. University a distinguished career in Dame from an Hesburgh's involvement in 
undergraduate

Relations, public issues has received
public service as well as 
school to a uni­

w h o much attention. In addition
education. " versity in the
worked to his honorary degrees, 
proper sense with

u n d e r Hesburgh was also awarded 
a graduate and

Hesburgh Richard Conklin the Congressional Gold 
research compo­

from 1967 Medal in July 2000 and the
fonner associate vice president nent, an d he ·s
to 1987. Medal of Freedom in 1964. 
Conklin for University relations managed to do 
Congregation of Holy Cross to named in his honor. a major co-educational 
He added that Hesburgh has 
research university governed 
garnered respect because of
by a lay board of his willingness to take a public 

that without los­

Contact Helena Payne at 

ing the Catholic character of 

payne.30@nd.edu.

the place," said Conklin. 





Congratulations Graduates 
South Bend's Best Break£ ast and Lunch 
GO IRISH! 

Outdoor Seating Available
6:30arn-2:00pm 

Weekends Open 7:00am-2:00pm Monday-Friday 
To Katie, Justtini, Kat, Jana, Paul, Nathan, Jenn and Raul 
Thanks for everything. You are amazing managers, co-workers, but most of all, wonderful friends. We'll keep your legacy alive. Congratulations, and best of luck in all your future endeavors. 
Love, Adrienne, Sisco, Bianca, Lucy, Jen, Christina, Travis, John, Cole, Meghan, Marlayna, Anna, and Bronx 
chaired the commission, said most of the credit goes to 
127 s. Michigan 288 PEEP 
President Lyndon Johnson's 

T' --.T')• ,, . ' '('h
leadership during the 
.:...Ic J..).L UJ.1.C .... I.1E:T..1·u.:nC11. 
process of passing the act. 
-·---·-----­
...... 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 11 

ND, SMC seniors respond to call to serve 
Notre Dame Service by the Numbers 
What students are doing 
Amate House: 
4 Americorps: 4 ----, China Teaching Program: 4---­Holy Cross Associates: 8.--­
Jesuit Volunteer Corps: 8 

Nativity Prep Academy:5 ----­
Peace Corps: 13 -----\ 
Teach for America· 12--­
Men vs. women 


Ten percent of Notre Dame students choose to pursue service after thev 2raduate. 
Infonnation courtesy of Andrea Smith Shappell, Director of Senior Transition Programs at the Center for Social Concerns 
ANDY DEVOTQ/The Obs91V8f 

By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Not long after Nick Fonte receives his diploma. the upcom­ing Notre Dame graduate will pack his bags and head to Honduras to work 27 months in an orphanage that serves 60 children. 
Fonte was accepted into the Farm of the Child program, named for the site's farm where participants grow food. The pro­gram also operates a Catholic school and health clinic serving surrounding villages. 
"We're doing all kinds of things." Fonte said of the service program. "I know l have gifts and I want to share them with poor children." 
But Fonte is just one of many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates who choose to pursue S6n".t;C -'lftcr their time in South Bend. This year, graduates are continuing a long-standing trend of giving back after they graduate -about 180 seniors at Notre Dame, 10 percent of the graduat­ing class, have committed to do service in the coming months, according to Andrea Smith Shappell, director of Senior Transition Programs at the Center for Social Concerns. 
"It's pretty amazing. It's one of the best things about Notre Dame," Shappell said, 
Saint Mary's also boasts a post­graduate volunteer rate of about 10 percent. This year between 25 and 30 graduating seniors are planning to volunteer, according to Sister Linda Kors, director of Volunteer Services and the 
S.U.R.V. Center, a volunteer resource center. 
"Some said they hadn't had a lot of time in their college years and now is the time," Kors said of those who are pursuing service. 
This year's Notre Dame group. which is 60 percent female and 40 percent ma.le will volunteer through 40 different programs in 20 nations, Aside from big-name programs like the Alliance for Catholic Education, Americorps, Peace Corps and Teach for America, graduates from both institutions are also pursuing ser-

~~lfi;t..
;-­
Chrysler PT Cruiser 
• -~
. -&:wr 
·~ 
Chrysler Sebring Convertible 
Chrysler Sebring Coupe 
For alimited time, new college graduates can get a Chrysler Sebring Sedan 

$ 

cash' 
allowance* on select C11ryslerand Jeep® vehlclffi. 
Plus get other generous cash allowances. 
II See Your Local ChryslerJeep® Dealer Today. 
*This program provides a$600 bonus cash allowance in addition to the $400 national college graduate cash allowance fur a total $1,000 cash allowance for recent college graduates, select college seniors, and masters and doctoral program enrollees on the purchase or lease of eligible 2002 Chrysler or Jeep vehicles. Eligible vehicles are: Chrysler Sebring Coupe, Convertible, Sedan, PT Cruiser, Jeep Liberty, and Jeep Wrangler. Must take retail delive17 by 7/1/02. Residency restrictions apply. Please sec your dealer for eligibifity requirements and program details. Jeep b a rt:gistered trademark of DaimlcrChryslei: 



vice through Catholic Charities. Jesuit Volunteer Corps and Dominican Volunteers. 
Indeed, many seniors cite their experiences volunteering at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as a rea­son for considering post-graduate service. 
Fonte, for example, has worked with the Center for Social Concerns since his sophomore year. 
The PLS major has also spent summers performing service, vol­unteering in Chile and living in a house for disabled homeless peo­ple not far from his home in Orange County, Calif. 
"It was absolutely insane,'' Fonte said of his experience in California. "There were over 40 people who lived in the house and yard. I've grown up m ;:_ fairly affiuent family and this was right in my back yard." 
Saint Mary's senior Katrina Weibel agreed that time spent doing service through the College influenced her decision to travel to China in August to teach English with the Maryknoll Mission. The psychology and MIS double major attended an Appalachia service trip one summer and worked at Pet Refuge, a no-kill animal shelter in South Bend. 
Students were also motivated to pursue post-graduate service for social and religious reasons. 
Elizabeth Willkom is participat­ing in a 2 1/2-year service pro­gram through the Holy Cross Associates in Chile. Willkom will be working \\-ith children in orphan­ages and grade schools built and run by the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
Willkom, who studied abroad in Chile, chose the program partially because of its religious ties and her experiences in the country. 
"I kind of knew I wanted to go the service route at the beginning of my senior year," she said. "It seems like an awesome way to go back to Chile and work with peo­ple. They have a strong sense of faith, and I really wanted a faith­based program." 
The most popular service pro­gram for this year's graduating class was ACE. Forty-five outgoing Notre Dame seniors are enrolled in the teaching program in addition to students from Saint Mary's. The program places young adults in schools across the nation and awards a master's degree in edu­cation at its completion. 
"It's a great opportunity,'' said Jared Marx, who is participating in the program in Oklahoma Oty. "I looked at Peace Corps and Holy Cross Associates. They do great work, but I wanted to do some­thing domestic." 
Although a slow economy is keeping some graduates from find­ing a job, Shappell dismissed the idea that leaner times are forcing more students into service. 
'There is no increase [due to the economy]," she said. "We're hold­ing right at 1 O percent. One young woman had three job offers and is turning them do\\-n for service. It's a deeper motivation." 
Indeed, many students going into service after graduation made their decision long before the eco­nomic downturn and most plan to eventually enter graduate school or the job market after their initial commitment. 
Many, however, anticipate that 
their service experiences will affect 
their future plans. 

"I feel like this experience will shape who I am and give me a new outlook," Willkom said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 

page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 17, 2002 

'The 'A.(Uancefor CathoUc ~ducation isyrouato we(come its ninth c(ass ef.. CathoUc schoo(teachers. We 3ive thanks for their 3ift ofservice to 'America's CathoUc scfioofs. Pfeasejoin us in cona_ratu(atin3 theJo((owin3 3raduates ef.. Saint 'ManJ's Co(feae and the rilniversiiy of'Notre 1Jame. 
1llissa 'B{air 'Matthew 'Bohnenkamy Sharon 'Bui 'Rebecca Cami[{us Co((een C(arke :James Cummin8s 'Meg'Daday (jretchen 'Dan~sh 'Mark 'DeftJado Samue('Frtomeni 
'Megan (jri ,n 
Sara §un erson Otis'l-ti(( 'David']-{orak 1ln8e(a ']-{ur(ey 'Timothy j arotkiewicz 'Kari :Jenkins :Edward Johnston 'Ke({y 'Keegan 1ldrian 'Kirb~ 'lvlark 'Kirzeder 'lvlattfievv 'Kfoser 'Kristin 'Kramer Midiae[Mansour jarel'Marx 
Patrick fJvt.c'lvtafion 
'Birmingham, 1lL 
P(aquemine, L1l 
'Fort Worth, 'TX 
'Fort Worth, 'TX 'Mo6ife, 1lL 'Birmin8fiam, 1lL 
'Tucson, 1lZ 'Baton 'Rouge, L1l 
1tustin, 'TX 'Fort Worth, TX 
Pensaco{a, fJ'L 'Kansas City, 'KS 
'Daffas, 'TX 'Bi(oxi, '1v1S Lake Cfiar{es, L1l 
'Baton 'Rou8e, L1l Charlotte, ifc 
Los 1ln8efes, C~ 
Phoenix, 1lZ 
'Birmingfiam, 1lL 
Charfotte, 'l'fc 'BirmingFiam, 1lL :Jacksonviffe, 'FL 
'Tufsa, O'K 

Ok(afioma City, O'K 
'Tufsa, O'K · 'Matthew 'lvtc'Merty 

Courtney 'Mercer 
Co((een 'Moak 
Lauren 011fei( 
'Matthew Panzer 
'Brian Paw(oski 
'Keffy Perry 
~lizabetfi 'Roari8uez 
'T1{any 'Roman 
Laura 'Romyf 
'Monica 'Rowinsk i 
'Tim 'Ryan 
:Jennifer Siiro(a 'Ba6s Smith 'Danie( So(iato 
Jeffrey Steed[e xlizabetfi stroude 'Nathanie('Trimner :Erin We(don .Yimotfiy Wefsh 
:Jennifer Wolfe Pau(Y6arra Coffeen Ziemba 'Montgomery, 1lL 'Bifoxi, 'MS 1tustin, rrx Los 1ln8efes, C1t Los 1ln8e{es, C1t 'Mo6ife, 1tL 'Tucson, 1lZ Los 1ln8e(es, C1l 'Daffas, 'TX offafioma City, O'K 1tt(anta, §1l 'l'fasfiviffe, 'T'l'f 
Los 1tn8efes, C1l '.B ifoxi, 'MS 1tustin, rfx 'Baton 'Rouge, L1l cfiarfotte, ire 
'Mont3omery, 1lL jacksonvi{fe, 'FL Lake cfiarfes, L'fl 
'Kansas City, 'KS Phoenix, 1lZ Phoenix, 1lZ 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . CA1\1PUS NEWS page 13 
Fox cancels Commencement speech 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER  prohibited Fox from making a scheduled visit to the United  Mexico have traditionally been strong allies. but two events  
·  Assistant News Ediror  States and Canada, using for the  have strained that relationship.  
first time its power to control  On Feb. 27, during a  visit to  
Two months after Notre Dame  the President's travel in a 71-41  Cuba, Mexico's Foreign Minister  
announced Mexican President  vote along party lines. PRI sena­ Jorge Castaneda, who is backed  
Vicente Fox would be the princi­ tors have said that Fox is spend­ by Fox, reportedly said that the  
pal  speaker  at  Sunday's  ing more time on trips to seek  gates of the Mexican embassy  
Commencement exercises, Fox  foreign investment than work­ were "open to all Cuban citi­ 
became the first speaker in  ing on domestic issues.  zens." Following that comment,  
recent history to cancel his  Officials have speculated that  a  number of Cubans stormed  
speaking appointment. In late  Fox canceled  his speech  at  the embassy, seeking political  
April, Mexican embassy officials  Notre Dame because he would  asylum  in  an  action  that  
told the University Fox would be  not be granted permission to  angered the Cuban government  
unable  to  travel  to  the  and members of the PR!.  
speak due to political circum­ "We don't know what made the United States  United States. Albert LeMay, a Kellogg  In March, a United Nations meeting was held in Monterrey, Mexico, and LeMay said prior to  
stances in Mexico. According  leg of[his] trip untenable. "  Institute Fellow, outlined three reasons for the  the conference Fox held a pri­vate phone call with Cuban leader Fidel Castro. During that  
to  Joan  Congress' frus­ conversation, Fox said Castro  
Bradley,  Dennis Moore  tration  with  should not spend too much time  
officer assistant to  University spokesman  both the United States and Fox.  in Mexico and told him not to complain about Bush. After one AFP Photo  
University  Le May  said  day at the copferencc, Castro Mexican President Vicente Fox shakes hands with Cuban  
President  Mexicans  are  left, saying that the Mexicans leader Fidel Castro at a United Nations meeting in March.  
Father Edward  Malloy,  the  frustrated  with  the  United  were  not very welcoming. In Castro's release of a private conversation with Fox prior to  
Chicago Consul General and the  States because President Bush  late April, Castro released  a that meeting has been cited as one of the reasons that the  
Mexican Ambassador to the  made Mexico and Latin America  tape of the conversation, embar­Congress has limited Fox's travel outside of Mexico.  
United States informed Malloy  a high priority before the Sept.  rassing Fox.  
that Fox would be unable to  11 terrorist attacks. Now that  LeMay said these incidents,  decision is certainly politically  thought we would have been in  
speak. Fox also called Malloy  U.S. attention has been diverted  combined with problems with  motivated, these votes serve as  good shape. We don't know  
personally to apologize for being  to  the  war  on  terrorism,  Uruguay, have added to the  a wake-up call to tell Fox that  what made the United States leg  
unable to speak and said he  Afghanistan and the Middle  conflict between Fox and the  he  has  to  pay  attention  to  of that trip untenable," said  
hoped that he would be able to  East, Mexicans feel neglected.  rival PR! congress, which is  domestic issues," said LeMay.  Moore.  
speak in the future.  "A great deal was promised  using the country's domestic  According  to  University  Officials from the Mexican  
Fox,  a  candidate from the  but has not been delivered. The  problems to ensure  Fox does  spokesman Dennis Moore, Fox  Embassy in Washington, D.C.,  
National Action Party (PAN),  Mexicans feel slighted by the  not  travel  to  other  North  was scheduled to speak at Notre  did not return phone calls seek­ 
took office Dec. 1, 2000, to end  fact that the United States has  American nations.  Dame immediately after travel­ ing comment on Fox's cancella­ 
the  71-year  rule  of  the  not paid too much attention to  "There is no  question that  ing May 14-18 on a  European  tion.  
Institutional Revolutionary Party  them," said LeMay.  Mexico has domestic problems.  tour.  
(PRI), which still has a small majority in Mexico's Congress. On April 9, the Mexican Senate  LeMay also said that there are increasing tensions between Cuba and Mexico. Cuba and  What the Congress is saying is that 'we need you here to deal with these problems.' While the  "[Fox] was to come here directly from Spain, an official state visit, which is why we  Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu.  

Congratulations to the following 
Citation of Merit 
I

winners: 
Joseph Jarvis Alumni Hall Christa Gray McGlinn Hall Kristie Gleason Badin Hall Mathew W ohlberg Morrissey Hall Kathleen O'Connor Breen-Phillips Hall Bill Ferreira O'Neill Hall I Dominic Angiollo Carroll Hall Jennifer Roberts 
Pangborn Hall Anne McGrath Cavanaugh Hall Emily Rhyner Pasquerilla East John McKiernan Dillon Hall 
Amy Heckel Pasquerilla West Robyn Harridge Farley Hall 
Nick Sciola St. Edward's Hall Neil Ruddock Fisher Hall Christopher Lux Siegfried Hall Rachael Rothrauff Howard Ha11 Brent Smith Sorin Hall Michael Collins Keenan Hall Matthew McMerty Stanford Hall 
Jeff Steedle Keough Hall Angela Hurley Walsh Hall David Wainman Knott Hall Kendahl Lund 
Welsh Family Hall Lisa Jansen Lewis Hall Ryan Becker & Zahm Hall Elizabeth Emerson Lyons Hall Brian Clemency 
---...--.. ----------------------------------------------------... ----... 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllll~lllllt•~!l~~lllllll~?ltMtlllllllllilllliflllfllfllla••••111111111lllllllll ¦ IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII' 
r 
I__ _ 
·-----~ --­

Friday, May 17, 2002 
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Have You Had a Professor Who Has Changed Your Life? For many students at this university, Laura Crago is this professor. She accepts nothing less than the best from her students and works tirelessly to bring out their excellence. 

"I fully credit Professor Crago with making me the student I am today." -Andrejz Bednarski 
"In a university with many impressive teachers who have taught and touched me in so many ways, I have never had a professor with as much brilliance, dedication, and concern fro her undergraduate students." -Christopher Rupar 
"Professor Crogo embodies the ideals for which all Notre Dame professors should strive." -Bridget G. O'Brien 
Professor Crago has written 73 letters of recommendation for her students in this year alone, she 
has helped 6 students win Fulbrights in the past six years, 19 of her students have received various 
grants and research awards in the past eight years, and more than half of the senior history award 
recipients in the past nine years have been students of Professor Crago. 
Despite all of this, Professor Laura Crago was denied tenure. To be denied tenure is to be 
essentially fired; Professor Crago must leave Notre Dame after next year. 
Notre Dame has prided itself and often boasts that it is committed to undergraduate teaching. In fact, the May 2002 Provost's newsletter remarks, "a distinguished tea1n of external reviewers ­
including faculty members from Harvard, Princeton, Yale, and Berkeley -emphasized that ...Notre 
Dame...must not neglect the crown jewel, the University's traditional strength in undergraduate education." 
The present situation leaves us with the following questions for the Dean, the Provost, and the President: 
• 
Do you truly care about undergraduate education, "the crown jewel" ofNotre Dame? 

• 
Do you seek to recognize and reward the selfless dedication of this University's faculty? 

• 
Do you want the University's students to achieve success beyond the classroom through the acquisition of grants and fellowships and admission to prestigious post-undergraduate institutions? 

• 
Do you believe in the Catholic character of this university, one that is committed to service, concern, and generosity of spirit? 


Ifyour answer to the above questions is "yes, " why did you deny tenure to Professor Laura Crago? 
As students, parents, alumni, and faculty members, please voice your concern that the university has compromised its commitment to its undergraduates and proved false its rhetoric with this decision to the administration. 
For Further Information, Please Contact: Katharine Ortega and Phil Tedesco Kortega@nd.edu and ptedesco@nd.edu Paid for by the Polish Club 
Friday, May 17, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 15 
Journalist, Labor secretary speak at Commencements 

. Tim Russert to address Notre Dame 2002 graduates Sunday 
Observer staff report 

Tim Russert, moderator of NBC's "Meet the Press" will address the Notre Dame Class of 2002 as the keynote speaker for Notre Dame's 157th Commencement on Sunday. 
During the graduation ceremony, Russert will receive an honorary doctor of law degree along with 11 other hon­orary degree recipients. A graduate of John Carroll University, Russert also has a law degree from the Cleveland-Marshall College of Law and is a member of the bar in New York and Washington. 
His career with NBC News began in 1984. Seven years later, he joined "Meet the Press," the longest running pro­gram in television history, currently in its 53rd year. Ile also serves as a political analyst for NBC news programs, including "Nightly News with Tom Brokaw" and "Today." 
Hussert is the senior vice president and Washington 
bureau chief for NBC News, as well as a contributing anchor for MSNBC. He also analyzes the media's role in American societv every week on CNBC's "The Tim Russert Show." 
Before his journalism career with NBC. Bussert worked as a special counsel in the U.S. Senate and in New York state government. 
Notre Dame spokesman Denny Moore said the University contacted Russert, who had been on the list of potential Commencement speakers, soon after the previously scheduled speaker, Mexican President Vicente Fox, changed plans. 
Russert's last visit to campus was in November 2000, one week after the controversial presidential election. He spoke to a standing room-only audi­ence in McKenna Hall for .the first Jack Kelly and Gail Weiss Lecture Series on Journalism and Politics. 
. Sec. of Labor Chao to speak at Saint Mary's 
Observer staff report 

U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao will deliver tho commencement address at Saint Mary's on Saturday. 
Chao, 
a 
native of Tai­wan, is the first Asian­Am er­i c a n woman a p ­

pointed to a president's cabinet in United States history. She was confirmed by the U.S. Senate in January 2001. 
According to Susan Dampeer, assistant to Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred, Chao was an appropriate choice for Saint Mary's because she received her undergradu­ate degree in economics from Mount Holvoke College, an all-women's college.•Dampeer will host Chao on campus and hopes that the selection for the speaker will be welcomed by students. 
Dampeer said she will suggest to the 

Commencement planning committee that a Saint Mary's student accompany Chao for the day to repre­sent the College. 
Chao will also deliver the Commencement address at Depauw University in Greencastle, Ind., following her visit to Saint Mary's. 
As the head of the Department of Labor, Chao manages issues such as wages and work hours, workplace safety and pen­sion and health benefits. 
Before coming to the Department of Labor. Chao was a distinguished fellow at The Heritage Foundation, a Washington­based public policy think tank. 
Previously she served as president and chief execu­tive officer of United Way of America (UWA). where she restored public trust and confidence in the nation's largest charitable­giving institution after it was tarnished by misman­agement. 
Prior to joining UWA, Chao was director of the Peace Corps, the world's largest international volun­teer organization. 
She also served as deputy secretary of transportation under former President George Bush. 

• 


CONGRA TULA TIONS 
LONDOIV PROGRAM STUDENTS 
in the 

Class of 2002 
I. 

page 16 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 17, 2002 

Nanni to assume new VP position 
• Current vice president of Public Affairs replaces retiring William Sexton 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Lou Nanni, vice president for Public Affairs and commu­nication, will replace retiring Vice Presidenl for University Relations William Sexton July 1. 
"I am both excited and hum­bled by the n e w 

Advancement and Special Events. 
Last July, Public Affairs and Communication and University Relations were split into two separate divisions, and since then. Nanni has been involved in developing the four departments that emerged out of the restructur­ing. The University has not yet decided on the person. to replace Nanni in public affairs and communication. 
"Change is never as smooth and easy as you'd like it, but I believe that it's been in the University's best interest," said Nanni. "I think that in 
responsibil­"Change is never as ities," said 
smooth or easy as you'd
Nanni, who 

like it, but I believe it's in 
was recent­ly elected the University's best by the 
interest. I think that in
Board of 

the long run that we're
Trustees. After 19 going to be much years in the 
stronger. " 
position. Sexton will return to Lou Nanni teaching vice president for Public Affairs full-time as a manage-
the long run that ·we're going to be m u c h stronger." 
Nanni is a 1984 Notre Dame graduate and has been affiliated with Notre Dame over the years as a Holy Cross Associate in Santiago. Chile, 
a University Trustee and the executive 

ND expels alleged rapists 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 

Notre Dame expelled four 
former football players 
allegedly involved in a March 
28 rape. University 
spokesman Dennis Moure 
confirmed Wednesday. 

Senior Donald Dykes, sophomores Lorenzo Crawford and Abram Elam, and Justin Smith, who was taking graduate-level classes while finishing a fifth year of athletic eligibility, were all teammates at one point on the Notre Dame football team. 
The University's latest deci­sion is final and came one week after University President Father Edward Malloy reviewed the appeals submitted by the four stu­dents after Notre Oarne ini­tially expelled the men follow­ing an April 25 closed discipli­nary hearing with Notre Dame's Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
According to Smith's lawyer, Tony Zappia, the University reported the dcci­s ion to his client Tuesday night. 
"I confirmed with him last night that he did receive a telephone call from the University that his appeal has been denied," said Zappia Wednesday. 
Smith, who already received a bachelor's degree from the University in 2001, said the decision will affect him the least because he had planned to leave Notre Dame at the end of the year. 
"Notre Dame has to do what it has to do," Smith said,. adding that he would "still 

support N o t r e Dam c" a n d "encour­age peo­ple to come to school here." Respond­ing to the r u m o r a b o u t offers made to his team­m a t e s from other schools. Smith said that the other three students still have options to attend other schools despite the expulsion from Notre Dame. 
"They can go anywhere in the country. They have their choice," Smith said, 
Still pending, however, is the county decision of whether or not to file charges in response to a 20-year-old female student's claim that the four students gang raped her March 28 at a house on Warrick Street. The case has been under investigation in the prosecutor's office since April 19. 
Prosecutor Chris Toth is still interviewing people related to the case, which could delay his decision another week, said Toth's spokesman Randy DeCleene. 
"Chris Toth is not going to make a decision on whether or not to charge the individu­als until all his questions are answered," DeCleene said. 
Crawford's attorney, Ken 



Cotter, said the evidence will show that his client is not guilty of raping 
the female student. 
"We' re hoping the prosecutor will recog­nize that and not charge in the first p I ace , " s a i d 
Cotter. 

Cotter said Crawford returned home immediately after he took his final exams. which will no longer count due to the expul­sion. Cotter added that Crawford's mother received a phone call from the University notifying Crawford that his appeal was rejected. 
Dykes, who would have graduated this weekend, had a prior incident with the police last summer when he was arrested last July for criminal trespassing. He pleaded guilty to a misde­meanor charge last August and was placed on probation for six months. 
DeCleene maintained that the prosecutor's investigation was separate from the Notre Dame disciplinary process. 
Dykes' and Elam's attorneys did not return phone calls made by The Observer. · 

Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 

ment professor in the Mendoza College of Business. 
"It's an understatement to say that [Sexton] leaves a big pair of shoes to fill," Nanni said. 
Nanni's position will involve the direction of four general areas in University relations: Development, Alumni Relations, Internal director of the Center for the Homeless. 
He resides in South Bend with his wife, Carmen, the assistant director of International Study Programs and a 1993 graduate. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 

B RUN O'S 

Congratulations Graduates 

273-3890 
"STILL THE BEST" 
,--------------------~--~----­
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 17 
Linebacker bounce-r to launch new Web site 
time security work. He not 
By V. VAN GILES 
only works at the Linebacker, NewsWrirer 
but also as a short-order 
cook at the Olive Garden 
Jaime Grayson is a fixture restaurant on Grape Road. He at the Linebacker Lounge, the has worked there for 16 famous Notre Dame bar that years. sports the best Long Island The main joy in his life is iced teas and plays the fight writing and trying to get his song at the end of every publishing company off the night. Grayson is 37 years ground. "I wrote a few things old and stands at a towering as a youn.g child; plays, 6 feet, 7 3/4 inches tall. He scripts and so on." Grayson has lived in South Bend his said. "I would never show it whole life and is known to anyone, but now I feel a throughout the Notre Dame need to get my work out community there as well 
as having "I am really excited about as advance 
worked as the work of
this project. It has been a
a bouncer a anyone who at the long time in the making might need 
Linebacker and I expect it to be a help." 
for the past The name of
great success. " 
11 years. his company is Gravson Writing gradu.ated Unlimited
Jaime Grayson 
f r o m Publications.
Linebacker Lounge bouncer
LaSalle His Web site h i g h will be school, and much to the dis­launched in the near future. belief of' his many friends and "I am really excited about co-workers. he has never this project. it has been a played sports. long time in the making and I 
"People always ask me if I expect it to be a great suc­played football, and I tell cess." said Grayson. them, No. They can't get over Grayson only employs seri­this," he said. "My friends ous writers who want to pro­and family are used to it by duce quality work and make now, but people who frequent money. "Much like the name the bar always feel a need to of the company, the writing is hit me on the shoulder and unlimited, I only want to pub­tell me about their glory days lish quality and interesting on the athletic field." work," he said. 
Grayson has three children Grayson has enjoyed his and has had the same girl­time at the Linebacker. He friend for the past 18 years. views it as a learning experi­
"I like being characterized ence. He admits that he has as a family man," he said. met many interesting and "People see me as a big intelligent people along with brute, but I am very much the a great many loudmouths and same way at work as I am drunks. with my kids, Rachel, Jaime "It has been a hassle deal­and Taylor." ing with inebriated students 
Grayson has many other as well as older bar patrons. interests besides his night-I enjoy the students who 
come in, they are curious about me, and though I am a private person, I am more than willing to share myself with those who are willing to listen with an open mind," Grayson said. 
The Linebacker Lounge is one of -if not the most -pop­ular public house in South Bend. ~1 love the 'Backer, no weekend is complete without a late night visit. My friends and I always see Jaime there. Walking over and saying hello is part of the experience just like buying a beer and sweating on the dance floor," said senior Patrick Coan. 



the NOTRE DAME CLUB of ORANGE COUNTY 
OUTSTANDING CLUB AWARD C'~A"" CLUBS) 2000 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE YEAR lQ:~l. 19SJ. 198-4. 1qso CH.0\RLES f. LENNON. JR. AWARD OF MERIT FOR SUSTAINED EXCELLENCE IN ALUMNI CLUB PERFORt-.TANCE 1991l CLLil:3 PROURAl,11 EXCELLENCE Jt)l,:5. 1CJ~7. 14~8. P)~ll. 1990. 1091. JQQ2. itN.3. 191.)4_ 19Q5. 1996. !Q•J7. \t)Q8. t99Q. ~000 srEC!Al C]T,~T1ON P)Q~. 1995. 19"1ti, PN6. 19'>7, 199S. I-Q1N. 20110 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ORANGE COUNTY 
CONGRATULATES THE CLASS OF 2002 
Best wishes to our Orange County graduating seniors: 
Keith Anderson Joseph Collins Nathaniel DeNicola Nicholas Fonte Gina Gajdos Christopher Gonzalez Natalie Hallett Allison Henisey Katherine Henze Kristen Larsen Alison Lasseter Michael McNair Mayra Mendoza Elisabeth Parker Robert Pazornik Hilary Poan Kathryn Prizio Laura Sobchik Matthew Strickroth Marcos Suarez Aaron Talarico David Turner Nina Vaughan Melissa Vincent 
Hillary Wozniak 
Best wishes to our Orange County graduate students receiving degrees too! 
Please plan on joining us for our "Class of2002 Graduation Celebration" beach party and BBQ to be held on June 22nd. Check our website at www.11dcoc.com for more details on this and all ofour other exciting activities, including happy hours, community service opportunities, and athletic events. 
Moving to So~!:~~;;!::r•:!!~~;?~~•-Letu, know-,_\{:, 
P.O. BOX 7191. ORANGE. CALIFORNlA 92863 
~i.,·~ 

vrncr: ~!AlL TFI.: (7\41 %3-63'.!I --?'''••::::i!!!t 
"Living at Turtle Creek, the Linebacker is so close, so my friends and I always walk over and immediately say, 'Hi' to Jaime upon entering. There is definitely a great deal more to him than just the immense figure standing in the back with the flash­light. He has many intelligent views on philosophy. politics and social issues," said senior Ryan Keegan. 
Though Grayson works at a loud and crowded bar that often hosts many supportive and discouraged Notre Dame fans, he detests violence. 
"I have never thrown a 
punch at anyone while work­ing here. I don't want people to be afraid of me. I want them to know I'm cool. but I don't like being referred to as a friendly giant. A lot of peo­ple know me as. 'The chief,' or 'The Big Samoan Dude.' I would like to be known sim­ply as Jaime." 
Grayson plans to continue working at the Linebacker until he can support himself completely on his writing enterprise. 
Contact V. Van Giles at vgiles@nd.edu. 
Keep your finger on the pulse of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses next year. 
Check out The Observer online. 
www.observer.nd.edu 
Thank you for helping out at 
The Career Center! 
We appreciate your time and efforts, and will miss you terribly!!! 
Congrats to:  
Matt Brewer  Elizabeth Jackson  
Kristen Corcoran  Crystal Nobles  
Kristin Devaney  Mary Schreck  
Quynh Ha  Casey Wendeln  
Robyn Humphrey  

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 18 Friday, May 17, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
PO Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 4M56 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jawn McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERA]10NS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

N1:.ws EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck S1•0RTS EDITOR. Chris Federico ScENF. EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs S,\Jl'ff MAfly's EDITOR; Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR, Nellie Williams GRAl'HICS EDITOR. Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Marr Lurz An DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR; Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CoNTROI.LER: Lori L:walski DliVF.Wl'MENT MANAGliR: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO........... 631-7471 FAx.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ...................................... 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer ,obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWP0!NT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sports. l@nd .edu SCENE.....................................,................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site ac htrp:llobmver.nd,du for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from The Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
to meer the edirors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Univetsiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisuation of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to ail readers. The free expression ofall opinion, through lecrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions r,garding Observer policies should be direct­,dto Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 

Jump in, dance and be yourself 
Sometimes you jusl have to dance to the music. You have to take what you're given and roll with it. You have to let loose, forget people are looking at you and just have fun. 
Those who fre­
quent the Linebacker Lounge more than once a semester when their exams are done know that. 
But it was a les­son that took me a long time to 


learn. The 'Backer Kerry Smith 
creates no apa­thy: either you love it or you Senior Staff 
don't. If you love Writer it, you're addict­ed, and if you're addicted, chances are you've got things pretty well figured out, even if you haven't realized it yet. 
Unlike other student-favorite hang­outs, the 'Backer doesn't call for women to dress up in their tightest pairs of black pants and skimpiest tops; it doesn't ask men to tuck their shirts into their freshly-ironed khakis and comb their hair. It simply asks them to come and have a good time. There is no viewing deck and there is no stage; people don't come to watch, they come to live. 
I spent half of my college experi­ence watching. 
My best friends were the ones geo­graphically closest to me, not the ones I had the most in common with or those who challenged or intrigued me the most. I had friendships of convenience, not those of substance. 
I did what Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were supposed to do. I did what everyone else did. 
I put on my cutest outfit and hit the random dorm party on Friday night, looking for the ice-cold trash can of Natty Light. 
1wore my pajamas to the dining hall and turned a meal into a social event, gossiping with section mates and chatting with the random guy I met during freshman orientation. 
I studied with friends on the second floor of the library, not because I was worried about passing my Philosophy 101 exam, but because the spot served dually as a place to read over my notes and whisper about the girl at the next table or the guy that kept walking past, glancing in our general direction. 
My roommate taught me how to use Instant Messenger and all of a sud­den I had 38 Buddies, 17 of whom l wouldn't dare call on the telephone. 
I bought too many dorm-colored shirts and attended hall events like it was my duty, not my choice. 
l had so many friends, but so few who were as close as I would have liked or was used to. 
College was fun, but it left some­thing to be desired. 
Then I learned how to live. 
I didn't even notice it occurring. I'm not even sure its catalyst; maybe I just grew tired of the unconscious acting, the dancing out of sync with the music in my head. 
The inevitable process of growing apart with my instant freshman friends occurred during my sopho­more year, leaving me with two choices: I could continue to be the person I had thought I should be, or I could be the person I wanted to be. 
I chose to be myself. 
And in that moment it happened. 
I realized true friends were the 
ones who liked me in jeans and a sweatshirt, not those who thought black pants and high heels should be typical Monday night attire. They weren't the ones who I hung out with because I was looking for someone to talk to, but the ones who I couldn't stop talking to -the ones who call for a second and stay on the line for hours. 
I learned I didn't need my room­mates' approval of or participation in the activities I took part in or the groups I joined; real friends needn't be attached at the hip. 
I found studying didn't have to be a social event. In fact, if it wasn't it went a lot faster. I accepted that pleasing everyone was impossible and the only people worth pleasing 
were lhose who cared about me the most. I discarded everyone else's expecta­tions and tried to live up to my own. 
The change was gradual. I didn't even think about it or fully realize it had occurred until I started going to the 'Backer. 
I went once and thought it was fun. I went again and I was hooked. 
At first, I couldn't figure out what the bar offered that was so captivat­ing; there were lots of places around campus to drink and dance. 
But after a few weeks I realized it was the atmosphere that set it apart from the rest. 
The 'Backer is the perfect place for individuals. Women in formal dress­es, men in cowboy hats, couples in jeans and sneakers, girls with boas and guys in shorts mix together hav­ing fun without worrying what the man across the room thinks. The dance floor is usually so packed, you can't see beyond the person in front of you, even if you tried. There are no expectations, no stares. no judg­ments. People come to be themselves and be with their friends. They don't come to show off or put on an act. 
And that's how life should be. The things I have learned in college have been priceless. 
My academic pursuits have been more than rewarding and my degree is invaluable. 
But the one lesson I will walk away with in my heart is that living doesn't occur in the quest to be accepted. 
It doesn't thrive in the attempt to do things the way others would. And it doesn't happen when you think about it too much. Living is being yourself. jumping into the crowd and letting loose. It is having the courage to seek out or happen upon true friends. And it is dancing no matter who is looking. 
Kerry Smith is a graduating senior and former Assistant Managing Editor. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Viewpoint 
Helena Payne Lauren Beck Scott Scene Brodfuehrer C. Spencer Beggs Andrew Thagard Laura Kelly Justin Krivickas Graphics Sports Andy Devoto Chris Federico Lab Tech Katie McVoy Brian Pucevich 
NDTODAV/OBSERVER POLL RESULTS 
Seniors: What are your post­graduation plans? Military 16% / *Poll courtesy of NDToday.com 

Service
and based on 26 votes. 8% 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What lies behind us and what lies before us are but tiny matters compared to what lies within us. " 
Ralph Waldo Emerson writer 
---' -----·--~ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, May 17, 2002 page 19 
Saying the hardest goodbye 
Wrapped in a dark gray hooded sweatshirt, chin­length brown hair swinging back and forth around my face and tears sticking to my cheeks in wet trails, I held my stepbrother tightly when I said goodbye to him four years ago. I wouldn't let go as I began to sob harder, suddenly not wanti­ng to leave home. 
"Come on, now," he said to me, trying to get me to stop my tears. My vision was becoming blurry puddles of tears. impossible to see through. I didn't want to cry. I was the girl who was leaving home and never coming back, who was going places no one had ever been and no one would dare to go. That girl, I told myself, never cried. But right then, in the pre-dawn hours of my first day of college, with bags packed and waiting downstairs, I would do any­thing not to leave home. 
I cried that morning because I was scared about what came next. I cried because I was afraid of leav­ing the friends who knew me best, leaving the family that had raised me and leaving everything I knew. I spent my life working toward the next step, and now that it had come, I didn't want to be there. In the 18 years I had spent constructing that girl who was going to leave home and never come back, I had for­gotten to consider what happened when-she actually existed. 
We spend our lives working toward the next step. In grade school we dream of high school, wearing a varsity jacket, going to prom. In high school we dream of college, living in a dorm, going to classes, taking long walks around a tree-lined campus. In college we dream of the future, sometimes boldly. other times tentatively, picturing ourselves working a dream job in a dream location. 

But when we actually get to the next step. the next step we've spent our lives working toward, that tran­sition is never comfortable, never easy. When we arrive, we wish we could stay at the step we've completed, because it's always easy to stay in what we've mastered. 
I learned quickly when I came to col­lege that scared or not, life will keep going. I could either hang on or hang ~· back, lamenting the phase I'd left, or grabbing the new one head on. I weni to classes and parties, met friends and boyfriends and dedi­cated my time to writing stories in a basement with an obsessed pas­sion for the newspaper. And one day, I woke up and realized that I was in the next step, that I had completely left the last one and l loved where I was. 
Saturday. I will walk away from college with a degree under one arm and a car packed full of dorm remnants. I will leave with volumes of photo albums and CD mixes, books from classes and a sup­ply of college T-shirts to last the rest of my life. I will leave with boxes full of artifacts from this step in my life, doomed to a fate of a storage box in my attic at home, found years from now under clouds of dust bunnies. 
I hope I leave with more. I am terrified, even more than in high school, about leaving this step. I am ter­rified of not having my best friends within a five-minute car ride, I am terrified of leaving the place where I constructed who I've become. But if I can put aside that fear, throw away that apprehension, I know that college will have been about more than just a step. I want to walk away from college know­ing not to be scared of life and embrace the next 
step rather than mourn the one I've left behind. I don't know if that's happened. I guess I'll know when I look my best friend in the eye to say the hardest goodbye. I will know when the tears start puddling in my eyes, causing my vision 
to blur and tear tracks to run paths down my cheeks. I will know when I'm told not to cry and I won't be able to stop, letting four years of this last step cascade in a waterfall of tears. I know 
I'm going to do it. But if I can stop by the time I pull my car onto I-80 east to begin the car ride to the next phase in my life, I'll know I've cried because it's over, not because I want to stay. 
Noreen Gillespie is a graduating senior at Saint Mary's College and former Managing Editor. She will return to Connecticut to work for The Associated Press following graduation, and plans to make the best time ever on the 712-mile road trip back east, hopefully avoiding speeding tickets. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Graduation brings freedom to choose 
I think I slipped through the cracks. I transferred into Notre Dame as a con­firmed. believing Catholic. I expected challenges that encourage intellectual growth, spiritual progression and matura­tion. What I found proved to be disheart­ening. 
Coming from the University of Michigan, I looked for conservatism, Catholicism and intelligence. Before thinking of the Wolverines as your mortal enemy, consider the idea that the stu­dents of that university are just as eager and driven as Notre Dame students, despite a conflict that involves football of all useless scenarios for comparison. 
In spite of U.S. News and World Report rankings that judge Notre Dame among the top-20 universities in the country (above Michigan), I will submit to you that Notre Dame is losing in its pursuit of becoming more academically challenging. Ever heard that while the hardest grade to achieve at Notre Dame is an A, an F ranks as the second-hardest? Believe it. 
Why do we bother to fill out TCEs? Look at NDToday.com and see how many incompetent professors remain available for classes next semester. Why would it be necessary for students to have their own outlet for teacher evaluations if the administration were concerned with stu­dent input on teacher performance and education? It makes sense that our school has recently introduced an increased ded­ication toward research while employing those with publishing credentials. The actual learning and feedback of the stu­dents is overlooked. 
"You had better come to class, Mike, or you will face the penalty oflosing 3 points for an unexcused absence." Sound farnil­iar? I am not sure about you, but I consid­ered unexcused absences ridiculous in high school. If a relative dies. I am required to get a note from the Office of Student Affairs in order to be excused while I am away at the funeral? I was required. I guess there is a possibility that I could've been lying because I hadn't done my homework. Student Affairs was there to check on me and keep me in line. Give me a break. 
Furthermore, one might imagine that Notre Dame would be an ideal place for a practicing Catholic to pursue an edu­cation, but I submit to you that this is not the case. Instead ·of deciding for our­selves the way in which our Catholic faith may shape our lives, we are forced from the moment we arrive to accept the Catholic teaching imposed by the administration. Deciding that non-Catholics may attend Notre Dame, the admin­istration sets the table for diversity and discussion, but the sad fact remains that we are left hungry at the table -literally. 
Whether or not red meat appeals to the student body, we should have a right to eat it on any day we please, regardless of liturgical season. Why not offer Catholic teaching but, at the same time, offer a choice? If the University intends to offer multiple points of view by admitting culturally and religiously diverse students, then Notre Dame must accept the idea that some of its students can and will choose to follow their own beliefs as far as their over­priced meal plans and faith journeys are concerned. Those of us who have received the sacrament of Confirmation are seen as adults in the eyes of the 
Roman Catholic Church, but are we really left to make deci­sions that reflect such a 
status? Parietals suck. They suck because they 
continue to deprive students of the right to make 
sound, adult decisions. Catholics 
should know by the time they enter col­lege that pre­marital sex goes against traditional teaching, so 
why is there a rule? Arguing that parietals 
increase com­fort for some stu­dents by offering a 
single-sex living environment is ludi­crous. All of the dorms 

do not have to be co-ed. Those students who favor parietals and a single-sex 
environment should be allowed to choose their housing restrictions just as those who want a realistic setting may opt for co-educational living arrangements. There comes a point in a parent's life when one must rely on nurture and virtue to guide offspring through a course of dif­ficult, yet independent, decisions. Notre Dame fails to recognize the maturity of its student body as well as its independence, seeking to institutionalize its students in a cave that doesn't even reflect the real world. 
Thanks, Notre Dame. Thank you for holding my hand through my academic career. You were always there to make sure I went to class. The comfort ofTCEs allows me to sleep at night. Thank you for making the holes in Catholic teaching far more evident. Thanks for imposing your beliefs and ideals into my life while I am left stranded without a choice. What will I do after graduation when I am confronted with an issue and du Lac no longer applies? How will all of the Catholics who are graduating keep themselves from eat­ing meat on Fridays during Lent without the help of the dining halls? 
I guess now that we are graduating we are mature enough to handle these choic­es. Too late. The last several years here have made me realize that I do not want to he a Catholic. I want the freedom to make my own choices about the way in which I will live my life. Llfe, after all, is our most precious asset; treat it as such because, no matter what your faith, this life is all that we are guaranteed. 
I leave you with words of Bob Marley: "Most people think great God will come from the sky, take away everything, and make everybody feel high. But if you know what life is worth, you would look for yours on earth. And now you see the light, you stand up for your right, yeah." I implore you to ask questions, be yourself 
and live for what you are ­ not for what  
you hope, One love.  
Nick Llnstroth  
senior  
Alumni Hall  
May 14, 2002  

OB~tRVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 20 Friday, May 17, 2002 
Notre Dame defines memories 
In my swan song, (final exam here at Notre Dame). I was asked to read an article from a magazine called "The Commonwheel" bv a writer named Bob Greene and to discuss how writers like Henry David Thoreau and Walt Joe Larson Whitman would perceive the ter­rorist attacks of 
Senior 
Sept. 11. 
Columnist 
fn this article, a recap of 2001, Greene reminds us that the year 2001 in America will be marked by personal experience, not by the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York or the Pentagon in Washington. Greene asserts that babies were born. family members passed away, career changes happened and that all these arc the memories that will most likely stand out to the majority of Americans when they reminisce about the year 2001. 
This by no means belittles the loss and pain that our country felt on Sept. 11, no matter if you knew someone or were far removed from anyone who experienced the attacks at all. The point is that each personal experience is different, and there will be a lot of people who will remember 2001 as the year they met their husband or wife or bought their first house or went to their first baseball game. And these are things that will matter the most. Even in the midst of such a horrifying and harrowing disaster as Sept. 11, life con­
tinues to progress, similar to. but differ­
ent from the way it did before. Hut. the 
progression ensues and people move 
forward. For me, I'll remember 2001 and sub­sequently the starl of 2002 as my senior year at Notre Dame. I'll remember Lime spent with friends accumulated over four years. I'll remember tailgating in the rain before the West Virginia football game. I'll remember a hodge-podge group of guys who, in no wav affiliated with this University, wiped the floor with Bowling Green's men's club hockey team. f'll remember driving 22 hours from South Bend to Sanibel. Fla. and I'll especially remember the 26-hour drive from the southern-most point in the United States back here one week after that. I'll remember walking down­
stairs in my apartment on Sept. 
11 on my way to class and seeing my 
roommates huddled around the televi­
sion watching one of the Twin Towers 
collapse. I'll remember that same after­
noon when my University banded 
together in prayer and reflection on the 
Following a feminist path 
My four years at Notre Dame have taught me more than I could ever squeeze into a final column. From the immigrant experience of the Irish to the philosophies of ancient Chinese scholars, I've gained a worldly experience worth more than the hefty tuition. With the best friends of my life and the boyfriend of my dreams. I know I'll never be alone thanks to Notre Dame. I am so grateful for these four years. 
The most impor­tant thing I learned at Notre Dame, however, is that 1 am a feminist and I never even knew it. One professor in particular. Heidi Ardizzone, encouraged me to recognize who I am and what my capabilities are. To me, being a feminist means that I have the right and obligation to create a life's path in whatever direction my spir­it moves me. I shouldn't have to feel trapped. 
I remember when I was little -no older than five or six -and my dad was watching the nightly news. Playing with my Barbies or my kitchen set, I was oblivious to the forces changing the world that night. Looking back, I assume a story about women in the priesthood came on. All [ remember, however, is my dad asking me if I thought women should be allowed to be priests. And I said no. 
My young mind at the time had never even thought of having a woman as a priest; I had never been exposed to that idea. Our weekly trips to church consist­ed of my sisters and I trying our best to behave ourselves while some man talked for an hour or so. 

As soon as I told my dad that I didn't think women should be priests, he ques­tioned why. Stuck in my 5-year-old Barbie haze, I don't think I gave him a satisfactory answer. But the fact that I still remember that brief exchange today means that he really got me thinking. 
Once I arrived at Notre Dame. I revis­ited my dad's question time and time again. Why can't women be priests? What about our "nature" makes us unsuitable for the job? What about a man's character makes him the only potential candidate? Even though Notre Dame is a strictly Catholic campus, I still found the opportunity to rigorously question the doctrine of my faith. In such questioning I found the solace I never knew I longed for. 
I hope that someday women like me will feel fully welcome in the Catholic Church. Yes, I do believe that general differences between the sexes exist, but that doesn't mean one is better suited for the task than the other. All people should find appropriate and fair repre­sentation and leadership in the Church. By welcoming women into the priest­hood, many wandering feminists such as myself could find resolution to their questions. 
Whe1,1 I have daughters of my own someday, I'll be sure to ask them the same question my dad asked me when I was little. I want them to question lhc norms and fight for what they know is right. 
And I want them to come to Notre Dame. 
Maureen Smithe is a graduating senior and a former Associate News Editor. She will work as a buyer for Abercrombie & Fitch after graduation. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
day that petrified the most powerful nation in the world. These and 100 other memories will line my mind when I think back on my senior year of col­lege at Notre Dame. 
The truth is that for the gradu­ating class of 2002, our last four years have been 
most succinctlv defined by this University. When we think about the things that have hap­
pened in the last four years, most likely, those 
things have occurred in the context of Notre Dame. We've laughed, cried, celebrat­ed and 
mourned as part of a community. 
And now, by graduating, we remain a part of 
the community, but a level removed. There's a hint of 

apprehension that accom­panies no longer being at the 
heart of this community. Although it has its problems and its overprotec­tive tendencies, some of those feelings add a hint of security to a world that may not always feel or even turn out to be that way. As graduating seniors, we leave a place that has most definitely 
nurtured us. and the rude awakening 
that looms ahead is scary. 
In the outside world, there aren't peo­ple who will care deeply for your well being. There certainly won't be a com­munity to join together in an attempt to make sense of such an unprecedented turn of events as Sept. 11 . 
This year was my senior year of col­lege and it will be marked by many things, but the most important mark will be left by the place I've spent the last four years. That place has been the University of Notre Dame, and for that indelible mark I'll be forever grateful. The things I've learned both in the classroom and out have shaped me into a better person than I would have oth­erwise been able to become. 
My goal here is not to sound sappy, but to try to express my gratitude for a place I dreamed about attending. and then was able to attend. for this. I con­sider myself lucky. I hope that my fel­low graduates will acknowledge the mark of this place and also carry its tradition with them wherever they go. 
Congratulations. class of 2002, and God love thee, Notre Dame. 
Joe Larson is a senior English and history major. He will be pursuing his master offine arts in fiction writing next year at Bowling Green State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EXCERPTS FROM PAST ISSUES 
Campus reacts to Sept. 11 attacks 
A sense of horrifying dread set in. People had been injured and killed: people just like me with problems and dreams and families. The casualties of the attack were not soldiers sent with an understanding of combat and a willingness to die. The casualties were people who had rolled out of bed, maybe hit the snooze button a couple times and traveled to work under a blue sky like they had every day ... 
I realized the broad implications of the attack when I heard commenta­tors discussing America's precious balance of civil liberties and security ­as though the price offreedom had just increased exponentially. 
Eric Long 
senior 
Viewpoint columnist Sept. 12, 200 I 
As the whole campus sang the Alma Mater with arms around their neigh­bors, the sense of community radiated out and blew me away. This is what Notre Dame is all about. The togetherness and unity in our University cannot be matched anywhere else ... 
All that I thought was safe and a constant in my life has suddenly been questioned. The only thing I can do is to turn to my Lord. In this time of trouble and turmoil. the Lord is the one we must turn to. He is that one that can shine light into the darkness. He did not cause this destruction ­humans did through free choice. but He can bring great things out of it. 
Paul Sifuentes freshman Alumni Hall Sept. 13. 200 I 
Military force is the only viabl!oi response available to us. I'm no warmonger. A war is horrible for everyone involved. But some­times the cause of peace can only be advanced by war. This is not about revenge; it's about bringing criminals to justice and pre­venting further crimes. 
MikcZodda sophomore Alumni Hall Sepe. 18, 200 I 

------.... -----------------------------------------------, 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, May 17, 2002 page 21 
EXCERPTS FROM LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Four years in review: Students comment on campus controversies 
Should a Catholic university host ROTC? 
ROTC students, as well as pre-med students, will most likely face decisions with life-or-death consequences someday. While moral education is important for all students, it seems clear to me that it is absolutely crucial for these stu­dents, who will hold so many lives in their hands. Any university would be negli­gent in not providing a moral education for ROTC students, and a Catholic uni­versity would be negligent in not providing a Catholic moral education, especial­ly since just-war theory is so clearly defined and so tailored to ROTC students' future careers. 
Sheila Payne junior Cavanaugh Hall April 28, 2002 
In our society there exist many injustices that will go unchecked without the power of a just military ... 
That is the very reason we need ROTC at this school. We need to have people with morals who will give those orders and have the will to disobey unjust ones ... 
ROTC at Notre Dame is essential to ensure that the future leaders of our mili­tary will conduct war in a just manner with Christian values guiding their deci­sions. 
John Dues freshman Dillon Hall April 25, 2000 

Administration must reach out to homosexual students 
When we learned of the policy implemented by the administration ofsystematic discrimination against any advertisements from GAi.A, our hearts were deeply sad­dened and angered ... 
Where is the justice in censoring an ad that congratulated gay and lesbian stu­dents upon their graduation? What is it that makes this university scared to allow free inquiry of ideas? And why can a group of gay students not assemble while non­Catholic religious groups are invited to gather? We beg to know what differentiates us from any other student group on campus ... 
Besides being a censorious act of questionable nature, this is a concrete example of why the administration refused to guarantee the legal protection ofthe rights of gay, lesbian and bisexual people here at Notre Dame. It is clear that this university is not one which is prepared to stand up for the rights ofits gay people. 
We, yet again, feel out of place and awkward being active in an institution which proscribes ads from the alumni club which will one day likely be our own. This is a clear violation ofthe Spirit oflnclusion's promises. We are excluded. 
1. Matthew Blancett sophomore 
Morrissey Manor Sept. IO, 1999 
Let students choose 
Allow 21-year-old students to drink alcohol while tailgating, no matter the tailgat­ing "sponsor." On the whole, Notre Dame students are pretty responsible. Allow those of us who arc legal to support our storied football program and have a good time doing it. After all, in less than a year we will be in the real world, and I think we would benefit from learning for ourselves to make wise decisions regarding alco­hol ... 
Without our student body. what would Notre Dame be? ... The University needs to grant us the courtesy and leniency needed for us to develop as members of society during the course of our four years here. To be ready for the real world, students make choices, and sometimes make mistakes. Above all, most schools recognize that part of college life is in being free to explore who we are ... 
The Notre Dame traditions of family and faith will never die, but unless we make our voices heard, the independent spirit of our student body may soon fade away. 
Matthew Smith 
senior 
offcampWi Nov. 26, 200 l 

Tragedy confirms Notre Dame family exists 
New students are bombarded with somewhat cheesy talk about the "Notre Dame family" and the "spirit of Notre Dame." To me, this talk seemed rather hollow ... I had not yet been enveloped in the "spirit," as it was called. I would not be for almost two years, until three weeks ago, when we learned that my good friend Conor Murphy, a Zahm Hall resident, has leukemia. 
Although my realization of the Notre Dame family is just one of many latent effects of this horrible news. it is an important and a comforting one. At home in Cleveland over spring break, I was able to visit Conor in the hospital and witness firsthand the strength he draws from his connection to Notre Dame. 
Letters and cards, many ofthem from people somehow connected with Notre Dame, brighten the walls of Conor's room ... 
There is a sense of community and family at our school that is hard to find else­where. I hope you don't have to go through hard times to appreciate it. Maybe you will never find it. But know it's out there if you ever need it. 
Katie Sanders 
sophomore Farley Hall March 29, 2000 
I have never been so proud to be a part of the Notre Dame community as I am today. 
The way that students have responded to one of our own in need is overwhelming. I stood today in LaFortune and felt tears sting my eyes as I saw how many students came to show their support for Conor Murphy. 
I want to thank everyone who came today to show their love and support for a fel­low Notre Dame student. I thank God that I am here among so many wonderful peo­ple. We should all be proud of the Notre Dame family today. 
Amber Holleman 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
March 29, 2000 
Students beg: 'Dump Davie' 
In light of the recent losses by the My point is that whenever someone 
Notre Dame football team, I felt com­is hired for a job, they were hired to 
pelled to rewrite the lyrics to a Blink do a job. I am not saying that ethics, 
182 song called "What's My Age integrity and morality mean nothing; 
Again?" they are important for every job, 
I ran 'em out, it was a Saturday, I especially in the accounting and med­
wore headphones, so I could call the ical industries, and Notre Dame foot­
plays. We started playing well, we had ball. However, no matter how ethical, 
almost scored, but then I called the last moral and good of a person you 
time out ... are, you should not be hold­
And that's about the time we ing those jobs if you can't 
lost because of me. Nobody add numbers, can't prop­
loves you when you're Bob erly diagnose diseases 
Davie. And you still coach like and can't be eligible 
it's your first year here. for and can't win bowl 
Where the hell's my passing games. 
game, the crowd says I Some have said 
should lose my job ... that Notre Dame 
Where's my job again? preaches and should 
Where's my job again? preach that charac­
And later on, on the bus ter and integrity are 
home, I called Scholastic more important than 
from a cell phone. I said it wins and losses. No, 
was Bob and we had lost they don't preach 
again, but this time only by that, and no, they 
a yard ... shouldn't preach that 
And that's about the time ideal. Rather, they 
they all gave up on me. Nobody should preach and do 
loves you when you're Bob preach that character and 
Davie. You choose to punt when integrity are integral. vital 
you have one to go, What the hell is and fundamental parts of win­
special teams? The crowd says rshould ning and success. By firing Mr. Davie 
lose my job ... they only supported these fundamen­
Where's my job again? Where's my tal ideals that are foundational to this 
job again? institution. 
Danica Skeoch Edward Prusiecki 
sophomore senior Breen-Phillips Hall Alumni Hall Sept. 19, 1999 Dec. 6, 2001 
~HE
vnSERVER 


page 22 Friday, May 17, 2002 
This is the cl 
Scene Staff Reporr 

This Sunday as Notre Dame graduates its 1,872 seniors, it will scatter a group who have shared an experience. Though each has understood, dealt, come to terms with and loved the University in a dif­ferent way, for a moment, they all will share a piece of their lives with each other. And even though they will all walk different paths, they can all say that they are the class of 2002. This is who the class of 2002 was. This is who the class of 2002 will be. And this is the class of 2002. 
Devout 
This is what defines dedication to faith: every morning of his undergraduate career, Tom Prall rose early to attend a prayer service at 7:15 a.m. At least once each day of his college life, Prall attended Mass. His days at Notre Dame were unlike those of most students. 
As a member of Old College, Notre Dame's pro­gram for undergraduate men considering a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Prall lived his faith to the fullest. 
"My college experience was very different than other undergrads," Prall said. "I followed a different path where God was calling me at such an early age and I'm glad to have had that seriousness in my life." 
While many students filled their free time with parties and socializing, Prall spent his time helping out with various community programs and forming close bonds with other members of the seminary and the Holy Cross Congregation. 
Prall helped out at the Circle K soup kitchen and frequently visited retired Brothers at the Dujarie house. Since November he has spent two evenings per week with an ailing patient as a Hospice volun­teer. Two evenings per week were also devoted to dinners with other seminarians, brothers and fathers. 
Not only was Prall's undergraduate experience unique, his future plans are equally out of the ordi­nary. In July, Prall will leave for Hong Kong where he will spend one week at the Mary Knoll priest house attending a tutorial for teaching English. Prall will then be assigned to a post either near North Korea or in southern China where he will spend four weeks administrating an intensive teaching course to grade school and high school students, before returning to the novitiate in Cascade, Co., to take his first vows. 
Though Prati is aware that his life as a student varied greatly from that of most of the people he will be graduating with on Sunday, he is proud of his choice and the path he has followed. 
"I've never had any doubts," Prall said. 
Dedicated 
This is why Lauren Zajac doesn't regret not spending her freshman year spring break on the beaches of Florida like so many of her classmates: she went instead to a poor rural town in eastern Kentucky and ended up falling in love with a place called the David School, where she'll now be spending a year of service after graduation. 
As one of the experiential ser­vice seminars run by the Center for Social Concerns, the Appalachian Seminar program sends hundreds of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students each fall and spring break to sites throughout the impoverished 
Appalachian region. The students volunteer in vari­ous ways, from building homes to visiting the elder­ly, and some like Zajac even find that the experience changes them forever. 
Since her first trip to David School in 1999, Zajac has returned to the site at least once a year and even joined the Appalachian Task Force to become even more actively involved in the program. "I felt a special connection with the David School," Zajac said. "I believed strongly in what they were doing." 

What makes the David School stand out in Zajac's eyes is its approach to education. Founded over 20 years ago, the David School provides an alternative for disadvantaged youths who have fallen through the cracks of the public education system. The pri­vate school runs on donations and volunteer labor and provides a close, family-like atmosphere for its students from grades 8 to 12. 
"It's a non-traditional approach to education, but it works," Zajac said. 
Volunteers from Notre Dame spend their time at the David School working one-on-one with the stu­dents and pitching in on maintenance projects around the school. Over her many visits Zajac has formed friendships with the students, and it was this 
sense community that made 
Zajac want to give more in ser­
vice to the David School. 

"I always knew I wanted to do
'Tve become committed to 
service [post-graduation]. Aftersocialjustice because the my first time at David School, I University has made it hard for just knew it was right," Zajac said. "I fell in love with the
me, as an activist, to justify my 
place, and I kept coming back
beliefs and my convictions and 
to make sure." through that opposition they've Eventually she decided to return to the school as a full­
made me more ofan activist. " 
time volunteer. Zajac will begin as the school's science teacher Krista Schoening this fall and hopes to stay on senior for two academic years. She 
will also be working with the 
female students in a women's 
studies class and supervising college volunteers groups like those from Notre Dame who come to the school throughout the year. 
Volunteers like Zajac are essential to the David School. "It's important for the kids to have role mod­els and mentors close to their age, so they can see that they can succeed," Zajac said. 
Zajac will be part of one of the largest groups of full-time volunteers the school has seen in recent years. After her time at the David School, Zajac hopes to work in the field of environmental justice, drawing on what she has seen and experienced throughout her time in Appalachia. 
"The Appalachia program and other CSC programs were an absolutely integral part of my time at Notre Dame," said Zajac. "The emphasis on service is one of the best things about ND. When I talk to my friends at bigger state schools, I realize that oppor­tunities for service just aren't fostered there." 
Zajac is not alone in her sentiments or in her plans for next year. Each year, approximately 10 percent of Notre Dame's graduating class commits to one or more years of full-time service in the United States or abroad. Programs like the Alliance for Catholic Education and the Jesuit Volunteer Corps attract many seniors considering service, but some like Zajac strike out on their own and find the service opportunity which is right for them. 
"I can't wait to get back to the David School this fall," said Zajac. "It's just such a special place." 
Reminiscent 

This is who the class of 2002 will remember. Miranda Thomas, Brionne Clary and Conor Murphy, all members of the class of 2002, died of leukemia during their undergraduate years. 
Thomas lived in Walsh Hall during her freshman year at Notre Dame, but remained at the University only one month before discovering that she was sick. She returned home to Sturgis, Ky., for treatment, but passed away during the summer of 1999. Residents of Walsh say they clearly remember her friendly nature and smile. 
Clary, an "enthusiastic" mechanical engineering student from Tyler, Texas, and an active participant in interhall basketball was re-diagnosed with leukemia approximately one week before the begin­ning of the fall 2000 semester after going into remis­sion during high school. She passed away Sept. 20, 2000. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


rs 
Friday, May 17, 2002 page 23 
ss of 2002... 
After his condition inspired 610 people to join the National Marrow Donor Program in an on-campus drive during March 2000, Murphy developed pneu­monia that compromised his immune system. Murphy was remembered as a "fun loving guy with strong faith" after he died on Jan. 31. 2001. 
All three students are honored in an annual Clary­Murphy-Thomas Run. In 2001 the race raised more than $5,000 for leukemia research. On-campus mar­row drives and memorial masses have also contin­ued in their honor. 
Creative 
This is a day that is long overdue for Rachel Jones. The 24-year-old Department of Film, Television and Theatre major (theatre concentration) 
has completed her degree six 
"/followed a different path 
After the wedding, they will
years after matriculating at the 
where God was calling me at live in Boston where Friedman
University. The South Bend 
will finish medical school and
native will be joining the Detroit such an early age and I'm glad 
O'Neill looks to begin graduate
touring chapter of the improvi­
to have had that seriousness in 
studies. What she won't be
sational comedy group Second 
my life.,. doing is returning home to
City as an understudy. 
Midland, Texas, thus fulfilling a
When Jones entered the 
prophecy from long ago: when
University she never dreamed Tom Prall 
O'Neill was just five, her moth­
she would be joining Second 
senior 

er's childhood friend admon-
City. In fact, she had never had any stage or acting experience. She originally wanted to be a pharmacist. But when a friend asked her to audition for a play, "The Colored Museum," during her sophomore year, Jones was hooked and dropped her troubled and floundering pre-medical program. 
Jones took a year and a half off from the University to regroup after troubled grades. Living close to home had made it easy for Jones to shirk her responsibilities. But the time away gave Jones the perspective she needed to return and complete her education. 
"I wish I would have known that having fun all the time shouldn't have been my main goal," Jones said. "I wish I didn't have to take that year and a half off, but it made me realize how much the education real­ly meant to me." 
Jones hopes to eventually act on "Saturday Night Live" or work behind the scenes at a movie or music production company. She is glad that FTT has given her the opportunity to express herself and feels that she is more mature leaving the University than when she came in. 
"I think the whole experience at Notre Dame with the people and culture and lack of diversity some­times is a real eye-opener," Jones said. 
Committed 
This is why Casey O'Neill is glad she went to Farley's Freshman "Disorientation" in Keough Hall during her first week at Notre Dame: she met her future husband. 
When asked if she ever thought she'd end up with the typical Notre Dame romance, O'Neill laughs and says no, remembering back to that first week of freshman year when she told one of her friends that there was no way she was looking for a boyfriend. But things soon began to change after the fateful "Dis-0" party where she met Kevin Friedman, then a junior pre-med major from New Milford, Conn. 
The two began hanging out and attending Mass together. O'Neill credits Father Poorman's daily Masses in Keough with, not only bring she and Kevin closer. but ultimately giving them the priest who will celebrate their wedding. The couple dated through­out Friedman's time at Notre Dame and staved together when he headed to Harvard Medical School after graduating in 2000. 
Friedman's unexpected visit to campus this November broughl more than just the surprise of sharing another football weekend together. On Sunday afternoon the couple strolled around the lake, as was their habit, and eventually came to the bench in front of Carroll Hall; it was O'Neill's favorite place on campus. They sat and casually dis­cussed plans for an upcoming ski trip. Just when O'Neill got up to continue walking, Friedman told her to wait and got down on one knee. 
Following a time-honored Notre Dame tradition, he pulled out the ring and asked O'Neill to marry him. Although -the couple had talked about marriage, O'Neill hadn't been expecting a proposal so soon and her speechlessness eventually provoked a worried "Arc you going to answer me?" But the ring that now shines on her finger proves that the rest is his­tory. 
The couple will be married in the Basilica on Oct. 
19. It will he a true Domer wedding; O'Neill's father 
and grandfather both attended Notre Dame, as did Friedman's twin brother Scott, his younger brother and many other relatives. 
ished her, "No matter what you 
do, do not let her go to Notre 
Dame. She will meet a boy from Connecticut and never come back to Texas." In the world of Notre Dame romances, things sometimes just work out that way. 
Conscientious 
This is not what Krista Schoening imagined she would become when she stepped onto the Notre Dame campus four years ago. The 22-year-old, who double-majored in anthropology and Spanish, entered the University a confused freshman hoping she had made the right decision and will leave a confident woman hoping she can make a difference. 
In July, after she participates in the Dhra' pre-pot­tery Neolithic-A excavation in Jordan she will attempt to join human rights workers for a year in Israel and Palestine. Though Schoening loves the sci­entific side of anthropology in archeology, Schoening feels that her experience at Notre Dame has given her a larger passion: cultural anthropology. 
''I've become committed to social justice because the University has made it hard for me, as an activist, to justify my beliefs and my convictions and through that opposition they've made me more of an activist," said Schoening. 
But Schoening doesn't feel that her interest in human rights work is merely a reaction to University doctrine. Schoening, a four-year member of the University's Amnesty International chapter and a participant in other campus activist groups such as the Progressive Student Alliance and the Peace Coalition, feels that her views are also in synthesis with a campus that strongly supports the ideals she works for, in spirit at least. 
Schoening plans to arrive in the Middle East in late July, but has no definite program to work with yet because communication with human rights organi­zations in the area has been disrupted by the war. Schoening believes that she can help the situation by spreading her experience of commitment to social justice by interacting with and listening to the vic­tims of the war. 
Schoening plans to stay for a year and eventually would like to get her physical doctorate in anthro­pology. She admits that she is a bit scared of her upcoming work in Israel and Palestine, but she is more afraid that she will be unable to handle a new or tense situation than of becoming a casualty of the war herself. 
"I don't know how I can hurt the situation," Schoening said. "It's so bad I don't think I can make a difference [as an individual] positive or negative. I don't kid myself." 
C. Spencer Beggs, Amanda Greco, Laura Kelly and Kate Nagengast contributed to the article. Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu,Amanda Greco at amanda_k_greco@hotmail.com, Laura Kelly at kell_y@nd.edu and Kate Nagengast at nagengast.3@nd.edu. 

Photo courtesy of Casey O'Neill 
Kevin Friedman '00 ( left) and Casey O'Neill are engaged and will be married in the Basilica on Oct. 19. The couple met at Farley Hall's freshman "Disorientation" four years ago. Friedman proposed to O'Neill by Saint Mary's Lake. 
')'r --~'.) A. i::nc1, '\ i ""M ,s:hi,::f page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 17, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Secondary weakened as Malloy upholds decision 
-
While coaches refuse to discuss 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
anything related to the expelled foot­
Sports Writer 
ball players, it is clear that the Irish have a depth problem. Since the 
What was one of the strongest and Irish return both starting corner­deepest positions on the Irish foot­backs and have six scholarship back­ball team heading into the spring ups, Lionel Bolen, the lowest player could become one of the weakest on the depth chart, could move to and thinnest after University safety. Incoming recruit Jake Carney President Father Edward Malloy could also fill the gap. upheld a University decision to expel The third player expelled, wide three football players accused of receiver Lorenzo Crawford. wasn't rape. expected to make significant contri­
Entering the spring, the secondary butions next season. but his depar­was seen as one of the strengths of ture hurts a woefully thin wide the Irish. But after the expulsions of receiver corps. Crawford had yet to projected starter Donald Dykes and catch a pass and didn't have an key backup Abe Elam, the Irish only impressive spring. have two scholarship safeties on ros­But the Irish lack a quality stand­ter. out wide receiver. Arnaz Battle 
Dykes and Elam, along with looked the most impressive in the Gerome Sapp and Glenn Earl, were spring game and Omar Jenkins and expected to be major contributors on Ronnie Rodamer both have some defense. Dykes had started at safety game experience. But Jenkins has 
eight games last year for the Irish the most receptions of any returning and Elam was a key backup who had receiver -and he has just seven. a knack for being at the right place In the fall, the Irish will benefit 
on the field at the right time. from highly touted recruits Maurice 
Now. Sapp and Earl are the only Stovall and Rhema McKnight, who 
scholarship safeties on the roster. will be expected to contribute imme­
Walk-on Matt Sarb, who has signifi­diately. 
cant special teams experience but 
never played a down, is the lone Contact Andrew Soukup at 
backup. asoukup@nd.edu. 
Peterkin selects Irish 
never know what's going to happen," By ANDREW SOUKUP Brey said. "This is a great example of a Sporrs Wricer guy coming out of the woodwork, and 
you can't analyze him. In recruiting, 
Omari Peterkin was hoping to walk­you're forced to make a decision quick, on to Miami's basketball team. Or he and we made a quick one." was, until someone sent a two-minute What made Peterkin pick the Irish videotape of the Virgin Islands high over Indiana and Connecticut was school senior to several college basket­Notre Dame's strong academic pro­ball programs in the United States. gram. He hopes to major in biology and 
Including Notre Dame. was impressed that Notre Dame had a 
Arter visiting Indiana, Connecticut solid combination of athletics and aca­and Notre Dame, Peterkin officially demics. signed a letter-of-intent last week to Brey compared Peterkin to graduat­play for the Irish. The 6-foot-8, 250-ing senior Harold Swanagan. He pound Peterkin joins Torin Francis, praised his size and the way he could Rick Cornett and Chris Quinn as fresh­catch and handle the ball. men in the fa.II. But he added that the forward still 
"Our players who played with him has a lot of work to do. Peterkin only felt great about him as a player. But started playing basketball five years even more importantly, they felt like he ago, and Brey said he needs to physi­was our kind of guy," said Irish head cally prepare for the pace of the col­
coach Mike Brey. "He's got the total lege game and get used to the competi­package." tion level. 
Brey didn't expect to land another •·one of the things we've discussed recruit this late in the year. While the was putting him on a five-year pro­Irish had scholarships to spare and gram," Brey said. "We have to be were looking to add a high school patient with his development. But he's senior or college transfer to the team got the summer to get ready and he'll by April, they had pretty much given have a month of practice. It probably 
up on adding another player so late in won't even be decided until the night the recruiting season. before the first game." 
That is, until assistant coach Anthony Solomon heard rumors about an over­looked player from the small island of 
St. Thomas. Contact Andrew Soukup at "Recruiting is a day to day thing, you asoukup@nd.edu. 
FOOTBALL 
Devine remembered as fine man and coach 
coach, and he had a marvelous very friendly man," said former play in that game we portrayed and led the Irish to 23 unan­By CHRIS FEDERICO record at Notre Dame," said Irish running back Vagas in the movie, and he even tried swered points and a 35-34 win. 
Spores Editor 
Father Edmund Joyce, Notre Ferguson, who played under to get me in when the offense "[Devine] was a great leader, Dame vice president emeritus Devine from 1976-79. "He had the ball, but it just didn't and I think that shows through 
The Notre Dame community who hired Devine in 1975. recruited me out of high school, work because I was a defensive some of the people around him suffered a great loss on May 9, "People seem to forget that. and my family got to meet him player." like his assistant coaches and when former football coach Some of the subway alumni, and they fell in love." During his tenure, Devine players that went on to such Dan Devine died after suffering maybe even regular alumni, Despite Devine's less-than­coached some of the biggest great things," Ruettiger said. from a prolonged illness. He didn't accept him immediately. flattering portrayal in the movie names and most important Devine left this world respect­was 77. Maybe the only explanation for "Rudy," those who knew him games in Notre Dame history. ed by many as a football coach 
Devine spent six years with that is the fact that Ara best remember a different He led the Irish to a national and a man. the Irish from 1975-80, winning Parseghian, his predecessor, Devine than the man that sat championship season in 1977 "He was a splendid man -a a national championship and was such a charismatic figure behind the desk in the film. The that ended with a Cotton Bowl fine family man," Joyce said. "I three bowl games. Assuming and so exciting, while Dan was movie portrayed Devine as a victory against undefeated, top­admired him very much both as the position of head coach at rather low key." mean-spirited coach who reluc­ranked Texas. a gentleman and as a coach • Notre Dame following the ever­Unlike expressive figures tantly gave Rudy his one shot. Devine also coached arguably he was a great football coach." popular Ara Parseghian was a such as Parseghian, Gerry "Coach Devine cared a great one of the greatest comebacks Devine spent 14 months in daunting task for Devine. Faust and Lou Holtz, Devine deal that people worked hard to in college football history in the the hospital before he asked the Despite his success on the foot­had a quiet way about him. He make themselves better," 1979 Cotton Bowl. The Irish hospital staff for permission to ball field -a 56-13-1 record often kept to himself, staying Daniel "Rudy" Ruettiger said. trailed Houston 34-12 with 7:37 die at home. and three top ten finishes in six out of the public spotlight. To "He valued hard work and remaining in the game. After years -he didn't have the those that knew him, however, determination, and I think missing the entire third quarter undisputed support of the fans. Devine was friendly and caring. that's some of what he saw in with the flu, quarterback Joe Contact Chris Federico at 
"He was a great football "He was a very personable, me. Actually, he wanted me to Montana returned to the game cfederic@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Noere Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characcer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edir all classifieds for contenc without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Mex.ico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip. 
Other worldwide destinations cheap. Book tickets online www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 
LOST AND FOUND 
University Hair Stylist Lost black leather CD case with CDs. 
Missing since April 12th. 
Reward 631-5144 
WANTED 
99 ND grad seeks male to share spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. for 3-9 months. Great location & fur­nished. Call George Carr at (773) 975-0563 or e-mail al George.E.Carr@us.andersen.com 
Wanted in perfect condition -Apple Desktop G3 or iMac. Call Bob 277-2560. 
Looking for Students with a market­ing degree and programming com­puter background who can design a web site and advertise for a hotel and dive shop in Ambergis Caye, Belize C.A. Current web site is http://coralbeachhotel.com. 
Please contact James at 574-850· 3763. 
FOR SALE 
JUDA Y LAKE HOME FOR SALE 1 MILE TO CAMPUS. SWIM & FISH LAKE 3/4 BDRMS. FtREPLACE. CATHEDRAL CEIL­INGS. Broker owned. 272-6306 
---···-·-··--··---••·-···--· 
Attn: Students/Alumni lg 1-bdrm condo 15 mins. from campus. Fabulous neighborhood. Jacuzzi tub, lg. deck. All app. Low taxes. 
Call 574-299-4997. Own for less than rent. 
North Shore Club Condo. $71,900. 
East side of St. Joe River off Angela Blvd Updated 1 BR w/garage, hardwood & ceramic floors, stackable washer/dryer unit. Remax 100/Barb Foster. 219-968­4208 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 

Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. Garage. Must Seel Call Tammy(616)684-1049. HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03, 5 blocks from ND, 4 
bedroom, 2 bath, central ale, wash­er & dryer, alarm system, 
773-486-8822. 3-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. $180/PER PERSON/MO. 
SUMMER/2002. 272-6306,292-6718 
Room for rent. Beautiful, private wl own bath, quiet. Upper-middle class Mishawaka neighborhood. very clean. Computer and phone hook­up available. Storage space. References required. 
Call 255-4152 

Bed & Breakfast 3 miles from Notre Dame. Located in best area. 4 rooms available for Notre Dame graduation 
(219) 287-4545 
PERSONAL 

GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS\ by local PGA professional. Call Dick at 276-9670. 
All new ND/SMC Alumni are invited to The Windy City SYR, 9pm, June 15, Jack Sullivans, 2142 N. Clybourn. Chicago. Tix are $20 & include premium open bar from 9pm-12am. Appropriate SYR attire is encouraged. Contests include Best SYR picture, Funniest SYR moment & Worst SYR date. Only 200 tix avail. & must be purchase before 6/5. 
For more info, email Jenny Bradburn at jbradburn@google.com 

··-···-··-·····-···-·····--·---­Hey Old BIG 3, Thanks for a great two years. It 
won't be the same without you, but we'll do our best to keep up the standards you taught us ... and ii that doesn't work, we'll at least try to spend as much time at the 'Backer. Best Wishes! Love, New BIG 3 
----·-··-··-······-···-··-·· 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
BASEBALL 
Three-way tie for first leaves Irish in control 



lt S~clJiity ::,y$terps . · ·· ..·•··· 
· 
· , •24-houcmaintenance.,staff ··.•Everybody.gets th~irown bedroorn!. i ••2'.', 4:,, 5-,6-,7-, 8-,, 9-, tO;;bedroom houses 

OnJy:J1e.tt.for.the.2DQ2--~00$ schpoiyear.... JA/so Jeasingtorthe 20Q8"2004.sqhpotyear . 
Ca;ll:I te,la!,-DQll1$eso:1re. · : . . ­-. •'t . 9c1.rl1i• -·~.Utf
: . d!9""' .~ j• . . 
.........;....·-...·. 

Contact Kr~nner:. Office: 234·2436 CeU: 274~99.SS Voicemaih 674~2571 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
Heading into the final Big East weekend of the regular season, the Notre Dame base­ball team is in complete control of its own destiny regarding the postseason. 
The Irish currently stand in a three-way tie for the Big East lead with Virginia Tech and this weekend's opponent, Boston College. The Irish can take .care of the Eagles by win­ning the weekend series. They also hold the tie-breaker advantage over the Hokies if the two teams finish the season with the same conference record. 
"It's nice to be in that situa­tion at the end of the year," centerfielder Steve Stanley said. "I think these will be the three biggest games of the year for us like we've said all along." 
The Irish only need to win one of the three games against Boston College this weekend to be assured of a spot in the four-team conference tourna­ment. A three-game sweep would guarantee them the reg­ular season Big East title and the No. 1 seed in the tourna­ment. 
Winning the regular season title and the Big East Tournament could be very important for Notre Dame's hopes of hosting its second consecutive NCAA Regional at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"For us to host a regional, we have to win the regular season Big East title," Stanley said. "That's a prerequisite -we have to do that. I think this year we even have to win the Big East Tournament, so there are some things we haven't accomplished yet. But right now we can't even think about hosting a regional because we don't even know if we're in one." 
In their last Big East matchup, the Irish traveled to Villanova and came away with two wins from the three-game series. 
The Irish stumbled a little in the opening game Saturday, blowing a 7-5 lead in the bot­tom of the seventh to allow the Wildcats to tie. In the next inning, pitcher J. P. Gagne gave up three straight singles to Villanova batters to allow the go-ahead run to cross the plate in the Wildcat 8-7 victory. 
In the doubleheader Sunday. Irish bats exploded for five home runs, including two from sophomore first baseman Joe Thaman, as Notre Dame knocked off the Wildcats 8-1 and 9-5. 
The first game saw dominant pitching performances from freshmen John Axford. who picked up the win going 4.2 innings and allowing one run, and Chris Niesel, who con­tributed 2.1 innings of hitless relief. Niesel made his return to the mound after a month­long absence due to mononu­cleosis. 
"Niese! was outstanding," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "During the week we let him do some side work, and he looked very good and felt good. The ideal situation would have been to put him in for two innings with a nice lead. But Axford ran into a bit of trouble in the fifth inning and loaded the bases. So we had to bring in Chris with bases loaded and two outs in his first game back. But he did very well, and I think he struck out four in a row at one point." 
In the concluding game, sec­ond baseman Steve Sollmann went 3-for-5 with four RBIs and two runs scored in leading the nine-run Irish attack. 
Junior Peter Ogilvie started the game and gave a solid 6.2 inning, four-run outing before yielding to relief help. After a stint by junior Brandon Viloria, Gagne was called upon from the bullpen after the difficult outing the previous day. The junior right-hander entered the game with runners on first and third and two out, but got the first batter to strike out to escape from the inning. 
Gagne stayed in the game and pitched two scoreless innings with four strikeouts to earn the save. 
"J.P. rGagne] has as much courage as any player I have ever coached." Mainieri said. "After that game Saturday. there was no one more upset than him. But I told him that if that same situation came up the next day, he would be get­ting the ball again. That's exactly what happened, and he came in and did a great job. He's been outstanding for us this year, and I wasn't going to let one unfortunate outing affect what he does for us." 
In midweek action Wednesday, the Irish outplayed a much smaller 13-man Rochester College squad for a 10-3 victory. With many reserves getting a chance to start, Notre Dame committed four errors but made up for the defensive struggles with 17 hits, led by the efforts of desig­nated hittter Mike Holba's 3­for-4 day. 
Freshman Martin Vergara pitched six innings and allowed one run on three hits for the win. 
In the second game of the day, the Irish erupted against Detroit, defeating the Titans 23-1 in a game that was called after seven innings. The 22-run difference was the largest mar­gin of victory for the Irish since 1922. 
Senior third baseman Andy Bushey set a Notre Dame record by driving in seven runs in the game. Right fielder Brian Stavisky was 5-for-5 with five runs scored in the contest. 
The two wins move the Irish to 38-14 on the season. 
The first game of Notre Dame's series with Boston College is slated for 6 p.m. Friday evening. Tho double­header is set to begin at noon Saturday. 
Note: 
. Senior centerfielder and co­captain Steve Stanley set two more Irish records Wednesday. In the first game against Rochester, he surpassed J.J. Brock on the career games started list with 239. In the nightcap against Detroit. Stanley appeared in his 240th career game to pass former teammate Alec Porzel and move into first place on that list as well. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 17, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

Tumultuous season brings coaching change 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

Everybody knew Bob Davie would be fired. Few people knew who would be hired. 
But nobody expected what happened in December. 
When Notre Dame started the season with losses to Nebraska, Michigan State and Texas A&M -the worst start in school his­tory -Davie's fate seemed sealed. Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White met with Davie shortly after the Irish were embarrassed by Texas A&M 24-3 and essentially told Davie his job status would be evaluated at the end of the sea­son. 
News of the impending evalu­ation leaked to the media, and the Davie Watch was on. Irish fans printed T-shirts with "Dump Davie" written across the back. He was booed during the 1812 Overture. Reporters grilled him at weekly press con­ferences. He stopped speaking at pep rallies. 
But Davie didn't quit coaching and the Irish didn't quit playing. Notre Dame won its next three games against Pittsburgh, West Virginia and USC to even their record at 3-3 but dropped three of the final five games, beating only lowly Navy and Purdue and losing to Boston College, Tennessee and Stanford to fin­ish the season 5-6, the second time in three years the Irish failed to break .500. 
Players quickly pointed out that the losses weren't the coaches' fault. Quarterback Matt LoVecchio started the first two games of the season, but Carlyle Holiday took over as starter at the Texas A&M game. However, Holiday tended to win more games with his feet than his arm. By the end of the sea­son, opposing defenses were focused on shutting down the option and daring the Irish to beat them in the air. 
They couldn't. The offense couldn't execute the rri.ost basic plays and killed themselves with turnovers. After an atrocious game at Stanford where Holiday completed just 1-of-16 passes, offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers angrily said, "The kid couldn't throw the damn ball." 
So when Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White announced Davie's firing less than 12 hours after the Irish beat Purdue, it was a remarkable turnaround for Davie, who's job seemed secure after White gave him a five-year contract extension in 2000. 
But the extension was a mis­take, White said. 

"A year ago at this time, I believed that we had turned the corner under Bob and that we were prepared to reclaim our traditional standing among the nations' elite college programs," White said. "Today I can no longer say that." 
White fired Davie on a Sunday, and by Monday he dis­appeared from view as he launched a massive coaching search. A week later, White returned to South Bend with former Georgia Tech head coach George O'Leary. 
'Tm very happy to be at Notre Dame," O'Leary said. "I think the two best jobs in America are the head football coach of Notre Dame and the manager of the New York Yankees." 
The fiery O'Leary was intro­duced at a public press confer­ence where hundreds of'f-shirts were printed with "By George, it's O'Leary" emblazoned on the front. 
But his reign only lasted five days. A reporter from New Hampshire writing a story about O'Leary's college football days started a chain reaction of events that caused O'Leary's resignation after he admitted that he lied about obtaining a master's degree and playing football at New Hampshire. The shirts printed five days before stopped appearing on student's backs and started showing up on eBay. 
The nightmarish resignation shocked the nation and sent White scurrying around the country again. This time, the search was slower and more cautious. While it took White only a week to hire O'Leary, it took him 16 days to hire Tyrone Willingham, the former Stanford head coach. 
"This is an exciting moment," Willingham said on New Year's Day, the day he was formally announced as Irish head coach. "It is a moment that you often go back in your life and you try to figure out what has brought you to this moment." 
Now Willingham faces the challenge of trying to resurrect an Irish program that hasn't won a national championship since 1988. But his straightfor­ward, no-nonsense attitude and West Coast offense already has Irish fans excited. 
However, Willingham doesn't spend too much time thinking about what could happen. He's too busy trying to make things happen. 
"I don't think," he said after one spring practice. "I just go." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


Graduates: 
No Matter Where You May Go, Or What Your Financial Needs May Be... 
We'll Always Be As Close As www.ndfcu.org 

r:o.. 

574/239-6611 NOTRE DAME 800/522-66 l l 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us

G} to be better 
lltlLHUSllC 

LENDER Independent of fhe University 

Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
problematic for the Belles. At the end of last season, 
But this year, Blair sur­Blair was a consistent con­
Blair 
prised everyone, including tributor to the Belles, but continued from page 44 herself, and she wasn't -----------became the MIAA leader the first-team
"/ never was the strong 
Although 13lair was named team really quality.
leader or able to be
to the all-MIAA first team needed. However, for her play during the "I never outgoing; now I'm able to a sum­2001-2002 basketball sea­was the m e r ' s
take care of anything."
son, it's more than her skill strong worth of on the court that has leader or work paid impressed coaches and able to be Anne Blair off and teammates. outgoing: forward w h e n 
Blair became a much­now I'm B l a i r needed confidant for players able to take returned and coaches alike. care of anything," Blair said. for fall camp, she was an 
"She's a very unselfish Blair has become the go-to improved player. person, just very caring person on the court and off. Blair was the Belles second­about those around her and Her openness has made her leading scorer, averaging she puts a lot of pressure on the perfect person for team­12.6 points-per-game and herself to do things right," mates to go to with prob­grabbing six rebounds a said head coach Suzanne lems and she's Smith's No. 1 game. Her .464 shootingSmith, who has worked with choice for discussing possi­percentage was third on the Blair for the past two sea­ble problems with the team. team and Blair was in sons. "That just makes a As one of three seniors, almost every minute of the g r e a t Blair was game. example." the one "I was blown away at the 
At the "She has been fantastic 
who took beginning of this year at end of the both seasons I've been the leader­how hard she had worked 1999-2000 ship role. on her skills. around the
here as far aas being
season. As a cap­basket and post moves," 
Roeder that link between the tain, she Smith said. resigned players and myself She's proved to Although Blair has no defi­and Smith be the nite plans to play or coach in 
never been afraid ofcon­
stepped in. missing the future. her love for bas­
veying their needs to
With a I i n k ketball is something the new coach me. between Californian turned South and anoth­players and Bend fan will never lose. er young coach. ''I'll always love [basket­
Suzanne Smith 
t e a m , "She has ball] but I don't see it as the B 1 a i r Belles basketball head coach done fan­most important part of my found her-tastic both future," Blair said. "But the self in a seasons love for it will go on." leadership position that she I've been here as far as wasn't used to. being that link between the 
With mediocre retention players and myself," Smith rates, keeping seniors -said. "She's never been especially seniors who could afraid of conveying their Contact Katie McVoy at be leaders -may have been needs to me." mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
-

CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer Senior Anne Blair combined her love for basketball with her love for teaching by coaching a fifth grade basketball team. 

ALEXANDER AHLES  JUSTIN BURT  KEVIN HARDY  MICHAEL MCNAIR  PAUL RICKETTS  
JUSTTINI ALIAGA  DAVID CANNON  RYAN HERNANDEZ  VINCENT MELLNICK  MATTHEW Rosso  
DAVID AMRHEIN  DANIEL CHEW  NATHANIEL HICKS  PETER MORRELL  ERIC SAUL  
MARK ANDOLINA  WILLIAM CONWAY  DANIEL KELLY  TIMOTHY NEUNER  NICHOLAS SCHAFER  
Y0GELD ANDRE  WILUAM COTTER  MARK KIRZEDER  TIMOTHY O'CONNOR  CHRISTOPHER SCOTT  
JAMES ANDRY  CHRISTOPHER CRANE  CHRISTOPHER LAR0SSA  TAYT ODOM  JUDE SEYMOUR  
DANIEL BAIG  ANDRE CROMPTON  KEVIN L.A.YELLE  MATTHEW ORENCHUK  AARON SMITH  
BRANDON BLACKWELL STEVEN DlLLENBURGER  COLEMAN LECHNER  ANTHONY PAGLIARINI  JAMES STEVENS  
BRETT BONEAU  JUSTIN F ARISHON  PHILLIP MADONIA  ALEXANDER PAGNANI  MATTHEW TROIANI  
BRIAN BORZENSKI  LOGAN FOLEY  JAMES MAHER  CARL-PHILIPPE PIERRE-ANTOI NE  ADAM TURNER  
DAVID BURKAVAGE  PETER FRASSO  JAKE MCCARTHY  JOSHUA PINI  PAUL YBARRA  
BRIAN BURKE  NATHANIEL HANNAN  JOHN MCKIERNAN  JEFFREY RAEDY  

GOOD LUCK AND Goo BLESS 
-FR. PAUL DOYLE CSC AND ALL YOUR FELLOW DILLONITES 
-
page 28 The Obsen,er . SPORTS Friday, May 17, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tourney appearance lands Irish back on map 
Humphrey, David Graves and Georgetown. Brey even shuffledBy ANDREW SOUKUP 
Harold Swanagan and junior the starting lineup around,
Spom Wrirer 
Matt Carroll more than replace replacing Graves with Torrian 
Murphy's leadership. With Jones. 
The year started with a ques­Murphy, the Irish deferred to The switch worked. Brey tion. It ended with a statement. their All-American. Without him. alwavs kevs his teams to make a And as a charter plane flew a they challenged themselves to strong run in February, and the basketball team that fell in the produce on their own. Irish won eight of their final 11 second round of the NCAA The Murphy-less Irish were a games of the regular season, Tournament back to Notre different team, indeed. including a marathon four-over­Dame, the Irish basketball team Part of the reason they were so time victory over Georgetown. definitively told the nation it was successful was the emergence of Thomas made the Irish t1ashy back on the map. highly touted freshman Chris and quick. He energized the 
Nobody thought that after for­Thomas. Thomas arrived at offense and played inspired mer Irish All-American Troy Notre Dame with the highest defense. But Thomas couldn't do Murphy declared for the NBA expectations on his shoulders. At it all, and Graves, Humphrey, draft. skipping his final year of times, it seemed he wasn't asked Swanagan and Carroll helped college, that the Irish would to replace departed point guard him realize that. By the end of return to the NCAA Tournament. Martin Inglesby, but Murphy. the year, Thomas was winning And this was a team that, before But if anyone buckles under games not with his shot but with head coach Mike Brey arrived pressure, it's not Thomas. The his decision-making skills. two years ago, hadn't been to flashy freshman easily surpassed The Irish linishcd second in the NCAA Tournament since every prediction and every Big East West Division and easily 1990. expectation. In his first college handled St. John's in the quar­
"I think the theme since last game, Thomas merely recorded terfinals of the Big East spring has been, 'Is there life the first triple-double in Notre Tournament. But they fell to after Troy?"' Brey said a· few Dame history. By the end of the Connecticut in the semi-finals days before the Irish started season, Thomas earned multiple and anxiously awaited news practice. "We really feel there Freshman of the Year honors. about whether or not they would is." "I th.ink what helped Chris be back in the NCAA 
Brey and the Irish might have Thomas was those four guys up Tournament. been the only ones who felt that front," Brey often said during the Players were disappointed against the top-seeded Blue and showed how much the Irish way. National publications left season. "He's playing with four with the No. 8 seed in the South Devils -even leading by seven had improved from the day the Irish out of their preseason men." Region that the Irish received, points late in the second half -Graves and Swanagan first tournament projections. Coaches Thomas and the Irish started matching them up against before falling for the second­arrived on campus as freshmen. picked Notre Dame to finish out red-hot. They won nine of Charlotte in the first round in straight year in the second round "This is pride," Graves said, third in the Big East. And fans their first 10 games and Duke in the second round. All of the NCAA Tournament. pointing to the word 'Irish' on across the country thought Notre appeared poised to break into season long, the Irish had One of the goals the Irish his uniform minutes after Notre Dame's one-year resurgence was the Top 25. claimed they were underrated. established for the season was to Dame lost to Duke. "This means a fluke and that Murphy had Then, the Irish started strug­But they didn't dwell on the put themselves "back on the something now. It didn't before." carried the Irish. gling. They dropped five of their low seed or feel sorry for them­map." More than anything else, 
But those so-called experts next eight games, including selves. The Irish blew out Notre Dame's strong showing couldn't sit in on Irish practices embarrassing defeats against Charlotte in the first round and against Duke laid the foundation Contact Andrew Soukup at and watch seniors Ryan Syracuse, Kentucky and turned in a scrappy performance for a surging basketball program asoukup@nd.edu. 

''I hope you come to find that whicfi gives {ife a deep meaningfor you. Sometfiing wortfi ilving  
for. .. something that energizes you, enthuses you, ena6fes you to k,gep moving aliead. I can't te{{  
c E N T  E R  F  o R  you what it miglit 6e ­I can just encourage you to start (and/or continue!) {ookjng, andsupport  
S  O  C  I A  L  you in the searcli. "  
CONCERNS  -Ita Pore{, <M..<M..  

~fje staff of tfje 
Center for Social Concerns 
congratuf ates alT tfje mem6ers of 
THE 2002 SENIOR CLASS 
on tfjeir gra6uation! 
'.B(essings to you, as you go forth from 'Notre 'Dame, to create, in your awn way, "a morejust andhumane wor[d." 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Inexperience leads to disappointing season 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Freshman forward Kelsey Wicks attempts to get around a Tennessee defender during Notre Dame's second-round loss in the NCAA Tournament. 
By KATIE McVOY Associarc Spom Editor 
The uniforms Notre Dame wore during their final loss of the season in round two of the NCAA tournament told the tale of the 2001-2002 Irish. 
They were green. 
For the Irish, who took home a national championship last year, this season was anything but a replay. It was a transition year. It was a year for a young team. It was a challenge. 
With six freshmen and only one returning senior, the Irish knew they would have their work cut out for them heading into the 2001 season. Head coach Muffet McGraw, who knew she could count on her vet­erans last year, didn't know who or what she could count on this season. 
"Because nothing is expected, when something good happens everybody gets excited about it because it's not like last year where we expected to win by 20," McGraw said at the begin­ning of the season. "This year we just have to play hard and see what happens." 
It was a whole new Irish team that took the court in November. There was no Ruth Riley, no Kelly Siemon, no Niele Ivey. Instead, there was Jackie Batteast, who was named Big East Rookie of the Year, Kelsey Wicks, Alison Bustamante, Teresa Borton. It was a young group of women led by sopho­more guards. a non-vocal Alicia Ratay and senior Ericka Haney who struggled with her own game in the first months of the season. 
The beginning of the season was less than perfect. On Dec. 28, Notre Dame fell 72-61 to Rice, a school the 2000-2001 Irish had destroyed. The Irish were barely at .500. A game that was supposed to be a warm-up after Christmas break left the Irish cold. McGraw left the press conference in tears. Her young team just didn't seem to be get­ting the job done. 
Just five days later, however, things began to turn around. With a 69-65 victory against Big East opponent Miami, the Irish had their first road win and found their groove. 
If they weren't dominant in the Big East, the Irish were at least holding their own. After decisive victories against Virginia Tech, Syracuse and Boston College, the Irish managed to move to second place in the conference, hanging behind the Huskies, the undis­puted best team in the country. 
By Feb. 26 the Irish clinched a first-round bye in the Big East Tournament and were riding a nine-game winning streak. They had won 51 home games in a row, the longest active home win streak in the NCAA. But once they hit that peak, the young team found themselves at the bottom again. The win streak came to an end with a three point loss to Villanova as the reg­ular season concluded. 
Post-season play was less than a storybook ending. Notre Dame fell in the first round of the Big East tournament to Syracuse. after working its way up to sec­ond place in the Big East. The team foll in round two of the NCAA tournament, losing to Tennessee by the biggest margin in McGraw's career. 
The season was over, but the transition had made serious progress and even the unsettling loss to Tennessee had its place in the learning process. 
"Our team is young. this is a learning experience for us." McGraw said after the game. "This is how you grow as a team, to go through something like this. You go back, watch the film and figure out what you have to do to get better and how to get to where we want to be. That's what we're going to work on." 
As the Irish look ahead tu next year, they will find themselves feeling more like a team than they did at the beginning of this season. Haney graduated, and junior center Amanda Barksdale transferred, but the Irish are returning the rest of the team. 
Notre Dame may be returning the green uniforms to celebrate St. Patrick's Day next year, but the team won't be quite as green. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 



!!!THANK YOU!!! 
CENTER FOR 

SOCIAL To all the students who are giving their summer to service-learning. Your dedication to compas­CONCERNS sion and social justice is evident. We hope the relationships you will form with me~~ers of yo~r daycamps, shoals, AIDS programs, shelters, children's homes, outreach centers, clrnics, womens 
care programs and hospitals, etc., will be valuable life experiences. 
Summer Service Project Internship -Hispanic/African American Leadership Intern Program •ACCION ­International Summer Service Leaming Program -National Youth Sports Program • Global Health Initiative 
Keri Oxley Elizabeth Seerveld Kristen Yerg
Elizabeth Luther Sarah Paulson Cherise YundBrian Arena Kalie DeCarlo Colin Heffernan Allison Sell
Cliff Arnold Michele Delay Kevin Heffernan Katherine Lutkus 
Eileen Mack Fernanda Payan Colin Shanahan Sarah ZaludElizabeth Asher Katie Dembs Alicia Hehr Daniel Madden Sheila Payne Christina Shreiner Silvana ZepedaAmber Azevedo Andrea deVries Matt Heibel Leslie Pechkurow Elizabeth Simpson Kristin Ziegler
KaleMaich

Lauren Barkrneier Juliana de Sousa Solis Rich Herbst Colleen Pepper Lindsay Slevinski Donald Zimmer
David Austin Baroni Julia Dickinson Amanda Hernandez Jorge Mas Saavedra Brooke Piller Monica Smith Debra Zwilling
SSPI 
Frankie Beecroft Joe Dickmann John Hibey Jason Mathias Kathenne Belden Andrew Teresa Do Carrie Hilliker 
Diana Mattingly Julie Piper Maria Smith Michael Poffenberger Sean Smith
Benavidez Erin Dugan Lauren Hagel Meghan McCabe Andrew Polaniecki Marlayna-SoennekerTheresa Blackwell Marianne Dunn Laurie Hohberger Katie McCarthy 
caitlin Polley Katie Solie
Jon McCrea

Lauren Blum Michael Engelbert Claire Hoipkemier 
Ki.lvin SamokLauren Price

HLIP 
Andrea Blyth Annie Envall Monica Hritz Bunnoi Ashley McDaniel Gabby Sopko
Katie McDermott Bridget Purdue Rachel Ramos 
Ben1amin Bogucki Melissa Ferrello John Hudson Nadia Stefka
Patrick McElwee

Enca Bove Rebecca Feldmann Amanda Hughes
.,,. Shantha Ready Meghann Stepan
Bridget McFadden

Tona Boyd Sarah Finch Joshua Hunn Jess Reddinger Mary Kate StickelJustin Brandon Sarah Finnane Shannon Hyduk Mike McGowan
ACC[•N 
Michael SweikarVanessa Reinhart

Mario Braz Meg Fitzpatrick Jill Joehl William McIntyre Andrea SwinehartMatthew Reisenauer
Jessica Brogan Kimberly Fletcher Daniel Johnson Madeleine McKenna Christian McNamara 
Maureen TateSarah Resch

Sarah Brook Brian Flanagan Andrea Johnson David Retchless Michael ThompsonKevin McNamaraBlake Brotherton Lauren Fowler Linda Joseph Lauren Rhoads Whitney Thompson

ISSLP 
Erin Bums Stephanie Giannetto Meg Julian Alissa Mendoza Jaclyn Rhoads Laura Tibbit!
Yolaine Menyard

Amanda Byers Rosemary Gibney Matt Keane Danny Richter Molly TopperJonathon Beyrer Ben Gilfillan Richard Keller Margie Miller Nancy Miller Ellyn Rideout Casey TorgussonKatie Cardinali Nicole Gilg Maura Kelly
GHI 
Chloe Risto Alison Troy

Maureen Carney Brandon Glenn PhilipKierl Leticia Morin 
Kathva Valdez

Maggie Morrissey Kara RocheEileen Carroll Annette Gonzalez Peter Kim Stephen Morrow Stephanie Rochel Jason VillarrealKatie Casey Roberto Gonzalez Kristin Kleiser Mark Roland Trina VillasisKathryn MulcahyMaura Cenedella Esteban Granados Paula Kuhn Kieuhoa Vo
h-.,s,i 
Grisel Ruiz

Angela Chiappetta Daniel Greene Jordan Lachapelle Maureen Mulvaney Jaime VolkmerMary Murphy Dan RundeToben Cocklin Michael Greenfield Natalie Ladine Melissa Webb
David Cook Brian Grundy Olivia Laible Tiffany Natelborg Meridith Runke Christopher Rupar Eleanor Wei!le
Colin Cox Blake Haan Erin LaRuffa Adam Nicholson Erin Ryan Matthew Werger
Susan Creary Andy Hagans Colleen Lawler Katherine Noack Megan Sanders Andrew Wieber
Libby Cunningham Paige Hall Brennan Leddy Maggie Nolan Kate Schlosser Jenny WiemerCaitlin Cunningham Teresa Hansen James Lee Don Norton Jenny WildingDaniel SchmidColleen O'Connor
Emily Daley Colin Harding Liz Lenn Ava WilliamsMelissa Schmidt
Jacquie Dammann Brian Hartman Anne Liddy Lauren O'Connor Megan Olive 
Gwen Schmiedebusch Sarah Wilson

Dani Davis Kimberly Haug Anne Lim Lindsay Davis Andrea Loman Kathryn Ostrowski Grego Schober Seph Wunder
Lacey Haussamen Chris Schuster David Yeager
Andrew DeBerry Jacquie Hazen Joe Lordi Brian Otto 



page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 17, 2002 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Runners hope to tune-up at Georgia Tech 

tion. leading women's distance coach Tim Connelly to believe she can go even faster. 
"I can see her making the [NCAA] tinal and scoring," Connelly said. "She's still learning how to race." 
Junior Jennifer Handley and sophomore Megan Johnson will compete in the 5,000 meters. Handley already has reached the NCAA provisional mark, and is ranked 27th in the countrv with her March 29 time of 16:28.55. 
"Right now, Jen's going to have to run a little bit faster." Connelly said. 
On the men's side, sophomore Kevin Somok and frP,shman Eric Morrison will compete in the 1,500 meters. Neither has reached an NCAA qualifying standard yet this year, so the Georgia Tech meet is meant as a sort of capstone to their seasons. 
"What are their chances of quali­fying for the NCAA's'? To be can­did, I don't think they're great," Piane said. "That's not our reason for going down there. Our reason for going down there is to try to get them to run faster." 
Sophomore Todd Mobley also reached the provisionally qualify­ing standard in the 10,000 meters earlier this season at Stanford, but Moblev is ranked so low that nei­ther he nor Piane anticipate he will making the cut. Mobley has already returned home to Michigan. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 



TELL YOUR PARENTS WHERE TO GO... 
for your Graduation dinner. 
•Slow 
roasted prime rib 

•
Fall-off the-bone BBQ ribs 

•The 
ONLY steakhouse in South Bend 

•
Reservations Accepted 


I
'l 
ii 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Senior Staff Writer 

The Notre Dame track and field team is sending a number of ath­letes to Georgia Tech this weekend for a final tune-up before the NCAA Championships. But head coach Joe Piane made one thing clear when the weekend's lineup was compiled -graduating seniors Liz Grow, Luke Watson and Rvan Shav will be staying put in Indiana. • 
"I tell these kids all the time, the graduation isn't for them. it's for their parents," Piane said. "The parents want to be there for this and this is something the parents have been dreaming about longer than [the students! have. I'm not going to try to snatch that away from any parent." 
Without Grow, who has already automatically qualified for the NCM meet in the 400 meters and is a a key member of the Irish 4x100 and 4x400 teams, the other members of Notre Dame's sprint group will concentrate on their individual events. 
That includes sophomore Ayesha Boyd, who reached the NCAA pro­visionally qualifying time in the 200 meters in late March. Boyd, whose time of 23.6 seconds ranks her 31st in the country heading into the weekend, likely needs to improve upon that niark to sneak into the NCAA meet. 
"I want to give her another shot at improving her time," said sprints coach John Millar. 
Without Grow, the 4x400-meter relay team. currently ranked eighth in the country, will have to sit on its May 11 provisionally qual­ifying time of 3 minutes, 34.46 sec­onds. Two other members of that team, juniors Kymia Love and Kristen Dodd, will compete in the 400 meters. 
Millar is also confident that llis women's 4x100 meter team will make the cut without a final com­petition. That team. comprised of Grow, Boyd, Love and junior Tameisha King, is currently ranked eighth. 
King, who already provisionally qualified for the NCAA meet in the long jump with u leap of 6.31 meters on March 30, is looking to end the regular season on a high note. After competing in the hur­dles and relay events at the Big East Championships, King can use this meet in her hometown of Atlanta to concentrate on one event. 
"She's been struggling on her approach a little bit, hitting the board," said sprints coach Scott Windsor. "She's been jumping far, but she's either fouled it or she's been missing the board. This week­end, we're just looking for improvement." 
Another woman, freshman Lauren King, looks to use the Georgia Tech meet as a spring­board for the NCAA Championships in the 1,500 meters. King currently sits on the bubble with the 4:21.10 time she posted at the Big East Championships on May 5. But King won that race with little competi­
.. >222 S. Michigan ·South.Bend 
. . 
:.:._..574-:~34~5200 
~ 

. . 
.J>rime spaceJor your private party 


.I~250 guests. 
One of a kind, 
.,! ,_ 

just like the city it's named after. 

& I¦ •••••• ,,... '!• ¦¦ l'W1. Wt• ¦ "W• 9 W...1'1-9 .......... ¦ Prt"l."11. • r¦ ..111, ¦ W ...... .._ a ••.._.._ .. t: ti.a••,--I•••~• a I a I ¦,a ¦ & ¦ 'I.a¦•• Wt It 8 I I• ¦ 1 ¦a•¦ I¦-. I ¦¦W ¦••a¦ la a·•W: a• ¦¦ a IW a l•a ¦ 'l,I aa ¦•t 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
===========================================================================--~==========================================-= 
10,000-meters in high school, to make a difference in this pro­wasn't a Notre Dame fan growing to do more you can do more,"' was more than physically pre­gram, I can't just do it by exam­up," Shay said. Shay said. 
Shay 
pared for Notre Dame when he ple," Shay said. "You have to But when he arrived, Shay, who As time went on, Piane began continued from page 44 arrived that fall, his mental motivate other people, communi­was coached by his father in high to work with Shay to adapt the 

expectations were different. cate with them, help them out. school, found that Piane's coach• team's workouts to those Shay "I thought as a runner, if you're Let them feel like this is a team, ing philosophy differed greatly designed for himself. Shay also
Central Lake High School in 
running at the NCAA I level, like everyone counts." from that of his father, who had began spending more and moreNorthern Michigan. While he you're there to run because you It was a decision that helped already helped four of Shay's time in Piane's office suggesting
placed first at the state cross­~
want to try to become like the the team. which returned to the older siblings earn college schol­practices.
country meet all four years and 
elite," Shay said. NCAA Championships with the arships. "Sometimes I have a hard time ' won seven state titles in track, But not all of the [rish runners same core of runners as the pre­Shay wanted to go out hard and getting Ryan to leave the office," ' ' 
Shay -whose graduating class .
shared Shay's enthusiasm. They vious year. And it was a change treat every lap in practice like it Piane said. "He's here as a lot. .numbered 26 -only competed didn't go out as hard in practice. that ultimately helped Shay. was the final turn at the That's good, I would rather have
against other small Class D 
And some didn't seem to regard "When you're just thinking Olympics. Piane was more cau­that as a problem than trying to . 
schools. ' 
track and cross-country as priori­about what you need to do indi­tious. pull kids in." ' 
"I think he felt that he had a lot ' 
ty No. 1, which irked Shay at first vidually, you can get caught up in But working vvith Piane, whose "I think that's great to have a ' to prove coming in as a fresh­
but he later came to understand. that too much," Shay said. "Its athletes have earned All•America coach that will work with you like man," said Irish head coach Joe "I realized that that's not the almost like you're putting too status 40 times in his 27 years at that and listen," Shay added. "APiane. 
goal of everyone out there run­much pressure on yourself. When Notre Dame, soon began to pay lot of coaches will be like, 'It's my off for Shay. way or no way, you have no
ning. especially at a school like you spread that out amongst
Something to prove Notre Dame where athletes are some of your teammates, it's less At the Big East Cross Country input.' I'm just not that type of The first time Luke Watson and Championship in New York City athlete, I like to have a hand in
coming here to get an education stress on you." 
Pat Conway saw Shay run, the during Shay's junior season, everything I do.''
and their passion is maybe in These days, Shay shares an 
didn't exactly see a runner they Keith Kelly of Providence took a Piane also points out the differ­
their major, to get a job or what­apartment with teammates 
would expect to become a captain dominating lead from the start. ence Shay has made for the pro­
ever," Shay said. Watson, Nate Andrulonis ai:1dby his junior season. Shay wanted to catch up with gram in setting the bar for the
Shay's frustration continued Sean Zanderson. And he regards
It was the 1997 National him, but Piane kept urging Shay team's younger athletes. 
into his sophomore year. By that• their friendship as one of his most 
Catholic Invitational, Shay's first important memories of Notre to stay back, counting on Kelly "I think it'll have a positive
time the senior leaders from the
home meet of his collegiate falling behind later. effect for years to come because
Dame.
cross-country team had graduat­
career. Shay took it out hard from On the final hill, Kelly -who the new kids are going to learn
ed, and the team performed "We feel comfortable communi­
the start, leading the race by a won the NCAA Championship in from the old kids. who learned
below Shay's expectations. cating with each other, letting
wide margin from end to end. cross-country a year later -did from Ryan," Piane said. 
each other know what's going inWhereas Shay advanced to the
That was the way Shay always drop back, and Shay caught and After the NCAA Championships,
on in our lives," Shay said. 'TmNCAA Championship race with
ran in high school, so he thought passed him for his first and only Shay plans on pursuing a profes­
always going to be there for them his team as a freshman. he had to 
nothing of doing the same in col­first-place Big East finish. sional running career -hiring an 
and they're always going to bequalify individually as a sopho­
lege. "I think Coach Piane taught me agent and signing on with a shoe
there for me."
more.
But some of the older Irish run­that in my racing to be patient, company to sponsor him.
"We had no leadership on the
ners who weren't competing that that some races are tactical and Whoever he signs with, he plans
team," Shay said. "The guys who Leaving a legacy
day thought Shay should have its not always the best strategy to on heading to Chula Vista. Calif.. 
were the leaders were seniors When Shay started looking for 
stayed back and run with the go right to the front as hard as and working out at the ARCO other Notre Dame runners. And who already graduated and the a place to run in college, he you can from the start to finish," Olympic training center. 
they yelled at him to do so seniors that year weren't really looked for a mix of academics 
Shay said. Piane, for one. is excited to see leadership material. I was still
throughout the race. Finally and athletics. Wake Forest, Junior year was also around Shay compete at the next level, be 
around the two-mile mark, Shay just a sophomore, I was still in Tulane and Stanford were among 
the time when Shay started to in in the 10,000-meters, or the had had enough. that state where I was really indi­the schools on his list. But Shay, become a student of the sport. He marathon. 
"I got upset and I just flipped vidually focused." who grew up with his friends and read books by various experts in "Notre Dame should take great them off," Shay explained. "It just By Shay's junior season, he family cheering for Michigan and distance running and soon was pride in this kid when he makes happened that Pat Conway and knew that if the team was to per­Michigan State, never thought 
suggesting different workouts to the Olympic team," Piane said. Luke Watson were on their form at the level he expected, he about Notre Dame. Piane. recruit visits that day standing had to take some of the leader­"I probably wouldn't have even "At first he'd be like, 'Well 
next to those guys." ship role upon himself. considered Notre Dame if Coach okay. we'll do this workout. we'll Contact Noah Amstadter at While Shay. who trained for the "I realized that if I really want Piane hadn't called me because I see how you feel and if you want amstadter. l@nd.edu. 
THE ND CLUB OF CHICAGO 
INVITES YOU TO... 
DUST OFF THAT DOGBOOKAND COME JOIN 200 OF 
YOUR ND/SMC FRIENDS FORAN "OFF-CAMPUS" SYR 
THAT YOU WON'T SOON FORGET. 
THE WINDY CITY SYR 
9PM, JUNE 15TH 
JACK SULLIVAN'S 
2142 N CLYBOURN 
CHICAGO, IL 
TICKETS ARE $20 AND INCLUDE IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC DRAFTS, U-CALL-IT DRINKS, WINE AND SODA FROM 9PM TO 12AM. YOU MUST BE 21 TO ATTEND. 
APPROPRIATE SYRATTIRE IS ENCOURAGED. CONTESTS INCLUDE: BEST SYR PICTURE, FUNNIEST SYRMOMENT, AND WORST SYR DATE. 
ONLY 200 TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THIS EVENT, AND THEY MUST BE PURCHASED BEFORE JUNE 5TH. 
PURCHASE TICKETS ONLINE AT: WWW.NDCHICAGO.ORG 
ALL ALUMNI AND FRIENDS ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND--SPREAD THE WORD! 
Q!JESTIONS? CONTACT JENNIFER BRADBURN AT JBRADBURN@GOOGLE.COM 

page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 17, 2002 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Miracle season concludes in Elite Eight loss 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 

It was a miracle season for the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team. The Irish started the season ranked 17th and finished as one of the Elite Eight teams in the country at 13-5 and sec­ond in the Big East. Jn their first-over NCAA tournament appearance, the seventh-ranked Irish defeated Ohio State 11-7 and then went on to face top-seeded Princeton. 
While Princeton won the national quarterfinal contest it did not lessen the sense of pride that the senior led squad had. 
"Our seniors have been the heart and soul of this team," head coach Trace Coyne told UNO.com. "They've played a lot over the past four seasons and have gotten the program where it is today.... They took a chance on us four years ago and along with the sup­port the university has given us are responsible for getting us here today." 
The seven seniors on this year's team -Maureen Henwood, Kate Scarola, Natalie Loftus, Maureen Whitaker, Tina Fedarcyk, Kathryn Lam and Alissa Moser -came into a program four years ago which had left club sta­tus only two years before. Since their arrival, the team has gone 36-25. They have proven they were the backbone of a team which would go on to a team best 13 victories. 
Moser was a tri-captain and finished this year second in scoring with 27, moving up to fifth on the all-time scor­ers list. Loftus also had a career year, 
finishing second and third in points and goals. 
The Irish defense was the team's strength and was consistently one of the best nationally thanks to captains Lam and Fedarcyk, along with Henwood. This threesome has started every game since arriving their fresh­man year and holds the 1-2-3 spots all time in groundballs. This year they only allowed an average of 7. 3 goals per game. 
The team rolled through the early part of the season, superbly regroup­ing after a sub par preseason weekend in Loyola. The women opene,d up by defeating Ohio 15-3 and then traveled to California and beat rival Stanford 10-5. After beating George Mason 10-8 the women opened up a five game homestand which started with a 14-5 smacking of Big East opponent Boston College. 
Cornell had come in ready for 4-0 Notre Dame and opened up to a quick lead. The Irish struggled back but time ran out before the comeback was fin­ished and the Irish lost by one goal, 10-9. It would not be the only heart­break of the year. Delaware provided a bit of a challenge 9-7, but the Irish found their shot against Virginia Tech and sent the Hokies home losing 15-4. 
At 6-1, Notre Dame faced the Syracuse Orangewomen, a Big East team they had never beaten. But Syracuse, picked to finish second in the division, looked a bit flat, and the Irish came out strong and finished the same to win 12-7. After beating Connecticut on the road, the team began the tough­est part of the schedule -four ranked teams in 11 days. 

The women lost another heartbreak­er to Ohio State 12-11, and then had to come home to face the then sixth-seed Duke. In the tightest game of the year the girls again came from behind to push the game into overtime with 20 seconds left. In the third overtime, Duke snuck in a goal after Loftus' last attempt rang off the post. Pumped up after their third one goal loss the [rish came out and defeated Yale 11-8. 
Georgetown. then ranked No. 2, proved to be too much for the Irish and for the first time, they lost a game by a large margin, 17-8. The 9-4 Irish picked up and destroyed Northwestern and Rutgers and beat Vanderbilt in overtime to finish the regular season 12-4 and second in the Big East. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolemal@nd.edu. 

l ' 
'I 


FROM THE OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING Congratulations And Good Luck To The Follo-wing Hall StafT Members As They Leave Their Positions 
RECTORS 

Nancy Cook-Badin Hall Rev. Gary Chamberland-Keenan Hall Sister Kathyrn Haas, P.H..J.C.• McGlinn Hall Rev. John Herman, C.S.C., O'Neill Hall Peyton Berg-St. Edward's Hall (AR for Fall, Rector for Spring) Sister Adrienne Piennette, O.P., Welsh Family Hall 
Barton, Kevin-O'Neill Hall Baum, Andrew-Morrissey Hall Bowen. Leticia-Pasquerilla West Hall Bozelli, Matt-Siegfried Hall Byrnes, David-Knott Hall Campbell, Kristina-Welsh Frunily Hall Costello, Pat-Alumni Hall Day, Emmet-Fischer Graduate Res. 
Allen, Caitlin-Pasquerilla East Hall Alvarez, Cedric-Fisher Hall Angiollo, Dominic-Carroll Hall Antonetti, Johanna-Lewis I-Jail Bauters, John-Stanford Hall Becker, Ryan-Zahtn Hall Beltrmno, John-Morrissey Hall Bonadies, Laura-Cavanaugh Hall Brakora, Katherine-Pangborn Hall Brennan, Patrick-Carrol I Hall Brueggeman, Wendy-Pasquerilla East Butterly, Bridget-Breen-Phillips Hall Buyske, Matthew-Zahm Hall Caballero, Kate-Howard Hall Cavanaugh, Megan-Badin Hall Clemency, Brian-Zahm Hall Cogan, Kathy-Breen-Phillips Hall Collins, Michael-Keenan Hall 
Compton, Alan-Keenan Hall Cordon, Justin-Morrissey Hall Cryan, EJjzabcth-Welsh Family Hall DeMott, Mark-Carroll Hall Dcrhcimer, Samuel-O'Neill Hall Dillenburger, Steven-Dillon Hall Dillon, Benedict-Zahm Hall Dovidio, Amanda-Farley Hall Emerson. Elizabeth-Lyons Hall Ewing Jr., John-Sorin Hall Fasoldt, Jerry-Fisher Hall Ferreira, William-O"Ncill Hall Fordyce. Elizabeth-Lewis Hall Fritsche, Brad-O'Neill Halt Garafola. Michael-St. Edward's Hall Gaughan, Elizabeth-Pangborn Hall Gawrych, Andrew-Keough Hall Geary. Anne-Pangborn Hall Gholson. James-Keenan Hall Giancola, Russell-Keenan Hall Gilg, Collecn-Pasqucrilla East Hall Gillespie, Stephen-Stanford Hall ASSISTANT RECTORS Farrell, Mark-Stanf"ord Hall Hortsch, Gary-Keenan Hall Harrington, Larry-O'Neill Hall Jndart, Ryan-Zahm Hall Johnson, Michelle-Badin Hall Monterastilli, Shawn-Keenan Hall 
Murphy, John-Dillon Ha11 Prchal, Suzi-McGlinn Hall 
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS 
Gray, Brian-Sorin Hall Gray, Christina-McGlinn Hall Griffin, Megan-Pangborn Hall Gupta, Nikhil-Stanford Hall Hagan, John-Sorin Hall Hall, Kortny-Siegfried Ha\! Hallinan, Emily-Lyons Hall Harris, Shaun-Keenan Hall Harwood, Michael-Knott Hall Heinlein, Joshua-Zahm Hall Hess, Cynthia-Badin Hall Hicks. Nathaniel-Dillon Hall Hudek, .Tohn-Siegfried Hall Huebner, Allan-Alumni Hall Hurley, Angela-Walsh Hall Jacobi. Kara-Welsh Family Hall James;Tara-Pasquerilla East Hall Johnson, Jeffrey-O'Neill Hall 
Jones, Nora-Farley Hall 
Kane, Jennifer-Lewis I-Tall Kelly, Shannon-Pasquerilla West Kelly, Robert-Keenan Hall King. Stacy-Pasqucrilla East Kirkrr1an, Blake-Keenan Hall Kirzeder, Mark-Dillon Hall Klee Ill, Richard-Morrissey Hall Kline. Travis-St. Edwm·d's Hall Knapke, Virginia-Pasquerilla West Komp, Katherine-Lyons Hall Kuhlenschmidt. Heather-Ila-ward I ,arson, Andrew-Siegfried Hal I Laurent, Cat:oline-Walsh Hall Lazar, Melissa-Howm·d Hall Lecea, Marisha-Badin Hall Link, Jodi-Walsh Hall Lund, Kendahl-Welsh Family Hall Lux, Christopher-Siegfried Hall Lyden, Tin1othy-St. Edward's Hall Lyons, Sean-Keenan Hall Madia, Joseph-Alumni Hall Marx, Jared-Alumnil Hall Mayo, Joshua-Morrissey Hall McCulloh, Maureen-Lyons Hall McGrath, Anne-Cavanaugh Hall McGrath, William-Zahm Hall McKay, Elizabeth-Farley Hall McKien1an, John-Dillon Hall McMerty, Matthew-Stanford Hall Meinert, Elizabeth-McGlinn Hall Moak, Colleen-Cavanaugh Hall Mohr. Anthony-Knott Hall Mohnnan, Lisa-Welsh Fmnily I !all Moran, Molly-Pasquerilla West Hall Moriarty, Allison-Lyons Hall Munn, Scott-O'Neill Hall Murillo. San,uel-St. Edward's Hall Murphy, Lisa-Farley Hall Ndukwe, Kelechi-Stanford Hall 
Neuner, Timothy-Dillon Hall Nonbcllo, Kristen-Cavanaugh Hall O'Banion, Katherine-Breen-Phillips O'Connor, Kathleen-Breen-Phillips O'Connor, Kelscy-Pasquerilla West O'Connor, Timothy-Dillon Hall Olander, Ryan-Keough Hall Pagnani. A lexatu.ler-Dilion Hall Parker, Patricia-Lewis Hall Perry, .lcnnifer-McGlinn Holl Perry. Kelly-Walsh Hall Perry, Louis-Knoll H<1ll Pfaff, Michael-Knott Hall Piroutek, An~y-McGlinn Hall Ponto, Kathleen-.McGlinn Hall Quinlan, Paul-Morrissey Hall Quinlin. Thomas-O'Neill Hall Reali. Luciana-Lewis Hall Refkofisky, Michael-Siegfried Hall Regan, Jessica-Welsh Family Hall Rhyner, Emily-Pasquerilla East Rinaker, Emily-Lyons Hall Rau. George-Carroll Hall Saari, Rose-Pangbon1 I Jail Thon1pson, Will-Keough Hall Whalen, Kale-Howard l Iail Wilhelm. Paul-Sorin Hall Young, Ken-Keough Hall 
Ring, Matthew-Keough Hall Roberts, .Jennifer-Panghorn Hall Roche, Christopher-Zah1n Hall Rose, Paul-Alumni Hall Rose1neyer, Jonathan-Mon-issey Hall Rosenbach, E1nily-McGlinn Hall Rothrauff, Rachael-Howard Hall Rowinski, Monica-Welsh Family I-lall San1acki, Karen-Lewis Hall Saul, Eric-Dillon Hall Sawyer, Kelly-Cavanaugh Hall Schiller, Robert-Stanford Hall Sciola, Nick-St. Edward's Hall Scully, John-Knott Hall Sheehan, Megan-Farley llall Silker, Chad-Morrissey Hall Srnith, Travis-Siegfried Hall Stcedle, Jeffrey-Keough Hall 
Stoclh. Amy-Pasqucrilla West Hall Stolpa, Scott-O'Neill Hall Stuffings, .Jeffrey-Alumni Hall Sullivan, Kr-istcn-Brecn-Phillips J-lall Sutton, Michelle-Farley Hall Taggart, .John-Sorin Hall Tammara, Ann Marie-Lewis Hall Teeter, E1nily-Lcwis Hall Tisby, Jcrnar-Kcough I I all Trirnner, Nalhan-J\.lurnni Hall Tucker, Abigail-McGlinn Hall Tudela, Canncn-Pasqucdlla West Vancura. Bcnja111in-Fishcr Hall vonMering, Frederick-Fisher Hall Wainn1an, David-Knott Hall Walle, Nick-Keough Hall Watson, Sharon-Farley Hall Welch, Daniel-Stanford Hall White, Patrick-Fisher Hall Wibbens, Erin-Cavanaugh llall Wilcox, Rachel-Welsh Family Hall Wahlberg, Matthew-Morrissey Hall Zeidler, Reinhold-Keough Hall Zicmha, Colleen-Cavanaugh Hall 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 33 

l 

@TOYOTA 
" \l 


I 

-
I 

JUST GETTING STARTED? THE RIDE l:S :ON US. AT LEAST FOR AWHILE. 
• $0 down and no payments for 90 days when you buy.' 
• 
Security deposit waived when you ~ease. 

•$400 
rebate when you purchase or lease: 


• Fre,e roadside assistance for one year. 
11 yuu·re ,a rnc~mt graduate, we'll ma~.e il eas::,· f,)r ;·-0u to cet rotit Me m(N,nr, wilh l11cse fo1n great ol1ers. And thtfy jppl~• to an1 new T~-ota. Su hurry. Ws ~'01lf chsni:e to ~et il ride {In us. 1\t least for a while. 


NEW" 2002 CAMRY 
-Hot new styling-best in class 
-Roomier, more cargo space 
-Test drive the performance difference · -Starting at just: 

I I
$18,126 
'
I I i 
1 
l 
l j
JOH TOI J 
j 920 East Jefferson Boulevard, Mishawaka 46545 l WWW.JORD~AUTO.COM 259-1981 EXT. 347 Open M,T,Thurs 'till 8;W,F,Sat. 'till 6Special College Gtad Discounts Available Now! @ 
' 
' 
' 
' 
1,; :\M· f~·--. .1.-.r-.-1,,•1 t, ~ :1,1 ),ti~,,... ~ r~, ~..., \f~• ·...•>.• ,.,..t,.,. r.,,,~.v,•~1\ot.,t.t ,N•";~~:-...z-.!'.!.,. ~...... , ).>:{ t-,., 1.-, l,io.f"l:,<fi ~tt"('!t !,,-J ~-•'!•'i:~;;T·•r4 ,l,•:1 ~ { lltj t"1",J1 ~~'.1-r\"'-\ ~-... ,, ,..., ••• I,.,..,,,.~ .. n,"f..,111!'9:--.. ,1~--t·,ft'.".h,._ !"_r;-,.t_~, ,(11;.i,~. 'tll,..,.~~-f•i:~ .... t~..., ••J;J111~ j,i;t".r". ,~"" ,.,_i...'".._v,-w, ,,..,! ~-,1:,"' ~~ i\¥' )<i-'~•-;,;~ ,i:.a:.. t;; .;!'•,•4 11:.-r..!:':-t~t I"· :hhV;,'i"" ... 11 i.:-.. ..... ,,,~-~ ~-...... ,:t-•~;,,••.•,:•1r'! ..t"·1,q!, , ... ,, lf ~-llEf THE nm1;.l0YOTA. J-...1 ":., 11e-.-...J .../-: t,,:"Y•·,.;,;:th.;,,17'.I~;, '".1 ,:-4,J.."ill-'+Wo'"'t. ~1<~ r•-;~..1~.li;. \·tC:1 ~.a,, kt 1~._•1 L'll[---n;~1,~_,1 , ...,~/,.:..,-..;,,,1 -~~It¼~ i~_t;V~•r..;v,...,~~;:·-•=:t· ~·•» .,1.--.·t:-J 1',.f11tl) •·."! •·'1"r.lllll,t;.J·:.~"11 r:a;,• u-,.n;n.•, '1.:r...&f'.:w tt..c"'~'~" 1·:t """':•:..:«•~ _:1f"~t:1t :-;,r_;h~i lt.tlte<::~,"-!:•~ U ,1t...r.1. !:e f:,;-:,~:,a),: ~u· ~'f.l.~~ mrl' ~-,,n,~·.1:-i: W.·t.i:\,: ;.21;-;,Ai lr..,1;1'!,tf ~~~.ill':~.~,1:,t) ~ fJ,.,'. 1t;~1o..:d._·.-:{·U·,1 •..: t,:'ah-. ~~Hf.ffl 
. 
I 
l . 
I I 
l 
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 17, 2002 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish storm through end of regular season 

. Irish rally to win Big East Tournament after losing first game 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
After a disappointing start to its 2002 season, the Notre Dame softball team has come on strong down the stretch of Big East play. 
The Irish got off to a rocky start while facing one of the 
-P ___ ..,...,......,,.....+ro

toughest slate Ul uµµuut:arn, they had ever seen. In the first 20 games, the Irish faced eight ranked opponents 
and went 8-"Coach Gump/and 
12. Jarrah [Myers] really 
S i n c e beginning Big helped me out. They 
East play, helped me to be more 
however, the 
mentally and physically
Irish have 
been on fire. prepared. I mixed my going 34-3 pitches up more in those 
and pushing 
games to keep their 
their season 
record up to hitters more confused 42-15. 
and off-balance." 
During Big East play, 
Steffanie Stenglein 
Notre Dame knocked off pitcher 
fourth­r an k e d Nebraska in Lincoln, Neb., and captured the Big East regular season title by going 18-2 in confer­ence play. 
Last weekend, at the Big East tournament, the Irish again encountered some early troubles by dropping their first game to fourth-seeded Virginia Tech 8-3. 
The usually solid Irish pitch­ing struggled in that first game. Freshman Steffany Stenglein gave up three home runs in three innings before being replaced by classmate Carrie Wisen, who allowed another four runs over her four innings pitched. 
"My pitches really weren't moving that day, so that allowed their hitters to be more effective," Stenglein said. "I don't know what my problem was that day. I just couldn't get the movement I usually do." 
With the first-game loss, the Irish realized they would have to win the next four games to avoid elimination and win the tournament. 
"Losing that first game wasn't exactly the path we wanted to take, but we knew we had the ability to win four straight," catcher Jarrah Myers said. 
The Irish warded oft' elimi­nation by Syracuse in the sec­ond day of play on the strength of three home runs from third baseman Andrea Loman, Myers and right field­er Megan Ciolli. Ciolli's long ball came in the last inning with a tie score to put the Irish on top. 
In their next game that day the Irish again stood on the brink of elimination. Down 4-3 in the last inning against Villanova, Notre Dame rallied with and RBI single from Loman and an insurance RBI double from shortstop Andria Bledsoe. 
On the last day of the tour­nament, the Irish again faced Virginia Tech, and had .to defeat the Hokies twice to win the title. In the doubleheader, the pair of freshman Irish pitchers demonstrated the command on the mound they had shown most of the season. Stenglein pitched 10.2 innings in the doubleheader and allowed two runs while pick­ing up the two wins. Wisen came in to earn the saves in both games, contributing 3.1 innings of scoreless work. 
"r,u,rh r.11muf and [catcher] Jar-;:;h-·[M-y;~~l really heiped me out," Stenglein said. "They 
helped me to be more mentally and physi­cally pre­pared. I mixed my pitches up more in those games to keep their hitters more confused and off-bal­ance." 
The victo­ry earned the Irish an automatic bid to the N C A A Tourna­

ment. Notre Dame was award­ed a third seed in the Region VII bracket in Iowa City, Iowa. 
The Irish faced regional-host Iowa in their first game. The Hawkeyes defeated the Irish twice last year in the same venue to knock them out of the tournament. 
"[Playing Iowa again] worked out very nicely," Myers said. "I think we just 
· need to show up, relax and 
play. We are very capable of beating them because I think that we are a better team. We also have the revenge factor which doesn't hurt." 
Other teams in that bracket included three previous Irish opponents: top-seeded and No. 7 Nebraska, second-seeded and No. 15 Oregon State, fourth-seeded and No. 22 Iowa and sixth-seeded lllinois­{:hicago. Wisconsin is the fifth seed in the bracket. 
The first day of play at Iowa was Thursday. The games were completed after The Observer went to press. 
Notes: 

. Senior catcher Jarrah Mvers became the fourth Irish player to earn the Big East Player of the Year award during the Big East Tournament weekend. She led the conference in bat­ting average, home runs, runs scored, RBI. on-base percent­age and slugging percentage. 
Myers also was the only unanimous pick for the all-Big East first team. 
. 
First-year Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf and her staff -Charmelle Green, Kris McCleary and Bill Roggeman -claimed the second consec­utive coaching staff of the year award for the Notre Dame. 

. 
The Irish dominated the all­Big East first-team list, land­ing seven players on the squad. Myers joined team­mates Bledsoe, Loman, Lisa Mattison, Jenny Kriech, Ciolli and Stenglein in earning the honors. Ciolli, Stenglein and Wisen also were named to the all-rookie team. 


Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


The Universi-ty of No-tre Da,ne's 
Science:) Technology Progra,n  & Values  
in  the  
College  of Ar-ts  &  Le-t-ters  

Is pleased t:o announce t:he following graduating students for the 
Class of 2002 
Monica M. Burtchacll Hannah J. La1nbiotte 
Thonias J. Ca,npbell Jr. Andrew L. Larson Brian M. Cleniency Michael P. McCabe Bridgid T. Curry Lisa I<. Murphy 
Theresa P. Dang Catherine J. O'Neill I<ristin M. Furrie I<ristina M. O'Neill A:my E. Heckel Patrick H. White I<ari F. Ierge Nicole M. Wilson Lillian M. I<idane Lauren M. Zajac 
Dodge  Ford  Honda  
Neon SXT  Focus SE  Civic LX  
Sedan  Sedan  Sedan  
Not quite  Not here  
No  Nyet  
Noway  Sorry  
Yes  No  
Yes  iB'f.;  Dream on  No  


Friday, May 17, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 35 
captains and I really tried to go would do since I learned the pitch, like anything there is, she will almost assuredly out there and lead through strategy from her," Myers said. whatever she tells me I try to break the most games played
Myers 
actions and creating an "This [past] summer I called figure out and make it work." record in postseason action. 
continued from page 44 
dropped both games to Iowa and saw their chance at earn­ing the school's first trip to the College World Series vanish. 
Myers knows the team under­achieved in the postseason. 
"There was no reason why we shouldn't have won last year," Myers said. "It's not always talent. There are a lot of other things when it came 
down to it. We just couldn't get it done as a team." 
After for­mer head coach Liz Miller retired after eight seasons at Notre Dame, Myers and 
fellow captains Jenny Kriech and Kas Hoag knew they need­ed to make the transition as easy as possible for new head coach Deanna Gumpf. 
"I think the other two senior 
DUDE, HERE'S YOUR CAR. 
STANDARD FEATURES 
Compared to Honda Civic and Ford Focus, ___ __ . 
•.-------,.C.·',;'Jf:m•; 
Dodge Neon gives you more cool ->·:,· features for thousands less. " 
NOW, FOR A LIMITED TIME, COLLEGE SENIORS AND RECENT GRADUATES CAN GET A s1,ooo COLLEGE GRAD CASH ALLOWANCE ON DODGE NEON, STRATUS, AND DAKOTA. 
Plus, get other generous cash allowances. See your Dodge Dealer for details. 
*?-year or 100,000-mi!e powertrain protection pledge. See dealer for a copy of this limited warranty. Nontransferable, a deductible applies. Offer extended. **This program provides a S600 bonus cash allowance in addition to the S400 national college graduate cash allowance for a total Vi,000 cash allowance for recent college graduates, select college seniors, and master's and doctoral program enrollees on the purchase or lease of eligible 2002 Dodge vehicles. Eligible vehicles are Neon, Stratus Sedan and Coupe, and Dakota. Must take retail delivery by 7/1/02. Residency restrictions apply. Please see your dealer for eligibility requirements and program details. 
dodge.com SEE YOUR DODGE DEALER TODAY 800-4 ADODGE 
"/ think the other two senior captains and I really tried to go out there and lead ... " 
Jarrah Myers catcher 
intense, but fun environment," Myers said. "That was pretty easy with the freshmen. It's been easy to lead this year since we haven't had any prob­lems." 
Smooth Transition 
Gumpf was the Irish pitching coach for four seasons before taking over as head coach on July 3, 2001. With a leader like Myers on the team, Gumpfs job 
the transition very easy." 
Showing confidence in her catcher, Gumpf lets Myers call her own pitches. 
"l don't think it's much dif­ferent from what Deanna 
was easier. 
"Having Jarrah as one of my seniors is like a dream come true with this being my first year," Gumpf said. "The seniors, including Jarrah, made 

.;.i.,=====.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::~~----1 :;t 1-,_-_ -_ -_-_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_ -_ --1-1-!::===============!
.:~

Yes ~ Nope Yes 
'.J~ 

1-----------1 1-----------1
it----------1mo-1t-----------i-­
Yes No No 
;i', 

my own games. 1 think ii ne1ps out my coach to make her job easier. I still look over at her to get some suggestions." 
Myers is having the best sea­son of her career. Starting every one of Notre Dame's 52 regular season games, Myers led the team with 45 runs scored, 11 home runs and 28 walks. She was second on the team with a .384 batting aver­age and 14 stolen bases. . 
"Offensively, I haven't seen a better catcher than her. She is unbelievable," Irish pitcher Steffany Stenglein said. "Defensively, there is no col­lege player I would have rather as my catcher. I have total complete confidence. She'll block everything I throw up there." 
Myers has also helped make the transition to the college game much easier for Stenglein. 
"Jarrah has helped me out tremendously," the freshman pitcher said. ;,Anything there is to know about pitching, Jarrah knows. She's helped me with my fundamentals, what to 
Enjoy the Ride 
Playing four full seasons for the Irish, Myers has also made 
her mark on records. Against Virginia Tech on April 20, Myers hit three home runs and broke the Notre Dame record for career home-
runs. After 
the regular season, Myers had 34 homers, but she doesn't think that mark will stand for long. 
"I look at the girls younger than me and they are going to crush it, and I hope they do," Myers said. "They should be better than me when they get to my age. I think it is kind of neat to be in the record hooks." 
For her career, Myers is the Notre Dame all-time leader in RBIs, walks and putouts. And 
the career 

"Annything you need to 
Myers takes know about pitching, the most pride in an
Jarrah knows." 
accomplish­ment she Steffany Stenglein earned off pitcher the field. 
Myers is second on the all­time list in runs scored, ~t;,d in batting average and stolen bases, fourth in at-bats and fifth in hits. But despite all of her on-field statistical records, 
.. [ M y 
favorite is 

the] first­team Academic All-American. That just shows [the reason] I came here was for the acade­mics," Myers said about the award she won in 2001. "To be able to achieve a little bit in softball and achieve even greater in academics, that's really what matters. That's what I will remember in 20 years. I won't remember any of the other personal awards." 
After playing softball for more than 15 years. Myers has enjoyed the numerous parts of her journey. 
"It's been a ride. I have come in contact with many great people who have each shaped my life in a weird way that I probably don't even know," Myers said. "From being a lit­tle kid playing, to having bad coaches, to having awesome coaches at the collegiate level, and then at the USA camp and the players I have come in con­tact with." 
Myers intends to pursue a graduate degree in forensic science and possibly work in the FBI. She is looking to take a year off and do some research at Yale before hitting the books again. 
For the second consecutive summer, Myers has been selected to participate in a team camp for USA softball. However, her original dream of playing in the Olympics has changed. 
"It always used to be a goal [to play in the Olympics]. I don't even know if I want to go back to the camp, but I proba­bly will," Myers said. "I am at the point of my life where I am ready to have a real life ­have spare time, meet new people, go off to grad school or get a job." 
Like her nearly 2000 class­mates, the senior appears ready to move on. But she still doesn't want to pass up the opportunity for an experience of a lifetime. 
"I don't need softball any­more to go where I need to go. It's something I still really love, to play. To turn down a shot to make an Olympic team, I am afraid I would regret it if I didn't do it. I will probably end up going to camp and try­ing." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
LEARN TO FLY 
Prof. David MeIkey will be teaching ND students to fly this summer. Contact: david.a.melkey.3@nd .edu or 574.273.2059 

Friday, May 17, 2002
page 36 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Wisconsin badgers its way to a victory 
By COLIN BOYIAN 
Sports \1(:'riter 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team saw its turbulent season come to an end last Saturday with a 4-2 loss to the 
Wisconsin Badgers in the first round of the NCAA playoffs. 
The loss dropped the team's 


final record Louderback to 14-14, and while the .500 winning percentage may have been mediocre by Irish standards, their gritty performances in most matches this season were anything but average. 'Tm really proud of how hard this team has fought this year," Irish coach Jay Louderback said prior to the NCAA tourneys. "We've had some key injuries this season, but we've always played through them." Indeed, the season started out on a disappointing note when starter Caylan Leslie saw herself sidelined for the year by shoulder problems. The injury robbed the team of its No. 4 singles player and forced freshman Sarah Jane 
Connelly into a starting role for the duration of the year. 
Connelly handled the move in stride, and the team jumped out to a couple of early wins. Most notable among these early season performances was the team's 5-2 victory against top-ten opponent USC in the USTA National Team Indoors Championships. 
Senior Nina Vaughan and sophomore Alicia Salas pro­vided fuel for the victory by winning their doubles match and· proceeding to score impressive singles wins against Luana Magnani and Tiffany Brymer. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, that match would stand as the high-water mark of the season rather than an indication of things to come. 
In their next three matches. all against top 10 opponents, the Irish were defeated con­vincingly by Vanderbilt, North Carolina and Tennessee. The lone bright spot during this stretch was Salas, who contin­ued her torrid streak, winning her singles matches in all three of the contests and extending her winning streak to eleven. 
At this point in the season, the Irish sat at 4-5 and were looking for a spark to turn things around. Seniors Becky Varnum, Lindsey Green and Vaughan provided that spark 
Senior Nets 2002 We'll Miss You." 

Quality 
DiaJinonds 

John Ms Marshall's 
Incorporated 
1965 
Jewelers / Gemologists 
Goldsmiths / Platinurnsmitlhs 
K~y Bank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
287-1427 
by stepping up their games and combining to go 13-2. in singles matches against the next five opponents. 
Their performances were enough to ignite a six-match winning streak and turn around a season that looked to be on the brink of collapse. 
However, the most difficult part of the schedule still loomed on the horizon with a three-match road stretch against top ten teams Duke, North Carolina and Wake Forest. 
At 10-5, the Irish may have found themselves looking ahead to those teams, 
"! don't think we were
as they important dropped the looking ahead, we just Big East vic­ball in a cou­tory against
didn't come prepared to 
ple of surpris­Miami only
play against those 
ing losses to days later. San Diego teams." The match State and was desig­Purdue. nated "Ace
Jay Louderback
"I don't for the think we were Irish head coach Cure," in 
looking 

ahead. we just didn't come prepared to play against those teams," 
Louderback said at the time. 

After briefly righting the ship with a 4-3 win against Illinois, the team traveled to North Carolina for an Easter weekend showdown against its top opponents. 
Louderback juggled the dou­hies lineups in hopes of increased doubles success and the move almost paid off. Even though the Irish lost the cru­cial doubles point, they stormed back in singles to tie the match 3-3 before the Demons' Karin Coetzee topped junior Katie Cunha in the deciding singles contest. 
The Irish could not translate this close call into success later in the weekend, however. Both the Tar Heels and Blue Devils handed the Irish 6-1 losses. 
A large home crowd and the emotional advantage allowed 
the Irish to 
score an 
honor of 
Cunha's mother who has been afflicted with colon cancer for almost a year. 
As hundreds of fans came to support the event. Cunha fit­tingly won the clinching match to assure the team a No. 1 seed in the Big East tourna­ment. 
At the end of the regular 
season. the Irish had attained a 13-12 record and were set­ting their sights on the Big East Championships. 
Under the intense sun in Coral Gables. Fla., the team easily disposed of Boston College before running into a brick wall against Miami. Aside from winning the dou• bles point. the team looked flat and failed to capture a singles match in the 4-1 loss. 
Louderback suggested that the low 90s heat may have had a negative impact on the Irish players. but was quick to point out that Miami was a very tough opponent. 
Seniors Varnum, Green and Vaughan played tough all sea­son and withstood the pres­sure of playing in the 1-3 sin­gles spots. 
Moreover, the play of under­classmen gives hope for an improved showing next year. Salas' spectacular year saw her easily top 20 wins. while Cunha and Connelly proved capable of handling the pres­sure in tough match situa­tions. 
And the expected return of Leslie next season combined with a solid recruiting class makes the future pretty bright for the Irish. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 

Moving to Cincinnati after Graduation? 
We want to welcome you! 
Please join us for our 
Student Send-off Picnic 
Sunday, August 4th 
For any questions on the Cincinnati area, we'd be glad to point you in the right direction. Contact President Melinda Sinclair at NDClubCincy@hotmail.com 

The Greater Cincinnati Notre Dame Club 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 37 
SMC TENNIS 
Serving up a new chapter in history 

NOREEN GILLESPIE/The Observer Sophomore Jeannie Knish bats back a ball during the first round of the NCAA Tournament. The Belles first trip to the tour­nament ended in a first-round loss. 
. Belles make first trip to NCAA tournament, but fall in first round 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Senior ScaffWriter 
ST. LOUIS 

The national stage proved harder than conference com­petition for the Belles tennis team, which fell in the first round of the NCAi\ Division III Tennis tournament last week­end. 
Saint Mary's earned its bid for the national tournament after clinching its second con­secutive MIAA title earlier this month. The team. which won the first conference title in school history in 2001, is also the first team from Saint Mary's to qualify for any NCAA tournament. 
But the national tournament wasn't as kind to the Belles as the conference championship, as they struggled from the onset of competition, losing to Denison University 7-2. 
"Obviously, I'm not pleased," said Saint Mary's head coach Dee Stevenson. "I like to win. We didn't come here to lose." 
The No. 2 doubles team of Kaitlin Cutler and Elisa Rvan won the first match of the day for Saint Mary's, defeating AUison Lesnett and Kristen Hanto 8-1. Ryan also walked away with a victory in the singles competition, when Hanto deferred after the third set. 
"We would have liked to walk away with a 'W,"' said senior Annie Knish, who dropped both No. 1 singles and doubles matches in the competition. "I think we all wanted to advance to the sec­ond round." 
Denison, ranked 19th nationally, fell 7-2 in the sec­ond round of the tournament Saturday to Washington University, who will advancfl to the final round of national competition this weekend. 
But while the Belles left the court without a victory, they couldn't erase the euphoria of being the first team from the school to 
we really belonged." Stevenson said. "I think we caught a few people's eyes." 
Still, there is no exact sci­ence to the nominations, and the Belles could only sit back and wait after winning the MlAA crown. 
Stevenson fuund out one day after the MIAA tourna­ment, and the team e.nnounced their nomination at a school pep rally last Monday. 
"I knew we had a chance," Stevenson said. "It's a politi­cal decision, so vou can never be quite sure. riut I knew we had a shot to get the invite before I got the call." 
" I ' m 

The Notre Dame chapter 'of Phi Beta Kappa congratulates and welcomes its new members of the class of 2002 Mr. Dominic Steven Angiollo Mr. Nikhii Gupta Ms. Michelle Marie Petersen Mr. Alejandro Aquino Mr. Brendan Patrick Harris Ms. Kathleen Anne Ponto Mr. Anthony John Baldea . Ms. Kristina Ann Helquist Ms. Christine Nicole Reiser Mr. Matthew Leonard Barron Ms. Beth Ann Hoffmann Ms. Shelley Delana Rice Ms. Jennifer Ann Betz Ms. Allison Kay Holmes Ms. Kelly Jean Rich Ms. Rachel Anne Biber Mr. Mahim Jain Mr. Paul Andrew Ricketts Ms. Kristen Aileen Bitterly Mr. Timothy Michael Ms. Emily Karen Rinaker Ms. Kimberly Ann Blackwell Jarotkiewicz Ms. Taylor Elizabeth Rogers Mr. Steven Richard Bomeli Ms. Allison Meredith Jay Ms. Monica Lynn Rowinski Ms. Hillary Lane Bownik Mr. Daniel Bruce Kelly Ms. Catherine Ann Sanders Ms. Sara Anne Branch Mr. Ryan James King Ms. Julia Marie Sanger Ms. Hilary Gwyneth Richardson Ms. Kathryn Elizabeth Komp Ms. Kelly Nicole Sawyer Bum Ms. Kristin Anne Kramer Mr. James Alan Seidler Mr. Paul Anthony Camarata Mr. Michael Adam Kronk Ms. Jennifer Ann Siirola Mr. David Michael Cannon Ms. Hannah Jo Lambiotte Ms. Rachel Smith Mr. Ryan Matthew Carlson Mr. Anthony Roy Lusvardi Ms. Tricia Lynn Speakman Ms. Lauren Nicole Clark Ms. Melissa Lynn Lydigsen Mr. James Regis Stevens Ms. Kristin Ann Corcoran Mr. James Austin McGowan Ms. Jamie Kristin Stouffer Mr. Jonathan William Currie Ms. Dierdre Erin Mcinerney Ms. Jennifer Rebecca Sullivan Ms. Rhonda Elizabeth Czapla Ms. Greta K. Mikelonis Ms. Jennifer Michelle Sutton Ms. Nicole Marie Defrank Ms. Julianne Marie Mooney Ms. Kellie Ann Swift Ms. Bridget Veronica Dever Mr. Jordan Alexander Mundt Mr. Philip Edwin Tedesco Ms. Katherine Marie Diaz Mr. Gregg Kirk Murray Mr. Christopher David Thomas Ms. Suzanne Marie Dieteman Ms. Jennifer Lyn Nuzzo Mr. Adam David Tibbfe Mr. William Francis Ferreira Mr. Shawn Patrick O'Brien Mr. Daniel Thomas Tonozzi Mr. Nicholas ..,es Fonte Mr. Michael Joseph Ms. Anne Elizabeth Voglewede Ms. Elizabetl, -ordyce O'Connell Mr. David Andrew Wainman Mr. Kevin Chari& 1ner Mr. Eric Joseph Oligino Mr. Patrick Hodge White Mr. Theodore Harold Fox Mr. John Thomas O'Malley Ms. Daniella Zsupan Ms. Meghan Ann Gallagher Ms. Katharine Marte Ortega Mr. Andrew Michael Gawrych Mr. Anthony Joseph Pagliarini Ms. Colleen Patricia Gilg Mr. Andrew Joseph Palid Ms. Andrea Kathleen Goldyn Ms. Patricia Mary Parker Mr. Brian Wallace Gray Ms. Michele Eileen Perry  

compete in thrilled with
"Obviously I'm not
the national the way the tournament. pleased. I like to win. We team has 
For senior progressed."
didn't come here to lose."
Knish, she Knish said. remembered "Coming in laughing at Dee Stevenson my freshman Stevenson head coach year, we had three years an okay ago when he team, but said making didn't place it to the tournament was his that high in conference. This goal. At his first practice, is a great note to end on." Stevenson took out a list and While Knish will graduate read to the team three goals: Saturday, sister Jeannie beat Hope, win conference, Knish. Kaitlin Cutler, Kris and make it to the NCAA Spriggle, Elise Ryan and tournament. For a team that Angela Sander and hope to hadn't yet beat MIAA power­make a return trip to the ho use Hope, those goals tournament next year, and seemed far off. Stevenson will work on 
The Belles secured the nom­recruiting Division I-caliber ination following the second players well into the summer, conference title, but a berth he said. in the tournament was never "We're happy to be here, to a guarantee during the sea­represent the school," son. Stevenson said. "It's some­
The Belles defeated two thing to build on for the Division I schools at the future." Midwest Invitational earlier in the season, and that may have propelled them into the 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at
national spotlight. 
gill0843@saintmarys.edu.
"We got in there and proved 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
"MAY MOVE Our '02" NOTRE DAME & Sr. MARY'S 10AM -5PM FLANNER CIRCLE 
Monday, May 6th -Saturday, May 11th Wednesday, May 15 -Saturday, May 18th Monday, May 20th 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS 
Wednesday, May 8th -Saturday, May 10th 
WELSH FAMILY HALL 
Monday, May 6th -Friday, May 11th Wednesday, May 15th -Saturday.May 18th Monday, May 20th 
LOBBY OF LE MANS HALL 
Wednesday, May 8th -Saturday, May 10th Friday, May 17th 
$1.00 Off Shipping PER BOX FREE PICK UP Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. PERMANENT LOCATION: Martin's Plaza -S.R. 23 Hours: M -F 9am -7pm Sat: 1Oam -6pm 277-6245 
2001 IN REVIEW 
page 38 The Observer looks back on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's fall sports seasons Friday, May 17, 2002 
Observer Staff Report 
Men's Soccer 

With a new coach and one of its 
best incoming freshman classes in 
recent history, the Irish set out to 
reach the NCAA tournament for 
the first time since 1996. 
And they delivered. 

After starting the season 1-2. the Irish cruised through the regu­lar season by winning 11 of its last 14 games en route to a 12-5 regu­lar season. Notre Dame concluded. its Big East season with a 7-3 record, qualifying them for second place in the Big East -its highest finish ever -and earning a first­round bye in the postseason tour­nament. 
A 1-0 win over Georgetown in the Big Ea5t quarterfinals earned the Irish its first spot in the Big East semifinals in four years, Unfortunately, the Irish fell in the semifinals to St. John's. 
That same week, new Irish coach Bobby Clark was named Big East Coach ofthe Year. 
After the Big East tournament, it was announced that the Irish qualified for the NCAA tourna­ment for the first time since 1996: In a hard-fought defensive battle with Maryland in the first round, the Irish succumbed to a Terrapin goal with 1 :41 left in regulation. dealing the Irish a heartbreaking 1-0 loss. 
-Bryan Kronk 
ND Women's Soccer 

The 2001 season was a difficult year for the Notre Dame women's soccer team as the Irish failed to duplicate the success of the 2000 squad that reached the Final Four. 
The underdog Cincinnati Bearcats upset this year's edition of the lrish in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. Head coach Randy Waldrum's team fin­ished 17-3-1 on the season. 
Defense was the trademark of the 2001 campaign as the Irish gave up only 18 goals in 21 games. Offensively, sophomore Amanda Guertin led the Irish in scoring with 14 goals and 6 assists. Defender Candace Chapman was named to the fresh­man All-American team, while junior Vanessa Pruzinsky was 
named an Academic All-American for the second straight year. -Joe Licandro 
SMC Soccer 
It was a season that was promising. It was a season that ollered hope for improvement. It was a season that could have been the first step on the ladder to national prominence. But ulti­mately, it was a season that ended in near-despair, 
In February, the Belles soccer team, a team that was hopeful that it would finally move from the bottom of the MIM to national prominence. watched its hopes fly away 011 the same plane head coach Bobby Johnston to his new job in Tampa, Fla. 
Johnston had led his team to the best finish in recent history, even if that finish only included six wins. 
The first-year head coach led hls team to a seventh place finish in the MIM. just one game behind league rival Hope. 
But then he left. "I do have to make a living in this profession," he said. 
Due to financial reasons, Johnston accepted a full-time head-coaching position at the University of Tampa. 
-Katie McVoy 

ND Volleyball 
It was a season of personal accolades and conference success for the Notre Dame volleyball team before head coach Debbie Brown's team fell to Michigan State in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
The Irish ended the season with an impressive 22-7 record, which included an undefeated Big East regular season and the team's seventh Big East Tournament Championship. The Irish. howev­er, struggled against ranked oppo­nents throughout the season, falling to Florida. Northern Iowa, UCIA, Nebraska and Pepperdine. 
Senior middle blocker Malinda Goralski was named Big East Player of the year.Before the sea­son, senior Kristy Kreher was named Preseason Big East Player of the Year. 
The team's undefeated confer­ence record earned Brown Big 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer 

East Coach of the Year honors, while sophomore setter Kristen Kinder was named Big East Setter of the Year. 
-Noah Amstadter 
SMC Volleyball 

Last year, the Belles managed a 
seventh place finish, and they fin­
ished as high as third in 1997. But 
with only one victory this year. 
eighth was where the Belles found 
themselves. 

It was a tough end to a tough 
season for the Belles volleyball 
team. After a season of hard­
fought, losing battles, Saint Mary's 
found itself in the basement of the 
MIAA-a place they hadn't been 
since they joined the MIAA. In 
their last game of the year -a 
first-round playoff game against 
the Alma Scots -the Belles finally 
came together as a team. but it 
happened too late. 

"We played better as a team 
than we have played probably all 
season," said head coach Julie 
Schroeder-Bick. "Alma was good 
competition for us and I felt like 
we finished the season with our 
heads held high." 

-Katie McVoy 
Men's Cross Country 

After the Irish took home the 
Big East title on Oct. 26 by nar­
rowly beating out Villanova, 52­
49, senior Ryan Shay, referring to 
his teammates. said, 'Those guys 
definitely know how to step it up 
... and [theyJ weren't going to let 
anything deter them from win­
ning." All season the Irish asserted 
their individual strength and com­
bined depth. 

Ranked No. 4 going into the 
national meet, the Irish had hoped 
the return of Ryan Shay, who had 
been suffering from an injured 
Achilles, and senior Pat Conway, 
who had been battling a chest 
cold, would be enough to upset 
Colorado and Stanford. 

Luke Watson and Shay's finish­
es in the NCAA meet earned them 
All-America Honors. It marked 
the second straight All-America 
honor in cross country for Watson, 
who finished seventh individually 
in 2000. It also was Shay's second 
All-America recognition, after he 
finished 12th in 1999. Watson's 
NCAA finish marked the highest 
by an Irish runner since Bill Clark 
took second in 1964. 

-Katie Hughes 
ND Women's Cross Country 

The Irish started the season 
missing four seniors, but fresh­man Lauren King, juniors Jen Handley and Jen Fibuch and ·sophomore Megan Johnson stepped up and led the team to 
exceed early expectations. 

King, Handley, junior Jen 
Fibuch and sophomore Megan 
Johnson were the consistent core 
at the head of the pack for the 
Irish, though they didn't start 
competing in the first few meets. 

The Irish went on to qualify for 
the NCAA National Championship, 
which they had failed to do the 
year before. They had started the 
season unranked, and finished a 
respectable 19th in the national 
meet in Greenville, S.C. King took 
home All-American honors after 
finishing 23rd. Handley finished in 
101st place and Johnson finished 
right behind her. Jennifer Fibuch 
and Christi Arnerich wrapped up 
the top five Irish runners. 

-Katie McVoy 
SMC Cross Country 

The Saint Mary's cross country team got stuck in the mud. After finishing in seventh place in the MIM Jamboree, they had their hopes set high for the MIAA Tournament. But conditions were cold, wet and muddy and the Belles found themselves without three of their top runners. Despite the fact that their seventh place finish was a far cry from victory, they were still proud of the sea­son-ending performance. 
"Considering we were, missing three of our top seven [runners]. I think we did really well," head coach David Barstis said. "I think we could have beat [sixth place finisher Adrian and fourth place finisher Alma] had it been a good day weather-wise and if we had our top seven. We were pre­pared." 
-Katie McVoy 
Men's Golf 

The 2001-2002 golf season was an educational one for the Notre Dame men. With an inexperi­enced squad consisting in part of three freshmen and first year head coach John Jasinski, the team had low expectations and treated the spring as a learning process, preparing for future suc­cesses while forsaking present glories. 
While the team's inconsistent play generally reflected its lack of experience, senior captain Steve Ratay quietly put together the best single season in school history, shooting a glittering 73.03 aver­age. 
While Ratay was consistently great. his young teammates were consistently inconsistent. At their best. freshmen K.C. Wiseman. Ryan Marshall and Steve Colnitis demonstrated that they could compete with almost anyone. However. when off their games, the talented trio couldn't compete at all. Too often. bad rounds would become atrocious rounds and scores would spiral into the 80s, an unacceptable level in col­lege golf. 
-Kevin Berchou 
ND Women's Golf 

A season that began last fall with great expectations ended in late April with a rainout and dis­appointment. 

But the Notre Dame women's golf team has minimal regrets from its first season under head coach Debby King, the program's first full-time coach. 
In one particular tournament, everyone on the team seemed to be able to play well at once. The Irish finished second at the Snowbird Invitational in Florida over Spring Break, with Lotta fin­ishing fifth after shooting rounds of77 and 73 on the par 72. 5,940­yard Pebblecreek Golf Course. McMurtrie. junior Terri Taibl and Byrne each finished tied for eighth. 13th and 25th, respective­ly. 
Notre Dame's last tournament was rained out. leaving the Irish tied for 9th place. 
-Joe Lindsley 
SMC Golf 

It was a bittersweet end to two successful seasons. At the end of their fall season. the Belles took home a disappointing third place finish on their home course in the MIM Championship tournament. But worse than that, at the end of their spring season the Belles had to say goodbye to their coach. 
"I wasn't expecting it," said freshman Stefanie Simmerman. "I thought it would be a given that she would be here for all four years. but l realize family priori­ties came up." 
Under Teresa Pekarck's leader­ship, the Belles took home a third place finish in the MIAA following a championship tournament at Brookwood golf course on Sept. 
28. They began the season by tak­ing home a first-place finish at an MIAA tournament at Hope, But at the end of the fall seac;on, despite the disappointment. Saint Mary's had high hopes. 
But they'll have to carry those threats without Pekarek, the coach who launched Saint Mary's golf program. 
On March 28, Pekarek announced that she would not be returning for the fall season, citing family reasons and the fact that she just didn't have enough time to give to a team that was moving forward. 
-Katie McVoy
The Irish cross country team took home a Big East title and finished sixth at the national meet. 
2002 IN REVIEW 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer looks back on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's winter and spring seasons page 39 
Notre Dame, also undefeated in won an individual title as she won 
Observer Staff Report 
the dual meet season, sent seven the women's epee title. athletes to the NCAA Senior Carianne McCullough
Men's Swimming 
Championships in Austin, Texas, closed her career by earning
They didn't get the second­
in March. Senior diver Heather third team All-American honorsplace finish they were hoping for Mattingly and senior sprinter for the first time in her career. 
at the Big East Championships, Carrie Nixon earned individual On the men's side, only junior but the men's swimming and div­All-America accolades at the Ozren Debic was named a firsting team was satisfied with its meet, where the team placed team All-American. Junior Janperformance. 
19th overall. Viviani, freshman Derek SnyderRallying from sixth place during 
-Noreen Gillespie and senior Andre Crompton
the three-day competition, the earned second team honors.
Irish wrapped up their season in 
-Mike Connolly

Uniondale, N.Y., with a fourth SMC Swimming place overall finish. The Belles made a major move 
"We got faster and scored more this season, a move from being a Hockey points, we just stayed in the same nameless team into a team that is After starting out the season a place. It's clearly a sign of how a real threat to the MIM. Last disastrous 1-5-2, the Notre Dame much improvement is taking season, the Belles finished at the men's hockey team finally found place throughout the Big East bottom of the pack-last place in its groove with a productive Conference," said Irish head the MIAA. This season they December and January and a coach Tin1 Welsh after the com­moved up to fifth and are looking five-game winning streak to end petition. "We are getting better to finish next season in the top the regular season. and so is the meet." three. The turning point of the season 
Irish senior co-captain "I think a few more divers and came after a two-game sweep by Jonathan Pierce set a Notre a few more swimmers next year Alaska-Fairbanks in early Dame school record in the 400-and we'll be right there with February. The Irish lost consecu­yard individual medley at the everyone else," said junior tive games, 7-5 and 6-5. Irish meet, lowering the mark to 3 Lauren Smith. " ... Anything can head coach Dave Poulin was not minutes, 56.34 seconds. Pierce happen next year. Everyone's happy with the defensive effort. also placed high in the distance working really hard and I think The week after the Fairbanks events at the meet, earning a fifth our team will prove [that we can sweep, the Irish changed up their place finish in both the 1,650-compete]." defensive scheme. The scheme yard freestyle and 500-yard Saint Mary's ended the three­worked and Notre Dame ended freestyle. day MIM conference meet with up finishing eighth in the CCHA 
"It will be hard to replace great eight top 12 finishers, four who and qualifying for the CCHA post­swimmers like Jonathan Pierce, finished in the top six. The strong season. but we have a lot of youth in this third-day finish left an impression In the first round of the best-oi~ team," said sophomore distance on theMIM. three series, the Irish were paired swimmer J.R. Teddy at the meet. "Especially on the third day, I up against the Nebraska-Omaha "This was a growing experience had so many coaches come up Mavericks. for us." and say, 'Wow, what a day you The Irish drew Northern 
-Noreen Gillespie had,'" said head coach Greg Michigan in the semifinals. 
Petcoff. Although they lost that game 3-1 
-Katie McVoy to end their season, it didn't take 
ND Women's Swimming 
away from a great season. 
The Irish again established 
-Matt Orenchuk

their dominance in the Big East in Fencing February, collecting their sixth Despite a strong start by the consecutive conference champi­women's side, the Notre Dame SMC Basketball 
onship. fencing team finished third at the The last two games of the 2001­
The team, which graduates NCAA Championships for the sec­2002 season summed up the kind eight seniors this weekend, ond straight year. The third-place of team that the Saint Mary's bas­secured the championship by finish marked head coach Yves ketball team had become over the more than 275 points ahead of Auriol's seventh -and last -top year. second-place Rutgers. five finish since taking over as After losing by 23 points to rival 
"It feels pretty good," said Irish head coach of both the women Kalamazoo two weeks earlier, the head coach Bailey Weathers after and men in 1996. The Irish coach Belles used a 37 -24 second half the meet. Weathers also won his retired after the tournament. scoring advantage to pull off the fifth Big East Coach of the Year Although the third place finish stunning 66-53 upset in their last award at the championship. was disappointing for a team that regular season game at home. 
It was the stroke specialists expected to win the national Two days later Saint Mary's near­who propelled the Irish to the top championship. several individuals ly upended another opponent, 
of the podium at the Goodwill turned in strong finishes. The before losing 62-54 in the first Games Aquatic Center in women's foil team won 45 of 46 round of the MIA,\ tournament Uniondale, N.Y. The backstrokers bouts. The only loss came when against Adrian College. 
were the powerhouses of the undefeated freshman Alicja The Belles battled through weekend, with senior Kelly Kryczalo beat her teammate, injuries to key players, players Hccking, sophomore Danielle freshman Andrea Ament. quitting the team and a tough_ Hulick and freshman Kristen Kryczalo beat Ament again in the MIM schedule to play their best Peterson capturing the top three finals to win the individual foil basketball at the end of the year. places in both the 100-yard and championship. "We went through a lot of 200-yard backstroke. Sophomore Kerry Walton also obstacles, team issues with differ-

NELLIE WILLIAMS/Tee Observer The Notre Dame men's swimming team rallied from sixth place on the first day of the Big East Swimming and Diving Championships to finish fourth overall. 

ent things and just basketball in general. but I think we overcame it all and came together well as a team," three-year captain Anne Blair said. "We kept on building on the ladder that Saint Mary's basketball is trying to reach." 
-Joe Hettler 
Rowing 
A strong spring season for the Notre Dame women's rowing team should provide a spring­board at this weekend's Central Hegion Championships at Milton Hill Lake in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
The meet is one of the most important of the year for Notre Dame as some of the best teams in the nation compete with the 14th-ranked Irish to earn an invi­tation to the NCAA Championships, held from May 31 to June 2 in Indianapolis. 
The spring season began with a bang for the Irish in Knoxville, Tenn., where Notre Dame took four of five races from the Volunteers. 
Later in the season, the Irish first varsity eight competed in the San Diego Crew Classic and held their own against some of the best squads in the nation. 
Notre Dame ended the two-day meet in fifth place behind top­ranked Washington, No. 3 Ohio State, No. 11 California and No. 13 Stanford. The weekend includ­ed race victories over No. 6 Virginia, No. 9 USC, No. 14 Texas and No. 19 Oregon State. 

In the Big East Rowing Challenge over the last weekend of April, the Irish fell just short of then 13th-ranked Syracuse to take second place in the meet. Notre Dame won one event as the varsity four crew of coxswain Kathryn Long, Sarah Keefer, Kati Sedun, Elizabeth Specht and Maureen Carr finished five and a half seconds ahead of Syracuse's first boat. 
The field at the Central Region Championships this weekend will be another tough competition for the Trish as it includes five teams in the national top 20 -No. 3 Ohio State, No. 5 Michigan, No. 11 Michigan State, No. 20 Duke and No. 14 Notre Dame. In total, 19 teams are competing this weekend including, Texas, Wisconsin, Clemson, Cincinnati, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kansas State, Miami, Minnesota, Murray State, North Carolina, SMU, Tennessee and Tulsa. 
Racing begins Saturday at 9:15 
a.m. 
-Chris Federico 
Men's Lacrosse 

The 2002 season for the men's lacrosse team was a rebuilding campaign as the squad struggled to replace the departure of eight starters from a team that reached the NCAA Final Four only a year ago. 
This year's team, comprised predominantly of freshmen and sophomores, finished with a mod­est 6-8 record. Four of Notre Dame's losses were heartbreak­ing one-goal setbacks. 
Sophomore Dan Berger led the team in scoring with 20 goals while senior captain John Flandina paced the Irish with a team-high 14 assists. Both play­ers .tied for the team lead in points with 24. 
Although the Irish failed to recapture the Great Western Lacrosse League title and return to the NCAA Tournament, the future looks bright with the Irish losing only four starters from this year's team. Next season will mark the first year that Notre Dame will offer scholarships in men's lacrosse. 
• Joe licandro 
SMC Softball 

The Belles softball season may have looked like it was canceled. In a one-week period during which the Belles were supposed to play six games, all six were either canceled or rescheduled. 
Despite the cancellations, the Belles managed an 8-15 overall record, although their 3-11 MIM record left them in seventh place in the league. 
The Belles won their final game of the season, defeating Ancilla 6­2. 
"The season ended really well," senior Kristin Martin said. "In the last game, we all played really well. I am happy with the way it all ended." 
The game was the last one that head coach John Ganeff coached. With two weeks in the season left, Ganeff resigned, effective the end of the season, citing a mix of financial reasons and a need for time to further personal goals. 
"Part of it is financial," said Saint Mary's athletic director Lynn Kachmarik. "But he's going back to college and that's a big part of his goal and he'll lose his flexibility when it comes to class time." 
GanefT's resignation prompted three softball players to request releases in order to transfer. 
-Katie McVoy 
FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
page 40 
Davie Fired 

Irish win national2 championship 
OBSERVER 

Flying High 

With 5.8 seconds remaining and the NCM Championship game tied at 66. Ruth Riley calmly hit two free throws that left Notre Dame the 2001 women's basketball national champions. 
1,500 fans showed up to welcome the team back and President George W. Bush honored the team two weeks later at the White Hosue. 
April 2, 2001 
5 
Football earns 
Fiesta Bowl bid 

After a horrendous 1999 season, it looked like the end of the road for Bob Davie However, behind freshman quarterback Matt LoVecchio, the Irish earned the first BCS bid at Notre Dame. 
However, against Oregon State in the Fiesta Bowl, the Irish suffered a humiliating 41-9 loss to finish the season 9-3. 
Jan. 1, 2001 
Wadsworth resigns as AD 
1-,~~iWi.> ,"-'~~f~"'" . •:;:;;. 
·. .·ossERVER··· ... 
,,.....,r..-•· -,,r•h-.._V,:,.,_.~,•-.,.,.,, 

When Michael Wadsworth resigned as athletic director, University President Edward Malloy announced a restructuring of the athletic department. 
Later that year, Malloy named Kevin White the new ath­letic director and said White would report directly to him. 
Feb. 8, 2000 
The Top 10 Observer sports stories from the 1998-2002 academic years Friday, May 17, 2002 
ND hires O'Leary 


On Uec. 2, 2001, follow­ing a 5-6 season, athletic director Kevin White fired football coach Bob Davie and the search began for a new coach to lead the Irish back to prominence. 
At a public press confer­ence on Dec. 9, over 1,500 fans welcomed new football coach George O'Leary, a man who found his dream 
'\))' '""''"" ; i,.,,w,, __,,,,..""""".,.:....• ~ ~ ~..,.. : •. ,· ·· ........... _.:,., M,· ._,_, :l,,l,O~t.. 
Humiliating coaching 
ClH~E1tv1:1t 
search follows Davie firing 
December 2001 
3 Brey returns Irish to prominence 

Since taking over as men's basketball coach two years ago, Brey has led a resurgence in the Irish basketball program. During his tenure, the Irish recorded back-to-back 20-win seasons, two straight NCAA Tournament appear­ances, a Big East West Division title and a near upset of top-seed­ed Duke in the NCAA tournament. 
2000-2002 
6 Irish teams earn No. I rankings 
SPORTS "''''?"'' • 
;:;:,;--H••••••••••-••••·h•-~·••••••••••••:•-·~•-·•·· 
~~ uanv ecnz No. 1 ranking l~~!:V>:-1, 
:";-;'.;:;,:.~.... . ~~"bC,t•1l~­

When the Irish baseball squad ascended to the top of the College Baseball poll, it became the fourth team to reach a No. 1 ranking in the 2000­01 academic year. 
In mid-October, women's soccer was the first team. During the winter it was joined by women's basketball and men's fencing. 
2000-2001 
9 
Men's lacrosse 
makes history 
The Irish recorded 
SPORTS their best finish in school history, reach­ing the Final Four for the first time in school history before falling to Syracuse. 
The feat was even more remarkable considering the lrish, who didn't have a single scholarship athlete. defeated sev­eral powerhouse squads filled with scholarship players. 
May2001 
job at Notre Dame. 

However, O'Leary's tenure with the fighting Irish last­ed just five days before he was forced to resign for lying on his resume. 
After over two weeks of national embarrassment. another 16-day coaching search finally led White to Stanford and Tyrone Willingham, who White announced as head coach on New Year's Day. 
4 Coaches exit SMC revolving door 
In a two and a half month period, three Saint Mary's coaches resigned. 
The athletic depart­ment, which can barely pay its head coaches $6,000 a year has been unable to attract and retain quality coaches. Bobby Johnston, John Ganeff and Theresa Pekarek all left Saint Mary's dur­ing the spring. 
Spring 2002 

Berticelli dies of7 heart attack 
Irish men's soccer head coach Mike Berticelli died sud­denly of a heart attack. 
Berticelli, 48, coached the Irish for 10 of his 23 years as head coach and com­piled a 104-80-19 overall record. Berticelli led his team to the 1996 Big East Championship title and three NCAA tour­nament appearances. 
Jan. 26, 2000 



IO 
Saint Mary's cuts track program 
Under the recom­mendation of athlet­ic director Lynn Kachmarik, Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred decided to discontin­ue the track and field program fol­lowing the 2001 sea­son. 
Kachmarik made the decision, in part, to keep two full-time coaches. 
Feb. 1, 2001 

__J 
Friday, May 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 41 page 42 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, May 17, 2002 

MEN'S TENNIS 

No. 14 Irish hope to eliminate Illini in rematch 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

After beating Michigan and Purdue last weekend. the 14th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team partakes in the Round of 16 at the NCAA Championships at Texas A&M this weekend in College Station. Texas. 
Consequently, the Irish are making their third encounter this season with Illinois, currently ranked third nationally. 
For seniors Javier Taborga, Casey Smith, Aaron Talarico and Andrew Laflin. Saturday will be the last time they take on Illinois, with the match taking place on the same day as Notre Dame's commencement. 
"We're really excited," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "[Ulinois is] obviously one of the two or three best teams in the coun­try, but we feel we can win. We'd like to prove that it wasn't a fiuke beating them earlier." 
Notre Dame split with Illinois during the regular season, with the Irish win­ning an outdoor match and the Illini win­ning indoors. 
When Notre Dame defeated Illinois on March 7, the triumph was narrow, with the Irish snatching the victory because they won the tiebreaker for the doubles points. The singles matches were split evenly, and four of them were decided in three sets. 
Just over a week later, the Illini sought and won revenge, striking the Irish, who were without the services of senior Talarico, with a 4-2 victory at the Blue­Gray Classic. 
The Illini pose a challenge that partly stems from the momentum of their 13­match winning streak. That streak might have included their win over Notre Dame had the Illini not lost to No. 1 Georgia on March 22. 
"I think we can win Ion Saturday)." said Bayliss. "We'll have to play very well for the doubles point, [having] won it on a tie-breaker last time." 
But Bayliss said losing the doubles point will not kill Notre Dame's hopes. Taborga, ranked 15th nationally, has never lost to Illinois' No. 1 player, Amer Delic, whom he will play on Saturday. 
In addition, Bayliss believes Laflin, Smith. Talarico and sophomore Matt Scott will be able to avenge their earlier losses to Illinois players. 
It is fitting that Notre Dame has the opportunity to play Illinois in the NCM tournament, given that Bayliss consid­ered the win over the Illini the proudest moment ol' a season in which Notre Dame tennis achieved its highest ranking since 1994. 
A win on Saturday, allowing the Irish to move one step closer towards the nation­al title. would probably surpass that March 7 victorv as Notre Dame's best memory of the season. 
Bayliss is confident in his players, call­ing this squad one of the better teams he has ever coached. 
"In most teams, by the end of the sea­son, you will have one or two dead spots in the lineup, where you know that that guy is not going to step up," he said. "We really don't have that." 
A lack of holes in the lineup, along with the leadership and tenacity of seniors, has enabled the Irish to have a champi­onship-caliber season, with only a few setbacks, the major one being the upset With the exception of Michigan, we were loss to No. 46 Michigan. really able to keep our nose above the 

"I think dealing with the expectations water and keep floating," Bayliss said. that come from high rankings was our toughest challenge," Bayliss said. "We played pretty darn well in almost all of the matches with highly ranked teams.... Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
Who's.happy-to have a '">I few more Fighting Irish .on their team? 
The answer •1s 

We would like to congratulate each and every one of these Notre Dame students on their full-time positions and internships with our growing organization: 
Full-Time  Interns  
Joseph Benyo  John Heyl  Marianne O'Brien  Preston Benson  Kelly Harris  Janelle Picciano  
Jaclyn Bonaguro  Christopher Jackson  Jordan Raniszeski  Laura Brandenberg  Margot Howard  Erin Riopko  
Anna Costello  Shaun Kane  Patrick Ruder  Paul Buser  Valerie Kruse  Kevin Schumm  
Katherine Deane  Brian Kornmann  Joseph Rutledge  Kerrie Cleveland  Steven Lickus  Sapan Singh  
Zachary Dworkis  Jean LaBrucherie  Katie Schwerdtmann  Jennifer Dobosh  Brian MacKinnon  Daniel Sirken  
Kelly Gallagher  Enjuel!e Livingston  Nina Vaughan  Brett Gansen  Allan McDonald  Rene Sopiarz  
Derek Gipson  Steven McCullough  Michael Vossen  John Gibbons  Jackie Nesson  Richard Ysasi  
Sharon Handoyo  David Ngata  Brooke Wagner  Christine Grimmer  

Deloitte 
Assurance & advisory. tax services and consulting www.deloitte.com/careers
&Touche 
©2002 Deloitte & Touche LLP. Deloitte & Touche refers to Deloitte & T. uche LLP and related entities. 
Deloitte & Touche 1s an equal opportunity firm. We recruit. employ, train. compensate and promote without regard to race, religmn, creed, color. national origin. ege, gender, sexual orientation, mental status, disability or veteren status, or any oUl.er basis protected by Rppl1csble federal state or local law. 
Friday, May 17, 2002 
The Obierver . TODAY page 43 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 
CoNC",RATULATtoNS. LOOl<ING 
YOU'RE 

WHO'S Go1t,1C, AT A 8o'f 
WITH 'YOU? WtTH E.1&Hi 
_) 
TICKETS To "STAR WARS"! 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Kick 59 Historian Stephen
1 Patriot's grp. 33 Gds. 4 Delt neighbor 34 Beverage 
61 Feeler 7 Sunning sites originally called 62 Man of many Brad's Drink words
14 1983 Randy Newman song 38 Last word of 63 Junk Missouri's motto
16 New York and 64 "Monsters, _" 
San Diego, e.g. 41 Mail Boxes 65 Abbr. in many 17 Neon, for one 42 Sleipnir's rider Quebec names 18 "Anything for 45 "Little" car of 
You" singer, song DOWN 1988 
46 Ark welder'? 

1 Sky king 19 Uttar Pradesh 49 Symbols for 2 Wine bottles city neutrinos 3 Damage20 Engine sound 51 Encounters 4 Hard throw, in22 Lukas of trouble baseball"Witness" 54 Intimates 
5 Go
23 Unlikely to crack 
55 Della's creator 

6 Dress option 27 Wind up 
56 1990 N.C.A.A. 

7 Innocent-looking 28 Dwell on 
basketball 29 Ruth's was 2.28 champions 8 Takes in 30 Barker 57 Fail 9 Garfield's vice 
president 
ANSWER TQ PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Construction 
site sight 
G A M .,,.+,,,,+,-+-:-+,,:,-P I N 
11 Convertible 12 Classroom 
supplies 13 W-2 info: Abbr. 15 Saltimbocca 
ingredient 21 Nipper's 
"master" 24 Competent 25 Singer with the 
first gold record single 26 Union activist 
Norma Webste-r ­31 Destination of Note: T=top, B=bottom, L = left, R=right some mail: Abbr. 

RYANTOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

~ did ;k 'I j~:!>+ r-e.1>.L'Z'.ecl ::C ne.,ve.r i-,,c,k +vndc.rt-e.t\~t.k .,{ fJ~~, in 
BILL AMEND 
YOU'RE Lool<­ST.&.RT ING AT A BoY WHO ELSE? OVER. WITH TWO 
TICl<ETS To FOOR
\ CONSECUTl'JE 
SCREENtNE,S oF 0 STAR WARS"! 

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Dennis Hopper, 
Sugar Ray Leonard, Bob Saget 

Happy Birthday: Yours will be a role of leadership in personal financial affairs this year, so take a serious look at your insurance policies, investments and wills. You will make friends and acquaintances as quickly as you will lose them. You must learn what you can from those you encounter and move on. Your numbers are 9, 11, 15, 26, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Concentrate on what's important today and forget about trying to please everyone else. Don't get involved in fast-cash schemes that are too good to be true. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A new relationship will unfold through friends or family. If there is someone from your past that you still think about, this would be an ideal time to get in touch with them. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will want to get involved in some sort of new venture or enter­prise. Don't be too willing to invest your own money just yet. Do your research before you get in so deep 

that you can't turn back. 000 

46 Buffalo's AAA 52 "The sweetest CANCER (June 21-July 22): baseball team gift of heaven": Romantic opportunities will Virgil flourish through group or organi­47 Nyasaland, zational activities. Your attitude is
53 Strays, perhaps 
today changing with regard to your 57 Bucko personal life and your direction. 48 Brawny fellers You should welcome trying
58 Prefix with sex 
something new today. 000 

50 Demanding 60 Big media inits. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Hid­den assets will be discovered. Pri­vate discussions regarding
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are money or ideas will be favored available by touch-tone phone: today. You can put money in 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). long-term investments for future 
use or to ensure security in years
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
to come. 000 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Puzzle by Peter Gordon 
33 It has a cover price of "$2.99 CHEAP" 
35 Drudge 36 It helps pay for roads and schools 37 Actress Anderson 38 Item graded AA, Aor B 
39 Starting place 
40 As you like it 
43 Tangled 
44 It's empty 

l
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Baby: You will surround yourself with people who can i help you get ahead. You will always be looking and listening for new ideas that will help you achieve the power you desire. You are a thinker and a doer. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvke.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Opportunities will unfold if you give a little of your time to a wor­thy cause. You will meet distin­guished individuals who will be able to help you make vital con­nections to get ahead. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Changes at home may be unavoidable. You must listen to the concems and try to do what­ever is possible to make amends. Make sure you finish what you start so you can enjoy the week­end worry-free. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take the day off if you can. An early start on a weekend jaunt will put you in the right frame of mind. Travel and communication will be the highlight today. 00000 
SAGTITARIUS (Nov: 22-Dec 21): 
Take heed of a good lead that someone gives you. You may find something interesting if you are observant. You must be honest with yourself regarding your feelings. 000 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be able to make amends with someone you haven't seen for a long time. Make the first move and you won't be sorry. Partnerships will lead to all sorts of new possibilities. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should expand your interests. If you take the initiative to learn more about your job and the pos­sibilities that are present you will be able to advance. The more you put into what you do the better the results will be. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you really want to make changes, now is the time. Social events will lead to newfound friends. Whatever you do, it must be enlightening, creative and bring about change. 00000 
@2002 Universal Pres.s Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Fridav, Mav 11 6pm and Saturday, Mav 1812 pm CDHJ 
-::l:l:11 No-tre Dar,,e 
Friday 

"PACK THE ECK" Free Tickets available at Meijer, Blimpie's, and Between the Buns!! 
*Mini ND Baseball Bat (First 250)* 
@ Bos-ton Collee:.e 

Saturday 
Boy Scouts "Scout-O-Rama'' 
9 a.m. -12 p.m. outside Eck Stadium 
*ND Leprechaun Bobble Head (First 100)* 
South Bend nibune 

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Four Years in Review, p. 40 
. ND Track, p. 31 
. 
Year in Review, p. 38, 39, 41 . ND Basketball, p. 28, 29 

. 
Football, p. 26 . Tennis, p. 36, 37, 42 

. 
Baseball, p. 25 . ND Softball, p. 34


PORTS
. Sports News, p. 25 . Women's Lacrosse, p. 32 
Friday, May 17, 2002 

OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 
Best of the class 
• All-American . Myers leaves 
Shay is most name all over decorated runner the Notre Dame in Irish history record books 

By MATT LOZAR By NOAH AMST ADTER 
Sports Writer Senior Staff Writer 

As she prepares to leaveOne look at his resume 
the Irish, Jarrah Myers leftquickly makes it obvious why her name all over the soft­the Michigan license plate on ball record book. At the endllyan Shay's car reads ''U.S. 
of the regular season, the
SHAY". 

senior captain's season sta­With eight All-American fin­tistics in walks, home runsishes under his belt already and RBI were in the top 5 inand a chance to add two more Irish history and Myers waslater this month, Shay is the just out of the top 5 in bat­most decorated runner in the 
ting average and stolen
history of an Irish track and bases.
field program that was once 
But the records mean
coached bv Knute Rockne. 

nothing to Myers. The
Shay, who competed in the 

Observer's 2001-2002
2000 Olympic Trials in the 

Outstanding Notre Dame
10,000 meters, won that event 

Senior Female Athlete
at last year's NCM Outdoor 

wants her name left in
Track and Field 

Notre Dame softball historyChampionships, Notre Dame's for only one reason -quali­first individual national cham­fying for the College Worldpion outdoors since 1954. He Series.
earned All-America honors in "World Series. That's all Ithe 5,000 meters during both want," Myers said. "I don'tthe indoor and outdoor sea­care if I go 0-for the rest of
sons as well as two All­
the year. I just want to go to
America finishes in cross 
the World Series; that's finecountry. 
with me. I just want to beWith that list of accomplish­there."
ments, it was not difficult to select Shay as The Observer's 2001-2002 Outstanding Notre An Ending to Forget Dame Senior Male Athlete. After the most successful Not as simple, though, is season in school history last 
BRIAN PUCEVICHfThe Observer 
telling Shay's story. season, Notre Dame, with a
Ryan Shay (left), The Observer's Outstanding Notre Dame Male Senior Athlete, will graduate from
Shay was not one of the 51-3 regular season record,
Notre Dame as the most decorated runner in Irish history, with eight All-American finishes and a trip
nation's top recruits following earned the top seed at the 
to the Olympic Trials. Despite the overwhelming number of records she broke, Jarrah Myers (right), the 
four successful seasons at NCAA Regional. The Irish 
Outstanding Notre Dame Female Senior Athlete, is still looking for a trip to the College World Series. 
see SHAY/page 30 see MEYERS/page 35 
Staying home and taking the lead 
er didn't quite agree with Dave Roeder asked the ers and it would be good if
. Blair became a 
her. By the time she was a South Rend local to think they were close."
leader on a team senior, her brother and sis­about joining the Belles. In addition, staying near 
in transition ter had moved back to the Four years of playing for home Blair made the con­
West Coast. South Bend St. Joseph High School had nection between the two 
doesn't hold any long-term indoctrinated Blair into the great loves in her life ­
prospects for the 6-foot-1 South Bend community and basketball and teaching. As
By KATIE McVOY 

graduating Saint Mary's staying at Saint Mary's an education major, Blair
Associate Sports Editor senior, but it gave her offered her an opportunity began her student teaching something she will always to keep that feeling of com­at McKinley grade school, Compared to California, be grateful for -four munity alive. helping teach the first South Bend doesn't seem to years of learning how to Not to mention that being grade. But her teaching have much to offer. It's lead and live. just minutes away from didn't end in the classroom.-cold half of the year and "I think I grew a lot free laundry service is a She also began coaching rainy or humid the other throughout the four years," perk any local would list in the fifth grade basketball half. On the other hand, a said Blair, The Observer's her reasons to stay close to team. Californian may not seem 2001-2002 Outstanding home. "I've student taught and I to have much to offer South Saint Mary's Senior ''I just wanted to stay was able to bring a lot of Bend. But for one West Athlete. "Senior year we close to home and it was community kids in," Blair Coast resident, coming to really needed someone to kind of an easy decision," said. "I helped coach a South Bend was right on be a leader. I needed to Blair said. "The coach team and a lot of those kids target. have that leadership." wanted me to play and I were interested in coming Anne Blair moved to Blair came to Saint figured it would be good to [to support the team]." South Bend after seventh Mary's in the fall of 1998 be close to home. My par­grade and found the weath-after former head coach ents are really big support-see BLAIR/page 27 the link between coach and players. 








