
VOL XXXVII NO. 25 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
SMC students race for scholarship 
By JAMIE BELCHER 
News Writer 
Her sister once said only a 
symphony  could begin  to  
describe her.  
Among  other  things,  

Suzanne Kondratenko was a sister to seven girls. She graduated in the top of her class from Saint Mary's College in 1996 and after spending time in Rome, it became one of her passions. 
Suzanne's sister Caroline is now a senior at Saint Mary's and also went on the Rome Program. Caroline says that her life so far. parallels her older sister's. 
"She was the reason I ended up going. She's the reason I'm at Saint Mary's. She's the reason I went on 
the Rome Program," Caroline said. 
Suzanne was killed while working in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11. 2001. A scholarship has been sot up in her memory to assist a stu­dent wishing to go on the Rome program. 
Peter Checca. an Italian professor at Saint Mary's and the director of the Rome pro­gram, spoke to Suzanne at her class reunion last year. 
"Although she loved her work, her ultimate dream was to· return to Rome some day and become the director of the Rome Program," Checca said. 
The day of their conversa­tion, according to Checca, Suzanne described how Rome influenced her and changed her life. 
"She'd be really glad just to give someone the opportunity to go," said Caroline. 
Soon. Suzanne will have such an opportunity. This year's Oktoberfest Run/Walk held tomorrow will be in memory of Suzanne and raise money for the scholarship fund. 
Joan Muecke, Abby VanV1erah and Courtney King, among others are establishing a team to run in Suzanne's memory. Muecke received some assistance going on the Rome Program and explains what a wonder­ful experience her sophomor_e year in Rome was to her. 
Chris Pfau is organizing the event to be held tomorrow in front of Angela Athletic Facility at 4 p.m_. Participants 
see RACE/page 6 

AT THE RACES 

Notre Dame students enjoy festivities of the Keough Hall chariot races. From mud wrestling (top left) to racing (bottom), partici­pants took in it all on Saturday afternoon. The chariot races are part of a weekend of events for Keough Hall, including a dance on Saturday night. 
. 
Photos by 

CLAIRE KELLEY 

Service doors are still open 
ByNATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 
Coordinators of the Paid 
Community Service Program say 
poor advertising and program stip­
ulations may have contributed to a 
lack of student interest. 
The program, which allows stu­
dents to do service and receive 
work-study pay, has roughly 20 
local agencies, said Cortney Swift, 
senior financial aid admmistrator. 
"Many students tutor children in 
reading and math," Swift said, 
adding that the Center for the 
Homeless and Robinson 
Community Learning Center 
employ the greatest number of 
Notre Dame students through the 
program. 
Junior Adam Senior is one of the 
many students who work at the 
Robinson Learning Center as a 
tutor and said he feels rewarded 
by helping others. 
"vVhen l do it, I don't treat it as 
just tutoring. It's more than just 
doing homework," Senior said. 
According to Swift, 40 positions 
remain available in the service 
program and the program is still 
looking for stud1mts who want to 
work in the community. 
"We're always looking for people 
to fill positions," Swift said. 
The two employment programs 
that Notre Dame offers are Federal 
Work-Study and Campus · Employment. 
Any student who fills out the 
Free Application for Federal 
Student Aid (FAFSA) is eligible for 
community service positions with 
some exceptions. 
"Students who do not apply for 
financial aid or do not qualify for 
see SERVICE/page 4 

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Monday, September 30, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 



SMC pride 
It began in 1843, when four Sisters of the Holy Cross Order came from Le Mans, France, with the dream to open a college in northern Indiana. One year later, in 1844, the sisters opened their first school and Saint Mary's Sarah Nestor College was born. And 158 years S . M ,
later. the Sisters of amt ary s 
News Editor
the Holy Cross are still here, lending support to Saint Mary's, as the College has educated thousands of women over the years. 
How is that significant today? Today is the start of Saint Mary's pride week. A week in which Saint Mary's women, pre­sent and past, celebrate the College her­itage, students, athletes and each other's accomplishments. 
With the freedom and encouragement that students receive from the College the women of Saint Mary's are always amazing me, whether it is missionary work in China, internships that have resulted in patents or with beautiful poetry written in class. 
While the brochures are true when they state that the campus is beautiful, dorm rooms are usually big, cl.asses are small and that the College has some impressive rankings and statistics, these would all be at the bottom of my list of reasons for Saint Mary's pride. It is the students, professors and staff I know that makes the College special to me. 
No, Saint Mary's isn't for everyone and I'll admit that. Despite the fact that Saint Mary's was the only college I applied to, or wanted to go to, I didn't even like it that much my freshman year. Taking initiative I applied for the Saint Mary's Ireland program, hoping that a year away would provide me with a better college experience. 
I'm not going to gush on and on about how much studying abroad changed me, but it did. My attitude towards Saint Mary's also changed, I was sad about coming back but I couldn't wait to the girls that were my family for a year. 
To me Saint Mary's will always repre­sent the great friendships I have made, in my year in Ireland and while on cam­pus, friendships that I know will always be there. 
While primarily I will have positive memories of Saint Mary's, it is not a per­fect institution and the women who attend are not perfect. There are plenty of issues that upset me about Saint Mary's: the fact that there is not recog­nized support for lesbian, bisexual or questioning women, that there is not a recycling program and even the fact that the dining hall closes at 7 p.m. all annoy me. 
There are plenty of outlets to voice my concerns, whether at a Board of Governance meeting, talking with the hall director or even e-mailing or setting up an appointment with the College president or vice presidents. I may not like the answer I get, or agree with it, but from experience I have always got­ten one. · 
So this week celebrate Saint Mary's pride by celebrating the people you know at Saint Mary's, by questioning what you don't like about the College and working to change it for yourself and future generations. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
On Friday, September 27 rhe article titled "ND campus wide fair revamped" was mistmnly attributed ro Ma.ria Smith. Oairc Heininger and Jason McFarlcy actually wrote chc article. The Observer regrets the error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Malloy 

Congress awarded 
remains honorary 
divded over degree 
Iraq 

University 
Congress contin­President Edward 
ues to debate while Malloy received his 
the White House 14th honorary 
waits for a resolu­degree on 
tion backing U.S. Thursday. Malloy 
involvement in was awarded an 
Iraq. honorary law degree from Gannon University. 
page 5page 3 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Performing Arts Heccpt.ion Sponsored by the Office of the President. 5 p.m. McKcnna llall, Cuntcr 
Dining Area. 

. "Eldcrcare Hesources: Where to go for help" Older Adults Series 
12:10 p.m. LaFortunc, Notre Dame Hoom. 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
3K Benefit Hun 4 p.m. Angela Athletic Facility 

. 
Lecture with Mary Hobinson, former President of Ireland 7 p.m. ()'Laughlin Auditorium 


. James Scholz Photography Collection All clay at the Snitc Museum of 
/\rt. . 

. 
"IIuman Hights and [ndian Hesistancc in Chiapas" Lecture by Shannon Speed Tuesday, 12:30 p.m. llesburgh Center. 

. 
School Pep Hally Saint Mary's Pride Weck 6 p.m. Angela Athletic Facility 

. 
3K Boncfit Hun 4 p.m. Angnla Athletic Facility 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Tuscany pasta bean soup, bianco pizza, honey garlic pork chops, szechuan vegan noodles, baked lemon perch, scrambled eggs and cheese enchiladas. 
Today's Dinner: Tuscany pasta bean soup, bianco pizza, tortellini with basil cheese sause, buffalo chicken wings, macaroni and cheese, pork fried rice, tofu jerk, lentil and barley stew, barbe­cue rib sandwhich, chicken tamales. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chicken mozzarella pastaria, pepperoni, cheese and chick­en fajita pizzas, roasted vegetables, quiche lorraine, chicken cordon bleau, baked cod, baked honey glazed ham, beef arid veggie szechuan stir fry. 
Today's Dinner: Italian beef and macaroni, pepperoni, cheese, veg­etable, and chicken fajita pizzas, baked parmesan chicken breast, kielbasa sauerkrut, roasted pork tenderloin, sesame baked pollok, oriental shrimp with noodles, and Oriental vegetables. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
LIi
:c 
~ 

3: 
..J 
<
(J 


.3 HIGH 86 HIGH 81 LOW 70 LOW 75 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

BUSINESS NEWS 
IMF leaders focus on world economies, face protests 
Leaders of the IMF met in Washington, D.C. this weekend to focus on debt relief and international stock markets. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Committee weighs in on honor code controversy 
Chairmen of the University Honor Code Committee dispute The Observer's editorial on changes to the University's code. 
page 9 
SCENE 

Boot Beasts entertain Notre Dame students 
The Observer checks out one of Notre Dame's less­er known bands, The Kinky Boot Beasts. Find out if they're hot ... or not. 
pages 1.1-12 
SPORTS 

Europeans edge out U.S., claim Ryder cup 
Europeans snatched the Ryder Cup from Americans Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson and the rest of the U.S. squad. 
page 14 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Parked vehicle hit 
A University employee report­ed that her vehicle was hit while parked. The driver has not been identified. 
Ci:uc_ifix reported

m1ssmg 

A Notre Dame student report­ed losing a crucifix on Wednesday. 
ND emP.loyee sustains 

head injury 
NDPD transported a University employee to the University Health Center for treatment of a head injury. 

Locked bike is missing 
A student reported her free­standing locked bike was taken from outside Howard Hall on Tuesday. There are no sus­pects. 
Student loses wallet 
A student reported losing her wallet on Thursday between 9:lO·and 9:20 a.m. 
Compiledfrom NDSP crime blotter 
Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta with marinara sauce, vegetables on tomato focaccia, baked flour tortillas and salsa, subma­rine bar, cheese and pepperoni pizzas, tuna salad and lime cilantro pesto roasted chicken with Santa Fe corn blend and potato wedges. 
Today's Dinner: Pasta with marinara sauce, tomato cous cous, portobella mushroom caps with honey balsamic red onions, chicken tortellini with pesto cream sauce, chicken burger-, jumbo hot dogs, broiled cod with citrus relish and fresh mango, fresh green bean salad and cheese and spinach pizzas. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
LOW 56 

Atlanta 75 / 67 Boston 70 / 62 Chicago 88 / 67 Denver 72 / 48 Houston 87 / 67 Los Angeles 7 4 / 58 Minneapolis 83 / 56 New York 75 / 62 Philadelphia 76 / 61 Phoenix 92 / 69 Seattle 58 / 42 St. Louis 87 / 67 Tampa 90 / 74 Washington 78 / 62 




Monday, September 30, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Panel discusses college and religion 
ByJIM GAFFEY News Writer 
A panel of university presi­dents from prominent Christian colleges gathered Friday afternoon in McKenna Hall Auditorium as part of this weekend's "From Death to Life" conference. The panel, entitled "The Future of Christian Higher Education," included Charles Dougherty, the president of Duquesne University, Robert Sloan, president of Baylor University, and Father Edward Malloy. president of Notre Dame. 
Each speaker expressed different points important to the mission and identity of private Christian universities. Dougherty emphasized the unique role Christian univer­sities play in a religiously pluralistic society. 
"I think U.S. society is drift­ing towards un amorphous spirituality," he said. "There's a hunger for values in America, and our universi­ties help fill that." 
The success of Christian universities is part of a new counter-movement to grow­ing secularization in society, and for them to compromise -their mission would be to lose both part of their identi­ty and their niche in the economy, Dougherty 
said. "It is more important to 
Sloan, in his 
be faithful than it is to be
efforts to pro­mote and great." improve educa­tion at Baylor, 
Robert Sloan
stressed the 
Duquesne University president
i n t e r p I a y 
between main­taining a Christian identity and making gains in the U.S. News & World R.eport rankings. One of Baylor's goals was to break into U.S. News' "top tier" of universities, while at the same time deepening his school's Christian roots. 
• "Christian faithfulness and 
said. 

Malloy honored 
•


again 
Special to the Observer 
Father Edward A. Malloy, 
C.S.C., president of Notre 
Dame, received an hon­
orary doctor of laws degree 
f r o m 
Gannon 
Univer­
sity in 
Erie, Pa., 
during a 
special 
ceremony 
Thurs­
day. It is 


his 14th Malloy 
s u C h 
honor. 

Notre Dame's 16th presi­
dent, Malloy was elected by 
the Board of Trustees in 
1986. Now in his third five­
year term. he has led the 
University at a time of 
rapid growth in its reputa­
tion, faculty and resources. 
During his tenure, Notre 
Dame's faculty has 
increased by more than 
350, the academic quality 
of the student body has 
improved dramatically, and 
the number of minority stu­
dents has more than dou­
bled. 

The University's endow­
ment of approximately $3 
billion is among the top 20 
in higher education, and its 
recently completed 
"Generations" capital cam­
paign raised $1.1 billion, 
by far the most successful 
in the history of Catholic 
higher education and just 
the 12th billion-dollar cam­
paign ever for a private 
university. 

Malloy has been a driving 
force behind efforts to pro­
mote community service 
and combat substance 
abuse in higher education. 
A member of the advisory 
board of AmeriCorps and 
the National Civilian 
Community Corps, he also 
I 
is a founding director of 
the Points of Light l -Foundation, a member of l 
the board of governors of 
the Boys and Girls Club of .1 
America, and a member of 
the Indiana Community 
Service and Volunteer 
Committee and the Indiana 
Commission on Community 
Service. 

In combating substance abuse, Malloy has served as a member of numerous organizations, including the National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. the President's Advisory Council on Drugs. the 
Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America, the Governor's Commission for a Drug-Free Indiana, and the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University. He also current­ly serves as cochair of the subcommittee on college drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, a compo­nent of the National Institutes of Health, and chairs the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for CASA. 
academic excellence are not mutually exclusi"ve," Sloan asserted. Where the pursuit of these goals conflicted, however, Sloan emphasized the higher ideal of offering a Christian education. "It is more important to be faithful than it is to be great," he. 
into "the marketplace of ideas." 
Malloy .stressed the impor­tance of hiring faculty who are committed to carrying on the university's Christian mission as well as establish­ing a core curriculum for all students designed to foster 
exploration religious ques­

S I o a n tions. Malloy referred to a I s o Notre Dame's University revealed requirement of two philoso­his theory phy and two theology courses t h a t as a way to establish such a Christian Christian core curriculum. universi­Malloy also addressed the ties. if skepticism society shows we II-run, toward religiously affiliated can impact universities. society in "There are always people four dis­suspicious of an institution 
tinct ways including educat­ing students morally. prepar­ing them for leadership. ana­lyzing and critiquing culture, and replacing society's bad moral content with good. This final impact on society can be realized, according to Sloan, by putting things out like Notre Dame," Molloy said. ''Some people equate pursuing a university's moral mission with mediocrity. I do not think this is the case." 
Contact Jim Gaffey at jgaffey@nd.edu 


9 p.m. Saturday night. Your 
plans have changed three 

times in the last half hour. 
SPEAKER PHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL• INSTi\NT MESSENGER'" service TWO·W,\Y MESSAGING JAVA™ GAMES lt APPLICATIONS IIIGITAL CE.LLULAR 
-raJ.....y l-L-.e J.i~il-....l ..,,,,..11,,.ie+....l~ie w<1,l,,.s ove, seve...o,J "'-"-"'J.,eJ. ""iles. 
A"-J. t'lli."lllnllw, "'"'ho,.wiJ.e. 


NEXrEL 

'fol>. \\eve\" w.iss """'-yth.i\\ji wL\y st-,,._.,.,.. \\Ow? N.e,d-el's ~i~i+-""I w,,..l~ie-i-,,..l~ie .Pe""H.....,.e le\-s yo1>. jei-.,.i~h.i-Hwo1>.jt.-. wit-I.-. i-1.-.e r1>.sL\ 
o.P ""\:i 1>.Ho\\, Tu""t-l-".et'\\\S 1a.o l-".isse~ c,,..lls, l>.\\Ct.-.ec~e.A, VOiCe ~.,,.,i) Ov rl.-.c\\e i"""j. 1(,:,,,1>.se w\;\c \.,,,,..s tiw.e .Pov ,:,,,ll t-\;\""t w½e"'. yo1>. Ct'\\\1f-eve\\ ~eciJ-e wt.-.,:,,,+-to we,:,,,v? ~ow yo1>.'ve .,.e"'-~Y-ihi\\j Ii-. 
N.ow's tJ1 ~ ..e,,.,;.. +-iw.e h, ~et-Ne>Ci-el: 
,,..n N.c:lhe D""'w.e sl-1>.Ae"'-+-s ,e,­""~ Q;':: '..AtSCCI..\~.~ o\\ """-Y ../;t\te
s·,..,.,.. w ....... 
pl""\\ "'-"-A ', l,· V ~..,:-i "'"Y p'-"o\\e. 
.,..., 'bl-\y'. 

• ~'-' t-d l\e)d-el.co1M./IY'isi;,\-stL\t:A.e\\t. 
• Cc'\ll toll-f!vee l-8'77-s-o,-212,. 
• Cd".h,..ct JDtv\ CdiM.l.N\l>.~,c"'Hc\\s "";-s-74-24'3-'38'\ 8' 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 30, 2002 
Information Meeting 




Perth, Australia 
Tuesday, October 1, 2002 
Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 
5:00 PM 
For Students in the Colleges of Science and Engineering 
Application deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/--intlstud 
RACING FOR THE CURE 



Service 
continued from page I 
Federal Work-Study are eligible for Campus Employment as long as their total financial aid Goans, University scholarships, private scholarships, work eligibility, etc.) does not exceed their cost of atten­dance Swift said. 
"For students who qualify for federal work-study, we include additional inserts to promote the community service program," Swift said. 
There are similar guidelines for those who qualify for campus employment, with a few excep­tions: federal work-study requires students to work at an off-campus community service agency, said Swift. 
"With Federal Work-Study, a portion of the studcn1s' wages are 
"I pity da fool who doesn't celebrate with Taryn on her 21" birthday." Have a good one Taryn! 
Love, Brit, Heath, J~Lo, Midge, Zosaphine, & Blondie 


funded with federal dollars," Swift said. "The non-federal share varies by ~gency. however, most agencies pay a quarter of student wages and the remaining 75 per­cent is paid with federal dollars." Swift said. 
However, Swift said that if stu­dents tutor reading or math in local elementary schools, the fed­eral government funds 100 per­cent of the students' ..yages. 
Despite the monetary benefit, Swift sees the program as a "great experience for students to work outc,ide of the campus." 
"Volunteer work is a huge com­ponent of the Notre Dame experi­ence and paid community service is a good way for students, who can't afford to volunteer, to work in service positions," she said. 
Contact Natasha Grant at natasha.n.grant.20@nd.edu 




WORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 30, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
SENEGAL 
Death toll higher than thought in ferry sink 
Associated Press 
DAKAR 

In long, solemn lines, thou­sands of people pored over pho­tos Sunday of the bloated bodies from one of Africa's deadliest ferry accidents, as the govern­ment said that nearly 1,000 people are now believed dead. 
Only 64 people are known to have survived when the MS Joela capsized off Africa's West Coast in heavy winds Lale Thursday. On Sunday, the gov­ernment said that 1,034 people were on board the ship, sharply up from the 797 it had first announced. 
By midday Sunday, Gambian and Senegalesc sailors, dive teams and other searchers had collected 352 bodies from the ferry, the water and from along the coast, where some were washing up, said Aminata Dibba, permanent secretary for Gambia's presidency. ' 
Six refrigerated ship contain­ers with bodies inside were lined up in the capital's port, while hundreds more disinte­grating bodies were offshore waiting to be brought in. 
Authorities planned Monday to finish an investigation into what caused the Senegalese state-run boat to sink off Gambia, a former English colony about 30 miles across at its widest point that divides north and south Senegal. 
Grieving family members studied photos of the dead in hopes of identifying rapidly decomposing victims. 
"Now there seems to be little chance they'll come back alive," said Tijane Jalow, 29, who had three brothers on board. 
"This is awful, awful, awful. I'm inconsolable," he said, pinching his eyes. 
On Sunday, the government added the 55-member crew and said 185 passengers had board­ed the doomed ferry at a second stop en route from southern Senegal, bringing the total aboard to 1,034, said Diadji Toure, communication's adviser for Senegal's prime minister. 
Authorities set up five "crisis centers" in Dakar to display photos of those retrieved from the wreckage. Boy Scouts rushed bottled water and food to more than 3,000 people who waited in line throughout the day, officials said. 
Ambulance teams tended to people who passed out from temperatures of about 92 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Many victims' faces were too waterlogged to be recognizable. One bleary-eyed woman wailed "Papa, Papa!" as she was helped away from a display. 
At the port in Dakar, young men crouched in the shade, 


People look Sunday in the Dakar city hall at a list of survivors from the MS Joola ferry which capsized off the coast of Gambia Sept. 26. The ferry was carrying 1,034 people when it left Ziguinchor for the Senegalese capital of Dakar. Nearly 1,000 are believed to be dead. 
pressing radios to their ears. three days of national mourn-mer vacation from the southern Most family members were ing. Casamance region, known for calm but bickered with army Capt. Samba Fall of the its powdery beaches. He guards providing slow access to Senegalese navy said many chil-declined to say how many chil­the photo lineup. Senegal's flag dren were on board because dren were on board or believed flew at half-staff in the last of they were returning from sum-. missing. 
Congress remains divided over problem in Iraq 
• Associated Press GOP lawmakers. lining up behind gun to their head and saying we're president open-ended authority and President Bush, said it is unlikely that going to shoot you if you blink," said are seeking to put more emphasis on a WASHINGTON Saddam will allow inspectors unfet­Rep. Jim McDermott, D-Wash., speak­multilateral approach. Lawmakers have yet to settle differ­tered access to search for weapons of ing from Iraq. The Senate's top Republican, Trent ences about the threat posed by Iraq mass destruction. McDermott also suggested the presi­Lott of Mississippi, said Sunday that he and how to confront it, despite White "He is not going to allow them back dent might be misleading the American wants the a resolution that can attract House hopes Congress soon will pass a in, because he has these weapons and people about the need for military as much support as possible. resolution authorizing military force to materials and laboratories and he isn't action, something the White House "We're still working on language that topple Saddam Hussein. about to give them up," said Sen. John swiftly denied. can bring the largest number of 
Republicans and Democrats appear­McCain, R-Ariz. Congress may consider the resolution Democrats and Republicans, House ing on the Sunday talk shows said they Democrats, including House mem­this week, though negotiations on and Senate, together," Lott, R-Miss., hoped a resolution would win over­bers visiting Baghdad, urged the Bush terms continue. Bush said Saturday said on CBS's "Face the Nation." whelming support, even as they administration to work closely with the that agreement was near and predicted Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., sparred over the United Nations' role United Nations and to let inspectors that "soon we will speak with one agreed but said the key will be rooting and the severity of the threat from the resume their work. voice." · the resolution in the United Nations as Iraqi president. "You don't start out by putting the Democrats say they will not give the "primary responder." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israel pulls back from Arafat's HQ 
Israel bowed to U.N. demands and U.S. pressure Sunday, pulling troops and tanks out through the barbed wire that encircles Yasser Arafat's head­quarters. The Palestinian leader said the move was only "cosmetic.". 
As troops removed sandbags, generators and debris from around the Hamallah compound to end the 10-day standoff, Israel said it still planned to arrest alleged terrorists it says are holed up with Arafat. 
Blair confident on Iraq resolution 
Prime Minister Tony Blair said he. was confident Sunday of securing a fresh United Nations resolu-. tion on stripping Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction. 
Britain and the United States arc preparing a draft resolution that would call on I.raqi President Saddam ,Hussein to reveal all materials relating to weapons of mass destruction and to give U.N. weapons inspectors unfettered access to presiden­tial sites. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Protestors march on Cheney's house 
Thousands of people opposing a war with Iraq marched to the residence of Vice President Dick Cheney on Sunday,' culminating three days of small­er-than-expected demonstrations. 
Protesters, some holding signs that said "No Blood for Oil," blamed Cheney for pushing the nation toward war.·Police estimated about 2,500 people turned out for the peaceful event. 
Demonstrator threats to shut down the nation's capital and disrupt meetings of world financial lead­ers during the weekend foll tlat and all protesters had evaporated from city streets by dusk Sunday. 
Polygraph doubted in Levy case 
Police arc looking again at a man once ruled out as a suspect in Chandra Levy's death, partly because a lie detector test he passed was adminis­tered through a Spanish-speaking interpreter, a person familiar with the investigation says. 
Investigators want Ingmar Guandique, 21, a Salvadoran immigrant, to take a second polygraph test about the former government intern 's · death. 
Man arrested in New Jersey airport 
A Bulgarian national was arrested Sunday at Atlantic City. International Airport after federal screeners found a pair of scissors embedded in a bar of soap and two boxcutters in a lotion bottle in his backpack. 
Nikolay Volodicv Dzhonev, 21, was charged with possession of a prohibited weapon. Egg Harbor Township police said Dzhonev was being held on $100.000 bail. 
Authorities said the man was a student from Bulgaria with a summer visa allowing him to work at an Atlantic City-area convenience store. 
U.S. may fingerprint Egyptian tourists 
The United States on Sunday began advising Egyptians traveling to America they may be finger­printed, photographed and questioned on arrival in America for reasons of national security. 
So far, the program requiring registration of for­eign visitors included those from Iran, Iraq, Sudan and Libya -the countries listed by the State Department as state sponsors of terrorism. 

page 6 The Observer . CA1\1PUS NEWS Monday, September 30, 2002 
HAVE YOU EVER CONSIDERED AN INTERNATIONAL INTERNSHIP?? 
Ireland 


Visit the Student International Business Council 
at the INTERN NETWORKING NIGHT! ! 
LaFortune Ballroom
Meet Past Interns! Fun Door Prizes! 
Monday, September 30th 8:00-1 O:OOPM
Free Food! 
51NGIN' ON THE QUAD 


CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Students in the Voices of Faith choir entertain attendees of the campus-wide fair held Saturday afternoon on North Quad. The fair featured booths from various University ethnic and cultural clubs and performances from Troop ND, the Porn Pon Squad and the Swing Club, among others. Organizers estimate that 500 people attended the event. 
have sent three of their daughters to Saint Mary's

Race 

hope that this will inspire a continued from page I student with the same ambi­
tion and zest for life as can either run ·or walk and Suzanne, the family said. do so by F o r themselves or Checca, he with a team. "She was the reason I f e e I s 
The mini­blessed to 
.ended up going. She's the 
mum entry fee have known 
is $5 and it is reason I'm at Saint Mary's." Suzanne. a fee that He said, Pfau says is "I overcome
Caroline Kondratenko 
going to a my sadness
sister of Suzanne
great cause. by remem­
"You can bering how make a pledge much joy even if you do not have time she brought to everyone who to run or walk. We just want knew her." to have a great day and a great turn out," says Pfau. Contact Jamie Belcher at 
The Kondratenkos, who belc510 l@saintmarys.edu 
'.. ~ . ... . ' ..
&i1i'i~'.:~ 
.i;;~;~ii(;:i:;:;.;~:::::=;=~~;;.~~'.;:~;;~~:ti:~~a;~~~:~~;k;:;;j[;~:;~mi~•~; 


Giddy up Becky! Happy 21, we love you. 
-your roomies 

Last Summer•• Internships Bank of Ireland Aon Corporation · Citibank Procter & Gamble Phillips International Keough Institute 
Bus0iNESS 
Monday, September 30, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch Se tember 27 
DowJones 

7,701.45 • -295.67 
N4SDAQ 

1,199.16 • -22.45 
S&P500 

827.37  '  -27.58  
AlWEX  
824.31  '  -11.45  
NYSE  
450.23  -14.57  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -15.38 -0.14 0.77 
~~~~l!lillll1l~l~lll:l;!ll1i!lli:i!lllillll111!111llill 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.14 -0.13 11.23 
iNi~:liH~iiiil,iji~~J;!:':1::;1::iI1 :1::!Iii~1~1i 11'i,:ml1¥,i,1:i:1!ii1t:li 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) -3.48 -2.98 82.75 
IN BRIEF 
Shippers: West Coast port stays shut 
A frail labor peace between shipping lines and West Coast longshoreman collapsed Sunday when workers were ordered off their jobs indefinitely. 
The Pacific Maritime Association, which represents the shipping lines, said it would bar workers from the docks until the union agrees to extend a lapsed contract while talks toward a new agreement continue. 
West Coast ports handled more than $300 billion in cargo over the past year. Continued labor unrest could cost the U.S. economy an estimated $1 billion a day. 
"They're just doing whatever they're doing," said Steve Stallone, a spokesman for the International Longshore and Warehouse Union. 
Association president Joseph Miniace called Sunday's action a "defensive shutdown" that came less than 12 hours after longshoremen returned to the docks at the 29 major Pacific ports. 
Shipping lines imposed a lockout Friday immediately after talks broke down. That lockout was lifted, then reimposed after the association accused the union of understaffing operations and dispatching unskilled workers. 
Former VP to give policy speech 
Al Gore plans to offer his views on the U.S. economy Wednesday in a major policy speech on the topic at a time the political debate has turned increasingly toward Iraq and the pos­sibilities of war. 
The former vice president helped stir up that debate over Iraq with a speech a week ago in San Francisco criticizing the Bush administration for its policies on Iraq. 
Gore told a crowd at the Commonwealth Club that the Bush administration should not allow Iraq to distract this country from the war on terrorism and said the United States should work more with the United Nations to get the broadest possible support for chang­ing regimes in Iraq. 
Debt reform goal of leaders 
. Protestors expected at this week's meeting 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
World financial leaders pledged Sunday to do everything possible to pre­vent stock market turmoil from derailing an uncertain global recovery and com­mitted themselves to meet­ing an April deadfine for unveiling a dramatic new approach for handling bankrupt nations. 
IMF Managing Director Horst Koehler said the agreement to move the bankruptcy proposal for­ward was a major achieve­ment for this year's annual meetings of the 184-nation IMF and its sister lending organization, the World Bank. 
"This is a kind of break­through .... There is a recognition that there is a gap in the international financial architecture," Koehler told a concluding news conference. 
Delegates on Sunday approved a recommenda­tion that the IMF staff develop for consideration by April a fully developed approach for allowing countries with unsustain­able debt burdens to essen­tially declare bankruptcy needs of poor countries. tasks," Wolfensohn said. were "asleep at the switch." 
and force creditors to nego­But both officials Finance officials said the A debt default, he said on tiate more lenient repay­acknowledged that much sluggish economy is making ABC's "This Week," could ment terms. more needed to be done to harder their job of promot­have serious repercussionsProtesters had sought to narrow the gap between ing prosperity. The stock on U.S. banks with loans to disrupt this year's discus­rich and poor nations; 15 market declines, economic Brazil and American com­sions by shutting down the percent of the world's pop­turmoil in Latin America panies with plants there. capital. Their efforts fizzled ulation controls 80 percent and anxiety about possible Finance officials struck a 
in the face of poor turnout of the income. war in Iraq have con­much more positive tone. and an overwhelming police "The quest for a more tributed to the weaker than They said the United States, presence. equal world is the quest for expected recovery. Europe and Japan had Police prepared for as long-term peace -some­Argentina was forced into committed during the many as 20,000 demonstra­thing that military power a record default on govern­weekend meetings to tors, but a much smaller alone can never achieve," ment debt in December. address problems in their number of mostly peaceful Wolfensohn said. Brazil's currency fell to countries that were holding protesters used puppets At the concluding news record lows in the past back growth.and banners to display their conference, Wolfensohn week as investors fear Latin Treasury Secretary Paul unhappiness with global ticked off a range of initia­America's largest economy O'Neill said Washingtoncapitalism. tives the World Bank has soon will default on its debt was doing its part to pro­Koehler and World Bank underway to improve drink­despite a record $30 billion mote a global recovery. He President James ing water in poor nations, loan approved by the IMF in said the expected the Wolfensohn said the pro­educate millions of children early September. world's largest economy testers failed to appreciate not now in school and com­Billionaire investor would return to solid the extensive reforms both bat AIDS. George Soros said that growth of 3 percent to 3.5 institutions have undertak­"We have to stop philoso­while this possibility was percent "over the course of en to better respond to the phizing and get on with the increasing, IMF officials the coming year." 

Tyco case: board vs. executives 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. 

The case against three former Tyco International Ltd. executives accused of looting the company could boil down to a blame game between the board of directors and the defen­dants, legal experts say. 
Tyco documents show some board members knew of certain loans to top executives -knowledge which could help the defense. But those docu­ments also include details of extrava­gance in how the money was spent, and that could hurt the defendants, according to former federal prosecu­tor Gregory Wallance. 
"They're bringing the charges in the middle of a climate of public out­rage at executives pigging out at the expense of investors," Wallance said. "The sheer magnitude of the money is going to be a problem for the defense." · 
A recent Tyco filing with the Sewritics and Exchange Commission said former chief executive Dennis Kozlowski, former chief financial offi­cer Mark Swartz and former general counsel Mark Belnick enriched them­selves at the company's expense. The company also has filed a civil suit against Kozlowski, seeking $7 30 mil­lion. 
Prosecutors have accused 
. Kozlowski and Swartz of stealing $600 million from Tyco, and both are charged with enterprise corruption and grand larceny. Belnick was charged with falsifying business records to conceal $14 million in improper loans. 
The three men have pleaded inno­cent, and their lawyers have said any money they received was approved. 
The king of excess was Kozlowski, Tyco maintains. One example cited by the company: a $2.1 million birthday party Kozlowski threw last year for his wife, Karen, on the Italian island of Sardinia. In documents filed with the SEC, Tyco says it footed half the bill. 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46550 024 South Dinmg Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarlcy 

MANAGING FD!lOR  BPSINFSS MANAGFR  
Kart l',;agenga.,c  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Sollkup  Boh Wnods  

NFWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VJF:WI'OINT EDITOR; Lauren Beck 
SroRTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCL.'IE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAl'HIC.5 EDITOR; Kacie McKeuna 

ADVERTISING ti-rnAGER: Mact Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

SBTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangerr 
WEil ADMINISTRATOR, T oJd Nieto 
C0NTROtLF:R: I-0 ri Lcwalski 

CONTACT Us 
OrFICE MA.'lAGrR/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 FAX.......................................................... ..631-6927 ADVERTISING...................................63 I -(,')00/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF...........................•.631-4542 MANAGir..G EDITOR/AsST. ME .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......... ...................631-5313 NEWS....... ·······•·••··························· ............631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports.l@nd.edu SCENE......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAJNT MARY'S. 
······························631-4324 observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for dailv updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the inclependem, daily newspaper published in prim and on!ine by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Macy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscitutio\1. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of che authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofal! opinions through !eccers is encouraged. Lecrecs co the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarlq 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O~r11c-r {USPS. )99 2---4000} is publi!'.ht'd Mond;:iy through Friday cxcqir d\1ring -a;;1;n md vac.arion period.,. A sub!.Cripnon ro The Ol»ervcr ~~ S 100 fur one academic yeJr; $5) for one ~me~1er. 
TI1C" Ohscrver i!o publ i.1hed .1r· POSTMASTER 024 Somh Dinint; H.11l Smd ;1d.Jrr....._ corr«rians ro: :-.:om· D~mc, fN 46:iS(i...0779 The Ob.~er"tr 
l•cnodical po!>l.l,c !'~id af Noire D.unc P.0. .Bo>.0 .mJ .ad.JniolUII m.1ihng ofrl!Ct"-f\on~ D.1mc-. JN 465)6-0779 
·1 lie Ob'<."rva !~ ,I mc1nbcr ot' clu: th~o... iM.:d l'u~..-~. All repro<luct1,m ugha ilil.' 
H'M!f\'~1 
Monday, September 30, 2002 


Time for talk is over 
Let's say you are the President, and the date is July 1, 2001. And let's say that America's intelligence systems (as they failed to do in reality) put together all the pieces au<l stated that a terrorist aJtack from a foreign group, Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, would strike U.S. soil sometime in the next three months and kill thousands of Americans. Do you: 
A. Launch a fierce preemptive attack, designed to destroy the threat before it can materialize, or 

B. Petition the United Nations to draft resolutions, plead with the other four members of the U.N. Security Council to gain acceptance, and wait for Congressional approval? 
Obviously hindsight tells us that the proper answer is the first. Yet com­mon sense tells us that as well. You wouldn't know that by listening to those people against a preemptive strike against Iraq, though. I admit, the situation may not be quite as dire as the hypothetical posted above, but it's only tragic hindsight which has shown us how severe the threat al­Qaeda was 15 months ago. The threat Saddam Hussein poses may not be exactly the same, but it's similarly imminent and clear. 
Our Commander-in-Chief, regard­
. less of whether it's George ,v. •Bush, George H.W. Bush. William J. Clinton -or, in our little hypothetical game, you -has the authorization by our Constitution to protect America and its citizens. Yet the President's oppo­nents can think of a million different reasons not to act, but·can't grasp the fundamental reason why we should. 
Global politics and foreign policy can be complicated., but in this case, there are simple questions, and there are simple answers. Is Saddam Hussein a vicious and evil tyrant? Does he possess weapons that can cause unimaginable horrors? Is he attempting to acquire nuclear weapons'' The answer to all of these is yes. We've known this for years, of course, but a 50-page dossier issued last week by the British government reinforces these facts. 

Another equally simple conclusion that can be drawn is that Hussein will not stop based on any international resolution made against him. He's vio­lated more than a dozen U.N. r~solu­tions already in the decade-plus since the end of the Gulf War. And history teaches us that in the face of a tyran­nical threat, diplomacy not backed by the threat of force only emboldens the tyrant -.it does not contain him. 
The onus should therefore be on those who do not support action against Iraq to provide a compelling case. So far, they have yet to come up with even a coherent case. Tom Daschle (D-S.D.). Senate Majority Leader and the highest-ranking Democrat in Washington, can only express "concern." Last week, he thought it over and heightened his rhetoric; he now expresses "grave concern." 
Al Gore, who broke ranks with his own party and supported the Gulf War, admonished President George H.W.,Bush for leaving Saddam in power, and served as Vice President in an administration which made sev­eral unilateral strikes against Iraq, made a speech last week in San Francisco that threw out that legacy and argued feebly against it. Even The 1'.ew Republic, which twice endorsed Gore for President, said the speech "sounded like a political broadside against a president who Gore no doubt feels occupies a post that he himself deserves." 
And there are still grumbles interna­tionally that an independent America that acts in its own self-defense is more terrifying than a madman with weapons of mass destruction. · German Justice Minister Berta Di:iubler-Gmelin compared George W. 
Bush to Hitler by saying Bush was 
using Iraq to shift the focus away from 
domestic issues in a political cam­
paign. Ironically, thi~ statement took 
place in the midst of the German elec­
tion season; though the anti­
Americanism played well and center­
loft Chancellor Gerhard Schroder won 
reelection, he thankfully relieved Frau 
Daubler-Gmelin of her duties. 
To a certain extent, the objections 
are steeped in good intentions. While 
President Bush and his braintrust, 
buttressed by the support of British 
Prime Minister Tony Blair, have laid 
out a case for action against Iraq, 
they've been somewhat caught up in 
their mission to address some bigger 
questions. If preemptive action 
against terror networks and rogue 
states is going to be the Bush 
Doctrine, we should at least have an 
honest discussion about our rules of 
engagement in the future, if for no 
other reason than to reassure our ·allies. 
But that should not be used as an 
excuse to sit around and wait while 
the threat grows. In three months' 
time, Saddam Hussein may very well 
have a nuclear weapon. This would be 
a problem not just because he could 
detonate it on a whim, but also 
because it would give him leverage he 
doesn't possess now. It would be easy 
for him to invade Kuwait or Saudi 
Arabia if he can blackmail the United 
States with a weapon aimed at Tel 
Aviv, or London, or Washington. The 
United States and the United Kingdom 
are the only ones who'll stop him now; 
who will stop him then? 
There have been months to talk 
about it. Action is needed now -not 
more talking. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, is a 
big mean ogre who lives in an 
enchanted forest. He did go to the 
Aerosmith concert two weeks ago, and 
it rocked. Contact him at 
Marchand.3@nd.edu. Ilis column 
appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not 1zeces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
l\"ews 

Andrew Thagard Tim Heine Laura Coristin Vie-wpoint Sheila Flynn 
Graphics 

Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk 
Chris federico 
Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Lab Tech 
Tim Kacmar 
Illustrator 
Pat Quill 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does the new honor code, which provides for the use of the website turnitin.com, diminish trust between students and professors? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE QAY 
'Tm not a fighU!r, I have had reflexes. I was once run over by a car being pushed by two guys." 
Woody Allen filmmaker and actor 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 30, 2002 page 9 
Life can be rough, but appreciate the ride 
Last night I saw one of my liest friends in the Peace Corps give a con­cert. In his former life he was an acting major and writer who aspired to be in pictures in People Magazine and to cre­ate art his audience could understand. Maite Uranga Now he lives in the village 45 minutes away from me. 
When I was at Life in Africa home I saw my col­lege roommate, and for the first time since we met six years ago there was not even one night or debauchery. 1am turning 25 in six months. Soon I will be closer to 30 than to 20. 
I have sat in the desert for over a year 
-and somewhere in that time my friends and I seemed to have grown up. Serious relationships have come into the pic­ture. Others have been continuously single for the first time since high school and finally get to spend time with themselves. I finally came to terms with the fact that applying to law school does not mean that H1e adventure is over. My brother is taking a yea:r off of medical school because in much simpli­fied terms he figured out life is not about the destination. 
Everyone has heard 1.hese cliches. And it is highly likely that most people have experienced a lot of them. But within the vanity of the mid-twenties age group, an individual and a group of friends think that they are discovering the world as it has never been seen before. We think we know it all because we are at a top-25 university and spent a semester living somewhere else. Our friends live in other cities, states and countries, which makes us worldly. Our parents do not know where we arc on Friday nights and do not know if we ever go to class. We think we are inde­pendent. 
Then we graduate. We realize a liber­al arts degree is hard to sell, especially with an economic downturn. We under­stand· the fast track to the corner office requires a lot of time, but more chal­lengingly a lot of sacrifice. And friends who knew they wanted to be a doctor since they were two suddenly decide to apply to MFA programs instead. Friends start getting married. Friends start having children. Friends get divorced. Suddenly your life-long friends from college no longer seem to be life-long when you have not talked to them in six months and then two years.. 
Amidst all this, largely because of the pretentiousness that education pro­vides, we search for ourselves. The world is tragic and we are idealistic. We can solve the world's problems although no one ever asks us. The Sahara, the isolation, the distance and the time have helped me grow up. I have not lost all of my idealism and arrogance, although some of the inno­cence floated away in the three years since graduation. Perhaps because I did not see my brother and friends for so long, when I finally did on vacation home the same thing seemed to have happened to them amidst the chaos. 
After trying to escape the influence of two lawyer parents, I resigned that it also happened to be what I wanted. Even more shocking is that my need for continual roaming seems to have been greatly appeased. The actor who lives 45 minutes from me loves theater and everything it involves. He will end up in New York. For now, though, we enjoy the freedom that being away from it provides. My brother still wants to be a doctor but decided a year in Spain is also a great option. My college room­mate and I did not want to waste our precious time together in a bar and talked more in five days than we did for a month in college. 
One day the actor and I reflected over our Peace Corps experience. Over a year ago, we decided our lives in Mauritania could best be summarized as, "This sucks. We live in hell." After nearly a year and a half I think we still think we live in hell. But what the hell if we don't like hell. Sure, there are rough days, but at least we know that some­times you've got to go to hell to get to heaven. And on those long hot days when everything seems to be going wrong and the world is going to fall off its axis, I have grown to appreciate the ride. 
Maile Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 and is currently serving as a Peace Corps volunteer in the Republic ofMauritania. Her column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Joint committee examines honor code controversy 
We write to thank The Observer for the attention it has given the recently revised Academic Code of Honor in a front page article on Sept. 25 and an editorial on Sept. 27. Undergraduate students will soon receive, if they have not already, an email explaining in greater detail some of the more significant revisions of the honor code. The revision of the honor code and the attention it has been given will, we hope, heighten awareness of issues of academic integrity throughout the University. 
In its Sept: 27 editorial The Observer raised an important issue regarding the faculty's use of Turnitin.com, an internet plagiarism detection service the University has recently con­tracted. "While a service like Turnitin.com should be employed in cases where professors have a reasonable suspicion of dishonesty," The Observer argues, "it should not be used as a standard procedure in the grading process." 
The Observer's concerns are shared by members of the faculty and they merit careful con­sideration. The appropriate use of Turnitin.com will be taken up by the University Code of Honor Committee, a body composed ofsix students and six faculty members, which will · begin discussion of this issue at its first meeting today. 
While we are grateful to The Observer for its interest and for raising an important issue, we strongly disagree with its claim in the Sept. 27 editorial that "the honor code revisions and the contract with Turnitin.com indicate that trust [between professors and students] has been broken." 
On the contrary, trust and common commitment to academic integrity has never been gre·ater. The revision of the honor code is the result of a great deal of hard and conscien­tious work, with wide consultation by faculty and students; the new code enhances the role of students, working with faculty, in the administration honor code procedures; and it was passed unanimously by the Academic Council, a body which includes both faculty and stu­dent representation. The University community should be proud of the joint efforts of faculty and students to defend and even strengthen academic integrity at Notre Dame. 
Regarding the contract with Turnitin.com, this service was intended as a tool to assist individual faculty and honesty committees to exonerate students as well as to establish that dishonesty has occurred. Whether Turnitin.com should be used by individual faculty in cases in which there is no prior suspicion of dishonesty is an important question, and a poli­cy concerning its use will be debated and established by the students and faculty of the University Code of Honor Committee. But the fact that this tool has been acquired does not determine how it will be used, and so we do not believe the mere acquisition of the Turnitin.com service is in itself a sign of broken trust. 
As the University Code of Honor Committee discusses the appropriate use of Turnitin.com and other issues related to the implementation of the honor code, we welcome contributions from members of the University community. Please feel free to pass your observations and opinions on to us or other members or the committee. Academic honesty is the concern and responsibility of every student and faculty member at Notre Dame. The students and faculty of the University Code of Honor Committee welcome your thoughts as it strives to make decisions in light of the ideals of Notre Dame's honor code. 
Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. Associate Provost and Vice President 
Maura Kelly 

Student Honor Code Officer Co-Chairs ofUniversity Honor Code Committee Sept. 29 
• 
Biblical instructions 
not always relevant to 
modern times 
This letter is in response to Becket Gremmels' Sept. 27 let­ter. 
So, Becket -you don't hate gay people? That's great. You have gay relatives? Terrific. Wait-you even talk to them, too? Well, Hallelujah. (Pun entirely intended.) Please stop shining your medal for a second and read this. 
Something tells me -gut instinct -that you count your gay friends on your hands. And by that, I don't mean that you only choose to have this many or that many gay friends. I say you count them on your hands so that you can say you have gay friends. ("Well, there's Tommy, he's one. And Amy, yeah, Amy's two. And, well, no one knows about Mark, but I'm totally counting him.") 
The best defense to any argu­ment -especially one you have such thin evidence to back up, like yours -is to use your own life as an example. But please, don't use your friends and family as backup and then throw out a Bible quote that equates them with "theft, kidnapping, murder, greed, fratricide, lying and law­lessness." I know Tomm,y, Amy and Mark would be so proud. 
So since I'm assuming we're taking the Bible so literally these days, you would tell me to shut my big yap (or stop my fingers from typing) and marry a man I don't know and start making him babies, right? Or that I should start building a tent now, in which I can take solace once my period comes because a menstruating woman is unclean and unfit to be in society. (Shh, I'll let you in on a little secret: this is what the Bible says, too. Not just that gay people are wrong, wrong, wrong.) 
I won't directly quote from the Bible because there are so many different versions and so many different interpretations of the book o' rules. And maybe a word you should start researching, Becket, is this: interpretation. 
Just because it's written down, in a big, fat book o' rules, doesn't mean it's a. Meant to be taken literally; or b. meant to be taken literally in the 21st centu­ry. Countless events, laws and changes have passed since the Bible's inception, for example, the Civil Rights Movement, the Women's Movement, Vatican II. Catholic doctrine has been inter­preted over the years to adapt to modern society. In 2002, should sinners or law-breakers be made to wear a crown of thorns? I think not. But, or course, that's just how I interpret it. 
But I must say that your final, most moving point was when you note, "God didn't drop the ball on this one; He took it to the basket." That's funny you say that, because I swear I don't remember reading anywhere in the Bible that God played bas­ketball. 
Christine Kraly class of 200 l Washington. D.C. Sept. 28 
0 
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Monday, September 30, 2002 


Although Notre Dame tends to pull in a 
number ofbig name bands each year such as 
U2, Dave Matthews or Matchbox 20, a look back 
at the University's history shows how hip Our Lady once w, 
The 5th Dimension played brought 
Disco to the Dome in 1970. 

The Beach Boys drove fans wild at the ACC in 1970 Graphic by C. Spencer Beggs 
Scene takes a look at Not, comedy band, The K 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

Friday night: The band takes the stage casting aside empty bot­tles of Boone's Farm wine. They gear up their instruments and proceed to rock the garage to the sounds of Dave Matthews band. Of course, the version of 'The Space Between" the group performs sounds more like Dave Matthews playing at Ozzfest after dropping an entire sheet of acid and snorting a couple king sized pixie sticks. The band: The Kinky Boot Beasts, the self-pro­claimed class clowns of the campus music scene. 
The band, composed of junior guitarist Dave Lodewyck and senior guitarist Joe Andrukaitis, is one of the most talked about bands on campus. Of course, that might be more a facet of the group's just-escapecl-from-an-institution-for-the-criminally­insane appeal than their musical talent, but who needs talent to be a rock star? 
The Kinky Boot Beasts formed the day after NAZZ, Notre Dame's annual battle of bands, in 2001. Fellow Fisher Hall resident and acoustic crooner Phil Wittliff was scheduled to play at an acoustic festival called ND at Nite, but could­n't make the event and asked then freshman Lodewyck to fill in. 
Lodewyck teamed up with Andrukaitis and the pair hastily drew up a set list and formed a band. They toyed with various names such a.s Phil La.y.tio, in hom­age to their benefactor, and finally settled on The Kinky Boot Beasts. 
Garbed in a wig once used to portray Jesus in a Department of Film, Television and Theatre mainstage show and king cobra hats, the Kinky Boot Beasts took the stage singing Johnny Cash songs and as many '80s power ballads as they could remember attempting to make as big of a mockery of the event as they could. 
After their iconoclastic set, the pair rushed to gath­er their gear and make a cunning getaway disband­ing the one-hit wonder Boot Beasts, but fortune changed that. 

"At the end of the whole thing one of the girls who was responsible for setting the whole thing up ran up to us and we thought, 'Oh no, here it comes. We're about to get an earful.' And she was clearly worked up, so we we 're expecting her to be made for making a mockery of her 


event. whereas she said ·that was so tunny,"' Lodewyck said. "We really thought it was just going to be a one time thing," Andrukaitis said. And so the Kinky Boot Beasts were born. 
Despite the fact that the Boot BP,asts almost never practice, the group still manages to land an occasional gig. The band even attends those gigs when they can remember and/or are sober enough to find the correct address. . 
"It really hasn't required any practice, although perhaps it should have. I find that being well practiced and together as a band is more of a liability for the Boot Beasts," Lodewyck said. 
The Boot Beasts describe their sound as one of creativity. And, 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERINIS 
C E N T E R F O R 
LEARNING THROUGH SERVICE & SOCIAL ACTION
SOCIAL CONCERNS INSERT 2002-2003 


2002•2003 DIRECTORY 

UNlYERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS 
ADDICTIONS 
Ct•nterfor rhe Homeless 
Life Treatment Centers, Inc. 

ND/SMC Center for the Homeless Children's Group Women's Resource Center 
Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity 
YWCA Women's Shelter 
Hope Rescue Mission ADULT LITERACY 
Prnject Warmth Center for Basic Learning Skills 
St Margaret's House 
Cemerp,r the Home/es.,· 
SL Vincent de Paul Dismas House Salvation Army 
L1ter:icy Council of St. Joseph County, Inc. South Bend Heritage Foundation St. Margaret's House YWCA Women's Shelter South Bend Community Schools Adult Education HUNGER CONCERNS 
YWCA Womcn·s Shelter Foodshare ADULT-OLDER St. Vincent de Paul Basil Moreau Convent 
Salvation Army Cnrdinul Nursing Center 
World Hunger Coalition 
Hospice of St. Joseph County. Inc. 
MEDICAL 
Milton Home 

AIDS Awareness/Students with Aids Training (SWAT) 
Oa.,is 
AIDS Ministries/Aids Assist 
Portage Manor 
American Cancer Society 
REAL Service American Red Cross 
Southern Care Hospice Ce111er for the Homeless CHILDREN & YOUTH Cha1,in Street Clinic Big Brothers & Bi11: Sisters of ND/SMC ND First Aid Services Team 

Boy Scouts of Ameri\a .Global Health Jnitiative Boys and Girls Cluh Helpful Undergraduate Students (H.U.G.S.) Broadway Christian Parish Hospice of St. Joseph County, Inc. 
ND/SMC Campus Girl Scouts Lifewater 

Casie Center Operation Smile Student Organization Ce111erfor the Homeless Southern Care Hospice ND/SMC Center for the Homeless Children's St. Joe Regional Medical Center 
Group St. Joseph's Chapin Street Clinic Circle K Notre Dame Women's Resource Center Council for Fun and Learning MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS CSC South Bew/ Comm1mit_\' Schools Parmenhip Arnold Air Society El Cmnpito Day Care Center Catholic Charities Fmnily and Children Center Circle K Notre Dame Helpful Undergraduate Students (H.U.G.S.) Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH) Home Management Resources Experiential Learning Council Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation Alumni Family and Children Center Association (ND HOBY) Knights of Columbus Council 1477 ND/SMC Lunch P.A.C.K. Potawatomi Zoo Madison Center 
Social Action Networking Listserv Ms. Wizard Day Program Team 
Trident Naval Society Neighborhood Study Help Program 
World Hunger Coalition 
Robinson Center PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Special Friends Club Amnesty International 
St. Hedwig's Outreach Center 
ND for Animals 
St. Margaret's House Pax Christi -USA ND Chapter 
South Bend Heritage Foundation 
Progressive Student Alliance 
Southgate Dream Center 
Notre Dame Right to Life SuperSibs World Hunger Coalition 

Teamwork for Tommorrow TUTORING Big Brothers & Big Sisters of ND/SMC
There Are Children Here 
Ce11terfor the Homeless
University Young Life Council for Fun and Learning 
Youth Services Bureau El Buen Vecino 
YWCA Women's Shelter 
La Casa de Amistad
CRIMINAL JUSTICE 

Neighborhood Study Help Program­Amnesty International 
Robinson Center 
Dismis House Southgate Dream Center 
Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana St. Hedwig's Outreach Center 
Sex Offense Services (SOS) St. Margaret's House 
United Religious Community Teamwork for Tom morrow 
CULTURAL ISSUES There Are Children Here (TACH) 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
Youth Services Bureau 
East Timor Action Network @ ND YWCA Women's Shelter 
Global Health Initiative 
Lt, Casa de Amistad WOMEN" S CONCERNS 

Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE} 
Lifewater Home Management Resources 
South Bend Heritage Foundation Notre Dame Right to Life
DISABILITY SERVICES St. Margaret's House ·
Best Buddies Sex Offense Services (SOS)
Corvilla, Inc. Women's Care Center 
Council for Fun and Learning Women's Resource Center 
Logan Center 
YWCA Women's Shelter 
ND/SMC Logan Club 

U:\£TI\IL SL'.RVICEUl'P(1RI L \1'1 !LS
Madison Cemer Christmas in April 
REAL Services 
Circle K Notre Dame 
Reins of Life Disrnus House 

Special friends Club Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity 
SuperSihs Ms. Wizard Day Program Team 
ENVIRONMENT 
Project Warmth 
Foodshare 
REAL Services 
Lifewater 
St. Vincent de Paul 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA) Salvotion Army 
HOUSl:-.1(; <02-]1'-''l' ! :,,•,,,S.') Bro.idway Christian Parish 


A Letter from Fr. Bill Lies, the CSC's Executive Director 
These are tough days in which we live. Sometimes we find our­selves wondering what's ahead. The tragedies ofterrorism and the ongoing realities of war and violence can, at times, lull us into feelings of hopelessness. Yet, in the face of the suffering, hope is among the most important gifts that each of us has to bring. 
The motto of the Congregation of Holy Cross is ave crux spes unica, "hail the cross, our only hope." It emhodies the Christian paradox, that the cross is for us the sign of transformation, a symbol of our deliverance from darkness to light, from suffering to Joy, from death to life. 
In these days, more than ever, our faith must continue to lead us through that cross to that hope. We must pray and work for a just and lasting peace, both for ourselves and our distant neighbors. Each of us is called to play a part in the transformation that would bring this justice and this peace. 
I invite you to consider ways that you might begin right here and · right now to be a part of the world's transformation. I invite you to push the boundaries of your classroom to the neighborhoods of South Bend and beyond and to enter the Iives of those who live and study and work there. 
Through the years, thousands have taken part in the many opportu­nities offered through the Center for Social Concerns and our many partners. Each has make an important difference. Very often their service and learning has transformed them and allowed them to be ever more impressive agents of transformation as they have con­tinued to reach out long after their time at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College. 
Jesus called love the greatest of all commandments-to love the Lord God with all our hearts and to love our neighbor as ourselves (Mark 12: 28-31 ). It is not easy in these times-indeed, sometimes it seems impossible-but remains no less our challenge and our call. It is the foundation upon which we will build the justice we seek and the peace we long for. 
Be a part of the transformation we are called to, and be transformed. Give yourself away. One or more of the opportunities on these pages will quite possibly change you forever. 
Hospitality is an important part of the Center's work on campus. Center hospitality includes: a coffeehouse and kitchen, a large multi-purpose room, seminar rooms, and a, reflection room. These facilities are available for use by approved student and community groups. Contact the Center at 631-5293 to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgues, meals, other gatherings, and to inquire about the new policies surrounding vehicle use. 
M-Th 8:00 a.m. -1_0:00 p.m. Fri 8:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m., Sat. noon -2:00 p.m.* Sun. 6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. *On home football weekends, the Center opens 2 1/2 hours before game time and closes 1/2 hour before game time. 
Please stop by! You can also reach the Center at 631-5293 or nd.cntrsc. l@nd.edu. Check out our web page at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu 


Rooted in the Gospel and Catholic tradition, the Center for Social Concerns ofthe University ofNotre Dame createsfonnntive educational arui service experiences in collaboration with diverse partners, calling us to action for a nwrejust and humane world. -CSC Mission Statement 
STUDENT GROUPS 

AIDS AWARENESS/STUDENTS 
WITH AIDS TRAINING (SWAT) Volunteers give social support to individuals who are HIV+ by providing support and assiswnce with office tasks. Student Contact: Amanda Lyons: Lyons. 24@nd.cd1.1, Michael Kel1y:Kelly.156@nd.edu 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
Volunteers orgamze on-campus awareness raising and fund-rai:;ing even ls. Student Contact: Katie Spitz: 634-2449, kspitz@nd.edu or Jennifer Rudenko: jrudenko@nd.edu 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
Volunteers are needed for letter writing, petition signing. special campaign work, and informal discussions about human rights issues worldwide. Student Contact: Jonathon W. Buechler: Buech1er.3@nd.edu 
ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY 
Arnold Air Society advocates the support of Aero­space power Instills in its members an attitude of un­selfish dedication to the mission of the Air Force and AAS and make~ contributions lo the community and campus. Student Contact: Christian l\raunlich: Rr.nmtich.l@nd.edu 

---------------+---------------+---------------------------­
BEST BUDDIES NOTRE DAME HABITAT FOR Club memb...:r.-. develop relationships with people with , HUMANITY 
mental retardation and other developmental disabilities by going to movies, sporting events. concerts. and by participating together in recreational event,. Student Contact: Katie Nokes@ 634-2534 
BIG BROTHERS & BIG SISTERS OFND,SMC 
Volunteers provide shared time and friendship between a student and a child. Student Contact: 
Michael Moore: Moore.l03@nd.edu 
CAMPUS ALLIANCE FOR RAPE ELIMINATION 
Volunteers are students and faculty/administrators from both ND and SMC. C.A.R.E. member.; make donn presentations aboutrnpe on campus and sponsor mpe support groups on campus. Student Contact: Annie Envall: 634-2595, aenvall@nd.L-du 
ND/SMC CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS CHILDREN'S GROUP 
Volunteers spend ti me once a week with the children who live al the CFH. Volunteers might tutor. organize field trips and plan arts & crafts activities. Student Contact: Mary Hoopes @ mhoopes@nd.edu 
CIRCLE K NOTRE DAME Join this sevice club that offers 21 weekly projects with transportation that will satisfy anyone's vol­unteer dt:sires. Voted Club of the Year 2001-2002 1 Weekly Meetings: Sunday Spm-Library Aud. Student Contacl: Molly Savage, 634-1336 or msavage@nd.edu 
COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) 
Volunteers reach out to the Hispanic community of South Bend through sen ice acti\ities, educational programs. and awareness projects Student Contact: Leslie Devereaux: 634-4098 or ldcverca@ncl.edu 

EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCIL Provides resources and support for swdent-faci Ii­tated experiential learning seminar.s offered through the CSC. Student Contact: Matt Werger: mwerger@nd.edu or Jessica· Howell: howell. lO@nd.edu 
ND FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM 
Volunteers provide covemgc for inter-hall sports, con­cert;, homcfootball games. AnTostal, Keenan Review. campus nins, mid m1y other ND/SMC activity that re­quests the team's serviee. Student Contact: Nick Reifsteck: 631-0814, Reif!.1eck.J@nd.edu 
FOODSHARE 
Volunteers deliver, in groups of four or five, the leftover food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. Student Contact: Lauren Flynn: 634-0992 or lt1ynn I@nd.edu and Maria Destino: 634-2622, mdestino@nd.edu 
GLOBAL HEALTH INITIATIVE 
PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE GHI educates and pr01m1tt:s awareness of heallh PSA works for social justice hy organizing around is-related issues :rround the world. Members participate sues of 1111crcs1 10 crcalc 1.:hangc, working with other mlocal ouu-ew.:h,mise money for international project~ people rni<l groups 011 both a 1<.,cal au d glohul kv1.:I. 
. C Recent li>cuscs inclu<lc economic inJ·usticcs. student
and attend medical service seminars. Student ontact: power. an,1 rights for all. Student Conlan: Martha
JacqeeAragon:634-2381,jar-.igon@nd.ednorSilke 
Patier: 634-2488, mpalzt>r@nd.t'du or Maggit Heinisch: sheinL..i:@nd.t-du Novario: 634_281 I. mnovario@nd.edu 
Volunteers work on construction crews, donate materials and provide meals forthe work groups. Student Contact: Maria Mahon @ 634-2387, mmahon@nd.edu or Kevin McCormick @ 
McCormick.22@nd.edu or habitat@nd.edu 
HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS (H.U.G.S.) 
Volunteers work with children at Memorial Hos­pita! Pediatric and Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Student Contact: Jessica Bechtold or Alexa Vasquez @ 634-2871 or hngs@nd.edu 
HUGH O'BRIAN YOUTH FOUNDATION ALUMNI ASSOCIATION (ND HOBY) 
Provides a forum for HOBY alumni at Notre Dame 10 continue Jeveloping their lcauership through service and social action activities. Student Contact:Andy l(owltSki @ 634-1724, kowicski.2@nd.t'du or Shaun Horrigan, Horrigan.2@nd.edu 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
Volunteers tutor at a variety ofcenters twice a week for a one hour period each time. Student Contact: Katie Bcm-s@ 6.'W-:3699 or mbears@nd.edu and M~ Wallace @ 797-6450 or mwallace@nd.edu 
OPERATION SMILE STUDENT ORGANIZATION 
Work hand in hand wiih Operation Smile lntema­tionul raising funds to provide reconstnictive sur­gery to children around the world.Student Con­tact: Mercedes Boyd: 634-2796, mboyd@nd.edu or Clari!>..-.;a Zador: 850-3941, c1,3dor@nd.edu 
PAX CHRISTI-USA ND CHAPTER Educates and promotes awareness or issues related to peace and Justice around the world. Student Contact: Thoma<; Feeney, tfecncy@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME RIGHT TO LIFE Volunteer, Cm.:u~ on the national ahortion issue. Activities im.:lu<lc picketing al the Women's Care Cen­ter. dorm !<,rums. Irips lo Washington. D.C.. an<l a Right­10-Lifc week during the year. The gmup nffcrs weekly service a1.:1ivi1ics, hosts prominent speakers, and hosts and annual confcrcm.:e. Student Contact: Kalil' Hoppe. 634· 2811, Hoppc.l@nd.edu 
ST. JOSEPH'S CHAPIN STREET CLINIC Volunteers are needed to help serve the indigent population in the South Bend Communty. Student Contact. Allison Troy, Troy.5@nd.edu or Phillip Trihhlc, Trihhle.3@nd.edu 
SOCIAL ACTION NETWORKING LISTSERV 
A periodic email sent out to interested students which lists the social action events going on around campus Student Contact: Brenton Sullivan: bsu11iv6@nd.edu or Brigitte Gynther: hgynthcr@ncl.edu 
ND/SMC CAMPUS GIRL SCOUTS KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS COUNCIL SPECIAL FRIENDS CLUB 
Volunteers work with younger Girl Scout groups 1477 Volunteers work with autistic children in lhe South Bcn<l in the area and perform a variety of other service Volunteers help to raise funds in order to support community on a structured educational pmgr,un in ahome activities.Student Contact: Jennifer Stoner @ various service and social action facilities in the 
situation. Tune commitmcnl is 2-4 hours per week: No expciience is necessary 10 oc a ..Special F1iend:· Student634-4088 or jstoner@nd.cc1u area. Student Contact: Richard Biehl, 
Contact .Jamie Jochl@ 634-2808 orijoehl@nd.edu
Biehl. I@nd.ec1u 
*Carroll Vince Yersagli  4-4116  
*Cavanaugh Katherine Garvey  4-1572  


LIFEWATER STUDENTS FOR Volunteers worl. to educate the Notre Dame ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (SEA) Community of the third world .water supply Volunteers promote awareness of environmental situation as well as research possible solutions to issues amongst the student body and the South the problem. Student Contact: Jeremy Bauer: Bend community. Student Contact: Kathi Jo jbauer2@nd.edu and Justin Pendarvis @ Jankowski: 634-2360, kjankowl@nd.edu jpenclarv@nd.edu 
*Dillon  '  
Eric Nitz  4-4785  
*Farley  ~  
Amy Peterson  4-4059  
*Fisher  ~  
Brandon Phillips  4-1930  
*Howard  ~  
Anna Arias  4-2537  
*Keenan  ~  
Gavin Lamb  4-3402  
*Keough  ~  
Ryan Brady  4-4274  I  
*Knott  
David Ballintyn  4-1979  

MS. WIZARD DAY PROGRAM TEAM SUPERSIBS 
Volunteer.-.organizeaone-dayevent in February for All club members have siblings with disabilites. 4th to 6th grade girls to keep them interested intra-College sibs mentor children (8-14yrs of age) who ditionally male fields. Student Contact: Tracy also have a sibling with a disability. Bimonthly ac-
Blichfeldt@ 634-2986 or mswizard@nd.edu  tivities include bowling. skating, holiday parties.a  
For more i11jiJ, visit 1n1w.11d. edu/-111.rn·i-:.ard  nd pzza and chat sessions. Staff Contact: Marissa  
Runkle: 289-4831  

NO/SMC LOGAN CLUB TEAMWORK FOR TOMMORROW 
Students volunteer for Friday night bowling, Anaftcr-,chool tutoringprugr.uncommittcdtohright­Friday night dances. and Saturday recreation. Our enrng the ru1un:s of children 111 the area through im­websi te: www.loga1H:enter.org/Volun\eers/ prmu.l rL·ading. slruscturc<l n;cn.:ation ;m<l purposeful Activities.din Student Contact: Elizaheth mentoring. (cilSt Patrick'sCentereve1J•Tu.Th4-6pm. Rosswurm: ross6872@saintmarys.edu Student Cont;,1l"t: Mary Murphy, mmurph 16 
@nd.edu or Andrea McClure: McClurc.4@nd.t-du 
COUNCIL FOR FUN AND LEARNING ND/SMC LUNCH P.A.C.K. 
Serve, learning disabled children from age, 6-16 Lunch P.A.C. K. serves the elementary school al lhe Chil<lren·s Dispensary in South Bend. children uf the South Bend community by pro­
Student  Contact.  Kelly  Ottcrbacher  @  vidcd much needed person,tl attention and care.  
ottcrhacher. l @nd.l·du  which arc crucial to social development. Studenl  
Contaet Dana Cullen: 634-4096, dcullcn@nd  
.eclu or Kristen Feeley: 634-4084  

TRIDENT NAVAL SOCIETY 
fkn:lop professionalism and camaraderie among NROTC Midshipmen to assume the highest lcwb of cit1.e11ship and command. Volunkers providc much needed s11ppo11 to the South Bend Special Olympics. Student Conlact: Ryan Gagnct: 634­212.', trident@nd.edu 
AIDS MINISTRIES/AIDS ASSIST 
I 

Volunteers work with the agency to suppo11 and I enhance the lives of those infected with or affected by HIV and AIDS. Contact:1 Community-Based Learning Coordinator Debra· Stanley @ 234-2870 
AMERICAN RED CROSS 
Community Volunteer Services plans, programs, recruits. train~ and places volunteers to meet community needs through community educ.ition and emergen<;y services. Agency Contact: 
Darlene Waits@ 234-0191 ext. 24 
BASIL MOREAU CONVENT 

This small, persom1I convent for retired nuns ii very close to Notre Dame's campus. Volunteen needed for one-on-one visits with the sisters. tc help with group ,llld evening activities (game night), and to assist with special projects. Con­tact: Lee Ann Konkey @ 271-1376 ' 
BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA Were you a Boy Scout? We need your help.· Volunteers act as helpers and mentors for several packs at the South Bend Housing Authority. The 1 
packs meet on Tues. 4J0-5:J0 at Harbor Homes,' ' 

50 I S. Scott Street. South Bend. Agency Contact:! 
~ 

Charles Vonderhcid: 289-0337 ext. 311 I 
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB Volunteers assist with tutoring. health and recreation programs for children ages 6 through 
18. Contact: Community-Based Learning Co• ordinator Kregg Van Meter @ 232-2048 
~At.. CO~N1 

2002·1  
*Alumni Terry Fitzgibbons  4-1100  
*Badin Caela Carter  4-3279  
*Breen-Phillips Erin Ryan  4-1363  


*Lewis Tracy Evam  4-3704  
*Lyons  
Shantha Ready  -l-0903  

EAST TIMOR ACTION NETWORK @ ND The East Timor Action N..:twor~ st:eks to build ,upptirt at Notre Dame for fnndrni"ing effort, to hcndit East Timon.:sc n:cow,truction ini1i;1tile, in education and llle.dicim: Student Contact: Jim i\ladden,jmaddcn@,nd.edu 

ND FOR ANIMALS 
Volunteers promote compassionate. nuelty free lifc,tyle. Visit our wchSJtc' to learn mon: about hov-. you c.in help anim.il,: http://v,.11,,11,,.nd.edu/ -animal, St\1tknt Contact: Carolyn T:,mpc 1!!1 
23J-5IIO 

UNIVERSITY YOUNG LIFE 
Volt1nk·cr, plan outreach evenls to teach nnn­Chmtian loc:11 high school students about Christ. Stud..: nt C-011 tad· Olivia Laihlt•: 6.'4-3 I 5J, olaihlc@nd.l·du 
WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER 
Volunteers provide as,i,tann· to the women l Notre Dame with i,s11c, and prohkm, that ar particularly acute for \\ l>llll"fl, s11d1 "" r.1pe an sexual a,sault. eating disorders. l."lc Studcn Contact: l\lcn.'t:lilh Fote~·: 6.4-29!!8. mfolcy2([11 nd.ed1 

/:MUNITY PARTNER AGENCIES 
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL
LITERACY COUNCIL OF 
SKILLS Volunteers are needed lo cook for the residents The OASIS Older Adult Sak House provides a Volunteers are able·to work 111 all facets of 'olunteers u,1tor adults working toward their GED M-TH. Students are also needed to live at Dismas Safe Havven for senior citizen\ who have been neighborhood revitalization. Also available are or two hours once a week. Hours: 8am-12pm House. Agency Contact: Maria Kaczmarek @ neglected/abused. Volunteers provide for the se-internships and course-based work in community \llonday-Friday. Agency Contact: Sister Marita 233-8522 curity, safety and comfon of residents. Contact: development. Volunteers may also assist with af­
BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARISH Volunteers help with the Sunday meal (cooking, ~erving and cleaning up) as well as the food pantry and neighborhood proJects. Agency Con­~d: Mike !\lather; 289-0333  CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS Volunteers provide a variety of services to homeless adults and children. Contact: Community-Based Leaming Coordinator Ellen Sinis @ 282-8700  ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INC. Volunteers tutor adults in both basic reading and English as a Second Language. Requires a6 month commitment. Contact: Tara Holloway: 235-6229  Volunteers work in the thrift store to prepare used goods for sale. Anyone organizing a food or clothmg drive can work through this grassroots organization. Agency Contact: William Muempfer@ 251-4908  
CARDINAL NURSING CENTER Volunteers are needed to visit clients on a one-to­Jn.: ba~is and organize evenings of bingo. Also ooking for a group to take younger crowd to play pool in the early evenings. Agency Contact: Linda )ehayes: 287-650 I  CSC/SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS PARTNERSHIP Volunteers give clas~room presentations and work with students grades K-12 as mentors and tutors. Contact: Community-Based tr.:arning Coordinator Tonya Sexton @ 631-9405  LOGAN CENTER Volunteers mter..ict w/people w/mental retardation and other developmental disabilities in swimming, bowling. singing and other activities. Contact: Community-B,lsed Leaming Coordinator Marissa Runkle@ 289-4831  SALVATION ARMY Volunteers provide food for Thanksgiving. Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can "adopt'' a South Ben? family through the Salvation Army. Agency Phone: 233-9471"  
CASIE CENTER l>rovtdes services for abused and neglected chil­~rcn. Volunteers assist staff with both routine du­ies and special projects that henelit children and heir familes. Agency Cont,1ct: Caron Marocha @ 282-1414  CHAPIN STREET CLINIC Volunteers work in a medical clinic that provides services' to low-income adults and families. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Michelle Peters @ 2J9-.5299  MADISON CENTER Private. non-profit behavioral health care facility providing various levels of treatment to all age groups has volunteer opportunities available to lL,sist children and adolescents who have emotional and behavioral difficulties. Contact: Human Resouces@ 283-1123  SEX OFFENSE SERVICES (SOS) Volunteers work at Madison Center and assist victims of ~exual assault and their families. Agency Contact: Laurel Eslinger@ 238-1308 *14-hour Helpli11e: 189-4357  
CATHOLIC CHARITIES Various Catholic Charities programs provide a aricty of services including services for women, h1ldrt'n and refugees Agency Contact: Rebecca ~ahln @ 234-3111 CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING  CORVILLA, INC. Small organization that provides loving homes and services for people v,/ develop1m.:nlal disabilities is seeking vounteers to help w/ "FUN" activities for residents. i.e. bowling. picnics, danct:s, hayrides & movies. Agency Contact: Diane Doldc@ 289-9779 DISMAS HOUSE  MILTON HOME Volunteers visit elderly residents on a one-to-one basis and also assist with evening adivities from 6:30-7:30pm. Contact Jenny Aguilar or Lou Ann Nf'belung 233-0165 • OASIS  SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS ADULT EDUCATION Yoluntet:rs work individually with adult students who are learning basic job and life skills, studying for their GED or simply learning litt:racy skilb. Agency Contact Gaylf' Silver@ 231-5690 SOUTHBEND HERITAGE FOUNDATION  

@ 234-0295 
,COMMISSIONE~S 
2003  
~Morrisse) Adam Reeves  4-0886  
fMcGlinn Dana Gleason  4-3827  

•O'Neill 
Coleman Barker 4-1944 
~Pangborn 
Christie Phillips 4-2344 
•Pasquerilla East 
Karina Harty 4-0740 
'Pasquerilla West 
Nicole Bonk 4-1825 
St. Edwards 
Mike Zawada 4-1706 
Siegfried 
Dennis Bonilla 4-0774 
Sorin 
Steve Schiliro 4-2714 
Stanford 
Matt Burkhardt 4-2070 
Walsh 
C'hristina Bax 4-0851 
1Welsh 
Elizabeth Kilclinc 4-2106 
Zahm 
DcMark Schulze 4-2195 
_W_O_R_L_D_H_U_N_G-ER_C_O_A_LI_T_IO_N 
Mary Czarnecki @ 246-0144 ter-school tutoring at teh Charles Manin Youth Center. Contact: David Hay @ 289-1066 
EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER PORTAGE MANOR SOUTHERN CARE HOSPICE 
Volunteers act as role models for young children Volunteers needed to pay regular visits to Volunteers needed to run errands, office help, visit from single parent families. Volunteers also assist individual residents who have no family. Group with patients, transpon to MD appointments or regular day care instructors III planning and volunteer oppo1tunites also are availbable. Agency store, read at bedside, relieve caregivers. assist implementing their organized program. Contact: Contact: Toni Grisham @ 272-9100 w.ith household chores and yardwork. Contact: Pat Rosa Rickman: 232-0220 Kepschull at 259-0895 
FAMILY AND CHILDREN CENTER POTAWATOMI ZOO SOUTHGATE DREAM CENTER Join the Family Partnt:rs Program to take ,1 child to The zoo i_n South Bend has many oppo11unities in Volunteers Work with at-risk youth on the south your place of worship or J:iecome a Sponsor if you all facets of zoo operation for studenb to volun-side of South Bend seving as mentors. tutors. and can give .i-4 hours per month sharing activities w/ teer or be interns. Located just IO minutes from ambassadors of love. An ESL program also offers a chi Id. I ntem opportunities also available. Agency campL1s. Contact.Jason Jacobs at 235-9801 oppo11unities to work with the adult, Latino popu-Contact: Doug Brown @ 259-5666 ext. 256 lation in South Bend. Contact: Efrain Figueroa 
2Jl-6008 

HOME MANAGEMENT RESOURCES REAL SERVICES THERE ARE CHILDREN HERE (TACH) 
HMA is a charitable organization dedicated to Volunteers are needed to assist elderly/disabled TACH has a 15 acre facility and hosts an after strengthening the family. Volunteer positions exist clients of REAL Services with one time assign-school program M-F for about 20 children (ages4­in child care. clerical. and computer technology. m.:nts for outside yard work projects. Contact: 11) per day. Volunteers are needed to work with Contacl: Evelyn Goad: BJ-3486 Becky Zaseck @ 284-26+4 the children and to coordinate special projects. 
Contact: Jim Langford at 299-8767 
HOPE RESCUE MISSION REINS OF LIFE UNITED RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY Volunteers answer phones. provide meab. assist Volunteers act as horse leaders or side walkers for Volunteers are trained in mediation skills and work with chapel ser\'ices. programs. new ministry op­people with disabilities during thnapcutic horse-on special projects. the Victim Offender portunities. prayer support. and are the hear1s and bad riding classes. ('ontact: Chris Flowers@ Reconciliation Program and the Advocacy hands that care for the forgotten in the commu­232-0853 Center. Contact: Carol l\layernick @ 282-2J97 nity. Agency Contact: Don Bloore @ 235-4150 ext. 231 
HOSPICE OF ST. JOSEPH  ROBINSON COMMUNITY  WOMEN'S CARE CENTER  
COUNTY, INC.  LEARNING CENTER  Volunteers help welcome pregnant  women  and  - 
Volunteers prO\ ide suppmt services for 1erminally  Tht· RCLC serves adults and children in the com­ couples by helping them gather the resources that  
ill patients and their families. Contact:  Jackie  munity by offering computer. art. and exercise  they net:d to complete the pregnancy. Volunteers  
Boynton: 24J-3 l 27  classes. tutoring. and much more. Contact: Vinny  also needed for child-care assistance for clients.  
Carrasco: 631-9427, carrasco.2@nd.edu  Agency Contact: Karen Hogan @ 27J-8689  

LA CASA DE AMISTAD ST. HEDWIG'S OUTREACH CENTER YOUTH SERVICES BUREAU Voluntt:ers work in a youth and adult center on Yolunk.:rs help with tutoring and provide stable The Youth Services Bun:au want, you' the west ~ide ofSou1h Bend that serves the needs rule models for children who come from families Opportunities abound from assisting with of Hispanics. Contact. Com mun ity-B ased that are in ni,is. It irJYolves one or two afternoons recreational adivities for teens to giving parties Learning Coordinator Albert Carrillo @ per week from 4:.10-6:00 pm. Ag.ency Contact: for young mothers and kids. Agency Contact· 233-2120 Paul Grzcszczyk@ 288-7855 Bonnie Strycker@ 235-92Jl 
LEGAL SERVICES PROGRAM OF  ST. JOE REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER  YWCA WOMEN'S SHELTER  
NORTHERN INDIANA  Volunteers assi~t nursrng staff with various duties.  Volunteers li:-.ten. provide transpo11ation. tutor and  
Legal ScrYiccs ~cks ,olun!t'l:rs to se1.-e a, Intake Work­ Choo~e  one  day  a wed:. Choose one time slot:  work with t:hildrcn and perform oth.:r important  
c1~ 10 assi~, 1x1ter11ial clients with the applicarion pru­ I I am-2pm. Noon-.lpm. .'.\pm-Gpm. or 4pm-7pm.  st'rvices ut the shelter. Contact: Ma~~ic Stratton  
c,·" and Sl1111rn;1rize legal probli:ms for st,1tl attorney  Agency Contact: Denist' Kap-.a @ 2J7-7242  @ 2J3-IJ491 cxt.32J  

rern.'w. Contact: Pam Claeys@ 2.~8121 ,..___L_IF_E_T_R_E_A_T_M_E_N_T_C_E_N_T_E_R_S_IN_C --+----S_T M_A_R_G_A_R_E_T_'_S_H_O_U_S_E----+------~A-.-N""'"N._.,.l,...,'A-.-L-;s=·,-.;'""'RC7"V~/(=·1""":·....,,:·~i,=E~.V=r.~1i--­
__  __  ___  
1lun1t·c·r, r.u.,, .1v.an:11cs., .rnd ,upr-111 rm 1h, p,M .mJ  We proviJc proh::s-.ional.caring: trcatm.:nt ,crviccs Vo!unk'L'r, help with children. an,wcr the phone.  CHRISTMAS IN APRIL'  
,ngri. 111 Soulh lkml aml ar11u11d th,· wPdd. V,,lunt,·..:r,  to 111di~L·n1 ddults addicted to akohol and other pn1\ iJe tutoring. h,fp with compmer, ant.I ,ern:  Volumeer, upgr,1tk ne1)_'hh11rluxw.J h1111w, and Jilt r.:,idc'lll,  
n 1<1 cxrlnre 1x·nins:1n i,,uc, ,11v;,h ,ng hunger ,u1J he- drug~. lo help gu1Jc them to he.ilthil.'r, more pro- as l1,1sb fur guests  The Hoi'1~c i~ open 1,1 ,tJul1  ,ririis  Con1act .ll'nny l\lonahan @  631-324.'\  
n1e lllPll' 111vlo><:d 111,1lk\1atill!' 111«1rld\\idc· - St11dcn1  j · I , I I Il Uc'lt\e a n1,10 :Ill( l rug 1-1· " Irec ne~. vo unteer, arc•  I J h I1>0111e11 am girls an or lllHkr twc ve. Agcn.:y  PROJECT WARMTH  
111t:ic·1· Lisa Brintnall: 6J-1-2-177, lhri11t11a(i!1nd.eud  111.'c<lcd to a,sisl with a variety o! servi,·cs. Cun-Cont;il'I: Kath\ S,·hnciclcr@ 234-7795 tal'l: Ryan Hutt:233-5433 cxt.235  V"ltm1cc1, hl'irc:olll'cl. ",n :111d ,ti-,1nku1~_iackch ,111dn<ib ll share with 111Jiwluals in need. C. H1tacl' Eli,..1ht'th Z\\ it-kcrt @63-1-.\BI  


-

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
CENTER FOR 

LEARNING THROUGH SERVICE & SOCIAL ACTION
SOCIAL CONCERNS INSERT 2002-2003 
Get involved in the South Bend community by being a tutor with one of the pro­grams listed below. Transportation is provided to each site, and times listed include transportation times. All sites ask for a commitment of only one to two days a week. Enjoy the opportunity to mentor and learn with our local children. 
i,._ ·~ 

* 
M/W 4: 10-6:00 p.m. * Nicole Ortega * ortega.9@nd.edu 

* 
M/W 6:30-8:30 p.m. * Frankie Bott * fbott@nd.edu 


* Coleen Gannon * cgannon@nd.edu 
.

* 
TITH 2:30-4:30 p.m. * Mike Biagi * mbiagi@nd.edu 

* 
T/Th 2:45 a.m. -4: 15 p.m. * Courtney Giel * cgiel@nd.edu 

* 
M-TH 5:30-7:30 p.m. * Ellen Sinis * esinis@nd.edu 

* 
M-TH 3:30-5:30 p.m. * Vernell Ball-Daniel * rclc@nd.edu 


The Center for Social Concerns has ten formalized partnerships in the South Bend Com­munity. The following people work closely with Notre Dame students, linking them to the educational mission of the particular agency and providing many opportunities to learn. Please contact them ifyou would like to volunteer at their agency orjust learn more about what they do. 
AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Assist La Casa de Amistad Robinson Community Learning Center 
Debra Stanley Albert Carrillo Marguerite Taylor 
P.O. Box 11582 746 South Meade 
921 North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 46634 South Bend, IN 46619 
South Bend, IN 46617 
234-2870 * wuzuwuzu@aol.com 233-2120 *camcarrillo@msn.com 
631-9425 * mtaylor43@juno.com 
Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County Logan Center Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center -
Kregg Van Meter Marissa Runkle 
Community Outreach 
502 E. Sample Street 1235 N. Eddy St. 
Michelle Peters 

South Bend, IN 46601 P.O. Box 1049 234 S. Chapin Street 232-2048 x2102 * kvanmeter@bgcsjc.org South Bend, IN 46624 South Bend, IN 46601 *petersmi@sjq~.org
289-4831 * marissar@logancenter.org 
Center for the Homeless South Bend Community Schools 

Ellen Sinis Mendoza College of Business 
Tonya Sexton 

813 S. Michigan Jessica McManus Warnell 
-Center for Social Concerns 
South Bend, IN 46601 255 College of Business 
631-9405 * Sexton.20@nd.edu
282-8700 * esinis@cfu.net Notre Dame, IN 46556 631-9182 * Jessica.McManus. l3@nd.edu 
Commissioners provide leadership in organizing campus-wide ;'e,vice and social ac:tion projects. 
Office of the PresidenU  Chris Martin  232-0436  
Student Government  Pam Ronson  634-0748  
Class of 2005  Julia Miller-Lemon  634-2563  
Daphne Zeringue  634-1487  
Teresa Hansen  Hansen.41@nd.edu  
Class of 2004  Brian McKenna  634-4850  
Susan Longenbaker  634-3627  
Mike Vitlip (fall=abroad)  vitlip.l@nd.edu  
Class of 2003  Julia Kelly  289-7290  
Dan Buonadonna  277-7968  

Project Warmth 
Volunteers upgrade neighborhood homes and lift residents' spirits. Contact: Jenny Monahan@ 631-3243 · 
Christmas in April 
Volunteers help collect, sort and distribute jackets and coats to share with individuals in need, 
Contact: Elizaheth Zwicker! @ 634-3431 
"How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single 1noment before starting to improve the world" 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL
-Anne Frank 
CONCERNS 


Monday, September 30, 2002 

Dames homegrown, ky Boot Beasts 

when pressed, admit that they hope to emulate the sound of their • idols Tenacious D lead by actor/comedian/musician/psychopath Jack Black. After all, as Lodewyck points out, they're both fat guys on acoustic guitars singing filthy songs. 
"In all fairness, we suck. But we're funny and that's what we're going for," Lodewyck said. 
The Boot Beasts don't claim to be the best band around (or even competent to have driver's licenses) but they do hope that the future of campus music will be much brighter than it is now. Lodewyck is encouraged by the number of musically inclined freshmen he has met this year and encourages them to follow in his footsteps ofnot sleeping on Tuesday nights and concocting interesting monikers. 
Band names is, in fact, one of Lodewyck's fetishes. Since he began playing guitar seven and a half ye3crs ago. Lodewyck has been in bands named Horatio's Orgasm, Six Inches Between Us, The Vancouver Porn Enseble, and The Salvation Airforce, to name a few. 
"For a band like the Boot Beast, the name matters· as much as the music, but it will never be as important as our good looks," Lodewyck said. 
Though Lodewyck and Andrukaitis pride them­selves on their lack of prac­tice, both are, in fact, tal­ented musicians. It's their taste that may have some of their audience raising eye­brows. 
For example, at their gig on last Friday night (to which they "lost" their set list for), The Kinky Boot Beasts included a cover of Johnny Cash's "Folsom Prision Blues," a three sec­ond long piece called "A List of Things I Wouldn't Do Tq Have Sex With Anna Kournikova," and a medley of pop songs played to the same four chords. 
"Our style is atotal bas­tardization of all popular music," Andrukaitis said. 
With Andrukaitis' imped­ing departure at graduation Lodewyck plans to move onto more serious endeav­ors such as a venture play-. ing trombone in a third-· wave ska band tentatively named Shuger in the Haw with former Skammnnists guitarist Pete Balogh. Though Andrukaitis said 

that he would dcfrnatly return for some reunjon shows. 
But the Boot Beasts, serious or not, do it for the fans. When asked if the pair got had lot of groupies, Lodewyck replied, "Sadly." 
Editor's Nute: This article is the first in a series featuring campus hands. Any hands that are from the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross campuses that wish to have their group featured in the Scene section should send an e-mail to srene@nd.edu. No offcampus bands, plPase. 

Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
0 
THE 
BSERVER 
C 


page 11 

NAME YOUR 
COLLEGE 
BANd 
Sometimes. the best part ofthe college 11111Sic scene is the band names. Butpicking a good name can make« breaka band. Remembel" Cbumbawumba? Yeah,, neither do we.. Lucily.. Scene bas de\ised a foolproofway to select a band name. 
Here's how itwodcs: 

l) 
Pda wont 1rom.each column as randomly as possible 

2) Read selected wonk out loud starung with the word "the."'

~\?~~ODw~:~ 

VANILLA 
abominable 

-


I I 
skanl<y 


inebriated 
,-«.. c. 

PLASM 

monkey
Jesus". u .·• 
twinkie 

laughing 
,:.;; ~ric 


ir,crerJif,(e 
acid 
lost 


love
I 

Wonderbreod 
explosive 
PLASTIC 
.. 
heathens 
shoes 

goblins 
flowers 
J11tt1tkie~
,.O"S 

monsters 
. 

TU~TLES 
doobies 
iMiP 

freaks 
factory 


Graphic by C. Spencer Beggs 
page l2 Th£' Ohs£'rv£'r . SPORTS Monday, September 30, 2002 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
New 'Big Red' emerges as Cyclones crush Huskers 
t h C Cyclones(5-l,  "J was readyfor this one  lip t h  out a t  of , "  
2-0  Rig  l 21,  like never before. This  Mr:Carney  
who handed t h e Corn huskprs  was time to shuck the world. I guess we did it. ··  said with a smile. "l don't think  
(.3-2, 0-1) their  someuody hit  
first consecu­tive regular­season losses  Michael Wagner Iowa State running back  me on pur­pose. That can get a lit- 
since T  o  1976. m  tle danger­ous. but I'll  

Osborne's fourth vear as coach. try to fight my way out of that 
"I was ready for this one like rlanger any time." never before:· said Iowa State's '\1ichael Wagner, who rushed · Iowa 42, Penn State 35 for 107 vards in 19 carries. After blowing a 22-point "This was time to shock the fourth-quarter lead, Iowa set­world. I guess we did it." tled dovvn during an overtime 
lm,va State receiver Lane that must have felt oddly famil­Danielsen wasn't nearly a sur­iar. prised by the teams effort. C.J. Jones caught a 6-yard 
"Going into it, I expected vic­touchdown pass in the extra tory," Danielsen said. "I felt like period, and Penn State's fourth­we were a better team. There down pass fell incomplete as the was never a point in the game Hawkeyes (4-1) upset the 12­when I felt we were going to ranked Nittany Lions 42-35 lose the game." Saturday. 
Nebraska center John In the Big Ten opener for both Garrison felt the exact opposite teams, Brad Banks passed for way, predicting a victory during 261 yards to lead Iowa (4-1), 
the week. .and his throw to Jones in the 
"l made that comment overtime was his fourth touch­because of the confidence I had down pass. in this team." he said. "It's not After the game, Penn State the performance l pictured." coach Joe Paterno ran over to 
The loss came two weeks an official and grabbed him by after a numbing 40-7 setback to the shoulder. It wasn't immedi­Penn State and is sure to turn atelv clear which call Paterno up the heat on fifth-year was.angry about. Nebraska coach Frank Solich, It was just the second over­
whose team committed five time game for both teams, with turnovers in losing for the the first coming against each fourth time in the last seven other two years ago. In that games. All four losses have game, the Hawkeyes kicked a come on the road. field goal in the second OT, then "We'll either splinter apart or intercepted a pass from 
"Not to take anything
sion, howev­anything er. On sec­away from ourfirst three away From ond -and -8 our first three
games, but those were 
from the 9-games, but 
preseason. This is what
yard line, those were ~ills threw to counts." preseason. Tony Johnson This is what 2 yards out counts."
Pete Carroll 
on the left Carson sideline, .but Palmer threw
USC head coach 
Seahawks were never held scoreless during his four sea­sons as their coach. 
''I've never had an offense that was so inefficient as we were today," Erickson said. "Give their defonse credit. Ii was ugly. 
"Offensively, Fm puzzled on how we went from where we were (in the first four games) to what happened today. We were in second-and-long all game." 
DeShaun Hill had six tackles and Miko Patterson had two of five sacks to lead the Trojans. who h11ld the Beavers to 131 yards. 
The Beavers came int"o the gam11 averaging' 499.8 yards, and Derek Anderson was J\o. 2 in passing efficiency. Pressured constantly by the Trojans, the sophomore quarterback wont 8­of-30 for 80 yards and lost two fumbles. 
"We didn't play to have a shootout," Carroll s,aid. "We played to have a big defensive day. It's so much fun when you can fool their quarterback. We made it hard on th11m by mak­ing them guess all day." 
USC defensive Pncl Omar Naze! said the Trojans were d11termined not to let Oregon State get into a groove. 
"You can't give them an inch; they'll take a mile," said Naz11!, whose six tackles included three for losses. "When you shut the door, you have to close it, lock it and double-bolt it." 
The defeat was Oregon State's 28th in the last 29 games against the Trojans -the Beavers beat them at Corvallis in 2000 -and the 19th straight loss at the Coliseum dating back to 1960. USC holds an all-time 55-8-4 edge, including 37-4-3 in Los Angeles. · 
Palmer went 23-of-41 for 2.31 yards and threw one intercep­tion. 
He connected with Williams on a scoring throw of 11 yards just before halftime and added a 16-yard TD pass in the third quarter. 
"Offensively. we didn't play very well, I didn't play very well," Palmer said. "The defense won the game." 
Rashard Casey to ,.., in it 26-23. 
··we were hoping our defense would hold Penn State. and they were able to come together and win it for us," Fred Bussell sairl. "H felt like it did two years ago, wh1rn we won it in overtime here." 
The difference this time was that Iowa had it wrapµerl up until Penn State (:{-1) staged a frantic comeback in the last 7 1/2 minutes of regulation. 
Penn State·s defense started the com('bark when Bryan Srott intercepted a pass in the end zone that could have put the game away for Iowa. Jovon Johnson intercepted it right hack for Iowa and returned it to the Penn State 1 ~yard line, but MichaAI Haynes forrAd Bussell to fumble on the next play, 
"If we protect the ball a little better in the second half, it's probably no! as exciting," Iowa coach Kirk Ferentz said. 

Zack Mills complotod 23 of 44 passes for a school-record 399 var<ls. Three of his four tourh­down passes came in Lhe f'ourth quarter to three different play­ers named Johnson: 36 yards to Larry, 44 yards to Tony -fol­lowed by a 2-point conversion run by Chris Ganter -and 8 yards to Bryant. That tied it at 35 with 1 :20 left. 
Penn Stat11 wasn't nearly effective on its OT posses­

Associated Press 
AMES. Iowa 

There's a ni>w Kig Hect to dei:ll with in the Big 12 :'forth, where Iowa State suddenly has eclipsed '\ebraska. 
Seneca Wallace ran for two touchdowns and threw for another as thP 19th-ranked Cyclones signaled a shift of power in the conference by dominating Nu. 20 Nebraska :~o-1 4 Saturday 
Adam Henfke added three field goals for 
come together," Solich said. "ThPre's no midrlle gn;mnd." 
Iowa State beat a rankod team for the first time since 19<:13 and is poised to make a nm for the Big 12 North cham­pionship. The 22-point margin was the Cyclones' largest against l\iebraska since a 34-0 win in 18q9. 
Thousands of rnd-clad Iowa State fans ran onto the field when the game endod. with many climbing the goal posts. Coar:h Dan !\rfcCarney was caught in the middle. 
"I got a fat 
Johnson was ruled out of bounds. 
Two plays later, Mills' final pass attempt hit one of his offensive linemen and fell to the ground to end the game. 

"We made some mistakes" in the fourth quarter, Iowa defen­sive back Bob Sanders said. "But we corrected those and ended up doing the job." 
Bryant Johnson had eight 

catches for 146 yards and two touchdowns. and Tony Johnson had four catches for 111 yards and ono score. 
But until th<' f'ourlh quarter, Penn State's offense was ane­mk. The Nittany Lions finished with just 54 yards rushing. and Michael Robinson -the backup quarterback ,vho srored five touchdowns on 12 carries in Penn State's last two games ­had minus-2 yards on four car­ries. 
Mills said his final pass also was intended for Robinson. 
"Ile was the guy I was sup­posed to go to," \>tills said. "I didn't make the right read. It was my fault." 
USC 22, Oregon State 0 
Nothing like a rugged "pre­season" to get a football team ready for conferencP games. 
Southern California iJpencd Pac-IO play Saturday with a 22­0 victory over previously unbeaten Oregon State. 
The Trojans (3-1, 1-0) were coming off wins against Auburn and Colorado and a loss to Kansas State. The Beavers ( 4-1, 0-1) had a rn uch softer early schedule with games against Eastern Kentucky, Temple, CNLV and Fresno State. 
"It has been a march to get to the conference," USC coach Pete 
Carroll said. 
"Not to take 
a pair of 

touchdown passes to Mike Williams, and the Trojans' aggressive defense shut down an Oregon State offense that ranked second in the nation. 
It was only the second time a 

· Dennis Erickson-coached team was shut out, with the other a 29-0 Fiesta Bowl loss to Arizona in 1994 when Erickson was at Miami. The NFL's Seattle 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski  Available .1 bedroom Ivy Residential  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ 
NOTICES  LOST & FOUND  and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest  FOR RENT  (Jamison) condo 11 /26-5/12 Call Bill or Mary Anne Benedict 607­ ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  
commissions.  723-7363  
...  CJs Pub See whats happening  - FOUND: PRESCRIPTION SUN- Travel Freel i-800-SUNCHASE ext 123  All size homes available lor 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  Spacious Condo for Rent: 2 BR & 2  PERSONAL  
www.cjspub.com  GLASSES IN ANTHONY TRAVEL  WWW.SUNCHASECOM  www .mmmrentals.com  bath, freshly painted & carpeted,  
IN LAFORTUNE. STOP IN TO  walk to campus, w/d, microwave,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Attention Spring Breakers Travel  CLAIM AT FRONT DESK.  Earn extra money evenings sched- ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  DW, fireplace, clubhouse & pool.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Free in 2003 Trips. drinks&meals  uling appointments and making  RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS.  Call 317-261-0190.  you love needs confidential support  
Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations  LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold  customer calls for local State Farm  CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
Most Reliable www.sunsplash­ initials JME, size 10 3/4; engraved  agent 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights,  LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
tours com 1-800-426-771 O  within. $100 REWARD  you choose from Tuesday- DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW  ND. Basement, garage. safe and  more information, see our bi-weekly  
Lost 9/14 Michigan game, stadium  Thursday. Hourly plus bonus.  LEASING FOR 2003-2004  private. $640/mo. Great location - ad in THE OBSERVER.  
www.workforstudents.com 574-282­ student section or on field.  Must be enthusiastic with great tele- SCHOOL YEAR · WELL MAIN­ 1122 Woodward Ave. Call 360­ 
2357  Jon Mack 309 Zahm,  phone presence.  TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­ 2500  Give adoption a chance... we are  
634-1090.  Fax resume to 574-232-9984.  PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED- happily married and need your help  
""ACT NOWt Guarantee the best  ROOM HOUSES· STUDENT  in starting a family. Will provide a  
spring break prices' South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, F\onda & Mard1gras.  WANTED  Chick-Iii-A at University Park Mall is currently seeking high caliber indi­victuals to !ill Leadership roles days  NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM -MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CI\LL -WASHER/DRYERS - TICKETS  lifetime of love, laughter and end­less opportunities. Call our attorney toll free at 866-215-2229.  
TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed,  & nights.  CALL TODAY  HOUSES GOING  N.D. tickets buy and sell Please  
EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+  Flexible schedule, no Sundays, free  FAST -CONTACT: KRAMER  check our prices. 273-3911  ND grad with Ph.D. doing child  
1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578  PART-TIME WORK $14.05 base- meals. $~ per hour.  (574)234-2436 · (574)274-9955 ·  care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home  
dept 2626)/www springbreakdis­ appt Flex. around classes. We  Contact Kathy Wonderly @ 272­ (574)674-2471  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  near campus. 234-8004  
counts.com  train. All majors. Cust. service &  2247.  GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593.  
sales. No door-to-door telemarket- That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY -The  rng Build resume. Internships. cond.  has space available for !ootball/par­ Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets  289­ Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
deadline to reserve space for dis­play advertising is 3 pm two pub•  apply. www.workforstudents.com  FOR SALE  ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80·$ f15,  8048 or astrog999@aolcom  Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free ln!ormation/Reserv~tions 1-800­ 
lishing days prior. The ad copy  574-282-2357  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
needs to be in by 12 pm the day  Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-~487.  PRICES PAID 251-1570  
before the ad 1s to run. THERE  #1 Spring Break Vacat,ons1Mexico,  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  Work for Observer Sports. Call 1­ 
WILL BE NO EXCEPTIONSIII If ad  Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida. Texas'  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT·  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  4543.  
• is received after the noon deadline.  Campus Reps Wanted1  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­ PRICES 289-9280  
the ad WILL NOT RUN and !he  Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals!  ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES  Because Joe still needs a day off.  
advertiser will be billed lor the  i-800-234-7007  $99,500.  UTILITIES. CALL 472·0054 EMAIL:  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  
space reserved.  endlesssummertours.com  Williamson.1@nd.edu  leopei@hotmail.com  SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  Hi Katie's mom.  

Monday, September 30, 2002 The Ohserver . SPORTS page 13 
.... 

NFL 
Tomlinson's 217 yards get Chargers by Pats 
. Rams lose game to Cowboys and Warner to injury and fall to 0-4 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

Yes, the San Dh~go Chargers am for real Any doubts were lflft in thP vapor trails of LaDainian Tomlinson and his teammates as they raced past the Nflw England Patriots. 
Tomlinson tied tho team rush­ing record with 21 7 yards and scqred on runs of .58 and 37 yards as the Chargers defeated the defending Super Bowl cham­pions 21-14 Sunday in a battle of unbeaten teams. 
Playing in what Junior Seau called their biggest game in three yflars, the Chargers improved to 4-0 for the first time their Super Bowl season of J994. 
"We shook up the world, baby," said Tomlinson, who had thc most yards rushing in the NFL this season. 

That was about as exuberant as the Chargers got, although a rare full house at Qualcomm Stadium went wild. The Chargers felt validated by the victory, but there's still three-quarters of the season left. 
"It doesn't mean anything unless we make the postseason," said Seau, who hasn't been to the playoffs since 1995. "We're growing, and we hope to buikl onit." 
The Patriots. (3-1) lost for the first time in 13 games, including last year's Super Bowl nm. It 
Author Sig 
Meet author 
Nicholas Sparl<s 
Tuesday. 
October 1st 
2:00 pm 


,n the Hammes Notre Dame Bool<store 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-631(, • www.ndbookstore.com 

was also their first loss in 11 games against the Chargers, dat­ing to 1973. 
"It'safeelingwehaven'thada for a while," Brady said. "We're all a little shellshocked right now. It's not that they're not a good team and didn't go out and beat us. But in a lot of respects, we beat our­selves." 
"It's a feeling we haven't Sunday,
With both Seau 
13-10 to

and safety had in a while. We're all 
the Dallas 
· 

Rodney Harrison a little shellshocked right Cowboys.
in the lineup for 
now. It's not that they 're Picked by
the first time 
many in

since opening not a good team ... But in 
the pre­

day. the a lot ofrespects, we beat season to
Chargers shut· 
ourselves. " get back to
out Brady and 
the Super

the Patriots' 
Bowl, the

powerful offense Tom Brady 
Rams fell

in the second 
Patriots quarterback to 0-4 for
half. 
But it was Tomlinson's running that carried the Chargers. Thc go-ahead score came on his 58-yard run -the longest of his career -on the second play of the third quarter. Ile was helped along by an unbelievable block from pint­size receiver Tim Dwight. 
Tomlinson cut outside, side­stepped one tackler about mid­field and headed down the right sideline. The 5-foot-9, 180­pound Dwight, a former Big Ten 100-meter champion at Iowa, showed incredible closing speed when he came from behind the play. He outran even Tomlinson and drove cornerback· Otis Smith about 12 yards before sending him to the ground. That allowed Tomlinson to score the only touchdown of the second half. 
"I saw Tim coming up and I said, 'Am I running that slow?"' Tomlinson said. 
"It was just a block," Dwight said. "Curtis Conway did a great job of getting the first part, and I just finished it." 
Tomlinson's 37-yard touch­down run tied the game at 14 late in the second quarter. He started off right tackle, then cut back inside and found a hole opened by rookie center Jason Ball. Tomlinson outran defen­sive backs Smith and Victor Green to the end zone. 
"All I had to do is beat the sec­ondary guys and take it to the house," Tomlinson said of his 
Attention Juniors: 

Junior Parents Weekend is scheduled for February 14 through February 16 2003. There are still three positions available on the Junior Parents Weekend Planning committee. They are as follows: 
Mass Chair: This position will require a moderate amount oftime. This individual will be working directly with campus ministry, all the choirs, and various musical ensembles. In additio~ they will be required to choose a homilist and priest to preside over the mass. 
Hospitality Chair: This position requires a minimal amount oftime. The person will be in charge of organizing and setting up the hospitality room in La Fortune for the weekend. They will also need to work with the sophomore chair to obtain sophomore volunteers for 
the weekend. 

Halls Luncheon Chair: This position requires a minimal amount oftime. The individual will be responsible to meet with the dorm committee members to organize and set up the luncheons. They might also be responsible for organizing an offcampus luncheon. 
For applications for these positions go to 31 S La Fortune. For more information about Junior Parents Weekend call 1-6128 or email us at jpw@nd.edu. 
Thank you, 
The JPW committee 
.....

scoring runs. 
Cowboys 13, Rams 10 
A bad season just keeps getting worse for the St. Louis Rams. 
The defending NFC champions lost quarterback Kurt Warner before losing their fourth straight g a m e 
the first 

time since 1963, when they started with five straight losses and finished 5-9. 
"That's life," coach Mike Martz said. "You can't sit and stew about it. That's where we are, ­and what's important is what we do about it." 
Rookie Billy Cundiff kicked a 48-yai:d field goal as time expired to win it for the Cowboys (2-2). 
The Rams, who went 14-2 last year, fell to must somehow improve quickly just to get back to .500, and they'll have to do it without Warner, who has a bro­ken little linger on his throwing hand. The team said the injury will be evaluated Monday to determine whether he'11 require surgery. 
"Usually those things take about a month," Martz said. "But it could be sooner. Who knows?" 
Warner broke the same finger in 2000 and it required surgery, knocking him out for five games. If he's out that long again, there might be no rush. The only 0-4 team to make the playoffs was the 1992 San Diego Chargers. 
'Tm not believing that one bit," Warner said. "We've got too good of a team to believe that. I believe I'm going to be back just in time to take us down that stretch run into the playoffs, and on to where we want to go." 
The Rams don't have any relief in sight. They play at San Francisco next, then host Oakland. 
Dallas quarterback Quincy Carter, who didn't earn a vote of confidence from owner Jerry Jones after a shaky first three games, led the Cowboys 41 yards on nine plays in 1:27 to set up the field goal. 
"I knew we didn't need a touchdown to win it; we just needed to keep moving the ball down the field," Carter said. "Everybody really had to pay attention. I did my part, but also my line did their part, my receivers, my backs. I just thought, as a collective group, that wo did a groat job handling tho 2-minute drive." 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions av~lable now. Largest commissions Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext 123 
WWW.SUNCHASE.CPM 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 14 C0I\IIPILED !<ROM THE OBSEHVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, Sep(ember 30, 2002 
"' 
.· CollegevF~otla.,ltP()II$ < Arcoaehii 

tti,ii:n. 1 ··/ wrt\im1tnr 
2 · Texas(tl 
3 Oldatuuna It J · 4' : llfrlliniaJ~tib 
s . oblo StiiH: 6 flqrida ... 
1 G~ronr· · 
s :'. cmtuo,t 
. 9.·.·.· NQ1RE FJM)E . 
11f rniliine'§sei·:·. 
:htFlotidltfil'lile 
li., washingfon.. 
1i'' l(in'Jaf~~m
14t MtthlgJ!ln·<··... 
15 k!wa State 
16 ttC ; S1/lfQ' . . .. ,... 
.Ht WithitigtoitSiate 11L/OSC ...,..•.··..·.·. 
19' Wisconsin 
zorn ee11n sta1it 
21. t.SU . 2t Alabama.
·•.·. 2atiTb11$~Nn• 
24 towe 
2s co1oraaa Sfate '\ · 

GOLF 


Associated Press 

SUTTON COLDFIELD, England The underdogs were the best from top to bottom. 
Ripping a page out of the American playbook, Europe won early and won big with its best players. And that inspired the rest of a no-name cast to snatch the Ryder Cup away from Tiger Woods, Phil Mickelson and a heavily favored U.S. squad. 
"It was a huge risk," Colin Montgomerie said. "And it worked very, very well." 
Europe beat the Americans at their own game Sunday, winning the sin­gles matches for only the sixth time in history to capture the· most precious golf prize on the continent. 
"Hopefully, that will say to the Americans we can play singles, and we can compete with them and also 
IN BRIEF 

Nebraska unranked for first time since 1981 
For the first time in 21 years, Nebraska is not ranked in The Associated Press college football poll. 
The Cornhuskers (3-2] fell out of' the Top 25 on Sunday after a 36-14 loss to Iowa State -ending a run of 348 consecutive pulls. 
Nebraska moved into the AP rank­ings Oct. 5, 1981, and remained among college foutball's top teams week after week after week until a second straight loss knocked it out. 
During the streak, Nebraska won two AP national championships (in 1g94 and 1995) and was ranked No. l in 52 polls. The lluskers were 49­31-1 againsL ranked teams, with four of those losses coming in tlin tram's last seven gaim~s dating t\, last s1m­son. 
A 40-7 loss at l'rnn Slatn on Srpl. 14 dropped Nebraska from No. 8 to No. 18. 
Tlrn next week tlrn Huskers fell to No. 20 despitP not playing. Thr loss beat them," Montgomerie said. "It was a superb day for European golf." 
The final score was 15VZ-12VZ, the largest margin by either side since Europe scored 161/2 points in 1985, the first time the Ryder Cup was played at The Belfry. Sam Torrance was the star that day, making the clinching putt. 
lie was equally important as the European captain. 
"He took a hell of a gamble by front­loading his team like he did," U.S. cap­tain Curtis Strange said. "Because if they don't do well, in my mind it's over." 
No one was more magnificent than Monty. 
He led the charge by beating Scott lloch in the opening match and whipped the partisan crowd into a frenzy early. Montgomerie was unbeaten at The Belfry, never trailing 
to the Cyclones was the clincher ­Nebraska received a grand total of 10 points in this week's balloting. 
No. 25 Colorado State had 206 points. 
Florida (4-1), ranked No. 6 this week after a 41-34 victory over Kentucky, now owns the longest con­secutive polls streak, at 208. 
To match the Huskers' run. the Gators would need to be ranked in every poll f'or the next eight years. 
Nebraska also fell out of the lJSJ\ Today/ESPN Coaches poll. 
Clemens to start Game I Tuesday vs. Angels 
Hoger Clemens gets the Game 1 assignm!'nt, and Orlando Hernandez is the odd-man out in manager Joe Torre's starting rotation l'or tlrn New York Yank<H)s' playoff :-wries against tlw /\nalwim Angels. 
Torn' said Sunday that Clnmens will start Tuesday in the opener of tlw Jrnst-ol'-fivc serif's against the 
in any of the 82 holes he played this week. Phillip Price helped bring up the rear. 
A timid Welshman who is ranked '.'Jo. 119 in the world, Price scored a surprisingly easy victory-over Mickelson that deflated any American hopes of a comeback. 
In the middle was Niclas Fasth, who survived a spectacular finish by Paul Azinger, and Paul McGinley, who clinched the Cup with an 8-foot par putt. 
"Out of the shadows come heroes," Torrance said. "And that's where Paul McGinley and Phillip Price came." 
Not many have heard of these guys before, but the Americans sure won't forget them. 
"We don't give Sam's team enough credit because they can really play," Strange said. 
Angels, who enter as the AL wild­card team. 
Clemens will he followed by Andy Pettitte, Mike Mussina and David Wells. 
Clemens went 13-6 with a 4.35 ERA in 29 starts, but his numbers didn't influence Torri! as much as his experience and leadership. 
"I'm as confident with Hoger as I am with somebody else. I really can't come up with a reason for it," Torre said. "Hoger is Roger. He's been a leader for us. There is a certain step up when you hit the postseason." 
Hernandez started 22 games for the AL East champs, going 8-5 with a 
3.M EHA, but he will work out of the bullpen against the /\ngols. Torr<-' said he told the right-hander of his decision sev<~ral days ago. 
"lln said he was fine. We're con­cernnd about ,\'inning ball games. and somebody has to be left out," Torm said. "Ile accepted it the way I anticipatf\cl he would." 


Monday, September 30. 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 


University ofNotre Dame International Study Program at 
Trinity College 
Dublin, Ireland 
Information Meeting 
Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2002 126 DeBartolo 
7:00 PM 

with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs and Katie Keogh, Associate Director, Dublin Program 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 All Year 2003-2004 Applications submitted on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
MSPS PRESENTS: 

OCTOBER TOPIC BLURRl:\G THE LI:-JES: CREA TING A BIRACIAL IDEl\TlTY 
*PANEL DISCUSSION WILL FOLLOW THE DINNER 
DATE: WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 2No TIME: 5:30 PM PLACE: CENTER FDR SOCIAL 

ROWING 
Irish boats claim top 3 spots frotn Kansas 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Sport, Writer 
After an impressive finish last weekend in the Milwaukee River Challenge, the Irish rowed into the top throe spots over Kansas in this weekend's races on ·the St. Joseph lliver. 
Cassie Markstahler (cox), Natalie Ladine, Ashlee Warren, Elizabeth Specht, Alice Bartek, Becky Luckett, Erica Drennen, Kerri Murphy and Kathleen Welsh led the Notre Dame A boat to a first-place finish in 13 minutes, 39.35 seconds. 
The varsity B crew of Kathryn Long (cox}, Kati Seduu, Ann Marie Oillhoff, Casey Buc_kstaff. Meghan Boyle, Diane Price, Meredith Thornburgh, Katie (h0nowith and Sarah KeAfer finished with a second-place time of 13:51.91. 
The Notre Dame C boat of Maureen Gibbons (cox), Kristin Mizzi, Shannon Mohan, Melissa Felker. Christy Donnelly, Danielle Stealy, Jenna Froberg, Sarah Palandech and Megan Sanders secured third place with a time of 14:04.08, just 17 seconds ahead of the Kansas A boat. 
The Kansas B boat took fifth place with a 14:33.07 finish and the Notre Dame D boat of Caitlin Rackish (cox), Katie O'Hara, Alicia Garcia, Katherine McCalden, Kristin Henkel, Antoinette Duck, Fallon Shields, Rachel Polinski and Devon Hegeman finished with a sixth­place time of 14:48.78. 
Finally, the Notre Dame E members, Becky Campbell (cox), Ann Mulligan, Tricia David, 
Golf 
continued from page 20 
Andrea Werner finished second at 231 (79-77-75). 
"This win bodes well for the future," said Gebauer, describ­ing the impact of winning their home invitational. "The team's really excited. I think the high expectations made us really con­centrate and focus on this week. We weren't going to look past this." 
King also noted how the play of the younger members of the team will build for the future. 
"This early success helps build a program," King said. "It's neat to have such young players who are mature enough to travel 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
any one team that is dominat­ing," said Belles sophomore Jen Concannon, who also had a pair of goals in the match. "Hight now any team can take it. and we definitely feel we have a chance." 
Midfielder Emily Wagoner and defender Jen Herdman also added goals to the Belles' tally. 
The Belles continue to show that they are a team on the rise. Only nine games into the season, they are two-thirds of the way to their six-win total from last year. 
"Last year was sort of a start­ing over for our program," the sophomore Concannon said. "It Andrea Amoni. Tori Blainey, Corrine Roman; Jennifer Connelly, Kristen Wright and Beth Franzosa pulled in a time of 15:14.52 
The team attributes some of its success this weekend to the home fans' enthusiasm and sup­port. 
"lt was a lot of fun for us to race on our home course and to actually have a crowd there to cheer us on," Ladine said. 
The team, which had been practicing in smaller boats, usu­ally pairs, used this race against Kansas to strengthen il'i unity. 
"J think we continue to get better with each race," first var­sity eight ro\-ver Drennen said. '"Our goal is to raise the level of intensity each week this fall, and we definitely brought it up a notch for this race. Also, to have three eights beat Kansas's first boat is a testament to the depth on our team this year." 
The rowers are satisfied with their performances so far, but will continue to push themselves more with each upcoming race, especially when the team races in Pittsburgh next weekend. 
"The competition this week­end was not nearly as tough as what we will be up against next weekend in Pittsburgh," Ladine said. "This weekend gave us the additional racing experience and heightened level of intensity which will help us tremendously at the Head of the Ohio next weekend." 
The team will compete in the Head of the Ohio Saturday in Pittsburgh. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 
already, and it really makes us look forward to the future." 
Notes: 
. 
Next up for the Irish is the Shootout at the Legends, held in Franklin, Ind., on Oct. 7 and 8. 

. 
Freshman Suzie Hayes and senior Terri Taibl also competed as individuals in the event. Hayes tied for 31st at 245 (85­82-78) while Taibl tied for·64th with 255 (84-86-85). 

. 
The Irish won the event for the second time in three years. They won the inaugural event in 2000 by 30 strokes over Princeton. 


Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
kind of started with Bobby Johnston last season, and now Coach Pfau has come in and done a good job with the team this year." 
The Belles next take on Kalamazoo College on the road Wednesday at 4 p.m. The game will be important for Saint Mary's, as Kalamazoo is just a game behind in the MIM stand­ings at 2-2. 
"The conference as really been turned upside down from last year," Irvin said. "The teams that were winning last year are losing now. so we think we defi­nitely have a chance to move to the top of the conference." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfcderic@nd.edu 
page 16 The Ohservrr . SPORTS Monday, Septemher 30, 2002 
---=-=-=--================~============================================================ 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Deep bench sparks Irish in pair of victories 

By MATT LOZAR 
Spom \'11riter 
After watching her team blow a 15-6 !Pad in game on!' and fall behind big in game two, Irish vollevball coach DcbbiB Brown had to do something quickly to prevent the Irish from losing their first home Big East matrh. 
Brown worked Kim rletcher. Kelly Hurrell anrl Meg llenican into the complete rotation and saw her team turn deficits of 20­10 and 29-24 into a :B-31 game two win. 
Hiding the momentum from game two's impressive come­back, Notro Dame defeated Connecticut 28-:-30. 33-:-n. 30­l 8, 31-29 rriday and two days later. defeated SL .John ·s 30-26, 25-30, 30-20, 31-29. 
The lrish's used the energy from game two's comebar.k as a springboard for the rest of the weekend. 
"H was really important to win because you don't wan1. 1.o go down 0-2 and lose the momen­tum. I think it was huge for us just from a momentum stand­point to take that game," Brown said. "I am really surprised !we won game two!. It is really hard
CHIP MARKSfThe Obsetver 
to come back from that big of a

Irish sophomore Emily Loomis goes up for a spike in a Notre 
deficit with rally scoring, but we

Dame victory Friday night against Connecticut. 
played very inspired and put some things together at the end. That game was very critical for 


us.H 
For the first time this season, Brown allowed Henican outside of' the back row. llenican had been nursing a slight abdominal injury, but with the freshman finally healthy, Brown figured the time was right to unleash the top player of an impressive recruiting class. 

Kate Curren ­Hope your birthday is horrifying/rragnificent just like your rroves. 
Love, 
Michael Bob Jackson 
. ~~ 
;·:·:•::_~N _;t\··· ·<l 

'·".i-,. ~.
1"1··:· ~ 
Ticlcets avt1ilable at the  
Morris Performing Arts Center  
PCRFORMINGARTS cENTER* sounrnE.'lo, 1N  Box Office, or charge by phone  
FRIDAY. r~~~ER 11TH  ~ij~)]J.~m )J~m-mij  
online@www.MorrisCenter.org  

A NiteLite Promotions Presentation 
"We just haven't hart the previous ml~etings. The Irish opportunity to get [Meg] in the took advantage of 22.5 team front row. I think it was time for blocks. 12 from froshman us to see what she could do," Lauren Kelbley, to overcome Brown said. "It was one of those th~ir passing difficulties. . things where you scr, who is When we were servmg, playing well and who isn't, and blocking, and playing a lot of you need a spark." defense, w11 did score a lot nf' 
I lcnican took full advantagli of points, but we wore giving up a 
lrnr time on  lot  when  wo  
the rourt. "It was f u n . "  "When we were serving, blocking and playing a  were receiving serves because wo weren't  
Hcnican said.  lot ofdefense, we did  passing  very  
"We practice every day for  score a lot ofpoints ... "  well," Brown said. "We didn't  
stuff like this.  adjust to their  
I felt  like  I  Debbie Brown  servers  and  
was well pre­ Irish coach  gave up several  

pared." 
FIBtchnr, a prcseason all-Ilig East selection, got a kill on her first point and finished with 11 on the matrh. !\1()anwhile, Burrell saw her /irst significant playing time of the season replacing Kristen Kinder at setter. The freshman iinishcd with 35 assists, four digs and five blocks. 
"I think with the momentum we built at the end of game two, I thought it was important to keep those guys together Iin the rest of the games! since they had a good chemistry out there," Brown said. 
The Irish (11-3 J dominated the Huskies (4-8) in game three and were cruising in game four before the Huskies battled back. Down 25-14, Connecticut won eigh l consecutive points and eventually tied Notre Dame at 
29. But a Husky error and an Emily Loomis block closed the game and match for Lhe Irish. 
Before Sunday's match against St. John's (12-8), Notre Dame had never dropped a game to the Red Storm in seven 
Nanette Lapore • liina Turk Litly Pulitte:r • Vera Bradley 
Shuagarto ~ Brightoo 
Tracy Reese • Poleci • Pet.it Pois . 
custo barceloni • Norninatiort$ tib-i • Cynthia Steffa Nelly and Millie • BCBG 
Bel>"! JohnsOll • Ravure Paris •.·... ...•.·n·.···...
· ···.(}..

···. Adr,1ano Gotdschrnierl 'JJ · ··H~rveys se:atbeet bo9& , lulu Guinsss • ABS 
points in a row. 
That's some­thing we have to do a better job of." 
The Red Storm had :r 12-8 lead if.I game three when the Irish took control. Winning 22 of the game's :10 points. including the last seven, gave the Irish game three. 
SL John's jumped out to an early 7-1 advantage in game four before Notre Dame used a timeout to regroup. The Irish tied the game at 12 on a Loomis kill and took the lead for good on Kelbley's kill at 19-18. Despite two ugly victories this weekend, the Irish are happy to start Big East action undefeated. 
"It wasn't our best weekend," Kinder said. "We struggled a lit­tle bit. {Sunday\ I thought the energy was better, but w1! didn't execute well. It's tough because we realize teams want to come in here and knock us off because we are the leaders in the Big East." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
(:_.. Y'"' i(~•• 1f? 2:,,,,.,.,,,,,., f...J..,,,,._, .,'iI.J 

j.ti.t.,IAI.';>,,J & c; ,,.red
J 1,; 

INSPIRE MEI INSPIRED AND FIRED 
Downtown South Bend. Granger Area Nicole MiUeo • MaxStudio 528 E. Colfax, Suite #2 312 W. Cleveland, .Rd. South Bend, IN 46617 Granger, IN 46~30
J11m8'$ Per.se • and mora... 1 574/232·1822 I 574/277-6693 

Monday, Septemher 30, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 


A Bf{i _llumlrs to all u/1 
CJtff p~'cipli.1)(11... C~JJ, [)iJlon1 ,5die:r, /;,1v1(:(, fifm!Pir1te/y; ONe;JJ, St A"-d~ Stwfbed, !iTJd Ztthm, twtl 
Coapatala(ioM to t;iitJ 2002 ·•· 
)fJi. XIJ 
. . .Mr. KBOUC,H, Ju,tlah Wilson! 
Q 
~\~-IA,1\).}:Ct '~!~t, &,1f '\¾~~ftA Tklt'\\",iL.tx "Vtee¼. 
page 17 

MENS SOCCER 
Fit to be tied: Irish equal No. 19 Rutgers 
By JOE HETTLER Associate Sports Editor 
It was another good perfor­mance for the No. 10 Notre Dame mens soccer team and another game without a victory. 
For the second straight game the Irish battled a ranked Big East opponent and still could not pull out a win, tying No. 19 Rutgers 1-1 in double overtime. Notre Dame lost to second­ranked St. John's 1-0 Thursday night. 
"It's disappointing we didn't actually finish the job, but that'll come," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 'There's an old saying that you'_ve got to be the bridesmaid before you can be the bride. So I think we've been the bridesmaid more than we should." 
Midfielder Justin Detter scored his fourth goal of the season, while Chad Riley tallied his team­leading seventh assist oft.he year . 
The Scarlet Knights took the lead in the 68th minute with a goal by Sam Castellano. But the Irish were able to match Rutgors' mark with Dettcr's game-tying goal in the 79th minute. 
Notre Dame out shot Rutgers 21-13, forcing Scarlet Knight goalie Ricky Zinter to save 10 shots. Meanwhile, Irish goalie Chris Sawyer successfully defended four Rutgers shots. 
While the Irish held the overall advantage in shots, Rutgers had an important 9-5 edge in corner kicks. 
"We actually played very, very well," Clark said. "It was an excellent performance. It was a tough weekend for us because I thought we played very well in the St. John's game and the Rutgers game and we only came out with one tie." 
The Irish are now 4-2-3 on the season and 2-1-1 in Big East play. 
Notre Dame headed into the contest having lost its last five games against Rutgers, and the Irish were 1-6 at the Scarlet Knights' home field. In its last six meetings with Rutgers, Notre Dame had been outscored 11-2. 
"I think this is all tremendous experience for this team and I think you know it's going to come out right in the end," Clark said. 
Notre Dame will face Big East foe Pittsburgh Oct. 4 at home before heading to Akron, Ohio to face the Zips. · 
Clark knows his team must be sharp against Pittsburgh if they hope to win their third confer­ence game of the year. Pittsburgh, like Notre Dame. lost to St. John's 1-0. 
"[Pittsburgh) is a very tough team," Clark said. "They're a big, strong team and it'll be another test. It's going to be one of these tough games, and if we take them lightly for one second, it'll be a very, very long evening for us. We've got to be absolutely fired to get back into the race for the [Big East conference title]." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Information Meeting 
Fremantie, Australia 
Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2002 Room 102 DeBartolo 5:00 PM 
For Students in the Colleges of AL & BA 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/,_,intlstud 
...

' 
page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 30, 2002
=============================-=-=-=-=--=--:-::--=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=-=-=-=-=-=--=-==--=--=-=-=::--~=--~==::.======-:=-___::.=========================== 
/JRJCfWATfRHOUsE(aJPERS I 

VOTED NUMBER ONE IDEAL EMPLOYER. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers was voted the number one ideal employer in the 2002 Universum Undergraduate Survey of more than 4,000 business students and the number one recruiter in our profession in the 2002 Emerson Company Campus Recruiting Survey. 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere. 
Look beyond the numbers. 
Ila 2002 PrtcewatechouseCoopers LLP. PrtcewaternouseCoope,s refers to the U.S. firm of PncewaterhouseCoope,s LLP and other memoors of the wo~dwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organization. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal OpportunitY Employer. 
L______ ­
The Observer . TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

JACK MONAHAN 
A keggerator. Um, yeah. That too. 
I will when I get out. A real apartment with a bedroom, a kitchen-

Monday, September 30, 2002 
SCHOOL DAZE 
HAPPY TOWN 
So why'd you move off campus, again? 
I 

CROSSWORD 
page 19­
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Miko Argirion
JJW]RjJillf!JR
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KYKIN 
[IJ
02002 Tnbune Media Serviees. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TIDIO 
[IJ I TRYEABI j 
WWW.Jumble.com

tATVARC I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J I cJ 
suggested by the above canoon. 
Ans: 

A"[ J I I I J''[ I J IX] 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's j Jumbles: PAYEE SAVOR LADING CURFEW Answer: Why the fisherman decided to quit his job ­JT WAS A "DRAG" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 29 -To order, send-your name, address and $5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, ll 60680..4330. 
60 Wayward offspring 
DOWN 1 Fingers 2 Kvass has it 3 Kind of 
relationship 4 City on the 
Merrimack 5 54-Across info 6 Noggin 7 N.Y. minutes? 8 Human Genome 
Project, e.g. 9 Not just short on 10 City in July 1944 news ­11 Put on (limit) 12 Vice President Tompkins 13 West Flanders resort port 14 Celebrex manufacturer 20 Wish list opener 
21 Mentor 22Piazza deliveries?: 
23 ~~~unist target 

WILLSHORTZ 


45 Basket weaver's 50 Red giant in supply Cetus 47 Jake's love in 51 Botanical cover "The Sun Also 
54 Kid
Rises· 55 Ice cream

48 Zorro's daughter go-with
in "The Mask of -Zorro• 56 Little bit 

Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE · 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Marty Stuart, Fran Drescher. Johnn} Mathis, Jenna Elfman 
Happy Birthday: You will be eager to get things started this year and yol aren't likely to lose enthusiasm along the way. You will not have an easy yeai when it comes to your partnerships. Take time to understand what the people you are dealing with are trying to accomplish. You will need to experience some changes in your life, and by striving to improve and change yoUJ lifestyle. you may move in a different direction than some of the people arounc you. Your numbers are 8, 13, I5, 22 ,24, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Difficulties on the home front will escalate Emotionally, you are deceiving yourself and will have a difficult time controlling your anger. Think before you jump to any conclusions. This is c good time to pause before you speak. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Go to social events and mingle with as man} people as possible. Love connections can be made if you are willing to lei down your guard and allow someone in. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Interactions with companions or youngsten could be costly today. Be assertive. Do not think that you have to impres1 those around you. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will find yourself overly sensitive to almos1 everything. Plan outings and activities that lift your spirits. Don't think twice about spending some money on yourself. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden changes in friendships will occur. You1 suggestions are better kept to yourself. Don't get involved in co-workers private affairs. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Romantic encounters could occur at public events Your practical approach to life will attract those you meet. Join associatiom whose focus is intellectual. ***** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Remain impartial. Debates with family memben will end in disputes. Deception is in the air. Try to maintain the peace. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't get involved in your friend's personal affairs. The friendship will be in jeopardy if you take sides. Just be a gooc listener. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Investments must be based on logic and practicality. Stay away from risky business propositions. Try to be realistic about what you can afford to invest. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take the opportunity to create leisure time with your mate. A lack of affection has put a real damper on the relationship Create situations that will ignite that flame again. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't gel emotionally involved with co­workers. Distance yourself if you want to remain in a stable position. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20}: You will enjoy activities with youngsters Assuming too many responsibilities can create stress. Stay free of those whc would place demands on you. ***** 
Birthday Baby: Not everyone will have your vision. You will be a team playe1 and because of this. you will always end up in a leadership position 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
ACROSS 
l When coins came into common use 
8 Hoedown 
moves: Var. 15 Go-getters 16 Cuckoo 17 Finishes, as a 
project 18 Constitution's home 19 There's a holy 
one every yr. 20 Less spirited 21 Pasta Bolognese 
ingredient 24 Get the big • 
picture?: Abbr. 25 German diver 26 Treaty inits. 27 Ott-quoted 
Irishman 29 Fraction of a sen 30 It can't tail 
32 One putting stickers on windows, maybe 
38 Liszt's birthplace 39 Berbick beat him in 1981 40 Supremely favored 
43 Diet. shelfmate 
44 Hand on a deck 
46 Nova, e.g. 
47 Causing trouble 
49 A rosary bead may represent 
one 
52 Been abed 
53 Stops using 
54 Register output 
57 Some former 
lecturers 58 Disinclination to change 59 Postwar German chancellor, familiarly 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
R U S T L E  C A S C A D E S  
ASTRAY  AREACODE  
D E R  I  D £  S C A V £ N G E  
I  D E A L  S  
S T  T  
....+.,.+-+-.....,A.-1 27 Midget 


...+...+.,+,,,+.,o..:,.4 28 •-You" (songfrom "The Music 
Man") 

A 30 Start of many F ....+...+..........,.....,_..,.._ place names 
F -+.~+=-....+,..+,,,+.,,+A......,II""' 31 "Iron John" C -. II O aU1hor Robert 
33The N.L. A T T A G I R L S E E D E R doesn't allow RESTEASY TIRADE them 
PuzzlellyJlml'llge 
34 Set shout 35 Paneling material 36 One with an old school tie 37 Cardinal with a
loop .. 
40 Proclaimed flamboyantly 41 1957 Elvis Presley hit 
42 Revolutionary capital of New Hampshire 
44 Kept up 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester • Name 
-------....,....------------------­
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


PORTS 
Monday, September 30, 2002 
ND WOMENS GOLF 
Eyeing the title 
for the lead after the first 18
. Irish win 2nd 
holes and finished in a tie for

Notre Dame Invite fifth individually at 234 (75-77­
in 3 years 82). Sinr,e Gebauer competed as 
an individual last week at 
Michigan State, it was the first 

By ANDY TROEGER' time she contributed to the 
Sports 'Writer team's sr,orn. "It really was a carry over from last week when I shot a 76
The Notre Dame womens golf in the last round," Gebauer said. 
tflam had high expectations 
"It just got me to work harder incoming into this weej-ccnd's practice and to really forns on
Notre Dame Invitational, and 
this tournament."
they did not disappoint. 
The rest of thA Irish squad alsoLed by a mixturn of youth and made important contributions as
depth, the Irish captured the 
three other golfers finished in
event by three strokes over the top 20. Junior Shannon
Western Michigan. The Irish also Byrne fired a 2;19 (82-77-80) toplaced live individuals in the top 
tie for 15th, while frPshman
20. 
Sarah Bassett'tied for 18th at
"It's an excellent start f<)r us," 241 (78-7 8-85) and classmateIrish coach Debby King said. 
Katie Brophy finished tied for"We are right now conc1mtrating 20th with 242 (87-78-77). 
on staying in the present Former Notre Dame
moment. We're not thinking of Invitational medalist Rebecca
the past, not thinking of the 
Rogers fired 248 (83-85-80) andfuture, but just taking care of Lauren Barbir added a 249 (81­business." 
85-83} to round out the IrishThe Irish fired a team total of team total.
945 (316-310-319) to hold off 
In addition to winning the
Western Michigan's hard charge 
team title, Irish sophomore
in the final round. Despite being 
Karen Lotta finished tied for
14 strokes back heading into the third overall in the individualfinal round of play, the Broncos 
competition. Lotta fired a 72scored a tournament best 308 Sunday, the low round of the
for a 948 total. Northern Iowa 
tournament. She finished two
held second place heading into shots oIT the pace set by AllisonSunday but struggled to a 325 to Cusick of Cincinnati who finished finish third. 
at 230 (77-75-78). Evansville's

The Irish were led by one of four freshmen in the lineup, Lauren Gebauer. The rookie tied see GOLF/page 15 


second place in the MIAA withBy CHRIS FEDERICO four goals on the season. 

Sports Editor 
The Belles avenged two over­time losses to the Comets during 

The Belles soccer team the 2001 season with the lop­smelled blood Saturday, and sided victory. they went for the throat. Olivet's deficiency of players 
Olivet arrived at Saint Mary's also kept the team from making
,.I 
I with only 11 players -just a scoring threat in the game. I enough to field a complete team· Saint Mary's goalkeeper
I 
-and the Belles never let up on Maureen MacDonald got her 
I' 
their undermanned opponents, second shutout of the season in defeating the Comets 6-0. keeping the Comets off the 
"They only had 11 players, so scoreboard. they r,ouldn't substitute anyone The victory pushes Saint into the game." Belles forward I\Jary's record to 4-4-1 and 2-1-1 Wendy [rvin said. "We try to go in the MIM Conference tied out and do the same thing every for second place and just one game, but we were just able to game out of the lead. tire them out because they didn't "I think all of the teams have 
have anv subs." lost a game. so there's not really CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer The junior Irvin had two goals Saint Mary's forward Jen Concannon dribbles past an Olivet defender in the Belles 6-0 victory in the contest, moving her into see SOCCER/page 15 Saturday. The sophomore contributed two goals in the contest. 
• 

MENS SOCCER 
Notre Dame 1, Rutgers 1 
Another strong performance by the Irish was negated by their inability to get a victo­ry. Notre Daem and No. 19 Rutgers played to a 1-1 tie through 90 minutes of regulation and two overtimes Sunday afternoon. 
page 17 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame 3, Connecticut 1 Notre Dame 3, St. John's 1 
The Irish began defense of their seventh Big East title with a pair of conference victories over the weekend against the Huskies and the Red Storm. The Irish rt'coverd from a slow start and 0-1 deficit against Connecticut for the 3-1 victory. 
page 16 
ROWING 

Notre Dame def. Kansas 
In Notre Dame's second meet of the fall season, the Irish placed the top three boats in defeating Kansas in the Milwaukee River Challenge. Kansas' top boat finished in fourth place. The Irish also had boats fin­ish in sixth and seventh places. Notre Dame's next meet is at the Head of the Ohio in Pittsburgh. 
page 15 








