
Saint Mary's Alumna makes good
SUNNY 
Tuesday 
Agriana Trigiani, sharing life stories, spoke Monday at ND making her the 
first Saint Mary's graduate to be part of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
HIGH 30° 
FEBRUARY 12, 
News . page 3
LOW22° 
2002 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 77 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Moscona, Bis~op top primary election 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
With just 28 out of 3,402 votes separating them from their closet competitor. candidates Brian Moscona and Libby Bishop finished on top of Monday's primary election for Notre Dame's student body president. 
Moscona and running mate Keri Oxley received 1,302 votes, or 38 percent, while Bishop and running mate Trip Foley received 1,274 votes, or 37 percent. Because no ticket received more than 50 percent of the vote, there will be a runoff between the two candidates on Thursday. 
"We expected it to be close," said Moscona. "I think this just shows that there were four quality candidates." See Also 
Agreeing that the closeness of the 
2002 Student 
race reflected the caliber of the tick­ets running, Bishop added that the body election primary results reminded her of 
break down
another recent election. "It's like Bush/Gore all over pg.4 again," she said. 
The third-place ticket of Nikki McCord and Nick Williams received 411 votes, or 12 per­cent. Finishing in fourth were Scott Palko and P.J. Mercanti with 395 votes, also approximately 12 percent of the total. 
For the two tickets left in the race, their victories on Monday mean more campaigning in the days ahead. 
"We plan to continue meeting people one-on-one and talking to them about our vision for Notre Dame," said Oxley, who is now serving as president of the Class of 2004. 
Praising students for "taking an active initiative by vot­ing," current student body vice president Moscona echoed the importance of "vision" in their campaign. 
"The simple fact that we had such overwhelming sup­port leads us to believe that our vision for an improved ND and student union is within our reach," he said. 
To Moscona and Qxley's campaign manager, Tai Romero, it is important that the candidates emphasize what they have already achieved in their campaign. 
"We want to bring out that we have a lot of student 
see ELECTION/page 4 


BOG addresses 'Vagina Monologues' 
By SHEil.A EGTS 
News Writer · 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance drew up a statement released at last night's meeting voicing its support of administra­tive decisions about issues raised by the ''Vagina Monologues." 
According to student body vice president Kristen Matha, the state­ment expresses full back­ing of the administration as well as concern for student rights and acade­mic freedom. Hard copies of the statement will be mailed to students on-and off-campus today to ensure that "students understand their right to reach their academic ambitions." 
While the statement advocates academic inquiry, Matha said that BOG encourages this specifically "within the parameters of the student h a n d ­
b O O k . .. See Also 
Student rights and BOG statement academic 
fr c e d o m page 4 are sup­ported as long as they comply with the guidelines of the Catholic tradition and mission at Saint Mary's. 
"We feel that a strong working relationship with the administration is a necessity. It's clear that student groups on cam­pus realize that from the programming that has resulted," said Matha 
referring to events such as the Sexuality Series, "Womyn with Wings" and guest lecturer Katie Koestner. 
Student body president Michelle Nagle said the statement was prompted by questions from stu­dents about their rights for academic freedom. 
"We noticed a lack of understanding about what academic freedom entails, and it is our duty to educate students," said Nagle. "We respect the position of the adminis­tration and this now is a time for working together with them especially after the "Vagina Monologues' issue last year." 
In other BOG news: 
. BOG donated $12,000 
to the building of the stu­dent center. "Even though we won't be here to see ihe fruits of it, we are behind this amazing project on campus," said Matha. 
. 
Saint Marv's College Affiliation • of the American Chemical Society was granted $1,500 for an upcoming conference. 

. 
BOG granted a total of $5,000 to Midnight Madness with $1,000 contributing to program­ming and $4,000 to be used for prizes. 


Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu 
Some O'Neill money returned 
By SHEil.A EGTS News Writer 
O'Neill rector Father John Hennan reported that a "significant chunk" of the stolen Mardi Gras money was returned anonymously in an envelope outside his room Monday. 
However, not all of the more than $4,000 has been returned and a report has been filed with Notre Dame Security/Police. 
Herman originally postponed contacting security and offered a $500 reward for information leading to the money's return, hoping that the money would be recovered willingly. 
"After the all-hall meeting on Sunday, we know it was an inside job. The fact that everyone knew it was missing motivated someone to return at least some of the money," said Herman who was in Detroit on Sunday and faced the news of the theft upon his return that evening. 
see O'NEILL/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, February 12, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
Let it all out 
It's that wonderful day of the year where we can let loose and not have a care in the world as to what we do. Mardi Gras, Fat Tuesday, Shrove Tuesday are among some of the names for this famous day, this day before Ash Wednesday, the 
first day of Lent. 
What does one do on Mardi Gras? I've never actually been to a Mardi Gras cele­bration (not even to the one held in O'Neill) so I can't give any detailed descriptions ... I mean, there's a typically a lot of carousing, drinking, eat­ing, lots of beads and plenty 

of costumes, glitter and Angela Campos masks. It's pretty much a day to go all out and let yourself go, not worry about any-Lab Tech thing, because the next day is Lent and (at least ifyou're Catholic) you're supposed to give something up, whether it's a physical thing or a part of who you are that you'd like to give up by changing it. 
Why do we go to such lengths to party our hearts out on Mardi Gras? Do we have this fear that this will be the last time we will be able to party like this? We gorge ourselves on Fat Tuesday, not caring how much we eat or what we waste. We pennit ourselves to be gluttons for one day, and then fast and abstain for 40 days. I'm sure that the dining halls will have their fill offes­tivities for today. Lots of meats and sweets will fill the plates of many students today, woefully antici­pating the empty dining halls tomorrow, where there will be no meat at all. 
Is it just me, or does this seem way too much in the physical world? Why do we have Shrove Tuesday ifnot to prepare us for Lent and, then, Lent prepare us for Easter. How would a day that is associated with feasting and fullness prepare us for something that appears desolate? 
I believe that today, Shrove Tuesday, is meant to show us all the good things that we have and that we should appreciate them while we have them. It is the cahn before the storm. The good, the wonderful things that are there before you go into desolation and draught. You know what you have: you see it, feel it, taste it, touch it, hear it. And now that you know what you have, you can hold onto it, even ifit is just a memory of the good things and times you've had. 
Lent is a time of reflection and self-sacrifice, giving more than receiving. It is in the times when we think things will be hardest to carry out, deep in the middle of Lent on Laetare Sunday, that we will be asked to remember the good things that we have in our lives, the good times we had with our friends and family. The fullness oflife that we have experienced will be a source of that glad­ness, ofthat hope in the darkness. That is what today is. It is the preparation we make to give us hope when the fields lay fallow. There will be abundance again, and it shall rise with the Easter sun. Rejoice for we have much to prepare and much to hope for in the weeks ahead. Today is our food for tomorrow. Enjoy it, drink it in, savor it. It will be your sustenance while you prepare for the Lord's coming on Easter. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CLARIFICATIONS 
In the Feb. 11 edition of the Observer, a front page article stated thac O'Neill Hall rector Father John Herman was in Detroit over che weekend. He was in Detroit chis weekend bur only on Sunday morning. 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for che highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ac 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday cluough Friday excq,t during exam and vaauion periods. The Observer is a member of the As.rociated Preas, All reproduction rights arc rexrved. 

CALIFORNIA STATE 
Students, faculty protest chancellor 
. SAN FRANCISCO 
More than 800 faculty members and students from all 22 California State universities attended a demonstration Saturday afternoon against CSU Chancellor Charles Reed at the Marriott Hotel on Fourth Street in San Francisco. Reed was to address the American Council on Education inside the hotel that day. The demonstration, sponsored by the California Faculty Association, was in response to a report recently issued by the California Postsecondary Education Commission, which said CSU faculty have a 10 percent salary gap compared to other universities in the public sector. But professor salaries weren't the only issue, according to Matt McMackin, a part-time professor in the geology department at San Jose State University. "One of the crucial movements in the administration is to increase emphasis in lecturers," McMackin said. He said limited tenured professor positions offered each year have made it difficult for faculty to invest in the future of the university. 
Spartan Daily 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
MIT 

Students subpoenaed in lawsuit 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
At least three current or former Massachusetts Institute of Technology students, including former sec­tion editors of The Tech, have been subpoenaed to be deposed in the lawsuit against MIT filed by the parents of Elizabeth Shin. David Deluca, who represents the Shin family, has subpoenaed at least three MIT students to testify under oath. Deluca confirmed that he had sub­poenaed James Paris, a Random Hall resident named in the complaint as having alerted MIT authorities of Shin's suicidal nature on several occasions. Deluca also con­firmed the issuance of subpoenas to former section edi­tors of The Tech. However, he declined to name those who were subpoenaed. DeLuca explained the latter sub­poenas by saying that he hoped to benefit from the information the editors had collected after researching Shin's death. "I am looking for as much information as I can get. I understand the suicide has been of great con­cern to The Tech," Deluca said. 
The Tech 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, Feb. 12. 
i
\ 
VII MtKXi.alfKJ Pm~ 
At181\ta 58 34 Las Vegas 64 38 Portland 50 33 Baltimore 50 31 Memphis 51 27 Sacramento 63 40 Bo:;ton 40 34 Milwaukee 38 16 St. LOUIS 47 26

q,~,~q~Q ~~u 
Chicago 39 19 New York 45 33 Tampa 68 53 
S/low!Jrs T·storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. C/outt, Cloudy 
Houston 62 44 Philadelphia 47 33 Washington, qc 50 33
Vi•--~/ 
"We wanted to be a little  "We've been close friends for  "It was like the varsity  
more intentional about  about 20 years. I feel a  playing the JV It was men  
addressing the issues of  tremendous sense of  among boys.,,  
violence on campus."  obligation to Jim. "  
Mike Brey  
Marilou Eldred  Patrick Pierce  men's basketball head coach  
Saint Mary's president on the College's first  Saint Mary's political science chair on managing James Caldwell's  on the last meeting between Notre Dame and Georgetown  
self-defense classes  campaign for St. Joseph  
County Commissioner  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 
FDA rejects explanation of research death at U. Penn 
PHilADELPIIIA 
decree barring him from conducting 
The Food and Drug Administration tests on human beings. has rejected University of Pennsylvania "I don't know that Wilson can come Institute for Human Gene Therapy to a resolution for all parties," said Director James Wilson's letter of expla­Paul Gelsinger, Jesse Gelsinger's nation concerning the alleged violation father. "Ultimately, I think he will find of safety procedures in the widely pub­himself barred from ever conducting licized clinical trial that led to the death research on hwnans again." of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger. Jesse Gelsinger had a form of a rare 
Wilson was called on by the FDA to liver condition that is usually fatal to adequately explain alleged safety prob­infant boys. In 1999 he enrolled in a lems in the 1999 trial. study led by Wilson and his colleagues 
"Thls most recent letter is a continu­at Penn's Institute for Human Gene ation of the administrative procedures ing him the various explanations of Therapy, hoping to help find genetic that were begun by the FDA two years alleged safety problems he proyided in therapies for the disease. The teen­ago," Wilson said in a statement pro­his letter were insufficient, and pro­ager died during the trial after receiv­vided by a Penn Medicine spokes­ceedings to bar Wilson from conduct­ing a high dose of experimental treat­woman. "I will continue a dialogue ing further research on humans will ment. with the FDA in an effort to reach a continue. The FDA found Jesse Gelsinger's resolution satisfactory to all parties." The AP also reported the FDA letter death was a result of the genetic injec­
According to The Associated Press, gave Wilson two options: Request a tion and began an investigation. the FDA sent a letter to Wilson inform-hearing on the charges or consent to a Daily Pennsylvanian 



Tuesday, February 12, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Trigiani explains ups and downs of writing 


KATIE LARSON/The Observer 
Agriana Trigiani spoke at Washington Hall Monday night. Sharing everything from home town antedates to the process of publishing, Trigiani gives details to her upcoming book and movie. 

"Where The Aroma Of Gentle Spices Awaits Vou" 
featuring 
·,~,. North INDIAN TAN DOORS & South lNDfAN CURRIES 
·, . 1, ~ Delicious Meats, Fish & ~ Vegetarian Platters 
Imported Indian 
incident involving Spec's girl­
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
friend and his wife. 
News Writer 
On a book signing. Trigiani 
was approached by the "real" 
When Adriana Trigiani Spec, who sports a different came to the Notre Dame/Saint last name. Mary's community to visit "He's actually about 3-foot­with faculty, friends an<l stu­l land didn't mind being dents, her first words were a painted as a womanizer," warning to writers every­Trigiani said. "I found out two where. things that day. [Men] don't 
"The first rule about writing care if you make them taller is to never ever write a novel or if you make them sexy." with the name of your home Otto and Worley are also town anywhere near it," real-life people whose last Trigiani said, "I had to go names were changed for the home to teach the people of novel. Trigiani met them dur­Ilig Stone Gap what the word ing a break from her studies 'fiction' means." at Saint Mary's. When they 
Trigiani. one of the most found out that they were in beloved alumnae of the Notre the book. her father had to Dame/Saint Mary's theater call her. program, is the author of two "He said, 'I have good news novels, Big Stone Gap and Big and I have bad news,"' Cherry Holler. She is current­Trigiani sai<l. "'The bad news ly working on the screenplay is that Otto and Worley have for Big Stone Gap, which she heard they are in the novel. will also direct. The good news is that they 
Trigiani, who now hails can't read.'" from New York City, grew up As for the real "Jack Mac," in the Virgina mountain town Ave Maria's love interest, and related to her audience Trigiani just laughs. Monday night that the use of "He is now the biggest sex her hometown's name was symbol in Wisc County," she the least of her problems. said. 
Most of the character names In reality, however, Trigiani in her two books come from referred to him as a "dement­the local cemetery or were ed Burt Reynolds." simply familiar to her. In Trigiani even ran into diffi­some cases, she changed first culty with her publishers and names or last names. Since editors over her name and Trigiani's novels were pub­Ave Maria publishing when lished, she has come across they were preparing to print several coincidences where an Italian edition. Trigiani the truth was even stranger was allowed to keep her than the fiction she wrote. name, although Ave Maria 
Ave Maria Mulligan. the Mulligan became Maria main character in both nov­Mulligan in the final edition. els, works with a man named As she approaches produc­Spec Broadwater whom tion on the film and begins Trigiani describes as "the casting, Trigiani is beset by opposite of a speck. He's a many townspeople. According giant, the tallest man in the to Trigiani, the most popular Gap. at six feet seven." In Big role for the women of Big Cherry Holler, there is an Stone Gap is the cameo made 
No Valentine? SUB has the answer: 
(...no, sorry ...we can't find you a date.) 
Dinner: Tues-Thurs 5:00-9:30 Special for Students Fri-Sat 5:00-10:00 
1640 SOUTH BEND AVE. (EDISON AND ST. RD. 23) 


Growing Up Funny, received an Emmy nomination for Lily 
Tomlin  and  Lifetime  
Television.  
Her third book is  a  conclu­ 

sion to her Big Stone Gap novels and goes into produc­tion this Friday for release in July. 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at rvko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
& Other Wines & Beer 
Valentine's Day Special 15% off 
by Elizabeth Taylor back when she was still married to Virginia senator John Warner. 
"Everyone looks in the mir­ror and says, 'You know, I think I look a little bit like [Taylor,J"' Trigiani said. 
Like her main character, Trigiani was one of the only Italians growing up in Big Stone Gap, but the similarit 
stops there. Trigiani was not involved much in her home­town, whereas Ave Maria is an integral part of the frame­work of Big Stone Gap. 
"The person who isn't doing anything is a writer," Trigiani said. "You make things up all the time because no one will play with you." 
Things have changed and Trigiani is now a best-selling author, playwright, director, screenwriter and successful ,television writer. In New \York, Trigiani has written for The Cosby Show, A Different World and Good Sports. 
Her comedv special, 
Mo 
Dine In • Carry Out • Reservations Desired 

Tuesday, February 12, 2002
page4 The Ohserver . CAMPUS NEWS 
Election 
continued from page 1 
input," said Romero. Their campaign has received more than 1,000 ideas from their "Black Box" concept, she said, referring to black boxes on their campaign posters encouraging students to e-mail Moscona. with ideas for stu­dent government. She added that their campaign also wants to make students aware of initiatives the current admin­istration of Moscona and student body president Brooke Norton is already working on. 
'Tm glad that it's close ... because it means people will have to get more involved to find out who they want," Romero said. 
Bishop and Foley similarly said they plan to continue running their cam­paign in the same way that they have been. In particular, they plan to "encourage everyone to vote," accord­ing to Foley. 
"I think I would like to see a much higher turnout next time," said Bishop. One of Bishop and Foley's campaign 
managers, Kevin Berchou, agreed that their campaign wants students to vote on Thursday. 
"Everyone's been working very hard to get every last vote," he said. "Ideally, everyone votes." 
Berchou added that receiving The Observer's endorsement helped Bishop/Foley beat the third and fourth place candidates, while Moscona/Oxley were similarly helped by Scholastic's endorsement. 
"The fact that each of the top two got an endorsement helped to distinguish us," he said. 
All four tickets also received help from the dorms each candidate lives in. 
"The respective candidates dominat­ed their own dorms by a ridiculous amount" said Judicial Council vice pres­ident of elections John McCarthy. 
There will be a runoff debate tonight at 7:30 p.m. in auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 
Text of BOG statement 
Standing firm in our belief that the Catholic traditions and Mission of Saint Mary's College is congru­ent with the benefits of the free exchange of ideas, we the Board of Governance make the following statement: 
As part of our student govern­ment mission "to maintain mutual respect and communication among the students, faculty and adminis­tration," we affirm the administra­tion' decisiop to pursue different avenues of programming dealing with the topics raised in the "Vagina Monologues." 
We commend and respe.ct the steps taken by the student groups to work with the administration in addressing student concerns and needs. We also commend the steps taken by the administration to educate the women of Saint Mary's College through such events as additional orientation program­
ming. guest lecturer Katie Koestner, "Sex Signals," the Sexuality Series, and "Womyn with Wings." 
In the same manner of affirma­tion, we uphold and respect the social and academic rights as stat­ed in the Saint Mary's Student Handbook as well as the College Governance Manual, that "Students have the right to associ­ate with any group or individual (79]." and that "Students have the right, without fear of penalty, to engage in academic inquiry con­cerning attitudes, doctrines or facts about which they desire to learn [80]." Therefore and stu­dents participating. attending, or supporting events that fall within these guidelines can do so without fear of punishment. 
Board of Governance 2001-2002 

Student Body 2002 Election Results 
. Moscona/Oxley: 38% . Foley/Trip: 37% .Abstain: 1% 
1l302 votes  1,274 votes  20 votes  
. McCord/Williams: 12% . Palko/Mercanti: 12%  
411 votes  395 votes  

O'Neill 
continued from page 1 
The money was taken from the hall government office. The thieves stole the keys to the office from of the dorm rooms of the hall presidents. The keys are still missing. 
According to director of Notre Dame Security/Police Rex Rakow, detectives were on the scene throughout the day on Monday, but have only uncov­ered the preliminary stages of the investigation. 
"The investigators will be back at it [today] to sort it out. It's going to take time to get through it all, assess the exact amount of what was lost and get a sense of what happened," said Rakow. 
The future of the Mardi Gras rests on the outcome of this con­tinued investigation and the return of the stolen money. 
"To be honest. I still don't know what we will do about Mardi Gras next year. Right now, there won't be one because a good chunk of money is still out there," said Herman. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu 

THE 
BSE 

is now accepting applications for the 2002-2003 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Jason McFarley by Friday, Feb. 15, at 3 p. m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542 or 631-5323. 
NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have spores reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER 
Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the sire. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 

Tuesday, February 12, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Vatican creates dioceses in Russia: 
The Vatican announced the formation Monday of dioceses in Russia, raising the pro­file of the Roman Catholic Church in that country and drawing a rebuke from the Hussian Orthodox church. Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls described the creation of the dioceses as normal administration. 
Millions stolen in Heathrow heist: 
Robbers held up a security van at Heathrow Airport on Monday and escaped with $6.5 million in American currency that had just arrived from Bahrain, police said. Police said the driver of the van was attacked by at least two men at the airport's Terminal 4 at about 
6:30 a.m. The robbers forced him to the ground and bound his wrists before transfer­ring the cash to another other van. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Pentagon defends missile strike: 
The Pentagon's military spokesman on the Afghan war on Monday defended a CIA mis­sile strike last week that killed an unknown number of individuals, saying they "were not innocents" and that "something untoward" was going on at the time of the attack. The Feb. 4 Hellfire missile strike was conducted by a CIA-operated Predator drone and an unknown number of people were killed. 
Flight arrest under Olympic rules: 
An airline passenger who allegedly got up to go the bathroom less than 30 minutes before landing became the first person arrested under a new federal flight regulation adopted for the Olympics. Richard Bizarro, 59, could get up to 20 years in prison on charges of interfering with a flight crew. The Salt Lake City rule requiring no passenger movement during the last 30 minutes went into effect Feb. 5. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Elderly churchgoer killed: A 78-year­old woman who had just walked out of a church service was struck and killed by a minivan involved in a chain-reaction pileup. Cancilene Young, a native of Richland, Ind., was pronounced dead Sunday after being flown to a hospital in Evansville. Young had been walking to her car parked along a coun­ty road outside the church at about 10 a.m. The driver of a sedan crested a hill and then braked after seeing vehicles parked outside the church, state police said. 
Market Watch February 11 
Dow 9,884.78 +140.54 
]~ Same: 
Composite Volume:
~ 219 1,139,730,944 
AMEX: 840.73 +6.92 NASDAQ: 1,846.66 +27.78 NYSE: 572.68 +7.34 S&P 500: 1,111.93 +15.71 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +5.55  +B.93  17.69  
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ)  +l.27  +0.46  36.63  
WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM)  -4.65  -0.38  7 .80  
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)  +0.10  +B.01  9. 76  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +3.23  +1.05  33.57  

NETHERLANDS 

Nuremberg proceedings unfair. He will ask the to the tribunal. He relaxes
Associated Press 
against Nazi Germany's court "why several world in his cell by listening to 
THE HAGUE leaders after World War leaders had supported his music, his favorite being 
Slobodan Milosevic is in II. policies, and now the Frank Sinatra's "My "a very good mood" and "Milosevic is eager and prosecutor says that those Way." ready for his landmark ready for tomorrow's start policies were criminal." He has refused to war crimes trial by a U.N. of the trial," his legal Dragos]av Ognjenovic, appoint defense lawyers tribunal, his legal advisers adviser, Zdenko another legal adviser, said to represent him because said Monday. Tomanovic, said after vis­Milosevic "is optimistic he rejects the legitimacy 
The trial of the former iting Milosevic in the and in a very, very good of the court, and intends Yugoslav president for Scheveningen prison. "He mood, both physically and to speak for himself. crimes committed during just hopes he won't be mentally." The trial is expected to a decade of upheaval in interrupted during the The advisers said that last up to two years. the Balkans opens speech he plans to deliver Milosevic was spending U.N. prosecutors plan to Tuesday in The Hague, in front of the judges." his last hours before the call hundreds of witnesses Netherlands. It is Tomanovic said trial writing on a laptop to support the indictments Europe's most important Milosevic will argue that the "lengthy" address he for genocide and war such case since the the trial is inherently plans to deliver Tuesday crimes in Bosnia. 
Arafat sends Powell promising letter 
.Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A message from Yasser Arafat to Secretary of State Colin Powell is raising hopes that the Palestinian leader will take a more aggres­s.ive stand on terror attacks on Israel. 
"We did find it to be a posi­tive letter, and we now look for action along the lines that he indicat­ed in his let­ter," State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Monday while declining to reveal the letter's contents. 

Hassan Abdel Rahman, the ranking Palestinian official in the United States, said Arafat did not say in the letter that he knew a.bout an attempt to smuggle 50 tons of weapons from Iran. 
"That's not the issue," Rahman said in an interview. "The letter is an attempt to put the whole issue of the ship behind us." 
"It's a general letter that includes a roadmap to get us back to negotiations," Rahman said. 
Diplomatic sources said ihe let­ter, sent last week through the 
U.S. consulate in Jerusalem, con­tained promises by Arafat that he would take steps against 
Palestinians  involved  in  the  
blocked smuggling effort.  
A  senior  U.S.  official  told  

reporters the Palestinian leader 
did not repeat his frequent denial that the Palestinian Authority arranged for the shipment, which Israeli commandos intercepted Jan. 3 in the Red Sea. 
The official. speaking only on condition of anonymity, said Arafat offered assurance there would be no recurrence of the smuggling episode. 
While declining to reveal the contents -or to say if Arafat had responded to Powell's demand that he acknowledge responsibili­ty for the smuggling attempt ­Boucher reiterated the U.S. alle­gation that "Palestinian Authority people were definitely involved." 
Powell, meanwhile, spoke by telephone to British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who are going to the Middle East. 
page6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 12, 2002 
FBI issues new terrorist warning 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The FBI issued an extraordi­nary terrorist alert Monday night, asking law enforcement and the American public to be on the lookout for a Yemeni man and several associates who might be plotting a ter­rorist attack as early as Tuesday. 
The FBI scrambled to put the warning out after informa­tion emerged that one or more people were involved. Officials said the intelligence, while deemed credible, was not spe­cific about possible targets. 
The alert identified one pos­sible attacker as Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei, a Yemeni national born in Saudia Arabia in 1979. It Hsted about a dozen associ­ates of al-Rabeei. 
The bureau planned to put photos and information on a Web site to help Americans identify the possible perpetra­tors. 
"Recent information indi­cates a planned attack may occur in the United States or against U.S. interests on or around Feb. 12, 2002. One or more operatives may be involved in the attack," the alert to 18,000 law enforce­ment agencies said. 
The alert asked police "to stop and detain" any of the named individuals in alert and that all "should be considered extremely dangerous." 
Law enforcement officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the alert was prompted by recent informa-
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-ontine. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 
I • 
tion from interviews of detainees in Afghanistan and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where several al-Qaida operatives are being held. 
Law enforcement officials said there was no evidence that al-Rabeei had entered the United States. The alert did not say whether the attack was planned or involved Osama bin Laden's al•Qaida network. 
Before Monday. FBI and Homeland Security officials had issued three general alerts urging all Americans to be cautious and on the lookout for possible terrorist activities. 
The last was issued Dec. 3 and was supposed to last through the holidays. It has since been extended through the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and is supposed to expire around March 11. 
In addition. the FBI has issued numerous narrower alerts to specific industries when uncorroborated informa­tion about threats to their facilities emerges. In the last month, such alerts went to nuclear power plant operators and to operators of Internet sites cautioning about possible threats. 
On some occasions, local law enforcement officials have complained they learned from news media about the warn­ings before they saw the alerts over the FBI communications system. 
Monday's warning was care­fully organized to ensure that police, news media and the public learned about them at the same time, officials said. 
WANT A 

THINK Y. U KNOW SPORTS? WIN A PLAYSTATICN2 CN THE WVFI SPORTS QUIZ! 

~UALIFYING TEST: 
MONDAY, FEB. 1 B 
7:00 PM MONTGOMERY THEATRE 
To REGISTER: 
EMAIL TED Fox AT TFOX@ND.EDU 
~UALIFIER LIMITED TO 50 PEOPLE! 



Tuesday, February 12, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Alabama governor pleads innocence 
Associated. Press 
MONTGOMEHY 
Gov. Don Siegelman proclaimed his innocence Monday amid report<; that criminal investigators have subpoenaed his banking and investment records as part of a growing probe into state business deals. 
"I know r have done nothing wrong and those records will show that," Siegelman said. 
"It's coming at the
Siegelman said supporters. he learned about beginning of what will be Roland the subpoena Vaughan, for­
a tough, hard-fought 
from a report in mer chairman
campaign.
The Birmingham of the News on Sunday, Business and he accused Don Siegelman Council of someone within Alabama, was
governor
the investigation of leaking infor­mation to damage his reputation in an election year. 
Recent statewide polls showed the Democrat in a virtual dead heat with the two leading Republican front-runners, Lt. Gov. Steve Windom and U.S. Rep. Bob Riley. 
"It's clear this is coming from a joint investigation by a Republican attorney general and a Republican U.S. attorney. It's coming at the beginning of what will be a tough. hard-fought cam­paign," he said. 
Alabama Attorney General Bill Pryor and U.S. Attorney Leura Garrett Canary declined com­ment. 
State and federal authorities have investigated several state deals, including a now-defunct Alabama warehouse construction project supervised by one of Siegelrnan's long-term 
hired for 
$25,000 by a Siegelman aide to scout ware­house sites for the state. He was indicted for theft after it was dis­covered he was half-owner of the site he recommended Alabama buy, according to court papers. 
On Friday, the News also dis­closed that Siegelman failed to report money from investments and legal fees on his financial dis­closure reports, some dating back to 1996. 
Junior
csc 
Associated Pre•• 
SAN RAFAEL 
A man and four women who shared a home with their 13 children were charged with murder and child neglect Monday in the death of one child and the malnourishment of the others. 
The 19-month-old toddler ­whose bones were extremely brittle -was pronounced dead of severe malnutrition and neglect at a hospital in November after the women brought him in. The other children -ranging in age from 8 months to 16 years ­were quickly put into emer­gency foster care. 
All were severely malnour­ished and most suffered from rickets, a bone-softening dis­case almost unheard of in suburban America. It is caused by a lack of vitamin D or calcium. 
Winnfred Wrighl, 45, and the women -Carol Bremner, 44, Mary Campbell, 37, Deirdre Wilson, 37, and Kali Polk-Matthews, 20 -were arrested Friday. They were held without bail for arraign­ment Monday. 
Wright, Bremner, Campbell and Wilson each face charges of second-degree murder and 
CEWTER FOR 
Business Majors
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Internships available 
•
1n ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve and build their businesses. 
• 
12 week summer program 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship 

• 
housing paid and food stipend 

• 
3 elective academic credits Theo359A Course includes journal, paper, follow up session 


Available in cities: Atlanta Albuquerq ue, Chicago, New York City, San Diego, 
• • Appllcations available at the Center for Social Concerns & MCOB Undergraduate office ,# due Fehrua ry 20th 
Interviews in early March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCION 
Information Meeting : February 14th 
Room 203 B, MCOB 6:00 PM 
Father arrested in infant death 
involuntary manslaughter. Polk-Matthews faces one count of involuntary manslaughter. All face child endangerment charges. 
His long hair in dreadlocks, Wright smiled at the women as they were led into court, shackled at their hands and waists. All declined to enter pleas. 
Bremner, who lived with the others in San Francisco for years before moving to the upscale Marin County suburb of Marinwood several years ago, wore a white dust mask over her face. She is being treated for leukemia. 
Campbell and Wilson are both pregnant, said Campbell's public defender, Marta Osterloh. Osterloh chal­lenged the hospital's conclu­sion that the child died of neglect. 
"There has been no coro­ner's report, no autopsy report. We don't know what the cause of death is," Osterloh said outside court. 
Jail officials said the defen­dants were declining all requests for interviews. Other defense attorneys declined to comment. 
None of the children were enrolled in public school, said Marin County sheriff's Detective Fred Marziano. 

Neighbors rarely saw them emerge from the rental home, where heavy white drapes prevent any view of the inside. 
Neighbor Eric Heim, who lives across the street, said he didn't even know children lived at the house that Wright shared with the women. 
"The whole concept is absurd and unthinkable," Heim said. "There's no way to express the sadness we all feel." 
Because the adults refused to cooperate, it took three months for police to unravel what went on inside the mod­est beige house. Authorities had to rely on DNA tests to determine that Wright fathered all the children. It was not clear who gave birth to the child who died. 
"We don't know exactly what their affiliation is togeth­er other than they are cohab­iting and producing children." Marziano said. 
Neighbors along the tree­lined street in the upper-mid­d le-class neighborhood declined to speak with reporters Monday, and no one answered the door at the house. 
White T-shirts hung from a clothesline. and children's toys and a plastic tricycle sat on the grass. 
Atria Salon Specializing in Color 
NOW OPEN ON SUNDAY 
(57 4)289-5080 1357 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
Haircut & Style Highlight & Cut Color & Cut $24 $69 $59 
MUST PRESENT AD ON SUNDAYS ONLY 
Ill HOLYCROSS AsSOCIATES 
POST-GRAD S£RVIC£ PROGRAM 
• •• Information Meeting •• 
Join the HCA Staff for an information meeting which will cover: 
• The Four filiars • • LOCATION & PLACEMENT POSSIBILITIES •
.­
•
• The Appficafion flroce&& • • and more ... •
•
• 
When: Today. Tuesday. February 12 at 8 p.m. Where: The Center for Social Concerns Who: Anyone interested in HCA 
http:holycrossassociates.nd.edu 
Community...Service ... Simple Living. .. Spirituality 
page 8 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 12, 2002 

COLOMBIA 
Rebels kill 10 in bombing 
Associated Press 
Bogota 
In their boldest attack this year, suspected leftist rebels launched two bombs into an army garrison in southern Colombia on Monday, killing 10 soldiers and wounding more than 30. 
Officials are investigating whether the bombs wore homemade mortar shells craft­ed from cooking gas canisters. or if the rebels have obtained a more sophisticated arms, Gen. Fernando Tapias said Monday evening. 
The bombs landed on a bar­racks full of sleeping soldiers and started a fire that detonat­ed several hand grenades stored inside. 
Four of the more than 30 injured soldiers were still hos­pitalized Monday night, Tapias said. 
While Tapias did not say whom he thought responsible for the attacks. Gen. Arcesio Barrero, commander of the army's Fourth Division, blamed the attack on the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, the biggest rebel group in Colombia. 
Hours after the attack, rela­tives of the wounded soldiers waited outside the hospital in Pitalito, 235 miles southwest of Bogota. for word on their injuries. The hospital appealed for blood donations. 
Monday's attack was the sec­ond time in two weeks the army has suffered heavy losses at the hands of the PARC. 
Twenty-nine soldiers died Jan. 29 as they tried to seize a rebel munitions dump in southern Colombia. The cache exploded, but it was unclear if the explosion was accidental or set off by rebels. 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY LENTEN LECTURE SERIES 
Living Lent: Renewed Understandings of Lenten Praxis 
Thursday, February 14 Phyllis Kaminski, SMC Self Denial? Feminist Perspectives on Asceticism 
In Stapleton Lounge 
Thursday, February 28 Joseph Miller, SMC Sustaining the Earth: Ecological Approaches to Asceticism 
In Stapleton Lounge 
Thursday, March 21 Gustavo Gutierrez, UND Ongoing Work in Liberation Theology 
In Moreau Center Little Theatre 
All at 12:15 -1:00 p.m. 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC INFORMATION: (574) 284-4636 E-MAIL: mlukasze@saintmarys.edu 
Samt M:'s Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 




Tuesday, February 12, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

ZIMBABWE 
Bombs hurled at newspaper office 
Associated Press 
Harare 
Two gasoline bombs were hurled Monday at provincial offices of Zimbabwe's only independent daily newspaper, which the government has accused of supporting the opposition. 
A gasoline bomb also was thrown at a nearby print shop in Rulawayo, about 230 miles southwest of Harare. The print shop had printed some opposi­tion election campaign materi­al. 
Neither premises was seri­ously damaged. 
The attacks are the latest political violence ahead of pres­idential elections on March 9­
10. President Robert Mugabe, 77, and his increasingly unpop­ular ruling party are fighting for political survival after near­ly 22 years in power. 
Mdududzi Mathuthu, The Daily News' chief reporter in Bulawayo, said the bombs smashed a plate glass window at the entrance to the paper's offices, burning a carpet in the lobby. No one was inside and there was no damage to the upstairs offices. 
On Thursday, ruling party militants pasted Mugabe's cam­paign posters on the street­level windows. While cleaners were removing them, militants warned staff to leave the posters or their office would be burned down, Mathuthu said. 
Owners at printers Daily 
Tanzania 
Peru 
Print said the firm had pro­duced campaign material for the opposition Movement for Democratic Change. Damage to the shop was minimal. 
No comment was immediate­ly available from police. 
Opposition activists on Sunday accused ruling party supporters of attacking them to prevent an election rally at Gokwe, 200 miles west of Harare. 
The government. meanwhile, rejected a Swedish diplomat as head of a European Union elec­tion observer mission, state television reported. 
Pierre Schori, Sweden's ambassador to the United Nations, was "a mere tourist to Zimbabwe" and had not been cleared to lead a delegation of 150 EU observers. 
Schori arrived in Harare late Sunday and had been expected to apply for accreditation with election officials Monday. He was given a two-week tourist visa pending discussions with the government. 
State television said Zimbabwe insisted EU observers be led and remain subordinate to the African, Caribbean and Pacific [ACP]grouping of nations to which the EU is allied through trade agreements. 
The report underlined differ­ences between Zimbabwe and the EU, which has warned Zimbabwe of sanctions unless the elections are free and fair, and unless observers and international journalists are allowed to work unhindered. 
Frozen assets limit al-Qaida 
and about $70 million Associated Press abroad by 147 countries 
that have supported Bush's 
UNITED NATIONS order. 
Intelligence reports show "The intelligence reports Osama bin Laden's terrorist that I have recently network is having difficulty reviewed indicate that this moving money international­strategy is making a differ­ly, a senior Treasury ence and al-Qaida is having Department official said difficulty in moving money Monday. internationally," he said. 
Undersecretary of the The blocking of assets by Treasury Jimmy Gurule said so many countries has the main reason was the forced al-Qaida "to rethink forced closure of the A1-how it moves money Barakaat financial network internationally -to come that hin Laden and his al­up with different methods, 
Somali-based money-trans­
Qaida  fol- different  
1 owe rs relied on  "There has to be some  systems," Gurule  
heavily to transfer money. President  procedural safeguards because the decision it takes affects the civil  said. "We've really forced  
Bush's order in  rights ofindividuals. "  them out of their  
November to freeze the assets  Anders Kruse legal expert  comfort zone," he said.  
of  Al­ Gurule  
Barakaat, a  spoke  to  

reporters before addressing fer organization with offices a closed-door meeting of the in up to 40 countries, "deliv­U.N. Security Council com­ered a very significant blow" mittee monitoring sanctions to the terrorists, Gurule against bin Laden and al­said. Qaida. 
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist The committee has put attacks on the United States, most of the individuals and Bush has frozen the assets groups on the U.S. list on its of 168 individuals and enti­own list of suspect groups ties with alleged ties to al­and individuals -includingQaida and other terrorist three Somali-born, natural­groups. Gurule said $34 mil­ized Swedish citizens lion in assets has been involved with Al-Barakaat in blocked in the United States Sweden. 
Saint Mary's 
College Program in Dance presents 
2002 
Dance Spectru111 
Friday & Saturday, Feb.15 & 16 at 7 PM Sunday, Feb. 17 at 2:30 PM "" O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact "'"""'"'""'•·~ the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
~M8fif'£'k, / 
l'<>I< THE ARTS
284 4626
• HOTRE QA.WE, IM 
~ J:i~p On~~r~:!:~::nly
\1C.,-~. We have training days ~a O10.HILI~:::•:..:".o~~:O: ,cyli>< in ,c,iniog 
Sweden asked the commit­tee to remove the three from the U.N. list -but the United States and Britain objected. The three deny any terrorist connections. 
Gurule refused to discuss that case. He said they had appealed the U.S. decision to freeze their assets, and this was currently under admin­istrative review. 
Gurule said he would out­line to the committee the 
U.S. 
process to determine who should be put on the 

U.S. 
sanctions list, to show that it was "fair"and "delib­erative" and had a right to appeal -including to feder­al court. 


Anders Kruse, a Swedish legal expert, also appeared before the U.N. committee and urged its members to safeguard the rights of indi­viduals placed on the U.N. list. 
The sanctions committee must find ways to let indi­viduals know what the charges against them are and to allow them to ask for a review, said Kruse, who heads the Swedish Foreign Ministry's legal department for European Union matters. 
"There has to be some procedural safeguards because the decision it takes affects the civil rights of individuals," Kruse said in an interview after the com­mittee's closed-door meet­ing. 
lifetime opportunities with multinational organization 

e) 
COLOR & CUT..........$I 9.00 Please ask for stylist in training when scheduling an appointment
FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
Certain restrictions apply 
289-5080 
1357 Ironwood Dr. & Edison 
www.nd.edu/,._vocation 
I Mile from Notre Dame & Sr. Mary's 

O
THE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, February 12, 2002 

President Bush's State of the Union address was arguably one of the most significant foreign policy speeches given in recent times. It is comparable to Truman's 1947 speech outlining the policy of con­tainment or JFK's 
Scott Flipse 
inaugural address where he promised to pay any price or bear Urbanities any burden to fight and win the Cold War. Like Truman and Kennedy, 
Bush has given clear direction for the nation. His words echoed the moral surety of the World War II generation in their fight against communism. 
What Bush did was to reshape the nation's foreign policy -defining America's mission in noble and ambi­tious terms and declaring war on an "evil axis" of nations who harbor ter­rorists and threaten our nation with weapons of mass destruction. The fate of this administration and its place in history will depend on the success of the "Bush Doctrine." 
It may have been one of the first times in recent memory where several major foreign policy debates were set­tled in one evening. For the last year, the administration has debated how to deal with the so-called "rogue nations." An intense internal debate raged on how best to encourage polit­ical change in Iran, Iraq and North Korea. Administration officials were divided between those who believed we could make a deal with the Iranian regime and those who insisted we had to confront the mullahs. There were also hot contests between those seek­ing to remove Saddam Hussein from power and those who believed his removal would cause regional insta­bility. And there have been powerful voices arguing that poor and starving North Korea could be bought off with food and credits. 
The President correctly denounced the unelected rulers of Iran for ignor­ing the desires of the Iranian people. 
He cast aside the Clinton era policy of 
paying ransom to stop North Korea's · nuclear pursuits. And he put Saddam on notice that his regime is near an end. He did it all in words that were 
clear, concise and sure. 
The President told the nation that 
the fight against "the evildoers" is 
every bit as serious as World War II 
or the Cold War. The lesson of Sept. 
11 was that the United States had 
enemies who would go to great 
lengths to murder Americans. When 
the nation's enemies are armed with 
weapons of mass destruction, it is a 
clear and mortal danger to the securi­
ty of us all. 
It is beyond doubt that Iran, Iraq 
and North Korea pose a serious threat 
to the United States and its democrat­
ic allies. They have supported terror­
ism in the past. They are hostile to the 
democratic values of freedom and lib­
erty. All three have raced to acquire 
nuclear, biological and chemical 
weapons. The Bush Doctrine sends a 
clear signal that the United States will 
not wait for another attack to take 
action. In fact, the President said he 
would take preemptive action to pre­
vent another assault like Sept. 11. 
Predictably, the Europeans seemed 
convinced that Bush made another 
stupid blunder. France's foreign min­
ister, Hubert Vedrine, summed up the 
European critique by calling Bush's 
policy "simplistic." A more substantial 
criticism, however, came from 
Madeline Albright, former Secretary 
of State, who thought the President 
made a mistake lumping together the 
three nations instead of dealing with 
them individually. 
This last criticism has picked up 
some traction. According to an 
unnamed State Department source, 
"naming Iran, Iraq and North Korea 
as an axis of evil suggests links among 
the three that don't exist." Iran and 
Iraq are mortal enemies, having 
fought an eight-year war in the 1980s. 
And while North Korea has supplied 
missile technology to Iran and Pakistan, the regime is one of the 
most isolated totalitarian states in the world. 
Lawrence Korb, a former Reagan administration official, believes that the "best analogy" to use is from the 1950s when the Eisenhower Administration talked about rolling back the Iron Curtain. "We talked about it, but didn't mean it." 
Ivo Daalder, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, told me that the President "has boxed himself in." If he doesn't send troops, or change these regimes, the Bust Doctrine will be called "a failure." 
The possibility of failure does not seem to bother the President. In a remarkable series of articles in the Washington Post by Dan Baiz and Bob Woodward, the President is depicted as being in charge, serious and focused. The articles are must reading for anyone skeptical of the President's ability to lead. His foreign policy team, among the most experienced in recent memory, is united. Colin Powell's recent statement that "there is not one inch" between himself and the President was a signal to domestic critics and to the world of the nation's intent. 
The President has called the nation to a sustained battle. We are at war against those who support terrorism and seek to possess weapons of mass destruction. His goal is ambitious: To end the current threat and create a global environment where liberty, the rule-of-law and human rights can flourish. It is the beginning, he hopes, of a new, New World Order. 
Scott Flipse is Associate Director of Notre Dame's Washington Semester and Pew Civitas Fellow at the Brookings Institution. He can be con­tacted at Flipse.1@nd.edu. "Urbanities" appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norre D..me. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hail, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
As.ST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kmy Smith  Par Peters  

NE\VS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VLF\'i/POINT EDITOR: P,rrick McElwee 
SrOIITS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNf MARYS EDITOR! Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
AoV£RTISTNG MANAGER, Kimberly Springer AD OF.SIGN MANAGER, Alex Menze 
SYSTI.M~ ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EmTOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVFRTISING.................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd. ed u EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR!AssT. ME.. .................. 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 
V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARYs.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AvM!NlSTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from che Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and mes ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include con tact information. 
Question, regarding Obravcr polic~s should be direct­,d to Editor in ChiefMilu Connolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Scott Brodfuehrer Sheila Egts Elizabeth Lee 
Sports 
Katie Hughes 
Viewpoint 
Lori Lewalski 
Scene Sam Oerheimer Chris Scott Graphics Jimmy Atkinson 
Production 
Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Amanda Greco 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What is the most important issue for the next student body president's administration to address? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'There is no room in this country for hyphenated Americanism." 
Theodore Roosevelt former president 
O
THE 
VIEWBPOINT 
-Tuesday, February 12, 2002 page 11 

Reconsidering contraception 
On contraception, it may he time for a reality check. Contraception has gained nearly universal acceptance among Catholics, as well as others, as a moral alterna­tive -the private choice of' each individ­ual. A new book, howev­er, should make us think about the terminal social conse­quences of the contra­ceptive ethic. 
Patrick Buchanan may not be very popular on this campus. But his book, "The Death of the West," exposes an undeniable reality: The first world, including not only Europe and North America but also Japan and Russia, is dying. For example, Muslim Albania is the only one of 47 European nations that has a birthrate that will replenish its population. 
"At present birthrates," Buchanan notes, "Europe must bring in 169 million immigrants by 2050 if it wishes to keep its population aged 15 to 64 at today's level. But if Europe wishes to keep its present ratio of 4.8 workers for every senior, Europe must bring in 1.4 billion immi­grants from Africa and the Middle East. Put another way: Either Europe raises taxes and radically downsizes pensions and health benefits for the elderly, or Europe becomes a third world continent. There is no third way." 
In 1995 the populations of Europe (including Russia) and Africa were equal. In 2050 Africans are likely to outnumber Europeans by more than 3 to 1. Islam has replaced Judaism as the second religion of Europe. In 2000, for the first time, there were more Muslims in the world than Catholics. 
This country is in a similar fix. The fertility rate in the United States has been almost continu­ously below the replacement level of 2.1 for two decades. One-child families are the fastest growing family unit, from 9 percent ofall families in the 1970s to more than 20 percent today. College-educat­ed white women in the United States have a fertility rate of about 
1.6. College-educated black women have an even lower rate, at 1.5. The Hispanic birth rate, fortunately, remains strong. Hispanics are the fastest-growing segment, with 6.4 percent of the 
U.S. population in 1980, 9 percent in 1990 and over 12 percent in 2000. 
Buchanan analyzes cultural influences that have caused the West to refuse to renew itself, principally including the domi­nance of a self-centered and secu­lar ethic. "The new gospel has as its governing axioms: there is no God; there are no absolute values ... ; the supernatural is supersti-tion." 

The defining realil.y is that '"we are creating,' in the words of Czech president Vaclav Havel, 'the first atheistic civilization in the history of mankind.'" 
Buchanan offers debatable poli­cy proposals, including major restrictions on immigration. While immigration laws are in need of revision, Americans of European origin are losing their dominance, not because of immigration, but because they practice the "race suicide" of the contraceptive ethic. They have no right to exclude unjustifiably people of other back­grounds who share the right to the universal destination of the earth as of other goods. "The immigration of so many people from the South into our part of the Americas," said Archbishop Charles Chaput ofDenver, "may be the salvation of the Church in the United States, because they bring with them a spirit and a soul and a deep kind of faith that will ... re-enliven the faith of the churches of the North.'.' 
The point of this essay is not to analyze Buchanan's policy propos­als, but to note the demographic handwriting on the wall. As Australian demographer Peter McDonald explains, "the problem with low fertility is that it reduces population size not at all ages but only among the young. Low fertili­ty produces an age structure that creates a momentum for future population decline, a situation that must be stopped at some point if the population is to be demo­graphically sustainable. Also, pop­ulations with low fertility can fall in size at an extremely rapid rate. The longer low fertility is main­tained, the harder it becomes to reverse population decline." 
That is one reason why contra­ception must be reconsidered. Until the Anglican Lambeth Conference in 1930, no Christian denomination had ever said that contraception could ever be objec­tively right. The Catholic Church maintains that unbroken teaching. Discussion of contraception in detail must await another day. Suffice it to say here that the con­traceptive ethic is predictably a suicide pact. Any group that refus­es to reproduce itself will disap­pear. 
Notre Dame rightly prides itself on the social activism of its stu­dents, which, we hope, they will continue to practice throughout their lives. But the demographics indicate that the most enduring future contribution those students can make to society is to cooper­ate in the procreation of new per­sons who will enrich that society and who, not incidentally, will live forever. Whatever your view, the Buchanan book will make you think. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be contact­ed at Plawecki.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Obseroer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Perfection is not a prerequisite 
I hung up the phone dejected. I thought that perfection is what Notre Dame wanted. Having been denied admission to the University as an applicant out of high school. I decided to begin my undergraduate education elsewhere and try my chances for Notre Dame admission as the "perfect" transfer applicant for the following year. I enrolled at the University of San Diego, where I quickly set down with one goal in mind -achieve the perfection that seemed a prereq­uisite for admission to Notre Dame. 
Having participated in all of the right clubs at the University of San Diego, scored only perfect grades in my coursework and flawlessly com­pleted my transfer application, I sat confidently wondering when Iwould receive the call or let­ter informing me of my admission to Notre Dame. That telephone call finally came, but bearing a tone quite different from what I was expecting. Again-"Denied." 
A few weeks later, after significant wheeling and dealing with the Admissions Office (their realization that there were remaining spaces for the sophomore transfer class) and a promise to stay at Notre Dame over the following summer to make up lost credits, I was somehow allowed to slip through the seemingly impenetrable cracks that lead into undergraduate admission. ''I'm not sure how or why," I thought, "but final­ly someone has taken note of my perfection." 
Fast-forward three semesters. I am only now realizing that it is not perfection that Notre Dame asks of us. I think that what this place really wants from us is simply to try our best in what we do well and respect the talents and ambitions of others. Too often, I look in the mir­ror and see a person scared silly about getting a Cin a tough course, running late to a class with bed-head or journeying solo to a dining hall full of people. I see it in and around me every day, and it upsets me to think of what potential can go to waste. 
Instead of walking around this campus putting on an image of infallibility and perfec­tion that so many ofus prize, let's try walking out the door with our heads held high about who we really are. Take the challenging course that might put a blemish on that flawless report card. Get off the couch and go for a jog. You might be slower than molasses in January, but it doesn't mean you can't get the same "run­ner's high" that experienced cross-country run­ners experience. Run for an office that interests you. Do not fear losing. Give the Notre Dame men's or women's boxing chm a. shot. You might not be thrilled about performing hun­dreds of push-ups and sit-ups, but you can learn more about yourself in that instant of being cracked in the head than in a lifetime of sitting mindlessly in a dorm room. Challenge yourself. Sing loudly at Acoustic Cafe; play proudly on the field; give of yourself to others. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's draw under­graduates from a highly competitive collection of people. Our very presence here insists that we have overcome challenges and succeeded against other competitors. I ask you now, do not try to be perfect. Perfect is a joke. Perfect can be dangerous and unhealthy. I've seen perfect, and it really is not that cool -it's nobody, and it's lonely. 
I'd rather see you and me. I want to see us welcoming the conflicts that make us grow, rather than tucking tail and running from the challenges that we face. I want to see us putting it on the line, taking the risks that put our per­fection in question and being respectful, rather than fearful of the special talents of those around us. 
There is a reason why you and I are here, and it is not because we are perfect. I hope that each of us can take a step back and realize what we are missing out on by striving toward what we think others expect of us. I apologize for instances where I have limited others or myself by failing to acknowledge the differences that make us special. Most importantly, I advise: Do not hide your talents out offear of imperfec­tion and be forced to ask the question down the road. "What if?" In closing, a piece of wisdom from Matthew 5:15 to help us shine: 
"You are the light of the world. A city set on a mountain cannot be hidden. Nor do they light a lamp and then put it under a bushel basket; it is set on a lampstand, where it gives light to all ... " 
Patrick Hobbins junior Keenan Hall Feb. 11, 2002 
Irish fans show class 
First I'd like to mention that Notre Dame has the greatest fans in the world. Plus, once you've been converted to a Notre Dame fan, there is no going back -you are a fan for life. 
One of the things that makes Notre Dame fans the greatest is our class. I remember when Nebraska came to campus last year, many students traded in their tickets and sold them for a nice chunk of change. (fhis per­sonally angered me but that is not what I'm getting at.) As a result, a good number of Nebraska fans were seated in our section, While there may have been some friendly banter or even heckling, it was a good game and we were all happy to have been there to see it. Class. 
As a graduate of the class of '01, I brought my Notre Dame enthusiasm with me to my new location at Georgetown's medical school. As any recent grad will tell you, it is a rough transition moving away. The most difficult part about the transition was obviously being separated from all the great friends I made while at Notre Dame. A close second to that however was learning to cheer for another team -the Hoyas. 
My loyalty is still to Notre Dame, so when Coach Brey and the Fighting Irish came to 
Washington this weekend to take on the Hoy as, I was happy to change into one of my many Notre Dame T-shirts and show my sup­port ... in the student section. 
My fellow ND-alumni-turned-medical-stu­dents and I were respectful and did not behave obnoxiously in any way, yet we were ridiculed, cursed at and pelted with papers by several of our fellow students. During half­time, I walked up to the concourse amidst tripping attempts and vulgar language, and I had done nothing to provoke such treatment. My classmates who sat with us changed their allegiance from the Hoyas to the Irish during the game simply based on the rudeness of the fans. No class. 
And no loyalty. There were more Notre Dame fans as a whole than those rooting for Georgetown. Way to show your support. 
It was an exciting game, especially through­out the four overtimes. I am especially glad we won, first because I consider it a moral victory, and secondly because I would have feared for my life had we lost. 
Michelle M. Roeser dass of'Ol Washington, D.C. Feb. 11, 2002 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
music 
page 12 Tuesday, February 12, 2002 
The Day from accusations of going soft: 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Cracker fall short of their usual standards 
way out of the speak­
By SAM DERHEIMER 
ers as lead vocalist As•isrant Scene Editor 
Chris Conley softly wails 'This song will Pop is such a nasty word. Especially become the anthem in the world of emo. It invokes low of your underground groans and exaggerated sighs of .. . ~ And just as you're assumed disgust. It's sort of that invisi­ready to completely ble line you dare never cross least you write them off, experience the same fate as Green Day. another casualty of But pop-punk is not necessarily an oxy­the TRL disease, the moron. boys rock through. With their most recent full-length "At Your Funeral" release, Say What You Are, Jersey emo explodes with a boys Saves The Day have found a way heavy punk hook that to inject a little soul and real power into circles through the more radio-friendly anthems of punk rest of the song, as 
ALBUM REVIEW 
STD smooth their sound without losing their edge 
edge on Say What You Are,
Stay What You Are despite their newly installed cohesive pop-punk sound. "Cars and Calories" bounces
Saves the Day 
as Conley laments about the "The plastic canopy of U.S . royalty" -"royalty" referring to U.S. celebrities.
Vagrant Records 
As his band grooves with a fat, rolling hook behind him, Conley preempts any critics
Rating 
of the group's new direction in "Jukebox Breakdown": "And all you want from me is a broken heart and a mouth
i'.··· 
full of blood/ And I'll carry this casket if its what I have 
angst and awkwardness. Conley howls in perfect harmony. [t's to do ... The jukebox is in the corner/ 
Say What You Are is the third install­smooth and clear and bounces, and yet, "The last time that I saw you, August of My mouth is the speaker/ It plays your ment from Saves The Day, and marks a it's not utterly lame at the same time '99/ I should have had my hammer and favorite songs and you know where the significant transition away from pure (who knew those two concepts could be a few rusty spikes/ To nail you on a coin slot is." punk and toward a smoother, more intertwined?). wall, and use bottles to catch your The perfect marriage of Blink182 and melodic pop-punk sound -thanks in Throughout Say What You Are, Saves blood/ And display you for the neigh­At The Drive-In Say What You Are may no small part to new producer Roh The Day erupts with pop-punk melodies bors so they knew your time had come." not be, but in all honesty, it's fairly Schnapf (Beck, Elliot Smith). and sincere, biting lyrics and attitude. Saves The Day -Conley on vocals, damn close. 
From the opening cord of Say What "As Your Ghost Takes Flight" combines Dave Saloway and Ted Alexander on You Are, this is a different Saves The smooth production with a sharp guitar guitar, Eben D'amco on bass and Bryan Contact Sam Derheimer at Day. "At Your Funeral" slowly drifts its crunch and a hard-line that keeps Saves Newman on drums -never lose their sderheim@nd.edu 
By JOE I.ARSON 
Scene Music Critic 
Forever, Cracker's fifth studio release continues their roots-rock tradition coupling blues-based guitar riffs with their patented lyrical wit. This album explores a more mellow vibe than their previous efforts, but still mainly sticks to the solid rock 'n' roll base Cracker has clung to since their self-titled debut in 1992. That album boasts some of their most notable songs, like the rock anthem "Teen Angst (What the World Needs Now)" and the quirky "Happy Birthday to Me." 
Cracker followed that album with 1993's hugely suc­cessful Kerosene Hat, which had probably their most famous song "Low" and also "Get Off This." That album quickly placed Cracker on the map with other rock-orient­ed alternative bands in the early '90s like Soul Asylum and Toad the Wet Sprocket. They followed this success in 1996 with the eclectic The Golden Age, which showcased the full gamut of their musical talent, starting with the accusatory "I Hate My Generation." The album swings from angry rock to melancholy scores of strings and heartfelt lyrics on songs like "Big Dipper" and the power­ful "Dixie Babylon," which boasts a beautiful string arrangement and is still probably the most touching song in their catalogue. The album was moderately successful but showed promise for the band's expanding sound. 
Their next album, 1998's Gentlemen's Blues, carried on their move towards a more eclectic feel and added to the more pop-oriented straight rock that they began with. Songs like "The Good Life" and the self-deprecating "My Life is Totally Boring Witlmut You" carry the album and more intensely incorporate the roots country sound into Cracker's growing back of tricks. 

Forever is held up by the blues rock of songs "Don't Bring Us Down" and "Ain't That Strange." These songs are catchy and com­plement the more moody songs like "Brides of Neptune" and the title track. David Lowery and Johnny Hickman continue writing songs in the vein of classic rock with intri­cate musical additions that allow Cracker to do so without becoming too redundant. Cracker's lyrics arc always drenched in sarcasm and a sense of humor, and this album is no different. The songs tell stories of Miss Santa Cruz County and her cohorts and a character named Emily to whom they apparently could not refrain from wishing a Merry Christmas. 
The best song on the album is the soulful "Sweet Magdalena of My Misfortune," which croons and yearns for a lost lover. The song is carried by Hickman's swirling blues guitar and Lowery's strained voice 
that, although it is obviously strained, seems to fit the song perfectly. Lowery's lament on this song recalls the emo­tion and vigor of some of Cracker's early, more powerful work without getting too sappy. 
Another good song that adheres to Cracker's rock 'n' roll chops is the heavy "One Fine Day," which really allows Hickman the freedom to slam soaring guitar rill's along with a Neil Young-like. chunky electric background. Lowery's vocals and lyrics with an organ round up the 
crunchy feel of a great, angry rock song. 
Unfortunately. a few of the new renova­tions Cracker makes of this album are not as delightful. The successful soul vibe on "Sweet Magdalena of My MisfortWie" is lost on "Shameless," which simply does not work. It attempts an almost funk/Mo-town type of feel that propels the listener to quickly click forward to the next song. 
The worst renovation is the last song on the album, "What You're Missing," which is a faux-rap about what a great band Cracker is and how wrong it is that their' popularity has not increased over the years. First, a rock band rapping is never good; and second, complaining on an album about the lack of popular success you have been garnering also alienates the fans who 

Forever offers fans a tlpical Cracker album, but fails to produce anything really new or exciting from the group. 
have remained loyal over the years. The song takes away from the overall feel of an album that flows from melan­choly to anger to fun and basically insults the listener. It tries to add a new, funkier dimension to the album, but the ridiculous verses mostly just serve as a turn-off. 
The best part of the album is the extra limited edition disc of a live Cracker show recorded in Chicago in 1999. This live disc really shows off the true talent of a band that has been around for over 10 years and can simply put on a great rock show. They tear through songs from each of their previous albums and energize the crowd with live renditions of their hits, "Low" and "Teen Angst." They also rock out on versions of the thundering "Sweet Thistle Pie" and "Seven Days." This disc is a true gift to the fans who have been loyal and have been following the band from the beginning. 
On the whole, Forever is a good Cracker album, but it lacks a few of the intricacies that have made their other albums great. There are some really good songs, but the presence of a few songs prohibit the album from com­pletely cohering, and ultimately, soften its punch. for a loyal fan, the album and the extra live disc are definitely worth it, but for a first-time listener, the album falls short of their predecessors. 
Contact Joe Larson at jlarson@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Tuesday, February 12, 2002 page 13 

CONCERT PREVIEW 
Indie star Ani DiFranco to play South Bend 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Scene Music Critic 
Opening up her Winter 2002 tour Feb. 19 at South Bend's Morris Performing Arts Center. Ani Difranco proves once again that her fan base extends beyond big cities and urban meccas. 
Her grassroots origin grew out of Buffalo, NY, when she moved out on her own at the age of 15, releasing her first album just five years later. Her singing and songwriting skills and her unique acoustic knack bring fans in by the droves. 
Thanks to bootleg distribution, DiFranco took the college circuit by storm early in her career. Her Winter 2002 Tour aims at pleasing the collegiate crowd, with stops in the hometowns of Ohio State University, Michigan State, Missouri-Columbia and Washington University, among others. 
Critics hail DiFranco as an truly entertaining live performer, and her South Bend show should pro­duce no less. The Maine Times considers her per­formances to be "easily the best rock [concerts] I've seen in at least a decade ... This is something spe­cial." Critics at The London Times consider her "the most brilliant musician and perforll!eryou are like­ly to see in a year of gig-going." . 
Difranco, who considers herself "a whirlwind of Type A energy," is known for giving audiences more than what they expect. A self-proclaimed fem­inist. she remains in charge of the entire Ani opera­tion. Everything from cover art to T-shirt design 
has to be approved by Difranco. and this self­assertion continues to garner her cult status as an icon of the anti-mainstream. 
Her fierce sense of individualism and self-moti­vation are what bring fans to her shows in droves. Difranco channels emotion into her lyrics and instrumentation. both on stage and in her albums. She is considered one of the first riot grrls to hit the indie scene, and she isn't going anywhere any­time soon. 
Joining Difranco on stage this tour will be her tried-and-true support band. Daren Hahn on drums, Jason Mercer on bass, Hans Teuber on saxophone and Julie Wolf on keyboards all have considerable Righteous Babe experience alongside their fearless leader. 
Difranco enjoys regular critic praise outside of the concert arena. Rolling Stone has called her "one of the most prolific artists of the '90s," and Launch.com critic Brett Anderson hailed her "as an acoustic performer who cut her teeth on the coffee-shop circuit." DiFranco's highly acclaimed 1996 album Dilate debuted in the Top 100, quite an achievement for an independent release. 
There are still plenty of seats available for Tuesday night's show. Call the Morris Performing Arts Center box office at 1-800-53 7-6415 for ticket information. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of Righteous Babe Records Ani DiFranco, one of the most prominent indie rock performers of this generation, will play the Morris Performing Arts Center next Wednesday evening. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Complex, layered composition defines Come Down 
By LIAM FERRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
Let It Come Down is Spiritualized's fol­low-up to the critically acclaimed and masterful 1997 album Ladies and Gentlemen We Are Floating In Space. This past album was a landmark in the career of J. Spaceman (a.k.a. Jason Pierce) and company, with a title track that was one of the most beautiful and haunting songs ever recorded. With string accompaniment, full orchestras, choirs, and electronic effects, Spiritualized created a dense network of sounds that defined them as masters of production. 
After several years and complete line­up changes, Let It Come Down is the third studio release from Spiritualized. The lyrics of the songs practically form a concept album. with each track basically building off its predecessor, expanding on themes of love, loss, depression, faith, redemption and the possibilities of healing. Spaceman gives the listener an album full of confessions and prayers. 
The album begins with a roaring start, the jazz-infused, rollicking "On Fire." Filled with choral voices, layered track­ing and electronics, the music sets the boundaries for the rest of the record. The singer is inspired, enthusiastic and wants to get "into your soul." The mood set here does not falter on the second track, as "Do It All Over Again" remains lighthearted, with an upbeat melody, 

Splrituallzed delve into the depths of human emotion and sense in their third album, Let It Come Down. The record is deep and smooth, but may go too far at times. 
strings and horns, providing lyrics of comfort for someone downhearted. 
Although the musical pace set in the first two songs is carried through on several other tracks on the album, the bright subject matter takes a backseat to some much more melancholy and introspective material. Both "The Twelve Steps" and "The Straight and Narrow" have upbeat tempos and rock guitars, but each deals more with being lost and depraved and not too eager to change. 
The darker section of the record begins with the mellow, string laden "Don't Just Do Something," where the sun "burns his wings" amidst several melodic shifts and lyrics of regret. A similar context is followed up in "Out of 
Sight," an angrier song with distorted 
guitars, brassy horns and anguished 
vocals that culminate in a full sonic 
blast at the song's conclusion. 
The mantra-like repetitions in "I 
Didn't Mean to Hurt You" and the float­
ing, melodic despair of "Anything 
More," wherein the speaker's main goal 
is to "just survive," bookend the best 
track on the album, "Stop Your 
Crying."A very strong and beautiful 
melody, with rare hopeful lyrics, this 
song encapsulates the best of 
Spiritualized's talents in songwriting. 
The final two songs are thematically 
related and reach into very religious 
territory. "Won't Get to Heaven (The 
State l'm In)" is basically a prayer to 
God for deliverance, with a small belief 
that redemption is coming. The final 
track, "Lord Can You Hear Me," could 
be a continuation of the same prayer, 
but the speaker has lost complete inter­
est in life, and is on the brink of suicide. 
A church hymn with darker lyrics, the 
song proclaims that the speaker would 
take his life if he were not in so much 
doubt. Extremely chaotic and layered, 
the song ends abruptly. 

-
-

Spiritualized 
Arista Records 
Rating 
...... 

Overall, Let It Come Down does not have the same level of harsh beauty developed in Ladies and Gentlemen We Are Floating In Space. The subject mat­ter and concepts reach better levels but the production occasionally obscures the vocals and little new ground is broken by the musical composition. At some points, the attention of the listener will lag. Let It Come Down is not a break­through album, but it is good; hopefully Spiritualized will dig deeper into the potential they showed and break more rules the next time around. 
Contact Liam Ferrell at lferrell@nd.edu 
_j 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 12, 2002 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
NFL 
Low score nets UConn win 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Caron Butler can't recall when he worked so hard for so few points. 
Butler had 20 points and 11 rebounds to lead Connecticut to a 46-40 victory over Villanova in the second lowest scoring game in Big East history. 
"I can't remember a game like that. If it was it had to be all the way back to AAU," Butler said. "It was just an ugly game. There was a lid on both ends and we just had to gut it out." 
The record was set on Feb. 26, 2000, when Providence beat Boston College 45-40. 
On Saturday, the conference had its highest scoring game ever when Notre Dame beat Georgetown 116-111 in four overtimes. 
Butler briefly left the physical game with a bloody cut over his eye. 
The Huskies also had to adjust to a new starting lineup. Coach Jim Calhoun benched point guard Taliek Brown for the first five minutes because of poor play the last few games. The Huskies were without start­ing forward Johnnie Selvie, who sprained his left ankle in prac­tice Sunday. Selvie averages 12 points a game. 
"Not having Johnnie in and Taliek not starting I guess the chemistry wasn't there and it showed," said freshman Ben Gordon, who started in place of Brown and finished with 12 points. 
The Huskies (16-6, 8-3) were 16-of-49 from the field (33 per­cent). They were held to a sea­son-low 20 points in the first half and continued to misfire throughout the second half, fin­ishing 8-of-31 (25 percent). 
The Wildcats (13-9, 4-7) man­aged just five field goals in the second half and shot 26 percent for the game. 
Butler made two free throws with 16:51 left to give Connecticut its first lead, 27 -26. 
-
Villanova regained it at 28-27 on Andrew Sullivan's two free throws. 
The Huskies then went on an 8-0 run keyed by Brown's jumper with 14:53 to play. 
Butler had four points in the spurt that gave UConn the lead for good. Brown committed five turnovers but made a key steal with 27 second remaining and was fouled going to the basket. Although he missed both shots, freshman center Emeka Okafor grabbed the offensive rebound for another UConn possession. 
Plagued by poor foul shooting for most of the game, the Huskies made four of their last six to ice the win. 
UConn made up the difference on the boards in the second half. After getting no offensive rebounds in the first 20 min­utes, the Huskies grabbed 16 in the second half and converted them into 12 second-chance points. The uptempo Huskies also fought through Villanova's slower, deliberate pace. 
"We had to win very tough tonight, not at our pace. It was hard to coach," Calhoun said. "You're going to pass all kinds of tests during the year. I think the test we passed tonight was mentally we stayed with some­thing." 
The first half was marked by long scoring droughts on both sides. The Wildcats hit their first three shots, getting two baskets from Ricky Wright, then missed their next 12 over an l l 1U2-minute stretch. 
UConn fared no better. The Huskies tied it at 6 on Ben Gordon's dunk with 11 :30 left then went scoreless for 4 102 minutes. 
Derrick Snowden's 3-pointer at the 4:40 mark gave the Wildcats their biggest lead of the half, 18-12. UConn closed the gap with an 8-3 run that was capped by Butler's steal and layup as time ran out and the Huskies trailed 21-20. 
"We couldn't go up and down with them, they are just too good. too deep and too talent­ed," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "We tried to limit the pos­sessions and we did a decent job, but their defense overcame us." 
Sullivan, Brooks Sales and Gary Buchanan each had nine points for the Wildcats. Sales also had 12 rebounds. 
For Calhoun, the game was a flashback to the many times he coached against Pete Carril!, 
who masterminded Princeton's deliberate backdoor offense. 
"I thought Pete Carrill retired, but apparently he lives on," Calhoun said. "He must have called Jay today and said 'That guy needs a good torture.' And so we got one." 
Kansas 110, Texas 103 
Jeff Boschee has been over­looked for most of the season but Texas was reminded that he also is a McDonald's All­American. 
Boschee nailed a pair of key 3-pointers in overtime on his way to 22 points as No. 2 Kansas won its ninth straight game with a victory over the Longhorns in a Big 12 Conference shootout. 
Kansas (22-2, 11-0 Big 12) continued its best run in confer­ence play since going 14-0 in the Big Eight in the 1970-71 season. The high-scoring Jayhawks topped the 100-point plateau for the eighth time this season. 
Boschee is one of six McDonald's All-Americans on the roster but the stellar play of Drew Gooden and Kirk Hinrich has received most of the atten­tion. Boschee drilled a 3-pointer to give Kansas its first lead of the extra session, 99-98, with 4:14left. 
A free throw by Nick Collison made it 100-98 but Texas fresh­man T.J. Ford scored to tie the game with 3:13 remaining. Collison threw in a hook and Boschee nailed a straightaway 3-pointer for a five-point cush­ion. 
Texas (16-8, 7 -4) never got closer than four points there­after. The Longhorns fell to 53­1 when scoring 100 points or more at home. 
Gooden rebounded from a poor first half in which he made 2-of-9 shots for six points and committed three fouls. He fin­ished with 28 points and made 10-of-14 shots after halftime. 
The Jayhawks led by as many as six points in the second half but the Longhorns forged a 96­96 tie on Royal Ivey's layup with 31 seconds left in regula­tion. Kansas held for the last shot but freshman Aaron Miles missed a jumper as time expired. 
Washington welcomes Lewis 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Marvin Lewis will have a new job next season. after all. 
Two days after the Tampa Bay Buccaneers backed out of making him their new head coach, Lewis agreed to become defensive coordina­tor of the Washington Redskins. 
The announcement came one day after Lewis declared he would remain defensive coordinator of the Baltimore Ravens, a post he's held since the team moved from Cleveland before the 1996 season. 
There was no formal hir­ing announcement from the Redskins, but the team said late Sunday night that there would be a news conference Monday afternoon at Redskins Park "to introduce new defensive coordinator Marvin Lewis." 
Although terms of Lewis' deal with the Redskins were not disclosed, his contract is believed to be around $850,000 plus incentives, which, if met, would make him the highest-paid assis­tant coach in the NFL. 
"Sometimes, money talks louder than words, and this is an opportunity Marvin felt he had to take," Ravens owner Art Modell said in a statement. 'Tm disappoint­ed that whoever misled us about Marvin staying did that to the Ravens." 
Lewis is partially to blame, having told the Ravens on Saturday that he would stay with the team. 
'Tm tired of putting my family through this," he said. "My family is happy with the area." 
His contract with the Ravens has expired, and he was expected to discuss terms of a new deal with Modell over the next couple of weeks. Instead, Lewis will 
head south to begin employ­ment for Redskins owner 
Daniel  Snyder  and  
Washington's  new  head  
coach, Steve Spurrier.  

Spurrier was seeking a defensive coordinator with NFL experience and few have done it better than Lewis, who helped build the Ravens into a Super Bowl champion. 
Lewis' defense set an NFL record for fewest points allowed in a season in 2000 and ranked first in the league in fewest yards allowed. Last season, the Ravens were second in the league in defense. 
The Ravens will make receivers coach Mike Nolan their new defensive coordi­nator. 
The move will be formally announced Monday in a news conference, team spokesman Kevin Byrne said. 
Lewis emerged as the Bucs' prime candidate for head coach after Bill Parcells decided against coming out of retirement and Tampa Bay general manager Rich McKay made an unsuccessful pitch to get Oakland's Jon Gruden. 
McKay recommended Lewis for the job, but the sons of Bucs owner Malcolm Glazer decided against hir­ing the architect of a Baltimore defense that in 2000 set a record for fewest points allowed over a 16­game season. 
If Lewis had been hired, it would have restored the number of black head coaches in the NFL to three, the same as last season. 
It was the third time that Lewis was denied a shot at becoming a head coach. He interviewed for the Buffalo Bills' job that went to Gregg Williams after the 2000 sea­son and was a candidate for the Carolina Panthers' open­ing filled by John Fox last month. 

-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
TestMaster is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor !rests. $10/hr. 
1.a00-929-n24 
-·-----·-------.. 
TestMasters is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1-800-929-7724 
IM LAX officials needed. Good Pay11 Some exp. necessary. 
Contact Tara FISher @ 
1-3536. 
FOR SALE 
1998 Saturn Great Winter Car, Sweet Stereo, 40mpg $8,600/offer, 283-0901 
3 bdnn, 1-112 bath, 2-sto,y home w/2-car garage. Finished basement w/pool table, 
washer/dryer and 
freezer. All drapes, appliances & carpeting Included. Close to Holy Cross church, shop­ping, & restaurants. Call Patricia at 574-234-9782 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­renlals@aol com
-···-------------"'·-...------·-··---....... 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9­bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532-1896 smins from NDl4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appL 5 min from ND. Dave 291-2209 
THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU­DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT 
AREA 
2773097 
SUPER HOME GREAT AREA CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STU­DENTS 2773097 
MMMRentals.com ·-----------.... -.......---------------------........­
3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2-car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/0. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232­4527 or616-683-5038. 
New 3-4 bdrms, 3-bath homes tea-luring fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck, 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
-------................ ------------­
3-4 person house, Close to cam­pus. c/a Available June 
Jcau 2Ja-2aa-aaoll 
TICKETS 
Wanted: Tix for Syracuse game. Qill Tim at 47Z·1229 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and tree trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648­
4849 
www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confiden­tial support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
___,.________..________________,.________________ 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limitedlll 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
Do you !like ESPN more than your homework? Write OBserver sports. 
Call 1-4543 
Write news for the Observer! Call 1-5323 
SPRING BREAK SUPER SALEI Book your trip with StudentCity.com and save up to $100 per person to Cancun, Bahamas. Jamaica. Padre or Florida. Most popular student hotels including the Oasis and the Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! Prices start at $399! Sale ends soonl CALL NOW! 1 • 800-293-1443 or go to StudentCity.coml 
Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to select shows when you book your Spring Break through StudentCity.coml Go to MTV.com or call StudentCity.com at 1-800-293-1443 for detailsl Tours and tickets are limited! 
__,.._____,................... 
ADOPTION Young, loving happily married couple interested in adopting a baby. Please call Matt & Robin 1-800-484--6411 PIN#6463 

Tuesday, February 12, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
ND/SMC Disability Awareness Week February 18 -23, 2002 Monday, February 18th 6p.m. Haggar Parlor @ SMC "Disability Humor" w/Richard Harris, Ball State Director of Disabled Student Services **Free Pizza and Pop** Tuesday, February 19th 8p.m. Coleman-Morse Building, CSC room at ND 
TONIGHT! 2/12 8:00PM @ CSC lounge -for
"Disabilities at ND" -Discussion led by students with disabilities *Free Pizza* anyone interested -informal discussion @ pillars, 
Wednesday, February 20th 
placement opportunities, and application process 
"IMAGINE IF YOU..." View Disability Displays outside buildings at Saint Mary's College Thursday, February 21st 7:30p.m. 
*Center for the Homeless: 1-yr. Service Internships: "Corky" -(Chris Burke) from Life Goes On will be speaking at Stepan Center 
Info. Session Wed., Feb. 13 at 6 p.m. at CSC. Friday. February 22nd lOa.m. -noon 
*Service Opportunities @ Casa de la Cruz in Juarez, LOGAN Club -Play games people with developmental disabilities. Pick up: 9:45a.m. @ PW 
Mexico . Year or summer. Set up a time to meet with Fr. Wear your silver ribbon all week! 
Jim Kennedy on Feb. 14 at the CSC, call 631-5779. Questions: Contact Marissa@ 289-4831 or bbuddies@nd.edu or mrunkle@nd.edu 
Or come to info Session at 5 :00 p.m. 
ENCUENTRO 
Faculty Opportunities 
CHICAGO 
Nazareth Conversations Do you know about the Gullah People? 2/23-2/24 
Over spring break, students will travel to Appalachia, D.C., 
An Opportunity to Reflect and Integrate
Applications are available at Immokalee, FL, and elsewhere for a week of experiential
Faith and Justice Issues 
the CSC and Campus learning and service, as part of our one-credit seminars. We Come join us in reflecting on social concerns, Ministry. Join us for a are thinking of offering a new seminar next fall with the peace, and faith issues! 
weekend immersion into the Gullah people in South Carolina, and are seeking Faculty First Meeting: Mexican immigrant commu­members to assist us. Ifyou have some relevant expertise and/ 
"Loving the Unbeloved" 

nity ofPilsen in Chicago. 
or interest, please contact Mary Beckman at the CSC.
6:30 ­
Applications due Thursday, 2/14/02. 
~ 
~~Vehicle Trainin1: Information 
Current Volunteer Needs: 
Tutoring/Children Activities 
Important CSC Vehicle Driver Update 
St. Joseph Basketball Program -Larry Bauer -BauerL@lstsource.com 
CSC Driver Authorization Certification cards issued prior to Played basketball in high school? Want to work with 2nd-4th grade boys in a local 
January 2002 will no longer be accepted! Only the actual driver grade school intramural program? Looking for students to do clinics, help referee, 
of a vehicle may submit a request for use due to policy and procedural changes for CSC vehicle drivers. 
coaching duties Saturdays in Febrary and March; starts February 2nd • ALL STUDENTS WHO PLAN TO DRIVE CSC
Volunteer for Preschooler• Marissa Runkle -marissar@logancenter.org-289-4831 VEHICLES fbefdnning ,January 21, 2002} MUST
A three-year old Russian little boy needs a play companion at Open Door preschool. 
ATTEND ANEW INFO SESSION THIS SEMESTER!
The student does not necessarily need to know Russian. Please be available on 
The following hour-long session is the FINAL session 
Tuesdays from 9-l 0a.m. 
that will be offered at the CSC this semester: 
Big Brothers, Big Sisters -Call 232-9958 or visit bbbs_sjc.org 
March 3, 6:30 -7:30 p.m.Mentors needed for local children please call or visit the website to discover the 
There is no need to register. 
many flexible volunteer opportunities available. 
Bring pen and driver's license to session. 
Tutor for 5th grader at Madison Center -Erin Fer mica -651-1255 (pager) ­
Questions? e-mail: cscvans@nd.edu 
erintecon@aol.com 
Carlos is 11 years old and is looking for a tutor, once a week, to help him with his schoolwork (especially 5th grade math). He lives in the Hickory Village Apartments which are located behind the Movies 14 Theater. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu. *** 
h .·;t/cenier.foiso'ci~lco"irc~~;ii,a:~4.'.r:~?!1r
•ttp_ .. , , ... ,, •,,,,,. ,., ,,; .. ,;r•·~ ,'"'/' ""'"'""•I"..,.,,..."''"' ,, ~' "'""'":.I"'..,.,,. ~.,..,... ;.. ·• • ,,,, 
I 
(SIU), housing provided and $1900.00 Tuition Scholarship! This is an immersion program to learn, first hand, about social issues that face _e__ many people in our society. Expand your education! Use what you have learned to benefit others. 
AC:CC•N *Still accepting ACCION Internship applications for Junior MCOB majors working with micro-lending offices across the country. Housing paid, living stipend issued and $2500.00 Scholarship for 12 weeks this summer in Albuquerque, Atlanta, Chicago, New York City, and San Diego. 
ACCION Info Meeting: February 14th, 6-7 PM@ MCOB Rm. 203B 
*Hispanic Leadership Intern Program (HLIP) applications available at the CSC. An eight-week long summer internship. Interns exposed to and experience Latino communities in metropolitan Chicago where they serve as leader and student of the community. 
Applications due February 15, 2002. *National Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice Internships! (http://www.nationalinterfaith.org/) 
"The National Intert·aith Committee for Worker Justice is a network of people of faith that calls upon our religious values in order to educate, organize and mobilize the religious community in the United States on issues and campaigns that will improve wages, benefits and working conditions for workers, especially low wage workers." 
This is a 3 credit, SIU course (THEO), $2500 tuition scholarship. *African American Leadership Intern Program (AALIP) Spend an eight-week internship at St. Agatha's Parish in a Chicago African American neighborhood. Contact Colleen Knight Santoni at cknight2@nd.edu with questions. Applications available at the CSC. Deadline: February 15, 2002 
-
I 
I 
: 
I 
-I
I I I I I I I I I I I 
' 
-' 
-
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 12, 2002 

SALT LAKE 2002 

Boarders make history with sweep 

the pipe was stunning -his Associated Press 
body flying 15 feet in the air. parallel to the ground, with the PARK CITY, Utah sun overhead making for a pic­
Amid deafening chants of turesque silhouette. "USA, USA, USA," Ross Powers, Kass, the 19-year-old future of Danny Kass and J.J. Thomas the sport, had ra·o chances to top 
made history on the halfpipe, the 1998 bronze medalist. Ile giving the United States its first was incredible in his own way, medals sweep in the Winter but his corkscrew turn and his Olympics in 46 years. famed "Kasserole spin" -two 
Soaring 10 and 15 feet above upside-down twists while grab­the hollowed-out snow chute on bing the board -weren't a gorgeous, sun-kissed day, the enough to win gold. He scored a Americans won all three medals 42.5. in a winter event for the first Thomas, 20, won the bronze time since the 1956 men's figure on his second ride with an equal­skating team in Cortina, Italy. ly impressive run, pulling a 2 
It was only the second Winter 1/2-revolution spin and soaring Garnes sweep ever for the United almost as high as Powers. States, and it was topped by Sixth-place finisher Tommy 
Powers the day after his 23rd Czeschin was the only American birthday. left out of the party. His first run "I couldn't ask for anything put him in third place, but after more," he said. "It's the best Thomas overtook him, Czeschin birthday present ever. These needed to go higher. He thought guys beside me is also huge. he did, but when his score was Today was just the perfect day." posted, he looked on in disbelief, 
The sweep bumped the United and the crowd booed. But, really, States up to six medals, includ­it was hard to call any American ing the halfpipe gold won Sunday a loser on this day. by Kelly Oark, who was on hand Snowboarding is a distinctly 
to watch her countrymen sweep. American sport, created on a board and started the wave that unnerve many skaters, but Ina 'Tm very happy. Fourth in the 
An estimated 30,000 fans -lark by a man in Michigan, continues to this day. and Zimmerman seemed to world is not too bad," said Heidt, many of whom arrived after the Sherman Poppen, who in 1965 When the International thrive on it. When it came time who accidentally spiked a finger women's downhill was post­braced a pair of skis together Olympic Committee added snow­to do their side-by-side triple toe and drew blood as he started his poned due to high winds -and tied them with a rope so he boarding in 1998. many ques­loop jumps, a move that normal­final run. "I knew what I had to waved their flags, clanged their could give his daughters some­tioned whether the so-called ly causes Zimmerman fits, he do. The crowd was chanting 'U­cowbells and soaked in the thing to do during the winter. "lifestyle sport" really belonged landed the jump as smooth "as S-A.' I had chills down my spine hippest Olympic sport. He called the contraption a in the Olympics -too stodgy for butter." on the handles. That was a pret­
Powers set the winning mark Snurfer, combining the words the halfpipe, the critics said. "I absolutely fed off that ty intense race." of 46.1 early. He was the fourth snow and surfer. A few years A lot of those doubts are bound crowd," Zimmerman said. "It Teammate Tony Benshoof of rider to hit the snow, and his later. entrepreneur Jake Burton to die down. and this American was a big hand that just pushed White Bear Lake, Minn., was very first push above the rim of Carpenter improved the snow-sweep will surely play a big role. us along and it didn't stop." 17th and Nick Sullivan of 
Their only real error was when Oakdale, Minn., was 26th. Ina touched her hand down
Pairs Figure Skating 
briefly on their side-by-side dou­
As roaring crowd rose to its Men's Biathlon
ble axels. But it was a minor
feet, John Zimmerman scooped Ole Einar Bjoerndalen cap­
mistake, and it took nothing
a beaming Kyoko Ina up in a tured Norway's second gold
away from the beauty and joy
bear hug and swung her around. medal in the Winter Olympics,
they exuded. 
As Ina buried her face in his winning the men's 20-kilometer chest. he dropped his head back biathlon race. and pumped his left fist in jubila­Luge Bjoerndalen had a winning tion. They'd trained 3 1/2 years Georg Hackl knew he was a time of 51 minutes, 03.3 seconds for this moment and given the beaten man. on the Soldier Hollow course, the best performance of their lives. With a smile and clap of his highest in the world for biathlon 
"This was the best rush I have hands, he applauded the Italian at an altitude of 1,793 meters. ever felt in my career," Ina said who ended his attempt to make He missed two targets, but Monday night after she and history by winning four straight made it up with excellent skiing. Zimmerman finished fifth in the gold medals at the Winter Two days ago, the 28-year-old pairs competition. "If I walked Olympics. Later, he helped hoist from Drammen finished sixth in away tomorrow. I could turn the victor on his shoulders. the 30K freestyle cross-country around and say I walked away at "I'm getting a silver, and that's ski race. the top of my career." great." the German luger said "It wasn't my best race," he 
"What we did out there was a after Armin Zoeggeler's win. said. "I was uncertain if it would gold medal for us," Zimmerman "Now, two silver medals will be enough. But now that I've said. "It's the greatest thing frame three gold medals. won the race it's a great feeling." we've ever done." The second place is where I Teammate Frode Andresen, 
Even if it didn't win them an belong." He tearfully dedicated the last starter among 87 Olympic medal. the silver, itself a record-setter, entries, had a chance to win it as 
The United States hasn't won a to his father, who died this win­he came to the last shooting medal in Olympic pairs since ter after one of Hackl's World range with no misses. 1988, and that streak will last Cup wins. But he missed three times and another four years. The other Hackl finished nearly a third of was out of it. One miss and he American pair, Tiffany Scott and a second behind Zoeggeler and had won the gold. Philip Dulebohn, were 13th. barely beat longtime rival "It was worse to stand here 
Ina finished fourth at the Markus Prock of Austria. watching Frode shoot than shoot Nagano Olympics with former "He has been the best luger in myself," Bjoerndalen said. partner Jason Dungjen, but her the last four years and he [t was Bjoerndalen's second performance then wasn't nearly deserved it," Hackl said, refer­Olympic gold medal. He won the as good as what she and ring to Zoeggeler. "It would have sprint and a silver medal in the Zimmerman did Monday night. been a shame if he'd not won. relay four years ago in Nagano, From the momenl they stepped For me the silver has the same Japan. onto the ice, there was some­value as the gold." Kari Traa gave Norway -the thing magical about them. Almost lost among the emotion winningest nation in Winter 
As they skated around the of the moment was the perfor­Olympic history -its first gold in rink. waiting to be introduced. it mance of Adam Heidt of the women's moguls Saturday. was almost as if they were tak­Northport, N.Y. He finished Frank Luck, a three-time ing an early victory lap, with the fourth -the best singles show­Olympic relay champion, fin­
Scripps Howard Photo Service pro-American crowd cheering, ing by the U.S. team since luge ished second in 51:39.4 and 


waving banners and U.S. flags. became an Olympic sport in missed his chance of a first indi­
American figure skaters John Zimmerman and Kyoko Ina took 
That kind of rowdy support 1964 -and was far ahead of vidual gold despite shooting
home a fifth place finish in Monday's pairs event. 
would have been enough to Albert Demtschenko of Russia. clean, 
Tuesday, February 12, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 17 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish win 10 at Windsor meet 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame indoor track and field team competed in a final tune-up meet for next weekend's Big East Championships at the University of Windsor Team Challenge in Windsor, Ontario, on Saturday, Feb. 9. Both the men and women captured five events over the course of the meet. 
In the 1,000 meters. seniors Sean Zanderson (2:30.46) and Pat Conway (2:30.95) finished first and second, respectively. Zanderson's victory was fol­lowed by freshman Trevor McClain-Duer's 1:22.55 first­place effort in the 600 meters. 
Senior Quill Redwine enjoyed a season's best effort in the high jump, clearing 2.02 meters (6-7 1/2) to take first place. Teammates Torn Gilbert (7 .00 meters -22-11 3/4) and Godwin Mbagwu (6.67 meters -21-10 3/4) ended up taking first and second place in the long jump. 
Back on the track, the 4x200­meter relay team posted an impressive 1:29.07 to take first place, while the 4x800 team fin­ished first in 7:52.63. 
The women's sprint corps took the opportunity to run on the same track dimensions as next weekend's conference meet and ended up posting two victories. 
Ayesha Boyd, who is compiling an impressive sophomore sea­son with the Irish, won the 60 meters with a 7.62 effort in the finals. She also ran a 7.57 time in the preliminaries. 
All-American Liz Grow fol­lowed up with a victory in the 300 meters. setting a new meet record in 37.90. Teammate Kymia Love was right behind Grow, taking second in 39.13 (which was also under the previ­ous track record). Both Grow and Love have already posted 400-meter times this year that rank in the nation's top 10. 
Tamcisha King, who was named the Most Outstanding Athlete of the Windsor meet last season, defended her 60-meter hurdle title with a 8.76 time in the finals. Freshman Tiffany Gunn took second place in 8.84, which is the best time of the sea­son for the Irish rookie. 
Junior Jamie Volkmer contin­ued to excel in the polo vault, winning the competition by clearing 3.60 meters (11-9 3/4). Sophomore Jill Van Weelden fin­ished second in the pole vault, clearing the same height. Volkmer also finished second in the triple jump. 
Freshman Emily Loomis was able to improve her season's best high jump effort, as she fin­ished second by clearing 1. 7 5 meters (5-8 3/4). 
The 4x200-meter relay team rounded out the Irish victories in the meet, taking first in 1:41.84. 
Next on the agenda for the Irish will be the 2002 Big East Indoor Championship in Syracuse, N.Y., on Feb. 16 and 17. 
We're not in Athens 
The Olympics ain't what they used to be. 
The events haven't changed that much, although snow­boarding has caught some major air and been elevated from X­Game to Olympic game sta­tus. 
A lot of the same countries are still there, albeit the Soviet Union isn't the world hockey power anymore because, well, there's no more Soviet Union. 
Most people. myself includ­ed, still don't understand where, when, or why the biathalon came to be or what those people yell at the other people who sweep the ice during curling. 
And yet it all used to be so cool. 
Cheering for your home country, watching so many different people come togeth­er to compete, or wondering out loud how fast those lugers were really going were the most entertaining ways to spend two weeks in the win­ter. 
But that's changed over the years. 
There was the Tonya Harding debacle, which made a hockey crosscheck look pos­itively noble by comparison. 
There was scandal in Salt Lake City about the means used. to bring the Games there in this Olympic year of 2002. 

Which sports feature ama­teurs and which pro has escaped most of us, save that if it's winter. then you better believe the NHL All-Stars are there. 
Miracle, schmiracle. If we're going to lose, we're going to lose with Rangers and Stars, not Wolverines and Spartans. Maybe we'll even trash some hotel rooms to boot. 
At least the guys in the skeleton seem to be ama­teurs. The only problem is I don't what in the heck the skeleton is. 
Of course, it's not just the Winter Olympics. At the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, which were entirely tape delayed on NBC, "doping scandal" got more airtime than all the countries' nation­al anthems put together. 
And this just in: the Dream Team was cool. In 1992. 
The rest of the world had started to talk some smack about our country's basket­ball prowess, so we decided to show them what was up. 
Show them what was up we did. Up, down, sideways, and back again. The scores have been more lopsided than a Bills' Super Bowl loss. On Dream Team 978, Vince Carter jumped (not just dunked. but jumped} over a seven foot-plus center from France. 
Without a doubt, the world now knows the United States can field the best team around. 
But do you even care any­more? 
I'd much rather watch Chris Thomas, Ryan Humphrey, or Matt Carroll go win a gold medal in the true amateur spirit that we used to associ­ate with these games. The scores might be a little closer, but after a 116-111 quadru­ple overtime win versus Georgetown this weekend, I think they're tough enough to handle it. 
Now I'm not saying that amateurs don't still make up the majority of Olympic ath­letes. As far as I can tell. they do. Even if they didn't, I don't know if you could make much of a living as a professional luger, so you can't begrudge athletes from less "prime­time" sports from trying to support themselves. 
But that "prime-time" atti­tude has taken over. If there's money to be made or national prestige to be gained, you better believe all countries. not just the United States, will line up their highest paid pro­fessionals in the sporting world's version of the arms race. 
Call me crazy, but Chris Chelios beating his Red Wings teammate Dominik Hasek isn't the stuff oflegends. 
Of course, I could have it all wrong. I used to watch the Olympics and for two weeks care about the athletes whose sports I wouldn't think about again for four more years. 
Maybe it's good some of us don't know exactly what the skeleton is. We can just mar­vel at the people who throw themselves headfirst on what looks to be a seat cushion with runners to go flying down an ice track at an insane speed. 
Why? Because they love the friggin' skeleton. 
Maybe getting a little older makes you forget what you liked about the Olympics in the first place: sitting there with mom and dad, watching split times in some alpine ski­ing event you didn't even understand. 
Maybe it makes you forget you still cheered., anyway. 
Or maybe now we're just too busy to care about any­thing but the "money sports": Super Bowl halftime shows presented by E-Trade or Team Nike instead of Team USA. 
I really hope it's not that last one. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. 


Notre Dame Film. Television, and Theatre presents 

At1or8 Frorn 'rlu} l1n1don Stage 
Macbeth 

Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 
Tuesday, February 12, 2002 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
SOCCER
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Carroll, Thomas net league honors 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame junior guard Matt Carroll and freshman point guard Chris Thomas have been honored as the Big East Conference 
Player and Rookie of the Week, respective­ly, after leading the Irish to two victories last week. 

Carroll, a Carroll 
first-time recipient of the league's weekly honor, is 
the co-recipient of the player­of-the-week award along with Michael Sweetney of Georgetown, while Thomas earns the conference's rookie­of-the-week honor for the fifth time this season. This is the first time that two Irish players have earned the league two honors in the same week. 
Carroll averaged 22.0 points and 5. 5 rebounds as he led Notre Dame to a win at home against Rutgers (89-72} and a quadruple overtime victory over Georgetown (116-111) in the longest game in Big East history. 
Against the Scarlet Knights, he finished with 14 points and three assists as he shot six-of­10 from the field and two-of­four from the free throw line. Carroll netted a career-high 30 points, scoring Notre Dame's final seven points in the fourth overtime period against the Boyas. He also finished with 10 rebounds while playing all but five minutes of the contest to register his second career dou­ble double. 

Carroll 
shot nine­
of-18 from 
the field in 
the game 
and was 
five-of-nine 
from three­
point range 
and seven­
of -nine 
from the free throw line. In the two games combined, he shot 53.6 percent from the field (15-28) and 53.8 percent from three­point range (7-13). 
Thomas has earned rookie­of-the week honors more than any other player this season; this is the second consecutive week he has garnered the award. Thomas posted a pair of double doubles in the two contests and averaged 27 .0 points, 11.5 assists, 5.0 rebounds and 2.5 steals. 
In playing 38 minutes against Rutgers, he scored a career­high 32 points and dished off 11 assists while hitting 10-of­14 from the field and seven-of­nine from three-point range. He played all 60 minutes in the Georgetown game and finished with 22 points, 12 assists, a personal best eight rebounds and made three steals. 
Gonzalez goes to WUSA 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame fifth-year defender Monica Gonzalez was the 11th overall selection in Monday's player draft by the second-year Women's United Soccer Association, with the Boston Breakers using their second-round pick to select the All-American defender. 
Gonzalez was the fourth defender selected, behind top pick Danielle Slaton (Santa Clara), North Carolina's Danielle Borgman (8th) and Casey Zimny of Connecticut (10th). The Big East Conference matched the Atlantic Coast 
(3) as the only conferences with three-plus players selected in the first 12 picks, with West Virginia forward Katie Barnes preceding her former Big East foes as the ninth overall pick (the Big East was the only conference with players from three different schools taken in the first dozen picks). 
The 5-11 Gonzalez could join three former Notre Dame players as members of the Breakers, as Boston's 2001 roster included former Irish defender and U.S. National Team defender Kate Sobrero, former ND forward Meotis Erikson and the NCAA's all-time assist leader. midfielder Holly Manthei. 
Ten former Notre Dame players competed in the eight-team league during the WUSA's inaugural 2001 season. 
Men's Soccer 
Notre Dame men's soccer coach Bobby Clark has announced the signing of seven prep standouts to national letters of intent. Joining the Irish program in the fall of 2002 will be three defenders, two midfielders, a foward and a goalkeeper. The signees include: defender Ben Crouse from Oak Park, California; forward Tony Megna from Middleton, Wisc.; goalkeeper Justin Michaud from Austin, Texas; defender Dale Rellas from Plano, Texas; midfielder John Stephens from Woodbridge, Ill.s and defender Nick Tarnay from Cleveland, Ohio. 
"This is a class my staff [including assistant coaches Brian Wiese and Mike Avery] worked very hard to identify." Clark said. "All seven 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Monica Gonzalez was the 11th draft pick by the Women's United Soccer Association. 
of these individuals are excited about coming to Notre Dame and playing soccer. This is a group that really believes in the direction of our program and that Notre Dame can be a soccer power. 
"All seven of these players have great potential and sets us up for the future. It is a class of considerable depth and quality. Looking at the makeup of this group, these players comprise a team that will have an impact on the growth of our program." 

JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW 
JPW TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
7-1.0PM 
ROOM J:08 LAFORTUNE 
Tuesday, Feb. 12 Wednesday, Feb. 13 
Traditionally, a $2 donation is requested lrom each juniorparticipating la JPW. This donation henelits a local charity and Is collected.at ticketdistribution. Our selected eharlty this year is the Center £or the Homeless. Please give generously. 


NEW INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
BRAZIL -Spring 2003 
RIO DE JANEIRO 
-
SAO PAULO 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
TUESDAY, .FEBRLLI\RY 12TH 
5:30-6:30 125 Hayes-Healy 
THUH.SDAY, FEBRUA.RY 21sr 5:30-6:30 125 Hayes-Healy 
JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW 

Tuesday, February 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 

It used to be the end of a great night. It could soon be the start of a great day. 
FORTUNE. At Ernst & Young, we believe that when you100 BEST wake up in the morning. you should be excitedf9~C~J~j~ about the day ahead. The challenges of the 
workplace should keep you stimulated, your capabilities should be stretched, and your horizons continually broadened. Because only when our people grow. both professionally and personally, do we grow as a company. Oh happy day! 
ey.com/us/careers • 
ill ERNsr&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
page 19 
,. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Batteast named Big East best 
Spedal to the Observer 
Notre Dame freshman forward Jacqueline Batteast joined an elite sorority on Monday when she was selected as the Big East Conference 
Rookie of the Week for the sixth time, shar• ing the honor with Providence forward Jessica 

Simmonds. Batteast 
Battcast is only the second player in school history, and the sixth athlete in conference annals, to win six Big East Rookie of the Week cita­tions in a single campaign. Junior guard Alicia Ratay also took home six rookie awards during the 1999-2000 season. 
In addition, Notre Dame is just the second league school to have two six-time Big East Rookie of the Week selections Connecticut forward Rebecca Lobo holds the conference record with seven rookie acco­lades. while Husky forward Svetlana Abrosimova won top freshman laurels on six occa• sions. 
Batteast averaged 17.0 points and 11.0 rebounds per game while posting back-to-back dou­ble-doubles last week, leading the Irish to a pair of critical Big East victories over Pittsburgh and No. 16/18 Boston College. She registered 16 points and a game-high 12 rebounds last Tuesday night at Pittsburgh, before chalking up game bests of 18 points and 10 rebounds in Sunday's triumph over BC. The latter performance was her 11th double-double of the season (and fourth in as many games). tying her with Connecticut for. ward Swin Cash for the Big East lead. 
For the season, Batteast ranks fourth in the Big East in scoring 
(15.3 ppg.). second in rebound­ing (8.8 rpg.), third in blocked shots (1.59 bpg.) and first in double-doubles (10), one of just two players to place in the top five in all four categories. She also is the only Big East fresh• man to lead her team in both 
::,,.
scoring and rebounding. 
In other Notre Dame news, the 
Irish jumped back into the Top 
25 this week, checking in at No. 
23 in the most recent Associated 
Press poll which was released 
Monday afternoon. Notre Dame 
is not ranked in the latest 
ESPN/USA Today coaches' poll, 
receiving 29 points which would 
>
place the Irish 29th in the nation if the poll were extended. Notre Dame was ranked in the first four AP polls of the 2001-02 sea­son, reaching as high as No. 15 before falling out after a 2·4 start, thereby snapping a run of 56 consecutive weeks in the AP ,.. Top 25 survey. 
WE WANT YOU FOR OBSERVER SPORTS. 
CALL 1-4543 

page 20 
::.. 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 12, 2002 

match-up between the two teams in which the Trojans beat the
Woinen 
Irish by the same score of 5-2. continued from page 24 For his part, Louderback was 
thrilled by the team's perfor­advantage by earning the dou­mance against their California bles point. A key victory 8-6 by rival. Katie Cunha and Sarah Jane ''Beating SC was a great win," Connelly against the nation's No. he said. "It was really nice to see 24 doubles squad of Anita Loyola us play so well." and Launa Magnani clinched the Unfortunately, neither Friday's point and provided key momen­nor Saturday's competitions tum heading into singles action. would be so successful. In both 
With the No.  showings  against  the  
1,  3,  and  5  Commodores  
spots playing first, Lindsey Green and Alicia Salas both cruised to easy victories  "The score didn't show it, but I think we played well against a great team."  and Tar Heels, the Irish lost the doubles point and were unable to  
to give the team a 3-1 advantage after two  Jay Louderback head coach  r e c o v e r e n o u g h ground in sin­gles.  
rounds of play. Connelly  In team's  the 5-2  

clinched the win in the third loss to Vandy, only Green and round with a 6-4, 6-3 victory at Salas prevented a complete No. 6, while Nina Vaughan shutout by earning singles victo­added a 7-6, 6-3 upset of USC's ries. And Salas earned the team's Magnani as icing on the cake. only point against Carolina with The upset win proved to be another gutsy singles showing. revenge for the pre-season Despite the disappointing out­
come, Louderback still feels that the team played well over the weekend, especially against Vanderbilt (who eventually advanced to the finals). 
"The score didn't show it, but I think we played well against a great team," said Louderback. "If we could have taken the doubles point, that match would have been a lot different." 
As for Salas, who improves her singles record to 11-0 on the year, Louderback was especially impressed. 
"She's done so well for us at the number five spot, but I think she'll be moving up for us at some point during the year," he said. 
Such a move could prove to be a huge help to a team whose struggles have stemmed in part from a lack of comfort with play­ing position. 
"All of our players have to get used to playing up a couple of spots in the lineup," said Louderback. "I think once we get that straightened out, we'll be an even better team." 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 

6-4 win at No. 5. improving his Championships. had an answer for. It came to 2 lead. Sophomore Matthew record to 17-2 this season, hut "I hope I can build on this," crunch time and Ijust didn"t pull Scott tied the match and
Men 
I sophomore Luis Haddock­said Taborga. it out." improved to 10-0 in dual match­I continued from page 24 Morales" close 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 loss On Saturday the Irish faced The Irish had taken the dou­es with a 7-6 (7-4), 4-6, 6-3 win 'I , at No. 4 decided the match. No. 5 Mississippi and Talarico bles point with an 8-2 win at No. at No. 5, before the Stahlberg­I I "Matt Scott has been so reli­fought a marathon match 3 by Talarico and D'Amico. Talarico endurance contest :' Boeker, taking the match 6-4, 6-able," said Taborga. against No. 51 Kristofer Seniors James Malhame and decided the match. I 2. "If you look at the score Stahlberg. Stahlberg won 6-4, 4-Ashok Raju won 8-5 at No. 2. "We had two losses, but we felt'I I "I think I played probably the against Georgia, it says 4-2, but 6, 7-5 after battling with Taborga earned his second better about our team than we I I best tennis I've played at Notre it was much closer than that," Talarico for three hours. Their upset singles victory of the week­did going in. We know we 
Dame," said Taborga. "I've said Taborga. "If we can beat match was the only one still end when he beat 21st-ranked belong, that we are a top-10
' 
I struggled years before and it's Georgia we can beat any team." going for the last 45 minutes, as Alex Hartman 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 at team now," said Talarico. 
I 
' been great to feel the confidence Taborga's upset victory was Stahlberg started shoving salt No. 1. "Everyone knows it, and we defi­
I 
a win gives you. Tennis is a not his first experience defying into his mouth to try to fight at Paul Ciorascu won a 6-3, 3-6, nitely showed it." game you have to play with a lot the mighty tennis rankings. Last attack of muscle cramping. 6-4 victory over Haddock­of confidence." year he upset Stanford's third­"[Stahlberg] reminded me of Morales at No. 4 and Catalin 
Contact Katie Hughes at
Sophomore Matt Scott followed ranked K.J. Hippensteel, in the myself," said Talarico. "He just Gard defeated Smith 4-6, 6-2, 6­
khughes@nd.edu
up Taborga"s victory with a 6-4, ITA All-American didn"t quit. Everythin,g I had he 2 at No. 3, ltiving the Rebels a 3­
The 
What is the Liturgy of the Hours? The Liturgy ofthe Hours is aseries ofprayers based on the Psalms said throughout the course ofthe day. The tradition ofthe Liturgy ofthe Hours goes back to before the time ofChrist. Christ Himselfprayed it in its earlier forms. Morning and Evening prayer lasts approximately 20 minutes each. 
Liturgy 
Why should we pray the Liturgy of the Hours? Christ invites us, as Paul writes, to "Pray without ceasing." The Liturgy of the Hours expresses our mindfulness ofthat call and it is an act ofconsecration oftime. 

the Hours 
Why start during lent? Lent is a time ofrecommitting ourselves to God's service through and in prayer. Liturgy ofthe Hours is starting during Lent because in Lent we have the opportunity to establish ourselves in new ways ofliving our lives, to fast beyond and he enriched kY Easter. The Liturgy ofthe Hours is valuable specifically as adaily offering, complementing the rest ofthe Church's prayers and seasons. What we begin during lent, we will continue through the rest ofthe yea,: 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother 
(Coleman -Morse Center) Monday through Friday 
Morning Prayer (Lauds) 8:45 a.m. Evening Prayer (Vespers) 5:00p.m. 
Beginning Ash Wednesday 



page 21 

CLUB SPORTS 
Ultimate team finishes strong 
Special to the Observer 
Baton Rouge again hosted the Mardi Gras invitational as Ultimate clubs gathered from all over the nation for this premier event. The Irish men's squad showed their resiliency as they bounced back from a disap­pointing opening day to fin­ish strong. 
On Saturday. the club dropped a 13-9 contest to Yale and fell 10-7 to Florida before catching fire to top Wisconsin, 13-10. With top scorer Cletus Willems and Robert Bruggner running the attack, the Irish then blew by Iowa State, 13-7 to climb back into contention for the B Division champi­onship. 
Stellar defense by rookies Matt Sullivan and Holden Bonwit shut down Oklahoma, 13-8, in the quarters, and the Irish comeback reached high tide in a furious back and forth game as Notre Dame top­pled the home standing LSU Tigers to reach the finals. 
Emotionally drained and physically spent entering their fourth game of the day, the Irish were unable to match their earlier per­' formance, as they lost the c hampionship, 13-9 to 
Arkansas. 
Ski 
Molly Munsterer's domi­nation of the MCSA ski com­petition stretched through its third week as she placed first in the giant slalom and second in the slalom in the Michigan Divisionals. Danielle Clements took fourth and Ellen Block 19th in the slalom. while the duo then placed 17th and 10th respectively in the giant slalom. 
The big news was on the men's side as the men fin­ished third in the Divisionals, their best show­ing ever. Marc Pribaz' sixth in the giant slalom is also the best men's individual performance in Irish histo­ry. His efforts were comple­mented by strong showings by Dan Block, ninth, Wes Jacobs, tenth. Joe Payne, 18th, and Eric Hansen, 19th in the giant slalom to secure the overall third place fin­ish. In the slalom, Block fin­ished 18th, best among the Irish team. Next week, the club will trek to Marquette, Mich. for the MCSA Regional championships. 
Women's Water Polo 
The Notre Dame women's water polo club won one of four games at the Michigan State Invitational. The results in one of the strongest fields in the country did not reflect the continuing improvement of the Irish as they are building for the nationals. 
In the opening round, the club fell 14-5 to the defending national cham­pion Spartans. After drop­ping a game to Big Ten power Purdue a week ago by eleven goals, the Irish dropped a much closer fought 11-7 contest with the Boilermakers. 
The Irish defeated Northwestern, 8-5, before dropping a 10-3 contest to Slippery Rock, one of the premier varsity programs in the country and former NCAA national champion. 
Lauren Kuzniar and Liz Parolin continue to lead the scoring, and they are getting stronger support in a more balanced attack featuring freshmen Erin Hempstead and Kimmy Moore, and sophomore Allison Gienko. 
With Brigette Alge grow­ing more comfortable in goal each week, the club's confidence gained by play­ing top competition should bode well for the season. Irish fans will have an opportunity to catch the club in action this week­end as they host a confer­ence tournament at Rolfs Aquatics. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
The Irish challenged defending national club champion Maryland on their home ice this week• end, and gave them all they could handle before falling 4-2. Nell Ryan's slap shot with five minutes remaining in the third period knotted the score at 2-2, before Maryland scored the game winner with less than a minute left in regulation. An empty net shot with seconds remaining completed the scoring. 
Inspired by their great performance at College Park, the Irish traveled to Washington D.C. the next day and skated circles around American University, out-shooting the Eagles 55-8 in a 7-0 rout. Allison Ricci's hat trick and Heather Reilly's first goal of the season highlighted a game in which Staci Green scored twice and Nell Ryan com­pleted the scoring. Goalie Aimee Dietrich recorded her first shutout of the season. 
HOCKEY 
Cey stops way to top spot in CCHA 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame freshman goaltender Morgan Cey has been named the Central Collegiate Hockey Association's Rookie of the Week for the week ending February 10th. 
Cey stopped 75 of the 78 shots he faced on the weekend as he led the Fighting Irish to a split versus nationally ranked Michigan State at Munn Arena in East Lansing, Mich. 
Michigan State came into the weekend series ranked third in the USA Today/American Hockey Magazine poll and fourth in the U.S. College Hockey Online poll and had gone unbeaten in 33 consecutive games dating back to Oct. 21, 2000. 
The 6-3. 175-pound goaltender started the weekend series on Friday night with a career-high 41 saves as he gave up a lone power play goal in the second period of a 2-0 loss. The Spartans scored into an empty net with 12 seconds left for the final goal of the game. Cey was named the second star of the night. 
In Saturday's 3-2 win, Cey stopped 34 of 36 Michigan State shots to snap the Spartan's unbeaten streak at 30-0-3 and give the Irish their first win at Munn Arena since Nov. 1, 1997. 
Cey made 19 saves in the second period as Michigan State cut the Notre Dame lead to 3­2 at 6:36 of the stanza, but that was all the freshman netminder would let past him for his ninth win of the season. He was chosen the game's first star. 
Choosing a Major? You too can unlock the secrets of the ages in PLS! 
A<:. ~ ff\f.M6EIZ OF ~E 
0 
/lMI Of L16£.~ Sn,'t)11:.S t1t 1 :[ 1Jlau1.i, L\¥of. To 
'E~f.F.'SS f1\'1 
!\!"qU. °''-'-.. 
lE'1T"Efl..l>A"\ ~ 
CM,-..~. 
_/ 

Informational meeting about the Program of Liberal Studies February 13, 2002 5:30pm LaFortune's Montgomery Auditorium 
,_ 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 12, 2002 
FENCING 
Irish leave no question with 23-4 win 

By MIKE CONNOllY Sports Writer 
Two weeks ago, Northwestern head coach Laurie Schiller ques­tioned Notre Dame's toughness. He mocked the Irish conditioning regime. He ridiculed their prac­tices. 
"They have voluntary practice and don't do conditioning," Schiller told the Daily Northwestern on Feb. L 
And then his team nipped a short-handed Irish squad 15-12 in Colorado Springs. 
This weekend, the Irish had something to prove. In a rematch with the Wildcats, the Irish, now with all their top fencers, sent Schiller a message: Talk is cheap, and it's time to cash in. 
Notre Dame dominated Northwestern from start to finish and walked away with a con­vincing 23-4 win at the Ohio State duals Saturday. 
"We were all pumped up because the Northwestern coach was saying some things we didn't appreciate so we were all gung-ho for the match," said epeeist Kerry Walton, who went undefeated against Northwestern and 10-1 overall. 
The biggest difference for the Irish was the return to action of freshman foilist Andrea Ament. Ament missed last week's match with Northwestern because she was fencing in a World Cup tour-
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 www.nd.edu/-ministry 
E-da-,------­
campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D' Alonzo, csc, Director 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 

_._,nesdav 
Ash Wednesday Mass 
11 :30 a.m. & 5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. 
nament in Germany. 
With Ament's return to the team, Maggie Jordan moved back to her stronger weapon ­sabre -and the Irish rout was on. 
"Everyone was back where they were supposed to be and it obviously made the difference," Walton said. 
Ament's 3-0 record against the Wildcats certainly helped, but across the board. the Irish women fenced better than last week. 
Fifth-year senior Cari McCullough went undefeated against the Wildcats while epeeist Meagan Call turned an 0­3 record against the Wildcats in Colorado Springs into a 2-1 record this weekend. 
An increase in intensity and focus was the key against Northwestern, according to sabrewoman Destanie Milo who went 2-1 against the Wildcats. 
"All week we had in mind that we wanted to come back and beat Northwestern when we had a second chance against them," she said. "We were really intense and very focused on beating them. It's amazing what that mindset can do for you." 
The Irish also defeated Ohio State 15-12, Wayne State 23-4 and Cleveland State 26-1. 
As the women avenged a pre­vious defeat, the Jrish men's team kept right on rolling as they racked up four wins and 

dav 
San Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Crypt 

_______dav 
Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Marriage Prepartion Retreat 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Bible Study (in Chinese) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. Call 631-5653 for information 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

_._urdav 
Dinner with Parents of African American Juniors 
3:00 p.m. 103 Coleman-Morse Center 
Junior Parents' Weekend Mass 
increased their winning streak to 55-straight dual meets. 
The toughest challenge for the Irish came against the Buckeyes and their strong sabre and epee squads. 
Ohio State's sabre squad fea­tured two national team fencers hi Jason Rogers and Colin Parker but Notre Dame still prevailed 5­
4. Rogers swept the Irish in his three bouts but both Andre Crompton and Matt Fabricant beat Parker. 
The next time he meets Rogers. however, Crompton expects to do better. 
"This was the first time I've fenced him collegially and now I have a feel for how he fences and I will do better next time," he said. 
The men's epee team could not overcome an injury to star fresh­man Michal Sobieraj, however, and dropped the bout to the Buckeyes 5-4. 
"We probably wouldn't have lost to Ohio state in epee, if we had him there," epee captain Jan Viviani said. "We definitely shouldn't have lost to them. They've beaten some good teams this year and they are a little better than we expected but still." 
The men's foil team, however, crushed the Buckeyes 7-2 to give the Irish a 16-11 win. 
The men also defeated Northwestern 22-5, Wayne State 21-6 and Cleveland State 25-2. 

MIKE CONNOLLY/The Observer 
Junior Jan Viviana attacks an opponent during the 2001 NCAA Championships. 
Notes: tion before then," Crompton 
Sobieraj, who was not initially said. "If he is not going to be expected to return from his bro­ready, we aren't going to risk it. ken foot until the Midwest Regionals is what really mat­Regional Qualifiers on March 9, ters." could return for the Midwest Sobieraj has gone 26-1 in his Conference Championships on debut season. March 2-3. But if he isn't ready, the Irish aren't going to rush 
Contact Mike Connolly at 
him. 
connolly.28@nd.edu.
"We've got to assess his condi-
Retreats 
sign , 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
Freshman Retreat #40 
Retreat Date: Feb. 22-23 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Jan. 28 -Monday, Feb. 18 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #70 
Retreat Date: Mar. 22-23, 2002 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 18 -Friday, Feb. 22 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

First Sunday of Lent 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
RCIA-Purification & Enlightenment 
10:00-11 :30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Spanish Mass 
1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
Morrissey Chapel 5:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. Joyce Center Law School Chapel
V(~ ;., ::'-~aivrda~r fe-~ntar~ 1;}'.1.~ MBA Mass ,{<¾.'.V -; .. C-cfe,n1.n,-MotW ~fr,y 
7:00 p.m. 
Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
J ~-;:'~ r . f__. 0 _v .. e,' 
CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS 27 Billiards surface 52 Longtime Kenyan leaderIt puts people 29 Person with a out ball 53 Brewed drink 54 Nightshade6 Dry, to 30 Buy-one-get­family plant oenotogists one-free item? 55 Straphanger's9 Wedding wear 31 McDonald's equipment ride14 Informed 33 Hunting dogs 56 Buy-one-get­15 Monopoly one-free item?35 Proposal killers space: Abbr. 58 Gather37 Rusk in J.F.K.'s16 Puccini's love cabinet 60 Modern memos 17 Turned back, 38 Like Internet 61 Umbragesay news sites 62 Isuzu model 18 Buy-one-get­41 Latch pieces 63 Throw off one-free item? 45 Buy-one-get­64 Mortgage nos.20 Collected one-free item? 65 Singer Kay21 From within: Lat. 46 Diplomatic woe 23 Org. with tags 48 Grammy winner DOWN24 25-round Cohn 1 Buy-one-get­magazine gun 49 Acquisition from one-free item? 25 Buy-one-get­a deal 2 Buy-one-get­one-free item? 50 Buy-one-get­one-free item? 26 Snowman prop one-free item? 3 Without thinking 4 Prior to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Draw upon again 6 Texas/Louisiana border river 7 Makes clear 8 Well-balanced 9 Explorer Cabeza de_ 10 Big bird ,.,,,.+=+-,,.+,'"4 11 Grunt .,,,.+.,.,+-,-+.,.,+:::-1 12 "The Virginian" role 13 Waitress, e.g. __.............. 19 Famous Bruin .....+-+-t......,.... 22 Jacqueline of T "Bullitt" E S T Y 26 Wonder, slangily  Puzzle by P1tr1ck Beny 28 Looked after 30 Attempt 32 Big laugh 34 German 36 "The Three Princes of (fairy tale) 38 Poe poem 39 Fir exudation 40 Mouthless comic strip character 42 1989-90 dance craze from Brazil  43 Buy-one-get­50Big_ one-free item? 51 Becomes frayed 44 Buy-one-get­54 Fiery place one-lree item? 45 Science fiction 57 Order from piece? Domino's 47 Warning lights 59 Pithy comment Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  CELEBRITIES BORN ON you crazy today. Try to be patient nns DAY: Garth Brooks, Miguel and tolerant butdon't put up with Ferrer, Charles Dickens, Chris abuse. Do your own chores and Rock leave the rest. 00 Happy Birthday: You have an LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You interest in money, investments, will want to travel today. The property and the personal affairs more you get to see and experi­of others this year. You will take ence the better. Oose friends will pride in your home and do what­add to your fun. Look out for ever is necessary to raise its value. something special in the mail. Don't shy away from doing the 0000 work yourself at this time. You'll SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): instinctively know what will work You will get sound financial and what won't this year. Your advice if you ask someone with numbers are 16, 23, 25, 33, 38, 47 experience about investments and ARIES (March 21-April 19): moneymaking opportunities. Your ability to absorb everything Don't lend money or possessions that is going on around you will to friends. 000 contribute to the decisions .you SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22.-Dec. 21): make. Share your findings with ff you are in a partnership, expect otheIS. 00000 to have some disagreements TAURUS (April 20-May 20): today. Take time to consider what Put your time and effort into is important to you in a partner. maintaining and fixing up your You are better off by yourself than home. Money spent on property with someone who doesn't com­and domestic products will be plement you. 00 well worthyourwhile. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): GEMINI (May 21-J11ne 20): Don't push your luck with author­You will be emotional about your ity figures. Keep a low profile and relationship. ff someone you care refrain from getting into debates about is being difficult, give him with co-workers. You may find or her space today. Make plans to yourself losing ground if you try do something interesting with a to change. 000 close friend. 00 AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18): CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your contribution to a worthwhile Take time out to do something cause will enhance your reputa­nice for someone you work with tion and introduce you to promi­who is going through tough times. nent individuals. You have a lot to Your kindness will be repaid offer and if you let your imagina­when you need help in return. tion take over you'll even surprise 000 yourselftoda~0000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get out PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): and do things that will be uplift­Someone you thought you could ing today. Your friends will praise trust is probably talking behind your insightful opinions. Creative your back. Older relatives may be projects will help you feel good a burden today. Do what you can about yourself. 00000 to help but not at the expense of VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): neglecting your own responsibili­Someone athome is likely to drive ties. 00 Birthday Baby: You can be impulsive, independent, sensitive and inventive. You are forever jumping from one thing to another. You_ have  
a unique approach to life that will always have an element of surpnse.  
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,  
eugenialastcom, astromate.com.)  

Tuesday, February 12, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 


RYANTOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNIGNHAM 
THANKS TO THE BASKETBALi. TEAM, TAWNG TO 
NO, MA. t>ON'T THINIC Of IT AS PAYING FOR 
THE PARENTS JUST GOT A LITTLE EASIER 
AN EXTRA YEAR OF COUEGE, THINK OF IT AS MY VNDERGAAtlVAni EXPERIENCE 60IN. INTO OVERTIME. OR MVLTIPLE OVERTIMES, AS THE CASE MAV BE ... MA? ARE YOU TH~E? HELLO? 
BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 


© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ Jo 
Campus Sports .0111:RVER Campus Sports 
. Fencing, p. 22 
. Men's Basketball, p. 18 
. 
Club Sports, p. 21 . Women's Soccer, p. 18 

. 
Hockey, p. 21 . Track and Field, p. 17 

. 
Women's Basketball, p. 19 . Column -Fox, p. 17


PORTS 
Tuesday, February 12, 2002 
ND TENNIS 
Irish mix it up at tournies 
. Taborga upsets opponent during USTA/ITA tournies 
By KATIE HUGHES Assistanc Sports editor 
There's nothing like shaking things up in the top-10 to prove you belong there. . 
The Irish competed for the first time since 1996 in the USTMTA National Team Indoor Championships in Louisville, Ky. last weekend. establishing beyond a doubt that they belong in the top 10 with three close matches against top-10 teams. 
"We faced more top-10 teams this weekend than we usually face in a whole season," said senior Aaron Talarico. 
The Irish started out the tourna­ment by beating No. 7 Pepperdine 4-3 on Thursday. They won the doubles point but lost the first three singles matches. Casey Smith's win against No. 54 Calle Hansen decid­ed the match after Matt Scott's 6-3, 6-3 win, and Luis Haddock­Morales' 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (8-6) victory for the Irish. 
On Friday Notre Dame lost a tight match to No. 1-ranked Georgia. Taborga faced Matias Boeker, defending NCAA singles and dou­bles champion. The Bulldogs had won the doubles point despite an 8­6 win by senior Aaron Talarico and freshman Brent D'Amico, and Taborga went into his match with the Irish trailing 2-0. 
"I don't think Georgia expected such a tough match," said Talarico. "We were a tiebreaker in doubles away from making that match." 
No. 95 ranked Taborga upset 
see MEN/page 20
... 

. Irish win important match against USC, fall in two others 
By COLIN BOYLAN Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame women's tennis team headed to Madison, Wisc. to take part in the USTMTA National Indoor Championships last week, the team pinpointed its first round match-up against rival USC as the most important test of the tournament. 
As it turned out, the team passed that test with flying colors, beating the Trojans by a convincing S--2 score, but faltered against later opponents Vanderbilt and North Carolina, 5-2 and 6-1 respectively. 
The Irish finished the tournament with a 1-2 mark that dropped their season record to a 4-4, but no one on the squad seems particularly apprehensive about the slow start. 
"I think our team has played well so far this season," said head coach Jay Louderback. "We're not too concerned with our record at this point." 
Part of the reason for that is the fact that three of the Irish losses have come against top-25 oppo­nents. Vanderbilt boasted a No. 4 national ranking heading into the tournament and North Carolina looks solid at No. 16. Moreover, the Irish have proven to themselves that they can play with anyone in the nation, a notion that was only solidified by the their victory against USC. 
Notre Dame opened tournament action on Thursday against the Trojans and quickly took a decisive 
see WOMEN/page 20 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles sting Hornets in historic win 
schedule. Despite this adversi­the 200-yard IM and led the years. A major difference from stretch of its season. In a con­
By NATALIE BAILEY 
ty, many swimmers turned in Belles to three of the top four last year is the change of the ference with all coeducational Sports Writer 
season-best performances. positions. Ramsey's time of coaching staff. This is Petcoff's institutions, Saint Mary's tends "They were ready to go," said 5:20.57 won the 500-yard first year at Saint Mary's and to be overlooked. 
Saint Mary's continues to head coach Gregg PetcofT. freestyle and she was also a sophomore Chloe Lenihan finds "We are all pumped for [the make history, claiming victory Sophomore Julie member of the winning 400-his presence to have made a Conference meet]." said against Kalamazoo for the first McGranahan dropped 10 sec­yard freestyle relay team. difference. Lenihan. "We want to prove to time on Saturday, 132 to 91. onds in the 200-yard butterfly In the 200-yard breastrokc, "Gregg is very experienced the other schools that they The Belles wrap up their dual with a first-place time of 2 min­the Belles swept the top three and very knowledgeable about can't ignore Saint Mary's meet season with a record of 3-utes, 22.11 seconds. This time positions with junior Lauren the sport of swimming," said because we are an all-girls 3 with two other wins against places her at fifth in the con­Smith finishing first with a time Lenihan. "He is excellent at school." Olivet and Albion earlier in the ference for the event, which of 2:38.02. Smith took second working on the line-ups and he Saint Mary's will participate season. should help in seeding at the behind Ramsey in the 500-yard knows when to push us and in the MIAA Swimming and 
In their last dual meet of the conference meet. freestyle. how hard." Diving Championships Feb. 21­season, the Belles faced the Saint Mary's won both diving While Kalamazoo is admit­Armed with the best record 23. 
..... adversity of missing a top events and seven of the 11 tedly a smaller and weaker in recent history, Saint Mary's swimmer and competing at a swimming events. Megan team than last year, Saint swim team is filled with confi­Contact Natalie Bailey at difficult stage in their training Ramsey's time of 2:17.83 won Mary's is stronger than in past dence as it enters the final bail l 407@saintmarys.edu. 
. Women's Basketball vs. St. Johns, Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Men's Basketball at Rutgers, Thursday, 9 p.m.
SPORTS 
online 
. Women's Tennis vs. Tennessee, Saturday, 10 a.m. AT AGLANCE . Men's Tennis vs. Wisconsin, Saturday, 2p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
-








