-. -·-·­

VOL XX VI NO. 53 
Phillips speaks on dismissal 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
The assistant rector recently asked to leave 
Pasquerilla \Vest over a private personnel 
matter involving hall rector Sister Sue Bruno, 
said Bruno complained that the two were "not 
close enough." 
Cynthia Phillips, a second-year law student, 
said the rector gave her three weeks to make 
Bruno like her or she would be asked to leave. 
Bruno declined to comment on the situation. 
"I cannot give any comment on anything 
with regard to Cynthia," said Bruno. 
In at statement to The Observer, Phillips 
said, "(Bruno and I] never had any type of 
conflict and I had always supported her and 
the style in which she chose to lead the 
dorm." 
Phillips moved out of PW this week after 
reaching an agreement with the Office of 
Student Activities. Under the terms of her 
agreement with the University, Phillips will 
still receive her AR benefits of free room and 
board and reduced tuition for the rest of the 
academic year though she will no longer per­
form her duties or reside in the dorm. · Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for 
Student Affairs. declined to comment on 
Phillip's claims. 
"We stand behind the decisions made." Kirk 
said, "and support Sister Sue as hall rector." 
1/elena PafJne contributed to this report. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu 

HTTP://OBSERV . . 
Asian Allure to hit stage Saturday 
By LINDA SKALSKJ News Writer 
"Hey everybody body, look at 
me!" 
These lyrics of Korean pop band I ligh Five of Teenagers are enough to get David Duffie, Shawn Park. Byung Moon Kim and Hae Dong Lee of the Korean Student Association to bust out their dance moves at Asian Allure. 
"The music has a different beat 
from American rap and hip-hop," 
Duffie said. "And yet the four of us 
have been 
nicknamed the See Also 
K o r e a n 
"The Asian
NSync." The group Experience" will perform 
page 10
Saturday at 
Asian Allure, a 
cultural fashion show. at 7 p.m. in 
Washington Hall. The show fea­
tures traditional and modern dance 
performances by ethnic clubs and 
choreographed modeling segments. 
The event is co-sponsored by the Photo courtesy of the Asian American Association Asian American Association and Performers at last year's Asian Allure strike a pose to the cheers of Multicultural Student Programs and 
their audience. This year's Asian Allure will be held on Saturday.
Services and includes over 120 per­
those traditional things that people aspects to modeling, and I really
formers. This year's theme is have perceptions of," said Park. tried to make it overall entertain­
"Generazians: Bridging the Gap." 
"\Ve want to show the new genera-ing," Deleon said. "This year we
"\Ve want to communicate the 
tion of Korean adolescents and have more dance sequences and 
essence of being Asian American, 
other Asian countries." less walking and turning."
and that includes our traditional 
The show is produced entirely by Models are of all different ethnici­
past as well as the present," said 
students. Joyce DeLeon coordinated ties. not exclusively Asians, and this
Elizabeth Tran, president of the 
the models for this year's show, and diversity is meant to send a mes­Asian American Association. 
Ting Aurelio choreographed their sage, Aurelio said.
"We're trying to represent Korean line segments.
and our culture in present day, not 
"There are so many different see ALLURE/page 4 


Complaints motivate SMC email changes 
more options because it can beBy SARAH NESTOR 
customized. Students will be 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
able to create mini list-servs. 
manage address books and per­
Students at Saint Mary's sonalize the web mail interface experiencing problems with by changing the color scheme, campus e-mail can look for­fonts and adding icons. ward to the problem being A campus directory will also solved. be accessible from the Web 
Complaints about the slow­mail interface, which will ness. unreliability and lack of include student e-mail address­features available through the es, campus addresses and current IMP server caused the phone numbers. The current technology department to eval­directory, accessible from the uate the current e-mail server. Saint Mary's Internet site, will Information technology has still be available. been working on implementing "The interface outlook is a new system for the past six much easier and is a lot more months and plans to install the streamlined," Fowlkes said. software in December. Another option that will be 
"At some point over break we available to students is to create will be switching over the sys­an online calendar. The calen­tems. The new service will be a dar can be for personal or pub­lot faster and will make things lic use. Faculty and staff will more reliable," Director of also be able to create their own Information Technology Keith calendars, on which they can Fowlkes said. post office hours and times they 
Part of the problem with the are available for appointments. current e-mail service is that it "This is a service \Ve have not does not have the capacity to had on campus for the general handle the amount of users who population," Fowlkes said. "It use the system, Fowlkes said. will allow students, faculty and The installation of the new soft­staff to better organize and it ware, SunONE, will make web can be downloaded onto Palm mail access easier to use and Pilots." increase dependability. Students can also expect to 
In addition, the new Wcbmail interface will give students see TECH/page 4 

Run remembers Mara Fox 
work with Spanish-speaking Against Drunk Driving and
By MELISSA LOU 
children -requirements that with the Virginia chapter of 
News Writer 

match Mara's hopes and Alcohol Safety Action 
Lyons Hall will commemo­dreams. Program. rate the 10th anniversary of "It is a way of keeping her Lyons Hall embraces this the Mara Fox 5-kilometer dreams alive," McCarthy run as its signature event and Fun Run Saturday morning in said. expects almost 100% partici­remembrance of former The scholarship has been pation from the Hall. Lyons resident Mara Fox. awarded seven times since its "Sections dress up and run who was killed in 1993. inception, with a male stu­it together," said Bridget 
"Sister Kathleen Batty dent receiving it for the first Welch, one of the race's coor­[then-rector of the hall] initi­time this year. The recipient, dinators. ated the run within weeks of Mark Ryan, had a startling Bridgette and her co-coor­Mara's death. She did it in connection with Mara. dinator, Caitlin Early, have order to raise money in "After the award was hand­been planning the Fun Run [Mara's] name for a memori­ed out, I received a note from since the beginning of the al scholarship," said Te.res a Mark Ryan,· who told me that year with a crew of 20 volun­McCarthy, Fox's mother. his older brother graduated teers from the hall. They 
"This run was a way of in 1995 and knew Mara," expect at least 300 people to making some good come out McCarthy said. "His brother participate this year. of the tragic events surround­[Bob Ryan] took Spanish with "Everybody knows her ing Mara's death," said Lyons her and he used to walk her story. There is still a connec­Hall rector Susan Dunn. to class." tion [with Mara] in the hall. 
Mara died in a hit-and-run Mara was taking that The fact that her parents accident in November of Spanish class when she died. come back every year means 1993. She was a Spanish and A picture of the class, includ­that we still have a connec­psychology major who ing Bob Hyan, hangs in her tion with the family," Welch dreamed of studying abroad bedroom in Virginia and a said. in Toledo and someday work­Central American Cross, This year. McCarthy will be ing with Hispanic children. donated by this class and joined by Mara's old room­
"This event keeps her filled with their signatures, is mate, Jennifer Immo, and her memory alive. I know she currently on display in the husband Paul. The race wholeheartedly agrees with Lyons chapel. begins Saturday morning at it," McCarthy said. "It is as if the circle has the Lyons basketball court. 
The scholarship fund is come full tilt. His brother and Entrance fees are $12 on the intended for a Notre Dame Mara were good friends and day of the event and all run­student who will study now Mark is in Toledo. [Notre 'ners receive a T-Shirt. abroad in Toledo, has an A in Dame] truly is one big fami­Spanish and is either cur­ly," said McCarthy, who is Contact Melissa Lou at 
,rently working or desires to now involved with Mothers lou.l@nd.edu 
I j •
.. ' .
> I .. t f • 't l • ,, 
' j. . .. 
' ' . 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Friday, November 8, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
Can we win? 
As drinks were poured and music blared at two Bali clubs Oct. 12, nearly 200 people died in the same clothes we wear to Heartland and Corby's. 
They weren't in the midst of a war­torn area. They weren't political Shella Flynn radicals or on­leave soldiers. They were young Assistant partiers just like 
News Editor 

us, out for a night 
at the Sari Chili 
and Paddy's Bar in 
Kuta Beach, a place I actually had on 
my list of possible spring break destina­tions for next year. They were from Australia, Europe and Indonesia, and 
their young lives were abruptly extin­guished when two bombs ripped through the nightclubs, incinerating 
both buildings and occupants alike in a 
massive firecloud. 
The normalcy of this terrorist target -the ordinariness of the victims ­demonstrates the most frightening aspect of world affairs today. We are embroiled in a war -all of us -and I am not referring to the "War on Terror," a media-friendly catch-phrase which is far too defined. We are on the defensive in a deadly conflict more widespread and dubious than any situa­tion ever faced by previous generations. Even in the Vietnam War, the most con­troversial military involvement in U.S. history, America knew who it was fight­ing, where the battles were taking place and who its soldiers were. Now all the rules, even the murky ones which gov­erned Vietnam, are gone. 
Today, the battlefield is the globe. The identities of "our enemies" -those who hate us -are unclear, and they are dispersed throughout the world. Our most powerful soldiers are our intelli­gence officials, and we rightly know neither who they are nor how they are fighting. Casualties are not limited to the military; we, as civilians, are specifi­cally under attack. There is no safe haven from the violence, as the terror­ists have proven that they can and will attack anyone, in any place, at any time. And the desperate zeal of those fighting against us adds a more deadly dimension, as they willingly give their own lives in suicide bombings and mis­sions. 
But the worst feature of this uncon­ventional war is the absolute absence of a historical example. Never before has a global terrorism campaign threatened the planet, killing a wide range of civil­ians from club-goers in Indonesia to accountants in New York. Never before have sleeper cells contaminated soci­eties worldwide, working to plot the most lethal attacks possible on the everyday lives of civilians. There is no model from the past to teach us lessons, tactics and problems relevant to this type of conflict. so we have no idea how to efficiently fight this war. People have been calling for the American govern­ment and leaders worldwide to unite and conquer terrorism, but without a historical example, how can this be done? We do not know how to fight. We do not know who to fight. And we do not know if it is possible to win. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­rion and srrives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
SMC campus 
United States 
and France
prepares to 
agree on new
host 
prospective 
policy toward 
Iraq
students 
The Saint Mary's 

American and 
Admissions Off ice 
French diplomats 
expects around 800 
reach compromise 
high school seniors 
on Security Council 
and their parents 
resolution regard­
Sunday at its annu­
ing Iraqi weapons 
al Fall Day. 
inspections. 
page3 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
, 

. Lecture with Aidccn O'Leary "The Vikings in Dublin: Hcformers of the Irish Church'!" 3 p.m. in DcBartolo Hoom 117 
. John,Mcllcnca1_:np concert 8 p.m. at Joyce Center Arena 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Presentation by humorist Flash Hoscnbcrg "Camping in the Hewilderness" 4 p.m. at Carroll Auditorium 

. 
Conference, Haggar College Center "Effects of School Sector on Educational Outcomes." Nov. 9, all day 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Fettuccine with Fennel Classique Tomato Sauce, Al Prosciutto Pizza, Chicken Breast, Boulangere Potatoes, Mixed Vegetables, Cherry Crisp, Orzo with Portobello, Cheddar Broccoli Quiche, Stewed Tomatoes. Breakfast Ham, , Raisin Bread French Toast, Hash Browns, Polish Sausage, Fried Potato Skins, Szechuan Beef & Pepper Stir-Fry. Chicken & Cheese Chimichanga, Lone Star Rice 
Today Dinner: Fettuccine with Fennel, Classique Tomato Sauce, Al Prosciutto Pizza, Honey-Glazed Ham, Baked Beans, Mixed Vegetables, Cherry Crisp, Turbot Amandine Vegetables Rabat Couscous, Scrambled Eggs with 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
L&J 
% 
!ct 
LIJ 
3: 
...I 
<C CJ 

0 
HIGH 63
...I 
LOW 47 

HIGH LOW 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Departure of Harvey Pitt injures consumer confidence 
Pitt's timing for departure from the agency damages progress and confi­dence in SEC but opinions on extent of harm differ. 
page 7 
SCENE SPORTS 

Mens soccer previews this 
Scene 
to take on year's Asian 
Georgetown Allure 
Saturday at production 
Alumni Field 

Scene interviews 
Mens soccer will participants in 
compete Saturday Asian Allure and 
against previews acts, fash­
Georgetown at ion and other facets 
Alumni Field in the of Saturday's per­
first round of the formance. 
Big East Tournament. 
page 10 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Bookbag reported stolen 
A student reported the theft of her bookbag from South Dining Hall between between 12:30 p.rn. and 1:15 p.rn. Nov. 6. 
Student reports harrassing 

phone call 
Security is investigating a harassing telephone call complaint reported from Alumni Hall at 1:52 a.m. on Nov. 7 

Intoxicated individual 
transported to hospital 
Security responded to a report of an intoxicated person outside the Eck Stadium Nov. 7 around 5:09 a.m. The student was identified and transported to St. Joseph Medical Center by ambu­lance for treatment. The case is being referred for admininstrative review. 
Computer mouse stolen 
A University employee reported the theft of a computer mouse from an office in LaFortune Student Center Nov. 
6. There are no suspects. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Moroccan Lentil Soup, Potato au Gratin soup, French Bread pizza, Cuban-style loafer sandwich, lightly seasoned tilapia fillet, better fried catfish, corn fritters, gusto garlic extreme fries, chicken apple kabobs, lernoni rice, broccol spears, bean bur­ritos, roasted red pepper cream sauce, linguine, light tomato sauce, sizzling green salad procedure 
Today Dinner: turkey burger with lettuce and tomato, zesty bean burger, italian meatball sandwich, grilled cheese sandwich, curly french fries, herb marinated steak and onion, baked ziti with four cheese, zucchini toss, greek spinach turnovers 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 47 HIGH 43 LOW 38 LOW 35 
VIEWPOINT 
Editorial examines decision to remove AR from PW 
The removal of Cynthia Phillips damages trust within the Notre Dame community and sets a frighten­ing precedent. 
page 8 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Chicken Mozzarella. Chicken Fajita Pizza, Pretzel Sticks, Mushroom Stroganoff, Sauteed Zucchini & Yellow Squash, Meatloaf, Mississippi Fried .Catfish, Baked Harn, Baked Red-Skin Mashed Potatoes. Gyros, Potato Skins, Onion Rings, Sweet & Sour Pork, Chili Crispitos, Roasted Corn & Black Beans 
Today Dinner: Chicken Vesuvio, Cacciatore Sauce, Chicken Fajita Pizza, Veal Parmigiana, Spinach, Rice with Olives, Beef Stew, Roasted Pork Loin, Roasted Poupon Potatoes, Chicken Strips, Potato Skins, Onion Rings, Beef Mongolian. Chili Frifo 
.Conference, 
McKcnna Hall "The Option for thePoor in Christian Theology." Nov. 10, all day 

. 
Concert with Timothy Sparks, tenor. Nov. 10 at 2 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium 


SATURDAY SUNDAY 

60 55 

HIGH 58 LOW 41 

Atlanta 66 / 47 Boston 58 I 47 Chicago 65 / 50 Denver 63 / 42 Houston 76 I 60 Los Angeles 65 / 58 Minneapolis 57 / 41 New York 61 / 47 Philadelphia 63 / 44 Phoenix 76 / 60 Seattle 53 / 46 St. Louis 72 / 54 Tampa 80 / 61 Washington 66 / 46 
page 3 

Friday, November 8, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Prospective students visit SMC 
Affairs, will deliver the formal tives will meet together in By MELANIE BECKER welcome and Anita Houck, Angela Athletic Facility for a fac­News Writer 
Religious Studies Professor. and ulty and administrator open 
Kim Jensen, student body presi­house. 
As high school seniors across dent, will kick off the event. Seventy student volunteers will the nation begin the college Presentations from admissions give tours and take prospectives application process, the Saint and financial aid administrators and parents to lunch during the Mary's College Admissions Office will follow. event. \Vith such a high number expects 800 prospective students A Student Panel Discussion of visitors, however, Admissions and their parents Sunday for its will be held is still encour­annual Fall Day on Campus to in Carroll aging students promote the school. Auditorium at "Prospective students to volunteer. 
The 300 prospectives from 21 10:30 a.m .. Additionally,
who come to campus for 
states and their parents will be allowing stu­the entire stu­
a visit are always so
given a tour and a glimpse of life dcn ts from a dent body is at Saint Mary's. variety of impressed with the warm asked to wel­Kate Coulston, the campus majors and feeling they get on come the visit coordinator for Admissions. activities to prospectives
campus.,,
scheduled this year's Fall Day answer ques­and answer any activities. tions from questions they "The campus visit is the best prospective Kate Coulston may have. way for our prospective families students. "Prospective
visit coordinator for admissions 
to get a true sense of the Saint Parents will students who Mary's campus culture," have the come to cam­Coulston said. "By meeting cur­opportunity to attend a Parent pus for a visit are always so rent students and faculty, stu­Panel Discussion in O'Laughlin impressed with the warm feeling dents begin to see themselves as Auditorium at 11 a.m., which they get on campus," Coulston Saint Mary's women, confirming will feature speeches by several said. "Small gestures make such their decision to apply for · members of the administration. a difference, and really do make admission." At noon, half the prospectives Saint Mary's a special place." 
Registration will begin at 9 will go to lunch with a student 
a.m. in Le Mans with a continen­volunteer while the other half tal breakfast. Dr. Linda Timm, receive an hour-long campus Contact Melanie Becker at vice president for Student tour. At 2:30 p.m., all prospec-beck093l@saintmarys.edu 
guest artist 
TIMOTHY s P A R K S 
tenor 
J AME S C L Y B U R N 
.
p1 ano 
THE ROMANTIC TENOR 
a collection of love songs sunday, novemher 10, 2002 2 pm, annenherg auditorium tickets ($3-10) lafortune box office 6::;1-8128 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
DEPARTMENT Of M\:Slr.
call (574) 631-8128for more i,~fonnation 
' 

CENTURY CENTER 
SOUTH BEND, IN 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 10 
Hours: 9:30am-4pm Admission $6.00 Children under 12 FREE For directions and show information, please visit our website 
Nelson: Politics can block progress 
decade has procured
By CAITLIN EARLY 

greater financial backing News Writer 
from world organizations such as the \Vorld Bank. 

In her lecture. "Health Nelson said. The and Educational Heforms increased availability of in Developing Countries," monetary funds to fuel delivered Thursday night, reform in these countries Joan Nelson explored the has often led to the misal­various actions develop­location of funds and cor­ing nations are taking to ruption. encourage health care "I am quite worried and educational reforms about the effects of estab­in the face of powerful lishing these funds and political obstacles. the intensity on which 
"\\'hat makes this such a they are being accumulat­tough nut to crack is that ed. It will take a lot more h i g h t h a n I e v e I money to political "Reforms move very get effi­leaders l, c i e n t
slowly. Hopefully 
tend to social
experimentation with 
V i e W services," th e s e decentralization and Nelson issues said.
more local involvement 
a s Nelson
will have a positive effect 
impor­s a i d t a n t , in the long run. " decen­but not traliza­urgent," tion of
Joan Nelson 
s a i d health Nelson. Woodrow Wilson Institute scholar care and a senior education scholar constitute of the \Voodrow \Vilson a step in the right direc­Institute. tion for many developing Nelson suggested politi­nations. cal leaders are less Transferring authority inclined to implement from the government into health care and educa­state and local municipal­tional reforms because ities encourages more cit­they are intricate and izen participation and often lengthy processes, allovvs reforms to remain requiring the participa­at the forefront of the tion of various levels of localized political agenda, government. Nelson said. Health and educational One success story of reforms are often the decentralization Nelson cause of strong rifts described was between government Nicaragua's newly leaders, she said. autonomous school pro­In recent years, health gram, which has made care and education great strides in educa­proved to be such contro­tional reform. versial issues in countries "Heforms move very such as Hungary, slowly. Hopefully experi­Columbia and Poland that mentation with decentral­government leaders were ization and more local forced to remove these involvement will have a reforms from the agenda positive effect in the long so as to maintain order. run," Nelson said. 
Renewed interest in educational and health issues in developing Contact Caitlin Early at 
nations over the last early.2@nd.edu 
l)iscover ... ll1e p~wer, ilie feeltng, 

tJ1e secrel 

1·1111 rs,LqJ IO pm fd,la!J, sah1rcla!J 7:30 pm, 10 pm 
,lelu,rh>lo 10 I $] 

' I ' 
I ' . 
' . 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 8, 2002 
current laser printers with digi­tal copy printers in lab clusters, 
Tech 
which will enhance the speed and quality of printouts.
continued from page I 
Although these changes may 
not come without a price as see changes with printing ser­paper consumption continually vices. Fowlkes and his staff are grows. Fowlkes said 100,000 talking to Xerox about replacing sheets of paper are used per 
Allure 
continued from page I 
"It's not just about Asians," she said. "The Asian culture is differ­ent, but at the same time we're all the same. It shows unity and 
s ors

diversity." 
Cold Weather Experts 
A noticeable change in this 

5minutes from Campus
year's show is that Ma'arte Tribe Productions , a guest group fro,m Call 259-1000 for mare details· Michigan State, will perforfn a'"· spoken word act. This dramatic 
· · l'k t b t

actmg 1s 1 e poe ry u more rhythmic and jazzy, even border­ing on rap, said Aurelio. 
"Spoken word affects the crowd differently than poetry because it's more free-flowing," she said. 
The group made the trip to see Asian Allure last year, and after-
. ::'.:.:w:.,· .. . . . wards. approa~hed production --;;.:::J-15.llliltl mIa11),li
;:•Fi~L!~~;~:: ;:.ar!~; +iflJil~r~~ 
"The Asian American commum-:,.....,.;......·•····· ..B,,,_,.,.-:,,,:_i:,:fo,,,:.-:11.1.ll'la,,, 

Sentiment at the tech rehearsal '. IZ tJr•.'3[,-.; 
was that everything is going ~s1;'._,~c;;J •/I -~~-· 
~:-'1 planned and the performance will ·:. ·.. • : . . . · :· · _?/ 



APPLICATIONS ARE 
DUE 

FRIDAY 11.8.02 


201 
:LA FORTUNE 
day in the Trumper computer lab. 
"Paper costs are mounting so that we cannot handle the cost and we are looking at options to control paper costs," Folkes said. 
The information technology department is also working ':)Il updating dialing services. redesigning the Information Technology Resource Center [ITRC] and upgrading Diamond [the information storage serv­er]. Included with redesigning ITRC, Fowlkes plans to equip the center with digital and video cameras. He also plans to form a campus cable committee starting in January. 
"Eventually ITRC will be the head end of a campus cable channel," Fowlkes said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


Third year seminarians Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. will be ordained in April 2004. 


www.nd.edu/~vocation 
ANSWER :-t 
fflECALL '<'::/ 


t 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
Dotting your "P's and Crossing your "T"s: l ..ast minute thoughts for Angers candidates 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
lease ·oin us whether it is econd or third 1neeti11 

Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
7:15 PM 209 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 Academic Year 2003-2004 Fall 2003-Spring 2004 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 



Friday, November 8, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
United States and France agree on new Iraqi resolution 
Associated Press 
The United States and France reached agreement Thursday on a new Security Council reso­lution on Iraq. removing a key hurdle toward passage of the U.S.-drafted plan for tough new weapons inspections. 
French diplomats said the compromise was reached through negotiations at the United Nations and in tele­phone calls between President Bush and French President Jacques Chirac over the last day. 
According to French diplo­mats, the United States agreed to chan·ge wording in a key provision that would declare Iraq in "material breach' of its 
U.N. obligations. The change addresses French an,d Hussian concerns that the original wording would have let the United States determine on its own whether Iraq had commit­ted an infraction. Such a deter­mination, France and Hussia feared, would have triggered an attack on Saddam Hussein's Iraq. The Security Council will now be the ones to decide whether Iraq is in material breach," said a French diplo­mat, on condition of anonymity. 
Russia, like France, also appeared to be softening its position in favor of the 
American draft. 
The latest American text, a product of eight weeks of intense lobbying by the Bush administration, signaled signifi­cant progress and included major concessions to Security Council members concerned about setting off another war in Iraq. 
Bush said he wanted a vote Friday although Syria wanted it postponed because of an Arab League meeting this weekend in Egypt. The president also spoke by telephone with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday as lobbying intensified a day before Washington planned to push for a vote on the resolution. 
"He's a real threat," Bush said of Saddam," and it's now time for the world to come together and disarm him." 
Security Council members were expecting U.S. and British diplomats to circulate a revised text later Thursday with the new wording agreed upon ear­lier in the day. 
Russian Ambassador Sergey Lavrov told The Associated Press a Friday vote was possi­ble if the United States and greater role for the SecurityBritain come up with a few Council but still frees the more concessions. U.S. and United States to take military British diplomats said a new action against Iraq if inspectors 
version could be ready by the say it isn't complying. end of the day Thursday. The In Iraq, the government con-
U.S. draft resolution includes a trolled media called the draft resolution a pretext for war and urged the Security Council not to bow to American demands. 

"America wants to use this resolution as a pretext and a cover for its aggression on Iraq 
1 
I I 'ti" I 
i I 
and the whole Arab nation," the ruling Baath Party newspa­per Al-Thawra said Thursday. "The Security Counoil should not give (the Americans) a pre­text and a cover for the coming aggression." · 


CHINA 
China's Communist party proinises a step forward 
Associated Press 
Preparing for a landmark congress that is expected to install a new genera­tion of leaders, China's communist party pledged Thursday to modernize its ide­ology to keep pace with a fast-changing, increasingly capitalist society. 
"China has entered into a new phase of development, in which we are to build a well-to-do society," said Ji Bingxuan, spokesman for the party's 16th National Congress, which opens Friday in Beijing's Great Hall of the People. 
In keeping with the secrecy surround­ing the event, Ji gave no details of the personnel changes planned at the con­gress, where President Jiang Zemin, 76, is expected to hand over the title of party leader to his 59-year-old vice president, Hu Jintao. 
But Ji indicated that a key theme would be Jiang's personal campaign ­known awkwardly as the "Three Represents" -to bring entrepreneurs into the party and to amend its constitu­tion to give them a formal role. "\,Ve will comprehensively implement the impor­tant thought of Three Represents," Ji said at a news conference. 
Jiang was picked to lead the party in 1989 by then-supreme leader Deng Xiaoping, who launched the country's economic reforms a decade earlier. 
Jiang's campaign is aimed at keeping a party that still calls itself the "van­guard of the working class" in control of a society where reform has unleashed dizzying changes. Some people have gotten rich, but many face upheaval as state industry sheds jobs in an attempt to compete. 
Ji defended the decision to embrace entrepreneurs, saying they would serve the party, not weaken its revolutionary zeal. 
"Workers, peasants, intellectuals, our men and women in uniform ... are still the backbone force of the Communist Party," he said. "This will further increase the influence and cohesion of the Communist Party throughout soci­ety." 
Preparations for the congress have included sweeping efforts to tighten security in the capital and to block any possible demonstrations. 
Hotels in Beijing have been ordered not to accept Tibetans or Muslim Uighurs from the restive Chinese north­west as guests, according to employees contacted at four hotels. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Slavery still present in West Africa 
Slavery by north African Arabs and Berbers and oth­ers persists in the West African nation of Mauritania, two decades after its official abolition, Amnesty International and other rights groups charged Thursday. London-based Amnesty International urged Mauritania's government -dominated by Arabs and Berbers living in West Africa since early times, and known as white Moors -to allow an independent inquiry and to take action against slavery. 
Iranian reformist sentenced to death 
In the latest setback for reformist.c; in Iran, a hard-line court has sentenced to death a prominent scholar and close ally of President Mohammad Khatami for insulting Islam's prophet, his lawyer said Thursday. Hashem Aghajari was found guilty of insulting the Prophet Muhanunad and questioning the hard-line clergy's inter­pretation of Islam in a speech he made in June. in the western city of llamedan, his lawyer, Saleh 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Democrats split on new House leader 
Two House veterans, Reps. Nancy Pelosi and Martin Frost, jumped into a race for Democratic leader on Thursday, and the jabbing began at once over the future of a party reeling from midterm election losses. "I think that her politics arc to the left, and I think that the party. to be successful. must speak to the broad center of the country," said Frost, a Texan whose rival represents most of San Francisco. Pelosi, judged by party officials to be the front-runner in the race, side­stepped the attack and turned her fire on the GOP instead. "We must draw clear distinctions between our vision of the future and the extreme policies put forward by the Republicans," she said in a statement. "\Ve cannot allow Republicans to pretend they share our values and then legislate against those values without consequence." The two began their race as the party's leader, Rep,. Richard Gephardt of Missouri. told members of the rank-and-file he would not seek another term in the job he has held for eight years. 
President Bush sets new course for GOP rule 
President Bush, charting an agenda for the new Republican Congress, said Thursday that homeland security comes first and an economic-recovery plan 
with new tax cuts will wait until next year. "There's going to be a huge laundry list of things people want to get done and my job is to set priorities and get them done," the president said in a jovial 45­minute news conference, his first appearance after Tuesday's election, when his GOP captured control of both the House and Senate. Bush's insistence that the Senate deliver him a Department of Homeland Security in its postelcction session put him awkwardly at odds with newly empowered Senate Republican leader Trent Loit, who said \Vednesday he doesn't intend to resolve the home­land security fight in the "lame-duck" session con­vening next week. The president ignored a question about whether he'll use his new power on Capitol Hill to seek restrictions on abortion rights. 

Friday, November 8, 2002 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Educator speaks at Mendoza College of Business 

offee and Conversation
FBI official•S"elected to 
for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning
monitor bishops' policy 
Students at Notre Dame 
diocese, culminating this year. 
Associated Press 
But she expressed confidence 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002
that the American bishops are
WASHINGTON 

...and every second Tuesday of the month ­
determined to turn things around. 
The U.S. Roman Catholic bish­
She said the National Review
ops Thursday named the FBI's No. 
7:00 -9:30 pm
Board, which will monitor
3 official to monitor the church's McChesney's office and work with new policy on clerical sex abuse her to monitor the bishops' perfor­and help prevent future scandals. 
mance, and her own office, areKathleen McChesney, 51, will be both unique. 
316 Coleman-Morse
the first executive director of the 
Those two steps, she said,church's Office for Child and 
"express that the bishops want toYouth Protection. It is a critical fix this problem. It's not going to 
The Standing Comittee
post as the bishops seek to re­
be me that fixes it. It's going to beestablish their credibility after a a lot of people." 
for Gay and Lesbian
year in which at least 300 of the "The goal? No more cases."
46,000 American priests have Fay told reporters the review 
Student Needs invites
been removed because of allega­board, the office and other costs oftions ofmolestation. 
the abuse policy would exceed $1 
Gay, Lesbian, and
"Even one case of child abuse is million next year. 
intolerable. Our churches need to At the FBI, Mcchesney has been
be safe havens for everyone," 
Bisexual members ofthe
executive assistant director,
Mcchesney told a news conference 
responsible for liaison with the
at the bishops' headquarters, 
Notre Dame family, their
nation's 18,000 law enforcementwhere she begins work Dec. 2. 
agencies and bureau operations inMcChesney is described by col­
friends and supporters to
44 foreign countries. The post was
leagues as someone with well­created by FBI Director Robert
sharpened people skills and politi­
an informal coffee at the
Mueller following the attacks ofcal instincts, and as a tough inves­Sept. 11, 2001, to improve coordi­tigator despite a soft-spoken man­nation with local law enforcement. 
Co-Mo.
ner. 
Mcchesney took that job last
In an interview, she had little 
Dec. 1 after serving as special
hesitation when she was asked to 
agent in charge of the Chicago
consider the post over the sum­

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured.
office since 1999 and assistant 
mer, despite the prospect of leav­
director of its training division
ing a law-enforcement career of since June 2001. She started with31 years. 
the county police in the SeattleMore than 40 candidates were 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served*
area and joined the FBI in 1978 in 
considered for the job, said 
San Francisco.
Monsignor William P. Fay, general secretary of the bishops' confer­ence, who made the appointment. 
A lifelong lay Catholic, McChesney has followed the 

I<-1101"'1 yo1t1A 
R.elationships
church's abuse scandal with grow­ing dismay since the 1997 cases that almost bankrupted the Dallas 
& Sexuality 
.Theo. 340/01. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Mark Poorman, C.S:C. 
Weekend Retreat: January 17, 3:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
Pataronia 
January 18, 9:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m.
FAI 
Location: Cedar House
excltlsively 
One-Credit Courses 

Prayer
at . • 
Spring2003
Sminute~..A 
Theo. 340A/01. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham
offered by the Department of Theology
from OU'Ti=IOST 
Sundays
in cooperation with the Office of Campus Minist,y
Campus~ 
February 2, 9, 16, 23 & March 2
Cold Weather Experts 

Time: 6:00-8:30 p.m. Location: Coleman-Morse Rm. 330
Call259-iooo formore details 
Baskets of Elegance 


Theo. 340C/01. 1 credit. S/U M. Instructor: John Cavadini
Custom Made Theme Baskets 
ary

Monday Nights 
March 17, 24, 31 
Theo. 340N/01. 1 credit. S/U
for any Occasion 

April 7, 14, 21, 
Instructor: Rev. Brian Daley, S.J.
Time: 6:00-8:05 p.m. 
Tuesdays/Thursdays

Location:Keoughlounge
(574) 674-0022 

March 25, 27, April 1, 3, 8, 1 O 
(to be confirmed) 
Time: 6:00-B.·os p.m. 

Location: Dorm Lounge (TBD)
Fax (574) 674-0033 
.. 

Forfurther infonnation, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-7811.
i'·JO themed baskets our specialty! 
Syllabi for the c:ourses can be obtained at the Theology L)ept.• 1 30 Mullt!Y I-fall. 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Education expert Lee Shulman spoke Thursday evening in the Mendoza College of Business, dis­cussing the state and future of American higher educa­tion. 
Shulman serves as presi­dent of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. He is also professor emeri­tus of education and psy­
\ chology at Stanford 
l, University. 
Shulman's talk focused on the idea that education, par­ticularly in the professional disciplines, prepares stu­dents for a lifetime of "messing with the world." 
Profession al institutions are unique in that they "have one foot in the ivory tower and one foot in prac­tice," he said. 
Shulman added that the best professional programs not only teach students "how to mess with the world"-specialized tech­niques and skills -but also "the res.ponsibility to clean up the mess." He said that 
professional learning should ..Students will meet human contain an ethic of service beings they might never and responsibility for the encounter otherwise," he greater said. good. He went 
Shulman "/don't think there's a on to stress praised the the impor­
better toy in the world 
role of tance of
than an idea ...
diversity in engagement higher edu­and action cation, say­related to
Lee Shulman 
ing that study. In
Stanford professor emeritus
institutions discussing have an the impor­obligation tance of to expose experiential their students to a variety of learning and engagement, viewpoints and new situa­Shulman likened education tions. to child's play. 
"I don't think there's a better toy in the world than an idea," he said. 
Shulman ended his talk by paying homage to the late John Gardner, former presi­dent of the Carnegie Foundation and former Secretary. of Health, Education and Welfare in the Johnson administration. Gardner died in February. 
"Freedom and responsibil­ity, liberty and duty. That's the deal." Shulman said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


O
THE 

BSERVER 

Friday, November 8, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 6 
DowJones 

8,586.24 • -184.77 
N4SDAQ 

1,376.71 -42.28
•
S&P500 

902.65 -21.11
•
AMEX 

827.18 -7.78
•
NYSE 

480.39 -9.72
•

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
:::ISCO SYSTEffi (CSC:0) +2.47 +0.27 12.96
~1:~:~:?~!111 1:1:1: 1J!IJl!~~:1~1i~~:~~w;~r~::t1~~~!~~ 
SUN MICROSYSTEM(SU~W)+l2.62 +0.40 3.47 1
~ m: :<xm~r:i:1:1::::!:1::11!1:::::::1::11:1:1::1:~1~~1::11i:r1~:::1~~:1;;:~:~ SPDR TRUST SER (NDNA) +1.47 +0.47 35.00 
IN BRIEF 
Genernl Electric announces new change; 
General Electric Co. announced a series of 
new policies Thursday to strengthen its cor­
porate governance, including selection of a 
presiding director and a plan to make two­
thirds of its board members independent. 
The chair of the board's compensation com­mittee will serve as presiding director and run at least three meetings a year with only non-employee directors. GE said. Andrew C. Sigler, the retired chief executive of Champion International Corp., currently heads the committee. 
GE said that by the first of the year two­thirds of its board, 11 of 17 directors, will be classified "independent" under proposed New York Stock Exchange rules. The proposal defines independent members as members who are not GE employees or executives of companies where sales to and purchases from GE make up more than 1 percent of revenues. 
Currently, 11 of the 19 directors meet the independence criteria. GE said. Two directors -Paolo Fresco and Scott G. McNealy -are retiring from the board in December. 
European bank rates unchanged 
European Central Bank officials wrestled with whether to join the U.S. Federal Reserve in cutting interest rates before deciding Thursday to keep its key financing rate steady at 3.25 percent -sug­gesting the ECB is increasingly concerned about sluggish growth. 
Following the decision, ECB president Wim Duisenberg's made an unusual reference to debate by bank officials. saying "in view of the high uncer­tainty on future growth, and its implication for medium-tem1 inflation developments. the govern­ing council has discussed extensively the argu­ments for and against a cut in the key ECB rates." 
Worries about growth pushed the Fed to cut the 
U.S. benchmark federal funds rate by an unexpect­edly large half-percentage point to a 41-year low on Wednesday. Many economists think the ECB will follow suit as early as the next interest-rate meeting Dec. 5 as European economies continue 
Pitt fall tarnishes SEC image 
. SEC's hopes to regain consumer­confidence dashed 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Harvey Pitt's hasty depar­
ture as head of the 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission tarnishes the 
watchdog agency at a time 
it is trying to win back 
investor confidence shaken 
by a barrage of Wall Street 
and corporate scandals, 
lawyers and observers say. 
But opinions differed 
widely on how much that 
taint and the temporary 
leadership void would ham­
per that effort. 
"The timing of Pitt's departure couldn't come at a worse time on Wall Street" said Robert Mintz, a partner at law firm Mccarter & English in Newark, N.J. "The SEC is in complete shambles and we need the right person to come in and pick up the pieces. Until then, we won't see any meaningful reforms come through." 
A year after Enron col­lapsed, precipitating a wave of other corporate account­ing scandals that landed WorldCom and Adelphia in bankruptcy, regulators and lawyers for the big invest­ment firms were nearing Michael Chertoff, the cur­impact," he said. new accounting oversight agreement on how to rent Assistant Attorney Seth Taube, former SEC board had. William Webster resolve conflict-of-interest General now one of a few branch chief of enforcement headed the audit committee issues dogging Wall Street. candidates tipped for the official and federal prosecu­of a company accused of 
Biased analyst research top job at the SEC. tor, and now chairman of fraud. used to pump up stock Other names floated are securities litigation for The misstep was just the prices and pull in fat fees former SEC Chairman McCarter & English. latest for Pitt. an attorney for investment banking Richard Breeden and for­agreed. who first worked at the SEC business. such as oversee­mer New York Mayor "Wall Street has already in the late 1960s and was ing the sale of shares to the Rudolph Giuliani, both of found religion in terms of the youngest lawyer to public and underwriting whom say they're not inter­accepting the separation of serve as General Counsel. bond issues. misled ested in the position. analyst research from He was also criticized for investors during the boom, Peter Romeo, a lawyer investment banking busi­meeting with the heads of say regulators. with Hogan & Hartson in ness." Taube said. "The companies under SEC 
Talks under way to sepa­Washington D.C. specializ­process now is merely a investigation and for his rate research divisions from ing in securities law. said its papering over one to come close ties to the accounting firms' investment banking unlikely negotiations will be up with the regulations. industry when the commis­business may now be on hamstrung by Pitt's exit. regardless of whether Pitt is sion is investigating major 
hold until Pitt's replacement "It's in everyone's interest there or not." accounting fraud at big cor­is named. to get this settled as Pitt tendered his resigna­porations. union supporters 
"The SEC is damaged promptly as possible ... as tion on election night after could affect elections in goods and these talks can't far as I understand most of revelations that he kept places as distant as go forward until it can pro­the hands-on work is being from Bush administration Minnesota, where vide firm leadership and a done by Stephen Cutler officials and his fellow SEC Democratic Sen. Paul clear vision," said Mintz, [SEC director of enforce­commissions information Wellstone is in a tight race who formerly worked as a ment], so Pitt's absence about a serious conflict of with Republican chal­federal prosecutor under won't have much of an interest his choice to head a lenger Norm Coleman. 

Productivity up, fewer jobless benefits claimed 
ClearView Economics. "We may not 184.77 points to close at 8,586.24 as 
Associated Press 

be going gangbusters, but we're not investors were rattled by a dim tech­
going to hell in a handbasket, nology forecast from Cisco Systems. 
HOUSTON either." Gains in productivity are helping 
Productivity grew briskly in the Productivity -the amount of out­to keep a lid on inflation, an impor­summer, consumers splurged in put per hour of work -picked up in tant factor for Federal Reserve poli­October and fewer Americans filed the third quarter, growing at an cy-makers as they try to energize new claims for jobless benefits last annual rate of 4 percent, the Labor the sputtering economic recovery. week; a dose of good news for the Department said. That was more After holding interest rates at low wobbly economy. than twice as fast as the second levels all year, the Fed cut a key 
The latest batch of economic news quarter's 1. 7 percent pace. interest rate by one-half of a per­released Thursday reinforced the For the 12 months ending centage point Wednesday; it was the notion among analysts that the September, productivity grew at a year's first rate reduction. economy, while advancing fitfully, 5.3 percent rate, the strongest show­By lowering borrowing costs, the probably will not slip back into ing since the 12 months ending in central bank hopes to motivate con­recession. "This is kind of like the the third quarter of 1983. sumers to spend more and business­Hodney Dangerfield economy -it But the latest economic reports es to step up investment, helping doesn't get any respect," said econo­failed to buoy Wall Street. The Dow stimulate economic growth as the mist Ken Mayland. president of Jones industrial average dropped holiday season approaches. 
.....,_ ---.....----­
W CQ PC 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nom· Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 

Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
'~ ~ 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHJCS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 

SAINT MAR¥'S EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc.I@nd.edu PHoT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QULstions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Jason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The O!,..,""' (USPS ~~9 240} i, ruhli,hcd MonJ•y ,hrough l'riday n«pt during 
i nam U1d Va(;;UWn pc-riods.. A ,ubs..:riprion ro Thi; O~rvr:r U SI OU for one-au,Jrn,K yc-ar: SSS for one-scmir..•ucr. 
The ObJoC"rvCT ii. publidKJ u: POSTMASTER 024 Sou,h Dining Hall Send addreu rorrt'(:tion, ro:
·' 
I Notre Dom,. IN 4M56 Th,Ob.. ,...,, 
., 
r.o. Box Q Periodical pon~c paid a< None O;a;mc No1t< n.....,. IN 46556-0n9 
m.J ad.dlnonal mailing offK"CS. 
The Obiavn U a mcmhcr of the Auod,ual Prna.. All rq>roduction righu art to<f\'N. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sheila Flynn Matt Lozar Bill Puckett Chris Federico Himanshu Scene 
Kothari C. Spencer Beggs 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 

Kurt Bogaard Lauren Forbes 
Graphics Illustrator 

Jimmy Atkinson Patrick Quill 
l ' 

·· I I l " I ' t \ . ' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, November 8, 2002 

Process behind removal of PW assistant rector is unsatisfactory 
Asking Cynthia Phillips to leave her position as assistant rity of their own positions and their susceptibility to the rector of Pasquerilla West because of an unspecified "pri­whims of their hall's rectors. vate personnel matter" not only damages trust within the A residence hall staff is intended to serve residents with dorm's community, but also raises serious questions diverse personalities, opinions and backgrounds. about the relationship among the Office of Student Therefore, staff members should be equipped to support Affairs, residence hall rectors and their hall such a diverse student population, and that staffs. OJhe may demand differences of opinion and per­
userver
The University expects assistant rectors sonality among hall staff members. ARs and and resident assistants to lead Notre RAs should be evaluated by their interaction Dame's residential community by earning with students. Their jobs should not be
Editorial 
trust and respect from the residents of their halls. But Student Affairs harmed its relationship with campus ARs and RAs and PW residents when it supported PW Rector Sister Sue Bruno's decision to banish Phillips from her home and position without disclosing its rea­sons. 
Phillips' situation brought banners of support to the windows of PW and doubts to the minds of many ARs and RAs on campus. Although Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, and Bruno have refused to explain the University's reasoning, Phillips alleged she was asked to leave over a personality conflict with Bruno. Thus hall staff members have begun to question the secu­
entirely contingent upon their interactions with hall rectors. Furthermore, Bruno played an integral role in hiring Phillips and had an opportunity to discover any personality conflicts last spring. What justifies Phillips' removal now? 
Full disclosure of Bruno's feelings toward Phillips is not required, but PW residents, hall staff members and ARs and RAs campus-wide at least deserve to .know that a suf­ficient reason was given to Phillips. Kirk and Bruno's refusal to comment on whether a definitive reason exists is an unsatisfactory response to the ·community's demands for information and sets a frightening precedent for University handling of future personnel situations. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR • 

Rights are good only if 
In response to Matthew Sullivan's letter on Nov. 5, I would like to thank you for taking note of the chalking on campus. I am not an official member of the Notre Dame•Saint Mary's College Peace Coalition, but like many of the students here on campus, over the past few months, I have become increasingly aware and concerned with the actions our government is taking against Iraq. 
I participated in the chalking on Friday nights before both the Stanford and Boston College games. I did not participate in order to publicly con­demn all the ROTC students on cam­pus or to humiliate any members of the U.S. Armed Forces. 
exercised 
I did participate because I care about America and the actions our politicians take. And as I walked around campus, chalk in hand, I talked with a friend about how amaz­ing it was to be able to communicate a message to so many people in such a simple way. Knowing that thousands of people would be flooding campus the following morning, I had hope that people would do just as Matthew did and question what we were saying. 
It is our job as citizens in a democra­cy to question the actions of our elect• ed officials. The threat Iraq poses to our safety is debatable at best, and the probable chance of a peaceful out­come if we do attack is even less cer­tain. 
By using the freedom the University has allowed us, in offering its side~ walks to our chalk, I hoped to create a dialogue in which the students and visitors on campus might move toward a more peaceful solution with Iraq. Peace will not miraculously appear if we continue taking military action. We need to stop somewhere. And what good are any of our rights if we do not exercise them and use them to contin• ue to improve our government.? 
Beth Jeub 
senior off-campus Nov. 6 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Did you obtain an absentee ­ballot to vote in the midterm elections? 
and is based on 165 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Too bad the only people who know how to run the country are busy driving cabs and cutting hair." 
George Burns comedian 
l ) ; 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Friday, November 8, 2002 page 9 
Pope's views on death penalty should guide sniper trials 
Should the Washington snipers be Constitution on the Church, "Loyal protect others from that criminaL The only possible way of effectively defend­executed? Four states and the federal submission of will and intellect must system in the United States, however, ing" others from them, the snipers government want to execute John A. be given, in a special way, to the is able to restrain Muhammad and should not be executed. This may be a Muhammad. John Lee Malvo, who was authentic teaching authority of the Malvo from harming others, unless "hard saying." But consider two 17 when the crimes were committed, Homan Pontiff," whether or not his their mere continued existence in points. could be executed 
teaching is technically infallible. 
prison would motivate others to kill First, while some oppose the death in any of three This new development of the people. However, their mar­penalty because they reject the reality states. The public teaching on the use of the tyrization by execution of life after death and, for them, death favors the execution death penalty arises could have that same is therefore the greatest evil, John of both. from the importance of result. It would Paul has raised the discussion to a new 
Would the teach­the conversion of the depend on the facts. level based on the immortal destiny of ing of the Catholic criminal. As Saint John Paul's human persons, each of whom is cre­Church permit the Augustine and teaching~ placed ated in the image and likeness of god. death penalty in Saint Thomas by the "Not even a murderer," he said. "loses this case? The Aquinas taught, 
Catechism in his personal dignity." John Paul answer is: No, Charles Rice the conversion 
the context of asserts the dignity of the human per­
-i 
I
unless the facts of one sinner bring the case is a greater outside the scope good than
Right or

of Pope John Paul the creation
Wrong?

II's teaching on of the entire the use of that material penalty. universe. 
In "Evangelium Vitae" and the "Today," Catechism, John Paul affirmed the tra­the ditional teaching that the "primary Catechism purpose" of punishment is retribution states, "as a "to redress the disorder caused by the conse­offense." He also affirmed that the quence of state has authority to impose the death the possibili­penalty. But he has developed the ties which teaching on the use of that authority: the state has Neither retribution, deterrence of oth­for effectively ers nor any other objective of itself preventing will justify the execution of a criminal crime, by ren­
"preventing son over the claim of the modern state 
...,..._"""".
...,._____
~ 
t 
crime." If to final dominion over life and death. Muhammad Every state that has ever existed or 
and Malvo ever will exist has gone out of business were ter­or will do so. But every human being rorists tried who has ever been conceived will live in a mili­forever. That is why the conversion tary tri­and salvation even of a serial murder­bunal er is so important. under the Second, this teaching is not the "laws of brainchild of some Polish tourist living war," it in Home. It is a serious teaching of the could be Vicar of Christ. One can oppose the 
argued that death penalty with warm feelings with­John Paul's out changing one's personal lifestyle. teaching is But to accept and obey the teaching 
in applicable. authority of the Pope can require Similarly, if changes in our behavior. And it is they are proved politically incorrect, a serious sin in 
unless it is "an absolute necessity" in dering one who to be terrorist the eyes of some at Notre Dame and the exclusive sense that it is "the only has committed an combatants they elsewhere. Maybe it is time, however, possible way of effectively defending offense incapable presumably could to start obeying the teaching of the human lives against the unjust aggres­of doing harm ... be executed under Pope, not only on the death penalty but sor." without definitively the "laws of war," just also on everything else, because of 
A criminal may be executed only if taking away from him as captured spies can who and what he is. there is no other way to defend other the possibility of redeem­be executed. The authori­lives from him. The horrendous char­ing himself ... the cases in ties, so far, have not based Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on acter of the crime is immaterial on the which the execution of the offender their case on the "laws of war." the Law School f acuity. His column use of the death penalty. This is not is an absolute necessity are very rare, Instead, they are prosecuting the appears bi-weekly. He can be reached merely John Paul's personal opinion. if not practically non-existent." snipers under the ordinary criminal at plawecki@nd.edu. He put it in the Catechism as a teach­In a penal system without adequate process. John Paul's teaching would The views expressed in this column ing of the Church. Nor is it optional. As security, the death penalty could be apply to that process so that, unless are those of the author and not neces­Vatican II said, in the Dogmatic argued to be absolutely necessary to the facts show that execution is "the sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Republicans, what are you going to do? 
Republicans, congratulations on your gains in both are you going to deal with the direct effect of Bush's the House and the Senate. Forgive me if I'm not plans to develop and use more coal, gas and oil for jumping for joy at your victory. but, to tell the energy are going to have on this phenomenon? If truth, I'm downright depressed. Being a for­you put more carbon dioxide into the air, 
ward-thinking individual, there are a lot of issues that concern me greatly that I don't think the Republican Party addresses at all. I would like someone, anyone, to write a response to this telling me exactly how all this is going to be alright while a very conser­vative President Bush is in office and while Republicans hold the majority in both the House and the Senate. 
My first concern is the environment. Global warm­ing is a fact, and even though we're not all drown­ing in ice cap meltagc or dying from skin cancer due to UV radiation yet, this prob­lem is a process. It is not like a corporate takeover where it is done and you move on from there. It is something that is addi­tive, like the factors that contribute to poverty, and something that can­not be fixed overnight. 
In fact, it may very well take thousands of years for the temperature to return to what it was, and by that time, we, along with a bunch of other species around the globe, might be gone. How 
the problem gets worse. How are you going to get it out par­ticularly if Bush is doing nothing to curb the killing of plants that is necessary in the gathering of these fuels? Plants convert car­bon dioxide to oxygen, but if their numbers are going down, and the amount of car­bon dioxide in the air is 
going up, what are we going 
to do? 

Secondly, what are we going to do about water? We're running out of drink­able water as factories and 
mining operations rather carelessly spoil what drink­ing water we do have. What 
are we going to drink? The supply of good water is already running lower. This I know because I'm sure that the concept of water bottles and filtering water from the tap used to be absurd. Is good, clean water going to become something only the rich can enjoy? Is it already something only the rich can enjoy? Third, when will the wars stop? Or, should I just buckle down and get used to a constant war on ter­
ror and the axis of evil? How do you win a war on terror anyway? This seems particularly hard to me since what is driving this war is our fear, and our own fear is not something you can kill by bombing foreign countries. On a similar note, how are we sup­posed to educate the people of this country if $379 billion is going to defense spending (as the Bush administration proposes). The world spends $750 million on defense spending, meaning our defense budget would be greater than the sum of the rest of 
,...,
the world's defense budgets combined. 
Why, if we're spending so much already, do we need to spend more? Where are we going to get this money, particularly if the there is another tax cut, as is also planned? What is going to have to be destroyed to support the destruction? Going back to the education issue, are we going to further delin­eate the class structure in America so that only the rich can afford a quality education? ls class going to be determined by whether you have the money to go pay for private school or not? Are the states going to be left with this burden? 
I have more questions, but these arc the ones that are most pressing for me right now, and have the largest impact on my life, your life and the life of every other living thing on the planet in the next 1, 5, 10, 20, 50 and 1,000 years. Please Republicans, explain to me what you are going to do about all of these very real issues. I really want to know. 
Danny Richter 
sophomore Keough Hall Nov. 7 
• I ' 

. OBSERVER 

page 10 Friday, November 8, 2002 

• 

s1a 



The Asian American Association prepares for the already so, 
By COLLEEN BARRETT 
Scene Writer 
Tickets to this year's Asian Allure have sold out already. 
"Faster than buy-one-get-one-free fudgesicles on a hot, summer day!" one participant said. Due to the sold-out, overcrowded Washington Hall in past years, coordinators limited the audi­ence to saved seats only. In fact, so many people attended last year, the aisles were clogged with audience members sitting on the floor and pro­ducers worried it might be a fire haz­ard. 
Sponsored by Notre Dame's Asian American Association (AAA) and Multicultural Student Programs Services, Asian Allure 2002 has adopt­ed the theme "Generazians: Bridging the Gap." The theme came after careful consideration by the show's committee. 
"We want to encompass our cultural 
heritage and bridge the past with the present: what being Asian­American means today and what it has meant in the past," sophomore Elizabeth Tran, the program's coordinator and AAA, said. The features scheduled for Saturday night provide a wide array of cultural and dramatic events in an effort to meet that goal. 
Segments of the show consist of cul­tural fashion exhibits featuring clothing from the area stores The Limited, Boutique Exchange, S&K Menswear Superstore, Wet Seal, Gingiss, and Demo. Each model line features stu­dents posing in clothes that convey a particular focus that contributes to the larger theme of Generazians. Some of the lines are all female, some all male and some 
..Compared to the past, we are
mixed, and each is a type of a spo­model rehearses really focusing on fusing the ken word narra­with model head tive called "Pangit
past and present together. In
choreographer Bulot." The group
the past, the show wasn't as
Ting Aurelio and hopes to inspire assistant choreog­united, it was a whole bunch of the audience to rapher Joyce De express them­
acts doing individual things, 
Leon. Aurelio will selves in a form
but this year there is a
also serve as the they have yet to 
night's emcee and stronger sense ofunity. ,, explore through participate in vari­the use of dramat­ous other seg­ic poetry.
Patricia Ro
ments of the show, Troop ND and
Asian Allure perfonner
including "Urban First Class 
Association/Pakistan Association will perform a traditional dance from the Indian subcontinent while the Hawaii Club will make an appearance with a dance from the islands. 
A group of Filipino students from Michigan State will appear for the first time in "Eyes on Me,'' a piece that touches on various aspects of the American Filipino experience and the stereotypes that hinder it. The produc­tion, which is pro­duced by Ma'art Tribe Productions, 
Twilight," one of 
the modeling lines. 
"Street Flava," "Heart to Heart," and 
"Hey Ma'' are just three more of the 
model line themes that will spice up the 
stage. Despite their flair and finesse, the excitement of the show is not limited to these carefully crafted seg­ments of choreography. Asian Allure 2002 has a line-up that's not only allur­ing, it's amazing. Various ethnic and non-ethnic groups perform cultural dances and songs that reflect both traditional her­itage and modern influ­ences. While the campus offers a variety of events hosted by various multi-cul­tural clubs, Asian Allure is an event that showcases the combined range of cultures on campus. The Indian 
Steppers also 

appear on the agenda. The Step Fellas always please the ladies with their seductively suave moves. Be sure not to miss a beat of these rhythmically inclined gentlemen. 
Students from Notre Dame's Filipino American Student Organization (FASO) will perform three dances: a candle dance called Binisuan, a victory dance called Uya-Uy and a dance involving bamboo sticks called Tinikling. 
In Binisuan, dancers balance one can­dle on their heads and one in each hand and proceed to carry out the slow­paced dance, simply balancing the can­dles without the aid of any adhesives. In the history of Asian Allure performanc­es, no dancer has yet to drop a candle, said show coordinator Joyce De Leon. 
The Uya-Uy is a tribal dance per­formed in loincloths and is less influ­enced by Spanish culture than other dances performed by FASO. Tinikling is a fast paced dance in which performers pound bamboo sticks to the beat of the music and dancers weave in and out of 
the sticks. 
First-year performer senior Teresa 
Do will perform in both the Binisuan 
and Tinikling, and though she enjoys 
both forms, she ultimately likes 
Binisuan better. 
"The dance is more challenging ·and 
evokes more reaction from the audi­
ence," Do said. 
If you really want to see ethnic danc­
ing and singing but fear you can't 
leave the latest fad of boy bands at 
home, Asian Allure has the solution. 
"vVe've got Asian N'SYNC coming," 
junior Jonathan Kwon, a stage manag­
er, said. 
"But they really are good," Tran 
added. 
A group of boys from the Korean 
Student Association (KSA} who call 
themselves KPD will perform a dance 
and hip-hop number that will have 
girls swooning in the isles, even if the 
group skips the loincloths. One of the 
group's members, Hae Dong Lee, 
... :;-----~---·--, 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, November 8, 2002 page 11 
• 

ex 
er1e 

Id out Asian Allure 2002 "Generazians: Bridging the Gap" 
Shawn Park, David Duffie or Byung Moon Kim, may just be the next Justin Timberlake. 
"Oh, it'll be the next big thing and I've got dibs," Tran said. 
After all of the performances and modeling segments, the show may fin­ish in about two hours, but the work that students put into the preparation of the event tallies countless hours dat­ing back to last spring. The coordina­tors volunteered last semester, drafted ideas and booked Washington Hall before leaving " for summer 
vacation. The "As a student run show, I think it stuck to model­committee spent ing but has
is successful because students are
the summer branched out in
excited about sharing their 
searching for a her senior year theme that heritage, not just those with Asian and feels excit­would convey ed about this
American backgrounds, but all 
the strong feel­year's promising
ethnic backgrounds.,, 
ings they had show. about fusing the "Compared to past and the Liz Tran the past, we are present into one really focusing
Asian American Association president
dynamic event. 
Under the guidance of AAA director Pricilla Wong, the students took control of organizing the acts, contacting sponsors, choreo­graphing numbers, designing advertise­m ents and casting the acts. After a committee meeting in early August, the coordinators held weekly meetings to record progress and the groups began to hold rehearsals in dorm basements. During the final week of preparation, performers and coordinators put in extra hours in order to prepare the lighting, timing and choreography of the production. 
While the extra work that students put into the show might be taxing on other activities, such as schoolwork, the show continues to draw many volun­teers and participants. Tran credits stu­dent enthusiasm for the past success of Asian Allure. 
"As a student run show, I think it is successful because students are excited about sharing their heritage, not just those with Asian American back­grounds, but all ethnic backgrounds," Tran said. 
The successes of shows from previ­ous years also motivate many people to become a part of the process. 
Asian Allure not only shares its her­itage with all interested viewers, but also invites them to be a part of the show. The modeling tryouts are open to all ethnicities, as are the acts in the show and all of the stage work. The tryouts held in September and subse­quent participation have nothing to do with being a part of a University ethnic club, but the tryout process does require serious dedication. The indi­vidual or groups are given a routine to perform, an opportunity to practice and then a panel of judges evaluates the group's aptitude according to cer­tain criteria. The best groups make the show based on talent, not ethnicity. 
Pricilla Ro, a senior and four-year Asian Allure veteran, will perform in both Binisuan and cultural modern dancing. She will also appear in the modeling segments, including the "Urban Twilight," which will surely prove to be as interesting as it sounds. 
As the clothing coordinator for 2002, Ro contacted the local clothing stores that will provide outfits for the models. She can pick from the stores' lines of clothing the combinations that she thinks will best strengthen the theme of the individual modeling line. The audi­ence can check out the latest fashion trends available at the popular stores. Some, like The Wet Seal, include the store's latest accessories for the display as well. In the past, Ro has 
on fusing the 
past and pres­ent together. In the past, the show was­n't as united, it was a whole bunch of acts doing individual things, but this year there is a stronger sense of unity," Ro said. 
De Leon shares Ro's sentiment in her fourth and last year in Asian Allure and wants to make a statement as the 2002 coordinator. 
"We want to put some­thing out to the commu­nity about who we are today. It's a good show, it has good balance, it's entertaining," she said. 
The AAA was founded in 1992 with the intention of improving the lives of Asian American students at ND, as well as bringing awareness of Asian­American issues to stu­dents, faculty and on a national level. The dedi­cation to that goal is evi­dent in the various events the group sponsors each year. 
Next semester, the AAA brings to campus the Asian Awareness Conference on Jan. 30 and Feb. 1. The conference titled "In Focus 2003: Unlocking the Past, Shaping the Future" continues the goal set forth by Generazians. 
By merging both ethnic and non-eth• nic groups together in order to produce Asian Allure 2002, coordinators and participants of the show not only bring together the past ethnic heritage and the present cultures but they also bring togeth­er the people of the Notre Dame's campu.s, both within the walls of Washington Hall and beyond them. 
The show will take place Saturday night in Washington Hall with doors open­ing at 6:30 p.m. and the curtain opening at 7 p.m. 
Unfortunately, tickets have 
already sold out. Getting to the Allure may involve begging, borrowing or stealing this year. 
For more information on the AAA and its upcoming events, check their Web site at www.nd.edu/~aaa to find a cal­endar of events. 
Contact Colleen Barrett at barrett.42@nd.edu 
I I 
'1 I 
...... 


, ,._ 
I I I 
L 
.... 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 8, 2002 
Pierce leads Celtics in OT win over Lakers 
But that's when he started ter, getting 36 points -more 
Associated Press 
missing again, thanks in part than they had in the first half. to Pierce's defense.
BOSTON Minnesota 114, Milwaukee 110
"You can't let him go out
Kobe Bryant heard the "Beat Getting Wally Szczerbiak
there and get an easy 41. He
L.A." chants bouncing around back in the lineup made it that
scored 41, but he had to take
the FleetCenter and knew he much easier for Kevin Garnett. 
47 shots," Pierce said. "He's 
was involved in something Garnett scored 28 points and
their best player. He has to
special. tied a career high and fran­
carry most of the load because
"I told Paul [Pierce] it was chise record with 24
Shaq is not out there."
just like the old days," Bryant rebounds, and Szczerbiak
Relying on Bryant and the
said. "It felt like we were part returned from a foot injury
equally cold Robert Horry (2­
of history. The old days of with 19 points as the
for-9) for all of their offense,
Larry and Magic. But that lep­Minnesota Timberwolves beat.
the Lakers allowed Boston to
rechaun is Garnett went 20-20 in points
erase an 84-77
still walking and rebounds for the ninth
deficit and
around the "/ told Paul [Pierce] it take an 87-86 time in his career as the rafters." \Volves extended their winning
was just like the old lead on
Pierce streak against the Bucks to
Pierce's
scored 28 days. It felt like we were seven games.
jumper with
points. "I wish I could say the ball
part ofhistory. ,. 1 :55 left in the
including a came to me," Garnett said.
fourth. Devean
3-pointer "But I had to get after it. I just
George scored
with 1:54 Kobe Bryant tried to be aggressive." 
on a pass from 
Garnett scored 13 points and
left in over-Los Angeles guard 
Bryant, then 
had 10 rebounds during a see­
time that 
sank a free 
saw fourth quarter that fea­
gave the 
throw to give 
tured nine lead changes and
Celtics the lead for good as Los Angeles an 89-87 lead. 
four ties. 
Boston beat the depleted Los Walker then blocked His biggest rebound came inAngeles Lakers 98-95. 
Bryant's shot and made a bas­the final seconds, an offensiveBryant had 41 points on an ket from the lane at the other board with the Wolves leadinginconsistent night in which he 
end to tie it with 35 seconds 112-110. Garnett tipped the
shot just 4-for-15 in the first left in regulation. Bryant ball over to Troy Hudson, who
half. scored 18 in the third 
missed again, and Boston had clinched the game by hitting
quarter and then missed 10 
two chances to win it in but two free throws with 0.7 sec­consecutive field-goal attempts couldn't sink either. onds remaining. 
down the stretch. He was 17­O'Neal, who has missed "KG played like a superstarfor-4 7 from the field overall, 
eight weeks since having tonight," Szczerbiak said. "Iand O-for-8 from 3-point 
surgery on his. arthritic right couldn't even think 'rebound' range. 
big toe, is expected to return and he was grabbing every­
"I haven't seen anybody 
no sooner than Tuesday. Fox thing in sight."
shoot 4 7 shots before, ever. Garnett hit two free throws Garnett. "It's like he's got a
sat out the last game of his Minnesota also benefited
There's a limitation to what with 3:09 remaining to put mission not to let them lose a
six-game suspension for fight­from Szczerbiak's return. He 
you can do," Lakers coach Phil Minnesota up 101-100. home game right now."
ing. shot 6-for-13 in 35 minutes in
Jackson said. "I was telling the The Wolves forced a The Wolves improved to 4-0
Los Angeles lost 81-70 on his first action since injuring
team. 'He carried us back into turnover on the ensuing pos­at Target Center. They are 0-2
Tuesday night to the Cleveland his left foot Oct. 8 in an exhibi­
the game. Now stop going to session, then Kendall Gill hit a on the road.
Cavaliers -the Lakers' lowest tion game against the Bucks.
the well. It can dry up."' 3-pointer from the right cor­Milwaukee's Toni Kukoc was
point total since moving from "Adrenaline carried me,"
Tony Delk scored 26 for ner with 2:38 remaining to ejected from the game with
Minneapolis in 1960. They Szczerbiak said. 
Boston, making a pair of free increase the lead to 104-100. 5:54 remaining in the second
extended their scoring slump The Wolves needed every­
throws with 9.3 seconds left to "We had the game under quarter after picking up two
for a third half before mount­thing Garnett and Szczerbiak
make it 98-95. Bryant's 3-control until we left Gill open quick technical fouls. 
ing a charge. could provide in order to over­
point attempt to tie it with 1 in the corner," Allen said. Kukoc was assessed a per­
Shammond Williams hit a come the Bucks' hot-shooting
second remaining bounced off Minnesota extended the lead sonal foul while fighting for a
half-court shot to beat the 24-guards. Milwaukee's Sam 
the front of the rim. to six points on Hudson's rebound with the Wolves'
second clock with 27 seconds Cassell scored 22 of his 32 
Playing without Shaquille jumper, but Allen cut it to Kevin Garnett. Kukoc com­
left in the first half to make it points in the first half and RayO'Neal and Rick Fox and com­50-33 and match Boston's Allen added 18 of his 27 in the 111-110 with a layup. Gill plained to referee Jason ing off their lowest-scoring biggest lead of the game. third quarter. made one of two free throws, Phillips and was assessed a 
game in four decades, the Bryant made two free throws, The Bucks led 85-83 enter­with Garnett getting the technical. When Phillips Lakers had just 35 points at then stole the ball from Pierce ing the fourth, but Szczerbiak rebound on his miss. turned away, Kukoc kicked the 
halftime. But Bryant was hot and heaved a half-court shot hit a 3-pointer with 8:18 "He's got length, intensity, basketball in his direction. in the third quarter, scoring that rimmed out at the buzzer. remaining to give Minnesota desire and good hands -all Phillips did not see the kick, eight in a row as Los Angeles But the 15-point lead quickly its first lead of the quarter, qualities that make you a but fellow referee Derek 
rallied from a 50-35 halftime evaporated as the Lakers shot 93-92. The teams traded the great rebounder," Milwaukee Richardson did, and immedi­deficit to take the lead. 73 percent in the third quar-lead eight more times before coach George Karl said of ately tossed Kukoc. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
..At Last Spring Break•• Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash­tours.com 
18004267710 
Part time babysitter needed. My home; Eagle Lake. AMS and PMs optional. 
Call Colleen. 269-699-7613 
Charming home in beautiful sale neighborhood. 1 mile irom ND. 3­bdrm, 1 1/2 bath,lr, dr, family room, eat in kitchen, finished basement Beautiful hardwoods; new carpet throughout Built in gas grill in large private backyard All new appli­ances. References required. 
950/mo. 288-5118 
WANTED 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866 291.1884 ext U187. 
COACH: Need Jr.High boys basket­ball coach responsible and depend­able student or grad student to coach 7-8th grade reserve basket• ball team, Nov 5-Feb. 20, for south side private elementary school located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street Must be available for practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­
3: 15. Game schedule varies with 9­10 games beginning after school at 4 or 5 pm. Paid position. Call 291­4200 to apply 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentats.com 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. 
Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269­469-0245 
Nice 3-bdrm home in East Race near Corbys avail. now. W/0 incl. 679•2010. 
Large updated duplex avail. now. Unit 1 -2-bdrms Unit 2 -3-4 bdrms Or rent both units for large group Close to campus. Call 679-2010. 
3•Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, alarm system, A/C. Avail.immed., $650/mo. Call 220­0499. 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. 
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE-fully fur­nished 2 bdrm apt avail. spring semester or from Jan-Aug 03, w/d incl, DSL, heated parking garage, 4 miles from ND & located on bus route, $950/mo (util. incl.) call 234­4536 
1-bdrm apt. in downtown South Bend. $395/mo plus dep. Call 233­5285 or 220-2964. 
Furnished-2 BR Til 9/01/03 Near ND. Furnished 2BR in Spring 03 near Airport. 
Cell 508-524-9761, Fax 508-457-5202 
TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 
273-3911 

WANTED ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT· ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravelcom 
When Lauren turns 21, I'm going to knock her up in the flat and get her drunk. 
I am the Sports Adonis. 
Sorry Megs. 
And I'm out. 

I  I  I  •  
l  I  
Friday, November 8, 2002  The Observer . SPORTS  page 13  

WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Cavanaugh looks to knock out defending champ 
Notre Dame Stadium. er Melissa Marcotte said. "We The Whirlwinds also have a er's dad videotaped the game, it
By HEATHER VAN 
Welsh is brimming with confi­think that if we play how we stingy secondary, led by defen­still helped the team prepare for
HOEGARDEN 
dence, as they have been all sea• have all year, that we have the sive back Mary Prendergast. this weekend's contest. 
Sports Writer 
son, coming off a 19-0 trouncing talent and dedication to win the Cavanaugh knows they are the "After we saw the video, we 
of a very good Lyons team last game." underdogs due to the history of were able to fix things that we 
Few things have fazed the week. Meanwhile, Cavanaugh Cavanaugh certainly has tal­defending champion \Velsh but needed to," Marcotte said. "It Whirlwinds of Welsh (6-1) so far has its own momentum after a ent. They have a solid core of are ready for the interhall pow­was a great way to really see our this season. 19-12 defeat of a solid McGlinn receivers, in Marcotte, Jenny erhouse. mistakes." 
However, on Sunday, things team. Nokes and Lisa Ruffer. This trio "Their confidence gives us With that, the Chaos feel that look to be a bit chaotic, as the The Whirlwinds have come to is the favorite target of quarter­motivation," Marcotte said. they have the tools to upset the Cavanaugh Chaos come into the expect victory, but on the other back and team captain Meg "However, just the idea that we Whirlwinds in the battle for a semifinal matchup undefeated at side of the field, the Chaos are Meyers. could play in the Stadium should shot at the Stadium. The game 6-0-1. not standing down to a Welsh However, \'Velsh has talent of give us motivation enough." will be played at 4 p.m. Sunday 
Sunday's game promises to be team whose confidence has their own in wide receivers The Chaos even watched film at McGlinn Fields. a battle of two high-flying teams made them infamous. Bethany Barker, Alex Callan, of their last game taped by a with the winner moving to,.J.!l,,..y "We are pretty confident, our­quarterback Lauren Hoeck and player's dad. Although it hap­Contact Heather Van championship game played in selves," Cavanaugh wide receiv-team captain Vanessa Lichon. pened by chance, in that a play• Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Streaking BP and undefeated PE battle in semifinals 
By LISA REIJUlA Sports Wrirer 
One team hasn't lost a game all season, the other is on a six­game winning streak. 'When Breen-Phillips and Pasquerilla East take the field Sunday, expect a competitive game to ensue between two of the strongest womens interhall teams. 
No. 1 seed Breen-Phillips (7-0) is coming off a surprisingly close game against \Valsh, which the Babes won 6-0. While the BP defense was steadv. the offense didn't click. 
"We definitely did not have a good offensive game," Babes wide receiver Lauren Ohlenforst said. "\Ve couldn't catch passes. We've been practicing running our routes and connecting with the quarterback since we didn't do that well." 
In practice this week, the BP players worked on better execu­tion of their offense. \Valsh had three interceptions against the Babes that allowed them to stay alive offensively. 
"\Ve didn't play nearly up to our potential against Walsh," BP captain Kelly Landers sai.d. "In 
Friday 11/8 Saturday 11 /9 7pm -Joyce Center 
practice we've been getting back to real BP football. We realize that if we lose Sunday, we're out. We'll be much more ready to play." 
The Babes will find themselves up against tough competition in Pasquerilla East. The Pyros haven't lost since their season opener against the Chaos of Cavanaugh. 
PE (6-1) beat Badin last Sunday 12-7 to reach the semifi­nals. The Pyros offense scored early in the game, and the defense kept the lead by stop· ping the Bullfrogs on several big plays. The PE defense also had 
*Saturda :Mini hockey sticks to 
the 1st 1,000 fans! 
three interceptions. 
The Pyros see themselves as a slight underdog in the match up and are expecting a tough game. 
"This week we've been work­ing on our team concept, where we want to go strategy-wise and just getting our team together," PE junior wide receiver Kathryn Lent said. "vVe'll execute the best we can and make plays we've been making over the course of the whole season." 
Both teams boast strong. ath­letic quarterbacks in PE's Abbey Coons and BP's Atasha Potter. The semifinal game will be the first face-off between the two 
I 
dorms this season. 
"PE is a tough team," Ohlenforst said. "I hope we put up a good fight and make it into the Stadium." 
As for the Pyros, Lent and her teammates are also expecting a battle. 
"Whichever team comes more ready to play and makes the big plays will win this one," she said. 
Breen-Phillips and Pasquerilla East kick off at 3 p.m. at \Vest Quad fields. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 




... 
www.catholicshirts.com 



theclogstore.com 
1-800-948-CLOG

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
2 BEDROOMS ,~ND TOVv"NHOMES FROM AS LOW AS $300 PER PERSON!!!! ~ 
PLENTY AVAILABLE FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR BEST LOC..~TION AND SELECTION **APPLY TODAY!!,,.... 
VISIT US ON THE '-\'EB! WWW.JVRTLECREEKND.COM 



a a a a a J a a & 



page 14 

! > ,...,g~ se~•iii:~-~,)' .. .· .
: · 
··• :·•·•••·•··••·•••····••••·<•:cc1-1A••eonfetence tr•·•••t••···>···............ 
·-·:-·-.:·:--><·.-·.<···_,:::·-_..·.·. 
···••••·••·••·•··••••••t@aii•,•:·\•·••
:: f'emsstatet 


around the dial 
SATURDAY NCAA FOOTBALL NOTRE DAME AT NAVY, NOON, CBS OHIO STATE AT PURDUE, NOON, ABC MIAMI AT TENNESSEE, 3:30 P.M., CBS MISSISSIPPI AT GEORGIA, 7 P.M., ESPN2 
SUNDAY NFL LIONS AT PACKERS, 1 P.M., FOX COLTS AT EAGLES, 1 P.M., CBS 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, November 8, 2002 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Icon SMI Michigan basketball players look for a rebound in a game against Illinois last season. Michigan has issued a one-year ban from post-season play to its basketball program for a scandal involving a former booster. 
Michigan self-imposes stiff sanctions 
NCAA tournament or the Sue Coleman said. "This is Webber and future NBA
Associated Press 
National Invitation a day of great shame." players Juwan Howard and 
Tournament after the The university received a Jalen Rose led the 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. upcoming season. The team formal letter of inquiry Wolverines to consecutive 
Michigan punished its went 11-18 last season. from the NCAA on Oct. 19. NCAA finals in 1992 and 
men's basketball program Michigan also said it "We have worked closely 1993. 
imposing a postseason ban would return to the NCAA with NCAA at every stage," Webber, along with his 
for 2003 and forfeiting all $450,000 -money it said Michigan athletic father, Mayce \\!ebber Jr., 
victories from four seasons earned for appearing in the director Bill Martin. "We and aunt, Charlene 
because of a scandal involv­postseason. will now ask to get on the Johnson, arc charged with 
ing a former booster. The scandal centers on schedule for a hearing with lying to a grand jury and 
Michigan also wil1 remove former booster Ed Martin, the infractions committee obstructing justice in 
banners from Crisler Arena who pleaded guilty in May as soon as possible. \Ve Martin's case. They have 
for the 1992-93 season, as to conspiracy to launder hope it will be very soon." pleaded innocent, and their 
well as the three between money. Martin has said he The NCAA does not com­trials are not expected to 
1995 and 1999. took gambling money, com­ment on pending investiga­begin until next year. 
The school announced the bined it with other funds tions, spokesman Wally Martin said he gave 
penalties in a letter to the and lent it to former Renfro said. \,Vebber and his family 
NCAA on Thursday. By Michigan star Chris Webber The scandal originated in $280,000 in cash and gifts 
imposing the sanctions. and other players, as well the "Fab Five" era, when while the player was in high 
Michigan hopes to head off as their families. \Vebber and four other school and college. Webber 
more. severe action by the "There is no excuse for freshmen made the pro­has denied receiving any 
NCAA. what happened. It was gram into a national sensa­money, accusing Martin of 
The Wolverines won't be wrong-plain and simple," tion. With their baggy "preying" on the naivete of 
able to participate in the university president Mary shorts and black socks, him and other1youngsters. 
IN BRIEF 
Zito wins AL Cy Young 
Now Barry Zito can stare at a Cy Young Award every day. 
After winning the American League honor for the first time, he thought back to his youth, when his parents paid former major leaguer Randy Jones $50 a lesson and he went to his teacher's house after workouts. 
"It was sitting there is his living room every day," Zito said, "and I would kind of marvel at it." 
Zito, 23-5 with a 2.75 ERA as Oakland won the AL West, received 17 first-place votes, nine seconds and two thirds for 114 points from a panel of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Boston's Pedro Martinez, a three­time Cy Young Award winner, got 11 firsts, 12 seconds and five thirds for 96 points after going 20-4 wlth..a 2.26 
ERA. Red Sox teammate Derek Lowe, 21-8 with a 2.58 ERA, was third with 41 points, and Anaheim's Jarrod Washburn (18-6, 3.15) got one point. 
Cubs to contact Baker 
If Dusty Baker needs an enormous challenge after his successful 10-year run in San Francisco, the Chicago Cubs can certainly provide it. 
No World Series championships since 1908, no World Series appear­ances since 1945, no back-to-back winning seasons since 1972. Need more? 
One day after the Giants announced Baker wouldn't be retained as their manager, less than two weeks after their Game 7 loss in the World Series, the Cubs were expected to make con­tact. 
General manager Jim Hendry was in organizational meetings\ Arizona and not immediately available for comment. But it's hardly a secret that the Cubs think Baker could be the man to help them shed their losers' label. 
Among those Hendry has already interviewed are Bob Melvin, Ken Macha, Buck Showalter and Fredi Gonzaiez. Macha will manage the A's and Showalter the Rangers next sea­son. 
A three-time NL Manager of the Year, Baker would be an instant pres­ence with his familiar toothpick and ability to relate to players and maxi­mize their talents. 
Ile would be Chicago's sixth man­ager since 1992 and the fourth since 
Jim Riggleman  - now a  candidate  
for the Seattle vacancy  - was fired  
after the 1999 season.  


__.I 
Friday, November 8, 2002 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
South Quad rivals meet in semis again 
Green Wave looks for revenge 


By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
Just like next-door neighbors, these opponents arc familiar with each other. 
Alumni and Dillon meet this Sunday in a rematch of last year's second '"round playoff game, which the Big Red won en route to a championship title. 
The rivalry is even more heat­ed after this year's regular sea­son in which Alumni han~d Dillon its only loss all year, a 14­0 shutout in the first game of the year. 
Both teams have more than enough motivation for the game. Dillon can preach an emphasis on defending a championship and avenging the regular season loss while Alumni can emphasize last year's loss to the Big Red. 
"It seems every year we some­how end up playing Dillon," Alumni captain Steve Keppel said. "We wouldn't want to play any other team but them right now." 
"This will be a huge game," Dillon co-captain Jim Gaffey said. "There's a lot of rivalry between us." 
The Big Red survived a scare against Stanford last week, win­ning 7-6, to earn the right to face the Dawgs. Alumni defeated Sorin 21-8 in il<; first round play­off victory. 
Keppel believes that his team has the focus and dedication to show Alumni's win over Dillon during the regular season was no fluke. 
"This year we came out strong and beat them [in the first game], and that's what we want to do this time," he said. "They've gotten a lot better since that game, but we've improved as well. We'll hopefully be pre­pared for that on Sunday." 
Gaffey said that Dillon has a few kinks to work out of its game before Sunday. 
"We need to work on scoring once we're in the red zone," he said. "It's been a focus this week, even though [Stanford against Dillon] was a hard­fought game by both teams." 
The Big Red have six seniors total on this year's team, includ­ing two who are playing their first year of inter hall football. 
"All seniors know that any game could be your last game," said Gaffey, a senior himself. "Football is a great game and we have an unique opportunity at Notre Dame to play it in full pads. It's hard to let go of that, so you want to play your hardest in every game as a senior." 
Alumni has only one senior, tight end Brian Ostic. Keppel said that Ostic, quarterback Chris Cottingham and running back Alex Roothouse were impressive in the Sorin game, as well as the entire Dawg defense. 
He said that an equal effort will be required to beat Dillon. 
"We want to beat Dillon, but our main goal is to get to the championship," he said. "Last time we shut down Dillon's run. and we have confidence that we can do it again." 
Contact Justin Schuver at ischuver@nd.edu 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Spom Writer 

In interhall football, it's one thing to defeat the No. 1 ranked team in the playoffs and stroll confidently into the finals, but it's another to defeat the only team that defeated you in the regular season. 
A victory by No. 4 Fisher over No. 1 and undefeated Siegfried would achieve both of these. 
The Green Wave was run dry by the Ramblers in the first week of the regular season in a 21-6 trouncing. Fisher has cer­tainly grown since then and become a different and more formidable force. 
"\Ve were a much younger team back then," Fisher cap­tain Tom Gorman said. "We had a lot of freshmen and first time players who just needed a little experience." 
Fisher's first defeat appears to be the experience they need­ed as they've managed to keep a perfect record since then. 
Siegfried has had its share of perfection as well. In fact, they have gone all season without a single loss and posted numer­ous shutout victories. With the top seed and a solid 10-7 post­season victory over Morrisey under their belts, the Ramblers may be well on their way to the stadium and even a champi­onship. 
"We're confident in our abili­ty to perform well," Siegfried captain John Torgenson said. "We're definitely not cocky. We just now how solid a team we have." 
Siegfried has every reason to be confident in its ability with such standout players as quar­terback Bill Bingle and running back Tim Breitbach who together have scored most of the team's touchdowns. 
However, the Ramblers will have to play perfect offense to slither past a strong Fisher defense. 
"We know that our defense is a strong point for this team," Gorman said. "We have a great secondary which could be key in stopping Siegfried's passing game." 
This same secondary gar­nered five interceptions in Fisher's first round bout. 
Torgenson knows the Ramblers will have to stay "fundamentally sound" to beat the Green Wave again. 
Contact Trey Williams at twillia6@nd.edu 




Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan • Hunan -Cantonese • American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 1 O 
(574) 272-7376 • 222 Dlxleway South 
(U.S. 31 In Roseland) South Bend, IN 
The Saint Mary's College Theatre presents 

For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 574/284-4626 



•:;;i~~:\~~t.;....•:.. 
.. ·.·.•. 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
a a cs a a a 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMENS GOLF 

Irish suffer ups-and-downs 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
It has been said in golf it is very difficult to follow one great round with another one, and the womens golf team found out how true that saying can be at the Pine Needles Invitational earlier this week. 
In their final match of the 
calendar year, after opening with a 315, the Irish shot 
303. their best team tally of the season in the second round. The final round was not kind 
to the Irish as they ballooned to a 323 and tied for seventh place with Minnesota at 941. 
"We had one OK, one great and one terrible round," coach Debby King said. "I think the lack of experience being there and not quite believing in themselves may have been factors. We really don't have any excuses, just 


I, 
! 
,! 
"We had one OK, one great and one terrible round. . . . We really don't have any excuses, just poor play.,. 
Debby King Irish coach 

poor play." 
Freshman Sarah Bassett led the Irish for the third time this fall, finishing with a 231 (79-75-77) to tie for 13th. Classmate Katie Brophy played her best golf of the year in the first two rounds, but slipped to a tie for 16th at 233 (78-73-82). 
"Sarah has done real well for us the past two tourna­ments and Katie had a great 
234 (78-76-80). Rogers tied her lowest 54-hole score of the season. 
Also contributing to the Irish totals were senior Terri Taibl, who tied for 46th at 245 (82-79-84) and junior Shannon Byrne, who tied for 51st at 249 (80-81-88). 
Lauren Barbir, competing as an individual entrant for 
second r o u n d before she lost it the last round," King said. 
Junior Rebecca Rogers also was solid for the Irish, tying for 22nd at 

An Irish golfer lines up a putt in a tournament earlier this year held at the Warren Golf Course. 
Whetller lou're loo~ng for I Brand New car, Or ANll·Tl•Yau Car, . We can lelu, With 1atesIs lDw Is 
V 
50~

. •). 

. 
~, 

:,u~~11EDITUNION 9~611 •800/567-6328 ,·<· . .:,.' -, www.ndfcu.org 
~••~~-~asblas~~ase vald fa vaOOtJS m::ms !elms(XI rl!W ~ used iehiles. Rates are sa~ti~'lli1IYxrt ~11:6:e. Cm-I reslrdi:vJs may W)'. This oi'er IS OOI vaf,J fix refiranres de1is'.r,g ~lre Dame Federal \leot lkloo cans. I~dIlle Utwe!Sfty. 
Notre Dame, tied for 44th with 244 (81-83-80). 
North Carolina fired a 303, the lowest round of the final day, to race past North Carolina State for the team title. The Tar Heels also had the top three individuals in the event. Abby Spector was medalist at 218, with Ashley Prange coming in at 219 and Meghan Adams finishing third at 220. Those three golfers were four strokes ahead of the rest of the field. 
Now the Irish must wait until February to continue with the spring portion of their schedule. While the sea­son and the events will be different, their goals will remain the same. 
"We're honing in on the same goals," said King. "This event dropped our overall average to 315 which is three off the pace for our goal. We're just going to keep things the same for then." 
The Irish resume play Feb. 28 at the Edwin \Vatts/Carolina Classic in Pinehurst, N. C. 
Contact Andy T roeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

'-o um 1a 
Sportswear
largest selectio;.at 
Sminute~~ from CUTPDST Campus ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-1000 for more details 



' •'

',,,,.. 
-~.:~ i 
!·, .. 


a 5 
a 
Friday, November 8, 2002 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
it also shows the level that we can play at." 
The Irish showed some of that ability last weekend against the Eagles. After grab­bing an early 2-0 lead over Boston College, the Irish yield­ed three goals to fall behind with just four minutes left. 
But the Irish remained in the game. After Poulin pulled goaltender Morgan Cey with just over a minute to play for the extra skater, they retaliat­
ed to tie the game on an Contact Chris Federico at Aaron Gill goal. cfederic@nd.edu 
•"f' ___,,,.. < • 

CABDINAL CHARTERS·· 
.• IF QUALITY COUNTS... eame ~ ~/· 

• 

•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 


DIAL TOLL FREE 

1-800-348•7487 · 
www.cardinalbuses.com 
,.!i 

Carrying over that emotion combined with a solid week of practice, Poulin feels his team will be prepared to defend its home ice. 
"We've had a very good week of practice," Poulin said. "We actually skated on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday have been excel­lent practices. That's what I have to go on, and I'm very much looking forward to the games this weekend." 
Faceoff for tonight and Saturday is set for 7:05 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
• I ' , I • 
' i I 
Friday, November 8, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
him for five games, Sawyer fourth and fifth on the Irish in The Hoyas enter the Big East ren tly struggling (17 goals will likely start in goal for the scoring, respectively. Tournament as only one of two allowed in their last 9 games),
Rematch 
Irish. The Irish bench, including teams with a sub-.500 overall this could be a game for the continued from page 20 Offensively. forwards Erich Luke Boughen and Devon record. Georgetown has been Irish to shine. Braun and Rafael Garcia will Prescod, has provided an outscored 31-23 this season, Kickoff is at 7:30 p.m. 
goalies Greg Tait and Chris be backed up by midfielders offensive spark for the Irish, and only features two playersSawyer give up only 17 goals Riley, Justin Detter, Greg with the two each having with more than 10 points. in 18 games. After a midsea­Martin and Kevin Goldthwaite. scored three goals for the Irish With offense a problem for Contact Bryan Kronk at 
l)0n hamstring injury sidelined who are currently first, third, this season. 
Get yo,.1:,r,Slqrne_ 12Cl:)!, Towel today! 
Available at the following locations for only $5: -Alumni Association, Eck Center -Notre Dame Bookstore -Varsity Shop 


On football weekends, you can also find your green towel at: -SARG Tent 
(North ofEck Center, 1-5pn1 on Fridays) 
-Alutnni Association Hospitality Area 
(Joyce Center Fieldhouse, on Saturdays) 
-Adidas Tent 

(Outside ofJoyce Center, Gate 10, Fridays before and after Pep Rallies and Saturdays) 
-Stadiu1n Concession Stands 
(Saturdays) 
~, A.ss0 r:-.. 
:::, ,::::.
~S'JN>~C
-< :::, 
NOTRE DAME 




the Hoyas, and its defense cur-kronk.3@nd.edu 
ND SWIMMING 
Squads hope to bounce back from tough meets 
details in practice.
By JOE HETTLER 
"We've basically been concen­

Associate Spores Editor 
trating on the little things, the starts and the turns and makingBoth the mens and womens sure we do everything right so swimming teams hope to bounce that when the race comes we'll 
back from recent losses tonight be ready," Bauman said. 
when they face Michigan State at The womens team also needs Rolfs Aquatic Center. a win after losing in the last The mens team has been wait­event against Indiana and tying
ing for three weeks to avenge Purdue in their last two meets. 
their first loss of the season to The Irish women opened their the Air Force Academy. season with a victory in the Freshman Doug Bauman said Notre Dame relays and then the team isn't concerned about cruised to a 162-100 victory over being too rusty. the Air Force Academy.
"I don't think [the layoffi is dif­However, the Irish couldn't fin­ficult as long as we come out ish ofT Purdue and then let a win 
with the right energy and the slip away in the last event right mindset," Bauman said. "I against Indiana. The dual meet think we'll be fine." loss snapped Notre Dame's 16­With the long break between meet winning streak that dated 
meets, the team has been con­back to Nov. 4, 2000. 
centrating on staying sharp and Junior Laurie Musgrave said 
has paid particular attention to she thinks the Irish will be more focused for this meet after losing to the Hoosiers. 
"I think [the loss} actually gives us a lot of determination and focus," Musgrave said. We have had quite a long winning streak and this might be that fire we needed a little bit to get us a lit­tle bit more focused and geared up for the rest of the season." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 



The Northern Indiana Workforce Investment Board is proud to present its annual: 
Economic Forecasting Summit 
Fearur,n9 marker srraregisri: Terry Savage, Chicago Sun Times Robert Stovall, Clemente Capital, Inc. Scott Malpass, University of Notre Dame Carol Stone. Nomura Securities lnternat,onal Richard Driehaus, Driehaus Capital Management, Inc. 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 South Bend Century Center 120 S.Joseph Street South Bend, Indiana 
520 includes continental breakfast 
For registration information call 574-239·2380 x 234 or e-mail niwib@niwib.com 
[',+l 
~ 

1\;1,TK\IT)' 1)F Su r1a l)HH
0 Investment Services JobWorks 

Friday, November 8, 2002

The Observer . SPORTS

Every win a step toward ultimate goal for the Irish 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Despite facing few chal­lenges so far in conference action, the Notre Dame volley­ball team takes more from its easy wins than just the thrill of victory. The Irish have their eyes set on the postseason. 
Notre Dame (20-5, 10-0 in the Big East) travels to Syracuse (19-9, 5-5} Saturday with the hopes of continuing its season-long improvement and peaking in time for the December NCAA Tournament. 
"I think we are close. Last weekend we played well and everyone had a chance to play," Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown said. "I think now when it gets close to the end of the season, there is a lot of motivation in practice. 
1: The team has high spirits and ,. ·I looking forward to the post­
\I 
season." 
l \ 
Brown has seen the most 

\ improvement from freshmen 
\ Lauren Kelbley and Lauren Brewster. "I think it has been steady, but certainly the freshmen middle blockers started out strong and have been consis­tent throughout the year," Brown said. "They have not ,, played like typical freshmen. !~ ... We hoped it would happen ''1 for sure, but it is hard to I \ expect freshmen to be really j 
')
J 
~: ~t 
fflarco~s Pizza.
,. 
r 
Quick Carryout & Free Delivery! 


7t<,,,!,u,utl 
Medium Pizza 

Cheese & 1Topping 
Large Pizza 
Cheese &1Topping 

poised, consistent and steady." 
Kelbley leads the Irish and is seventh in the Big East with a .321 hitting percentage. She is also third on the team averag­ing 2.61 kills per game. 
Hrewster has emerged as a defensive force for the Irish. lier 1.63 blocks per game average currently ranks first in the Big East and fifth in the country. 
Despite its 19 wins, Syracuse does not appear to be a major threat to hand Notre Dame its first conference loss of the seaso·n. The Orangewomen have improved on last year's total of three conference wins but are nowhere near the Irish's level of play. 
"I think they are much bet­ter. Their ball control is better and they have a more bal­anced offense," Brown said. "They do have three freshmen in the starting lineup, a couple of those from Canada and China are a little older so they 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Seledion0 
5minutes~_&
from OUTPOST 
Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-iooo for more details 


Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's
{ ' 
/ ( 
52750 IN 633.......574-243-1122 
Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday!

No Coupon Necessary. Plus Tax. FRtE DELMRY. S7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With My Other Offer. Valid Only At Listed Marco·s Pizza Locations. Expires 12-15-02. 
1:13 :IC!GI ACCEPT£D HER£ 
Must 1)1'0\'a credit cam illO!mation ffl oroenno IOI delil'ery 
V•11 us on the Web at www.m•tco1.com C,!002 Marco·,. Inc. 2&82-a02 

I M-3
7~'7/eetu. 
Fresh baked and buttery-toppoo with cinnamon sugar. Complete with aside of vanilla topping. Mmmm...try some toda 1 
Fresh-baked bread strips with 3kinds o1 cheeses &garlic butter: topped with Parmesan &Roma Seasoning. Selved with aside of Pina Sauce &Ranch Dippil!IJ Sauce. 
Serving Bethel College 
326 N. Ironwood...574-243-1111 Corner of Ironwood &McKinley 
HAVING ABIG PAR'IY? WE CAN CATER YOUR EVENT! 
• ,... ,,, ... II:" "' -, ' '>"-"':.'«•1J'-""~i.'::"' 
, 

aren't true freshmen. I think with those three freshmen, they have become a little more consistent with ball control and have stronger net play." 
The two international fresh­men Brown talks about are Canadian Aila Dommestrup and China resident Hui Jue Duan, who ranks fourth in the Big East in aces per game. 
These first-year players and the rest of the Syracuse team do not concern the Irish one bit. 
"I think we just need to focus on our side of the net. There is nothing Syracuse can bring that we can't handle," Brown said. "So it's a matter of us playing consistent, hav­ing no unforced errors and 
~~W:!~~~~ ;~:,:~dn!~ ~a:cd~ 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

Freshman Meg Henican bumps the ball against Boston College last Sunday. The Irish play travel to Syracuse this weekend. 
MOTRE DAME MEM'S SOCCER 

@SATURDAY •7:30 PM, ALUMNI FIELD @ 
STUDEMTS GET IN FREE •TAILGATING BEFORE THE GAME 
Kim will use both acoustic komungo and the world's only electric komungo. The komungo is a string instrument indigenous to Korea, originating in the fourth century in the northern part of the country (Koguryo). The six-stringed, fretted board zither was mainly used in the court music orchestra and kagok ensemble for the performance of aristocratic lyric songs. Traditionally, komungo was performed by male Confucian scholars for their meditation. The only solo repertory for komungo is sanjo, a long folk-style virtuoso ma!llter piece• .Jin Hi Kim's compositions represent an evolution of the instrument into the twenty-first century, a development she has pursued aver the past twenty 
years. 


. .
... ..
I ' 
Friday, November 8, 2002 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Katharine Hepburn, Patti Page, Bonnie 
Raitt, Parker Posey • 
ACROSS 32 It's ruled by a 54 The patron 
sultan replied ...
1 Church abutter, 
Happy Birthday: You may be inclined to overreact this year, but if you can maybe 34 Man of means, 60 Happy-go-lucky 
control your impulses, you should be able to make some positive gains. This 
can be a good year if you take note of your past mistakes and refuse to let
in Manchester person, perhaps6 Some alerts, for 
anyone lead you astray. Rely on yourself and you won't be disappointed. Your 
short 35 Blue-ribbon 61 Loser at 
numbers are 3, 15, 28, 31, 36, 49 
ARJES (March 21-April 19): Travel will be tiring but lucrative. Your intuition 
Chalons in1 O Like a mite 36 "You Can Call 
will lead you in the right direction. Follow it where business ventures are
A.O. 451Me Al" singer 

concerned. You may want to get some additional legal advice.**
13 Superior strings 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Past unpleasant memories may surface. Do your •
62 Shout before15 Member of a pod 38 The waiter 
best to settle these issues once and for all. Put the past behind you and focus on
firingasked ... 
the present. ****

16 Retail store 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotional reactions may get you into hot
63 _signum
opening? 40 Make good on 
water. Take a deep breath before you interact. Concentrate on work and steer
64 Eyed rudely 
clear of emotional confrontations. You are not seeing the whole picture.
17 With pluck 41 Hinged flap on 
*****
an airplane 65 Artful 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be having difficulty getting your point delivery 43 Like school, 66 G, e.g. 
18 Statement upon 
across. Take your time and be precise. The more complete your explanation. the easier it will be for others to support you. *
sometimes

20 A restaurant 67 Grounds 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You are more interested in entertainment and having patron said ... 45 Sun-cracked 
fun than work right now. It may be time for a career change. Take a look at what you love to do and see if there is a way to tum it into a lucrative career.
22 Welcome to 46 Firedome, for 
DOWN 
*** 

VIRGO (Aug, 23-Sept. 22): Past experiences that were stressful should be left
one's home one 1 Epiphany figures 
alone regardless of how hard it is to say no. Just remember the anxiety you felt
23 Cracker, of sorts 47 Some TV's 
and be fmn. Try to be disciplined. *****
2 Make_of 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can do some research today that will bring you
24 Signature piece? 49 Legal thing 
new ideas. Place a call to someone who can't get out due to illness or old age. 
3 Gets specific 
Your visit would be just the right pick-me-up. ***
26 Zip 50 Sped 4 Skier Mahre 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may find yourself doing a lillle traveling
28 Nineveh's river 52 Dalmatian, e.g. 
today. Visit friends and relatives that you don't get to spena much time with.
5 Actress Heckart 
You should take the evening to relax with your mate. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your contributions have not gone unnoticed.
6 Java is in it
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
There are those in positions of authority who appreciate your efforts. Good 
7 Niggling 

news should come by phone or mail. Be eager to celebrate your good fortune. 
***

8 They have short 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Secret affairs may be exciting now, but the 

Puzzle by Ellubeth C. Gorski
legs and long 
consequences will by no means be to your liking. Don't get drawn into other ears 25 "South Pacific" 44 Kind of bone 55 4~Down's twin people's personal problems. You have enough to deal with. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is not the day to ask for favors or loans.
9 Like Nchow" vis­hero 56 Frosted
48 In one's cups Others will not be convinced of your needs. You will have to go over youra-vis Nedibles" 27 Can't take 57 Priceless? financial statements carefully and work out a bud_get you can live with. *** 51 Like Homo PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make professional gains if you play your
10 Chapter in 20th­
29 Prepared habilis 58 Designer for cards right. Look for opportunities to climb the ladder of success by
century hist. 
numbers Jackie mingling with the hotshots. You will learn a great deal and may get some good ­53 Ala leads.****
------+--11 Eden, for one 
30 Empathetic 59 Some stay at Birthday Baby: You will be determined and willing to go the extra mile to 12 Corner pieces words 54 "_ framed!" home reach your life goals. Your tendency to think big may cause some grief, but it will also make you strive harder. 14 Six Day War 31 Lid problems Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugt!nialast.com, astromate.com. combatant COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
33 Nays 

___,.... 19 Noisy groups 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
37 Seldom

.,.,..~~~~ 21 Pump with 1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). money 39 Adam's-needle, Annual subscriptions are available for the 
e.g. best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
-----24 Got shot in a ..
•• • Your initials studio? 42 Remington rival years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------------------------------------~---------------------------------­
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIR10N 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ROGGE jI I t 
02002 Trtlune Media Services, Inc. All Aighta Reserved. 
YAFOR 

± 
I I r J 
FAYLBB j
I rr 
www.jumble.com
tJONNIE 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IJ I (J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: A"( I I I I I )" ( I I I ]
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: SWISH IMBUE SEAMAN FACING Answer: What the golfer listened to while he practiced -"SWING" MUSIC 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 28 • To order, und your name, address and $5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Media Sarvicea. P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your hon1e. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
'lll!li---------------------------------------------------------------------·­
. ~{· \ ' . 
, . q 
: I 
: 1 t 
, i l 

: \ '1 I . \ l Friday, November 8, 2002 
. 
. 

. 
) 



MENS SOCCER 
Biting back 
·The Irish look for revenge against Georgetown in the Big East Tournament after dropping a 3-2 loss to the Hoyas during the regular season 

By BRYAN KRONK Sporrs Writer 

Call it deja vu all over again. 
The Notre Dame mens soccer team (11-4-3, 6-3-1 in the Big East) will be looking to exact a little revenge -postseason style -on the Georgetown Hoyas (7-8-1, 5-4-1) Saturday night at Alumni Field. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, so will the Hoyas. 
After the Ir ish fe11 to th e Boyas 3-2 on Oct. 26 in Washington, the fourth-seeded Irish will meet fifth-seeded Georgetown in a repeat matchup of last year's Big East quarterfinal match, won by the Irish 1-0. 
The winner of Saturday night's match at Alumni Field will face the winner of the Providence-Boston CoJlege match next Friday at 7 p.m. in the Big East semifinals in New Brunswick. N.J. 
Notre Dame enters the match having won seven of its last eight games, which makes the loss to the Boyas the only blemish on what would have been an eight-game winning 
HOCKEY 

Miami of Ohio next in string of ranked foes 
streak for the Irish, dating b.J!iik to Oct. 4, when Pittsburgh upset the Irish. 1-0 in overtime. 
The Irish have won their last two matchups at Alumni Field against the Hoyas, including a 3·1 decision during the 2001 regular season. Under Irish coach Bobby Clark, the Irish are 14-2-1 at Alumni Field. 
In last year's Big East quar• terfinal, a goal by Chad Hiley early in the first half proved to be the decisive -and only ­score in the game. Riley is tied for the team lead in scoring this year with 19 points (4 goals. 11 assists). His 0.61 assists per game average ranks him 14th in the nation. 
This year, the Boyas got the better of the Irish in the regu­lar season. Tied 2-2 late in the game. the Boyas capitalized on a penalty kick as a result of a handball on Notre Dame inside the penalty area, scoring \-Vith 24 seconds remaining. 
The Irish will feature a tough defensive line, as defenders Kevin Richards, Dale Hellas and Jack Stewart have helped 
see REMATCH/page 17 
shooters at bay, limiting teams nothing new to the Irish. Their Irish have faced in this early to 20 shots a game, half of the last opponent. Boston College, part of their season. Two Redhawk production. was one of the best in the weeks ago, Notre Dame 
"They're fast, and they're nation in taking advantage of dropped a pair of conference similar to Boston College in opponents' penalties, and matches to No. 12 Ferris State, their speed, and certainly Notre Dame shut out the and last week. the Irish tied their confidence is sky high," Eagles when they had the man third-ranked Boston College. Poulin advantage. Poulin says he relishes the said. "They thrive on opportunity to play such tal•
"There's no rest for the 
Miami special teams," ented opposition so early in 
weary, because we 're 
has also Poulin said. "One the season. b e e n going to be right back of their [power "There's no rest for the v e r y playJ units is simi• weary, because we're going to
with [the tough 
oppor­lar to Boston be right back with [the tough
competition] this week. ,,
tunistic College. They competition] this week," in its attack in a similar Poulin said. "But it's good scoring manner to what because we're going through
Dave Poulin 
prod uc­we saw with some things. I don't think
Irish coach
t i o n . Boston College. we've hit our stride by any 0 n e -That was a big means of the imagination. third of the Hedhawk goals factor to what we did in shut­With the results we've had and have come via special teams ting down one of the top teams the quality of teams we've 


of games two weekends ago.
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

'Tm wondering how we keep
Sports Editor 

pulling such strong teams," Irish head coach Dave Poulin It doesn't get any easier for said. "I think the only break the Irish. we have is the off week next 
After skating to a 3-3 tie weekend. I've watched these against No. 3 Boston College guys on tape all week, and last Friday. they're really good." the Notre 
Included in Miami's wins are D a m e three victories from confer­hockey ence foe Bowling Green and a t e a m two-game sweep from peren­returns nial power Northern Michigan. again to "They are so confident," home ice to Poulin said. "To be 8-2 on the take on No. year is one thing, but they 14 Miami have played good teams and (Ohio). Poulin 
beaten good teams." 
T h e The Redhawks have aver­Redhawks arc 8-2 on the sea­aged 5 .1 goals a game this son and 5-1 in CCHA play, season -three more than which lands them in second what they've allowed oppo• place behind Ferris State, to nents. In addition, the Miami whom the Irish dropped a pair defense has kept opposing 
~ '. ;
tt 
'\ 
l 
i 
VOLLEYBALL 

' 
-
Notre Dame at Syracuse 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 


The Irish look to remain undefeated in Big East play. 

< I 
page 18 
ND SWIMMING 
Michigan State at Notrel>ame 
Today, 5 p.m. 
Both the mens and womens squads take on the Spartans at Rolfs. 
page 17 
on power play opportunities. in the country." played But playing against a solid Miami will be the third con­
special teams unit should be secutive ranked opponent the 
ND WOMENS GOLF 
Notre Dame 7th at Pine Needles Invitational 
The Irish have a good, average and poor round to end the fall sea~m with a seventh-place finish. 
page 16 
MENS lNTERHALL 

Dillon vs1 Alumni, Siegfriea vs. Fisher 
Sunday 
Four teams remain in the interhall playoffs. 
page 15 

WOMENS INTERHALl 
Breen-Philips vs. Pasquerilla East, Welsh Family vs. Cavanaugh 
Sunday 
Winners go to finals. 
page 14 

... it prepares you, and see HOCKEY/page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame at Navy 
Saturday, noon 

The Irish look to bounce back from a loss to Boston College. 
Irish Insider 

Photo Illustration by KATIE McKENNA and NELLfE WILLIAMS 
'. ~ 
t ' I I . 

··-.. • . 1
<t£2'>. 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 8, 2002 
It's about tradition 
Notre Dame and Navy have a long Miami facing a high school football This example demonstrates what history, but it certainly hasn't been team. the Notre Dame-Navy rivalry is all filled with the ups and downs, the tri­So why keep the Midshipmen on the about. umphs and failures of other fabled schedule? It is not just football. It's about Irish rivalries. It If you talk to the Irish coaches and respect, gratitude and maintaining a doesn't include 
their team, they don't think that's way of life. runbacks called even a question worth fielding. \\Then Take Irish defensive end Kyle back on clipping they do field that question, their Budinscak. When Notre Dame takes penalties or answers gener-the field Saturday in changes to green ally don't Ravens Stadium, jerseys at half include state­The game is about a Budinscak will have a time to get the ments like family member there 
tradition that stretches 
team pumped "Navy is always cheering for him ­
back nearly as far as
up. It doesn't a good football silently. His older include five team," or "This the Notre Dame football brother, Guy, is a straight years of Katie McVoy game really senior at Navy. And the
program.
Irish losses or adds to our first thing Kyle men-teams ending strength of tions with pride is that Notre Dame's schedule." Guy's class elected him 
Irish 

national champi­Mostly, their answers include Navy executive officer. 
Insight

onship hopes. always being up for Notre Dame or That tie means something more. It 
It doesn't looking at a few games in the last 38 shows the Irish are facing a team that involve any of years that have been close or how the has a responsibility greater than the those things. game is about more than football. one each player has on the football 
Mostly it involves Notre Dame win­"The truth of the matter is this rela­field. ning and Navy losing, as has been the tionship is a little bit deeper than just They have a responsibility to make case for the past 38 years. a football game, if I am correct," sure the Irish can continue to utter the 
Last year when Notre Dame was Tyrone Willingham said. "Therefore, phrase "God, Country, Notre Dame." struggling to put any sort of victory there is great precedence for this That's why this game is about more together, the game and this rivalry than football. Navy game to take place." The game is about a tradition that came as a wel­When the members of That precedence stretches back nearly as far as the come relief to Willingham al1uded to Notre Dame football program. The 
Frank Leahy's fabled 
fans that were largely comes from a game is about having one contest
football teams returned
tired of seeing debt Notre Dame owes every year that both teams will always the Irish lose. to South Bend after their Navy. Sixty years ago, circle, regardless of either one's But this year, during World War II, it record. The game is about two pro­
years ofservice, it was
with the so­was largely the Naval grams that have always respected 
due to the Navy that
called "Return ROTC that kept a each other and will continue to fight to Glory" at they had a university to struggling university on the field for years and, hopefully, hand, questions alive. generations to come to further earn
which to return.

abound about When the members that respect. the worthiness of Frank Leahy's of the Notre fabled football teams Dame-Navy series. An 8-1 team, returned to South Bend after their The opinions ofthis column are whose only loss came in the shape of years of service, it was due to the those ofthe author and not necessari­its own mistakes, facing a 1-7 team Navy that they had a university to ly The Observer. Contact Katie McVoy seems to many about as equitable as which to return. at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
game hype 

..We basically want to come out and wear the gold helmets the way they once wore them." 

"'Other than one little hiccup last week, they've had a magical season ... 

Paul Johnson Navy head coach 


"Our young men are focused. " 
Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
..This team, they rush for 300 yards a game, and that scares me to death." 

Kent Baer Irish defensive coordinator 


v1'1s.:r(: t,,v,,sti,n:ttr-u H,1tt Ti,·!.::ifJ f-' K,tStr\'t (._Sl,tfi>t;T ,1.._•,rt(,16.t, ftr psi r,;/i,ru ,rt t~, 
,l,(;ftr!1ou l',ti (}f{i-.-l '>t J''11tn,1'lr, n~\'O:tfotr 4t/i 
et!J: ~~.cc (._t;ptnJtr.:,< 'r AA/l t 71lt;~J\5 
I • 
'.,..,,.... ~, 
.f.. ~ . 

-.__,~-......· _.,> Friday, November 8, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Like a rock 
The Irish defensive line has stonewalled offenses this season, letting actions speak louder than words 
know their assignments and
By KATIE McVOY learn the basic skills they need
Associate Sports Editor 
to play the game. "That's what we work on all 
Technique, technique, effort week," Mattison said. " ... After and the will to win. 
you get that part of it done,
Those are the goals of Notre then you really work on the Dame's defeRsive line. That's effort part .of it." 
what they focus on every day Just like the Air Force gamewhen they step onto the field. 
on Oct. 19, Saturday's contest That's what it takes to be the 
will require that the Irish be
best. 
keyed in on technique. For a 
"This is Notre Dame football," defense. that talks about flying
defensive lineman Darrell 
around and chasing down the Campbell said. "We predicate ball, responsibility is going to 
ourselves on playing the best." 
have to take focus this week. 
That means Notre Dame's Navy's option offense will 
defensive line has to stop the 
remind the defense about the 
best. 
importance of the basics. 
They aren't as vocal about 
In order to defend the wish­
being the best as some mem­bone option, the Irish will have 
bers of the Notre Dame 
to keep their assignments,
defense. They make their point watch the fullback, the quarter­a little differently. 
back and the pitch man. 
The defensive line makes its Missing any responsibility could point on the field. 
open the floodgates for a long
"I think what we've talked 
run. 

about as a front was let's see 
The Irish defensive line kepthow good we can get," defen­
their assignments against Air 
sive line coach Greg Mattison Force, holding a Falcon team said. "Let's not ever talk about that averaged over 300 rushingit." 
yards a game to a mere 104. 
With that in mind, they stand 
But they know that it's not 
like a brick wall. 
quite the same this week. "[Navy] stiJI runs the wish­
Technique, technique 
bone offense, a little trickier
The Irish defensive line had a 
though," Campbell said.
slight advantage over the rest "(There are] subtleties in theof the Irish team this year ­
offense that you can't neglect,they knew their coach. 
or else they're going to capital­
Mattison was the only 
ize."

holdover from last year's 
Thus far this season, playingcoaching staff, and his charges good technique has paid off for couldn't be more grateful that the Irish. They say that theirhe stayed. 
performance comes from belief"You can't help but respect a in a scheme that really works. 
coach like him," defensive end "We believe so much in theJustin Tuck said. " ... If you lis­game plan that it just becomes
ten to him, he'll make you a 
part of our nature to go out and
better player just by how he perform," Campbell said.
coaches and what he demands "We're just so relaxed when wefrom you. He demands nothing go out there that it's no big dealbut your best." 
to go out and let things hap­
Their best is the technique 
pen."

the defensive line uses. Mattison focuses his coaching Effort around teaching good tech­Technique wouldn't have nique, making sure his linemen come without the effort -daily effort to improve in practice biggest thing," Tuck said. and weekly effort to be better "Week in and week out, coming on every play. to every practice and never 


"They have a lot of pride, a having an off game." lot of discipline," defensive But the real added effort has coordinator Kent Baer said. " ... had to come on the part of That's a good group. They play defensive tackle Greg Pauly. hard." The 6-foot-6 junior got his first 
Lately, that effort has had to taste of the starting line-up extend beyond the starting Saturday against Boston four. College. This week, against on 
Starting nose guard Cedric Hilliard took a hit  ..Our basic thing is just  option offense, the coaching  
against Florida State two weeks ago and won't play Saturday. With Hilliard off  going out and proving we're the best defensive line in the country ...  staff is counting on him to step up and play tough. The  
the field, some of the Irish linemen have had to put in that extra  Justin Tuck Irish defensive end  last time the Irish played an option  
effort.  t  e  a  m  ,  

Kyle Budinscak, who usually Hilliard had seven tackles as the starter, and this week his
plays left defensive end, s~w 
a backup is expected to do the
some time at nose guard, 
same.
change he said didn't affect him "We're counting on him againtoo much. 
and he's got to have a heck of a
"The positions along the 
game for us because Cedric did
defensive line are something 
against Air Force." Baer said.
that there's a lot of universal technique and style of play that The will to win you need anywhere along the Put aside the technique. Put D-line," he said. " ... Nose guard aside the effort. Look at the or tackle isn't a big change for bare bones, and one finds that me." what is really driving this 
Tuck has also had to add defensive line is the will to win. some extra effort. The sopho­"Our basic thing is just going more defensive end, not one of out and proving we're the best the slated starters, has seen defensive line in the country," plenty of time on the field, Tuck said. "Hight now we adding to the performance of believe that, and that's our only starter Ryan Roberts. lie has goal." been one of the players coaches Campbell says that what dri­are watching to rise in the ves him -what drives the ranks. given the work he wants entire line -is a desire to wear 
that Notre Dame couldn't shut 
down a run game. 
"First and foremost, a lot of people in the past have said that Notre Dame can't stop the run, Notre Dame doesn't have the pass-rush ability that prior great defenses at this school had," Campbell said. "We basi­cally want to come out and wear the gold helmets the way they once wore them." 
He cited Bryant Young and Grant Irons as players he watched and wanted to imitate. 
"So going out there and trying to emulate ... their game is something we pride ourselves on, so we can show people who don't believe that we can do it," Campbell said. 
Nine games later. there can't be too many doubters left. The Irish have held their opponents to an average of 84.6 rushing yards a game, ranking them No. 7 in rush defense. 
But the defensive line isn't content with that. They're only content with going out and find­ing some way to win football games. After dropping their first loss last week and handing away a perfect season to Boston College. they're more deter­mined than ever to find a way. 
"Bottom line is: if you want to win football games, you haw~ to find a way, you have to do something," Budinscak said. 
How an~ they going to do that? The way Mattison taught them. 
Technique, technique. effort and the will to win. 
LISA VEL TE/The Observer 

Irish defensive tackle Darrell Campbell sacks Boston College to put into his performance. their gold helmets with pridfl. Contact Katie McVoy at quarterback Brian St. Pierre in last weekend's 14-7 Irish loss. "For me, lconsistencyl is the Critics, he claimed, have said mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
~L(~ 
Friday, November 8, 2002

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 8-1 AP: No. 9 Coaches: No. 10 

Tyrone Willingham first season at Notre Dame career record: 
85-53-1 
at Notre Dame: 
8-1 

Willingham against Navy: head coach 1-0 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Jared Clark  TE  6-4  228  JR  
2  Carlos Pierre-Antoine !LB  6-3  245  SR  
2  DanNovakov  QB  6-1  218  SR  
3  Amaz Battle  WR  6-1  213  SR  
4  Ryan Grant  RB  6-1  211  so  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-2  190  FR  
6  Carlos Campbell  WR  5-11  194  so  
7  Carlyle Holiday  QB  6-3  214  JR  
8  Matt Krueger  QB  5-10  180  JR  
9  Jason Beckstrom  CB  5-10  188  SR  
9  Pat Dillingham  QB  6-1  209  so  
11  Marcus Wilson  RB  5-11  199  so  
12  Chris Olsen  QB  6-4  220  FR  
13  Nick Setta  KIP  5-11  177  SR  
14  Gary Godsey  TE  6-6  259  SR  
15  Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  176  JR  
16  Stan Revelle  QB  5-11  182  so  
17  Joey Hildbold  p  5-10  191  SR  
18  Ronnie Rodamer  WR  6-4  206  JR  
19  Glenn Earl  FS  6-1  205  SR  
19  D.J. Fitzpatrick  K/P  6-1  192  so  
20  Gerome Sapp  ss  6-0  218  SR  
21  Maurice Stovall  WR  6-3  205  FR  
23  Chris Yura  FB  6-0  220  SR  
25  Nate Schiccatano  RB  6-3  220  FR  
26  Garron Bible  FS  5-10  197  JR  
26  Josh Schmidt  FB  6-1  207  so  
27  Lionel Bolen  ss  6-0  195  so  
27  Mike Profeta  TB  5-11  208  so  
28  Cole Laux  FB  5-10  236  JR  
29  Quentin Burrell  CB  6-0  178  so  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  6-1  180  FR  
31  Jake Camey  DB  6-0  180  FR  
32  Jeff Jenkins  RB  6-0  195  FR  
33  Courtney Watson  !LB  6-1  232  SR  
34  Vontez Duff  CB  5-11  194  JR  
35  David Miller  K  5-11  210  SR  
35  Tim O'Neill  TB  5-5  172  SR  
36  Tom Lopienski  FB  6-1  245  SR  
37  Dwight Ellick  CB  5-10  179  so  
38  Preston Jackson  CB  5-9  176  so  
39  Brandon Hoyte  !LB  6-0  226  so  
39  David Bemenderfer  ss  5-11  195  JR  
40  Nate Schomas  WR  5-10  160  FR  
41  Mike Goolsby  LB  6-3  243  JR  
42  Shane Walton  CB  5-11  185  SR  
43  Rashon Powers-Neal  TB  6-2  224  so  
44  Justin Tuck  DE  6-5  238  so  
46  Corey Mays  !LB  6-1  235  so  
47  MikcMcNair  FB  6-0  230  SR  
48  Jerome Collins  OLB  6-4  256  JR  
49  Derek Curry  !LB  6-3  233  JR  
so  Cedric Hilliard  NG  6-2  290  SR  
51  Jamie Ryan  OT  6-5  285  FR  
52  Jeff Faine  C  6-3  298  SR  
53  John Crowther  C  6-2  239  SR  
54  Jason Halverson  DL  6-1  246  SR  
55  Zachary Giles  C  6-3  281  so  
56  Pat Ryan  ILB  6-3  231  SR  
57  Justin Thomas  OLB  6-1  243  SR  
58  Chad DeBolt  !LB  6-0  202  SR  
60  Darrell Campbell  DT  6-4  288  SR  
61  Charles Hedman  LB  6-1  215  SR  
62  Scott Raridon  OT  6-7  285  FR  
63  Brennan Curtin  OT  6-8  305  SR  
64  Casey Dunn  OTI0G 6-4  255  so  
65  Sean Milligan  0G  6-4  300  SR  
66  Derck Landri  NG  6-2  275  FR  
67  Ryan Gillis  0G  6-3  305  SR  
68  Ed O'Connell  LB  6-3  212  JR  
69  Darin Mitchell  OL  6-4  280  so  
70  Jim Molinaro  OT  6-6  297  SR  
71  David Kowalski  0G  6-2  249  JR  
71  James Bonelli  OC/OT 6-6  285  FR  
72  Ryan Scarola  C/OC  6-5  310  SR  
73  Mark LeVoir  TE  6-7  309  so  
74  Dan Stevenson  0G  6-5  292  so  
75  Chris Frome  DE  6-5  240  FR  
76  Bob Morton  C  6-4  305  FR  
77  Greg Pauly  OT  6-6  280  JR  
78  Jordan Black  OT  6-6  305  SR  
79  Sean Mahan  OT  6-3  285  SR  
80  Omar Jenkins  WR  6-2  204  so  
82  Bernard Akatu  WR  5-10  193  SR  
82  Matt Shelton  WR  6-1  172  so  
83  Matt Root  TE  6-6  258  so  
85  Billy Palmer  TE  6-3  251  JR  
86  Brendan Hart  TE  6-2  240  JR  
87  Marcus Freeman  TE  6-4  240  FR  
87  Patrick Nally  TE  6-3  246  so  
88  Anthony Fasano  TE  6-4  237  FR  
90  Brian Beidatsch  DL  6-4  269  so  
91  Jeff Thompson  NG/DT 6-4  273  so  
92  Kyle Budinscak  DE  6-4  269  JR  
93  Dan Santucci  DE  6-5  250  FR  
94  Brian Mattes  DE  6-6  250  FR  
95  Ryan Roberts  DE  6-2  258  SR  
97  Travis Lcitko  DE  6-6  250  FR  
99  Jason Sapp  DE  6-3  249  JR  


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
ILi
:e 
cC 
Q 
ILi 
a: 
l­
o 
z 
Willingham finally blinked on Saturday against Boston College. Now, he has to get his team back on task and focused on Navy. He's experienced wtih getting rid of the emotion and play­ing football. He needs t.o do that on Saturday.  Holiday had a solid pass performance Saturday, except for scoring in the red zone. He has shown progress and has begun to find a variety of receivers. He can pick up yards scrambling and lead the Irish on a drive. All that has been missing is the ability to score.  Notre Dame's running game is very effective ifthe running backs can keep from putting the ball on the ground. Grant has been picking up more than l 00 yards a game consis­tently, and the offensive line proved that it can open holes against oppos­ing defenses.  Notre Dame is finally settling into its pass game -if it can avoid interceptions. The Irish picked up 235 yards against Boston College and had seven different receivers. Battle, Jenkins and Stovall are all stepping up and can make clutch catches.  
Johnson got off to a good start in his first year with a 38-7 victory at 6MU. Things have been down­hill from there, as the Midshipmen have been outscored 319-144 in seven consecutive losses.  Navy quarterback Craig Candeto shows many similarities to Air Force signal caller Chance Harridge. He is small, fast, smart and runs his team's offense very effi­ciently. Candeto is the leading rusher and scorer for the Midshipmen this year.  Even though Navy is one of the top rushing teams in the nation, the defense has had a very tough time defending against the run this season. The Midshipmen have allowed 233.6 yards a game this season to opponents -ranking 11 l th out of 117 teams.  The Midshipmen have had a difficult time defending the pass. Opposing quarterbacks have completed nearly 65 percent of their passes for 213 yards a game. Navy's defensive backs have only three interceptions, while its opponents have 18 touchdowns this year.  
Both Willingham and Johnson are in their first year with their current teams. hut the Irish coach has been the more successful. Willingham got an 8-1 start from the talent av~ilable, whereas Johnson's sqtia.d has struggled to l -7.  Both teams have quarter­backs who have shown they can handle their iespo.µsibiljti~. Cc+JJdetpl*a§it'tt:~~~(~!~~rns'ffer.'Uoltdayc;% on tfi'e other hand, hasn't been spectacular, but efficient in leading the Irish to vic­tory this season.  The Irish have shown they have the ability to run the ball. Notre Dame's size advantage on the line of scrimmage should give Grant, Rashon Powers•Neal and Marcus Wil$ph a lot of room to run.  Coming off their best per­formance of the year, the Irish may gqJ a' repeat performance · against Navy. Holiday spreadthe ball to seven receivers against Boston· CQllege, and wide receiver Battle has established:<himself as the top threat with 38 catches on the season.  



NOTRE DAME 2002 Schedule 
Aug. 31  Maryland -W  
Sept. 7  PURDUE -W  
Sept. 14  MICHIGAN -W  
Sept. 21  atMSU-W  
Oct. 5  STANFORD-W  
Oct. 12  PITTSBURGH  -W  
Oct. 19l/  at Air Force -W  

Oct. 26 at Florida State -W Nov. 2 BOSTON COLLEGE -L Nov.9 atNavy Nov. 23 RUTGERS Nov. 30 atUSC 
EAD T~ 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 


CORNERBACK 
23-JC1Uey

TAILBACK 
37-Ekundayo

4-Grant 
11-Wilso~ 
LEFT GUARD 
7!1-Mahan 
67-Gillis 
OEF!:NSIVE ENO 
47-Person 

ruL~CK ~~ 96-Beuttenmulle 
36-Lopiensld~· 
47-McNair 

·\
u

1\/E ' 
TACKlE ' , 
ROVER 

. 97-Zelts --.i 
SAFETY
!

• . 91 ·Aki!Jtl)emi . l UTSlO;-.:'.:J 44-Thomas
~ 

. , '--' 
25-Yuvienco

INEBACKER ER 9-Chase 
ine . 2-Sinitiere .
ij
rolil

RIGHT TACKLE 
c.:.-'' I
•· .·.•·· -..:j
83-Curlln C) 70-Molinaro 
~ 
FREE SAFETY 
14-Smilll 

. A . J, i 20-lrons 
-c:) 

INSmE ,::_
. ,\ 

LINEBACKER 
56-Cartllan 
92-Mess e!~ 51 ·McClarin
"~~"!1."~ 0,J 
~-Adair c.::. c:0 
CORNERBACK 
16-llrazler 
31-Sanders 


Andrew Soukup assistant managing editor 
Chris Federico sports editor 
Notre Dame is most decidedly an unhap­If there is a team for Notre Dame to take its py camper this week. And Navy will be aggression out against, it's Navy. The the perfect team for the Irish to romp Midshipmen rank in triple digits in nearly every
Irish 

over. The Irish are saying Navy wilJ be a defensive category. Navy does have the fourth­tough foe. but they're only kidding them­ranked rushing offense in the nation, but the selves. Notre Dame's offense will have its Irish have stopped good rushing teams all sea­most productive outing and the Irish will son. In addition, Navy hasn't played the Irish
experts 
easily cruise to victory. well away from Notre Dame Stadium. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Navy 3 Navy 0 




Friday, November 8, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
0 EAD Navy 
Midshipmen Record: 1-7 

WIDE RECIEVER 
18-Wesley 

.LEFT SLOTBACK 17.Jenkins 
34-Roberts 
26-Mathews 

CORNERBACK
LEFT TACKLE 

42-Walton
65-Jaskowlalc 

37-Eliick
79-Wllsoo 

INSIDE LINEBACKER ~ 41-Goolslly ~ Pierre-Antoine 

/ 

RIGHT SLOTBACK 
21-lane 
15-Divis 
FREE 
SAFETY 19-Earl 

·~ 29-Burrell
INSIDE 
LINEBACKER 
' 33-Walson 

RIGHT TACKLE 39-Hoyte -­
66•Goodin 
72•Cochrane 
r /~ 

/ ' 
STRONG
,;.,'j 

SAFETY DEFENSIVE 20-S.pp 
A. 
TACKLE 

26-Bible 
60-Campbell 
77-Pauly 

NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSE 

MIDSHIPMEN RUSHING MIDSHIPMEN PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 


The Irish defense will shut down Navy's option attack, holding the Midshipmen to a single field goal. The Irish running attack will move the ball at will against the Navy defense. Count on the defense for a few turnovers and seven points. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Navy 3 
Joe Hettler associate sports editor 
AP: unranked Coaches: unranked 

Paul Johnson
NAVY 
first season at
2002 Schedule 
Navy career record:
Aug. 31 atSMU-W 
63-17 Sept. 7 N.C. STATE -L at Navy 1-7 


Sept. 21 NORTHWESTERN -L against Notre Johnson head coach
Dame: 0-0 Sept. 28 . ";--:,.~!.,_~ iuKE -L 
Roster

Oct. 5 LJLJt~C~)orce ­
No. Name Pos. Ht.. 1 Brandon Rampani WR 5-11 2 lane Montgomery CB 5-11 3 Dominic Bailey WR 5-9 
Oct. 12~'1~-*,./ .· RICE -L 
4 Mike Mcllravy WR 5-10 5 RyanModdy QB 6-1 6 Aaron Polanco QB 6-0 
Oct. 19 at Boston College -L 
7 Chandler Sims WR 6-4 8 Cee Harris FB 5-4 9 Justin Golson FS 5-7 
Oct. 26 at Tulane -L 
Nov.9 NOTRE DAME 10 J,P. Blecksmith WR 6-3 11 Craig Candeto QB 5-11 13 Joey Fay s 6-0
Nov. 16 CONNECTICUT 14 Mark Tedrow WR 6-3 15 Frank Divis SB 6-0 16 Shalimar Brazier CB 5-10
Nov. 23 at Wake Forest 
17 Amir Jenkins WR 6-1 18 Lionel Wesley WR 5-11 19 Matt Furgan CB 5-8
Dec. 7 ARMY 
20 Paul Clarkson s 6-2 
There are two reasons why Notre Dame will blow out Navy Saturday. First, Notre Dame is going to be angry after last week's loss. Second, it's tho Naval Academy. The Irish will have no problem beating an undersized and less talented Navy team. Notre Dame should click on all cylinders and cruise to its ninth victory of the season in a rout. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 Navy 0 
Wt. YR 
188 SR 
194 so 
164 SR 
173 SR 
194 so 
207 so 
215 SR 
205 SR 
199 JR 
216 SR 
197 JR 
198 SR 
200 JR 
208 so 
185 JR 
191 so 
182 so 
173 SR 
208 JR 
202 JR 
204 so 
170 so 
220 SR 
201 SR 
200 FR 
194 so 
175 JR 
175 JR 
231 so 
187 so 
193 so 
192 SR 
203 so 
180 JR 
173 SR 
180 SR 
197 so 
164 so 
195 JR 
226 JR 
197 SR 
195 JR 
207 so 
257 SR 220 SR 235 FR 220 JR 211 so 213 JR 216 so 280 SR 226 so 218 JR 228 so 221 SR 285 JR 283 SR 287 JR 255 SR 274 SR 281 JR 304 JR 283 JR 284 JR 277 JR 280 SR 289 SR 253 so 255 so 255 JR 276 SR 

... 
286 SR 272 SR 259 so 168 JR 166 so 202 JR 190 so 241 SR 205 FR 232 so 260 so 237 so 245 so 253 JR 260 JR 256 SR 260 SR 266 so 252 SR 
21 22 23 24 25 26 28 29 31 32

INTANGIBLES 
33 34 
35 
36 
. 37 
38 
39 
z 40 
41 
42
~ 
43
::a 
44 45 
ITI 
C 
46 
)> 
47 48
3: 
49
m 
so 
51 52 53 54 55 
56 
57 57 59 61 63 64 65 66 67 

68 
69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 

79 
80 81 82 85 86 88 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 

Tony Lane SB 5-9 Lane Jackson LB 5-11 Vaughn Kelley CB 6-1 Bryce McDonald FB 6-0 Michawn Yuvienco s 5-10 Sam Matthews SB 5-9 Lane Montgomery CB 5-11 David Bush CB 5-7 Marcus Sanders CB 5-9 Kyle Eckel FB 5-11 Aaron Weedo SB 5-10 Eric Roberts SB 5-10 Brad Tepper SB 5-9 Michael Brimage FB 5-7 Sina Ekimdayci CB 5-11 Matt Furgan CB 5-8 Donnie Ficks SB 5-8 Ryan McCabe DB 6-2 Justin Singleton CB 5-10 Bronston Carroll SB 5-9 Chris Wade LB 5-11 Lenkr Thomas s 5-11 Eli Sanders s 5-11 Ryan Berry FB 6-0 Dan Person DE 6-5 Brian Stann LB 6-1. Jeremy Chase LB 6-2 Ben Mathews LB 6-1 Bobby McClarin LB 5-11 Andy Sinitiere LB 5-11 TJ Costello LB 5-10 Josh Brindel DT 6-2 Dustin Elliott LB 6-0 Eddie Carthan LB 5-11 Adam Home LB 5-11 Sean Talbert LB 6-3 Kevin Schwind OT 6-1 Travis Peace ex:; 6-4 Sean Magee ex:; 6-5 
Jim Zakar OT 6-5 Derek Jaskowiak OT 6-4 · Josh Goodin C 6-0 Shane Todd C 6-4 Dan Peters ex:; 6-0 Nate Chase OG 6-0 Tucker Bennett OT 6-3 Matt Nye 0G 6-4 Brett Cochrane 0G 6-4 Josh Pridham DE 6-4 August Roitsch C 6-1 Eric Fey DE 6-2 Ben Eastburn C 6-4 David Walsh OT 6-7 Grant Moody 0G 6-4 Nick Wilson OT 6-5 Eric Rolfs K 6-1 Geoff Blumenfeld K 6-0 John Skaggs p 6-2 Brian Yardbrough WR 5.9 Heath Sanders LS 6-3 Jared Clifford K 6-1 Sean McElhannon DE 6-1 Babatunde Akingbemi OT 6-0 Pierre Moss DE 6-0 Jeff Vanek DE 6-1 Steve Adair DE 6-2 Ralph Henry DE 6-1 Pete Buettenmuller DE 6-5 Andy 2.etts DT 6-1 Scott Szurovy DT 6-0 JoeyOwmby DT 6-3 
The Irish run defense is arguably one of the best in the nation. The Irish have held opponents to less than 85 yards a game, shutting down running backs like Florida State's Greg Jones and Michigan's Chris Perry.  The Notre Dame pass defense has continued to make big plays for the Irish. They are a threat to any team -forcing turnovers and putting points on the board for the Irish. The defensive line has consistently put pressure on the oppos­ing quarterback.  Irish punter Joey Hildbold has been solid, but kicker Nicholas Setta has proven less-than-reliable recent­ly. A bright spot for the Irish has been kick and punt coverage, as they have limited opponents' returns and forced some key fumbles against Florida State and Purdue.  Notre Dame is recover­ing from its first loss of the season. The Irish are going to be out to prove a point on Saturday, and they're going to be out for blood. They have a long history with Navy, one that includes many more wins than losses.  
Rushing is the focus of the Navy attack, and it shows as the Midshipmen rank fourth in the nation with 282.5 yards per game. Running the option, Candeto leads Navy with 78 yards a game and nine touchdowns.  Navy attempts only 15 passes a game and has averaged just 108.9 yards passing. They have thrown for only two touchdowns. The Irish defensive backs may become run stoppers as Navy generally prefers to remain on the ground than take to the air.  Navy's special teams have been very mediocre. The Midshipmen have averaged 4.9 and 19.3 yards on punt and kickoff returns, respectively. Navy's two kickers -Rolfs and Blumenfeld -are 5-for-8 on field goals and 21-for-23 on extra points.  Navy hasn't beaten Notre Dame for 38 meetings, the longest such streak in college football. While Navy often plays Notre Dame tough in South Bend, the Midshipmen haven't finishing within 14 points of the Irish at a neutral. site since an 18­17 loss in 1984.  
Notre Dame has the  The Irish defensive back­ Neither team is strong in  The Irish should be hun­ 
advantage of having pre­ field has proven itself as  special teams. Sett.a is 1O­ gry and determined after  
pared for the option  one of the best in the  for-2O on field goa~1 but  last week's loss to the  
attack once this year  nation this year against  he has been solid in extra  Eagles. With a BCS bowl  
against Air Force,  the likes of Michigan  points. Noither ofNavy's  still in sight, they know  
although the Falcons run  State's Charlje Rogers  kickers has singled him­ they can't take any oppo­ 
a different style option  and Florida' State's  self out. The difference  nent · Hghtly. The  
than Navy·:· If the lrish  Anquan Rolden. They  could comP down to Notre  Midshipmen' have been  
remain discipHhed, they  should not get ~uch of a  Dame's advantage in  ouL-;cored in the'last eight  
will again stop the ground  challenge from Navy by  team speed on kick cover­ neutral site games by an  
attack of the Midshipmen.  way of the passing game.  age and returns.  average of 25.6 poinls.  


¦1111-•••¦tllJJ¦.¦.112•••¦-0•¦2•111111••••••••2•---•-••-•oll!.2•11a1111a-----------•1111111-------•1•...------------• (E ~ > 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 8, 2002 



The Most "POPULAR• # on Campus•••271-1177II Voted "Best Delivered• Pizza AGAIN In 200211 
Call your PAPA for these great specials (no coupon necess 
Ir-----------------r-----------------,----------------,------------------· 
: IRISH Spacial : The 8-1 Special I I BCS Special I I Return to Glory_ : 1 Large 1 topping, 1 1 Large 1 topping, • 1 Large 1 topping, 1 1 Large 1 topping, 1 Breadsticks, and I Cheesesticks, and : Chickenstrips, and I Dessertsticks, and : 2-liter Coca-Cola : 2-liter Coca-Cola 1 2-liter Coca-Cola : 2-liter Coca-Cola 
i $11.99* : $13.99* : $13.99* : $13.99* 
. ----------------1-----------------~----------------~----------------­
I I I I 
: Papa's Choice , The Willingham •The Leprechaun•Game Day Special: ; X-Large with 1 3 Large 1 topping, : 1O" Small : 2 Large 1 topping 1 2 toppings : pizzas, 2 Breadsticks, 1 1 topping and I pizzas : : 1 and 2-liter Coca-Cola I Breadsticks 1 1i $10.99* : $28.99* I $7.50* : $14.99* : 
·-----------------~----------------J----------------~------------------~
*Original or Thin Crust Where Available. Coupon expires 12/31/02. Not valide with any other offer. Valid at participating locations. Customer pays all applicable taxes. 
NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S 
271-1177 271-PAPA 
Sizing up the Irish and the Midshipmen 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE NAVY OFFENSE 
vs
AVERAGE PER GAME NAVY ~iFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

total yards gained 

~lt•ildl•hili4318.1 
total yards allowed NAVY . 446.6 I rushing yards gained 

~l@i=i•Mli.158.8 
8~:25
NOTRE DAME. · 1
rushing yards allowed NAVY 233.61 passing yards gained 
~lt•iii-•ffidlal159.3 
passing yards allowed NAVY --_---1213 

kick return yards gained 
23.2 kick return yards allowed 

punt return yards gained ~lt•iidl•)Jdl. 9.5 punt return yards allowed NAVY · 113 
yards per punt ~O@dl•ffll!-4o.3 
39 
punts blocked NAVY 0 NOTRE DAME 0 turnovers lost 

1.9 
3.6 turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 


points scored 22.8 points allowed 

KEY MATCHUP 
NAVY QUARTERBACK 

IRISH DEFENSE 
CRAIG CANDETO 


The Irish have seen the option attack once this year against Air Force. The Falcons entered the contest as the nation's top rushing team, and they were led by speedy, smart quarterback Chance Harridge. The Irish shut down the nation's leading rushing team that week. 
This week, Notre Dame could see much of the same with Navy and Candeto The junior quar­terback will be looking for the Irish to miss assignments and break a big play. 
by the numbers 
Consecutive number of games the Irish have 
38 

beaten Navy 9 Age of Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham 
when Navy last defeate~ Notre Dame National rank in total defense of 
1o5 

Midshipmen out of 117 teams 
' . ( E:. ·t .\ ···· 
Friday, November 8, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
•

Secondary prepares for option again 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Naval Academy may be ranked 
112th in the nation in passing offense, 
but that doesn't mean the Midshipmen 
don't present some problems for Notre 
Dame's defensive backs. 
Although the Irish secondary faced an option team in Air Force, the Falcons didn't pass the ball as much as the Midshipmen will. And that makes defending the option Saturday that much harder for the Irish secondary. 
"You have to be more on point for the run versus the pass," defensive back Gerome Sapp said. "How an option team gets you is they run the ball, run the ball then they open up and throw the ball. So you have to be really disci­plined in your reads, reading the line­man and just reading everything on the field." 
Navy quarterback Craig Candeto wilJ try to draw the cornerbacks in on play­action fakes and then beat them deep for big plays. 
To stop this, Irish defensive coordina­tor Kent Baer said his defensive backs must make numerous quick decisions once the ball is snapped. 
"They've got a lot responsibilities, a lot of reads, different keys involved with being able to defend the option, the pitch, the quarterback at times depending on what read they get and then they have to defend the pass based on what read they get. So it's a complicated game plan for those guys." 
Defending the option for the defen­sive backs may be complicated, but it's not necessarily more difficult than defending any other offensive scheme. 
"It's like apples and oranges," defen­sive back Glenn Earl said. "You can't really say is it harder in comparison to teams like Florida State, but it's just 
completely different. It's like learning a 
different language." 
The Naval Academy averages 108.9 passing yards per game and has a mod­est two touchdown passes and five interceptions on the season. The Midshipmen have completed 45 percent of their passes this season as well. But because they run the ball so much, it leaves teams vulnerable to give up the big pass play. 
The biggest advantage for Notre Dame's secondary may be that they already faced an Air Forc·e team that runs the option. However, the biggest distinction between the two teams is how often they pass. The Falcons aver­age only 30 less passing yards per game than the Midshipmen. Because Navy throws the baJI more times and more efficiently than Air Force, Notre Dame's secondary will have to respect the pass even more this weekend than they did Oct. 19 against the Falcons. 
"A lot of times option teams are not real good at throwing the ball and con­sequently sometimes·when you play an option team, you defend the option and the run and you react to the pass." Baer said. "With these guys, you have to defend [the pass]." 
Earl also understands the differences between the two Academies and said he believes the best way to stop Navy's passing game is to respect their ability to throw the ball at any moment. 
"Air Force and Navy have different wrinkles in the way they do things," Earl said. "Navy tries to throw it a little more. So we just have to be more in tune to a pass coming at times. It makes you play honest. You can't get sucked in to just playing run. You kind of have to play it honest every single time." 
-
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

McKnight starting to find niche in new system 
his blocking. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
"He's probably one of our 
Sports Writer 
better, if not, the best blocker that we have," offensive coordi­
It's a relatively simply route. nator Bill Diedrick said. "He's Run 10 yards straight out, stop very physical, very aggressive, on a dime, turn around and and he'll go in there and mix it catch the ball. Oh, and it's up a bit." fourth down, fourth quarter The fact that McKnight is 
and your team's undefeated even at Notre Dame is a testa­record is on the line. ment to Diedrick's offensive 
Yet when Hhema McKnight system. hauled in a key fourth down During the recruiting process, catch in the fourth, the fresh­Notre Dame wasn't even on man receiver wasn't fazed by McKnight's radar -he didn't ­the pressure. In fact, he smiled want to play in the run-oriented even as Boston College defend­attack used by former Irish ers drove him into the Notre coach Bob Davie. But when Dame Stadium turf. Tyrone Willingham brought a 
"I had forgotten what it was pro-style offense, McKnight like to get hit after a while," he started noticing the Irish. said. "It felt "When coach good to go Willingham 
out and make "ft felt good to go out and came here, 
a play, but knowing how
make a play, but that's

that's what's prestigious he 
expected of what ·s expected ofme ... was and what me." he did at The next Stanford, it
Rhema McKnight

drive, opened my
Irish wide receiver

McKnight eyes up a lot made anoth-and gave Notre er big play, hauling in a 20-Dame a chance," he said. "Now yard pass on a third-and-long l'1n here." situation. Those two catches Freshmen usually don't get were the first he's made since the chance to see major playing 
-grabbing two passes in Notre time, especially in a situation Dame's season opener against where there are more experi­Maryland. enced receivers. McKnight hasn't ret;eived as Yet McKnight came to Notre 
much attention as his more­Dame under great circum­heralded classmate Maurice stances. Only Arnaz Battle and didn't want to talk to reporters role on the team -even if that "Yeah, I had two pretty bigStovall. McKnight has played in Omar Jenkins had significant as he adjusted to college life means he's not called on to catches, but that's what's every game, yet has seven game experience, and Jenkins and college haul in passes often. If the expected of me," he said. "I fewer catches and two fewer had a team-leading seven football. coaches call a running play, went out and made a play.touchdowns than Stovall. receptions, leaving plenty of "Everybody gets a little home­chances are good McKnight will That's what we're all here for." But McKnight is getting noticed room for freshmen to step in. sick," he said. "I just tried to be on the field throwing blocks. by Irish coaches not so much However, the adjustment stay a little focused and have as And if the Irish need a bigfor his pass-catching and route­process took time for McKnight. much fun as I possibly can." catch, well, McKnight doesn't Contact Andrew Soukup at running ability. but rather for ll(~ got homesick early and Now, McKnight knows his mind doing that too. asoukup@nd.edu 
j ' 


O
THE Notre Dame vs. Navy BSERVER Friday, November 8, 2002 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
·•• < . oo .•
....•...rf...•...•cID.O.•[m?w.~®li®OO~ rr@IFi ®@Ur,~~®®£..mm.·.··.···•.(Q)UD~[ru ... \ ..•
.· · .. •., ..'.'' '· ... ••,, ' ..•.-,' . . . ·-·. "''. . ... .. '. ,.
'' ' . . 

marcoW>s 
Medium Pizza 
Large Pizza 
No Coupon Necessary. Plus Tax. FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum For Delivery Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Valid Only At listed Marco's Pizza Locations. Expires 12·15-02 
~lE[GI ACCEPTED HERE 
Must provide credit card mtormat1on when ordenng tor delivery 
auce or Honey Mustard 


') 
I' 
i 

'i 
•\ 
I
\3 

Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 52750 IN 633 ..............574-243-1122 
Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday! 
Serving Bethel College 
326 N. Ironwood ..........574-243-1111 Corner of Ironwood &McKinley 
HAVING ABIG PAR'IY? I WE CAN CATER YOUR EVENT! f.: 
",."' • I"" ,, • , ~ • •~1:!f<w~•~ ••P ,;) 
~Piuas 
• 
DELUXE Cheese. pepperom. mush1ooms, green peppers. onions, ltahan sausage & extra cheese . 

• 
TACO Cheese, seasoned ground beet. black olives, onions, tomatoes & Cheddar cheese {side ot sour cream) 

• 
All MEAT Cheese, pepperoni. mushrooms, green peppers, onions. 1ranan sausage, ham, bacon & ewa cheese 

• 
GARDEN Cheese, mushrooms. black olives. onions. sliced tomatoes & Feta cheese 

• 
HAWAIIAN Cheese. extra ham. bacon. pineapple & extra cheese 

• 
CHICKEN CLUB Cheese. seasoned c~icken, bacon. omons. tomatoes & Cheddar cheese 

• 
WHITT CHEEZY Bulter garlic sauce witll 3 blended cheeses bacon. onions. lomatoe~ & Feta cheese 


Crust Styles 
• Oriolna! Classic Crust • Crispy Thin• Pan Style 
Party Size It••. 
2nd Pim of Equal or Lesser Size & roppings Only... 
Srna111cr  $4.99  Medium 12·  $5.99  
Laroe W  $6.99  XLarge 16"  $7 .99  
Toppings 

• 
Pepperoni • Ham • Italian Sausage • G1ound Beel 

• 
Black Olives • Pineapple • Anchovies • f1esh Tomatoes 

• 
Mushrooms • Green Peppers • rresh Onions • llacon 

• 
Seasoned Chicken • Banana Peppers • feta Cheese 



Close to campus! (Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way 
(574) 272-1441 
t and ,..,r 

tra\ \-\ea
(eO 


M-
Fresh baked and buttery-topped with c:r~amon sugar Complete with a side of vanilla top~ing. Mmmm .. try some todayl 
,::.. C\__ ...,,..,_ __,, 1:\,-~.. 1 

'?,i~ '8akd Subs $4.69 
• 
ITALIAN SUB Salami, ham. cheese. onions. tomatoes. ~2nana peppers & itahan oressing 

• 
S'fEAK & CHEESE SUS Steak. cheese, mushrooms & ma,c dr"ss1ng 

• 
HAM & CHEESE SUB Extra ham. cheese &mayo dres5, . , 


• CHICKEN CLUB SUB Chicken breast strips. cheese. lvmJivcs. bacon & mayo dressing 
• VEGGIE SUB Mushrooms. green peppers onions. blccK oi,ves. Cheddar cheese, tomaloes & llahan dressing 
Marco's Salad $1.99 
Crisp let1uce, pepperoni. tomatoes. banana peppers. b,3ck o:,·!•s. Feta & Cheddar cheese & ltallan oressino 
FREE Piua Crust Toppers 
• Roma • Buller Garlic • Parmesan Cheese 
~ 

~~met* ,cn:nrrnrrnzr ws.,,,,,,,,, #MZt1'rt€ttr:Di1r~~Q':rr;m~--<,,1;c.x,,:«c-.nMr:tf:ri:t¾,fioo11·¥:i!fit'nnP~tff:tfl!'lf«Nt~·!Cl~A!fwi~•~~As~wra,&>,~-mz...~~;r. ~... J..k~.,;.;_... • •;:tw> ·.~ ,._~ .,~: ..... ~ ---., •,i...,· 






