
Who says you can't play college ball?
SHOWERS 
Wednesday 
With PS2's in tow, Scene puts sports video games to the test. 
HlGH44° 

MARCH 6,
Scene . page 10-11 
LOW33° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 103 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Saint Mary's faculty rejects additional study day 
. Group cites current academic schedule. for a one-semester trial peri­Tuesdays. "It's in the hands of Gail Mandell, Faculty od, but Mandell said it was Mandell said faculty mem­Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl [stu­
feasibility as issue 
Assembly chair, said many unclear as to how the success bers were very interested in dent body vice president-elect] facultv members had concerns or failure of the experiment students' concerns about an and the Student Academic with the proposal's language would be judged. extra study day. Council," Matha said.
By TERESA FRALISH 
but believed the study day "The proposal must enhance "The proposal is very seri­-Some students believe the 
News Writer 
would eventually be approved. learning and aid effective ously regarded by faculty extra study would aid in "The study day itself was not teaching," Mandell said. members," she said. "It will preparation for finals and help 
!\!though the Saint Mary's necessarily rejected," Mandell In its current form, many certainly be reconsidered." reduce tension at the end of Faculty Assembly rejected last said. "People were more con­members of the faculty Kristen Matha, student body the semester. month a proposal to tack on cerned about how to put it in thought the proposal was vice president, said there has "It would help us overall an additional study day at the effect." explicit enough in establishing been little communication because we're all very end of the each semester, the Many faculty at the meeting . evaluation criteria for judging between the students and fac­stressed around finals time," group is not rejecting altogeth-_ said moving the academic cal­the plan. ulty about the proposal. said freshman Jodie Emerick. er the idea of extra study time. endar up one day would not -Another concern raised at "It has garnered more sup­Junior Lianne Wojnarowicz 
Before a Feb. 20 Assembly leave enough time for regis­the meeting was the discrep­port than in the past," Matha agreed, saying the current meeting, Saint Mary's student tration and necessary advising ancy the proposal would cause said, "but it is something that academic calendar give stu­leaders had worked unsuc­in the departments at the start between the Notre Dame and the faculty needs to take on." dents enough study time. cessfully for two years to gain of each semester. Saint Mary's academic calen­Matha was unsure about "I think it would be helpful approval for a study day pro­Professors also were con­dars. possible amendments to the to have more than just the posal. cerned about completing If Saint Mary's added a study proposal or when it would be weekend to study for finals 
The Faculty Assembly teacher evaluations and day, the semester would start resubmitted. She said the task. when you've just finished class blocked passage of the propos­reviewing for final exams in on a Monday. That would be of moving the study day pro­that Friday," Wojnarowicz al, saying The Board of class at the end of the semes­diffieult for the Notre Dame posal forward would be the said. Governance did not introduce ter with a shortened schedule. students who take classes at responsibility of the next stu­an acceptable way to imple­The study day and calendar Saint Mary's, because dent government administra­Contact Teresa Fralish at ment the study day into the change were to be approved University courses begin on tion fral6395@saintmarys.edu. 
THE IRISH JIG AT WORK 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


Union to begin elections 
By ANDY THAGARD 
Assistant N,ews Editor 

The Graduate Student Union desig­nated the first half of its monthly coun­cil meeting as an information session for perspective candidates to lead the organization. 
The group is holding elections next month for all non-appointed positions and the meeting offered an opportunity for per­spective candidates to learn more about graduate student government. 
"GSU is an excel­lent opportunity," said Kishori Deshpande, the current vice president, to interested candidates. "You get to work with various administrators and raise the concerns of graduate stu­dents." 
Gabriela Burgos. GSU president. said interested students have approached her in person and contacted her via e~ mail about running for office. 
Students who attended the informa­tion session learned about the organi­zation's accomplishment,; and respon­sibilities. 
Election of new officers will take place between April 12 and 15. Candidates must declare their intent to run by April 2. 
This year, the body hopes to increase voter turnout by offering electronic voting using a method set up by Zhong Wang, GSU systems administrator. 
During the group's regular meeting, Adrienne Minerick, Health Care Committee chair, announced plans for a "Health Day." 

"It's hopefully going to be a really big picnic and health event," Minerick said. 
The event is scheduled for April 6 and is designed to promote a healthy lifestyle among graduate students and their families. Activities include arts 
and crafts, yoga and kickboxing classes and semi­nars run by University and local organiza­tions. 
Health Day will be co-sponsored by the GSU Publicity and Promotions 
the Alumni 

In other GSU news: 
. 
Tommy Scheiding, Quality of Life Committee chair, announced plans to release by late March the results of a survey investigating graduate student use of library and recreation facilities . during the summer. 

. 
The Health Care Committee is finish­ing a report on graduate student care at the Counseling Center. The commit­tee began preparing the report after being approached by graduate stu­dents who were concerned about excessive waits to see a counselor. 


Last month Minerick and other GSU representatives met with Patrick Utz, Counseling Center director. The final report will include a survey assessing the quality of the center's services. 

Deshpande 
Committee Association. 
Contact Andy Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Without a map 
It's midterms time again. The semester is suf­ficiently unc,'lerway. The snow and cold have finally hit. Everyone is getting ready for a week­long break from the set patterns of how their lives are flowing and happening. And yet, in the hustle and bustle of our 
everyday lives, as we travel from here to there, do we really know where we're going? 
We go everywhere we need to in a kind of autopi­lot, set to our individual schedules. If something hap­pens to that autopilot, say 


some sort of emotional or 

Angela Campos
social mess gets jammed up into the mechanisms, what is our back -up? 

Lab Tech 
J'd have to say that I prob­ably would be rather lost in a sort of scrambling disar­ray that pollutes the mind, health and sanity. I'd be up a creek without a paddle, heading for a waterfall. I'd be on the road, lost and without a map. 
So, I'm going into this spring break, with my autopilot broken. I'm frantically trying to read the manual dials and knobs as my life performs some aeronautical acrobatics spiraling down­ward. Not only trying to keep my school. friends and overall health from blowing out of control, but trying to keep myself level for after gradua­tion, a mere two months away. 
How, you ask, do I propose to do this? I tell you it hasn't been easy so far, and it is not look­ing like it will lighten up any time soon. I plan on trying to fix the autopilot. And I will get myself back on course with three things: love, faith and hope. 
Ok, now for some of you this might seem like catechism all over again, but I'm serious. Yeah, I changed the order around from how it is written in the Bible (faith, hope and love. and the great­est of these is love). But this is how I plan to get my autopilot working again. 
First of all, take love. Love is how we need to relate to other people. The reason I place this aspect first, is because in order to live in a com­munity with other people we must live in an understanding of our neighbors. This includes all of our friends, our acquaintances, strangers and people we don't like very well. Our neigh­bors can help us get through our tough times, if we let them know we need help. We can like­wise help them in the same way. 
Second, take faith. Faith is everything we believe in. It is everything that we hold in truth and don't need to have proven to us for us to believe in it. Some call it God, some call it Enlightenment, some call it Peace. Faith gives me, personally, the opportunity to pray, to believe in something greater and believe that through that truth, I am connected to everyone else. 
Last, take hope. Hope is everything you dream of, work toward and strive to be or make or do. Hope draws on Jove and faith and allows us to make it through the tough times with our family and friends. Hope is what pulls us through. Without hope, we have people who love us and something to believe in but no reason to keep us going. Hope is that reason. And as long as we believe that it is there, it will be there for us. 
That's what will get the autopilot working again. Never lose hope. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
In the Tuesday's edition ofThc Observer, Mexican I>re,,idem Vicente Fox's name was misspelled. The Observer regrets this error. The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please coniai::t us ac 631-4541 so we can correct our error, 
The Observer (USPS 5?9 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsecver ,, a membc, of ,he Associ:md P,es,. All reproducr,on righu. are reserved. 
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Play: "Ah, Wilderness!"  . Conference: "Assessing  . Conference: "Assessing  . Vacation: Spring Break  
O' Laughlin Auditorium 7  the Theological Legacy of  the Theological Legacy of  starts at noon.  
p.m.  John Howard Yoder,"  John Howard Yoder,"  
. Lecture: "American  McKenna Hall, all day  McKenna Hall, all day  
Foreign Policy Challenges,"  . Film: "Beind Closed  
Lee Hamilton, Auditorium  Eyes," Room C-100,  
Hesburgh Center, 7 p.m.  Hesburgh Center 7 p. m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Cornell University researches alcohol problems 
ITHACA, N.Y. 
meant to refocus attention on a1co­
Students are drinking more· and h o l as a major problem in the starting at younger ages, according to a United States," according to Talbot. recent report by the National Center on Statistics have been gathered Addiction and Substance Abuse at about alcohol usage at Cornell as Columbia University. well. 
The report, which analyzed two Seventy-two percent of Cornell years' worth of research, found that freshmen reported consuming alco­nearly a third of all high school stu­hol in the past year, according to a dents binge drink at leasi once a 2000 Gannett Core Survey. Sixty­month. The report also found that five percent of Cornell freshmen underage drinkers now account for 25 reported drinking alcohol in the last percent of the alcohol consumed in this month, according to the same sur­country. vey.
"This may not have been the most
"We've known for a long time that Tke number of alcohol related vis­
accurate conducting of a survey," said
alcohol is a significant problem even its to Cayuga Medical Center by
Talbot. "The ways they did their
before college," said Janice Talbot of Cornell students increased from 65 
research over-sampled young people,
Gannett: Cornell University Health in 1999-2000 to 81 in 2000-2001,
but they did not correct this over-sam­
Services. according to Talbot. These statistics 
pling in the analysis." 
In the days following the report, how­do not include students sent to the 
Despite the dispute over how the sur-·
ever, the statistics and the Center's medical center on Slope Day. 
vey was conducted, the study "was
findings came under fire. Cornell Daily Sun 
EMPORIA STATE UNIVERSITY 

Students protest, shred newspapers 
HAYS.Kan. The First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution says, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the peo­ple peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances." On Friday morning that speech was silenced at Emporia State University, when several hundred shredded is.5ues of The Bulletin blanketed the first floor of North Twin Towers, a residence hall at ESU. A pro-discourse bulletin board also was defaced in the ESU Memorial Union. The Bulletin reported in its Monday edition "A note stating 'This is a test! 1bis paper is the same crap you read in The Bulletin! Do your part to recycle! Join us· was found on top of the pile along with an Aug. 23 issue of The Bulletin containing a story on recycling. In addition, a recetn editorial condemn­ing smoking marijuana in the residence halls was taped to each door. 
The University leader 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
University considers semesters 
LOS ANGELES University of California-Los Angeles administrators and faculty are considering following a recent trend in public universities to move from quarters to semesters. The change would be costly and involve changing every course on campus, but administra­tors and faculty are willing to do this for what they say will improve the quality of education. "l have not yet met anybody who has been in both extensively who believed that students learn more in the quarter system," Chancellor Albert Carnesale said. While Carnesale declined to say if he approves of the change, he is concerned about how much students can learn under the current quarter system. "There are not very many first-rate universities in the coun­
try that have stayed  on  the quarter system,"  
Carnesale said.  
Daily Bruin  


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and hi h temperatures 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Wednesday, March 6. 
)
' ' 
I 
........... -----..........

O 2002 Accoweather, Inc. CDt.J) WARM SfATJONARY 
Prt.uwe: 

® © . t?&JCJEIB~C:J t,)3~~4~ 
High I..Ow Shower• Rain T..torm• Flurrlee Snow IQe Sunny Pt, CloUdy ctoudy 
Vol Aaaocmttld PIWla 

Attanta 61 39 Las Vegas 68 45 PortlaM 49 31 Baltimore 60 35 Memphis 66 45 Sacramento 62 45 Bostoo 47 38 Milwaukee 38 27 St Louis 58 43
~,~,~~~~ ~ ~ cl!B 
Chicago 44 32 New York 53 38 Tampa 73 56 
Showers T-storms Rain Aurries Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 68 58 Philadelphia 57 38 Washington 60 38 
VI• As,ooafed Pu,ss Graphic>Nel 

Wednesday, March 6, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Slain scientist's daughter arrested 
. Mysterious homicide takes a surprising turn 
Associated Press 
LEESBURG, Va. 

Three months after DNA sci­entist Robert Schwartz was stabbed to death with a 2-foot sword and Jett with a ritualistic­looking X carved in the back of his neck. the case has turned out be less exotic than investigators thought, but chilling nonetheless 
Schwartz's own daughter, a 21-year-old college student, is under arrest in tho slaying along with three friends, ages 18 to 21, whose signed confessions are disturbing in both their macabre detail and the banality of their language. 
"I made a big oopsy here," wrote the young man who allegedly drove that night. 
Kyle Hulbert, an 18-year-old with an interest in vampires and a history of mental illness, told police in a rambling seven-page confession that he killed Schwartz to protect Clara Schwartz from her father. who "had poisoned her on several occasions with various chemi­cals." 
Prosecutors and defense attor­neys have said next to nothing about the case. Schwartz's rela­tives have said the notion he was poisoning or otherwise abusing his daughter is ludicrous. 
The 57-year-old biophysicist worked at the Center for Innovative Technology in Ilerndon, a cornerstone of the region's high-tech corridor. He was a respected researcher in DNA sequencing and a contribu­tor to the first national online database of DNA sequence infor­mation. His wife -Clara Schwartz's mother -died of cancer several year ago. 
He was killed on Dec. 8 and his body was found two days later inside his farmhouse in Hamilton, about 40 miles west of Washington. D.C. 
The investigation turned quickly to Hulbert, Michael Paul Pfohl and his girlfriend, Katherine Inglis. Neighbors had seen the group drive to Schwartz's home and get stuck in the mud. The three were charged •with murder Dec. 12. 
Clara Schwartz, a student at James Madison University in Harrisonburg, was later impli­cated and was arrested Feb. 1. Prosecutors said she was involved in the plot. Hut she was apparently not there during the slaying itself. 
All four are being held without bail. The mysterious X in Schwartz's neck had led to spec­ulation among investigators that it was a ritual slaying. Friends and neighbors of Hulbert, Inglis and Pfohl said the three had an interest in medieval fantasy and wizardry, the most of the defen­dants had met each other at Renaissance festivals. 
But investigators said the X was merely a coincidental s,tab wound, and Hulbert told investi­gators he did not remember making such a mark. 
"It does not appear to be a rit­ualistic -style killing,"Sheriff Steven Simpson said last month. "There's nothing to indicate there were any kind of intention­al markings"on Schwartz's body. 
Hulbert was allegedly the only one who entered the house; the two others waited in the car. According to one of the accounts. Schwartz, on his knees before Hulbert delivered the fatal blows, looked up and asked: "What did l ever do to you?" 

Bush imposes costly steel tariffs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush slapped hefty tariffs of' up to 30 per­cent on a range of steel imports Tuesday. suggesting it would help ailing U.S. steelmakers get back on their feet. The action could raise prices on products including cars and appliances and drew sharp criticism from 
U.S. trading partners. 
Bush stopped short of giv­ing the industry the 40 per­cent across-the-board tariffs it sought and declined to sup­port an industry-proposed $10 billion bailout of pension and health care benefits for retired steelworkers whose companies have gone bank­rupt. 
Still. his three-year pack­age was generally applauded by both the steel industry and its workers. 
"It's some light at the end of a very dark tunnel." said Leo Gerard. president of the United Steelworkers of America. 
Acting on long-running complaints from domestic steel producers and steel­workers' unions, Bush imposed a three-year plan of tariffs of 8 percent to 30 per­cent on imported steel, depending upon the type. 
He said his decision would "help give America's steel industry and its workers the chance to adapt to the large influx of foreign steel." 
Tariffs have been levied against individual steel prod­ucts or countries in the past, but not in the across-the­board approach chosen by Bush. The White House said the last time the United States took broad action against steel was in 1984, when President Reagan negotiated so-called volun­tary restraints on steel imports with other countries. 
The Bush plan imposes a 30 percent tariff' on slab steel. the country's biggest import. but exempts the first 
5.4 million tons imported. Last year, imports of slab steel totaled 5.7 million tons, meaning if current levels hold little of the slab steel coming into the country will be assessed. 
Nevertheless, foreign steel exporters immediately protested. 
"The U.S. decision to go down the route of protection­ism is a major setback for the world trading system," European Union Trade Commissioner Pascal Lamy said. He told reporters the EU would challenge the deci­sion before the World Trade Organization. 
Asked about the prospects of trade wars over his actions, Bush told reporters that international trade rules permit su-ch temporary tariffs to protect battered indus­tries. 
Wednesdays and Thursdays are student nights. Students receive 20% of meal price with student I.D. 
U£1 


Michiana's most unique dining experience. Located in the brewery at the Historic 100 Center 
in Mishawaka (219) 257-1792 www.1OOcenter.com 
~ :;, 1 2 I I~ : 1 :: 1 1 1 J t ! l l l ~: 1 ' J. : ' ;
< ,­

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
RUSSIA 
Journalists struggle to keep broadcast company independent 
A,sociiltcd Pres, 
MOSCOW 

The team of journalists that ran Russia's last independent national television station has set itself a task almost unprece­dented in Russia: Creating a broadcasting company that can't be manipulated by the government or by the politically powerful media moguls who have dominated the industry. 
"This is commercial television. This is not state television. This is not television run by a private individual," team head Yevgeny Kiselyov said Monday. He hopes to attract as many as 30 investors so no one person can use the station for his or own political purposes. 
In Russia, that would be something of a novelty. Television stations, which most Russians depend on for their news, have routinely been used to win elections, curry political favor and punish enemies. Earning a profit and providing objective coverage have often been only secondary considera­tions.But the swift demise of the nation's only two independent national stations over the past year has left many in the media industry scurrying to find a more secure foundation. 
That's not easy in Russia. The total amount spent annually for all kinds of advertising is esti­mated to be about $1.2 billion. The challenge of turning a profit in that environment is the rea­son many moguls saw their media holdings as a political vehicle rather than a business venture, analysts say. Journalists often found them­selves caught in the middle. 
"Russians are very cynical about journalists on both sides of the state-private divide," said Gillian McCormack, who moni­tors the media industry in the former Soviet Union for the European Union-funded European Institute for the Media in Germany. "Russians like the phrase 'Whoever pays the piper calls the tune.' Unfortunately, that is to a certain extent true." 
Kiselyov, who headed journal­istic teams first at independent NTV and then at independent TV6, said that is why it is so important to have a large num­ber and wide variety of investors in the new television enterprise, which would be known as the Channel Six televi­sion company. 
Among the dozen or so investors already signed up are some powerful personalities, but all will hold equal shares. The new Channel Six company will be among those bidding March 27 for the television frequency formerly held by TV6., which was forced off the air in January after it lost a legal fight with a minority shareholder that many saw as a blow to press freedom. 
The government-controlled Gazprom natural gas monopoly, which seized NTV last year in a dispute about millions of dollars of unpaid debt, has said it will soon unload its media assets. While analysts are eager­ly waiting to see who the win­ners are, they continue to debate what was behind the shake-up to begin with. Russian 
Law professor receives Fulbright 
Associated Press 
John Copeland Nagle, a pro­fessor of law at Notre Dame. has been awarded a J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship to lecture through July on environmental and property law at the Tsinghua University Law School in Beijing. 
Nagle joined the law faculty as an associate professor in 1998 and became a full pro­fessor in 2001. He previously served as an associate profes­sor at the Seton Hall University School of Law and held two positions in the U.S. Department of Justice, first as an attorney in the Office of Legal Counsel and later as a trial attorney conducting envi­ronmental litigation. A gradu­ate of Indiana University and the University of Michigan Law' School, Nagle is at work on a book examining legal issues involving biodiversity. endangered species and ecosystems. 
Nagle is one of approximate­ly 2,000 U.S. grantees who will travel abroad this academic year through the Fulbright program. Sponsored by the Bureau of Cultural Affairs of the U.S. Department of State, the program's purpose is to build mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the rest of the world. 
Recipients of Fulbright awards are selected on the basis of academic or profes­sional achievement and the demonstration of extraordi­nary leadership potential in their fields. For 55 years, Fulbright programs have exchanged nearly a quarter of a million people. 
President Vladimir Putin said either case, blaming both on saw it as an attack on the plu­politics had nothing to do with economic disputes. But others ralism of the media. 
Each year the Irish Clover Award is given to two members of the Notre Dame community who demonstrate outstanding service to the student body. Students, as well as faculty and staff members, are eligible for consideration. 
Each year, the Frank O'Malley Award is given to a member ofthe Notre Dame faculty who demonstrates outstanding service to the student body through their teaching. Any faculty member is eligible for consideration. 
Alanune 500•Desiga• lnnnati1111s •lartaling, consultanrsSeminar 
leam The Methods Of AProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements · An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
AOnr, DarSeminar, ABoatorDnr 1,n Years DIltwatuallleIlnerlance. 
This class is designed to short cut you to th-e simple focused thoughts you must have in business to move forward in high level business. The class is taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, "change the course of an entfre industry." 
~~~-.'E~For class dates, private classes & 
~.,.,_~DAB more information, go to our web ~.,., 'UiwMt:,,,_ site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 .WWW.USIISIBRtl.COBI e-mail• inventor@usastand.com 
Nominations for both awards are due by 3:00 p.m. of Friday, March 22, 2002 in the Student Government Office (203 LaFortuneJ. Applications can be picl<ed up in the Student Government Office. 


ATION 
Wednesday, March 6, 2002 · COMPILED .FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Canada bans human cloning: The Canadian Institutes of Health Research issued new guidelines for stem-cell research Monday. banning human embryo cloning but permitting government-funded scientists to use embryos left over from fertility treatment or abortions. A new scientific agency to over­see compliance will also be created. 
Civilian corpses found in Russia: 
Four corpses, men aged 17 to 28. bearing 
.signs of torture have been found at a military commandant's office in Chechnya, officials said Tuesday. Local officials say they were civilians detained in a Russian security sweep, while the military says they were rebels killed in a gunfight. They had bullet wounds in the chest and head, their hands were tied, Argun city official Aslanbek Ismailov, said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Man kills 3 in Michigan: A Mount Pleasant man shot and killed his ex-wife and two other people in a courthouse parking lot Tuesday. The three victims had been headed to a probate hearing in the Isabella County Courthouse. The gunman was also supposed to have attended, police said. After the shoot­ing, police surrounded the suspect's home where authorities negotiated with him, police said. The suspect eventually surrendered. 
Father sues over Ecstacy death: Don French of Pittsburgh filed a $275,000 lawsuit Tuesday against four people, whom he alleges waited too long to get medical help for his daughter, Brandy, who died of an Ecstacy overdose after taking the drug at a concert. He alleges that they knew she took the drug and was having difficulty walking and talking. The man who allegedly sold Brandy the pill has been charged with murder. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Trial delay after prosecutor fired: 
Jury selection in Phillip Stroud's trial, sched­uled to begin Tuesday, will be delayed four months. Prosecutors asked for a delay after St. Joseph County Prosecutor Christopher Toth fired Scott Duerring as chief trial deputy prosecutor. Duerring told the South Bend Tribune he could not continue with the trial as a death penalty case because his view of the Stroud case was different than Toth's. Stroud, 23, of South Bend, is charged with 10 felony counts, including murder, robbery and burglary, dating back to Sept. 2000. 
Market Watch March 5 

Dow 
10,433.41 -153.41 
Jones 

Composite
Same: 


Volume:
212 

1,538,835,147 
AMEX: 877.87 + 1.30 NASDAQ: 1,866.30 + 6.98 NYSE: 594.61 -4.28 S&P 500: 1,146.13 -7.71 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NAS[W:l-100 INDEX (OCQ)  +0. 73  +0.27  37 .42  
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUrw,t)  +4. 84  +0.42  9.09  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +4. 32  +0.18  13.85  
INTEL CCRP (INTC)  +2.67  +0.85  32. 70  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +0 .18  +0.03  16.51  

GERMANY 

Associated Press 
RAMSTEIN AIR BASE 
Seven American service­men killed fighting in Afghanistan were honored Tuesday in Germany before their flag-draped caskets were flown back to the United States. 
A C-17 transport jet bringing the men's remains to Ramstein Air Base was met on the tar­mac by a U.S. Army, Navy and Air Force honor guard for the somber ceremony under cloudy skies in the wooded hills of western Germany. 
Four Army chaplains boarded the plane and 
read psalms and biblical verses they had chosen for the occasion. 
Chaplain Michael Summers, a captain who has seen many American casualties come through the base, said he believed some of the men were from his old unit. "This was a lit­tle harder than most," he said. 
He chose a verse from the book of Isaiah that ends "those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles." 
After the ceremony, the honor guard slowly carried the caskets past two rows of soldiers standing at attention with rifles over their shoulders, and took them to black hearses waiting near the plane. The remains were taken one by one to a larger C-5 transport jet, which took off later Tuesday for an air base at Dover, Del. 
The seven soldiers were killed Monday when al­Qaida and Taliban fighters fired on two U.S. heli­copters with machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades. 
The Pentagon identified the men as Air Force Tech. Sgt. John Chapman, 36, and Senior Airman Jason 
D. Cunningham, 26; Navy Aviation Boatswain's Mate-Handling Petty Officer 1st Class Neil Roberts, 32; and Army Sgt. Bradley Crose, 27, Sgt. Philip Svitak, 31, Spc. Marc Anderson, 30, and Pfc. Matthew Commons, 21. 
The first fatality in the latest U.S. assault in Afghanistan, Chief Warrant Officer Stanley Harriman, 34, of Wade, N.C .. was killed in a ground attack Saturday. His body arrived at Ramstein over the week­end and was expe·cted to be flown to the United States on Wednesday. 
The assault, Operation Anaconda, is the largest U.S.-led air and ground offensive of the war. 

Mubarak: Israel must work with Arafat 
security in exchange for the land the two sides. 
Associated Press 
Arabs lost in war, was on the White But Mubarak left no doubt about his WASHINGTON House agenda. So was Mubarak's views of Israel's continued hold on President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt offer to be the host for talks between part of the West Bank and Gaza and. said Tuesday that Israel must deal Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel presumably, east Jerusalem. Without with Yasser Arafat as the leader of the Sharon. Mubarak said he would not referring to Israel directly, he said Palestinians and "reverse the injus­meet with Sharon unless Arafat "land was occupied by force" and an tice" of holding their land by force. attended as well. entire population was denied its right 
In a speech before seeing President Declaring he was not "pro-Arafat," to nationhood. Bush at the White House. Mubarak Mubarak said the Palestinians would Mubarak said the aim of peace talks said "we have to work with Arafat" be free to choose another leader after should be to "end the injustice of all until the Arab-Israeli dispute is peace is achieved. the peoples" in the Middle East. resolved. "It is a great mistake to think "I have no problems with the Elaborating, Mubarak said the result otherwise," be said. Palestinians or the Israelis," Mubarak of the forced occupation of land had 
A proposal from Saudi Arabia, said, as he sought to assert Egypt as been to deny "an entire people its which offers Israel peace, trade and an evenhanded mediator between the right to a nation." 
page 6 



Wednesday, March 6, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Study ties lung cancer to air pollution in major cities 

Information Meeting for Summer 2003 
Wednesday: March 6 7-9 pm And Thursday: March 7 7-9 pm 
. Report finds health risk equal to living with smoker 
Associated rress 
CllICAGO 

Long-term exposure to the air pollution in some of America's biggest metropoli­tan areas significantly raises the risk of dying from lung cancer and is about as dan­gerous as living with a smok­er, a study of a half-million people found. 
.. 
Well maintained houses near campus 
• 
Washers and dryers provided 

• 
Security systems 

• 
24-hour maintainancc staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! 5-& 8-bedroom houses 


) ' ) 
Only 4 left for the 2002~2003 school year 
Also leasing for the 2003~2004 school year 
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571 
Lung cancer death rates were compared with average pollution levels, as measured in micrograms per cubic meter of air. 
The researchers found that the number of lung cancer deaths increased 8 percent for every increase of 10 micrograms. 
Other heart-and lung-relat­ed causes of death increased 6 percent for every 10-micro­gram increase. 
Allen Dear_ry, a scientist at the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, which funded the study, called it "the best epi­demiologic evidence that we have so far that that type of exposure is as_sociated with lung cancer death." 
"This study is compelling because it involved hundreds of thousands of people in many cities across the United States who were followed for almost two decades," said co­author George Thurston, an NYU environmental scientist. 
Thurston said the lung can­cer risks were virtually iden­tical to those faced by non­smokers who live with smok­ers and are exposed long­term to secondhand cigarette smoke. 
The Environmental Protection Agency set average annual limits at 15 micro­grams per cubic meter in 1997. when it tightened its standards to include fine par­tic_ulate matter -pollutants measuring less than 2.5 micrometers. 
That ls about 1128th the width of a human hair. 
That regulation followed a study linking fine particulate pollution and lung cancer. That research was done on many of the same participants by C. Arden Pope III, an envi­ronmental epidemiologist at Brigham Young University and a co-leader of the JAMA study. 
Pope said the new study doubles the follow-up time and does a better job of tak­ing other risk factors into account, to address criticism from industry groups who challenged the earlier study and sued the EPA over the 1997 regulations. 
The Supreme Court upheld the tightened standards last year. 
-Thurston said annual fine­particulate pollutant averages have fallen significantly since the early 1980s but as of 1999-2000 were still at or above the EPA limit in such metropolitan areas as New York, Washington, Chicago and Los Angeles. 
He said the biggest sources of such pollution are coal­burning power plants in the Midwest and East, and diesel trucks and buses in the West. 
Thurston said the study gives new impetus to efforts in Washington to clean up aging coal-fired power plants. 
The EPA said the agency will consider the research as part of its continuing review of air quality standards for particulate matter. 

The study echoes previous research and provides the strongest evidence yet of the health dangers of the pollu­tion levels found in many big cities and even some smaller ones, according to the researchers from Brigham Young UniversiLy and New York University. 
The risk is from what scien­tists call combustion-related fine particulate matter ­soot emitted bv cars and trucks, coal-fired power plants and factories. 
The study appears in Wednesday's Journal of the 
American Medical Association. 
It involved 500,000 adults who enrolled in 1982 in an American Cancer Society sur­vey on cancer prevention. 
The researchers examined participants' health records through 1998 and analyzed data on annual air pollution averages in the more than 100 cities in which partici­pants lived. 
Tho researchers first took into account other risk factors for heart and lung disease such as cigarettes, diet, weight and occupation. 

131 Debartolo H·all 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 16556 024 Souch Dining Hall, No ere Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Peters  

N.t-ws EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadcer SCENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADvtRTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvcl Chin WU ADMINISTRATOR, Adam Turner CONTROILER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHIC~ EDITOR, Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
Omer MANAG[RiGENERALINFO.............631-7471 FAX.......................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63!-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnToRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEBADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.nd.,du for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up--to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
cial campus coverage 
and rates ofprint ads 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
ro meet the editors and
articles published after 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents of rhe UniversiryofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivelyas possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Edicor in Chief, Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The frec expression ofall opinions through lem,rs is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que,tiom regarding Observerpolicies Jhau/d be dired­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

This past weekend I decided to bring a microphone with me to a party. I'm always looking for a new angle on things and I thought inter­viewing people under the influence might make for interesting enter­Michael tainment down Mansour the road. The microphone cer­
Fora More 

tainly grabbed 
Just and 

people's attention 
Humane World

and I felt pretty cool wielding it. 
Nevertheless, no one said anything especially intfiguing. Some people didn't want to talk, others just barked and one girl claimed that Nelly referred to her in one of his songs. As the night continued, I grew skeptical. I began asking people for something profound, even words of wisdom, but to no avail. 
The next day, after realizing I wouldn't get any sage-like advice or wisdom from a college party, the opportunity to write a Viewpoint col­umn arose. Now, I had to offer some profound words of my own -or at least encourage you to do something profound. 
Some people might say I'm a spiritu­al person. I mean, I probably wouldn't pray the rosary during "The Vagina Monologues," but I have been known to reflect on life and the joys of being once in a while. Some of the most spiritual times in my life have come when I had the opportunity to make something better for someone and learn from other people's lives. At Notre Dame, the Center for Social Concerns and the South Bend commu­nity have provided many opportuni­ties to make this "spiritual enlighten­ment" a daily possibility. Once you get involved -it's easy. 
In my freshman year I let a number of opportunities to get involved with service pass me by, but I finally decid­ed to go on the Appalachia Seminar in the spring of that year. I had gone on a few Appalachia trips in high school and always enjoyed it but did not know what to expect from the college edition after our first few meetings. 
No one really knew what we were going to do, and most of us didn't even know each other's names when we left for the trip. Seven days and zero showers later, we each had eight new friends and 14 empty cans of deodorant. 
Besides the dirt, we collected a lot of other interesting and fun stories that one of the girls, Amy, captured in a list: No. 43: "Dave finding hot dogs on the ground, washing them and eat­ing them"; No. 51: "Noticing how close the community is in Appalachia and how much the people care about each other." Tons of students have had experiences similar to this on their service trips to Appalachia and elsewhere. At times, the tasks seem daunting, but the challenges are always rewarding. 
As the years passed by I went back to Appalachia a couple times and got involved with other programs. I steered clear of drug dealing and small arms trade in favor of tutoring and coaching. The coaching part came this last summer as part of the National Youth Sports Program -a sports and character building camp for kids who live in poverty. 
I met a ton of different kids who changed my life forever and worked alongside some very dedicated co­workers. We worked hard during the week and partied with everything we had left on the weekends. It brought us closer together and made the expe­rience very meaningful. 
Two weeks ago I ran into one of the kids I had in my group this summer. I hadn't seen him since camp, but as soon as we saw each other it felt like we hadn't missed a beat. We gave each other the traditional "guy" hug -hit shoulders, double tap on the back -and caught up on things for the next 15 minutes. 
At 16, Tom, whose name has been changed, had seen a lot more of life than I had in 21 years. He caused me a fair share of trouble during the first couple days in camp, but we soon forged a strong bond. 
A lot of people might not give Tom the benefit of the doubt, but after hav­ing him in camp and talking to him that day, I realized that he is definite­ly going to make something of himself. I must have interviewed 30 people at the party this weekend, but none of them carried as much meaning as getting to know Tom or spending a week in Appalachia. Going to a party is a lot of fun, but being in someone's life is profound. There are a lot of opportunities to get involved here; don't let them pass you by. 
"For a More Just and Humane World" is the Center for Social Concerns' bi-weekly column. Michael Mansour is a psychology and history major and a member of the Appalachia Seminar task force. Contact the CSC at ray.1 J@nd.edu. 
The views in this column are those of the a.uthor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Kiflin Turner Sarah Rykowski Courtney Boyle 
Sports 

Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish 
Scene Laura Kelly Graphics Jimmy Atkinson Production Joe Hettler Andrew Soukup Lab Tech Angela Campos 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Do you believe there is a tolerant environment for gays and lesbians at Notre Dame?  "Five things constitute perfect virtue: gravity, magnanimity, earnestness, sincerity, kindness, "  
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p_m.  Confucius  
Chinese philosopher  

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 6, 2002 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Solidarity, one week later 
One week ago South Quad was a lot more colorful than the snow now seems. Laden with flyers, ban­ners, tents and a funny little prayer table, this area provided a place for those "Pray for Peace kids" to send out a message. No, we didn't do it just so we could sleep in tents at Notre Dame. 
The refugees brought'us together. I could spout out a lot of disturbing facts, such as how right now there is one landmine per child in Afghanistan and how one in four Afghan children will die before his or her fifth birthday, but l won't be overly-political. 
I could lament over how cold my feet got and how almost every one of the 31 people (notjust 10 as The Observer reported) who slept outside last Monday night got sick, but I won't beg for pity. In fact, I'm thankful the snow foll when jt did and we did in fact check the weather report. ,t\lhat kind of solidarity would it have been were it 60 degrees and sunny? 
While this particular action was military-neutral, the philosophy of the Peace Coalition is not. We rec­ognize that there were refugees before Sept. 11, but there was also heavy U.S. military involvement in Afghanistan before Sept. 11. 
Long story short: Millions of people are hungry and colder than we can imagine and the U.S. foreign policy has contributed to the suffering. 
The question is: What do we do now? Last week, we only asked you to think about the situation. But if you are at all like me, after hearing about such a sit­uation. you thirst for more. Well, I have good news: This Thursday at 7 p.m., Dan Moseley, a peace activist, will be speaking on his trip last fall to Afghanistan. This talk vvill be in the Center for Social Concerns' classroom. Come and learn some more. 
Thanks to alJ those who supported us. Please con­tinue to do so. 
Liz Fallon 
sophomore Pasquerilla Ea.st March 4. 2002 
Allow students freedom to make decisions 
I think the debate over the production of "The Vagina Monologues" here on campus brings up an interesting question for the University. Basically, the questions are simple. What exactly does the admin­istration think of its students? Who are we and what rights, as students here, do we have? 
Joe Larson
"The Vagina Monologues" issue is pretty simple. It's a play, therefore it's artistic expression. 
The Principles 
Sex is a part of life. Artists, 
ofldiocracy
whether it be through poetry, fiction or artwork, depict sex in numerous ways all the time. Shakespeare talked all about it in his work. Michelangelo's "David," probably the most perfect sculpture ever, is not exactly dressed modestly in a slingshot. 
No one seems to be up in arms about this, so what's the big deal with a modern play that discuss­es female sexuality? And what's the problem with a popular, modern-day author discussing her famous sitcom and books that candidly discuss sex? We're all adults here and I think if someone says the word "sex" or any other word pertaining to it, we all should be able to sit in our seats and not blush and giggle to each other. 
Also, both the Candace Bushnell reading and "The Vagina Monologues" were shows that were volun­tary. No one was forced to go and see them. If you have a problem with the content of the presentation, a simple remedy would simply be to not go and see them. Problem solved. If you're squeamish, stay at home and watch "Full House." 
It's no skin off anyone's nose. Just don't go, but let the people who appreciate Lhe art go and enjoy themselves. Pulling people off-stage or buying all the tickets to a show so no one else can go are pretty childish tactics for people who are supposed to be adults. 
Now, I'll stretch and say that most everyone attending college here is at least 18 years old, which, with the exception of a Doogie Howser-type student, means everyone here is an adult. But the adminis­tration doesn't seem to want to acknowledge this. The. fact that there was such a huge st.ink made about a play with sexual content in it just proves there's a few intrinsic issues that need to be explored here. . 
Notre Dame students are utterly sheltered by the restrictions of du Lac. We read poetry about sex and are tested on it in classes, but we 're not allowed to listen to a contemporary view of it. We are expected . to behave like adults, but there arc numerous rules and regulations that make those decisions for us. 
Students are expected to consider their dormmates when dealing with members of the opposite sex, but are not given the opportunity to make those deci­sions on their own. Even if students are behaving with-complete respect for everyone around them, dorms become sexually delineated at 12 a.m. on the weeknights and 2 a.m. on the weekends. Basically, we're expected to conduct ourselves like adults, but don't have the freedom to make adult decisions. 
College is supposed to prepare young adults for life in the real world. In the real world, your date doesn't end at a set time. In the real world, you can't use petty rules as an excuse for ducking out of a sit­uation. In the real world, you have to decide for yourself what kind of entertainment you keep your­self busy with. 
Life decisions are made by a single person and that person only. Setting up rules and regulations to curb the way people make decisions and to set up an excuse for alleviating someone from a situation does not happen. If the University cannot trust their stu­dents to act according to their religious and moral beliefs, then we're not really learning how to proper­ly handle ourselves in a situation where the Notre Dame bubble no longer exists. 
The fact is that if someone makes a decision involving consequences, they have to buck up and take responsibility for them. If you make the choice to continue a date past the allotted time period. then that's the decision you made and you should have to learn to deal with it. If you're in a situation that you no longer find desirable, then you should have to learn how to have the gall to handle it the way you want with honest actions and words. 
There shouldn't be rules about sex on campus, nor should there be a fallback crutch for those who are too meek to speak up or simply leave an undesirable situation. If you are viewing artistic expression that you do not particularly find alluring. you should be able to make a decision to leave or not view the event any longer. 
The people on this campus are young adults. We are young and because of our youth and inexperi­ence could make poor decisions, but we are also adults and being an adult involves making choices and dealing with the consequences as an individual. The people of Notre Dame would be better prepared for actual life if we had the freedom to do so. 
Joe Larson is a senior English and history major. His column appears every other Wednesda!f. He can be reached at larson.13@nd.edu 
fhe views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Whywomen boxers are· not angry 
"Why aren't these women angry?" Mark Zajac posed an important question in Tuesday's Viewpoint section. 
I have the answer. We aren't angry for a lot of rea­sons. We aren't angry because we are a brand-new club. The men's boxing program has been around for over 70 years, we've been on campus for six. The men's team didn't start having Bengal Bouts right away, and we can't expect to either. 
We aren't angry because we're taking baby steps. Each year we raise more money for the Holy Cross Mission in Banglactesh; this year we're working towards $10,000, which is a lot of money when you consider it was raised by 70 women in a "tucked away" boxing room. Each year we have more family members and friends come down to watch our spar­ring. 
Each year the average skill level of the women in the club improves. It takes a lot of administration and a great deal of money to put on a public tournament. Our club doesn't have the infrastructure or financial resources to support such an activity. But we're get­ting there, slowly. 
We aren't angry because we know our own strengths. The women's sparring, which no doubt few on campus have actually seen, is very controlled, highly skilled and far less bloody than many of the varsity sports on campus. When time is called in the second of two 2-minute rounds, the women who just finished landing blows in each other's faces then pro­ceed to hug and congratulate each other. We empha­size style and finesse rather than knocking each other's brains out because that is amateur boxing at its best. 
Women simply don't have the raw physical strength to be brawling or go for blood. But any of the coaches will tell you that our technique is excellent. That's a strength, not a weakness. Even if we could snap each other's heads back or break each other's noses, we wouldn't want to. That's not what boxing is about, regardless of how the "fans" feel. 
I fear that Zajac has a grave misunderstanding of the sport of boxing, particularly boxing at Notre Dame. Amateur boxing is not professional boxing. That may seem obvious, but with that distinction comes much meaning. Our goal is to outscore our opponent, not break their nose or crack their ribs. We learn how to score points, not how to hurt each other. It is that misconception that keeps us from boxing in public. The public doesn't understand amateur box­ing, particularly women's amateur boxing. 
At its heart it is a technical, not brutal, sport. The women's club doesn't want to turn what we work for all season -five days a week, two hours a day, for six weeks -into a three ring circus. And right now that is what would happen with the sort of public dis­play described by Zajac. We want the respect we deserve for the passion, dedication and intense train­ing that we put into our sport. 
We do "judge boxing on technical merit," and that's why you see the captains of the women's team sitting ringside, judging the Bouts. The captains do "stand in the way" of women who choose to be "savage bravvler[s]," because that's not what we're about. At Notre Dame boxing is about being a team. It's about the comradery that builds as you and 60 other women complete 200 pushups, 500 jumping jacks, 800 crunches and a 25-minute run. It's about having fun while pushing yourself to your limits. It's about deter­mination and passion. Mostly, it's about the charity. 
Do we want a public tournament? Yes, eventually. We're not ready yet, but we're getting there. We aren't angry because we're patiently working our way towards a situation that displays Notre Dame women's boxing for what it really is. 
Kari Jerge president, Notre Dame women's boxing dub 
sen10r 
off~campus March 5, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE
via, o g-art1es
page 10 Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
Violence of 'blitz' a bust in NHL Hitz 
ByADAM TURNER 
Scene Writer 
When Midway introduced NFL Blitz to the gaming world back in 1999, they struck solid gold. A more violent form of football was created, which allowed gamers everywhere to uncover their deep-seeded need for violence in areas where violence was not allowed. 
At some point in time, the creative 
board at Midway decided, "Hey, if we can build a success out of an extra vio­lent football game, why can't we do the same for other sports as well? What's a good sport to make extra violent? Oh yeah, we should do hockey!" 
Enter NHL Hitz 2002 and if there's one thing that Midway should learn, it's to leave hockey alone. 
What was probably a good concept on the drawing board was turned into a mockery of one of the true world sports. Blitz does not work in a hockey format. 

The only difference between this game and the wildly popular NHL series from EA Sports is that they removed the penalties and allowed players to check people over the boards, and sometimes knock off a hel­met. Beyond that, buying NHL Hitz is 50 bucks spent on a loathsome NHL rip-off. 
Another fault is the scoring system. 
The only way you can score in 
this game, as in all hockey games, is if the goalie _misses the puck. Blasting 45 one-timers on Dominik Hasek apparently result­ed in a loss for the Columbus Blue Jackets to the Detroit Red Wings. 
Even if it is Hasek, the man can't stop that many scoring· opportunities, most of which were very good scoring opportu­nities, even for the talent-lacking Blue Jackets. 
Winning a game relies only on a degree of randomness, and somehow has nothing to do with the quality of play on either side of the puck. If the goalie's hot or if it's Hasek, be ready to chalk up a loss. 
One cool feature that further increases the cheap thrill factor of the game is the addition of the hockey shop. 
Credits are awarded for win­ning games and certain things can be bought with those credits, such as different arenas (includ­ing a ridiculous dirt one -hockey can­not be played on dirt), different heads for the players (why do they think this is a good idea?) and All-Star teams full of aliens or babies, based on personal preference. 
This deserves a smack in the head to any programmer who wiped his ur her bum on this disc and pawned it off on an unsuspecting American public. 
Another item available for purchase in the hockey shop arc heritage jer­seys, which are jerseys from different teams.' long-lost past. Those program­mers at Midway have committed the single worst error in the design of a hockey game. Scrolling through the available heritage jerseys reveals that Carolina is hopped right over. 
Yes, hockey fans, there is no opportu­nity to ever don the proud colors of the \A/hale. Every man, woman and child in Hartford should be enraged at this oversight. No hockey game is complete without the inclusion of the beloved Whale. 
Midway has not outdone itself on this project. They've taken the great game of hockey that is perfect just the way it is and loaded it up with gimmicks and schlock. Hockey has all of the aspects in itself that this game tries to pass off as cutting edge and ultra-violent. 
Midway should be allowed to contin­ue making NFL Blitz games until they go bankrupt, but never, ever should they try to mangle hockey again. 
Contact Adam Turner at Turn er.SO@nd.edu. 
Final Four fails to give basketball boost 
By MATT ORENCHUK Scene Writer 
As a general rule, basketball video games are bad. There is just something about basketball that doesn't make it good to play on a TV screen. The only . basketball game that actually was good to play was NBA Jam. 
This probably comes from the fact that the person sitting in the living room is at the will and whim of the computerized basketball player. If the Playstation decides to miss the shot, guess who's out of luck. 
The newest game that attempts to bring basketball to the TV screen is NCAA Final Four 2002. Now, the fact that this isn't a bad game doesn't make it a good game. 
First, every single Division I college basketball team is there. All of them. from Kansas and Duke all the way down to Belmont of the Atlantic Sun Conference. So if a player wants a dynamic Appalachian State vs. Davidson matchup, he can do it. That is a plus. 
Since this is college basketball, none of the current players are in the game. David Graves is a random white guy for the Notre Dame squad with No. 34 on his jersey. But the players do follow fairly closely to their actual stats ­Matt Carroll can shoot the three. So that is another plus for the game. 
Now for the biggest drawback of Final Four: the actual game play. The greatest problem with basketball games is that there doesn't seem to be a fair way to shoot the basketball. 
lf a guy has great stats in real life, he is going to shoot the ball well in the game. But we all know that a basket­ball player doesn't make all of his shots all of the time. 
When a player shoots the ball in Final Four, a meter comes on the screen. A small basketball appears, and when the basketball moves within the circle, you release the button. Then the ball will go in, depending on how close you got it to fitting exactly in the circle. 
nate the game. Most likely, a mid­major team like Sam Houston State that doesn't have a lot of talent or height isn't going to be able to compete in the game with a struggling major conference team like Penn State. 
The funniest part of Final Four is when someone tries to play a season. The game just doesn't simulate how things like that happen in real life. 
A simulated season could be going 
just fine, and then the next minute Notre Dame is 22-0 and Tom Timmermans is leading the nation in scoring. So much for real life. 
Final Four, like all other basketball games, falls short in the entertainment category. Save money and avoid this one. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at Orenchuk. l@nd.edu 
The catch is the difficulty you set for the game. If a player puts the game on "Freshman" level. then practically everything he chucks at the basket goes in. That isn't exactly real­life basketball. 
On the other end uf the spectrum, if a player puts the game on "Senior" level, then nothing goes in. The player has to get the little basketball on the meter dead on the circle to get the shot to drop. 
Once someone falls behind while playing on Senior level. that's all his opponent needs. There is no real way to come back, since the only shots that go in are layups. Playing on the Senior level takes the fun out of the game because all anyone ends up doing is trading layups with his opponent. 
If a player picks a team with a big man in the mid­dle, he can rea.Jly domi­


_I 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
Irish hope ball bonnces their way at Big East 
Ru 

Afte Fe the los Th ho ble 
Sat mu tour ingMarch 
Sorting out the Big East 

· ision. 

back-1------------, 
way the he NCAA Big East. 
ights 

ughout killed by t---------­
irr the rs gave rouble 1------------­'t make Hig East 
Miami Hurricane
e watch­

The Hurricanes don'
t home. 

have to worry about 
the NCAA tourname 
they want some big ti 
cess. They could 
playing in the cham 
game Saturday. 

Connecticut Huskies 
. The H;os1'e~P!e'.o!11y team
mth~i··~ie~tthat
the Iris ,a'Vffnot ·• this se~­son. T . J10 ~t a spot m the N:,V,/ Tottrnam , so suc­
cess in~ c9nference pmrney is just icing_~the c*;
..: ; _: l :,, ·' 
Syracuse Orangemen 
After starting 16,.2, Syracuse has tumbled to a 20-10 reoord. 

They n~ed to win one or two .....---------1 ·rnfe.ss it ))rd~r f>"g$falil_ee ~" 
&{l•·.
Nt:Ai\ Iii"\!. ,'f'h,l 6ri.ngem!h have beaten thelrisli twice;this season. 
w 
Wild the 

------~Joye~~ 

St. John's Red Storm 
After beatt'fif'the,)rish last week, ~.·. · ably locked " ~, tion . 

.-------------1They n to 
.____________ 
Notre Dame Figilting Irish 
Mike Brey said it would be a con~piraeylf th<' lrisb. don't make the. NC¥ tourt1&.ment, 
and he's'ri ., ··· ThJ hi$h will get .:... '~i their seed\:. they do in tl ament. 
punc the home help 
them 

Seton Hall Pirates 
There.°".J\;pt mu,~h to say about tl~tPira•. ~ey'll have 
a tough  .  ,g~t~fflg past St.  
John's,  ·..  't~ey,"idcr, they'll  
face a  .  l)~'µle sqtiad that  
has be'"  "'  nplall twice  
this seas  


By KERRY SMITH Sports \Vriter 
When the lrish finished 3-3 in their final six conference games of the season, they expected to have to play in Wednesday's opening round of the Big East tournament. 
But after Syracuse, a team that beat the Irish twice in the regular season, dropped its third straight game Sunday, the Irish vaulted into the No. 2 spot in the confer­ence's W<~st division. 
That No. 2 spot earned the 'Irish a first­round bye and an extra day of[ 
"I was hoping [for a byeJ," lrish senior co-captain David Graves said. "I woke up Sunday and watched the game. Syracuse looked a little confused at times, but they'll bounce back. This is the kind of season where everyone regroups, rebounds." 
No team knows that better than the Irish, who will face the winner of Wednesday's St. John's -Seton Hall matchup Thursday in the quarterfinal round at Madison Square Garden. 
Their season has been one filled with highs and lows. 
But each time the Irish have fallen down, they've gotten up and bounced back. .. 
After only losing to two ranked teams in their first 12 non-conference games, the Irish dropped their first Big East game and one week later suffered through a mid-season, three-game slide in front of a national television audience. The Irish then rebounded with a five-game winning streak, only to split the last six games of the season. 
Point guard Chris Thomas, a team leader on the court, also had his ups and downs in the regular season. 
But he too bounced back. 
After making big waves in the season's opening games, the freshman suffered through two mid-season slumps, before finishing the season strong and earning Big East Hookie of the Year and All-Big East Third Team honors. 
And now that every game could be a final game for Mike Brey's squad, the Irish hope they have closed the chapter on sea­son lows and begun a trek toward the highest points in the season: the Big East Championship and the !\'CAA tournament. 
Last season. the Irish dropped out of the tournament early with a quarterfinal loss after capturing the Big East West Division regular season title. 
That's a fate they don't plan on repeat­ing this year. 
"I think this group is better able to han­dle the Big East Tournament," Brey said. "They've been through success and didn't handle it well at the end of the regular season. Because we're a more veteran group, we've got a better chance." 
That veteran group has consistently struggled in tournament play, however. 
Notre Dame has only won one Big East tournament game since joining the confer­ence in 1995, with the lone win coming against Rutgers in 2000 when Matt Doherty was the coach. 
But the Irish aren't about to let history dictate Thursday's appearance. 
"You understand you can't afford any bad games," Graves said. "Every team is capable of being in the NCAA tournament. We have to be men, go out there and pre­pare and be mature and act like it's our last. If you don't prepare like it's your last, it will be your last." 
To prepare for the tournament, the Irish arrived in New York early Tuesday morn-ing and are practicing at John Jay College. They will watch the East's No. 3 seed St. John's take on the West's No. 6 seed Seton Hall Wednesday. 

"I think the good thing is we know both teams," Graves said. "St. John's is pretty fresh. We've played Seton Hall twice·. It's going to be nice to watch them fight it out and we'll get the winner." 
If the favorite St. John's wins in the opening round of the tournament, the Irish will have to face the Red Storm, a team it lost to last week, on its home terri­tory. 
If Seton Hall wins, the Trish will face the test of beating the Pirates for the third time this season. 
"We're thrilled we earned the bye and we'll get some rest and be ready for either one," Brey said. "I think we know them both well." 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu. 


Wednesday, March 6, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Making his point 
As success grows, freshman point guard just wants to be a normal student 
pus this year as one of the
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
highest-rated recruits ever to 
Associate Sports Editor 
wear an Irish uniform. The goals he wanted to accomplish 
When Sports Illustrated his first year -win Big East named Chris Thomas Plaver of Rookie of the Year and emerge the Week in the middle of as a dominant point guard -­February, the freshman point rivaled the high expectations guard got a phone call from a of irish fans drooling over the staff writer who had to fill an prize recruit. information box with tidbits "I knew 20 minutes into the about Thomas' life. first practice of the year that 
At some point during the he was the guy," coach Mike interview, the writer asked Rrev said. "He was in control Thomas if he had a nickname. right away, and we wanted 
"Well, coaches call me him to be in control." Hollywood every once in a Thomas, the first playf'f in while," Thomas told the Notre Dame history to wear 
writer. "When the lights go on, jersey No. 1, said he picked 
I like to showcase my talent." the number because he want­Big mistake. ed to stand out. But it didn't During Notre Dame's next matter what uniform number 
game a few' days later, the he wore, because after he reg­announcers called Thomas istered a triple-dotfble in his "Hollywood," "Broadway" and first game, people across the "Showtime" almost every time nation picked up their sched­
the point guard touched the ules and circled Notre Dame. ball. Thomas, they said, would be He didn't like it one bit. exciting to watch. 
-
"That's the total opposite of From that point on, every what I'm trying to get across," move Thomas made was Thomas said. "You should under a microscope. Every expect the best when the lights breakaway slam-dunk ended go on, and that's the kind of up on SportsCenter and every guy I am." ankle-breaking crossover 
Thomas wants to be respect­became the topic of conversa­ed on the court. He wants to tion in dorm rooms across be normal off the court. campus. Unfortunately, as he has found "You kept waiting for him to 
Notre Dame freshman point guard Chris Thomas fires a shot over a Providence defender during a
out, that's not going to hap­falter, and he never faltered," 
game last Saturday. Thomas was voted Big East Rookie of the Year Tuesday. 
pen. No matter how much he forward David Graves said. 
didn't want it to happen, the Thomas admitted he had to respect he's earned on the adjust his mindset. In high every day. And whenever the team ahead of his personal few months. court has turned into much school, he could dominate Thomas needed a lift, Brey's goals. The day Thomas earned "I got over the rookie mis­attention off the court. players with his athleticism. office door was always open. the Sports Illustrated award, takes and I was wondering if I 
But then again, maybe he His tattoo, which he got for his When he played well, his he was upset because the Irish got respect," he said. "Now I should have expected it. This 18th birthday, reads "Stop Me support group kept him in weren't ranked in the Top 25. know I've got respect and peo­was a player who scored so If U Can." He pretty much ran touch with reality. When he He would rather be an all­ple are talking about me.'' 
many points that he had to sit a one-man show as he lead his struggled, they picked him up. around standout rather than a But Thomas found there was out of games when he was just team to a pair of high school "There been a lot of things scoring machine because he a price to that success, too. He six years old. The Indiana basketball championships. that have hit me hard," feels the team doesn't need gets phone calls from die-hard native earned McDonald's All­Once in college, he quickly Thomas said. ''I've had a lot of him to score points to win. He fans begging him to stay all American honors and was found out that he had to be a mature people that have writes 'Lil' Big Man' on his four years in college. The cho­named Mr. Basketball in a complete player, and he had to picked me up and kept me shoes because he wants to rus of media interviews is .state where basketball is life get used to the idea that he humble." lead the team in rebounds, not starting to wear on him. And to teenage kids. He'd proven had talented players around There's a certain cocky edge just points or assists. he hints he's getting tired of again and again in high school him. Teammates Graves, Ryan to Thomas that makes him "I want to do whatever the signing autographs after every that he was a top-notch play­Humphrey and Matt Carroll seem like he thinks he's the team needs," he said. "It's the game. er, capable of succeeding at helped the freshman through a best player on the court on little things that mean so "It's fun to make them the highest levels. grueling Big East schedule. He any given night. But he tem­much to the team, and it's the happy, and you have to make Thomas stepped onto cam-talked with his family nearly pers his confidence by putting little things I have to them happy," said Thomas. improve." "For right now, it's -all fun and The strong chemistry games, but eventually, it's between the freshman and going to get old." veterans is part of the reason Thomas wants to play bas­why Thomas doesn't want to ketball, but he also wants to fail. When Notre Dame lost to have a normal life. He knows Syracuse earlier this season, he can leave basketball on the 25 people sat around Thomas court. Others, he said, can't. as ESPN analyst Digger Phelps And all the attention leaves said Notre Dame wouldn't him jaded with his success. make the NCAA tournament Thomas doesn't want people unless the point guard to treat him differently, but improved. the spotlight shines so brightly "I was like 'Wow.' He's say­on him that its tough for oth­ing I'm the central part, the ers. to treat him as anything glue on the team," Thomas less than a basketball star. said. "It made the guys realize He'd rather shine the light on I'm not playing my best and I the team's accomplishments. realized they probably Reluctantly, he's grown used thought, "We don't win when to the fame. But that doesn't he plays like that.'" mean he likes it. Thomas sought respect on "The guys who know me the court, and he got it. really well treat me as Chris. Opposing players came up to They'll be the first to treat me him and congratulated him on like I am," he said. "I want his success. Other coaches people to treat me and under­praised his six Big East Rookie stand that I don't like being 
of the Week. Teammates raved Chris Thomas or Big East about his poise. Visiting media Rookie of the Year 24-7. I like raved about the freshman sen­being Chris Thomas on the 
sation from Indianapolis, Ind. court and that's it." 
In fact, few people consider Chris Thomas fires a pass during Saturday's game against Providence. Thomas' superb fresh­Thomas a freshman anymore Contact Andrew Soukup at man season means he reluctantly has to deal with all the off-the-court attention he gets. -and its been that way for a asoukup@nd.edu. 


page 4 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
Come back and -do it all night long one . more 
1 
time. 

The Observer's 35th Anniversary 
-Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
' -· 
' 
~HE 
vnSERVER 


CENE 
Vl ~eo gtl1ll(
Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
page 11 

Olympics better left to TV 
Salt Lake City 2002 fails to capture magic -or scandal -ofthe Games 
-
ByADAM TURNER and MATT 
ORENCHUK 
Scene W ricers 
Maybe it was memories of World Class Track Meet for Nintendo or maybe it was something in the air, but for some reason, the powers that be decided to review Salt Lake City 2002. This game has six differ­ent events for a player to participate in, and a whole lot of problems. 
The last time there was a game this bad was when someone was seven and put a quarter into a bro­ken Galaga machine. But in a fist­fight, the broken Galaga machine beats the living snot out of Salt Lake 2002. 
Here is who is to blame for this game:· Mitt Romney. Salt Lake City, Utah and the United States Olympic Committee. 
Romney is a filthy opportunist at best, and the USOC deserves to be flogged for even considering licens­ing the rights to this game to Eidos, which is actually a reputable game company. 
Everybody likes to cash in on the Olympics, even with this poor excuse for programming that has a ludicrous price tag of 50 bucks. 
In this game, a player can partici­pate in the following events: two­man bobsled, freestyle aerials, ski jumping, slalom skiing. alpine skiing and grand slalom snowboarding. None of the events are a lot of fun to play. The control on all of them isn't very good. 
On the slalom skiing, it is incredi­bly hard to turn through the gates in 


order to make it down the hill. On Lake 2002 is that it doesn't include going to pull out of the Olympics, Olympics without the premierthe freestyle aerials, a player has to 
all the things that made this year's the game only answered with event? This should have been
do complicated controller patterns 
winter games great. There is no fig­silence. Not only that, but there is included. Or at least curling. Whereto get a high score. · ure skating. There are no corrupt none of the rampant commercialism else can you have balding old guys
It seems like they slapped this 
French judges. There are no whin­that makes the Olympics great. win Olympic gold? Now, that's a
game together in the course of a 
ing Canadians, Russians or Koreans. Visa and McDonald's sport.
week with 15 programmers and 
Try as a player might to get the are nowhere to be found. To top it all off, the
made no effort to actually make it 
game to hand out a second gold The venues were named final straw with Salt
fun. Playing this game causes The biggest 
medal in bobsled, and all efforts will their normal names, and Lake 2002 is the
depression and the need to eat an 
be denied. nothing like "The Taco problem with Salt game's obsession with
entire coffee cake. 
When told that the Austrians were Bell Bobsled Track pre­Lake 2002 is that political correctness.
The biggest problem with Salt sented by The annoyance isn't
it doesn't include 
Lexus." This that all ethnic groups greatly disap­all the things and races are repre­points and that made this sented here; it's just confuses. that the game goes out
year's winter 

What would of its way. For exam­
games great. 

America be ple, the ethnic and without corpo­There is no figure racial makeup of rate sponsor­Finland's delegation
skating. There

ship? That's seems to be way too 
are no

right, it would diverse for the Nordic be Canada. corrupt French nation. This feature Granted, it just feels odd.
judges.

would be If there were one impossible to thing to say about this include figure skating game, it would have to be that it is a and whining into a waste of money. Its existence is an game's programming, It abomination, and every copy should 
would also be pretty be piled up and burned. 
tough to do a triple toe A good use of the money saved by 
loop (and cry about the not buying this game would be pur­
judges being corrupt) chasing a couple cases of beer and 
given the configuration of re-enacting the winter Olympics on 
the Playstation con­South Quad. That's money well 
troller. spent. 
But if there's one gala event in the winter Olympics, it's interna­tiorrnl hockey. And yet no bullying Czechs or speedy Contact Matt Orenchuk at 
Russians grace this disc. Orenchuk.l@nd.edu and Ad.am Turner at What's the winter Turner.SO@nd.edu. 
~E
'-.Jt>SERVER 


Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
page 12 

Finding love 
Scene reviews the Guthrie Theatres production of 'Ah, Wilderness!' 
I 
l I 
-
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

Looking for love in all the wrong places; the phrase might aptly describe the Notre Dame dating scene, but it also describes the theme of "Ah, Wilderness!," a play by Eugene O'Niell that is presented by the Guthrie Theatre tonight at Saint Mary's. 
"Ah, Wilderness!" is a coming of age story set in a small town in 1906 Connecticut. On the fourth of July, Nat Miller (played by Nathaniel Fuller), a successful newspaper publisher, and his terse but secretly doting wife Essie (played by Margo Skinner) have a day off to spend with their family. Though a respectable family, the Millers have a few old skeletons that are not so much in the closet as they are pretended to be: Essie's slightly drunk, philosophy spewing brother Sid (played by Brian Reddy) and his old flame Wy (played by Laura Esping), who is also Nat's sister, arrive to make their yearly debacle of the fourth of July picnic and the family dinner. 
But the main story follows the trials and tribulations of the Miller's youngest Richard (played by Joe Delafield), a boy who has perhaps read too much about love too quickly. When the father of Richard's flame discovers some of Richard's amorous letters to his daugh­ter he confronts Nat and delivers a goodbye letter from his daughter for Richard. Heartbroken, Richard search­es his soul for the meaning of love and inadvertently takes his family along with him for the ride. The touching comedy examines the Miller family's search for love from books to brothels to their own hearts. 
"Ah, Wilderness!" is one of O'Neill's few comedies; considering the extreme­ly dark nature of his other semi-autobi­ographical dramas, the show is an odd, but pleasing, change of pace. Without being bogged down in tedious melodra­ma, "Ah, Wilderness!" makes a salient point and is entertaining to watch. 
students. From 2 p.m. to 3 p.m., the company will hold a stage movement workshop and from 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 
p.m. it will hold and auditioning work­shop. Both workshops will be held in 116 Regina Hall. The workshops are free and are open to any interested stu­dents. 
The performance of "Ah, Wilderness!" is the first event in a new partnership between the Guthrie Theatre and Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame. By sponsoring the Guthrie Theatre tour, Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame will make South Bend a regular stop for the company. Similarly, the Guthrie Theatre will provide students at Notre Dame a Saint Mary's resources such as costumes, directors and education for students interested in careers in the­atre. 
"[The partnership] is important because it gives students a connection to professional theatre. So, any student interested in theatre as a career will have [the Guthrie Theatre] as an auto­matic resource. As we work with them more it will become more apparent," Hartwig said. 
Students may be looking for love in all the wrong places on Friday and Saturday nights, but tonight Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame and the Guthrie Theatre may have found it; audiences will love this show. 
"Ah, Wilderness!" opened last night and will play again tonight in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's at 7:00 p.m. General admission is $24 and $10 for students. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 
"I think for a college student ... it's a great show because of the relationship between Richard and his father ... most people are going through [the same type of relationship] with their parents when they are in college, it's poignant," Dave Hartwig '00, Assistant Producer of Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame, said. 
The Guthrie Theatre is base in Minneapolis, Minn. Founded 
ability to make himself at once as preco­cious and as nai:ve as possible. His wax­ing philosophical remarks on lofty ideals bring do\\'Il the house. 
The production is a bit of a slow-boil­er; the big laughs don't really come until the second half of the show. But this is to be expected because the jokes come mostly from the characters complex and often conflicted relationships with each other which must be estab­
in 1963 by "I thinkfor a college student ... it's a lished before 
Irish director great show because ofthe the comedy Sir Tyrone can really get
relationship between Richard and
Guthrie, the rolling. 
Guthrie his father ... most people are going Technically Theatre tries to through [the same type of the show is bring quality marvelous.
relationship! with their parents when 
theatre to the The set, Midwest by they are in college. " designed by doing touring Ming Cho Lee, shows and is cleverly cre­
Dave Hartwig

workshops. ated of three­
assistant producer of Summer
The tour of dimension al 
" A h , Shakespeare at Notre Dame looking flats 
Wilderness!" will be present­ed in 20 com­munities and play to more than 50,000 people across the region. 
The Guthrie Theatre puts on a very well-tuned production; it is obvious the painstaking care that each actor has put into his or her role. Every line is well­thought out and appears to be perfectly natural coming from their mouths. And although the show is almost three hours long, the Guthrie Theatre ensemble puts so much energy into it that the time breezes by.. 
Reddy is especially notable as Sid, the fool character. Reddy's charming demeanor and subtle facial expressions portray a full character with­out leaning too hard on his comical lines. His expressive body language is captivating to say the least. 
Similarly, Delafield has an impeccable sense of comedic timing often relying on his 
pieces against 
a scrim back­

ground that can change color to become a summer's day, the ocean at night or a fireworks display. With a fairly minimal amount of set, Lee ma}<es each scene appear much more lavish than one would expect from such simplicity. 
But the Guthrie Theatre doesn't rely too much on the technical aspect of the show or on O'Niell's script, opting instead to rely on their acting abilities. It is the phenomenal actors that make this production such a pleasure to watch. 
But the Guthrie Theatre isn't just con­cerned about its own show. The compa­ny will conduct two workshops today for 


Wednesday, March 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
New Red Sox owners continue purge 
. Kerrigan loses job as manager a week after GM fired 
Associated Press 
FORT MYERS, Fla. 

Boston Red Sox manager Joe Kerrigan was fired Tuesday by the new team owners and replaced on an interim basis by third-base coach Mike Cubbage. 
The move was the second big shakeup since John Henry's ownership group bought the team on Feb. 27. A day after the sale, general manager Dan Duquette was fired and replaced by interim general manager Mike Port. 
"This kind of decision is always difficult to make," Port said. "We have the utmost respect for Joe, and admire his work ethic and his achieve­ments as a pitching coach.... We firmly believe that this action is in the long-term best interest of this franchise." 
Duquette had promoted Kerrigan late last season after firing Jimy Williams. 
Kerrigan inquired about his status last weekend but was given no firm answer. New team president Larry Lucchino and Port had regularly declined to offer Kerrigan support. 
Port said there are several candidates, hut would not name them, citing concerns about tampering rules regard­ing personnel on other teams. That would appear to put rumored candidates Ken Macha, bench coach with Oakland, and Grady Little, Cleveland's bench coach, at least in the mix. 
Other names often mentioned for the job are former man­agers Buck Showalter, Jim Fregosi and Felipe Alou. 
Port said they want a new manager before opening day on April 1. 
"That would be our hope and aspiration -definitely," he said. 
Kerrigan's lack of experience was a major factor. 
"It's very hard in the space of a few days to overcome overall managerial experience," Lucchino said of Kerrigan's spring training efforts. 
Several players, including Johnny Damon, Derek Lowe and Nomar Garciaparra spoke in support of Kerrigan, who was credited for running an efficient camp under pressure. At the least, they said, manage­ment should make a quick decision so the team can focus on the season 
A former pitching coach with no previous managerial experi­ence, Kerrigan inherited a team that was just two games back in the wild-card race despite a tumultuous club­house. The Red Sox went 17 -26 under him, winning their last five games, against Tampa Bay and Baltimore. 
Port said Kerrigan is one of the two best pitching coaches he's known and Lucchino seemed to leave the door open for Kerrigan's return as pitch­ing coach. 
"What we said to Joe is to take a few days off to let the dust settle before you make any specific plans," he said. 
The coaching staff will remain in place, Port said, even with a new manager. It's not known if Cubbage will be con­sidered. 
When asked if their goal is to hire a manager with big league experience, Port said: "At this point in time, overall manager­ial experience." 
Little managed 16 years in the minor leagues for Baltimore, Toronto and Atlanta. His record was 1,054­903 and four times was named manager of the year. He coached under Jimy Williams from 1997 to 1999 with the Red Sox. 


NBA 
Orlando Magic to be pulled off selling block 
Associated Press 
ORIANDO, Fla. 

The Orlando Magic are being pulled off the market, less than two months after the team was put up for sale. 
Team owner Rich DeVos said Tuesday that he simply had a change of heart concerning his intentions with the team. 
"We didn't buy this team to just make a lot of money; we bought this team because we wanted to make an impact in the world," he said. 
"So. we decided we haven't finished the job, and we decided not to walk away from it. We're still here and we're not going to go away." 
In January, DeVos announced he was selling the Magic because he was tired of losing $10 million a year and battling loc;al officials over the need for a new arena. The 76-year-old DeVos also said the sale was part of his estate planning. 
But the past few weeks have been "eye-opening," DeVos said. "Talking about selling and the reality of selling are two very different things." 
DeVos acknowledged that many of the 15 to 20 prospective owners wanted to move the Magic out of Orlando. 
"We decided that was the wrong rea­son to buy this team," he said. 
There were no serious negotiations between Magic officials and any poten­tial owners, team president Bob Vander Weide said. 
During the seven weeks the team was on the market, there were numerous high-profile names floated as possible buyers. 
Former New York Knicks president Dave Checketts was mentioned, as was former NFL running back Calvin Hill N the father of injured Magic forward Grant Hill. Local time-share tycoon David Siegel was one of the first people to say he was interested. 
The DeVos family bought the Magic in 1991 for $85 million, a price that includ­ed a minor league baseball team, the Orlando Rays. A year ago, Forbes maga­zine estimated the worth of the Magic at $165 million. 
The NBA was relieved by DeVos' deci­sion. The league already is dealing with one potential move: the Charlotte Hornets to New Orleans. And before the season, the Vancouver Grizzlies moved to Memphis. 
"We're delighted," NBA deputy com­missioner Russ Granik said. "The DeVos family have been terrific owners, and we're very happy that they have chosen to continue their ownership of the Orlando Magic." 
Despite Tuesday's announcement, 
Magic officials took pains to point out that the business issues facing the team -such as replacing the 13-year-old T.D. Waterhouse Centre -haven't gone away. 
"They will have to be dealt with by this ownership with this community at some time," said Vander Weide, also DeVos' son-in-law. "When is that? I don't know the answer. but clearly now is not the time." 
Magic officials have long complained about the downtown arena, which is owned by the city. The 17,248-seat venue doesn't have many moneymaking amenities, such as club seats or midlevel luxury boxes. 
The Magic are seeking a new arena, estimated to cost $250 million. But city and Orange County leaders have repeat­edly said there's no money in the public coffers to help with such a project. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 4-7 BDRM HOMES.WALK TO ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03.  Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 be(lroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955  
272-6306  LOST AND FOUND  

$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided SMC class ring lost in or around Senior Bar Wednesday, Feb. 28. 1·800·293-3985 ext. 556 Gold with diamond. "Noreen C. Gillespie" engraved. Please call Fraternities•Sororities'Clubs'Stude 284-4417 if you find it. 
nt Groups Earn $1 ,000-$2,000 with the easy Campustundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. Does 
WANTED

not involve credit card applications. 
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! 2000 grad seeking room or apart­
ment to sublease/rent in New Contact Campusfundraiser.com at Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, (888)·923-3238, or visit 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 www.carnpusfundraiser.com. or email krup78@hotmail.com 
Need some extra $$? Do you enjoy babies and toddlers? First Unitarian Church needs nursery caregiver for about 2 hrs. on Sunday mornings. Close to ND. For more info, call 288-9167. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N. Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN Remodled in 1998 new insulated windows hot water heater & plumb­ing 200 amp electric update newer furnace & roof basement laundry room privacy fenced backyard w/ deck10x12 utlity garage excellent area $59500 Jim-Day 574-233-253 Eve 574-259-6843 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.corn 272-1525 mmrn­rentals@aol.com 
mins from NDl4-6 stuclent house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 

Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291­2209 
MMMRentals.com 

Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-conditioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sept 1 2002, three roommates (2M, l F) Safe neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1/2 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/month + 1 /4 utilties, call Michelle 202/829-3725, or krup78@hotmail.com 
4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available #1 Spring Break Vacations! after 6/1. 3 block from campus. Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Call (773)-486-8862. Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007 
Spacious 4-bdrm house avail.now www.endlesssummertours.com or for Fall 2002. Fronse 255-8403. Do you apply everything you learn 
in Accounting to your fantasy base-HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)Iarge (6·9) ball teams? You should write for us. people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call Bill at 532-1896. Call Chris at 1-4543 for Sports. 
Are you interested in writing about campus news and events?

PERSONAL 
Call Helena at 1 ·5323 tor News. Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love Want to send a birthday shoutout to needs confidential support or assis-a friend or classmate? tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Take out an Observer Classified for Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. just pennies a day. Stop by our 
office in the basement of South For more information, see our Dining Hall from 8-3 Monday -, weekly ad in THE OBSERVER Friday. 
I-I<:>L-Y-CR._C>SS Assc:>CIA.'T:ES post-gra.d.-..:a.a.te service program  
Svvims-..:a.it, s-....:cita:i::.. lotio:n., to-vvel -or-mitte:a:is, hat, scarf (depe1id.i.:n.g o:n. -vvhere you.'11 be)­ 
CJ CJ  1'11:id-sem.ester papers a:n.d projects su.bm.it­ted­Atte:a:id.ed. ::1--Ioly Cross Associates :u::i:Corma.­t:ioxi mee~g &; have :FICA a.pplic:::a.tio:n..  

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 6, 2002 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Kentucky AD Ivy resigns aIDid scandal 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Kentucky athletic director Larry Ivy resigned Tuesday amid a scathing review of the department. 
Ivy, a longtime employee who had been athletic director since mid-2000, said he had decided to retire and his resignation takes effect immediately. 
The move comes with the school on NCAA probation for violations by the football pro­gram. 
Terry Mobley, the school's director of development and a former basketball player under coach Adolph Rupp, was appointed interim athletic direc­tor by university president Lee Todd. 
"Today is a tough day for me," Mobley said. "Larry Ivy is a friend and has given a lot of years of service." 
Todd commissioned a five­member panel to review the department following the NCM investigation into the football team and the disclosure of ques­tionable management practices. 
Todd said the school would begin an immediate search for an athletic director and that he would have the final say on who is hired. Mobley is not a candi­date for the permanent position. 
The committee recommended that Ivy -who received a 10 percent raise and contract extension from former president Charles Wethington while the school was being investigated by the NCAA -be removed from his position. 
It also recommended that for­mer athletic director C.M. Newton give up a $75,000 per year fee as a special assistant to the athletic director, promised upon his retirement in 2000. 
Todd said Newton would fully retire from the school's athletic program June 30. Newton said several weeks ago that he was not working full-time for the school and was serving more as a consultant on a part-time basis. 
The committee also recom­mended that the university reor­ganize the school's athletic 
. board, reduce its size and con­vert it into a true governing body over the athletic depart­ment. In January, Kentucky was placed on three years of proba­tion by the NCAA and its football team was banned from a bowl appearance next season because of more than three dozen recruiting violations. The NCAA cited the school for a lack of institutional control. "I certainly have not been 
SHAMROCK CONTACT LENSES ST. PATRICK DAY COSMETIC USE ONLY 

•(tiz,f", 
'·1,11(. 
$39.95 PER PAIR TOLL FREE 
1-866-33-COLOR 

MCMSA/DISC/AME_x__! 
comfortable with the direction and the isolation of the athletics program," Todd told the univer­sity's board of trustees. "It is my goal to build this into one uni­versity." 
Todd said he informed Ivv of the review committee's findings during a meeting Monday and that Ivy offered his resignation Tuesday morning, 
Todd would not say whether Ivy would have been fired had he not resigned and would not disclose ariy specific reasons why the committee recommend­ed that Ivy be replaced. 
"I learned a long time ago not to answer 'if questions, and I'm not going to start today," Todd said. "We ended up in the nego­tiations where we wanted to end up. That's all I'm going to say about that. r want to make something extremely clear. It is not my intention to do anything to harm the competitiveness of this athletics program. It is firm­ly my intention to do everything within my power to make sure we do not appear before the NCAA infractions committee one more time." 
Ivy, a 33-year-employee of the school, had overseen Kentucky's athletic budget for 23 years, during which time it has grown
¼om $3 million to $32 million. A graduate of the University of Alabama, he came to Kentucky in 1969 at age 26 as director of housing. "I have decided to retire for a number of reasons, but most importantly it is just time for me to take a different direction with my life and career," Ivy said in a statement. "All things must end." "While most of my career has been focused on the university, there are other things and busi­ness ventures I would like to pursue. rbelieve now is the best time to follow those interests." Internal school documents had revealed that despite athlet­ic department assurances to the NCAA that officials did not know about booster payments to foot­ball secretaries -an NCAA vio­lation -Ivy initialed reports that spelled out the salary sup­plements. 
'W'hat: I-ICA In.:f'orma.tion. lVleet:in.g/Stu.d.y Break "W"'"h.e:n.: Tod.a!I.. We.dr.e&da!J.. MarcL 6 .. 8:38 p.rra,. -VVb.ere: 11.3 Colema:o.-1.\f:l:orris Camp-..:a.s 1'11::i:n.is-t:ry "'7h.o: Aiiyo:.n.e i..r.a.terested. i..r.a. lear:cri.:n.g more abo-u.t I-ICA-Coxn.e ask q-..:a.estio:.n.s abou.t the application. :a.Iid placem.e:n.t <>pportu.:n.ities before Spri:n.g Break, or j-..:a.st stop by to say hello! 
~ http:holycrossa.ssocia.tes.n.<l.e<l1.J 
NBA 

Jones' buzzer-beater lifts Heat 

page 15 

I
Wednesday, March 6, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
I 
-I 
I 
l 
WE WANT YOUR INPUT! 


SPRING 2002 LIBRARY SURVEY 
In March, the University Libraries of Notre Dame, along with nearly 170 other academic and research libraries, will be participating in LibQUAL+, a national web-based survey project. designed to assess library service quality. Thousands ofrandomly selected college and university students and faculty across the country will receive an e-mail invitation to answer a series of questions on a web survey regarding their perceptions of library service. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PARTICIPATION 
On Tuesday, March 19, an invitation to participate in the survey will be sent to 1200 undergraduate students, 800 graduate students, and 800 faculty, who have been randomly selected from the University ofNotre Dame's population. On Monday, March 25, these same students and faculty will receive an e-mail message, with the survey URL embedded, asking them to complete the survey. Participants should be able to complete the survey in about ten minutes. 
WHY SHOULD I ANSWER THE SURVEY? 
The survey contains questions that will help the University Libraries evaluate the effectiveness of library services in meeting the needs of students and faculty and to identify opportunities for improving services. Also, as an incentive to participate, students and faculty will be given the option to sign up to win a Palm Pilot or one of ten $25 gift certificates to Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
WHAT DO I NEED TO KNOW TO ANSWER THE SURVEY? 
No special knowledge is required to complete the survey. However, as part ofcompleting the survey, participants will provide data about themselves such as graduate or undergraduate, faculty rank, inain discipline of study or teaching, etc. 
Note that only students and faculty who are included in tlie random sample can officially complete the survey as part ofthe formal process. Ifothers wish to complete the survey, please send your queries to libqual. l@nd.edu and we will arrange for you to complete an in-house version. For those who find the web version a barrier to their participation, please contact us for a paper edition that the libraries will convert to web for you. 
NEED ADDITIONAL INFORMATION? 
For more information about LibQUAL+, see the LibQUAL+ home page at http://lib.nd.edu/services/libqual or contact Sherri Edwards (631-4034) or Steve Hayes (631­5268), University ofNotre Dame's liaisons for the LibQUAL+ project. 
....
University Libraries ofNotre Dame 
Wednesday, March 6, 2002

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Former Irish coach finds new home 

. Doll to serve as assistant coach at Louisiana State 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, 'La. 

LSU head coach Nick Saban announced that former Irish assistant-Kirk Doll has joined the Tiger coaching staff. Doll, who spent the last eight years as an assistant coach at Notre Dame, will serve as LSU's line­backers coach and assistant head coach. 
Doll comes to LSU from Notre Dame, where he coached since the g o o
"I have a great deal of
1994 season. results 
While at Notre respect for LSU and all while he Dame, Doll that Coach Saban has was at 
served as assis­Notre Dame 
done down there. " 
tant head coach and that's and helped lead an area the Irish to five Kirk Doll that is very bowl games. important
assistant coach 
Prior to his stint at Notre Dame, Doll coached at Texas A&M for six years, helping the Aggies to five bowl games, including three appearances in the Cotton 
Bowl. 
"I have a great deal of respect for LSU and all that Coach Saban has done there," Doll said. "Having played LSU before while I was coaching at Texas A&M and Notre Dame, I know all about the LSU experience and I'm very excited to become a part of the LSU football pro­gram. It really is an honor for me to join Coach Saban's staff. 
Doll has also coached at the collegiate level at Arizona State (1985-87). Tulsa (1980-84) . Iowa State (l 979) and Wichita State (1975-76). 
"I have a great deal of respect for Kirk," Saban said. "He's a great person and an outstand­ing teacher. He has a reputation as being an outstanding coach and a great recruiter. He recruited the state of Texas with really d 
to us." 
Doll, a native of Wichita, Kan., earned bachelor's degrees from both East Carolina and Wichita State. He played as both a defensive end and tackle at East Carolina for two years. 
Doll is married to the former Kathy Reding and the couple has three children -Kate, Kelsey and Kyle. 
Skating 
continued from page 20 

to 40 schools that have figure skating clubs," Oberstar said. 
The style of performance that most college clubs ­including Notre Dame's ­use. is called "synchroskat­ing." It differs from the ver­sion of figure skating more commonly seen on television in that the entire team per­forms at once. 
Senior Tracey Hyduk, club president; Oberstar; senior Megan Coleman, club secre­tary; and sophomore Jessica Panza, club treasurer, are 
responsible not only for the logistics of bringing the club together but also put together all of' the team's routines. It's not an easy task when the level of experience ranges from beginner to skaters who have been ranked in the gold level, the highest level a skater can reach as a U.S. Figure Skating Association athlete. 
"I've skated since I was five, but there are girls who have never had a skating lesson," Oberstar said. "They learn from the girls who have expe­rience. The strongest part of the team is that we've become better friends this year." 
The ice rink will be disas­sembled at the Joyce Center when the varsity hockey team ends its season, and the fig­ure skating club will end its third season as an official team. 
"Next year we're hoping to put together a competitive program, possibly skate at a few hockey games and incor­porate some more off-ice training," Oberstar said. "And we're always looking for more skaters. I think we're a club sport a lot of people don't know about." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 


Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College proudly announces its Sixth Annual GALA-ND/SMC Memorial Grants 
GALA-ND/SMC is now accepting applications for the Sixth Annual GAIA-ND/SMC Memorial Grants. Two $2,000.00 grants will be presented to students ofNotre Dame and/or Saint Mary's College to honor leadership and to support the students' participation in a six­to eight-week summer service project benefiting the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered community. Projects at agencies providing services to individuals with HIV/AIDS or agencies providing services to gay and lesbian youth are encouraged. 
The deadline for applications is April 4, 2002. Grant applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame, the 
SURV Office at Saint Mary's, or by e-mail request from: GAIANDSMC@aol.com. Names of grant recipients will be kept confidential 
pending their consent. 

Past winners have included students from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Grant winners have performed a variety of summer service projects including: the AIDS Project Los Angeles; the Massachusetts Attorney General's Office in Boston; Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders in Boston; Better Existence with HIV in the Chicago area; AIDS Referral & Information Services in San Jose, CA; performing civil rights research in Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa; and archiving a collection of lesbigay newspa­
-pers from a collection held at the University of California, Santa Cruz. 
It is anticipated that the grants will be conferred at the OUTreachND April Follies by representatives of GALA-ND/SMC in South Bend/ Mishawaka. 
The Gay and Lesbian AlumnVae of the University ofNotre Dame and Saint Mwy's College is an independent 501 (c) (3) charitable organization with no official affiliation with either the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Our strength comes from our membership and our numbers. 
Wednesday, March 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 

U-s the la..~t dunce for YOU to win casht!l 
fill if uul .iad lilend it in Jin~tur go on-line ta \VWW.COresurvey.com aad enl'fl' the 1JS09cudc. T•k.: tbe-!I.an'~~•. l:iri11g y011r a»igm1ed ~»"-Ord to. Orfi«-o/ ,\Jrn.l.ol & Urug Education 31 l L.t1for1une 
And YOU could be the last ,vinner! 
senior Thank You Picture Frame 
Don't miss this unique opportunity to give something back to those who have made your ND education possible! Sold Wednesday and Thursday from 11-2 
The 2-sided, 4x6 frame includes a picture of the Dome, a quote by Monk, a brief thank-you message, and one line of name 
personalization. Cost: $7. Cost: $25. 
• Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! • 
. 
Name (first and last only, please): 
School Address: 
Phone: Email: I want to order frame(s) for $25 each __ album(s) for $7 each 
__ both the frame and album for $30 
. 
Please make checks payable to: ND Management Club, 

. 
You can print an order form at www.nd.edu/~mgtclub or send in this article with your order information to 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 



p.m. in Lafortune 

Also available is a 4x6 album holding 24 pictures in navy with a gold ND emblem on the cover. A great gift for friends and even yourself! 
page 17 

HOCKEY 
Inman earns CCHA academic award 
Special co The Observer 
Notre Dame senior alternate 
captain David Inman has been 
selected to the Central 
Collegiate Hockey Association's 
nine-man All-Academic team 
for the 2001-02 
season. Inman's selection to the team marks the seventh consecutive year that Notre Dame has had at least one player on the league's all-Academic team. To be eligible for the award, 
a player must have completed 
one academic year and have a 
3.00 
grade point average on a 

4.00 
scale. The award is voted on by the league's faculty rep­resentatives. 


An honorable mention selec­tion last season, Inman owns a 3.524 grade point average as a finance major in the Mendoza College of Business. 


On the ice, Inman has turned in a career season with 17 goals and 18 assists for 35 points. 
Notre Dame defensemen Neil Komadoski and Tom Galvin received Special Mention as they were nominated for con­sideration for the team. 
Since 1995-96, the Irish have had at least one player named to the team, something no other CCHA team can say. The Irish have altogether had a total of nine players selected to the all-Academic Team since returning to the CCHA in 1992­
93. The list includes: Carl Picconatto ('92-'93). Garry Gruber ('95-'96). Steve Noble ('96-'97, '97-'98), Forrest Karr and Aniket Dhadphale ('98­'99). Andy Jurkowski ('99-'00) and Dan Carlson ('00-'01). During that 10-year span, only Western Michigan (11) has pro­duced more CCHA All­Academic selections than Notre Dame's nine. 
HOCKEY 
Galvin grabs CCHA rookie honors 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore defenseman Tom Galvin has been named the Central Collegiate Hockey Association's (CCHA) Rookie of the Week for the week 
ending March 3rd. 
Galvin played a key role in N o t r e Dame's 4-3 and 4-1 wins over Bowling 


Green  on  Galvin  
Friday and  
Saturday,  
March 1 and 2, as  the Irish  

swept the Falcons and ran their current winning streak to a season-high five games. 
Notre Dame finished the reg­ular season with a 14-15-5 record overall and was 12-12-4 in CCHA play, finishing in a tie for seventh with Ohio State. The Buckeyes, due to its 1-0-1 record in its series with Notre Dame earlier in the season, won the tiebreaker that gives the Irish the eighth seed for the coming playoffs. 
For the week, Galvin picked up. an assist in each game, including assisting on the game-winning goal in Saturday's 4-1 win and was +2 for the weekend. He also helped the Irish go six-for-six killing penalties on the week­end. 
For the season, Galvin has turned in a career-year as he leads all Notre Dame defense­men in scoring with three goals and 18 assists for 21 points. That ranks him seventh among all CCHA defensemen. For the year. Galvin is also +11. 
The Irish return to action this weekend when they travel to Omaha, Neb., to face the University of Nebraska-Omaha Mavericks for the first round of the CCHA playoffs. 
The CCHA playoffs will be beginning on Friday, March 8th. The playoff series is a best-of-three series. 
The winner advances to the CCHA Championships at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit March 15-17. 


Wednesday, March 6, 2002

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
Johnston 
continued from page 20 
That commitment to ath­letics was something Johnston believed fit in with his athletic vision and was necessary to further his coaching career. 
"For someone that wants to make a profession out of coaching you have to look at the schools' missions and philosophies,''. Johnston said. " ... Coaching is a profession, and in order for me to suc­ceed, I have to be good hands." 
Although Johnston believes he left the soccer program in good hands, the team will count the loss of their coach as a deep one. 
"Bobby was one of the greatest things that ever happened to the athletic program -period," Muth said. "He is a phenomenal person, a great coach and just somebody we all thought we could talk to about anything, and he will missed a lot." 
Players were surprised to hear the news that Johnston 
was leaving 
and had no 
in a posi­"Coaching is a prior notion that he would
tion where profession, and in order 
the school only be stay­
for me to succeed, I have 
is focusing ing for a year. on their to be in a position where "I was 
athletics." the school is focusing on stunned and 
Former speechless for
their athletics. " 
University about the first of Tampa 10 minutes h e a d Bobby Johnston after I found 
coach Jay out, and I
head coach 
Entlich left the program in order to work for United States Soccer. He suggested Johnston as a pos­sible replacement candidate. 
"I had some contacts who were affiliated with the University of Tampa, a friend," Johnston said. "[Entlich] was the previous coach and called and asked me if I would be interested in the position ... Coaching -there's a small network of people, and the old cliche, 'It's not what you know, it's who you know.'" 
Johnston came to Saint Mary's from Washington, D.C., where he was head coach at the Potamac School in Virginia. Saint Mary's only won three games dur­ing the 2000 season, but doubled that number this past season. Johnston made spring practices mandatory and wanted to lift the pro­gram to prominence in the MIAA conference. 
"I know the program is in very good hands with Lynn, and the girls have tremen­dous experience on the field ... we basically have 10 returning starters," Johnston said. "If I was leav­ing the program in sham­bles, I'd feel more guilty, but I'm leaving the program in 
think every­. one else was, too," Muth said. 
For returning third-and fourth-year players, the coach who will come in this spring will become the third new face to lead the team in as many seasons. For a team, especially one that already faces significant turnover in players, the rotating coaching staff has posed a serious problem. 
"Every time we get a new coach, we have to readjust to them, and he or she has to readjust to us," Muth said. "That makes it really difficult to start the season off and to build on anything, because he or she is getting used to our playing style and we're getting used to their coaching style. And that's a really difficult process. It's really hard to keep starting over." 
Kachmarik said officials have not begun a search for a new head coach yet. When student-athletes return in mid-March from spring break, however, a search committee will be formed, Kachmarik said. She hopes to have a new coach in place by the end of April. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
Awards 
continued from page 20 
Batteast said in the lobby of the Hyatt Regency New Brunswick, the team hotel that also hosted the banquet. "It was short, to the point. Now I can go lay down." 
Ratay, who earned Rookie of the Year honors two years ago and was an All Big East Third Team selection last year, was more focused on the team goals for the weekend. 
"I don't really pay attention to awards and stuff like that," said Ratay, who led the team with an average of 15.2 points per game during the regular season. "The most important thing is who wins the games and who does well." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 


MEDJUGORJE 
February 25, 2002 Message Our Mother, the Queen of Peace 
"Dear children! In this time of grace, I call you to become friends of Jesus. Pray for peace in your hearts and work for your personal conversion. Little children, only in this way will you be able to become witnesses of peace and of the love of Jesus in the 


world. Open yourselves to prayer so that prayer becomes a need for you. Be converted, little children, and work so that as many souls as possible may come to know Jesus and His love. I am close to you and I bless you all. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
IMPORTANT CLARIFICATION: The Spring Break Pilgrimage going to Medjugorje on March 9th that was announced last month in an issue of The Observer is strictly a private pilgrimage being made by individuals and is not officially co1meded with the University of Notre Dame. 


Wednesday, March 6, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 
QUINCY, I-IEY, PA.1&E, S1T! WATCH THIS! \ 
HE WA.S S1TI1NG,  
•  8EFoiE YoU  
TA­ SAID IT,  
DA!  DooFUS.  
WHAT'S  
THAT  

TOM KEELEY 
ONE l>ATE FOR LESS 
THAN TWO BUCKS• PRICELESS 

BILL AMEND 
WHY Do I THAT HE'S ENTER THIS oBEDIENT ROOM?'­
AND 
PSYCHIC! 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


While things look bad for Paul's girlfriend, ultimately things look much worse for Paul. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Lively 
5 "Get outta here!" 10 Shock 14 Ruthless boss 15 Aromatic herb 16 Sondheim's 
Like Thar 17 Singer's football tackles? 19 Invitation letters 
20 Prognosis 21 Leavenworth and others: Abbr. 
23 Souveoir shop item, for short 24 Completely 25 Prefix with terrorism 27 Reproductive needs 
29 Cardinal's nest?: Abbr. 30 Sounds of a broom-beating? 35 Play the host to 36 Scream 37 Moore of film 40 Skip 42 1970's Chevy 43 Person who switches lines? 
45 Whoopi's role in "The Color Purple" 
47 Expensive carpetini supplies. 49 USA alternative 52 Pollution control grp. 53 2001 Will Smith title role 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

54 Mr. Moto portrayer 56 Quirky 58 Test locale 60 Stone work 62 Globes 64 Truckers' cry? 66 Passion 67 City on the Seine 68 First president of South Korea 69 Tense 70 Enron Field player 71 Pinings 
DOWN 
1 Dialect 2 Old.fashioned stage direction 3 Blockbuster 
transaction 4 Sing 5 El 6 Traveling 
medicine show purchase 7 Sot's sound 32 Marine snail 8 Requisition 33 It's tapped 9Wild 34 Madrid Mme. 10 Shake 35 Exercise unit 11 Roadblock 37 Atl. Coast state 12 15 preceder 38 Web address ending
13 Sort 39 Melange
18 Husband of Pocahontas 41 Figure out 22 Manhattan 44 Kind of neighborhood argument 28 Like a tepee 46 53-Across's faith 28 Pipe feature 48 Bans 

Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1 ·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 2002 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Rob Reiner, Ed McMahon, Tom Arnold, Stedman Graham 
Happy Birthday: You'll be concerned with helping those in need this year. Be generous in a practi~al way and make a differ­ence to those less fortunate. You will be ambitious and authorita­tive when dealing with profes­sionals. Your numbers are 17, 28, 32, 35, 41, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You will have a greater sense of what it is you want to do and a far more open and receptive atti­tude. The knowledge you take in today will be worth its weight in 
gold.00000 

TAURUS (April 20-Mar 20): Don:"t be fooled by a lot of hype about an investment. Don't push to make financial changes; instead, prepare to accept the changes that are inevitable. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Uncertainties may cause you to question any partnerships that you are involved in. Take it nice and slow and don't jump to con­clusions or make rash decisions. 
000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on what you can do, not on what you can't. Put all your efforts into whatever job you are work­ing on and you will make great strides. Stick to comfort food and pamper yourself a little. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take the, plunge and start to do some­thing you enjoy. Let your creativi­ty flourish. You will have a com­petitive edge today so don't hold 
back.00000 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Avoid any turmoil going on at 
EUGENIA LAST  
......  
home. Get out and do things that  
you like to do. Take in a snow or  
go shopping for something  
you've wanted for a long time but  
don't overspend in the process.  
00  
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Talk is cheap and it will help you get  
what you want. The more you  
mingle the better the support  
you'll get. Positive changes can be  
made and you'll be surprised at how well things tum out. 0000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):  
Work, work and more work. You  
may not feel like doing all the  
things on your agenda but if you  
grit your teeth and dig in you'll  
have it all done in no time. 000  
SAGITTARIUS (Nmi 22-Dec. 21):  
You can make a new start if you  
pull yourself together and focus  
on what's important to you today.  
Don't let anyone try to talk you  
out of what you know will be best  
foryou.000  
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
Uncertainties regarding work may develop if you are evasive  
about what you are doing. Be  
upfront and you will stand a  
much better chance of getting the  
support required to follow your  
own ideas. 000  
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Sudden changes will be a wel­ -·  
come surprise. Put your ideas into  
motion and help those who just  
can't help themselves. You will  
feel good about yourself and the friendships you develop. 0000  
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  
You may want to take a bit of a breather. You will have the disci­ 
pline to take in a vast amount of information today but this isn't the time to try to start new proj­ects or follow new avenues. 00  -­ 

lozenge 50 Kaput 51 Noted quintet 55 Eared seal 56 Sludge 
Stowe novel 59 Gillette product 61 late-night name 63 Tricky 65 His tomb was 
found in 1922 

Birthday Baby: You are cautious and determined. You set your sights on something and go for it. You use common sense in order to aehieve. You are responsible and persistent by nature. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
(Cl 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

---------------------------------------------------~---------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $ 50 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address------------------­
City _______ State ___Zip_____ 
Campus Sports /'""llHE National Sports
v~SERVER 

. Hockey, p. 17 
. NCAA Football, p. 14 
. 
NBA, p. 14 

. 
Baseball, p. 13



PORTS 
Wednesday, M~rch 6, 2002 

SMC SOCCER 
Johnston resigns 
r . Belles' soccer coach cites need for full-time salary 
By KA TIE McVOY Associare Sporrs Editor 
Belles head soccer coach Bobby Johnston announced to his team that he had resigned, effective June 1. to take a full­time head coaching position at the University of Tampa. Johnston. who came to Saint Mary's at the end of the last academic year following the resignation of Jason Milligan as head coach. cited his part­time status at Saint Mary's as a major factor in considering the offer from the University of Tampa. 
"Going from a part-time position to a full-time position was a very important factor," said Johnston. "I just feel that the mission and dedication to athletics is very strong at the University of Tampa." 
Although Johnston worked full time with the players and helped the Saint Mary's ath­letic department run several other programs, the athletic budget could not afford full­time pay for him. Without the financial support, Johnston said he had little choice but to go where he would be Vaid a full-time salary. 
"Those who want to be in coaching have to be able to supplement their livelihood," he said. 
Athletic Director Lynn 

Kachmarik, who accepted Johnston's resignation, under­stood the attractiveness of a full-time coaching position and Johnston's need to sup­port himself. 
"I think Bobby's a great example of a great coach, and great coaches are going to be able to get better and more attractive positions, especially if we're at part-time levels for our coaches," Kachmarik said. "This is a great place for a coach to have been with a program, and if they prove themselves and if they have a full time opportunity some­place else, they have no choice but to take that full­time opportunity." 
Junior co-captain Heather Muth said, "I just felt a gener­al sense of frustration, won­dering when our school is going to be able to keep a quality coach on staff for the soccer team." 
In addition to offering full­time status, the University of Tampa is a well-known school in Division II soccer. Last sea­son its men's soccer program won the NCAA tournament. 
"Obviously, I wanted to coach at one of the highest levels I can coach at," Johnston said. "I want to con­tend for a national title. I want to have the opportunity to be at the NCAA tourna­ment. The men won the NCAA title last year. They're obvi­ously committed to their pro­grams." 
see SOCCER/page 16 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ratay, Batteast earn awards 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
Throughout the 2001-02 regular season, Jacqueline Batteast refused to let Big East opponents intimidate her, becoming one of just three players in the league to rank among the top 10 in scoring, rebounding, field goal percentage and blocks. 
But when sh~ got on the bus for the airport late last week en route to the Big East Tournament, Notre Dame's freshman forward 
-
was faced with a much more imposing opponent -the prospect of giving a speech after winning the Big East Rookie of the Year award. 
"When I found out that if I won that I had to make a statemerit, I started hyper­ventilating on the bus the whole time," Batteast said. 
By Friday night, Batteast had caught her breath and appeared composed when, as expected, the six-time conference Rookie of the Week took home the Rookie of the Year award. Teammate Alicia Ratay was named to the All-Big East First Team. while Batteast made the Second Team. 
"I want to thank my coaches for giving me the opportunity to play as much as I did this season," Batteast said at the podi­um after winning the award. "I want to thank my teammates ...Thank you very much for voting for me. It's a great honor, and I really appreciate it." 
Afterwards, the forward, who returned from a knee injury but went scoreless in just 13 minutes in Notre Dame's loss to Syracuse on Sunday. appeared relieved that her public speaking engagement was over. 
'Tm glad it's over," 
see AWARDS/page 18 

CLUB SPORTS 
Figure skating club takes seventh at nationals 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Assisranr Sports Editor 
If you heard Latin music blaring from the Jovce Center this winter, it wasn't a weird hockey team pre­game ritual. 
The women's figure skating club was in Lake Placid, N.Y. last week­end for the U.S. Synchronized Team Skating Championships. After com­peting against Big 10 clubs Michigan State, Michigan, Illinois and Wisconsin; Ivy Leaguers Princeton, Columbia; and Syracuse, Delaware and New Hampshire, the Irish placed seventh, exceeding their own expectations. 
The girls on the team are very passionate about skating," said junior Katie Oberstar. the club's vice president. Our placement [at nation­als] was higher than we had expect­ed." 
As is the case with many Notre Dame club sports, the figure skating club is funded independently, through donations, fund-raisers and money generated from exhibition shows. The 20-member team has no coach and puts together all of its routines independently, including its Latin-themed routine for nationals. 
Several schools have varsity teams, and I would say there are 30 
see SKATING/page 16 

. Men's Basketball at Big East Toumament, Thursday, 9p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Men's Tennis at Illinois, Thursday, 4:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
onl!nc 

. Men's and Women's Track at NCAA Indoor Championships,AT AGLANCE Friday-Saturday http://www.nd.edu/ ~observer 




