
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Maryfs 
VOL XXXVIIJ NO. 27 
Philbin, King to visit catnpus 
By HELENA PAYNE 
New, Editor 
Two prominent talk show hosts will be making appearances this weekend for the Notrf' Danrn foot.ball game against Stanford. 
ICJ5:~ graduate Regis Philbin will follow through on a promise to 
givn CNN talk show host Larry King a Laslc of' Notn\ Dam<\ cu ltu rn th is v.·1ir1km1rl. 
"Hegis is excited to show Larrv Notre Dame." said Dr.bbie IJolins, publicist for "LIVE with Regis & Kelly." 


Philbin is scheduled to Philbin arrive from New York on Friday and King will come from Los Angeles 
on Saturday. · 
The host and executive producer of "LIVE" proposed that King visit the University dur­ing a May 13 show of "Larry King Live," wlwre he was a guest. 
Philbin was rPminiscing about his under­gradualP days at Notre Dame when King rnentio1wd that Im had never been to Notre 
name. "Oh, I'd love to introduce you to it," Philbin told King. 
After some conversation about attending a football !{ame, King eventually told Philbin, "Whenever you go, I'll go." 
Dolins said the exact itinerary for Philbin has not been decided. Last year's campus homecoming by Philbin included trips to the lake, the Grotto. the football locker room and the Stadium, as well as a visit to his old room on the second floor of Zahm IIall. 
Philbin visited Notre Dame last year to tape a show for "LIVE" and attend the groundbreaking ceremony for the Marie P. OeBartolo Performing Arts Center that is currently still under construction on the south end of the DeBartolo quad. 
Philbin, who has won Emmys for both "LIVE" and "Who Wants to be a Millionaire," donated $2.75 million last year to go toward a 100-seat studio theater in the center that the University is naming after him. 
The center will cost an estimated $50 mil­lion to construct and it is scheduled to open next year. 

Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu 

HTTP://OBSERVER.NO.EDU 

Father Joyce in1proving after suffering a stroke 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Father Edmund Joyce remains in the South Bend St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, but his condition is improving, said Father William Seetch, religious superior for the Holy Cross Community. 
Joyce, the executive vice president emeritus and a 1937 Notre Dame graduate, was hospitalized Sept. 20 after suffering a stroke. 
The hospital moved him Friday from intensive care to the rehabilitation unit where Joyce, 85, is undergoing physical therapy. 
The hospital has not yet set a date for his release. 
"It depends on how he responds to physical thera­py," Seetch said, adding that 

Joyce is trying to restore strength in his arms. He has retained his ability to speak. 
The priest's younger broth­er, Lylo Joyce, arrived yp,ster­d ay from Paris, where he resides, to visit his ill brother. 
According to Seetch, Lyle. also a Notre Dame graduate, is Joyce's closest living kin. Joyce's second brother, Jack, is deceased. He also has nieces and nephews that live in the United States. 
Joyce, a former resident of Spartanburg, S.C., was the 

first  student  from  South  
Carolina  to  attend  Notre  
Dame, Seetch said.  

Since graduating with a bachelor's degree in account­ing, then called commerce, Joyce has spent 35 years at Notre Dame as a University administrator. His former 
see JOYCE/page 3 

SMC PRIDE 


BOARD OF TRUSTEES 


Dorm_s topic of student report 
. Bishop plans to suggest new buildings are needed to Board of Trustees today 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Writer 
Notre Dame should build new residence halls to alleviate overcrowding, and the University should equip current halls with apartment-style amenities, according to a report that student government officials will present today to the Board of Trustees. 
The "Plan to Improve Residential Life" from the office of Student Body President Libby Bishop recommends construction of several new dorms that include suites, kitchens, private bathrooms and 
Bishop other apartment-type conveniences. It proposes that existing dorms be renovated to include those features as well. 
On-campus housing is at 102 percent capacity, the 52-page report said, and most dorms were built to accommodate far fewer residents than the number who occupy them now. 
"We expect the report to be a catalyst, to start the wheels turning in their heads to think about new dorms," Bishop said. 
Bishop, Vice President Trip Foley and report chairman Jordan Linville will present the plan to the Student Affairs subcommittee of the Board of Trustees at a closed 1 p.m. meeting in McKenna Hall. The trustees are on campus today and Friday for their annual fall meeting. 
Trustees received copies of the report as early as Wednesday, but Bishop said she wouldn't make the document available to the public until after the presentation. 
The report comes at a time when the University is finishing a 10-year strategic plan and amid concern among officials that upper­classmen are moving off campus in increas­ing numbers. 
About 77 percent of Notre Dame under­graduates live on campus. Because adminis­trators want to increase that figure to 85 per­cent within 10 years and in light of recent enrollment trends, the report said, there is a need for more dorms. 

School officials in the past have acknowl­edged that they depend on students to move off campus because the 27 residence halls can't accommodate Notre Dame's 8,500 undergraduates. But even with about half of the senior class living off-campus this year, most dorms are at or beyond capacity. 
The report relies heavily on a Campus Life Council study la.st year that surveyed student interest in types of on-campus housing other than traditional, single-sex residence halls. 
Of the more than 2,000 respondent<; to the CLC survey, most listed suite-or apartment­style living as better alternatives to the cur­rent residence halls, Bishop said. If such alternatives existed, about 80 percent of sur­veyed students who either lived off-campus or were planning to move off campus said they would consider moving back or remain­ing on campus. 
The report includes historical data that tracks upgrades to the halls. Overall, the dorms have changed little, said Linville, who will oversee the writing of all three student government reports to the trustees this year. 
"I was surprised by the relatively small amount of changes that have taken place over the years." he said. 
The report also includes data from focus group interviews with students, hall rectors, administrators, facilities officials and the University architect. 
Senior administrators from the Office of Student Affairs and Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities, are expected to attend the hour-long report presentation. Bishop's chief of staff, Pat Hallahan, is also scheduled to attend. 
The fall and spring trustees meetings at Notre Dame have traditionally served as the only formal contact between student leaders and the Board. Trustees have rarely followed student government proposals to the letter. 
"If nothing else, they'll start looking at our plan seriously and allocating the resources for these improvements," Linville said. 
Contact Jason McFarley at jmcfarle@nd.edu 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, October 3, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Major ch~nges or staying with it? 
When freshmen come to campus, most have a feeling of high expecta­tion for their next four years. We wouldn't be hem ifwe didn't excel in high school so most of us think that we'll breeze through college Justin Krivickas too. Rut then again if everyone 
Assistant
here did well in high school then News Editor things should be harder hero, and l for one didn't take that into account. 
Reality is starting to set .in as stu­dents begin to take their first exams this year. Would-be engineers now get the sudden shock that they did poorly on a test, and other students begin to see that their majors may noL be the best thing to do with their lives. Things may look tough now, but don't despair. 
There's time right now to tnrn everything around by hitting those books and getting back un track. One exam won't hurt your grade too badly as long as you can pull it up the next time. If you'vp done poorly don't fret, use it as a learning experience that you have to change your study habits and with time you'll learn how to best prepare for those exams. Go to tutor­ing. As long as you love what you're majoring in, don't give up on it too soon or later on in life you may regret your decision. 
Yet, on the other hand, if you have decided that another day as an engi­neer, architect, or perhaps PLS major is going to make your head fall off then by all means get off that track. Don't stick with anything that you are beginning to dread doing, but think long and hard about any changes you do make. Making a mistake now may change your entire life so it's safe to be prudent and plan every aspect of your decision over and over again. 
At least you've found something that vou don't want to do and that's one down and a few others to pour through. I've seen a report that found upwards of 75 percent of college stu­dents change their major at least once in college, and up to 80 percent of freshmen have some career uncer­tainty. Although I doubt these figures are credible at institutions such as · '.\fotre Dame, the statistics do show the extreme nature and unease some freshmen can face. 
I heard someone say last week you should do what you want to, and not worry about what anyone else thinks and I think that advice is just about the best I've heard in awhile. Going through life in a field you loath, after all, is not much of a life. 
Just because your parents, friends or some voice in vour head wants vou to do something, -remember this is" your decision and only you can make that choice. You're in college to find yourself and striking out the first time isn't the end of the world. Just remember that the ball game isn't over until you hit that home run. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Yesterday's Sheedy Award Winner wa.s incorrect due to an advertising error. The solo winner is Andrew Weigert in rh~ Department ofSociology. Watch tomorrow for the corrected ad. The Observer regrets the error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Basilica Mass goes cable with Hallmark  Iraq maintains incapability of producing weapons  Notre Dame's MBA program disputes Stanford study  Don't believe SYRspin  Movie review and Bruce Springstein concert  Freshmen making an early impact  
The Basilica Mass is now being tele­vised on the Hallmark channel everv Sundav to viewers around the  Iraq continues to deny speculation that the are capable of producing nuclear, chemical  Notre Dame's MBA program discounts the notion posed by a Stanford study that conclud­ Dan Degen, social commissioner of Keough Hall, sounds off on a stand that ques­ The Scene review the acclaimed hit "My Big Fat Greek Wedding," and then joins  The womens golf team is getting a boast from its freshmen players which are proving  
country.  or biological weapons.  ed an MBA degree provides "little real  tions the adminis­tration's new  Springstein in Chicago as he rocks  to be asset.  a  valuable  
world experience.  dance policies.  the Windy City.  
page 8  page 5  page 7  page 13  page 14  page 28  

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Glaucoma Screening, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. available to ND faculty and staff only 

. 
Lecture with John Gibson, 4:15 at the Hcsburgh Conter for International Studies 

. 
Movie: "Out of Africa" 7 Q,m. in the Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. The film wil be followed by a discussion with director Sydney Pollack. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Gallery talk with photographer Cynthia Greig, 6:30 p.m. in room 232 Moreau 

. 
CWIL Speaker: Mary Robinson; former president of Ireland "Leadership in an Intercultural World." 7 p.m. ()'Laughlin Auditorium 

. 
SAC Meeting 8:00-9:30 pm, Holy Cross College #304 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's LUIIch: French onion soup, Texas chili, fettuc­cine with fennel, al prosciutto pizza, chicken breast, boulan­gere potatoes, mixed vegetables, apple crisp, szechuan beef & vegetable stir-fry, portobello, orzo & cream, broccoli cheddar quiche, brussels, sprouts with cheese, stewed tomatoes, breakfast ham, scrambled eggs, raisin bread French toast, hash browns and Polish sausage. 
Today's Dinner: French onion soup, Texas chili, fet­tuccine with fennel, al prosciutto pizza, roasted turkey breast, bread stuffing, asparagus tips, apple crisp, ori­ental shrimp with noodles, turbot amandine, vegeta­bles rabat, couscous, baked sweet potatoes, scramble eggs with cheese, French toast sticks, lyonnaise potaotes, BBQ chicken sandwich and wet beef burrito. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Car accident investigated 
NDSP investigated a two-vehicle injury traffic accident lhal happened Monday on Leahy Drive. 

Motor vehicle theft reported 
The Athletic Departm1mt reported a theft of a golf cart outside of the Joyce Center on Monday. 

Larceny occurs in Badin 
Rector of Badin Hall reports that the hall ban­ner was stolen on Monday. 

Student receives liquor citation 
A Saint Mary's student was cited for minor consumption of alcohol near the Rockne Memorial and transported to the Saint Joseph medical Center at 1:12 a.m. on Sunday. 

Student project set on fire 
NDSP reports a student project was set on fire between O'Neill and Keough Halls early Sunday morning. 
Information compiled from the NDSP Crime Blotter 
Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells,mostaccioli, 
tri-color rotini, linguine, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, pretzel sticks, whipped potatoes, cut corn, rice, baked pota­to, peas, green beans, mushroom stroganoff, meatloaf mixture, Mississippi fried catfish, baked ham, mashed potatoes, hamburger, onion rings and gyros. 
Today's Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells,mostaccioli, tri-color rotini, linguine, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, brown and serve breadsticks, chicken fajita pizza, whipped potatoes, cut corn, plain rice, broccoli cuts, peas, green beans, roasted vegetables, veal parmigiana, spinach, rice with olives, beef stew, roasted porl loin, roasted poupon potatoes, hamburger, hot­dog, chicken patty, grilled cheese on white, natures burger, chicken strips, potato skins, onion rings, chinese noodles, fried rice, Oriental vegetables, Mongolian beef, chicken taco and Spanish rice. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
c:: 
U.I 

:::c 
ts: 
U.I 


t)
t)
3: 
...I 
,c 
(.) 

.3 HIGH 70 HIGH 63 HIGH 78 HIGH 68 HIGH 60 HIGH 64 LOW 52 LOW 67 LOW 58 LOW 44 LOW 38 LOW 45 
Atlanta 85 / 66 Boston 64 / 50 Chicago 68 / 60 Denver 54 / 38 Houston 87 / 72 Los Angeles 74 / 52 Minneapolis 58 / 48 New York 76 / 59 Philadelphia 81 / 58 Phoenix 79 / 57 Seattle 62 / 48 St. Louis 80 / 66 Tampa 91 / 73 Washington 86 / 63 
Thursday, October 3, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SENATE 
Joyce 
continued from page I

Ne-w Senate comrnitte to foster interaction 
positions included-chief
Universitv Affairs. tee would he needed to really updates," said Trip Foley, chair 
financial officer, chair­

By MEGHANNE DOWNES Prrvious r.ommittACS for both address the issue and increase of the Stud1>nt Senate. 
man of the building com­

Assistant "cw, Fditor Academic Affairs and University communication between the two In other Senate news: 
mittee and chairman of
Affairs investi-groups," said . Ann Kleva, director of 
the faculty board on ath­

Senators unanimously agn~ed gatect the lines Schlosser. llnivArsity Health Services. 
letics.
"We did not want lo limit

to crnatc an ad-hoc committee of communica­The com­spoke un Lhe assistance thal 
Joyce retired in 1987,

to strnngt.lH1n tho interaction tion between the committe. We wanted mittfle will Health Services provides to stu­
when the board of

brtwr1m sturknts and the fa.cul­studrrnts and to make it open to many consist of one dents. The department provides 
trustees voted to name

Ly al WPduesday's Senate nrnet­faculty and out­facullv mem­several services including a 
the Athletic and
possibilities"

ing. lined this issuA ber. s·enators South Bend Medical Foundation 
Convocation Center afterThe rnsolution said academic in their rcspec­from both the satellite for diagnostic testing, 

him.

life is an essential part of stu­ti ve transition Gail Thompson committees minor procedures, a pharmacy dent lifo spedtirally student and rPpurts for this on Academic and physician appointments. A
senator 

faculty relations. The purpose of year's commit­Affairs and student advisory board was 
Contact Helena Payne at 

the committ.r.P. is to review and tee. Tho cur-University established to facilitate informa­
payne.30@nd.edu 

foster int!'rartion betwrH'n the rent committf1e Affairs and tion between students and two groups. on Academic Affairs realized the the academic commissioner, health services. A Coalition of 
"Wn !Pf't il !the resolution] necessitv of this but also saw it said Sr:hlosser. Wellness was formed with stu­vague b1:causc we did not want could not accomplish this on its ''The committee will not follow dent representati\•es to address LO limit tlrn committee. We want­own. said Kate Schlosser. chair the attendance rules but would heath and wellness issues .. ect to makP it opm1 to many pos­of tbe committee on Ac1tdemic report to Senatr in a timely . Son Nguyen spoke on thA sibilities," said Gail Thompson, Affairs. fashion after meeting and a rep­Learning to Talk About Race chair or the committee on "We reali.rnd another commit-resen tati ve would provide Retreat. The retreat focuses on 
OUALITY Service • Student Discounts • Gift Certificates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------, 

F1111T;111 
~ 196S FUN UN INC 

I 
: University Location: S.R. 23 Et Ironwood 272-7653 : Corner of Grape & McKinley 256-9656 l Corner of Ireland & Ironwood 291-2000 
1


race and ethnicity in general and will review its status on campus. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at 
downcs.l@nd.edu 


• 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
·-illliiilililit.iilliiiiiw 
TM:E STANDING COMNl!TTEE ON 
GAY ANO LESBIAN STUDl!NT NEl!D.5 
•
• 

The Standing Committee on Gay and 
•
•

Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
• 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz.1@nd.edu, or Maureen 
• 

Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
• 

•• ••• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' 
•
•

... . . ..... . ....... . ..... . ..... . .... . ... . . . . ... . . 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: . Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 . Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 . Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 . John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 . Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 . Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, l-8286 South Bend Community Resources: . Women's Care Center: 234-0363 . Catholic Charities: 234-3111  



page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 3, 2002 


The Notre Dame Alumni Association would like to thank the students, staff, and faculty who participated in the 20th Annual Domer Run this past weekend. Special thanks to RecSports, adidas, First USA and IRISHealth for their sponsorship. Proceeds will benefit our Prostate Awareness and Cancer Education Program (P.A.C.E.) at our local clubs. 
Thank You! 
indefinitely. 
The memorial's design was chosen last spring from 20 submissions by a panel of architecture professors and experts. The winning design, created by fifth-year archi­tecture students Kevin Clark and Meg Kroener, would incorporate the flagpole on South Quad. 
The concept envisions a sunken area for personal reflection, including a reflecting pool, from which the pole would r.ise. A walk­way would pass over the water. and would be posi­tioned so that the flagpole's shadow would fall across the walkway at 9:08 am, the time of the first plane's impact into the World Trade Center. 
Administrators were vague on the prospects for the memorial. As the Observer reported last spring, officials say they prefer a small memorial, less prominent than the Clarke Memorial Fountain. but have not allo­cated funding for the project. Doug Marsh, the University's architect, declined to com­ment for this story. 
Kroener, who works for an delayed the project, but she doesn't know why it's still on the back burner. 
Kroener and Clark submit­ted only a one-page schemat­ic of the memorial, and more design work would be needed before construction could begin. "I'd like to havP. the opportunity to continue in the design process," Kroener said, though she has not been contacted by University offi­cials. 
Four Notre Dame alumni lost their lives in the terrorist attacks. Robert Ferris, class of 1962, was on the 102nd floor of the south tower of the WTC. Lt. Col. S. Neil Hyland, Jr., class of 1977, worked at the Pentagon. Also, Peter Batacan, class of 1983. and Dora Marie Menchaca, class of 1977, were on American Airlines Flight 77 when it was flown into the Pentagon. The attacks also took the lives of some 2,800 people in lower Manhattan, Washington D.C. and rural Pennsylvania. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

Sept. 11 meinorial at ND still on hold 
architecture firm in

By MATT BRAMANTI 
Washington, D.C., has like­

News Writer 
wise seen mixed messages from the University regardingA planned memorial to the future of her project.remember the victims of the Kroener said that a potential
Sept. 11. 2001 terrorist 
donor's misunderstanding

attacks has been shelved 
about the cost originally 
Undergraduate Presentation 
Quantitative Management Associate Program 
Thursday-October 3, 2002 Notre Dame University Club 6:00-8:00 pm 
Business casu11/ attire We are seeking majors fi·om all Refreshments and brief discussion quantitative disciplines, including: following presentation Mathematics, Rnancia/ Mathematics, 
Physics, Statistics, and Economics. Rnance and Economics is not a requirement. Bachelor and Masters candidates are welcome. 

Your career. Your future. 
Are you ready to excel? Put your career on the fast track with Bank ofAmerica. We deliver powerful intellectual and financial capital to clients across the globe-and represent a wealth of distinct knowledge, skills and perspectives. Above all, people are our greatest asset. Join Bank of America and take your career as far and as fast as you can go. www.bankofamerica.com 
Bank of America. ~ ~~ 

WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 3, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Iraq maintains incapablility of producing weapons 
production equiprmml. 

AssnciateJ l're:ss 
Iraq said it cooperated with 
insµeci.ors and described I.heir 
BJ\CIIDJ\J) dnstruction during sewn y8ars of 

lra.q says war alHl U.N. insprn:­work of such it.ems as entire build­tions hav«-1>11surnd it is no longer ings at nudoar sites. missilr.s, 400 capable of producing nud<>ar. rockets !illPd with Sarin, and even chemical or biological weapons. "the furniture, desks, cooling sys­and Baghdad n•h•asPd a dPtailml t,m1s. reli-igerntors. sciPnce books report. \r\:'Pdnnsday rpbutling a and journals" at a biological British dossin on its arms pro­weapons laboratory. grams. .lust as Blair's dossi<'r soemm-f to 
Washington says toppling offer little new evidence, Iraq's Saddam Hussein may bfi t!m only rebuttal rt)itcrated its Jong-standing way to ensure Iraq is not rearming. position that by 1998 it had com­British Prime MinislBr Tony Blair, pl.iP.d with U.N. resolutions barring who has been a strong back<'r of il from stockpiling W(>apons ofma.<;s 
the Unit.Pd States on Iraq. issund a destruction and the missiles to SO-page dossier l<Lst Wl'ck detailing delivr.r them. what British inteIJigi,nc!~ said was UN. inspertors, arcusing Iraq of Iraq's ~1rowing arsnnal of chemical blocking their work. withdrew from and biological w1!apons and Iraq in Dec11mber 1998 11head of Saddam's plans to usP thmn. Blair U.S.-13ritish airstrikes. In its rebut­also said Iraq was trying to develop tal. Iraq said that since then. any nuclnar wnapons. biological agents would havP losi. 
The dossi,ir. Iraq's Fornign thoir effectiveness, ils nuclear pro­Ministry said in its 29-page. gram rnmained under International English-language rnbuttal, was "full Atomic Energy Agency scrutiny and oflies. fabrications and fallacies." monitoring of its imports was tight. 
"Iraq's capabilitios to produce "It seems that those who pre­biological. chemical agents were pared Blair's report seek to mislead destroyed during the l 991 aggrns­the world, simply because the pro­sion." the Foreign Ministry said, duction process requirements and referring to the Gulf War that complicated services are not avail­
lom\d lraq to reverse its 1990 inva­able." Iraq said of British allega­sion of Kuwait. tions it has mobile laboratories for U.N. resolutions. Instead, Iraq is Western intelligence agencies Last month, amid speculation the 
Iraq said its chemical program developing biological warfare cooperating with the agency under have accused Iraq of working furi­United States would go to war to never advanced beyond a "crude" agents. the terms of the nuclear nonprolif­ously to circumvent monitoring to restrain Saddam, Iraq said it would level and that ll.N. inspedors allcr Atomic agency inspectors have eration treaty it signed in 1969. The obtained banned products, some­allow resumed and unfettered the Gulf War destroyed stocks of been in Iraq since 1998, but not to agency has said it couldn't be sure times by importing materials that inspections for the first time since chemical weapons. munitions and monitor Iraq's compliance with that lraq wasn't rearming. also have peaceful purposes. 1998. 

Shoe botnb suspect to plead guilty on all charges 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Richard Reid, the man accused of try­ing to blow up a trans-Atlantic Oight with explosives hidden in his shoes, plans to plead guilty to at.tempted mur­d!ff and all otlrnr charges against him. his lawyer said Wednesday. 
Attorney Owen Walker said Rt>id wanted to avoid the publicity of a trial and the negative impact it would have on his family. 
Heid faces up to life in prison if con­victed of the most serious charges. His attorney said Reid "has no disagreement with the facts" asserted in the charges. 
In his court filing, Reid said he would admit to all eight counts against him, but asked the court to remove language from two of the charges alleging he received training from al-Qaida. Reid earlier lost a bid to remove the same language from the indictment against him. 
The motion does not say a guilty plea is contingent upon the al-Qaida refer­ences being stricken. Walker declined comment on the issue. 
In Washington. Attorney General John Ashcroft said Reid acted on his own and has no plea agreement with the govern­ment. Federal prosecutors also filed a pleading that opposed removal of any language from the indictment. 
"The Justice Department stands by 
each and every allegation in the indict­ment. We are prepared to substantiate all of the charges," Ashcroft said in a statement. Trial is set for Nov. 4. 
Reid, a 28-year-old British citizen, is accused of attempting to kill the 197 passengers and crew members aboard American Airlines Flight 63 from Paris to Miami on Dec. 22. He was overpow­ered by flight attendants and passen­gers, and the flight was diverted to Boston. 
Authorities said each shoe contained a plastic explosive often used by terror­ists. They said the homemade bombs could easily have ripped a hole in the plane if Reid had successfully ignited them. 

The indictment said Reid "received training from al-Qaida in Afghanistan," but it provided no other details about Reid's alleged ties to the network. 
The FBI has said it believes Reid had help making the bomb from "an al­Qaida bomb maker," and have cited unidentified human hair and a palm print found on the explosives. Reid insisted to FBI investigators that he acted alone. 
In statements to law enforcement after his arrest, Reid said he acted because of the U.S. military campaign in Afghanistan and that he hoped his planned attack would cause Americans to stop traveling, leading to a downturn in the economy, prosecutors said. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Ex-Bosnian Serb leader pleads guilty= 
Abruptly reversing course at tho Yugoslav tribunal Wednesday, a top Bosnian Serb wartime politician pleaded guilty to persecuting nun-Serbs in the 1992­1995 Bosnian war. In exchange, prosecutors dropped gnnocidc and all oth(ff war crimes charges against Biljana Plavsic, the only woman suspect at the court and the first Serb leader to admit responsibility for atrocities. 
Suspected Islamic militants kill 11 in India: 
Suspected blamic militants op,med lire on activists of the pro-India governing party in Indian-controlled Kashmir on WcdnPsday and a bomb explodP.d on a bus filled with Hindu pilgrims on a day ofviolence that left at )P.ast 11 people dPad. The attacks came a day after voters went to polls in the third of four phases of Jammu-Kashmir statP elections. which separntist 
Islamic militants have vowod to disrupt. saying they arP rigged in favor of pro-India politicians. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Torricelli can be replaced on ballot: Mob waited before bludgeoning man: 
The New Jersey Supreme Court ruled Wednesday A mob of boys laid in wait for man beforn using a TV that D<'mocrats can rnplace Sen. Robert Torricelli wrestling move and everything from broomsticks to 011 the November ballot with former Sen. Frank strollers to bludgeon him to death, according to their Lautenbcrg, even though the deadline for making confessions to police. After going to a friend's home Im such a change has passed. Republicans vowed to thought would be a safe haven, Charlie Young Jr., 36, take the case to federal court. It was a crucial vic­was attacked with metal poles, 2-by-4's and other tory for Democrats, who saw Torricelli as a poten­implements late Sunday by an ever-growing mob. tial loser next month and are fighting to keep the Young, who was found unconscious and bleeding from 
seat in their hands as they try to retain or add to head to toe on his friend's porch, died Tuesday after he their single-scat majority in the Senate. was taken off life support. 
Tour bus crashes in Utah, six dead: North American 'club drug' ring busted: 
A bus carrying elderly sightseers on a fall foliage U.S. and Mexican authorities said Wednesday they have tour overturned on a remote forest road dismantled North America's largest illegal producer and Wednesday, killing six and injuring 20. the Utah cii<;tributor of ketarnine, a veterinary anesthetic that has Highway Patrol said. The bus's brakes apparently become a popular and dangerous drug on the chm circuit. failed as the vehicle turned a corner in Juab In raids in both countries and Panama. seven men were County, about 70 miles south of Salt Lake City, arrested and authmities said they made the largest seizure said highway patrol spokesman Chris Kramer. ever ofketamine, which i'> often referred to ai.; Super K. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 3, 2002 
Former Irish President to speak at Saint Mary's tonight 

In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mission. The mission was to provide a personal, caring, educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year institution of their choice. 
Holy Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fundamental mission. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
Our mission is what has made us successful. So while many things change, our mission is one thing that will not. 
P.O. 8"" 308 • Notre Dame .. IN 46556-0308 • 574-239-8400 • FAA 574·233-7~27 • www.ncc,nd.edu 

The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 


Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Lt. Colonel Archie Davis 
United States Army 

" Essentials for Effective Teams" 
Friday, October 4 12:00 -1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
1 
I 

By SARAH NESTOR Saint Marv's News Editor 
Todav's visit to Saint Marv's campus by Mary Robinson, for­mP.r President of Ireland and 
U.N. High Comissioner for lluman Rights, will be short, but the impact will not 
"As a woman who led a nation, wielded considerable influence at the United Nations and stil\ holds a prominent place un the world stage. she's a relevant speaker for Saint Mary's College," Saint Mary's College President Marilou EldrE>d said. "Because Saint t\lary's is respon­sible for educating tomorrow's women leaders it's important to expose students to uther women who are making a difference, whethr,r their impact is local, national or intnrnational.'' 
Known as the "President of the people" Robinson led lreland from l 990 to 1997, taking the presidency from what had been widely consirlered a ceremonial position to that of a position with real influence in politics. She marked her presidf'ncy hy sup­porting her humanitarian causes and groundbreaking visits to Northern Ireland and Great Britain. 
Robinson was nominated in 1997 for the position of the United Nation ·s High Commissioner for lluman Rights. While holding the position Robinson worked to integrate human rights concerns in all the activities of the Cnited Nations. Though Hobinson resigned in March 2001, her resignation di not become effoctive until September 2002. 
"I bP.lieve that I can. at this stage, achieve more outside o the constraints that a multi-lat­e r a I organization inevitably imposes," Robinson told the lluman Rights Commission at the Geneva conference when she announced her resignation. "I will continufl to work whole­heartedly for human rights in the way that I know best: as an advocate." 
The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership arranged for the visit by Robinson, who will give a lecture this evening in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The lecture world leader on campus," Eldred following her talk." "Leadership in an lntP-rcultural said "Her time here will be Robinson's will speak tonight World" will ultimately touch on brief, but she'll have the oppor­at 7 p.m. in O'Laughlin the current state of the United tunity to see The Avenue, The Auditorium, admission is free, Nations. Aftor tho lecture them Moreau Centor for tho Arts and hut tickets are required. will be an invitation-only recep­Le Mans Hall, where she will tion. personally greet people at a 

Contact Sarah Nestor 

"I look forward to hosting a reception in Stapleton Lounge 
atnest9877@saintmarys.edu 
!Alo

UJo When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 8, 2002. 
Busi~NEss 

Thursday, Ocroher 3, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch for October 2 
DowJones 
7,755.61 • -183.18 
N4SDAQ 
1187.30 • -26.42 
S&P500 
827.91 • -20.00 
AME¥ 
822. 13 • -3.58 
NYSE 
450.37 • -10.56 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS  (CSCO)  -8.14  -0.89 10.0~  
INTEL CORP  (INTC)  -2.52  -0.37 14.3E  
MICROSOFT CORP  (MSFT)  -1.34  -0.62 45.61  

IN BRIEF Feds OK United, US Airways Sharing 
The government on Wednesday approved a proposal by L.:nited Airlines and US A.irways to sell scats on each other's flights. coordinate schedules and offer reciprocal perks such as freqm'nt flier miles, effective immediately. 
!n its decision, the Transportation Department said it gave the go-ahead to the two struggling airlines because the partner­ship would increase competition and benefit travelers. 
"We have not yet seen evidence that the agrnements will unreasonably restrict either air!ine·s incentives and ability to compete independently or would be likely to result in collusion on fares or service levels," the deci­sion said. 
The regulators, though, said they would monitor the so-called code-sharing agreement closely and would take action against the air­lines if they found the venture dampened competition. 
Port shutdown threatens automakers 
The shutdown of West Coast ports claimed tlw auto inrl11stry's first casualty Wednesday. and observers say a lockout of a week or more could disrupt sales of some vehicles and halt work at assembly plants nationwide. 
The Par,ific Maritime Association, whir,h represents shipping companies and terminal operators. has locked out about 10.500 mem­bers of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union in a eontract dispute. 
Those vulnerable in the auto industry include thP major autumakPrs Ford Motor Co., Nissan Motor Corp. and Toyota Motor Curµ among them. Some import certain mod­els and others rely on imported components and parts for domestic manufacturing plants. 
"A prolonged shutdown is not only going to affect your Japanese transplants but also somebody like Ford because they import parts from Asia," said Kris Pritchard, an analyst with !RN !nc. in c;rand Rapids. "One critical part can bring you down if you can't get it." 
MBA program disputes study 
lished, quality institu­
. Stanford study 
tion there's always goingargues the value to be a market for you,"of MBA degree he said. "If you look at it 
over time, there is a sig­
nificant return on your
By ANDREW THAGARD investment." · 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame's two year MBA program costs A study by Stanford approximately 52,220 Graduate School of dollars total and the Business researchers average annual salary of Jeffrey Pfeffer and graduates increases by Christina about 39,400 dollars ­F o n g concrete evidence that questions an MBA is worth the thf' valid­costs, according to Luhr. itv of a Lohr, however, criti­
0
Ma st er s cized the study's empha­degree in sis on salary in deter­Business mining the success of Ad min­the value of an MBA and istration. focused on other factors 
T h e that lead applicants to study, seek admittance into released Notre Dame's program, over the summer, con­namely an emphasis on cludes that an MBA academics, ethics, char­degree provides little acter development, com­"real world" training munity service and an and has no significant overall balance in life. long-term effect on "I think the study salaries. focused primarily on 

According to Pfeffer salary changes," Lohr believe remains unan­the nationwide DeVry and Fong, many MBA said. "l don't think it's swered ... is do you University. programs use outdated fair to use salary as the learn anything at busi­According to Lohr, the and impractical teaching only measurement tool. I ness school?" Pfeffer results from the methods. Their research think you need to look at asked during an Stanford study have not also contends that an all the aspects." Associated Press inter­raised concern among overabundance of pro­While the study does view. Notre Dame MBA candi­grams, 300 nationwide incorporate salary Lohr, however, argues dates and he does not to date, and increased changes for MBA gradu­that Notre Dame's use of anticipate any changes popularity in the degree, ates, it is not the only case studies, lectures in application figures including a 3400 percent factor used. In an and group work coupled because of it. The pro­increase in the number Associated Press inter-with practical experi­gram currently boasts of stu-vi e w , ence, including visits an acceptance rate of 23 d e n t s Pfeffer from company represen­percent and an average
"I don't think it's fair to 

t o d a y said that tatives seeking input, GMAT score of 668 out f r o m use salray as the only salary adequately prepares of 800 -a score in 1956, bas measurement tool. I think alone is graduates for the busi­line with the national dimin­a n ness world. average of top ranked
you need to look at all

ished the imper­Both Pfeffer and Lohr MBA programs. advan­the aspects." fect way agree that an MBA from "The bottom line is tages of of mea­a top 50 school is a that a school like Notre an MBA. suring valuable investment at Dame adds so much
Brian Lohr 

Not so, t h e least from a networking value to your MBA
Associate Director of 

s a y s value of perspective. Pfeffer and degree," Lohr said. "lt B r i a n Notre Dame MBA Admissions a degree the study, however, allows you to make a L o h r , b u t question the purpose of difference out there in Associate q u e s -obtaining a degree from the real world." Director of Notre Dame tioned how much stu­a "national brand" col­MBA Admissions. dents really learn in lege like University of 
"I think if you have an business school. Phoenix or Keller Contact Andrew Thagard at MBA from an estab-"The question which I Graduate School, part of athagard@nd.edu. 



Enron CFO charged with fraud 
ferent homes and provided a $3 million directed and praised his work. 
Associated Press 

bond. Accountants and la,,vyers reviewed and 
HOUSTO'.'J, Dallas Prosecutors said Fastow executed approved his work," Keker said outside 
Andrew Fastow, the Enron executive "clandestine transactions" through a tho courthouse. "He never believed he who masterminded the financial web of off-the-books partnerships to was committing any crime." schemes that brought down the com­hide $1 billion in Enrou debt. The criminal complaint alleges that pany, was charged Wednesday with "Fastow and his co-conspirators sys­Enron's directors relied on "false rep­inflating the energy giant's profits and tematically and thoroughly corrupted resentations" from rastow and Enron's siphoning off millions for himself, his the business of one of the largest cor­chief executive, chief acrounting offi­familv and friends. pora ti. ons in the world." Deputy cer, treasurer and others when they 
Th~ former chief financial oflicer is Attorney General Larry Thompson said approved two partnerships in 1999. the biggest Enron figure charged by in Washington. Lay was chairman and chief execu­the Justice Department so far. The government described a conspir­tive when those partnerships were Prosecutors may use him to build a acy that lasted from 1997 to mid-2001. approved, and Skilling was president case against other insiders, including But except for Michael Kopper, a once­and chief operating officer. Skilling former Enron chief executive Jeffrey trusted Fastow aide who has pleaded became CEO in February 2001 and Skillh1g and former chairman Kenneth guilty to conspiracy, the government's abruptly quit six months later, citing Lay. criminal. complaint does not identify personal reasons. 
Fa.stow, 40, surrendered to the FBI other participants. The maximum penalties for the and was led away in handcuffs. He was Fastow's attorney, John Keker, said charges against Fastow include 20 charged with fraud, money laundering his client was just following orders. years in prison for money laundering, and conspiracy. He was later released "Enron hired Andy to arrange off­10 years for securities fraud and five on $5 million bail after his wife and his balance sheet financing. Enron's board vears each on the maiil fraud and con­parents surrendered deeds to five dif-of directors, its CEO, and its chairman, ~piracy charges. 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 3, 2002 
Green visit uncertain 
By MATT BRA.MANTI 
News Writer 
Is Texas singer-songwriter Pat Green coming to Notre Dame? As he would put it, "Who's to say?" 

Sabitha Narendran, president of the Texas Club, hopes to bring Green to campus next February. Green, who has personal ties to the University, has been looking forward to a show at Notre DamP. "It's always bPen a dream of his to play here," Narendran said. 
ThP San Antonio-born country singer bas gained quite a follow­ing at Notre Dame, especially among members of the Texas Club, who have been working to bring the emerging musician to South Bend for three years. 
Last spring's performance, scheduled for· Feb. 22, was can­celled because country music star /\Ian Jackson was playing the Joyce Center on the same night. 
The show would bo sponsored by the Texas Club, with addition­al funding provider! by the Student Activities Office's DICE program. DICE provides funding for innovative weekend non­alcoholic activities at Notre Dame. 
Green's most recent album, "Three Days," was released las October by Republic/Universal to critical acclaim. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Basilica Mass goes cable with Hallmark 
attending the Mass. It doesn't seem like the best way to serve a community of believ­ers." 
Price noted that special cer­emonies integral to the parish community such as baptisms, weddings, and first commu­nions could not be a part of the liturgy because of the time constraints. 
Rocca, however, considers the television coverage "a wonderful opportunity for evangelization." 
He said that a large propor­tion of the television audience is people who have fallen from the Church or who are curious about Catholic wor­ship. It's not just the sick and homebound watching. 
It's also a great way for Notre Dame, the Liturgical Choir, and the Congregation of the Holy Cross to gain national exposure, he said. 
On the whole, reaction to the televised liturgy has boen positive, said Rocca. 
"I think it's good for people who don't have access to Mass, because it brings them closer to tlrn Church," said Mary Hao, a sophomore from Howard, "but nothing can beat the real thing." 
The Basilica will continue its national evangelizing for a while, at least. The University's contract with the Hallmark channel extends through June 2005. 
Contact Jim Gaffey at jgaffey@nd.edu 

By JIM GAFFEY 
New, Writer 
The mention of High Mass at Sacred Hoart Basilica 1wokes images of incense, elaborate vestments, sacred rituals and an angelic r:hoir. But how about robotic cam­eras, high-tech sound equip­ment and prncision timing? 
Beginning in early .July, the Hallmark cable channel, in conjunction with Faith & Values Media, has broadcast the Basilica's 10 a.m. Mass to over 47 million homes nation­wide. Preparations for the nation-wide broadcast required the Basilica to be outfitted with digital clocks, strategically located cameras, and a control room in the basement of the building. 
Father Peter Rocca, rector of the Basilica, said the cam­eras arc "very well-placed" and am not a distraction for the congregation. They arc hard to notice unless you know to look for ttrnm: he said. The unoblrusive place­ment of the cameras was part of the Basilica staffs effort to ensure that broadcasting the Mass wouldn't compromise the quality of the celebration or the beauty of the Basilica. They didn't want cameramen walking up and down the aisles of the Basilica, distract­ing the congregation, Rocca said. 
The timing of the Mass, however, may be unnaturally preciso. Digital clocks, visible from behind the altar, as well as in the sacristy, choir loft. and foyer coordinate the cele­brants and choir. They count down from 60 minutes during the Mass. At 54 minutes and 15 seconds the opening hymn begins and the celebrants begin to process to the altar. Then Mass proceeds at a reg­ular, uninterrupted pace. When the clock reads 3 min­utes, it's time for final announcemnnts. And at 1 minute and 15 seconds the closing hymn starts and the celebrants leave the altar. The key factor in keeping on track with time, Hocca points out, is limiting the length of the homily. "I make it very clear, whether !the presider] is a bishop or a regular priest, the homily has to be seven min­utes -period," he said. 

Some worry that a national audience and such a stringent timetable have a negative impact on thn Basilica's litur­gy. Erin Fitzpatrick, a junior, is concerned that national broadcasting "compromises the integrity of' the Mass." She feels that tlrn mass is a sacred event, and commercializing it through the I Iallmark channel cheapens that. 
Lauren Price, a sophomore theology major, cited con­cerns about tailoring the homily to a national audience instead of to the local congre­gation. "It's a great thing to share our faith with the wider community," she said, "but [broadcasting the Mass] is a disservice for the people 

Thrusday, Octol:>er 3, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Accused of murder, Penn grad takes stand in 23-year-old case 

chummy with many of the

By EMILY SANDERS city's prominent citizens, from 
Pennsylvania Daily Pennsylvanian 
guru Allen Ginsberg to corpo­rate executives. His charisma Ira Einhorn turned heads. and ability to completely mes­He was a hippie with notori­merize people was sardonical­
ously pungent body odor who ly likened to Rasputin and became the driving force even Hitler. behind Philadelphia counter­Penn Historyculture. He 
Professor 

was an Michael
"Ile was brilliant, charis­

eccentric Zuckerman
matic, charming ... He had

professor was a friend who taught more ofafollowing than and classmate an alterna­
of Einhorn's in
he knew what to do with."

tive educa­high school 
tion class at and college, t h e Michael Zuckerman 
and the two University of Penn History Professor were later col­Pennsylvania leagues at the and who is University.
said to have danced around According to Zuckerman,the classroom naked while Einhorn was "magnetic."passing out pot to his students. "He was brilliant, charismat­
A 1961 Penn graduate. ic. charming," Zuckerman 
Einhorn was an active member 
said. "He had more of a follow­

of the Penn and Philadelphia ing than he knew what to do communities in the late 1960s 
with." 

and 1970s. He was responsible Zuckerman, who told the DP for bringing the Age of in 1993 that Einhorn had a Aquarius to Philadelphia and streak that was "clearly pow­organizing the first Be-In and erful. violent, experimentalSmoke-In and claimed to have and keen to experience feel­started Earth Day and Sun ings and emotions," echoed 
Day. Einhorn was one of the those sentiments again. founders of the Free University "He wanted to experienceof Pennsylvania, a movement life at its most intense, and this 
that advocated alternatives to 
included violence," Zuckerman conventional forms of educa­said, adding that Einhorn was 
tion. He even ran for mayor in constantly pushing the limits. 1971. There are countless stories, he Today, however, Einhorn is said, of Einhorn putting his 
on trial for the second time for 
hand in fire and betting people 

the brutal murder of a former how long he could keep it in girlfriend -a crime of which there. In high school, for he was once convicted. example, the 5-foot-7 Einhorn 
Einhorn attracted a large 
made himself the star haltback 

and diverse following. He was on the football team by sheer force of will. There were also episodes of allegedly attacking girlfriends, which Zuckerman says were not a pattern of behavior to Einhorn, but rather "an experiment." 
In 1979, Einhorn's mystique took on a sinister side. Einhorn's girlfriend. Holly Maddux, a Texan who had graduated from Bryn Mawr College, was found dead in the apartment the couple shared. Maddux had been missing for over a year before authorities discovered her mummified remains stuffed in a trunk in Einhorn's bedroom closet. 
In 1981, Einhorn was arrest­ed and subsequently released after paying the $40,000 bail. Upon his release, Einhorn fled the country and, aside from random alleged spottings in a few cities across Europe, did not surface for the next 16 years. 
From 1990 to 1992. under the pseudonym Eugene Mallon, Einhorn lived in a cottage in the county of Devon, England. Richard Buxton, who identified himself as Einhorn's landlord in England, has vivid memo­ries of Einhorn and his wife, Annika Flodin-Einhorn. whom he married in Europe. 
"He was an overbearing and rather intense man with mad eyes," Buxton wrote in an e­mail. 
"He used to frighten some of the locals by swimming with [Annika] naked and sun­bathing on the lawn," Buxton wrote. and he "spent much time on computers, slept on the floor and painted the house interiors some outlandish col­ors." 
Buxton wrote that when he tried to evict Einhorn as a ten­ant. Einhorn refused to leave, and Buxton was forced to get a court order to remove him. 
"We were suspicious of his status and 

just a very solid case against him," she wrote. 
Though convicted and sen­tenced, Einhorn's whereabouts remained a mystery. 
Five years after the trial, Einhorn (still under the alias of Mallon) was apprehended by 
F r e n c h 

were within a blink of going to the  "When we jurors went back to the room to  authorities in Bordeaux. But U.S. requests  
American Embassy," Buxton added.  deliberate, we first took a poll to see where we stood. That vote was a  for his extra­dition were denied by the French gov­ 
In  1993,  unanimous vote of  ernment  on  
Einhorn was tried in  guilty!"  the grounds that Einhorn  
absentia in a  would not be  
Philadelphia  Susan Duggan  given a second  
court, where  Penn associate director of the  trial where he  
he was con­victed by 14  University Scholars program  could prove  try  to his  
jurors of first  innocence in  

degree murder, and sentenced person. to life in prison. In 1998, the Pennsylvania 
Susan Duggan. Penn associ­Legislature passed a law to ate director of the University specifically deal with the Scholars program. was one the Einhorn case, which held that jurors at the first trial. a person tried in absentia, liv­
"It was the feeling of all the ing in a country that refused to jurors that the case was so extradite the person, could rock solid against him, there request a retrial upon his or was just no room for doubt," her return home. After a sec­Duggan wrote in an e-mail. ond hearing in 1998. the 
"When we jurors went back French government approved to the room to deliberate, we Einhorn's return to the United first took a poll to see where States in 1999, and after a we stood. That vote was a long appeal process, he unanimous vote of guilty!" returned in the summer of 
"But," she added, "we felt we 2001. couldn't just go running out This Monday. court proceed­after 15 minutes or so." She ings finally began in Einhdrn's and the other jurors deliberat­retrial. Twenty-five years after ed for two hours. re-hashing the crime, Einhorn's attorney the arguments put forth by announced that his client will both sides, but "the case was finally be giving testimony. 

Before the Stanford Game on 10/5/02, stop by The Tent Hesburgh Library Quad 
10:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Scheduled student performances by the Porn Pon Squad -Swing Club -Humor Artists Troop ND -World Taekwando Federation ­Ballroom Danre Club -Irish Dance Club Bagpipe Band -Harmonia 
ND/SMC:/HC: students may pu~hase burgers, brats, soda and hotdogs for $1.00 ea~h. 
sponsored by the Club Coordination C:ounc:il and the Student Activities Office 
Thursday, October 3, 2002
page 10 The Ohsm1er . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This 
Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
Freshman•Retreat #43 
Retreat Date: November 8-9, 2002 Septemer 30-November 4-sign-up dates 114 Coleman~Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encoounter Retreat #73 
Retreat Date: November 15-17 Sign-up dates: October 7-October 11 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA-Session •
10:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Rejoice! Mass 
10:00 p.m. Coleman Morse Chapel Celebrant: Fr. J. Steele, csc 
fflLdav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 ..8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #2 · 7:00 -8:45 p.m. 
Siegfried Hall Chapel 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00-11 :00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Freshman Peer Leaders gathering 
7:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Notre Dame Women Past and Present 

Reaching for the Better Part 
¦ by Chandra J, Johnson, Assistant to the President 
I graduated from high school che same year Notre Dame became a cu-ed campus: 1972. 

HoweYer, I didn't find my way to South Bend until twenty years later. A lot happened between 1972 and 1992, but finding my Yoi.ce through a college education was always my dream and life goal. When I finally got here, I realized that my dream was shared by a small group of tenacious and willing women who, like me, stopped dreaming and joined the Notre Dame student body. 
Today's column is dedicated to the women in the Class ofl 976 who blazed the trail of co-education at Notre Dame. As we take this year to reminisce on their pioneering spirit, I and thousands of women who came after you, want to say, "thank you!" You helped us to find our voice. You came from near and far to join an all-male student body who would have to stretch their imaginations to include women in their traditionally male stories of excellence and tradition. As a Notre Dame woman with a modern-day perspective, I often think about you and wonder how it was sitting in class­rooms surrounded by Notre Dame men who had to adjust to your smell, smile and common sense. I wonder ifyou or they were distracted or empowered by chis new campus experience. Or if you knew how much your spiritual and intellectual contributions would impact Notre Dame's future and national reputation. As we look back on your 30-year legacy, we remind ourselves ofyour pioneering spirit and how you helped to make Notre Dame a place where both men and women could obtain a quality education while learning the educative value of gender balance and shared perspectives. "May they be brought to Twenty years after you arrived on campus, I followed in your footsteps as a non-traditional student, and became the
complete unity to let the world 

first woman to serve as the Assistant to the President at Our Lady's university. It is because of you that I have found my
know that you sent me and 

voice and have the courage to express what I believe and lead have loved them even as you by my convictions. You have helped me to be the leader and Christian witness I have always wanted to be. Thirty years
have loved me." 

later, rest assured that your stories have not been forgotten. Your legacy and influence can be witnessed in the scories of our current generation of women intellectuals who, like you, 
-John 17:23 have learned co think critically and recite their stories from a position ofstrength. One such story was told a couple ofweeks ago at a A Life Uncommon meering in Pangborn Hall. 
One of the most stirring interpretations I have ever heard of the story of Jesus, Martha and Mary was given by a senior leader of the women's supporc group, A Life Uncommon. For anonymity sake, let's call her Rebecca. Our topic for the evening was self esteem and removing the 
barriers which prevent women from active learning and critical thinking. Rebecca said that it was in chis story that Jesus showed his compassionate care and concern for the cognitive well-being ofhis female friends: 
Ai they continued their journey he entered a village where a woman whose name was Martha welcomed him. She had a sister named Mary {who] sat beside the Lord at hisfeet listening to him speak. Martha, burdened with much serving, came to him andsaid, "Lord, do you not care that my sister has left ml' by myselfto do the serving' Tell her to help me." The Lord ,aid to her in reply, "Martha, Martha, you are anxious and worried about many things. There is need ofonly one thing. Mary has chosen the better part and it will not be taken ftom her." (Luke 10:38-42). 
Rebecca's interpretation of Luke's story was a brilliant hermenwtic comparing the societal roles of women then and now. She suggested that Jesus's reprimand. of Martha was helping her to see busy work and routine chores as secondary to knowledge-seeking. Mary's position at Jesus's feet was not a subservient gesture but "the better part" of their shared interaction. Jesus's response to Martha's complaint that her sister left her alone to do the serving provided her an opportunity to consider her options: she could either postpone her chores for the time being, or join her sister in a rare, teachable moment with Jesus. He encouraged Martha to be still and sit with him a while. Perhaps he wanted their undivided attention while he shared details of his journey and the miracles that happened along the way. Perhaps he wanted to teach them about the privileges of discipleship (Luke 10:23ff), the greatest Commandment (25ff), or the parable ofthe Good Samaritan (29ff)-lessons he taught the disciples on their way to Bethany. Perhaps he wanred ro reach them what others wouldn't. 
Like the women in the class of I 976, Martha and Mary were offered an educational opportunity. They were encouraged to stretch the boundaries which had defined their lives. Jesus gave them permission to realign their roles and think outside the box. By recon­structing his expectations and traditional social norms, he spoke to their minds and their spirits. He helped them to see that although household responsibilities are important, there is no substitute for learning. Nothing can replace knowing. 
When Rebecca completed her story, the room fell silent. We were touched by her modern day interpretation ofa very old story. We were charged to reach for "the better part" of our busy days and cake time to listen and learn. As we closed the meeting with a prayer, I reflected on my own journey from the kitchen to the classroom, and thanked God for the courage to follow my dream. Through her biblical interpretation, Rebecca taught me co look to ages past and embrace the lessons we have learned from those who have gone before us. As 21" century Notre Dame women who stand on the shoulders of rhe women of the Class of 1976, we join in solidarity with our sister matriarchs and carry the torch ofsovereignty and influence. We call on their maternal spirits and relive the trials and triumphs of their graced lives. We are blessed because they weren't afraid to trod on rocky ground. As we celebrate the 30th anniversary of co­education at Notre Dame, we remember their courage. fu a woman the age of those to whom this column is dedicated, I went home that night humbled by what I had learned from Rebecca, and thankful for the wisdom to know how much she had taught me. 
Twenty•seventh ¦ Basilica of the Sacred Hean ¦ Around Campus
Sunday of 

Saturday, October 5 Sunday, September 29
Ordinary Time 

30 minutes after the game Spanish Mass 
Most Rev. Charles V. Grahmann 

1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel
Mass Schedule 
Bishop of Dallas, TX 

Law School MassSunday, October 6 
5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel
8:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 

MBA Mass 
11:45a.m. 

7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB ChapelRev. Robert A. Dowd, c.s.c. 
¦ SlnlajSSClilJllnlleadQls 1st Reading Is 5: 1-7 2"" Reading Phil 4: 6·9 Gospel Mt 21: 33-43 
Thursday, October 3, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 11 
U-WIRE 
Abortion exhibit stirs up debate at Colorado State 
By WILLOWWELTER Rocky Mountain Collegian 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. 

A giant display of posters showing bloody. aborted fetuses caused controversy in the Plaza at Colorado State University Monday. 
"Warning: Genocide Pictures Ahmtel" read the signs erected at the l'ree speech Plaza, where lhe anti-abortion group Justice For All had set up for day one (the group will be on the Plaza again Wednesday) of its controversial exhibit. Billboard-sized posters showed fotuses at diffenrnt stages of pregnancies, after the women bad undergone abor­tions. 
Surrounding the anti-abortion dmnonstration area were blank white boards where spectators could freely write their thoughts. Writtrn in marker on the "Free Speech Boards" wern remarks like. "It's too bad vou have to use gory pictures to p·ersuade people to believe you" and "I hope this makes you sick because it's mur­der and if you support il. you need help." 
Justice For All was not the only organization present, although their display towered in size over the others. The pro-choice group, National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League, had a booth focused on the upcoming election. 
Nearby, shouting ensued between another pro-choice platform. Life and Liberty for Women, and several anti-abor­tionists. 
Throughout the Plaza, students engaged in heated discussions. some wearing neon-colored "I Am Pro-Choice" stickers that NARAL had distributed. Some of these conversations were sparke.d by a group of about 90 people that had traveled from Colorado Springs to engage stu­dents in non-confrontational dia­logue about the topic. 
The Colorado Springs group was composed of students at the Focus Institute, a Christian orga­nization and school against abor­tion. 
Bonnie Bolz, a student at Focus Institute, said Justice For All came to their school and asked them to come engage in dialogue without necessarily expressing conflicting views. 
The resident supervisor at Focus Institute, Lindy Beam, said their group came to educate peo­ple about abortion. 
"I don't think people really think about what abortion really is," Beam 
said. "If it's legal and it's the most common surgery in the United States, why don't we ever see pictures of it? Why don't we ever look at it?" 
Beam said the group of stu­dents came with the approach of engaging in conversation without trying to force their beliefs on people. 
"We're all pro-life and we want to get our view across, but basically the truth is going to stand for itself," Beam insisted. 
"I don't have to force you to believe it." 
The bloody abortion posters upset some students, inciting obscenity, shouting and disap­pointed sighs. 
"I completely disagree with this," said Hannah Girtin, a sophomore English major, as she examined the Justice For All exhibit. "It's so atrocious. If I don't even have a right to choose, then how can someone expect me to be a mother?" 
"Yeah," agreed Emily Latta, a freshman open liberal arts major. "It kind of makes me numb to the whole thing. Why scare me with something like this?" 
Nate Enyart, a young man who had traveled from Denver to wit­ness the demonstration, had other thoughts. 
"People are just mad that they have to see these pictures, but no one is forcing them to look," Enyart said. "Students can sec it if they want to see it, and if not they don't have to look at it." 


SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL" INSTANT MESSENGER"' service TWO-WAY MESSAGING JAVA'" GAMES & APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 
i10c 
,cJ.""y +-\.le J-l~ih"'-1 w....1\.ie+""l\.ie wov\.s cvev seve..<'1.l hl.\""J...eJ. ""iles. A"'J. +-c~c .....cw, \\.,,.Ho1-iwiJ.e. 
NEXTEL: 
-n,..ey've "'-11 C0'1.\\ti\\j O\\ yo\.\. Which is why yov. \\eeJ. Ne,ct-el's c::l.i,ftci.l wc,,.lkie+ci.l~ie .fec,,.h..,ve. It lets yov. ~ei-"iBk+ tkvo'1.Bh wit+. +-he fl.\Sh o.P "" 'ol.\t+o\\. -n,..c,.t IMe"'-\\S "" 1Missec::l. cc,,.lls, voice ""'"'-n ov rho\\e t-c,,.,. $¼-c,,.y i\\ co\\r"'-c+-wi¼--l,,. everyo\\e .Pvo1M \-\,\e Flo"'-¼--(01M1Mit+ee ¼--o +-he Ah"""'"'i Co1M1Mit+ee, wit-hcl.\t-rMissi\\B ci. J.et-ci.il. Now yo1>.'ve ve"'J..y-iYi\\B It. 
Now's ci. ,rec:l\t-ti1Me t-o t,et 1-{e,ct-eh 
,,.,11 t-ioh-e t)"'""'e sh...J..e\\t-s Be+­
"'10%\:Aisco«A\\i-0\\ "'"'Y Vl?\te 
fl"'"' "'"'J. $\00* o.P.P "''"Y pho\\e. 
'TO 'ol.\y: 
# 8" +-o \\e)(tel.colM/lvish-stl.\~e"'+-· # c"'ll tcU-Pv-ee I -i77-S"0,-212,. 
# col,\h:'lct Jt)t--\ Co~wu11.\\te"l.tiCl,\S 
"'t S74-24'3-'3818' 
Conversations between the leaders of the Wichita, Kan. group, Justice For All, and members of the crowd contin­ued throughout the first day of this display, which lasted from 8 
a.m. until about 3 p.m. 
Tammy Cook, spokeswoman for Justice For AU, sat on a stool addressing comments and ques­tions that passers-by confronted her with. 
"This is just another form of education," Cook said. "Our main goal is to help raise awareness that abortion takes the life of an unborn baby." 
Cook said she realized the pic­tures may disturb people, but for a reason. 
"Ifsomething is so horrifying," she said, "then maybe we need to rethink how we view abor­tion." On the other end of the Plaza stood Peggy Loman from Life and Liberty for Women, arguing with a cluster of people surrounding her. Loman also had bloody pictures displayed at her pro-choice platform, but instead of aborted fetuses they showed a naked woman bleed­ing on a tloor after undergoing an illegal abortion. 
'Tm here to educate the peo­ple on this campus about what illegal abortion looks like, because they don't know," Loman said. "It's important that against those (Justice For All) pictures, which I believe are distorted, that you see what an illegal abortion looks like." 
Her posters included more text than it did pictures, first posing the question, "Does God Condemn Roe vs. Wade?" then answering it with sentences like, "God Committed the Deliberate Act of Abortion," and "Abortion is Absolutely in Line with God's Laws." 
Steering clear of students hoping to debate, the NARAL members had a booth on the north end of the Plaza focused solely on the upcoming election. Since the Colorado State Senate has a pro-choice majority by merely one vote, NARAL emphasized the stance, "We Must Elect Pro-Choice Candidates!" 
Corrie Bonnar, campaign coordinator from the Laramie county NARAL, said the group just began its Voter Contact Program, which involves informing voters of the pro­choice candidates in their dis­tricts. To further this cause, NARAL has organized a pro­choice rally to take place in Denver on Oct. 7. 
"What we're doing today is focusing our efforts on the elec­tion because it's a really impor­tant election year," Bonnar said. "So today we're signing people up for our pro-choice rally next week and signing them up to volunteer in our Voter Contact Program." 
Tammy Cook and the· Justice For All group, labeled "anti­choice" by some people, dis­agree with that term. 
"I say that I am vehemently pro-choice for women to be able to choose their schools, thAir careers, what color their hair is, what they wear, their husbands," Cook began, "I am for all of these choices. But some choices are wrong, like taking the life of a human being.'' 
Justice For All, as well as the pro-choice groups NARAL and Life and Liberty for Women, continued to demonstrate on the Plaza Wednesday. 
OTHE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

page 12 Thursday, October 3, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dinin; Hall. Notre De>me. l'J 46556 
EmTOR IN CHIEF Jason McParley 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER K..re Nagengasr Kevin Ryan 

As.sT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERAfl0NS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne V!EWl'OINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Man Lutz , Ao OF.SIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS A.DMl1'1STRATOR: Ted Bangert WFB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MA.'iAGER/GENERAL INF0..............6.31-7471 FAX.......... ........ .... . .................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING........ ..............631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. .............................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME. ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.. ........................... 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO............. .. ........... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Edirorial conrent, including advertisements. is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leuers co the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies ,houldbe direct­ed to Editor tn Ch,efjmon McFar!ey. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The rn-rl'cr (USPS 5')9 240! i~ pubh~fm.! Monday through Frid.1y cxccrr Jurin~ c-x.1m .md v;1ut1tm period\. A ,ub\C.nption to The Ob:.ervt'.r t, '/,JOO for one acaJ.cm1c .•·c.ir: $'i5 fotonc \t"ffic.rcr 
TI1r Oh\('rvc·r i~ p11l,ti~hc~! .u: PO<::TM.ASTER 014 :-iouth Dmm~ 1-i.111 Sem.l ~ddro... curr«non~ UJ. Nunr-llame-. It-,; 46\SU-CIT-''} l11C' Ob,ervc:-r Ptrn,Jic.il pm!:if:l' j'Jlll ,tr \;u1rt D.Hlll' fl.O Box C~ ,u1d ;adJ,uon.d nuilini; otlice._ Nom O.um. IN 465'5G..077<J 
The Ohwr1·rr i, 3 !M<"mbt-r n! rhc A,\nc1;sml Pr~,. AU r~·11rod.m::r111n ri~hr, .!rt 
r~fYC'd 



Foreign travel offers new chances to 'explore, dream, discover' 
"Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn't do than by the ones you did. So throw off the bowlines. Sail awav from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your 
Andrew
sails. Explore. Dream. Discover." DeBerry Last week, "LonDomers" got 
ND Going 
the chance to live 
Global 
out Mark Twain's challenge. 
The beaches of Spain, mountain cliffs of Switzerland and bike trails of Scotland have all been marked by the footprints of eager Irish travelers, out for adventure during the first of two week-long breaks in London. 
One prime destination was Munich, Germany for Oktoberfest. Expecting to see tarp tents full of tables and barmaids carrying out jugs of beer, we were surprised to discover one big German carnival. Out in the rain ven­dors sold pretzels, bratwursts, deco­rated cookies and even old-fashioned cotton candy. In the large beer hous­es. waitresses in full German dresses carried out scores of liter steins to the international patrons. Bands played music in the festive houses as groups standing on tables swayed to the German and American tunes, toasting strangers with a loud clink. If the beers weren't enough to make the partygoers dizzy, maybe the out­door Ferris wheels, spinning carnival rides and roller coasters would. 
A few dizzy German men needed to follow us on the way back to our hos­tels ten minutes away. They couldn't speak a word of English, but they could sing the full chorus to "Hooked On A Feeling," which echoed in the tunnel over that stretch of road. At the hostel, I grabbed my camera to take a picture of our 12-bcd room. Some Korean roommates got exciteci and huddled together with their tall Oktoberfest hats on their heads. I jumpf!d in, and an Australian woman took the shut. 
Munich is an international attrac­tion, but we didn't get too far from the Notre Dame crowd. Students from the Spain, Rome and London pro­grams bumped into each other all in one day. Running across a familiar face unexpectedly in a foreign coun­try is a strange exhilaration. 
My travel pack was surprised to bump into another London group with two other flatmates. Eager to share stories, we traveled together by rail to Salzburg, Austria. A shift of pace from the busy Munich streets, Salzburg offered several decorated churches and monuments dedicated to Austria's renowned composers, including Haydn and Mozart. 
Having struggled with poverty, Hadyn was noted for saying, "I have associated with kings, emperors and many great gentlemen and have heard many flattering things from them; but I do not wish to live on an intimate footing with such persons, and [ prefer people of my own sta­tus." Were he alive today, he might have preferred passing time outside his great exhibition hall with the harpist playing for change nearby in the quiet public square. 
Being the dumb American tourist was an adventure. On an Austrian mountain field like those seen in "The Sound of Music," three of us found some big cows with horns grazing in the brush. I walked up to the big white cow. The big cow looked at me. I ran away. In the Munich hostel, a friend had left behind some clothes I stuffed in my bag. While the sandals were hers, the bra was not. 
Others returned from their coun­tries having encountered cultures that touched a part of their soul. On their bike excursion in Scotland, one group met and counsP-led a sad teenager outside a phone after his "lassie" had just broken up with him. Another roommate on an Italian beach watched a father teach his son how to skip rocks over the water and is determined to do the same when he has kids. 

After the week away, we were glad to be back in English country. Getting home, we found London had had a 150,000-person demonstration against the possible Iraq attack and the tube workers were to strike start­ing today. 
The adventures continued while home. At the Welcome Back Mass that had been set up, we did the readings and sang at the usually quiet local church. The local parish­ioners must have been amused by the choir, who had organized 15 minutes before the service and often sang off sequence with the priest far away in the large, stone church. Thanks to Corey the organ player and singers from the Glee Club and Folk Choir, we kept somewhat on track. That evening was a flatmate's birthday, so we stuck candles in some donuts and the girls across the hall sang for him. 
After exploring, many have lived out dreams formed before coming abroad and now anticipate discover­ing the people here anew. Oddly enough, people noted how real life in a far-off street in Switzerland felt much like real life in America. 
What added to the experience was what it drew from the soul within. The challenge now is to find the sim­ple gifts of relationship and life that fill the heart. What makes you feel the joy? To echo Twain's words, "Explore. Dream. Discover." 
Andrew DeBerry is a senior study­ing aerospace engineering and with the Hesburgh Program ofPublic Service who is spending this semester in London. He welcomes e-mails at adeberry@nd.edu. llis column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sheila Flynn Justin Krivickas Sarah Nestor Viewpoint Kristin Yemm Patrick McElwee Graphics Chris N aid us 
Sports 
Brian Kronk Rachel Protzman Sharee Holloway 
Scene 
C. Spencer 
Beggs 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does the new honor code, which provides for the use of the Web site turnitin.com, diminish trust between students and professors'? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Travel can be one ofthe most rewarding forms ofintrospection." 
Lawrence Durrell British author 
OBSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, October 3, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't believe administration's SYR spin 
I am writing in response to the Ocl. 1 article, "New SYR gets mixed reviews." While waiting for an update on how my girlfriend was feeling and for my friend to return from the hospital early Sunday morning, I secretly hoped that an article of this nature would appear in this week's paper and give me the chance to write this response. I find it insulting that the University would attempt to place a positive spin on a policy that, I feel. placed my friend in this very com­promising position. 
The reason that the new alcohol policy was put into effect, to my recollection, was to promote more responsible alco­hol use on campus. While the idea to limit the time of a pre-party and take the dance outside of the dorm was well­intended, I could not help but notice more students drinking to get -and stay -drunk this weekend. 
I do not blame the University for the mentality of students. I am simply stat­ing that their restrictions are exacerbat­ing the situation. Out of the 200 people who attended our dance, I was aware of at least five examples of abusive drink­ing which led to illness or hospitaliza­tion. In all honesty, I saw more cases of binge drinking in the two hours before our dance Saturday than I did all last year. 
If the University wants to help ensure our safety, I believe that they can pro­vide a more conducive atmosphere for social drinking instead of fostering an environment with abusive drinking. As the social commissioner of Keough Hall and a person who has taken a Jot of pride in living here, I find it truly dis­heartening that dorm spirit has dimin­ished in the past year, especially among freshmen. 
From what I have heard this has been consistent around campus and even the article mentioned the lack of spirit in the dorms. Many dorm dances have already been cancelled -for example, O'Ncill's -and I fear that the lower attendance rates could possibly lead to the extinc­tion of hall dances. I find dorm life to be one of the most unique parts of Notre Dame and think that the new SYR poli­cies are a destructive force. Do not allow the University to convince themselves that the alcohol policy solves drinking issues here on campus. If these rules and regulations remain constant, it may be you waiting up all night hoping your girlfriend/boyfriend is alright and that your friend makes it home from the hos­pital. 

Dan Degen 
sophomore Keough Hall Oct. 2 

Arguing against a pre-emptive strike on Iraq 

Ignoring the rule oflaw makes us no better than Saddam 
Regarding Mike Marchand's column urging a pre­emptive attack on Iraq ("Time for talk is over," Sept. 30), it's time for a reality check. A morality check, too. 
The writer and President Bush seem to have devel­oped ESP or some machine that lets them look into the future and know for certain what will happen. How else do you explain their insistence that they have the right to punish criminals before they have committed a crime? 
Let's pretend, as the writer suggests, that intelli­gence sources had uncovered the Sept. 11 plot a few months in advance. The writer says the proper course of action would have been to order a "fierce preemp­tive attack" (on Afghanistan, presumably) before the plan could be carried out. 
What does he suppose would have been the response of the civilized world to this attack? Utter outrage ­and justifiably so. There we'd be, bully-boy USA, invading a sovereign state because we claimed to have information that a mysterious terrorist group was plot­ting a diabolical attack on our soil. 
Rather than launch an invasion, the smarter, safer and infinitely more economical response would have been to catch the perpetrators in the act. It would have been child's play to follow them to the airport and onto the planes and put them in handcuffs the minute they entered the cockpits (remember these guys had box cutters, not guns). Then you put them on trial and, if they're convicted, put them in prison. No "fierce pre­emptive attack" necessary, just good police work and a firm dedication to justice and the rule oflaw. 
The United States is supposed to stand for those things, but cowboy-justice hawks and simpletons like our president and his advisers follow different princi­pies, like "war now, inspections later" and 'Tll kill you now in case you might be plotting to kill me." 

Saddam may be a madman, he may be developing terrible weapons, he may use them against other coun­tries. Or he may not. Only he and God know for sure. George Bush doesn't, and neither does Donald Rumsfeld, no matter how strongly they insist they do. 
lfwe ignore the rule oflaw, pretend we know the future and take matters into our own hands, we're doubtfully any more principled than Saddam. 
Ed Cohen associate cdiror, Norre Dame Magazine Granger, Ind. Sepr. 30 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Thursday, October 3, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Wedding' a happy ending for all 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Edimr 
"My Big Fat Greek Wodding" is one of the best movies released this vear. Nia Vardalos. a former memhPr of thP famous improvisational comedy group Second City Chicago. wrotP thf' screenplay and the one-\voman show on whkh it was based. Vardalos' expert writing is what makes this movie so rharming and fun to watch. 
Yardalos plays Toula, a non-descript 30­something waitress who works in her family's Greek restaurant, Dancing Zorba's, in Chicago. Though Toula seems perfectly rnsigned to her r-verlasting "frumpy phas(\" her family is disappoint­ed v,;th her b1-\rnuse she has not married and has no children, which is, as Toula nxplains. thP biggHst sin in GrP.ek cultun•. Grnek woniP.n havP. three duties, she says; to marrv Greek bovs, have Greek babies and feed everyone until the day they die. 
And living with her very Greek family in the suburbs in house that bears a striking resemblance the Temple of Pergamon with a Greek flag painted on its garage, causes Toula to be ashamed of her family and herself. Rut. Toula can't escape the Greek. Besides her perfect Greek older sister. aptly nanwd Athena, and her broth­er Nie. her privacy is constantly invaded bv her 27 first cousins and countless other n;embers of her extended family mem­fairly basic romantic comedy plotlinc. but knows best: "Full llouse" episodes. well that audiences won't feel uncomfort­bPrs. But most of all. Vardalos is houndP.d 

in this case, the way Vardalos presents Despite its artistic shortcomings, Vardalos' able laughing at any of thn jokes that obvi­by her father. Gus (Michael Constantine), a Toula's life and her hysterical family, this story and characters come through with ously take advantage of thesn simplifica­ethnocentric man who believes that he 
is not a bad such person­tions.
can trace the roots of all words back to thing. In fact, ality and Some critics might complain that "My

Greek including words like kimono and ''My Big Fat Greek Wedding"

there's no panache that Big Fat Greek Wedding" is just anotherthat Windex cums almost all ailments. 
big plot twist 
audiences "coming to terms with my ethnic family"
But fortune strikes and a local high schoolteacher, Ian Miller (John Corbett), in the movie can't help comedy that doesn't olTer anything new. at all, it's a loving it And they're absolutely right. But when
walks into her life, or more specifically her restaurant. The two have an instant very fluid "My Big was the last time that a romantic comedy 
Director: Joel Zwick

connection but Toula's neuroses keep him progression Fat Greek offered a real look love? For most, espe­
Writer: Nia Vardalos 

at arms lnngth. Meanwhile, with the help from frump Wedding" is cially studenl'> at the University or College.
Starring: Nia Vardalos, John Corbett and Michael

of her subversivP mother and aunt, Gus to matrimo­enjoyable for love life could be considered morously
Constantine 

agrees to send Toula to community college ny. almost all funny at best. and let her work at her aunt's Greek trav­The movie audiencns Frankly, this movie has a heart that no actually fails even though Meg Ryan meets Tom llanks flick could
el agency. 

in a number of other respects. The cine­it walks a fine line on a number of touchy ever muster. It's just it a foe! good movieToula and Ian meet again and have an matography isn't all that thought out and subjects. For example, Ian's parenl'> con­that is just plain fun. 
awkward get to know each other phase. 
a lot of design elements are simply left to stantly look like they just stepped out of a 
One thing leads to another and they 
their own devices. Director Joel Zwick. Wonderbread factory and Toula's family

decide to get married. But, there's a slight hitch: Ian's not Greek. who has worked primarily directing tele­could be accused of representing negative Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
vision sit-coms, seems to use what he Greek stereotypes. But, the mmie flows so

"My Big Fat Greek Wedding" follows a beggs.3@nd.edu 




Toula is hounded by her lack of privacy from her 27 bickering first cousins pic­ture here dancing at her wedding. 
O
THE 

BSERVER ­


Thursday, October 3, 2002 
page 15 

CONCERT REVIEW 
Springsteen rocks the Windy City 
When two of your best friends call you during ·'Born to Run." getting beer spilled down your leg and at 5 p.m. and ask if you want their two Though it is a theme that has been smoke blown in your face that makes a The opinions expressed in this column extra tickets to the Springsteen show prevalent through much of the Boss's rock concert great (though all those are those nf the author and not neces­that's starting in two and half hours. say career, the latest album incorporates things do contribute). Truthfully, it's the sarily those of The Observer. yes. Even if you have to go 80 miles per more of a guspcl feel, allowing even the people around you. So, to my two friends Dave Hartwig started that whole goat­hour to grt thrre in toughest momr:mts to havr a certain who gave me the tirkets and my third ee thing, he doesn't do it anymore time. Trust me, I Dave Hartwig sense of celebration. This same celebra­friend who came along for the ride, because it's played out. He can be con­know from experi-tory sensation that runs throughout thanks -it was one helluva show. tacted at hartwig.4@nd.edu. rmce. many songs on Th<· Rising drfinitely 
Some critics sav Sr.ene infiltrated the show, culminating in sev­that the Ross has· fall­Columnist eral very powerful renditions in which en into that all-too­the majority of the audience were stand­large eategory of ing, clapping their hands and singing out rockrrs that have the chorus. It was almost reminiscent of go!le soft in tlwir old age. Look at liis lat­the world's largest church all singing a est album Tlw Rising; it's ahout Sept. 11, cd~~hratory hymn. Though Sept. 11 was right'' Wrong. Well, the album is about a horrific tragedy_. Springsteen puts a our most rncent national tragedy, but great spin on it by celebrating the good thosP critics are wrong. Never have I and the heroic that often comes through seen a performer light up a stage and at such moments. Plectrify an audience like Bruce Then, just when you think he can't get .­Springsteen and his E Street Band did any cooler -after all, this is the rock last week. From the very first chord of star who is helping to clean up super­"The Hising" the sold-out Cnited Center fund sites (that means very polluted) in crowd was on its feet. completely unable New Jersey, contributing to the revital­to contain its cheers to the moments ization of Asbury Park and going betwerm the music. through the five year procedure to make 
A few highlights from the show his farm all organic -he announces includ1~: an impromptu rendition of that there are people interspersed "llappy Birthday to You" sung by the throughout the concourse who are col­audienrr to Springst(rnn while he lecting money to help the Chicago area's attcmptPd to stop us (yes, it really was homeless and underprivileged people. his birthday); Bruce slicing open his fin­Springsteen encouraged everyone to go ger during a guitar duel with Little out and contribute whatever they could. St1wie and continuing to play while blood 'Those are the people that are out sprayed all over his guitar (now that's their doing what I sing about in a lot of dedication. folks); Clarence Clemons. E these songs," Springsteen said. Street's amazing saxophonist and the Of course, never one to keep quiet Boss shaking their booties during "Born about his beloved USA, the Boss encour­in the USA": and. of course, Eddie aged us all to pay a little more attention Vedder of Pearl Jam singing a duet of to what our government is doing. "My llometown" along with Springsteen. "We live in the greatest country," he 
In addition to playing many of the said. "But our civil liberties and those of songs off his new album. Springsteen others are being violated." int11rspersed a number of classic songs I wondered at the time if John to please the many long-time fans in the Ashcroft was listening ... probably not. house. I could go through how incredible I\evertheless, I am one of those people each of the classics was to hear per­who think that rock stars sounding off !'ornwd. especially as it was my first time on political issues is fine; if you are seeing him play live after many years of famous, use it for something better than being a fan. just money. Hey, if Ronald Reagan can 
The highlight for me was the end of become president. I say vote Springsteen the first encore. when the E Street Band in '04. kicked it way back to their first album In the end, it's not the great music or and Bruce regained some of his youth seeing one of your heroes perform or 


-
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 3, 2002 
MLB 
-Angels battle for late 8-6 victory over the Yankees 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Dramatic home runs. Clutch pitching by closers. Yet another late-night comeback in the Uronx. 
Yes. the Anaheim AngPls cer­tainly have learned from the New York Yankees. 
Garrrt Anderson liit a tying home run off Orlando Hernandez ti:., the eighth inning, Troy Glaus 
. rollowed with a go-ahead shot 
··-and the Angels evened their best­of-five AL playoff series by win­ning 8-6 in Game 2 Wednesday night. "I know crazy things happen here," said Troy Percival, who escaped jams in the eighth and ninth innings, "but not tonight." After watching the Yankees rla"'· back from a 4-0 deficit to take a 5-4 lead. the crowd was stunned. It was the first time New York lost a postseason game at Yankee Stadium when leading after the seventh inning, accord­ing to the Elias Sports Bureau. "We know we can come back and win any time," Anaheim's Bengie Molina said. 'They proba­bly know that, too." A night after not bringing in Percival and watching his bullpen squander a lead in the opener, Angels manager !\like Scioscia called for his closer with Anaheim trying to protect a 7-5 edge in the eighth. Percival got out of the jam, throwing a called third strike past Derek Jeter, who questioned the call, with the bases loaded. Scott Spiezio provided a cush­ion with a run-scoring double in the ninth off Jeff Weaver, his third hit and RBI. The Yankees tried for one more comeback in the bottom of the ninth, with Jorge Posada blooping an RBI single with one out. But with two runners on, Percival struck out Nick Johnson and retired Raul Mondesi on a popup. Anaheim, which set a team postseason record with 17 hits, headed home to California after the 4-hour, 11-minute marathon with its first playoff win since 
1986, one that gives the Angels hope they can knock off the four­time defending AL champions. 
"We do what it takes to win, no matter the circumstances, no matter whatever," Glaus said. 
The series resumes Friday, with the Angels' Ramon Ortiz facing .'.vlike Mussina in Game 3. 
"We've got a big challenge ahead of us, no doubt about it," Sciuscia said. "\.Ve've got to go nut thPre and continue to press these guys." 
Giants 8, Braves 5 
Barrv Bonds didn't have to come "up big for the San Francisco Giants to get a jump on the Atlanta Braves. 
The rest of the San Franrisco hitters knocked around Atlanta's heralded pitching staff while Russ Ortiz threw seven strong innings, carrying the Giants to an 8-5 victory Wednesday in Game 1 of the NL division playoffs. 
"Obviously, Barry gets most of the attention, and he deserves the atti-rntion," Ortiz said. "But we have a really good ballclub up and down the lineup." 
Down 8-2, Garv Sheffield and Javy Lopez homered in the eighth to get the Braves close. Atlanta had its chance in the ninth, but Robb Nen got Sheffield to ground into a game-ending double play ""ith two runners on for a save. 
"It doesn't matter how you get it or the way you get it," said J.T. Snow, who got San Francisco off to a quick start with a two-run double in the second off Tom Glavine. "You've just got to get the win." 
Bonds, an overwhelming favorite for his fifth MVP award, was denied a homer in the eighth when Andruw Jones leaped above the center-field wall to make a catch. 
It didn't matter to Bonds, who is more concerned about winning his first World Series ring. He smiled as he walked off the field, glancing back to look at the replay on the video board. 
Bonds' teams are O-for-5 in the postseason, losing twice to the Braves in the early '90s while 


Anaheim's Troy Glaus launches a home run during the eighth inning of the Angels' 8-6 victory over the New York Yankees Wednesday. 
playing for Pittsburgh. But the six strong innings as the A's beat fourth. wild-card Giants grabbed an the Minnesota Twins 9-1 "That much offense lets any early advantage in the best-of-5 Wednesday to even their AL divi­pitcher take a big, deep breath," series over the East champion sion series at one game apiece. said Mulder, who allowed five Braves, who led the league with Eric Chavez had a three-run hits. "After we got a big early 101 wins in claiming their 11th homer, and rookie Mark Ellis got lead, I couldn't let them get back straight division title. three hits as Oakland emphati­in it like they did in Game 1. 
"It helps when you get on top cally replied to the Twins' 7-5 Once I got a couple of zeros, I felt early," Snow said. "We pride our­comeback victory in Game 1 with good." selves on being able to jump on a tremendous offensive game The A's, who won 103 games the other team quickly." against Joe Mays (0-1) and the and the AL West to earn their 
Twins' bullpen. third straight trip to the playoffs, Athletics 9, Twins 1 Each of the first seven hitters in showed they wouldn't let one loss 
Behind Mark Mulder's steady Oakland's lineup got an extra­distract them from their plan to pitching and a whole lot of timely base hit as the A's jumped to an improve on consecutive first­hitting, everything was back to 8-0 lead after four innings. round series losses. nonnal for the Oakland Athletics. Justice, the most prolific run-pro­Time after time in the early 
David Justice's bases-loaded ducer in playoff history, added innings, the A's came up with the triple highlighted Oakland's 14-three more RBIs to his record timely hits that eluded them a hit barrage, and Mulder pitched total during Oakland's five-run day earlier. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al! classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  LOST & FOUND  
CJs Pub See whats happening  LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold  
www.cjspub.com  initials JME, size 10 3/4; engraved  
within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14  
Attention Spring Breakers Travel  Michigan game. stadium student  
Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals  section or on field. Jon Mack 309  
Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations  Zahm, 634-1090.  
Most Reliable www.sunsplash­ 
tours.com  
1-800-426-771 0  WANTED  
EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY -The  
deadline to reserve space for dis­ #1 Spring Break VacationslMexico,  
play advertising is 3 pm two pub- Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas!  
lishing days prior. The ad copy  Campus Reps Wanted' Best Prices  
needs to be in by 12 pm the day  Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­ 
before the ad is to run.  7007 endlesssummertours.com  
THERE WILL BE NO EXCEP- Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski  
TIONS1!! If ad is received after the  and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep.  
noon deadline. the ad WILL NOT  positions available now. Largest  
RUN and the advertiser wrll be  con"nissions. Travel Freer 1-600­ 
billed for the space reserved.  SLJNCHASE ext. 123. WWW.SUN­ 
CHASE.COM  
Prr SALES WOMENS BOUTIQUE  
- RETAIL EXP PFRD. $8/HR 10-20  Earn extra money evenings sched­ 
HRS/WK. SEND RESUME TO  uling appointments and making  
NOELLES 2500 TOPSFIELD RD  customer cal,s for local State Farm  
#207 SOUTH BEND, IN 46614  agent 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights,  
you ~hoose from Tuesday­ 
$250 a day potential/bartending  Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must  
Training provided  be enthusiastic with great telephone  
presence. Fax resume to 574-232·  
1-800-293-3985 ext. 556  9984.  
....  

BED & BREAKFAST Football  
weekends for ND parents. Two  
nights minimum. 10 min. from cam­ · PERSONAL  
pus. 272-5640  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
TICKETS  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  
or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
check our prices. 273-3911.  more information, see our bi-weekly  
ad in THE OBSERVER.  
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  
GAME.  Give adoption a chance ...we are  
CALL JACK 674-6593.  happily married and need your help  

FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES· NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM· MAINTENANCE STAFF 
$99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
If you enjoy natural woodwork and a beautiful spacious older home with a well-manicured yard, then see this 4-bedroorn , 1-1/2 bath with formal dining room with crystal ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS ­CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING FAST-CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 · (574)274-9955 ­(57 4)67 4-2471 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast 

chandelier Close to ND  has space available for football/par­ in starting a family. Will provide a  
ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­ lifetime of love. laughter and end- 
Call Ellen Baker 255-5858.  hot breakfast, $80-$115,  8048 or astrog999@aol.com  less opportunities Call our attorney  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  toll free at 866-215-2229.  
2 -1986 National Champion foot- Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-94B7.  WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST  
balls signed by players, coaches &  PRICES PAID 251-1570  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
Lou Holtz.  Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
(Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  
Call 271-2843.  Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607­ PRICES 289-9280  Information/Reservations 1-800­ 
723-7363  648-4849 or www.ststraveLcom  
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  
FOR RENT  LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from ND Basement, garage, safe and  SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  hey you -have a nice day :)  
private. $640/mo. Great location ­ ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT- 
All size homes available for 2003­ 1122 Woodward Ave. Call 360­ ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  hettler -you owe me a lot  
2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  2500  love, Kronk-dawg  
www.mmmrentals.com  FSU vs. Notre Dame The Maxwell  
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from  House 2 tickets. 2 nights, full break- did you all hear the rumor that  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Notre Dame -Perteet tor Football  fast 229.872 3680  there's a third-floor hookup room at  
RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS.  Weekend Resort in Union Pier on  heartland?  
Lake Michigan. Most units  Need Home GA tix. Call 276-8507,  
CALL 243-0658 OR 2980223.  rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245  after 5 call 288-2877 .  can it really be true?  

MLB 
NevV labor contract focuses on penalties for drug possession 
page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 3, 2002 

Associated Press  Anaheim's Scott Schoeneweis said. "I think that's a good  Each player will be given two announced tests for illegal  season, he gets his full salary for first 30 days of treatment,  enue from 20 percent to 34 percent, and requires that  
NEW YORK  thing."  steroids  next  year  during  and half his salary for days 31­ "each club shall use  its rev­ 
Players convicted of drug possession face automatic sus­pensions under baseball's new  Darryl Strawberry pleaded no contest to cocaine posses­sion charges in May 1999.  spring training or the regular season as part of a survey, and both tests will take place with­ 60. The labor deal, which expires Dec. 19, 2006, changes  enue-sharing payments in an effort to improve its perfor­mance on the field."  
labor contract.  Under  this  agreement,  he  in a week.  the rule regarding tampering,  "The  commissioner shall  
The drug prevention pro­ would've been subject to disci­ If more than 5 percent test  allowing clubs a 72-hour win- enforce this obligation  ...  and  
gram. the first one agreed to by players and owners since 1985, was included in the "memorandum of understand­ing" signed Tuesday by the sides. Copies were released Wednesday. It calls for suspensions oft5­to-30 days for a first offense,  pline. Owners and the union have spent more than two decades squabbling over drug-related penalties, with arbitrators overturning or shortening sus­pensions imposed on Ferguson Jenkins, Steve Howe, Willie Wilson, LaMarr Hoyt, Pascual  positive for steroids, "pro­gram" testing starts the fol­lowing year and continues until less than 2.5 percent test positive in  "Ifyou get caught, you 're given a grace period, a chance to rectify the problem. I think that's a good thing."  d ow to talk with players on other teams even if they don't already have a proposed trade in place. In addition,  may, consistent with his authority under the Major League Constitution, impose penalties on any clubs that vio­1ates this obligation," the agreement said. The maximum fine against a player by the commissioner's office increases from $500 to  
30-to-90 days for a second conviction, an automatic one­year penalty for a third and a two-year suspension for a  Perez and Tony Phillips. 'Td like them to test as strin­gent as they can," the Angels' Scott Spiezio said.  two consecu­tive years combined. If there is pro­ Scott Schoeneweis Anaheim player  it says owners may not take a contraction vote prior to  $5,000 unless otherwise speci­fied, and a new rule bans bus travel during the season on trips of more than 200 miles  
fourth.  Some have criticized the  gram testing  April 1, 2006,  except under "extraordinary  
For players convicted five or  agreement because it does not  in 2004. owners can conduct  and that if owners want to  circumstances."  
more times, the commissioner would determine the level of  ban supplements and doesn't call for unannounced, random  up to 240 additional random tests.  eliminate two teams for the 2007 season, they must notify  A new provision says any season in which a player is  
discipline. If the commissioner didn't want to suspend players,  year-round testing by an inde­p endent agency that can  Over-the-counter supple­ments such as androstene­ the union by the preceding July 1.  optioned to the minor leagues for less than 20 days will not  
· he has the option to fine them without pay, with the maxi­ impose penalties. Marijuana use and posses­ dione are not banned, but if more than 10 percent of play­ Under the deal. agreed to Aug. 30 just 2 1/2 hours before  count against the limit of years a player can be optioned,  
mum amount increasing with  sion is covered separately in  ers in a year test positive for  the start of a scheduled strike,  which is three or four, depend­ 
each offense. Players convicted of the sale or distribution of prohibited substances face suspensions of  the agreement, with players facing fines of up to $15,000 but no suspensions. In addition, penalties for  them on the first test but nega­tive on the followup, a joint union-management health committee may prohibit their  a luxury tax on payrolls will be imposed starting next year, with the 2003 threshold at $11 7 million.  ing on his age when he first signed. In exchange, players get major league service time for the period of those assign­ 
60-to-90 days and $100,000 fines for a first offense and two years for a second offense. A player who has not been in the drug program who volun­ steroid use are less severe. A first positive test would result in treatment and a second in a 15-day suspension or fine of up to $10,000.  use. The committee's vote must be unanimous. Players will not be tested randomly for drugs of abuse such as cocaine, LSD, PCP,  Half the money raised by the luxury tax will be spent on the benefit plan, 25 percent on the industry growth fund and 25 percent to develop players in  ments. Players with the right to block trades because they are 10-year veterans who have been with their team for at  
tarily admits to  a  probern is  The length of suspensions  marijuana,  opiates  and  countries that do  not play  least five years will be able to  
put into treatment without penalty. "If you get caught, you're given a grace period, a chance to rectify the problem,"  would increase to 25 days for a third positive test, 50 days for a fourth and one year for a fifth. These suspensions also would be without pay.  Ecstasy, but they can be tested if a health committee agrees there is "just cause." If a player is in an inpatient treatment program during the  organized high-school baseball or are being added to the ama­teur draft. The deal increases the amount of shared local rev- waive those rights when sign­ing multiyear contracts, but only if the deal contains a clause allowing them to block trades to 16 or more clubs.  


The End Zone Ain't the Only Place the Irish Will Dance Saturday. 

And kick-off the weekend earl TONIGHT.
. ~· ' ,,.z,,,:.Z""' y
•••-;-•· ·••,••~:; ·••,...,.,,.,., ....._,;-••,"••..,••••••• • ••• 
...::·:·.~-::::~:.,:.:,,;:. .. . ,:,: :;.--~
AThursday Tradition... 


BRING YOUR COLLEGE ID-21+ ONLY 

222 S. MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 574-234-5200 HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
Thursday, October 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 18 
NFL 
Spurrier refuses to reveal starter 
afraid to put another guy in season on the bench. 

Associated Press 
there," receiver Chris Doering Teammates say he has picked 
said. the offense remarkably well, 
ASHBURN, Va. Spurrier last week ruled out taking advantage of the extra 

Danny Wuerffel has not Matthews, who has a sore left practices during the bye week. started an NFL game in four shoulder after starting the first "Patrick's improved just in years. He will have to wait a three games but is healthy the last two weeks," Doering little longer before he is sure enough to play. That leaves said. "He just has so much bet­the dry spell is over. WuerITel and first-round draft ter feel for the spots as to 
All indications have WuertTel pick Ramsey, where to starting ahead of rookie who has been throw the Patrick Ramsey when the steadily learn­"They don't need to ball. He's Washington Redskins play the ing the offense learned to
know. They 're both ready 

Tennessee Titans on Sunday, since his 16-throw with but coach Steve Spurrier said day training to go. They're both a little more he's not going to reveal his camp holdout. sitting on go. n touch. Once decision until Saturday. Matthews was he get com­"They don't need to know." the NFC's fortable 
Steve Spurrier 

Spurrier said. "They're both offensive player with the ready. They're both sitting on of the week in Redskins coach checks and go." the Week 1 vic­coverages 
Spurrier said he has a "good tory over and all, he's idea" who will start. Wuerffel Arizona, but the Redskins have going to be in great shape." took the first snap in the open­since scored just 17 points in Wuerffel or Ramsey will ing drill at practice back-to-back losses to become the 13th quarterback Wednesday, and several team­Philadelphia and San to start a game for the mates spoke as if he would be Francisco. Wuerffel replaced Redskins in the last 10 years, a the starter. Matthews at halftime of the rate even the blundering 
But Spurrier wouldn't budge. Eagles game and got in four Cincinnati Bengals can't 

"We're just trying to elimi­plays in relief in the fourth match. For Wuerffel, this could nate the media crunch on who­quarter of the 49ers loss. be his last shot anywhere. ever's starting until Saturday," Wuerffel didn't play well Wuerffel last started a game Spurrier said. "Whether that's either time, and he struggled on Oct. 11, 1998, a 31-0 New right or wrong, who knows?" against first-team defenses in Orleans Saints loss to San 
It too late for that, though. exhibition games. But Spurrier Francisco. The Saints were There were media crunches -who coached Wuerffel to shut out three times and around both quarterbacks in the Heisman Trophy at Florida scored a total of 58 points in the locker room Wednesday. in 1996 -says he feels the ex­six games with WuertTel as the 
"I don't look at it as pres­Gator deserves a shot to play a starter in 1997 and 1998. sure," Ramsey said. ''I'm going game from the start. Wuerffel was also sacked 46 to go out there and play the "Certainly you want to have times in 16 appearances with best I can play." enough opportunities where if the Saints, and he's already 
Although Wuerffel appears you make some mistakes, you been sacked five times in his to be the front-runner, a can battle back from them," limited action with the Spurrier surprise is not out of said Wuerffel, who is 7-for-11 Redskins. He didn't throw a the question. After all, this is a for 71 yards with two intercep­pass with Green Bay in 2000 coach who informed his quar­tions and a rating of 42.4. or Chicago in 2001, although terbacks on the sideline of the "That's the biggest thing about he did lead the Rhein Fire to final exhibition game of his playing the whole game." the 2000 NFL Europe title. decision to start Shane Until the other two quarter­"It could be your first shot, Matthews in the opener. backs struggled, Ramsey your last shot," Wuerffel said. 
"Coach has never been seeme<t-destined to spend the "You don't know_." 


WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish jerseys displayed in Hall of Fame 
10 in NCM history for career
Special to The Observer 

free throw (.860) and three­
point percentage (.480). 

The college jerseys of three Batteast was chosen as the standout Notre Dame wom­2002 United States Basketball ens basketball players cur­Writers Association (USBWA) rently are on display in the National Freshman of the "Ring of Honor" at the Year and Big East Rookie of Women's Basketball Hall of the Year, and she garnered Fame in Knoxville, Tenn. Women's Basketball Coaches Senior guard Alicia Ratay, Association (WBCA)/Kodak sophomore forward honorable mention All­Jacqueline Batteast and America consideration. She freshman forward Courtney ranked 13th in the BIG EAST Lavere all have their Irish in scoring (13.8 rpg.). second uniforms hanging in the in rebounding (7.8 rpg.), fifth North Rotunda of the Hall, in blocked shots (1.38 bpg.) part of the 52 jerseys which and second in double-doubles are on display to celebrate (11) during her freshman the accomplishments of the campaign. Batteast also was nation's best high school and a six-time Big East Rookie of college athletes. Notre Dame the Week and was a second is the only school to have team all-conference selection. three players recognized in As a high school senior last the "Ring of Honor". year, LaVere earned consen­
Ratay was an Associated sus All-America honors from Press honorable mention All­Parade, McDonald's, USA America choice in 2001-02, Today, Street & Smith's, 
marking her second All­WBCA, Nike and Student America selection in the last Sports. She also registered three seasons. She also was a 26.5 points, 11.4 rebounds 
first team all-Big East and 3.5 blocks per game dur­Conference pick after finish­ing her final season at Buena ing third in the league in High School. She finished her scoring (15.4 ppg.) and sec­prep career with 1,897 points ond in free throw percentage (second in school history), (a school-record .882). She 1,029 rebounds (third in presently ranks ninth on school history) and 303 Notre Dame's career scoring blocks (first in school history). list with 1,375 points and she Lavere holds single-game needs to make 38 three-point school records for points (45) field goals to become the and blocks (9), as well as sin­school's all-time record hold­gle-season school marks for er in that category. In addi­points (741), scoring average tion, she ranks among the top (26.5 ppg.) and blocks (99). 

THE FIGHTING IRISH 
Buy one 16" Pizza and get a second for 1/2 price! 
Stop 1n and enjoy Michiana's favorite hot dog Voted # 1 in Michiana 

Delivery availahle through Dine-in 
www.nd.edu/Nvocation 

1733 South Bend Ave. (Located next to Turtle Creek -1/4 mile E. of campus) State Road 23 277-2527 


Must be 21 with valid ID to consume alcohol 
Thursday, October 3, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
FindText@ND: Your Ticket to Full Text! 

Research just got easier! The Libraries' list of online databases has grown, but after finding a citation for a useful article the next questions are: 
"Now, how do I get to the article? " 
"Do we have it electronically or in paper?" 
The University Libraries are delighted to announce a new service that will improve the convenience ofusing our online research databases and dramatically enhance access to full-text journals. 
Many indexes and databases now include a .f!rE!fJ button or text link (FindText) from an article citation to online full text and other library­provided services. When you find a citation in a database or periodical . d 1· k on th .fmDTEXT~1bUtton t0..
ID ex, C IC e -'nM•Me 

• 
Link immediately to the article if available electronically 

• 
Check the Libraries' online catalog to see ifthe journal or book is available in print 


• 
Automatically request the article from interlibrary loan if not available 


The most exciting feature ofthis new service is the ability to link to the full­text article, if it is available electronically. FindText@ND will take the citation information and create a direct link to the full-text article whenever possible. 
FindText@ND is now available in 37 databases subscribed to by the Libraries, including PsycINFO, Biological Abstracts, AILA Religion, MLA Bibliography and Web of Science! 
FindText@ND FAQ: http://findtext@nd.edu 
Provided by the University Libraries ofNotre Dame 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 3, 2002 
MLB 

Milwaukee's Jerry Royster fired from manager position 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Jerry Royster knew he was 
out as manager of the 
Milwaukee Brewers after last 
week's front office shakeup. 
The official firing came 
Wednesday and made Royster 
the sixth major league manager 
to lose his job in the last four 
days. 
Doug Melvin replaced Dean 
Taylor as Brewers general 
manager last week as part of 
the changes that also saw 
Wendy Selig-Prich step down as 
team president. 
"I don't have any problem 
with what Doug's doing, I think 
it's the right thing to do," 
Royster said. "A general man­
ager has to hire his own guy. If 
I were Doug, I'd fire me, too." 
Melvin said his search for a 
replacement would begin with 
Jerry Narron, who was fired by 
the Texas Rangers on Tuesday, 
and Buck Showalter, former 
manager of the Arizona 
Diamondbacks, but that he 
wanted to include a wide array 
of candidates, both with and 
without previous managerial 
experience. 
The Brewers had the NL's 
worst record at 56-106 and 
easily surpassed their worst 
mark of 64-98, set in 1969 
when they were the Seattle 
Pilots. The Brewers finished 41 
games behind the Central 
Division-winning St. Louis 
Cardinals. 
Yet, Royster said he felt he 
would have had a decent shot 
at sticking around in 2003 were 
it not for the changes made last 
week. 
"I would hope that with Wendy and Dean, I would have been retained," Royster said. "Not only do I hope I would have, I deserved it. I took over a situation that was an absolute mess." 
Milwaukee went 53-94 under 
Royster. who became interim 
manager when Davey Lopes 
was fired on April 18 following 
a 3-12 start. 
Royster said he did every­thing he could to make the Brewers competitive, including turning them loose on the bases because their station-to­station approach wasn't work­ing. 
All that did, however, was lead to ugly outs on the bases and mounting fan frustration. Attendance at Miller Park plummeted by 841,000 to just 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. S~es Rep. positions avallable now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext123 
WWW.SUNCHASE.(OM 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion 
(574) 674-0022 Fax(574)674-0033 
ND themed caskets our specialfy! 
under 2 million. his search. Although he worked 
"I didn't have enough to work with Narron in Texas, Melvin with," Royster said Wednesday refused to call him the leading from his home in Palm Beach candidate. Gardens, Fla. "We were 'Tm very fond of Jerry. We injured. The players that we have a relationship I know had were not enough to do would work well," Melvin said. much more than what we did. "I would say Jerry's a candi­So we tried to be as entertain­date. I talked to him last night. I ing as we possibly could." said, TB probably be in touch 
Royster  with you.'  
said he didn't  "But I owe it  
want to belit­ ''.A general manager has  to the organi­ 
tle his play­ to hire his own guy. IfI  zation  and  I  
ers. "Do I think  were Doug [Melvin], I'd  owe it to myself to be in touch  
they played  fire me, too."  with other peo­ 
hard? Yeah,  ple, too."  
they played very hard. That wasn't  Jerry Royster former Brewers' manager  Melvin played in the minor leagues with  

an issue," he said. "It's just that we were short. We got beat, we got beat often and I was fired." 
Besides Royster and Narron, the managers dismissed since Sunday are Bruce Kimm of the Chicago Cubs, Luis Pujols of Detroit, Hal McRae of Tampa Bay and Bobby Valentine of the New York Mets. 
Royster often said the only reason Lopes, his best friend and mentor, lost his job was because the Brewers didn't hit for him. But they didn't hit for Royster, either, finishing with a .253 average. 
Royster said he hopes to man­age again, and Melvin wished him luck. 
"I told him to look at it not as a failure but as an experience," Melvin said. "I hope he does get another chance. Managers are the ones that lose the job but they're not always the ones that are totally at fault." 
Melvin said he will look for a disciplinarian and teacher in 
Showalter. "I've got a call into Buck," he said. 
Melvin said he considered retaining Royster but felt he had to provide a clean slate coming off the franchise's first 1OD-loss season. 
He said Royster's decision to sit All-Star shortstop Jose Hernandez eight times in the final two weeks to protect him from jeering as he neared the major league strikeout record, played no role in his dismissal, although Melvin criticized it. 
"It does tarnish the great year he had," Melvin said. 
Melvin said he considered calling Royster in St. Louis and demanding he play Hernandez but decided not to because he hadn't met either man and was busy enough with other busi­ness. 
Hernandez finished with 188 strikeouts, one shy of the record set by Bobby Bonds in 1970. 
Royster said he doesn't regret his decision. 
Great Japanese food
Mll<A 

A JAPAi'f U.E: RC IT A UQAl'! T 
at great prices.
carry Out and Dini': In 
Come join us for our lunch specials! 
Cleveland 
402 US 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Early Bird Dinner (219) 272-2535 
$1.50 off for Students 


MIiwaukee's Jerry Royster, was fired Wednesday. Royster is the sixth major league manager to lose his job In four days. 
r·---·--•-------..·-·--·-·•--.--­
1 
l1 
! 
I 
' 
i 
l 
frJiJ!er

/a HENIGAN 
Music from the British Isles ,/·.1a.,,~ .. 
Friday October 4, 2002 Little Theatre 
7:30 p.m. 

.blnlA.hi.r•'•CoJ/p,ip~ 
MOf;ff'J'R,/ 
THE IIR1S NOTIIS DAME, IN 

For ticket information call the Saint Mary's Box Omce 
574/284-4626 

1. ---~-~ """· --,-·•­

THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 
Thursday, October 10 
7:00 P.M. 208 DeBartolo 

FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 
Thursday, October 3, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Deliberations begin against alleged attackers of Celtics' Pierce 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Jurors began deliberations Wednesday in the case of three men accused of attacking Boston Celtics star Paul Pierce in a nightclub two years ago. 
William Ragland, Anthony Hurston and Trevor Watson are on trial for armed assault with intent to murder for the attack, in which Pierce was stabbed at least eight times and hit in the head with a champagne bottle. 
Despite being seriously injured in the attack. Pierce returned to play the entire 2000-01 season and led the Celtics in scoring at 25.3 points a game. 
The jury deliberated for about 2 112 hours before going home. They were scheduled to come back Thursday morning. 
During the three-week trial, two key prosecution witnesses changed significant portions of their testimony and failed to identify Ra.gland. Watson or Hurston as Pierce's assailants. Pierce also testified, and he was unable to positively identi­fy any of the three men. 
Defense attorneys said in closing arguments that police rushed to charge the men because of Pierce's celebrity. Prosecutors, however, said police found the right men after witnesses came forward and identified them as Pierce's attackers. 
The prosecution countered that two key witnesses had changed their testimony because they were afraid of retaliation. The witnesses, 
Regina Henderson and Krystal Bostick, identified Hurston, Ragland and Watson as Pierce's attackers when they testified before a grand jury 10 days after the Sept. 25, 2000 attack. Both women changed major portions of their testi­mony during the trial. 
"They can't take it back," prosecutor John Pappas said of their grand jury testimony. Pappas said Henderson had given the grand jury a different story because "Mr. Hurston, Mr. Watson and Mr. Ragland were not seated five feet away." 
Watson's attorney, Martin Leppo, said there were no wit­nesses who could identify his client in court as one of Pierce's attackers. He acknowledged that one woman said she initially saw Watson making stabbing motions at Pierce with a knife, but later recanted her testimony. 
"It happened, but who did it? Certainly, no one has selected Trevor Watson," Leppo said. 
Hurston's attorney, John Swomley, noted that even Pierce could not identify Hurston, and said the man Pierce originally identified as initiating the attack was much smaller that Hurston. 
"Tony Hurston did not attempt to kill Paul Pierce. There is no evidence of it," Swomley said. 
Last season, Pierce averaged 
26.1 points and helped Boston advance the Eastern Conference finals for the first time in 14 years. The Celtics lost to New Jersey in five games. 


The Notre Dame German Club 
proudly presents 
Okdome 

Saturday October 5th 
9:00 p.m. -1:30 a.m. Lafortune Ballroom FREE 
Join us for free food, beverage, and authentic German music 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 3, 2002 
NFL 
Maddox to start for Steelers 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Many NFL quarterbacks would feel uncomfortable going a few weeks with­out starting. Tommy Maddox is about to learn what it's like to play after 10 years without a start. 
Maddox, a former Broncos first-round flop who revived his career in the Arena League and earned ·another NFL shot by starring in the XFL, will be the Pittsburgh Steelers' starter Sunday in New Orleans. 
Coach Bill Cowher's surprising decision, announced Wednesday at a team meeting, sends 2001 team MVP Kordell Stewart to the bench for the third time in four sea­sons. It also signals that Cowher is running out of patience with an under­achieving team that was favored to win the AFC title but is only 1-2. 
"He came up in his little crystal ball that he want­ed to start Tommy," said Stewart, clearly upset by the decision. "It's not the end of the world for me, and I'm going to have an opportunity to start again... I just don't know when. 
Stewart went to the Pro Bowl after the Steelers (13-3) advanced to the AFC championship game last season, but he com­mitted six turnovers in the first two games of this season as the Steelers were manhandled by New England and Oakland. 
With Pittsburgh trailing Cleveland 13-6 Sunday, Maddox replaced Stewart to lead two scoring drives and a 16-13 overtime vic­tory. Running a hurry-up offense with four receivers, Maddox was 11-of-13 for 122 yards, a touchdown and an inter­ception. 
Afterward, Cowher said Stewart probably would remain the starter, but the coach changed his mind after watching game tapes and weighing his options. On Tuesday, he warned that no start­ing job was secure. 
Stewart has three touchdown passes, five interceptions and two lost fumbles in three games. 
"I just feel it's the right thing to do at this time, and now let's move on," Cowher said. 
The 31-year-old Maddox has never started and won an NFL game, going 0-4 as a rookie replacement for the injured John Elway in 1992. His last two starts were against the Cowboys and Bills, the Super Bowl teams that season, and 
he  split  time  in  both  
games  with  Shawn  
Moore.  

Maddox later played briefly for the Hams and Giants but left the NFL for six years until signing with Pittsburgh last year. Maddox was out of foot­ball for three years, run­ning an insurance busi­ness in Dallas, only to rejuvenate his career in Arena ball. Then he was the MVP of the XFL's one and only season. 
Maddox didn't get a long-term commitment from Cowher, and he wasn't expecting one. 
"At quarterback, you've got to go out and play and put your team in a position to win," Maddox said. "If you don't, there's going to be somebody else that's going to get a shot." 
Stewart could tell him that. 
After directing the Steelers to the AFC title game as a first-year starter in 1997, he strug­gled for two seasons until being benched for Mike Tomczak for the final five games of 1999. 
Stewart also began 2000 on the bench, behind Kent Graham, before regaining his job. He has since started 30 consecutive games, but that streak apparently will end in New Orleans, where he was a high school star about the same time Maddox was breaking into the NFL. 


2002-03 \lainstage Season :\'otre Dame, Film. Television, an<l Theatre presents 
THE 
ANDRAKE 
by Niccolo Machiavelli =====-Translated by Wallace Shawn Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday, October 9 7::30 p.m. Thursday, Odober 10 7:30 p.m. },'riday, October 11 7::30 p.m. Saturday, October 12 7:30 p.m. Sundal• Odober 13 2:30 p.m. 
Hescned Seats $10 Seniors $9 • All Students $7 
Tkkets are availablt" at the door or in adnmce ut lhe I.aFortune Slmlenl Ct"nler. 
l\lm;terCard and Visa orderre., call 6:H-8128. 
Plca~e visit our Web site at www.nd.rrlu/~ftt 

Bengals settle on Kima 
at QB for rest of season 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Three straight games, three dif­ferent starting quarterbacks for the NFL's worst team. 
Coach Dick LeBeau informed his winless Cincinnati Bengals on Wednesday that he has decided to start 

Jon Kitna and stick "Coach LeBeau stood in to grow in to 
with him for the rest front ofthe team today the job. of the season. Instead.
and said this is the guy
"That's what he told LeBeau went
he's going with and we're 
us, so I think so," with the pass­receiver T.J. going to sink or swim." er who has 
Houshmandzadeh the most said. "But you never experience in
Jon Kitna
know. I don't know." the systemGiven what's hap­Bengals' quarterback and the best 
son. when he finished as the NFL's lowest-rated passer. He lost the job to Frerotte in training camp and relieved him in Atlanta. when the NFL's worst team of the past 12 years unraveled during a Sunday night game. 
Kitna had lobbied for Smith to keep the job the rest of the sea­
son, giving 
him a chance 
pened, the doubt is understandable. 
Gus Frerotte started a 30-3 loss in Atlanta, and Akili Smith went the distance in a 35-7 loss to Tampa Bay last Sunday. Kitna will make his first start of the season Sunday in Indianapolis. 
Regardless of what they say, the Bengals (0-4) never stick with a quarterback for long. 
"Coach LeBeau stood in front of the team today and said this is the guy he's going with and we're going to sink or swim," Kitna said. 
"I think that's what the team needed more than anything. Now, it doesn't matter if you like me or not, I'm going to be in there, so we might as well get along." 
Kitna started 15 games last sea-

chance to look good in the next two games. 
If tho Bengals go into their bye week at 0-6, there will be pres­sure for a coaching change. 
"This is a business," Smith said angrily. "They don't care about being fair around here. There's guys on this team that are fight­ing for jobs, there's coaches on this team that are fighting for jobs. So it's not about being fair." 
Smith was the third overall choice in 1999, but the Bengals gave up on him after less than one full season as a starter. Elevated from third string last week to face one of the NFL's toughest defenses, he was under constant pressure as he went 12­of-33 for 117 yards. 
florida State Ticket lottery/Contest 

shake down the th under at fsu 

thursday, october 3 7-10 pm lafortune ballroom 


win a chance to buy 2 tickets to the nd/fsu game on 10/26 (bring up to 2 nd/smc/hc ids, 1 lottery ticket per student id) 
enter a contest to win transportation* plus 2 tickets to the game (max 5 contest entries per student) 
winners of both will be announced at 11 pm outside the sub office and 1n friday's observer 
tickets are $35 each and will go on sale at lafortune info desk mon 10/7 for winners and thurs 10/10 for all students if tix remain 
"pnle will oe awarded as a $500 gif1 cen1f1cate in the value equivalent to 2 plane tickets 


Thursday, October 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NCAA HOCKEY 
Michigan takes ice after loss of stars 
Associated Pr<!ss 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Yost Ice Arena might not have been filled with fans, the pep band might not have been playing and no stats may have been kept. 
But the road to the Frozen Four started here on Thursday, when the Michigan hockey team officially began practice for the 2002-03 sea­son. 
For the fourth straight year, the Wolverines took the ice after the loss of a couple of stars. This year scoring leader Mike Cammalleri and defen­sive enforcer Mike Komisarek left school for the professional ranks. 
In what has become an annual event, Michigan and Michigan State have been picked to finish one-two in the CCIIA by both the league's coaches and the media. Michigan was also voted No. 3 in the U.S. College Hockey Online national preseason poll lhat came out Monday, trailing behind Minnesota and Denver. 
While the Wolverines are picked to win the CCHA, the league might be as close as H has been in years. According to Michigan coach Red Berenson, the Wolverines were only picked first because no other team in the league stood out. 
"We've had this before where we weren't necessarily the best team on paper," Berenson said. "But there wasn't neces­sarily anyone better than Michigan, and based on the fact that we finished first and that we did have a good playoff Marty Turco and Josh experience [we were picked Blackburn. Al Montoya hopes first] ... not because we were to be the fourth. Montoya the best team on paper." should be a senior at Huron 
The Wolverines also boast an High in Ann Arbor this year, 11-man sophomore class that's playing with the United States going to assume a leadership National Development role this season. From this Program. But the Glenview, Ill. 
summer's  native  fast­ 
three  NHL  tracked  
draftees (Eric Nystrom, Dwight Helminen and  "Everyone's looking for us to step it up. We 're a big part ofthe team, so  through high school so he could start this season in  
Jason Ryznar) to walk-on contributor  we got to play a leadership role."  place of Blackburn. Michigan  
Charlie  did, however,  
Henderson, the entire cast  Eric Nystrom Michigan player  bring in two other goalies,  

should have an impact. 
The team is looking to the second-year players to fill the scoring void left by Cammalleri, who led the team with 23 goals despite missing 25 games to the World Junior Championships and mononucleosis. 
"Everyone's looking for us to step it up," Nystrom said. "We're a big part of the team, so we got to play a leadership role. The freshmen coming in, they're looking at a small senior class, a small junior class and a really big sopho­more class, and they're going to be looking at us to make an example." 
The Wolverines may be start­ing a 17-year-old between the pipes. Since Berenson took over the Michigan program 18 years ago, three goalies have come in and started their freshman year: Steve Shields, C h r i s 
Gartman and 
Noah Ruden, who will see playing time should Montoya have difficulty adjusting to the college game. 
"We recruited Montoya with the idea that he would be our starting goaltender," Berenson said. "And I think he'll get that opportunity. rf he looks like he needs help, I will be quick to throw in one of the other goalies because they're a little more experienced then he is." 
But Montoya isn't worried about being replaced as he ­just like the entire freshman class including Danny Richmond and Jeff Tambellini -is happy to finally get on the ice. 
"Ever since I committed last year, all I have been waiting for this year is to get on this ice at Yost," Montoya said. "And to be part of the tradition and add to it." 
tCancer Research 8Aw

~ta5 · at the 3rd annual Bre11,~ 
Lewis Hall 


COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Paterno not punished for grabbing referee 
Associated Press 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
Joe Paterno isn't at all regretful for grabbing an official's shirt as he was coming off the field Saturday. 
And according to Big Ten officials, he doesn't have to be. The conference has decided against taking action on the winningest coach in Division I-A history for chas­ing down referee Dick Honig after the Nittany Lions' 42-35 overtime loss to Iowa Saturday, Big Ten associate director of communications Scott Chipman said Tuesday. 
Earlier this week, the con­ference asked Penn State athletic director Tim Curley to gather information about the incident. Athletic depart­ment spokesman Jeff Nelson said after reviewing the videotape and interviewing people standing around the tunnel at the end of the game, Curley concluded there was no improper action and conference officials agreed with his assessment. 
"The process for review for unsportsmanlike conduct had not begun," said Chipman, who added the conference had "no comment on the incident because there was no violation." 
For his part, Paterno dis­missed the incident Tuesday at his weekly press confer­ence, explaining he did catch up with Honig but only said a few words to him before going into the locker room. 
"All I did was try to stop him because he was running ahead of me and I was run­ning toward the locker room and I grabbed him by the shirt and said he had two lousy calls," Paterno said, "Aren't I allowed to do that?" 

The two calls in question came during overtime on Iowa's sideline regarding whether players were in bounds. On replays, both calls, which went against Penn State, appeared to be incorrect. 
Paterno also dismissed the notion that he approached Honig, who he called a per­sonal friend, with any mali­cious intent. 
"I did not make contact," Paterno said. "I just stopped him, I came up from behind -I didn't try to knock him over." 
Such sentiments weren't isolated to Happy Valley. Paterno's fellow Big Ten coaches agreed with the decision to not enforce disci­plinary action against the coach, both because of how Paterno handled the situa­tion and because of his exemplary conduct in the past. 
Minnesota head coach Glen Mason said he was surprised by Paterno's sprint across the field, but also understood why he did it, especially con­sidering the plays had repeatedly been shown on the stadium Jumbotron. Mason said the incident was further proof that instant replay is needed in college football. 
"I was watching Monday Night Football last night, and they have the top officials in the game, and look at the number of calls they over­turn," Mason said. "I think it's a crime we don't have that luxury. I think we owe it to our players." 

,­
t 
t 
I 
I I I I 
I 
I AROUND THE NATION 
page 24 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, October 3, 2002 

around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
San Francisco at Atlanta 7p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Clemson at Florida State 6:30p.m., ESPN Illinois at Minnesota 7p.m., ESPN2 
TENNIS 


Pete Sampras has decided to skip the remainder of the tennis season and is taking time to ponder his future tennis career. Sampras' has not competed since he defeated Andre Agassi in the final round of the 2002 U.S. Open. 
Pete Satnpras skips re1nainder of season 
to consider his future. and Paris." 
Associated Press 

"Since winning the U.S. The move also means Open. 
Open on September 8, I Sampras will have no Sampras will finish out of
BASEL, Switzerland 

have been chance of the ATP's top 10 for the first 
U.S. Open champion 

taking qualifying time since 1989. His 27 vic­
Pete Sampras has with­"Since winning the 

some time for the tories this season are the
drawn from all remaining 

to reeval­US. Open on Sept. 8, I eight-play­fewest since '89. 
ATP tournaments this 

u a t e er Tennis The news also added to
have been taking 
season. 

where I Masters speculation that the 31­
Sampras has not played some time to

want to Cup in year-old Sampras is plan­
since winning the U.S. 

go from reevaluate where I Shanghai, ning to retire. 
Open, his 14th Grand 

here," China, the After beating rival Andre
Slam singles title, last want to go from here.,,

Sampras final event Agassi in the final of the
month in New York. Pete Sampras 

said in a of the sea­U.S. Open, Sampras said,
Sampras' withdrawal 
commenting on his

statement son in "To beat a rival like Andre,
means he will not start in 

released decision not to play m i d -in a storybook ending, it
the Basel event, which 

by the November. might be nice to stop. But 
opens Oct. 19. and will .,
ATP. "I'm Sampras,
miss Masters Series 

therefore not sufficiently who has a 27-17 record Sampras and his wife,
events in Madrid, Spain, 

prepared to compete in this season, had moved actress Bridgette Wilson,
and Paris. 

the upcoming tourna­from 32nd to 12th place are expecting their first
Sampras is taking time 

ments in Madrid, Basel in the ATP Champions child. 
IN BRIEF 

Wake Forest coach Jim Grobe and examiner said the disorder may have
Big Ten Officials Disciplined 

athletic director Ron Wellman declined contributed to Darling's death, although 
The Big Ten Conference disciplined 

to comment. no definite medical cause was cited. 
four college football officials Wednesday 

The sickle cell trait is not considered a
after determining they did a poor job 

Aorida State Sued in Player disease, but a hereditary condition in
during a Sept. 21 game between Wake 

Death which a person has one normal gene
Forest and Purdue. 

The parents of former Florida State and one abnormal gene in the blood.
"During the course of the game, these 

football player Devaughn Darling sued Sickle cell trait is not the same as sickle
officials did not officiate well enough to 

the school Wednesday, claiming their cell anemia, in which two abnormal
meet Big Ten standards," Big Ten com­

son died despite complaining of dizzi­genes are present.
missioner Jim Delany said in a state­

ness and chest pains during a workout. The autopsy report on Darling's death 
ment. 'Therefore, they will forfeit future 

Darling was 18 when he collapsed and noted the sickle cell trait appears to
officiating assignments." 

died Feb. 26, 2001, of an apparent "car­lower resistance to a possible irregular 
A spokesman at the Big Ten's office in 

diac arrhythmia." He was penciled in as heartbeat during intense exercise. 
Park Ridge would not comment on what 

a starting outside linebacker going into The suit claims Darling was deprived
specific mistakes the crew made during 

the 2001 spring practices. of water and other fluids during off-sea­
the game, which Wake Forest won 24­

The suit was filed by attorney William son conditioning drills Feb. 26, 2001.
21. Wake Forest is from the Atlantic 

Gary on behalf of Darling's parents, "He had difficulty standing on his
Coast Conference, and Purdue is from 

Wendy Smith and Dennis Darling Sr. own," the suit said. "The coaches'/t.rain­
the Big Ten. 

Florida State general counsel Richard ers response to this was to make him
Purdue coach Joe Tiller said he wa.o; 

Mcfarlain said Wednesday the school start over again." 
glad conference officials reviewed the 

does not believe it is liable. It also said the school failed to provide
game, but he too would not discuss what 

Darling and his twin brother Devard sufficient rest periods during the work­
mistakes the officials might have made. 

learned they had a blood disorder, outs, did not have adequate medical
"In competitive athletics, everyone is 

known as a sickle cell trait, after a pre­personnel or equipment available, and
held accountable," Tiller said. "And it's 

football physical before their freshman failed to recognize that the athlete was
encouraging to know that they are hold­

year at Florida State. The medical in distress. 
ing officials accountable, too." 


Thursday, October 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
FOOTBALL 
Stanford players adjust to new coaching staff 

By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Editor 
When Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham left the warmth of' sunny California for frozen South Bend last winter. he left many gaping holes behind him in tlrn Stanford coaching staff. 
Willingham not only brought his West Coast offense to Inrliana. but also six of his 
ni1rn assb­"One thing about with the tran­tants. sition."
Stanford is lhal the guys

Stanford While the
will pick things up pretty

brought in team had B u d d y quickly." c:very right to Teevens -an feel aban­offensive doned by the
Teyo Johnson

assistant at exodus, Florida under Stanford wide receiver Johnson and 
S t e v e Spurrier ~ and replaced eight of' nine assistant coaches. the lone holdover being defensive line coach Darn Tipton. 
Teevens didn't just bring an almost entirely revamped staff. but a different offensive scheme 
Spurrier's patented Fun'n'Gun from Florida. 
With all the changes, it would seem the players would be swept away in the undertow. but the Cardinal offense has shown through three games this season it is just as powerful as ever. even though the team is only 1-2. Stanford has aver­aged 38-points and 430 yards a game so far this season. 
--$-­
Saint ~'sCollei!'e 
NOTREDA~NA 
"We had spring ball which got us all introduced to the sys­tem." said Stanford's top wide f('Ceiver Teyo Johnson, who through three games has 245 yards receiving with 16 catches and four touchdowns. "One thing about Stanford ·is that the guys will pick things up pretty quickly. So we all got intro­duced to the system in the spring, and we just fine tuned it over the summer. I don't think it was a set­back at all 
his team­
mates under­stand thr coaches' motives, and hope to make the best of a tough situation. 
"We don't blame [Willingham] at all. I think if we were in his situation, we would have left as well," Johnson said. "I person­ally felt that when you have a coach in college that's as good as Coach Willingham, you don't expect him to be with you for very long. I personally thought he would go to the NFL, but when I heard he got the job at Notre Dame, I was more upset at George O'Leary than any­thing else." 
The game provides a unique situation, as both teams should 
INFO~TION MEETINGS 
Monday, October 7, 7:00 p.m., Carroll AuditoriUJD, Madeleva Hall, SMC 
or 
Wednesday, October 9, 6:45 p.m., Hesburgh Library AuditoriUID., ND Open to all ND/SMC students 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Excellent academic oroa:ram at 
same air ticket. 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) 284-4866 
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys-edu; http://ww,.,r.5.aintmarys.edu/saw 
be more familiar with each coaches that recruited them other than they would probably and guided them through their like. The Irish coaches will be early collegiate careers. looking to defeat players that "It's going to be an emotional they coached and mentored, game, but it's all positive," while many Stanford players Johnson said. "Coach will be trying to upset the Willingham is a great guy, and 
~·T ~
~~.JL....l'f· 


~[ID ~Q 1f@[f@[fi)1!@ r.FCfU(rucs.lW?J ©)cm~ ~~[ru ~ 7/[p)UUU 
Joyce Center 
*FREE long sleeved t-shirts to the first !500 ND students* 
*Win ND  *Free Papa John's  
vs. Stanford  ~  pizza to ND  
football tickets!  Better lngrec!ir:nts Uc.•ttt:r "Pir.za  ·  students  
(while supplies last)  


its not going to be anything bit­ter. I think it's going to be a lot of fun. Notre Dame is Notre Dame with or without Coach Willingham.... But there will still be a lot of emotions out there." 
On another personal level for Johnson. in playing Notre Dame he will be competing against a school that he looked up to for years and even con­sidered attending. 
"Notre Dame recruited me 

for football and basketball.'' 
Johnson said. "It was a place I 
really considered going to, 
although I didn't take a visit 
there. You watch the movie 
'Rudy' growing up, and obvi­
ously it's the mecca of college 
football. But as you get older, 
you begin to sec where you 
think you fit in, and Stanford 
was the place for me." 
For four hours Saturday. the two sides -Stanford players and Irish coaches -will look across the sidelines and see nothing but another opponent. 
But through it all, there will be no lack of respect and admi­ration from Johnson's side. 
"It's going to be a big game no matter who the coach is." Johnson said. "Hopefully he'll come over, shake hands and give a hug. It's just all love. I have all the love for them and their program, except on [Oct.] 5." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 3, 2002
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
Freshnien 
continued from page 28 
mate Suzie Hayes fired a final round 78 to l'urther her case to travel to future tournaments. 
..J\s prr.­dicted. the mcnts together," she said. "Being able to watch the upperclassmen in praetkP and how they sLay focused on their game and schoolwork has shown me what to do in the future." 
King also credited her upper-
class teammates 
with aiding the 
freshmen ':4s predicted, the freshmen adjust to college golf.
h a v e freshmen have stepped 
"[Hoge rs,
stepprd up 
up to the pla.te right Byrne, and Lottal
to tht> 
away. A lot ofthem have have taught time
plate righ.: 
management with
a 1.v a y . already traveled. " 
school, golf, and
said King. 
travel,·· said King.
"/\ lot of 
Debby King "The first l'ew
them have 
already head coach months for the 
trawled.'' 
" T h e biggest advantage of having so many freshmen is the fact that we're going to be together to grow and develop the team." said Bassett. "llopefully we'll progrnss and improve togeth­er." 
King also commented 011 the positive Pffect that the fresh­men have had on the upper­r.lassmen. 
"The frnshnrnn pressure has really extended to upperclass­men Hebecca Rogers. Shannon Byrne, and K a r e n 
freshmen arP 
very overwhelm­ing because their workload is the same as for anv other stu­dent." " 
While the freshmen have got­ten off to a good collective start, their success was expect­ed. Brophy and Bassett were both among the top 100 seniors in the country coming out of high school so they were expecled to provide an imme­diate contribution. 
The early trials eontinue for the Irish next week as they 
Lotta." said "The freshman pressure 
King. "They has really extended to have really 
[the] upperclassmen ...
stepped up 
They have really stepped
t h e i r games." up their games." 
" J 1 ' s unique hav­
Debby King 
ing half the team as head coach 
freshmen," a d d e d Gebauer. "Half of the team is trying to adjust to college and the upperclassmen are trying to help us ease into it." 
Bassett agreed that having five freshmen was helpful. "We're experiencing the newness of college and tourna­
compete at the Shootout at the Legends. There the Irish will face the most difficult field on their sched­u I e thus far. King has emphasized to her team the importance of playing their game. 
"Our goal is to break 312 daily," said King. "We just have to pay no attention to the rest of the field." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

Observer. 
L'i~e 45povts? -rY\'i\\~ sleep is 
ovevv~te~? 
-rhe\\ wov~ .Pov 
Obsevvev 
45povts. 
Cc::\ll Chv'is, ke1.tie ov Joe 
e'\t \-4S-4,. 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
A Notre Dame womens golfer lines up a putt in a recent match. The Irish are looking to gain valuable experience for its large freshman class. 
J\ -,·,' 
~ ) ·~ ,{. . 
" :-,, ." -, ·'.• ·->:;·t 

•

anov1c
•

nst1tute UNIVERSITY OF for European Studies NOTRE DAME 
Claudia Schillid 
"Fighting Terrorism in Berlin" 
October 7, 2002 
4:00 P.M. C 103 Hesburgh Center 

Start your Friday mornings off at the Eck Center with coffee and donuts, provided by ND Alumni Association and Anthony Travel, and enjoy Notre Dame camraderie throughout the day. 
12:00 noon -Student Piano Player (Inside the Eck Center) 
I:00 -3:00 pm -Kennedy's Kitchen Irish Band (Outside) 
3:30 pm -Notre Dame Marching Band (Outside) 
4:00 -Glee Club (Inside) 

We hope you will stop by and enjoy the spirit ofNotre Dame 
Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Thursday, October 3, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

,i'ffljjl',.\/41 ~.~ THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
~ ~ ~~ by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
$ABOS 
j
I I t t J 
02002 Tri>une Media Services, Inc.
R~fN~I
r I t J
t 
tPYSEDE 
wwwlumble.oom 


tSUCCAU I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon, 
(Answers tomorrow) 

..,__ 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: ANKLE VIGIL OUTING PROFIT Answer: What he discovered when he worked out with weights -IT'S "UPLIFTING" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 26 • To order, send your name, addreH ¦nd $5.95 •nd 
make check peyeble to lrlbun• Media Servk:ea, P.O. Box: 4330, Chicago, IL 8068D-4330. 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 31 "Gross!" 62 Blue shade CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Gore Vidal, Chubby Checker, Stevie
1 Follow-up to the 32 Perplexed, after 63 Soap, e.g. 
Ray Vaughan, Neve Campbell

best seller "at' 64 Weekend 
Happy Birthday: Express yourselfcreatively and take advantage of what's being
"Angela's (Gannett
34 Linguist 
offered You must muster up enough confidence in yourself and your abilities so
Ashes" publication)
Chomsky and that you can move f01ward with ease. Many changes will be taking place around 4 Mass segment others 65 Salt Lake City­you this year, making it very important to be adaptable. Be progres.sive and easy tc 9 Bank offering, 38 Like a chunky 
to-Provo dir. deal with. Your numbers are 2, 15, 29, 30, 36, 41 briefly person's belt 66 Blue shade 
~(March 21-April 19): Projects will take your mind off your wonies.
buckle? 67 Satisfied12 Moo goo gai 

Some of those you live with may be moody and not willing to compromise. Steer 
pan pan 41 Nasty-smelling 
clear of confrontations. ***** 13 Kind of class 42 Mouth-burning DOWN TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will have difficulties with those you love 1 Little jerk because of your obstinate nature. It's time to worl< on your self-confidence and on
15 Prefix with pod 43 Cartoonist 
enhancing your appearance. ** 
Keane 2 Home of the 

17 Like Botox GEMINI (May 21-Jlllle 20): Go out on the town and meet new people. In
Gaels, in

injections? 44 Acronyrnic car conversations you will find yourself talking a lot and saying very little. You may
college sports 

19 Interruption of old find this extremely tiring. Concentrate on being precise. **** 
3 Rise abruptly 

46 "Platoon" setting CANCER (June 21-July 22): Ifyou want your lover to be content, don't let your20 Some campers' 
4 Tart part negativity get the better ofyou. Lowered vitality will result in a moody outlook.
supplies 47 Heater feature 
5 Karel Capek hnmerse yourself in projects that keep you out oftrouble. *** 21 Open, as 48 Like a LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Things will become explosive on the domestic front
play

shipped goods "M*A*S*H" Expect fireworks. Please your mate and you may hold your relationship
6 Grimm
character's together. ***23 Like a character

soles? VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Secret romantic involvements will end as quickly as
housecat's 
7 Domingo, e.g. Ibey begin. Try.to be honest with yourself. Don't make waves at work. Stay
no-no? 53 Results in 
8 When the baton focused. *** 27 Special interest 54 Words of assent indicates LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Don't burn bridges. Keep your options open. grps. Participation in environmental organizations will bring you into contact with
57 PBS science 9 It's a challenge 

29 Wool finisher, show Puzzle by Cathy MlllhauMr people who will be able to help you in 1he future. **** 
10 Getting better, 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make sure safeguards are in place. You are likely
commercially 58 Like a kid with after "in" 36 Early second-47 Pulled in 55 Symbol of 
to injure yourself through recklesslles.$, Avoid disputes with those people who
30 Approximately spin control? millennium year prying
11 Vinegar: Prefix 48 Site of a misrepresent situations. ** 14 Ladies' partners 37 Behave like a Monteggia's 56 Quarrel SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Agreements may be confusing. Have ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE bear fracture someone you trust look at lhe fine points. Make sure you have clarity before
16 Wall St. abbr. 

59 Oft-nicknamed signing anything. Don't be reckless in love.*****
18 Numbered 39 Terrier type 49 Some Dodges period CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You cannot trust your feelings. Emotionalcomposition 

40 Columnist deception is evident This is probably not the best time to make any decisions
so_Cup 
60 Stretch of 

Bambeck about the relationship. *** 51 Shanty turbulent water AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful of your lover's feelings today.
45 Four Holy 

Troubles on the home front are to be expected. Do the best job you possibly can
25 Words with hit 61 Skater
Roman 52 Arlene and 

and try to avoid conflicts with co-workers. *** 
or take emperors Roald Babilonia 

PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:h 20): Focus all your energy on making money. You ma)
26 Preordain 

want to II)' to pick up a part-time job. New possibilities for love will be enticing 27 Singer known and social activities gratifying. **
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 

as the Sparrow Birthday Baby: You will be a sweet and adaptable individual who is eager to
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. 

of Paris please and always wanting to help others. You will be cautious, caring and
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
comfortable with yourself . 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Oleck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.corn, eugenialast.com, astromate.con
biters past puzzles, nytirnes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRF..5S SYNDICATE A S 33 Fleece Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, s E E E E s E 35 Botanical site nytimes.com/leaming,/xwords. 
---------------~---------------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ______________________ 
Address __________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Thursday, October 3, 2002 

ND WOMENS GOLF FOOTBALL 
Freshmen making an early impact 
By ANDY TROEGER Spom Wmer 
A win at the Notre Dame Invitational would have made Irish coach Debby King happy no matter what. 
Winning the tournament with a lineup composed mainly of freshmen made her ecstatic. 
"It helps build a program," .said King when asked about the impact of the victory. "It really makes us look forward to the future." 
The most impressive fresh­man thus far has been Lauren GebatIPr, who tied for fifth at the Notre Dame Invitational and played well at Michigan State the ,veek before. 
"My short game has helped me out a lot." said Gebauer, "and my driver, when it's on, helps me have confidence in the rest of my game." 
Gebauer is far from the only freshman to have made a major impact early this sea­son. Sarah Bassett turned in the team's low score at Michigan State and finished in the top five at Notre Dame through two rounds before struggling in the final round. Also Katie Brophy overcame a poor first round at Notre Dame 
..... 
by firing rounds of 78 and 77 to garner a top-20 finish. 
Fellow freshman Lauren Barbir also contributed to the Notre Dame Invitational win over the weekend, and class-
see FRESHMEN/page 26 


WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Weasels, Wild Wo111en battle for postseason 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
Thursday's game between Walsh and Pasquerilla West has a little extra emotion than most games. 
Whoever wins the game will qualify for the playoffs. 
Whoever loses will have to wait until next year for their chance to play in the Stadium. 
Both the Wild Women (1-3) and the Purple Weasels (1-3) recognize the significance of this game. 
"vVhoevcr wins gets to go to the playoffs," Pasquerilla West captain Leslie Schmidt said. "We reallv need to sharpen our skills "so we're at the top of our game Thursday." 
"We all know that it's for 
the playoffs," Walsh captain ing out strong and ready to Allison Troy said. "As far as play on Thursday and just go 
emotion being a factor, it's from there." 
both an advantage and a disad­vantage for both teams." 
Despite e q u a I records, the two teams are on com­pletely oppo­site trends. 
Walsh easi­ly defeated Farley in their last 
"We all know that it's for the playoffs. As far as emotion being a factor, it's both an advantage and a disadvantage for both teams. " 
Alison Troy Walsh captain 
Despite the final s c o r e Schmidt praised the play of wide receiver Heather V a n Hoegarden, safety Lindsay Lichten­berg, and fullback Anna Kate 
game, by a score of 12-0. In its previous game, PW lost to Badin 26-6. 
"We weren't ready to play Sunday," Schmidt said. "We're just planning on com-
Millburn in Sunday's loss. 
"Our defense played a fan­tastic game," Troy said con­cerning Walsh's win Sunday. "We've struggled a little this year and we'd like to get 
back to 'defensive domi­nance.'" 
In addition to the team's defense, Troy lauded the play of Walsh quarterback Carrie Campbell, who scored the team's only offensive touch­down. 
Walsh has lost for two straight years in the semifi­nal game to Welsh Family, putting a little added pres­sure on this year's team to make the playoffs. 
"It's still ours to go out and win," Troy said. "We're defi­nitely still in control of our destiny." 
The teams meet Thursday at 9 p.m. at the west Riehle field. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

BCSnow says Irish are 4-0 
Associated Press 

Notre Dame is 4-0 in the eyes of the Bowl Championship Series after all. 
Reversing a decision made less than two weeks ago, the BCS said Wednesday that the win by thn Fighting Irish over Maryland in the Kickoff Classic will count toward qualifying for a BCS bowl game. 
The change means the ninth-ranked Irish are now five wins away from qualifying for one of two at-large berths f'or BCS bowl games -Piesta, Rose, Orange and Sugar. Under BCS rules, teams must have nine "nonexempt" wins to earn a chance to play in a BCS game. 
Until this season, the first 19 Kickoff Classics, along with all the other "preseason classic" games were considered "exempt." However, since the date of the Notre Dame­Maryland game was changed to Aug. 31 from Aug. 24, it took place after the NCAA's window of exempt games. 
On Monday, Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White informed BCS coordinator and Big East commissioner Mike Tranghese that the NCAA ruled the game should not be exempt. A conference call fol­lowed with Tranghese, White and the five other BCS com­missioners -from the ACC, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-10 and SEC. 
"With that, the commission­ers felt the Notre Dame game should not be exempt," BCS spokesman John Paquette said Wednesday. "Notre Dame will be able to count the win toward qualifying for the at­large pool of nine wins." 
The six conference champi­ons receive automatic bids to the BCS bowls, with two at­large teams selected. Notre Dame finished 9-2 in 2000 and played Oregon State in the Fiesta Bowl. 
Besides gaining a victory this week, the Irish also were ranked No. 1 in the New York Times and the Atlanta Journal-Constitution Colley Matrix computer polls. 
"Just took at the next poll, OK," was coach Tyrone Willingham 's reaction. "You don't get carried away with any of that. Our guys can see those examples all around them." 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL  FOOTBAU.  WOMENS INTERHAU  WOMENS GOLF  
Angels 8, Yankees 6 Giants 8, Braves 5  According to the Associated Press, the BCS Committee has reversed its  Pasquerilla West vs. Walsh  The Notre Dame womens golf team,  
Athletics 9, Twins 1 Catch up with Major League Baseball playoff action from Wednesday.  previous decision to not count Notre Dame's victory over Maryland in its record used to compile its BCS rank­ing.  Tonight, 9 p.m. It's 'win and you're in' for the vic­tor of this match between 1-3 teams.  comprised largely of freshmen, is turn­ing heads with its recent impressive outings.  
page 16  back page  back page  back page  








