
Welcome Observer Alums
SHOWERS 

Friday

The Observer extends a warm welcome to all former staff members visiting this weekend. We're glad you're here to celebrate our 35th anniversary.
HIGH 70° 
APRIL 19, 
LOW44° 
2002 


THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVI NO. 128 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND to host UN global conference 
By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will host the first conference in the United 
States  dedicated  to  the  
United  Nations  Global  
Compact next week.  
The  con­ 

ference, "Meeting Expecta­tions in the World Economy: T h e United Nations 


G I o b a I Annan Compact," addresses the U .N. 's new ini­tiative to diffuse the benefits of global economic develop­ment through voluntary cor­porate policies and actions. 
Father Oliver Williams. director of Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and the conference director, 
see U.N./page 4 



Scientist finds disease link 
. Findings shed light on the cause of Huntington's disease 

By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame biologist Crislyn D'Souza-Schorey and her col­leagues have discovered a pro­tein link that may lead to a cure to Huntington's disease. 
The neurodegenerative dis­order atllicts 25,000 people in the U.S. 
Huntington's disease is char­acterized by the formation of aggregates -clumps of abnor• mal proteins -in the nerve cells. The buildup of these aggregates interferes with neural activity, leading to loss of mental capability and physi­cal control. 
In normal cells, proteasomes shred defective proteins before they have the chance to form aggregates, but in diseased cells these biological shredders are somehow disabled. 
D'Souza-Schorey's research, published in the March edition of Nature Cell Biology, suggests that the protein arfaptin 2 
causes aggregate formation by . breaking up proteasomes. 
"Our hypothesis was that 
perhaps this protein had 
played a role at an early event 
during aggregation," D'Souza­
Schorey said. 
The research team began 

investigating the cause of 
aggregate formation with the 
aid of a green fluorescent pro­
tein-tagging agent. They also 
used genetically engineered 
Huntington's disease mice 
models provided by Gillian 
Bates' laboratory in London, 
and studied the proteins at the 
molecular level using cell-free 
assays. 
When arfaptin 2 was linked 
to aggregate formation, 
D'Souza-Schorey studied 
mutated forms of the protein, 
hoping to identify one that 

would disrupt the formation of 
the defective protein clumps. 
The researcher found her 
answer in [delta]N-arfaptin 2. 
When the mutated protein is 
introduced into cells, it blocks 
arfaptin 2 from degrading pro­
teasomes and forms ring-like 
structures that surround the 
huntingtin aggregates. 
The research team's results 
are especially significant, 
according to D'Souza-Schorey. 
because they provide a biologi­
cal basis for a potential cure 




Republicans debate at ND 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
They may have disagreed on campaign tactics and the value of experience versus a youthful perspective, but Republican primary candi­dates James Ehrhard and Carl Baxmeyer agreed on the importance of cutting government waste, creating jobs and improving educa­tion during a debate spon­sored by College Republicans. 
Ehrhard, a 27-year-old trial attorney in South Bend and Baxmeyer, a 49-year­old Michigan, Ind. resident are running for the State House of Representatives seat against Democratic candidate Ryan Devorak. 
The debate focused on upcoming state tax restruc­turing and slimming down government slack in all areas, including education and the corrections system. 
"There's no more impor­
tant time than now to have the Republicans in charge of the [state] legislature since tax restructuring is going on. l've spent time in the state of 'Taxachusetts' and I won't let that happen to Indiana," Ehrhard said to the crowd of 20. "When you raise prices you get less customers, when you raise taxes you get fewer citi­zens." 
"Property tax restructur­ing is going to hit the aver­age citizen, agriculture and business extremely hard if we don't do something," Baxmeyer echoed. "We've lost 100,000 jobs in the last two years, think of how many tax dollars that is." 
Both candidates also endorsed the idea of using so-called "hidden funds," money that builds up in government accounts over time and sits unused, to ease the state out of the current recession. 
see DEBATE/page 9 


Prosecutor assumes rape case 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
The county prosecutor's office will take over the Saint Joseph County Police investigation of an alleged March 28 rape involving five Notre Dame students today. 
State Prosecutor Chris Toth will decide whether or not to file charges against the four suspects after evaluating the case and evi­dence acquired from an April 10 search of one suspect's house where the alleged rape occurred. 
The alleged victim is a 20­year-old female, and the sus­pects are three Notre Dame foot­ball players and one former team member. 
Capt. Harry Seider of the County Police Detective Bureau said police generally send evi­dence to one of the four state 
see RAPE/page 9 

while many pharmaceutical companies are investing in research using synthetic alter­natives. 
The discovery may also have broader implications. Other neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's disease and cystic fibrosis are characterized by aggregate for­m a tion. which also may be linked to arfaptin 2. 
"The question remains, 'Is this a common mechanism to aggregate formation that can be extended to other neurode­generative diseases?'" D'Souza-Schorey said. "We would like to explore this fur­ther." 
D'Souza-Schorey is a profes­sor and researcher at Notre Dame's Walther Cancer 
see LINK/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, April 19, 2002 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME HISTORY  
Academic Council passes curriculum revision  Minority students get money from bowl game  
Monday, April 13, 1970  Wednesday, April 15, 1970  

INSIDE COLUMN 

Friends for the long haul 
Everyone has heard the friends you make in 
college will be your friends for life, and your 
high school friends will quickly grow without 
you. For most the first is true but the latter 
may vary a little bit. I for one know that the 
friends r have made over 
the past three years could 
not be any closer to me 
than my own family; in 
fact, they are my family, 
Think about it, you wake-up with these peo­ple, you eat with them and they see you in your best and worst moments. What does this describe? A fam­ily. Over the past three years I have had a family away from my family in St. Louis. While in high school you do become close with people. but it isn't the same. Spending all day with your friends at school, or hanging out with them after school or on the weekends is not the same as living with them. During my four years in high school, like most, I had really good friends I knew I could count on. But let's be honest, for the most part they did not mean much after we came to college. we just simply grew apart and priorities changed. Now I'm not saying that I still don't have some really great friends from high school, but the select few I still consider myself close with are again like my family and have been for some time. 
The friends 1have stayed in contact with from high school are also the people that I could not talk to for a few weeks, but when we do talk it is like nothing has changed, we were close in high school and we have grown closer while at different schools. 
Everyone has a friend like this from the pre-college days. 
No matter how much time passes the next time you talk to her it is like no time has passed and you are just as close as ever. 
However, I know I can say I have this strong bond with more than one person from college. I can't count how many times over the past three years a friend has been my savior, has saved me with a yearbook dead­line, randomly called me just because they had a feeling something was wrong or a Saint Mary's friend has called me from home just because they did something stupid the night before and I missed it. 
I for one know that 1 can always count on my friends to be there when I need them, no matter what is going on in my life or in theirs we are each other's support system and we are not going anywhere. 
There is nothing more I could ask for in my friends. Well other than them living closer to me after school. As this year is rapidly com­ing to a close I can only help to think what is going to happen next year. As I get ready to graduate, next year, I can't help but think what strain is going to be put on the bonds that I have established with my friends here in South Bend. However, I know that my new family will remain my family for the rest of my life. No matter how far away we are from each other I know that the important people in my life here will be just a phone call away. Thank you for everything, l could not have gotten this far with all that I do without you all. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at boyl5460@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publicarion and strives for the high.,st standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a 
· mistake, please contact us at 6.31-454 l so we can 
correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday througn Friday except during exam and vacation ~riods. Th• Ob,~rver is a member ofthe Associared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

After two years of debate Notre Dame's Academic 
Notre Dame's first bowl appearance in 44 years gave
CoWlcil approved the Curriculum Revisions 
the University $210,000 for minority group scholarship
Committee's suggestions to make changes to the 
grants and programs. While the University gained
current curriculum. The most prominent of the 11 
$340,000 from the New Year's Day Cotton Bowl game, 
suggestions was a residential, co-educational Notre 
$130,000 went toward the cost of transporting and
Dame -Saint Mary's experimental program. The 
maintaining the team, coaches and marching band, and
revisions also passed an experimental "pass-fail" 
$50,000 was set aside for the black studies program.
option for junior and seniors. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Swarthmore student investigated for child porn 
SWARTHMORE, Pa. 
"The college protects students' 
On April 11 members of the privacy to the extent that the law Delaware County Criminal allows," said Tedd Goundie, asso­Investigation Division (CID) searched ciate dean of student life. for and downloaded the files of a According to Dean of the College Swarthmore College student who, Bob Gross. the investigation start­according to the search warrant affi­ed when police in New Hampshire davit, admitted to possessing and were notified by the parents of a sending child pornography images minor someone was sending child and having a sexual conversation with pornographic photos to their com­an officer posing as a 15-year-old boy. puter over the Internet. New 
The search warrant, which provid­Downing, director of Information Hampshire police then put out a ed access to all servers on the college Technology Services, who was present­sting. and. according to the search network, was the result of the ongoing ed with the warrant around lunchtime warrant affidavit. Detective James investigation of the CID's Internet April 11. McLaughlin of the Keene Police Crimes Against Children Task Force. Rumors the entire root directory of Department in New Hampshire 
The Phoenix is withholding the stu­the SCCS server had been copied were posed as a 15-year-old boy over dent's name since no charges had been going around campus over the week­instant messaging. The student con­filed at press time. end; however. no volumes of any serv­tacted the undercover officer and 
"The warrant was very specific in er were downloaded -only files used gave his roommate's phone number what to search, and we were very spe­by or in some way related to the stu­with the intent of having phone sex. 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Friday, April 19. 
FRONTS: 
...........
.....-,,-~ 


C 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Prus~: 

® © El rE1 ill] E3. ~ ~ (). 3#.)t; @@$; 
High Low Shower• R¦ ln T•atorm• Flurr._a Snow . ,.. Sunny Pl, ClOudy Cloudy 
Via AsSoddtod Press 

A1Ianta 86 65 Las Vegas 70 52 Portland 62 44 Bal1imore 88 62 Memphis 82 68 Sacramento 72 44 Boston 87 59 Milwaukee 57 38 St Louis 81 55 Chicago 64 41 New York 84 62 Tampa 87 68 Houston 62 70 Philaaelphia 94 65 Washington 90 67 
cific in allowing the search," said Judy dent. 
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY 
Police arrest indecent exposure men 
CARBONDALE. Ill. 
Patrons of Morris Library have checked out more than just books in the past week. Two non-Southern Illinois University students were arrested, one for allegedly expos­ing himself and another for alleged masturbation. Brandon Terrell Wimberly. arrested April 11, and Sean Polovich. arrested Monday, both were charged with public indecency and a host of other charges following alleged inappropriate actions. Wimberly, 21, was arrested April 11 after allegedly exposing himself to a student in the computer area of the first floor. He then allegedly left the library only to be stopped at the Faner Breezeway by officials and taken back to the library for positive identification. Wimberly was charged with public indecency and was wanted on two out­standing warrants. He was taken to Jackson County Jail. Polovich, 20, was arrested Monday and charged with public indecency, disorderly conduct and possession of drug para­phernalia after witnesses saw him allegedly masturbating at a computer station on the first floor. 
Daily Egyptian 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

Swarthmore Phoenix 
BALL STATE UNIVERSITY 
Police raid dorms, find drugs 
MUNCIE, Ind. 
Police confiscated six pounds of marijuana, 200 steroid pills. syringes, scales and $1,000 in cash when the Muncie-Delaware County Drug Task Force raided a Beeman Hall dorm room Tuesday evening. John Lam, 19, from Schererville, Ind .. was arrested on charges of dealing a narcotic, dealing marijuana, pos­session of marijuana and maintaining a common nui­sance after he sold drugs to an undercover officer. Lam's roommate. Carlton Barlow. was arrested on charges of dealing marijuana. possession of marijua­na and maintaining a common nuisance. Police said the marijuana seized in the raid is worth between $13,000 and $18,000. "This is one of the largest busts ever made in the dorms," a task force investigator said. "Generally we find such large amounts off cam­pus." The roommates had been under investigation for several months after the task force received a tip from someone in the residence hall. 
Daily News 

Friday, April 19, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Storin heads new media department 
TRANSLATION BY DAVID HARE 
DIRECTED BY GUEST ARTIST HOLGER TESCHKE
It'll Get Your Motor Runnin'! 
For more infonnation, please visit www.nd.edu/-ftt/mainstage.html 
Read The Observer. Because news two
\ 0 
weeks late isn't news...
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us 

it's history. 
to be better 800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 

•Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 6.25%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without notice. Ceriain restrtct,ons may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 


. Notre Dame alum and former Boston Globe editor assumes the position Aug. 6 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
Former editor of the Boston Globe and 1964 grad­uate, Matthew Storin, will oversee the newly created media relations division of Notre Dame Public Relations and Information as the asso­ciate vice president for news and information, according to Lou Nanni, vice president for public affairs and com­munication. 
"l do look forward to spreading the good word about Notre Dame and trying to enhance what is already a considerable academic repu­
tation," said Starin, who begins Aug. 5. 
In his new position, Storin will focus on the media­related operations of public relations for the University. 
"In addition to being one of the nation's most respected journalists, Matt is an alum­nus who through the years has demonstrated a genuine 
commit­ment to N o t r e Dame's institu­tional mis­sion," said N a n n i Thursday in a press release. 
A Ion g with Denny Moore, the asso­ciate vice president of public affairs and communication, and assistant vice president, Shannon Cullinan, Storin will contribute to the early stages of the office's recently 

Ever wanted to play drums?? Here's your chance ... 
Notre Dame Percussion ~ Showcase 2002 l 
*Saturday, April 20th in the ND Band Building* *Doors open at 10am, events run from llam-Spm* 


announced reorganization. "The job of an editor of a 
As a veteran journalist for lar·ge metropolitan newspa­many U.S. newspapers, per is an all-consuming job," Starin said he looks forward said Storin. "It doesn't leave to a new opportunity to find time for much else." "the best possible ways to Following his retirement, 
tell the Notre Dame story." 
Storin retired from the Globe in July 2001, after . eight years as the paper's edi­tor, and a total of 22 years with the daily. Starin has covered news from the White House to Tokyo for 

has also worked for U.S. Storin said he hopes to use News and World Report, the his East Coast background to Chicago Sun-Times, the New give Notre Dame a greater York Daily News, the Maine presence in metropolitan Times, and his hometown areas. paper, the Daily News of "I hope that we can solidify Springfield, Mass. our relations with media 
Th• Unlvt,,slty of Notrw 0.rM Dep,artm•nt of Music pruent, 
Seunghee C.ee1 violin 

Congratulations · 
Kimberly Schmidt, piano 


Elizabeth! 
Best wishes for you and Randy 
Love, 
Lisa
*Free to the ND, SMC, and HC Community* 
Performing works by Schub«\, Bartbk, Sloth and Franck 

Clinics by Bret Kuhn, Dan Hostetler, & Jeff White 
'3riclay, ,tlpril 19, 2002 "l:30 pm, t'lnnenber9 ;fuditorium 

Wednesday-Saturday
Performances by the Notre Dame Winter Drumline 
Snite }llluseum of Art 

April 17-20, 7:30 p.m.Raffle to follow clinics and performances! 
Free and open to the public 

Sunday 
April 21, 2:30 p.m. 
Post-performance discussion on 

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
Reserved seats $10, $ 9 senior citizens, $7 students 
% Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student 
Center Box Office or by
APR* 

calling 574-631-8128. 
AslowAs 
¦ 
Financing on New &Used Vablcles 



Storin took time off for "I do look forward to six months before
spreading the good word 
entering a
ofNotre Dame and trying 
program at to enhance what is Harvard's J o a n
already a considerable 
Shorenstein
academic reputation." 
Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy 
Matthew Sorin 
fonner Boston Globe editor 
in the John 
F. Kennedy 
School of the Globe. He Government. 
centers like New York and Washington which are so important to any institution that has a national follow­ing," he said. 
Storin, a member of the advisory council's of the College of Arts and Letters and the John W. Gallivan Program on Journalism, said he would like to teach class­es at some point, although he will not teach in the fall. 
"My first priority is to get to know the administration and the job," Storin said. 
Starin and his wife, Keiko, have four children: Karen, 37, Aimee a '87 Notre Dame graduate, 36, Sean. 34, and freshman Kenny, 18. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
by BERTOLT BRECHT 


~~=~~~~-------------------­
r 
page 4 The Obserwr . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 19, 2002 
r 
Link 
continued from page 1 
Institute, where she studies adhesion and migration of tumor cells. How did she make a discovery linked to Huntington's disease? 
According to the researcher, uncon­trolled growth in cancer cells and the cell death char-· 

acteristic of D'Souza-Schoreyneurode­generative diseases may be two sides of the same protein coin. "There might be a subset of proteins that move a cell either toward proliferation or cell death," D'Souza-Schorey said. D'Souza-Schorey's findings were published in collaboration with Peter Peters. Ke Ning. Felipe Palacios, Rita Boshans, Aleksey Kazantsev, Leslie Thompson of the University of California at Irvine and Ben Woodman and Gillian Bates of the Division of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Guy's and St. Thomas's School of Medicine. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
U.N. 
continued from page 1 
sa.id he hopes the confer­ence will encourage American involvement in the Global Compact. While over 200 European compa­nies have joined the com­pact, the initiative has not caught on as well in the United States, where only one or two companies have signed up. 
"This conference is a good launching pad to get the idea started in the United States.... We want to familiarize multi-nation­al corporations with the Global Compact and to encourage them to sign up," said Williams. 
U.N. Secretary-general Kofi Annan formulated the Global Compact in 1999 as nine principles that focused on human rights. labor rights and concern for the environment. Annan argued at the Davos World Economic Forum that shared values and an ethi­cal culture provided a more stable environment for a world market and extended the prosperity of globaliza­tion to developing nations. 
"The Global Compact attempts to level the play­ing field and to set some base lines to make world trade more fair," Williams 
DON"T fORG£T! ! . 


TOURPIAHEPIT 
WHEN: TONIGHT AT II '"' 
WH£R£: 
PIOTR£ DA'IE ROOM IN LAFORTUNE 
PIUHS: $180 IN BOOKSTORE GlfT CERTIFICATES! 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more Info call 1-7308. :­
said. 

After Annan spoke at Commencement and received an honorary Notre Dame degree in 2000, he contacted Williams for help in promoting the Global Compact. 
"He was impressed with tho number of business leaders who were graduat­ing from Notre Dame," said Williams. 
Williams said the confer­ence fit in well with the University's mission. 
"Notre Dame is a world­class university, and it's our mission to make the world a bettor place for our graduates having been there," he said. 
The conference, which is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and the United Nations, will begin Sunday at 7 p.m. Georg Kell, senior officer of the Executive Office of the Secretary General and director of the 
U.N. Global Compact Office, will deliver the keynote address. 
On Monday and Tuesday, several companies already practicing some of the Compact's principles, including Hewlett-Packard Co., Matten, Motorola, Inc., Nike, Inc. and Shell Oil Company, will present case studies dealing with their experiences. 
More information on the conference can be found at www.nd.edu/-ethics. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu. 

Matha named student trustee 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 

Kristen Matha, former stu­dent body vice president. has been named as the new student trustee for the 2002-2003 school year. Beginning this weekend she will work with the Board of Trustees by observing current student trustee, Akmaral Omarova. 
'Tm very excited that Kristen is going to be the new student trustee," Omarova said. "I think she will do a great job." 
Matha plans to follow the steps of past student trustees, continuing mass e-mail, mail­ings and lunches to encourage interaction between the stu­dents and the Board. Matha also intends to keep in close contact with student govern­ment, attending Board of gover­nance meetings and working with student representatives. 
"I think BOG is representative of student concerns and an active participant in all student endeavors and I'm very excited to work with Kim Jensen," Matha said. "I look forward to this interaction and I just hope to bring a voice and km;iwledge to the Board." 
Matha brings a wealth of experience with her to the stu­dent trustee position having been a student leader for the three years. Representing her class and the student body has given her extensive knowledge about administration and stu­dent government functions_ 
"I've sat on the Education and Student Life committee, so I've had interaction with the Trustees before, but I have a lot to learn," Matha said. "Being a recognizable face on campus I hope students continue to talk to me and I'm excited to be stu­dent trustee." 
Students have the chance to interact with the Board, Omarova and Matha today at lunch and this afternoon at 4:30 
p.m. when the official ground­breaking ceremony for the new Student Center/Noble Family Dining Hall takes place. 
The Student Life committee. which Omarova sits on. will be discussing the current alcohol policy, international students and diversity and catholic iden­tity. 
"We're not looking at making changes to the alcohol policy," Dr. Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs, said. "I want to talk with them about a report that came out about women and binge drinking and about the change in Notre Dame poli­cy and what the implications of that are." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 





ATION 
Friday, April 19, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Al-Jazeera shows Bin Laden again: 
The Arab satellite channel Al-Jazeera aired addi­tional excerpts Thursday from a videotape in which Osama bin Laden praises the Sept. 11 hijackers. Excerpts lrom the undated videotape were first broadcast Monday. On Wednesday, clips from a similar tape were aired on another Arab satellite station across the Middle East. 
Annan: Troops needed in Mideast: 
ll.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan appealed to the international community Thursday to quickly deploy a "robust" armed force to halt the Israeli-Palestinian conflict's "descent into bloodletting." Annan told the 
U.N. Security Council hi a closed session that a force large enough to take "decisive action" is essential to ending the deadly cycle of attacks. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Atlantis crew ready to head home: 
Space shuttle Atlantis' astronauts aimed for a Friday homecoming after completing one of the most complex construction jobs ever at interna­tional space station. Good weather was forecast for the early afternoon touchdown. The seven astronauts installed a 44-foot girder at the orbit­ing outpost. It is the first segment of an alu­minum frame that eventually will stretch 356 feet, have railroad tracks spanning the entire length, and support four sets of solar wings. 
Archbishop given subpoena: In an extraordinary move, the archbishop and chancellor of the Archdiocese of Cincinnati were summoned Thursday to appear before a grand jury investigating child abuse alle­gations. Archbishop Daniel Pilarczyk was later excused from testifying but may be required to appear later before the grand jury, according to Hamilton County Prosecutor Michael Allen. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Indiana ghost tracker club: About a dozen people -some armed with tape recorders and cameras, others with electro­magnetic field detectors and night scopes ­will gather Saturday in search of a most elu­sive quarry: ghosts. The equipment helps trackers determine if there is any paranormal activity, said Mike McDowell, Indiana Ghost Trackers president. "We go out to locations that are either known to be haunted or thought to be haunted, locations that have stories about ghosts" associated with them, McDowell said. 
Market Watch April 18 

Dow 
10,205.28 -15.50 

Jones 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
APPLIED DIGITAL (APSX) -39.66 -0. 71 1.08 NASDAQ-100 INDEX -1.91 -0.67 34.35 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +3.52 +0.29 8.52 RAZORFISH INC (RAZF) -6.05 -0.03 0.45 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3. 32 -0. 53 15.44 
WEST BANK 


Associated Press 
JENIN 
Israel will complete its pullout from the town of Jenin overnight, an army commander said Thursday, after a curfew was lifted and refugee camp residents began searching for loved ones under the rubble. A 
U.N. envoy said the incur­sion caused "colossal suf­fering" and was unjustified. 
Brig. Gen. Eyal Schlein, the Israeli army's Jenin division commander, said his forces had destroyed the "infrastructure -explosive labs, organization heads, and also terrorists," But he told Israel TV, "The attacks will continue -we haven't achieved any cease-fire." 

After Israeli forces pulled back from most parts of Jenin on Thursday, Schlein said the withdrawal would be completed overnight, and the military would redeploy on the outskirts. 
Near Nablus, the Israeli military said it captured Husam Ataf Ali Badran, a leader of the Hamas mili­tant organization who the army said was responsible for the deaths of more than 100 Israelis in some of the worst suicide bombings in the last year. 
He reportedly had a hand in the March 27 Passover suicide bombing in Netanya that triggered the Israeli drive into Palestinian cities and towns. An army state­ment said his capture "is a significant blow" to Hamas. Witnesses said he was cap­tured and three others were killed in a raid by heli­copters firing rockets and machine guns outside the village of Beit Hassan. 
Terje Roed-Larsen, the 
U.N. envoy, said 300 build­ings were destroyed and 2,000 people were left homeless in the Jenin refugee camp, scene of the bloodiest fighting of Israel's three-week campaign to capture or kill armed mili­tants in the West Bank. 
"Not any objective can justify such action. with colossal suffering" to civil­ians, said Larsen. wearing a blue flak jacket and walking over a broad swathe of pul­verized concrete where hundreds of people once lived. 
Residents found the remains of two bodies and said one of them appeared to be that of Mahmoud Tawalbeh, the regional leader of militant Islamic Jihad. He had admitted sending suicide bombers to Israel, among them his younger brother. On April 11, Israel reported it believed its forces killed Tawalbeh. 

Senators block Iraqi oil imports 
U.N. sanctions. congressional attempts to shape
Associated Press 

If the measure remains part of a U.S. Middle East policy, saying that WASHINGTON final energy package, President Congress should be cooperating 
The Senate voted Thursday to bar Bush could resume such imports with the Bush administration. Iraqi oil imports, while lawmakers only if he deems them important to Bingaman noted that sanctions separately proposed sanctions national interests. against Iraq would not affect U.S. against Palestinian leader Yasser The White House has not com­imports because Iraqi oil would be Arafat and actions to punish Syria. mented on the measure by Sen. replaced by other world oil market 
The Senate, by an 88-10 vote, put Frank Murkowski, R-Alaska. sources. into a broader energy bill a provi­Sen. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., said Iraqi oil accounts for 8.6 percent, sion that would prohibit Iraqi oil he had some concern the measure or about 780,000 barrels a day, of from being imported into the United might put President Bush "in an U.S. oil imports. States until Iraq agrees to U.N. awkward position" if he wants to "This is a matter of principle for inspectors, stops giving financial resume Iraqi imports. the United States," said Murkowski. help to survivors of suicide bombers House Democratic leader Dick "Saddam Hussein is fostering ter­and halts oil smuggling to avoid Gephardt also cautioned against rorism." 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, April 19, 2002 
Abercrombie pulls T-shirt line after protests 
. Asian-American groups argue shirts represent stereotypical Asians 
Associatcd Prcss 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Clothier Abercrombie & Fitch is pulling a line of T-shirts that triggered protests from Asian groups who 

The T-shirts. some of already made money out Asian Pacific Islander how many of the T-which show smiling men ofour exploitation." Legal Outreach. "They shirts were already in stores. or how with slanted eyes and wouldn't do the same much the recall would cost the New conical hats, will be pulled for anv other ethnic Albany, Ohio-based casual sportswear
Bao Phi 

from all of the company's groups:" company. The T-shirts, which went on 311 stores in 50 states, boycott organizer Activists in other sale in some stores Friday for $24.50, company spokesman parts of the country also will be removed from sale on the Hampton Carney said Thursday. urged people to call or write the company company's Web site, Carney said. 
"We're very, very, very sorry," Carney to complain. "These graphic T-shirts were designed said. "It's never been our intention to Christine Chen, executive director of the with the sole purpose of adding humor offend anyone." Organization of Chinese Americans, and levity to our fashion line," Carney 
Hut more than 100 Asian-Americans based in Washington, D.C., planned to e-said. "Since some of our customers have 
said they reinforced nega­Americans," said Ivy tion," Phi said. Let the Good Times
"The fact is, they've

tive stereotypes. Lee, 30, an attorney at Carney could not say Abercrombie & Fitch spokesman Roll -Chinese Food & 
protesting outside an Abercrombie & mail several thousand Asian-Americans been offended by their content, we arc Fitch store in San Francisco Thursday asking them to check that shirts are pulling these shirts." said Carney's apology wasn't enough. removed from stores, and to voice their One of the company's T-shirts reads 
They read a list of demands including a opinions to Abercrombie. "Wong Brothers Laundry Service -Two public apology in four major newspapers, In Minneapolis, Minn., Bao Phi. 27, was Wongs Can Make It White." increased philanthropy and investment in asking people to boycott Abercrombie Another shirt features a smiling the Asian community and the hiring of unlil it pledges that Buddha figure with the consultant'> to ensure sensitivity on Asian such designs won't be slogan "Abercrombie
"It's never been our
issues. repeated. and fitch Buddha Bash "It's unacceptable for them tu smear "The fact is, they've intention to offend anyone." -Get Your Buddha on and continue to perpetuate racist stereo­already made mo.ney the Floor." Another 
types of Asian­out of our exploita-Hampton Carney reads "Wok-N-Bowl ­
Man sues Church for sexual misconduct 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Making use of a racketeering 
law, a man has sued the 
Vatican, a former bishop and 
four dioceses, accusing them of 
hiding the transgressions of a 
"web of predator priests" whose 
sexual misconduct spans at least 
three decades. 
The lawsuit filed Thursday is 
the second in as many months 
accusing Catholic leaders of 
racketeering under The 
Racketeer Influenced and 
Corrupt Organizations Act, or 
RICO. It is the third lawsuit 
alleging abuse by ex-bishop 
Anthony O'Connell while he 
served as rector of a church 
school in Hannibal, Mo. 
The Vatican was named 
because it required each diocese 
to keep secret files about prob­
lem priests whose misconduct 
might expose the Catholic 
Church to scandals and lawsuits, 
said Jeff Anderson, an attorney 
for the unnamed plaintiff. 
The lawsuit also names dioce­
ses where O'Connell worked ­
in Jefferson City, Mo., Knoxville, 
Tenn., and Palm Beach, Fla. ­
and accuses the Kansas City-St. 
Joseph Diocese of failing to act 
in the mid-1990s on the 
accuser's complaints. The man 
alleges he reported O'Connell to 
the Kansas Oty diocese because 
he lived there at the time, but 
received no help. 
"Hopefully today we can begin 
.. , ;,,-:, ..:. 
Ti. Nilci.0-~orMullt"'-m fllCll!tt M1su 
>ili;.c. 
( . . 
OIi (57.) 611-4!0!
·iii\>" 0 ..\' 
Sunday,:Aprtl 21, 2002 
. hQO' p.m::•,hrt 
Annenberg Auditorium 
a process of healing, prevention. exposure and perhaps someday, justice," Anderson said in announcing the lawsuit, which does not specify damages. 
Spokespeople for the dioceses said they had not seen the law­suit and could not discuss it specifically. 
"We're -concerned about all victims, and we certainly regret the way the church has handled some of these in the past." said Mark Saucier, spokesman for the Jefferson City Diocese. "We're determined to do every­thing we can to prevent any type of abusive behavior." 
Next week, American cardi­nals plan to meet in Rome for an unprecedented Vatican summit on clergy sex abuse. 
Thursday's suit accuses O'Connell of abuse from the time the plaintiff was a 15-year-old at St. Thomas Aquinas Seminary in the late 1960s until 1993. Another unnamed man sued O'Connell last month, claiming he was abused at St. Thomas starting in the late 1960s. 
O'Connell resigned last month as bishop in Palm Beach after admitting he abused Chris Dixon, now 40, in the late 1970s at the Hannibal boarding school for high school boys. The dio­cese has said O'Connell is in 
• seclusion and unavailable for comment. 
Bowling." 

Carney said the company received about 60 phone calls Wednesday about the shirts. The company makes fun of everyone, Carney said, noting its previous clothing designs have included foreign waitresses, taxi drivers and Britons. 
Last year, women's organizations and conservative politicians rallied against the company for its ads featuring young, barely clad models in sexually suggestive poses. 
Attention Sophomores! Order your class ring now and have it ready in thefall! 

•
•. 
I 
. 
. 
. , -.. 


Orders may be placedfor your class ring April 22 through April 26 8:30a.m. to 9:00p.m. 
Ring will be available for pickup after September 1,2002. 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 
Open Monday through Saturday, 8:30am -9pm Sunday, 10am -7pm 
Wrestling With Career Choices? 
There are so many choices out there for you. Which career will win? Life is more than a career. 
You could be happy doing so many things. But, what would make you the happiest? Ten years from now, when you look back, will you tell yourself you made the very best choice? 
Maybe you have never considered religious life. Maybe you should... 
To find out more about religious life, contact: 
Sr. Elyse Marie Ramirez, OP, Vocation Director DOMINICAN SISTERS OF SPRINGFIELD 
Phone 217.787.0481 • FAX 217.787-8169 1237 West Monroe• Springfield, IL 62704 e-mail: SEMRamirez@spdom.org website: www.springfieldop.org 



Friday, April 19, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Sanis honors Main Building restrooms 

NOAH AMSTADTEFVThe Observer The restrooms in the Main Building were voted the best In the nation. The facilities are characterized by imported tile, solid oak stall doors and 19th century light fixtures. 
King, Franklin to headline fest 
restrooms won out. according Lyphout used the opportunityBy ANDREW THAGARD to Cawley. to praise the work of 

Assistant News Ediror 
Voters commented on the University custodians. facilities' imported Victorian "The easy part is building it, 

Notre Dame bathrooms tile floors, solid oak stall doors the hard part is keeping it flushed the competition and sinks with classical clean," he said. "We're very Thursday as officials accepted chrome and brass fixtures. proud of our building. Our the award for "America's Best Individual stalls are parti­staff takes great pride in what Restroom." Sanis Company tioned with marble and each they do." representatives presented the restroom has a water fountain "The overall message is that designation at a ceremony in in a foyer area. Nineteenth hygiene is important," echoed Main Building. century reflector bowls sus­Michael Wallner, brand man­
"Thousands and thousands pended from the ceiling illumi­ager. "I think that the 
of people voted for these nate the bathrooms. University of Notre Dame is restrooms as the best in the Voters also praised the doing a good job of showing country," Sanis survey editor cleanliness of the lavatories. this." Dan Cawley said outside one which are serviced at least "America's Best Restroom" of the award-wining lavato­three times a day. is hosted at ries. "These restrooms are www.thebestofUSA.com and 
The Internet-based survey shinier than the Golden Dome sponsored by Sanis Company, received nominations for for which Notre Dame is a service provider of work­restrooms in casinos with talk­famous," said Alan Bigger, related garments. ing robots, private clubs with director of building services. panoramic views and upscale Jim Lyphout, vice president department stores, but in the for building operations, Bigger end the simple charm of the and members of the custodial 
Contact Andrew Thagard at 

University's Main Building staff accepted the award. 
athagard@nd.edu. 

0..Campw, GrAbwatiot1 Wcekfflb Special MA'f 16-11. 1001 
Need a place for your family to stay, try SacNd Heart'• PaMh Center (St Joseph Hall on campusl. 

Associated Press 
We Ht a $80.IO per pe,aoa do.nation for the weekend. 
INDIANAPOLIS
•coME EARLY (Tt11..noay)-STAY LATE (Tuesdayf-same 

The Indy Jazz Fest may be
tow price. 

shorter this year -only a weekend instead of a week ­
For resce,vations ptease -call 

but no one can complain when 
.~. ~ll.l_~ddy !lt~7~_H'§1_2 
Mary Fonferko at 574-631-8436 

Food! Karaoke Contest! Prizes! 
second annual
the 

DI 


SPRING BREAKDOWN 

RIL 19, 2002 SOUTH QU 

The Quad will be rocked once again! April 19, 2002 South Quad 5pm-7pm 
a king and a queen are show­ing up. 
Blues guitarist B.B. King and Aretha Franklin, the queen of soul, will headline the fourth annual jazz festival on June 14­
16. The festival has drawn more than 200,000 people since 1999. 
Arturo Sandoval, Bela Fleck & The Flecktones and David Sanborn will also be perform­ing, organizers announced this week. 
The lineup has improved this year~ A shorter program left organizers with more money to spend booking talent for each night, said Tasker Day, the organization's executive direc­tor. 
"The budget that we used to book our evening shows during the week last year, we've used that to strengthen the festival during days leading up to the headliners this year," Day said. 
Festival promoters said they also had a much larger pool of talent from which to choose. 
Last year the concert was held in July because the city was the host of the World Police and Fire Games in June. Other performers at this year's festival include Norah Jones, Bruce Hornsby and Dianne Reeves. 
Would you trade quality, in-depth news coverage for glossy paper? We wouldn't either. Read The Observer. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 19, 2002 


MEETING EXPECTATIONS IN THE WORLD ECONOMY: THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 
Presented By 

I 
i 
Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious And ~ Values in Business The United Nations 
APRIL 21 -23, 2002 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Center for Continuing Education McKenna Hall 
The United Nations Global Compact is a new initiative intended to increase and diffuse the benefits ofglobal economic development through voluntary corporate policies and actions. Kofi Annan, secretary-general of the United Nations, addressing the Davos World Economic Forum in January 1999, challenged business leaders to join a "global compact of shared values and principles" and give globalization a human face. Annan argued that shared values provide a stable environment for a world market and that without these explicit values business could expect backlashes from protectionism, populism, fanaticism and terrorism. 
Kofi Annan's top assistant will present the UN's vision and major multinational companies will offer case studies discussing issues of the Compact. 
Schedule 

Sunday, April 21  (M:orris Inn Dining Room)  
7:45 p.m.  Georg Kell, UNITED NATIONS, "The Vision of the UN Global  
Compact"  
Monday, April 22  (CCE)  
9:00 a.m.  NOVARTIS  
10:45 a.m.  DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU  
2:00 p.m.  MERCK and  
MOTOROLA  
4:00 p.m.  SHELL OIL  
Tuesday, April 23  (CCE)  
8:30 a.m.  FREEPORT-MCMORAN and  
HEWLETT-PACKARD  
10:15 a.m.  NIKE  
10:50 a.m.  TH•~ FUTURE OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT  

FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE CONFERENCE, SEE THE WEB SITE HTTP://\X'WW.ND/EDU/~ETHICS/ 
Friday, April 19, 2002 The Ob.server . NEWS page 9 
Rape 
continued from page 1 
labs, located in Indianapolis, Fort Wayne, Lowell and Evansville, but the evidence for the alleged rape has not yet gone to a lab. Seider said police delayed the submission of evi• dence to an Indiana crime lab because of testing delays due to a statewide backlog. 
'The state Jab is backed up, so it would take eight months to a year," said Capt. Harry Seider of the St. Joe Police Detective Bureau. 
Seider said that the prosecutor will decide whether or not to submit the evidence to a private lab, an option reserved for the police, but not frequently used. He added that the sense of urgency to submit evidence to a private lab is a "rare occur­rence" that comes from the cur• rent backlog, as well as the need to conduct "extensive testing" for DNA, said Seider. 
Sheriff Richard Seniff of St. Joe County told reporters last week in a press conference that the fact that the suspects involved with Notre Dame football would not change the investigation, and Seider agreed. 
"We are pursuing this as any other case that would come in," Seider said. 
In addition .to the county inves­tigation, the alleged victim has also presented her case to the University's Office of Residence Life and Housing. A closed disci­plinary hearing was scheduled for Wednesday, but WSBT-TV has reported that the hearing was postponed, according to the station's interview with the alleged victim's mother. 
According to the University handbook, du Lac, a disciplinary hearing involves all parties, along with witnesses and one peer student for each charged student, as well as for the alleged \ictim. The parties pre· sent their case before two or three staff members of ResLife or the Office of Student Affairs. 
A disciplinary violation could result in sanctions as severe as permanent dismissal, which du Lac defines as "permanent sepa­ration from the University with no opportunity to apply for read­mission." 
In the case of student athletes receiving any of the several pos· sible sanctions, the University reserves the right to prevent them from serving as a team captain or playing the sport for a fifth year of eligibility. 
Since spring football practice began April 6, no Notre Dame football players have missed practices for any disciplinary reasons. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne,30@nd.edu. 


GREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11:30 -3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday • Thursday 11 :30 AM • 10:00 PM Friday • Saturday 11 :30 AM -11 :00 PM 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults S4.50 for Children under 1 O 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 

Senate OK's border bill 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
A bill that would tighten restrictions on who can get into the country, and how closely they will be monitored by immi­gration and 
security agents, finally has Senate approval and may be on the fast track to the W h i t e 


House.  Bush  
T  h  e  
W  h  i  t  e  

House.backed legislation, which would allow officials to track foreign students more closely and check passenger lists of incoming jetliners, had been in limbo in the Senato since December. 
President Bush promised to sign the bill. 
"Improving our nation's bor· der security is vital to protecting Americans from future terrorist attacks," Bush said af'tcr it passed the Senate on Thursday. 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
Despite their agreement on such issues, the debate became heated at times. Ehrhard seemed to suggest that the older Baxmeyer might be out of touch with 

Meet the Author 
Join Author 
Bert Ghezzi 
Sunday 
April 21st 
2:00 pm 
in the Hammes 


HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-631, • www.ndb-ookstore.c:om 

"I commend the Senate for passing legislation that strengthens border security and gives our law enforcement offi· cials additional tools to secure our homeland." 
Sen. Robert Byrd, D•W.Va., had blocked the legislation, in part because he thought it needed more debate. After sen• ators allowed him to testify before a subcommittee hearing and make minor changes to the bill, Byrd relented and allowed the bill to move quickly through the chamber. 
"I am pleased that at least some public debate has been generated on this bill and that the right of senators to offer amendme_nts was respected," Byrd said. 
The Senate approved the bill 97-0 to send it back to the House for final approval. The legislation probably will pass the House quickly and head to the president's desk for his sig• nature. 
"Our bill provides real solu­tions to real problems and clos­es loopholes in our immigration system," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. 
The border security bill would 
younger voters in the dis• trict. Baxmeyer in turn accused Ehrhard of having "rash exuberance," which he contrasted to his experience. 
Baxmeyer also questioned Ehrhard's honesty and pro­motional material that fea· tured pictures of the candi­date with other Republican leaders, saying such pictures may lead voters to conclude these politicians endorse Ehrhard. 
"We've had too many politicians say one thing and do another when they're in Indianapolis or Washington," Baxmeyer said, comparing his opponent to Bill Clinton. "You gotta shoot straight, say it the way it is ....Your credibility is shot to hell." 
The candidates both intended to complement no tax increases with reduced government spending, espe­cially in what Ehrhard referred to as the "education corporation." 
However the two agreed that the bureaucratic por• tions of the education and corrective systems should be reduced, and not other areas 
incr.ease the pay of border patrol agents and allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service to hire 200 new investi• gators and another 200 inspec• tors. 
It also would require the INS to establish a foreign student tracking system that records the acceptance of aliens by cduca· tional institutions, issuance of student visas and enrollment of aliens at schools. Several of the hijackers involved in the Sept. 11 terror attacks were in the country on student visas. 
The bill also would require that passports issued after 2003 be harder to tamper with and visitor documents be readable by machines using biometrics technology, such as face recog· nition. 
Byrd, still not completely sat­isfied with the bill, said it's not enough just to pass the legisla­tion telling security officials they have to make these changes, 
"It is fine to authorize these funds, but this bill will require the appropriation of funds and the support of its proponents for those appropriations if its provi• sions are to be implemented," Byrd said. 
that more directly affect quality. Specifically, Baxmeyer called for an end to what he called "excessive" amounts of money being paid to out of state consul­tants. 
Both candidates were also open to allocating more of the state lottery revenues to the education system and away from what Baxmeyer 
called  the  Build  Indiana  
"slush fund."  
John  Sadowski,  College  

Republicans president, mod· erated the hour·long debate. The panel included WNDU news anchor Terry McFadden, Jack ColweJI of the South Bend Tribune and Padraic McDermott, a sopho­more and Morrissey Hall resident. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 

This Weekend in the Department of Music 
Fri. April 19:  Seunghee Lee, violin & Kimberly Schmidt, piano  
7:30 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission.  
Sat. April 20:  Jacqueline Schmidt, graduate piano recital  
2 pm, Annenberg Audtiorium. Free Admission.  
Sat. April 20:  Katie Brown, senior voice recital ­ 
w/ Megan Walsh, piano  
3:30 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission.  
Sun. April 21:  Karen Buranskas, cello & Maria Stablein, piano  
I pm, Annenberg Auditorum. Tickets ($3-10)  
available at Lafortune Box Office: (574) 631·8 I 28  
Please note the 1:00 starting time!  
Sun. April 21:  ND Jazz Bands  
3 pm, Band Building. Free admission.  
Sun. April 21:  ND Glee Club  
8:15 pm, Basilica. Free admission.  

Call 631-6201 for more information 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April 19, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O; Box Q, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarlcy 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR; Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR; Chris Federico ScENE EDITORI C. Spencer Beggs 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sheila Egts 
PHOTO EDITORI Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDJTOR; Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER; Alex Menze 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR< Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
DEVEWPMENT MANAGER< Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME................. : ..631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS......................................................... .631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPO!NT................................................. 631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's... .........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit ouc Web site at http://obmver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spam, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news 
· from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
mi.ffute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac aad Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisuacion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vie,wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letrers is encouraged. Letters to the Edicor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer po/icie, should b, dirrct­td UJ Editor in Chief}aso,i McFarky. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Andrew Thagard C. Spencer Beggs Courtney Boyle Graphics John Fanning Jimmy Atkinson Sports Production Bryan Kronk Chris Federico Viewpoint Lab Tech Kurt Bogaard Lisa Velte 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
View rape discussion fairly 
Erin Kennedy, when did rape become the only crime in this country where the accused is guilty until proven innocent? In your April 16 vocal letter of "silent sup­port" you address the accuser with, "I have not met you, nor do I need to, in order to know that you are telling the truth." How can you make such a bold claim without knowing the facts? 
As Memo Tijerina wisely advises, "In respect to a rape allegation, it serves nei­ther party to make judgments prior to receiving any information." Unless you were privileged information that the rest of the world was not, you have no basis for this claim. 
Quickly drawing conclusions in a case like this can be nearly as damaging as the supposed incident itself. Undecided are the fates of four men. The results of the accusations could potentially ruin their lives. If they are guilty, you can say they deserve that to happen, but if they are innocent, that will be a horrible injustice. With so much on the line for all parties involved, a thorough investigation is needed before any conclusions can be drawn. 
With that, don't slander and pass judg­ment unto the accused unless they are proven to be guilty. 
Todd Mobley sophomore Sorin College April I7, 2002 

FTT needs improvement 
This week's Department of Film, Television and Considering the fact that FTT has one of the largest pools Theatre's production of "The Life of Galileo" marks a step of talent to pull from in its auditions, it seems strange that forward, but not a complete turnaround in the depart­its productions do not come together to make a wholly ment's string of lackluster mainstage produclions. Though entertaining performance. Indeed, it is often difficult to "Galileo" showed a lot of promise for the dramatic talent put a finger on the exact problem within a show because it and production skill of FTT, the show is a general lack of proper theatrical focus was still marked by conceptual blemishes that damages FTT shows. that are chronic in the department's Too often, FTT mainstage productions
0 1Jhe
mainstage productions. userver appear to include elements merely because 
The problems with FTT are not materi­it is able to produce them and not neces­al; the University has enough student tal­sarily because they belong or are fitting to ent and interest in theatre to consistently the production. By doing so, the mainstage
Editorial produce top-notch shows. While student productions have produced theatre, but groups such as the Pasquerilla East have failed to produce as entertaining or Musical Company, the Saint Edward's as poignant theatre as it could. Hall Players and the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company While the addition of the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for put on high quality productions on shoestring budgets, the Performing Arts will certainly be a boon for the FTT produces a line of disappointing or troubled shows department and their mainstage productions. FTT ne~ds while having superior and priority access to performance to work on presenting entertaining and innovative theatre space and production resources. to the campus community. Notre Dame deserves more 
In the past two years, FTT mainstage shows have often than well-produced but bland shows. been marred by conceptual failings or in-cast conflicts. 

Let's talk about "terrorism" groups of Palestinians who use because everyone likes to use that senseless acts of violence against word. It is a very powerful word Israel. But let's not forget that these days as everyone from Israel has killed a far greater Palestinians to drug dealers are number of men, women and chil­terrorists. dren than any person with a vest 
Now let's stop using that word of explosives could kill. because it has been overused. Let's stop using the word terror­Instead, let's talk about Jenin and ism. Our government and media other place in the West Bank. Let's are using this term to sway us and talk about 500 dead men, women persuade us. Let's wake up and and children in Jenin killed by the call it what it is. Violence is vio­Israeli army with tanks, helicopter lence, and those who wish to con­and other arms supplied by the demn the Palestinians should United States. wake up and condemn Ariel 
Let's talk about violence and Sharon and his military actions stop relying on the term terrorism against civilians as well. to condemn those we disagree with. Death is death, and violence Brendan Egan is violence. In terms of tho number senior of deaths, the Israeli government off-campus has won the prize. Yes, there are April I8, 2002 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The things most people want to know about 
Due to errors in polling, 

are usually none oftheir business." 
poll results will not appear. 

George Bernard Shaw playwright 

····­
THE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, April 19, 2002 page I 1 
What are you going to do with your life? 
Each year, as final exams approach, I inquiry, "So where do you want to go to they applied, what they will study and journey, now want a minute-by-minute can never believe that another year in my college?" why. plan of my next 10 years. And lastly, the career as a student has passed. The end Then, I could at least oITer a defined list After all of i.hese conversations, I still prospect oflife beyond college instills of this year seems to have assumed extra of possibilities. Now, I can only respond have little clue where I am headed . . ,, .. , inordinate fear in the hearts of significance. Now a junior, I have become by offering vague mumbles. after next year. Yet, relatives, . :;/~if. · ·•~~,.. undergraduates. I cannot
'l. ,a target for the dread­I realize that no senior has any sympa­professors, family friends and _/ -· w;.,. escape the feeling that my ed question, "So what 
thy for me. I still have a year until they distant acquaintances con-.41! , f1};.~, education has failed to are you going to do drag me out of the dorms, fire me from tinue to pop tho question. ;M :~. prepare me some essen­with your life after my present occupation as "English stu­To all of you, I have only j ·. ;~ ,, . ti.~l way to ta~.kle the you graduate?" I do dent" and tell me to join the "real world." one request. Please stop / . " · • ·' " .:,"1·. real world. Many of what I can to avoid (If any of my relatives want to take me in, and desist with the life-J' /, • ~-~. my friends would giving an answer. I'll have even longer.) I'd like to just enjoy planning interview. t· 11 __A,! 1-!,// agree. Unfortunately, a quick the last weeks of this year and wait until Don'tthink ouly of / ·.,~-, "•t /. So, to all of you in "no comment" never next year to begin planning the rest of my me. The sanity of ' '· • ·· · the "real world" sut1ices. life. every undergraduate J doing something 
The first clay at my However, I have been well trained to depends upon it. .--•-•-with your life, let
Joanna

newspaper intern­look toward the future. With each "So First, the question ;••""•--"'• my classmates and 
Mikulski

ship this semester, what are you going to do with your life?" I itself is absurd. I me enjoy the my editor posed the feel anxiety building within me. doubt that anyone '"'-") · remainder of our question to me. He· Tuesday Voice Over the last month, I have listened who has asked me w:.-19'11..:.~ euphoric student-wondered if news­on Friday with great interest as my senior friends what I am going to do ~llllri hood. ls that really
I papers were really inform me of their post-graduation plans with my life, knew at too much to ask? in my future. "I and wondered if their plans might also the ripe old age of 20 don't know," I work for me. I envy my friends, who know years and eight months Joanna Mikulski is a replied. An awkward pause arose as he they will attend law or medical school. (I where they would be or junior English and waited for me to expand on my answer. almost want to take the MCATs -well, what they would be doing 1:.i.-111!~~ German major, and her "Um, well I like writing about people," I maybe not.) After two of my good friends 10, 20 or 30 years down the column appears every 
----:....iv offered. He pointed out that I needed to from the Innsbruck program won scholar­road. Iii~;::;:,,, other Friday. Contact her at make a Jiving. "Well of course," I replied ships to teach in Austria for a year, I Secondly, it reduces life to mikulski.1@nd.edu. and then changed the subject. I feel as spent a week discussing how to apply and series of destinations. The same -----The views expressed in this col-though I have returned to my junior year win my own trip to Europe. I ask friends adults, who on another occasion might umn are those ofthe author and not of high school, when I dealt with the daily who are headed to graduate school where offer the wisdom that life is an undefined necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending the role of TAs at Notre Dame 
TAs are people, too 
This letter is in response to Katie Hughes' April 17 Inside Column. 
As a third-year graduate teaching assistant at Notre Dame, I was stunned when I read Ms. Hughes' col­umn.lam aware that there are many TAs at this University who do the bare minimum, but these TAs are few and far between. I'm sure most of my fellow TAs would agree that we don't appreciate being stereotyped any more than the "binge drinking freaks" do. 
I, for one, have worked very hard as a TA. spending literally hundreds of hours of my own time meeting with students and holding review sessions to prepare them for exams, help them with homework and labs and fill in for professors who are unable to make it to lecture or office hours. 
TAs are the people who take phone calls and e-mails at all hours of the night when students are writing their papers at the last minute. We clean up spills and messes in the labs, we put ourselves in harm's way whan students make dangerous mistakes, and some of us have been lit on fire by careless students. TAs are an added resource for students when professors don't have time to help everyone in a class of 300 students. Keep in mind, TAs can offer much more sympathy to undergraduates because we remember being in your shoes not too long ago. 
One should also keep in mind that it is the TAs who work through graduate school in order to become the professors who teach the "binge drinking freaks" and give them the education to be promoted to senior vice president of "Wonderfulco, Incorporated." We are also the people who write important economic policies, work toward finding cures for diseases for "Mr. Perfectandcoolineveryway" and design the bridges and the cars that take you to "Fabulousville." 
Believe it or not, TAs are people, too. We have hob­bies, spouses, children, goals and careers of our own. Some of us even speak English. But let's not forget that TAs have feelings as well. If students want to know why some TAs become bitter, they need to look no further than Ms. Hughes' pen. 
April Dowdy-Bernacki 
Teaching assistant Department ofChemistry and Biochemistry April l 8, 2002 

TAs make important contributions 
And here's to you, bitter, sarcastic, low grade-receiv­ing Katie Hughes. 
As T As, it is such a pleasure to know that our efforts are going to help a person like you. Your Inside Column of April 17 grouped all of us as thinking you, the under­graduate body of Notre Dame, are all a bunch of spoiled, self-centered, shallow bigots whose idea of work involves drinking surveys and putting down peo­ple you know nothing about. Of course, then you put pen to paper and gave us ample evidence. 
Ifwe were bitter and cynical, we could also hype our self-importance by pointing out our differences as a way to belittle you. For example, our research "that nobody cares about" brought in more than $1 million to this University last year. Other than the $35,000 check Mommy and Daddy wrote for you, and that $40,000 SUV parked out in D6 that you got this year because last year's model had hub caps that were just so last year's trend, what did you bring in for this University? 
And yes, we often live on Ramen and the like because, when you average our salary over the num­bers of hours we work, we make less than minimum wage. Maybe the reason you have time to go out and spend years doing social service, bragging to everyone that you do it instead of quietly serving the needs of others, is because you don't have to work two jobs to support yourself and your family? As a matter of fact, have you done an honest day's work in your life? 
English may not be a first language for all of us, but did you ever stop to think that without the graduate school, this place might have the diversity of northern Siberia and the white bred, upper middle class, wealthy suburban lifestyle ofyou and every friend you've ever had might not open your eyes to other ideas, possibilities and points of view? 
We could go on and on in this war of words. However, that would paint us in as unseemly a light as you have painted your comrades in the undergraduate school. Fortunately for you, we know better. We know that the undergrads here are some of the most caring, devoted citizens of this world. We know that a signifi­cant portion of you are dedicated to social service, and those who enter the workforce or (dare we suggest) graduate school bring with you a consciousness and a goodness toward others that will represent yourselves and this University with class. 
To that end, the majority of us have pledged our­selves to enhancing your classroom experience. Yes, we will take the time to mark up every line of every paper you ever write. We will make them bleed with red, green or blue ink, because we have pledged to read and nit-pick every last line to point out the prob­lems and make you a better writer, doctor, engineer or businessman. We hope and pray that the following assignment, you will seek to eliminate all of the prob­lems we brought to your attention, and when you don't, we don't get discouraged and we point them out again. 
Even though our TA work will never bring us one day closer to completion of our own work here, a goal that may bring us the wealth and prestige you seem to think we want in life, we drop everything we have to do whenever you stop by, office hours or no, to try and answer every question you have, to motivate you, anger you and push you to get just a little bit more out of yourself and your class. This is more care and con­cern than any professor teaching 100 of you and your classmates could ever give on his own -ask them, they'll tell you. 
And what do we ask from you in return? Ordinarily, nothing. We're the people you visit in the closets of this University when you need something, but otherwise treat us as "one of those," and that is fine. But people like you, Ms. Hughes, force us to point out the selfless contributions we give to your Notre Dame experience every day. Your article, hopefully meant tongue-in­cheek, was racist, homophobic, belittling and insulting, not just to us, your TAs, but also to the community you claim to represent. And while we are at it, The Observer can hide behind its disclaimers all it wants ­printing your piece ofworthless drivel was irresponsi­ble. You all owe an apology. 
And by the way, while your writing was excellent, your article did suck. 
Denis Lynch Corey Bourassa Martiqua Post Basman El-Hadidi Claudia Kwize Richard Noffke Amanda Stanford Teaching assistants April I8, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer Lawton as Galileo and sophomore Katy Kertez as Virginia; the pair have a won­derful on-stage chemistry. 

By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Editor 
From the beginning, humanity placed itself at the center of the universe, which madP it feel safe, loved and spe­cial. When the Scientific Revolution began to question the ideals of ancient astronomy and Church dogma, it fueled a fire that would burn both the Church and her detractors. The Department of Film, Television and Theatre's spring production of Bertolt Brecht's "The Life of Galileo" examines the spark that ignited the fires of change. 
"The Life of Galileo" follows the life of Galileo Galilei, the 16th century astronomer who is credited with con­firming Copernicus' heliocentric model of the universe. The show details pro­gression of Galileo's incorrectly credit­ed discovery of the telescope and his discovery of four of Jupiter's moons and the rings of Saturn. The discovery would eclipse the long-held belief in Aristotelian cosmology and the Ptolemaic geocentric understanding of the universe. 
The title of the show may be slightly misleading. Brecht's play is not, in fact, a biography of Galileo at all, but an anachronistic look at the conflicts between dogma and the scientific method using the story of Galileo as a starting point. A number of blatant his­torical inaccuracies exist in the script and both the positions of Galileo and the Church are very much exaggerated. 
Where the bulk of Galileo's corr.e­spondence Wq,S done in cleverly crafted and subtly argued letters, Brecht places the astronomer face to face with adversarial cardinals and monks. Brecht also includes Virginia, Galileo's daughter, in the whole of Galileo's life, when, in fact, she entered a monastery at the age of 13 and only corresponded with her father through writing. Furthermore, Virginia is written as a weak character, whereas the real Virginia was strong and witty. 

Brecht's writing is somewhat inac­cessible without a clear understanding of what he was trying to comme1;1t'on. For example, "The Life of Galileo'Iis,an affront to more than just the Chu1·cp. Brecht was also commenting on\th.e trends toward Nazism and Fascism"in 
the 20th centw:-y, . was called qeft>te American AcdViti&s ,, in 1947 to answel' plays were ~IJ,,;r · which, to an · · 
famous recor answers to t~ q and HUAC art_'lpl.·. sion of the FT\fsh 
Brecht used} a t "Verfremdungseffe audience that they play. This "alienati9 called in English, was' Aristotelian dramatic audience should he they are watc · before theirst e· Marxism, Br. . ... appeal to his{a,~en than having the audi the character~ H:e by using overly f)bil atedly straightfo settings that didn't ly. 
Assistant Visitin director Holger Tes incorporate many . the show. The show:: together and Tesch break many habits• they have learned. , 
"I've definiteJy;lea't open-minded to dif'fere ing direction and. actin 
Tony Lawton: is Galileo. His dynamis of the cast, ani:lhe/ sometimes dry scien interesting to watch~ the astronomer,with s it almost appears as spontaneously comb Lawton. a visiting who has acted profe brings the cast up to ly sophomore, l(aty he has a notable ch 
"It was an. amazi him. He ga·ve me s~d. . ... 

·cally, Breclit, House U 
ittee (HU 
ges that his ~paganda ;:.. 
•. ere. The 
' evasive l~Carthy 

·,~
·,"·· .. ·.,:
intermis­

.f:~.).•.••. __.·.. •···. 
(; 
called 

1 ~1 
. d the hing a· 

1 -­
e m0l"e 
· in tak~ zcsaid. nal as st 
& 

ions-­nportrays h vigor that e's a.bout to :n.ny moment. nt professor Uy, certainly 
el, especial~ , with whom .Y.,. ... :,. '....:,,
tJQ·worJc!•with 
·.uch," J<eftez 


Kertez. who has played predominant­ly masculine and rn~l,e parts at Notre Dame,, stands outwitb her extremely m,9vfog portrayal:ofV'ir~inia as a sg,-ong fe~inine foil for ~lileo. Kertez does a lot with her P?'11J1Iidconvinc­
iilgJy oeonveys_her di§l;f~ctermostly 
· ition~. facial 
a.hit'.···· Jiyad11t.Voca.l 

·· c-'.ml!tlitv.. _· ,,
·~i~a:1tf·.
C SPENC&:R BEGGS/The Observer Lawton as Galileo (center> is given a tacit threat by Cardinal Bellarmin (played by freshman TJ McNally, left) and designed by· 1 · Cardinal Barberini (played by senior Luis Matos, right), the future Pope Urban VIII. Richard Donnel 
Best in the Nation
BRIGHT 
Today 

~ 
The Associated Collegiate Press named The Observer the national newspa­per of the year in 2001. This marked the first time The Observer won an 
FUTURE 
JAN. 2000 ­
FOR THE 
overall national award in its history. 
APRIL 19, 2002

ACP . 2001 National Newspaper of the Year
OBSERVER 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXJV-XXXVI 
Staff gets the job done in times of crisis 
In crisis, we find strength. D~ring the past two years at The Observer, nothing can define the strengths of this newsroom more than its response to crisis, and the undisputable success it has had in putting out quali­ty journalism when it counts most. 
It amazes me, sometimes, how it happens. It happened during Election 2000, as 10 of us were huddled around the office television, watch­ing the historic political and journalistic night unfold before us. Gore won, Bush won, then no one won. Dan Rather had been reduced to laughter before our very eyes, and concluded, "There's nothing more to say." The Associated Press wire had stopped, the New York Times had stopped, and the anchors on the networks were staring at each other, speechless. But at 4:20 a.m., someone in that cluster below the television screen said, "Guys, we have to put out a paper tomorrow." 
We were proud that night, I remember, that we went to press with the right headline -"Too Close to Call." We were terrified of pulling a "Dewey defeats Truman," or some other equi­table disaster. But it didn't happen. When the paper finally went to press at 7:05 a.m., we stum­bled weary from the office with the satisfaction that our coverage was solid. Not just solid -it was exceptional. 
We never thought we would be challenged like that again. We couldn't have been more wrong. On Sept. 11 when the World Trade Center came tumbling down, inevitably we would be faced with answering tough coverage questions where there was no easy solution. Instantaneously, the office was filled with editors, reporters and photogra­phers, and almost instinctually, everyone knew what to do. It was as if the severity of the situa­tion took hold of every journalist in the office, and guided them to do the impossible. 
We didn't cry, we didn't stop. We simply did the job, knowing that we had a greater responsibility to tell this story as it happened. None of it was easy. We were dealing with situations where there was no clear answer, and no simple deci­sion. Out of responsibility. out of desire and out of passion for the paper and the community, though, the paper came out, the result a triumph of team­work. 
I have never been prouder to be a part of The Observer than on these two days. This newsroom is strong enough to make the impossible deci­sions, to produce the impossiblfl product, and at the end of the day, get ready to do it again tomor­row. 
You want to hope that nightmare days like Sept. 11 never happen again, and that democracy isn't challenged like it was in Election 2000. But if the passion for this paper motivates the kind of action it did on these two days by The Observer staff, there is no better place to witness the strength this staff has to do the job when it counts. 
The views expressed in this column at those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 


HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
As we continue 
More than 35 years and lhousands served the University's all-male stu­of issues after it began, The Observer dent body. A staff of about a dozen of today has strayed little from its male editors and managers, includ­founding editors' premise: to seek ing Anson and Feldhaus, ran the out the truth and present it accurate­newsroom and business operations. ly and fairly to our Three and a half readers. OJhe decades later, the 
Just as it was in userver demographics are 1966, that is our goal far different. now -and it will Women-both at remain our goal as we Notn~ Dame and 
Editorial 
advance further into the 21st Century. No doubt, the times and circumstances under which we publish change, but the ambition, sensitivity and adher­ence to high journalistic standards remain in tact. 
Of course, the paper's readership and leadership has changed since then-Editors in Chief Robert Sam Anson and Stephen Feldhaus pub­lished the first issue on Nov. 3, 1966. 
Before the institution of co-educa­tion at Notre Dame and before it became the dominant news source at Saint Mary's, The Observer primarily 
Saint Mary's ­

are an integral part of The Observer's audience and workforce. Now the paper is second to none as the source of timely infor­mation for keeping readers up to date on what men and women on the two campuses are saying and doing. And with women holding seven of 18 positions on the current General Board -as well as other key staff positions -The Observer internally reflects the mixed readership for whom we publish each day. 
Today, more than 200 writers, edi­tors, photographers, designers and business personnel come together to produce an average 24-or 28-page daily paper. The rigor and imagina­tion that were part of the original 12-pagc weekly Observer have not been Jost with time. 
Accurate, objective coverage of campus news and sports will contin­ue to be the backbone of the publica­tion. The Viewpoint section will serve as a forum for well-written, thought-provoking columns and let­ters to the editor -as well as week­ly staff editorials -that highlight the opinions and attitudes of our readers and the paper itself. And in Scene, campus arts and entertainment take center stage in creative features and enterprising stories about campus culture. 
In 2002 and beyond, The Observer will keep alive the sound principles and independent voice that the paper was founded upon in 1966. And we'll remain an indispensable resource at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's as we continue. 
SYR ban sparks protests 
. New editorial board baptizedin fiery du Lac 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Managing Editor 2000-02 
It was among burning copies of the student handbook and the biggest student protests in five years that Editor in Chief Jason McFarley started his tenure at The Observer's helm. 
Only one day after the paper changed guard for the 2002-03 publishing year, the University's top student life official announced the most dras­tic change to the University's alcohol policy since 1984. The policy included a ban on hard liquor in residence halls, a barring of in-hall dances and a revamping of the tailgating policy to allow of-age students to drink in designated park­ing lots on football week­ends. 
In the days that fol­lowed, students flooded Main Building in protest with flaming copies of DuLac in hand, Student Senate vowed to fight the ban on in-hall dances and a crowd of students stormed the Dome at night, hurling bottles of liquor at the steps of the building. 
Down in the basement 

of South Dining Hall, McFarley and the new editorial board were pounding out ways to keep their coverage bal­anced. 
"Our coverage of the whole policy change was big because student mobi­lization against it was big," said McFarley about the two-week string of front-page stories that appeared about the new policy in The Observer. 
The board decided to publish a four-editorial series examining how the policies affected residen­tial life, the tailgating pol­icy, student reaction to the policy change and the process by which the administration made the decision.• 
The editorials were aimed to address ques­tions raised by both the editorial board and stu­dents about the policy, McFarley said. But on the front page and the editor­ial page, the staffs goal was to represent all sides of the debate, not just the student view. 
"It was a big issue in Ed Board," McFarley said. "We are a newspaper put out by students, but we serve a community. Something we wanted to solidify in Ed Board ­and to the public -was that we would be critical of students and adminis­trators." 
It wasn't an easy story 

said. 'Tm proud of us. I don't think I would have done anything different­ly." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

to tackle in the first week of publishing, but looking back, McFarley thinks the staff handled everything right. 
"It was a lot of team­work, a lot of talking," he 
-· 


January 1990-December 1999 • Vol XXIV-XXXIV THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Finding 'Pride at Notre Dame' 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
In the age of the Information Superhighway, the country would be exposed to new cultures that had been silent before. The '90s marked a new progression of the Civil Rights movement: multiculluralism and sexual orientation. Gay and lesbian rights organizations vocally broke into a culture that had uncomfortably looked the other way and in which they were silent. As attitudes and experiences slowly began to be discussed in public forums across the country, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community would wrest.le with the issues of sexuality and its role in a Catholic environment. 
In 1984, a campus gay rights organization, Ga.vs and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLNDtSMC). formed. In 1995, the University forbade the group from meeting on campus after it advertised the group's loca­tion and meeting time. 
The campus response was quick. A number of student-organized protests followed the announcement. Although the group's cause was met with fairly wide support, the repeated refusal of University officials to recognize or allow the group to have a presence on campus led to a highly publicized struggle between stu­dent advocacy and the administration. The Observer documented the story in its news cov­erage, but few could have guessed that the paper itself would be brought into the struggle. 
On April 4. 1996, Father David Garrick pub­lished a letter in the Viewpoint section of The Observer in which he presented a Catholic per­spective on homosexuality and came out as an openly gay, celibate priest. Garrick published another letter in The Observer on March 17, 1998, this time to announce hls resignation from the University because of his suspension from pastoral duties in the Basilica that he believed was a reaction against his open homo­sexuality. 
The Observer published news articles detail­ing the protests on the quads and countless Viewpoint letters supporting either Garrick or 
The OBSERVER/ROB FINCH 
This photo, taken during a 1997 student rally at the Main Building, appeared on the front page of The Observer's special section "Pride at Notre Dame." Its photographer, Rob Finch, was instru­mental in portraying the importance of the issue throgh his work. In 2000, Finch won National Press Photographer of the Year while working at the Beacon News in Aurora, Ill. 
the admirustration. While the paper covered the news aspect of the situation, the editorial board thought the issue deserved special atten­tion. The Observer published a three-part pull­out section called "Pride at Notre Dame" that detailed the human side of the struggle for acceptance and recognition of the gay and les­bian rights at Notre Dame in 1998. 
Michelle Krupa '00, the 1999-2000 Editor-in-Chief, pointed out the importance of covering the issue on the campus. 
"This was a particular kind of story ... it's an issue that doesn't require us to have a source at The Vatican. This is a hometown issue, it was in our backyard," Krupa said. 
Though Krupa and The Observer staff took the issue head-on, it was not easy. The Observer would become embroiled in a bitter fight with the University over its status as an independent publication and the staff would spend an enormous amount of energy carefully setting editorial policy and keeping the staff united. 

"I think there's one scene that sticks out in my mind," Krupa said. "We held a full staff meeting in the fall of '99. We invited every reporter, every copy editor and ad manager, everyone who was on the payroll or not ... We said, 'Do you want us to quit this?' And a guy. a junior, a transfer student, stood up and said, 'If we quit this fight and give up, why would I want to work here?'" 
In the end. The Observer retained its inde­pendence, the administration refused to include sexual orientation in its 'Spirit of Inclusion' and members of the now defunct GLNDtSMC formed a new group, OutreachND. which still remains unrecognized. 
¦ TECHNOLOGY BEAT 
Observer goes global 
Observer Staff Report 
On August 25, 1999 The Observer went global when it published its first full-content online edition. 
Designed by then-Notre Dame student Marty Rose, the Web site has allowed quick and easy access to Observer stories beyond the confines of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
The addition of an online edition has allowed The Observer to report in a more timely and in-depth way. When former football coach George O'Leary resigned just five days into the job during study days. The Observer printed articles on-line. Also. when a power outage during February of 2002 stopped the paper's presses for a day, The Observer was still able to put out an on-line version of the day's paper. 
The Observer's online edi­tion can be found at http//observer.nd.edu. 
Observer Feature 
Paper fights for independence 
Observer Staff Report 
Every issue for 35 years, The Observer has asserted its inde­pendence either through editori­al policy or a statement in the masthead. 
For the newspaper, indepen­dence means the student-run daily operates independently of administrative oversight at the University and College, pays rent for its facility and is free to make its own editorial decisions. 
Independence has not gone without challenge, however. The most recent battle to maintain the paper's independent status exploded on August 23, 1999, when assistant to the president Chandra .Johnson told then­Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa in a letter that unrecognized stu­dent groups could not advertise in the publication. 
The letter was sent at Krupa's request for a written University policy regarding controversial advertising following a discus­sion of an ad from GALA, the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's. 
Quoting a 1998 e-mail sent to former Editor in Chief Heather Cocks, the letter said "Outside groups that, directly or indirect­ly, espouse positions contrary to the moral teaching of the Catholic Church may not adver­tise." 
The newspaper stated in a Sept. 6, 1999 editorial that it makes its own policy decisions, stating that its own self-imposed restrictions on advertising proved it~ respect for the com­munity. It said the ban restricted academic and intellectual free­dom. 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community responded by flooding the Viewpoint section with letters. Faculty drafted a petition to recall the ban, and Student Senate adopted a resolu­tion and open Jetter for an inde­pendent committee to examine and establish a definition for the newspaper's relationship with the University. 
"We are a newspaper serving a Catholic community. We are not a Catholic newspaper," Krupa said at a meeting of the Student Senate. 
The Observer's editorial inde­pendence was guaranteed by then-University President Father Theodore Hesburgh in 1983, when the newspaper joined the University's Budget Unit Control System after misappropriating funds. 

"The administration of the University has ensured the edito­rial freedom of The Observer in the past and continues to do so," Hesburgh wrote to '83 Editor in Chief David Dziedzic. Krupa argued in 1999 that while the paper was under the Budget Unit Control System, the University functioned as the paper's accountant, not publisher. 
University president Father Edward Malloy convened an internal ad-hoc committee to explore the University's relation­ship with the student paper in January of 2000. Chaired by David Solomon, the committee submitted a report to Malloy at the end of fall semester, but the results were not made public. 
"Regardless of the conclusion of the committee, The Observer continued to operate as an inde­pendent newspaper without out­side editorial influence," said Mike Connolly, 2000-2002 editor in chief. 
-
Sports Extra -page 12 


VOL. XIV-XXIV 
1984 Alcohol policy changes spark campus outrage 
By KERRY SMITH 
Assistant Managing Editor 2001-02 
The Observer's April 17, 1984 headline conveyed a dismal message to students: 'The party is over.' 
With the release of a new University alco­hol policy proposal, a late-semester standoff between students and administrators emerged into one of the biggest events in the 1980s. 
The proposal included many changes, including eliminating all dorm-room parties, setting the number of people constituting a party at twice the number of people living in the dorm room, banning all alcohol except beer and wine from campus and eliminating bars from dorm rooms. 
The policy revision proposal was accom­panied by threats on both sides ofthe issue. 
Father William Beauchamp, chairman of the Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol, released the proposal with a blunt message to the student body. 
"Student cooperation is essential in this policy. Otherwise it is very likely that the campus will go dry. Those aren't my words; those are Father Hesburgh's." 
That message did not deter students from voicing their opposition to the proposal. 
Flooding the quads, more than 1,500 stu­dents protested the University's move the following day. Encroaching upon the Main Building, students set off firecrackers and threw bottle rockets at the Main Building. 
The Observer also voiced its disapproval of the proposal. 
In a strongly-worded editorial headlined 'An alcohol policy that won't work,,' the newspaper's editors called the proposal a "a major administration blunder," and warned "the university must be ready to face the major consequences ofthis rash act." 
More protests ensued, as 2,000 students stormed the Main Building later that same week in what The Observer called "near-riot conditions." 
Student body president Rob Bertino led the charge, drinking a can of beer on the steps of the Main Building in protest. 
The Administration took out a full two­page advertisement in The Observer Friday, April 27 which included the full text of the policy proposal. 
Students responded that afternoon with another 2,000-person rally. 
Some students even went so far as to steal­ing a bust of former Notre Dame football coaching legend Knute Rockne and accord­ing to a ransom note threatened to keep it "till the students have their beer." 
The vigorous objections and prolonged protests of the student body played a role in the revisions to the policy that took place over the summer. 
When the final policy was put into action in August of 1984, administrators removed the proposed bans on liquor and dorm par­ties. 
Other changes made to the proposal over the summer and then implemented were a ban on all drinking games, an increase in the penalty for bringing a keg on campus and making all alcohol brought on to campus concealed. 

the independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary · s JANUARY 1980-DECEMBER 1989 
Holtz leads Irish to national football title 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Before Lou Holtz won his only national championship in 1988, The Observer had always covered national championship teams. In 1966 and 1977, issues of The Observer contained just a few articles about the national championship games. 
But in 1988, The Observer published a spe­cial section commemorating the national champions in its first issue after Christmas and set a new standard for The Observer's sports cov­erage. 
In the final issue before Christmas break, The Observer printed an 8-page Irish Extra issue -a special publication that would evolve into today's Irish Insiders. Staff writers were also sent to the Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ariz., the site of Notre Dame's game against West Virginia. 
On January 19, 1989,
of discontent over the outside 
both the front and back of their dorms, like these hung pages of the student news­paper had articles similar to
at Dillon and Alumni Halls. 
those published when the
The signs were one component 
Irish won football titles in of a four-part student initiative 1966 and 1977. However, a 
of protest. 20-page special section con­tained articles recapping every game Notre Dame had played as well as a· photo essay in the middle of the special section. 
The front page of The Observer's January 19, 1989 special issue closely resembled the South Bend Tribune's special section published ten days before. Black lettering on a gold background framed a huge picrure of several Irish play­ers celebrating. 
It was the first time The Observer had covered a national championship so thoroughly, but it wouldn't be the last. 
In 1994, The Observer published daily articles dur­ing the three-day fencing national championships, culminating in a series of articles the day after the Irish won the title. 
After the women's soccer team won a national cham­pionship in 1995, The Observer published a four­page special section the day after the Irish won the title. 
And the entire April 2, 2001 issue of The Observer was exclusively devoted to coverage of the women's basketball team's victory over Purdue to clinch the national titie. 

Observer joins University BUCS system 
By LAUREN BECK give up its touted independence,'' she said. entirely independent,'' said Fosmoe. "That Viewpoint Editor The editors feared the administration would have involved moving off-campus, 
intended to use the budget system as a relinquishing student fees and possibly not 
Financial difficulties in the early l 980s means to control The Observer. As origi­being able to distribute the paper on cam­threatened The Observer's independence nally presented by Van Wolvlear, BUCS pus." and prompted a struggle between Observer would require The Observer to deposit all The general board voted to join BUCS editors and Notre Dame administrators. of its funds into University bank accounts, pending Unive~sity President Father 
The Observer had previously relied administrators would oversee all transac­Theodore Hesburgh's signature on an upon advertising revenue and a $5 student tions and Observer employees would be agreement guaranteeing The Observer's subscription fee established by the Student placed on the University's payroll system. continued editorial independence. Senate to operate independently of The editors initially decided that BUCS Although Hesburgh declined to sign a University control. The student fees was unacceptable. They were making an contract, he did repeatedly assure The proved inadequate, however, as the paper effort to improve its own accounting Observer of his commitment to an inde­found itself in and out of debt during the methods when the administration issued pendent student newspaper. "The adminis­mid-1970s. When the 1982-1983 editorial an ultimatum to The Observer: join the tration of the University has ensured the staff requested a $1 increase in the sub­Budget Unit Control System or lose all editorial freedom of The Observer in the scription fee, the University required that student fees. past and continues to do so ... In turn, The the need for an increase be verified by an Observer editors publicly criticized the Observer will meet its responsibility of internal audit of The Observer's finances. administration's demand in a staff editori­financial accountability by participating in 
The audit, conducted by the University's al. "The Observer must control its own the Unit Budget System,'' he wrote in a internal audit department, revealed sloppy finances to maintain the independence Dec. 6, 1983 letter to Dziedzic. bookkeeping, a $7,000 deficit and improp­essential to editorial integrity, since any By the spring of 1984, The Observer er spending of Observer funds. Father University control implies a conflict of was operating smoothly under the John Van Wolvlear, vice president for stu­interest when the paper reports on University's budget system. dent affairs, suggested to 1983-1984 edi­University matters,'' they wrote on Oct. Today, The Observer continues to tor-in-chief David Dziedzic that The 20, I983. maintain its editorial independence while Observer place itself on the University's Members of The Observer business fostering financial accountability under Budget Unit Control System (BUCS), department, however, realized that the the Budget Unit Control System. Fosmoe claiming it would benefit the paper finan­paper could not survive without student maintained the decision best served the cially. fees or the rent-free office space provided long-term interest of the paper. "The 
Margaret Fosmoe, managing editor at by the University. University has not used its power as finan­the time, said the 1983-1984 staff devoted The Observer had no choice but to cial manager to censor the paper's con­much time to finding an alternative to the accept the Budget Control System. "We tent,'' she said. "The Observer appears to University's system. "It was a huge deal either had to submit and join the be just as independent as it was in the because it seemed the newspaper might University's budget system or become past."
-
F THE OBSERVER'S TOP NEWS AND SPORTS STORIES 




Inauguration7 begins Eldred Era 


Marilou Eldred was oflicially inaugurated as the first lay woman president of Saint Mary's College. Eldred succeeded Dr. William Hickey at the College's top post. 
Oct. 7, 1997 
13 Flying High 
6 Garrick resigns to protest gay policy 

~OBSERVER 
Garri.:k rt>,signs, prutests WlY 1JOlicy 
12 
Swim team bus 
National Championship Edition .,':::'!. 
OBSERVER 
Flying High 


The women's bas­ketball team ended a dream season with a 68-66 win over Purdue for the nation­al championship. Senior Ruth Riley hit two key free throws to preserve the \'Vin. The team returned to thousands of cheering students at Main Circle for a welcoming ceremony early the next morning. 
April 2, 2001 
from his post as head football coach. Holtz left with the 1988 national cham­pionship and won more games than both Frank Leahy and Ara Parseghian. 
Nov. 20, 1996 


.Li ~,_ :Z1t~~ :H.;~,
·-·-ossii~R 

18 
Father David Garrick, assistant profossor of commu­nications and theatre, resigned in protest of the University's treat­ment of gay a,nd les­bian students and faculty. 
Garrick said that, after coming out as a celibate homosexual in an April 1996 letter to The Observer, he was suspended from Basilica ministry. 
March 19, 1998 
crashes 
A bus carrying the women's swim team overturned on the Indiana toll road after losing control on a patch of snow. Two freshman stu­d e n t s , Margaret"Meghan" Beeler and Colleen Hipp, were killed in the accident, and several others were injured. 
Jan.24,1992 
Students elect female prez 
In Spring 2001 Brooke Norton accept­ed a position no female before her had held ­student body president. Norton and her vice president Brian Moscona won 56 per­cent of the vote. 
Norton is also the first incumbent vice president to win the role of president since 1973. 
Feb.15,2001 

19 Faust resigns 

Gerry Faust's dream ended as he rnsigned as head coach of' the Notre Dame football team. Faust coached the Irish for five sea­sons. His r,areer record was 30-25-1. 
Nov. 27, 1985 
'The Hesburgh
2 
Years' 


An Observer special edition chronicled the highlights of the 35 years of Father Theodore Hesburgh's presidency. The 24­page extra edition was the labor of two editori­al boards and followed the legendary president from childhood to Notre Dame. 
Spring, 1987 

8 Holtz resigns 

We'll ml&s you,_ Lou! 
~OBSERVER..
~~:@:­
Lou Holtz announced he thought it was the "right thing for him to do" to resign 
14 

'73 National Champions 
Notre Dame defeated Alabama in the Sugar Bowl 24-23 to win the 1973 national championship. Tom Clements' dramatic pass from his own end zone preserved Ara Parseghian's second. and last, national title. 
Jan.17,1974


Police break20 up porn conf. 

South Bend Police broke up a pornog­raphy conference at Notre Dame. The police maced several students and seized the films. Students responded by punch­ing police officers. The conference was intended to explore issues of censorship and pornography. 
Feb.8,1969 

-
35TH ANNIVERSARY SPECIAL EDITION . 35 YEARS 
I 
Merger hopes killed 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's officially called off a year-long plan to merge the two schools. The decision, made by both institutions' Board of Trustees, maintained Saint Mary's status as an independent institu­tion, and set the stage for Notre Dame to accept women in the fall of 1972. 
Nov. 30, 1971 
Terror hits 3 home 


Terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon brought the nation to a halt on Sept. 11, 2001. 
The following day's Observer featured ½ire stories about the dav's events, stories about prayer services on campus and com­munity reaction to the tragedy. 
Sept. 12, 2001 
Hesburgh9 suspends ND Ten 


Student protestors who refused to dis­perse from the Main Building after a 15 minute warning were disciplined by the University. Ten stu­dents were suspend­ed. The students were protesting Dow Chemical, manufac­turer of napalm. 
Feb.27,1969 




ND wins '88
4 

national champ 
Students returned to campus after win­ter break still cele­brating Notre Dame's national champi­onship win over West Virginia, :H-28 in Tempe, l\z. The team was greeted at the White House by President Ronald Reagan bflfore returning to campus. 
Jan.19,1989 


IO 
ND preps for State game 
Notre Dame tied Michigan State 10-10 en route to a national championship in 1966. The issue before the far.e-off of the two No. 1 teams featured a half-page road map for students traveling to the game, as well as game previews and team analysis. 
Nov.17,1966 
Devine wins
16 

1st title 
Dan Devine won his only national champi­onship by defeating Texas in the Cotton Bowl, 38-10. The Irish rebounded from an early season loss to Mississippi to clirilb back up the polls and win the title. 
Jan.19,1978 

II 
ND says 'no' to lJig Ten 

Fearing a loss of a unique identity as a University, Notre Dame's Board of Trustees voted in London not to join the Big Ten Conference. At the same meeting, the Board also voted not to include sexual orientation in the University's legal non­discrimination clause. 
Feb.8,1999 

17 Davie Fired 

15 
Blizzard stops 
campus 
,.. * * • * *
*The Ob*server ~ 


A storm that ripped through South Bend Wednesday, Jan. 25, 1978 kept The Observer from publishing and can­celled classes at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for three days. The storm, which dropped 20 inches of snow, also closed local airports and streets. 
Jan. 30,_ 1978 
5 
The party is over 


Father William B e a u c h a· rn p announced the University would change its alcohol policy to ban all dorm room parties. The policy was later rescinded after stu­dent protest. 
April 17, 1984 

Davie-Fired 
• C •~::::::.;::::::::::.:' 
Bob Davie was fired the day after he con­cluded his fifth season with Notre Dame football with the third worst winning per­centage in Irish histo­ry. His successor, George O'Leary, resigned after only four days on the job after admitting he had falsified state­ments on his resume. 
Dec.3,2001 


Blizzard covers campus, halts Observer 
By Helena Payne "We never considered not doing it," News Editor said Colson. "We would get harassed by the other staff for chickening out." 

Most South Bend residents and During the late l970s, The Observer Notre Dame students can attest to the office wa~ located on the third floor of fact that fluctuations in local tempera­Lafortune. Colson, a Saint Mary's Vol. IV -XIV the independent "' 
e

tures are no anomaly. Yet, in 1978, one stLldent, would drive to Notre Dame c:,.. snowy day tW11ed into a blizzard that around 9 p.m. and park in a reserved n, 
g 
cr

the AP wire transmitted a story about a closed down Friday January 27, when 
... ::J V,

caught the attention of the Associated spot near Lafortune each night that she 
n,

major blizzard in South Bend, giving it the city declared an emergency. The 
$;:

Press wire -and presented a chal­had to do layout for the paper. 
"three or four dings," Colson said. papers for Wednesday, Thursday and 
'O "' 

lenge before the Jan. 25, 1977 night However, the night of the blizzard, "We just thought, 'oh yeah,"' she Fnday of that week were also delayed. 
]

staff of The Observer. Colson said she gradually became said. This marked the first time in the news­
Former night editor Sandra Colson, aware of the obstacle that the snow­
"'n, Saint Mary's class of I978, said she storm posed. 
After The Observer's typist complet­paper's history that it failed to print an 
~ 

ed her part of the production process at edition on a scheduled publication day. · 
s·

and her fellow staff members had to "At about midnight, the snow was 
rro ::J 

around l:30 a.m., Colson said she was Classes did not resume until the fol­drive the paper to the publisher when blowing horizontally," said Colson. 
going to head back to Saint Mary's lowing Tuesday. 
., ~ 


all the main roads were closing. Shortly before the winds picked up, 
CD
n,

until it was time to take the paper to the With classes suspended, The 
i:;,..

publisher, located a few miles from the Observer contained several photos of 
3 
n,

campus. students playing in the snow and 
,
g

"We had to gel it to the printer by no carousing. Colson said many students 
P­

later than 6 a.m.," Colson said. also frequented the formally popular 
~ 

Nevertheless, Colson said the paper Library &ar located within walking dis­
3

wasn't complete until aroun<l 5 a.m. Lance of the west side or can1pus. 
~ 

"I-pulled into about a foot of snow," "There was just this procession of 
Ul 

said Colson. people with sleds and things walking 
While snow was accumulating in down to the Library getting cases of parking lots, Colson said the roads beer," said Colson. were so backed up that traffic hardly Although the storm of 1977 was a moved early the next morning on Jan. complication for the staff workers, 26 that year. Colson said she did not want to be 
"Indiana Bell requested no phone known as part of the staff that could calls Thursday and cars were told to not layout the paper because of a stay off the road," Colson said. storm. 
,

Although Colson managed to drive "We were an AP paper, so we kind _ the paper to the publisher, Notre Dame of had the responsibility," said Colson. · 
King rules DeSapio weathers 2 leadership crises 
Jan. 1970 -Dec. I 979 


By Chris Federico do it all and still go to school and get sacreligious -miraculous rebirth of Needless to say, the founder of Thecampus Sports Editor the education we're supposed to.' In The Observer," DeSapio said. "I had Observer was less than thrilled about retrospect, he was probably right." been the EiC the previous year, and the events that had transpired over the
By Katie McVoy 

The Observer almost didn't make it This ordeal left the already-small we decided to divide up the responsi­past couple of years.
Associate Sports Editor 

to its third birthday. staff even further short-handed and bilities again. Another senior took "Well, he finds out what we are In the fall of 1969, Editor in Chief with the onus of continuing the only over as EiC, but he eventually had to thinking about doing and gives us this Robert Calhoun Kersten made a Tim O'Meilia and several staff mem­3-year-old paper. resign under the workload." great 'Knute Rockne speech,"' very important statement to the Notre bers quit after publishing just one "We didn't know how we would Lacking leadership for the second DeSapio said. "He spent a while talk­Dame student body Feb. 21, 1972 as issue. News Editor Guy DeSapio and stay in existence," said DeSapio. "But year in a row, those that remained on ing to all of us -talking about whyhe announced his candidacy for stu­executive editor Don Holliday were we got a push going, and we got staff decided they would be forced to he started the paper, and what he had dent body president. 
left to pick up the pieces. enough people together to sustain it. shut down the paper. hoped to accomplish with the pro­"I don't think Notre Dame is ready "By the time we got to '69-'70, we The next spring, we had a similar cri­"We held a meeting at Lafortune ject."
for a Democracy yet," Kersten said. 
were trying to run a daily paper, but sis, but we again got enough people to one night to decide what we would The inspirational words of the "Those of you who vote for me twice we were trying to do it with a very carry it over to the next school year." write the next day with the paper clos­founding editor were enough to con­will be given preferential treatment." 
marginal staff and without any In his senior year, DeSapio moved ing," DeSapio said. "At that meeting, vince those remaining staffers to giveWith that announcement, Kersten University support," said DeSapio, on to publisher, and another took over in walks Bob Anson [the founder of the paper one last run. 
began his ascent to the throne, even if who was promoted to editor in chief. the role as editor. Just as things The Observer in 1966] completely by "So after that meeting, a junior,that throne was the fourth-floor stall "In that year, I was a junior, and we appeared to be moving along in that coincidence. He had been in South Glen Corso, stepped up and said he'd of Walsh Hall that doubled as a cam­had put out just two editions before fall of 1970, a crisis struck again. Bend and decided to drop in at the take over as EIC that year," DeSapio paign office and a bathroom. 
the editor-in-chief and some of his "In the fall of 1970, there was an office to see how things were run­said. "And I guess it's been runningKing Kersten, self-titled the "Prime friends said, 'This is crazy. We can't almost -and I don't want to sound ning." smoothly ever since." 
Mover," brought the royal treatment to student body elections in J972, calling for the end of democracy at 
Almost merger defines early 1970s at ND-SMC
Notre Dame and the instatement of an oligarchy consisting of Kersten and "a By Sarah Nestor reason for which she was fired, herfew close friends." After announcing News Writer remarks did surface a scheme neitherhis candidacy in February with his school wanted out," Observer Editor inrunning mate Uncandidate the Cat, The Observer is not always perfect. Chief Pat Collins wrote after her dis­Kersten ran on an "unequivocally On Nov. 30, 1971, the day Notre missal.
indefinite" platform focusing on 
Dame and Saint Mary's scrapped plans The reality of a merger did not beginimportant campus issues such as the for a merger of the two schools into a to be discussed until 1970 when Notrerecruitment of Yanamamo Indians single co-ed institution, The Observer Dame administrators announced thefrom Southern Brazil and the distribu­blacked out "St. Mary's" in the mast­University would become co-ed in thetion of scholarships by lottery. 
-head and predicted the soon demise of near future. The Observer then beganIn addition, Kersten looked to the College. Within 10 years, The to cover the many forums and plansimprove relations between students, Observer wrote, Saint Mary's would be that students, faculty and administra­the media and the administration. He bankrupt. tors proposed and discussed. 
planned on the ''hiring of Clifford Thirty years of history have proven The Observer editors took a stanceIrving to establish liaison with the real The Observer's predictions incorrect. on this matter in an editorial on Nov.
Father Hesburgh" and planned on tak­Saint Mary's continues to chum out 16, 1970, supporting the merger writ­ing over The Observer "in order to graduates every year like its co-educa­ing "we strongly believe that the properinsure that the paper and the president tional neighbor to the east. and true path for the two schools to fol­could see eye-to-eye on all issues." 
The Observer editorial, however, low would be to affect a merger." 
Although Uncandidate the Cat was reflected the attitudes of many students By the spring semester of I971 itvoted ineligible by the Election Board at Saint Mary's perfectly. After years was almost certain that the mergerwith a 4-2 vote, Cat was in atlendance of negotiation between the schools, would come into effect. Because of aat the Ascension Ceremony on May which included announcement of a survey which revealed that a merger11. Kersten was elected with 65 per­merger by the two Boards of Trustees would be best for both institutions, thecent of the vote on March 2. 
on March 25, 1971, the decision to slop two schools' Boards of Trustees rec­During his time in office, the King the merger shocked students on both ommended unification. The completeproved to doubtful University admin­campuses. text of the survey was printed in theistrators that his daily conversations The day after the merger was reJect­Jan. 29, 197 I issue of The Observer. 
with God the Father were, indeed, ed, l ,300 Saint Mary's students boy­By the end of the 1970-197 l schoolfruitful. In response to skeptic Father cotted class in protest. year a merger committee had beenWilliam Toohey, Director of Campus The discussion of a merger first sur­formed and statements from adminis­Ministry, Kersten walked on the faced when Saint Mary's President, trators suggested that a complete merg­water of St. Joe's Lake. 
Sister Mary Grace, was fired in 1968 er would be finalized by 1974. In theKersten also took an interest in because of her strong be! ief that Saint last issue of the 1970-1971 school yearcampus security, declaring a state of Mary's should retam its identity and The Observer News staff announced martial law 011 March 16, 1972. 
independence. that the plan for the merger was chosenThe "Influential Nonentity" was ..The charges of Sister Mary Grace as the top story of the year.
re-elected campus King in 1973 remain unchallenged by the Saint The very next year, the unmergerdespite the fact that he was not run­Mary's College leaders and even was chosen the top story and neitherning. 
though a merger may not have been the school has been the same since. 



VOL. I-IV NOV. 1966 -DEC. 1969 UNIVERSITY a= NOTRE DAME 

"WHAT MAKES YOU WANT TO STEAL PANTIES? HELL BECAUSE THEY ARE TI-IERE!" The Observer cov­ered the Notre Dame spring tradition of panty raids throughout the late 6Qs and early 70s. Every spring, hundreds of Notre Dame students would march to Saint Mary's usually after midnight chanting and singing. When the crowd reached one of the Saint Mary's dorms, the women would throw panties down to the men. The raids often led to pro~ erty damage and empty underwear drawers. In 1967, St. Joseph County Police broke up the raid using police dogs. Student Senate later censured the police for using the dogs but urged Notre Dame students to stop future raiding. 
Students protest for parietals 

By HELENA PAYNE behalf of four students who were students were ready to compromise 
suspended in March I968 after they on the parietal issue as long as the 
Protests and young adult angst violated parietal rules. Hesburgh University would recognize stu­flourished in the 1960s through the later reinstated the students shortly dents' abilities to be socially civil rights movement and the after, according to The Observer. responsible. He advocated a pari­Vietnam War, but in addition to "The ultimate concept was that etals solution that was somewhere coming to terms with the larger there shouldn · t be a rule on pari­in the middle of the two extremes issues, Notre Dame students in etals, that people should make their of "monastic life" and "having an 1968 were waging their own battle: own decisions 24 hours a day," said apartment in Mishawaka." extending parietal hours. Rossie. Extending parietal hours was 
Parietal hours in the I960s signi­As far as female visitors were once again an issue on April 30, fied the times when female students concerned, 1969 graduate Gary 200 I when 300 male and female from other colleges, commonly Rimlinger recalled that the parietal students slept on South Quad in called "co-eds," would be allowed policy left little room for comfort. defiance of parietals, which now to visit Notre Dame men. These "When your mother came to operate seven days a week. visiting hours were only available visit, you met her down in the The students succeeded in getting for a short time during football lobby," Rimlinger said. the administration to budge slight­weekends and other "special" Rimlinger, a former resident of ly, changing the earliest hour that weekends. Farley Hall, said Rossie and Nau, the opposite sex could be in dorm 
Students of the late l 960s were who also lived in Farley Hall when rooms from IO a.m. to 9 a.m. pushing to allow for parietals for Rimlinger did, were actively Currently, parietal hours are more than just occasional week­involved in represenLing the student between 9 a.m. and midnight ends, arguing that the students of voice before the University's Sunday through Thursday and 9 the all-male University should be administration. a.m. to 2 a.m. on Fridays and allowed to have female visitors "They were somewhat vocal all Saturdays. every weekend. Led by student through their school years," "I remember reading [The government, undergraduates went Rimlinger said. Observer's article on the 2001 pari­head-to-head with the administra­However, the activism of Rossie, etal protest] and thinking, 'What tion, under the presidency of Father Nau and other student leaders was are you protesting about? You Theodore Hesburgh, currently pres­put to the test partly by the domes­never had it so good,"' said ident emeritus, about their desire tic issues in the U.S., as well as the Rimlinger. for extended parietal hours. "conservative student body," Resounding Rimlinger's senti­
"It was a time in which people according to Rimlinger. ments, Rossie said the parietals wanted more control over their own "We were still in the very stereo­issue was relative to the times in lives," said Richard Rossie, student typical Catholic school mentality," which students are attending the body president for the I 967-1968 Rimlinger said, adding that stu­University. He said the school academic year. dents were "much less active." should engage in informative and 
Along with student body vice Rossie said the University's right honest dialogue about the accepted president, Chuck Nau, Rossie to act as a parent in student matters, hehavior at a Catholic university presided over and spoke at several the concept of in loco parentis, was and what types of policies are nec­student government meetings about alive on the Notre Dame campus of essary to facilitate those behaviors. what he thought were the ills of the the I ate 1960s, but students were "I would not want my child in a I 968 parietal rules almost immedi­challenging it. situation where there was no pari­ately after they came into office. "[In loco parentis] was a concept etal rule, but at the same time, I Rossie was the successor of Chris that was not acceptable anymore," would find it rid.iculous if the Murphy, who promoted the exten­Rossie said. University said parietals only one sion of parietals and spoke out on The former student leader said week of the month," Rossie said. 
Observer founded to bring new voice to ND 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
On Nov. 3, 1966, the first issue of The Obsen1er landed on Notre Dmne's campus. 
Promising "a liberal policy" dedicat­ed to "an all encompassing search for the truth, both in fact and opinion" The Observer ushered in a new age of jour­nalism at Notre Drune. 
Steven Feldhaus, the editor in chief of l11e Voice, a University funded stu­dent paper founded in 1964, decided to kill the poorly funded and poorly edit­ed paper in 1966. Teaming with fellow senior Robert Sam Anson, a sometimes Scholastic contributor, Feldhaus sought to create a new paper -one that would challenge the student body with hard hitting news and radical opinions. 
From the ashes of The Voice rose The Observer -an independent stu­dent newspaper. Feldhaus and Anson became the first two co-editors in chief. 
"We were against the war because it was immoral, against the Administration because it was over­bearing and against Mishawaka because it was there," 1966 news editor Pat Collins wrote in 1986 for The Observer's 20th anniversary. Collins became the second editor in chief in 1967. 
The Observer included women in the staff box as early as the first issue but it was not the only paper at Saint Mary's until 1968. While some Saint Mary's students worked for The Observer which covered news from both schools, there was another paper at Saint Mary's: The Crux. The Crux folded into The Observer in 1968. 
The first year at The Observer was filled with controversy, breaking news and the absurd. 
A regular feature of early Observers was "Observed." Editors would print a photo of a pretty student at another school along with a short profile. The women were people the editors were interested in dating, according to Anson. 
"Gross sexism it was, but, as one of those editors, I can report the tactic worked," Anson wrote in 1986. 
The biggest news coup for The 
Observer in its first year involved 
breaking the name of the "Patriot of the 
Year" before the official announce­
ment. General William Westmoreland, 
the head of U.S. forces in Vietnam, 
was the University's choice for '•Patriot 
of the Year." The senior class gives the 
award to a person who displays great 
patriotism. 

Accompanying the announcement of 
the award and a profile of 
Westmoreland, 111c Observer printed 
an editorial slamming the entire 
process of picking a patriot -espe­
cially one who fights wars. Anson 
credited that editorial for ending the 
University's tradition of choosing a 
patriot to honor. 

Along with The Observer's edgy 
campus news coverage came a great 
deal of controversy. In the Dec. 3, 1966 
edition, The Observer reprinted a small 
story from the Berkeley Barb, a radical 
student paper from the University of 
California. The article dealt with the 
free-love scene in California. The arti­
cle closed with a quote from the presi­
dent of a free-love group that used the 
term "screw" to refer to sex. 

University President Father 
Theodore Hesburgh was not amused. 
According to an Observer editorial in 
the Feb. 9, I967 edition, Hes burgh 
called the decision to print the story 
"the most irresponsible act in the histo­
ry of Notre Dame." 

Vice President for Student Affairs Father Charles McCarragher forced Anson and Feldhaus to write an apolo­-gy letter and deliver the note to every dorm room on campus. McCarragher accused The Observer "destroying the University piece by piece" according to 
a Feb. 9, I967 article. 

On Feb. 9, 1967, Anson and 
Feldhaus printed a retraction of their 
apology saying the letter was delivered 
only through "administration coer­
cion." The retraction stated that the let­

ter was not intended as a retraction of 
the article but instead intended to apol­
ogize for anyone that could be offend­
ed by a term for sex. 
In the article, Anson vowed to thor­

oughly investigate the free-love scene 
in California personally. 

Anson gave Observer its liberal vision 
By V. VAN BUREN GILES 
Though he had considerable help, one of the major contributors to the vision of The Observer was Robert Sam Anson. 
Anson, a Cleveland, Ohio native decided it was time to scrap the old Notre Dame student newspaper, The Voice, and replace it with The Observer. 
The defining trait of The Observer as compared to the old Voice was that the new paper actually had one. Anson wanted to give The Observer a magazine approach while being origi­nal and different. Students noticed a definite attitude to the publication as it became apparent to the Notre Dame administration that Anson and his staff would tackle the most political and controversial subject matter of the 1960s. Anson wanted The Observer to be in keeping with the spirit of "New Journalism" as epito­mized by journalists like Jimmy Breslin, Tom Wolfe and Gay Talese. 
W. Hudson Giles, '67, the paper's first executive sports editor, remem­bers when Anson approached him about writing for The Observer. 
"l was eating in South Dining Hall when this guy with wild strawberry blonde hair sat down across from me. I knew he was an excellent student and he seemed very serious about giving the student body a real news­paper," Giles said. 
Late nights have always been the norm at The Observer, even in I966. The staff worked and played hard. Anson wrote editorials which were in fierce opposition to the Vietnam War. He once compared Lyndon Johnson to Adolph Hitler and called the for­mer U.S. President "a moral slum." 
Upon graduating, Anson went directly to work for Time magazine in Chicago. On assignment, he went to Cambodia during the War where he was captured by the North Vietnamese Army and held as a pris­oner. He was released and later wrote a book about his experience called "War News," which was dedicated to the men responsible for bringing him home safely. 
"He was a wonderful and positive force for journalism at Notre Dame," said Giles. 
35TH ANNIVERSARY SPEClAL EDITLON . FRIDAY, APRlL 19, 2002 
Publishing Through the Decades 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 



A dedicated staffworks around the clock to produce The Observer daily. Clockwise, from top left, the paper is prepared at the press in Milford, Indiana. After hitting the presses, it arrives on campus and is delivered by faithful driver Jack Radican. Office manager Shirley Grauel keeps the office on pace during the day, and at night, Editor in Chief Jason McFarley begins to edit to make sure it all happens again the next day. 
• 


PHOTOS BY 
Nellie Williams 

PAGE 2, 1960s PAGE 3, 1970s I PAGE 6, 1980s PAG.E 7, 1990s PAGE 8, 2000s 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, April 19, 2002 page 13 

impressive. This is especially evident in the Italian Carnival scene in which the cast trades their period character garb for Kafkaesque costumes. The surreal costumes also function to elaborate on the underlying conflict in the play. The richness of the costumes is enhanced by A'ssociate Chair of 
additions pull the plays foundations down into a bit of an incoherency. Furthermore, the additions add time to the almost three-hour show. 
The production also has a few poor choices in subtraction. Teschke, admit­tedly promoting an apologist attitude 
for the Church, 

PTT .Bruce Auerbach's change a few weHJ.\rafted lighting key lines relat­design;with vivid, satu­ing Galileo and rated itolors, which cre­Virginia's rela­ate)(rt}easing contrast. tionship with 
"Because there are all religion causing 
these pJej Galileo to Breth't .'.; • appear a good, :l'ric.ris i.on · albeit misunder­aspect an stood, Catholic · titan in the show. 


. ~chk "The:Life·· 
patl erence that is 
ha. 
is week. After eveit l)ID" o is a talk-back ses.~·at and a speaker willail¥1Wel' om the audi­. · ,:,;(ln~; T:eschke-at the Catholic ·< ~unosph~r,& ,me made the 
·i~,;~ll1~t-~~~es,.-1 
,bot have been r sting .. d ·· place that 
& background prised how body was," 

_:,r-e the show u e anachro­ctor added manipulate 
ction of "The Life of the anachronistic ;Dlllure it goes much too 
trrtll'f•;f 
e/~;~oi;ugt~h: story .i$ to1tl everish dream of the bistori in her convent. Wblie thiS'f force the idea that Virginia is. not ak character it gives the play a r eginning and , : ijndirig~ rti~ ob' here Brecht '> begins and ITT . e framing of , th·e play spoils part)'9f Brecht's mes­, sage; it is lrritevant;f;~ agrees with the portrayal-Of Vit'ginia~s weak, or 
not. _:,...._.. 
· And while'tiwton it is a bit disappointing no dent in the lead role, Law derful choci¢~forttte,t 
assumes a leadership Tole may be a wonderful op learn from a;rue.xpcedeno. ·.. ... . . r for the 
cast., to the audience tt app'~ to be a crutch: _, · , ;::~'.'. The produ'~-on 4;t$$ . . her of 
other dubious bhoic~~ Tb of pop music such as. R.E.M/s .. I • nd of the World as We Know lt" changes is latighab~: t ·· 
. as a gorgeoui-product~on vf/;li:JJ:i· .a;nd a somb0fdr~np;ttc,t~1t~. ~ii the 
scene changes., the,audi • · · · are violated with bubbl~ guIQ This idea ev~.n ~ ..Verfre:mdungsffife~thJ•, ..... .. is too highly pi,':Odµce{i). e · to.tfidcr 
rejecting tbet..., ... , .. •:tliality 

nd a their 1tion to 
Whether this 
issue is histori­cally ambiguous, Brecht's script cer­tainly does not lend itself to this read­ing. 
While Brecht wanted his audiences to leave thinking, the audience of this production will leave wondering what the hell FTT was thinking. 
"The Life of Galileo" is currently run­ning at Washington Hall. Performances are tonight through Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. and on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. General admission is $10, $9 for senior citizens and $7 for students. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office. To order tickets call (574) 631­8128. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
beggs.3@nd.edu. 



Church officials explain Aristotelian cosmology to a young Medici while Galileo tries to get the group to take a look at Jupiter's moons though his telescope. 
-
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 19, 2002 
and now I can just play football." Apparently, Clark isn't the only player 

Clark 
in the process of making a position continued from page 24 change. 
After practice, Willingham said other athletic. His speed, his hand-eye coordi­players would be making position nation and his ability to think and changes, but he refused to reveal who 
understand the position have been those players are. enhanced by being a quarterback. I lhink it was a good start for him today. 
Note:

Is there still a lot for him to learn? 
. Ten former Notre Dame players haveWithout question." 

a chance to get chosen at

Even as Clark 
this weekend's NFL Draft.

leaves the battle for 
"/ think I have more Jun Defensive end Anthony

the quarterback 
Weaver will probably be

position, he moves at tight end. I just run 
picked the highest, and

into another fight for out and hit people and could even be a late first­playing time at tight catch balls. " .round selection. 
end. While the new 
Linebacker Tvreo

offense allows for as Harrison has dramatfoa!ly
many as three tight Jared Clark 
improved his stock in pre­ends on the field at 

Irish player draft workouts, and 

any given time, Gary wowed scouts with his 30­Godsey, Billy Palmer plus-inch vertical. 
and Matt Root all have experience at 
Other Irish players who have a chancetight end and are physically built and at getting drafted, but will probably be

conditioned for tight end. The 220­
late-round selections, include linebackerpound Clark said he needs to add more 

Rocky Boiman, running back Tony

weight and that he has to adjust to the Fisher, receivers Javin Hunter and Daviddifferent type of workouts. 
Givens, offensive lineman Kurt Vallers,But for him, football just got a lot more defensive end Grant Irons and tight endfun. 

John Owens.

"I think I have more fun at tight end," he said. "I just run out and hit people and catch balls. I think maybe I thought Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asoukup@nd.edu.

about things too much [as quarterback! 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Two 'Shocker' squads enjoy 2nd-round wins 
short shorts. They definitely Pykosz, Scott Evans and Ben La-Z-Boy advanced, despite ankle but continued to play, but
By ANDY TROEGER 
contributed a little bit." Gilfillan. the heat, according to Jason Vlade began to pull away, scor­
Spores Writer 
"They have a cooling effect DV-DA was satisfied with Ditsch, who played with Dillon ing four of the next five baskets 
and less wind resistance," reaching the second round. residents Tommy Walz, Matt for a 19-15 lead. 
On a day when the wind added Richard. "Aerodynamics "We got lucky to get this far," Fox, Dan Boston and David "We had to take it down low forced teams to pound the ball is where it's at." said Neal Salisan. "Maybe we Yeager. "We played good because of the wind," said inside, teams called the Big Macs' Jimmy Constanzo would have done better if we defense, and fundamentals car­Hansen. "We hit shots and Shockers were nearly unstop­said that they "threw the team were a little soberer." ried us through today," said rebounded." pable in the paint on their way together. Skill-wise we are a lit­The Sea Men, composed of Ditsch. Dietz agreed, "They shot well to second-round Bookstore tle lacking." Kyle Forsythe, Kelechi Ndukwe, One of the more competitive and we couldn't break their Basketball victories Thursday. The rest of the team was Dan Welch, Patrick McCarthy games of the day was a 21-16 zone." 
Sporting Notre Dame basket­comprised of Dan Tarsha, Neil and Josh Marcum, competed victory for In Vlade We Trust One major upset occurred ball jerseys that would have Vargas, John Baker and Doug with La-Z-Boy during the early over the Hot Carls. Vlade, com­when Four Guys Whose been fashionable 20 years ago, Lawrence. stages of their game, but even­prised of Nate Hansen, Adam Girlfriends Didn't Cheat On the Shockers dispatched Big Seeded teams fared well as tually size took over. "With Vecchi, Jeff Stolges, Mike Them defeated No. 13 Nunc Macs and Small Fries by a 21-No. 8 Stinky-Pinky and the three navy guys we have Sea Conklin and Jim Cusick, started Dimmittis 21-18 in an extreme­11 score. The Shockers, com­Shockers dominated DV-DA 21-Men," Welch said describing strong in jumping to an early 8-ly tight, physical game. The prised of Greg Connors, Dave 4 and No. 7 La-Z-Boy defeated their team name, "but we didn't 3 lead. score was tied 10 times in the Depiazza, Mike Richard, Matt Sea Men and Backdoor Action have enough backdoor action Hot Carls, made up of Andrew game before Four Guys broke Altman and Matt Hibel, domi­21-8. today." Schreiner, Joe Dietz, Mike the last tie at 17 by scoring nated the offensive glass on Stinky-Pinky scored numer­"They played well and orga­Macritchie, Brian Chap and three straight for a 20-17 lead their way to the convincing vic­ous fast break points on their nized," said Ndukwe. "We felt Kevin Leary from Morrissey that they never relinquished. tory. way to win. Comprised entirely like we could play with them at Manor, crept within one on four 
"Constricting our movement of players from Knott Hall, the first." different occasions but could really helps our performance," team is made up of Blake "They played like a No. 7 seed not tie the game. With the Contact Andy Troeger at said Connors of the team's Burgess, Brian Price, Mike should play," added Forsythe. score 15-14, Chap hurt his atroeger@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Reliable businessman looking to rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home for 9 w 12 months or longer. ASAP. 
Call Tim 574·250-8552. Lv. mes­sage it necessary. 
Looking for single Castle Point roommate coming summer and/or fall. Free high-speed DSL internet. currently $323 per month + utils. Call 574.277.9322 if interested. 
99 ND grad seeks male to share spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. for 3-9 months. Great location & fur­nished. Call George Carr at (773) 975-0563 or e-mail at George. E.Carr@us.andersen.com 
SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFER­ENCES REQD CALL LYNN @ 616-849-7022 Need 1 or 2 Grad tix Call Dave @ 247-1148 Greatly Appreciated 
BABYSITTER:wkdys/wnds. Must have a car-Granger home. 
Call Laura 243-4776. 
Wanted to rent or sublet an apart­ment near campus or University Mall area for June and July. 
Call 563-349-5832; leave your num­ber. Will call you back 
FOR SALE 
Couch, loveseat. and recliner. 
$450 or best otter. Less than a year old. Perfect condition. 233-0360 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com 
MMMRentals.com 
Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-condi­tioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M, 1F) Safe neighborhood, tree street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1 /2 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/month + 1/4 utilties, 
call Michelle 202/829-3725, or krup78@hotmail.com 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bed­room cottage .. cute.. 
DAVE 291-2209 
New York City Apt-2 bedroom/con­vert 3 New building in East Village Large kitchen with island NC, videophone,Dish,Micro,Laundry. Free access to nearby gym.No Broker Fee $2600/mo(heat and hot water included) Bethany ND _2000 (347)524-5823. 

Have a job in Chicago this sum­mer? Rent my furnished bdr in awe­some 3 bdr apt w/ ND grad. Close to El & Wrigley. M/F. Call Kristin @ 773-388-2704 
Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. Garage. Must Seel 
Call Tammy(616)684-1049. 
4&5 Bdrm, W&D, CLOSE. ND Alum WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. 
Call Karey 255-8403 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA. NICE HOME NORTH OF ND 2773097 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9 people) 2) medium (3-5 people) 
Call Bill at 532-1696. 
Upstairs apt., single person, no smoking/pets. All ulil.paid. Avail now or Fall 02. 
For info, call 574-255-1738. Close lo ND. 
3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, AND A DECK, WASHER & DRYER. CORNER OF EDDY AND HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF LOGAN CENTER. FREE KEG WITH RENTAL. 
Calli Gary or Lynne 616-699-5841 
HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03, 5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2 bath, central ale, washer & dryer, alarm system, 
call 773-486-8822. 

Two bedroom cottage 5 min from campus $325. 
Dave 291-2209 

5-Bedroom.5 min from campus. All the goodies..dancing-O.K.I 
Dave 291-2209 

SUMMER SUBLET 
female to share 2 bdrm apmt, June and July, by ND, Emily 255-6314 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
OFFSET PAINTING available at THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Call for a quote: 
574-631-COPY Free Pickup & Delivery 
GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by local PGA professional. 
Call Dick at 276-9670. 
I wish to thank all of you for your thoughfulness and your prayers. I miss all of you. Hope to see you in the fall. Sincerely, Mary 
.. 

Friday, April 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
in the fall of 2000, the trio Old Boys. For the 30 members of an entirely accurate comparison. "Everyone is sore after the formed the South Bend Old Boys the squad, rugby is more than "The way you score is very game. My shoulder still hurts
Old Boys 
Rugby Club. just a game. It is a way of life. similar to football," said from last Saturday's game. 
continued from page 24 
dub team here. We made a con­certed effort into bringing rugby back to this campus," said Bishop. "We started building alumni support by writing letters and e-mail to former players. We sent a petition around campus and got 1,400 student signa­tures. The next fall, we drafted an 11-page constitution and pre­sented a proposal to Student Affairs and Student Activities." 
Slowly but surely, the trio's hard work began to pay off. Although the team was not rec­ognized by Student Activities as an officially sponsored team sport at Notre Dame, Student Affairs did choose to recognize rugby as a club sport. 
The ruling essentially meant that the trio was allowed to form a team that could practice on campus, but could not play offi­cial games on campus. Furthermore, the team was not allowed to have any official affili­ation with the University. Thus, 
"We got a lof of our friends to sign up at first," said McGinty. "We started having practice twice a week. Then it just caught on by word of mouth. By the end of the first year, we had 14 members. Anyone can just come to practice and give it a shot. Last year was kind of rough. Dave, John and I had to be the coaches and teach everyone the game. We had to just scrimmage a bunch of local rugby clubs and Penn High School for most of our games. We only had three games against other universities." 
One year later. the club is alive and well. The size of the team has now more than doubled to 30 members. Just as important, the national governing body of rugby in the United States (USA Rugby) recognized the Old Boys an official rugby organization. 
Rugby: A Culture Unto Its Own 
Imagine a full-contact sport with no pads, no stoppages of play, and no substitutions. Sounds tough, huh? Just ask the 
"Rugby is a worldwide broth­erhood," said Bishop. "I started playing rugby in high school in Canada. My parents now live in Australia where rugby is just huge. I could go to any city and wear my rugby shirt and be accepted. Last summer, a rugby club in Australia let me compete with them." 
"There's no other sport like it," said junior Billy Hutchins. "You beat the hell out of each other for 80 minutes. Then after the game, you take the other team out to a party. There is no ani­mosity out there. After the game, we're all friends." 
Rugby originated in England in 1823. It is a popular sport in Europe, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia. Only in recent years has rugby caught on in the United States. It is now the fastest growing club sport in America. 
Rugby is often compared to American football because of the scoring opportunities, but McGinty does not believe that is McGinty. "But the style of play is much different. Rugby is a cross between hockey and soccer. It's like hockey, except without the skates, because there are no stoppages of play and you are supposed to constantly hit each other. It's like soccer because it is a rough game with no pads where you have to run around a huge field for 80 minutes with no substitutions." 

Rugby is not a sport for the faint of heart. It is a very physi­cally intense, brutal game. 
"It is the toughest game I've ever played," said sophomore John Torro. "It's hard but it's part of the fun." 
"The guys out there are crazy," said fellow so.phomore Tres 'Dirty' Studer. "I thought I'd fit right in so l gave it a shot. The sport is the most intense sport out there. The brotherhood is unmatched in any other type of organization." 
"Everyone gets hurt and injured at one point or another," said sophomore Stefan Borovina. 
lie~ sfiucle11Cs..... 30i11 e1IU111111, 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Student Alumni Relations Group will sponsor the following events on April 23 and April 26: 
•!• Alumni Association Open House 

Tuesday, April 23/rom 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 
This event will be open to all students but geared towards graduating students. Come learn about the benefits of your free Alumni Association membership and involvement in your local alumni club. Door prizes include alumni apparel and a pair of football tickets. Freet-shirts will be provided for the first 400 arrivals. Doors open at 11 :00 a.m. Food will be served. 
We will also have information about "Classic Europe" --the trip of a lifetime for Notre Dame graduates. This trip is a 17-day excursion on which you'll visit London, Paris, Athens, Rome, and many other European destinations. You won't want to miss this last chance to sign up! Tour dates: May 30-June 15, 2002. Get detailed information from a travel professional at the Open House. 
•!• Lunch with Alumni Friday, April 26from 12:00 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. in South Dining Hall. Join over 200 alumni club leaders for lunch in South Dining Hall. You'll find that they're not just about plaid pants. 
.•.. Young Alumni Social 

Friday, April 26from 9:30 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. in Alumni-Senior Club. This event is open to all students who are over 21. Hosted by young alumni, this social is a great opportunity to network with alumni of all ages from across the country. Free pizza will be provided. 
Because of the bond that is formed between teammates, everyone plays through the pain." 
"There are 2000 pounds of pressure on people's heads and necks during the scrums," said McGinty. "There's a special bond that develops from that. We all respect each other out there." 
A Happy Ending 
After only playing three games last season, team members worked extremely hard over last summer to contact other schools' athletic programs to schedule games. By the end of this school year, the team will have compet­ed in a total of 12 games. 
Despite not having a coach, scholarships or any funding, the Old Boys have an unbelievable record of 6-3. Even more impressive, this team is compet­ing with some of the best pro­grams in the land. This year's squad has defeated schools with large enrollments and huge ath­letic departments such as 
Michigan and Tennessee. 
"I think a lot of teams take us lightly because we don't have any of the Notre Dame practice gear or uniforms," said McGinty. "They know we are Notre Dame, but we look like the Bad News Bears out there. We just recently saved up enough money to buy our own jerseys. We all wear dif­ferent colored socks. We play totally out of love for the sport. Maybe because we are a self­made team, we push each other harder than the other teams." 
This weekend, the team will play its final two home games of the season, against Central Michigan and Michigan State. Game times are set for Friday at 6 p.m. and Saturday at 2 p.m. 
For Bishop, who is set to grad­uate this May, these final three games of his rugby career at Notre Dame will be bittersweet. 
"This is for me what I'm leav­ing this University," said Bishop. "Everyone has something to offer, and this is what I had to offer. Along with the other guys on the team, rugby will be our legacy at Notre Dame." 
Although the team is not offi­cially sanctioned, both McGinty and Bishop are hopeful that sometime in the future, Irish rugby will again be an NCAA sport. If not, both players are proud that they helped provide an opportunity for other students to play rugby at Notre Dame. 
"When I meet people abroad and tell them I go to ND, they are surprised that we do not have an official rugby team," said Bishop. "We're the Fighting Irish. If any­one should have a rugby team, it's Notre Dame. I know this club will continue to just improve. There are only two juniors and one senior on the team. The rest of the team is all freshmen and sophomores." 
"l realize it won't happen dur­ing my time here," said McGinty. "It'd be nice to play our games at Stepan and wear 'IRISH' across our chests. It is my hope that some day my kids could come here and play rugby for Notre Dame." 
Notes: 
. To support The Old Boys at their games this weekend: 
1. 
Go west down Edison/Angela and cross U.S. 31. 

2. 
Go through 3 more stoplights (over the river). 

3. 
Turn right at the first stop sign (Vasser Street). The field is on the right. 




Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu, 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 19, 2002 
ND TENNIS 
Men's team begins tournament with bye 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team, heading to Miami this weekend for the B.ig East Championship, will have an easy ride to the title match of the tournament. 
That final match, though, could be a "collision of strengths," according to Irish head coach Bobby Bayliss. 
The Irish, with a 19-6 record, are seeded first in the six-team competition. The 10th-ranked Irish dropped three places in the national standings after their upset loss to Kentucky last Saturday, but the team is still confident about its chances in Miami. 
"Our goal is to win [the tour­nament]." Bayliss said. 
Freshman Brent D'Amico said, "We're going to take every match seriouslv, but I don't think we're worrfed." 
The team, which has a bye for Friday's first round, is confident of being able to survive the sec­ond round, in which Notre Dame will face the winner of the Boston College-Rutgers match. 
The challenge will come in the title match, where the Irish will take on either the defending champion Miami Hurricanes or the Virginia Tech Hokies. 
The Hokies, ranked 35th, have achieved recent triumphs over No. 18 Virginia Commonwealth and No. 30 Tulane. 
The Irish will play at 9 a.m. on Saturday, and the Hokies play at noon, so Bayliss and his team will be in the stands scouting them out. 
"We'll be there, lunch in our hands, and taking notes, so we'll know what we have to do the next day," Bayliss said. 
The Hurricanes are currently ranked 43rd. but they have been as high as No. 18. 
According to Bayliss. the team has vastly improved recently after they changed their lineup and are fresh off a win over No. 25 Georgia Tech. 
"They seem to be getting some momentum," Bayliss said. 
The Irish have been making lineup changes for doubles play, but unlike Miami, Notre Dame has yet to find a complete lineup that works for them. 
szGu~STlE 

The only guarantee with dou• 
bles play recently has been the 
duo of seniors Javier Taborga 
and Casey Smith, ranked fifth 
nationally. The other combina­
tions have not worked well for 
the Irish. 
Bayliss expects to pair seniors Ashok Raju and Aaron Talarico, Taborga's doubles partner last year. as the team's No. 2 dou­bles pair. The No. 3 pair is yet to be decided. 
If the Iri§h play Miami, 14th­ranked Taborga could be chal­lenged by the Hurricanes' No. 1 player, freshman Todd Widom, who is ranked 22nd nationally. Widom challenged Taborga at an indoor match at Notre Dame earlier this season, but Notre Dame's No. 1 player couldn't upset Miami's star player. 
Bayliss believes their matchup in Miami will be tougher for Taborga. 
"I think that match will be a little harder to win outdoors for Javier," Bayliss said. "I think the rest of the lineup, if we play Miami, we look pretty solid in the middle of the lineup, hut down low, they're pretty good and we're pretty good, so there's a collision of strengths," he said. 
The Irish, while confident, are expecting and hoping to be chal­lenged, in order to better pre­pare themselves for the NCAA tournament. 
"It's always a challenge to go down there," Bayliss said. "Their fans come to support them, and they yell and scream, and it's 95 degrees and windy and hot and muggy, and it will be difficult, but we need that kind of challenge right now. We need to achieve something that we're proud of, and this is cer­tainly a worthwhile goal to pro­pel us into the post-season." 
D'Amico said, "Our expecta­tions are to win the tournament. We'd like to go out and take care of business." 
Despite all of the challenges, the Irish are expecting to enjoy the experience. 
'Tm excited. It'll be a lot of fun; we get to go to Miami," D'Amico said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
16 Inch 2 Topping "Big E" Pizza $8.99! 
Hurry........Limited time only! 
Visa & Mastercard Accepted. 


Expires 5/3102 
271-1277 



Women return as top seed 
Special to The Observer 

The 20th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team will set out in search of its fifth Big East Conference title in the last seven years when it takes part in the 2002 Big East Championship this week­end at the Neil Schiff Tennis Complex on the University of Miami campus in Coral Gables. Fla. The Irish are the defending champions this sea­son, having downed Miami, 4­1, in last year's title match. UM is hosting the Big East Championship for the ninth year in a row. 
For the seventh consecutive season, Notre Dame is the top seed in the tournament and has been rewarded with a bye through the quarterfinal round. The Irish will face either No. 4 seed Boston College or fifth-seeded Syracuse Saturday in the semifinal round. The champi­onship and third-place match­es are scheduled for Sunday. 
For the second year, the for­mat of the tournament will be a single-elimination tourna­ment of the top six teams in the league, as selected by the conference, with the top two seeds gaining first-round byes. 
The winner receives the Big East's automatic berth into the NCAA Championships, which begin at campus sites on May 11. The Irish have earned the No. 1 seed in each of their seven years in the conference, advancing to the final in each of the past six years to face Miami, winning titles in 1996, 1997, 1999 and 2001. 
Five Notre Dame players have past experience playing in the Big East Championship. Most notably, Becky Varnum is 5-1 in singles and 4-1 in doubles, earning the title­clinching victory a year ago. 
Senior Nina Vaughan also has done well in conference tournament play, going 3-1 in singles and 1-0 in doubles . while senior Lindsey Green is 3-2 in singles and 4-1 in dou­bles. Both Vaughan and Green were instrumental in last year's championship, teaming up for an 8-6 win at No. 3 doubles, which clinched the opening point for the Irish. 

comed-ian comedian 
LAURA LIFSHITZ 
s a 
t 
u r d a 
y 
a p 
r
. 
I 
I 
2 0 
free 


1 
0 
p m 
t 
0 
m 
. 
I 
d 
n
. 
I 

free 


Friday, April 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
THE MICHIANA COMMITTEE FOR PEACE IN THE HOLY LAND 
People of all faiths throughout Michiana are invited 
PLEASE JOIN US Ecumenical Prayer Service and Candlelight Vigil 
Friday, April 19, 2002 
7:00 p.m. 
The Mosque of the Islamic Society of Michiana 3310 Hepler Street, South Bend 

All are invited to bring candles and to offer prayers for peace 

greens are extremely small, and experience in navigating
Golf 
the layout is critical to knowing the subtle nuances.
continued from page 24 
"It's a thinking man's season ended today, Ratay's course." Jasinski said. "The single campaign stroke average approaches are demanding, 
of 72.81 would be the lowest and experience is everything. average in school history. We really think it plays to our 
The senior will be looking to advantage." defend the share of the individ­Whether a good bit of local ual crown he knowledge is 
captured last enough to spring, but for "/ like our chances. We've offset a siz­
him team goals been playing better able gap in 
are far more talent
lately, and in a relatively
important than between the 
any individual small.field, it's easy to third-seeded Irish and the
success he might have one bad day. so I 
enjoy. unques­
think on a given day you
"I like our tioned fron­chances," Ratay can beat anybody. " trunners said. · "We've 
remains to been playing be seen, but
Steve Ratay
better lately, Jasinski 
Irish golfer
and in a rela­maintains tively small field, his opti­it's easy to have one bad day, mism. His troops know exactly so I think on a given day you how much is at stake. 
can beat anybody." "You don't even need to men­If David is to slay the Goliaths tion the NCAA berth," he said. 
"Everyone knows it's there. It's
and advance to the NCAA tour­nament for the first time since a huge motivating factor in the 
back of everybody's mind." 
the Johnson administration local knowledge will be of para~ The Irish may want to be 
mount importance. armed with that motivation ­
Warren Golf Course is a and a slingshot -this week­demanding layout, a so-called end. "second shot" course, where the emphasis is placed not on the tee ball but on the approach shot into the green. Contact Kevin Berchou at Landing areas on certain kberchou@nd.edu. 

II MAILBOXESETC~ 
-
··May Move Out '02'' 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
10am-5pm 
Flanner Circle 
Monday, May 6th -Saturday. May 11th 
Wednesday. May 15th-Saturday, May 18th 
Monday, M..ay 20th 
Lyons Basketball Courts 
Wednesday, May 8th -Saturday, May 10th 
Welsh Famih Hall 10-5 _pm Monday -Frida~· Mav 6th -11th In The Lobby Of Le Mans Hall Wednesday, May 8th -Saturday, May 10th 
Friday, :rvlay 17th~.4H!Z!~ $1.00 Off Shipping PER BOX 
FREE PICKUP 
Pickup isfree, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. 
Permanent Location 
Martin's Plaza -S.R_ 23 
Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm 
Sat: 1Pam-6pm 
277-6245 
The Observer . SPORTS 

BASEBALL 
Irish to face Pirates in crucial weekend series 
well recently," Stanley said. 

page 18 Friday, April 19, 2002

By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Ediror  "It's going to lift the whole team. We've gotten so much  
better. lfrom]  one  through  
The Notre Dame baseball  nine in the lineup. I think that  
team travels to South Orange,  helps out so much, because we  
N.J. this weekend for  a  key  can give our pitchers some  
three-game series with Big  confidence when  we  score  
East rival Seton Hall.  runs."  
The Irish and the Pirates are  During the three mid-week  
locked in the midst of a five­ garpes, many Irish pitchers  
te am  tie for  saw play­ 
second place in the confer­ "I really think it's going to  ing time. A f l e r  
ence.  The  come down this week to who  allowing  
five teams each hold an 8-6 confer­ wants it more. They are a really tough team, and they  nine in g a  runs the Ill C  
ence record, two games  always play us tough."  against Central  
behind Big East leader  Steve Stanley  Michigan, the staff  
Boston  Irish center fielder  locked  
College.  down  to  
The  Irish  a  l l  o w  
are  currently playing their  only  five  runs  combined  
best baseball so far this year.  against Ball State and Central  
having won six games in a row  Michigan. The team ERA is  
and 15 of their Jast 17.  currently at 3.47, just slightly  
In three non-conference vic­ higher than last season's 3.22  
tories this week over Central  ERA,  which  ranked  fifth BRIAN PUCEVICHfThe Observer 
Michigan,  Ball  State  and  nationally. Irish center fielder Steve Stanley takes a swing in Notre Dame-'s doubleheader against Virginia 
Toledo. the Irish outscored  Seton Hall, last season's Big  
their opponents 35-14.  East  Tournament  Tech on April 12. The Irish hope to improve in the Big East against Seton Hall this weekend. winner,  
The three games saw Irish bats explode for 38 hits, led by  should provide a more than capable foe for surging Notre  East doubleheaders this sea­son, and have won their three­ opponents' .274. The Irish dominated  the  for the third game on Sunday.  
the effort of senior centerfield­ Dame.  game series matchups against  Pirates in their three-game  Notes:  
er Steve Stanley, who went 7 ­for-10 with five runs scored, in pushing his team-leading bat­ting average to .476. Seniors Andrew Bushey and  "They are a very tough team, and they always play us tough," Stanley said. "We have to go out and play solid because they match up so well  Georgetown and Boston College. Seton Hall is led at the plate by senior infielder Todd Crawford, batting .367 on the  series last season, winning the games by a combined 23 runs. "I really think it's going to come down this week to who wants it more," Stanley said.  . Freshman pitcher Chris Niese! is out of the lineup indefinitely due to mononucle­osis. He last pitched April 7.  
Paul O'Toole each added  a  with us."  year with eight home runs.  The teams will play a dou­ 
grand slam to the Irish effort. "We've been playing very  The Pirates -19-17 on the year -have split four Big  The Pirates are batting .278 as a team, compared to their  bleheader at noon Saturday, followed by a noon start-time  Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu.  


Friday, April 19, 2002 The Observer-. SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish men and -women head to Indy, Mt. SAC Invites 
. Men hope to repeat first place performances in sprinting events 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Senior Staff Writer 
Last weekend, at the Tom Botts Invitational in Columbia, Miss. the Irish men's sprint group had a coming out party, claiming first place in the 100 meters, 200 meters. 400 meters and both the 4x100 and 4x400 relay to boot. 
This weekend it's time for the sprinters to prove lac;t weekend wasn't a fluke. 
The Irish split up this week­end. sending a small group of runners to California to compete in the Pomona Invitational and the Mount Sac Invitational, while the rest of the team trav­els to Indianapolis for Butler University's Indy Invitational. 
With the exception of fresh­man hurdler Selim Nurudeen, who will compete in the 110­meter hurdles and 400-meter hurdles at Pomona on Friday and Mount Sac on Sunday, the Irish sprinters will all head down US-31 to the state capital. 
At Indy, sprints coach John Millar is hoping to see another strong outing from his 4x400 relay team, a team that ran a time of 3 minutes 14. 75 seconds in Missouri. 
Millar especially wants to see a solid weekend out of senior William Croker, who ran a split below 48 seconds last week but has yet to crack 50 seconds 1n an open 400 during his career at Notre Dame. 
''I'd like to see them run the same kind of times in an open 400 that they ran on the relay," Millar said of the team, which also features seniors Nick Saracco and Mike Mansour, as well as freshman Trevor McClain. "If they can do that, then we know the relay can continue to improve. Now I think they know they can run fast." 
Also looking to for a second consecutive week of solid per­formances at Indiana are junior Tom Gilbert in the 100, sopho­more Ryan Ilurd in the 200 and McClain in the 400. Sophomore Mark Barber will compete in the 110-meter and 400-meter hurdles. 
While the Notre Dame sprint­ers look for continued improve­ment, a group of distance run­ners heads to California with even loftier goals in mind. Senior Ryan Shay will be com­peting in the 5,000 meters at Mount Sac, a race that features multiple Olympic-caliber run­ners in the field. 
'Tm aiming for under 13:40, so as close as I get to a 13:40, I'll be happy," said Shay, who set a Notre Dame record in the event at the NCAA Championships last spring, but saw that record fall when team­mate Luke Watson ran a 
13:44.92 at Stanford earlier this year. "It's a great field. They've got some international supers­tars." 
Watson, who already has automatically qualified for the NCAA Championships in the 5,000, will look to qualify in a second event -the 3,000-meter steeplechase, a race he provi­sionally qualified for with an 
8:50.68 mark at Missouri. 
"It'll be a great field," Shay said. "It'll give Luke an opportu­nity to run in more of a packed siiuation, more of a crowded 
race." Also looking for a guaranteed 
trip to the May 29 NCAA Championships in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, is sophomore Todd Mobley in the 10,000 meters. Mobley provisionally qualified with a 29:11.35 mark at Stanford in late March. Senior Pat Conway and sophomore Kevin Somok will also make the trip to California, with both competing in the 1,500 meters. 
In the field events, seniors Quill Redwine and Derek Dyer will make the trip to California, with Redwine -who jumped a season-best 6-foot-8 at Missouri -competing in the high jump and Dyer throwing the shot put and discus. 
In the javelin, junior Mike Madigan is taking the week off, both to take the MCAT exam and to allow a sore elbow to heal. 
The rest of the Irish field events jump group will head to Indianapolis. Field events coach Scott Winsor expects big things out of young athletes in a vari­ety of events. 
Sophomore thrower Juan Alba finished fifth in both the discus and hammer throw last weekend. 
"Every time he throws the hammer he's looking better and better," Winsor said of Alba, who threw a 161-6 mark at Missouri. 
In the high jump, freshmen Chris Staron and Ryan Mineburg are looking to improve on a last weekend's marks of 6-6 and 6-4, respec­tively. Senior pole vaulter Josh Heck looks to improve on a sea­son-best mark of 15-6. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at 
namstadt@nd.edu. 
-

Congregation of Holy Cross ·· 

lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

. Irish women take on best of the best at Mt. SAC 
By DAVE COOK Sports Writer 
For the second time this sea­son, the Notre Dame women's track and field team will be sending two squads to differ­ent locations this weekend. 
While most of the runners will stay close to home, travel­ing to Indianapolis, Ind. for the Indy Invitational, the Irish will be sending its strong nucleus of runners to the Mt. SAC Relays in Walnut, Calif. 
The Mt. SAC Relavs has tra­ditionally been one ·or the pre­mier meets in the world dur­ing the outdoor track season. The stadium features a state­of-the-art track and field facil­ity where the top athletes from 45 collegiate teams and 10 international will be compet­ing this year. 
Tameisha King has had much success at 
Millar said. ''I'd like to get the mile relay qualified. We're going to change the order, and lead Ayesha [Boyd] instead of Kymia [Love]; Ayesha has a lot of confidence with her right now." 
Notre Dame will be sending two distance runners to the Mt. SAC Relays in King and Jen Handley. King will be run­ning in the 1,500-meter run while Handley will compete in the 5,000 meters. Both women are also nationally ranked in their respective events, with King ranked eighth and Handley ranked ninth. 
Rounding out the California squad will be Jamie Volkmer in the pole vault. Volkmer is looking to improve on her sea­son-best vault of 12 feet set at the Notre Dame Spring Opener. 
While those few girls will be competing in California, most of the women's team will be at the Indy Invitational, where they are looking to continue the momentum they generated last week when they took sec­
ond place at 

the Mt. SAC "Our goal is to run good the Missouri 
Relays the past Invitational.
relays. I'd like to get the 
two years. As a Tiffany freshman, King mile relay qualified." Gunn and took second in Jill Van the long jump We el den
John Millar
with a jump of will be lead­
women's sprinting coach
19 feet, 9 inch­ing the way 
es. Last year, as a sophomore, she placed fourth in her sec­tion of the 100-meter hurdles. King currently has a long jump best of 20 feet, 8 inches, which is ranked fifth in the nation. 
"Tameisha is just trying to improve on her NCAA mark [of 20-8] at Mt. SAC," field events coach Scott Winsor said. "She's a talented girl. I'm not quite so sure she knows how talented she is." 
King is also part of the 4x100 relay that will be racing at Mt. SAC this weekend. The relay team -consisting of King, Liz Grow, Ayesha Boyd and Kristin Dodd -is also nationally ranked, and are currently sitting at 11th in the nation with a time of 44.70 seconds. 
The big race for the Irish this weekend will be the mile relay team of Grow, Boyd, Dodd and Kymia Love. The team was the first ever Notre Dame relay squad to make it to nationals when they quali­fied for the NCAA Indoor Championships. Although their best indoor time (3:36.84) is currently ranked eighth in the world, they are still looking to qualify for the national out­door championships. 
"Our goal is to run good relays," sprinting coach John 
for the Irish 

this week­end. Both girls are coming off victories in the 400-meter hur­dles and the pole vault, respectively, at the Missouri Invitational. 
Three freshmen will be lead­ing the sprinting events this weekend in Gunn, Latasha Steele and Tricia Floyd. While Gunn will be competing in the 100-and 400-meter hurdle events. Steele and Floyd will run in the 100-and 200-meter dashes. 
Megan Johnson, Jen Fibuch, and Kerry Meagher look to fin­ish high in their races this weekend. The three distance runners will be counted on to score at the Big East Outdoor Championships, which is just two weeks away. Meagher will run the 800 meters, Johnson, the 1,500, and Fibuch, the 5,000. 
Overall, the Irish are looking for more Big East qualifying times, as well as national qualifying times as they enter the heart of the outdoor sea­son. 
"We're just trying to get more people qualified," Millar said. "That's what we're hop­ing for this weekend." 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 


Friday, April I 9, 2002

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Season draws to a close, Irish face must-win 
ST. MICHAEL:S lAUi RY & DRYCLEANING SUMMER STORAGE BEGINS APRIL 15, 2002 There's no need to mail your winter coats, clothes and linens home! * Students may request that the storage fee be deducted from their laundry contract, or charged to their student account. You do not need cash! * You DO NOT need a laundry contract to participate. * All items will be laundered or dry cleaned at regular over-the-counter prices. ~In addition a one time storage fee of$ 15.00 will be charged to your student account * All items must be picked up no later than September 6, 2002. {Sorry, we cannot process leather or suede items) Saint Michael's Student Laundry Distribution Center is located at Holy Cross Dr. and Sorin Ct. Hours: 8:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Monday -Friday Extended Hours May 9 & 1 0, 2002 8:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. for more information call 631-7565  

ByJOE LICANORO 
Sports Writer 
It is do or die time for the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team when they play host to Fairfield this Sunday at Moose Krause Stadium. 
With a 4-6 overall record. the only chance for the Irish to qualify for the NCAA Tournament is to finish atop the Great Western Lacrosse League. Currently. the Irish are in first in the GWLL with an undefeated record of 3-0, but there is still much work to be done. 
Notre Dame must defeat their remaining two GWLL opponents (Fairfield this Sunday and Ohio State two weeks later on May 4) to win the division. Luckily for the Irish, both of these contests will be at home. Although both the Stags and the Buckeyes each have one loss in division play and sit one game behind the Irish in the standings. Notre Dame cannot afford to lose either game. 
"We've got to win these last two [division] games. There's no question about it," said Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan. "The number one criteria for a tie [in overall records] is head­to-head competition. Even though we haven't lost a divi­sion game yet, Fairfield will win the division if they beat us on Sunday. Their loss was against Air Force, who is not one of the three teams that still has a shot to tie for the division. The same thing applies for us when we play Ohio State. We have to be undefeated to win the league." 
After last week's disappoint­ing 11-8 loss to Army, in which Notre Dame surrendered two­goal leads twice in the game, the Irish know they must recap­ture their intensity for this weekend. Prior to the loss at Army. the Irish were in the midst of a three-game winning streak. 
Corrigan attributed last week's loss to a lack of energy and preparation during the week of practice preceding the game. So far this week, the Irish have worked much harder in practice to correct their mental 
SUMMERJOBS • ENVIRONMENT 
Don't let Indiana become the nuclear crossroads of America 

top the Transportation of High-level Nuclear Waste! Mobile Chernobyl 
The proposed storage facility 1wreputedly failed all ICffltlific criteria for containment 

Are you staying in the South Bend area this summer? The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to staff environmental and consumer rights campaigns. 
Citur:ns Action Coalition is a twenty-eight year old citizens lobby organization. With 350,000 memben statewide, we l"llllflnely battle the larptt llfflfties and polluten In Indiana on behalf ofcltizena...and win! We are working to stop the 1ransportation ofrugh-le\llll nuclear waste toYucca Mtn. in Nevada Help stop thirty years of radioactive railroads and highways in lndiarul. 

Work M-F 2-10:30 pm-¢·Eam $350-$425/w~Work outdoor~ Sleep Late~sual atmosphere .. .-Serious work. 
Call 232-7905 for more information. 
For otner offi.ces, ctiee~ w.s cut OV\.LLV\.I! \,\IWW.dt0et.or0 
Fort Wayne: ZG0-42ll•449Z ~lia:St7-2011-SIIS5 New Albany· SU 941 1170
. --I 
breakdowns from the week before. 
"Practice has definitely been a lot more intense this week," said sophomore attacker Steve Claggett. "The coaches have really worked us hard. Against Army, we didn't do all the little things well it takes to win the game, because we just did not practice hard the week before. When we practice well, we play well." 
Corrigan believes the key to this week's game is the play of his defense. The strong Irish defense did not play to its usual standards against Army giving up 11 goals to the Cadets. 
"It's tough to win games when you give up 11 goals," said Corrigan. "It is not one individ­ual player's responsibility. We all need to play better team defense. Our primary objective is to hold the score down to give our offense a chance to win. At the same token, our offense needs to start making plays." 
One player who has been making plays all season is attacker Dan Berger. The sophomore tied-a career-high 
0.YW
with four goals against the 
TIM K 
Cadets. Berger has scored in 

Junior midfielder Travis Wells reaches back for a shot in competition earlier this year. The Irish 
every game this season on his 

hope to remain undefeated in their conference with a victory over Fairfield Sunday. 
crowd for the most important game of the season. Despite the high stakes involved in the game, Corrigan believes his Irish are ready to the rise to the occasion this weekend. 
"We're concentrating very hard this week in practice on improving from our mistakes in the last game," said Corrigan. "We can't worry about anybody else but ourselves. We don't need any extra motivation this week. Everyone knows the con­
sequences of this game." Sunday's game begins at 1 p.m. 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu. 
Moving to Chicago? 
Contact Ben @ 
NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmanr@hotmail.com 
way to a team-high 25 goals. Senior captains John Flandina and Devin Ryan have also been impressive this season. Flandina leads the team in assists, while Ryan is second on the team in goals. All three of these players will have to play tremendous games Sunday if the Irish hope to keep their post-season dreams alive. 
This game may depend on which Fairfield team shows up. The Stags enter the contest with a winning record at 6-4, but 
, .. <Telephone**Telegraph** 
Tell Jacque Mccutcheon ... 
"You'll miss us when you 
are gone." Good luck from 
Mike, Karen, Darla, Louie, 
Loi, Chris, Jess, Hanh, Hue, 
Mary, Janelle, Jack, Annie, 
Bettie & Tubie! 
We love you! 

they have been inconsistent all season. They have had some huge victories against Ohio State and Holy Cross. but have had some bad losses, most notably an 8-5 defeat at the hands of Air Force. 
Sunday's game marks the first time the Irish have played a home game in a month. After finishing a four-game road trip with an impressive 3-1 record, the Irish are looking forward to playing in front of a home 
Friday, April 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SMC SonBALL 
Belles look to win 2 more 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sporn Writer 
The Belles brought two wins home late Wednesday night, and are hoping for two more this Saturday, in their first home game since MIAA play began. 
Saint Mary's defeated Olivet's Lady Comets 1-0, 3-1 in Wednesday's doubleheader at Olivet. 
"In the first game, Libby [Wilhelmy] pitched a one-hit­ter," sophomore second base­man Rebekah Solmos said. "It made it easier for the rest of us."' 
Belles catcher Susan Kutz hit a single, and Solmos sent her home with a triple for Saint Mary's game-winning run. Solmos, Marnie Walsh and Katie Frigge each fin­ished with two hits in the low-scoring game. 
"We got the hits that we needed," Solmos said. "We hit really well as a team." 
Kutz' run broke the score­less tie in the second inning, and neither team scored in the final five innings. 
In the second game, senior captain Kristin Martin pitched the Belles to victory to sweep the Lady Comets. Martin finished with five strikeouts and two hits of her own. Jill Clark, Erin Sullivan and Kathleen Wirpsa each scored for the Belles. 
"Erin Sullivan put us ahead in the second game. but everyone contributed to the win," Solmos said. 
Since the start of confer­ence play, the Belles have focused on their batting, and according to Solmos, they will continue to do so in light of the key role their hitting played in Wednesday's victo­ry. 
"We're going to be hitting a lot in practice [Thursday]." Solmos said. "It is something we will continue to work on." 
The Belle~. now seventh in the MIAA after displacing Olivet, with a conference record of 2-6, and an overall record of 7-10, look to move another step up in the stand­ings when they face Kalamazoo Saturday. 
"We've been playing really well," Solmos said. "We took 
{f,1&_;i_t.l.!·!·m••.,.•_~.;.~.:.:·;·'.·l.-i·~·i···•.:.~.;.•.·.,·p·(·'.·•·•.•,:.:···•·•.•.]11.1.·.-..t·;·•·:·•···i·.•·~·)·::.!:
•• ~:, . . ;;:> 
">ct Kramer: Office: 234-2436< 
. . ' 
... · .•.·. Jf • ' ..• 
. . ... . . . --_--_' . 
. . . : -·· -'_-. . . 
control hitting-wise." 
Kalamazoo will be looking for redemption after a dual defeat at the hands of Hillsdale Tuesday, 5-0, 9-1. 
In their last conference game, they lost to Hope. Earlier in the season, Kalamazoo defeated Olivet, 4­2, and junior pitcher Emery Engers closed the game, allowing no hits and striking out three batters. Engers, junior Sarah Martyn and sophomore Elli Toskey have swapped pitching duties for Kalamazoo this season under head coach Tracey Ciucci. 
Kalamazoo brings a 2-4 conference and 6-12 overall record to Saint Mary's Saturday. The teams face off for the first game at 1 p.m. 
"We did really well in the last game against Alma," Solmos said. "The momentum should carry us through. I definitely think being at home will be an advantage." 
Contact Sa.rah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
·-·-:-·--·-·.· 
/li 
,•••••••::,i:l:!Jl:••~~•i!ill•;~@·· 
~I>.. 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Pair of top ten rivals square off Saturday 
By CHRJS COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 
Thus far, the women's lacrosse teams of Notre Dame and Georgetown have been perfect in Big East play. They will both put their 4-0 confer­ence records on the line when they meet this Saturday. 
The second-ranked Hoyas present a huge challenge for the ninth-ranked Irish, but having already 
sive player of the week for her 10-point effort against Boston College. 
However, Elbe is facing the top-ranked defense in the nation, led by two of the three Irish captains in Kathryn Lam and Tina Fedarcyk. The defense, along with goalkeeper Jen White, has been consistent for Notre Dame all year. and it is ready for the challenge of second-ranked Georgetown. 
"It's a big game, we're ready, 
we want the 

faced Duke, 
"Our composure right Big East, we 
Yale and 
want every­

now is unbelievable. We
Syracuse, the thing," White Irish feel ready are all so confident in said. "We to take on the 
ourselves and in each have to go out 
Hoyas. with a lot of 
"Just being other out there." 
heart like we 

able to be right 
did todaythere with Natalie Loftus [against Yale]. [Duke]. they 
. .. It's going

Irish senior 
were ranked as high as two on the year.... We'll be fine for Georgetown," captain Tina Fedarcyk said. 
The Irish beat Syracuse for the first time in school history and came within one post shot from beating Duke last Friday. They came back from the Duke loss by beating No. 8 Yale by a three-goal margin. 
The 9-3 Irish are having the best season in their six-year history. While seven seniors lead the team, the Irish have been offensively effective because of a multitude of weapons and the fact that any­one on the team can score when called upon. 
"Our composure right now is unbelievable," said senior Natalie Loftus. "We are all so confident in ourselves and in each other out there. It doesn't matter who is handling the ball out there, whoever it is they'll get the job done. We are ready." 
Georgetown is coming off its best season ever, making it into the national championship game last year and losing in triple overtime to Maryland. The Hoyas lost six starters and three All Americans from that team but retained Erin Elbe, who has been an All American the last three years. 
Elbe was the preseason Big East offensive player of the year, and is the current off en ­to be a hard-
fought game." 
On the surface, Georgetown's 11-1 record could be intimat­ing to Notre Dame, but some of the margins of victory show that the win-loss columns might not tell the whole story. 
Georgetown only beat Virginia Tech, whom the Notre Dame beat by 11, by two goals and took Duke into overtime, just like the Irish. 
But the Irish want to focus more on their own play than on Georgetown's. 
"When we're all laid back and having a good time, we play well," Shearer said. "But when everybody gets too ner­vous, too overwhelmed with rankings and with [the fact] they have one of the best play­ers in the nation on their team, people start getting nervous and not playing as well. We need to go into the game like it's a big game, but having con­fidence is the big issue.... We can play with them." 
The winner of the game will become the Big East champion, as each team only has one con­ference game left. 
"We want to win the Big East; that brings all the focus to Georgetown on Saturday," coach Tracy Coyne said. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolemal@nd.edu. 

Quality Diamonds John M. Marshall's Incorporated 1965 ,Jewelers/ GemologistsGoldsmiths / Platinumsmiths K~ Bank Building, Suite u101 South Bend, Imhana 4660l 287-1427  


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 19, 2002 
ND SOFTBALL 
Falcons soar high, fall short of Irish upset 

After taking an early lead,

By.MAITLOZAR 
Notre Dame let Bowling Green 

Sports Writer 
back into the game and gave 
the Falcons a chance to win. 

Bowling Green came to Ivy "They coasted. We had to Field Thursday with nothing to come back and we made it dif­lose against Notre Dame. ficult on ourselves," Gumpf The Falcons brought an said. "We played well at the 
energetic and loose squad to beginning. We played well at play the Irish knowing they the end. But we didn't in the were the underdog. The Irish middle and that's what hap­
gave the Falcons a chance to pens when you coast." 
win the game, but when it With a 4-2 lead in the top of mattered, the Irish offense the sixth, Bowling Green came through. knocked Notre Dame starter After losing an early 4-0 Steffany Stenglein out of the lead, Megan Ciolli's bases­game. Crystal Wilson singled to clearing triple second and completed a H o I I y 
four-run sixth "This would have been Frantz dou­
inning rally for like a World Series win bled to cen­Notre Dame (25-ter, scoring
for them, so we just had

13) and gave Wilson. 
them an 8-5 vic­to show them who Notre G u Ill pf 
tory over Dame was." replacedBowling Green. Stenglein "I think they with Carrie
Megan Ciolli 

came here with Wisen as 
nothing to lose Irish outfielder the Falcons and they went cut the after us," said head coach Irish lead to 4-3. 
Deanna Gumpf. "We thought Jenifer Kernahan sent the 1­we had a nice lead and we sat 2 pitch from Wisen over the on it. You can't sit on it with a center field fence putting team like that. They do that to Bowling Green ahead 5-4 teams all the time." going into the bottom of the 
With nothing to lose, the sixth. Falcons used a relaxed Mattison led off with a single approach in hoping to upset and Kas Hoag pinch ran for 
the Irish. the first baseman. Hartmann 
"This would have been like laid down a sacrifice bunt but the World Series win for them, the Falcons tried to get Hoag so we just had to show them at second. Hoag beat the throw who Notre Dame was," said and put two Irish runners on 
Ciolli, whose triple was her base with nobody out. team-leading third of the sea­Nicole deFau's sacrifice bunt son. moved the runners into scoring 
The Irish took an early 1-0 position. Pinch hitter Annie lead in the first, on shortstop Dell'Aria worked to earn a Andria Bledsoo's RBI ground­walk to load the bases for out. In the third, Notre Dame Jenny Kriech. 
rallied for three runs with two Kriech singled to right, tying outs against Bowling Green the game at five. Ciolli knew starting pitcher Andrea Genter what she had to do to put the (2-2). Irish ahead. 
Andrea Loman singled and "When Jenny got a hit, that scored from first on Jarrah fired me up," Ciolli said. "It Myers' single to right. Bledsoe was just a point of picking out singled Myers home from sec­a good pitch. My pitch selec­ond making the score 3-0. tion wasn't too hot all day, but After Lisa Mattison walked and she threw a ball at my hands, Bledsoe stole third, Liz which is my favorite pitch, so I Hartmann brought Bledsoe hit it back at her." home with a single to right. Ciolli sent a 1-0 pitch to the 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical Issues inuoluing technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, enuironmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dUemmas for society. 
To eKplore these issues in depth, inuestlgate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Ualues Program (STU). This is an atademic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any ma,Jor. Within the STU Program, you may cleuelop specific emphases on STU issues In relation to Business; Enuironmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and 6ouemment and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for FRLL 2802 may be obtained at '346 D'Shaughnessy, or you can uisit our website at http:/ /www.nd.edu/-stu. Call 631-5815 for a personal appointment. 

DUFFY MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer 

An Irish player takes a swing at a pitch in a game Wednesday against Indiana State. The Irish held off Bowling Green Thursday 8-5. 
center field fence for a three­5-5 in the conference. on the season. run triple and put the Irish in "(Virginia Tech is] a great Shortstop Carmen Farmer front 8-5. athletic team and they can hit. leads the Hokies with 4 7 hits 
"She stepped up when we They are one of the best hitting and a .359 batting average. needed her," Gumpf said. teams in the Big East," Gumpf Catcher Amy Voorhees is first "That was huge on Megan's said. "They have solid pitching. on team with five home runs part. It was perfect." They are a solid team. They and 28 RBI. 
Wisen (11-4) pitched the sev­are just good. We have to come Notre Dame plays Virginia enth and earned her third vic­out and play great ball." Tech at Ivy Field Saturday. tory in as many games. On Wednesday against The first game is scheduled to 
Returning to Big East action Tennessee, Virginia Tech start at 11:00 a.m. this weekend, Notre Dame pitcher Ashlee Dobbe threw plays Virginia Tech in a her fourth no-hitter of the year Saturday doubleheader. The and eighth of her career. Contact Matt Lozar at Hokies are 29-13 overall and Dobbe is 20-9 with a 1.93 ERA 
mlozar@nd.edu. 

"ChiU•Ou+" +hit Saturdav Men't Lacrotte vi. Hoft+ra 
First 100 fans 
•
receive a bowl of chili and a Notre Dame headband 
..· .,.......••fffl~lb~ 
Jlstw.,. l ... 
!81.J...) 
SPORTSBAR 
EST. 1985 
Saturdav 
Ac..

1pm 
Pl 
li$i 

Moose Krause Stadium -weather permitting
(otherwise -Loftus Sports Centerl 
Friday, April 19, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
&OOD LOR!>! Nb UNl)l:RWEA~?? 
bOES THE BOOICSTORE ACTUALLY 
THINK THAT THE ALUMNI WIU. BUY1i,-;~~~=­ANYTHIN6 WITH AN "Nt>" ON rT? 
FOXTROT 
NoT EVEl'I

DID YOU 
A LITTLE No.

1-!APPEN To FEEL 
SIT? WHY?

A SHARP PAIN No. 
TOM KEELEY 
COMMENT ON HOW CURRENT STUDENTS "H-"VE IT EASY" 


BACK IN MY t>AY. CALCULATORS ONLY HA[) TWELVE BUTTONS. AN!> ONE OF THOSE WAS THE DOUBLE ZERO 


BILLAMEND 
YOlJ WERE SUPPOSED
WHAT'S THAT 
To MA.ICE HER NoSE
BEHIND YoUR
,us,. 
HURT.
SACIC? 
RYAN

8ERJDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

It; \-.o \.\­ Jo 4,,  cla\.~  
1., ~~icl  J  wc.s  li.o  cJcJ  ii,  y,  
i1>  Jc..\S  '"  J'c....,e.r(, h.o  S/1,:,L,/y  

ii\ fe.bro()-q, tio r;:.i,,1 i" Mc,.d, o-rJ 1101,.J Ns ~ ~.} ~le... rk 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Sewer line? 1 Dance with 27 Viking's sharp turns destination 7 Kind of year: 28 Rigel and Spica Abbr. 
31 Worked 11 _ Friday regularly at 14 Kind of 33 "Now, where recording ?" 15 Month before 34 All-in-one Nisan software packages
16 Lawyer on TV's "Civil Wars" 35 Western herd member
17 Handle differently? 40 Least likely to crack
18 Get on, in more ways than one 41 Bailiwick 19 One of the 42 Con men? 
Bobbsey twins 43 Fitting container 20 Like some sums for this puzzle? 21 licklish one? 48 Nick 23 At_(with 49 Female s~lmon 
consequences) 50 It may be coed 25 Playwright 51 Island in the Ayckbourn Taiwan Strait 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE L I L A C T O I R A B U O M V O 
....+,-+,,.,+:s..-t 1o Timid types 11 Miss out in 


Mexico? 12 Elver 13 Salon request 
___. 22 Potala Palace's RT place 

I M SP 
52 Some promises 54 Stretch 55 Web browser 
entry 56 Vaulted recess 58 "Ishtar" sights 60 It may be 
analyzed before a stroke 61 Fall back 62 Like 42-Across 63 Run out 64 Certain pickle 65 Pickles 
DOWN 1 It may be run up 

by drinking 2 Bush Treasury secretary 3 Carriage with a 
fold-down top 4 Comic Boosler 5 CD follower 6 S shape 
7 Tune for tykes, 
with "The" 8 Hurdles for languagelearners 9 Like some commentary 
Puzzle by David J. Kahn 30 Good host's gift 44 Mingo portrayer 51 Lounging 
32 Award since 1886: Abbr. 
34 "No problem" 35 Comparison connector 
36 Language of 800+ million 37 Qualified 38 Control, symbolically 

A S  -:+.~:+::­ D E  24 U.S. 101 locale:  39 It's good to an  
N E  ._,,,.._,,._  S N E R  Abbr.  11-0own  
O D  __._...._...._  E A R S  29 Pope protector  43 Cheat  

on 60's TV footwear 45 Shipworms, e.g. 53 Cheat 57 Canton-born
46 Part of a stem 
designer
warning 

59 Park in N.Y.C., 47 Short holidays? e.g. 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 

FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 2002 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Paloma Picasso, Dud­ley Moore, Ashley Judd 
Happy Birthday: You will have insight into matters pertaining to work this year. You mustn't let per­sonal problems interfere with your job. Sudden changes will take place with regard to your likes and dis­likes. You can do well investing in art objects or in items that have the potential to grow in value. Your numbers are 10, 14, 26, 34, 37, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may not assess a situation properly. Do not jump too quickly when it comes to personal invest­ments. Joint ventures will fall short of your expectations. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be thinking about tak­ing a mini vacation. Your friends will be ready to take off at short notice. The more spontaneous you are the better. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
You should be intent on making changes to your career. If you focus on what you enjoy rloing you will end up in a job that is sat­isfying. It's never too late to take courses that will give you new skills. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do 
not overindulge today. Self­improvement projects will help you stay on track. You can accom­plish a great deal if you work on creative hobbies. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Dis­agreements with authority figures will set you off. Try hard not to instigate unnecessary friction or you may find yourself in a bit of a dilemma. Work at home and you will get themost done. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Don't let anyone take advantage of you. Ifsomeone has a sob story lis-
EUGENIA LAST 
ten but don't give handouts. You 
can do far more for others by giv­
ingsound advice. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There will be lots of action at your house. Open your doors to people that you find interesting. You will learn if you listen to the experi­ences that others have encoun­tered. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The more you do with others the more you will discover about yourself. You will be in the mood for romance so be sure to make plans that will satisfy your needs. The more challenging an event you attend the more you will like 
it.00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will have the opportunity to come into some money today. Make some changes to your port· folio and you will make gains. Make your conversation interest­ing and you'll have a captive audi­ence. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may not understand why you feel the way you do today. Don't fight it; let your feelings be known. You may have to make difficult changes. 000 

AQUARIUS ijan. 20-Feb. 18): Focus on yourself, your health and your emotional well-being today. Get with the program and figure out what will work best for you. Change is needed so inake your choices and go after your goals. ­
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Travel will be quite informative. Greater opportunities for partner­ships will evolve if you engage in social activities or educational pur· suits. Attend a convention and opportunities will develop. 
00000 

Birthday Baby: You will be very serious about your future. You ·will put your work above everything else in life. You will be responsible and will always look out for the ones you love. You will have strong feelings when itcomes to your beliefs and attitudes. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
©2002 Unlver>al Press Syndicate 
\\US!~G~~!8ALl 
O': SATURDAY, APRIL 20 
)4-~, 11 :00/1 :00 (DH) 

o~\sDAY  Salute to the All-American  
*1st 200 fans receive a free  Girls Professional Baseball  
key lanyard from ...,\.  League:  
ad@oa  *Former players to throw 1st pitch  
*1st 250 fans receive a free  *Get autographs  
mini-bat courtesy of  *See historic uniforms, and more  
South Bend liibmie  
1st 100 students will receive *3 lucky fans will win p[ping




'SLACRO~ 
VS. FAIRFIELD ­
SUNDAY, APRIL 21 
1:00PM . 
Gameday Activities: ~~sDAY *Chance to win authentic ND Lacrosse JERSEY
a FREE Notre Dame Lacrosse 
hot PIZZAS courtesy of Bruno's
t-shirt courtesy of *Pregame HARDEST SHOT 
COMPETITION
Als 
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. ND Softball, p. 22 
. Women's Track, p. 19 
. 
SMC Softball, p. 21 . Baseball, p. 18 

. 
Women's Lacrosse, p. 21 . ND Tennis, p. 16 

. 
Men's Lacrosse, p. 20 . Bookstore Basketball XXXI,


PORTS
. Men's Track, p. 19 p. 14 
Friday, April 19, 2002 


RUGBY 
Some good old boys 
ByJOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
When Tom McCinty arrived on campus three years ago from San Jose, Calif., he was hoping to continue playing the sport he fell in love with in high school. Unfortunately, rugby was nowhere to be found at Notre Dame. 
While others would have quit or given up, McGinty refused to abandon his dreams of play­ing rugby at Notre Dame. Along with sophomore Dave Bishop and junior John Friskal, McGinty joined the South Bend Blues Rugby Club, an organization with members ranging in age from 18 to 50 years old. 
"The three of us played for the South Bend Blues Rugby Club during the fall of my freshman year," said McGinty. "When you are a rugby player, you are a player for life. When you put on a rugby jersey, you are immediately accepted by all other rugby clubs in the world. Rugby is just a great game. It definitely has its own cul­ture." 
Putting on a Blues jersey was a great opportu­nity for all three students to continue playing rugby, but it was not the same as having a team on Notre Dame's campus. 
The original varsity rugby program at Notre Dame was disbanded on August 3, 1995 for·· repeatedly violating University rules. The pro­gram was put on probation twice in the '80s and then permanently eliminated after inexcusable misconduct during the '94 spring season. 
"That team definitely deserved to be disband­ed," said McGinty. "Rugby had a bad reputation here, but those players no longer attend this University. I just wanted to bring rugby back to Notre Dame and share this great sport with everyone else." 
During the spring of 2000, the trio worked extremely hard to create a rugby team at Notre Dame. 
"I talked to RecSports about maybe starting a 
see OLD BOYS/page 15 

-FOOTBALL 
Clark to make switch to tight end 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in a long time, Jared Clark had a giant grin on his face after practice Thursday. 
That's because the newest tight end on the Irish roster wasn't wearing the red jersey typically reserved for quarter­backs for the first time since arriving at Notre Dame. 
After spending two seasons behind Carlyle Holiday and Matt Lovecchio on the depth chart, Clark decided he had enough. He approached coach­es after Tuesday's practice and asked if he could switch posi­tions. They readily agreed. 
"I looked at the situation and evaluated my play, and after evaluating the other two, it was easy to see those two were doing better than me," Clark said. "I didn't want to spend another year on the bench and I want to do whatever 1 can to help the team out." 
The switch is a dramatic one for Clark, who has never played tight end before. As long as he's played football, he's played quarterback. He played some defensive end during his high school career, but it was his strong arm that attracted college recruiters. 
But even though tho only position Clark knew in college was quarterback, he wanted to get playing time even more. Clark, who sat out his entire freshman season, only played four snaps at quarterback dur­ing the 2002 season. He even approached the coaching staff last year about the possibility of working with the special teams units just so he could earn playing time. 

"I just want to play football, and quarterback was some­thing I could play in high school," he said. "But to be h-0nest, I have more fun at tight end." 
Leaving the red jersey behind meant Clark had to adjust to full-contact drills in practice. And instead of throw­ing passes during the first 20 minutes of practice, Clark had to get used to catching them. 
But it doesn't matter what he has to change -Clark's eager­ly looking forward to the switch. 
"It was fun [to hit people in practice]," he said. "That's one of the reasons I wanted to move positions -because I hadn't hit somebody in so long." 
"I think you can see the progress almost instantly," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "He jumped in here and did some very good things today because he is very 
see CLARK/page 14 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish host Big East 
Tourney 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
On any given weekend the men's golf team can be an NCAA tournament-caliber squad. 
That's the philosophy with which head coach John Jasinski is approaching this weekend's Big East Championships to be contested at the Warren Golf Course, even though his team's season has been marked more by mediocrity than sterling play. 
Though clearly not the favorites to win the tournament and claim the conference's automatic NCAA bid, a small field and a distinct home course advantage has Jasinski thinking that anything can happen. 
"On a course like ours, one that we know so well, it's easy for a good player who's not on top of his game to put up a big number," Jasinski said. "With a small field, a few guys from a few teams can falter, and there's not a whole lot of teams to beat." 
In the small, six-team field, defending champion and top seed Virginia Tech, along with second-seeded St. John's are the favorites. 
The Hokies of Virginia Tech boast an impressive core of tal­ent led by Brendon de Jonge, a native of Zimbabwe, who is ranked eighth in the nation and a semifinalist for the Ben Hogan Award, given annually the country's top collegiate player. 
While Notre Dame has yet to play competitively against Virginia Tech, Jasinski is well aware of its prowess. 
"At their best, they're head and shoulders above the field," Jasinski said. "We haven't seen them, but their numbers speak for themselves." 
If Virginia Tech is the favorite, St. John's runs a close second. Led by Andrew Svoboda, who claimed a share of the individual title last spring, the Red Storm will be attempting to hail its tenth con­ference title. 
"[St. John's] handled us easily twice," Jasinski said. "They're obviously a good team." 
Notre Dame's upset bid will be led by senior Steve Ratay, who is quietly putting together what may be the best season ever by an Irish golfer. If the 
see GOLF/page 17 

-

Sunday, 8a.m. 





