
Reviews are in about "Rumors"
SLEET 
Wednesday 

Check out what the Scene critics have to say about the adaption of Neil 
JANUARY 30, 

Simon's play "Rumors" produced by the Saint Edward's Hall Players 
HIGH 37° 
Scene . page 12-13 
2002

LOW28° 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 77 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Food services raises prices in vending machines 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Assistant News Editor 

Students might have noticed that pur­chasing a caffeinated drink for late study sessions or bottled water for lectures is more expensive now that beverage prices have risen in campus vending machines. 
During late November and early December, the cash operations group of Notre Dame Food Services decided to raise prices of beverages in order to offset increased costs of managing the vending machines. 
"Different costs have continued to esca­late and that margin has slowly gone down," said Dean Winter, operation man­ager of vending services. "It was necessary to do something about it." 
At the beginning of the year, vending services, which operates under Food Services, undertook the process of chang­ing the prices in the University's approxi­mately 220 beverage machines and more vending machines containing both food and beverage. 
All prices of 20-ounce bottles of bever­ages changed from $1 to $1.25 and 12­ounce cans from $.65 to $.75. 
\Vinter said the new prices are more attractive to customers because_ of the ease of putting quarters into the machine instead of smaller coins. 
"\'\'hen you get into the prices in between a dollar and a dollar and a quarter -it's the psychology of the price," said Winter. 
He said he and others wanted to keep the price as simple for the customers as it was when it was a dollar, in the case of the former price of 20-ounce beverages. Winter said he also took a realistic approach and chose a price that would safeguard against any immediate changes in the pr\ce. 
"Our number one criteria is [to provide] convenience," said \\linter. "If I went to an intermediate price [higher than a dollar but lower than $1.25] then there would have to be a price raise quicker than there would if I went to a dollar and a quarter." 
So far, Winter said he has only heard from two or three students who were curi­ous to find out about the price changes. 
..Most of them have been very under­standing," said Winter. 
As of now, Winter said he doesn't foresee any immediate changes in the vending machine prices. 
Comparing the changes in vending machine prices to the recent fluctuation in gas price&, \-\linter said he wouldn't com­pletely rule out an increase in the future. 
"I can see [the current prices remaining] a number of years, but there are so many things that are out of our control when it comes to cost," said Winter. "We're trying to maintain a decent margin." 
Contact Helena Payne Payne.30@nd.edu. 

ND profs study rapid increase of MP3s 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Writer 

Walk into any dorm on campus and 
undoubtedly music will be playing. This 
music will most likely be coming from the 
student's collection of MP3s on his or her 
computer. In recent years, downloading 
music has become an alternative to pay­
ing competitive prices for CDs at the local 
record store. 

According to Professor Robert Easley, a 
study was conducted stating that although 
the music market was growing on a 
national level. the sales in record stores 
near universities were declining. 

"It's there. It's accessible. That is why I download. It takes little to no effort and -it's less expensive." said junior Chad 
Kohorst. 

Professors Easley and John Michel con­
ducted a research project analyzing the 
effects that MP3s have on the recording 
industry. Their paper, "Open Standards, 
IS Strategy, and Adoption of Innovative 
Technology: The Case of the Recording 
Industry and the MP3 standard" won the 
Best Theme-Related Paper award at the 
recent 22nd Annual International 
Conference on Information Systems. 
The study concluded that as a result of 
the rapid increase in use of MP3s, the 
record labels, which have suffered from 
piracy, were compelled to take certain 
actions. These labels established an 
Internet presence and their web site were 
user friendly and offered more informa­
tion and features. Some even opted to 
offer complementary e-distribution of music, which often times was only a clip of the song at a lower quality. Sony offered MP3 singles, but at a price that was similar to the cost of the entire CD at the store, Easley said. 
"Obviously I would prefer to download MP3s for free, but if the record companies offered an internet site for downloading MP3s that would be more convenient I would be willing to pay a minimal cost," said freshman Kelly Marquez. 
Recently, some record labels have tried to establish a sub-scripti on policy 
"It's there. It's accessible. 
where individuals trace the identity-of the can download That is why I download. student. MP3s, however, There are both positives
It takes little to no effort 
• they place a limit of and negative aspects of
and it's less expensive.,, 
100 songs and in MP3 downloading for some instances musicians, Easley said. security measures Chad Kohorst Some musicians are loos­are put in place so ing money and join record 
ND junior

that the music can only be listened to on the computer it was downloaded. 
"The biggest implications of the MP3 coding standard are in the copyright pro­tection and distribution. The leading record labels achieve much of their mar­ket power through distribution and MP3s call for an entirely new distribution chan­nel," said Michel. "College and university students are key players in this discontin­uous technological change." 
Students on college and university col­lege campuses have access to fast connec­tions and can download MP3s with rela­
tive ease~ Michel said. Although Notre Dame has only firewalled one MP3 search engine, Napster, it is against university policy to download file transfer programs. At Saint Mary's, nearly all MP3 sites have been firewalled. Packet shaping is used to ensure that a majority of the available bandwidth is used for browsing, surfing, and e-mail. In one instance, Sony contact­ed Notre Dame officials to alert them that a student was downloading an excessive amount of MP3s and threatened legal action if the student did not stop. The Office of Information Technology was able to 
labels in their fight against 
piracy and MP3s. There 
are some musicians who profit more from touring where they improvise their songs. and they benefit from the exposure that MP3s provide. 
While some students are avid MP3 downloaders with extensive collections, there are those who download because they benefit from saving money when they wish to download an obscure song or only a song from a particular album. 
· "I have 400 MP3s, but I still buy albums because I really like them. For the artists 
see MP3/page 4 
Graduation speaker still to be named 


By ALLY JAY 

News Writer 
From the political to pop culture, Notre Dame seniors have their own ideas for who they'd like to speak at graduation. 
"Britney Spears would be great," said senior Andrew Nerlinger. 
Senior Elizabeth Cryan had a differ­ent take on who should be the com­mencement speaker. "The Vicor of Christ would be amazing,"said Cryan. 
Other interesting suggestions included a fireman that aided in the September 11 tragedy, J.K. Rowling. George O'Leary, Alan Greenspan. and Rudy Giuliani. 
According to Denny Moore, director of public relations, it will be sooner rather than later when the com­mencement speaker and the hon­orary degree recipients will be announced. In the past, commence­ment speakers have been announced as early as November and as late as April. 
"At this stage in the game, we have a sense of who will be here," Moore said. 
see SPEAKER/page 4 

Wednesday, January 30, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 


INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
. Audition: "The Vagina . Fair: Winter Career and . Karaoke: Coleman-. Event: Multicultural
Drop me a line 
On most days, I'm never certain what to make of e-mail subject lines. 
I get my share of "Jason, what are you doing with your home equity?" and "Get your free online psychic reading now!" messages. And Monday, someone was offering photos 
from a party I apparently missed. 
Point is, I'm flooded with electronic correspondance promising health, money and non-stick cookware to the point that it's almost impossi­ble to discern an e-mail from a professor about a change 


in the syllabus and one from an online vendor selling dis- M F I Jason c ar ey  
counted prescription drugs  
and weekend trips to  
Mexico and Peru ... Indiana.  News Editor  
My position as a newspaper  
editor prompts even more  
junk.  

On the good days, the irrelevant news releases and masked offers to rebuild my credit are mini­mal. The ..delete" button takes a bit of a bruising, and the trash runneth over, but I'm relatively no worse for the wear. 
On the bad days, I take a beating -discontent from readers about misquotings and misspellings, criticism ofwhat I do and do not cover, general disgust on the public's part ofthe news media. 
Tuesday looked like a bad day. While one mes­sage urging me to send my troubled children to a Wyoming ranch that doubles as a boot camp looked promising, I was more concerned with the "Hoadley case" subject line beneath it. 
Ryan Hoadley, you'll remember, was expelled last fall from the University, following a discipli­nary conference for his alleged sexual assault ofa female Notre Dame student. He sued the University to have the decision overturned on grounds that officials conducted the conference unfairly. 
I feared the e-mail contained the worst-con­demnation. I hoped that it conferred the best ­commendation. It did neither. 
It came from a 1940s Notre Dame graduate who wasn't interested in either bashing or praising The Observer's coverage of the lawsuit and alleged assault. He was more concerned with giving me a little perspective. 
I was glad to hear it. 

"Things like that never happened in our time," he wrote in regards to the relationship Hoadley admitted to having with the alleged victim. "You could be thrown out ofschool for saying any four­letter word. One guy was caught in the sack in Howard Hall, and the rector told him he 'has exactly 25 minutes to clear the campus and to never come back."' 
The writer amused me. He said I probably could hardly imagine a Notre Dame without female stu­dents. 
Sitting in my air-conditioned, carpeted O'Neill Hall room, it was harder to imagine the scant lodging he described. "We actually never lived in rooms in Brownson. We had iockers in the base­ment where our clothing was kept ... Across the main basement corridor, we had lavatories where we washed, shaved and brushed our teeth in the morning-or whenever," he wrote. 
They retired for the night then at 10 p.m. sharp, he said, in beds surrounded on all four sides with sheets. At one point, he roomed with the school's "hotshot magician." 
I thought the writer had worked a little magic himself. He had singlehandedly given my work a little more depth, some history. 
Sure, the subject line ofhis e-mail had fooled me. I had fallen for it as quickly as I had been taken in by the "get your pet in commercials" line. 
But it was catchy. And from time to time, we need a line like that to reel us in and in some cases, to pick us up. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Monologues," LaFortune  Internship Fair, Joyce  Morse Center, 9:30 p.m.  Comedy Show, South  
Ballroom, 3:30 to 6:30 p.m.  Center North Dome,  . Concert: Pianist Tamari  Dining Hall, 8 p.m.  
. Meeting: Emmaus  4 to 8 p.m.  Gurevich, Annenburg  . Show: Keenan Revue,  
Information Night,  . Lecture: "Faith. Justice  Auditorium, 8 p.m.  O'Laughlin Auditorium,  
Coleman-Morse Center,  and Education," Father  . Event: Harlem  7:30 p.m.  
6:00p.m.  Theodore Hesburgh,  Globetrotters, Joyce  
Hesburgh Center, 4;15 p.m.  Center, 7:30 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Texas A &M's newspaper publishes apology 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas In a note to readers published
..The Battalion. in its 
The. public uproar over a cartoon Monday, Editor in Chief Mariano
obstinance. made a huge
called racist published in the Jan. 14 Castillo said the cartoon was insensi­edition of The Battalion, subsided miscalculation by refusing to tive and should not have run. The car­Monday after the Texas A&M apologize for so long.,, toon portrayed a black mother, wear­University student newspaper printed ing an apron and curlers, scolding her an apology. son for receiving a bad grade, saying 
The African-American Student Bereket Bisrat "If you ain't careful, you gonna end up Coalition went ahead with planned African-American Student Coalition doing airport security." protests outside The Battalion, and "Our silence has been misconstrued
spokesman

said the long-overdue apology was as defending racism, and I have an only the first step in correcting what obligation to make clear that we real­
major."We feel they have not been
they consider to be the publication's ize the cartoon was offensive and that
responsive to issues regarding inclu­
pattern of insensitivity toward minori­The Battalion does not condone
siveness of minorities, and there
ties. racism," said Castillo, a senior
needs to be an ongoing dialogue to 
"The Battalion, in its obstinance, international studies and journalism
solve these problems," he said.
made a huge miscalculation by refus­major.
Bisrat said black students welcomed
ing to apologize for so long," said the apology, but were disappointed Castillo said the controversy has 
Bereket Bisrat, spokesperson for the been a learning experience and that
that it only came after mounting pres­
African-American Student Coalition 
sure on The Battalion staff from stu­he is now scrutinizing cartoons more and a sophomore international studies 
dents, administrators and the media. carefully. 
OKLAHOMA UNIVERSITY 

Researchers study anthrax cure 
NORMAN, Okla. 
There is no cure for anthrax in its later stages. But two University of Oklahoma researchers might dis­cover one soon. Since August, microbiology associate professor Jimmy Ballard and his partner, Rodney Tweten, have been experimenting with a new tech­nique that could lead to a cure for the currently incurable disease. "We are about a year ahead of schedule," Ballard said. Tweten, microbiology and immunology professor at the OU Health Sciences Center, said the project was funded for two years by a $2.5 million grant from the Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism, an Oklahoma City­based organization founded after the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah building in 1995. Tweten now expects the first phase of his research might be com­pleted as early as this summer and could lead to a vaccine that might stop an anthrax infection even in its latest stages. Anthrax is caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. 
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 


Assailants attack Indian student 
SALT LAKE CITY 
Three individuals attacked a University of Utah stu­dent Friday night while he was walking home. Mohan Viswanathan, an international student getting his master's degree in mechanical engineering, was jumped from behind. Assailants apparently hit him on the head, knocking him out. "Witnesses said they saw the attackers hitting and kicking me even after I was uncunscio us,'' Viswana than said. He only remembers the initial blow and then waking up in an ambulance. After the paramedics took Viswanathan to the hospital, they called his roommate, Kaushik Gandhi, and told him to come to the emergency room. During the attack, he suffered a serious con­cussion, a broken nose and lost a few teeth. "The doctors said it might take some time for him to recall the attack because of the concussion," Gandhi said. While many students on the campus feel it was a hate crime, the attack was filed as an aggravated assault. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 30.

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.

AccuWeather41 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ / 
50 
FRONTS: 
ee e 
e 2002 AccuWeather, lnc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pr.ss-: 
® © 

High Low Shower• Raln T•alorms Flurrin Snow lee Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 70 51 las Vegas 48 29 Portland 43 38 Baltimore 51 42 Memphis 62 30 Sacramento 51 33 Boston 46 34 Milwaukee 35 25 St. Louis 43 29 Chicago 35 25 New Yori< 39 37 Tampa 84 65 Houston 70 43 Philadelphia 47 41 Washington. DC 62 41 



Wednesday, January 30, 2002 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Best-selling author advises aspiring writers 



PETE YORN . 

Mus icforthetnorningalter 
STEREOPHONICS 
Ju.st Enough Education To Perform 


GREEN DAY 

International SuperhitsI 
TENACIOUS D 
Tenacious D 
Parental Advisory 

. ND alumnus award will provide internships 
By GEREMY CARNES 
News Writer 

Best-selling author and Notre Dame alumnus Nicolas Sparks 
SAVES THE DAY 
Stay What You Are 
T
1099 j:: 
T 
1399 

T:. T 
1399 : 7 1399 BRUCE COCKBURN 

Anything Anytime Anywhere Singles 1979-2002 

MEDINPLAV® 
Your Entertainment Superstore For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Selection, pricing and special offers may vary by store and online. 
801 922 1 1 070 Sale ends February 9, 2002. www.mediaplay.com 
is helping Creative Writing Program students get experi­ence in the publishing world. " I ' m very fond of Notre Dame.•· 

Sparks 

said Sparks, who recently donated $1.5 million dollars to the Creative Writing Program. 
Sparks also mentioned that he finds the program impres­sive. 
·"I have a great respect for the writing program Notre Dame has established," he said. 
Sparks' gift will award two students assistantships on the· 
T
1199 
Notre Dame Review each year. read, anything you can do to 
Two more students will have improve your chances is help­the opportunity to work in New ful." York literary agencies and pub­Sparks' advice for prospective lishing houses each summer. authors is simple: "Read a lot. 
A third award will allow one Write a lot. graduate of the Creative "Read a lot of different types Writing Program to spend a of novels, see what works, then year in residency at the figure out how the authors do University to work on his or her that," he said. writing studies. "By asking yourself a lot 
Sparks questions hopes that the you can
"/ have a great respect 
awards may learn a lot be expanded for the writing program about struc­in the future ture."
Notre Dame has 
to give more "If you 're
established . .,
students these really seri­opportunities. ous you "That's kind should prob­
Nicholas Sparks 

of a work in ably write
author

progress," he said. This year, the stu­dents who win the New York internships will work at Sanford Green burger Associates as well as Warner Books, Sparks own literary agency and publishing compa­ny. 
Sparks helped to create the internship positions in the Creative Writing Program. 
"I just called to find out if they would be willing to take on interns and they were," he said. Sparks said he believes that understanding the publishing side of the writing business is critically important for prospec­tive authors. 
Sparks also stated that work­ing with publishers and agents allows writers to make the con­tacts necessary to get their sto­ries read. 
"A typical agent might get 400 query letters a month. Of those he'll read three or four and represent maybe one or two," Sparks said. 
"If you only have one chance in 100 of getting your book 
every day," 
he said. 
Nicholas Sparks was in the Notre Dame class of '88. His first two nov­els, "The Passing" and "The Royal Murders," were rejected by publishers, but his next novel, "The Notebook," became a bestseller. 
Since then, he has published "Message in a Bottle," "A Walk to Remember," "The Rescue," and "A Bend in the Road." 
"Message in a Bottle" and "A Walk to Remember" have become motion pictures, and "The Notebook" and "A Bend in the Road" are in development. 
"The Rescue" is currently under negotiations to become a television series. 
Sparks will give a speech in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium in McKenna Hall at 4 p.m. today. He will sign books in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 11 a.rn. to 
12:30 p.m. on Thursday. 
Contact Geremy Carnes gcarnes@nd.edu 


Meet representative Brad lauman 
Thursday, January 31, 2002 I19 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
lnformadon Meetings 
4:00 p.m. Australia and New Zealand 
5:00 p.m. United Kingdom and Ireland 
6:00 p.rn. Latin American Programs 
Learn about our programs in Argentina, Australia, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, England, Ireland, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, and Scotland 
All colleges welcome! 
Note: This is a non-Notre Dame study away option. See your college Dean's office for details about credit transfer and applicable regulations. 
800-858-0229 www.isa-buUer.org 

IUTLEI UNIVERSITY 


Wednesday, January 30, 2002 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Speaker

Play explores college dating 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 

Sex gets attention. And it drew a large crowd Tuesday to Carroll Auditorium to experience "Sex Signals," an interactive program that took the audience on a romp through the myths. rituals and con­fusions of the college dating scene. 
The event paired 1992 Notre Dame graduate Christian Murphy with Gail Stern, a rape crisis coun­selor and stand-up comedian, to perform several improvisational and rehearsed skits that mimicked common stereotypes and misun­derstandings about the opposite sex. 
Linda Timm. Saint Mary's vice president for Student Affairs, orga­nized the event. She hoped that both single students and couples would attend to learn more about communication in relationships 
"Communication seems to be a very important part of dating and relationships," Timm said. "We need to be very much aware of the signals we send and interpret. Too often we are not clear on this." 
Murphy and Stern acted out comedic dating scenarios ranging from a couple meeting at a bar to talking at a party. The women made the program interactive, ask­ing for advice from the audience when characters faced dilemmas. At one point, the audience was able to hold up stop signs whenever characters entered uncomfortable situations. 
Following the role-playing, Stern explained the skits. 
"We deliberately communicate vague and obscure messages in our pursuit of the opposite sex," Stern said. 
MP3 
continued from page 1 

I really like, like Bob Dylan or Phish, I like to see what the artist is getting at through the course of the album," said senior Dave Burkavage. 
Easley and Michel began this project in 1998 because it com­bined their interests in manage­ment information systems and The final skit 



involved 
Murphy defend­
ing a date-rape 
charge. A man 
receiving mixed 
messages from 
his date 
Murphy 
claimed, "One 
thing led to 
another and 
then we were 
having sex." 
Through 
Murphy's per­
formance as a 
confused col­
lege student, 
the man gained 
the sympathy of 
a majority of 
the women in 
the audience. 
Many students 
felt that couples 
need to be more 
direct about 
their limits and 
expectations. 
One male 
audience mem­
ber advised, 
"Be up front 
about what is 
going to hap­
pen, most guys appreciate it." 
While sex may attract attention, 
rape is usually buried under the 
rug, Murphy and Stern noted in 
their performances. The women said they aim to travel the country · bringing this sensitive subject to light, clearing misconceptions and 
dealing with the issues. Murphy 
said she hopes the show "explores 
the psyche behind relationships 
and rape." 
"I don't think that many men or 
strategy. Easley was interested in how an open standard would affect the changing music indus­try. Over a 14 month period. between 1998 and 1999, data was collected from Billboard 
· Magazine, two highly rated MP3 search engines, and recording label web site. Students, who have since graduated, were involved in collecting informa­tion and surveying web site. 
Contact Meghanne Downes mdownes@nd.edu. 

'Notfiin8 to Wear? 
join us for our S:E'M'1-'A'N'N'1.l'AL S~L:E of 40-75% offVesianer CfothiiiJ and §ifts 'Now tfiru 'Fe6.15tt 

HERE'S OUR PHONE NUMBER: 
WHERE: JnJpire rf/ef (ORNER OF COLFAX AND HILL DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
232-1822 

(BRING FRIENDS OR COME AND MAKE NEW ONES) 
YOUR FRIENDS AT INSPIRED ft FIRED AND INSPIRE ME! 
-


continued from page 1 
attracting a high-profile commencement speaker? 
"There isn't a firm time­line for choosing a com­mencement speaker, rather there's a general time table. The officers of the University have a sum­mer meeting, planning ses­sion, where they begin thinking about possibilities. As soon as there is consen­sus, an invitation is sent," said Denny Moore. 
Officers of the University include President Edward Malloy, provost Nathan Hatch, and eleven vice­presidents of the University. While they are the principal individuals who are responsible for brainstorming ideas for the commencement speaker, theoretically any member of the University can con­tribute an idea for the commencement speaker. Ideas and names can sur­face any time to reflect changing current national and international events. 
"Before the presidential elections last year, the idea was that we would approach the winner," said 

women go out to be raped," she Moore. 
said. "It is an ugly extreme that Moore observed that at 
happens in dating. "Rape occurring this point the University
in the context of dating was a key does not wish to reveal the 
message of the event. 
possibilities for the com­

The duo pointed out that people 
mencement speaker until a typically date others whom they 
firm commitment is estab­like. They said a major goal of the 
lished by the individual. He presentation was to teach people to 
also noted that whether or say no to people they like. 
not the University has good contacts with a given indi­

Contact Natalie Bailey at 
vidual impacts whether 
baill407@nd.edu 
they decide to go after that individual as a potential speaker. 
"To use last year's exam­ple, you know if you send a letter off to the White 

Tonight!!! 
Emmaus Info Night 
House you're looking at 
pretty long odds. We can't 
change the graduate date 
or change our schedules so 
what determines the 
length of the process is 
partly the volatility of the 
schedules and the promi­
nence of the people we're 
talking with. For heads of 
state and heads of govern­
ment, they may want to be 
here, but it might not rise 
to the importance of an 
international event they 
have to be at," said Moore. 
"With the president last ·year, we had for sometime 
an idea that he wanted to 
come. But we had to wait 
quite awhile until we knew 
for a fact that it was on his 
official schedule and that 
he would be here barring 
some unforseen circum­
stance," added Moore. 
In the event than an 
unforseen circumstance 
does come up which pre­
vents the designated 
speaker from attending 
graduation, an honorary 
degree recipient is asked 
to give the commencement 
speech. As with the com­
mencement speaker, the 
officers of the University 
are involved in approving 
award winners but any 
member. of the University 
can contribute a name. 
"Basically anyone part of 
the University can come up 
with names, and over time 
names accumulate. A 
name can be in people's 
minds for years before 
they receive an honorary 
degree. There's no pre­
scribed number of people 
who receive honorary 
degrees each year. 
Typically it's about 11, and 
each college advances a 
candidate," said Moore. 
Contact Ally Jay ajay@nd.edu, 

Are you back from studying abroad and want to deepen your 
faith? Did you make a New Year's resolution to devote more time to prayer? Then try the Emmaus program and discover how small Christian· communities of faith sharing and scripture study can turn that lukewarm faith, red-hot like the Burning Bush! 
Drop in and learn all about it!I 
6:00 PM -7:00 PM 1st floor of Coleman-Morse (across from 24 hr. lounge) 


ATION 
Wednesday, January 30, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russians kill Chechen rebels: 
Russian troops attacked a rebel base camp and killed 19 Chechen rebels. According to Russian officials. the rebels killed were responsible for an assault on a Russian troop helicopter. officials said Tuesday. The heli­copter made an emergency landing after it was fired upon. Two Russian soldiers died in the attack on the helicopter. 
Ritual murder stumps U.K. cops: 
The torso of a young African male found dis­membered in the Thames in August was the victim of a ritual murder, expert says after second autopsy. Candles and a sheet with an African name were found nearby. Recent con­clusions have investigators cooperating with Germany and Belgium, where similar cases have occured. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
VA lawmakers keep state salute: 
Despite objections by its black members, Virginia's House of Delegates will still open sessions with a tribute to the state flag writ­ten by Confederate heritage group. The House split 50-48 in favor of keeping the tribute. The tribute was written in 1946 and was adopted as the official salute to the flag in 1954. Some senators, both black and white, have pledged to remain silent during the tribute each day. 
New hotel overlooks WTC site: The Battery Park Ritz Carleton held a grand open­ing on Jan. 29, and sports rooms with a view of the ruins, five blocks away. The new Ritz Carleton will not be the closest to the WTC site, after the Marriot Financial Center reopened two weeks ago after renovations. Although rooms start at 465 dollars per night, Jena Gardner, director of marketing and sales for the hotel, reports that bookings through the weekend are solid. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Officer cleared in shooting: st. 
Joseph County Prosecutor Chris Toth said 
Tuesday that the shooting of Ricki Wiltfong 
was justified and the officer who shot and 
killed Wiltfong will not be charged. Police were responding to a domestic violence call made by Wiltfong's wife, who claimed that he was armed, intoxicated, and had threatened her life. When Wiltfong continued to advance on officers and refused to drop his weapon, Cpl. Steve Spadafora, a member of the Swat team, shot Wiltfong in the head. Wiltfong's two children and wife escaped unharmed. 
Market Watch January 29 
Dow 

9,618.24 -247.51 
Jones 


CompositeSame: 

Volume:
195 
1,775,489,024 

AMEX: 826.69 -7.13 NASDAQ: 1,892.99 -50.92 NYSE: 564.93 -14.70 S&P 500: 1,100.64 -32.42 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) -19.88 -8.35 33.65WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -13 .33 -1.60 10.4€NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -2.74 -1.07 37. 9SKMART CORP (KM) +33.70 +0.31 1.23CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.50 -0.69 19.01 
Associated Pres.s 
TUCSON 

The Roman Catholic Diocese of Tucson announced a settlement Tuesday of 11 lawsuits alleging that four priests had molested children. 
The settlement includes apologies to victims and their families, Bishop Manuel Moreno said. Financial terms were kept confidential. 
"The settlement has vindicated the victims," the plaintiffs' attorneys said in a statement. "The apologies and acknowledgments by the dio­cese ... will hopefully ensure that 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
President Bush's chal­
lenge is twofold: Prevail as 
a wartime leader and res­
urrect the economy. Right 
now. with the anti-terror 
fight going well, his popu­
larity is soaring. And he 
clearly played to that 
acclaim in his State of the 
Union address. 
But come November, pocketbook issues could sway voters' decisions in congressional and guberna­torial races. Democrats are counting on it, in fact, and are angling to separate the war effort from economic issues. 
In his address, Bush sought to weld them togeth­er. "We will win this war, we will protect our home­land, and we will revive our economy," he said. 
Bush's advisers were buoyed by his astronomical standing with voters as he delivered his first State of the Union speech on Tuesday. But they also were mindful that Americans' expectations were high this time -and poll numbers can defy grav­ity for only so long. 
The first President Bush saw his high ratings col­lapse amid a slumping economy, contributing to his 1992 defeat. 
The president's command of the war in Afghanistan and the anti-terrorism cam­paign at home have driven his popularity to sustained levels of 80 percent and higher in major national polls, the highest of any president since World War II. 
Bush worked Tuesday evening to translate that into support for his domes­tic agenda as well. "Once we have funded our nation­al security and our home­land security, the final great priority of my budget 
is economic security for the 
American people," he said 
in his speech. 
But many of the domestic 
items he outlined -his 
stimulus package, his ver­
sion of a prescription drug 
plan, his proposal to allow 
some Social Security money 
to be invested in the stock 
market -will be hard to 
pass in the closely divided 
Congress. 
When Bush talked about making permanent the big tax cuts passed last year ­cuts many Democrats con­tend could prolong the recession many Democrats sat passively while Republicans stood, applauded and cheered. 
Democrats, with an eye on the midterm congres­sional races, have little incentive to help Bush leg­islatively, even as they joined Republicans in applauding his conduct of foreign and defense policy. They need to gain just six 
seats to claim control of the 
House, and hold the Senate 
by a single vote. 
The political landscape that confronts Bush is strewn with obstacles. The Enron collapse is the latest, and potentially most dis­tracting. 
Bush made only a glanc­ing reference to the build­ing tempest over the col­lapse of Enron, saying "cor­porate America must be made more accountable to employees and sharehold­ers" and calling for new safeguards for 401{k)-style retirement plans. 
He has a history of over­coming low expectations. But his rise in the polls has essentially ended questions about his ability to handle the presidency. 
The poll numbers also reflect America is a country that is committed to holding together under duress, and may overstate actual sup­port for the president. 

Catholic diocese settles lawsuits 
this abuse will never happen again." 
The first suit was filed in 1997 in Yuma by a victim who had been an altar boy. The plaintiffs, who even­tually totaled 16, contended molestations occurred from 1967 to 198 9. Several cases involved repressed memory. 
Two defendants, Father Michael Teta and Monsignor Robert Trupia, have been suspended from priestly activities. Moreno said proceedings have begun to have Teta defrocked, while Trupia faces continuing disci­pline. 
..The diocese will continue to do all in its power to make sure that Msgr. Trupia ... will never be employed in active ministry," the bishop said. 
The other priests named in the suits have died. 
Besides the priests and the dio­cese, defendants included the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, the Diocese of Phoenix and several parishes. 
While the Tucson diocese declined to say how much the settlement will cost, Moreno in a report to parish­ioners forecast "very painful conse­quences to our diocese and its finances." 

Wednesday, January 30, 2002 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Panel discusses solutions Bush pushes Argentina to crisis in Argentina on economic reform plan 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 
The recent political and economic crisis in Argentina brought togeth­er a panel of professors, scholars, and profession­als to discuss "A Tale of Pesos and Preside.nts," Tuesday at the Hesburgh Center. 
Having achieved stabili­ty in the 1990s after years of hyperinflation and political scandal. the con­sensus two years ago was that politics had become "boring" and that Argentina was on the road to normal politics, said panelist Gretchen Helmke, a government professor. 
"It seems now that abnormality has returned with a vengeance," Helmke said. 
Only two years into office, President Fernando de La Rua was forced to resign Dec. 20 after riot­ing and pot-banging erupted in the streets of Buenos Aires. Helmke described the six months prior to his resignation as a "slow motion freefall," with de La Rua losing much of his support. In the three weeks following his resignation, three interim presidents stood until President Eduardo Duhalde was finally appointed by the congress on Jan. 2, vowing to leave the "immoral" economic model that de La Rua fol­lowed. 

A currency board in 1991 pegged the Argentine peso one-for­one with the dollar to end the chronic problem of hyperinflation and price . volatility. said panelist Jaime Ros, an economics professor. Prices stabi­lized and positive GDP growths were experienced until the Russian econom­ic crisis in 1998, begin­ning a four-year recession in Argentina. Ros said that overvaluation of the peso and a growing exter­nal debt were the two major contributors to what went wrong. 
While acknowledging that economic policy is a factor, Sciarano conclud­ed that there is a funda­mental sociological issue that is more responsible than political or economi­cal. 
"Everyone knew that 
Alumnus presented with CASE professional development award 
Special to The Observer 

Charles Lennon Jr.. executive director of Notre Dame's Alumni Association and asso­ciate vice president for University Relations, has received an Outstanding Commitment to Professional Development Award from District V of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE). 
Lennon is credited with establishing an organization for African-American Notre Dame graduates in order to facilitate stu­dent recruitment, provide mentors and support for current students, and involve graduates in alumni events. He also works the currency board required fiscal discipline," he said. "Why did they run fiscal deficit? Why would a country this rich with so many intelligent people act in this man­ner?" 
Louis Sciarano, a Notre Dame alum working in international banking consulting, said the coun­try is in a time warp in which thought processes have not changed. Few attempts were made to eliminate the 4 percent fiscal deficit run every year since 1991. Sciarano said that Aregentina should be wary of banks, investors and creditors withdrawing any capital still remaining, giving lit­tle possibility of financial faith returning to Argentina markets. 
According to the pan­elists, the currency board should have floated the exchange rate once infla­tion was brought down despite the negative macroeconomic policies that contributed to the crisis. 
Contact Liz Kahling at eka.hling@nd.edu. 
·-row-E-R-MANiA!" 
271-1277 
. ··············1 54533 

~ €A\T 0~ ITerrace Ln CH:ICAGO I(Off of S.R. 23) 
PIZZA COMPANV1}I 
;,•uu•••un••••U•"••••u·••u~•••••••nnouoo..u•••••..•.. ••• .. ••uoou•.. •••••.... u••••..•••..........~ 
and 

ADD 6 BREADSTICKS & SAUCE $1 .49! We'll match any Papa John's,Domino's or Marco's Coupon We take Visa & Mastercard! 
Expires 2/2/02
·---------------------------~ 
closely with Notre Dame's Hispanic and 
Asian-Pacific Alumni groups and has 
served as a mentor to numerous multicul­
tural students and alum­
ni on an individual basis. 
A 1961 Notre Dame 
graduate, Lennon 
earned his master's 
degree in guidance and 
counseling. He has 
served since 1981 as 
executive director of the 
Alumni Association and 
teaches management at 
Notre Dame's Mendoza 
College of Business. 
. Bush insists on economic reform for loan support 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Argentine officials expressed opti­mism Tuesday that their country will get up to $20 billion in new interna­tional loans next month. But the Bush administration insisted that a credible reform program must be adopted first. 
Foreign Minister Carlos Ruckauf met Tuesday with Secretary of State Colin Powell and Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill to outline the economic goals of President Eduardo Duhalde, Argentina's fifth president since December. 
institutions." 
The Bush administration is support­ing the position of the IMF that Duhalde's government must adopt a more credible currency regime, scrap controls on bank withdrawals. come up with an acceptable plan to restruc­ture foreign debt and deal with soar­ing budget deficits. 
While those demands represent siz­able hurdles the country must clear before receiving new IMF support, Diego Guelar, Argentina's ambas­sador designate to the United States, expressed confidence that negotia­tions on new loans will begin next month. 
Guelar told an audience at the Center for Strategic Studies, a Washington think tank, that Argentine officials hoped to negotiate 
for $15 billion to 

Ruckauf presented a "There were no attacks $20 billion in new letter from Duhalde to international loans
on US. interests in 

President Bush that in February. stressed the govern­Argentina, and for that He said that ment's intention "that reason we asked for a Economy Minister we will have a free Jorge Remes
review ofthat measure. ·· 

economy for the bene­Lenicov expected fit of our people," the to arrive in foreign minister Sg.id. Martin Redrado Washington Ruckauf's visit, around Feb. 11 to
Argentinian economic official

which also included meetings with officials at the International Monetary Fund, was aimed at providing information on the month-old government's plans to deal with the country's economic crisis, which has triggered violent street protests. 
O'Neill listened with interest to Ruckaufs presentation, a Treasury official said, but the two had not dis­cussed any timetable for when assis­tance might begin to flow. 
"The main points that the secretary made were that we would continue to be supportive of Argentina as they work to develop a sustainable eco­nomic plan," said the Treasury offi­cial, who briefed reporters on condi­tion of anonymity. "When they devel­op that plan, we will support them through the international financial 

negotiate for the 
new loans after the government wins legislative pas­sage of its keyfiscal reform proposals. 
The latest crisis was triggered in December when the IMF balked at providing an additional $1.2 billion loan as part of an existing $22 billion line of credit to the country. Argentina had been counting on the money to meet interest payments coming due on its massive $132 billion debt. 
Since that time, the country has been hit with violent street protests and a chaotic currency devaluation. 
On Monday, the heads of the IMF, the World Bank and the Inter­American Development Bank issued a rare joint statement expressing their willingness "to help the Argentine people overcome the daunting chal­lenges they face." 
page 7

Wednesday, January 30, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Blood banks create donor disaster plan 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The blood industry is creating a way to ensure enough blood gets. to the site of a catastrophe -be it a terrorist attack or a natural disaster -without the confusion and feuding that marred blood banks' response to the Sept. 11 attacks. The pro­posals would establish a nation­al chain of command that could be tapped by every local blood bank and hospital. 
The task force would also tell Americans whether blood dona­tions were really needed, said Karen Shoos Lipton of the American Association of Blood Banks. 
The public got conflicting mes­sages in the days following the Sept. 11 attacks. Although there were · few survivors, the American Red Cross urged con­tinuing donations. America's Blood Centers, a competing group of independent blood banks. said they had more than they needed and asked would-be donors to return in a few weeks. Because blood lasts only 42 days, the Red Cross ultimately threw away 49,000 pints of extra blood. Under the new plan, the Red Cross, America's Blood Centers and federal health officials have formed a task force that Lipton's group will direct during a disaster. The hope is that the competing blood banks will work together -on calling for donations and getting blood shipped into a disaster zone quickly -although they won't be required to. 
"The whole point is to estab­lish this upfront so, if something happens, every blood center knows exactly what to do," said Lipton, whose group will explain the still evolving plans at a fed­eral meeting Thursday. The Red Cross doesn't regret calling for more blood donors following Sept. 11, said vice president Allan Ross. "During times of uncertainty, you can't predict what the blood needs are going to be," he said. 
Blood must undergo many safety tests, so after disasters newly donated blood can't be used right away -meaning it's vital to have enough on hand every day. Parts of the nation have had recurring blood short­ages in recent years. 
Volunteers Needed 
Toe Early Ouldhood Development Center !oc~ted ~: Sabt Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame is looking for volunt.eer5 who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hour5 per wee1< re.idi.ng to dddren and playing with children: please call: Kari at ECDC-SMC 2134..4093 or Sue at F.:CDC-ND 531-3344 for more infonnation. (Sum,ner employment opportunities also lvailable.) 
Early Childhood Development Center, Inc. 
284-4693 
(ECDC-SMC) 
631-3344 
(ECDC•ND) 


THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 

NEW YORK CHAMBER SOLOISTS 
DAVID f"SD•Lt. P'LUT'S MELYtN ltA.'P'LA... oeo• A.LLKH •1..v.-nw•~ Cl,.AlltlNST AMDIIISW ktfWAfllTZ:, .....aocH 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY3,2002 
2:00 PM, ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM, SNITE MUSEUM OF ART TICKETS REQUIRED ($3·10): (574) 631·8128 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE CALL (574) 631·6201, ![·MAIL CONGOERS@ND.EDU OR VISIT WWW.ND.EOU/-CONGOERS 
PAKISTAN 

Crisis ~eads to troop reduction 
Associated Press 

ISlAMABAD 
Pakistan called for talks with India on a mutual reduction of troops along their tense border and offered on Tuesday to restore transport links cut last month because of the crisis over Kashmir. 
However, India repeated its demand that Pakistan halt what the Indians call "cross­border terrorism," meaning attacks by Pakistani-based mil­itants against Indian rule in Kashmir. 
India said Tuesday that six suspected Islamic militants and a paramilitary trooper were killed during gunbattles within Indian Kashmir. There was no comment from Pakistan. 
In a statement read by Foreign Ministry spokesman Aziz Ahmed Khan. Pakistan said it was willing to begin talks with India "over a phased withdrawal of troops on both sides from their forward posi­tions to their peacetime loca­tions." 
"Once an agreement is reached, troops should be withdrawn within a specific time frame," the statement said. Once the two sides agreed on a mutual withdrawal, they could begin a "comprehensive dialogue on the Kashmir dis­pute as well as all other issues." 
Khan also said Pakistan was willing to restore road, air and rail links that were severed last month by India after the Dec. 13 attack on its parlia­ment. India blamed two Pakistani-based Islamic extremist groups for the attack, in which 14 people were killed. 
The attack led to the biggest buildup of forces along the border between the two nuclear-armed rivals since 1971. 
In New Delhi, the United News of India news agency quoted Indian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Nirupama Rao as saying India would agree to talks only after Islamabad took concrete action against cross­border terrorism. 
"There is no question of starting any dialogue unless Pakistan translated into action its com­mitment 
on sup­"Once an agreement is place of dis­p res sing reached, troops should be tinction in the 
terror­community of
withdrawn within a
ism," Rao nations as a said. specific time frame . ., major strate­
Tensions gic partner in appeared the interna­
Pakistan statement 
to  have  
e  a  s  e  d  
a  f  t  e  r  

President Pervez Musharraf on Jan. 12 banned the two Islamic groups accused of the parlia­ment attack and declared that Pakistan would not be a base for terrorism. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell visited both countries after the speech and declared that he was encouraged that a diplomatic solution to the crisis could be reached. 
Since then, however. there has been little sign of progress. 
On Monday, Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee demanded that Pakistan with­draw from the part of Kashmir under its control before peace talks. 
"If Kashmir is the central issue, then one-third of Kashmir is occupied by 
Pakistan illegally," Vajpayee told a meeting in the central Indian city of Raipur. 
Islamabad has called for a plebiscite in Kashmir to deter­mine the territory's future. New Delhi rejects the proposal and calls Kashmir an integral part of its national territory. 
On Tuesday, Musharraf visit­ed Pakistani army positions along the border east of Lahore, urging troops to remain vigilant so that there can be "no misconception" about the country's defense capabilities. 
"Pakistan 
has earned a 
tional coalition 
against terror­
i s m , " Musharraf told the troops. "But our eastern neighbor is making vain attempts to discredit it." 
More than a dozen Islamic militant groups, most based in Pakistan, have been fighting since 1989 to win indepen­dence for the two-thirds of Kashmir controlled by India or to join it to Pakistan, which controls the other third. 
The government says more than 32,000 people have died in the insurgency, while human rights groups say the death toll is twice that. Most of the victims are Muslim civilians in Hindu-majority India's only Muslim-majority state. 
India and Pakistan have fought two wars over their competing claims to all of the Himalayan region. 

Congregation of Holy Cross 

lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
wvvw.nd.edu/,...vocation 

" 

Wednesday, January 30, 2002 
page 8 The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS 
East coast cities face water shortage 
. City reservoirs reach dangerously low levels 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Baltimore's reservoirs are so low the city plans to tap the Susquehanna River for drink­ing water despite complaints about its iron taste. Rivers in Maine have been reduced to a trickle. And in New Hampshire, many of the frozen waterfalls that draw ice-climb­ing tourists haven't formed this year. 
From Maryland to Maine, the East Coast is seeing some of the driest conditions in decades. More than 100 coun­ties are under drought warn­ings, \Vatches or advisories. Public officials are urging peo­ple to take shorter showers, fix plumbing leaks and wash cars with buckets instead of hoses. 
"The whole system is being taxed right now," said George McKillop. a National Weather Service hydrologist in Upton, N.Y. 
Precipitation is six to 10 inches below average in New England and the mid-Atlantic states over the last six months. off a third or more from the norm. In New York City, which issued a drought warning Monday, precipitation has been a mere quarter of its nor­mal level since September. 
Maryland has put the Monocacy River off-limits to protect it in the drought, cut­ting off a third of the potential water supply for Frederick, the state's second-largest city. Frederick has slowed new development and is consider­ing shutting it down entirely, Mayor Jennifer Dougherty said. 
Baltimore's reservoirs are at their lowest point on record for January. The city plans to tap the Susquehanna River. whose high iron content has irritated customers in the past. 
"We're hoping that it will be a minimal change in taste," said Kurt Kocher, a spokesman for the city Department of Public Works. 
Maine is struggling through its worst drought in 107 years of record-keeping. Dam opera­tors are shutting gates to keep reservoirs from plunging, turn­ing rivers and streams into rel­ative trickles. Whitewater raft­ing and salmon, trout and bass fishing could be devastated. 
The precipitation level could recover by the spring, but "we could have a situation where's no water to go rafting. The worst case is there's just not enough water to sustain fish spawning," said Dana Murch, dams supervisor for the Maine Department of Environmental Protection. 
Maine's hydroelectric power generation has dropped, dri­ving up costs for paper mills. As many as 2,000 people have seen their wells dry up. 
While New England and the mid-Atlantic states are hard hit, drought conditions of vary­ing severity exist as far south as Florida. 
Rainfall began to decline at the end of the summer as the East Coast saw sharp drop-offs in the two main ingredients of storms -cold air surging down from the north and mois­ture coming in from the south. 
"In essence. we're just not seeing these storms coming through," McKillop said. "We know that part of this is a global pattern." 
The warm winter has made matters worse. Normally, snow· melt and rainfall run over frozen ground to replenish reservoirs and streams. But in many spots this year, snow and rain are soaking into the still-soft earth. 

In New Hampshire's White Mountains, many of the frozen waterfalls that draw ice climbers to the town of North Conway have failed to form. 
"We've got 30 local guides here that make. their living teaching ice climbing," said Dave Kelly, a guide and assis­tant manager at the EMS Climbing School. "With condi­tions as lean as they are. you've got guides hanging around twiddling their thumbs waiting for business." 



is currently-accepting applications for the the 2002-03 term for "the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross interested in gaining and management skills. An in-depth understanding of valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. 
newspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Applicants should be comfortable in a management Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. position, demonstrate strong organization skills and Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. possess a solid understanding of accounting principles. 
Applications for any ofthe above positions should be a statement offive or more pages explaining applicants' qualifications and what they want to accomplish during their term. 
Managing Editor and Business Manager applications are due by 5 p.m. Monday, Feb. 4. Assistant Managing Editor and Operations Manager applications are due by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 6. 
Submit all applications to Jason McFarley in the Obse1Ver office in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about the positions or the application procedure to Jason McFarley at 631-5323, Editor in Chief Mille Connolly at 631-4542 or Business Manager Bob Woods and Operations Manager Pat Peters at 631-5313. 
Wednesday, January 30, 2002 page 9
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
ACLU wants Jesus

EPA at odds over pollution 
. Lawmakers frustrated by Bush administration 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Lawmakers who are working to reduce emissions from coal­burning power plants are frus­trated by the Bush administra­tion's determination to craft separate policies to deal with air pollution and climate change. 
"The administration ought to get moving," Sen. George Voinovich, told Bush's top offi­cial for fossil energy at a Senate hearing Tuesday. "We've been waiting and waiting and wait­
ing." 
Like President Bush, Voinovich says new limits to carbon dioxide emissions could hurt the economy of the Midwest, which is dependent on coal. 
While the carbon dioxide from coal-fired generating plants is linked to global warming, other pollutants -mercury, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides ­are blamed for dirtying the air, particularly over New England. 
Administration officials say Bush wants to address both cli­mate change and air pollution. But there is dissension between the Energy Department and the Environmental Protection Agency on how to proceed. 
That includes wrangling over the "proper set of numbers for the administration to come for­ward with," said Robert S. for global warming. Kripowicz, the Energy Patricio Silva, a staff attorney Department's acting assistant for the Natural Resources secretary for fossil energy. Defense Council, said, "All 

"It's not an easy process," he we're seeing from the Bush said. After the hearing before administration is what they're the Senate Environment and not willing to do." Public Works Committee's clean The Senate Environment and air subcommittee, he said the Public Works Committee, major sticking point over a pol­chaired by Sen. James Jeffords, lutants bill is "the amount of plans to put the finishing touch­reductions." es on a bill next month to deal­
When Bush abandoned an ing with multiple pollutants, international climate treaty last including carbon dioxide. year, he said he was opposed to Sen. Bob Smith, said he hoped mandatory restrictions or regu­lawmakers could agree on a bill lation of carbon dioxide or other that would not "demand the greenhouse gases. Such con­impossible of the utilities" and trols. he said, would cost too shut them down. much and hurt the economy. The Pew Center on Global 
"Unlike sul­fur dioxide, 
nitrogen "All we're seeing from oxides and the Bush administration 
mercury. car­
is what they're not
bon dioxide is 
not a pollu­willing to do.•, tant," Kripowicz 
Patricio Silva
testified 
staff attorney for the National
Tuesday. "Addressing Resources Defense Council CO2 is a ques­tion of cli-
Climate Change, an Arlington, Va.-based think tank that supports regulating carbon diox­ide emissions, said in a report Tuesday that global climate change over 
signs taken down 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
The American Civil Liberties Union filed a federal lawsuit Tuesday demanding the removal of signs outside a southeastern Louisiana town that proclaim: "Jesus is Lord over Franklinton." 
ACLU officials said public money was used to put up the signs on state roads, violating the constitutional separation of church and state. 
"Can you imagine the hos­tility that Jews, Muslims. members of other minority faiths and non-believers must feel when liv­ing in or pass­
ing through  "Public officials in that  ACLU  
that commu­nity?., asked Linton Carney, who  parish know the law. Unfortunately. they decided to engage in  officials threat­ened to sue the  
first saw the signs in July  endorsement ofreligion."  mayor of Inglis,  
while driving through  Joe Cook  F l a . , unless  
Franklinton,  executive director  s  h  e  
55 miles north of New  of the ACLU of La.  removes h e r  
Orleans.  procla­ 

He said he has no religious mation banning Satan within affiliation. The lawsuit names .the town limits from posts at the town, its mayor and sur­the town's entrances. rounding Washington Parish The mayor, a devout as defendants. Christian, wrote the procla­
Mayor Earle Brown denied mation on Halloween night. It any knowledge of the signs. was typed on town stationary Parish President M.E. Taylor, and affixed with the town however, admitted that area seal. 
churches paid for the signs and parish road crews erect­ed them. Taylor said they will be removed ifjudged illegal. 
"Myself and some ministers and other Christians will pull them up ourselves and put them on private property." Taylor said. 
He added that the ACLU was "splitting hairs" but Joe Cook, executive director of the ACLU of Louisiana, said the law is clear. 
"Public officials in that parish know the law. Unfortunately. they decided to engage in endorsement of religion," Cook said. 
L a s t 
week, 

mate change policy and sepa­the next century poses a serious rate from clean air policy. threat to lakes, streams, rivers which the administration's and wetlands throughout the pending multi-pollutant propos­United States. al will address." Rising water temperatures 
But he said the administration would alter aquatic plant and "recognizes the seriousness" of animal species, harming their heat-trapping gases in the reproductivity if they can't atmosphere. Carbon dioxide migrate, the report says. and and other gases from the burn­changes in precipitation would ing of coal and oil have been damage ecosystems and water blamed by many researchers quality. 



~ Come meet other members and learn more • • 
about our great club!! 
• ••............................................................................................••.~ • 
WEDNESDAY,JANUARY 30TH 
' 

-DeBartolo 116­8:30---10 pm FREE FOOD!H _Join Us and Get Involved TT 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Wednesday, January 30, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Kerry Smith Pat Peters 
NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ii 
CONTACT Us 
,l OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFo....:.........631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0R/AssT, ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT................................ ······•·••··· ....631-5303 observer .viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for about The Observer 

articles published after 

to meet the editors and August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Kiflin Turner Laura Kelly Sarah Rykowski Graphics Maureen Smithe Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Andrew Soukup Andrew Soukup
I 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Teresa Fralish Angela Campos 


NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
How interested are you in the upcoming Student Government elections? 
Vote at NDToday.con1 by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
. QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"vt'e are fighting Germany, Austria and drink, and asJar as I can see, the greatest of these three deadly foes is drink. " 
David Lloyd-George English statesman 

Consider that the few remaining legal drugs are perhaps the most harmful drugs. This is a difficult argu­ment to make, but I will attempt to make it with customary civility and patience -after all, when one pos­
Eric Long 

sesses the truth, as I most assured­ly do, one must be careful to refrain Fitter, from bludgeoning Happier his fellows with it. 
No, the truth should hurt more like an incessant tap on the temple than a sledgehammer to the back. This said, I must admit that the legal drugs have a strange way of keeping one afloat in this often disillu­sioning world: The secular trinity of caffeine. alcohol and nicotine have saved many a soul from the purpose­less ennui of American life. 
I'm certain that many of you share my experiences with these substances. Caffeine inspires the soul or at least keeps it awake for a few extra hours. The pulse quickens, the eyes open wide and the powers of concentration spike to near divine levels. 
Nothing imparts the tunnel vision mentality necessary to read 500 pages of Thomas Mann better than an espresso shot or five, or a couple well­timed Vivarin capsules. All extraneous thoughts flee from the mind; any cog­nition that might serve to distract is buried under the monumental impera­tive to dedicate energy toward one's present task. 
It's easy to see that caffeine is the perfect drug for post-modern humani­ty, the opium of the present day, cor­porate America's soma. We must com­plete a maddening variety of tasks in a day to be considered productive. Most of the time, these tasks are mind-numbing and spirit-crushing. We would rather. rightly, be doing anything else -sitting outside, taking a walk, sleeping or watching TV ­another opiate. But we have oh so much to do. 
Why not ingest a drug that provides instant energy and a superhuman ability to focus on the task at hand while eliminating the pesky human tendency for independent thought? Caffeine makes us stupid. perky and obedient, and for this reason it will remain legal until the end of time ­when some coffee swilling scientist accidentally breaks a test tube after being awake for 134 consecutive hours doing research at some back­woods university and looses a bio­chemical plague on the world. 
Alcohol makes us stupid and obedi­ent, but in a freer way than caffeine. Booze is a social lubricant, a means of breaking out into the world with a zeal that we lost somewhere between the ages of two and eight. Alcohol makes us children again. The pesky, often disheartening future disappears. 
The memories of past failures and inadequacies evaporate into an awareness of the immediate present moment. To top it off, alcohol makes the present even easier to deal with by reducing the senses to their least effective level. Yet this numb descent into immediacy is sometimes the most desirable form of distraction. 
As for cigarettes? Well, they don't have enough zip to alter one's mental state, but they do ruin the body on an overarching, global level. Cigarettes are bad, bad, bad. They cause cancer. they wrinkle and stain the skin, they weaken the immune system and they are actually on fire and capable of burning things, like car seats and hair. 
But I keep buying them, along with millions of my fellow Americans. Cigarettes provide a one-two punch of psychological and biochemical com­fort. I'm not sure what nicotine does, but I can't seem to get enough of it. 
We dope ourselves with caffeine in the morning, alcohol in the evening and cigarettes all day long. 
These are not self-enhancing drugs, but rather self-nullifying drugs. This is my core argument: I'm not saying that crack or hallucinogens are healthy, positive drugs that should be legalized today while cigarettes and beer should be banned. I'm simply suggesting that the criteria for making some drugs legal and others illegal . are largely arbitrary. 
Maybe when I'm in a conspiracy the:­ory mood I will argue that the remain­ing legal drugs are still around because they allow us to survive in a culture that is entirely too demanding and decidedly inhuman. Perhaps my argument can be countered with a simple, obvious revelation: Addiction to illegal drugs has destroyed many lives. I can't deny this. 
Indeed, illegal drugs are extremely harmful and debilitating. But imagine the two-pack-a-day smoker who wakes up in the morning, fights off a five-minute coughing fit and promptly lights up. His or her choice? That's something a non-smoker would say. Imagine the lives lost to alcohol-relat­ed accidents and violence. Consider. if you will. the horrible tragedies associ­ated with caffeine -skip that, please. 
As I leave you, about to end a coffee and cigarette riddled 36-hour protest against sleep, keep this question in mind: Are some drugs dangerous because they are legal, or legal because they are dangerous? 
Eric Long is a senior major in the Program ofLiberal Studies. He can be contacted at long.3 l@nd.edu. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
'·· 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, January 30, 2002 page 11 
Black history provides confidence and pride 
Martin Luther King Day would have passed me by had I not stumbled upon a special edition of Oprah covering his life and work. I then realized that Black History Month would indeed go quietly unless I delib­erately reflected on it and on what it meant for the African-American. Why is there a Black History Month in the first place? Why is it Arthur Oduma important for African-Americans to know their histo­ry? Carter Woodson, a What's Your Harvard-trained academic who Shade? is credited with founding Black History Month, believed that the knowledge and dissemination of African history would build self-esteem among blacks and help elim­inate prejudice among whites. 
It was Dr. Woodson who said, "We have a wonder­ful history behind us ... if you are unable to demon­strate to the world that you have this record, the world will say to you, 'You are not worthy to enjoy the blessings of democracy or anything else.' They will say to you, 'Who are you, anyway? Your ances­tors have never controlled empires or kingdoms and most of your race have contributed little or nothing to science and philosophy and mathematics."' Science, philosophy and mathematics? Most black leaders I knew had made big contributions to the civil rights movement. But to science? 
You have probably never heard of Benjamin Banneker (1731-1806) a self-taught mathematician and astronomer. While still in his youth, he made a wooden clock which kept accurate time until past the date of this death. This is believed to be the first clock wholly made in America. A man of many tal­ents and interests, he also published a treatise on bees, studied locusts and became an advisor to President Thomas Jefferson. 
"What's Your Shade?" is the Multicultural Students Programs and Services column. Contact MSPS at sacharya@nd.edu. "What's Your Shade?" appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Remember Conor Murphy's courage and spirit 
Tomorrow we celebrate the first anniversary of the birth ofour friend, Conor Murphy, into eternal life. Through amazing Christian witness, Conor left an indelible mark on our lives. In the simple hope that some amount of glory may be brought to God through remembering his life and his example of holiness, I humbly offer a brief reminder of the man that affected so many. 
Conor's personality drew people in through jokes, through debate or through beautifully uncomplicated heart-to-heart conversations. Conor's commitment to show Christ's love to all he encountered was evident in his every breath. In so many ways, he made you want to be around him and he made you want to be like him. Yet a distinguishing characteristic of Conor was that he did not desire people to follow him for his own acclamation, rather he simply wanted others to know and to feel what he felt and the love of Christ. 
Conor wanted to be President of the United States, not to be powerful, not. to be the leader of the free world, but because he had a keen sense ofjustice and righteousness, a sense of the teachings of Christ. Conor wanted to invite the world into right relationships and to respect life in all its stages, to provide people the tools to improve their lives, to eliminate the obstacles that prevented many people from doing so and on and on. Conor believed that through these goals for govern­ment, he could bring some of God's glory to this earth. 
It was in our nation's capital that Conor's path changed. Upon his diag­nosis with leukemia, Conor immediate­ly accepted the challenge to aid God in bringing good out of the situation. Conor began this journey by inviting all of his friends from the Washington program to his hospital room so that he could be the one to tell of his diag­nosis. We gathered and braced for the worst. There was much crying and many hugs were exchanged. 
But most importantly, before we left. there was prayer. We joined hands around Conor's bed and asked the Lord to be with him during the strug­gle. In that sad, chaotic time. within a few moments of prayer. there was a peace and stillness that I have yet to experience again. I left that room with the undeniable knowledge that God would bring a positive from this pain and that Conor would give his entire self over to the process just to show the world the goodness and the glory of God. 
In subsequent correspondence and visits, God and Conor revealed to me the breadth of what they could do. Conor's unbreakable faith and his unconquerable stamina not only against illness, but also against bitter­ness and despair forced me to evaluate my own life and my relationship with God. 
Through witnessing firsthand what God was doing with Conor and his life, my heart was awakened to the still small voice of the in my own life and a voice that I had attempted to quiet with other distractions. 
Lying in a hospital bed, Conor had few alternatives than to turn to God. Still there were options and there have been many that have not taken the path that Conor did. Conor chose God. Conor helped and continues to help me do the same. Indeed, Conor Murphy brought me closer to God. 
I imagine that I was not the only one. I would venture that each and every individual that encountered Conor either before or during his struggle experienced some amount of God's glory. I contend that through Conor's witness of faith, many people became closer to God. Conor encouraged oth­ers to desire the peace of Christ that he had even amidst the storm of leukemia. For if Conor was faithful through this trial, how could we not turn to God for that same consolation in our simple day-to-day lives? 
We should be thankful for the bless­ing of Conor Murphy. Rarely do we encounter a human being that is able to bring so many people into right rela­tionship with God. Certainly, we are all called to such a holy task. How we accomplish this is left to our own dis­cernment. 
Conor once thought that God might need him to lead people closer to God through good governance. Plans change. Conor's ultimate work on this earth manifested God's glory and love to a magnitude that a scant few dare even dream. Imagine all this from a 20-year-old man. 
Certainly, God gave Con or man.y gifts and blessings in order to achieve the feat. While we fondly remember Conor and his great work on earth, we. can become sad that he is no longer with us to celebrate the joy that he brought. But the awesome beauty of the Resurrection, the mystery of the Body of Christ and the inspiration of the Communion of Saints tell us that 
Conor's eternal soul lives in heaven. 
Our faith informs us that his effort to bring about God's glory continues in every way as before and in even more astounding and unfathomable ways than when his life was confined to this world. Our faith comforts us with the fact that Conor rejoices today and he rejoices in unending praise for God and for the wonder and awe that God's glory enflames in our hearts. If you thought Conor had taken the past year off to just lounge on a cloud, you prob­ably never met him. 
So on his special day and always, pray for Conor. But more importantly, just as we did in his hospital room that Saturday and as many did at other times, pray with Conor. Pray with him not simply because you can, but pray with him because he wants to pray with you. Pray with him for his inten­tions. 
Pray with him for his family. Pray with him that you may come to know the peace and love of Christ in your heart. Finally, pray with him that you may also participate in the glorification of God during your time on earth. In so doing, you will pay tribute to Conor's memory and will ultimately pay homage to God and to God's work as accomplished through our brother. Conor. 
Brian E. Wolford class of 'O I Coachella, CA Jan. 29, 2002 



O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Wednesday, January 30, 2002 


The frazzeled Lenny (Ryan Greene) Is approached by Cassie (Tara Murphy) trying to exact revenge on her husband. 



1m1n_ IS E 
Scene reviews St. Edward's Hall 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

A little lie never hurt anyone. Unless, of course, it is trying to con­
ceal a possible attempted swcide of the deputy mayor of New York 
from his closest friends and the police. 

The St. Edward's Hall Players will open Neil Simon's critically 
acclaimed farce, "Rumors," tomorrow night. The show is one of fran­
tic energy and split-second timing, a challenge to which the St. 
Edward's Hall Players rise with gusto. 
"Rumors" takes place on the evening of the deputy mayor of New York's anniversary \\ith his wife Myra. When the first of his guests, Ken and Kris Gorman (played by senior Kevin Dwight, and sopho­more Trish Gilbert) arrive they find the deputy mayor, Charley, shot through the earlobe and barely conscious and Myra suspiciously absent from the house. 
As Charley's lawyer. Ken decides it is best to conceal the incident from the other guests. Unfortunately, the next couple, Lenny and Claire Ganz (played by sophomores Ryan Greene and Cheryl Turski) stumble upon the Gormans' plan and are drawn into the decep­tion. 
The four construct a cockamamie story, try­ing to stall Charley's remaining guests, the high-society psychia­trist Ernie Cusack {played by sophomore Mike Romano) and his cooking show star wife Cookie (played by sophomore -Katie Mahoney) as well as state senate candidate Glen Cooper (played by sophomore Joe Powers) and his suspicious quartz crystal-rubbing wife Cassie (played by junior Tara Murphy). 
Lie stacks upon lie until the police arrive and the group is forced to do some quick thinking to save their friend and themselves. 
"Rumors" is a show that relies almost entirely on the chemistry between the cast. The production's director, senior Matt Lee, rec­ognized the importance of cast dynamic and insti­tuted a program to better acquaint his actors. 

Lee, the first non-St. Edward's Hall resident to direct a St. Edward's Hall Player's show, instituted a regime that he calls "cast dating," a program in which during each week of the seven-week rehearsal process each cast member went on a date with another cast or crew member. Although most of the dates were casual out­ings like coffee at Acousticafe, watching a video or the infamous din­ing hall date, the cast felt that the program made them more com­fortable around each other. 
"[Lee] helps you out where you need it, but he also give you a lot of freedom to do the role as you see fit. But he's also very clear when he wants it done a certain way. Off stage, especially, he's really gotten the cast together," Powers said. 
Powers auditioned for "Rwnors" after being in a mock barbershop quartet at a Program of Liberal Studies talent show in October. Now bitten by the acting bug, Powers plans to be in a theatre show each semester until he graduates. 
"[The rehearsal process has] been really fun, I got to meet a new group of people I wouldn't have kno\\11 otherwise," Powers said. The cast definitely has a strong report with each other; a quality that they attribute to Lee for bringing out. "[Lee's directing] i5 the perfect combination of relaxed, easygoing­ness and focused directing," Greene said. 
Beside the cast's chemistry, Lee feels that "Rumors" has the added advantage of having a great script. Lee, a self-described Neil Simon junkie, is no stranger to the playwright's wit and wisdom; Lee direct­ed "Lost in Yonkers" last year for the Student Players. 
"[Simon] is as deep and brilliant as Arthur Miller and as witty as they come; he might even be the greatest comic playwright of [the 
O
THE BSERVER 
Wednesday, January 30, 2002 
page 13 


~veryt 

Players production of 'Rumors' 
20th] century. I think Notre Dame needs to see more of his produc­tions because they're easy to understand and yet they all have a pro­found meaning," Lee said. 
Lee thinks that Simon does more than just entertain the audience in "Rumors," he also describes the complex nature of relationships and especially marriage. 
"I think the play is about the different stages in a relationship between a man and a woman. I think you can't necessarily see each couple [in the show] as having a complete relationship. I think you have to see each couple as being one of many facets that is inherent in any relationship . . . I think when you're in a relationship with some­
body you go through all the stages that are presented in these couples," Lee said. 
Unfortunately, the St. Edward's Hall Players were not allotted very much money to produce their show. The group had to borrow many costume pieces and props as well as scrounge for a set. Senior Chris Sinnott, who designed and helped build the set, could only install one 
door in a farce that calls for six. 
The group improvised solu­tions for anything that was lacking in the set, but the fact that the audience can see characters before their entrances is particularly distracting. It is a shame to see such a talented group V\ith such a good show have such limited resources with which to 
work. 
But what the cast of "Rumors" lacks in material assets they make up for in talent. Although many of the cast members are rela­tively new or inexperi­enced actors, all have developed characters that shine through; from the manic motions of Greene as Lenny to the charmingly drunk Officer Pudney (played by sopho­more Megan Olive) and the 
stern reserve of Officer Welch (played by senior Ryan Kruegar). Although the acting is effective all 
around, two actors standout in their roles: Gilbert has a lightening quick sense of the show's timing and expertly places her off-handed one-liners with preci­
sion in the frantic show. 
Similarly, Turski's rapier wit and comical facial expressions make her character one of the most well developed and interesting. Turski's snide and sarcastic com­
ments are wickedly funny and a pleasure to watch. Both Gilbert and Turski play to their audience well and seem to be the most flexible and adaptive to their fellow actors on stage. 
The cast of "Rumors" knows the show inside and out, as is proven by their ability to rapidly push through their fast and precisely timed lines. But even the well-rehearsed timing and energy drops the ball on some of the humor Simon wrote into the show. 
Simon relies heavily on a stereotype of New Yorkers. especially Jewish New Yorkers, in the script of "Rumors;" it is unfortunate-that this production does not try to produce the genre of comedy in which the author intended it. A few times in the show, jokes are lost or mud­dled because this type of comedy is not employed, especially in some of Simon's more creative swearwords. 
Despite this short-coming, "Rumors" ends up being a strong show that will undoubtedly please audiences. 
"The student body desperately needs to laugh ... this is a nice con­temporary. easy to understand piece that \/\ill just capture you and draw you in. You'll leave laughing," said Lee. 
He couldn't be more right. 

"Rumors" opens tomorrow night and plays through Saturday. All performances begin at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is $5. Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office and at the door. Call or visit the Box Office at (219) 631-8128 to reserve seats. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 




page 14 Wednesday, January 30, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
\ \ \ 
I 
\ \ NBA 
l I I \ Robinson's jumper propells Pistons past Wizards 
) 
l 
\ 
\ 
18-foot running jump shot at had three 24-second violations The Hawks shot just 41.8 per­biggest lead at 65-56 with 2:41
Associated Press 

the third-quarter buzzer. in the third quarter, and cent (41-of-98). Shareef Abdur­remaining in the period. Jordan also made the first two Phoenix led 76-68 entering Rahim, named to his first All­Entering the fourth quarter,
WASHINGTON 
baskets of the fourth, and his fourth. Star team earlier in the day, Golden State was on top 67-60Clifford Robinson hit a 19-foot jumper tied it at 76 with 10:04 The Bulls scored the first was about the only bright spot and Richardson led the wayjump shot over Popeye Jones to play. seven points of the fourth quar­with 21 points. with 14 points. 
with 18.8 seconds remaining as 
Stackhouse tried to respond ter to cut it to 76-75 on Tyson The Hawks, who were allow­
l the Detroit Pistons beat the 
l 
but missed his next four shots, Chandler's inside basket with ing 100.8 points per game,
Washington Wizards 89-86 on Heat 100, Nuggets 94
the last of which was blocked 8:39 to play. Chicago regained managed one moral victory:
Tuesday night. Eddie Jones scored 37 points,
by rookie Brendan Haywood. the lead 83-82 on Fred They didn't eclipse their previ­
Jerry Stackhouse, disappoint­including a crucial three-point
The game remained tight the Hoiberg's 15-foot baseline ous high for points surren­
\ ed he wasn't selected for the play in overtime, as the Miami 
rest of the way, with Robinson jumper with 4:53 remaining. dered, a 129-94 loss to Orlando
) All-Star game earlier in the Heat held off the Denver
l day, had 24 points, six making the deciding shots. Bo Outlaw's three-point play last month. Nuggets 100-94 on Tuesday \ Neither team led by more capped a 7-2 surge that put
rebounds and six assists, but night.
than seven in a first half that Phoenix up 89-85 with 3:07
was 1-for-6 in the final quarter Rockets 100, Warriors 96 Jones dunked the ball and
ended tied at 49. Jordan had a remaining, but Artest's 3-point­
as the Wizards overcame a 12-Steve Francis had 33 points made the free throw after 
turnover on the Wizards' first er cut it to 89-88 2:10 from the
point deficit. and 12 rebounds and Kenny drawing a foul, putting the Heat 
possession, missed his first four finish.
Robinson's shot made it 88-Thomas added 23 points as the up 94-92 at 2:03 in overtime. 
shots and was 4-for-14 at half­Phoenix shot 54 percent but
86. and both Chris Whitney and Houston Rockets rallied from Ryan Bowen then fouled
time, while Jones was 5-for-6 committed 2 2 turnovers, result­
Hubert Davis missed jumpers 13 points down to beat the Brian Grant, who made the two
with 11 points. ing in 23 points for Chicago. 
that could have tied it for the Golden State Warriors in over­free throws. After Calbert Wizards in the final seconds. time on Tuesday night. Cheaney scored to get the The Wizards wanted Michael Suns 91, Bulls 90 Lakers 127, Hawks 93 Thomas scored six points in Nuggets within two, Kendall Jordan, who scored 32 points, Shawn Marion had 24 points Kobe Bryant scored 20 of his overtime. Moochie Norris hit Gill drained two jumpers, the to take the shot, but Jordan and 10 rebounds, including a 32 points in the first quarter two free throws with 29 sec­last with six seconds left. was smothered with good 20-foot jumper that proved to and the Los Angeles Lakers onds to play and Francis added Nick Van Exel, who had 15 defense by Michael Curry and be the winning basket, as the routed the Atlanta Hawks on a free throw with 15 seconds points, made a 3-pointer with never touched the ball. Phoenix Suns escaped with a Tuesday night. left to wrap up the victory as 19 seconds left to put the 

After Davis' miss, the Wizards victory over the Chicago Bulls The defending NBA champi­the Rockets won consecutive Nuggets up 89-87, but Jones were forced to foul, and Chucky on Tuesday night. ons stopped a mini-slump -games for the first time since came back with a layup to tie Atkins made one of two free Chicago had a chance for its they had lost three of four -Nov. 6-8. They beat Charlotte in and Van Exel missed a jumper throws with less than a second second road victory of the sea­with a dominating performance overtime Saturday. in the final seconds in regula­to play for the game's final son, but A.J. Guyton threw up against the league's worst Golden State, which has lost tion. point. an airball under defensive pres­defensive team. 12 of 14, blew a 10-point lead Grant had 11 points and 14 
Robinson finished with 14 sure from 20 feet with less than Los Angeles had a season with three minutes to play in rebounds for Miami, which beat points, and Atkins had 20 as a second to play. high in points, racing to a 68-41 regulation. Francis scored 13 Denver for the 12th straight the Pistons won their third Ron Artest, in a head-to-head lead at halftime and reaching points in the fourth quarter to time. 
. straight and ended the Wizards' match up with Marion most of triple digits on Derek Fisher's rally the Rockets. Raef LaFrentz led Denver two-game winning streak. the night, had 26 points for the layup with 1 :08 remaining in The Warriors were ahead 86-with 30 points. 
Jordan scored 14 of his points Bulls, who fell to 1-20 on the the third quarter. 76 on a basket by Erick Heat center Alonzo Mourning, in the final quarter and finished road. Bryant was unstoppable in Dampier with three minutes to selected as a reserve for the 13-for-30 from the field with Rodney Rogers had 13 points the opening period as the play in regulation. Houston Eastern Conference All-Star seven assists, five rebounds and for Phoenix but missed twice to Hawks tried to guard him with then went on a 10-0 run that team, missed his second two turnovers and 42 minutes. give Chicago the final shot. Jason Terry, who is 5 inches tied it at 86 with 13 seconds to straight game with flu symp­He scored all but four of the Penny Hardaway was 6-for-8 shorter. Wowing the sellout play on Norris' 3-pointer from toms. Wizards' points in the final 12 from the field and had 12 crowd with spins and head the corner. minutes, although he missed an points and seven assists. fakes, Bryant hit 10-of-12 shots Thomas, pla:ying his first 
Clippers 117, Mavericks 100

off-balance 20-footer than Marcus Fizer added 14 for to give the Lakers a 32-20 lead. game after sitting out a three­Jeff Mcinnis scored a season­would have given the Wizards the Bulls, while Eddie Robinson Bryant had as many points as game suspension for fighting, high 31 points, including threethe lead before Robinson's big and Guyton had 11 apiece. the entire Hawks team, eclips­had eight rebounds. 
straight 3-pointers in the clos­shot. Marion's 20-footer with 1:10 ing Michael Jordan's 18-point Larry Hughes scored 17. and ing minutes, as the Los AngelesWith 1:24 to play. Jordan, to play, his 11th basket in 18 performance on Dec. 19 that Jason Richardson 16 for the Clippers beat Dallas 117-100,after a foul that sent Robinson shots, gave Phoenix a 91-88 had been the previous high sur­Warriors, who have lost 14 of ending the Mavericks' seven­crashing to the floor, made two lead, but Artest sank two free rendered by Atlanta in a quar­15 on the road. 

game winning streak. 

free throws to give the Wizards throws to cut it to 91-90 with ter. Thomas scored seven unan­
The Clippers led 104-100 

an 86-84 lead. Robinson, who 55.8 seconds to go. Shaquille O'Neal added 23 swered points in the first quar­with 3:58 left, then scored thescored the Pistons' last five Rogers missed inside, but the points and Fisher 20 for the ter to lift the Rockets to a 21-15 final 13 points. Mclnnis had the points, tied it with a jumper Bulls knocked the rebound out Lakers, who sh.ot a staggering lead with 3:01 to play. 
first eight and Darius Miles thewith 1 :08 remaining. of bounds. Rogers then missed 57 .5 percent (50-of-87) from Richardson's eight points last five, including a 3-pointerJones had a season-high 17 from 20, and Chicago's Trenton the field. helped Golden State keep it with 1.6 seconds left while thepoints. Whitney scored 15. Hassell grabbed the rebound, The score really could have close as Houston led 27-2 3 Mavericks stood with slumpedThe Pistons built a 76-64 lead then the Bulls called timeout gotten out of hand if not for the after one. 

shoulders and sagging faces. 

late in the third quarter, a run with 22.5 seconds to play. compassion of Lakers coach Richardson and Chris Mills Dallas had won 20 of 23 ­spurred when Jordan had the The Suns used a 17 -4 run to Phil Jackson. Bryant played each had eight at the half as 
including a 133-112 victory

ball slip out of his hands and go up 72-63 on Hardaway's 10-only 15 minutes after going the Golden State pulled ahead 4 7­over the Clippers in the previ­saw it converted into a 2-on-1 footer from the baseline with entire first quarter, and O'Neal 46 on a follow shot by Hughes ous game -and was welcomingfast break with Stackhouse 3:21 left in the third quarter. was on the court for just 26 with six seconds remaining. 
Michael Finley back to the line­feeding Atkins for the basket. Stephan Marbury scored six of minutes. Francis had 10 at the half. 

up after an 11-game absence.

But the Wizards erased the his nine points, while Five reserves played at least The Warriors outscored the Dallas was 10-1 in that stretchdeficit with a 12-0 run that Hardaway and Marion had four 17 minutes apiece, led by Rockets 11-2 midway through and 12-1 in the 13 games he'sincluded Jordan's banked-in apiece during the run. Chicago Fisher's team-high 30 minutes. the third quarter to take their missed this season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  FOR SALE  70s retro mauve couch & chair. Great cond. $185 obo. 292-1175 or 236-7846 page.  nice homes north of ND [close] for next school year ideal for 3-8 stu• dents  Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291­2209  #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties,  
great area 2773097  Best Hotels. Best Prices! Space is  
$400 CCTour&Travel Florida SpringBreak pkg. Call 258-0718  Dodge 93 Intrepid, 3.3L clean, 128K mi. $2,000 282-1162 after 5pm. ..............­....--......................................................................... 1988 BMW 528e At 190k miles, this  FOR RENT  ....................................................................................... MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm• rentals@aol.com ............................._....................·--_______..,__.,..,.......................  PERSONAL Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote  Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com ........................................,.....................,.. ........_,.___...._....,_  
LOST AND FOUND  Bavarian classic is just entering middle age. Well maintained, southern car, body  3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage,  HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9­bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532·  trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849  Congratulations to Jason McFarley on being named the next Editor-in­chief of The Observer.  
.  \ I J ; I lf  LOST: January 3. 2002 in or out­side the Main Building or in the Stepan parking lot, a Christmas tree pin about 2 inches in length made of green and white  is in good shape, no rust or body damage, with one area of minor damage to clearcoat. Power windows, door locks, seats and sunroof. 5 speed manual. Powertrain is solid, but front end  fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. ---------··-----------··---------··---­New 3-4 bdnns, 3 bath homes lea­turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings,  1896 ·-···-····-....---------..........._____.,,.. HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03 YR.FURN. 272-6306 __...........................­........................._.................................................... 5 mins from ND!4-6 student house  www.ststravel.com .........____...................................... Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  ....................._......................................._.............. Applications for Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, Business Manager and Operations Manager are now being accepted. Contact Jason at 1-5323 for more  
Austrian crystals. Has sentimental value. Please call Debbie at 1 • 5536.  and clutch may need work. $1750 080. 232-9372 or pependleton@mindspring.com  family room, 1 Ox20 deck, 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038.  w/large common areas-prkg lot, appL Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209  CSC, at 1­7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  information. ............___........................__.,. ____........................ Buy Observer classifieds!  
·-·--·-·---­ ------·-------...---·-·------·----·-.....------­ ··--------·-·-----·-­ .........................................................................  

Wednesday, January 30, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
OLYMPICS 
Is Salt Iake City ready for the Olympics? 
games. 
and swinging himself back onto the director for the Utah Olympic
. Ashcroft says 
. Man breaks
"I'll take as many as 
bridge on the other side of the Public Safety Command. 
more security they can give us." 
through Olympic fence. U.S. Attorney Paul Warner said
is needed Flowers said. "We have 
security perimeter The $5 million suspension bridge he was taking the first violation of 
open shopping areas 
was built to take Olympic athletes Olympic security seriously.
downtown and other 
Associated Press from the village to the university Warner's office charged Goodman
Associated Press 
places people will be 
stadium for opening and closing with the federal misdemeanor of 
enjoying. It's like they're 
SALT IAKE CITY ceremonies. It spans six lanes of trespassing at a national security
SALT LAKE CITY 

giving us another bottle 
A man who got inside a chain­Wasatch Drive, which divides the "special event" site. The Olympic
The federal govern­

of water on a long hike.
ment agreed to send 
link fence near the Olympic Village university campus. Village and ceremony stadium are 
We don't need it but it's 
was charged Tuesday with unlaw­Olympic safety commanders said considered national security sites. 
about 50 more security 
nice to have."
officers to the Salt Lake 
fully entering a national security the arrest of Goodman, who trig­"Those who try to circumvent 
Flowers said other than 
site. gered a fence sensor, proves the security measures put everyone
City Games, the top 
this area Ashcroft was 
Sheldon Iver Goodman, 48, was system works. Goodman managed participating in the Olympics at
Olympic security officer 
satisfied with the security 
said Monday night. 
trying to take a short cut across the to get inside just one of multiple risk and are going to find them­
planning effort by state, 
University of Utah campus on security perimeters guarding the selves facing aggressive investiga­
Attorney General John 

local and federal officers. 
Sunday when a Secret Service Olympic Village. tion and prosecution," Warner
Ashcroft agreed with 
More than 60 agencies
local law enforcement 
agent found him inside an outer­"This is the beginning of opera­said. 
are involved in Olympic 
most Olympic security perimeter. tional security," said Mark Camillo, Goodman was spotted at 6:50
officials that more secu­
security, including city 
Goodman climbed around a the Secret Service coordinator for p.m. Sunday by Secret Service
rity was needed in one 
police and fire depart­
fence blocking one end of a 300-Olympic security. agent Angela Sheldon just inside
undisclosed area outside 
ments, statewide agen­
the venues, said Robert 
foot-long pedestrian bridge by dan­"The bottom line is we caught the 8-foot-tall fence blocking the 
cies such as the 
gling 20 feet over Wasatch Drive him," said David Tubbs, executive width of the Olympic bridge. 
Flowers, the commander 
Department of Health, as
of the Utah Olympic 
well as the FBI and
Public Safety Command. 
Secret Service.
"We're talking about 

At the 1996 Olympics 
3,900 athletes, coaches and team The Olympic Village at the
enhancing something 
. Athletes begin 
in Atlanta, one person 
officials, who will have a special University of Utah has a movie
that is already there, not 
was killed when a pipe 
arriving at heavily guest: IOC president Jacques theater, post office, coffee shops,
creating something new," 
bomb exploded in 
protected Olympic Rogge, who will skip the luxury of Internet cafes, a bank and a gen­
Flowers said. "Where we 
Centennial Park. Flowers 
the IOC headquarters hotel for a eral store, even a beauty salon
have four officers it 
Village
said that area had a 
dormitory bed. and massage salon. Internet cafes
would be nice to have 
large number of people 
Rogge was due to arrive in Salt were big hits at the Olympic
six." 
Associated Press 
-90,000 -who were 
Lake City on late Tuesday. Villages at Sydney and Nagano.
When Ashcroft visited 

not checked for explo­
Salt Lake banker Spencer It also has a McDonald's and
Salt Lake City earlier this 
SALT LAKE CITY

sives. There is no compa­
Eccles. the village mayor, cut a restaurants for finer fare. "That is
month. Flowers said a 
Athletes started checking into
rable area in Salt Lake 
ribbon Tuesday and promptly des­very important," said Fabricini,
local law enforcement 
the Olympic Village on Tuesday,
City. 

ignated his daughter, Lisa, deputy who arrived in advance of the
person brought the area 
surrounded by three rings of
Flowers said all 
mayor for the day. Eccles and his Italian athletes. 
to his attention at a 
armed security and 8-foot-tall
Olympic-related venues 
deputies will welcome teams from Fabricini said Calgary had the
briefing. 
chain link fences. 
have as much security as 
80 nations with a traditional best Olympic Village. for the 1988
Ashcroft agreed the 

"It's exceedingly safe. Security, I 
possible. 
Olympic ceremony, playing their Winter Games -a standard he's
area was of concern and 
would say, is tight," said Roberto
"We are talking about 
anthems and raising their flags. using to measure this village. "We
agreed to find more 
Fabricini. the leader for Italy's
securing a worldwide 
The welcome party also will are completely satisfied at the
security personnel. 
120-member Olympic team.
event across four coun­
stage an American Indian dance moment," he said. 
Flowers said he was sur­
As many as 300 athletes were
ties, with a million peo­
for each delegation's arrival and Security was so tight Fabricini
prised at Ashcroft's 
expected to check in by Tuesday
ple here," he said. "It's 
hand out gifts of handmade quilts. had his vehicle checked. his bags
response because he had 
night, said Simon Toulson, the vil­
difficult to do and we 
Puerto Rico's team was among checked, his credentials checked,
believed there were no 
lage representative for the
would could use a few 
the first to arrive Tuesday and even his body checked. "But it's
more federal bodies 
International Olympic Committee. 
more resources." 
found the accommodations excel­very quick, very efficient," he
available for the 17-day 
The village will be occupied by 
lent, Toulson said. said. 


Wednesday, January 30, 2002 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Special teams breakdowns lead to firing 
! 
1 . Hayes only \ coach fired by Cowher afterI I season-ending loss 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Jay Hayes was fired Tuesday as the Pittsburgh Steelers· special teams coach following a season-long series of break­downs capped by two touch­down-producing misplays in the AFC championship game. 
Hayes was the only assistant let go following the Steelers' third AFC title game loss in eight seasons, though coach Bill Cowher gave offensive coordinator Mike Mularkey and quarterbacks coach Tom Clements permission to talk tol other teams. 
I 
Mularkey, voted the NFL assistant coach of the year by the Pro Football Writers, will 
interview for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' coaching vacan­cy. 
Clements, the quarterbacks coach who worked with Mularkey to revive Kardell Stewart's career. will inter­view for offensive coordina­tors' jobs with Buffalo and Jacksonville. 
Cowher also said defensive coordinator Tim Lewis. whose defense ranked first in the 

Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional associations. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director ofNotre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners, beginning with the first award in 1991, include Maureen Gleason, Robert Havlik, Joseph Huebner, Rafael Tarrago, Janis Johnston, Charlotte Ames, Dwight King, Jr., Stephen Hayes, Katharina Blackstead, Margaret Porter, and Lucy Salsbury Payne. 
All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' service are eligible. Professor Cindy S. Bergeman, Associate Dean, College of Arts and Letters, will chair this year's committee. Please send letters ofnomination to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, c/o Melodie Eiteljorge, 221 Hesburgh Library, by March 8. Such letters should include reasons for considering the nominee for this award. 

league, and defensive backs coach Willy Robinson have agreed to new contracts. 
Hayes' firing after three sea­sons as special teams coach was hardly a surprise. Special teams were the Steelers• one glaring weakness, 
failed field goal attempts. Of the four touchdowns Pittsburgh allowed in the postseason, three were on special teams. 
The kick coverage and return teams were erratic all season. 
and they ultimate­a n d
"It was a problem all 
ly may have cost kicker them a trip to the year. it wasn'tjust K r i s Super Bowl. Brown
Sunday."

The New missed a England Patriots league­scored only one Bill Cowher high 14 touchdown offen­Pittsburgh head coach f i e 1 d sively in upsetting g o a l s the Steelers 24-17 attempts Sunday, but they also scored and three extra points, plus on Troy Brown's 55-yard punt two more field goals in the return and Antwan Harris' 49-playoffs. yard return of a blocked field Cowher insisted Sunday's goal. failures alone didn't cost 
Those were among four Hayes his job and cited other touchdowns allowed by reasons. including Hayes' Steelers' special teams in handling of team meetings. their final four games -two "It was a problem all year, it on punt returns and two on wasn't just Sunday," Cowher said. "It's also because of. where we were in our third year (with Hayes running the special teams). It was a num­ber of things. He's a good per­son and a good worker, and there's never been a question about his integrity or work ethic." 
Several Steelers were out­spoken in their criticism fol­lowing Sunday's failures, with defensive back Lee Flowers saying they didn't approach special teams "seriously enough." He also said they should use more starters on special teams. 
The Steelers did not immedi­ately hire a replacement for Hayes, a Pitts burgh native whose brother, Jonathan, was a Steelers tight end from 1994-96. Hayes had a year left on his contract. 
"I was a good coach when I got here," said Hayes, a for­mer special teams coach at Wisconsin and an assistant at Notre Dame. "In my mind, I'm still a good football coach." 
Meanwhile, Cowher said it is a priority to sign the only two free agent starters, All-Pro linebacker Jason Gildon and leading tackler Earl Holmes. 
"I know both players want to be here, but it still has to get done," Cowher said. 
Cowher also has no regrets about the Steelers' prepara­tion for New England, dismiss­ing any suggestion they took the Patriots too lightly. The Patriots cited a team meeting called by Cowher to discuss Super Bowl plans as a sign of overconfidence. 
"I'll discuss that when the fifth one comes -and there will be a fifth," he said. 


AtGE, your career can take you anywhere. The diversity of our businesses means new opponunities are constantly unfolding. And our fast-paced, informal environment is designed to help you explore them. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline and never leave GE. 
Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. We're a high-spirited company where people are free to dream and encouraged to take risks. 
Find out for yourself why GE has been honored as America's Most Admired Company, by Fortune Magazine, fouryears in a row. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Come to the 2002 Winter Career & Internship Fair to learn more about GE. 
JANUARY, 31 2002 
JOYCE ATHLETIC CONVOCATION CENTER 
4:00-8:00 PM 
Resumes must be submitted to Go Irish by February 4, 200212:00 pm. 
• We bring good things to life. 

Aircraft Engines Appliances Aviation Services Capital Services Card Services Comm(!fcial Equipment Financing Commercial finance Rosoarch & Dovelopmcnt Employers Reinsurance Cc,poratioo Financial Assurance Equity Global Consumer Finance Global Exchange Services Industrial Systems Lighting Medical Systems M()(tgage Insurance NBC Plastics Power Systems Real Estate Specialty Materials Structured Finance Group Supply Transi:u-tation Systems 

Wednesday, January 30, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SUPER BOWL 

Warner wants to win 5Super Bowls 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
Usually, Kurt Warner talks a lot without saying much at all. Blah, blah, blah. 
On Tuesday, he served up a headline by revealing that he wants to be remembered as the only quarterback to win five Super Bowls. That would be one more than Terry Bradshaw and Joe Montana. and four more than he has now. 
"Success in my mind is based on winning championships," Warner said during media day at the Superdome, where he drew the largest crowd of any of the St. Louis Rams. "The other accomplishments are great and something you always reflect on, but the bottom line is winning. 
"I know there's never been a quarterback that won five Super Bowls, so if I have one goal and one thing I would love to be remembered for, it would be to win five." 
He insisted it's not just a pipedream. 
"Anything's possible," he said. "Is it realistic? I think it is. I believe every time I step on the field I can win and we can go to the Super Bowl, that's just kind of my mentality." 

That's just one example of how loose Warner was while facing what could have been an hour­1on g siege by reporters and broadcasters. Having been in the same spot two years ago helped considerably, along with not having to answer questions about his days as a grocery store clerk. 
"1999 was a completely differ­ent deal." Warner said. "I was new on the scene and everything was new to me, and coming to the Super Bowl I had to answer the same questions I had been answering for 16 weeks. 
"Now, I feel a lot more relaxed. I felt more pressure trying to get to this point." 
He was even looser than Monday night, when the Rams arrived in New Orleans, and he said he didn't think about win­ning lots of championships. 
"We take advantage of what's at hand and we'll worry about next year, next year." 
It's clear, a day later, he was already thinking about next year. 
There's good 
Patriots wide receiver David Patten remembers watching Warner throw eight touchdown passes for the Iowa Barnstormers during an Arena League playoff game in 1996. 
"When I was on the sideline, I was thinking about how accurate the quarterback was," Patten said. "He was hitting everybody, putting it right on the chest." 
Warner is the rock of the Rams' offense, producing a fran­chise-record 14-2 season and playoff victories over the Packers and Eagles. Unlike the New England Patriots, who could go with either Tom Brady or Drew Bledsoe, the Rams have no quar­
terback con-

reason for his troversy.
"Success in my mind is 
confidence. Backup
based on winning
Since his star­J a m i e tling emergence championships. ·· Martin two years ago threw three from an unim­passes,
Kurt Warner
pressive back­total. Martin 
Rams quarterback
ground of small was briefly 
college, Arena League and NFL Europe competition, he's never looked back. 
In 1999, he threw 41 touch­down passes on a 13-3 team that ended a run of nine straight los­ing seasons, then threw for 424 yards in the Rams' Super Bowl victory over the Titans. This year he threw for 4,830 yards, sec­ond-most in NFL history, and won his second MVP award. 
He tied an NFL record with nine consecutive 300-yard pass­ing games, including a season­high 401 yards in a 24-17 victory at New England Nov. 18. He completed 68. 7 percent of his passes and led the NFL in pass­ing yards, touchdown passes and passer rating. 
a hot inter­
view subject last week after Warner's bruised ribs caused him to miss most of one practice. 
Not anymore. The Rams' offen­sive line kept a dangerous Eagles defense out of Warner's face in the NFC championship game. Warner was sacked once, and unofficially, he was hit only three times. 
"I don't think we could have expected anything that great," offensive guard Adam Timmerman said. "We knew we had to keep them off of him." 
Warner repaid the line, taking them out to dinner Monday night. 
"We got full," Timmerman said. ''I'd hate to see the bill." 

Patriots will reveal QB starter today 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 

Tom Brady is younger, nim­bler and throws short, quick passes. Drew Bledsoe is expe­rienced, stands taller in the pocket and throws deep. 
"There are differences, but one similarity in our favor is they're both winners," New England Patriots wide receiv­er Charles Johnson said. 
That may make Wednesday's planned announcement of who will start in the Super Bowl on Sunday less monumental than anticipated. 
Players don't think they'd play much differently no mat­ter who gets the call against the St. Louis Rams. Besides, both teams will have several days of practice knowing who will be quarterbacking the Patriots. 
Patriots coach Bill Belichick was no more forthcoming Tuesday than he was a day earlier. 
"There is nothing really new there," he said during media day, when players and head coaches from both teams met with reporters and broadcasters. 
But Brady showed up with­out crutches or a limp. 
Asked if he expected to play in the big game, he said, "Yeah, darn right I am." 
He hasn't tested the strength of his injured left ankle, but said it isn't swollen and he'll put his full weight on it Wednesday at the Patriots' first practice. 
But Bledsoe will get most of the practice plays if he's the starter. 
"I want to play as bad as I ever wanted anything," he said. "I mean, it's the Super Bowl. It's what you play for." 
Bledsoe, a nine-year veter­
an, and second-year pro 
Brady have remained friends 
through a turbulent season. 
Bledsoe suffered serious chest 
bleeding late in the second 
game and Brady took over in 
the 10-3 loss to the Jets. 
The Patriots were 0-2 when 
Brady came in; they are 13-3 
since then. 
He seemed certain to play the rest of the season. Then he sprained his left ankle late in the first half of last Sunday's 24-1 7 win over Pittsburgh. 
Bledsoe, playing for the first time in more than four months, threw an 11-yard touchdown pass that made the halftime score 14-3, then led a field-goal drive and helped take time off the clock with clutch third-down com­pletions. 
"I compare it to giving a starving man a little taste," he said. 
On the touchdown, he lofted the ball to David Patten deep in the right corner of the end zone, a pass Brady rarely makes. 
"We are in a unique situa­tion," Johnson said. "How many teams lose a quarter­back in that magnitude of a game and have a guy come in and play at that caliber?" 
With two quarterbacks who aren't threats to run, the Rams wouldn't have to make major adjustments. 
"We played Atlanta earlier in the season and did not know if Chris Chandler or Michael Vick was going to be starting," Rams linebacker London Fletcher said. 
Chandler is a pocket passer and Vick is a scrambler, but the Patriots quarterbacks play similar styles. 
Say SUPER!!! 
It's Toben's 21st Birthday! 

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? INTERVIEWS:COME FORA JOB INTERVIEWTO WORKAT: Notre Dame Job FairCAMP SWEENEY Thursday, January 31st aresidential sports camp in North Texas tor children who have diabetes Flanner Hall Friday, February 1st 9:00 am to 5:00 pmCamp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer.  
t1U/~;:i~f¾~tti~?~:{~~;f~::·:-~•ft:::;;t!f:~rid:~:.~'w ,·>·-·· ...,, I I 11 _;~:J!ii}I PROPERTIES Well maintained houses near campus ·.:< :~ .·, • Washers and df)'ers provided · .....;-.-~}?l;w;Jlr ~ . • Security systems .. ~ • 24-hour maintenance staff • Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-. 4-. 5-, 6· & ff.bedroom houses ; O;z1y 7 left for tbe 2002-2003 scboolyear .................. __ Call today, houses are going fast! Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436-~ . ,, Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571>:-~:::t\-'; ~ _: . . ::·.: ;:~-~-?:-:),:::..:~:::; :~~  


CONVERSATION SCH . L 
is seeking universily graduates for aone year teaching position in Japan. Allractive salary, benefits and travel opportunities. 
NECNUITIN6 DATES: February 13 lr 11/., 2002 at Career and Placement Services. JIJ!J>IJH!f$!f !llJJY(GIJ!JIJ!fi!E $ II{!fIJ,IJ. § !fj(!}ll !BIf(ffJJ!l&IE/Pc, Open to all mtf.iors. SI6N UPS NOW OPEN 


Wednesday, January 30, 2002

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA BOXING 



' 
) I 
I 
I} 
~ I 
H
I 
r 
Cuban's next job: Globetrotter ref 
. Mavericks owner trades Dairy Queen uniform for striped shirt 
Associated Press 

DALLAS 
Before it was serving ice cream. Now it will be serving as a referee at a Harlem Globetrotters' game. 
Mark Cuban, the outspoken Dallas Mavericks owner, will 
wear the striped shirt Friday when t h e Globetrotters play the New Y o r k Nationals at American Airlines Arena in Dallas. He will serve as an official for the first quarter of the game. 



of the game or improving the officiating." 
After Cuban made his com• ment about Rush, a Dairy Queen official asked if Cuban would be willing to work at Dairy Queen. Cuban said yes, and subsequently worked two hours behind the counter. 
'Tm excited to add officiat­ing along with Dairy Queen on my resume," said Cuban. "I can't think of a more excit­ing way to do it than with the Harlem Globetrotters!" 
"We do this as good heart­
"/ am excited to add offi­ciate along with Dairy Queen to my resume. I can't think of a more exciting way to do it than 
with the Harlem Globetrotters!,. 
Mark Cuban Mavericks owner 
Cuban has criticized NBA officials often -and paid for it with numerous fines -in his capacity as Mavericks owner. 
"Ed Rush might have been a gret ref, but I wouldn't hire him to manage a Dairy Queen," Cuban said before receiving his latest fine. "His interest is not in the integrity 
I have 

ed fun and as fans of Mark Cuban, the NBA, and NBA officiat­ing crews," said Harlem Globetrotters Chairman and Owner Mannie Jackson. "Our players love this guy and they are as excited as 
ever seen them. 
Anticipating that Mark will call more fouls than we're accustomed too, I'm adding more players to the roster. Mark is a smart guy and has been studying and evaluating refereeing for a long time, his knowledge of how the game should be called will be a treat for everyone." 
Tyson denied license 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS 
Mike Tyson was denied a boxing license Tuesday by the Nevada State Athletic Commission. 
It means Tyson cannot challenge WBC-IBF heavy­weight champion Lennox Lewis on April 6 at the MGM Grand, but the action does not kill the fight because Tyson could be licensed by another state or another country. 
The commission's 4-1 vote came one week after Tyson and Lewis were involved in a melee at a New York news conference to formally announce the fight. 
''I'm not Mother Theresa," Tyson said during the hear­ing. "I'm not Charles Manson either. Just treat me equal." 
Tyson left the hearing before the vote was taken, but it was clear at that point that he was going to be rejected. 
Tyson asked at the last moment to withdraw the application, but that was rejected. 
Shelly Finkel, Tyson's adviser, said he would not comment on whether the fight would occur, but said he would be meeting with Lewis' promoter Wednesday. 
Asked about Tyson's reac­tion, Finkel said, "He's not happy." 
AFP Boxer Mike Tyson expresses his displeasure.at a reporter after he and Lennox Lewis traded punches Wednesday. Tyson's request to gain a boxing license in Nevada failed Tuesday. 
Wednesdays and Thursdays are student nights. Students receive 20°/4 of meal price with student I.D. 
U£! 

Michiana's most unique dining experience. Located in the brewery at the Historic 100 Center in Mishawaka (219) 257-1792 www.1OOcenter.com 

Saint 
Mary's 
College Program in Dance 
presents 
2002 
Dance Spectrum 
Friday &Saturday, Feb.1 S & 16 at 7 PM Sunday, Feb. 17 at 2:30 PM s. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact s.......,,..c.,,.,.~ the Saint Mary's Box Office at J~/!iff'fl{_ /
284-4626 ~,:0~:/,,~~, IN 
Wednesday, January 30, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Men 
continued from page 24 
Now. after getting back on track with a home win Saturday over Seton Hall. the Irish again face a tough Pittsburgh squad which amassed a 16-3 record and jumped up to No. 21 in the rankings. 
And the Irish are looking for­ward to the challenge. 
Swanagan is back in the line­up and looking forward to log­ging some minutes on the court. 

'Tm very excited and ready ­to go," Swanagan said. "It's been very hard because I think in tough games I can come in and make a difference." 
The senior has made a huge difference on the court this season as a key hustler for the Irish. 
"Harold is our MVP," Graves said. "When we don't have him on the court, you miss him so 

much because of what he does on the f1oor." 
Graves is finding his shot again. with some key baskets to propel the Irish to a win Saturday, and the Irish are ready for the chance to make some more waves in the Big East. 
"I think a win is very impor­tant," Swanagan said. "We're still in the chase to a bye [in the Big East tournament]." 
If the Irish hope to put anoth­er notch in the win column. they will have to buckle down on defense and attack the boards. 
"They're going to be more aggressive this time," Graves said. "It'll be a defensive strug­gle. Whoever controls the defensive rebounds will win the game." 
Key to the Irish defensive strategy will be containing Panther guard Brandon Knight. Knight, who scored a team­high 13 points in the squads' last meeting, averages just under 15 points a game and is a threat from outside. Knight also leads his team with almost seven assists a game. 
The Irish did a good job con­taining Knight at Pittsburgh, forcing him out of rhythm and pressing him to take off-bal­ance shots most of the night. 
"We need to control Brandon Knight, and if we can do that we'll be in good shape," Graves said. 
In the two teams' last meet­ing, the Irish stepped on the court ready to play, shooting their way to a seven point half­time lead. The Panthers quick­ly regrouped and after a 9-2 run took the lead just three minutes into the second half. Pittsburgh led for most of the second half before Matt Carroll's two free throws tied it up and a Graves' 3-pointer put the Irish ahead for good with less than a minute on the clock. 
Tip-off tonight at the Joyce Center is at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu. 


FOOTBALL 

Irish officially add Maryland to schedule 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame will face defend­ing Atlantic Coast Conference football champion Maryland in the Kickoff Classic XX at 8:00 
p.m. EDT) on Saturday, Aug. 31, 2002, at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N .J. ABC Sports will televise the game on a national basis. 
This marks Notre Dame's sec­ond appearance in the Kickoff Classic. The defending national champion Irish defeated Virginia 36-13 in that event to start the 1989 season. 

This marks the first-ever meeting between Notre Dame and Maryland on the football field -and it also marks the debut of new Notre Dame head coach Tyrone 'Willingham. 
This will be Notre Dame's first appearance at Giants Stadium since a 1995 victory there over Army -and its 10th overall at the East Rutherford, N.J., facili­ty that also is home to the NFL New York Giants and Jets (capacity 80,242}. The Irish have never lost at the Meadowlands, thanks to five wins over Navy (1980, 1982, 1984, 1990 and 1992), three over Army (1977, 1983 and 1995) and one over Virginia (1989). 
Notre Dame's allotment of tickets for this game will be made available to contributing alumni through the normal lot­tery process. There will be no availability to the general public through the University unless tickets remain following the lot­tery. 

Meet Nicholas Sparl<s 

Thursday 
January 31st 

11:00 am-12:30 pm 
in the Hammes Notre Dame Boolcstore 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
Tickets for Kickoff Classic XX are $48 and $32 and go on sale to the general public at 10:00 
a.m. EDT, Monday, April 29, 2002. Tickets will be available at the Continental Airlines Arena Box Office and all Ticketmaster outlets. To charge by phone, call {201) 507-8900 or (212) 307-7171 or go to www.meadowlands.com. Group sales (25 or more) are available by calling 201-460-4370. 
Kickoff Classic XX will be the final Kickoff Classic due to NCM legislation that eliminates preseason exempted games. 
Two teams that played in the Kickoff Classic have gone on to win the national championship -Florida State in 1993 and Nebraska in 1994. In addition, five defending national champi­ons have appeared in the Classic -Penn State (1983}, Miami (1984), Brigham Young (1985), Notre Dame (1989) and Georgia Tech (1991). 
The Kickoff Classic is man­aged by the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Autb'ority under the auspices of the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA). Beneficiaries of the game are the National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame, the American Football Coaches Association, NACDA, and the Independent College Fund of New Jersey. 
In the 19-year history of the game, the NFF and College Hall of Fame have received over $7 million in Kickoff Classic pro­ceeds, much of which has been distributed in post-graduate scholarships to deserving schol­ar-athletes. 
Notes: 
. 
Willingham announced that spring practice would begin April 6. Spring drills will con­clude April 27 with the Blue­Gold game. 

. 
The kickoff for the Notre Dame-Boston College game scheduled for Nov. 2 has been changed from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. 


Attention First-Year MBA's 
Would you like to earn a FULL TUITION fellowship for your second year? 
The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program a grant that covers full tuition for the second year for two MBA students! Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the MBA program. -Must currently hve 3.0 GPA 
-Must submit 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommu­nications field in particular. -Must submit one letter of recommendation from a faculty member. -Must exhibit attributed such as scholarship, talent, lead­ership qualities, character and community involvement. 
All First-Year MBA's are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving a full tuition fellowship. 
Deadline: Applications are due in the MBA Office by Friday, February 15, 2002. 
Winners will be nnounced in the spring. Contact: Julie.E.Rogers.21@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 30, 2002 

Fencing 
continued from page 20 

assistant. Bednarski has worked mainly with the sabre fencers and coached two individual national champions -Luke LaValle in 1998 and Gabor Szelle in 2000. His sabre squad ranks at or near the top of the collegiate fencing world every year. 
"I think the fencers will respect Janusz because he has improved and developed the sabre fencers 
• so much," Auriol said. 

Bednarski is also the head coach of the Indiana Fencing Academy in Mishawaka. This academy has produced some of the top colle­giate fencers in America, including Irish All-Americans Brian Casas and Anna Carnick. Bednarski's son Andrzej also trained at the academy. Andrzej is currently a fifth-year senior at Notre Dame and has earned All-American hon­ors three times. 
Bednarski's recruiting ability is one of his major strengths. As the former coach of the Polish Olympic team, he is well respected by the international fencing community -especially in his native Poland. He was key in bringing top fresh­man recruits like Alicja Kryczalo and Michal Sobeiraj to Notre Dame. 
"Janusz is an excellent coach and a great recruiter," De Cicco said. "Some of the top fencers we have right now are part of the respect that Janusz has in the fencing community both nationally and internationally." . 
Sabre captain Andre Crompton believes that being a strong international recruiter should be a key criteria in picking the next head coach. 
"They need to have someone who is going to be vocal and knows how to recruit and bring people in here," he said. "If you look across the board [at the top fencing schools], that's what they are doing now. They are recruiting big and not spending the time to fine tune a fencer. They are recruiting big and fast. That's what [2001 national champion] St. John's and [2001 runner-up] Penn State are doing. We need to do the same thing." 
While Bednarski may have the skills to replace Auriol as head coach, he will not be able to replace Auriol as an epee and foil coach. Bednarski has focused on coaching sabre while Auriol has concentrated on the other two weapons. Auriol, however, has also hand•picked a new foil and epee coach as well. 
Zoltan Dudas, formerly of Hungry, appears to be Auriol's choice for assistant coach next year. In fact, Auriol has been try• ing to being Dudas on board this year to assist with coaching foil and epee, but has had problems getting past red tape and paper
' 
'
' ' 
' , ) work. Auriol hoped that Dudas 
. 
I 
I would be approved within the next 
week. 

"I have been trying to get him here to start helping," Auriol said. "Some people aren't getting lessons because we are short handed." 
Currently Dudas is Bednarski's assistant at the Indiana Fencing 
SPRING BREA 

Academy. Before moving to the South Bend area in October, he was a coach in the Oeveland area. In Cleveland he coached current Irish freshman Andrea Ament for the past two and a half seasons ­
ever since he moved to the U.S. 
"I have been working with him for two years so I would love it if he moved here," Ament said. "I have been working with Hungarian coaches for years. He has a good style." 
Although Auriol has made his choice known and appears to have addressed the need for a foil and epee specialist as well, the final decision in hiring a head coach rests with University President Father Edward Malloy. 
Muir, however, expressed hope that a new coach would be in place by the NCAA Championships on March 21-24. 

Contact Mike Connolly at 
Connolly.28@nd.edu. 

; j ; ~ \_,,,,,,.. t~ <::i 
~ ;::::::;_li*: ;, ~r 
,fl 
' .... ·.....;.,.... 
::· '. :· '.' °fc:::. ;:· ._(·;.;::• 
::~.~ :: .··.·:.·_·i:·;::\.}•;. 
..· ·-,.-·":· . :-:: .-:... -.;..-.:,--:, ·c ·:-~t­
:•::. • • : • . ·': ::. •••:· 
::'-: ./: . . : . •_./_... ·-.: 
• • • • • • \ ••,~ •.,. 'f.. 
. . : . . ~~ "•, ~-•,·.
'. ;,-;_. 



It used to be the end of a great night. It could soon be the start of a great day. 
FOR.TUNE'" At Ernst & Young, we believe that when you100 BEST wake up in the morning, you should be excitedfU:Ct~l~I~ about the day ahead. The challenges of the 
workplace should keep you stimulated, your capabilities should be stretched, and your horizons continually broadened. Because only when our people grow, both professionally and personally, do we grow as a company. Oh happy day! 

Wednesday, January 30, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 

No. 7 Notre Dame edges No. 10 Duke· 


Special to The Observer avenged a loss to Yani in quali­
fying of last fall's Intercollegiate 
The Notre Dame men's tennis Tennis Association All-

team used four consecutive sin-American Championships. 
gles victories to rally from a 2-0 Sophomore Matthew Scott 
deficit to defeat 10th-ranked continued the Irish success with 
Duke 4-3 at the Sheffield a 6-3, 6-3 win at No. 5. Scott 
Tennis Center Tuesday after-improved to 13-2 this season 
noon. and has won 11 of his last 12 
After losing the doubles point matches, dating back to fall 

and at No. 1 singles, the Irish competition. 
posted victories at Nos. 3, 2 and "Aaron, Javier and Matt all 
5 singles to take a 3-2 lead. played perhaps the best they 
Sophomore Luis Haddock-have all season, which was 
Morales, trailing Alex Bose 4-2 great to see," said Bayliss. 
in the third set at No. 4 singles, Haddock-Morales also stands 
then won four straight games to at 13-2 in singles after his 
win his match and clinch the match-clinching win, which 
Irish triumph. directly ensued. After the out­
"We showed a lot of resolve come was determined, Peter today," Irish head coach Bob Shults gained a three-set win at Bayliss said. "After losing the No. 6 for the Blue Devils. doubles point quickly, it was Notre Dame improves to 4-1 great to be able to jump out on the season, while Duke was and win four first sets in singles playing its season opener. The and then finish off each of those Irish suffered a 4-3 loss on the matches. A lot of credit goes to road Friday to No. 32 Luis Haddock-Morales for com-Minnesota. ing back to win four straight "It was great to see our guys games in the third set to clinch bounce back from a disappoint­the win for us." ing loss to Minnesota, who I 
The win marked the first time believe is a top 10-to-15 team, the Irish defeated a top-10 despite their ranking," said team on the road since March Bayliss. The match was the of 1994 when No. 16 Notre· 15thtimeinNotreDameschool Dame upset the fourth-ranked history that the Irish, ranked in Blue Devils 4-3 in Durham, N.C. the top 10 at the time, took on 
Duke drew first blood, cap-~noth_er t~p-10 foe, but the first turing the doubles point. Philip time m history that the match King and Michael Yani gained occurred_ !3-t the oppone~t·s an 8-4 win at No. 1 doubles and home facility. Of the prev10us then Peter Shults and Jason matches, all occurring in 1992 Zimmerman won at No. 3 dou-or '9~. 13 were played at neu­bles by the same score. The No. tral sites and one was at Notre 2 doubles match was aban-Dame. The Irish are 8-7 when cloned with the Irish leading 7-ranked in the national top 10 
6. and facing another top 1 O 
King, ranked 17th nationally team. . 

in singles after being No. 2 in The v1ct?ry snapped a 12­the preseason rankings gave match losing streak for the Duke a 2-0 lead with a 6:3 6-2 Irish against top-10 opponents, victory at No. 1 singles. But the dating back to 1997. Prior to Irish responded with four Tuesday, Notre Dame had not straight victories. defeated a top-10 team since 
Senior Aaron Talarico got downing No. 10 Virginia Notre Dame on the board and Commonwealth 4-3 in the sec­improved to 5-0 in dual match-ond round of the '97 Blue-Gray es this season by registering a National_ Ten~is Classic. 6-2, 6-2 win at No. 3 singles. '!'he Irish will return to action 
Classmate Javier Taborga this weekend when they host tied the match with a 6-3, 6-3 No. 24 Ohio State on Friday at win over 24th-ranked Yani at 3:30 p.m. at the Eck Tennis No. 2. Taborga's victory Pavilion. 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
pl'B6snid 
''The Great Chain of National Union: Catholics and the Republican Triu111ph'' 
Jason Kennedy Duncan 
Department of History Coe College 
Thursday, January 31, 2002 
4:15 p.m. 
119 DeBartolo Hall University of Notre Dame 


page 22 Wednesday, January 30, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Women 
continued from page 24 

on the boards," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "Particularly in the sec­ond half." 
The Orangewomen took an early lead in the first half as starting point guard Julie McBride hit a 3-pointer less than a minute into the game. That was the last time Syracuse would be on top. Batteast scored the first Irish points on the first of Severe 's nine assists and Ericka Haney scored shortly after on an assist from Batteast. 
The Orangewornen managed to pull within two five minutes into the game, but for most of the game, the Irish were leading with double digits. 
Offensively, the shorter Syracuse team just couldn't stop Notre Dame's quick 
zone. rebound to add five rebounds and two "We like to play against a zone," points. With those points, she grabbed McGraw said. "We haven't had a lot of the double-double, her first since a win 
opportunity this year,  against Miami on Jan.  
but with the shooters we have -Allison,  ''Quite frankly, we were  2. "When I wasn't in  
Alicia, Jackie, Kelsey ­ away of[Bustamante},  foul trouble after the  
I think our eyes widen a little bit when we play zone."  but we weren't aware she could shoot the ball as  first half I could go after the ball a little bit more," Batteast said.  
Although the Irish  well as she shot."  "So I'm  glad  to  get  
had a 14-point lead at  another double figure  
halftime, they really didn't take off until the  Marianna Freeman  in rebounds." That run  allowed  
second  half.  In  the  Syracuse head coach  McGraw to play her  
opening nine minutes  entire bench ­ includ­ 

of that half, the Orangewomen did not ing freshman Jill Krause and crowd make a single basket from the field, favorite Karen Swanson. Swanson col­scoring their four points from the foul lected three points and Krause added an line. assist. 
Bustamante grabbed five of the 15 "It's always great to play the whole points the Irish scored in that nine min­bench," McGraw said. "Especially Karen utes and Batteast scored on her own Swanson and Jill Krause, they do such a great job at practice." 
Defensively, the Irish dominated. The Orangewornen, who were fourth in the Big East in scoring, had a season low 46 points and 29.6 percent from the field. The taller Notre Dame squad threw off the Syracuse shooting game and the team could not recover. 
"I thought that this was probably the poorest game we have played, but of course I thought that Notre Dame had a lot to do with that," Freeman said. '' ... If we don't shoot the ball very well because of our size we don't do a very good job." 
Notes: 

. Before the game, the Irish were tied for third place in the Big East with Syracuse. The win moves Notre Dame into a tie with Boston College, while Virginia Tech, previously in second place, fell to Connecticut. 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to snap losing streak tonight 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

Details. Discipline. Defense. 
These three words have been the focus of the Saint Mary's basketball team leading into tonight's home game versus Alma. 
After three losses in a row ­all on the road -the Belles (10-9, 3-5 MIAA) are looking for revenge against a Scots squad that beat them 66-52 on Jan. 5. 
"We've been looking forward to playing Alma," said senior Jamie Dineen. "We always play· them well and they always give us a good game." 
Alma, corning off a 71-63 win over Adrian, looks as it will provide Saint Mary's some stiff competition. Alma's Shelly Ulfig, who was just named MIAA player of the week, put up 23 points and grabbed 15 rebounds versus Adrian. 
Additionally, Janell Twietmeyer, a player of the week nominee, also scored 23 points in the same game. 
But the Belles have Anne Blair, who scored 21 points in Saint Mary's lost to Albion on Saturday. They just need other players, like 3-point shooter Katie Miller, to help her out. 
In order to win, the Belles have altered their game plan, focusing on maintaining inten­sity, strengthening the defense, and improving their rebound­ing. In the past two games, the Belles have been out-rebound­ed 78-53. 
"We definitely have to crash thR boards more," said Dineen. "We have to work on boxing out, going to get the rebound, and being aggressive on their press. 
"We've been talking about it in practice. We can't let our­selves lose the focus. We just have to stay mentally in the game at all times. For the sec­ond half we want to start out strong like we did for the first half." 
Freshman Katie Boyce believes that Belles have not been losing intensity in the sec• ond halves of their recent games, but that their oppo­nents have been coming out with increased focus and deter­mination. 
"I don't think it's so much that we're losing intensity. It's just that the other team has gotten more intense, and we have to pick it up too. We have to come out more intense the second half," Boyce said. 
She believes that the defense is the key to opening up their 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-771 0 
offense. 

"We've really been working on details. Details and disci­pline would be the theme for tomorrow. That's something [Coach Suzanne Smith] has really focused on the last two days in practice. We need to really come out and play defense so we can get our offense started," Boyce said. "If our defense starts out well, then our offense picks up." 
"When we play our defense, we're unstoppable," said fresh­man Emily Wagoner. "We just have to get back into that rhythm." 
During the first minutes of Saturday's game against Albion, Saint Mary's allowed 
their opponents to score eleven points before the Belles could make their first basket. They do not want this to happen again. 
"Tomorrow we have to come out and play defense right away. We can't get them get on a run anytime, but especially in the first five minutes. I think that's the major focus," added Boyce. 
After losing to Alma in early January, the Belles know what it will take to beat this squad, which is ranked one place above them in the conference standings. 
"In the first game their guards came out and were hit· ting a lot of shots. So we're hoping to change that, come out and pressure their guards a lot like we did the last game, and limit the post's shots," Boyce said. 

The Belles' record on the road this season has been somewhat shaky, and they are looking forward to playing in only their second home game since they've returned from Winter Break. 
Additionally, as has been the case previously this season. a win would be welcome. 
"We just need a win. We're ready to win," Boyce said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at linds­ley.2@nd.edu. 

What do you want? 
What do you need? 
What do you desire? 
... in terms of access to Internet library services? 
Tell us by participating in brief focus group interviews during the month of February at places conveniently located around campus. Dates and times: 
Type "ND Libraries" in 
Type "ND Libraries" in the comment section of the comment section of the form and receive an the form and receive an extra gift. extra gift. 
Food and Prizes Food and Prizes Food and Prizes Food and Prizes Food and Prizes 
Sign up and learn more at: http:// dewey. library .nd. edu/focus group/ 
Sponsored by the: Digital Access and lnfonnation Architecture Department University Libraries ofNotre Dame 
Questions? Contact: Eric Morgan at 631-8604 or cmorgan@nd.edu 


.,,,, 6/11111/T ..,,,, 

PEACE CORPS 


. What will you be doing after graduation?Apply to the Peace Corps and you could be servingoverseas by this summer. It's -the toughestjob you'll ever love. 

Northem Indiana Peace Corps Info Meetings 
Tues., Ja,n. 29, 6 to 7:SO p.m., 
Valparaiso University Union, Crusader Room 
Wed., Ja.n. SO, 7p.m. 
(panel addressing post-grad full-time service opportunities) St, Mary's College, Carroll Auditorium 
Thurs., Jan. Sl, 7 to 9 p.m., 
Univ. of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns Questions? Ca.ll 800.424.8580, option 1 
http://W91'll.peacecorps.gov 



¦ 
Wednesday, January 30, 2002 

The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED CUNNINcf
Jm 

PART OF THE FUN OF STUDYING A8ROAI) IS IMPARTING YOUR NEW-FOUND KNOWLEDGE ON YOUR FRIENDS BACK HOME CALLE!) •QUARTER 1)06$,• 
THEY'RE CALLED
•ooss R0YALE" 


,0000000000000) . 
BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 
\ 

GLUG GLUG Gl.UG GLUG GLUG  I'D LIKE A REFUND. THIS RooT BEER WAS A DUD.  EXCUSE ME.? I  




ACROSS  25 "Another Green  45 Make a person  
1 Shooting setting  World" composer  crazy 49 Arrived  
6 Prompt  26 Satirical play of  effortlessly  
1oSome satellite  1921  50 Somewhat hard  
launchers  27 Displayed  51 Rathskeller  
12 More anxious  displeasure  stock  
14 They make connections  28 Hollins University loc.  52 Like some fans 53 Form of  
15 Not singly 16 Do regularly 18 _omen (God  31 Propels shells 34 Not brilliant 35 Kind of charge: Abbr.  Spanish "to be" 54 Iron clothes? DOWN  
forbid) 19 Block boundaries: Abbr.  38 Uttered shrilly 39 Gratis 40 U.S. Olympic  1 Crumbly 2 Gets grasped 3 Stark alternative  
20 Vigorous  swimming gold medalist Torres  4 It may precede a time  
21 Kind of skirt  42 Razor brand  5 Busted party  
22 Words of  43 "Pink Panther"  6 It may deliver  
comparison  films actor  the goods  
24 Look closely  44 Represent  7 Very pleasant  
8 Frees from  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ..,,,,.+..,,,......-1,,;;;;.a..;~  constraint 9 Clear up 10 Actress Rubens and others  Puzzi9 by Robert H. Wolfe 27 Natural narcotic  39 One of the 13:  44 One working on  
.....+-.-+-i-.........,;.;..i ___....  11 Est., once 12 Some honored Brits: Abbr.  29 Follower or preceder of age 30 Former  Abbr. 41 Didn't command  a coluroo? 46 Dame Everage  
13 Put more paper into 15 Prefix with  Canadian P.M. Campbell 31 Trump, possibly  43 Two-time Newbery winner Lowry  47 You may draw from it 48 Guisado cooker  
parasite  32 Sildenafil  
~-:+=+::-f 17 Competition site beginning 1965 __.... 22 Bank offerings  (Viagra's active ingredient) 33 Rebels  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute).  
....+-+--+--+--a-..,_;;.~ A N G E  23 Source of global warming  36 Destroy gradually  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
__.___,_....._........._P..,__1.i.E.;;.J..R_,  24 Corporate sect.  37 Donor  years: 1·888•7-ACROSS.  

CROSSWORD 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON your time. Avoid hasty decisions THIS DAY: Christian Bale, that could end up costing you Vanessa Redgrave, Tammy plenty. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
Grimes, Dick Cheney 
Happy Birthday: Back up and You may lose your temper over make sensible plans this year. If trivial matters; patience and self• you aren't precise in your actions, control will be necessary. Get you will find it difficult to get involved in do-it-yourself proj• 
anything off the ground. You ects to avoid confrontations. may not have a clear assessment 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):
of yourself or your abilities. Your 
Take time out to do the littlenwnbers are 7, 16, 27, 33. 45. 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): things for yourself. You will feel The stress level is high today so rejuvenated if you rest, relax and be sure to take some time out to pamper yourself. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
regroup and reorganize your 
Don't hesitate to ask for sugges­game plan. Problems with gastric tions. You can ask for favors andpain or indigestion will be due to 
get sound advice from closestress and poor eating habits. 
friends and relatives. 0000
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGifTARIUS (Ni,\t 22-Dec. Zl): All it will take is a little ingenuity 
Take a close look at yourself and 
and ambition in order to get
prerare to make cnanges. You wil be pleased with the results ahead.00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
you get and proud of yourself for Business trips will be successful making the effort. 00000 and eye-opening. Opportw'lities GEMINI (May 21-Tune 20): to make career moves may leadDon't take everything you hear to you in new directions as well as
heart. Your feelings will be easily hurt if you let someone get away geographical locations. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
with making snide comments. 
Investments should pay off. Real
Delay or postpone important 
estate should be looked at seri­social activities. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): ously. You should be able to make a move that will put you in a
You need to get out more and 
solid financial position. 000enjoy the company of others. This 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
is a great day to get involved in Someone close k> you is likely tosocial activities, group endeavors disappoint you. Don't expect any­or family outings. 0000 thing; instead take care of your­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Vvhat's your rush? Slow down and take self and your own needs. 000 
Birthday Baby: You work well with others. You always make sacri­fices and compromise in order to have everything around you run smoothly. You need to live in a pleasant environment or you find it dif­
ficult to do your best. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Cl 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Basketball, p. 22 
. Boxing, p. 18 
. 
Men's Tennis, p. 21 . NFL, p. 16, 17 

. 
Football, p. 19 . Olympics, p. 15 . NBA, p.14 


Wednesday, January 30, 2002 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Unlikely hero 
. Bustamante scores 21 off the bench in win over Syracuse 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 

Freshman Allison Bustamante sent Syracuse a message Tuesday night -the bench can be as dangerous as the starting line-'llp. 
Prior to Tuesday night, junior Alicia Ratay or freshman Jackie Batteast led the Irish in scoring. On Tuesday, while the Orangewomen of Syracuse were focusing on those two Irish players, Bustamante hit the court and hit five 3-pointers to lead the Notre Dame to a 71-46 win. 
"Whenever an opposing team is playing some sort of zone, I'm thrilled because I like to find the areas and take the open 3s," Bustamante said. "But you know, they left me open ... I guess maybe they did forget me." 
But Syracuse won't be forgetting the freshman any time soon. By half­time, Bustamante had topped her previous career best of 12 with 14 points. At the end of the game, she had toppled that and tied her career­high with five rebounds in 25 min­utes of play off the bench. Her 21 points accounted for half of the 44 points the bench provided. 
"Quite frankly, we were aware of [Bustamante] but we weren't aware she could shoot the ball as well as she shot," said Syracuse head coach Marianna Freeman. 
Although she led the team in scor­ing, Bustamante had some help. Sophomore guard Le'Tania Severe added a spark to the Irish offense with a career-high nine assists while Batteast racked up her eighth dou­ble-double with 10 points and 15 rebounds. 
"I think [Batteast] did a great job 
see WOMEN/page 22 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

No. 21 Pittsburgh invades JACC 
. Irish narrowly win over the No. 23 Panthers days away from earning his happen." and a 12-3 record, the Irish third Big East Rookie of the Swanagan was sidelined with
edged Big East foe 
were confident they could be Week award. a left-ankle sprain. Graves, two weeks ago Big East conference contenders But with three straight losses along with many of his team­and make a splash in the NCAA to tough teams like Syracuse, mates struggled to find their By KERRY SMITH tournament. The team's heart Kentucky and Georgetown in shots. Thomas hit an offensive Sports Writer and soul, Harold Swanagan, the following week and a half, rut. And with losses to was playing quality minutes to the team's core threads started Villanova, Kentucky and keep the Irish in games. to unravel. Georgetown, the Irish suffered
When Notre Dame traveled to Forward David Graves hit one "We lost to three great through their worst home los­
Pittsburgh in mid-January, 
of his trademark 3s to give the teams," Graves said. "A lot of ing streak since the 1992-93Mike Brey's team was feeling Irish the winning edge over the teams lost to those teams. You season.
good. 

Panthers. And freshman point get into the bulk of the sched­
Walking away with a 56-53 
guard Chris Thomas was just ule and some things just don't 
see MEN/page 19 


FENCING 
Auriol tabs next choice 
. Current assistant gets retiring coach's recommendation 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
If all goes according to cur­rent fencing head coach Yves Auriol's plan, Janusz Bednarski will become the next head coach of Notre Dame's storied fencing program. 
Bednarski currently serves as an assistant coach on the team and seems to be the nat­ural choice to replace Auriol when he retires. He is also Auriol's recommendation for the next head coach. 
"Hopefully Janusz will be the head coach here," Auriol said. "I am confident that Janusz will keep the program at a high level. He is a top coach." 
Although Auriol has already made his preference known, assistant athletic director Bernard Muir, who oversees the fencing team, said no deci­sion about the next head coach has been made. The search for the next head coach has not even officially begun yet. 
"We haven't really Set a firm time line," Muir said. "Our hope is that sometime around the [NCAA] championship we will know." 
The athletic department has yet to determine who will even be involved in the search for a new coach, according to Muir. But Muir said any recommen­dation Auriol made would be taken seriously. 
Between 20 and 30 different coaches have expressed inter­est in becoming Notre Dame's next head coach, according to former head fencing coach Mike De Cicco. Included on that list, according to De Occo, is Tim Glass, a former Irish epee two time All-American who helped the Irish win the national title in 1977 and quali­fied for the 1980 Olympic games. 
When De Cicco retirl:ld in 1995, he hand-picked Auriol as his successor. This time, how­ever, he said he will not play a major role in choosing the next head coach. 
He did, however, say Bednarski would be a good choice. 
During his six years as an 
see FENCING/page 20 

. Men's Basketball vs. Pittsburgh, tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER

. Men's Tennis vs. Ohio State, Friday, 3:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
online 

. Hockey vs. Alaska Fairbanks, Friday, 7 p.m.'AT AGLANCE . Track, Meyo Invitational, Friday-Saturday, 6 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 








