J 

Seminarians on Stage
SNOW 
Thursday 
The Moreau Seminary-sponsored production of "The Odd Couple" debuts 
this weekend at the Moreau Seminary Auditorium. 
FEBRUARY 21,
HIGH 3S0 
Scene 16
LOW26° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 94 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 





Eldred won't fight monologues 
from leaders of C.A.R.E. a performance, but does not er the way women should with Wings" and Katie By SARAH NESTOR whom she accused of orga­give a date, time or place for work together, sitting down Koestner. "Sex Signals." News Writer nizing the performance, the performance. over a cup of coffee and talk­The events will continue 
Eldred said she will not sanc­The students involved with ing," said Karen Ristau, vice next year. 
Amid the speculatiO'n and tion student performers this "The Vagina Monologues" president and dean of faculty. "The sexuality series will rumor as to whether "The year. reading at Saint Mary's In a letter to the student continue next year. with pro­Vagina Monologues" will be "I have not seen the adver­Monday refused to comment. body from the Board of gramming as recommended performed at Saint Mary's, a tisements, but there will be Administration reaction to Governance, the board voiced by the anti-violence task word of mouth campaign was no repercussions if the play is students performing or read­its support of the administra­force that is composed of fac­started Wednesday revealing performed," said Eldred. ing "The Vagina Monologues" tion and the steps that have ulty, students and staff," that students will read "The The latest issue of the has been positive this year. been taken this year to incor­Eldred said. Vagina Monologues" Feb. 25 Marie Claire magazine Students and the administra­porate new programs in Some Saint Mary's students in Regina North lounge at 9 already had the College listed tion have been able to talk response to the controversy expressed their approval of 
p.m. as holding a performance of about the situation so that concerning "The Monologues" "The Monologues" return to 
Unlike last year when "Vagina Monologues," and dissension does not occur on last year. The letter com­campus in addition to the College President Marilou the V-day Web site also has campus as it did last year. mended such events as the Eldred demanded an apology Saint Mary's listed as holding "They have worked togeth-Sexuality Series, "Womyn 
see ELDRED/page 7 

STUDENT SENATE 
Senators continue activity fee debate 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
For the third consecutive week, debate at the Student Senate's Wednesday meeting centered on whether senators should recommend raising the student activity fee which all Notre Dame undergraduates pay. 
Amy O'Connor, whom the sen­ate recently confirmed as club coordinator of the Club Coordination Council, spoke on behalf of campus organizations that would stand to benefit from increased funding. 
"Recently, we've seen an increase in demand while our resources have remained static," said O'Connor. "Not all clubs need more funding, but the majority do." 
The money collected through the student activity fee goes to fund a variety of campus organi­zations, including undergradu­ate clubs, the Student Union Board and the office of the stu­dent body president. 
Last week, the senate rejected, by a vote of 14 to 13, a resolu­tion calling for the University to increase the student activity fee from $65 to $75. The resolution also called for $5 increases every other year following the initial increase. 
Since the senate rejected the resolution, the body has formed a committee to draft an alterna­groups that would benefit from an activity several senators tonight. Burke drew a significanttive resolution that would increased funding. questioned at previous senate crowd the last time he was here, increase the fee but perhaps The Architecture Club, for meetings -to attract members, but Best Buddies and other clubs would not include the provision instance, had to take on the according to O'Connor. Students do not have enough money to involving the $5 increases. The responsibility and expense of are originally drawn to a club bring such well-known speakers committee consists of several organizing a career fair when meeting for the free food, but to campus more often. senators, as well as O'Connor, the School of Architecture then stay in the club when they . "[With more money] they Student Activities director Brian stopped holding one, O'Connor discover what it is like. could bring speakers that every­Coughlin and student body vice told the senate. Another club O'Connor men­one wants to go see, not just president Brian Moscona, Other academic clubs, such as tioned was Best Buddies, which someone only a few _people have 
O'Connor described several the Physics Club, frequently use brought actor Chris Burke to organizations as examples of their funds to purchase pizza -campus two years ago and-again see SENATE/page 7 

Trustees arrive at 
SMC 
. Group will consider approving student center as part of Master Plan 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
The Board of Trustees arrive at Saint Mary's today and will begin work in its separate com­mittees. 
The Administration has been compiling data for the Board to update them on what has hap­pened since the Board's last meeting in the fall. 
A major issue for the Board is whether they will approve the ground breaking of the new student center to be built as part of the Master Plan. 
"I really want to see the approval for groundbreaking of the student center project by the Board. I don't expect it will be a problem and the Board should approve it," said Karen Ristau, vice-president. 
After the student center is built it will house everything that is currently in Haggar. Additionally, it will include a cyber cafe, campus ministry, several lounges, a copy shop, a small theater and a dining hall. The new dining hall will have to be built first and will jut into the LeMans parking lot next to the current dining hall. Noble Family Dining Hall will be demolished so that the new student center can be built, connecting the two buildings. There is also talk about con­necting the new student cen­ter/dining hall to the tunnel 
see TRUSTEES/page 8 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, February 21, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Poetic Expression 
Expression is something that manifests, embodies and symbolizes an emotion, an idea or a state of being to someone who did not partic­ipate in the same experience. There are many ways in which to express yourself, ranging from a smile or a frown to cartwheeling down South Quad and splashing in melt-water puddles to singing and interpretive dance. Those of us who were fortunate enough to 
see Ani Difranco on Tuesday night saw her self-expres­sion in her movements and dance, her lyrics and her music. All of it combined is her way of expressing that which is important to her. 
We all express ourselves in our daily lives. Whether it · 


comes across in bitter, sar- Angela Campos  
donic cynicism, in friendly  
flirting or in keeping quiet  
and to yourself, we all par- Lab Tech  
take in self-expression. It is  
how we let others know  
about ourselves, about who  

we are as people, as sentient and emotional 
beings. 
Some of the ways I have used to express myself include singing out as I walk across the quads. being very animated in how I interact with my friends and strangers and in prayer. But I have found that the form of self-expression I use the most is poetry. I write poetry as an outlet for my emotions, a sounding board for my issues and concerns and space to let my chi radiate. There is something about poetry that has always made the world more real to me. 
Stories written as fiction and creative non-fic­tion, describing the world as it is, create worlds and are wonderful ways to describe locations and situations. But in trying to describe the cir­cmnstances properly, sometimes description takes over and the meaning of what was being said is lost. 
With poetry, on the other hand, I have found allows for me, as the writer, to pick specific, dis­tinct words that focus on emotion, feeling, situa­tion and purpose. But poetry, when it is only written on the page, sometimes can be misread and the intended emotion can be lost, just like it is lost in longer fiction. When poetry is read aloud, however, the emotion. situation and inten­sity all come forth, enveloping the listeners in the author's world. The reading empowers the poet­ry, making it flow, giving it rhythm, each step bringing the reader closer to understanding the poet's [my] frame of mind. 
This evening, from 7-9 p.m. I will be joining readers for an open mic session in the Ballroom ofLaFortune. We will each be presenting read­ings that help us to express ourselves to the audi-· ence. I will be reading four original poems: "Juxtaposed," "Then Why Not 'Yes' ... ?" "Can You See" and "Friend." Each one of the poems has a tenor ofits own. Each grasps at some form of identity, all of which are a part of my identity. The set of four, combined, help me create a world which explains life, pain, healing and friendship. We will be expressing ourselves, opening up our personal thoughts and insights to you. It will not be easy for us, because we tread on sensitive territory. Come and support us. Come, let me express myself to you. Let me show· you a little bit of who I am, a little bit about me. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu 

The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 

In a letter from Robert Hohl in the Feb. 20 Observer, the letter should have read "it crosses che line chat rightfully should sepa­rate the two different, ifcomplementary, governing bodies of the College," not complim_entary. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. \Y/e do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct OtJr error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of che Associated Press. All rcproduccion rights are reserved. 

DUKE UNIVERSITY 

Scientists find possible cancer vaccine 
During the past live years. Dr. Johannes Vieweg and fellow immunotherapy researchers at Duke University have witnessed a fledgling prostate cancer vaccine become a clinical trial with recent, very positive patient responses: vaccine acceptance and a decrease in tumor growth rate. Thirteen patients in the advanced stages of prostate cancer have been involved in the trial over the past year. The patients are inject­ed with a certain type of cell -known as dendritic cells -from their own bodies in an attempt to combat tbc cancer. These cells first are cultured for seven days outside the patient's body and at the same time recoded with the patient's RNA to provide genetic information about the tumor cells. The vaccine is still in its early developmental stages, which means it will be quite some time, maybe five to 10 years, until it can be introduced on a larger scale in cancer treatment methods. 
The Chronicle 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  
. Conference: '"Ecology,  . Boxing: Bengal Bouts  . Theatre: "Macbeth,"  . Concert: Notre Dame  
Theology, and Judeo­ Preliminaries, Joyce  performed by· "Actors from  concert bands,  
Christian Environmental  Center Fieldhouse, 5 p.m.  the London Stage,"  Washington Hall, 3 p.m.  
Ethics," McKenna Hall, all  . Concert: Alan Jackson,  Washington Hall, 7:30  
day  Joyce Center, 8 p.m.  p.m.  
. Lecture: "Crisis in Latin  
American Labor?" Hesburgh  
Center, 4:15 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 


BEYOND CAMPUS 

Students protest Laura Bush as commencement speaker 
LOS ANGELES, Cal. Despite being 3,000 miles away. Laura Bush fueled debate between  "She was selectedfor her political celebrity. The  said. "Having had a career in educa­tion and information studies, she's been dedicated to those areas. as  
administrators and students who  commencement speaker  has  been  demonstrated  by  her  
objected to the possibility of having the first lady speak at this year's University of California-Los Angeles commencement ceremony. Students in the Graduate School of  should speak to us based on achievements in the field. [Bush] has no merit."  actions," he added. ''I'm really sorry there is this much agitation," Dorr said Friday, promising to increase student involvement in future selections.  
Education & Information Studies met with Dean Aimee Dorr on Friday to demand that she rescind  Tara Watford doctoral student  Many students warned Dorr of the political implications of inviting Bush to speak at the commence­ 
the invitation to Bush.  ment.  
Critics cited Bush's "shallow cre­ doctoral student in education.  "She was selected for her political  
dentials" and complained they were  Carnesale, who sent off the invita­ celebrity," said Tara Watford, a doc­ 
not allowed to participate in the.  tion in early February under the  toral student in education.  
selection of their commencement  recommendation of the school, said  "The  commencement  speaker  
speaker.  Tuesday that "it is extremely unlike­ should  speak  to  us  based  on  
"We're disappointed  that the  ly" he would rescind the invitation.  achievements in the field," she said.  
selection for a student event had no  "She seems to me to be an entirely  "[Bush] has no merit."  
student input," said Estela Zarate, a  appropriate speaker," Carnesale  Daily Bruin  



0@.....© . D High Lolllll' Show•n Rain \lb Assooat9d Prn-ss  uJ D T-•lorm• Flurr..•  . Snow  D lo•  ·"', Sunny  Pl. CloWy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  64 ·sa 55 3tl 75  38 34 38 23 43  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  72 57 34 57 60  46 33 20 37 37  Portland 56 Sacramen10 65 Sl. LOUIS 43 Tampa 74 Washington, DC 59  38 45 29 55 38  

SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY 
Nursing school faces cuts 
With budget cuts imminent and enrollment beginning to increase for the first time in six years, the San Jose State University school of nursing is doing all it can to avoid a full-blown crisis situation, said the director of the nursing program at SJSU. Because the California State University system's budget is undergoing major reductions for the coming year, Jayne Cohen, the nurs­ing school director, said the school is buckling down and looking for ways to cut costs. "Our college is preparing for the projected deficit by analyzing where reductions could and should be made. This issue, jux­taposed with increasing nursing student enrollments, poses a special problem," Cohen said. This combined with the ever-increasing need for registered nurses with bachelor's degrees makes for a difficult future for the nursing profession, Cohen said. Dena Murphy, a fourth-semester nursing major, said she has begun to see the effects of the lack of funding. 
Spartan Daily 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 21. 
' Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Experts gear up for ecology conference 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Writer 
Experts from a broad range of academic disciplines vvill be con­vening this weekend on campus for the "Ecology, Theology, and Judeo-Christian Environmental Ethics" conference. The confer­ence, sponsored by the Lilly Fellows National Research humanities and ecology. 
Scholars will examine how recently ecology has been evolv­ing its view on species interac­tion and ecosvstem function from a "balance of nature" to "flux of nature." Then the effects of these changes on social thought ,,vill be examined. 
Within the framework of a Judeo-Christian discussion, scholars will examine how 
Conference, will address how ecology, history, philos­ophy and the­ology are interrelated. 
"I hope that by bringing these different disciplines approaches together a con­versation will begin that will move from multi-discipli­narian to one 
"I hope that by bringing these different discipline approaches together a conversation will begin that will move from muti­disciplinarian to one that addresses concerns from one another." 
David Lodge 
professor of biological sciences 

human action and nature is affected by contemporary ecology. 
Lodge and Chris Hamlin, professor of history, are organizing the conference, which was ini­tiated by a 
group of facul­
ty members 
from the College of Arts and Letters 
that addresses the concerns from one to another," said David Lodge professor of biological sci­ences. 
Specifically, the scholars will investigate how the separate dis­ciplines possibly affect and shape environmental policy and ethics. Scholars are challenged to conduct an environmental dis­cussion combining these disci­plines while applying contempo­rary scientific attitudes. 
The conference will highlight a range of topics that are related to the interruptions between and the College of Sciences. 
The participants include ecolo­gists, biologists, historians, philosophers, ethicists, and Christian and Jewish theologians from prominent universities. The conference will consist of a series of talks, responses, and breakout discussions. 
The conference will take place in McKenna Hall beginning Thursday evening and ending Sunday afternoon. 
Contact Meghanne Do'-v'nes at 
mdownes l@nd.edu 
ND 


Thursday, Feb. 21 
5:00 p.m. Evening Prayer, Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

7:00 
p.m. Film: Time and Tide, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium 

7:00 
p.m. College of Engineering Chemical Enginnering Departmental Open House for First Year Students, Cushing 303 


7:00 
p.m. Exhibition Tour, Masks and Figures, Form and Style: The Christensen Family Collects African Art, Snite Mestrovic Studio Gallery 


7:30 
p.m. Play: Macbeth, (featuring Actors from the London Stage), Washington Half* 

7:30 
p.m. "Gorky" (Chris Burke) from Life Goes On, Stepan Center 


8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
9:00 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, LaFortune Student Center Basement 

9:00 
p.m. Acousticafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 


10:00 p.m. Movies: Spy Game and Austin Powers, DeBartolo 101/155* 
LECTURING ON AQUINAS 

nER FIVE 
Friday, Feb. 22 
5:00 
p.m. Evening Prayer, Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 

5:00 
p.m. 2002 Bengal Bouts Preliminaries, Joyce Field House* 


5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 
p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 

7:00 
p.m. Stations of the Cross, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

7:00 
p.m. Winter Carnival Bonfire, Holy Cross Hill 


7:30 
p.m. Play: Macbeth, (featuring Actors from the London Stage), Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. Movies: Spy Game and Austin Powers, DeBartolo 101 /155* 

7:30 
p.m Play: The Odd Couple,Moreau Seminary Auditorium 


8:00 
p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 

8:00 
p.m. Alan Jackson in concert, Joyce Center Arena* 


8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center Basement 
9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Soap Making, LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 
9:30 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Swing Dance and lessons, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom (dance begins at 10:00 p.m.) 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Spy Game and Austin Powers, DeBartofo 101 /155* 
11:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Tournament Fridays: Checkers, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 
Saturday, Feb. 23 
5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
6:30 
p.m. Fiestang, Stepan Center* 

6:30 
p.m. No Greater Love Closing Mass, Morrissey Chapel 


7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Student Open Skate, Joyce Center Ice Rink* 
7:30 
p.m. Play: Macbeth, ( featuring Actors from the London Stage), Washington Hall* 

7:30 
p.m. Movies: Spy Game and Austin Powers, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

7:30 
p.m. Play: The Odd Couple, Moreau Seminary Auditorium 


8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center Basement · 
9:00 p.m. -1:30 a.m. Discoteca and Dance Lessons, Alumni Senior Club (Fiesta begins at 
10:00 
p.m.) 


10:00 
p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Open Karaoke, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: Spy Game and Austin Powers, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

10:00 
p.m. Late Night Co-Rec Volleyball Tournament, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 


This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. All programs are free to Notre Dame students unless marked by an asterisk (*). 
FOR hfORE INF"OR._.ATION, VISIT: www.nd.edu/#wsao/ 
page4 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 21, 2002 
CHINA 

Attorneys dispute time limit in rape case
Bush meets with Zemin 
Associated P rcss 
BEIJING 
On the final leg of his Asian 

trip, President Bush said 
Thursday that China is lend­
ing "steady and strong sup­
port" to the U,S.-led war on 
terrorism as it worked toward 
striking a deal with the 
United States on controlling 
the t1ow of nuclear technolo­
gy. 
High on Bush's agenda with Chinese President Jiang Zemin is preventing the sale of missile and nuclear tech­nology to nations such as Iraq and Pakistan, The two lead­ers hoped to complete an agreement during their meet­ings in Beijing, a senior White House official said Thursday on condition of anonymity. 
Jiang greeted Bush at the Great Hall before a contin­gent of 40 uniformed Chinese soldiers. They reviewed the ceremonial honor guard and shook hands with members of each others' delegations, then went behind closed doors for their talks, 
Under the potential nuclear deal, China would meet U.S. demands to publish a list of items prohibited from export and enforce the ban if the administration agreed to lift sanctions barring U.S. compa­nies from launching satellites on Chinese rockets. 
The meetings between Bush and Jiang were unlikely to be contentious, in part because of their new alliance against terrorism. China has provided the United States intelligence and other help that has gone a long way toward muting dif­ferences, and Bush also was extending an invitation for Jiang to visit Washington next fall. 
But there are also sticking points. Bush wants to encour­age Jiang to respect religious freedoms and consider the Vatican's plea to free Catholic bishops. He said he hoped that Jiang "would understand the important role of religion in an individual's life." 

In addition to human rights, Bush and Jiang are at odds over U.S. missile defense plans, the fate of Taiwan, trade and Bush's claim that North Korea, Iran and Iraq form "an axis of evil," Bush intended to raise World Trade Organization requirements that China allow U,S, soybean shipments, a $1 billion-a-year market for American grow­ers, said White House spokesman Ari Fleischer. 
Before leaving South Korea, Bush told troops at Osan Air Base that despite their regional differences, the three Asian leaders he has met on his six-day tour are united in backing his coalition against the al-Qaida network and other terrorist groups. 
"All three governments are lending their support in our 

College of Engineering 
Spotlight Nights 2002 
for First-Year Students 
CHEmlC/lLEnlilnEERlnG DPEn H . USE FDR FIRST-YE/lR 
STU . EnTS 
THURSDAY, FEBRU~RY 21 
Ei:Oa TD 7:30 P.m. 
3 a3 CUSHlnG HALL 
H/1VE somE F . OO TOO, UJE ST/1RT SERVlnG /1T 6:00 P.m. 

. Priest's attorney asks court to enforce 10-year statute of limitations 
BOSTON 
Child rape charges filed against a defrocked priest do not exceed the state's 15-year statute of limitations for the crime, a prosecutor argued Wednesday. 
Attorneys for former priest John Geoghan say the charges should be dismissed because the alleged victim made a molesta­tion accusation in 1986. 
The court should apply the 10-year statute of limitations that existed then, argued Geoffrey Packard, Geoghan's attorney. The current 15-year time limit on child rape charges took effect in 1996. 
Prosecutor David Deakin said the charges, which were flied in
war against terror," Bush 
1999. are based on specific alle­said. Each stop of his journey, gations that were made in 1989, Bush said, gave him a chance well within the 15-year limit he
"to look the leaders in the 
said applied to the case.

eye, to thank them on behalf The hearing is scheduled toof a grateful nation, for their continue Friday. Geoghan's trial steady and strong support as 
had been set to begin
this nation leads a coalition to Wednesday but was delayed after the defense motion was filed last week. 
Geoghan, 66, was convicted last month of fondling a 10­year-old boy in 1991. He is to be sentenced Thursday, and could face up to 10 years in prison. 
The victim in the current case testified Wednesday that he told his mother details of the alleged abuse at age 11, in 1986. 
"I recall telling her every­thing," he said. "About the sex abuse, fondling, and oral sex," 
The specific allegation of oral sex, the act on which the rape charges are based, wasn't made until 1989, the prosecutor said. 
Since 1995. more than 130 people have claimed Geoghan fondled or raped them during the three decades he served in Boston-area parishes. 
Under pressure following Geoghan's conviction, Cardinal Bernard Law gave prosecutors the names of more than 80 active and former priests accused of' abuse during the last four decades. 
The Archdiocese of Boston said Wednesday it was suspend­ing a pastor in Abington follow­ing allegations of sexual miscon­duct with a minor. Nine priests have been suspended since the archdiocese's new policy was announced. 

defend freedom." China agreed in November 2000 to stop the export of 
~. GRE-Ar WALL 
sensitive nuclear equipment 
f '..;·.'-;;, 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row 

. V;-. ·.,,,. · · · Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American ·•"\t. .:.. Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
and know-how to countries 
like Pakistan and Iran. But 
.. , Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11:30 -3:00 PM
U,S. officials say Beijing has 
. . . ;·· -~ Dinner Starting at $6.45 
not begun formulating export 
· t , Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM -10:00 PM 
control rules and a list of sen­sitive technologies, nor has it 
,,~ ~1 _. Sunda/~~;~::~~~~~13~:~~~~::ay
~ 

cracked down on export deals 
1 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
$8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 

struck before the November 
agreement. 

222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
NEW INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
BRAZIL -Spring 2003 
RIO DE JANEIRO SAO PAULO 
. '. ;, ., I 
'"l l
i 


INFORMATION SESSIONS 
TUESDAY, FEBRU.AR\. 12rn 
5:30-6:30 125 Hayes-Healy 
THlJRSDAY, FEBRllARY 2Jsr 5:30-6:30 125 llaves-Healv 
" ~ 




ATION 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Queen completes Jamaican visit: 
Queen Elizabeth II wrapped up a visit Wednesday that energized debate about why an independent nation should retain a European monarch as head of state. Jamaica was the first of four countries on the royal itinerary in the jubilee year celebrating the queen's 50 years on the throne. She now heads to Australia and New Zealand and visits Canada in October. 
Storm devastates Bolivian capital: 
Rescue workers found. more bodies in the rivers around Bolivia's capital Wednesday, bringing the number of dead to 52 in the most destructive thunderstorm in the city's history. The storm, which began about 3 
p.m. Tuesday and lasted nearly an hour, flooded streets in the city center, turning the main street into a muddy river. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Copyright office targets online radio: 
A government panel proposed Wednesday that organizations that broadcast music and other radio content over the Internet pay royalties based on each Web user that lis­tens in. The recommendations are the latest step in a struggle between the record indus­try, broadcasters and the government to determine the price of music in the Information Age. 
Raids stop illegal money transfers: 
Money-transfer agents in 14 states were raided in an effort to stop the illegal wiring of millions of dollars to Iraq, the govern­ment said Wednesday. U.S. Customs Service Commissioner Robert Bonner said 29 search warrants on businesses and individuals were used, allowing law enforcement agents to seize documents and records. The identi­ties of the businesses and individuals were not disclosed and no one was arrested. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Applicants flood graduate programs: 
Graduate degree programs across Indiana are seeing a surge in applications from prospective students hoping to broaden their career options in a weak job market. Notre Dame Law School has seen a 51 percent increase in enroll­ment applications compared with last school year, with graduate programs at Purdue University seeing a 27 percent rise. Indiana University's Kelley School of Business has expe­rienced a 15 percent increase on top of a 30 percent jump last year, The Indianapolis Star reported in a story published Wednesday. 
Market Watch February 20 

Dow 9,941.17 +196.03 

Composite

/~ s;r7e: 
Volume: 1,403.842,944 

AMEX: 849.16 +2.34 NASDAQ: 1,775.57 +24.96 NYSE: 569.14 +7.06 S&P500: 1,097.98 +14.46 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY  o/oCHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
NASDAQ-100 INDEX CISCO SYSTEMS  +1.36 -0. 71  +0.47 -0.12  35.15 16.69  
NEXTEL  COMM-A  +23.38  +0.83  4.38  
SUN MICROSYSTEM  +1.08  +0.09  8.42  
INTEL  CORP  +0.32  +0.01  31.44  

EGYPT 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 

A train crowded with Egyptians leaving the cap­ital for a religious holiday caught fire and sped on in flames for miles Wednesday, killing 373 people, including some who died as they jumped from the burning cars, police said. 
The fire was reportedly started by a cooking gas cylinder that burst and it swept through the last seven of the train's 11 cars. Workers in gloves and masks pulled charred and twisted bodies from the wreckage. Firefighters said some of the corpses were found curled up under seats and dozens more lay alongside the train tracks. 
It was the worst disaster in 150 years of Egyptian railroad history. 
Maher Abdel Wahid, who led a team of state investigators to the scene, said he did not expect the toll to rise much beyond 373. 
Officials called it the worst train accident here in decades. 
"There has been noth­ing in the recent or dis­tant past like this," Ahmed al-Sherif, director of the state-owned Egyptian Railway Authority, said at the scene. ''I've been with the railway for 32 years and never seen or heard of an event of this size." 
President Husni Mubarak, who was in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el Sheik, was quoted by the Middle East News Agency as expressing his "deepest regret and pro­found sorrow" to the fam­ilies of the victims. 
The news agency said the cause of the fire was a burst gas cylinder using for cooking in the dining car. But al-Sherif said the cause was still under investigation. He said the train had no dining car, but that passengers often brought gas cylinders and small stoves aboard despite regulations forbid­ding it. 
The train cars had metal frames with wooden seats. Each burned car was jammed with passen­gers whose clothing and belongings would have been flammable. Some passengers apparently had portable gas cookers. 
The cars were separat­ed, but witnesses saw pas­sengers running from car to car, including one women who was on fire. People were likely smok­ing on board, as well. 

Israel retaliates against Palestine 
Associated Press 
GAZA STRIP 

Israeli tanks and troops entered Gaza City from two directions early Thursday, the first such incursion in nearly 17 months of violence, wit­nesses said. 
Tanks went into Sejaieh neighbor­hood, which straddles the main north-south road through the Gaza Strip, near another road used by Jewish settlers and the scene of sev­eral recent attacks by Palestinian militants, according to witnesses. 
The Israeli military had no imme­•diatc comment. 
Then tanks approached Beach 
Camp, a sprawling, poverty-stricken 
refugee camp, firing machine guns 
and shells, witnesses said. Also, 
Israeli warships fired machine guns 
from the sea. they said. 
Loudspeakers on mosques called 
on Gazans to come out and confront 
the Israeli invaders, and police and 
gunmen raced to the scene of the 
incursions. The sound of heavy gun­
fire reverberated all over the city of 
about 300,000. witnesses said. 
In southern Gaza, Israeli tanks and bulldozers entered the Rafah 
refugee camp and destroyed the house or a militant who killed an Israeli woman and two soldiers on Monday. before he was killed by troops. 
The incursions came after a day of Israeli air strikes. reprisal for a series or Palestinian attacks, includ­ing a surprise assault on a West Bank checkpoint in which six Israeli soldiers were killed on Wednesday. 
On Wednesday. Israeli forces tar­geted Vasser Arafat's Gaza head­quarters for the first time. Warships fired machine guns and a missile at the building, killing four guards. 
page 6 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Thursday, February 21, 2002 
' 
Bass may go from 'N Sync to 'n space 
. Band member negotiates travel 

'
,. on Russian Rocket for November mission 
AssociaLtcd Press 
NEW YORK 
Lance Bass could be going from 'N Sync to 1n space. 
The boy band member is negotiating to travel on a Russian rocket for a mission i 11 November, 

according to 'Tm looking forward to African tycoon
MirCorp, M a r k
completing this lifelong 
t h e 

Shuttleworth 
Amsterdam• dream." reportedly is 
based space spending the travel com­
same sum to
Lance Bass

pany. fly to the space
'N Sync band member
Bass said 
in a state-m e n t Wednesday that he was "completely over­whelmed." 
'Tm looking forward to completing this lifelong dream," he said. 
The plan still requires the approval of the Russian space agency, Rosaviakosmos. according to MirCorp, which also plans to build the first private space station. The partners in the international space station program -the United States, Russia, Japan, Canada and Europe -also would have to approve the trip. 
The 22-year-old Bass attended space camp near Titusville, Fla., when he was 12. He said Wednesday that he would have to undergo five or six mouths of training at Star City, the space training center outside Moscow, before blasting off. 

A Los Angeles TV produc• tion company, Destiny Productions, is one of several corporations offering to spon­sor Bass' journey, and hopes to document it for a television special. "Celebrity Mission: Lance Bass." 
Bass' voyage would follow that of California investment banker Dennis Tito, who reportedly paid $20 million to visit the International Space 
Station last year. South 
station on a 
Russian rocket 
in late April. 
Russia's space chief, Yuri Koptev, has said his agency is mulling over several tourist candi­dates to visit the station in October. "The earnings pro­vide serious support for the industry, the cosmonauts' training center and mission control," he said Wednesday. 
Bass expects to start train• ing in May, after the pop group's "Celebrity 2002" tour, which begins March 3 in Portland, Ore. 
Bass' film debut, "On the Line," didn't exactly skyrocket in October. Critics panned the romantic comedy, co-starring Joey Fatone of 'N Sync, and it sank at the box office. 
ABC stars deny rift over story 
"Barbara and I talked 
sensitive to any public percep­tle misun­issue that was tion that she was trying to derstand -about that and I am now near and dear undermine Sawyer. ing." to her. For
completely relaxed 
Sawyer landed the much­"The View" that reason,
about it." 

sought interview with hosts decid­she was com• O'Donnell, which is to air on ed to talk pelled to ABC's "Primetime Thursday" about the speak and
Diane Sawyer 
on March 14. O'Donnell will subject speak open­
ABC anchorwoman 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
ABC News stars Barbara Walters and Diane Sawver on Tuesday denied any rift between them over an inter­view in which talk-show host Rosie O'Donnell is expected to discuss her homosexuality for the first time publicly. 
Walters said, however, that she should have been more up on "The View." 
"This had nothing to do with getting an interview with Rosie, but I am sensitive enough now as I look back to see how it could be interpreted that way and how, if one didn't know the story and wanted to create a story, it could look as if I was trying to harm Diane," Walters said on Tuesday. 
"This is not the evil axis," she said. "This is a lit­
reportedly talk about her sexu­because of ality in the context of opposing newspaper a Florida law restricting the stories about adoption of children by gay O'Donnell, Walters said. She couples. said she called O'Donnell that 
Last Thursday -the day morning to ask if it were OK to Sawyer taped her interview talk about her sexuality, and with O'Donnell -Walters and O'Donnell said yes. her co-hosts on ABC's "The A week earlier, Fox News View" talked briefly about the Channel talk-show host Bill case. In doing so, they publicly O'Reilly had talked about asserted that O'Donnell's O'Donnell was sexuality
"This is not an evil axis. 
a lesbian. during a 
"What con• This is a little. g u e s t cerns Rosie is misunderstanding. " appearance 
not just this on "The case but that View,"
Barbara Walters 

she has three angering adopted chil­ABC TV personality the show's dren and a fos­hosts. ter child her-Sawyer self, and she, said she because she is gay, would not and Walters talked Tuesday be allowed to adopt this child," about "The View's" discussion Walters said on "The View." and she was satisfied there 
Walters said she had not was no attempt to undermine competed with Sawyer to land her work. She had been most a prime-time interview with concerned that it had occurred O'Donnell. She was aware without O'Donnell's know!• Sawyer would be speaking to edge, which she believed O'Donnell, but Walters said would be wrong, Sawyer said. she didn't have that interview "Barbara and I talked about in mind when !he_subject came that and I~am now complete~ relaxed about it," Sawyer said. 
ABC's announcement of the March 14 special frames it as a look at gay adoption featuring an O'Donnell interview. A sec• ond special, to be broadcast in April, will be about her upcoming autobiography, "Find Me." 
O'Donnell's spokeswoman, Cindi Berger. said O'Donne!J agreed to speak to Sawyer because "it was a political 
ly." 
O'Donnell is 
ending her run as a daytime TV talk-show host in May. 
The timing of Sawyers' inter• view and Walters' discussion on "The View" revived stories about competition between the two. The New York Times, in a story last week, said ABC News President David Westin had to sit the "ferocious" rivals down in fall 2000 and strike a truce after they competed over inter­views with Yasser Arafat. 
"I cannot tell you how much we hate this story," Walters said Tuesday, adding that she and Sawyer have bumped heads on stories far fewer times than one would expect, given their respective roles. 
It doesn't mean the two news stars can't have fun with it. Both dined separately at the Four Seasons in Manhattan on Tuesday, where observers could notice a scratch on Sawyer's face. She got it when she ran into a tree while walk­ing her dog over the weekend. 
'Tm going to tell everybody that I did it," Walters said. 


Assistant Student Union Treasurer Applications Are Now Available 
Here's an opportunity for you to gain valuable accounting experience and possibly become the next Student Union Treasurer. 
As an Assistant Treasurer you will: 
•Become 
an integral part of the Student Union Treasurer's Office, the primary controlling body of student activities funds 

•Be 
responsible for managing, consulting, and maintaining various student accounts 

•Serve 
as financial liaison for "The Shirt" Project ($200,000+ revenue operation) or for the Student businesses (Adworks, Irish Gardens, Dome Designs) 

•Sit 
on the Financial Management Board, which is responsible for allocating over $600,000 in student activities fees among various student body organizations 


This commitment requires approximately 5-6 hours per week and further it is a possible two-year commitment, as one assistant shall take over the role of Student Union Treasurer the following year. 
Applications are now available outside the Treasurer's Office 
(3rd floor Lafortune, in the CRC) and are due no later than 5pm Monday, February 25th 
Interviews will be held Tuesday, February 26th (Please sign up for 
an interview upon submitting your application) 
Questions? Contact Jennifer Wolfe atjwolfe@nd.edu or the Office of the Treasurer at 631-4557 
·­


l
. i I 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 I 
Eldred 
continued from page 1 
programming already spon­sored by the College. 
"I think that it's great because I think "The Vagina Monologues" raise an awareness about women's bodies," sophomore Cyd Apellido said. "Those stu­dents who are particip_ating are really brave and they show that they really care to take that risk of possibly get­ting in trouble. Ho.pefully other students will see that it is not about controversy but about consciousness." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
heard of." O'Connor said. 
She added that many clubs use all their financial resources to plan one major event that benefits the whole campus, bl.it leaves the club without money for other activities. such as community service in South Bend. 
"The club loses on an inter­personal level, and it can't go do service," O'Connor said. 
While she conceded that clubs can hold fundraisers, it would be impossible for many organizations to raise all the money they need on their own. 
"Fundraising can only cover so much," said O'Connor. 
The committee set up to con­sider the example hopes to have a resolution ready for the senate to consider at its next meeting on Feb. 27. 
'TH be very disappointed in the senate ifwe don't pass 
this eventually," said Morrissey senator Padraic McDermott. "Five years down the line, when SUB is crum­bling and they can"t bring any 
Student Government Positions Still Available 
Off-Campus Senator Junior Class Officers 

If you would like to run for office, please contact the Vice-President of Elections at 1-7668 or email Judicial conucil at jcouncil2nd.edu by the end of 
today! 

speakers all year, they're going to look back at our sen­ate. We deserve the discredit." 
However, two students who 
came to the meeting voiced concern over raising the stu­dent activity fee. "I'm not completely opposed to raising the fee," said fresh­man Cole Barker. "I think it's ridiculous that we would raise the student activity fee so peo­pie can go get free pizza at the Physics Club." "If an academic club has trouble attracting members maybe they shouldn't be a club anymore," said junior Chris Zimmerman. However, the office of the president's representative to the Financial Management Board Audra Ilagan said that it was important to maintain clubs, both for incoming fresh­men to enjoy and for the overall benefit organizations have on the campus community. 
Zika and the senate's gender relations committee to Sister Mary Louise Gude, assistant vice president of student affairs. 
The letter called for improv­ing the University's Women's Resource Center, currently located on the third floor of LaFortune. Specifically, the let­ter requested that the University hire a full-time staff member for the center, improve the quality of informa­tion available at the center and move the center to the Counseling Center. 
As she submitted the letter to the senate, Zika told senators that the WRC could become a much more valuable resource for students. 
"All they can give you is infor­mation, and even that's outdat­ed," she said. 
However, student body presi­dent Brooke Norton questioned 
Z i k a 
about why 
"There is an "I'm not completely the best intrinsic value to location
opposed to raising the 
every club and for the 
fee. I think it's ridiculous 
organization on W R C campus," said that we would raise the would be Hagan, who the coun­
student activity fee so
originally pro-seling 
posed the reso­people can get free pizza center. lution. at the Physics Club." "People 
Zimmerman d o n ' t also pointed out think,
Cole Barker
that only 75 per­"Oh, I cent of students O'Neill Hall Senator have a 
belong to a club, and therefore he said clubs should have to pay more themselves so that the other 25 percent of the student body does not have to pay a higher activity fee. 
"The majority of that [other] 25 percent still enjoys that money," said Jesse Flores, the senator from Carroll. Flores pointed out that student activity fee money also goes to SUB movies and to help dorms pur­chase items such as DVD play­ers. 
In addition, Zimmerman questioned the fact that student groups must pay to use certain campus facilities. 
"It's our facility. It's our University. We paid for it from the beginning," he said. 
In other senate news: 

. The senate unanimously 
approved a letter from Cavanaugh senator Lindsay 
woman's 
problem. Let's go to the third floor of LaFortune,"' said Zika. "We want to get it moved to the counseling center so it's closer to where the students are, and it's a place they'd probably feel more comfortable going to." 
The WRC often refers stu­dents to the counseling center anyway, added Pangborn sena­tor Mary Mullen, who chairs the gender relations committee. 
. The senate unanimously approved four students for SUB positions: Stephen Christ as board manager, Lauren Fowler as director of programming, Andrew Lam as chief controller and Connie Quinlan as director of operations. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 


JTo A trtend., A Crwsh Or11 Whomever! 
l 
1

I .~ ,:.~mg To _f:wr-f-.~, or0~;11ri'.h !~inf nfJ Uoll on 
'ffwrsrfoH ond Fridn~t-Fch. 21 oml ?J... 1 10 :,uu H1cff 1.;un 1· Cru~: > -1· --i\11 Pun;hw••~~ Are Anonqmous. llowevr...r..Ile Or ~hr. Most: Grve Be{:wecn SJ oml $?.O To Proi:et:-i:Tl>eir Ammq.mi{!J. 't'IJe Gr(lshcc (~m M(lt.Ch Thot: Amoon(:To }:fJHI 'l'hcl [deni-.!i:!J Of 'fhe1r Cn1sh. · . . ' ~-AH Goos Hfll·ne t1eJi\'er(~d Over 'fhc .Jeckcnd. And Gr£1shr.es Can Mot.ch The 
GREAT BRITAIN 
Students protest tuition 
\ 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Shouting slogans and blow­ing whistles, thousands of uni­versity students marched through the capital Wednesday, demanding the government scrap tuition fees which they claim are plunging them into debt and barring the poor from higher educa­tion. · The streets of central London, normally choked with traffic, had a carnival atmos­phere as the students marched toward Prime Minister Tony Blair's Downing Street office and into Trafalgar Square. Police, who estimate the crowd at some 4,000 people, watched closely but didn't intervene. 
The National Union of 
Students, which organized the 
annual rally, claims Blair's 
government has betrayed stu­
dents by ending means-tested 
living allowances in favor of 
loans and introducing fees of 
up to $1,500 a year for uni­
versity courses. 
The student union says stu­dents now graduate with an average debt of $14,300 and in college must survive on $40 a week after paying rent, meaning they would, be better off claiming unemployment benefits. 
"We are appalled that a gov­ernment which claims its No. 1 priority is education is forc­ing thousands of young people to live below the minimum threshold that it believes a single person can live on," NUS national president Owain James said Wednesday. 
Education Secretary Estelle Morris said it was shortsight­ed to suggest students were better off on unemployment benefits. 
"Do they really think that their life chances would be improved if they had no quali­fications, didn't do the degree and stayed on job-seeker's allowance?" she asked. 
Ministers insist the fees are fair, as payment is means­tested, and defend the loan system, which allows students to borrow up to $5,700 an academic year, with interest rates linked to the inflation rate. Students only start repayment once they have graduated and earn $14,300 or more a year. 
Although tuition fees in Britain are small compared with countries such as the United States, opposition to them has been intense in a country that had a strong tra­dition of free education. 
It came as a shock to many students when Blair's govern­ment, which campaigned hard on the education ticket and was seen as more friendly to youth, introduced tuition fees four years ago and phased out and finally abolished student grants in the academic year 1999-2000. 
Blair has come under increasing pressure to revise the policy, after the regional governments in Scotland and Wales restored grants. Scotland has also ended tuition fees. 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 21, 2002 
Yates jurors to see photos 
She did not elaborate. Parnham appeared bothered
. Jurors will view 

Yates, 37, could face the by some of the photos that more than two death penalty. She has plead­flashed onto a computerized dozen photos ed innocent by reason of monitor as attorneys dis­
insanitv. cussed them.taken at the crime At issue during the trial is Yates was removed from scene whether Yates suffered from the courtroom before the pic­
a mental illness and knew tures were shown. 
the difference between right It isn't clear whether she Associated Press and wrong at the time of the will be in the courtroom 
drownings. when the photos are viewed 
HOUSTON Testimony was to resume by jurors. 
Jurors in the Andrea Yates Thursday when prosecutors Also admitted was a video­child-killing case will be likely will display the pic­tape Houston police crime allowed to see more than two tures tak_en after Yates was scene unit officer Glenn West dozen photos taken at the arrested last June. made of the Yates home, a crime scene, a judge ruled One of the photos shows 7-one-story Spanish style brick Wednesday. year-old Noah Yates floating house, after he arrived June 
State District Judge Belinda face down in the bathtub 20. Hill admitted 29 of the pho­with his arms outstretched, West testified Wednesday tos of the dead children and submerged beneath the that he found one of Luke's contents o'f the Yates home water. socks in the soggy hallway after the state agreed to Others detailed bruising on between the home's ha.ck withdraw 10 others. the children and how the bedroom and the bathroom 
Hill said the photos' rele­bodies of Noah's four where he and his siblings vance outweighed any preju­younger siblings -John, 5; were drowned. dice they might cause the Paul, 3; Luke, 2; and Mary, 6 "As I stepped out of the jury. months -were laid out on a living room into the hallway, 
The court recessed early bed in the hack bedroom. there was a water trail all because of an emergency Prosecutors also plan to the way from the bathroom unrelated to the trial. A male show photos taken during back into the bedroom," juror was returned to the the children's autopsies. West said. jury room, where he was Prosecutor Kaylynn Bowls and a box of cereal joined by Hill. Williford said it is never were on the kitchen table, he 
"It causes us not to be able easy to present evidence told jurors. to proceed today. lt has noth­such as pictures of the dead A baby carrier was found ing to do with the case," Hill children. in the bathroom next to the said when she re-emerged~ Defense attorney George tub. 
University ofNotre Dame 

Come and SupporttheffolyG'ross Missions In Bangladesh Preliminaries February 22 
Finals 


Quarterfinals February 24 
March 1 

.. 
Semifinals February 27 
7:00pm 


next year." Ristau said. The Board of Trustees is

Trustees 
composed of nine different continued from page 1 committees that will be meeting 
separately today and Friday system, but this is not for cer­and the full Board will meet to tain. have a final vote on issues 
"Once ground br'eaking on raised. The Board will also be the student center project is voting on the student represen­begun the plan calls for a peri­tative for next year. od of 18 months to complete, Applications have already been but this project could be com­turned submitted and the pleted in less than 18 months," Board will review these and said Marilou Eldred. president. make their selection. The stu­
While there are no definite dent representative is a voting plans for what will happen to member and informs the com­Hagger College Center after the mittee about student life. 
new  student  "All  the  
center is built, there is talk that it will  "The board will decide on budget approval that  administra­tion prepare data to  
become part of t h c Administration building,  would include decisions on student fees and faculty salaries for next  update. and gather all the information so the  
"Many of the offices in  year."  Trustees can have the  
LeMans arc crowded and  Karen Ristau  knowledge to make their  
they  barely  vice-pre.sident  decisions."  
have room  enough for  said Akmaral Omarova, the  

everyone. It is not absolutely current student trustee. "It is sure but Hagger could possible my job to inform the Trustees house administration offices," about the day to day concerns 
Eldred said. of students." 
Along with voting on whether The Board of Trustees will be or not to begin work on the stu­on campus today and Friday, dent center the Board will also holding conferences in be examining data the finance Stapleton Lounge and meeting 
office has accumulated. with the different vice-presi­
"The Board will decide on dents and Eldred. budget approval that would include decisions on student 
Contact Sarah Nestor at 

fees and faculty salaries for 
Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

Ecology, Theology, and Judeo-Christian Environmental Ethics February 21-24, 2002 A Lilly Fellows Program in Humanities and the Arts National Research Conference at the University of Notre Dame 
Friday Morning Plenary Session:· Changing Scientific. Conceptions of Nature 
8:30 a.m.: From the "Balance ofNature" to the "Flux ofNature" 
Stuart Pimm, Columbia University 
10:30 a.m.: Rates ofChange ofNatural Ecosystems: The Impact ofHumans 
Gary Belovsky, University ofNotre Dame 
Friday Afternoon Plenary Session: Changing Conceptions of Nature in Historical Perspective 
1:00 p.m.: Changing Metaphors and Concepts ofNature Elspeth Whitney, University ofNevada, LasVegas 
3:00 p.m.: Ecology and American Social Thought Eugene Cittadino, NewYork University 
Saturday Morning Plenary Session: Changing Theological and Ethical Conceptions of Nature 
8:30 a.m.: Theology and Ecology in an Unfinished Universe 
John Haught, Georgetown University 
10:30 a.m.: Ecology and Society: 
The Challenge to andfrom Christian Ethics Larry Rasmussen, Union Theological Seminary 
Please visit our Web site, www.na.edu/-ecoltheo, for a complete conference description and the schedule of events. 
Sponsors of the Conference Major sponsors: 
Lilly Fellows Program in Humanities and the Arts ·The Erasmus Institute, University ofNotre Dame 
Notre Dame entitles: 
Office of the Provost • Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts • College of Science College ofArts and Letters • Graduate School Center for Environmental Science and Technology 



I Thursday, February 21, 2002 
COLOMBIA 
President breaks off peace process 
Associated Pres. 
BOGOTA 

President Andres Pastrana broke off the peace process with leftist rebels Wednesday night, hours after guerrillas hijacked a jetliner and kidnapped a promi­nent senator. 
In a nationally televised address, Pastrana gave the Revolutionary Armed Forces until midnight, three hours away, to abandon the vast safe haven he granted them at the beginning of the process. 
The military began immediate preparations to retake the safe Switzerland-sized area of jun­gle, mountains and cattle ranch­es in southern Colombia. Gen. Euclides Sanchez, the second in command of the army, was named to head the operation. 
There was no immediate reaction from the 16,000-strong rebel group. 
But the rapid moves indicates Colombia's 38-year-old civil war -which pits the U.S.-backed military and a brutal right-wing paramilitary group against the FARC and smaller guerrilla fac­tions -will intensify. 
Pastrana's announcement was greeted in Bogota by some dri­vers honking their horns. 
"This peace process didn't make sense because of the 
will inspire you to set goals and realize your dreams. 
Sponsors: Rest Buddies. Howard Hnll. the Center for Social Concerns. the Office for Students with Disabilities. Logan Club and the SMC Student Diversity Board 




I . · &,.,~Yo~,. .l;Q ~Saturday "b,,'E 12" February 23 
·j j: 7-9pm 11 
1

1 1: 
'1') !I Joyce Center Ice Rink II 
Open to all Notre Dame Studenti 
actions of the guerrillas," said shopkeeper Jaime Tapia. "It doesn't matter if there is a war. We are already at war." 
The highly organized hijack­ing angered a nation already fed up with peace talks that have gone nowhere, and appeared to be the last straw for Pastrana. 
"It's not possible to sign agreements on one side while putting guns to the heads of innocent people on the other," Pastrana said. 
In one of the most brazen attacks in a 38-year battle against the government, four rebels dressed in civilian clothes and armed with handguns seized control of the Aires air­lines flight, forcing it 11y into southern Colombia. 
Camouflage-clad rebels met the plane as it landed on a nar­row road near the town of · Hobo, clipping small trees before it came to a stop. The waiting rebels then whisked away the four armed hijackers and Sen. Jorge Gechen Turbay, 50, president of the Colombian Senate's peace commission. -
Gechen Turbay· is a member of a prominent political clan that has had several of its mem­bers killed and kidnapped by the FARC. Four other members of Congress are also being held by the rebels. 
"Corky" Thursday, Feb.21st 7:30p.m Stepan Center 
L(le Goes 011 actor Chris Burke 
The Observer . NEWS page 9 
States seek cremation reform 
Associated P«:s• 

The ghastly discovery of scores of bodies discarded in the woods near a Georgia cre­matory has illustrated what consumer advocates sav is a lack of state regulation and oversight of the industry. 
Eight states have no laws at all, and most of those that do, including Georgia. lack ade­quate enforcement, consumer advocates say. 
"Other than EPA emissions regulations, crematories are seriously under-regulated," said Lisa Carlson,. executive direcfor of Funeral Consumers Alliance, based in Hinesburg, Vt. "It's clear something needs to be done." 
Georgia lawmakers moved quickly this week to tighten rules for crematories and treatment of the dead after rotting corpses were found near the Tri-State Crematory in Noble. The bodies had been taken there for cremation but were left in garages, vaults or the woods. 
Ray Brent Marsh, the opera­tor. is charged with theft by deception for allegedly taking payment for cremations not performed and giving families wood chips or cement powder instead of ashes. 
One proposed law in Georgia would close a loophole that allowed crematories like Tri­State that do not open to the public for memorial services to operate without a license or state inspections. 
The bill would also broaden the definition of mistreating the dead to include abandon­ing or throwing away a body intended for burial or crema­tion. 
The Georgia case has high­lighted the disparities in state laws at a time when crema­tions are on the rise. Twenty­five percent of the 2.3 million people who died in the United States in 2000 were cremated, according to the Cremation Association of North America. The group estimates that fig­ure will double by 2025. 
Twenty-three states license their crematories, according to the association. 
Florida and California have the most comprehensive laws because they require inspec­tions, according to association executive director Jack Springer. He said California also requires that crematory operators pass training pro­grams. · 
In most of New England and Texas, state laws require cre­matories to be located at not­for-profit cemeteries. 
"In New England, where the majority of crematories are on cemetery grounds, you're not into the problems like in Ge-orgia," Carlson said. "It's much more out in the open. It's not hidden in some remote countryside location or ware­house." 
Eight states -Alabama, Maryland, Mississippi, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Utah, 
This Weekend in the Department of Music 
Sat. Feb. 23:  Anney Gillotte, voice recital  
w/ Kui Min, piano  
3 pm, Annenberg Auditorium  
Sat. Feb. 23:  Sean Lipscomb, trombone recital  
w/ Katie Badridze, piano  
5 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditmium  

Sun. Feb. 24: Aimee Szewka, voice recital 
w/ Mark Scozzafave, piano 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Sun. Feb. 24: ND Concert Bands 
4 pm, Washington Hall 
All concerts are free and open to the public Call 631-6201 for more information 
Vermont and West Virginia ­have no laws, Carlson said. Ohio has a 1998 law requiring crematory inspections but it has not been used because 
· licensing of inspectors has not been completed. 
Also, unlike funeral direc­tors, crematory operators are not subject to Federal Trade Commission consumer protec­tion laws mandating disclosure of consumer rights in writing. Carlson's group, which has 120 branches in 44 states, wants the same rules applied to crematory operators. 
Lawmakers in several states have said there should be stricter rules for punishing negligent crematories. In Michigan, for example, a law­maker who is also a funeral director wants to make negli­gent disposal of human remains punishable by up to 10 years in prison and a $50,000 fine. Such an act is not currently a crime in Michigan. 
Springer said problems of the sort seen in Georgia are rooted in the subcontracting system. In the Georgia case, about 25 to 30 funeral homes in Georgia, Tennessee and Alabama sent bodies to Tri­State for cremation instead of doing it themselves. 
"He said he was doing it. He wasn't doing it. Nobody checked him," Springer said. "What we need is people to be trained and be responsible for people they hire to do their cremations." 
Bob Fells, general counsel of the International Cemetery and Funeral Association, based in Heston, Va., said most states have good guidelines but do not enforce them. 
Congress has not debated crematory legislation in eight years. Fells, whose group has 6,000 members and lobbies on Capitol Hill, said he hopes the federal government stays ot1t of the issue. 
"We've always found that state regulation is more effi­cient and effective than federal oversight," he · said. "As 'bad as it is, the Georgia authorities are there on the scene." 
In Massachusetts. where there are 15 crematories, a state medical examiner must first visit the facility and inspect paperwork and view the body. 


page IO The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 21, 2002 
One of our job requirements includes "being yourself:' 

How can you grow as an individual if you're being forced into amold? At Ernst & Young, we empower you to push the boundaries. We offer the chance to generate creative ideas that really count. On our teams everyone has arole to play and something to contribute, so not only do you have avoice but you can make a difference with clients and co-workers alike. Break the mold. 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg
TOWORKFORN 
ey.com/us/careers 

i.lJ fRNSf& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT T_O FINISH.™ 

McCain decries donations 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Sen. John McCain said Tuesday he had been "taint­ed" by donations from Global Crossing, but never acted improperly on behalf of the trou­b I e d telecom­m uni ca­tions firm. 
T h e Arizona senator h a s received more money from Global Crossing than any other mem­ber of Congress. 
"I am tainted by this because I received money from them·" McCain told reporters after addressing a luncheon in Los Angeles about the need for campaign finance reform. 
"All politicians are under a cloud," he said, referring to campaign finance rules that allow corporations to give mil­lions of dollars to both parties. 
Global Crossing filed the fourth-largest bankruptcy case in U.S. history last month. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the FBI are investigating the com­pany's accounting methods. 
Global Crossing has made political donations of about $3.5 million during its five years of existence. 
McCain collected $31,000 from the firm's employees in March 1999 for his presiden­tial campaign. The same month he urged the Federal Communications Commission to open the market for laying undersea fiber optic cable, a market controlled by AT&T that Global Crossing was try­ing to penetrate. 
McCain said he never men­tioned Global Crossing specifi­cally to the FCC, but knew the firm would be the beneficiary of any reform. 
McCain said his request to open the market, made when he was chair of the commerce committee, was in line with his long-standing goal of industry deregulation. 
"My whole record has been for competition in telecom," he said. ''I've written hun­dreds of letters to the FCC on behalf of firms that have never given me a dime." 
The senator said he had never provided any favors to Global Crossing. 
Global Crossing. which filed the fourth-largest bankruptcy case in U.S. history last month, has made political donations of about $3.5 mil­lion during its five years of existenr;o. 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
~Hottesr lle!.llnmiu11s1Panhisl L<>WtJSI Prices Gw;r..mtcBd' Bes! Ai11ines/H,>ltils! Frne Food! 2·Frou Trirs on 15 Sale~. Earii Ca:;1,'1 Group Dlsco.u111:s! Ooul;-nnlinl!. www.sunsplashto11r,;.com 
1 ·800·42G· 7710 
JOBS 
)\\(llk111l'<.'Lkcl ti \I Figurl' Drnwing CL1'scs. $12/hr l'k:1SL' c.ill /\rt Dept. h3l-76l12 (,n 111h l\hk and Fl'!ll;1k !lltltkls nCl'Lkd 

Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 11 
States may raise cigarette taxes 
Associated Press 
Squeezed by the recession, nearly half of the states are looking at raising cigarette taxes to generate revenue and discourage people from' smok­ing, too, 
"We've never seen as many states looking at increasing cigarette taxes as a way to make up for fiscal deficits as we're seeing right now," said Janis Borton of the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
Twenty-two states are con­sidering proposals by gover­nors or legislators to boost cigarette taxes, according to the group. 
In Oregon. for example, Gov. John Kitzhaber is advo­cating a 50-cent-a-pack increase, despite protests from the tobacco industry that it would balance the state budget on the backs of smokers. 
Kitzhaber spokesman Jon Coney said the governor -a former emergency room 
physician  - views the  tax  
increase as a "two-fer" for  
Oregon.  

"It's a good way to bring in more money in the face of the recession," he said. "There is also a public health benefit. The higher the price of a pack of cigarettes, the fewer the people who will buy them and smoke them, particularly young people." 
Already this year, legisla­tors in New York state have approved a 39-cent-a-pack 
cigarette tax increase. Health officials have attrib­Beginning April 1, New York's uted the drop in the U.S. adult cigarette tax will become smoking rate during the $1.50 per pack, the highest in 1990s to a combination of the nation. high taxes, no-smoking laws Also, New York Mayor and public service campaigns. Michael Bloomberg wants to States that raise cigarette raise his city's tax on ciga­taxes not only generate more rettes from 8 cents per pack revenue but stand to save to $1.50. Combined with the money in the long run new 39-cent state cigarette because health care costs tax increase, the average cost associated with smoking dis­of a pack of smokes in New eases will go down as more 
York  city  people quit,  
w  o u  I  d  said  Dr.  
approach $7 -the highest  "If you don't want to  Thomas Houston.  
anywhere in the country.  pay for it, don't smoke."  head of the A M A ' s  
The tobacco  Smokeless  
industry has  States  pro­ 
been waging  Jesse Ventura  gram.  
a  state-by­ Minnesota Governor  Supporters  

state lobbying effort to try to snuff out the proposed increases. 
"We characterize what's going on as tax profiling," said John Singleton, spokesman for R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. "You're taking a small percentage of the popu­lation and singling them out for an additional tax burden that ultimately benefits the entire state;" 
Since 1993. the American Medical Association has advo­cated higher taxes on ciga­rettes as a way for states to raise hundreds of millions of dollars for state budgets while discouraging smoking. The idea picked up momentum after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks damaged the already weakened economy. 
of raising 
the cigarette tax have tried to sell it as a kind of voluntarv tax. 
"If you don't want to pay for it, don't smoke," said Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura, who wants to raise his state's cigarette tax by 29 cents. 
So far, the Republicans who run the Oregon Legislature have rejected Kitzhaber's pro­posal to raise the cigarette tax, saying they are against any tax increases. Kitzbaber also wants to increase Oregon's beer and wine tax. 
"Why not have a latte tax instead?" House Speaker Mark Simmons said. "It's very unfair to target one segment of society for tax increases. It's very demoralizing." 
HP workers oppose merger with Compaq 
Associated Press 

An independent poll commis­sioned by the son of Hewlett­Packard Co. co-founder David Packard found that almost two­thirds of HP employees in Oregon oppose the company's vigorously contested acquisition of Compaq Computer Corp. 
The survey, released Wednesday by Field Research Corp., challenged the company's assertion that most workers support the $21 billion purchase and gave the sons of HP's founders fresh ammunition in their increasingly acrimonious fight to sink the deal. 
HP dismissed the poll, saying it represented just one small set of its 88,000 workers. The com­pany also said the results might have been skewed because many respondents knew the poll was sought and paid for by David W. Packard, who has spo­ken out against the deal. 
Packard, who had said he commissioned the $100,000 sur­vey in hopes of getting an unbi­ased measurement of employee sentiment, did not return a mes­sage seeking comment Wednesday. 
From last Thursday through Monday, researchers at Field called randomly generated tele­phone numbers in and around Corvallis, Ore., where HP's printing division employs 4,200 people, mainly engineers and technicians. 
The 671 respondents -445 identifying themselves as HP workers and 226 as former employees -were asked about the deal and the leadership of chief executive and chairwoman Carly Fiorina. 
The poll reported that 63 per­cent of current employees oppose the deal, while 31 per­cent said they favor it. Six per­cent had no opinion or no com­ment. That section of the survey had a margin of error of five percentage points. 
Among retired employees, 59 percent were opposed and 20 percent in favor, with 21 per­cent offering no opinion. That category had a six percentage point margin of error. 
Although opposition among employees was widespread, older workers and those who have been with the company for more than 10 years tended to express greater displeasure with the deal. 
The survey is a statistically accurate reading of HP employ­ees in Corvallis but should not be considered representative of HP's entire work force, said E. Deborah Jay, president and CEO of San Francisco-based Field Research. 
The workers opposed to the deal had many of the same objections as its chief opponent, HP board member Walter Hewlett. 
Thirty-one percent of those against the deal said it didn't add enough value or they were worried about Compaq's prof­itability. 


O
THE t
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, February 21, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sou,h Dining Hall, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
K,-rry Smith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFadcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee 
SPORTS EDITOR, Noah Amstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR.f's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pecet Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
AD 0£SlGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROUER: Kevin Ry:in 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFf!CE MANt.GERiGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITOR!AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OmcE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports.l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.sccne.l@nd.edu SAINT MA.Rv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire at http://oburoer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
ooline features for spe­
and rates ofpcinr ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer 
a.cchives to search for 
to meet the editors and 
anicles published after 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contenc. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editoc in Chief, Managing Editor, Assist.int Managing Editor and deparunent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available wall readers. The free expres.sion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observerpolicies shoukl be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

Irish conflict offers perspective 
I traveled to Belfast in Northern Ireland with the Ireland Program about two weeks ago. I think it may be the most interesting place I've ever been, both for its own sake and for the insight it gives into 
Marlayna

other hotspots of 
the world. Soenneker 
Hopefully most people know some Here We Go of the history of Again: Letters 
Northern Ireland, From Exile 
but I'll summarize it briefly anyway. 
In 1921, the 26 counties of the Republic of Ireland won their freedom from Britain, but at the cost of the partitioning of the six counties that make up Northern Ireland. These counties remairn;d part of the United Kingdom because they were predomi­nantly Unionist and Protestant. However, a full one-third of the popu­lation of these counties was Catholic. 
Over the next 80 years, Catholics in those counties were oppressed and often persecuted. Starting in the mid­1960s, for a variety of reasons, they began to fight back. The Irish Republican Army (IRA) was reborn, and for 30 years Northern Ireland experienced "The Troubles," guerrilla warfare between the IRA, Britain's army, police forces and several Unionist paramilitaries. 
During the next 30 years, 3,500 peo­ple lost their lives, often dying on the streets of Belfast, victims ofshootings and bombs. Finally, in 1998, the most recent peace process started, and with the Good Friday agreement a cease­fire began. The violence in Northern Ireland has mostly stopped since then and the government is moving for­ward. 
Our visit there was amazing. I had expected this to be a quiet war, one that was no longer visible or perhaps never had been. I quickly realized how wrong I was when our tour of Belfast 
began with the guide pointing out an 
empty lot and telling us that it used to 
be the forensics mortuary until the 
IRA blew it up. 
The war that shook Belfast for so long is in no way hidden. Murals of paramilitary men with machine guns decorate hundreds of buildings, relat­ing their willingness to die for the cause to all who pass by. Almost every corner has its story of death and every street has run with blood. 
We met with a minister in the gov­ernment of Northern Ireland and dis­cussed the radical changes that the peace process has released. The for­mer leader of the IRA is now a minis­ter in the government. Thousands of prisoners convicted in connection with IRA and Unionist paramilitary crimes have been released, meaning that there are literally hundreds of convict­ed murderers on the streets in Northern Ireland. The concessions on both sides have been huge but neces­sary for peace. 
Northern Ireland is fascinating in its own right. The play between causes that both sides deeply believe in and the conviction that fighting destroys the things worth living for is impres­sive to see. But Northern Ireland also opens up a unique perspective into the conflicts the United States is currently involved in -Afghanistan and Israel. 
The perspective that Northern Ireland gives on Israel is both hopeful and depressing. Northern Ireland shows that, no matter how sharp the division or how long the conflict, even­tually people tire of the body bags. I find Northern Ireland hopeful because it lets me believe that eventually the people of Israel and Palestine will tire of war as well and will be ready to make the concessions necessary for peace. 
However, the same situation makes me ask just how long it may take for that spiritual exhaustion to set in. Northern Ireland has been struggling to be free for more than 200 years. The sheer length of this fight is fright­ening because, though the results give one hope that the fight will end in Israel, too, I have to wonder when that end will come. How many people will die before that time? How long will the Holy Land run with blood? 
The perspective on Afghanistan is equally disturbing. I know that I, growing up. always sided with the IRA, feeling that they were fighting for their freedom, religious and political. Historically, the American sympathy has been with the IRA. But the fact is that the methods they used -snipers, grenades, rockets, bombs -are the tools of terrorists. The IRA were ter­rorists, but because they were terror­ists that we agreed with in some way, we called them rebels, revolutionaries and freedom fighters. 
We are now a country firmly united against the evils of terrorism. Their means are cowardly, their aims evil and they represent all that is wrong with the human condition. But not more than 10 years ago, we were a country who not-so-secretly sided with a different set of terrorists. The juxta­position of the IRA and al-Qaida in this way forces us to ask some serious questions about our moral position. Can we truly claim the high ground against terrorism, or must we admit that, we, too, have supported some shady fights? 

Marlayna Ann Soenneker is a junior psychology and theology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Knights misunderstand free speech 
The letter from the Knights of Columbus printed Feb. 18, entitled, '"Monologues' deny Catholic values,"' shows a com­plete misunderstanding for the concept of free speech. While the letter makes the claim that the group celebrates free speech, it is clear from the letter that they celebrate only speech with which they agree. Complaints about the legitimacy of "The Vagina Monologues" as art and claims that the play expresses views which oppose the Church sim­ply lead me to believe that the Knights of Columbus wish to censor those views with which they disagree. 
Free speech is not valuable because every instance of its use is admirable; free speech is valuable because it creates an environment for discourse in which individuals may freely make an informed decision about which idea is best. If "The Vagina Monologues" is trash, then we ought to wel­come it here so that we may have an open disussion about why the play's thoughts do or do not coincide with Christian teaching. 
Likewise, if a pro-choice speaker wishes to come to Notre Dame, I welcome that speaker. I welcome that person not because I am pro-choice, but because I believe the discourse that follows makes it all the more apparent why one ought to be pro-life. 
Father Sorin wanted this to be a Catholic institution. The University is where the Church can do its best thinking. We are talking about the same church that. at one time, perse­cuted Galileo, forbid Catholics from reading "The Catcher in the Rye," and now some members of that church would like to forbid us from seeing "The Vagina Monologues." Do we ever learn from our mistakes? God help us if the Knights of Columbus become the authority on what is and is not art. 
Paul Schofield senior Keough Hall Feb. 18, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Andrew Thagard Meghanne Downes Justin Krivickas 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint 
Sheila Flynn 
Scene 
Matt Nania 
Graphics 
Jake Weiler 
Production 
Chris Federico 
Lab Tech 
Angela Campos 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When you do the common things in life in 
Should "The Vagina Monologues" 
an uncommon way, you will command the 
be performed at Notre Dame? 
attention ofthe world." 
George Washington Carver
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
agricultural scientist and activist 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 page 13 
Catholicism versus footballism 
I received an e-mail asking, "If foot­ball is not the heart and soul of the University, then what is?" This raises the issue of the relation of theology and football, and it might be an inter­esting experiment to try to map out the options. 
One: Notre Dame football is evil. One view is that foot­ball has a negative effect on the acad­emy that is so per­nicious that the game ought to be eliminated, or at least scaled down in the manner of the University of Chicago, once the home of the origi­nal "monsters of the midway" and the first Heisman Trophy winner, but now a Division III afterthought. 
Holders of this view may or may not be religious. The key is that the criti­cism accrues until it is understood that what is wrong with Notre Dame foot­ball is that it is a thing-in-itself evil, and so is at least a quasi-theological problem. Whatever gods there may be are against Division I football in gen­eral and Notre Dame football in par­ticular. 
Two: Notre Dame football is theolog­ically irrelevant. This view holds that football is an interesting game per­haps (and perhaps not). but God has little if anything to do with it, whether it is played at Notre Dame or not. There may be criticisms of how atten­tion to the sport at Division I schools negatively impacts the quest for learn­ing and involves exploitation of young men, but there may also be recogni­tion of how in some cases it makes higher education available to people who could not otherwise afford it. Adherents of this view may go to games, but may also find ethnographic observation of the crowd when outside 


the stadium more interesting. Three: Notre Dame football is part of 
a larger sacramentality. One of the 
claims made about Catholicism is that 
it is a "sacramental" faith. 
Catholics believe that 
because God made the 
world, the world can be a visible sign of 
God's ongoing 
activity. In the 
case of foot­
ball, the soli­darity, spirit · and athleti­I cism dis­
played on 
the field can be a 

sign, ' 
however imper­
l.J_'t 
follow­
fect, of 
~ . ?
God's 
ing the 
pres­
Florida
" 4.
ence 
State 

among ... 
victory.
.,,.,.
us. 
The

~ 
second

Because 1---~ 
~-t_ l)~
in this 
inflec­
ion
view 

t • ~,-Ritt~ 
mpha­
football is may have won more games than Notre Dame, hut God is clearly on our side. If, as happened in the 90s, we beat Florida State but then lose to 

nked Boston College on a ·ng quail field goal as clock expires, this ot a sign that God ors Boston Hege (a false ophet), but at God her does t hear 
r cries "How long?") 
or is punish­ing us 
for our pride 
part of a 
larger 

sacramen­
tality, there 
is no claim 
that God is 
invested in who 
wins. It is the 
theological version 
of, "It does not mat­
ter (in any ultimate 
way) whether you win or 
lose, but how you play the 
game." ----~ 
zes the ct that is foot­

11. Within tre Dame, tball is unique. Evidence of this is in the fact that in any given year football receives more ink in the South 
Bend Tribune than women's basketball even when 
Four: Notre Dame football is unique­ly sacramental. There are two inflec­tions of this view, and they are usually held together. The first inflection emphasizes the fact that it is Notre Dame. There may be football at Florida State, and in recent years they the latter is national champion. Other sports and activities may be interest­ing, but if they are sacramental at all, they are not so the way that football is. 
Football at Notre Dame is the eighth sacrament. This is footballism. 
Like with many issues, the two ends of the spectrum often seem to presup­pose that the middle two options do not exist. 
One e-mail in response to an earlier column charged that because I ques­tioned football's status as the heart and soul of the University, I must also simply not care about extra-curricular activities at all. But ! am really mostly of the third type. Notre Dame football, among other things, is part of a larger sacramentality. I remember Ron Powlus' first touchdown pass. It was long, but because it was towards the corner of the end zone, it required touch. It was beautiful, even inspiring. To paraphrase Freud, however, in most cases a forward pass is just a forward pass. I may want Notre Dame to win, but God, I think, is invested in other things. 
There are problems with footballism in addition to the fact that adding an eighth sacrament makes it a faith other than the Catholicism it claims. 
The first is that it can be a sign of (and mask for) a spiritual malaise. When footballists live and die vicari­ously through Notre Dame football, it raises the question of whether there is a lack of fullness in their own lives. The second problem is the use of the family metaphor by footballists as a marker for who is and is not a mem­ber of the University community. In this view, as one e-mail made clear, all who are not footballists place their membership in the "Notre Dame fami­ly" in doubt. 
It is good that more expansive understandings of membership in the community exist. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associ­ate professor of theology and the director of the program in Catholic social tradition. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at whitmore. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Bare in mind Jesus' humanity 
"What's the difference between Jesus and a picture frame?" 
When my friend followed with the punchline to this joke at a party, everyone in the room groaned or looked around nervously. They had trouble accepting a joke about their chosen savior. But why does humor about the 
Joe Muto 

Son of God make people uncom­
fortable? Who is this man that we ritualistically eat every 
Livin' on a

Sunday and Holiday? And why 
Prayer

does he taste like unsalted crack­
ers? 
Well I think that my 15 years of Catholic school education more than qualify me to answer these questions. So you theology professors with your fancy "degrees" and "knowledge" can just back off. 
The Jesus of "fact" is the one from the Bible. I don't know if anyone has actually read this obscure piece of literature called the New Testament, but what it gives is pure, uncut Christ. Jt's the Christ of history, the one that existed before the Catholics started making stuff up off the top of their heads (for example: "Okay, for Jesus' sake, let's not eat meat on Friday. Oh, also Jesus said that fish isn't meat, for some reason. Amen.''). 
This Christ is intense. This is a Savior who rocks. Ile hangs out with prostitutes. He can change water into liquor at will. He talks to the devil all the time. I love this Jesus. I want to hang out with this guy. Actually. half my friends are this guy. 
But of course, as soon as the Church grabbed hold of him, they took all the bite out of him. He was no longer the Jesus who helped wedding guests get drunk. He became the Jesus who loved you, despite having no idea where you've been. Instead of being the living, flawed Jesus, he became the dead, hang­ing-in-the-back-of -the-Church -with-surprisingly­nice-abs Jesus. 
I'll digress here to take issue with this. I don't have many details offhand about the second coming, but I'm relatively sure that if and when it happens, the last thing that Jesus wants shoved in his face for an autograph is a crucifix. It's just common sense that a returned dead person probably does not want a con­stant reminder of his own death. If Elvis came back to earth, I bet he'd be pretty miffed if all his fans were wearing little silver toilet bowls around their necks. 
Also, as far as idolatry goes, we're all going to hell. The image of the Jesus that we worship looks noth­ing like the actual Jesus. This may be partially for­given, however, as it is primarily a sin of the com­memorative plate industry. Think about it: Jesus the blonde, blue-eyed, gentle. bearded hippie looks a lot better above the fireplace than Jesus the sand-blast­ed, toothless Arab. The Franklin Mint is just going with what sells. 
Other images of Jesus are deceptive too. I'm sure you've all seen the picture of him sitting on a log stump, preaching to a crowd of white kids in modern clothing. This image is misleading at best. Most mod­ern parents, if given the choice, would not allow their son to sit on the lap of a thin, single man in his mid-30s, especially if his traveling companions were 12 other men. 
So why do all the~ skewed perceptions of the orig­inal Jesus exist? My hypothesis is that we're just try­ing to make the whole Jesus myth more personal and relevant. The whole shebazz is hard enough to swal­low as it is, so the powers that be saw no benefit in constantly reminding people that our Lord and Saviour is not white at all, but a Jewish Palestinian. 
That's why the people who scoff when Jesus is por­trayed as a black man or as a woman make me angry. It's a big enough leap of faith to decide that Jesus existed at all, so anything people do to person­alize the guy should make other Christians happy that the faith is expanding. 
The Church teaches that Jesus is both human and divine, but-the humanity often gets lost in the shuffle. All you humorless Catholics who write in to Viewpoint to complain about everything from "The Vagina Monologues" to the fans at basketball games, remember this: Jesus was a human, and unlike cer­tain RAs, he had a sense of humor. Lighten up a lit­tle. 
And next time you walk into a Church, look at the abs you could grate cheese on and remember one thing: It only takes one nail to hang a picture frame. 
Joe Muto is a sophomore FIT and English major. Contact Joe Muto at jmuto@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Thursday, February 21, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'I'm not a singer, not yet an actress' 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Editor 

"Crossroads" is abysmally bad. The trite MTV­hyped movie delivers little more than lame fairy tales for teens that can't even deliver a remotely coherent message. 
The movie begins by introducing three friends in 

"Crossroads" is Britney Spears' first major motion pic­ture. 
sixth grade burying a shoebox of mementos that characters have relatively complex, albeit pre­signify their aspirations for the future; the girls dictable, relationships and motivations, Rhimes make a pact to dig it up at midnight on the day of throws so many issues into the mix that they can their high school graduation. Flash forward. six only be addressed by the bluntest delivery possible. years and the three friends. the nerdy and sexually Every line contains far to much background infor­
curious valedictorian  virgin Lucy  mation to  be remotely believable as a  
(Britney Spears), prom queen perfec­tionist Kit (Zoe Saldana) and pregnant  "Crossroads"  real piece of dialogue. After the arduous and conveniently  
trailer-trash tough-girl Mimi (Taryn Manning), have drifted apart and are  ~  reoccurring "singing along to the radio in the car" scenes. the plot can only be  
barley speaking to each other.  out offive shamrocks  advanced by jump cutting to scenes in  
After Lucy makes an unsuccessful attempt to lose her virginity, the three· meet up to fulfill the pact (after Spears prances lithely around in her under­ Director: Tamra Davis Starring: Britney Spears, Zoe Saldana, Taryn  which the characters have been involved in a conversation for a number of hours, but the audience enters at the crucial moment.  
wear  for  two scenes). When. Mimi  Manning and Anson Mount  The producers of "Crossroads" seem  

reveals that she is heading to California with the mysterious Ben (Anson Mount) to participate in an MTV open music audition, the other two girls put their differences on hold and come along to fulfill their childhood dreams: Lucy wanting to reunite with her estranged mother who lives (conveniently on the way) in Arizona and Kit wanting to see her suspiciously absent fiancee at his college in Los Angeles. 
Of course, following in the footsteps of every teen road trip movie, the girls are required to use their wile and wit to make it to Cali: hilarity ensues -at least that's what it seems the film intends. In fact, "Crossroads" either has depressing subjects or it is simply not funny. Most of the laughs come from smart-ass comments audience members yell at the screen. 
The movie mostly takes place in conversations in hotels and in Ben's '70s cruiser (an automobile that apparently has a magic radio that always tunes in at the beginning of all pop songs and in which nobody, including the pregnant woman, ever needs to wear a seatbelt). And even with cockamamie excuses to have two musical numbers and two sex scenes with Spears (scenes that conveniently cut away before anything interesting happens), the movie drags its entire 90 minutes to a lack luster conclusion. 
The real problem with "Crossroads" is screenplay writer Shonda Rhimes' atrocious script. While the 
to think that this technique gives them license to start scenes with overly philosophical lines. The characters appear to be all too willing to tell their whole life stories at the drop of a hat, a convention that leads to some jarringly cumber­some and unrealistic lines. 
Of course, audiences shouldn't be surprised by he movie's blatant disrespect for their intelligences. After all, the theme song of "Crossroads" is Spears' 'Tm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman:" MTV Films couldn't have been more literal with the image they are attempting to force feed the pre-teen to teen target demographic. 
Further, "Crossroads" fails to make an intelligent or touching point. In the end, all the girls have a perfect resolution to their problems, which remark­ably degrades the significance of the heavy issues the movie wishef to address such as rape, teenage pregnancy. fidelity and chastity. 
Incidentally, Spears proves herself to be an ade­quate actress; after all, she does play Britney Spears everyday. But even Spears' perky "not so innocent" breasts (which drastically change size throughout the movie) cannot save "Crossroads" from forever being referred to as Britney's biggest bust ever. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Comedy 'Super' team needs backup 
being the flashback clip shown as the cred­
By MATT NANIA 

its are rolling. As for the stuff in between. 
Scene Movie Editor 

it's mostly hit and miss. 
The story is of the shallow "Police 
In an age when a teen comedy film is Academy" variety: Broken Lizard's cast released every other week and the kind of members (Jay Chandrasekhar, Kevin toilet humor made famous (or at least re­Heffernan, Steve Lemme, Paul Soter and invigorated) by the Farrelly Brothers has Erik Stolhanske) play Vermont highway uncomfortably found its home on patrolmen who seem to enjoy their job only Hollywood Boulevard, "Super Troopers" when they pull stunts on unsuspecting seems to have a lot going for it. civilian drivers. They're more willing to see 
Not the product of some major studio, how many times they can say "meow" dur­"Super Troopers" is the work of the ing their interrogation of the driver than Broken Lizard comedy actually hand out a ticket troupe (think Kids in the -that is, until the gover­Hall but less bizarre) and ''Super Troopers" nor threatens to shut was picked up by Fox down the patrol and hand 
& 4~&

Searchlight after being ~~vr ~ over their duties to the screened at last year's out offive shamrocks corrupt local police force. Sundance Film Festival. 
Director: Jay Chandrasekhar But don't get too bogged 
While the potential is down by the plot, since
Starring: The Broken Lizard
there for perhaps anoth­enjoyment of the movie
comedy team, Marisa Coughlin
er "Caddyshack," the hinges on everything but movie falls way short of and Brian Cox logic. The story itself is 
the mark, quickly resort­just a premise to string ing to the over-the-top nature that teen along a series of gags that amount to not Dims generally adhere to. much more than high school-style pranks 
The opening scene of the movie is taken and hazing exercises. Yes kids. there is a bit of gratuitous nudi­Broken Lizard seem more suited to the right out of the trailer. Three stoned col­Like their adolescent brethren, Broken ty, but most notably the full-frontal male world of sketch comedy than attempting to lege kids are heading to Canada when they Lizard dive head-on into jokes ranging nudity of the Chris Farley-esque Heffernan. piece together a full-length feature for the are pulled over by the local Highway from rampant drug and alcohol abuse and It's not pretty. silver screen. Patrol. masturbation to bestiality (pretending to And while there are moments that will 
This segment has to rank as the best have sex with a bear is pure cinematic have you laughing out loud -the bullet scene in the movie, with a close second genius). proof jock strap is particularly amusing -Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, February 21, 2002 
Biggest in the East 
For 5 years, the 
' •.
womens swzm team has dominated the Big East Championships. Now, the Irish want to take on the nation. 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
Sitting around their house late one 
weekend, Carrie Kixon and Tara 
Riggs decided to play a game. 

Coming off a 201-99 dual meet slaughter of Northwestern, a Big Ten and NCAA powerhouse team, their confidence was flying high. Just for fun, Nixon and Riggs decided to see if the Irish could measure up -or even beat -the fastest teams in the country. 
After all, if Northwestern wasn't a chal­lenge, someone had to be. 
So they looked up the results of a match­up between USC and Stanford, and com­pared them to the results of the Northwestern meet. 
The result? If both teams swam the same times in the fictitious meet, Notre Dame would have come out on top of the rrinth-ranked USC. 
The outcome ignited the team. 

'The next day at practice, they came in and said if we had swam them, we would have beaten them," said senior Kelly Hecking. "Everybody was like, 'Wow ... we could be ranked [higher]."' 
It may have been a fantasy competition, but the results told the Notre Dame squad what it already knew -that they had the capacity to compete on a national level. 
Since landing a No. 13 national ranking at the beginning of the season, the women's S¼imming and diving team has been on a mission to command the respect of national-caliber programs. 
At a goal meeting at the beginrring of the season, the team aimed to place in the top 10 at the NCAA meet at the end of the sea­son. 
Working toward that goal meant shifting the focus of team goals towards the NCAA meet rather than putting the season's emphasis on the Big East conference meet. 
It's a goal that has been casually tossed around on the team since the current senior class came in to Notre Dame in 1998. But this yeru·, the pieces have begun to fall intei place. Instead of just dreaming, they want to make it a reality. 
"Since my freshman year, we've wanted to move to be an NCAA-focused team," co­captain Riggs said. "Each year, we become that a little more and more. This year, we saw I.he talent in our team, and the coach saw the talent in our team. We just needed to see it in each other ... and we have." 
"We really believe that we belong in NCAAs," Nixon said.. "We've said that is our meet, we belong with those girls, we belong in finals. Before we just said that we hope we make the meet. It's a huge mental difference." 
Biggest in the East 
They may dream of being among the best in the country, but to get there, Notre Dame has had to be the big fish swin1ming in a small pond. 
Capturing its first Big East Championship 

., in 1997, Notre Dame has quickly estab­lished its dominance in a conference that hasn't been a top contender at the NCAA Championship. And on the brink of adding a sixth con ­secutive championship to Notre Dame's list this weekend, the swimmers know that it's getting to be a familiar feeling. "It is comfortable," said co-captain Maureen Hillemneyer. "It's hard for me to say that, but that's how it's been all of my years here. We've just known it's going to be pretty easy for us to win." Notre Dame's consistent dominance in the Big East meet is a relatively new trend, however. Despite five titles, the Irish don't hold the Big East record for most conference titles. Pittsburgh has the most team titles with eight. After the Irish stepped onto the top ofthe podium for the first time in '97, Nixon remembers stepping on deck with a team in 1998 that wasn't sure it could repeat. The thought of making a team presence at NCAAs wasn't even an afterthought. "It was a big thing for them to win," said Nixon, the only fifth-year senior on the 2002 squad. "They weren't sure if they could do it again." The shift in attitude on the team since then has been apparent. Nixon said. "We've evolved from being in a competi­tion where it's anyone's meet to this year ­where it's totally dominating," Nixon said. "We're going out to win the meet, but it's not our ultimate goal." Despite Notre Dame's comfortable victo­ries, a more competitive meet has emerged in the past two years after conference administrators decided to change the qual­ification standards for the meet. Since women began swimming at the meet in 1983, teams were allowed to bring 
set numbers of swimmers and divers to the meet. Now, athletes have to make time cuts -eliminating dead weight from the 
competition. 
"It's not really increasing the quality. but focusing-the quality," said Jim Siedliski, assistant commissioner for sport adminis­tration at the Big East. "The quality has always been there. If you look at a meet that has 500 entrants. the 350 who make the cut are still going to be there. The 150 . who are there for a participatory aspect are not." 

Virginia Tech's debut at the meet last year -highlighted by a runner-up perfor­mance -has also made the meet more competitive. But it was the entrance of Notre Dame eight years ago that changed the tone of the conference meet, Siedliski said. 
"It changed the intensity of the meet," Siedliski said. "Pittsburgh were the big guys on campus. Once ND came in there, was a run for the money. Now when you step in the aquatic center, it's just amaz­ing." 
The conference has vet to make the shift to competing seriously on the national level, although the swimmers that have gone from the conference have been suc­cessful, Siedliski said. 
..We don't send a lot of s¼immers, but the ones we do send make a lot of noise," he said. 
Many of Notre Dame's swimmers hope that if they do earn a top 10 team finish at NCAAs, it will make a statement for the conference. 
"It's not known as a svvimming confer­ence, but it's definitely headed in that direction," Nixon said. "It takes one team breaking out, one team being on the NCAA level." 
Staying in the Fast Lane 
The ultimate goal for the championship this weekend is getting as many people qualified as possible for the NCAA meet in March. 
Eight swimmers -seniors Hecking, Nixon, Allison Lloyd, sophomores Lisa D'Olier, Laurie Musgrave, Lisa Garcia and frnshmen Kristen Peterson and Kelli Barton -have all made consideration times for the meet, and sophomore Marie Labosky has already earned an automatic time in the 400-yard individual medley. 
It's the most cuts the Notre Dame squad has ever had going into the conferenr,r meet, and that will give the swimmers aiming for automatic cuts something to fight for. 
"ThP thing that's different this year is that we have potential to take a dozen or more girls to NCAAs," Hillenmeyer said. "It forces us to focus more on making our NCAA cuts." 
The swimmers who have consideration times will have to swim automatic times to be guaranteed a spot at the national meet, making this .weekend's competition criti­cal. 
Maintaining focus throughout the meet has been something head coach Bailey Weathers has tried to emphasize to the team. 
"We've talked a lot about staying focused through all three days of the meet," Weathers said. "It's the only chance we have to prepare for NCAAs. If you're going to feel comfortable at the NCAA meet, you have to feel comfortable on the conference level." 
While the goal this weekend is making the times for the national meet, the team does have ~o keep its eyes on the team scores. 
"We certainly want to win the meet, and we know what we have to do to win the meet. The danger is if you're ahead halfway through the meet, you don't ever want to take it for granted," Weathers said. 
But even with five straight titles behind them, this weekend's meet will not be all easy races for the Irish. Labosky will face another tight race with Sydney Olympian and Villanova swimmer Maddy Crippen, who edged Labosky by a hundredth of a second in the 400-yard individual medley at Rolf.c; Aquatic Center earlier tllis season. 
Nixon, the conference record holder in the 100-yard freestyle, will be contested by Miami's Manon Van Rooijen, currently ranked ahead of Nixon by more than a second. 
But if they can bring home another tro­phy, they know that even though it's a familiar feflling to win, it never gets old. 
"Each race is a different race, each year is a different year," Nixon said. "You feel different, you race ·different, every time. To stand up there you say, 'I overcame the problems this year.' It really never gets old." · 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmai-ys.edu. 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Strength in numbers 
By sending the most swimmers 
ofany Big East team, the Irish look 
to reclaim their runner-up finish 
by surprise last season," said senior
By SHEILA EGTS frecstyler Austin Anderson. "We felt we 
Sports Writer 
· gave the meet away in areas that we 
shouldn't have." The Irish swimmers are pulling out According to Welsh, the Trish face a 
their razor blades and shaving tightly packed field of competition from 
cream this week to trim more than second place down to seventh. and scor­just the hair on their faces. Like all the ing the meet on paper right now would competitors headed to the Big East give second place to Virginia Tech. Championships in Uniondale, N. Y., the . But the meet won't be won on paper. Irish a.re shaving their legs in strategic It will be determined in the water this preparation. weekend. 
The shaving process -a ritual for "We've been over this meet so many 
male swimmers -is done once a season, times and the other teams are clearly right before the championship meet. By seeded ahead of us in the relays," said ·making the skin sleeker, it can trim valu­Welsh. "So that is an indicator of how able fractions of seconds off race times. the season has gone, but in real life it 
But with a deep team of 20 swimmers just means the race is on." 
and three divers traveling to compete at The competitive entry times have not 
Big East, the Irish have a greater advan­flustered the Irish, who are feeling up to 
tage than just silky smooth legs. the occasion after a team meeting for 
According to head coach Tim Welsh, motivation and goal setting on Feb. 11. the Irish appear positioned for a strong Senior co-captain Mike showing at Big East. Koss said the team Although none of his voiced nothing but pos­
"We've been over this 

swimmers are seeded itive comments and
meet so many times and 
first in any event, the . concerns, emphasizing team qualified more the other teams are its strength in num­swimmers and one bers.
clearly seeded ahead of 
more diver than any "We ended our 
us in the relays. So that 
other team. meeting with the typi­Since the Irish is an indicator ofhow the cal Irish cheer and I returned to campus in remember it being
season has gone, but in 

January after training resoundingly loud,"
real life it just means the
in Florida, the men said Koss. "We've got have accumulated four race is on. no injuries, no sickness consecutive dual meet and nothing holding us victories and posted back."
Tim Welsh

consistently faster In addition to depth,
Irish head coach

times each week. the team is looking 
"Our training camp towards standout 
was a springboard to juniors Andy Maggio 
increase our momen-and Jason Fitzpatrick 
tum," said sophomore freestyler Matt for major contribution to the scoreboard. 
Obringer. "We bonded and we have real­Maggio has led the team with consistent­
ly been working as a unit since then." ly high scores all year, and set University 
The Irish will ride this momentum as -records in the last several dual meets. 
they attempt to race their way back to Based on his improved times over the 
the No. 2 spot in the Big East. They will past three years, Fitzpatrick is confident 
focus on battling closely-ranked Virginia that he will also be considered for a pos­
Tech, while closing the gap on Pittsburgh, sible NCAA invitation in the 100-or 200­
the defending champion. yard breaststroke. 
The Irish placed second in 1999 and Obringer scored points for the Irish last 
2000, but they walked away with an year with eighth-place finishes in the 
unexpected fourth-place team finish last 200-and 500-yard freestyle, but he is 
year, only a half a point ahead of looking to place in the top five coming 
Rutgers. back as a sophomore. 
"The fourth-place finish really took us The outcome will also rely heavily on the team's strength in the relays and dis­tance events with big performances from senior co-captain Jonathan Pierce. 


Pierce will challenge defending champi­on Eric Llmkemann of Pittsburgh in the 1,650-yard freestyle Saturday to reclaim the first-place title he held both freshman and sophomore year. Pierce is seeded third in the event, but he has an entry time less than a second shy of Virginia Tech's Greg Kubovcik. 
"I think I became complacent after win­ning both my freshman and sophomore 
year, but I am really gunning for first 
this time," said Pierce. · 
The Big East race also marks the last 
shot Pierce has to gain an invitation to 
the NCAA Championships in late-March. 
Pierce has been within consideration 
time for the 1,650-yard freestyle for the 
past two years. but not close enough to 
make the automatic cut. 
"Qualifying [for NCAA] has been a 
hugf\ goal for me since my freshman 
year." said Pierce. "I think the best way 
lo get there is to focus and keep doin,g it 
for the team. You feel so much fast.er is 
you are doing it for the team rather than 
for individual times." 
After four years of coaching Pierce, 
Welsh praised him for the disciplined 
work ethic he has maintained through­
out his entire senior season and hopes 
Pierce will swim a lifetime best time at 
Big East. 

"It would be a wonderful tribute to his 
career ifhe could qualify," said Welsh. 
Pierce is the onlv one of Notre Dame's 
five seniors who h·as this opportunity for 
an extended season with an NCAA invita­tion. For the rest, this last career s,vim is a nostalgic experience. 
Senior David Horak, seeded third in the 100-yard backstroke, was sick with mononucleosis 'last season and was not able to race at Big East. Horak said the pressure from a fast, condensed group of swimmers will make the race exciting ­and hopes to finish his career on a high note. 
"It was hard watching my teammates and not being able to swim myself [last year]," said Horak. "It's been two years since I've had a big meet and I just want to show everyone on the team, in the Big East and back home that I can still do it." 
The realization of this last meet has not 
-
set in for senior Elliot Drury, who has family traveling to New York from the West Coast to support him at Big East. 
"During my three years, I never thought about what it would be like to be swimming my last race," said fellow senior Anderson. "I don't think it will hit me until l step out of the pool for the last time on Saturday." 
Koss will be competitive in the 200­yard breaststroke, but emphasized that the team goals are more important to him as he leads his team in this final meet. 
"This is a culmination of all my training and all ofmy experiences," said Koss. "As senior captain, it's about more than just 
-
fast times. It's about getting the team inyolved, pushing other guys and seeing our team do well as a whole." 
The meet begins this morning with pre­liminaries at 10:30 a.m. and with finals at 

6:30 p.m. ­
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 
-

~ 

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Thursday, February 21, 2002 
Performances to watch 
WOMEN'S TEAM 

Carrie Nixon 

Nixon returns to conference com­petition to reclaim her sprint titles after sitting out last year with a shoulder injury. But thA fifth-year senior faces a challenge in the 100­yard freestyle, seeded second after Miami's Mann Van Rooijen. 
Heather Mattingly 
The most decorated diver at Notre Dame, MatLingly looks to crack into the top places of Big East diving com­petition. After a fifth place on the 3­m4:lter board and a sixth place on the 1-meter board last year, the senior wants to end with a high finish. 
Marie Labosky 
Labosky earned her ticket to the NCAA Championship in the 400-yard individual medley swimming against Olympian Maddy Crippen. Losing to Villanova's Crippen by a hundredth of a second, Labosky will look to defeat her al. the championsllip. 
Kelly Hecking 
The senior hopes to defend her title in the 100-yard backstroke. flecking is seeded first by more than a second, but she'll race the clock to drop fractions of seconds to earn an automatic bid to the NCAA Championship. 
-
-Do it all night long 
MEN'S TEAM 

Jonathan Pierce 
After Pittsburgh's Eric Limkemann defeated Pierce in the 1,650-yard freestyle at Big East last season, Pierce is taking a last stab at winning his champion title in the event. The senior will attempt a lifetime best time to qualify for the NCAA in March. 
Andy Maggio 
Seeded first in both the 1-and 3­meter diving events, Maggio will draw attention and points for the Irish. He has led the team in diving aJI year and set Notre Dame records in several of the final dual meets of the regular season. 
Jason Fitzpatrick 
Fitzpatrick's main focus is his per­formance in the 100-and 200-yard breaststroke where he is approach­ing NCAA qualifying times. He will be racing in a total of five events to con­tribute team points across the board. 


Relays 
The Irish relays will be a crucial component at Big East because relay events are scored higher than indi­vidual races. To place high in team standings, the Irish will have to be a force in the relay events. 


The Observer's 35th one more Anniversary Reunion 
time. 
Arril 20, 2002 
'It 

-
South Bend Marriott 
-
e-mail obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information or to RSVP 
..---------------------------------------------------------------·­
O
THE BSERVER 

----------~ 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 page 15 

Two TICKETS FoR: "JOHN Q" 
Hollywood healthcare 
This week, Melissa Rauch (MR) and Paul Camarata (PC) bring you "John Q." a story about a hostage situa­tion in which the really crazy people are the ones sur­rounding the guy with the gun. 'teah. we're talking to you Anne Heche -or should we say, Celestia? 
MR: The premise of "John Q" is sim­
ple. A desperate father with an 
inadequate HMO policy will do any­
thing to keep his dying child alive, in 
this case, taking a hospital emer­gency room hostage until the pow­ers that be agree to give his son a 
heart transplant. The previews pre­
pare viewers for some clichcd melo­
drama. plenty of schmaltzy taglines 
and a farfetched plot, but most, like 
myself, probably assumed that the gifted cast could pull it off anyway. So now I'm left to wonder how, with such talent involved, could this film 
have gone so wrong? 
PC: It's called bad direction. "Q" cannot be taken seriously because director Nick Cassavetes takes a good premise and in moments that are rife with tension, drowns the drama in lame jokes from cartoonish characters. Cassavetes is a wild pitcher, whose imprecision is a direct result of over-consciously aiming when he should be instinctively throwing. 
MR: From the film's opening sequence set to off-putting opera music that doesn't match the onscreen action, he never finds the correct tone to tell his story. These stylis­tic errors, however, nicely compliment the poor editing and implausible plot from which the film also suffers. For instance, the critical scene in which John single­handedly seizes control of the emergency room is jumpy and hard to follow. The lack of establishing shots and minimal verbal explanation make it impossible for the viewer to understand where John and his captives are in relation to the rest of the hospital, which presumably includes his family. 
PC: Taking over an entire hospital shouldn't be as easy as chaining two doors and getting an obese rent-a-cop to shut down the elevator. Most hospitals are like mini­cities, with a network of corridors, exits, back-up power supplies and insufficient parking. Except for Cassavetes Memorial, which has all the complexity of a Lego lemon­ade stand. 
MR: We could spend all day nit-picking the logistical blunders; let's turn to the thematic problems. The injus­
tices of U.S. privatized health-care seems to provide more than enough fodder for dramatic rhetoric and social commentary (which the film takes advantage oO, yet Cassavetes feels it necessary to comment on every social ill currently plaguing the country. The filler scenes where John and his hostages wax philosophic about all these problems are particularly annoying. The screen­writer, John Kearn, is largely to blame for this overall failure. 

PC: Cassavetes may not have written the sappy outbursts and divergent ideological diatribes that pop up throughout the dia­logue, but he certainly allowed them to make the final cut. About the only thing that Cassavetes did capably was keep race out of' the issue. The trials of a black family against the evil American bureaucratic infrastruc­ture are always going to have the whiff of subliminal racism, but Washington's John Archibald never seems racially motivated. The Archibalds' best friends are white; they worship with whites; John is turned down for a second job by a black man, pursued by a black policeman and holds both blacks and whites among the hostages. The race card is about the only one Cassavetes leaves in the deck by the movie's end. 
MR: I don't know about that. Maybe he didn't play the card, but he certainly flashed it a little. He keeps the minor characters racially balanced in both positive and nega­tive lights, but it seems like he purposely did that to blur the situation and make it OK that all the real villains of the film are rich, privileged whites. 
PC: Yes, the different races are there. but their characters are otherwise so stock that any implication is never really fulfilled. They're bland enough, in fact, that Washington and Liotta could arguably swap roles without drastically altering the plot. 
MR: Please. Denzel is a well-respected actor. Liotta has become a complete carica­ture of the presence he once commanded as an actor. His recent acting choices, most notably his role in "Hannibal" and his 
Denzel Washington plays a desperate father in the manipulative
pitiable guest appearances on "Just Shoot 
hostage drama "John Q."

Me," have turned him into a Hollywood joke. 

PC: What you fail to acknowledge, Mel. in a glaring injustice to the artist and the man, is his contribution to the pantheon of phraseology. The quip, "Yeah, he had that Ray Liotta look in his eye," is the stuff of eulogies and tombstones. There's a reason that all they ever ask him to do is be a pompous, impulsive, cackling quasi­lunatic who throws around the term "ball-breaker:" because no one in Hollywood does it better. 
MR: Well since you're in the mood to defend casting decisions, riddle me this: Why did they cast Gary Coleman as John Q's son? 
PC: That wasn't Gary Coleman, Mel. It was Webster. 
MR: Au contraire. You've mixed up your 
diminutive, adopted '80s TV children. 
Llttle Mikey Archibald (Daniel E. Smith) 
is the spitting image of Coleman, star of 
"Different Strokes." I kept expecting him to say "What you talk­ing 'bout John Q?" Despite this distrac­tion, the kid actually does some of the bet­ter acting in. the movie. With a cast that features Washington. Robert Duvall and James Woods, that's pretty 
patheti~• 


"John Q" 

MR: They probably realized their movie
Melissa's rating 

had become a mess and just started phoning it in. I really wanted to like "John Q" and was willing to overlook a 
Paul's rating 

little implausibility and even accept some ttirtl\¾'$1, preaching in return for a gut-wrenching
\~""'I 

or heartwarming drama, of which "Q" is
out of five shamrocks 

neither. lt had the potential, but gets lost 
Director: Nick Cassavetes 
along the way. 
-
Starring: Denzel Washington, Ray Liotta, Robert Duvall and PC: The images suggest a film about the 
Anne Heche 
PC: I went in expecting Denzel to pull one of his "pick-up-Plymouth-Rock­and-chuck-it" routines. but he never approached that fury. He's the head­liner among these titans but still came out looking half-baked. 
MR: I thought Washington actually did a decent job of mixing subdued determination and fierce outrage. He's great at playing the everyman driven to extraordinary measures. He is believable in his desperation to save his son and his portrayal is as realistic as the flawed script allows. In my opinion, the biggest acting disappointment came from Duvall, who normally excels in the sharp, supporting character role. Rather than act, he chooses to mug for the camera worse than Jim Carrey. What would Don Corleone say? 
PC: How about, "You're outta the family." As Lleutenant Frank Grimes, Duvall is supposed to sound like a griz­zled Windy City cop but uses an inexplicable accent to deliver lines that are thin crust when they should be Chicago deep dish. His bickering is half-hearted, his con­cessions come easy and, for a supposed hostage negotia­tor expert of 35 years, he shows all the poise of a space monkey. Name value or not, all of the actors under­
achieve. 
-
boundaries in society: a hospital curtain; 
conflicting parties on opposite sides of 
tables and telephones; a reflection of a challenged and contemplative John; the cruel realities of crunching numbers. Cassavetes' agenda is cleai' and acceptable, at least until its subtle political undertones 
-
become loud and schizophrenic. The director uses good footage of George W. Bush, Senator Hillary Clinton, Bill Maher and even a background tune from rising rocker Pete Yorn. to anchor his piece in the immediate present. Were it not for his reckless direction-and the volatility of international politics since this film presumably went into production -"Q's" theme might actually raise the muck it was clearly intended to. 
Mel and Paul remind you that guns don't kill people, but movies like this one might. Contact them at mrauch@nd.edu and pcamarat@nd.edu. 
-
O
THE 
BSERVER 


-
Thursday, February 21, 2002 page 16 
A play in strange coIDpany 
The Moreau Seminary produces 'The Odd Couple' this weekend 
By KATIE RAND 
Scene Writer 

..,, 
By watching co-directors Nate Farley and Matthew Vereecke observe their actors during a rehearsal, it is easy to see why the pair chose this product.ion. Farley, up-front and not hesitant to speak his mind, makes Vereecke look quiet and reserved. It is fitting then, that the produc­tion being put on by the Moreau Seminary Players this year is "The Odd Couple." 
The Seminary picks up the cost of the play out of its yearly budget, so every penny earned at the door is donated directly to the missions. 
"The play doesn't cost much to put ..,n," Farley, a Moreau Seminary candidate, said. "The scripts were cheap, the rights were inexpensive, and we made the set ourselves. We were pretty frugal with our budget." 
The budget did not have a negative effect on the play however because the set only needs to resemble the living room of a twelfth floor apartment; a task that did not prove to be too difficult. The director of maintenance at the Seminary built the set's walls. and the two red doors are from last year's Pasquerilla East Music Company's production of"Guys and Dolls," 

--
-

a play with which Farley was involved. 
"We did all the set design ourselves," Vereecke said. "We only used props and furniture that we found around the Seminary." 
The table and chairs came from the din­ing room, the sofa was picked up from a lounge and the bookshelves were "bor­rowed" from friends' rooms. 
The script for "The Odd Couple" was written in the late '60s by playwright Neil Simon and has since been adapted by other writers into two television series. two films and a version of the play in which the main characters are women. 
The plot revolves around the lives of two men, Oscar Madison and Felix Unger, who hold a weekly poker night in Oscar's apart­ment with four other friends. One night the group is stunned when Felix does not show up and they are shocked to discover that he has been thrown out by his wife and is now a divorcee like Oscar. Oscar, feeling badly for his long-time friend, allows Felix to move into his apartment. The only prob­lem is that the men are as different as day and night. Felix is precise, extremely neat and anal retentive while Oscar is sloppy and carefree. Their clashing lifestyles lead to inevitable conflicts as well as a hilarious road to resolution. 
Old College sophomores Jeff Drocco and Tim O'Malley play Felix and Oscar, respectively. Both men agree that the production has taken a lot of time and effort, but they are pleased with how the play has turned out. 
"It's been pretty impossi­ble," O'Malley said. "We have a lot of late night rehearsals since we all 

have such busy schedules, but it's been worth it." Drocco agrees with his onstage room• mate . 
"Just because you're in the Seminary doesn't mean you can't have a sense of humor," Drocco said. "Up until recently, plays were very common among seminar­ies. It was thought to be good for public speaking." 
In fact, hosting a play is a newly rekin­dled tradition for the Seminary. For a time it was held annually, but was put on hold until last year. 
"It used to be more or less a tradition, but it has kind of fallen off in recent years," Farley said. "Last year we revamped the Moreau Players and did 'Twelve Angry Men,' a production that raised around $2,000 for Holy Cross Missions." 
Prior to "Twelve Angry Men," (starring Vereecke) the last play put on by the 
· Seminary was none other than "The Odd Couple," a production in which Father Gary Chamberland, the rector of Keenen Hall, played Felix. 
"Last semester Matt and I poured through scripts. We looked at play after play," Farley said. "Finally we came across 'The Odd Couple' and thought it would be great for us to do." 
Auditions were held in the middle of the fall semester, with rehearsals commencing shortly there after. Six of the actors are in the Seminary. including Drocco and O'Malley as well as Brian Flaherty, Mike MacDonald, Tom Prall, and Robbv Davidson. Stage manager Charles Rittert is a freshman in Old College. 
Notre Dame sophomores Gabby Sopko and Krista Seidl play the two female roles, sisters Gwendolyn and Cecily Pigeon. 
"We chose people we were already 
f 

familiar with and who we knew would be able to keep up with our weird practice schedule without being easily intimidated," Vereecke, an Old College sophomore, said. "Gabby and Krista have been absolutely excellent and very flexible. They've been roommates for two years so they work well together and already get along like sis­ters." 
The girls, friends· of O'Malley and Drocco, joined the production for some­thing fun to do in their free time. 
"It's a pretty low pressure production and seemed like a lot of fun," Seidl said. "I thought it would be a good way to get act­ing experience and I already knew the guys really well." 
Sopko auditioned just for fun as well, although she already has some acting experience under her belt. She took a the­atre class last semester and is currently a member of the University of Notre Dame Humor Artists. Experience, however, is not a requirement to put on a successful show. 
"One of the strengths of the production is that we don't have formal training," Parley said. "We put a lot of work into this and in the end we're pulling off a great show." 
The Moreau Seminary production of "The Odd Couple" is being described as the funniest show you'll ever see in a semi­nary, but that is up to this weekend's audi­ences to decide for themselves. 
Performances are tomorrow and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the Moreau Seminary Auditorium. Admission is free, with a freewill offering for Holy Cross Missions. 
Contact Katie Rand at rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 

-
Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
,,._ 
NBA 
Jackson expands trade list 
Associated Press 
PHU.ADELPHIA 

Golden State center Marc Jackson expanded his trade list Wednesday to include Utah, New Jersey, Milwaukee, and Seattle, while the Boston Celtics pulled off a trade with Phoenix and acquired Rodney Rogers and Tony Delk. 
Jackson has the right to veto any trade, and 
he has ''It's getting to the point 
score from
expanded his 
where I'm doubting the outside,
original list 
whether anything will get one of
of three 
whom.
acceptable done." 
Rogers, also
teams 
is a muscu­
Memphis. 
Scott Botman lar addition
Indiana and 
to Boston's
Orlando -agent 
to include New York, Philadelphia and Phoenix, along with the Jazz, Nets. Bucks and Sonics. 
"I would think there's a good chance he'll probably get traded. That's what he wants, and to a certain degree that's what we want," Golden State coach Brian Winters said. 
So while it appeared that Jackson would get his wish before Thursday's 6 p.m. NBA trading deadline, the prospects of Nick Van Exel getting traded were dealt a serious blow when he refused to waive enough guaranteed money to satisfy the Boston Celtics, who were prepared to make a deal with Denver. 
Van Exel had said he would forfeit some of his guaranteed $26.5 million over the final two years of his contract, which runs through the 2004­05 season 
"What I can confirm is accurate is that Nick is not willing to give up what Boston is asking -guaran­teed salary protection for two years," said Van Exel's agent, Scott Botman. "It's getting to the point where I'm doubting whether anything will get done." 
With that door closed, the Celtics made a deal with Phoenix and acquired Rogers, a forward, and Delk. a guard. for rookie Joe Johnson, veter­ans Randy Brown and Milt Palacio and a Boston's No. 1 pick in the upcoming draft. 
The deal gives the Celtics a 
pair of play­
ers who can 
frontline. 
Johnson, a rookie from Arkansas selected 10th overall in last June's draft, had seen his role reduced in recent weeks. 
The surprising Celtics are in second place in the Eastern Conference with a record of 31-23. They are five games behind the Nets, whose 
president, "/just haven't left the J e f f 
Rod Thorn, office trying to make Wechsler, h a s who told him 
something happen."
acknowl­his name had edged that been floating the team Kikl Vandeweghe around in would like Nuggets general manager trade rumors 
to add another big body. 

That body could belong to Jackson, who sat out his 16th consecutive game Wednesday as the Warriors played Philadelphia. He was hoping it would be his final night in a Warriors uni­form. 
Jackson signed a six-year, $24 million offer sheet with Houston before the start of this season, but he was a restricted free agent and the Warriors matched the offer. Jackson has the right to veto any deal for one calendar year. 
''I'm ready, I'm ready now. Let's get it done," said Jackson, who spent much of the day on the phone with agent Joel Bell. "I told him don't call me anymore until you tell me which team it is." 
Jackson said he added the Nets. Bucks, Sonics and Jazz to the list because all are con­tending teams with needs at the center position. 
"I want to play somewhere they can utilize my skills, and I wouldn't mind playing alongside Karl Malone and [John] Stockton," Jackson said. "Milwaukee may need a big man who can play with his back to the basket." 
The Warriors are known to have discussed larger deals that would include Jackson as one of the pieces, and team­mate Larry Hughes was won­dering whether it might also he his final night with Golden State. 
He also spend time on the 
phone with 
his agent, 
for the better 
part of two 
weeks. 
Hughes listed the Miami Heat as one possi­ble team that was inquiring about his availability. 
The Nuggets have received numerous calls from teams wanting them to include cen­ter Raef Lafrentz in a Van Exel deal, but the Nuggets have been trying to find a team that will take Van Exel by himself. 
MLB 

Twin's owner 
.. 
promises to sell 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Signaling that baseball was prepared to back off its attempt to fold the Twins, owner Carl Pohlad said Wednesday he intended to sell the team and commissioner Bud Selig gave the plan his blessing. 
"I believe that our fans in the Upper Midwest want the Twins to continue to play here," Pohlad said. He added that "may best be achieved" by a sale, which would require the buyer to keep the team in Minnesota. 
While Pohlad has been open to selling the team in the past, its future was thrown into doubt when baseball owners voted Nov. 6 to eliminate two teams. 
The Twins and Montreal Expos turned out to he the tar­gets, but baseball's contraction plan was stopped by a Minnesota judge who ordered the Twins to fulfill their Metrodome lease this season. 
"I encourage the process and am hopeful it will produce a number of potential investors who are dedicated to preserving major league baseball in Minnesota," Selig said in a statement released in coordina­tion with Pohlad's. 
Pohlad, a Minneapolis banker who has owned the team since 1984, has been sharply criti­cized for going along with the contraction plan. or at least not opposing it publicly. 
He has been an unpopular fig­ure in Minnesota through sever­al failed stadium plans, and the Twins' statement Wednesday acknowledged that by saying new ownership could help land public funding for a stadium. 
Jim Pohlad, the owner's son and a member of the team's executive board, said friends, lawmakers. and advisers told the family that·selling the team would help the stadium effort. He said the decision was diffi­cult for the family. 
"It may not be the outcome everybody wants, to see some­body else throwing out the first pitch in a brand new stadium," Jim Pohlad said. "But at least baseball will be in Minnesota." 
After the contraction plan was announced, doubts grew about the ability of potential bidders to match the price -perhaps $150 million or more -Pohlad was expected to get to fold the team. 
Two bidders have emerged: Alabama businessman Donald Watkins and a group of Twin Cities lawyers and businessmen. 
Watkins said Pohlad stands to benefit from a new stadium by fetching a bigger price for the team. and so setting up the process makes sense. He's still interested in buying the team, he said. 
Mike Ciresi. a leader of the Twin Cities group, didn't imme­diately return a call seeking comment. 
In his statement. Selig credit­ed Pohlad for saving baseball in Minnesota when he bought the franchise in 1984, and for oper­ating the franchise through a difficult period when skyrocket­ing salaries made it difficult for small-market teams to compete. 
"This course is in the best long-term interest of the Twins franchise, as, perhaps, new ownership can succeed in secur­ing financing for a new ballpark, which would allow the club to generate enough local revenues to keep the Twins in Minnesota for decades to come," Selig said. 
But St. Paul voters rejected a sales tax increase to pay for part of the stadium and the sale never happened. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every bL1Siness day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer res,rves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS ­
2-story, 3 bedrooms, formal dining  New 3-4 bdrms, 3-bath homes lea- Shared Living Opportunity Enjoy  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
& living rooms. All appliances good.  luring fireplace, skylights, cathedral  the benefits of a luxurious private  alone. If you or someone you love  
NOTICES  WANTED  Carpeting & drapes throughout.  ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck,  home without the expense and  needs confidential support or assis  

 Many closets. Gas heat & upper  2-car garage. $1500/mo.  upkeep. Private bath and room  lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed- TestMaster is looking for responsi­ and lower air conditioners. Finished  which you may furnish to your own  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896  ble people to distribute information,  basement w/pool table.  Call 232-4527 or 616·683·5038.  taste (sizes ranging from 340 to 400  information, see our weekly ad in  
post flyers and proctor !rests.  square feet) Common areas (over  THE OBSERVER.  
$10/hr. 1-800-929-7724  Call 574-234-9782.  2000 square feet) are maintained  
Lost Gold Cross w/ Rhinestones  3-4 person house, Close to cam- by a professional staff and include  SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE!  
Sentimental Value Please call 634­ TestMasters is looking for responsi­ 2001 Honda Accord Coupe.  pus, c/a Available June 1  spacious living room, dining room,  Book your trip with StudentCity.com  
4464  ble people to distribute information,  Loaded. Excellent condition.  library, fully equipped shared mod- and save up to $100 per person to  
post flyers and proctor !rests.  $19,000. Call Heather 631-3578.  Call 219·298·3800  ern kitchen, laundry and parking  Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre  
4-7 BDRM HOMESWALK TO  $10/hr. 1 ·800-929-7724  facilities. Within walking distance to  or Florida. Most popular student  
ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002·03.  Tippecanoe, the library, St. Joseph  hotels including the Oasis and the  
272-6306  IM LAX officials needed.. Good Pay!! Some exp. necessary.  FOR RENT  Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-conditioned room in  River, Memorial Health and Lifestyle Center and medical facili- Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace' Prices start at $399! Sale ends  ..  
Contact Tara Fisher @ 1 ·3536  MMMRentafs.com 272-1525 mmm- NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to  ties.BOO per month includes utilities  soon! CALL NOW! 1-800-293-1443  
LOST AND FOUND  rentals@aol.com  sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M,  and hosting by a congenial couple  or go lo StudentCity.com!  
Need tutor tor Quicken 2000. Call  1F) Safe neighborhood, free street  with professional backgrounds.  
LOST: Womens reading glasses  234-6698 or 234-9543. Leave mes­ 5 mins from ND14-6 student house  parking, washer/dryer in house. two  Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE  
with tortoise shell rims. Lost  sage if necessary  w/large common areas-prkg lot,  blocks from bus to downtown. 1-112  Gall 234-1002 for information and  MTV audience ticket to select  
between Nieuwland & Campus  appl Fall 2002 Dave 291 ·2209  miles from Tacoma Metro,  appointment.  shows when you book your Spring  
Ministry on Jan. 30. Email: emcnas­ $390/month + 1/4 utilties, call  Break through StudentCity.com! Go  - 
sa@nd.edu  FOR SALE  Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND.  Michelle 202/829-3725, or krup78@hotmail.com  PERSONAL  to MTV.com or call StudentCity com at 1 ·800-293· 1443 for details! Tours  
FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies  Dave 291-2209  and tickets are limited!  
room of Nieuwland Hall. Will gladly  Collectors plates -Avon, Norman  Spring Break with STS, Americas  
return with correct description.  \  Rockwell. All in perfect condition with boxes and papers. Christmas  MMMRentals.com  River Condo For Rent $1050 MO Mishawaka 219-532-1537.  #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free  #1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas &  
Call Meg at 4-3477.  Past, Easter and Mothers Day  3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, sale  trips.  Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels,  
plates also available.  neighborhood, new appliances, 2­ 4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available  Best Prices! Space is Limited!II 1­ 
LOST: Small platinum ring with  car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas  after 6/1. 3 block from campus.  Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4649  800-234-7007 www.endlesssum­ 
channel-set diamonds. $200  Call 574-234•9782.  heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo.  www.ststravel.com  mertours.com  
Reward. Please call 283-0811.  232-4527 or 616-683-5038.  Call (773)-486-8862.  

HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MR. LUTZ 


SALT LAKE 2002 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 21, 2002 
-
HOCKEY

•. 
. 
. . . 
. . 
. Americans win 5-0, prepare for Russia 
. 
. . 
. . 
&sodated Press

. . . 
. WEST VALLEY CITY, Utah 
. 
. Now, the rematch. •. John LeClair, losing a tooth but--not his scoring touch, and line­
mate Brett Hull each scored af goal and the United States closed ~ within a victory of its first 
. 
Olympic hockey medal since
. 
1980, beating Germany 5-0 ~ Wednesday. Mike Modano, the third mem­
,--ber of the productive U.S. top line, had two assists, while Jeremy Roenick, Chris Chelios and Tony Amonte also scored to back Mike Richter's 28-save effort in goal. 
The United States plays Hussia on Friday in a semifinal rematch of their 2-2 tie Saturday that drew the largest U.S. TV audi­ence for hockey since the 1980 Olympics. 
And how's this for coincidence: Not only is Herb Brooks again
--the U.S. coach, just as he was in 1980, but Friday is the 22nd anniversary of the "Miracle on Ice" -America's 4-3 Olympic upset of the seemingly unbeat­able Soviet Union hockey machine. 
There was an upset of historic magnitude in Wednesday's quar-terfinal~ but, this time, it didn't involve the United States. Just before the Americans took the ice, Belarus stunned previously unbeaten Sweden 4-3 to elimi­nate a potential finalist. 

If nothing else, that upset fur­ther focused the Americans' attention on Germany, which, just as Belarus, played its way through the preliminaries into the round of eight before going 0-3 in round-robin play. 
Just as they have throughout their 3-0·1 Olympic run in which they've outscored opponents 21­3, the Americans moved the puck well to generate plenty of scoring chances without relaxing defensively. It's the kind of team• work that was missing when they failed to win a medal at the 1998 Nagano Olympics. 
German coach Hans Zach, who played on the 1980 West German team that lost 4-2 to Brooks' gold medalists, talked beforehand about welcoming the chance to play the Americans. And the Germans came out play­ing aggressively and physically, so much so they drew 33 penalty minutes in the first period. 
LeClair lost a tooth when struck by Erich Goldmann's wayward stick in the first period, with Goldmann drawing a high­sticking penalty and a game mis­conduct. LeClair was rammed in the face again by a stick in the second period, causing him to slam his own stick into the glass in frustration. 
Still. that didn't prevent LeClair from scoring one of three 
U.S. goals in a span of 2:05 of the second that made it 5-0 and caused Zach to pull goalie Marc Seliger. The goalie Zach pre­ferred to play -Olaf Kolzig of the Washington Capitals -sat by himself in the stands, out with a pre-Olympics injury. 
It took awhile to get it. but Rocnick scored the first American goal at 13:06 of the first, or 5 1/2 minutes into an extended power play that includ• ed two 5-on-3 advantages. Hoenick broke his stick, rushed to the bench to get a new one, then returned to put a one-timer of Brian Rafalski's pass through Seliger's pads from the right cir­cle. 
Chelios, the team captain and the oldest U.S. player at 40, scored on a shot from inside the blue line in the first minute of the second period. Amonte and LeClair later scored 32 seconds apart. 
SKELETON 

Shea captures gold, extends family legacy 
Associated Press 
PARK CITY, Utah Jimmy Shea is convinced that Gramps had 
something to do with this. There's no doubt in his mind. He was trailing by the slimmest of margins, 
the skeleton gold medal slipping away. Then, in the final yards -somehow, some way -he made up the time and zoomed to victory. 

"I think my grandfather had some unfinished business down here," Shea said. "Now he can go up to heaven." 
With his grandfather's funeral card tucked inside his helmet, Shea did indeed win the gold , finishing the two runs at Utah Olympic Park in 1 minute, 41.96 seconds. 
-
Thus culminated an emotional two months for Shea, the youngest member of America's first three-generation family of Winter Olympians. 
His 91-year-old grandfather, Jack, who died last month, was the first double gold medalist in the Winter Olympics, winning two speed­skating events at the 1932 Lake Placid Games. He was also America's oldest living Winter Olympian. 
Shea's father, Jim Sr., was also an Olympian and competed in three cross-country events at the 1964 Innsbruck Games. 
He watched with tears in his eyes as his son beat defending world champion Martin Hetti of Austria, who won the silver in 1:42.01. World Cup champion Gregor Staehli of Switzerland, 

-the 1994 world champion who came out of retirement to compete, won the bronze in 1:42.15. Dad also had a theory; "I think his Gramp was there giving him that little extra push."
-Shea's victory gave the United States a record seven gold medals with four days to go in the games. Americans have won six golds four times at the Winter Olympics, most recently at the 1998 Games. Skeleton, in which competitors race head­
first down the ice at about 80 mph on a sled that looks like a large lunch tray, made its first appearance in the Winter Olympics since 1948 and only its third ever. 
Wearing a gold medal his grandfather won in 1921, Shea had the fastest first run on a snowy morning and then did just enough on his second one to hold off Rettl. 
When his sled slowed after his final run, Shea couldn't wait to celebrate. He was so excited he fell off. He then pulled out his grandfather's card and waved it as fans chant• ed "U-S-Shea! U-S-Shea!" 
Another American, Lincoln Dewitt of Park City, rallied for fifth in 1:42.83 after a bad first run. Chris Soule of Trumbull, Conn., was sev­enth in 1:42.98. 
Shea Was thrilled when he qualified for the 
U.S. team in December, and so were his father and grandfather. The three were featured in national TV commercials and publications. 
But just when the family was preparing to go to Salt Lake City together last month, Jack Shea died after a car accident just a few blocks from his Lake Placid, N.Y., home. 
Shea's triumph almost seemed predestined. The steady snow meant that those sliding later in the first rwi would have tougher sledding. 
Staehli, who won all but one of the five races during the World Cup season, slid first. But when he finished in 51.16 seconds. the oppor• tunity was there. 
Rettl was next, and he zoomed into first place in 51.02. After Duff Gibson of Canada went down in 51.40, Shea came to the line for the first time. 
If an injury to his left leg was bothering him, it wasn't evident. At the start house, feeling the energy of the moment, Shea jumped up and down and ran in place. Fans roared their encouragement, holding signs aloft that read "Go Jimmy." 
"I just tried to concentrate on the basics," said Shea. whose mother, Judy, was waiting at the finish line. "There's so much going on. There were 15,000 screaming people. I was just having a blast." 


Two Roomates From Hell 

as; 

Tim O'Malley 
as Oscar Madison 
~demuuvtff J/I.U£UW!tiunv 
Fri/Sat, Feb. 22-23 ·7:30 p.m. 
Freewill offering for Holy Cross Missions . Cij<Ufl/ ~<tl>Mhf 9~ 




-

----

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 21, 2002 


.,, . 
----
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 

Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #70 Retreat Date: March 22-24, 2002 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 18 -Friday, Feb. 22 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
San Egidio Community
•
6:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Crypt 

Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat #40 
Friday-Saturday 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Bible Study (in Chinese) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 
Call 631-5653 for information. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

No Greater Love 
Check-in begins at 10:00 a.m. Closing Mass at 6:30 p.m. {Morrissey) Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA-Purification-& Enlightenment 10:00-11 :30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
• 

Morning and Evening Prayer 
Monday-Friday during Lent 
9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 
331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 ;00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 

Feed Your Soul 
¦ by Nadia Stefko '04 

English & Government Double Major 
Most of us, when we sic down to eat, or ·at least when we remember co, begin by praying, "Bless us, 0 Lord, and chese thy gifts... ". Think abouc chac. We don't say "Bless us, 0 Lord, and this chy food' for a reason. Because God's gifts to us reach so far beyond the dining table. From the class­room to the weighcroom to the dormroom, we can see the fruits ofGod's love for us in our relation­ships with ourselves, our loved ones, and even complete strangers. Yer our Christian faith is centered around the very cable that Jesus shared with His disciples at the last supper, which we re-enact and celebrate every day in the Eucharist. 
With how busy our lives are, and how rapidly and unpredictably our schedules shift from day to day, eating is one of the few rituals we engage in on such a regular basis. How blessed we are to have the opportunity three times a day --often more --to nourish our bodies and minds as we prepare to take on the next fevr hours of the day. 
Now, how enriching would it be if we could just pause to give thanks for all the gifts he has given us
From now on, every time 
today, and to ask him for strength in what lies ahead, we sit down to a meal, let three rimes a day, or more? We know char our bodies will suffer if we neglect our physical hunger. Will not 
us thank God for walking 
our souls, too, then suffer ifwe deny ourselves the chance that last leg of life's journey to refuel spiritually throughout the day? Whether we take the time to acknowledge it or not, God is present
with us, invite Him to sit 
in our lives on a pretty consistent basis, too. down, take off His sandals, Now I suggest to you: what if every time we ate, we took a minute to recall all the blessings our lives have
and share this meal with us, 
seen since the last time we ate, and all the occasions for and then ask Him if He God's grace we will encounter before we sit down to eat again? What a beautiful opportunity to become more aware of
wouldn't just love to get up 
God's presence in our lives. Because after all, isn't that what prayer and accompany us on the is all about? From now on, every time we sit down to a meal, let us thank God for walking chat last leg oflife's journey with us, invite
rest of our journey, or at 
Him to sic down, take offHis sandals, and share this meal with us, least until we next sit down and then ask Him if He wouldn't just love to get up and accom­pany us on the rest of our journey, or at lease until we next sit
to share another meal. · 

down to share another meal. 
¦ ¦ ¦ 
Nadia;s reflection on praying before meals is a great illustration ofthe creativity people of faith have employed through the centuries to discover ways of encountering God in our daily lives. A prayer can be as simple as "Hey, God, it's me." It can be as rich and choreographed as the Basilica liturgies during Holy Week. Ultimately, however, God speaks all of these prayer "languages" and more. He is capable of hearing a sincere prayer in any form at any time. 
This Saturday, in effort to nurture a mature life of prayer, No Greater Love will give each of us an opportu­nity to experience a wide range of prayer styles. Some of these prayer forms, like leccio divina and Ignatian meditation, have been practiced by Christians for centuries. Others have taken on contemporary elements like Taize and Adoration with "praise and worship" style music. Ochers still are traditional prayers of the Church, such as Liturgy ofthe Hours and praying the Rosary . 
Campus Ministry welcomes everyone to take part this Saturday, beginning at 10:00 am at the Coleman­Morse Center. If you seem never to be able to find time for a weekend-long retreat, No Greater Love is designed for you. Ifyou're looking to re-energize your faith life during Lent, No Greater Love is the place. If you want to find new ways to encounter God and express your faith in authentic and mature ways, No Greater Love will help. Come experience something nevr. 
Second ¦ Around campus 
¦ Mark vour Calendar 

Sunday of Sunday, February 24 Lent Spanish Mass 
March 1-2 
1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
Sacred Heart Parish Center
Mass Schedule 
Law School Mass 

5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel 
Women's Retreat

¦ Baslllca of the sacred Hean 
Pick up appli.c~tions in

Saturday, February 23 MBA Mass 
Room 114 of the 

5:00p.m. 7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Chapel Coleman-Morse Center 
Rev. Robert H. Moss, c.s.c 
¦ sundav's

Sunday.February 24 
Call 1-6633, for more info
Scripture Readings
10:00 a.m. 

Rev. John A. Steele, c.s.c. 1st Rdg Gn 12: 1-4a 
11:45 a.m. 

2nd Rdg 2 Tm 1 :Bb-10 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
C-M
Gospel Mt 17:1-9 
Campus Ministry 

..,,, 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
OLYMPICS 
Belarus stuns Sweden in hockey upset 
Olympics is a reality.
• Late goal helps 
Vladimir Kopat scored on amake unthinkable 70-foot shot that bounced comeback reality wildly off goalie Tommy Salo's head with only 2:24 remaining and Belarus scored one of the Associated Press greatest upsets in Olympic his­tory Wednesday, beating Sweden 4-3 in the hockey
WEST VALLEY CITY, Utah quarterfinals. 
The shot couldn't possibly go Yes, Belarus believes in mir­in, but it did. Sweden couldn't acles, too. possibly lose, but it did. And "For sure, it is a miracle for the kind of upset that couldn't us,"Belarus goalie Andrei possibly happen with NHL Mezin said. "But sometimes a players now dominating the gun without bullets can shooh_ 
Notre Dame Film. Television. and Theatre presents 

1\(·lors Frorn 'Tl1r l1nHJ011 Stagr 
Macbeth 


Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
and that was us. We've made our place in history." 
In a stunning game reminis­cent of the United States' "Miracle on Ice"over the Soviet Union in 1980, Belarus won despite being outscored 16-2 in its previous two games and being a 10-million-to-1 shot to win the gold medal. 
The only comparable upsets in Olympic hockey history were the United States' 4-3 victory over the Soviets in 1980 and Great Britain's 2-1 win over Canada in 1936. 
"I don't understand how we could lose against this team,"Swedish captain Mats Sundin said. 
As the game ended, the 
· stunned Swedes -easily the best team in the Olympics until now, with a 3-0 record and impressive wins over Canada and the Czech Republic -stood silently as the Belarusian playe.rs swarmed Mezin, who stopped 44 shots. 
Mezin played for five U.S. minor league teams before giving up on any chance at the NHL and now plays for Berlin in the German elite league. 
"He played the game of his life," Sweden coach Hardy Nilsson said. "For some rea­son, we did not have the strength to beat them." 
Belarus, which survived a week of preliminary round play just to reach the field of eight and then was outscored 22-6 in its three pool-play games, had lost its two most recent games by 8-1 scores, to the United States and Finland. 
During practice Tuesday, Belarus coach Vladimir Krikunov reminded his players of the 1980 U.S. victory, although he didn't realistically think a team with only one NHL player could beat a team as good as Sweden. After the preliminaries, Krikunov said he only wanted a respectable showing as the still-developing former Soviet republic builds a sports program. 

How's this for respectable: Belarus will play the winner of Wednesday's Canada-Finland game in the semifinals Friday. 
"For sure, it is a great. holi­day for our country," Krikunov said. 
In Sweden, however. the TT news agency called the loss "Sweden's worst ever Olympic fiasco," comparing it to the Swedish national soccer team's loss to Japan in the 1936 Summer Olympics. 
"It's a devastating loss for us and our country," Swedish for­ward Markus Naslund said. 
Sweden, which didn't play with any desperation or fear until the third period, had tied it at 3 on Sundin's goal at 7:56 of the third. But Kopat's game-winning shot, which will be replayed countless times, came from the Olympic rings along the right wing boards near midice and ricocheted off Salo's headgear, bounced behind him and scooted into the net as he looked d franti­cally behirtd him for it. 
"It was just a shot from the red line and ... well, that's what happened," said Kopat, who seemed as incredulous about the goal as anyone. 
Even Ruslan Salei, Belarus' 
only ·NHL player said after­
ward, "It was a lucky goal." 

"The shot hit me somewhere 
around my neck, and I thought I could get a glove on it," Salo ­said. "I didn't feel it hit my back, but somehow rt went in. 
Despite Nilsson's prophetic admonition that "it's a quar­terfinal and you never know," the game started predictably with a Nicklas Lidstrom power-play goal at 3:10 of the first period. 
But Sweden, so fast and effi­cient before, got sloppy and careless after that, ·once almost allowing a goal wh.ile on a 5-on-3 advantage. 
"We should have put this team away in the first or sec­ond period," Sundin said.. 
Oleg Romanov tied it with Belarus still down a man, scoring short-handed on a slap shot from the top of the right circle at 7 :4 7 of the first. Dmitry Dudik scored during a two-man advantage later in the period to give Belarus a 2­1 lead. 
Right about then, Belarus began to play as if it thought it could win. To counter Sweden's dynamic "torpedo" system, Belarus counterat­tacked aggressively to take advantage of the Swedes' reliance on one defenseman as an extra forward. 
Michael Nylander tied it for Sweden later in the period, but Belarus regained the lead when Andrei Kovalev stole the puck at midice and beat Salo -the hero of Sweden's 1994 goal medal shootout victory over Canada -on a break­away l).t 2:47 of the third peri­od. 
It is the second quarterfinal 
upset loss for Sweden in as 
many Olympics. Finland beat 
the defending champion 

-
---
,.. 

Thursday, February 21, 2002

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC 
continued from page 28 
either. In addition to helping their team to a top three fin­
-ish, the Belles' strongest swimmers could also find themselves in a place where they would qualify to compete in the nationals competition in March. Junior Lauren Smith, with a few seconds knocked off her time, could take home a first place finish and a bid for .nationals in the 200-meter breaststroke. "I think Lauren Smith has a shot in the 200 breaststroke," Petcoff said. "She needs time to drop, but I've seem time dropsJrom tapers of four sec­onds. The class of 2004 will also send in two threats this wcek­end. Megan Ramsey and Maureen Palchak could also find themselves as champions by the end of the three-day meet on Saturday. Palchak has a chance to win in her sprint events. but Ramsey is really the most likely to finish in a top spot. ''I think Meg Ramsey has a very legitimate shot, if not two, possibly even three, in the 500 free and both butter­fly events," Petcoff said. Wednesday night the team had a chance to get into the pool and get used to host school Hope's facilities. After spending four months getting used to facilities in South Bend, Petcoff gave his team some valuable advice on Tuesday night. "Get in, take your time, get to know the gutters, get to know the blocks," he said. "Take your time getting to know the blocks, get to know the walls. You've swum for four months on these gutters, now you're going someplace different. Make it familiar." Competition kicks off today at 10 a.m.• with preliminaries in the 200 free relay, 500 freestyle, 200 individual med­ley, 50 freestyle. 400 medley relay and 3-meter diving. Finals in those events will be tonight at 6 p.m. 
-
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
(.. 


'l'fothina to Wear? 
Come in am{see our Latest 'Arriva(s for Syrin3! Winter Safe stiffin yro8ress! 
-

WHERE'. JMpi:re rf/e/ (ORNER OF COLFAX AND Hill 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEtW 
HERE'S OUR PHONE NUMB£R: 
232-1822 
JUICY CounmE 
-
NOMINATION 
HARDTAll BETSEYJOHNSON LAUNDRY 
. THEORY
-
LILLY PULITZER FRANKIE B 

Ty risks youth for a shot·at pros 
Ty Tryon won'l be compet­ing in the Byron Nelson Classic this May. He was forced to turn down an invita­tion from one the game of golrs most revered legends because he has "other obliga­tions." Tryon, a 17-year-old high school junior won't play that week­end because he wants to. attend the prom. 
Now every high school 
kid 
wants to go to the 

prom. Tryon can't be blamed for 
that. What Tryon can be 
blamed for is his much-debat­
ed decision to join the PGA Tour at an age where he's just old enough to drive, and just young enough to still have a stubborn acne prob­
lem. 

However, ability is not the issue. Tryon's game is beyond his scant few years. At the pressure-packed crucible that is the six-round PGA Tour Qualifying School, Tryon shot a dazzling 66 to capture a Tour card and the exempt status that comes with it. He's armed with 300-yard drives, a reliable putter, and well over $1 million in endorse­ment contracts from the likes of Calloway and Target. 
Tyron, however, paid dearly for his bounty; he sacrificed his youth, and no matter how many titles he wins, he'll never be able to get that back. 
Tryon did more than miss the cut in his professional debut earlier this month at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic. He missed the point. Golf is not about how good you are now; it's much more about how good you can be. 
Every golfer on the planet, from Tiger Woods to the hacker in lhe stall next to you at the driving range, believes he can get better, that his best swings lie ahead. Jack Nicklaus won his sixth Masters at the age of 46. 

You can play great golf for a long time and history has shown us that most players don't peak until they turn 30. Ben Hogan didn't win the first of his plethora of majors until he was 35. So why is Tryon in such a hurry? 
That same Tiger guy was a pretty decent 17-year-old just nine years ago, but he didn't join the tour until he was 20. Instead Tiger honed his game against stern competition at the amateur level, winning three consecutive amateur crowns as well as an NCM Championship as a member of the Stanford Cardinal. Woods, though he may have been able to compete at 17. recognized the immaturity of his game, and as he worked on it embraced his youth and went to college. 
Tryon apparently knows better than guys like Tiger, though he's won almost noth­ing of importance in the junior ranks. He'll never get to go an SYR or sit in a dorm room with his buddies sipping a lukewarm Natty Light. 
For Tryon, 40s at four won't be a cause for Friday celebra­tion, but rather a bad number on the back nine in the sec­ond round. He's made the quantum leap from preco­cious teenager to full-f1edged adulthood, and there's no crossing back. Guys on the tour play for keeps and for their livelihoods. 
These guys are fathers, playing to send their kids to college. Tryon is playing to avoid it. While Tryon calls his girlfriend, the other members are calling their investment gurus. How's a high school kid going to fit in with those guys? What do they talk about to bridge the age gap? 
He's Britney Spears and 
they're Barbara Streisand. 
In order to retain his tour 
membership, Tryon must fin­
ish in the top 125 on this 
year's money list. If he 
doesn't, he 'II have to re-enroll 
in Q-School, where the odds 
of qualifying for a second 
consecutive year are about as 
good as my chances of com­
peting in this April's Masters. 
If Tryon falls flat on his face 
this year. and many think he 
will, there is no safety net. By 
playing in just one event as a 
professional, Tryon would 
forever forfeit his amateur 
status , eliminating his ability .to play college golf. His time 
is now, and unless he plays 
with the big guys, he may not 
have a later. 
Contact Kevin Berchou at kberchou@nd.edu. The views of this column are those of the author and are not necessari­ly those of The Observer. 
....
~,,.. 
·i:'i 

It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful services, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and services designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
~ 
HAMILTON 
COMMUNITIES 

_........... A. Ricft_ Tradition .of _Ca~~~~. f~~. Olde_r Adults..Siltc~---~·~2-~ ....~ 
:  To find out more, clip and mail the following information to:  
l  Hamilton Communities, 31869 Chicago Trail, New Carlisle, IN 46552  
Name:----------------------­ 
Address:  ______________________  
City:  ______,____State: ______  Zip: ____  

(574) 654--2250 
31869 Chicago Trail New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836 Website: http://wwwhamiltoncomm.org 
......, 
. . 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
-
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish shoot best round of tourney 
tied for ninth after her
. Final round 311 
final round three-over parmoves team into 75 that gave her a 54-hole seventh place total of 239 which was nine strokes behind tournament medalist Ashlie Simmons of Mclellan CC. Simmons final 
Special to The Observer 
round of even-par 72 gave her a 230 total and a two­The Notre Dame women's 
stroke win over defending
golf team shot a final round 
champion Melissa Newman­
311 (21 strokes better that 
Gillespie of Texas A&M­
their previous best round of 
Corpus Christi. 

the tournament) to finish in 
Besides Lotta. who had
seventh place at the Texas 
opening rounds of 84 and
A&M-Corpus Christi Spring 
80, the Irish had two other
Invitational in the season 
golfers finish in the top 20.
opening tournament for the 
Junior Terri Taibl and
Irish. 
sophomore Rebecca Rogers
The final round 311 gave 
tied for 20th with 244
Notre Dame a 54-hole total 
totals. Taibl fired a four­
of 979 (332-336-311) and 
over par 76 after rounds of
left the Irish 27 strokes 
81 and 87 for her 244 while 
behind the tournament's 
Rogers, playing as an indi­
team champion Texas-El 
v id ual entrant turned in
Paso. UTEP shot a final 
rounds of 82-82-80 on the
round 296 to come from 12 
way to her best 54-hole
strokes behind to edge 
mark of the season.

Texas A&M-Corpus Christi 
Shannon Byrne tied for
by four strokes and the 
24th with a 246 (84-82-80)
tourney win. 
to finish fourth among Irish 
UTEP finished with a 952 
golfers. Freshman Casey
(329-327-296) on the 5 ,796­
Rotella tied for 39th as an
yard, par 72 Kings Crossing 
individual entrant with a
Golf and Country Club 
251 (85-83-83), Kristin
course. Texas A&M-Corpus 
McMurtrie tied for 44th
Christi shot a closing round 
with a 253 (83-87-83) and
of 312 after opening rounds 
Lauren Fuchs tied for 51st
of 324-320 for a 956 mark. 
after shooting rounds of 89, 
The University of Kansas 
88 and 80 for a 257 total. 
finished third with a 963 
The Irish return to action
(338-319-306), Kansas 
in two weeks when they
State was fourth with a 964 
travel to the Tulane Green
(325-334-305) and 
Wave Women's Golf Classic 
McLellan Community 
on March 4-5. The tourna­
College was fifth with a 969 
ment will be played at the
(323-334-312). 
Lakewood Country Club in
Notre Dame was led by 
New Orleans, La.

freshman Karen Lotta, who 
Associated Press 

PHIIADELPHIA 
Allen Iverson scored 46 points, reaching 40 for the fifth time this season and the 38th time in his career as the Philadelphia 76ers defeated the turnover­prone Golden State Warriors 114-107 Wednesday night. 
Matt Harpring tied his season­high with 25 points, Dikembe Mutombo had 18. and Eric Snow added 12 assists and 11 rebounds for the 76ers, who never led by more than four points in the fourth quarter until the final 2 1/2 minutes. 
Danny Fortson had 18 for the Warriors, who kept the game close for much of the fourth quarter but repeatedly made mistakes, including sloppy turnovers and ill-advised shots after coming up with defensive stops and blocked shots on sev­eral Sixers possessions. 
Golden State blocked three shots in the span of a minute with less than four minutes left, each leading to a possession that ended with a turnover or a miss. 
Iverson shot 14-of-36 from the field and 16-for-20 from the line in reaching 40 points for the first time since Jan. 25 when he had 47 at Boston. He capped his night with a breakaway dunk with 17 seconds left. 
Harpring tied his season-high by making two free throws with 
1:56 left for a 103-97 lead, and Iverson drove for a three-point play with 1 :44 left after the Warriors committed their eighth turnover of the quarter. Golden State finished with 22 turnovers. 
Harpring shot 11-for-21 and added nine rebounds. Golden lost its fourth in a row overall, its ninth straight on the 

Discoteca ND 
Club Beats from 
Europe and Latin America 
AFREE event 

Saturday, February 23, 2002 
Alumni-Senior Club 
All Ages Welcome! 
9p.m.-10 p.m. Dance Lessons 10 p.m.-1.·30 a.m. Dance-Fiesta! Come for food, drinks andjun! 
Sponsored by The Spanish Club 
NBA 

Iverson drills Warriors for 46 
-
road and its 19th in 22 games.  first 11 shots, and had eight  
The game stayed close until  assists in the first six minutes to  
Iverson and Harpring led a 17-5  build a 21-12 lead. Tliey main­ 
run that gave Philadelphia an  tained a comfortable margin for  
84-75 lead. Iverson had 34  most of the first half and led 54­ 
points by the end of the third  41 at halftime.  
quarter, but missed his first  Milwaukee outshot Houston,  
three free throws in the fourth  53.3 percent (24-45) to 36.8 per­ 
as Golden State came hack.  cent (14-38) in the half. The  
Larry Hughes had a chance to  Bucks were 6-of-10 from 3-point  
tie it at 90-all, but missed the  range in the half.  
second of two free throws with  
8:15 left. Philadelphia main­ Clippers 81, Heat 71  
tained a lead of between one  The Los Angeles Clippers  
and four points for the next six  turned to their bench once  
minutes.  more, but mostly to Quentin  
Richardson. That was enough.  
Bucks 115, Rockets 76  Richardson had 25 points and  
Michael Redd scored a career­ 11 rebounds as the Clippers won  
high 29 points, 26 in the fourth  in Miami for the first time in  
quarter, as the Milwaukee  eight years, beating the Heat.  
Bucks beat the Houston Rockets.  Richardson led a strong effort  
Redd made 9 of 13 shots from  by the reserves as the Clippers  
3-point range, doing most of his  snapped a six-game road losing  
damage after Milwaukee built a  streak against the Heat. The vic­ 
big lead. Sam Cassell returned  tory was the first for Los  
from a toe injury to score 16  Angeles in Miami since Jan. 19,  
points and hand out seven  1994.  
assists in three quarters.  The Clippers' bench, the third­ 
Glenn Robinson added 21  highest scoring unit in the NBA,  
points, and Ray Allen had 17 for  outscored the Heat's reserves  
the Bucks. Kenny Thomas led  41-16. Richardson did most of  
Houston with 21 points.  the damage, making 9 of 19  
Milwaukee set a season high,  shots to help the Clippers begin  
going 16-of-26 from 3-point  their five-game road trip on a  
range. The Bucks led by as many as 49 points in the second  winning note. Miami lost for only the fifth  _,..  
half, so coach George Karl was  time in its last 18 games and for  
able to rest Cassell and the rest  only the second time in seven  
of his regulars.  home games.  
The biggest lead came after  Former Heat player Harold  
Redd replaced Cassell and made  Jamison, filling in for the injured  
five straight 3-pointers.  Elton Brand, had 14 points and  
But, it was the veteran point  10 rebounds. The Clippers also  
guard who sparked the Bucks to  got 14 points and 11 assists  ...  
their best performance in two  from Jeff Mcinnis.  
weeks. Cassell had five assists in  Brand, the Clippers' leading  
the first six minutes. He scored five points and got  scorer, missed only his second game of the season because of a  .  
the ball to Robinson, who had nine points in the early going. The Bucks made nine of their  stretched tendon on his right ring finger.  . . . . . .  

• 

•. •• . •. . 
. 

! --l ~ 
•. 
~ ~ 
-
Expires 3/3/02 
.. 

-page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 21, 2002 
Men's 
continued from page 28 
with his decision to reinsert
-
Graves into the starting lineup for the first time since Notre Dame's loss to Georgetown on Jan. 21. 
"I didn't want there to be any doubt. I just wanted to come out and play well," Graves said. "This needs to be the lineup. I've invested a lot of time in bringing this program back to where it needs to be." 
Coming into Wednesday's con­test, the Irish knew where they needed to be: back in the win­ning column. 
And the Irish had little trouble making that happen against a struggling Mountaineer team. 
"We were real solid tonight," Thomas said. "Our backs were against the wall and to come out and play so well speaks so high­ly of our coach and three cap­tains." 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 12-point lead 14 minutes into the half before the Mountaineers whittled the deficit to just firn. 
But quick transitioning on offense and strong defense from the Irish gave the home team a 10-point edge at the half. 
"I think we've found success when we run the ball," Thomas said. "We're so much more dan­gerous when we run." 
Bolstered by five quick points from Graves, the Irish ran out to a 15-point lead just minutes into the second half, and pushed it up to 25 points on a Thomas reverse dunk with six minutes left to play . 
The Mountaineers, who own an 8-17 overall and 1-12 confer­ence record struggled all night on both ends of the court. 
Defensively, the Mountaineers had trouble slowing down the Irish run. 
"The problem with the team this year is the problem we had tonight: we just don't guard," Catlett said. "We have not been able to improve. IThe Irish] beat us at -zone and man." 
Freshman guards Jonathan Hargett and Drew Schifino led the Mountaineers with 15 points a piece, but interim coach Drew Catlett was not pleased with Hargett's performance in his match-up with Thomas. 
"Jon thinks he can score and play against anybody," Catlett said. "One problem Jon has had all year is that it's five-on-five. He needs to get his teammates involved. I think he got caught 
up  in  [the  match-up  with  
Thomas]."  
The  win  against  the  

Mountaineers marks the second time Notre Dame has topped West Virginia this season. 
The Irish are back in action Saturday when they travel to Miami in a key Big East battle. 
Note: 

. Irish guard Matt Carroll suf­fered a foot strain in the first half of play, falling after a 3­point attempt. The junior did not play for the remainder of the game and according to Brey is "questionable" for Saturday's contest in Miami. 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu. 
FENCING 

Irish take top spot in polls 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports W ricer 

The expected was finally made official Tuesday, as the Notre Dame men's fencing team earned a No. 1 ranking in the latest United States Fencing Coaches' Association poll. 
The men assumed the top ranking after knocking off then-No. 1 St. John's on Jan. 27 by a 14-13 margin. 
St. John's falls into the No. 2 spot, while Penn State remains No. 3. Notre Dame's chief Midwest competition made the biggest jump in the polls, as Ohio State moved up four spots in the poll into a tie with Columbia for No. 4. 
Princeton remained No. 6 in the poll, and was followed by Pennsylvania, Stanford, Yale and NYU. 
Stanford dropped the fur­thest in the poll. The Cardinal fell from No. 4 to No. 8. 
The Irish women dropped a spot in the poll to No. 3, after losing to No. 1 St. John's and splitting two matches with No. 6 Northwestern. 
Penn State overtook Notre Dame for the second spot. The Ohio State women fol­lowed Notre Dame with their No. 4 ranking, and were fol­lowed by Princeton, Northwestern. Yale, Temple, Columbia-Barnard and Pennsylvania. 
Although the coaches vote separately for men's and women's squads in the polls. the national championship is awarded to a men ·s and women's combined squad. The national championship will be held March 21-24. 
The Irish return to action Saturday at the Wayne State Duals against Detroit-Mercy, Lawrence, Michigan. Michigan State and Wayne State. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu, 
,;r~~ "'· ·•·
·A,,WOg}~IJ·~~fCoU~~e 
... ·• ·...... Poll 
,j)\;., 
·'pr¢f;},6us. 
. 1 3 2 6 

..r 
-

!'fr ;zi•iMl~i ~-1;i.• 
'  5  . 5  
... ':'; 6..  Northwes em  6  
. '  1·  Yale  8  
8  Temple  10  
9  Co lumbla•Barnard  9  
,,.•  ..i1Q,.  letmsyll{a!)ja  NR  

i otherJe'ams receiving votes: .. .Staorord,..North <;~roUna, Rutgers, Air !i/" Jim:e!Duke,.MIT, 9ornen, NYJJ 

222 S. MICHIGAN :: SOUTH BEND :: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANDSOIJTHBEND.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
----~------------------------__..:.., 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 28 
Notre Dame advanced to the Final Four last season. 
While there are many question marks circling around this year's team, Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan is confident that Notre Dame will rise to the challenge. 
"[ think it is going to be an exciting year,'' said Corrigan. "I am looking forward to seeing what we can do with this group. I hope we can 
year." 
In many respects this . season could be characterized as a rebuilding year because the Irish are such a young team. The Irish feature 12 sophomores and 15 freshmen on its the roster of 
45. 
Although there is definitely a youth movement on this year's team, senior captains John Flandina, Chad DeBolt, Devin Ryan and A.J. Wright are expect­ed to answer many of the ques­tion marks surrounding this team. All four captains will be responsible for building team unity and cohesiveness as the season progresses. 
Midfielders Flandina and Ryan are Notre Dame's top returning scorers. Flandina scored 20 goals and dished out seven assists last season. Ryan came on strong at the end of the sea­son, and finished with 15 goals and two assists. Both players are considered leading candidates for Player of the Year honors in the Great Western Lacrosse 
Brother/Sister 
Dorm Tug-0-War Tournament 
$100 mPRIZES!! 
Sponsored by Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls 

League. Departed All-American attackman Glatzel won the cov­eted award last year. 
The answers to many of those marks on offense could come from senior midfielder Flandina and senior attackman Devin Ryan. Junior Travis Wells, sophomores Steve Clagett and Owen Mulford, and freshmen Chris Richez and Brian Giordano are all expected to compete for playing time at the midfield posi­tions alongside Flandina and Ryan. 
"John is going to be a really 
important guy 

tainly in the 
mix as well. 
We really value guys who can play at both ends of the field at the midfield position. Owen Mulford, Steve Clagett and Travis Wells arc all capable of doing that. We also have a couple of young guys Chris Richez and Brian Giordano who are going to play some as well." 
Strong defense has been the trademark of Notre Dame lacrosse under Corrigan, and this year is no different. With the Irish having to replace their entire starting attack unit, the defense will set the tone early in 
Irish sophomore Stewart Crosland hurls the ball in a match last year against Pennsylvania. The 
the season. Senior captains 
Irish begin their quest for another Final Four appearance in lacrosse against Penn State Sunday. 
surprise some for us this
'1 think it's going to be 

other people year," said 
who don't an exciting year. I am Corrigan. "Ile 
think we are looking forward to seeing is going to get going to be a lot more
what we can do with this 

able to attention than rebound and group." he has gotten have a great the last couple year on the of years. Devin
Kevin Corrigan

heels of last Ryan is cer­
head coach 

Wright and DeBolt are expected replace Howell. year.
to be this year's leaders on Antol appears to have the "The defense is going to be
defense. Juniors John Souch and inside track for the starting posi­extremely important," saidEric Simon, along with sopho­tion right now, but he is facing Corrigan. We are going to havemore Mickey Blum round out the stiff competition from sophomore to play good defense to keep our­rest of the defense. 
Stewart Crosland. selves in position to win early inAll of these players must con­Corrigan understands how the year and allow our offense to tinue to exhibit the aggressive crucial the defense will be for develop without the pressure ofplay they demonstrated last year the Irish to get off to a strong having to come from behind." 
in order to ease the transition for start at the beginning of the Heading into the season, Notre 
junior goalie Nick Antol to 
Dame's offense appears to be the team's biggest concern. "This 
SATURDAY FEBRUARY 2:kd 
l-4pm on North Quad with kids from There Are Children Here and Teamwork for 
TomnlOITOW 
CampusBandsrv Pig RoastN FarmAnimaIs"' Popcorn l'J Ga mes"" ClownrvCotton Candy,VInfJatable Games"'F-oodtvKIDS!!rv 
l, =:::d 
~ 7pm @ Holy 
l!t-o.ss llill flt.. Ma,y.clake) 

year, we won't have as many proven weapons as we go into the season so we will want to be a little more deliberate about our approach," said Corrigan. "We are not going to play slow-down but it may take us longer to gen­erate the opportunities like we did last year. We are going to have to be patient and smart about what we are doing." 
This year's Irish team may not feature the same players as last year's squad, but their goal remains the same. 
The road back to the Final Four begins Sunday at 1 p.m when Notre Dame takes on Penn State. 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu. 


ND einerna 
Come make son1e 
THURSDAY, FEB.21 
sn1ores and hear 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
the ca1npus grour 
7:00 PM 
Har1?onia 
FREE ADMISSION 
pertonn! 
PRESENTED BY Tl. E DEPARTMENT OF' FILM, TELEVISION AND THEATRE
.. 
MEN'S TENNIS 

7th-ranked Irish crush Spartans 7-0 

BRIAN PUCEVICHn ne Observer Seniors Casey Smith (left) and Javier Taborga await a serve in a recent match against Michigan State. The men's tennis team swept the Spartans 7-0. 
Scott remained perfect this spring with his 13th consecu­tive victory, improving to 21-2 in 2001-02. Laflin holds a 9-0 singles mark this season and has won 24 of his last 26 matches. 
The doubles team of D'Amico and Talarico won its sixth consecutive match, while Smith and Taborga have been victorious in six of their last seven doubles matches. 
The win was the 13th in a row for Notre Dame over Michigan State. It also marked the third straight year the Irish shutout the Spartans. 
Notre Dame will return to action Sunday, taking on No. 35 Miami in the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 1:00 p.m. 
No G,,r-e,afe,y L-<,ve, 
...@ Nofvc-Pdt'Vlc-dd~ of pVc>~c-v, t'Vlv<;ic-dV\d vc-V\c-w@I 
How do you pray? 
Taize
Lectio Divina 

Ignatian Meditation
Rosary Adoration 
Stations of the Cross 
Praise & Worship Mass 
Walle around the Lalces 
Throughout history, people of faith have developed many creative ways to pray. No Greater Love is a day long retreat that offers you a chance to try some of these ways for yourself through inspirational talks and student-led music-filled prayer. Come experience something new. 
Keynote Speaker: Chandra Johnson Music led by Danielle Rose 
Other contributors include: Fr. J. Steele, csc & Fr. Nick Ayo, csc 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD 

10 A.M. • COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER 
BREAKFAST, LUNCH & DINNER PROVIDED CLOSING MASS BEGINS@ 6:30 P.M. 
No sign up required • Space is Limited First 50 people get a FREE No 0rve-Jte-v l--ove-T-Shirt 
For More Info: Go to www.nd.edu/ ~ nglove or Call 1-3250 

Thursday, February 21, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 

TOM KEELEY 
WE'RE NOT REALLY LOOICIN& FOR SOMEONE WITH A LOT OF 
PRACTICAL KNOWLEDwf OR 
TECHNICAL EXPERTISE. WE :rusT NEED SOMEBODY THAT 1::NOWS A LOT ABOUT ERASMUS 

BILL AMEND 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

'RaJ,.,\\~.............. . i'v O.< e, W 1)--1 tot> . drunk. .I,, v1e e.ith~ TM 
The drunken-email-breathalizer-security-deuice should be mandatory for college students everywhere 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Legal scholar 57 Like some Guinier patches
It may follow U 33 Dragon puppet 59 Giant in chips
5 Leather, essentially 35 Rulings 60 Bar promotion 
9 Scales up? 36 What people in 62 City on the 
Mohawk

14 Year in dates relationships need together 63 Shrek, for one
15 Lepton's locale .,. or this 64 Highlander's· 16 Wind section puzzle's title tongue17 Historical zenith 39 Spring 65 Avian chatterbox19 Puppy protests 41 Cat's comment 66 Plaintiff-20 Barely hit of understanding 67 Detached ends? 
21 What "there's 
42 Geraint's wife 

gonna be," in a 43 React to a really DOWN
"Funny Lady" song 1 Wrangle
bad pun 

23 Body of eau 45 Smelter stuff 2 Arctic cover-up 24 Warriors' grp. 49 Big Apple ave. 3 Loosen, in a 26 "Purty" one 50 Hattie's asset way · 51 On target 4 Polish birthplace 
27 Cone source of Arthur 28 Stretches, with 53 Word before Rubinstein
"out" long or now 
5 Off-the-wall30 Tattered Tom's 54 Big Akron pastime?

creator employer 
6 Spanish female suffix ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Rapper Snoop 


Puzzle by AIIII Vaugt,n 
8 Come forward 32 Barely gets 

9 Not running (along) 10 Skeptic's remark 34 Cub scout, say 11 Dark characters? 35 Sixth-century 12 Brighten up, date 
maybe 36 Hardly practical 13 Semiramis's 37 Pool provider, domain often 18 Sundown, in 38 Proverbial payee sonnets 39 King Albert ll's 22 A hoop may land 
hang from it 40 City on the 25Et_ Susquehanna 29 Ping or pong 43 Trouble 31 Be admitted 44 Some spuds 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
IW 
~ ~ 21
·--:::: 
l~I 
I ct I
11­
~ .._ ~ lo·
lzl 
! ! 
~ 
: LL I
~ 
10 1
~ 
I>-:
C 
r i~' I if> I I ct!
,w1, ,>I
i-1
:z1 
I:) I 

~PRING BRE~K BONANZ4 
* Tht· fa11 hest dressed in ~pring Break Gear ,viii ,vin (\Vo -\IRLINf TICh: ETS rnurtesv of Amhony lrnvel · 
* 
Fir-.;t 200 fans ""di rcct>ivc a l\otre Darnl' Lacrosse lanyard 

* 
to STL DENTS selech.-cl at ran­dnm v-.ill v.in I.across~ FIDDLE STIC'h:S n,urtcsy ")r Brine 


Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285·5656 ($1.20 per minute), 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

SUN. FEB. 24TH 
NOTRE DAME 

,.,."'iiJP vs ­
\.__~ ' .'12:.,) 
fJII f IWITING 

a 1rnsH PENN ST. as 
~ TIFIC.\TES from local restaurants 
• .c_ji""..• 
.,,,,~~'/\//·.::
oftus S2orts C_ent~r 
HOROSCOPE 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2002 CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Kelsey Grammer, 
Jennifer Love Hewitt, Alan Tram­
mell 

Happy Birthday: You'll be ingenious when it comes to mak­ing your money grow this year. You'll have an eye for good investments, and the ability to make your move at precisely the right moment. Your good ideas coupled with your heightened intuition will lead to success. Your numbers are 7, 15, 26, 32, 36, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be in a sociable mood today, possibly even looking for love, Consider getting out to an event that will have some influ­ential people attending. Your out­going nature will attract attention and should lead to meeting someone spectacular. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may be feeling some limita­tions if you have been reluctant to make a decision rPgarding your future employment. Don't hesitate to take the advice offered by friends, 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may find yourself up and down emotionally today. Chill out ans! believe in yourself, You can discover a way to improve your life and yourself if you take a closer look at your past. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may have a lot to deal with today. Be careful not to reveal secret information that could hurt someone you befriended. People you have to work with and for may be less than cooperative today.OOO 
LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): !f you get involved in a fund-raising group you will find that you will 
Birthday Baby: You are truly family-oriented, taking all your farni­
Iy responsibilities very seriously, no matter how young you are. You 
are a team player and can put others at ease just by taking chari;e. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadVIce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com,) 
ff) 2002 Universal Press Syndi~ate 

1 PM IL\! GAME ACT/J-1TJES 
* 
Chance to win authentic ND Lacrosse JERSEY 

* 
Three lucky fans ,.,,ill win p1pmg hot PIZZAS counesy of Bruno's 

* 
l'vlany other great giveaways such Adidas -HATS and GIFT C'ER­


EUGENIA LAST 
make a lot of new friends who can offer you support and help in the future. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have to make a few changes in your life in order to hold on to what you've got. Focus on your work and your professional future, 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): The more you can learn, the better today. You will be open and receptive to what others have to say and you will make new friends who can contribute to a new lifestyle. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may want to lock up your cash. Deal with other people's money and possessions but don't risk the chance of losing what you've worked so hard to obtain. 
000 
SAGITTARilJS (Nov. 22-Dec 21): You are moving through a make­it or break-it period within a part­nership. Be careful not to make a rash decision or statement that will be difficult to reverse. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You can make a di,fference if you 
are diligent about your work. 
Jump at any chance you get to do 
things with clients or colleagues. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be in a party mood. Your ability to come up with some great ideas should add to your popularity today, Entertainment should include the whole family or several of your friends. 
00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You ·should try to keep busy or at least out of the way today. Idle time will lead to problems at home. You need a change in order to lift your spirits. 00 
-
46 1831 Poe poem 47 Work up 48 Sci-fi and 
mystery 50 Bit of internal governance 52Tax 
55 Numerical prefix 
56 It has 11 "RobustoI" flavors 
58 Expressed surpfise 
61 Affix with fix 

National Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
i 
. NBA, p. 23, 17 . Olympics, p. 21, 18 . MLB, p.17 I 
I 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish snap losing streak 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Chris Thomas broke out of a two-game slump to lead the Irish to an 89-76 rout­ing of West Virginia Wednesday at the Joyce Center. 
After shooting a dismal 3-25 in Notre Dame's two previous outings, the point guard scored a game-high 26 points and dished out 12 assists. as the Irish snapped a two-game losing streak and improved to an 18-8 overall record and 8-6 in the Big East. 
Irish head coach Mike Brey pumped his freshman up before the outing with a highlight reel from some of Thomas' past games. 
"It showed him attacking. It was the Chris we have seen for 95 percent of the season and I think he responded to that," Brey said. "He knew there was a sensfl of urgency for us." 
Brey also relayed that sense of urgency to his senior captains before the game, and they responded, as David Graves scored 20 points, Ryan Humphrey added 19 and Harold Swanagan, still nursing an injury, logged quality minutes on the court. 
"[Brey] told us how many games we have left at the most and we want to make the most out of every game," Humphrey said. "I don't want to go out with a bad memory or bad taste in my mouth." 
Brey also hinted that it was time for

. 
the seniors to take the team by the reigns 
see MEN'S/page 24 
SMC SWIMMING 


. 
Men's Tennis, p. 26 

. 
Fencing, p. 24 

. 
ND Women's Golf, p. 23 


MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish begin quest for Final Four 
By JOE LICANORO 
Sports Wrirer 

Last year, the Notre Dame men ·s lacrosse team shocked the lacrosse world by advancing to the NCAA Final Four for the rrrst time in school history. 
This year's Irish squad would like nothing more than to make a repeat trip to the Final Four, but the Irish know their work is cut out for them. The journey begins this Sunday when the pre-season 11th-ranked Irish host the Penn State Nittany Lions. 
This year's Irish squad will have a completely different look. Gone are last year's top three leading scorers at the attack position: Tom Glatzel, David Ulrich and Todd Ulrich. The Irish also must somehow figure out a way to replace the leader­ship of rnidfielders Steve Bishko and Chris Young. 
Replacing departed goalie Kirk Howell will not be an easy task either. Howell had been a fixture in net for the last four seasons, and his strong play was one of the primary reasons 
see LACROSSE/page 25 
PORTS 
Thursday, February 21, 2002 
Swimmers dive into tough competition 
. Upsets earlier in season make Belles marked opponent 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
-
At the beginning of the sea­son, they were a nameless team that belonged to "that all women's college some­where in rndiana". 
But today they are marked. Today teams will be looking ro beat them, hoping for 
...... 
revenge from losses earlier this season. Today they will head into a championship 
· event with hopes set much higher than last place. 
The Belles, who started off the season at the bottom of the pack in the MIAA, will head into this weekend's MIAA tournament with a new confidence after defeating three MIAA opponents this season. But with the confi­dence of those wins also brought a loss with it -a loss of the element of sur­prise. 

"I think the biggest thing is. the women now understand, especially after the second win, in a way, there's not ele­ment of surprising anyone anymore," said head coach Greg Petcoff. "So while they have confidence, we've talked about the fact that everyone now understands that with Saint Mary's it's going to be a little bit of a battle." 
Earlier this season, Sa.int Mary's defeated Albion, Olivet and Kalamazoo. Heading into the tournament, which starts today at 10 a.m., the Belles will have their sights set on outswimming Kalamazoo, Albion and Alma. 
"I'd say I'd love to see us finish third, but it is so tight between Alma, Albion, Kalamazoo and us," Petcoff said. "Alma beat us. We beat Albion and Albion beat Alma, so we could finish sixth or we could finish third." 
While the Belles have some solid co,npetitors for top spots in several events, the strength the team needs to take home a third place finish will come from the fifth through 12th swimmers. With such tight competition between the four schools competing for four spots, how low all the team·s swimmers, not just the stars, can finish is key. 
"The big battle is what's happening in places five, six, seven through twelve," Petcoff said. "Take the rest of the roster, we need them. You know who your stars are, but it's your unsung stars that set thi'ngs up." 
If the battle could be won in places five through 12, some top finishes couldn't hurt 
see SMC/page 22 
-. ND Women's Swimming at Big East Championships, 
OBSERVER
Friday-Sunday, 10 a.m.
SPORTS 

online 
. Men's Swimming al Big East Championships, Friday­AT AGLANCE Sunday, 10 a.m. http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 






