
VOL XXXVII NO. 50 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Economic slowdown halts construction 
By LINDA SKALSKI 
News Writer 
Trustees and Officers at the University decided to delay construction of certain build­ings due to a decrease in out­side donations and a tighten­ing of the University's budget resulting from the poor econo­my. 
"Our benefactors' ability to help us out is being limited by the stock market perfor­mance," said James Lyphout, vice president for Business Operations. "They are unable to contribute at the same level." 
The University has a triple A bond rating, which refers to a company or institution's financial strength and stabili­ty, and reflects the school's ability to borrow money on favorable terms. This is not something the University wants to jeopardize, according to Lyphout. 
"The University is still very strong financially," he said. "So we will be conservative with our spending." 
Financial considerations were the only reason for halt­ing construction, according to Lyphout. 
The most visible construc­tion delay is the new Security Building/Post Office Facility, for which the foundation has already been laid at the north end of campus near the Stepan Center. Construction has been stopped indefinitely. 
The delay of these projects has resulted in a domino effect that will delay other construction projects, such as a new hotel, which were already on the drawing board. 
Not all construction, howev­er. will be delayed. Renovations to the College of Arts and Letters Dean's Office, the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and Hesburgh Library renovations are all expected to be com­pleted on time. 
Lyphout said the next high­est construction priority is the Science Building, to be located north of the Joyce Center. Construction of the building is scheduled to start in late March. 
"We are hoping to stay on schedule, although funding is not complete," said Lyphout. "We are working very hard to get that funding." 
This delay will not cost the school anything beyond the added price of absorbing inflation, he said. 
"We have all agreed that the decision we have made is the right thing to do," said Lyphout. 
Contact Linda Skalski at lskalski@nd.edu 

EL DIA DE LOS MUERTOS 

Students remember deceased loved ones by placlng mementos fn remembrance at the Day of the Dead alter In LeMans Hall. 
EXECUTIVE CABINET 
Group debates The Shirt deal 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
NcwsWrit~r 
Executive Cabinet members met Monday night to discuss programming and the group's ongoing strategic planning process. but the status of The Shirt dominated the conversa­tion. 
Some members expressed concern that the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore has been profiteering from the suc­cess of the originally student­run project. Peggy Hnatusko from the Office of Student Activities explained that The Shirt's financial agreement with the bookstore only cov­e red the origin al order of approximately 44,000 shirts. When those shirts sold out. a new agreement was reached that allows for a much smaller payoff for student groups. 

"It's very little, compared to what we were getting," said Danielle Ledesma, president of the Judicial Council. 
Student Body Vice President 
see CABINET/page 8 
Hunters to kill deer at SMC 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Don't be alarmed by that sound you hear, it just might be gunfire. 
Starting today hunters will begin to reduce the overabun­dant deer population on Saint Mary's campus, hunting in the cornfields and around the Johns, Sisters of the Holy Cross environmental director said. "One of the best times to hunt is while the deer are in rut and are in small groups, instead of herds." 
During the winter deer run together in herds, which makes it easier for the herd to hear or see predators. On campus the deer have been causing accidents, going 
nature trail. Although the hunters will not be on campus everyday, these areas will be off 
limits 
through 

November. 
"We ask 
"One ofthe best times to hunt is while the deer are in rut and are in small groups, instead ofherds. " 
Judith Johns 


Environmental Director 
through windows, hitting cars and dis­turbing nuns at their resi­dences. Another potential problem is that deer 
students to avoid the area for the next month," Lindsay Evans, a Saint Mary's repre­sentative to Notre Dame cam­pus life said at Monday's 
Executive Cabinet meeting. 
Problems with the deer population began three years ago, when an environmental study of the campus was con­ducted and found that the deer population was growing at an alarming rate. Over the past year the deer population has doubled and it is estimat­ed that there are currently 80 to 100 deer around campus. 
"A hunt was conducted last Christmas vacation, but it was not a successful hunt," Judith are known to carry Lyme dis­ease, which can be transmit­ted to people. 
"I wish there was a better way to do this, but we have no alternative," Johns said. 
Johns said that other means were investigated before the decision to bring hunters on campus, including talks with the Humane Society and the Wildlife Fund. Another option was to ship the deer to anoth­er location. No one, however, was willing to take the deer, according to Johns. 
The areas that are ofT limit will be roped off by yellow 
see HUNTERS/page 8 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Wellstone remembered 
In the divided Senate, senators argue their positions and make deals. At the end of the day the most stubborn are vic­torious. A plane crash brought agree­ment. On Oct. 25, friends and enemies, Democrats and Meghanne Republicans, halted Downes campaigning and offered their condo­
Assistant
lences for a senator 
News Editor 
from Minnesota and Ws family. 
Paul Wellstone, Minnesota's liberal Democrat, cro~d party lines and made decisions based on his convictions. While other incumbent Democrats up for reelection voted in favor of authorizing the use ofmilitary force in Iraq, Wellstone voted no, despite knowing it could cost him the election. 
For most, their political future, not their convictions determine their moves in Congress. But not Wellstone, he crossed party lines to work for the good of the people who he served. Bill Schneider, CNN political analyst, said Wellstone was a man of conviction who voted against the Democratic version of the estate tax repeal, national missile defense and permanent normal trade relations with China. 
In life, colleagues considered him a radical liberal, but in death they came together to remember his principles. Apparently, representing constituents rather than the party, makes someone a radical liberal. It's ironic how politicians will chastise individuals who do not rep­resent their party's platform when they themselves should be concentrating on serving their constituents, not their politi­cal self interest. 
There are two realities: a tragedy brings people together and a politician is always a politician. After the crash, CNN reported that President George Bush said, "Paul Wellstone was a man of deep convictions, a plain-spoken fellow who did his best for his state and his country." 
Just weeks earlier, the president cam­paigned for Wellstone's opponent, Norm Coleman. Why would the president cam­paign against someone who did the best for his state and country? The answer is simple, Wellstone was a Democrat and Bush is a Republican. 
Were politicians on Oct. 25 thinking of the Wellstone family when they grieved or were they thinking of their political positioning? Even the ultra conservative Sen. Phil Gramm, told the Pioneer Press he admired Wellstone's tenacity and con­viction. How easy it is in politics to disre­spect and despise one day and honor and respect the next. 
Undoubtedly, officials from both sides were scrambling to modify their cam­paigns, so as not to appear unsympathet­
ic. Democrats searched for a replace­ment and within hours the name Walter Mondale surfaced. Coincidentally, this fonner vice president wants to continue Wellstone's traditions. The Democratic leadership apparently justified taking breaks in their grieving in order to find a winning candidate to help maintain their one seat Senate majority. 
There are two facts which remain: a man and his family died and today an election will be held. When the political maneuvering is completed. it should be interesting to see ifthese politicians will be a.hie to see the same type of admira­tion and principles in all of their living colleagues. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion :and strives for the highest standards of jollfnal­ism ar all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS  WORLD&  
NEWS  NATION  
Student  U.S. forces kill  
leaders gear  top al-Qaida  
up for county,  aide, among  
state  others in  

elections 

Yemen 
College Demo­

U.S. officials con­crats and Repub­
firmed the death of licans assist state 
Osama bin Laden's and county candi­
top associate. The dates in campaign­
death was part of ing while Indiana 
America's first hits voting booths 
overt attack on ter­today. 
rorism outside of Afghanistan. 
page 5
page 3 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. James Cushing Memorial Confci·cncc. McKcnna Ilall, Hooms 210-214, all day. 
. Flu shots. Please bring a valid ID and wear a short sleeve shirt. Librarv concourse and LaFortune Dooley Boom, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
El Dia de los Mucrtos Celebration. Campus-wide, 12:15 p.rn. to 1:30 p.m. 

. 
Sophomore Board Dinner Meeting. Noble Family Dining I fall, Wedge Hoom, 5 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, pepperoni, cheese, sausage and bianco pizzas, cream of broccoli soup, tomato soup, Texas chili, chicken sea gumbo, honey glazed pork chops, collard greens, baked lemon perch, chicken nuggets and chicken taco. 
Today's Dinner: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, pepperoni, cheese, sausage and bianco pizzas, buffalo chicken wings, macaroni and cheese, cheddar pollock scrod, oriental vegeta­bles, grilled cheese on white, BBQ rib sandwich, pork fried rice, chicken taco and seasoned fries. 

TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
w 
::c 
ti: 
w 
~ 
..J 
c( CJ 


BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT

NEWS 
Ignoring executives 
NBC 
Russia's announce 
problems will 

acquisition of 
hurt the West Bravo 
long-term 

Media giant NBC 
The Free World's announced plans to 
apathy of Russia's purchase the Bravo 
social, economic entertainment net­
and political prob­work from 
lems will hurt them Cablevision for 
in the future, $1.25 billion. 
according to guest columnist Matt Lynch. 

page 7 
pages 10-1.1 

. 
Lecture with J\.nanta Giri. "A New Vision for Hindu-Christian Hclationships in India." llcsburgh Center, Boom 101, 4:15 p.m. 

. 
Story Time. The Ilammcs Bookstore, Children's section, 1 p.111. 

. 
Minority and Women Business Development Council meeting. Madelcva 247, 6:30 p.m. 


South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chicken fajita pizza, quiche Iorraine, chicken cordon bleu, baked cod, delmonico potatoes, and honey-glazed baked ham. 
Today's Dinner: Italian beef and macaroni, chicken fajita pizza, rice and black olives, baked chicken parmesan, roast pork tenderloin, sesame-baked pollock, Italian beef sandwich and wet beef burrito. 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

.9 HIGH 44 HIGH 46 HIGH 47 HIGH 48 LOW 38 LOW 42 LOW 36 LOW 34 
SCENE  SPORTS  
Amos flying high with latest album, Scarlet's Walk  Dillon Hall hopes to defend its lnterhall title  

Dillon Ha II' s 
Tori Amos hits 
football team
the mark on her 
unveil a passing
latest album, 
attack that they
according to The 
hope will support
Observer music 
their in terhall
critics. Find out all 
championship
her la test has to 
claim.
offer. 

page 7 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
NDSP issues visitor 
trespassing warning 
NDSP issued a visitor a tres­passing warning and escorted him off-campus after the visi­tor attempted to solicit money in Knott Hall. The visitor was also issued a citation for minor in possession of tobacco. 
Visitor arrested for 
trespassing 
A visitor was arrested for criminal trespassing. Additional charges are pend­ing. 
Ill employee 
transported to St. Joe's 
NDSP transported a University employee to St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center for treatment of an ill­ness. 
Stolen bike recovered 
A stolen bike was found and taken to the Security Building for safekeeping. The bike was later returned to its owner. 
Complied from NI)SP Crime Blotter 
Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chicken rice soup with jicama, Minnesota wild rice soup, mushroom and garlic and cheese piz­zas, chicken patty sandwich, grilled cheese sandwich, twice cooked pork, rice, country kitchen vegetables and rice noodles and red pepper salad. 
Today's Dinner: Chicken rice soup with jicama, Minnesota wild rice soup, mushroom and garlic and cheese piz­zas, BBQ beef sandwich, Texas-style grilled cheese sandwich. herb rotis­serie-style chicken, french baked pota­to wedges, basmati rice, marinated bean salad, herb pasta and french silk chocolate pie. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

• 
HIGH 51 HIGH 52 LOW 38 LOW 38 

Atlanta 61 / 54 Boston 47 ! 40 Chicago 46 ! 39 Denver 45 / 29 Houston 65 ! 48 Los Angeles 75 / 53 Minneapolis 40 / 31 New York 50 / 44 Philadelphia 51 / 43 Phoenix 78 / 55 Seattle 54 / 47 St. Louis 48 / 41 Tampa 87 I 74 Washington 51 / 46 
Tuesday, November S, 2002 The Ob5erver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Making vows in Ghana, one of fifteen countries served by Holy Cross. 




www.nd.edu/""'vocation 
ANS\VER * 
TIIECALL W 

Suffer the little Children: 
The Psvchological Impactof Political Violence 
Wednesdav, November& 



10.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 


Ed Cairns 
Professor of Psychology and Communication Studies University of Ulster, Northern Ireland 
Sponsored by the Henkels Visiting Scholars Series and The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
Student leaders prep for today's elections 

By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
The buildup of months of planning peaks today as voters populate the polls in support of their preferred candidates. 
In St. Joseph County, three prominent races have stirred up election chatter, and while most Notre Dame students are unable to vote in the local elec­tion, those students who are active in the current race take it seriously. 
The contest for the House of Representatives has been called the region's most important election as the two major politi­cal parties vie for a majority in Congress. 
St. Joseph County's new 2nd congressional district, has wit­nessed one of the most aggres­sive campaigns in the nation with the race between Republican Chris Chocola and Democrat Jill Long Thompson, replacing Democratic congress­man Tim Roemer. 
"The person who wins this district will have an important impact on Congress," said senior Erin LaRuffa, a fundrais­ing intern for the Long Thompson campaign. 
LaRuffa and senior Mark Hayes head the Notre Dame chapters of the College Democrats and College Republicans respectively, and they have also been working on their parties' congressional campaigns. 
Local voters have been bom­barded heavily during the cam­paign with attack ads linking Long Thompson to terrorism and Chocola to corporate greed. During the campaign, WNDU­TV has yanked negative spots about both candidates, accord­ing to the South Bend Tribwie. 
"As sad as it is, negative ads are more effective than positive ads," Hayes said, mentioning the struggle in this race for the candidates to differentiate themselves from the opposition. 
"Both candidates have views and opinions that fit with a lot of different people," Hayes said. "It's too difficult to be too liberal or too conservative and appeal to a solid base of voters on a national level." 
In other major races: 
. 
The contest for St. Joseph County Prosecutor is between incumbent Republican Chris Toth and Democrat Michael Dvorak. 

. 
Democrat Frank Canarecci will face Republican incumbent Rick Seniff in the race for coun­ty sheriff. 



:n c, ;~'~... e" :";f'l~:i: 17;~-­
-,
•;,:~~
/' ;•"•
)IJYA 
i : ':~ '/111/-:~ 
i;,J:,;;~;~:y:·;i/tJJ 
,'~1 .1¼'1,I ' , '<-•'•'17,
-~-· ",' ~~/::,/} ,, ' ~~;}1:.1/i.
.iJGi/:iu~ :i;ni-:il~'f·,-, •;~
./·/ .,,i". '.'/;1-'/, ,•.-';:'-I 
: (;){l ;r. · y·,.:,:· ?.'. ! ~l~;Y.:
\l_J;t;~Jli
:;t:~~-.b1­
~-:---..-.' //J
• ·I, '"'f+...,\i. ,,
•',.'-', .•(.--.. /'·I,
..:,,.,;. PORCH d,~
•·. ,,:/,· ,c> 
,'_:, .'_,,.i(, 


.;\Fr.1crrc.coM 
J-SSS-423-7-582 
I 
.1, •I 
V 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 5, 2002 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



CLC debates need for international voices 
By MICHAEL CHAMBLISS News Writer 
During Monday's Campus Life Council meeting, Student Body President Libby Bishop intro­duced the idea of including a representative for international students in the council. The number of undergraduate international students has dou­bled in the last year, international students are not widely involved in student gov­ernment, and may feel that they do not have an opportunity to voice their concerns. 

In other CLC news: 
. Task force leaders shared newly formulated task force mission statements with the Council. The leadership, com­munication and BASES task 
forces used the mission 


according statements
"/ don't see a need to bring 
the Council. to communi­
"We want in a special interest group 
cate their them to since we are all supposed to goals for the know that year.
represent all interests ...
they do have Each of a voice, we the three do acknowl­Father Paul Doyle task forces 
edge their Dillon rector plans on 
existence." said Bishop of the international students. 
Several council members dis­liked the idea of including a special interest group in the Council. 
"We represent a quest to find out what is best for the commu­nity. I don't see a need to bring in a special interest group since we are all supposed to repre­sent all interests," said Father Paul Doyle, rector of Dillon Hall. 
Council members were con­cerned that Notre Dame's 1,000 
creating a 
student accessible Web site to consoli­date information about their respective causes. A major goal of the communications task force is the creation of a main Web site where all campus events would be posted. 
"We want to wean the student body off of flyers and posters," said Jane Ong, leader of the communications task force. 
Contact Michael Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
•
Studyinthe nation's capitol 

•
Workinaninternship 


•Fu1611 philosophy, theology,andfine arts requirements 
•Studypublic affairs 
•Live inan exciting city 
•
Applications for Fall 2003 & Spring 2004 are now being accepted online 

•Open 
to Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors from all colleges 



;.:? : · www.nd.edu/~sen1ester 

No job is more important. 





Be an ACE teacher. 
ACE Information Night 
This Thursday November 7 th 7:00 LaFortune Ballroom 



WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
President takes to campaign trail to encourage vote 
battle for control hinged on slx or

fu•ociatcd I'res, 
eight races judged as tossups or 
nearly so in the late polls. 

President Bush barnstormed South Dakota was home to one, through four battleground states pitting Democratic Sen. Tim on Monday in a final appeal for Johnson against GOP Rep John Hepublicans in Congress who will Thune. Senate Majority Leader vote to make tax cuts permanent Tom Daschle, the state's other and confirm conservative judges. senator, worked to preserve Democrats worked for a strong Johnson's Senate tenure -and voter turnout to tilt key races his own grip on power as leader theirwav. of the Democratic majority. 
"We'Ii"see what the voters and In Minnesota, Mondale and the Good Lord has in store Coleman vied for Wellstone's seat tomorrow," said Republican in their only debate of a one­gubernatorial candidate Mark week campaign. Sanford in South Carolina, sum­Mondale, 74, took the offensive ming up the hopes -and anxiety early. "You have a campaign -of candidates everywhere. here that is a poster child for 
While Bush and the Democral'i what is wrong in politics," he said focused their energies on dozens to Coleman, seated a few feet of races, Minnesota Senate rivals away. "You've taken not thou­Walter F. Mondale and Norm sands. but millions of dollars Coleman staged the final debate from the special interests, from of the campaign season. They the Enrons." wore partially upstaged by the "Mr. Vice President, let me say governor's appointment of an very, very, very respectfully, interim replacement for the late when we talk about special inter­Sen. Paul Wcllstone. est and support from corporate 
In the House, where all 435 America, that's been your seats are at stake on Tuesday, world," Coleman rebutted. Democrats need a gain of seven "That's the world in which you've 
President George W. Bush waves with Incumbent Sen. Tim Hutchinson R-Ark. at a
to win control. But it was the lived, serving on boards of 

Republican rally Monday at Arkansas Regional Airport In Betonvllle. President Bush went
Hepublicans who sounded upbeat Cargill" and other firms, he said. 

on a marathon campaign trip that has taken him to 15 states and 17 cities over five days.
-suggesting they could even The two men debated as Gov. 
defy historical trends and pick up Jesse Ventura was announcing a scat or two at Bush's midterm. his selection of Dean Barkley, an Texas, the end of an intense As he has at dozens of rallies, Turning to domestic issues, he "To be on the edge of breaking independent, as interim replace­effort to elect Republican gover­he stressed the importance of the said, "The best way to encourage that historical trend is a signifi­ment for Wellstone. Wellstone nors and members of the House war on terrorism, criticized Iraqi job growth is to let you keep your cant accomplishment," said died late last month in the crash and Senate. President Saddam Hussein and own money. And therefore I need White House press secretary Ari of a small plane. ''I'll be voting in Crawford, renewed his call for a people in the Senate and the Fleischer. Bush, his approval ratings over Texas, tomorrow morning," the Department of Homeland House of Representatives who 
The Senate is divided 49-49, 60 percent, worked his way from president said in Cedar Rapids, Security built to his specifica­will make the tax cuts perma­with two independents, and the Iowa to Missouri, Arkansas and Iowa. 'Tm not undecided." tions. nent." 

U.S. forces kill top al-Qaida aide, others in Yemen 
A,socia.tc:d Press 
WASHINGTON 

U.S. forces killed a top associate of Osama bin Laden in Yemen in a missile strike, expanding the war on terror with America's first overt attack on suspected al-Qaida operatives outside of Afghanistan, a U.S. official said Monday. 
Qaed Salim Sinan al-Harethi was one of several al-Qaida members traveling by car in northwest Yemen when a Hellfire missile struck it Sunday. killing him and five others. The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the attack was believed to have been conducted by a CIA aircraft, possibly a missile-carrying Predator drone. 
The official Yemeni news agency, local tribesmen and the U.S. official confirmed the strike killed al-Harethi. Witnesses said they saw an aircraft, possibly a heli­copter, in the area. Hellfrres can also be launched by attack helicopters. 
The others killed were believed to be low-level operatives. The attack occurred in the northern province of Marib, about 100 miles east of Yemen's capital of San'a, where al-Qaida is considered active. 
U.S. counterterrorism officials have said al-Harethi, also known as Abu Ali, was al-Qaida's chief operative in Yemen and a top target of U.S. anti-terrorism efforts. An associate of bin Laden since the early 1990s in Sudan, al-Harethi is a suspect in the bombing of the destroyer USS Cole in Aden, Yemen, on Oct. 12, 2000. 
The CIA declined comment. On Monday, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld told a Pentagon press confer­ence, "It would be a very good thing if he were out of business." 
A Yemeni official, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said, "Authorities have been monitoring this particular car for a while and we believe those men belonged to the al-Qaida terror net­work." 
Many al-Qaida operatives fleeing the U.S.-led war on Afghanistan have joined comrades in Yemen. After the United States detected growth in al-Qaida pres­ence there this spring, hundreds of U.S. troops deployed to Djibouti, the tiny African nation facing Yemen across the Red Sea, officials said. The Marine amphibious assault ship Nassau recently replaced the USS Belleau Wood in the waters between the two nations. 

Inside Yemen, U.S.-trained Yemeni troops deployed to suspected al-Qaida hotbeds in August. 
Besides al-Harethi, at least one more Yemeni al-Qaida operative linked to the Cole attack, Mohammad Hamdi al-Ahdal, is thought to be in Yemen, U.S. officials say. In the Cole attack, two suicide bombers slammed an explosives-laden boat into the hull of the ship, killing 17 
U.S. sailors and disabling the vessel. 
Also believed to be in Yemen are Shaykh Dabwan and Suwaid, described as al-Qaida operatives who plan and pro­vide support to terror operations, and an al-Qaida communications expert known as Miqdad, said a U.S. defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Suicide bombing leaves 2 Israelis dead: 
A Palestinian suicide attacker blew himself up Monday while grappling with an Israeli security guard at a shopping mall in a Tel Aviv suburb, killing the guard and another civilian and wounding 12 other people, including two infants. The bombing -the 81st by Palestinian militants in two years ­marked a first test for Israel's new defense minister, Shaul Mofaz. who was sworn in Monday. 
Saddam said to consider new resolution: 
President Saddam Hussein indicated Monday he would not reject outright a new U.N. resolution on weapons inspections. saying Iraq would examine the conditions it imposes before deciding on compli­ance, Iraqi TV reported. Saddam's remarks appeared to mark a shift by the Iraqi leader, who had maintained he would only accept weapons inspectors on terms laid down in previous resolu­tions. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Sniper suspect appears before judge: 
The 17-year-old sniper suspect appeared before a federal judge for a closed juvenile hearing Monday as investigators looked into whether two more shootings are linked to a spree that left 10 dead. Police around the country have been reviewing unsolved shootings to see if they are connected to John Muhammad, 41, and John Malvo, 17, who were arrested Oct. 24 in Maryland. The wounding of two people in separate holdups, one outside a liquor store and the other outside a restaurant, could be connected with the string of sniper attacks that terrorized the region, Prince George's County police said. Both shootings took place in Clinton, the same Washington suburb where Muhammad's ex-wife lives. In addition to the sniper shootings in Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C., the two have been charged with slayings in Louisiana and Alabama, and are suspects in two shootings, one fatal, in Washington state. 
Ventura appoints independent to Senate: 
A steaming-mad Gov. Jesse Ventura appointed a fel­low independent to temporarily fill Sen. Paul Wellstonc's seat Monday, while Walter Mondale went on the offensive against Republican Norm Coleman in the only debate of their compressed Senate campaign. Ventura's choice of Dean Barkley, a major figure in Minnesota's third-party move­ment, leaves control of the Senate up in the air. The two major parties now have 49 members each. with­two independents. 
New church sex-abuse draft released: 
America's Roman Catholic bishops released the new draft of their sex abuse policy Monday, a plan that still would get molesters away from children ­though victims say the process is cumbersome and secretive. Worked out in talks with the Vatican last week, U.S. bishops will vote on the changes at their Nov. 11-14 meeting in Washington. 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 5, 2002 



BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


BOG debates funding ND clubs 
Jensen and Vice President By NATALIE BAILEY Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl fol­News Writer lowing a meeting held Nov.3, 
2002 with them. According to Mary Leppert, Campus Clubs Caprio, she is leaving for per­Commissioner, expressed con­sonal reasons. cern about granting Notre . Nila Ahmad, Vice President 
Dame clubs  of  Student  
recognition, funding and a bank account with 1st Source  "We want to make sure Saint Marys women are represented well in any  Diversity Board, pre­sented her revision of the Saint Mary's  
Bank, during the Board of Governance  club we are going to fund."  Harassment Clause to the BOG. Ahmad  
(BOG) meet­ing Monday. After dis­cussion, board mem- Kim Jensen Student Body President  presented her work in order to gain stu­dent endorse­ment of the  
bers agreed that Saint  clause before it goes on to  

Mary's students need to be a the Student Affairs Committee. part of a club before it receives Members of the board were 
funding from BOG. concerned about wording of the "We want to make sure Saint revision and what potential. Mary's women are represented They were given one week to 
well in any club we are going to decide on the endorsement. grant funding to," Jensen said. . Linda Tiimn, vice president This semester there are 48 of Student Affairs speculated recognized Saint Mary's clubs, that senior on campus apart­
two unrecognized ones and four ments will be a part of the Saint on probation, according to BOG. Mary's campus within the next 
18 months. 
In other BOG news: 
. BOG executive secretary, Lauren Caprio, resigned Nov. 4, 
Contact Natalie Bailey at 
2002. Caprio issued her letter of 


baill407@saintmarys.edu.
resignation to President Kim 

KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 

Summer Internships 




in Ireland 
Internship includes: 

l. Seven weeks' internship (10 June-1 August) 
2. 
Round trip airfare from the United States to Ireland 

3. 
Room and board 

4. 
Stipend 



All JUNIORS with a demonstrated interest in Irish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. 

Applications available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 422 Flanner Hall 
OR 

Online at www.nd.edu/~irishstu/intemships.shtml 
Applications due by Friday, 6 December, 2002 
Learning To Talk About RaceThis Retreat #23 
November 8-9 
Lindenwood Retreat Center
Weel< in 

Freshman Retreat #43 November 8-9

campus Ministrv 

Sacred Heart Parish Retreat Center Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 www.nd.edu/-ministry 


EL_d_a-,------­_dav 
RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. 
campus Bible Study 

Coleman-Morse Lounge7:00 -8:00 p.m. 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m.
Weekly Spanish Mass 

Zahm Hall Chapel10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel


........· 1nesdav 

MBA MassGraduate Student Christian Fellowship 
7:00 p.m.
8:00 p.m. 

Mendoza College of Business ChapelWilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer Rejoice! Mass 
10:00 -11 :00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. Morrissey H all Chapel Coleman-Morse Chapel 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

Retreats 
sign 
1 

Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Junior Retreat Retreat Date: November 9-10 
Sign-up dates: October 30-November 5 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Freshman Retreat #44 Retreat Date: December 6-7 Sign-up dates: November 11-December 2 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 


Bus0iNESS 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 4 
8,571.60 +53.96 

NASDAQ 

1,396.54  +35.84  
S&P500  
908.35  t!  +7.39  
AMEX  

832.17 +3.18
~ 


NYSE 

482.22 +1.81 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
asm SY'S1tM5 ccm) +6. 03 +0. 70 12. 31 
•111B1lllll1illllllll111!!1ililllitll!:ill 
INTEL aRP (INTC) +2. 57 +0. 47 18. 77 
l~:;;1i~ll!ill1:i;llliit::1i;111:1::fi~lll!:i:t11:;11 
JDS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +12.90 +0.32 2.80 
IN BRIEF 


Court rejects Canada cigarette suit 
Canada lost a Supreme Court case Monday over its attempt to use a U.S. anti-racketeer­ing law to sue over cigarette smuggling. 
Canadian leaders contend R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. tried to get around taxes by smuggling tobacco into Canada through an Indian reservation. 
Other countries had copied Canada's $1 bil­lion lawsuit. The Supreme Court refused to consider reinstating the case, signaling that countries must use their own courts to pursue American companies they accuse of wrongdo­ing. 
Canadian lawyers sued under a federal law that offers successful plaintiffs tripled dam­ages. Lower courts ruled that the case was barred under an English common-law rule that bans foreign governments from using 
U.S. courts to collect lost revenues. 
The case has been pending for months at the Supreme Court. Part of the delay came after justices asked the Bush administration last spring to offer its opinion. The adminis­tration sided with H.J. Reynolds, the second largest U.S. cigarette maker behind Philip Morris Inc. 

Enron's cash burn rate questioned 
A group of Enron Corp. creditors say the failed energy giant's bankruptcy costs are jeopardizing their potential to recover at least some of what they're owed. 
"We are certainly concerned about the possibility that professional fees could eat up the entire bankrupt estate," Aaron Cahn, one of the attorneys representing 18 creditors collectively called the Dunhill Group, said Monday. 
A month ago Enron filed a report with U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York projecting that legal and bankruptcy-related fees will reach $306 million by the end of December this year. That amount was part of an over­all estimate of $773 million in administrative costs over the same time span. 

WorldCom fraud at $7.68B 
. Thornburgh cites company's illegal reports 
A..odated Press 

JACKSON, Miss. 
WorldCom Inc. took "extraordinary and illegal steps" to paint a rosy pic­ture of its deteriorating finances, and the extent of the fraud will likely go beyond the $7.68 billion previously disclosed, a bankruptcy court-appoint­ed monitor said Monday. 
The report from special examiner Richard Thornburgh, a former U.S. attorney general, also crit­icized WorldCom's board for letting former chief executive Bernard Ebbers leverage his company stock for more than $1 bil­lion in personal and busi­ness loans. That greatly exceeds the $400 million in personal loans Ebbers was already disclosed to have been granted. 
Thornburgh said he had significant information that WorldCom employees created false internal financial reports to con­ceal their fraud. His report excluded details of the accounting manipula­tions, it said, because the company is the subject of civil and criminal pro­ceedings. audit committee, the com­in July after revealing WorldCom to keep cus­
"Our investigation pany's system of internal accounting irregularities, tomers with these allega­strongly suggests that controls and the indepen­said in response to the tions and with the contro­WorldCom personnel dent auditors." report that it is doubling versy continuing and the responded to changing One corporate bankrupt­its internal audit depart­fraud apparently grow­business conditions and cy attorney said the report ment staff, creating two ing," said Patrick Comack earnings pressures by tak­indicates WorldCom, the new operational chief of Guzman & Co. in ing extraordinary and ille­Clinton, Miss.-based par­financial officer positions Miami. gal steps to mask the dis­ent of long-distance carri­and hiring a new corpo­Thornburgh said the crepancy between the er MCI, may have to sell rate controller. huge loans to Ebbers put financial reality at the operating divisions to "WorldCom's manage­the interests of the com­company and Wall Street's become viable again. ment and board are deter­pany's shareholders at expectations," "What it means for the mined to ensure that what risk, since if he had been Thornburgh said in his company is there will be happened here in the past forced to sell the stock he report. more investigations, which cannot recur," said John used as collateral, that 
As to where to place the will slow things down for Sidgmore, WorldCom's "might have precipitated a blame, Thornburgh con­reorganization," said president and chief execu­rapid downward spiral in cluded: "There were Richard Tilton, a Wall, tive. the company's share numerous failures, inade­N.J., bankruptcy attorney. One telecommunications price." Ebbers' attorney quacies and breakdowns "The report says it's sti11 a industry analyst said the Reid Weingarten, said in the multilayered system company without a strate­examiner's report, with its Monday that he could not designed to protect the gic plan and without one, hints of more fraud to be comment on Thornburgh's integrity of the financial it will be very hard to exit uncovered, deals another report because he had not reporting system at Chapter 11." serious blow to reviewed it. Ebbers has an WorldCom, including the WorldCom, which filed WorldCom. unlisted phone number board of directors, the for bankruptcy protection "It's going to be hard for and could not be reached. 


NBC to buy Bravo cable network 
shares of Cablevision Class A common advanced 92 cents to $13.72. GE was 
Associated Press 

stock, presently held by NBC. NBC up 77 cents at $26. 77. 
NEWYORK had a significant stake in By structuring the deal to involve 
NBC has agreed to buy the Bravo Cablevision's Rainbow Media Group stock transfers, Cablevision can limit cable entertainment network from subsidiary, which owned Bravo. When its tax liability while !itill improving its Cablevision Systems Corp. in a $1.25 the transaction is complete, NBC will balance sheet. The Cablevision shares billion cash and stock deal expected to no longer have any holdings in owned by NBC accounted for approxi­expand the network's cable presence Cablevision or any of its subsidiaries. mately 16 percent of Cablevision's and shore up Cablevision's finances. Cablevision has an 80 percent stake common stock. 
The deal, announced Monday, helps in Bravo; the remaining 20 percent is 'This is a good first step in trying to reduce debt at Cablevision, which has owned by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. simplify the company's structure," been under increasing pressure to NBC will pay $250 million cash for said Alan Bezoza, cable systems and improve its balance sheet. MGM's Bravo stake. equipment analyst at CIBC World 
In return for its position in Bravo, Wall Street appeared to approve of Markets. "We would have liked to see Cablevision will receive about $1 bil­the deal. In morning trading on the more cash involved in the transaction, lion in stock -between $400 million New York Stock Exchange, shares of but we think there is more to come· and $500 million from NBC's parent Cablevision surged $1.31, or 13 per­with respect to more asset sales at General Electric Co. and 53.2 million cent, to $11.40, while MGM shares Cablevision." 
page 8 Thi: Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 5, 2002 
MATT LOVELL/The Observer 

Jeremy Lao discusses Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore's poll­cy toward The Shirt and Its allotment of funds. 
resources. "We want to get students

Cabinet 
talking to professors outside the classroom," O'Donnell said. 

continued from page 1 
The strategic planning initia­Trip Foley agreed, but noted tive will continue at next that the agreement caused less week's meeting, when senior risk for The Shirt's student class president Matt Smith and sponsors. off-campus representative Dan "There was no downside for Barabas will present their 10­
us," Foley said. year plans to cabinet members The kelley green shirts have proven enormously popular, as 
In other Executive Cabinet news: 

some 90,000 have been sold to 
. Student leaders welcomed

date. The bookstore has new member Dave Baron.
expanded the line of products Baron, a Morrissey Manor res­
to include sweatshirts, hats 
ident, was elected freshmanand other items emblazoned class president on Oct. 16. 

with the "Return to Glory" 
. Senior class president Matt motto. Student Body President Smith encouraged members of

Libby Bishop has invited 
his class to bring a white T­Courtney Schuster, president 

shirt and attend a marker­of The Shirt Committee, to fueled "Signature Event"

explain the project's financial 
Wednesday night at the

situation at next week's execu­
Alumni-Senior Club. The

tive cabinet meeting. 
evening will "bring Senior Bar
Junior class president back to its former glory,"

Meghan O'Donnell presented Smith said. Attendees will have 
her organization's strategic 
the opportunity to win $100 in plan, which focused on class Domer Dollars. 

unity. 
"About half the class goes abroad during the junior year, so we want to maintain unity for students here and abroad," Contact Matt Bramanti at O'Donnell said. bramant@nd.edu. 
Her plan aims to organize programming and social activi­ties to foster cohesion among 

Hunters 
continued from page 1 
caution tape and warning signs have been posted to ensure that students or visi­tors do not accidentally wan­der into the hunter's path. There will also be security officers patrolling the area. 
GRAY 
at midnight 
IN STORES NOW! 
THE NEW ALBUM 
FEATURING 

THE OTHER SIDE CAROLINE KANGAROO DEAD IN THE WATER 
members of the class of 2004, and juniors in future years. The plan also addresses juniors' concerns about what the future holds. 
O'Donnell said the plan attempts to allay students' fears about jobs, internships, and graduate schools, by encouraging students to use the University's existing 
Sportswear
largest selectioµ at 
Sminute~.A. 
from DUTPDST 
Campus -K:.1.:.a.:.uiu::.11­
Call 259-1000 for more details 
IT 
campus s ­
oppes 
(o1nn)11'111(sterdil(ol1¦• 

Letters informing the Notre Dame and Holy Cross commu­nities about the hunt have been sent. 
"This is not a sport hunt but a population reduction. Not just whoever wants to go back there and hunt will be able to," Johns said. 
The marksmen will be hunt­ing on campus around dawn, from 5:30 to 10:00 a.m., and dusk, from 3:30 to 7:00 p.m. The hunters have the option to keep the deer personally, or the meat will be donated to the homeless. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
Matt Bramanti contributed to this report. 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Lecture addresses death of black youths 
Holloway is an African Black Death. This is the dying of By KA TE DOOLEY American literary and cultural African Americans related to our News Writer scholar and author of "Passed color. I found that instead of 
On: African American Mourning dying when you became elderly, 
Karla Holloway, a professor of Stories." too many African Americans English and associate dean of She began the research for the were dying early in their lives," Humanities and Social Sciences book 10 years ago with the intent she said. at Duke University, spoke at Saint of writing an analysis of death This thesis became a reality to Mary's Monday as part of the and dying in African American Holloway when her son was "Women and Social Justice" culture. killed at an early age. series. "One of my theses is called "It started out as a scholarly 
The Interdisciplinary Center for the Study of Biocomplexity presents two distinguished lectures 
Thursday, November 7, 2002 4:00 pm 

McKenna Hall Auditorium (next to the Post Office) 
Steven Vogel 
James B. Duke Professor of Biology Duke University 

The Biomerhanics of Ancient Tasks 
Through most of our history, musde has been almost our only engine, whether our own or that of afew domesticated animals. So what we've done and how we've done things might just turn on the force and the power of muscle, from clearing land to moving stones. propelling boats. and throwing projectiles. Dr. Vogel will discuss how tedrnology and madlines have been shaped by our desire and need to mate this strange yet marvelous engine to various tasks. 
Friday, November 8, 2002 4:00 pm McKenna Hall Auditorium (next to the Post Office) 
Stephen C. Cowin 

Distinguished Professor of Mechanical Engineering The City College, City University of New York 
How Does Nature Build Tissues? 
All biological tissues are subjected to a wide variety of biochemical, mechanical and electrical stimuli that result in physical changes to the structure and size of the materials. This lecture addresses the question of how nature adds material to the various tissues of a young animal so that all of the anatomical structures grow appropriately as the animal grows? 
BOTH LECTURES ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC & INTENDED FOR AGENERAL AUDIENCE These lectures are presented as part of the Third Annual Biocomplexity Workshop being held November 8-10 2002 at McKenna Hall. For further information please visit our website: http:/I cauchy.ame.nd.edu/tissuemechanics 
book, very distant from me. I did not anticipate that the scholarly part of the book would become my own experience as well," Holloway said. She realized that the early death of her son and the way in which his death was poor­ly depicted in media was telling about the African American death experience. 
She recognized that like her son, many of the African­American youth were dying yoWlg. Her studies indicated that the child size caskets and caskets marketed to teens have always been marketable in part due to the amount used in the African American community. 
"The ways in which we died changed but the fact that we were vulnerable to dying because we were African American stayed the same," Holloway said. 
In order to learn about the topic. Holloway traveled all over, visiting funeral homes, grave sites, funeral museums and even a Black Funeral Director's Convention, where they displayed caskets like a car salesman would display a car. 
Through her research she found that most African­American funerals are elaborate and full of dramatic effects and rituals specific to their culture. These rituals are the way in which the African American com­munity honors their loved ones that have passed away, Halloway said. 
Holloway visited grave sites of famous African Americans, including Harriet Tubman, Louis Armstrong and Richard Wright. 
Holloway gained insight and peace through her experiences while writing the book. 
Holloway feels that the African American rituals in dealing with death and dying help them to heal as a community and go for­ward 
"I have come to believe in the healing power of ritual." she said. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Intercultural Leadership and the Office of Multi-Cultural Affairs. 
Contact Kate Dooley at dool6I l O@saintmarys.edu 


Economic Forecasting Summit 
Featuring marker srrategists: 
Terry Savage, Chicago Sun Times Robert Stovall, Clemente Capital. Inc. Scott Malpas~ University of Notre Dame Carol Stone, Nomura Securities International Richard Driehaus, Driehaus CapitaI Management Inc. 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 South Send Century Center 120 S. Joseph Str•et South Ben4 Indian.ii 
$20 includes continental breakfast 
For registration Information call S74-239-2380 x 234 
or e-mail nfwlb@nlwib.com 
Sponscr~dby 
ijJ

0 Investment Services UNIVERSIT\" OF NOTRE OAMF.. 
JobWorks

MENOUl.,\ C:OI LP.C£ CJ-p Bl'SINl!H 

At Citadel, we work every day to gain an edge in the global financial markets. With world-class analytics, risk management capability, state-of-the-art technology and a global footprint, we see what others cannot see. 
~ounded in 1990, Citadel is an internationally recognized alternative 
Citadel Investment Group, ,L.L.C. rnvestment firm, excelling in global relative value, event driven, and fundamental investment strategies. Opportunities for university graduates include positions in: 
Determined, focused, and passionate about winning, our team • Investment Management, Research and Trading members capitalize on their expertise to identify and seize market 
• 
Quantitative Research 

• 
Information Technology


opportunities. At Citadel you will learn and grow exponentially. 

You will be challenged to see further and achieve more. • Accounting, Finance and Operations 
Stay ahead of the curve. Create the futl.:re. If you are interested in a career with substantial opportunities, we encourage you to learn more about Citadel by visiting our website www.citadelgroup.com 
We are accepting resumes via Notre Dame University's IRISH e-recruiting system. 
The deadline for resume submission is Wednesday, November 6, 2002.
• ¦ ¦
--CITADEL 

OTHE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 5, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 

n., /U<f'nJn,t, IJ"'9 N-.s.r.u.i Notr, 0-...,,S..tM"1~ 
P.O. Box Q. Not{c Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN Ctru:F Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrrw Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDffOll: Chris Federico SC.ENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 

SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mm Lu12 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Tcd Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lcwalski 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGI.R/GENERAL INFo.............. 631-747I FAX. ............................................................631--0927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-690018840 
observad@nd.edu 

EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OmCE........................................63I-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews.I@nd.edu VIEWPOlNT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. J@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARY°s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 5YsT£MSIWEB AoMINISTRA.TORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ohserwr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spom, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and onlinc by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contenc, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not n=a.rily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qwstions regarding Obwverpolicies should be direct­ed w Ediwr in ChiefJ=n McFarky. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tu oi...,.,., (USPS 599 240) ~ l"'blah<u Monday duoogh Fnd'l' """I" doring cum ..nd YaC.ation poioda. AsubscripQ.00. co Tbc Obicrva Li $100 for one aadanic ycr,; S55 foe OQC IICffla.ta. 
The Obsct'fa' is publi,bcd ac l'OSTM.ISTER 
02-1 Soolb Dining Holl Send addccu corn:x:liOft.a w. 
Notre Dame. IN 46SS6 ThcOm:crver 
P.O. Box Q. Paiodica.l poiUF p.id ai Nottt. D.amc Nouc Dame, IN 46556-0779 .-.nd ad.iitim.J mailing vflk:a. 
11ie ~it a member vf the Auoclatcd Prca. All rcprod.W:Uon .ri_gh.a vc
-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Sometimes it takes another perspective to help you see outside your immediate condition. And sometimes that alternative perspective can provide with you with an appreciation that you should have had the entire time. That is exactly what happened to me this past weekend when two of my friends from back home came to visit Notre Dame. 
One may be quick to assume that their experience was less than extraordinary. After all, they made a trip from two of the gems of the east coast to come to South Bend ­certainly not a place that even deserves to be uttered in the same breath as New York City and Boston. Our bars were frequented, most unfortunately, by a majority of Boston College kids who seemed in no mood to interact with anyone but themselves. Who drives 13 hours in an RV to drink beers in Sam's Club parking lot in Mishawaka. Ind.? Oh yeah, and the very event that was supposed to be the highlight of the weekend, the football game, was a bit of a disappointment. 
Yet on the ride to O'Hare on Sunday morning, my friends had nothing but praise for this school that I have been so blessed to have attended for the past 3 1/2 years. In fact, they even expressed a sentiment of regret that their college experience was so void of the community and spirit of Notre Dame. I had difficulty staying on the road. Isn't it an almost universal sentiment around here that South Bend is the worst place in the world? And that a truly urban college experience (such as is offered by Northeastern and Columbia) would inevitably be more complete than our ultra-traditional and hyper-conserva­tive Catholic institution? · 
If any of my friends have read up to this point (which I most certainly hope they have not), I am sure that the inevitable question begs to be asked: "Is Joe Lordi about to go 'Joe Domer' on us? Is he about to get all mushy and tell us how we need to truly relish the 'Notre Dame Experience' in our final few months here at the University?" 
And to each of the questions I respond with a tentative, "Yes." Sure, I am the same kid who has had four run-ins with Residence Life and been jaded by the inconsistencies of our administration. Yes, I am that kid who walks around and says, "Go Irish," not because I necessarily believe in the credo, but because it is an amusing conver­sation filler. Oh yeah, and I am also that kid who tries to motivate the entire senior section games to sit down at football games when my legs get tired. 
Ultimately, the very notion of writing a letter to The Observer is quite out of character. But after hearing end­less appreciation for our University from my friends from home, I could not help but be moved. In fact, they helped to remind me of the very reasons that l decided to come to Notre Dame: the camaraderie shared at tailgates, the spirit displayed by a unified student section (despite a heartbreaking loss) and the friends that are so apprecia­tive of a good conversation and good times. They could not believe the abundance of life and character that is so unique to our University. 
While many people will reflect upon this past weekend as being one of the most disappointing in recent memory, perhaps we would be better served to see things with a more optimistic tint. We have it great here -maybe even better than any other undergraduates anywhere in the nation. As far as I'm concerned, a national championship is far less relevant to our collective lives than is the mys­terious "Notre Dame Experience." So let's keep that in mind -especially to the freshmen who have finally expe­rienced a loss. You'll be okay. No need to become jaded and cynical. So that's it. I just wanted to get that off my chest. 
I know that I'll look back at my college experience in 20 years and remember it as the best times anyhow. Why not just be honest with myself now? It's funny how much can be learned from a losing football weekend. One more thing: Go Irish. 
Joe Lordi senior off-campus Nov. 3 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Andrew Thagard Sarah Nestor Maureen Reynolds Viewpoint Kristin Yemm Graphics Andy Devoto 
Sports 
Katie McVoy Lauren Dasso Christine Armstrong Scene Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Lisa Velte 

NDTODAY /OBSERVER POLL QUESTION  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Did you obtain an absentee ballot to vote in the midterm elections?  "The real voyage ofdiscovery consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes. "  
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m.  Marcel Proust  
French writer  

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
No shame in loss to 
Boston College 

As a Notre Dame student, I am a huge fan and proud supporter of athletics. I found the caption to the photo depicting Ryan Grant under Brian Kronk's "From Green to Blue" article yesterday to be troublesome. The phrase "hangs his bead in shame" had me outraged from the time I saw it. I don't think he's hanging his head in shame at all. 
Shame comes from not taking pride in what you do, not being loyal to your cause and abandoning your team. None of which Ryan Grant, or for that mat­ter any member of the Notre Dame team, did that day. The students, for the most part. were still in the stands after the clock ran out, ready to recite the "Notre Dame Victory March" and "Notre Dame Our Mother," and the team wore the colors they were proud of and fought to the very last seconds on the clock for their cause. 
I don't see any cause for shame. Like many, I was disappointed in the out­come, but although I do not play on the field, I know the loyalty was still there. 
That's why they were out on the field again for practice yesterday, with every ambition and intent to win their next game. They have remained true to their cause; they have been loyal to their family and the team remained unit­ed. How we all respond to the last game is something that will show our true colors -our blood runs blue, gold and yes. even green. 
I am proud to say that I was sitting in the stadium when the 2002 football team and family were 8-0, but even prouder to say that I stayed in the stadium when we were 8-1. 
To those talking about the green jerseys being "bad luck" and the Notre Dame's perfect season being destroyed. I urge you to look at the sea of green on Nov. 2. The weather was freezing, but we all wore our green shirts proudly that day, regardless of what happened. 
I recall the Pittsburgh game, when my friend walked into my room com­plaining about how many people were at the bookstore buying the "Return to Glory" shirts. I am positive that just as many people this weekend were elated to prove that they too are a part of it all by buying their shirts. 
rt is not the shirt, it is not the luck, but rather. it is the loyalty and faith that we have in Our Mother. our team and our family. There is no shame on Grant's face, there is no shame on anyone's face on campus and there is no shame in Notre Dame. 
Jackie Ramirez 
freshman McGlinn Hall Nov.4 
U.S. interests should not be subordinate to U.N.'s 
The ongoing debate over confronting Iraq on its repeated violations of United Nations resolutions is being conducted dishonestly by European champions of "multilateralism." The nations of Europe and their sycophants around the world accuse the United States of taking a "unilateral stance," ofabandoning multilateral decision-making and seeking to impose its will on the world. What these crit­ics fail to acknowledge is that the United States is doing what nation-states have always been expected to do: pursue their own policies, in their own self-interest. 
The nations of Europe, the mouthpieces of multilateralism, flare indignant when the United States declares that she will not be "handcuffed" by the United Nations, in the words of Secretary of State Colin Powell. Why? Because they believe the United States, and all states, ought to be handcuffed by the United Nations. In a world which con­tains only one superpower -which is so much more powerful than the rest ofthe world that the French are inventing new terms like "hyperpower" -weaker states have no other avenue to power than through international bodies. 
Such bodies as the United Nations allow enhanced influence by weak states and diminished influence by more powerful ones by demanding rightfully that all states engage one another civilly, for the common solution to international problems. 
Such bodies are great things. The United Nations is a great thing. Remember, though, that the United States not only played the pivotal role in creating it, but that she entered the United Nations willingly, at a time when it was obvious that America was a power of incredible proportions. The United States· continuing participation in the United Nations is a mark of her dedication to the community of nations. 
However, Europeans and other weaker states have used the United Nations to pro­ject a world order which calls for the contin­ual weakening of great states in an effort to exert influence not only over matters of purely communal interest, but also of indi­vidual self-interest. 
Read the Declaration of Independence: Legitimate nation-states exist to protect the liberties and well-being of their people. That is the primary, insoluble purpose of their existence. In matters of individual self­defense. nation-states exert their sovereign authority to act. Nation-states pursue their own policies, and when those policies are declared by legitimately elected governors and found by those legislators to be valid in their own right, they are not subject to approval by international bodies. At least, not in a community of nation-states. 
Champions of multilateralism ­Europeans -seek an end to the nation­state. They seek a community of dependent states -dependent on the majority of votes of a body which, while worthwhile, counts as members the likes of Syria and Iraq. The United States will not, cannot, submit its sov­ereign responsibility of self-preservation to this tyrannical rabble. We are a nation-state. 
Padraic H. McDermott 
junior Morrissey Manor 0cc. 31 
GUEST COLUMN 
West ignores Russia's problems at its own peril 
MADISON, WIS. 

There is a dark specter visible today on the horizon of global relations, one nation whose future can endanger the security of the entire planet. This country is not a new threat; the Matt Lynch Free World has feared it for years. 
Its people suf­fered under totali-Badger Herald tarianism for most of the last century, living in fear of all-powerful government. They have also been hit with extreme poverty over the past decade, with the despotic elite getting richer while the average citizen gets less and less. 
It is a nation of both religious and political turmoil, rampant with terror­ists and laden with a rich arsenal of "weapons of mass destruction." One spark could set this nation, its region and the entire world into unprecedent­ed chaos. 
Iraq? Not even close. North Korea? Please. Any global conflict those two states could incite pales in comparison with the potential of the most frighten­ing power in the world over the past 50 years: the former Soviet Union. 
Since the surprisingly rapid end of the Cold War and the fall of commu­nism in the Soviet bloc, the attitude of the American public toward Russia has been best expressed by the character of John Connor in "Terminator 2": "Aren't they our friends now?" 
Politicians and the public have paid sparingly little attention to Russia and its former satellites except when push­ing them to accept American for­eign policy in the Middle East, shaking their hands on largely symbolic weapons reduction or patting ourselves on the back for victo­ry in the Cold War. 
It's time to wake up. We're not out of the woods yet. 
The fact that Russia is back in the news this week for a hostage situa­tion that ended in tragedy­over 100 hostages killed by the government's own knock-out gas ­merely highlights the fact that it never should have left the public eye of the West. 

Russia still has more nuclear and chemical weapons than any other country. which is not dangerous in and of itself. The danger lies in who holds them. The Russian political situation is precarious at best, the Russian mafia makes Al Capone and John Dillinger look like the Olsen twins and its terror­ist opposition is at least as fanatical as al Qaeda. With widespread poverty set 
alongside immense and often ille­gal wealth, violent threats 
lurking everywhere and a government that strug­gles to deal effective­ly with either prob­
lem, it is no won­der many Russians Jong 
for the return of some stabil­ity under com­
munism. 
The possi­bility of a fall back into totalitarianism 
remains; 11 years of living without commu­nism is not long enough to change the minµ.set of many Russian adults. We do not for­get the principles of life, liberty and the pursuit of 
happiness we learned in grade school even when they are under assault. Instead, we defend them vehe­mently. Can we really expect Russians indoctrinated to believe in equality, suppression of rebellion and the ulti­mate authority of the state to embrace their newfound reality of vast inequali­ty, terrorist rebellion and the ineffec­tiveness of the state to solve these problems? 

Terrorism and the political situation in the Middle East are worthy topics of public debate, to be certain -I do not mean to argue otherwise. But perhaps our priorities in the arena of public debate are a little mixed up, like a homeowner hiring the Orkin man while his roof is about to cave in. 
If the Middle East is a tinderbox, as our politicians will tell us, then Russia is a fuel tanker. Saddam Hussein with a nuclear weapon may be dangerous, but the United States would rather deal with an armed Saddam who has control over his small country than an anarchist Russia with thousands of warheads up for grabs. It would rather deal with a few rogue terrorists than a resurrected Soviet Union. And, I think, it would rather spend time with both problems than take care of the pests while the house falls apart. 
Last week's terrorism in Russia is just another wake-up call. Maybe it's time to pay attention. 
This column first appeared in the Oct. 30 edition ofthe Badger Herald. the campus newspaper of the University of Wisconsin. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Tuesday, November 5, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
An,_os hits the n,_ark 
By DAVID HARTWIG 
Scene Music Critic 
Famous or infamous? The verdict is still out. but Tori Amos definitely has a thing for concept albums. The latest in a 14-year career. Scarlet's Walk, finally hits a mark that she definitely has fallen short of on recent records. This album follows the path of a female heroine. Scarlet, on a journey through every state in the U.S., focusing on the histories from pre-1492 through the European conquest of this country. 
The concept for the album itself is very interesting, but true audiophiles know that it is the music that counts. This is where Scarlet's Walk shines. After 1991's Little Earthquakes, arguably one of the decade's greatest albums, Amos' next five studio releases seemed to miss the mark both in terms of musical quality and in sheer emo­


Scarlet's Walk 
Epic Records 
Tori Amos 

tional intensity. On last year's Strange Little Girls, the concept overshadowed the music, with Amos covering songs that were origi­nally recorded by all male artists -mostly songs unworthy of her incredible talents. 
Though the entire album is worth listen­ing to over and over, the best tracks on Scarlet's Walk include the first single "a sorta fairytale." The path of this song includes California, Northern .Arizona and New Mexico. With an up-tempo, folksy beat, this track is definitely new-school Amos. The album's title track and "strange" are the most reminiscent of old­school Amos, with the haunting piano and ethereal voice spouting lyrics that express her profound sense of disillusionment with the world. This is seen especially on Scarlet's Walk when her lyrical tribute to some of the Native American tribes of the Blue Mountains in the Western Carolinas seems to come out strongly against a trou­bled super-power and its "free" people 
imposing social morals on I e s s wealthy nations. 
Other a I bum highlights include " pan ­cake," which fol­lows the heroine from Philadelphia through New York and Boston and up into the Northern New England states. The bluesy beat of the song drtves social­ly conscious lyrics mixed with personal commen­taries, including the lines "it seems in vogue to be a closet misogynist homophobe" and "Messiahs need people dying in their name." On "Taxi Ride," perhaps the best track on the album, Amos makes use of a strong, almost funky beat to show a lighter side. 
This is also one of Amos' more commer­cialized albums, some­thing that seems to go strongly against the con­cept. The deluxe edition includes a map that details the path each song follows along with Polaroid-like stills from the trip, a sticker book, a charm which must be some kind of souvenir, and a DVD that features videos for "Gold Dust," "a sorta fairytale," and "Taxi Ride." 
In spite of or because of the concept, this album is just plain good. In all, it's her best album since Boys for Pele. With full orches­tras complimenting some tracks and Native American prayers providing some lyrics, it is her first since little Earthquakes to showcase the breadth of her musical tal­ents and depth of her songwriting capabili­ties. 


Contact David Hartwig at hartwig.4@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Pavem.ent gets rediscovered 
By DANIEL MCSWAIN 
Scene Music Critic 
Unrealized and sometimes violently explosive talent has a habit of striking when least expected. Nineteen ninety-two can't really be remembered as the high point of a lot of things. Most will remember nothing more than the halcyon days of middle school, the Gulf War, Generation X and puberty. It was during this time that the band Pavement released Slanted & Enchanted. It was good. People liked it. People also liked Crysta.I Pepsi. 
Ten years have passed. And in the release of Slanted & Enchanted: Luxe & Redux, a bomb bigger than any clear cola has been dropped on the musical world once again. Complete with an entire live show, the two-disc release boasts re-mas­tered versions of all the album tracks, plus a veritable smorgasbord of collector's nuggets. Containing a snazzy cover and a 60-page booklet that captures the spirit of the album, this release is obviously a labor of love. 

Labeling Pavement in a distinct genre is impossible. Their guerrilla styled distortion mixed with an off kilter and out of time rhythm section is reminiscent of the acid punk scene of the 80's. The band, which started as a rag-tag collective of five guys living in different states, could, like their sound, be called accidental. Experimental noise, psychedelia and a flair for the dra­matic that bordered on glam rock at times were no doubt important ingredients in Pavement's inimitable sound. They did their own thing, and people liked it. 
Even with all of the accompanying mate­
rial. 
the 

Slanted anll Enchanted: Luxe & Redux 
Pavement 

Matador Records 

original album is unmistakable in its cohesion and singular vision. The fact that those 14 tracks hold together like a single, breathing, symbiotic creature is part of what makes the album such an accom­plishment. In the words of one spectator, "Pavement breathed like no band has done since." 
Stephen Malkmus, the vocally bipolar front man of the group, possesses an alien charisma, endearing and obtuse all at once. His manic rants on tracks like "Conduit For Sale!" and "Fame Throwa," on which Malkmus and company decry the evils of a greedy, dehumanizing music industry, are juxtaposed with his barbital sputtering of lyrics on songs like "Zurich is Stained." Malkmus voice is obviously untrained, but winsome nonetheless. Perfection, musical or other­wise, was not on the shortlist of Pavement's goal for this work. Communicating their unmistakable joy for making music was, and it is obviously there. 
On top of the original 14 album tracks, the re-release contains a recording of the band live from the Brixton Academy of London in 1992. "Watery, Domestic" the EP that the band recorded right after "Slanted" is also included on the double­disc, as are the outtakes from that release. Probably the tracks of most value to collec­tors and more experienced Pavement fans are two sessions done in the studio of the legendary radio personality and producer John Peel. At risk of placing the sequel above lhe original, the first Peel session boasts a live rendition of the song "Here" that redefines the original song in one of the most beautiful indie rock gems to date. 


The relative obscurity of the band could be considered one of the more unforgiv­able musical crimes of the past decade except that Pavement enjoyed their liminal existence on the fringe. The band acted out what it implored their audience, "Slow it down/ song is sacred." But now they are back to convert those who missed them the first time around. 
Contact Daniel McSwa.in at mcswain.3@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, November 5, 2002 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Santana doesn't live up to legend 
By EMILY TUMBR!NK 
Sc~nc Music Critic 
With all due respect to Carlos Santana. one of the few guitar players who deserves legendary status. Shaman, hjs latest release, possesses very little to be admired. Pairing with Arista's hit-making producer Clive Davis, Santana has suc­cessfully created a record that sounds exactly like every other pop record on the market. 
As a result. it will no doubt be a huge commercial success for which Santana will probably win many long overdue awards. But unfortunately for fans of his earlier works, Santana, who is well· respected by nearly everyone in the music industry, has passed up a wonderful opportunity to alter the sugar-coated shal­lowness that is nowadays called "music." Instead of utilizing this opportunity, Santana has fallen into the common trap of attempting to appeal to the masses rather than staying true to his own talent as an individual musician. In other words, Carlos Santana has sold out. And it is the very trap that has ensnared him that has also corrupted nearly the entire music 

industry, causjng executives to sign artists who are incapable of playing instruments or writing songs, but who look awfully good on MTV. 
In order to ensure the success of Shaman, Santana invited many of these so-called musicians from every genre, including pop, rock, hip hop, opera and blues to accompany him on various tracks. These guests include Michelle Branch, P.O.D. and Dido among others. In fact, there are only four songs on the album that possess no guest artist. The accompanying artists' domination of the album leaves listeners wondering how Santana fits into the picture. He may as well be absent from these "radio-friendly" tracks. which pos­sess neither the style nor the qual­ity found on previous Santana albums. Gone are the interminable jams that characterized Santana's earlier projects, showcasing his pure talent as guitarist. On this most recent attempt, Santana's guitar, which needs absolutely no accompaniment, has been reduced to just another layer in the over-produced auditory assault that is Shaman. 
As if this weren't enough, the lyrics to most of the tracks are cheesy, shal­low and trite. Very little genuine emo­tion is conveyed through the lyrics, possibly because many of the songs were not written by the artists per­forming them. This lack of emotion could also have something to do with the fact that the lyrics were written in such a hackneyed and cliched manner that it would be nearly impossible to evoke emotion from anyone asked to sing them. On P.0.D.'s contribution, "America," in the true spirit of origi­nality that characterizes this album, the vocalist sings, "the way that we loved it was magical / truly wonderful 


I it was me and you so beautiful." Along similar lines, Seal on "You are My Kind" sings, "I need you / to cling to/'cause you are my kind/ you're all that I want / here in this life / 'til we are gone." These artists manage to get their point across in completely unoriginal ways. 
Shaman is obviously a very forced attempt to replicate the success of Santana's 1999 hlt Supernatural. The fact that it feels forced is perhaps the largest problem with this album. Rather than try­ing to feature the styles of various other artists who are inferior musicians, Santana should highlight what he knows and is good at: making the guitar speak. Hopefully he will come to this same con­clusion before deciding to make another album. 

Contact Emily Tum brink at tumbrink.l@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Album tries to replicate festival 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The month was June. The place, Tennessee. There were 70,000 people who traveled from all over the country, an excruciatingly hot sun and no show­ers. Like recent Woodstock concerts, such an event would seem a breeding ground for riots and violence. This peaceful gathering defied all, however. The love of pure music soothed every­thing over. 
This summer the first ever Bonnaroo festival was held in Manchester, Tenn. Amazingly, without any commercial advertisement, the festival sold out all 70,000 of its tickets in a matter of days by word of mouth only. 
Although the event primarily show­cased jam bands, the three days of music and camping included a range of acts. both new and old, encompassing all sorts of musical genres. Widespread Panic played two, multiple-hour sets, along with shows by the String Cheese Incident, Bela Fleck, Les Claypool's Frog Brigade, Ben Harper, moe., Jurassic 5, Norah Jones, Jack Johnson. Gov't Mule. Phil Lesh and Bob Weir and a final show closing tho event by Trey Anastasio. 
For all those who went to Bonnaroo, it was lhe climax of the summer. Being there amidst thousands of dread-locked 
and all sorts of 
chorus. Sadly, 
strange, mind 
Bonnaroo was one

Live From
enchantments 
of Houser's last 
being sold (choco­
performances ever.

Bonnaroo
1ate -covered 
He died this past 
mushrooms, any­


August after a bat­
one?), it was an 
tle with cancer. 
experience that 
The Live From 
will never be 
Bonnaroo album is 
matched, except 
dedicated to his 
for perhaps 
memory. 
another 
The second song 
Bonnaroo. 
on the album is a 
The event was 
treat for all 
such a success 
Grateful Dead fans. 
that a two-disc 
Former members 
album with 
of the Dead, Phil 
recordings of 21 
Lesh and Bob Weir 
of the 53 acts that 
come together and

Sanctuary Records
played Bonnaroo 
do an apropos ren­


has been released. For those who want to forever remember the talent they saw that week­end, or for those who weren't there and want an earful of what the festival was all about, Live From Bonnaroo is where it's at. 
The album kicks off with a Southern Baptist, hand•clapping jam. Widespread Panic's, ''Tallboy," featuring Dottie Peoples has a piano backbeat that defi­nitely "summons the holy ghost from the dition of "Tennessee Jed." "Tennessee, Tennessee, there ain't no place I'd rather be. Baby won't you carry me 
back to Tennessee." Sung in a voice remarkably like Jerry Garcia's, these words sum up the feeling of the whole festival. 
Other songs included on disc one that radiate the feeling of Bonnaroo are the groove of Jack Johnson's "Rodeo Clowns," the cover of the Jethro Tull Jones' gorgeous "Nightingale." 

Disc Two gets off to a good start with Trey Anastasio jamming out on "Last Tube." Ben Harper is next with his com­bination of "Burn One Down" and "With My Own Two Hands." His gentle acoustics add a mellow flavor to the mix as he sings, "If you don't like my tire then don't come around, 'cause I'm gonna burn one down," drawing cheers from the fans. 
The String Cheese Incident, Bela Fleck, moe., the North Mississippi Allstars and a rare treat of the Blind Boys of Alabama singing "Amazing Grace" to the tune of "House of the Rising Sun," make this album completely eclectic. 
Although Live From Bonnaroo doesn't quite live up to the experience of seeing the festival in person, it does a good job of highlighting the key parts of the week­end. Still, it was the special moments during the weekend that made the festi­val a true experience. No album can relate what it was like to dance in the rain to Bela Fleck or to watch as a clus­ter of fans grabbed sticks and bounced a makeshift drum beat off garbage cans. No album can relate the feeling of trying to find your tent site amidst 70,000 other very similar tent sites at 4 a.m. 
Bonnaroo was an experience like none other. The CD is good, but live it was the best. 
hippies, more Volkswagen buses than battlefield," as the ambling of Michael classic, "Locomotive Breath" by Les Contact Julie Bender at were ever known to still be in existence, Houser's guitar filters through the gospel Claypool, and the smoothness of Norah bender. IO@nd.edu 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Babes win in close game against Wild Women 
Babes defense.

By ERIC GEORGE, HEATHER 
The second half saw more

VAN HOEGARDEN, and LISA 
of the same as Walsh con­

RF.IJUI.A 
tinued to struggle to find an 

Spo,cs Wricers 
offensive rhythm. Katie 
Hesmond and Patty Rose of 

The air was brisk and the Wild Women each had spirits were high as Breen­one interception to help Phi lips and Walsh went their team stay in the game, head to head in Sunday's but BP kept its composure first round women's inter­and managed to pull out the hall playoff action. The win. eighth-seeded Wild Women Walsh captain Alison Troy (2-5) gave number one expressed her team's disap­ranked BP pointment (7-0) a run yet pride for their after the
"'Last time they ran a lot 

money with game. 
their scrap­and surprised us with "We are 
PY defense their unconventional proud of the and persis­way we
plays."

tence, but played in the end today," Troy the Babes Kelly Landers s a i d were able Breen-Phillips captain "Numbers­
to hold on wise, they for a 6-0 were the victory and best team a continued chance for the and we were the worst and championship. we still gave them a really 
The Babes used experi­good game. Although we 're ence from their previous not happy with the outcome, victory over Walsh during we're still happy with how the regular season to devise we played." a clear strategy for this As for BP, the team will match-up. look to continue honing its 
"Last time they ran a lot skills in preparation for its and surprised us with their next round match-up. unconven­"It was tional good to win plays," said today but
"Our focus was mainly on

BP captain we really 
K e l I y defense rather than need to get Landers. offensive scoring. " back to the 
"Today we way we tried to stay were play­
Kelly Landers

on our toes. ing before Our focus Breen-Phillips captain break," was mainly Landers on defense said. "This rather than week we'll offensive have to scoring." work hard at practice to be 
The game proved to be a ready for our next game." defensive battle, and ulti­mately BP's defensive strat­Welsh 19, Lyons 0 egy paid off, stifling Walsh's The Whirlwinds of Welsh offense. The Babes passing Family have been confident game would be key as they about their chances in this made several long comple­year's playoffs ever since tions to score the lone the season began. There touchdown of the game was never even a doubt in early in the first half. Walsh their mind that they would failed to connect on any be playing for the champi­passes until an interception onship. Now, after Sunday's by captain Alison Troy with trouncing of the Lions, it is two minutes left in the half evident what they base their sparked a brief run that confidence on -their per­would once again be formance on the field. stopped by the aggressive From the beginning, a fast 
Whirlwind squad ran circles excellent teams in the play­score 19-6. around the Lions. offs. We can't make any With two minutes remain­
Leading the charge was mistakes against any team. ing in the game. the multipurpose player, and This is the playoffs." McGlinn defense had a team cap-timely interception, their t a i n Cavanaugh second of the contest. After Vanessa 19, timeouts by both teams.
"We can ·t make any

Lichon. MCGiinn 12 Kremer threw for a touch­Lich on mistakes against any For the down. The two-point scored two team. This is the playoffs, the attempt failed but the score touchdowns Cavanaugh narrowed to 19-12.
playoffs ... 

on passes Hall football McGlinn had the momen­from Lauren team is tum but ran out of time. Hoeck. Vanessa Llchon sporting T· The Chaos emerged with the H o e c k shirts with victory, but the Shamrocks
Welsh captain

played a big the slogan had plenty to be proud of. role in the "Leave No The first of their two touch­Whirlwind Doubt" downs marked the first time success as well. throwing printed on the back. The the Cavanaugh defense had for three touchdowns and Chaos lived up to that say­been scored on this season. running for one more. One ing Sunday with a convinc­Head coach Bart Bruckert 10-yard touchdown pass ing 19-12 victory against was pleased with his team's came on a key fourth-and­the Shamrocks of McGlinn. performance overall. goal situation. The Chaos entered the "We had strong offense, 
However, setting the first round especially in Whirlwinds up to score was 5-0-1, while the first wide receiver Bethany t h e half," he
"Last year we lost games 
Barker. who made several Shamrocks said. "We key catches down the held a 3-3 we should have won. but had a couple stretch to put Welsh Family regular sea­today they played a let-ups on in position to put points on son record. defense that
complete game. " 
the board. Also contributing The two should moti­with a touchdown catch was teams met vate us." Alex Callan. earlier in Bart Bruckert The Chaos 
Lichon cited preparation the season h a v e
McGlinn coach 

as a key to the margin of in Blue improved victory. L e a g u e since last 
"After fall break, we prac­play. season in ticed all week," she said. Cav-anaugh dominated their coach's eyes. "We really focused on what that previous contest, win­"Last year we lost games we, as a team, needed to ning 30-6. The lone McGlinn we should have won, but do, and not what the other score was a defensive today they played a com­team, [Lyons], was going to touchdown by Jessica Laux. plete game," Bruckert said. do. We knew that, and we Cavanaugh 's offense Cavanaugh will face did our best today." clicked right from the start, defending champion Welsh 
On the other side of the as Melissa Marcotte put the Family next Sunday in the ball, senior quarterback t'eam on the board with a semifinals. Bruckert says Sarah Jenkins played her touchdown. Quarterback his team is excited for the last game. However, she did Meg Myers had a solid out­match-up. not go down without a fight. ing with "It's a But Jenkins' efforts were in three touch-big oppor­vain, as dropped passes, down pass­tunity and
"Welsh Fam better watch 
two interceptions by Mary es. we have the Prendergast and terrible J e n n y out because this year talent to field position, plagued her. Nokes and Cavanaugh is playing in beat them," As Lyons finishes its sea­Lisa Ruffer he said.
the Stadium. " 
son at 3-3-1, Welsh Family also had "Welsh Fam moves to 6-1 and is look to touchdown better go to the stadium. They only receptions Bart Bruckert watch out need one more playoff win for the because
McGlinn coach 

to earn a shot to continue Chaos. this year the Family reign. The T h e Cavanaugh Whirlwinds, however. are McG!inn is playing taking it one game at a offense struggled in the first in the Stadium." time. half, with their only big 
"We will practice all gains coming off scrambles Contact Eric George at ege­week again," Lichon said. by quarterback Julie orge@nd.edu, Heather Van "We know that it doesn't Kremer. The Sham.rocks Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu, matter who we play, eventually found a rhythm and Lisa Reijula at because there are only and scored to make the lreijulo@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ac the Noere Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
INVESTORS NEEDED. WILL PAY  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ 811 seconds that it lasted?  
NOTICES  10% INTEREST $100,000 INCRE· MENTS. 100% SECURED WITH  FOR SALE  2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1 896.  ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  811 reasons why you deserve each  
REAL ESTATE CALL 574-675­ other?  
..At Last Spring Break** Book now  0960 OR email at investors@surt­best.net  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  1-bdrm apt. in downtown South Bend. $395/mo plus dep. Call 233­ PERSONAL  811 blues clubs and cocktails?  
Free Meals, Parties,Drinks.2 Free  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  5285 or 220-2964.  
Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash- NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ 811 times you thought it would  
tours.com 18004267710  ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  make Katie angry?  
COACH: Need Jr.High boys basket­ball coach:responsible and depend­ $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu  TICKETS  not go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support  811 days it will take Katie to stop  
-­ WANTED  able student or grad student to coach 7-8111 grade reserve basket­ball team, Nov 5-Feb 20, for south  FOR RENT  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  or assistance. please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For more information, see our bi-weekly  laughing. 811 times she mentioned Matthew?  
111 Spring Break Vacalions!Mexico,  side private elementary school  check our prices. 273-3911.  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
Jamaica. Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices.  located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street Must be available tor  All size homes available tor 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  811 deep, mature discussions you had?  
Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­ practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­ www.mmmrentals.com  WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
7007 endlesssummertours.com  3: 15. Game schedule varies with 9­1Ogames beginning after school at  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR  PRICES PAID 251-1570  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  811 psychiatrists that they will need?  
4 or 5 pm. Paid position. Call 291­ 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532·1896  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  Information/Reservations 1-800­ 

4200 to apply PRICES 289-9280 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 811 bad relationships you've been Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 LODGING FOR RUTGERS GAME! in? per day. No experience necessary. Bed & Breakfast lodging w/ alumni 
' 

Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. WANED · OLD NOTRE DAME family. Nice/close lo campus. 574-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR WE STILL LOVE YOU. TY & COM-811 beers it'll take to get rid of the YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 243-2628. SALE. AM 232-237!N"M 288-2726 PANY. BEAT NAVYII! mental picture? 
~ 
-........ -.. 

-
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 


r-----------,------------~--------------r-----------­
1 I I I : IRISH l11•c••· 1 I.b• ...g IJHlS.111 1 aca Sa,;ee(al' 1 R•btm..la. §•an: I 1 Large 1 topping, I 1 Large 1 topping, I 1 Large 1 topping, f 1 Large 1 topping,
! 
Breadsticks, and : Cheesesticks, and : Chickenstrips, and : Dessertsticks, and 
1 2-liter Coca-Cola I 2-liter Coca-Cola 1 2•1iter Coca•Cola I 2-liter Coca-Cola I $11.99* I $13.99* I $13 99* I $13.99·
I I ' I
I I 
.------------~-----------~--------------~-----------,I 
I I I I 
I P•P•'• Choice : Ib!t ~:.-:::~• : h«n• Qari SJutc;bll :
I~~a=•;~~=~=• : 

I X-Large with I I I 2 Large 1 topping I 1 pizzas, 2 Breadsticks, 1 topping and pizz·as 1 
1 1 1 I 1
2 toppings I _ I and 2-liter Coca-Cota I Breadsticks I I
$10 99• $14_99• : 1 $28.99* I $7.50* 1 I
·------------~-----------J--------------~-----------~
*Original or Thin Crust Where Available. Coupon expires 12/31/02. Not valid with any other offer. Valid at participating loca­tions. Customer pays all applicable taxes. 
NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S 
271-1177 271-PAPA 


As Senior VP of Financial Planning at a major movie studio you could: 
O.K.•a $93 million bud et 
Hire 7,500 extras 
How do you get a job like this? Start today. 

Apply for a Summer Dream Internship at: www.StartHereGoPlaces.con1/biz2 
'Contasr Rules: complete roles can be found on the CoilegeClub.com Web site. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. Contest entry period runs 10/01/02 -2/01/03 and is open only to lecal residents of tl1e 50 U~ited States, e1ghtoen (18l or older at time o1 entIy, emailed 1n a tulJ/pan•time accreoit~d coI1egc or university, and is sub1ect to the complete Contest Ofiicia'. Rules. Entries ma\' be submittec on•the StartHe1eG0Places.com Web site locatec at IINNJ.Stan.llereGoPlaces.com or on the ColiegcClub com Well site located at WW\'1.Co1:egeC!ub.com. Al! entries become the property af Sponsor. as defined in the complete Contest Official Rules. Empioyees anc f2mily members ol Sponsor not eligible to participate. Sponsor Is not
.., 
res!}Onsihle for tech11,ca! or other malfunctions. lost or unavailable network connections. or failed electronic comrnu111cations that may occur :n the processing .t the entries fhe authors of the two 12) Grand Prize winning essays witt each receive their
2: 
0 chrnce o' onn of the .. Summer Dream Internships·· .prov1dP.d by Sp9ns . r. which includes five _thpusanc dol!ars {$5,000) to be paid over the courso o. the ,nternship. "The Grand Pd?e is not transferable, except by Sp0nsor. who may subs1itute prize with a prize of equal v;;lue or oppor1un1ty No cash or pme suhs1,11;t1on 1s alm,,,ed and othor resmct1ons apply. lhe authors o: the three 131 wnmn~ Runners-Up essays will receive one thousanc dail~r [$i,OOO) gift checks. Th~ authors .t :he trvc 15) w1nn1ng
"' 
0 L:: Honorable Mcnt,on essays w11! rocc1ve five hcndred collar ISSOOI gilt checks. 'laid where prohibited. W'nners will be responsible for any and all taxes. Sponsor: fhe Amer:can Institute ot Cert,fled Putiic Accountants. 1211 Avenue of the Arnar:cas, v., Q. New York, NY 10036•8775; ColiegeCl~b.com. a division of Student Advantage, Inc, 2'035 Corte Del Noga:. Suite 200, Carlsbad. CA 92009. 
Charlotte owner still questionable 
owner Robert Johnson. Miami
Associated Press 

Heat minority owner Bob Sturges is part of a third group. 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
The New York Daily News,A potential ownership group 
citing ownership sources,
that includes Larry Bird is 
reported Sunday that Belkin'soperating under the assump­
group has already been
tion the NBA will award it the 
approved.

rights to a new Charlotte fran­"That's not true," Belkin said. 
chise. 

"I believe the NBA is treatingBut Boston-area businessman everybody equally and fairly,Steve Belkin said Monday that and they are going to decide bythe league has not yet approved the end of the year. We are act­his application. 
ing as if we are going to be"We've heard rumors that we selected, but it has not hap­are the front-runners, but it's 
pened yet."

not true that we have already 
NBA owners have alreadybeen selected," Belkin said. 
approved an agreement with
"We're planning on us getting Charlotte to build an arena ifthe franchise because we need the city is awarded an expan­to get plans on the way. 
sion team to replace the
"We believe our application is Hornets, who left during thegoing to be a success, but we off-season for New Orleans.
haven't been given any indica­
City council members are
tion of that. We do, however, expected to vote on the arenathink there's a high probabili­agreement Nov. 11.
ty." 

Under terms of the deal. the
Bird would be the general 
NBA would have to choosemanager if Belkin's group wins owners and award the fran­the franchise. 
chise by Jan. 12, when the city
One of the other known 
and league are scheduled togroups pursuing an expansion approve a final contract. 
team includes former Black 
The owners chosen by the NBA would have to abide by the terms negotiated by the league, although they would be involved in working out some specifics that remain to be decided.
it~~ The new team would not begin play until 2004-05, but Belkin said Bird is already
onlyat~ .~ 
Sminutes~ 
moving forward. 
{jam DUTPDST 


"Larry is very excited. He's
Campus 

out talking to scouts already because it looks like this is
Call 259-1000 far more details going to be decided in the next 45 days," Belkin said. 
Start here. Go places. 
If you know business and accounting, you can 
get a job anywhere. Because the ski Ils you 
learn in business -strategic and analytical 
thinking, communication, and leadership ­
are always in demand. In some of the coolest 
-
industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
Start going places with a Summer Dream Internship. Register online today and complete your.application by 2/01/03 to compete for one of two $5,000 paid internships. Eight other students will receive cash value awards of up to $1.000.* 



I page 16
• 
t 
I I ' NFL 
Ravens defender grounded again 
Associated rrcss 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. 
The losses and injuries con­tinue to mount for the Baltimore Ravens, who will probably be without three defensive starters and quarter­back Chris Redman on Sunday. 
Linebacker Ray Lewis and defensive end Michael McCrary, who sat out Sunday's 20-17 defeat in Atlanta, are not expected to play against the Cincinnati Bengals this week. They could be joined on the sideline by cornerback Chris McAlister, who sprained his left ankle against the Falcons. 
"It's a day-to-day thing," Ravens trainer Bill Tessendorf said Monday. "The problem with Chris is that he has to cut and change direction, and if he can't do that, it's a bad situa­tion." 
Lewis has missed four straight games with a partially separated left shoulder. Although he has lifted weights recently, the Ravens don't want to risk further injury to their Pro Bowl middle line­backer by rushing his return. 
McCrary has missed two games with a knee injury. If McCrary, Lewis and McAlister can't go, then linebacker Peter Boulware will be the lone starter from a defense that two years ago helped Baltimore win the Super Bowl. 
Redman, in his first season as a starter. is still bothered by back spasms. Even if he's healthy enough to play Sunday, he would almost cer­tainly serve as a backup. 
That means reserve Jeff Blake will probably make a third straight start at quarter­back. The Ravens (3-5) have lost both his starts and tum­bled into third place in the AFC North. 
Blake has played well at times, but the 11-year veteran threw three interceptions against Pittsburgh and lost a f11mble that Atlanta converted 

-
into a touchdown. Blake is 
believes he will start against 
the Bengals, although Redman 
has not formally been declared 
out for the game. 
"Hey, I'm just going week-to­
week, baby. Deal me a deck of 
cards, and I gotta play 'em," 
Blake said. 
The young Ravens weren't expected to be contenders this year, but their 3-3 start bol­stered their confidence and led them to believe that they could compete for the division crown. 
Their confidence hasn't waned in the face of several key injuries and two straight defeats. But the Ravens won't get back in the hunt unless they win the close games -all three of their road losses have been by three points or less. 
"Our challenge in the second half of the season is to take the lessons we've learned and turn those into three-point wins," coach Brian Billick said. "This group is capable of that, and that's where our focus is." 
Billick hasn't abandoned hope of guiding this team into the playoffs, but his objective is primarily to see improve­ment on a weekly basis. 
"Our focus is totally about the continued development of this team. I'm going to expect them to learn from the mis­takes they made, and hopefully we'll turn those losses into wins," he said. "They've been through a half a season now, they know what this thing is about, and I expect them to react accordingly." 
Pataf!onia 
exclOSively 
at-.~ 
tminute~ 
!!.om 0UTP0S'T Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 

The Obseroer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 5, 2002 

MILAGRO EN ROMA (COLOMBIA, 1988) 
LATINO & LATIN AMERICAN PERSPECTIVES FILM SERIES: 
LOOKING Our, LOOKING IN 
NOVEMBER THEME: LA IGLESIA, MARTYRS AND MIRACLES 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 5, 2002 
•
7:00 PM HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 

...,,,.,,.,~~"""-*''"'''''''''''·· 

UHJ;J£ffi'n' 0, lkffH OAMII 
Explore the role of quality teaching and the future of higher education 
with 
Lee Shulman 
President Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching 
7:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 7 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

Shulman's address is open to the campus community. 
Sponsored by The Provost's Office, First Year of Studies, the Kaneb Center, the Graduate School, University Libraries, the Institute for Educational Initiatives and the colleges and schools of the University. 

Tuesday, November 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MENS SOCCER 
Irish clinch home berth in Big East quarterfinals 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team was awarded a home playoff berth in the Big East quarterfi­nals on Monday. 
Ironically, it was the Eagles of Boston College who clinched it for the Irish. 
With the Eagles' 3-2 victory over then fifth-place Hutgers Monday night, the Irish remained in fourth in the Big East at the close of the confer­ence schedule, clinching a home game in the quarterfinal round this weekend. 
The Scarlet Knights' loss, com­bined with Georgetown's 1-0 win over West Virginia earlier Monday, means the Irish will meet the Hoyas in the first round. a repeat of last year's Alumni Field quarterfinal. Georgetown finished tied with Rutgers for fifth in the Big East, but the Hoyas claimed the fifth spot due to having beaten Rutgers, 1-0, on Sept. 21. 
But that wasn't the only good news the Irish received Monday. 
It was also announced that defender Kevin Goldthwaite was named to the College Soccer News Team of the Week for his offensive contributions to the two Irish victories ofthe past week. 
In Notre Dame's 2-1 victory over Virginia Tech Friday, Goldthwaite's header goal off a Chad Riley corner kick tied the score at 1-1 with under 10 min­utes remaining in the game. 
Goldthwaite also provided the cross pass assist to Greg Martin that scored the game-winning goal in Notre Dame's 1-0 victory over Loyola (Chicago) Sunday. 

The Irish finish the regular season with an 11-4-3 overall record. 
Those two victories for the Irish also boosted their national rankings, as the team moved up one spot in Monday's NSCAA/adi­da'i Coaches' Poll, from No. 19 to No. 18, trading places with Stanford, Irish head coach Bobby Clark's former team. 
In addition, the Irish also climbed one spot in the Soccer America poll also released Monday. The Irish moved from No. 16 to No. 15. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 


.""'1/i.~-~:.it.'

,EST ¥OUR WJTSYf.t UniversiEy of nohe Dame's 
COLLEGE BOWL 
Compelilion lnform&lion Colleqe 8owl ls a quesllon and answer <3ame belween 2 teams of 4. Thii quesllons cover a.II subJe:cls (slmllu lo TrlrialPursulft. 
first llound: Mondays. nov. 11' a18 6pm-l2mid 
nobe Dame R..oom, 2nd floor Lafortune 
R.e<3lsha.llon Dea.dllne, Thursda.1, noveinber 7, 5"100pm Cosb FR.[E!I ·FR.WI FR.WI FR.[[!! 
Prizes1 W1nnlr.9 Tum, Will compeloz 1q1ln$I olher $Chools from llllnols Et Indian ,I !he Re:qlon1I final held In fozbruuy heroz on c1,mpU$. W1n11119 Tua & Runner Up Ton, M,me$ pl,ced on• perma.nenl pla.qu11: dlsplt.ye:d In La.forlune Sludent Cen~er. 
a.l lhe h.forlu11e lntorma.lio11 Desk. Ma.in Loun13e, La.forlune. 
for more delalls, c1.ll 631-8128 or em1ll 1ulcher.4@nd.edu. .... _ Sponsored by lhe Sludenl Adlvllles Office. 
-,.__ 5pa.ce Is llmlled. so sl<3n up u :.oon u pos:.ible! 
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING WORTH VOTING FOR? 


Come to Club 23 Tonight at 7 p.m. for a gather­ing, including a light dinner, for students inter­ested in the HCA post-grad service program. 
Please RSVP ifyou would like to join us. HCA@nd.edu-or-631-5521 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November S, 2002 
SENDWICH INDEX 
Irish slip to No. 3; Panthers continue to climb 
Unbeaten teams fell faster than George Bush's public approval ratings, serving up the most exciting weekend yet this season. Of course, it w a s exciting f o r every­a n ·e except Notre Dame. Virginia Tech, Georgia or North Carolina S t a t e who all tumbled from the ranks of the unbeaten. 
Former Sendwich No. 1 Notre Dame was shocked at home by Boston College. The Irish. clad in green jerseys, were out-Irished, fumbling seven times and losing three of them. The Eagles capital­ized on a "Happy Birthday" interception thrown by Pat Dillingham to Josh Ott that was easily returned 71 yards for the eventual winning touchdown. BC moved up 36 spots to No. 28 while the Notre Dame's fall was far less dramatic, dropping two places to No. 3. 
On a side note, an anony­mous Boston College player 

is this week's recipient of the Terrell Owens/Sharpie (everything has a corporate sponsor these days) Poor Sportsmanship Award for tearing 

up a sizeable chunk of turf from Notre Dame Stadium a n d 
Eric throw-
Sendelbach ing it into the a i r
Sports 
immedi­
Columnist 
ate I y 
follow­
ing the victory. Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby gave him an earful about the divot, and shortly after received an earful from a member of the Irish coaching staff, but we have to give Goolsby props for defending his turf, liter­ally. 
Panthers on the prowl 
Virginia Tech held a two touchdown lead in the mid­dle of the third quarter. only to allow Pittsburgh three unanswered touchdowns, and an eventual 28-21 Panther victory. Aside from a 59-yard Lee Suggs touch­down run. the Hokies 

Football 
continued from page 24 
zone. 
"The key is to score points to win," Willingham said. "[Boston College] did it better than we did. Therefore all the yardage really doesn't mean anything." 
The Irish have a good chance to improve their offensive statistics against the Midshipmen Saturday. Navy is the nation's 105th ranked defense, and Notre Dame should have little trouble moving the ball against the Midshipmen -provided the Irish hang on to the football. 
Yet Willingham said after Saturday's loss that he firmly believed the Irish only lost a foot­ball game to the Eagles, not their focus for the season. 
"We really, amazingly, don't have to change our focus," he said. "That may alarm some of you. But the truth of the matter is we work on not turning the ball over everyday. We work on creat­ing turnovers every day. So I think the plan that we have in place for our football team, the fundamental structure that we've put in place, will serve us well." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
HblTRFACE
at.a...1.. 
DUTPDST s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Sminutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 

W~MtN ONLY ~p!~LL TOORN~tNT 
fRIDAY1 Nov, 8 &30PM
p 
ND EXPJ<ESS 
[wtw u:vu DF ,~-;For-nmr) 
Pl<IZtS: UP MALL 61fT URflfl(JJESkr •tloo /2110 • ~1, / 31~0 • ~,o 
Sl6~ vr ir ND E.fl<LSS 
SPoNSOl{fO BY fWE SlWENr AO'Mnt~ Offfa, 

offense was ineffective. Courtesy of Pitt turnovers, their other two touchdown drives were for a mere three and 21 yards. 
The Panthers, however, didn't need perfection to beat the Hokies. as fresh­man sensation Larry Fitzgerald hauled in three touchdowns. Virginia Tech slid eight spots to No. 15. Previously unheralded Pittsburgh improved their record to 7-2 and rose to No. 16. 
Gators, dog owners yet
again 

The Georgia Bulldogs held a 1-11 record versus Florida while Steve Spurrier served as the Gators' head coach. The table, however. was set for Georgia this year, as Spurrier departed in the off­season and the Bulldogs, with their 7-0 record, had exactly three fewer losses than Florida this season. 
Not so fast. Rookie head coach Ron Zook and the Gators took over exactly where Spurrier left off, handing Georgia its first defeat of the season. The Gators broke a 13-13 dead­lock with a touchdown early in the fourth quarter and sti­fled Georgia for the rest of the game, holding on for a 20-13 win. The Bulldogs dropped three spots to No. 6 and Florida soared to No. 12. 
Yellow Jackets sting Wolfpack 
Everyone outside of Raleigh knew it was only a matter of time before N.C. State picked up its first loss of the season. While most suspected it might come later in the season against ACC powerhouse Florida State, the Wolfpack bowed out of the unbeatens with a stunning loss to Georgia Tech. 
New head coach Chan Gaily and the Yellow Jackets used calculated ball control to keep PhiUip Rivers and 
N.C. State's powerhouse offense. averaging 41 points per game, off the field. The Wolfpack took a 17-9 lead early in the fourth quarter on a T.A. McOendon touch­down run. Shortly after, Georgia Tech exploded for two touchdowns within two minutes of each other and held on for a 24-17 victory. 
Georgia Tech moved 24 places to No. _19 and N.C. State slid from No. 10 to No. 
17. The Wolfpack fell to sec­ond place in the ACC. with a 4-1 conference record, just behind Florida State (5-0). The two will meet to likely decide the ACC champ and automatic BCS bid recipient on Nov. 23 in Raleigh. 



DO YOU KNOW THAT APARTMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE 2003-04 YEAR? 
•4 
AND 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES­SPLIT THE RENT 

•3 
FLOORS TALL/PATIO AREA 

•CENTRAL 
AIR/CABLE HOOK-UP 

•STOVE, 
FRIDGE, DISHWASHER 

•WASHER/DRYER 
IN EACH UNIT 

•6 
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 

•ADT 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

•24-HOUR 
MAINTENANCE 

•6 
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 


CALL TODAY FOR APERSONAL WALK-THROUGH! 
574-234-9223 
TCLARK@CBRESB.COM 
"BEST VALUE PER STUDENT" -ONLY $281 PER STUDENT FOR A 5 BEDROOM PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. 

page 19

Tt1esday, November 5, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Center for Socia{ Concerns 
'CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
~n~

CONCERNS 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
HCA DINNER AND Schoo{ of the 91.merica's ViBi{ INFO SESSION ij{ov 15rfi -1rfi 
Holy Cross Associates will be hosting a 
School of the Americas vigil and non..
gathering for interested students 
violent direct action will take place from 
TONIGHT, November 5, at Club 23 at 7 PM. A light dinner will be served and November 15th-17th at Fort Benning, fonner Associates and HCA staff will be GA. Any students interested in going 
there to chat with anyone who is inter­
MUST attend an orientation, either 
ested in post-grad service and the Holy 
TONIGHT, NOVEMBER 5th, or
Cross Associates domestic or Chile TOMORROW, NOVEMBER 6th at
program. Please RSVP if you would like at attend! 7:30 PM at the CSC. For more infor­HCA@nd.edu OR 631-5521 mation: Email mzawada@nd.edu 
Iii,,..! ,·• ~k 
Conference: 
Tuesday, November 5 
5:00 -6:00 p.m. ' Career Resource Center, 114 Flanner 
Resources, Tools, & Opportunities Career Paths & Perspectives 
Jointly sponsored by The Center for Social Concerns, 
r------------..,,
The Career Center, and the Master of Science in 
I Project Warmth... Administration I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..-~ -~ ~~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~ -~ -~ -~-~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~ -~-~-~-~-~-~----•Project Warmth is heating up again! 
r ------------'I S S I : ISS ,.,1 I/ IThis year's project runs from Octobe;:r
I "/ra<t an rJ f r.,p iI"e: I UMMER . ERVIC~ NTE~SH1rs,,-;?-. P.)' _•,• / 28tll to December 6th and promises to be IA GoS'pet An a(yfi$" I Summer S}:rv1c~lnternsh1p Information sess1iion:Wt!l,hl:h;~~~ '· lthemostsuccessfulcoUectionyearever! I I / •/ / ~---/r?~~ TODAY,~OVSTH J/~~:/!;/;~-,;%.,/ IAllcoatdonorswill~ceivea25%dis­l Presenter: I --.-,,,~;, 11/:';ft._~J_~!~e~cs Class~!»~~:,~( 1count coupon for u~e m the Not~e Da?1e I I ///,;<:;:,f}:_:. ~-:it8~ ·6:... !>f~'.:£~~~~-/t"~~1/f{-/.(:,,; :~ookstore on any !acket o~the1r cho~ce
/.--. --~-'.-(,('~01/,. . 

I SIMON HARAK, S.J. I ~:~/.-~/,/,(;(/. ~:l;/~;f§/~#a:~~0'~~-~~~ 1 Social
m return for t~e1~ donations. I 7:30 PM I -': ~-·. Olp! _ _ J / , / , _ Jll • :-,-_ f ~i~ •~@-·:.;,) concerns comrmss1oners f~~ th~ dorms I Thursday, Nov. 7 I , ~;{{-:--f>:),Jf///~$///(/2-/,0'<~,0~--:;(f// lhavethecouponsforpartic1patingstu­l I ***Find out.abQi,(tJ/jiJ,:~-~~'!1!~/,,we-Jearningexperienp! -1;1 ,;~/. (~J!,~ Idents. Please remember t~ do?ate a_ny I Hesburgh Auditorium I the summer months; $20().Q-,,()ficji,olqr,IJip, _with romrJ:.an.d,b~~~?19,? Iextra coat and show your Fighting Insh 
I . I //the added incer,tive ofgy~ an extra $1000.0Qjlmericqrps awar.d(:};;:~: Ispirit and generosity. GO IRISH! 
~------------~ ~-------------~ 
························~·································································
Disabilities . 
: • Current Volunteer Needs Students who can translate Spanish or Vietnamese are needed to work with • ***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel parents with toddlers with special needs. Translators are needed for one : free to email cscvols@nd.edu. *** hour per week in the morning. Contact Marissa Runkle@ 289-4831 ext. :Tutorine Proerams 1043. :Greene Elementary is looking for 2-3 students to tutor after school 
•from 2:20-3:45, A parent is seeking a companion and friend for her mildly mentally handi­
•
•M-Th. Contact Laela Ward@ 283-7900. capped daughter. She can drive and enjoys music and having fun. Contact
•• Marilyn@ :Edison Middle School is looking for a few tutors in all subjects but 259-0370. : especially Math. After school would be preferable. Contact Cheryl 
• Hayward @ 283-8900 . Elderly
•
• 
Volunteers are needed to be present to older adults at Ironwood Health and ·1u .

• 
torme Rehabilitation Center either through group activities or through one-on-one :A tutor is needed for a third grader who is struggling in math and read­visits. Times and days are flexible. Contact Nicole Cherwood @ 291-• :ing. Any two days a week except Fridays right after school would be 6722. •


•

•preferable. 
She could come to Hesburgh Library. Contact Tara Shea ••@ 259-6502 or cell @ (574) 514-6919 . A few students are needed to help an elderly couple clean their basement. It •••

• 
would be for a few hours on a Saturday morning. Contact Mrs. Thompson :


• 
:A tutor is needed for a high school student in chemistry and geometry. @ 234-0300. • :Any day Monday-Thursday would be fine, 4-5pm. She can meet at 
•Hesburgh Library. Contact Kathy Brickley@ 291-4607 . Volunteers are needed at Southern Care Hospice to spend time with patients 
• 
and their families, work in the office and do special projects. They can
• 
: A tutor is needed for a sophomore in high school in geometry. She choose which they would like to do. There are times available both during : could meet any day except Monday at Hes burgh Library. Contact Joe the day and in the evening. Contact Diane Heinburger @ 259-0895. :Pinter at home@ 288-1365 or work@ 288-3471. 
• Special Attention 
•
•A tutor is needed for a junior in high school in chemistry and geometry. A student who is familiar with Desktop Publishing is needed for a 5-10 hour : She could meet at Hesburgh Library. Contact Scott Schriver @ 288-project that would involve advising the staff on the application and helping : 3471. design program note cards. Contact Rev. Mike Mather @ 289-0333. 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, November 5, 2002 

-· 

around the dial 
NHL BLACKHAWKS AT REDWINGS, 7:30,
Fox SPORTS 
LUMBERJACK COMPETITION, 9 P.M., OUTLAND 

-
STREETBALLi,.,11 P.M., 
ESPN2 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

same day, tailback Dawan "To me, that was the most points.
Associated Press 

Moss was dismissed from defining moment." Smoker, the third-leading the team after being arrest­Mason said he will begin passer in school history, is EAST LANSING, Mich. ed and accused of dragging to formulate a plan to find one of two players sus­Michigan State football a police officer with his car a new coach right away. pended for violating team coach Bobby Williams was following a traffic stop. "That's going to be the rules. Defensive end Greg fired Monday, two days Both Smoker and Moss first thing I work on," he Taplin was suspended after the Spartans dropped were captains. said. "There's not a Thursday for an unspeci­to 3-6 with their worst loss A 49-3 loss at Michigan timetable." fied violation. Two other in 55 years. on Saturday dropped Williams did not immedi­players have quit voluntari­
Williams, one of four Michigan State, which was ately return a phone mes­ly. black coaches among the ranked as high as 15th this sage from The Associated Moss was charged with a 117 schools in Division I-A season, to 1-4 in the Big Press on Monday night. felony and two misde­football, was informed of Ten. Watts, a 42-year veteran meanors after police said his firing after Monday's Williams has been under assistant coach, said he has he resisted arrest in practice by athletic director fire for weeks, with fans no intention of applying for Lansing. Williams dis­Ron Mason. booing loudly during home the top job. missed him from the team 
Offensive coordinator games and calling for his "I look eagerly forward to Sunday. Morris Watts was appoint­ouster. doing the best job that I The three remaining ed interim head coach. When Williams was can," Watts said. "Right black head coaches are 
On Sunday, Jeff Smoker's asked Saturday if he had now, most of my thoughts Notre Dame's Tyrone family announced that the lost his team, he said: "I are with Bobby." Willingham, San Jose suspended quarterback is don't know." The Spartans' four con­State's Fitz Hill and New battling substance abuse "If he wasn't sure, who secutive losses have been Mexico State's Tony and has sought help. The was?" Mason said Monday. by an average of 28.25 Samuel. 
IN BRIEF 

Hinske, Jennings Rookies of 
the Year 

Eric Hinske and Jason Jennings were worried about jobs, not prizes. Now they have both. 
Hinske was voted AL Rookie of the Year on Monday and Jennings was voted the NL honor as the Baseball Writers' Association of America began announcing its awards for the 2002 season. 
"I just wanted to be staying in the big leagues the whole year," Hinske said. "The success I had was pretty surprising for me." 
Hinske, acquired by Toronto from Oakland last December in the deal that sent closer Billy Koch to the Athletics, won the Blue Jays' third­base job in spring training and hit .279 with 24 homers and 84 RBI. He got 19 of 28 first-place votes and nine seconds to finish with 122 points. 
Saints reinstate Carter 

The NFL on Monday ended the sus• pension of New Orleans Saints cor­nerback Dale Carter, who had been prohibited from playing for violating the league's substance abuse policy. 
"We got a little better today," Saints coach Jim Haslett said. 'Tm really happy to have him back." 
Carter, a four-time Pro Bowl selec­tion who had to sit out the 2000 sea­son for substance abuse, failed another test and was suspended indefinitely in July, only months after signing a seven-year, $28 million contract with the Saints. 
Carter and his brother, Saints wide receiver Jake Reed, called Haslett on 
Monday and said they had met with NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue. "It sounds like he said all the right things," Haslett said. 
The Saints said Carter was eligible to begin participating in team activi­ties immediately. 
"I expect him to be on the practice field tomorrow," Haslett said. 
Grimsely dies 

Will Grimsley, who covered the spectrum of sports for four decades as a reporter, columnist and special correspondent for The Associated Press, is dead at age 88. 
Grimsley's byline was one of the best known in sports as he reported from the world's biggest athletic events for nearly half a century,, including 15 Olympics, 3 5 World Series and 25 Kentucky Derbies. 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Dawgs streamline Otters in 21-8 victory 
By ERIK POWERS and 
JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Spom Writers 
The Dawgs dominated early on Sunday, then rolled over and played dead for most of the sec­ond half before finally pulling away from the Otters 21-8. 
Playing in front of a sparse but spirited crowd, Sorin opened the game with a solid defensive stand. Alumni, seeking to estab­lish the run, carried on four ofits live snaps with little success. But the Otters were unable to stop the Dawgs when they needed to most as Alumni converted two third downs en route to a 65­yard scoring drive. A seven-yard run by Alex Roodhouse and two­point conversion off of a fake kick staked the Dawgs to an early 8-0 lead. 
"It's always good to get into the end zone," said Roodhouse, who finished with 14 carries for 44 yards. 
Alumni's multidimensional offense frequently invaded Sorin territory. Quarterback Chris Cottingham led a balanced attack, completing seven of 15 passes for 120 yards and a touchdown while rushing twice for 23 yards and another touch­down. The Dawgs employed play-action fakes, pitches and dives in order to keep the Otters off balance. 
Sorin appeared out of sync on offense in the first half. Quarterback Greg Carney had difficulty locating his receivers versus a stiff Dawgs defense, completing only two of six passes in the first half and throwing an interception. Carney's second completion occurred in the most unorthodox of ways, throwing under pressure to offensive line­man Mike Draz, who displayed surprising agility while hurdling one defender before being stopped for no gain. 
The Otters would not give up. Sorin controlled the ball for much of the second half, taking advantage of an Alumni team that appeared intent on coasting to victory. Taking over deep in Alumni territory after Pat Flaherty forced a fumble, Carney completed a 15-yard pass to E.J. Jones. On the next play, Carney snuck in from four inches away for the Otters' only touchdown. 

Stirred by Sorin's score, the Alumni offense awoke in order to drive to a first down at the Otter seven-yard line. But Sorin's defense held fast, causing Alumni to lose eight yards on three car­ries before missing a 24-yard field goal. 
With time running out in the fourth quarter, Sorin hoped to drive down the length of the field for the winning score. Before the Otters could capitalize on this momentum, however, Alumni hit Carney as he dropped back to pass and recovered the ball. Carney fumbled on a question­able call. The call went in Alumni's favor, and the Dawgs scored three plays later when Cottingham connected with Corey Harkins for a spectacular caWhile Sorin's season is over, Alumni faces Dillon in the next round of the playoffs. The Dawgs and Big Red will meet for the second time this season. Alumni won the first meeting 14-0. 
"We played Dillon in the semifi­nals last year," Roodhouse said. "It's a big game. We'll be up for it." 
Asher 21, Zahm 7 

At least one football team wearing green uniforms was suc­cessful this weekend. 
Fisher moved on to the next round of the interhall playoffs as the Green Wave defeated Zahm 21-7. 
The Fisher defense brought its A-game, intercepting Zahm quarterback Dan Burke five times, including an interception returned for a touchdown. 
"We noticed them [Zahm] warming up by passing on the 

i.'fOc 
,o.Ac,,y the .Ai~it"'l w.,..l\:.ie+"'l\:.ie 

-ro 'ol.\y:
wo.-'k~ ove.-~eve.-.,..1 \,,"""beJ. ""'tie~. 

• BO to 1.\e,cteLcoiM/ivish-stlA.J.e\\t.
A.,,_.,., to""'orrow, """Ho"Iwi.Ae. 

• ceii.11 toll-Pvee l-'177-';QC.-2''2'-. 
sidelines," said Fisher captain Tom Gorman. "Our coaches did a really good job of preparing us for their passing game." 
Despite the fact that Burke was largely ineffective, Zahm coach Nick Passafiume would not place sole blame on his team's senior passer. 
Burke didn't have to wait too long to make a mistake -his very first pass on the first play of the game was intercepted by Fisher cornerback Neil Vargas. The play was an attempt to trick the Green Wave, with Burke handing off to his running back, who then tossed it back to Burke for the pass attempt. 
Fisher was unable to score off the initial turnover; kicker Carl Elkins missed a 36-yard field goal attempt at the end of the drive. 
Neither team was able to score in the first half, and it took another Zahm turnover before Fisher was finally able to break the tie. 
On the Zahmbies' first drive of the second half, Burke was inter­cepted by freshman Fisher cor­nerback Matt Mitchell, who returned it 38 yards for the touchdown. The extra point by Elkins was good. 
Zahm immediately answered with its next drive, including a key 32-yard pass from Burke to wide receiver Mike Russell to the Fisher 3-yard line. Two plays later, Burke ran the touchdown in on a quarterback sneak, and kicker Pat Amato hit the extra point to tie the game at 7 -7. 
Fisher scored on its next offen­sive series, with a 55-yard touch­down pass from quarterback Andy Pfiester to running back Kameron Chappell. The extra point was blocked. 
Burke threw another intercep­tion in Zahm's next series, this time to defensive back Lee Gettler, who returned it 44 yards. Fisher was able to capitalize after taking over on the Zahm 18-yard line. 
Three plays later, Pfiester handed off to running back Kameron Chappell for a 1-yard touchdown run. The ensuing two-point conversion, a pass from Pfiester to Gorman, was good. 
Passafiume was disappointed in the loss, but said that the Zahmbies have a bright future. 
Contact Eric Powers at cpowers@nd.edu and Justin Schuvcr at jschuvcr@nd.edu 


WINTER & SPRING 
BREAK 

Panama City Beach• South Padre Island• Vail 
Steamboat• Daytona Beach• Brcckenndge

• COll\t-oi.ct-Jl)t-\ Co~IMlAll\iceii.t-ioll\s 
oi.t 574-24'3-'38' I8'
NEXTEL: 
SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL' INSTANT MESSENGER'" 1ervice TWO-WAY MESSAGING JAVA"' GAMES 6 APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CflLUlAR 

'fov-. 11\eVe., tMiss 01.ll\ythill\8i why si-"'v+ 11\ow? tlle,ci-el's .::Ai8ii-"'1 w"'l~ie+"'l~ie .Pe"'i-v..,e tet-s yov. 8ei-.,iBhi-Hwov-.BL-\ wii-h tl-\e pv.sL-\ 
o.P "' 01>.H-011\. Th"'t 1Me01.II\S 11\0 iMisse.::A c"'lls, v.11\ched:.e.::A vcice """'ii ov phcll\e t"'8· 1C01.1>.Se wL-\o \i\O\S HIMe .Pov "'n i-\i\01.t w\i\ell\ yov. Ce>\ll\1t-eve\\ .::Aeci.::Ae wh01.i-+-o well'\v? Now yo1A.'ve ve"'.::Ay-Bvill\B Ii-. 
Now's "' ~v-eC1.i-t-i""'e i-o ,ei-"le,cte\: C1.ll Notve t)"'""'e s+-v-.J.e\\i-s ~e+­
~ 0¾" ~iSCOl\\\r 01,\ Cl.11\Y VC\i-e rloo.\\ "'-\\.A$ too"'" <'.p.p O\\\)' fhO\\e. 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Dillon hopes to defend its interhall title 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Wrirer 
The defending interhall foot­ball champions unveiled a pass­ing attack to help pull out a close victory in their hunt for a repeat title. 
The sixth-seeded Dillon Big Red defeated third-seeded Stanford, 7 -6, at Riehle fields on Sunday afternoon. While the seeds indicate an upset, Dillon had the edge with a win over Stanford in week two of the reg­ular season, running for 180 yards in a 20-8 victory. Stanford cut the Big Red's rushing pro­duction almost in half to 97 yards on Sunday. Still, Dillon scored first and made a h11ge defensive stand on a late two­point conversion to secure a spot in the semifinals next Sunday. 
"I'm glad we pulled it through this week," said safety Michael Johnson, who had two intercep­tions on the day for the Big Red. "It was a team effort today for sure." 
Dillon's offense gained 123 net yards, 97 on the ground and 64 in the air. All 64 passing yards came on Dillon's first drive, an eight-play, 65-yard drive capped by a 38-yard touchdown pass to Ben Butwin on fourth and 12. 
"It all starts with the line and running the ball," said quarter­back Mark Zepf, who had his best passing output of the sea­son. "When we run the ball well, that opens up the passing game." 
Stanford was well aware of the Dillon offensive game plan, the same one that hammered them into the ground earlier in the season. 
"Our defense was planning on stopping the running game," said captain Adam Oyster. "I think the defensive line and line­backers did a great job. There was just one play here and one play there that didn't go our way, and we lost the game." 
The 'one play here' was the Butwin touchdown reception. At first a seemingly futile fourth down attempt, quarterback Mark Zepfs dart across the mid­dle to a leaping Butwin turned into the Big Red's only offensive output of the day. But it was enough. 
Stanford failed a two-point conversion attempt with 1 minute, 30 seconds remaining. 
"With it being the playoffs and everything, you want to try to win the game there," said Oyster. 
The Dillon defense created turnovers as well. Johnson's two interceptions halted Stanford drives during both the first and second half. 
"Anyone is happy when they can help the team out like that," said Johnson. 
Stanford's offense managed only 35 yards rushing and 57 yards passing, 47 of which came on their last drive, one that con­sumed the majority of the fourth quarter and culminated in a seven-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Rich Whitney. 

"We were planning on starting the game off hardnosed," said Whitney. "We wanted to run it until we saw what they were doing. But we were an inch off of anything. We didn't execute the way we liked." 
Walking past the Sorin/Alumni game on his way back to the dorm, Dillon quarterback Zepf revealed his preference of oppo­nent. "I want to play Alumni," he said. "They're our only loss this season, and we wouldn't want to get to the championship any other way than through them." 
Zepf will get his chance next Sunday. 
Siegfried 10, Morrissey 7 
Before the play, eight-seed Morrissey had undefeated Siegfried right where they want­ed them. Before the play, the high-octane. point-producing Siegfried offense had not gained a frrst down. 
All it took, however, was one turn of Ramblers quarterback Bill Bingle's arm. Morrissey's defense made only one mistake the whole game, but that was all the room Siegfried needed. The Ramblers advanced to the inter­hall football semifinals with a 10-7 victory at Riehle fields Sunday afternoon. 
"I am very happy about the result because we made it to another week and because it's one more step towards our goal," said Siegfried coach John Torgenson. 'Tm a little disap­pointed with the turnovers, but Morrissey is a very good team. They are not an eight seed. I felt they were one of the best teams coming into the playoffs." 
The Manorite offense was run­ning the ball better than it had all year on Sunday. Running back Nick Klein had 6 7 of his team's 101 rushing yards. 
"We wanted to try to run on them because it was not some­thing we were able to do with consistency [during the regular season]," said Klein. "We were happy with our running game, but we couldn't put it in the end zone when we had to." 
Morrissey gained 33 yards in the air. Quarterback Rick Ysasi, however, primarily kept it on the ground, gaining 21 yards and scoring on a one-yard touch­down run. The touchdown put Morrissey up at halftime, 7-3. 
"It's frustrating to lose that way," said coach John Caver. "l feel we did dominate on both offense and defense." 
The Morrissey offense, defense and special teams all did their part in a valiant effort by the Manorites. Morrissey blocked a punt to set up their only touch­down and intercepted Bingle twice. 
"It came down to one bad play," said Caver. "The defense can't let up and give them a big play like that." 
That bad play came on the first play of a fourth quarter Siegfried drive. Bill Bingle found wide receiver John Karp wide open behind the secondary. and Karp outran two pursuing Morrissey defensive backs for a game-win­ning, 95-yard touchdown. 
"I was running and I was at the 20 and I thought to myself, 'Why aren't you going any­where?" Karp said. 
Bingle and the Siegfried offense managed less than 10 yards outside of the big play. 
Bingle's two interceptions ended drives abruptly and gave Morrissey good field position. 
"I think we can do a better job holding on to the ball and capi­talizing," said Torgenson. "Bill struggled a little today. but he doesn't worry me because he's an athlete. He knows a lot of it rests on his shoulders." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

enormous 
FLEECE 
Selecti:,,..;... 
from OUTPOST Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-1000 for more details 

Fremantle, Australia 
''the land down under'' 
Application Meeting 
Thursday, Nov. 7, 2002 
5:00-6:00 PM Room 107 DeBartolo AL & BA Majors 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/,....,intlstud 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

~ 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, No. don't louch.. ,no,one letter to each square, don't touch...no...
to form tour ordinary words. 
f"' 
BUDOT 
I 


C2002 Tribune Modi• Sen,ic.., Inc. All Rlghta Ruervod. 
YERNT 
j

rJ c I I 
i

t
NIMPED t J-bY,,/ 11-E ~ 
SITTER FE:L.T AT THE END OF THE
www.)umble.oom 
DAY. 
STVJUL j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

(XI I I 
suggested by the above cartoon 

A: r x x r Jrn IN "( r r x J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: OCCUR TRUTH ADAGIO FAMISH Answer: What he showcased when he bull! his boat ­HIS "CRAFT" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 30 • To order, Hnd Y••r n ¦ me, oddreu ¦ nd Sti,45 Ind make c'-k poyllble lo Tr1bu,-Media S.rvlcH, P.O. Box 4*, Chlcolgo, IL eoeeo-4330, 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TifJS DAY: Art Garfunkel. Tulum ONeal. Elke SollUOO', SamSl'qmd 
Happy Birthday: If you are patient you wiU prosper this year. however, if you jump into rew venlim!s without much though~ yoo are likely to suffer. Figure out what wm best fa-you ml how you can satisfy your neoo; as well as lhose you care most about. You can make headway if you are smart, thoughtful and diligent. Your number.; are 9, 15, 21, 28.35, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Yoo mar be ernalional about legal matters. You should talk to sorneore you 1111st. Older in<limluals may have prohlems that they just can't hardk: widnt }Wl'help. Make ~Ifavailable. tt1f TAURUS (Arri! 20-May 20): Spend time with the ones you love, You may have an emotiona eroblem on your hands if you have neglected yow-personal11:SJXlffiiWilies. lls tim: to try lorestae oolan:c. ti GE\11NI (May21-JIIDI 20~ Ifyoo Jl\(ina few e11trahours ill w<rt, it won\go wuniced You can foonulate conn:ts ml look into finarx:ial investrrx:nts, howc-ver, oon\ completesuch VClllim; yet This is the tirn: to lay frur.lalimi. tt1f CANCER (Jwie 21-July 22): S(Xn! tim: wilh chilcren You can help them with their ~and epjoy playing g'd/llfS w!lh !hem ooce the wm:'s complete. The yoongstcrs will 31!Jlrecia1e n and you will benefit from their company. ***** 
LEO (Jitly. 2.\:Aug. 22): You and your. mate may have a major squabble if you have ln:n ntrtanoos. Clianrel YDII' effoos mto making your lover feel <i:sirable if youwish to cortuu.l! j'W' relationship. tt VIRGO (Aug. 2.'-Sepl 22): You can =ive help achieving your goals if you can 
,eresent ~:;I.noughts to~ nght ~\re shy. This is IICl a time lo slay at home 
~22):~ooy expensive items from fiieoos or ocquainlances. Cllam:I your~ lliO getl1l1g ahead at wed. You can meet apaeitial mate or rew fiim:I thiw,gh chem.~ . .
SCORPIO' (Oct. »-Nov. 21l~II find that YO\D' hard wed has paid off. The household jobs you cornpleteJ have '!lowe_d you_ to make plans for a day of c=·nin, It's time to make up for all 11;..'•ttle things you have neglected to do fa · .tt-t SA rITARIUS (Nov, .22-Du.'. 21): You l1CC(. rest You may also want to do some relaxing lllings with chikhl:n a yoor mate. It's a·gocl bme to collect your thoughts, regroup ml share with the ores yoo kJve. *ri CAPRICORN (!)a:. 22-Jan. 19): This is m1 tit! time ulud moo:y to a fiielXI. Try to 
.....~·Ip out in other wa}'!:. Don\ cmtrioote too moch to organiz;,.ffi ju'II to impres.5 other.I. 
. . . of time aoo tlknts. tttt ~-·-A UAmi:Js (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A family _member m~: se you gncf today. _ -Talk to them reasonably. There 1s more gmng on than yuorr:alw:, so try to he 
,.,..-, ~le:19-Man:h 20): Visit with friends or relatives. Do SOJreilm~iallv nice for an olcb-prern who hasn't been feeling well. Creative puwits wiU be mn:J. so show other.I whatyoo an:mng. -ttjrtt 
Rirthlay Baby: You wiU always listen to advice, 001 yru may not be as willing to use it You will be relenu!ss in Y.our approach lo everything you pursue. You will always wmt to be in corrrol ciyour life ml your fuwre. 
Olx:k w &pa's W:IJ Sik:s ill a.woodvice.com, eugenialastoom. 
astr00'131cmll. 

(X)PYRJGtIT200'2UNIVERSALPRESSSYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
No. 1127Crossword IEdited by Will Shortz 

ACROSS 39 Mars's Greek 69 Shredded 
1 Go soft counterpart 70 Gossip tidbit 5 Meter readinQ 41 Highway 71 Clotho, 9 Stogie behemoths Lachesis and 
14 Home to billions 43 Race's tin1sh Atropos
line 72 "Ars amatorla"15 "Thi~k nothing 44 Gin's QO·Wilh 

poet 16 Eyes 46 Odd-numbered 73 Thomas Hardy
page 
heroine

17 Done in 48 Preceded desparallon 19 Dismissed 49 Bygone autocrat 
DOWN 51 Sticks in the

20 Walk quietly snow? 1 Brewery supply 
21 Moray, for one 53 Domains of 2 Actor Morales 23 Dele canceler influence 3 Saying ih" for 24 Olympic sled 56 Dance unit "s" 26 Whippers 57 "Your Show of 
28 Unlike ½ Shows• regular 32 Equal 58 canto 33 Mal de (singing style) 
34 H I 60 Come up with ouston
• orrib e" university
comics 84 Arizona h 
character .,,. s rf , 8 Neighbor of 
"" u s slap? L

36 Painter Max ucy 
.__.,_.,:;~-.ia;;=:;:;:::;:;;;:;;:;~ 
9 RanK above maj.
10 Polar cover i...--+-+--4-...J-­11 Not-so-super 
bowl? 
PuuJeby EdElrli
12 "Ragged Dick" 35 "Casablanca" 53 Winter -61 Prefix with dateauthor 

cate accessory
13 Major melees 62 Golfers' needs 
37 Sporting blade 54 Lecterns


t-;:-t-,+.-:i"!''l-:-ll-::-t...,.lh-i-.,.f'!!' ,.,,,..,.....,_, 18 Moolah 63 Shade trees
38 Cinergy Field 55 Argument

Wii¦liiiF-R~!!IP!~8.;+;:-fl!ll!ll!lllll!!III 22 Drink like a dog athletes 
65 Coveted 

l"!"'P.~"ri-j,i,, -::-t-:t,,.... ~~+z.t,;;+;.-1 25 Rarin' to go 40 Large 58 Ukrainian city Scrabble tile -+-_____. 27 Use a needle near the Polish
42 Like letters on border 67Demier _

..,..;e+::,,+,;,;+;,;.j 28 •-my wit's shirts i-,,,+,,.,.+-,--.,., 11!!!!1~~ end!" 45 Geo or Reo i.-..i,;,..,:r.=;f;:-h;:;i,iiioli,i@-i+;:-fl!l~""111 29 Detective Wolfe 47 Kiri Te Answers to any three clues In this puzzle 
Kanawa's milieu are available by touch-tone phone:

l"!'P'!"'l'!'~-~cf'!!!IP!!"t-=-1-iow~R~E 30 Attire popular with private so Gray-clad 
1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). R E eyes soldier Annual subscriptions ar9 available for the .,........,,.,Ti,...E+R,,,c 31 Fabrics with 52 Gitt-giver's b8S1 of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 E E D Y metallic threads request years: 1-!188-7-ACAOSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
... D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 



PORTS 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Borton is perfect from the floor and the line as Irish win 
played a great game, McGraw . ...--­

said. _., _C_o_n_ta_ct_J_o_e_H_e_ttl_e_r_a_t___­
Irish post player Kelsy :.·lcks avoids a defender in the Big East Cham~~!P~J_::~. Wicks Notre Dame's top twO.;'c:orers jhettler@nd.edu sat out the second half of Monday's game against the Houston Jaguars with a Kne-e-~~~-­
FOOTBALL 

Irish putting pain away and healing wounds 
By JOE fIE.TTLER 
Associare Spores Editor 
Teresa Borton made·her first shot 10 seconds into the game, her last one with less than a minute remaining and didn't miss any in between. 
The sophomore center scored a game-high 20 points. shooting 8-8 from the field and 4-4 from the free throw line to lead Notre Dame's to a 87-50 exhibition win over the Houston Jaguars Monday night. 
"I was happy with my play," said Borton, who also added nine rebounds. "It upped my confidence. I've had a year underneath my belt and that's helped, but I'm still a little weary because I know there are so many great players." 
Coach Muffet McGraw was also satisfied with Notre Dame's performance. 
"J was pleased with our defen­sive effort and I thought we did a good job on the boards," McGraw said. "I think it was a good test for us to see where we are right now. We have some things to work on, but I think there were a lot of positives." 
The Irish held the Jaguars to a dismal 1-of-22 in three-point 
-
shooting and only allowed them to make 24.2 percent of their shots all game. No Houston player scored in double figures. 
Freshman Courtney LaVere had an impressive debut, scor­ing 12 points while senior La'Tania Severe had 15 for the 
lr~~h. I thought both [Borton1 and {LaVere] played very well. They played well togeth~r. They 
from last season, Alicia Ratay and Jacqueline Batteast, both struggled to score. Ratay went 
0-7 from the field. missed all four of her three-point attempts and hit only one of four free throws to finish with one point. Batteast was 3-16 shooting and had 11 points. However, she led the team with 15 rebounds and added seven assists, four steals and three blocks. 
McGraw wasn't concerned with her stars play, especially Ratay's. 
'Tm encouraged by [her poor shooting] because we scored 87 points without her and we wouldn't have been able to do that last year," McGraw said. "I think that's a great sign for the rest of lhe team. That we do have someone ready to pick up the slack on any given night." 
Notre Dame's other freshman 
Megan Duffy did a solid job of 
running the offense and scored 
six points and added seven 
rebounds. 
"She's got a great presence on 
the court," McGraw said. "She's 
vocal and for a freshman you 
don't always expect that. I think 
she played with a lot of intensi­
ty. I think she motivated her 
teammates and got to the right 
spots [on the court]. I was really 
pleased with her effort." 
Sophomore Kelse 
started the game b1, 
play the second half L 
minor knee injury. McGraw.,~··­
the injury is not serious and 
Wicks.isn't expected t?.~ISS ';.iiy 
practice or games fhe Irish 
don't play again ~!itil Nov . .19 
when the_y~the Ohia G1rls 
Baske_tffliM~gazine All-Stars i.11 
th~cond and final exhibition. 

LISA VEL TE/The Observer 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Two days after Notre Dame lost to Boston College 14-7 and one day after the 8-1 Irish dropped at least four spots in both major polls, the Irish watched the~··r.~ team tumhle again, this time fro•· · third to seventh in the Bow Championship Series rankings. 
The challenge now for the Irish is responding to their first loss of the season. 
lf you ask the Irish, they aren't looking back on Saturday's loss-as painful as it was. Instead, they're focused on the rest of th,e season, an attitude Tyroue Willingham made pointedly clear to a dejected Irish locker room Saturday. 
"He told us there are still 
•ons for us," Arnaz Battle said S.a.turday. "We can still go 11-1 and compete to be the best team 
in the country. That's what our goal is." 
Saturday's loss all but knocked the Irish out of the national championship picture, but the Irish still have a good shot at making one of the three other BCS bowls. 

And if there was any change in Willingham's demeanor after the loss, the Irish players couldn't see it. 
"He took it pretty well, as well as you could," Jeff Faine said. "It's pretty rough, it's his first loss here, but he stood strong and held his head high and he encouraged us to do the same." 
Notre Dame looks to rebound this week against lowly 1-7 Navy, then has an off week, and then plays 1-8 Rutgers a week before a 
season-ending showdown at ninth-ranked USC. 
Among the problems the Irish need to address are the seven fumbles that occurred during Saturday's loss to the Eagles ­three of which were recovered by Boston College. 
The Irish also need to improve their offense. Despite putting up 357 yards against the Eagles ­nearly double Boston College's total offensive output -the Irish are still ranked 108th out of 117 Division I-A teams in terms of average number of offensive yards per game. 
Notre Dame had difficulty mov­ing the ball in its first eight games, but the Irish rarely turned over the ball. Against the Eagles, Notre Dame dominated most offensive categories -they con­trolled the ball nearly eight more minutes than the Eagles and picked up 13 more first downs. 
Yet what killed the Irish was the five turnovers, coupled with a 1-for-6 scoring rate when the Irish got the ball inside the red 
see FOOTBALL/page 18 

MENS SOCCER 
SENDWICH INDEX
WOMENS INTERHALL 
MENS INTERHAll 

Boston College's win over Rutgers 
Notre Dame dropped to No. 3
Breen~Phillips 6, Walsh 0 
Dillon 7, Stanford 6 

Monday night clinched a home court 
after last Saturday's loss to Boston 
Siegfried 10.: Morrissey 7
Welsh 19, Lyons O 

berth for the irish in the Big East 
College. Pittsburgh contines to 
Alumni 21, ~orin 8 
Cavanaugh 19, McGUnn 12 

quarterfinals 
dimp up the polls after their win 
Fisher 21, Zahm 7 
against Virginia Tech. 


page 18 . page 21, 22
page 14 







