


l'llla;t;t:\Wl¦"[Qpb ;¦¦llff.(ll~~11t\1191~11Jllllll 
Panel discusses options for assault victims 
trator was released from the
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES 
University, but she was not News Writer 
pleased with the process," said Preacher, victim's resource per­
Few would disagree that sexual son. assault and rape are sensitive This student's initiative to press and complicated issues, but a administrators to increase group of local olTicials discussed resources for victims led to the Tuesday how victims can rebuild creation of a victim ·s resource their lives following such an person. Preacher, who accepted attack. the position two years ago, pro­
The panel discussed both vides information and speaks avenues for mental recuperation confidentiality with victims. and options for judicial prosecu­"I have seen remarkable 
tion. "Standards at HesUfe are women come through my oflice quite different than if you were to who have pressed their cases and go to the police," said Ava have gotten results." said Preacher, assistant dean. Preacher. 
Student victims are left with Sexual assault victims can also questions and confusion as they anonymously report their cases to attempt to return to a normal life. ResLife. "We give students 
"A few years ago a student on options. We don't tell them what 
campus was raped and actually 
got the desired result. The perpe-see PANEL/page 4 
SARAH SCHEIDERffhe Observer A panel discusses options for emotional support and judicial prosecution for victims of sexual assault. Pictured, from left to right, are panelists Ava Preacher, Lynn Bradford, and Rita Donley. 
Sl l ~'l\1'.owEAS/The Observer Saint Mary's graduate Susan Glockner Gallagher speaks to students about her experience of working for Arthur Andersen while the company was under Investigation for destroying documents for its cllent Enron. 
Last Lecture Series returns to campus 
By HELENA PAYNE 
N~-ws Editor 
In an effort to continue promot­ing student-faculty relations, stu­dent government is bringing back the Last Lecture Series where pro­f'rBsors will deliver speeches to stu­dents in informal settings on cam­pus as ifit were their last time. 
"lt provides a little more of a human spin on your professors," said sophomore Kim Anderson, cu-chair of the Academic Division in the Office of the Student Body President. 
The Academic 
Division, also co­"It provides a little more in residence chaired by sopho­h a I I
ofa human spin on your
more Allison lounges, Vater, has speak­professors . ., allow for a ers lined up from relaxed each College atmosphere
Kim Anderson 

except that puts
co-chair of Academic Division in
Architecture to both the 
the Office of the

share their ideas students and insight on a Student Body President and profes­
variety of topics. 
The first lecture L,; today at 8 p.m., featuring politi­cal science professor Martha Merritt, in the McGlinn Hall 24­hour lounge. 
Merritt specializes in interna­tional relations, but she wiU talk primarily on personal experiences in traveling. 
The lecture's personal touch, which is encouraged by the Academic Vision, is what the co­chairs said has appealed to stu­dents. 
"That is what distinguishes 1heir interest in coming to class from coming to a lecture like this. They'll get more of a person al view of the profossor," Vatcr said. 
Following Merritt's lecture, finance profossor Carl Ackennann will give the second Last Lecture on Dec. 3. 
Other professors included in the series arc physics professor Michael I lildreth, political science professors Daniel Philpott and Alvin Tillery, classics professors Asma Afsaruddin and Joseph Amar and computer science pro­fessor Hamzi Bualuan. 
The professors are selected based on student recommenda­tions and, according to Anderson, they fall under the unofficial cate­gory of "the teacher you've got to take class from." 
In its third year, Anderson said the series has been successful in the past and professors are usually eager to participate. 
For students, Anderson said the 
lectures, 
often hosted 
sors at ease. 

"It is done in a very informal environment and you get more of the profes­sors's views and not necessarily what the teacher thinks is impor­tant for a test." she said. 
To draw more students to the lectures, dorms will host the lee• tures with their brother or sister dorm. This also cuts down costs and promotes unity, Yater said. 
The Academic Division is also looking to use the Coleman-Morse Center lounge as another venue for 1he lecture series. 
Other projects in the Academic Division include a distinguished lecture series that would bring prominent speakers to campus and a graduate schools review to help juniors prepare for graduate school. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
Ex-Anderson em.ployee reflects on firtn's accounting scandal 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Susan Glockner Gallagher, a 1980 Saint Mary's graduate, shared her experiences as a for­mer Arthur Andersen audit partner with Andersen's Chicago office in her lecture "The Light at the End of the Tunnel isn't a Train" in Carroll Auditorium Tuesday evening. 
Gallagher, who was an employee of Andersen for 22 years, worked as a spokes­woman for the accounting firm when the Enron investigation began until the eventual demise of the firm. Gallagher said it is important to realize that Enron's problems did not sud­denly occur. 
Arthur Andersen was the largest accounting firm in the nation before being indicted by the federal government for destroying documents for its client Enron. 
"A lot of you read that the [Enron) stock dropped overnight but if you go back you can find that Enron's stock began to drop a year before," Gallagher said. 
Gallagher said records show that Andersen highlighted the risks that Enron was taking, but employees within Enron did not disclose all the information. 
"You question whether you did enough work to fine fraud, but if people are intentionally hiding things, that becomes diffi­cult," Gallagher said. 
Gallagher questioned how the press covered Enron, especially with regard to reports about shredding documents and that Enron employees would not be able to sell their stock in the company. Gallagher said the press did a great disservice to the public by telling them to sell their stock, when the CEO and analys1.5 were telling then not to. 
"The shredding goes on every­day in large corporations. Critical Enron documents were not shredded," Gallagher said. "Enron retirees could sell their stock, there was only a small amount of people who had a closed window period and it was only for a couple days in which they could not sell their stock." 
The problem with corruption within Enron was that the laws did not kept up with the needs of the businesses, said Gallagher. This is a problem that the Securities and Exchange Commission is trying to address. she added. 

However, Callagher said that because of a lack of government funding and staff to ensure the rules arc being followed, it is unlikely that new rules will immediately be enforced. 
sec GALlAGHERlpage 4 page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, November 13, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Bare art 

Let me ask you a question -what is wrong with a woman's body? 
Everyday women are constantly thrown images of the "perfect" body in magazines, on television. and from the human gaze. 
We judge our own body image by what we are told is "beautiful" by the media. We obsess about calories, working out, and what others are think­


ing of us. We suf­fer from the  Nellle Williams  
"gaze" upon us.  
As a student at a women's col­ Photo Editor  
lege, I feel the  
obsession with  

the "perfect" body is even more prevalent in my environment. Women. even when surrounded by other women. still compare their body image with those around them. Everywhere they are glancing up and down. comparing, and often left feel­ing insecure about their own body. 
"Look at her -she's lost weight. I wonder how she did it." 
Women gossip about who might have an eating disorder and who works out all the time. They also gos­sip about who is gaining weight. "The body" is what seems to always make the first impression -not the mind. 
So imagine the controversy some students might have when nude pho­tographs are put up in an art gallery and when women's minds have been programmed to accept only the "per­fect" body nude. What happens when a nude female body is distorted and not as beautiful as the human mind thinks it should be? 
When women have constantly been exploited in pornography as sex objects, in magazines, and on televi­sion as having the "perfect" body, no wonder many students are offended to see nude photographs that do not represent these ideals on the wall. 
We have become ashamed of our bodies. Rape, pornography, and the media strip away the female's identi­ty-her identity to accept her whole self and appreciate who she is as a woman. 
Photography is a medium that can be used to change these constructed "bodies". Bodies do not have to be "perfect" or "sexual" to be beautiful. Unfortunately, that is what society has created in many minds. Or that nude photograph automatically equals pornography. Women have become ashamed of their bodies, therefore becoming ashamed of who they are. Then, when a nude photo­graph of a female is put in their face, they expect it to be another "perfect" body they should strive to look like. 
What about nude figure drawings? Artists have been drawing and paint­ing the nude figure for centuries. However, the nude figure in this medium of art is often viewed as beautiful even if the body is not "per­fect". Why is it different in photogra­phy? Is a photo too close to reality? 
We should not be ashamed of our bodies. Unfortunately, the "ideal" body image and how it has been exploited has blurred our vision in the mirror and in photography. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Nellie Williams at will6176@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Hammes gears up for Potter 
magic 
The Sophomore Literary Festival and St. Joseph County Literacy Council will spon­sor "A Very Potter evening" festival featuring Harry Potter books. 
WORLD& NATION 
Bush warns Saddam 
President Bush issued a warning to Saddam Hussein to follow the United Nation's plan to disarm or the U.S. will lead a coalition to disarm Iraq's weapons. 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Scandal leads SEC director to resign 
Former FBI Director WiJliarn Webster stepped down from his position at the SEC. 
page 7 
SCENE SPORTS 

Game takes 
Football takes Vice City to 
a rest the next level 
During their sec­"Grand Theft Auto: 
Scene gives 
ond bye week, Vice City" five 
Notre Dame play­shamrocks. 
ers and coaches will mentally pre­pare and rest for their next game against Rutgers. 
page 12 page 24 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Solicitor identified 
NPSP identified an individual selling pictures outside of Walsh Hall on Monday. The individual was issued a noncontractual interest form and was released on Tuesday. 
Minor caught consuming 
NDSP apprehended a minor Tuesday in the Infirmary lot for con­sumption of alcohol and failure to produce identification. NDSP referred this case to administrative review. 
Drunk visitor apprehended 
NDSP arrested a visitor for public intoxication on Tuesday at the infir­mary lot. 
Missing bike found near 
classrooms 
A bike that was reported missing from outside Welsh Family Hall on Oct. 27 was recovered outside of DeBartolo on Monday. 
Compiled from NDSP crime blotter. 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Farmer's market soup, taco tomato chowder, cool ranch loafer, breakfast pizza, Mediterranean bar, chicken nuggets, macaroni and cheese, cauliflower, vegetarian paella, tamale pie, tortellini antipasto salad, chickpea salad, sugar cookie, marsh­mallow rice krispies bars, grilled fajitas 
Today's Dinner: Swedish meatballs with brown gravy, calzone, pierogies, roasted chicken. baked potato, black bean cakes with pineapple chutney, brown rice, ginger snow peas, linguine, tortellini antipasto salad, chickpea salad.marble cake, apple walnut upside down cake, basic omelet 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 




HIGH 41 LOW 33 
VIEWPOINT 
Off-campus living excites Muto 
Columnist Joe Muto expresses his enthusiasm for moving outside of the Dome's shadow next year. 
page 11 

. 
"@ your library," informalional session on Notre Damo libraries, llesburgh Library Concourso, 12 to 1 p.m. 

. 
Movie: ''Trainspotting," llcsburgh Library Auditorium, 7 p.m. 

. 
Lecture: Chesterton: The Poet & The Bomantic, DeBartolo llall, 


7:30 p.m. 

. Student Senate: Report on rnsid{ince hall water quality and podium speakers Danielle Ledesma, Judicial Council President. and Brigitte Gynther, Workers' Hights, LaFortunc Notre Dame Boom, 6 p.m. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
CWIL Writers Circle: "Versions of Hubcn: The Work of Translation," . Haggar Parlor, 11 :45 a.m. to 1 p.m. 

. 
APICS Conference, Stapleton Lounge. 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

. 
SAB Talent Show, Carroll Auditorium, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Mushroom-cheese spinach tortellini, italian sausage mari­nara, mexican beef pizza, Polish sausage, sweet & sour cabbage. Polish kluski noodles, green beans, apple crisp, grilled tuna with lemon, cream of wheat. sloppy joe, seasoned fries, pep­pered tangerine chicken, 
Today Dinner: Spinach tortellini with mushroom cheese sauce, sauteed herbed mushrooms, green bean casse­role, baby carrots, apple crisp, spinach quiche, orzo portobello & cream, Cajun chicken breast sandwich, seasoned fries, Kung Pao chicken, California ran­cho rice, Mexican dipping sauce 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Beef ravioli, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, BBQ beef sandwich, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken, oriental vegetables, roasted rosemary potatoes, red beans & rice.corn dogs, fishwich, crinkle fries, stir-fry beef & peppers, chicken fajita 
Today Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, vegetables marinara, beef bour­guignon, kluski noodles, bourbon­baked ham, baked sweet potatoes, sweet and sour chicken tenders, jalapeno poppers, broccoli quesadilla 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
w 
::c 
~ 
3 w 
.... 
c( CJ 






0 

HIGH 48 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...J 

LOW 42 LOW LOW LOW 
48 36 
45 
41 
37 24 

Atlanta 57 I 40 Boston 49 / 39 Chicago 50 / 42 Denver 57 / 34 Houston 69 / 46 Los Angeles 80 / 55 Minneapolis 42 / 33 New York 50 / 39 Philadelphia 52 / 37 Phoenix 83 / 56 Seattle 53 / 47 St. Louis 59 / 46 Tampa 72 / 50 Washington 51 / 39 


Wednesday, November 13, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Professors' design for memorial earns praise 
Your alternative musicsource. 



Special to The Observer 
The jury evaluating designs for a memorial to victims of' the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist a.Hack on the Pcnlagon selected a monument cre­ated by two Notre Dame architec­ture profossors as one of lhe top 75 entries in the international competi­tion. 
.. 
T
899 


11m desi1,,n by Dino Marcantonio and Paloma Pajares was one of more than l,100 sttbmissiom to the Pentagon Memorial Competition and wac:; on display Oct. 30-Nov. 9 at the National Building Museum in Washington, U.C. 
Though the Marcantonio-Pajares plan was not among the six finalis1S selected by the jury, ii has receiVl'<l considerabll' prni,c· \\'riling on thf, editorial page of the Nov. 8 Wall Street Journal, architecture writer Catesby Leigh was sharply critical of tl1e six final plans, but singled out the Notre Dame entry, calling it an "outstanding classical design" that would "create an inspiring work of civic art." He added: "Because the design is conceived in truly monu­mental terms, ]it], unlike the finalist proposals;, would rm1t.c a.n appeal-

SOUNDTRACK OF OUR LIVES 
Behind The Musfr 





MED16PLAV® 
For the store nearest you, visit us at mediaplay.com 
Selection, pridng and special offers may vary by store and online, 82d6N2 1<1396 Sole ends November 23, 2002, 

T
999 

ing landmark along Houte 27, South Bend firm Marcantonio which the memorial site abuts." Architects. 
The design by Marcantonio and The Pentagon Memorial 
Pajares fea­tures a large cenotaph ­
"Because the design is 
or monument 
conceived in truly
to the dead­set on a monumental terms. [it] ... pedestal, 
would create an 
upon which 
appealing landmark ... " 
the names of the 184 vic­tims of the Catesby Leigh Pentagon 
Wall Street Journal
attack are 
architecture writer
inscribed. It stands in a garden enclosure flanked by cherry 
trecs. entries each ha<; received $20,000
1 

Marcantonio, an assistant pro­to further develop their ideas, and a fessor, and Pajares, an associate final decision is expected by t.hP end professor, are principals of the of'thcyear. 
Sophom.ores pron1ote literature with Potter 
By CAITLIN EARLY 
News Writer 
For the first time in its 35-year 

tradition, the Sophomore Llterary 
Festival will be hosting a commu­
nity event, "A Very Potter 
Evening," in conjunction with the 
St. Joseph County Literacy 
Council. 
The committee worked with Literacy Council officials and the Notre Dame leaders over the past month to expand the annual liter­ary festival's reach into the com­munity. "A Very Potter Evening" 'refers to the young wizard hero of' 
the popular children's book series. 
"We chose Harry Potter as the theme because of its popularity with children. The Harry Potter books are wonderful because they get kids excited about reading." said Erin Blonder, co-chair of the Potter event. 
The event will be Thursday at 6 

p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival scheduled a variety of events for "A Potter Evening," including a raffie, face painting. 

hanksgiving travel xpected to increase 
. Number of air travelers expected to rise from 4.8 to 
5.1 million 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO 

About 35.9 million travel­ers will hit the roads, rails and air during Thanksgiving this year, a slight increase over 2001, AAA predicted Tuesday. 
The number of Thanksgiving travelers had been dropping in recent years, from 3 7.4 million in 1999 to 36.8 million people in 2000 to 35.3 million last year. 
The association expects the percentage of people travel­ing by motor vehicle to drop slightly, to 86 percent from last year's 8 7 percent -a record high brought on by fears of flying after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Meanwhile, the number or travelers reaching their Thanksgiving dinners by air is expected to rise from 4.8 million to about 5.1 million. 
The AAA projections were based on a national survey of 1,300 adults by the Travel Industry Association. 
Motorists will find gasoline significantly pricier than last year. The nationwide average price of gas, $1.46 per gallon, is about 25 cents higher than last year, AAA reported. 
The Orlando-based leisure travel organization blamed higher gas prices on reduced inventories and strong demand. 
and a live duel put on by the Notre Dame fencing team. Some of the prizes include a signed copy of the third book and original llarry Potter movie posters. 
The aim of "A Very Potter Evening" is to encourage children in the local community to enjoy reading, organizers said. It is also an attempt to combat the wave of illiteracy that has hit St. Joseph County in recent years. 
In the latest National Adult Survey, it was estimated that 700,000 adults in Indiana were illiterate. St. Joseph County's illit­eracy rate ranks among the low­est in the entire state. 
All proceeds collected from the event will be donated to local liter­acy programs throughout the county. 
Chuck Lennon, Alumni Association president; Libby Bishop, student body president; and Mike Macaluso, the Notre Dame leprechaun, will read excerpts from "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets." 
Contact Caitlin Early at early.2@nd.edu 
Competition is sponsored by the Uepartment of Defense and orga­nized by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The jury includes design profession­als, two former secretaries of defense, and rela­tives of victims. The designers of the six finalist 


r---------------------------------------~--------------­
page4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, November 13, 2002 

Gallagher 
continued from page I 
"I suspect the rest of the year will be bumpy. I think more companies will fail and make headlines," Gallagher said. 
Gallagher has moved on, with 
other former Andersen employees, 
as a corporate officer with the 
newly formed Huron Consulting 
Group based in Chicago. Gallagher 
and her partners want tbc consult­
ing group to embody the impor­
tance of integrity and values once 
associated with Andersen. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at ne.st9877@saintmarys.edu 


Panel 
continued from page 1 
we think they should do," said JeffShoup, director of ResLife. 
Shoup said students are often unhappy with the results of their ResLlfe hearings. "We are advocates for the process. We can't be advocates for the accused or victims," said Shoup. 
While the University provides information on judicial avenues, it also provides counseling ser­vices for those affected by the incident. 
Rita Donley, assistant director of the University Counseling Center said, "We recognize the 


Abuse victims vow to monitor Church 
. Victims call for more reforms on sex abuse policy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

As America's Roman Catholic bishops neared a final vote on a policy to pun­ish sex abusers in the priest­hood, victims said they still would monitor church per­formance and demand fur­ther reforms, whatever the outcome. 
"We are ... looking ahead, not to tomorrow or next week, but to the next bish­ops' conference," members of Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests said Tuesday at a news confer­ence. 
At that time, the group pledged, it will keep pushing bishops on their role in sex abuse crisis which has engulfed the church this year. 
The church leaders were scheduled to vote Wednesday on the abuse policy that they insist shows the church has transformed itself. 
Victims challenge that assertion, though Bishop William Lori of Bridgeport, Conn., said his colleagues
t 
agreed in June to remove all molesters from active min­istry and they maintain that
r 
commitment. 
"It may be that people who are in such pain right now can't see that," Lori said."It may take some time." 
The bishops originally passed a disciplinary plan five months ago in Dallas. The revision being voted on Wednesday was negotiated with the Vatican last month. lt gives priests greater pro­tection and privacy while church authorities investi­gate abuse accusations and underscores that bishops, not lay people, have the authority to oversee clergy. 
Once the policy is approved, it will be sent to the Vatican for a final review and will then become church law in the United States. 
The bishops met privately for about three hours Tuesday and spent part of the session discussing the new policy. Some prelates asked for clarification on the process for removing priests, 
said Auxiliary Bishop 
Thomas Gumbleton of 
Detroit. 
Chicago's Cardinal Francis 
George said a few bishops 
have suggested amendments 
to the policy but they are 
"very minor, some technical 
terms, nothing substantial 
has changed." 
The Survivors Network and 
other groups say the new 
plan leaves too much discre­
tion to the bishops on issues 
such as whether to report 
abuse claims to civil authori­
ties. The victims are particu­
larly upset that the docu­
ment includes no measures 
to sanction prelates who do 
not follow the policy. 
"There are no accountabil­
ity measures among senior 
members of the Roman 
Catholic Church," said Peter 
Isely, a Survivors Network 
member. 
But Bishop Joseph Galante, coadjutor of Dallas, argued the bishops this year formed the lay National Review Board and the Office for Child and Youth Protection to ensure that dioceses meet the new standards. The office will issue an annual report on prelates' compli­ance starting next year. 
The bishops also have promised that no matter what the requirements in the final document, they are committed to notify civil authorities of all abuse cases involving children. 
Throughout the bishops' meeting this week, victims have felt left out. 
They had unprecedented access to church leaders at the Dallas gathering, holding private talks with cardinals and addressing sessions attended by all the bishops . No such discussions were scheduled this week. even though the Survivors Network said it requested a role at the meeting. 
Bishop Wilton Gregory, president of the bishops' conference, spent a good deal of his opening address supporting good clergy and warning of fractures in the church caused by the abuse crisis, rather than stressing the damage done to victims. 
"It's a fundamental, seri­ous retreat," from the church's commitment to put victims first, said David Clohessy, the Survivors Network national director. 
fact that this is the ultimate handle the situation personally experience of being out of con­or how to act around the victim. trol." Donley encouraged students Though victims can seek who believe they are in abusive 
immediate  relation­ 
help at the University's  "Standards at ResLife are  ships to con­tact a coun­ 
Counseling Center where a counselor is  quite different than ifyou were to go to the police"  s e I o r . "Although the state  
on  call  24  requires me  
hours a day,  Ava Preacher  to  report  
many will come to the center after­ assistant dean in the College of Arts & Letters  certain things, du Lac does not  
wards to deal  apply there  
with intimacy  in the sense  

and relationship issues, said that if we are going to be help­Donley. The center provides ful we have to talk about cer­counseling for boyfriends, tain things," said Donley. friends and roommates of vic­Despite confidentiality, tims who do not know how to Donley said many assaults and 
mm 
~ 
fH~ 

rapes go unreported because of the stigma of being a victim. This prevents many from receiving the help they need. "I see many people who meet the legal definition of a rape victim, but don't want to be labeled," said Donley. 
Tuesday's panel was part of sexual assault awareness week. In addition to Preacher, Shoup and Donley, the other panelists were Lynn Bradford, the assis­tant director of the SOS Rape Crisis Center in St. Joseph County and Phil Johnson, Notre Dame's assistant director of security and policy. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

SOPHOMORE ROAD TRIP 

If Yiu Ml~~W f Ht; flll~f ~t;G Of •....}iA f Ht; llO-A-11 '1'lll'P, -/ .. POW I~ f Ht; C,,H.,fJJC,,t; fill · .. 'IOU ?I "/OUll f ll/t;J/11~ ~O Gt;f OJI (JO.A-ll11 
the second 
DESTI NATION:Vnknown 
adventure of the year. 
•
Meet the Buses at the CoMo on Thursday, Nov. 14th at 6:30 pm. 
Plan on returning to campus around 10:30 pm. 
. 


Reserve seats ASAP on the bus for you & friends by emailing fsantoni@nd.edu. We will take reservations on a First-Come, First-Served basis until the busses fill up 
or until Midnight on Wednesday, which ever comes first.




rj~/f' •



Qr, • 


WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 13, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush warns Saddam to obey U.N. plan to disarm 
United States might do in the
As•ociatcd Press 
absence of a positive state­
WASHINGTON ment." 

With a deadline days away, He said the deadline set by President Bush warned the council for Iraq to accept Saddam Hussein on Tuesday its terms and pledge to comply that "lherc's no more time" was intended as an "early indi­and he must obey a U.N. cation" of Saddam's intentions. demand to disarm Iraq. Some of the president's 
If Saddam should ignore the advisers consider rejection a ultimatum, "Wo will lead a trigger for U.S. action, but oth­coalition to disarm him," Bush ers were not certain, White said. "The man must disarm. House officials said on condi­Ile said he would disarm: he tion of anonymity. now must disarm." The U.N. resolution does not 
"This kind of deception and deal specifically with conse­dolay -all that is over with," quences should Iraq say no, tho president said. they said. 
In renewing his warning Iraq also is stockpiling sup­about forcibly disarming Iraq, plies of antidotes to nerve Bush scoffed at the Iraqi par-agents, suggesting Saddam is 
1iu. men t ·s recommendation trying to protect his armies if 
that the unanimous resolution he uses such weapons on the adopted last week by the U.N. battlefield. a Bush administra­Security Council should be tion official said Tuesday. also rejected. speaking on condition of 
Bush called the assembly in anonymity. Baghdad "nothing but a rub­Iraq has imported signil1cant 
ber stump for Saddam quantities of the antidotes II ussein," and White House atropine and obidoxime chlo­spokesmen said only the Iraqi ride during the past two years, presidenl could decide the official said, supporting a whether to cooperate with the report Tuesday in The New United Nations. York Times. The administra­
Richard Boucher said. He said Gen. Tommy Franks, who be prudent," Franks said.
Even with the tough rhetoric, tion is trying to stop future 
acquisition by Iraq of great would command any U.S. mili­"The president of the UnitedBush administration officials deliveries of the antidotes, but quantities of antidote could tary action in Iraq, said States has not made a decision
were keeping their options sanctions rules do not restrict indicate an intention to use Tuesday it was up to Saddam to go to war in Iraq," the gen­open on what the response to them. Some of the imports 
chemical weapons. whether Iraq's disarmament eral said at a luncheon inmight be if Saddam were to have come from Turkey, a 
Boucher said he could not would be voluntary or forced Florida. "The president of the
reject the U.N. deadline. NATO ally supporting sanc­
confirm the report that Turkey by the U.S. military. Franks United States has made a deci­"We will see what they will tions-enforcement flights over 
was selling atropine to Iraq, said the military is methodical­sion that a continuation of
do," Secretary of State Colin Iraq. 
and Turkish officials said in ly preparing for the possibility cheat, retreat, fail to abide byPowell said. "I don't want to "We have talked to Turkey Ankara they had no knowledge of war. Security Council resolutions ...
prejudge what the Security about procurements by Iraq," 
of such transactions. "We won't be quick. We will will not stand."
Council might do, what the State Department spokesman 

EGYPT 
'Bin Laden' tape praises attacks, warns U.S. and allies 
Associata,d Press 
CAIRO 

In an audiotaped message aired across the Arab world Tuesday, a voice pur­ported to be that of Osama bin Laden praised terrorist strikes in Bali and Moscow in a message that clearly warned U.S. allies against following the United States in the war on terror. 
In Washington, a U.S. official said the voice sounds like Osama bin Laden, as the Bush administration tried to authen­ticate what would be the first hard evi­dence in a year that the al-Qaida leader was still alive. 
In a rambling statement, the speaker on the tape broadcast on Al-Jazeera tele­vision refered to recent attacks, includ­ing the Oct. 12 Bali bombings "that killed the British and Australians," the killing last month of a Marine in Kuwait, the bombing of a French oil tanker last month off Yemen and "Moscow's latest operation, " -a hostage-taking by Chechen rebels. 
Speaking in a literary style of Arabic favored by bin Laden, he said the attacks were "undertaken by sons who are zeal­ous in the defense of their religion," and that they were "only a reaction in response to what (President) Bush, the pharaoh of the age, is doing by killing our sons in Iraq and what America's ally Israel is doing. bombarding houses with women and old people and children inside with American planes." 
"Our people in Palestine are being killed, are being subjected to the worst kind of suffering for almost a century now," the speaker said. "If we defend our people in Palestine the world is dis­turbed and allied against Muslims under the banner ofcombating terrorism." 
Al-Jazeera identified the speaker as Osama bin Laden and said they received the tape on Tuesday. The audiotape was aired alongside an old photograph of the al-Qaida leader but there was no new video of him. 
The speaker then castigated U.S. allies that have joined the war against terror­ism, specifically Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Germany and Australia. 
After listing those countries, he warned: "If you don't like looking at your dead...so remember our dead, including the children in Iraq." 
"What business do your governments have to ally themselves with the gang of criminality in the White House against Muslims? Don't your governments know that the White House gang is the biggest serial killers in this age?" 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
Netanyahu says he would expel Arafat: 
Foreign Minishir Benjamin Nctanyahu said Tuesday that if he becomes prime minister in January elec­tions, his top priority would be to force Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat into exile. Nctanyahu's remarks. which drew cheers at the Likud party con­vention Tuesday night. put him at odds with his boss, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who has sought to marginalize Arafat but has not made any public statements about driving him out. 
Colombia army searching for bishops: 
Army troops backed by helicopters searched mountains north of the capital Tuesday for one of Lalin America's leading Roman Caiholic bishops who was kidnapped a day earlier. The abduction of Bishop Jorge Enrique Jimenez, president of the Latin American bishops conference, drew outrage from church officials across the world and warn­ings of excommunication. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
American killed in Yemen strike JD'd: 
The Yemeni-American killed in a CIA airstrike on Nov. 3 is believed to be Kamal Derwish. the alleged leader of a Buffalo. N.Y.-bascd cell with links to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist organization, U.S. officials say. The reported name or the man killed in Yemen. Ahmed Hijazi, is a pseudonym for Derwish, officials said Tuesday, speaking on condition of anonymity. He was a U.S. citizen, U.S. and Yemeni officials have said. 
Teen victim in sniper case released: 
The 13-year-old boy critically wounded by the Washington-area sniper as he walked to school more than a month ago has been released from the hospital. The boy, whose name has not boen released because he is a considered a witness to a crime, left Children's Hospital in Washington on Monday, said hospital spokeswoman Marissa Garis. 
Supreme Court to hear Web porn case: 
The Supreme Court said Tuesday it will decide if the government can restrict Internet surfing at public libraries, the third case pitting free-speech concerns against efforts to shield children from online pornography to reach the justices. The court will resolve whether federal funding can be stripped from libraries that don't install filters on computers to block sexually explicit Web sites. 
Web database lists accused priests: 
Homan Catholic activists said Tuesday they have compiled an Internet database listing the names of 573 U.S. priests who have faced public accusa­tions of child sex abuse since 1996. The list at www.survivorsfirst.org was assembled by 10 Boston-area Catholics operating as a group called Survivors First. It is drawn from U.S. newspaper articles and, in some cases, court documents. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 13, 2002 
Ill. tow-ns Supretne Court eyeing sex offender registries 
support 

U.S. pilots 
Associated Press 
SHERMAN, Ill. 
Near the welcome signs to this small village stands another message, flanked by red, white and blue ribbons: "USA Support Our Pilots." 
It's one of many reminders in this quiet town that a favorite son has become embroiled in an internation­al controversy. Maj. Harry Schmidt is one of two area pilots charged tn a friendly­fire incident that killed four Canadians in Afghanistan. 
In Sherman, bells hang from doorknobs as a salute and a reminder. Collection cans are left at virtually every business to raise money for the defense of Schmidt and Maj. William Umbach of nearby Petersburg. 
Sherman, Petersburg and other towns across central Illinois figure they're provid­ing support the U.S. govern­ment won't. 
"It was an accident and the government should be behind them," said Terry Cooley, manager of the Subway restaurant in Sherman, a town of 2,900 people just outside Springfield. 
By hosting golf tourna­ments, auctions and other events, locals have raised nearly half the $200,000 needed for the men's defense. 
"They fought for us so we should fight for his freedom as well," said Lisa Lynn of Easton, an Umbach family friend who helped organize a fund-raiser that netted more than $25.000. "It's just like a wedding vow here ­for better or worse." 
Schmidt, 37, and Umbach, 
43. will find out early next year whether they will stand trial on military charges of involuntary manslaughter, aggravated assault and dereliction of duty in the April 17 bombing. 
If convicted, they could be sentenced to 64 years in prison and receive a dishon­orable discharge. 
Schmidt and Umbach are members of the Illinois Air National Guard's 183rd Fighter Wing based in Springfield. 
Schmidt, a combat-deco­rated Navy pilot who trans­ferred Lo the National Guard last year, and Umbach, a United Airlines pilot who had served in the Air Force, were on a routine patrol over southern Afghanistan when they mistook ground fire from a Canadian train­ing exercise for an enemy attack. 
WINTER & SPRING

IREIK 
Panama City Beach• SoMth Padre Island• Vail Steamboat•Daytona Beach• Breckenridge 

Associated Press 
WASHlNGTON 
The Supreme Court is consid­ering challenges to state sex offender registries that help the public keep tabs on paroled offenders living or working nearby. 
Justices are reviewing laws in Alaska and Connecticut, which like all other states have sex offender registry laws named for 7-year-old Megan Kanka, a New Jersey girl kidnapped, raped and killed in 1994 by a convicted sex offender who lived in her neighborhood. 
The court's eventual decisions 


Man stuck inchirrmey rescued 
As•ociated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas 
A man who tried to get into his mother-in-law's house after she forgot her keys got stuck Tuesday and was rescued by firefighters. 
Mark Vaughn, 35, was wedged in the chimney for about an hour before rescuers were able to pull him feet first from a hole knocked in the side. 
"I slid all the way down, but the angle wasn't right," a soot­covered Vaughn said in a story in the Fort Worth Star­Telegram's online edition Tuesday. "I couldn't move. I was trying to work it out. But I worked myself into getting stuck." 
Vaughn's mother-in-law, who had wanted to call a lock­smith and had warned him not to attempt a chimney entry, dialed 911. 
After firefighters gingerly helped Vaughn out of the fire­place and into the yard, Vaughn and his obviously embarrassed mother-in-law got into brief yelling match. during which Vaughn was heard yelling, "Just be cool about it'" 
I 

could limit information avail­able to the public, including the Internet where many states put offenders' pictures and details of convictions. 
Lawyers for the two states and the Bush administration hope to persuade the court in today's arguments to give states leeway to keep the public informed about offenders. 
In the Connecticut case. jus­tices will decide if states must hold separato hearings to deter­mine the risk posed by sex criminals who have completed their prison sentences. Lawyers for two anonymous former Connecticut sex offenders argue that putting them in the registry 
CUSTOM[R SURV[Y 
win ct $50 gift ccrHflcaf:c 
SUB Movies needs your help. Please fill out the survey below and return it to the Student Union Board Office (201 Lafortune) to win a $50 gift certificate to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Movie Days; 

If movies were offered EVERY day, when would you most likely attend: Top three days: 
Movie Times: 

What would the ideal movie time be for you to go see a movie? Top three times during the week: weekend: 
Where have you been? 
I do not go to the movies because: (rank 1-6, 1 is most important reason): I don't like the days I dOn't like the times I am not aware that there are movies playing I do not like the movies that are shown I don't like the location (101 Debartolo) of the movies Sound and/or picture quality is poor 
Other comments 


Thank you! 

NOW HIHING! 
SUB Movies is hiring Movie Workers! Joint our team and make greaty money in a fun, stress-free atmosphere! Contact Jan at 1-7757 for detail. 
without hearings violates the guarantee of the Constitution's Fifth Amendment that govern­ment cannot take away "life, liberty or property without due process of law." 
University of Mississippi law professor Ronald Rychlak said if the court rules that past offend­ers deserve a chance to prove they are no longer dangerous to society, states would have a hard time complying. 
"It would just end it for states. Most states would not hold the hearings because they couldn't afford to do it," he said. 
States with laws similar to Connecticut's are Alabama, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, 
Illinois. Indiana, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan. Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin, the court was told. 
In the other case, justices are considering a constitutional challenge to Alaska's Megan's law. 
That state publishes personal information about convicted sex offenders on the Internet. At issue is whether lists, including names of people who long ago served their sentences, amount to unconstitutional retroactive punishment. 
~--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­





SEXUALASSAULTAWARENESS WEEK 
REMAINING EVENTS: 
Wednesday: GTC Dramatic Dialogues presentation of 11What's Goin' On?" by Joel Gori at 7:30pm in Haggar 117 
Thursday: Presentation by Patrick Drury focused on how men can help victims of sexual assault at 7 :30prn in the Siegfried Hall Chapel Lounge. A survivor will a1so tell her story. 
1,lday: Mass to tOHtHiOHtorato t"oso poop/Jo alloetod 6y soxl4a0 assal40t at 6pHt iH tAo 1JiOl01t Ha/JS 6Aapol,, 
If you would like more information about any of these events, please contact care@nd.edu 
1 


Wednesday, November 13, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 12 
DowJones 
8,386.00 ~ +27.05 


NASDAQ 
1,349.56 ~ +30.37 
S&P500 
882.95 +6.77
,e 

AMFX 
-3.93

814.30 ' 



NYSE 

470.17 
+2.22 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +5. 84 +0. 71 12. 87 NASDAQ. ·100.•r·Now1r~·•t~i;i:ss::11i~:iiiP.e.J• 
:-:-:-:-:::;:;::::$;:;:::::;:::: 

+2.60 +0.45 17.79 

NEWTEL COMM-A (NXTL) +8. 72 +0. 95 11. 93 
IN BRIEF 
Adelphia pursues 2 AT&T execs 
Adelphia Communications Corp. has made oITcrs to two departing executives of AT&T's cable division to serve as its chief executive and chier operating officer, a person familiar with the negotiations said Tuesday. 
William Schleyer, chief executive of AT&T Broadband, and Hon Cooper, chief operating officer, arc leaving after the cable division's impending sale to Philadelphia's Comcast Corp. Adelphia is operating under bankruptcy protection and had been the nation's sixth biggest cable operator. 
Schleyer has been offered the chief execu­tive officer's post at Adelphia and Cooper has been offered the post of chief operating offi­cer, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Judge sets tentative Tyco case date 
A judge set a trial date of no later than June 1 for Dennis Kozlowski, the former Tyco International Inc. boss charged with stealing up to $600 million, and gave him permission to take a four-week holiday trip to his estates in Colorado's ski country. 
State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus set the tentative trial date Tuesday for Kozlowski and Mark Swartz, Tyco's former chief financial officer, while working out schedules for motions and for exchange of materials between the defense and prosecu­tion. 
Court: Wal-Mart hurts competition 
Germany's highest court ruled Tuesday that Wal-Mart's attempts to sell staples such as milk and butter here biilow wholesale prices was dn.maging to competition, the latest develop­ment a long-running disputn between the U.S. discount shopping giant and regulators. In a ruling welcomed by the Federal Cartel Oflice, lhc supreme court said that selling products below whnlesalc prices hurt competition by cre­ating an unl'air environment for smaller and mid-sized stores. 






Webster steps down from SEC 
. Director steps down due to business scandal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Former FBI Director William Webster resigned Tuesday as head of a spe­cial accounting oversight board, saying he wanted to avert "new distractions" as the congressionally created agency seeks to rebuild public confidence after a series of business scandals. 
The move capped nearly two weeks of speculation regarding Webster's future in a debacle that already has brought the resigna­tions of Bush appointee Harvey Pitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the SEC's head accountant. 
"I now believe my contin­ued presence on the board will only generate more distractions which will not be helpful to the important mission of the board," Webster said in his resig­nation letter. 
"Those who know me will appreciate that l do not abandon duty lightly. It is time to clear the air," he said. 
Webster, who also once headed the CIA, announced his resignation in a letter to Pitt, who has board has important work interest of the American companies. remained in office pending to do and he urges them to people," he said. Webster's appointment the naming of a replace­pursue their work quickly News of Webster's resig­was pushed by Pitt and ment. Pitt quit earlier fol­and aggressively." nation came a day before endorsed by the Bush lowing a flap over his Pitt is facing investiga­the oversight board was White House. Democrats apparent failure to inform tions into whether he con­scheduled to have its first preferred John Biggs, head fellow SEC commissioners cealed from other SEC meeting. His letter to Pitt of the largest teachers' that Webster had headed members Webster's role was dated Monday and pension fund, whom they the audit committee of a for a company that is released Tuesday after­believed would be tough on company under investiga­under investigation. The noon. SEC spokesman John the accounting industry. tion for fraud. SEC voted 3-2, along party Heine and a board member Creation of the oversight 
President Bush last week lines, to appoint him on said the meeting, described board was mandated by voiced confidence in Oct. 25. Pitt and the other as informal and dealing Congress last summer in Webster's integrity, two Republicans approved with administrative mat­legislation responding to although Bush also said he Webster and the two ters such as office space the wave of accounting wanted to see the outcome Democrats opposed his and staff, was expected to scandals at Enron, of an investigation of the appointment. proceed Wednesday. WorldCom and other big circumstances surrounding In a statement accepting The turmoil comes at a companies. Webster's selection. the resignation, Pitt made time when the government The five-member board, 
"Judge Webster is a fine no mention of the contro­is trying to bolster the con­to be independent of the man. We wish him well versy surrounding fidence of investors and accounting ind ustry, will and respect his decision," Webster's appointment. "I consumers shaken by cor­be armed with subpoena White House spokeswoman continue to believe that porate scandals over the authority and disciplinary Claire Buchan said investors would have bene­past year and the SEC is powers and financed by Tuesday. "The president fited from Judge Webster's investigating questionable fees from publicly traded believes the oversight dedication to the best accounting at dozens of big companies. 

Fed: Americans borrowing more 
The Fed, in its quarterly loan offi­And, 82 percent of the U.S. banks 
Associated Press 
cers survey, found that almost half surveyed said that the average home 
WASHINGTON of the 48 U.S. banks that responded price in the markets that they serve 
Many Americans. taking advan­to this question said that between 20 had gone up "substantially" or tage of falling mortgage rates, took percent and 40 percent of customers "somewhat" in the last 12 months. out even bigger loans when they that refinanced their home mort­Economists say that rising home 
refinanced their home mortgages, gages over the last six month values has been another factor sup­the Federal Reserve reported engaged in "cash-out refinancing," porting consumer spending this Tuesday. meaning they increased their loan year. 
Economists say extra cash coming balances at the time of refinancing. "However, many banks expect 
from the nation's refinancing boom The Fed surveyed a total of 55 U.S. these increases to moderate or par­has been one of the key forces help­banks. tiaII y reverse over the next 12 ing to keep consumers -the For customers who took out bigger months," the Fed said in its survey. 
lifeblood of the economy -spending loans when they refinanced, about Overall, the Fed said that 90 pcr­this year, even amid the turbulent 70 percent uf banks said that the cent of U.S. banks between August stock market, a stagnant job market. typical increase was between 5 per­and October basically kept credits 
eroding consumer confidence and cent and 15 percent of the original standards for home mortgage loans worries about a possible with Iraq. outstanding balance. largely unchanged. 
page8 The Observer . ENTERNTAINMENT NEWS Wednesday, November 13, 2002 
CSI rules Neilsens 
A.,sociatcd Press 
NEW YORK 
How times have changed in 
programming strategy! 
Used to be. the networks souped up the schedule with specials during ultra-competi­tive November sweeps. 
Now the watchword is "stabil­ity," as evidenced by last week's Nielsen rankings that found only one special program ­CBS' 11th-place Country Music Association awards -among the top 30. 
Otherwise, TV's big winners were the usual suspects, notably NBC's powerful Thursday night slate; CBS' Thursday rivals "CSI: Crime Scene Investigation" and "Survivor: Thailand;" CBS' Monday heavyweights "Everybody Loves Haymond" and "CSl: Miami"; ABC's Monday night football. and NBC's "Law & Order" trio. 
NBC's highly promoted TV movie. "Carrie," tied for 35th place. The first of CBS' two-part Robert Hansson biopic, "Master Spy," tied for 41st. 

"CSI" retained its title as the week's most-watched show, according to Nielsen Media Research ratings released Tuesday. 
Last week overall, CBS led with 14.2 million viewers (9.3 household rating, 15 share) while NBC averaged 13.3 mil­lion viewers (8.6 household rat­ing, 14 share). 
ABC was third with 10.5 mil­lion viewers (6. 7 rating, 11 share). and Fox fourth with 7.4 million viewers (4.5 rating, 7 share). 
The WB had 5.0 million view­ers (2.5 rating, 4 share), UPN 
4.2 million viewers (2.5 rat­ing, 4 share), and Pax TV 1.2 million viewers (0.9 rating. 1 share). 
"NBC Nightly News" won the evening news ratings race with an average 10.8 million viewers (7.8 rating, 15 share), while ABC's "World News Tonight" had 10.4 million viewers (7.3 rating. 14 share) and the "CBS Evening News" had 8.8 million viewers (6.2 rating, 12 share). 
Spider-Man creator files suit over film 
Marvel issued a statement
Associated Press 

saying Lee "continues to be NEWYORK well-compensated" for his con­The creative force behind tributions to the industry. It said Spider-Man, the Incredible Hulk the company is "in full compli­and Daredevil filed a $10 million ance with, and current on all lawsuit Tuesday, charging his old payments due under, terms of comic book company is cheating Mr. Lee's employment agree-
him out of mil­lions ofdollars in movie profits. 
Stan Lee, who crafted a menagerie of superpowered heroes with very human flaws, now claims Marvel Entertainment Inc. has tried to 

ment." 
"Spider­"Despite reaping Man" stars T o b e y
enormous benefits ... 

Maguire as
defendants have failed to 
the teenage honor their superhero, Willem
commitments to him. " 
Dafoe as the villain ­Stan Lee's attorney ous Green 
shut him out of the "jackpot" suc­cess of this summer's "Spider­Man" movie. 
Lee's attorneys filed court papers in Manhattan federal court, claiming that Marvel signed a deal to give their client 10 per­cent of any profits from his char­acters used in films and television shows. 
"Spider-Man" has been the year's biggest hit, grossing more than $400 million domestically ­but the 80-year-old Lee says he hasn't seen a penny. 
"Despite reaping enormous benefits from Mr. Lee's creations, defendants have failed and refused to honor their commit­ments to him," the lawsuit charges. 
Marvel has reported millions of dollars in earnings from the film but has told Lee the company has seen no Mprofits" as defined by their contract. 
Lee hopes a judge will intervene and make sure he gets a percent­age of profits from the Ben Affleck movie "Daredevil," scheduled for release in February. 
He also seeks a share of profits from the upcoming movie "The Hulk," and the sequels to "X-Men" and "Spider-Man." 
The lawsuit demands damages and a court order forcing Marvel to turn over Lee's share in any profits from movies about charac­ters he created. 

Goblin and 
Kirsten Dunst as love interest Mary Jane Watson. A sequel is due out in 2004. 
Heartthrobs recruited for can1paign 
. White House anti­drug effort targets teenage girls 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
The White House has recruited heartthrob male stars in an anti-drug cam­paign aimed at teenage girls. 
Paul Walker from "The Fast and the Furious," pop singer Enrique Iglesias and "Blue Crush" co-star Matt Davis are among the models in a new calendar that features mes­sages about abstaining from narcotics. 
The calendar, shot by glam­our photographer Herb Ritts and co-sponsored by DKNY Jeans. is being inserted in the December/January issue of CosmoGIRL! magazine. It started appearing Monday in newsstand issues in New York, California and Florida, and subscribers also will receive it. 
John P. Walters, director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy. said the project "is a great example of how the public and private sectors can work together to find innovative 
ways to reach young people and empower them to reject illicit drugs." 
Included with the black­and-white photos of young men showing their muscles are testimonials from the stars about how they've stayed drug-free. 
"There's nothing more won­derful in life than to be able to accomplish your goals." said Rick Yune, who plays a villain in the upcoming James Bond film "Die Another Day." "Drugs will hold you back, they threaten your founda• tions spiritually, mentally and physically." 

...Since 1842 and growing into the future. 

www.nd.edu/ "'vocation 
ANSWER ~ .THECALL ~ 


o you want to improve your pro em solving and peop e skills 
Then Sign up for Leadership Institute!! Learn how to: 
* Lead and delegate based on skill 
* Motivate a team or group .,.. Recover from mistakes .,. Read and utilize the abilities of others 
• Manage time for a team or group .,.. Deal with confrontation 
* Translate leadership skills into things that will help you in the ••real world" 
INTERESTED? 
Visit www_nd.edu/-sao/li/index.htm to read more about the Leadership Institute and fill out the application form! 
Application deadline is Nov. 15 at 3:00 p.m. Contact Amy Geist via e-mail (geist_7@.nd.edu) or by phone (1-7308) if you have any questions. 
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities 

Wednesday, November 13, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Institute plans to make list 
. American Film Institute to rank top 50 heroes and villains 
Associated Pre,s 
LOS i\NGELES 

The American Film Institute is trying to scpuratc the good from tho bad, announcing plans Tuesday f'or a new top­100 list that will rank the top sen•cn heroes and villains. 
Votnrs can choose among 400 nominatC\d characters from 
American film history and dncidc which should be con­sidered wicked or virtuous. 
That may snem easy when considering Kevin Spaccy's st•rial killer from "Seven" or the 
purc-hnartcd pig 
from "Bab11" -
IJut voters may have a 
time when categorizing nomi­nees such as Hobert De Niro's loner vigilante Travis Bickle from "Taxi Driver." 
"It gels trickier as the char­acters become more complicat­11d," said Bob Gazzalc, produc­er of the planned CBS special in June that will reveal the t1nal list of 50 good guys and 50 bad guys. "We 're asking people not only to determine who is the greatest, but also decide if they're good or bad." 
The institute is sending bal­
"We 're asking people not only to determine who is the greatest, but also decide ifthey're good or 
bad." 
Bob Gazzalo CBS producer 
toughe1· 

lots to nearly 1,500 directors, actors, studio executives, crit­ics and others involved in the entertainment industry. 
Heal-life astronaut Jim Lovell, played by Tom Ilanks in 
"Apollo 13," is up for conside1·­ation, along with Malcolm X, as performed by Denzel Washington in Spike Lee's biopic of tho civil rights leader. 
Some characters are nomi­nated en massc, such as the zombies from I968's "Night of the Living Dead" and "The Wild Bunch" cowboys from director Sam Peekin pah 's 1969 west­
ern. 

again for 1991 's "Terminator 
2: Judgment Day," in which the android he played was a pro­tector. 
Previous AFI lists included the 100 best American films, led by "Citizen Kane," and the 100 funniest movies, with "Some Like It llot" at No. 1. 
Jean Picker Firstenberg, the institute's director, said the contests are designed to "excite Americans to see movies they haven't seen for a while or see movies they've never seen." 
Arnold Schwarz­enegger's kil!,~r robot is nominat­ed ~wice, once f"or the attacking character he played in 1984's original "The Term­inator," and 
HBO wants to televise Etntny's 
. Network wants to move show from the Big Four networks for the first time in 54 years 
Associated Pre<s 
LOS ANGELES 
HBO, which has wrested an increasing share of Emmy Awards away from broadcast networks, is negotiating for the ceremo­ny itself, industry sources said Monday. 
HBO's offer is for a lucra­tive, five-year deal begin­ning in 2003, sources said on condition of anonymity. Such a deal would move the 54-year-old primetirne awards away from the big four networks -ABC, CBS, 
Fox  and  NBC  - for  the  
first time ever.  
The  Academy  of  

Television Arts & Sciences has been in contract renewal talks with the four networks, which have aired the awards show in rota­tion for the last eight years. 
But the networks balked at the academy's request for a $10 million annual license fee. ind us try sources said. The annual fee would be a sharp increase from the $3 mil­lion the academy was receiving. 
HBO stepped in with its offer amid the dispute, sources said. Its proposal will be presented to the academy's board of gover­nors Wednesday night, the s;>urces said. The board must approve any agree­
ment. 
The networks, which had an exclusive bargaining window that the academy extended through mid­October, have the opportu­nity to counter IIBO's bid collectively or individually. 

Academy president Todd Leavitt, declining to com­ment on negotiation details, said th(\ academy was in "the midst of a very sensitive process" that may or may not involve accept­ing the highest offer. And Bryce Zabel. academy chairman, said the acade­my is confident "the cur­rent negotiations will lead to a substantial improve­ment in our license fee" to expand academy activities. 
Said HBO spokeswoman Nancy Lesser: "It is inap­propriate for us to com­ment on the business or the television academy." 
When the Emmys arc 
"We all lay down our slew of top
a shared industry swords for one night each Emmy tro­event "we p h i e s .,
year ... if that's the case,
all lay including
CBS will counterprogram
down our awards for 
swords to the broadcast T h C celebrate aggressively. " Sopranos,"
television 
"Sex and the 

for one 
City" and

Chris Ender
night each 
this year,

year," said CBS spokesman 
C B S 
spokesman C h r i s Ender. "But setting it up at one or several competing networks creates a compet­itive situation. 
"If' that's the case, CBS will counterprogram the broadcast aggressively," Ender said. 
Calls to ABC, Fox and 


Pirated 'Potter' film appears online 
As•ociate<l rress 
LOS ANGELES 
Days before the premiere of "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets," pirat­ed copies of the film have shown up on the Internet. 
Warner Bros., which pro­duced the film, confirmed Tuesday that an 

"The illegal copying of
illegal copy in the of the film movies is theft. Warner courts and h a s uses soft-
Bros. takes the threat of 
appeared ware to
Internet piracy very 
on the scan the Internet. seriously." Internet w h i c 11 search i.n g for people
often con-statement from Warner Bros. 
lains boot­leg copies of films, even before they hit theaters. 
"The illegal copying and distribution of movies is theft." the studio said in a statement. "Warner 13ros. takes the threat of Internet piracy very seriously and employs all legal means to contain the unauthorized copying and distribution of our films on the Internet." 
News of the availability of the film online first appeared on Slashdot.org, a Web site for technology 
NBC seeking comment were not immediately returned. 
The networks arc expect­ed to argue that a non-net­work ceremony would instantly cut out the 16 percent or Americans, or 43 million people, who don't have cable or satel­lite service. But the premi­um channel likely would make the ceremony avail­able to non-subscribers and possibly other AOL Time-Warner sister chan­nels such as TNT. a source said. 
HBO would also face the possibility or aggressive network counter-program­ming, which was common before broadcasters agreed to share the ceremony, insiders noted. 
In the last few years, 
HBO has 
grabbed a 
best minis­
eries for 
"Band of Brothers." 
Cable channels used to honor their own with the CableACE Awards, but those were discontinued after 1997 because of the increasing success of HBO and other channels at the Emmy Awards. 
experts. 
Pirated copies of films, often grainy, jumpy versions filmed using a handhcld camera at a pre-premier screening, regularly show up on the Internet before a movie hits theaters. 
The Motion Picture Association of America, the movie studio's trade group, aggressively fights piracy 
offering ille­gal copies of films. 
Five major studios. includ­ing Warner Bros., formed a joint venture last year to offer downloads of films on the Web, in large part to offer a legal alternative to piracy. That company, Moviclink, opened for busi­ness this week. 
The movie, the second lilm made from the popular series of' children's books. opens Friday. It had pre­micros in London and New York. 
O
TH'E 
BSERVER 







VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, November 13, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notn: Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Nocn:: Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 
SAINT MAfty's EDITOR: Sarah Nesror 
ADVERTISING MANAGER• Mm Lun 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran S'l'sTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROll.ER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGEIIIGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 
NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARYS .. ..........................................631-4324 
obscNer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEIi Af>MINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://c,bserver.nd,du for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves che right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuracely and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and noc necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include con tact information. 
Questions regarding Observer polic~s should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Jason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The.-Ob.er,,er (USPS 599140) U p1.1hli,bc-d Monday ihroug.h Friday a.cep1 du.ring ~am ~d vacation periOQi. Asubicription to Thc-Obierva h· $100 fo, one ;M:ademic _yc:::i.r: S,'j for-one semena. 
The Ob~erU published at: l'OSTMASTER 
024 Senath Oin.ing Hall Send acWra:1 corrtetic)lu co· 
No~ Dmw:, IN . 65,.G The OWCCVcr 
P.O.B(JXQ ra-irxlinl po~agc p.Ud ,u Noire D.i.me Notu Dame, TN 46556-0179 :=.nd :uidirion~ mailing officci. 
The Obtc:rYn i• a, 1ncmba of the Auociucd Pros. t\11 rq,todt.u,;rion righn 84: ~ed. 


Offering a prayer of thanks for the football team 
Dear Lord, 
Just to reassure you, I will be mak­ing a much-needed trip to the con­fessional because of a certain seven quarters of football in the past two weeks. And I'm sure that many 
Adam Cahill

other Notre Dame students will need to or already have ADomer's confessed to you Outlook for the same reason. However, before I make the trip over to the Basilica, I would like to say a little prayer to you, 0 Lord, thanking you for a les­son in humility. 
At Notre Dame, through Father Edward Sorin and others like him, you've established a University that thrives on excellence and moral val­ues. You've trusted us to continue a tradition that emphasizes religious belief as much as knowledge. And the spirit that lives in the candlelight of the Grotto and bells of the Basilica has created a global com­mitment of unity among its current students and alumni. But from time to time, we need you, 0 Lord, to help us renew our promise to this University and to ourselves as your children. Thank you. 
I realize, now, that you've been working through the most publicized part of this University -the football team -to teach the current student body a lesson in character. For the better part of a season, the football team has been teaching us that goals, once thought to be unattain­able by critics and fans alike, can become a reality. Lord, through them, you have taught us that directing teamwork and solidarity toward a common goal can produce results, even in today's world of superstardom. Thank you. 
You have worked through a man who not only demands those con­cepts from his players but stresses them to the fans as well. Against Boston College, he had the team wear green jerseys to promote unity between the players and the stu­dents. But yet we criticized him for it. However, he never wavered in his decision. Had Notre Dame won the game, though, he would have become a symbol of you for yet another week. 
Tyrone Willingham is a Notre Dame man and you have sent him to Notre Dame for a reason. He demands that his players act with respect to each other and their opponents -something that you teach us, as your children, to do. He understands the principles this University was founded upon with great clarity, proving it with his con­duct. And the contagiousness of his teachings can be seen in his players. The more his players learn from him, the more they resemble his integrity. 
In the past weeks, you have taught us that the character of a team is never more evident than it is after a loss. They showed the depth of their character by finding the strength in each other to rebound after a disap­pointing loss and sub par three quarters, almost making a mockery of the idea that it is easy to win as a team but harder yet to lose as one. Most teams can handle and do quite well winning as a team, but losing as one is quite different. Other top col­lege programs (oops ... did I say Florida State?) point fingers at teammates and squabble about who's to blame. 
But our team didn't do that. They didn't point fingers or give excuses. They welcomed the idea of wearing the green jerseys again, considering it an honor. They told America that bad days happen, but they aren't going to dwell on it. 
Lord, you've given us one of your teams. Thank you. They may not be the squad holding up the Sears tro­phy in early January, but years from now, they will know that they have got something more important than a Sears trophy -character. They will know that they have stood up to the pressure of being Notre Dame football players and have acted as Notre Dame men. 
And I, a Notre Dame student and fan, have become a better person for having watched them become the team they are. I will teach my chil­dren the same virtues of solidarity, determination and sportsmanship that can be seen in this club. I will teach them that winning is a goal. not a necessity. And above all, 0 Lord, I will teach them that the greater person accepts loss with dig­nity and without excuse. 
Lord, please forgive us if we aren't as sportsmanlike in defeat as our brothers in shoulder pads. It's just that we believe in their abilities as athletes and have unwavering faith in their characters. They deserve to win and be acknowledged by the rest of the nation as the winners they are. 
On that note. Lord, I would like a blessing to be placed on our players, in appreciation for teaching us, through you, a valuable life lesson. That, and I hope to make it to con­fession soon. 
In Christ's name we pray, Amen. 
Adam Cahill is a junior double major in history and American stud­ies. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghanne Downes Laura Coristin John Fanning 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish 
Graphics 
Mike Harkins 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Katie McVoy Mark Zavodnyik 
Scene 
Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does the recent lawsuit against Lafayette Apartments make you reconsider the decision to move off-campus? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Freedom is not worth having ifit does not include the freedom to make mistakes." 
Mohandas Gandhi Indian nationalist leader 

O
THE 

BSERVER 



VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 13, 2002 page 11 
Seven bedrooms, 3 bathrooms and a closet full offreedom 
For the record, I've always enjoyed my time living on campus. Thai being said, I can't wait to blow Lhis surreal popsiclc stand that we call living on-campus at Notre Dame. 
That's right, I'm mov­ing off next year. I'm jumping head first into that big scary unknown realm, referred to in whispers as simply "off­campus." When I was a freshman, I didn't know and didn't want to 

know what went on outside these ha!-Joe Muto lowed grounds of Our Lady. I'd heard the tales, of course. I'd heard of a place Muto Time where there was no conveyor belt to take away and magically wash your dirty dishes when you were done with them. I'd heard of a place where males and females stayed up together past two in the morning, sometimes as late as 2:15 or 
2:30. No doubt they were sinning and per­forming intercourse together with Satan watching and clapping the whole time. 
Most alarmingly, I'd heard that this place was populated with other people. They weren't students. They didn't go to Saint Mary's. Some of them weren't white. Some of them weren't even Catholic. Just the thought of living in this place was enough to set my little freshman self shivering under my Little Mermaid com­forter. 
But now I'm older, if not wiser, and off­campus living is beckoning to me. 
I do realize that living in the Bend won't be all wine and roses. My friends, who live in a house on Corby Street, got burglarized by their neighbors. And, in a show of cojones that would impress Eve! Knievel. the neighbors still show up and demand to be let into parties. And of course the South Bend Police refuse to do anything about it. 
The police here are a different story. They bring ineptitude to staggering new levels, even for civil servants. They've decided, that with all the rape, murder, assault and drug dealing going on in South Bend, that they should catch the real criminals -kids pee­ing on fences at the Lafayette Apartments. 
I'd better stop now, lest I make moving off campus seem undesirable. Next year, more than half of my class will be off campus, and who can blame us? Sure, we could get a sin­gle in a dorm, but then we'd be constantly barraged by underclassmen asking, "So why didn't you move off?" Of course, we could become HAs, but as members of the hall staff we'd be subject to the Napoleonic whims and mood swings of our tempera­mental rectors. And from what I hear, some of the campus rectors are about as rational and stable as Anna Nicole Smith after drink­ing a martini garnished with a handful of Percosets. 
But why should seniors get all the fun? Personally, I'd love to see a big exodus off­campus among underclassmen. Whatever your personal vision of college was before you started here, I'm sure it didn't involve throwing a towel over a bottle of hard liquor every time you heard footsteps down the hall. I'm sure it didn't involve explaining to your incredulous visiting friend why she has to sleep in a stranger's room halfway across campus. And J'm dead certain it didn't involve trying to convince a self-righteous ResLife counselor that the young lady was just on her way up to your room to get her purse. 
The funniest part about the whole off­campus/on-campus conflict is the reaction of the Notre Dame administration. After 10 straight years of making campus rules stricter, making Reslife punishments harsh­er and attempting to stamp out anything even resembling fun in the dorms, they have the temerity to ask with a straight face 
"Why do students want to move off cam­pus so badly?" This is the equiva­lent of me repeatedly whack­ing someone in the gonads with a pitching wedge and wondering at the same time, "Now why is he trying to crawl away?" And it all stems from parietals. I 
knew one week after I settled in as a freshman 
that I was going 
to move off­campus my senior year, if not my junior year, if not my sophomore 
year. The sheer indignity of con­stantly remind­
ing someone of the time because some clueless guy 
in the big building thinks he knows what's best for me should be enough to drive anyone with a back­bone straight to a lovely two-man at Turtle Creek. So, l will go to the parietals dis­

cussion tonight in the Coleman-Morse lounge, and I will hope that at least one per­son is enlightened by the conversation. In the meantime, I will continue to drunkenly sneak three or four willing love bunnies back to my dorm room every night. And next year, when I'm sitting pretty in my Washington Street house, a mere two blocks from Boat Club, I will rejoice in my new­found freedom. 
Joe Muto is a junior F1T and English dou­ble major who would like to apologize to his grandparents: he just cou{dn 't help taking the shot. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ROTC students deserve praise for their service 
I would like to write something that I have all too rarely seen addressed in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. I would like to commend the ROTC students from all three branches on campus. The Veterans Day Vigil and the Retreat Ceremony were a wonderful tribute not only to those that served our country so valiantly and selflessly throughout our nation's history, but also a tribute to the Cadets and Midshipmen themselves. 
The professionalism and pride demonstrated by these ROTC students spoke volumes about their commitment to excellence and service in a dangerous world. Despite cold temperatures and biting winds, these students, united in a common cause, stood out at the Clarke Memorial Fountain for their shifts throughout the day and night. This was done in honor of great men and women, and it was done by the future great men and women of our armed forces. 
Iwould also like to thank Father Theodore Hesburgh for a moving and powerful speech in support of those who make the commitment to serve. When a man such as Hesburgh says that he is honored to address a group, that group must be worthy indeed. His support for the program should be a model for others to follow. As the most promi­nent Catholic on campus, his thoughts should be taken into considera­tion when debating the worth of the ROTC program on a Catholic cam­pus. In addressing the Cadets and Midshipmen as peacemakers, he spoke what I believe all ROTC students and military members would have the public realize. Thank you to everyone who was a part of this wonderful Veterans Day tribute. 
Gregory Conners sophomore Air Force ROTC Dillon Hall Nov.12 


Take action on Ethiopian poverty 
Yesterday morning, when my home Web page opened (www.bbc.co.uk), I could not help my eyes from watering down while l read the headlines. Maybe I am too sensitive. On the other hand, who­ever hears about six million people that are under direct threat of death and at least 15 million people who will face famine in the next year without their hearts breaking a bit, is probably too insensitive. 
At the moment, Ethiopia, one of the poorest countries in the world, is going through a terrible crisis. The government cannot cope wi!h it. The Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi has warned that htS coun­try is facing a famine worse than the one in 1984, in which one miUion people died from starvation. It is so bad that basic needs such as clean water, soap and transport have been put aside. Right now is about keeping their people alive. Two million tons offood aid is required to feed the people. However, t.he situation could get worse. Andrew Pendleton, who advises the organization Christian Aid in Ethiopia, has pointed out iliat Ethiopia's ability to cope with the drought was ham­pered by its continuing foreign debt, which eats up at least 10 percent of the state's revenues." 
I am not vmting this so you can feel pity for these people during the one minute it takes you to read the article. Rat.her, I am asking you to have a pro-active response to what I am telling you. It is not enough to pray, although it helps.ram asking you for a minimum amount ofeffort that could save lives. I am 11Sking you to sacrifice your daily coflee, can ofcoke, bag ofchips, or whatever it is, and donate that money to the Red Cross so that it can be forwarded as aid to the Ethiopians. It takes no time or effort. There is no excuse to avoid doing this simple act of generosity. 
How to do it? Easy, just go to http://www.redcross.org,'donate/ donate.html (make sure you put the money to go to the program in Ethiopia). However, ifyou really want to make a difference, you can also send this address to family and friends and ask them to donate more than one dollar. I am sure someone in Ethiopia will appreciate it; they will literately owe you their life. 
Moruca Femande:i 
freshman Walsh Hall Nov.12 




'Grand Theft Auto: Vice City' 
'Vice City' drives gaming to the next level 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
Following up on last year's runaway success of "Grand Theft Auto 3" (GTA3). Rockstar Games has tak~n gaming a quantum leap forward w~th its follow up "Grand Theft Auto: Vice Cit ." 
y · d •v· c·t "f

Like its pre ecessor, ice 1 y ea­tures a non-linear storyline and a cou­ple of possible endings to the game. Unlike "GTA3," however, "Vice City" has a more intense plotlino. While "GTA3" had a nameless thug as the main character. "Vice City" centers around a recently released Mafioso named Tommy Vercetti who has just completed serving a 15-year prison sentence for the Forelli family. The Forellis, grateful for Vercetti's stoic silence about their activities send Vercetti away from their home base Liberty City to help open up the expanding cocaine trade in Florida. 
But Vercetti's first deal goes awry and he is left short fifty kilos of coke and without any money. Vercetti must find who screwed up the deal and get the money and coke back before the Forellis come down for a visit. 
The game should be familiar to fans of "GTA3:" steal cars. kill people, blow things up as you rise to ?.o~er ~n ;~e criminal underworld. But Vice City 1s more than just extra missions for "GTA3." Rockstar touched up its engine and included a number of new features. In fact, Vice City has double the polygon count of "GTA3," giving a much richer and less cartoonish feel. 
Set in 1986 before the modern day "GTA3 " "Vice City" features a complete­ly ne~ cityscape for the hedonistic felony-fest. Vice City itself is loose~y modeled on Miami. "GTA3" veterans will find the environment a challenge to adapt to after the playing in New York­like Liberty City. 
The gameplay has been adjusted to fit the '80s motif as well. The vehicles available in this game handle more roughly than in "GTA3." Cars crunch up much more easily in "Vice City," which is both a boon and a blessing; while it is easier to roll police cars onto their backs, it's also easier for them to stop you the same way. True aficionados will recognize a number of !he ve~icles ~s earlier models of cars m available m "GTA3." 

Vercetti's personality gives a lot more depth to the game. Interaction with non­player characters is much more crucial to winning in "Vice City" than in "GTA3." In fact, Vercetti even receives a sort of unofficial partner, Lance Vance, to help him through the game. 
As always, the criminal elements in the game have big and hysterical per­sonalities. 
While the basic lie, cheat and steal type strategy is still in play in "Vice City," there are tons of new ways to go about it. Most notably, "Vice City" allows Vercetti to enter buildings and even buy them if he should choose to. While most of the interiors are just eye candy, own­ing buildings like strip clubs, biker bars and ad ult movie studios is essential to establishing Vercetti as a crime boss. 
One of the best new features in the game is the addition of motorcycles. "Vice City" has a number of different bikes to commandeer from mopeds to choppers. You can even steal a pizza delivery bike and earn money by 
Even so, that doesn't quite fix the bug 
that the police are unable to follow 
Vercetii if he runs up stairs or drives to 
the top of a parking garage. 
There are a number of new weapons 
to be had in "Vice City" such as the 
machete and the Gatlin gun, but 
Rockstar limited Vercetti to being able 
to carry only one type of each_ at a tim~. 
At first this can seem annoymg, but 1t 
docs balance gameplay a bit more as 
you can run around with an unlimited 
arsenal. , 
One of gamers' favorite features _of 
the Grand Theft Auto world. the radio, 
takes on whole new significance. While 
the radio in "GTA3" was fun to listen to, 
the music was made up to be funny and 
got annoying after playing the game for 
a while. Rockstar licensed a ton of '80s 
music for the seven music stations in 
"Vice City," featuring all-star artists like 
Michael Jackson, Herbie Hancock, 
Grandmaster Flash & The Furious Five, 
Iron Maiden, The Clash, The Buggie. 
REO Speedwagon and the list goes on 
and on. In fact, Hockstar released a 
special seven-CD set of the radio _tunes. Of course, the irreverent talk rad10 sta­tion made its way back into the game too as well as scathingly sarcastic com­mercial breaks. 
"Grand Theft Auto: Vice City" is in homage to and a parody of the '80s. Complete with hoop earrings. designer 
jeans and pastel leisure suits, playing "Vice City" looks like watching an episode of "Miami Vice." 
But while "GTA3" was criti­cized for being too violent and sexual for chil­dren, "Vice City" may be escape quite so much criticism as its and its predeces­sor's appeal indi­cate a shifting demographic of videogame play­ers. No longer are videogames written exclu­sively for a pre­teen crowd. Now twenty-some­things want games that reflect more pro­voking subjects than brightly color cartoon characters in brightly colored cartoon worlds can provide. 
Of course, "Vice City" isn't for everyone. 

winging pizzas to waiting cus­tomers. Because of the light weight of the motorcy­cles, even the slightest tap can send you flying, causing a loss in life and armor. They're not much use when running from the police but it adds a need­ed element for missions where moving fast and 
maneuvering is crucial. You can even steal boats and aircrafts to help in your life of crime. 
Also added are number of new tricks Vercetti can use to evade police such as changing clothes, mostly into pastel leisure suits ala "Miami Vice," and tho much needed jump out of a moving vehicle feature. 

Graphic courtesy of Rockstar Games 
"GTA: Vice City" 

Rockstar Games 

The police have gained a new bag of tricks too such as the ability to shoot out the tires of Vercetti's getaway cars. They also take cover much better than in "GTA3" where they sometimes ran around like lobotomized cannon fodder. 
If Vercetti is really causing mayhem. the city will send the FBI. the vice squad and event he army after him. The vice squad will repel from helicopters to reach him if he's in a sniper position. 
Those who are easily offended by blood and gore, profanity or sexual content should stay far away from this game. But for those with a stronger stomach, "Vice City" a hands down must have. This game will be remembered as one of the best videogames ever. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 


O
THE 
BSERVER 



ames 
Wednesday, November 13, 2002 page 13 


'Kingdom Hearts' 
Squaresoft's latest provides heartthrob graphics and heartbreak gameplay 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
"Kingdom Hearts" is a bit of a hard game to explain because of its extreme­ly strange style. It's a baUle-adventure with elements of role paying games spliced in that's set in multi-dimension­al worlds of which some are like the beach societies of "Final Fantasy X" and others realms of Disney movies. That's right: Disney movies. 
The game follows the adven(ures of Sorn. your average spiky-haired Squaresoft underdog who lives on an island and dreams of sailing away with his friends. lle's haunted by cryptic dreams that indicate that his life is worth much more than it seems to be. 
And then Heartless shows up. Ileartless is an evil black entity ala Sin from "Final Fantasy X" that is destroy­ing worlds one by one. When Goofy and Donald Duck realize that the universe is threatened they begin a quest to save it with their divinely chosen hero, you guessed it. Sora. 
While the story is a bit hard to swal­low, it's not just an excuse to jump from one Disney world to another, no pun intended. The story makes sense in that vague earth-energy way that most of the installments "Final Fantasy" series do. 
The best part of "Kingdom Hearts" by a light-year is the incredible graph­ics. Squaresoft has made a name for itself with cut­ting edge real­lime animation in games like "Final Fantasy X" and movies like "Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within." "Kingdom Hearts" goes a step further and is able to perfect­ly capture the magic of Disney. The result is a game loaded with gorgeous threc­d i m n n s ion al worlds and almost every Disney character imaginable. Squarcsoft stepped up lo the challenge of translating 2D 

llcmrts" is breath­taking graphical­ly, it has a number of irritating game­play problems. Even though the game is meant to be a real-time battle scenario, most of Sora's combat moves amount to mashing the attack button until he auto­nrntically destroys his foes. Even as he levels up and learns new combo and abilities. the battle never gets much more challenging than in the beginning. 
Furthermore, most of lhe baddies are 
unique to each world and respawn infi­nitely. So after taking on a few and learning their weaknesses actu­ally fighting them gets really boring really quickly. Most gamers will find themselves avoiding battles where possible because they end up being a fool's errand, except for when Sora has to take on a level boss. The level bosses are a lot of fun them­selves, but repeatedly fight­ing Heartless gets old pretty fast. The addition of non-player char­acters to Sora 's party isn't really helpful either. Though there are a lot of charac­
characters and gaining new abilities. The game is a long quest that is divided into numerous sub quests in each world. After each part is finished, the game treats you to a cut scene or rendered on-the-fly movie sequence. 
Unfortunately, these ideas don't trans­late that well into a battle type game. The game can be tedious at times and because not enough information is given when quests are assigned to complete them without a lot of extra running 
around. players may get frustrated 
when they are looking for a checkpoint. 
Too often the mini-quests are or the 
find and seek or gather all the shiny 
object type found in games like "Jak & 
Daxter; The Precursor Legacy." The 
concept behind such missions is less 
interesting than the storyline itself and 
ends up making players feel like they 
have obsessive compulsive disorder. 
Playing "Kingdom Hearts" might end 
up being Pavlovian response to get to 
the next movie sequence. 
Hut gameplay issues aside, "Kingdom 
Hearts" pushes the envelope in most 
other respects. Not only has Squaresoft 
perfectly recreated Disney's characters 
visually, but they've gotten the voices to 
match too. And with acting heavy­
weights like "Sixth Sense" star Hally 
Joel Osmet lending vocal talent to this 
production, Squaresoft avoids a lot of 
the jarring translation problems that 
peek through in other members of their 
catalogue. The recognizable voices of 
the likes of Winnie the Pooh, Peter Pan 
and Jiminy Cricket are also captured 
with wonderful clarity. In fact, after 
playing this game for a while, it might 
be fun to try to remember Disney char­
acters that aren't present; it's really 
tough to find one. 
In the end. "Kingdom Hearts" is 
worth checking out if only for its jaw­
dropping graphics. Any Disney fan would certainly get a kick out of this game. but fans looking for a solid action or RPG might be a bit disappointed. Those who are looking for a different style of game may enjoy "Kingdom Hearts," but it's probably a game to rent before you buy. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 


animation into :10 characters while preserving their unique move­ments and charm. 
But while "Kingdom 

ters who are available to help out, they tend to provide little real assistance than diverting mon­sters for a minute or two. 
Furthermore, 

in this type of puzzle-solving and graphically stunning game deserves better camera controls. Sometimes it's hard to get the camera to be in the right position to see the action on the screen in places that require a player to move rather slowly through. 
"Kingdom Hearts" isn't a role playing game, but it still retains a number of those basic elements like leveling up 
Graphic courtesy of Gamespol.com 


page 14 The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, November 13, 2002 
U-WIRE 

Wolverines gearing up for rival Badgers 
By JOHN R. PARKINSON 
Badg,er Herald 
MADISON. Wis. 

Wisconsin's football team jumped out to a dazzling first half of the season. but during Big Ten play, the Badgers have steadily slipped to the conference gutter. struggling to maintain a winning record. Nevertheless, the Badgers have not quit, and they will 
be bowl-eligible with  one  
more victory.  
Wisconsin  (6-5,  1-5  Big  

Ten) expects to be at full strength when it takes on No. 10 Michigan (8-2. 5-1) at the Big House in Ann Arbor, Mich., on Saturday. 
Senior quarterback Brooks Bollinger and sophomore tail­back Anthony Davis are both expected to return to the lineup, adding potent threats to the Badger offense. 
"We'll know for sure tomor­row," head coach Barry Alvarez said of Bollinger on Monday. "He's going to prac­tice today. Today is a light practice, an instillation of game plan. But he'll take his final tests tomorrow." 
Alvarez said Davis has been cleared to play against Michigan. 
"As far as I know, A.D. has been cleared," Alvarez said. "Physically, he could have played last week." 
Alvarez refused to comment on why Davis did not play last week against Illinois. 
'Tm not going to get into that. I just prefer not to," Alvarez said. 
Davis was stabbed in the thigh and hospitalized last weekend after what police termed "a domestic dispute." 
After being unable to take advantage of five turnovers against Illinois, Alvarez is thankful to get two of his skill players back into the offen­sive lineup. 
"There is a reason there is a No. 1 and a No. 2," Alvarez said. 'Tm not putting blame on anybody, but that would give you someplace to start. It's always nice to have your 
starters." 
Freshman tailback Dwayne Smith rushed for a career­high 128 yards in the loss, but the offense struggled in the second half under backup quarterback Jim Sorgi. 
Senior right tackle Jason Jowers said that once experi­enced offensive players return, confidence will be restored. 
"Jim played a heck of a game last week, and Dwayne played his heart out and gave his best performance of the year," Jowers said. "But I think anytime you can get back some of your key skill positions, it's always a little more sense of confidence in yourself." 
Alvarez also said he was unsure whether Davis's alter­cation or Lee Evans' arrest distracted the team. 
"I would not use distrac­tions as an excuse, but it may have been," Alvarez said. "I don't know. All we can do is try to reload and try to cor­rect things and refocus and play better." 
The Badgers have lost the last five contests against the Wolverines, but only by an average of 5.6 points. Last season, Michigan held off Wisconsin 20-17 in a heart­breaker for the Badgers. 
Alvarez said the team that executes the best wins close games. 
"They made the plays. We didn't make the plays," Alvarez said about the Badgers' losses to Michigan the past two years. "They were good football games; either team could have won. They're smart enough to understand they didn't make plays and Michigan did." 
But Alvarez said the team is focused on the future, not the past. 
Jowers said the Badgers must get victories now and establish their brand of foot­ball. 
"Everyone knows Michigan is an important game," Jowers said. "If you can't get up for that, I don't know what you can get up for." 

Dwayne Smith said the team has tried to remain pos­itive and has not lost its com­petitive edge. 
"It's frustrating losing, but we have to remain opti­mistic," Smith said. "We still have a lot to play for, even though there are only two games left. We want to come in and prepare and finish out the season with a good record and hopefully go on to a bowl." 

If the Badgers win this week, they become bowl-eli­gible. Alvarez said that is the team's primary goal. 
"Bowls are always rewards. It gives the seniors something to remember," Alvarez said. "It's a great experience for your young players. I always like to use it to get extra practices. So I think it's very important." 
Smith added that a win this 
week could get the Badgers back on track and spark a run toward a bowl game. 
"Right now we're struggling with wins in the Big Ten, but going into Michigan and get­ting a win, that will really boost our confidence," Smith said. "Even though the record still wouldn't show that we are one of the elite teams in the Big Ten, but that will help us out a lot mentally." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
...ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices' South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578 
dept 2626)/www.springbreakdis• 
counts.com 
..At Last Spring Break•• Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash­tours.corn 1800426771 O 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 
1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­tours.com 
Bartenders neededl Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884extU187. 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
FOR RENT 
All size horn• available for 2003· 2004 mrnrnrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from 
Notre Dame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 
3-Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, atarrn system, NC. Availimmed., $650/mo. Call 220· 
0499 
nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses. 288-9673. Avail now. 
TICKETS 

N. D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 
273-3911. 

WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800· 646-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Mer and crew ­Break a leg on Thursday! I'll be there tonight cheering you on in the final dress. You're going to be greatll!!! Love, B·TWO 
Amy. Karen and Candi ­Almost done girls. Corby's is wait• ing tor you! 
Woah we·re halfway there! Woah, livin' on a prayerl 
811 times I thanked God for certain recent events 
Here's to the best Dads ever. 

Charming home in beautiful safe Kendall­neighbOrhood. 1 mile from ND 3-HOUSES FOR RENT FOR ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR Work is overrated. So don't feel bad Oh yeah, we drank one from the
FOR SALE
bdrm. 1 1 /2 bath.Ir, dr, family room. 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 that you're going on strike, just pick Gipper on Saturday. 
eat in kitchen, finished basement. up your sign and join the rest of usl Beautiful hardwoods; new carpet LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO 3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.ft. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-Arny -I hear that's a popular stu­throughout. Built in gas grill in large FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. house. Close to ND. All appli-ED AM 232·2378 PM 288·2726 NO MORE WORK! dent bar. Didn't you? 
private backyard All new appli-NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD· ances.big yard,garage,C/A. 
ances. References required. ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. Beautiful. Must see. $1100/mo. NEED 2 TIX FOR RUTGERS. L-Diddy-Senior Bar tonight anyone? 950/rno. 288-5118 $99,500. Williarnson.1@nd.edu 243-9901. PLEASE CALL 674-6593. Spencer says hi! 

Wednesday, November 13, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MASTERS 
Johnson says tournament will be at Augusta 
that's served us well for so dares to challenge the consti­National in 1968, and was If some view this controver­
Associated Press 
long, that it makes it difficult tutional rights of elected chairman 30 years sy as having the potential to AUGUSTA, Ga. for us to consider change," a private club to associate later. mar the crown jewel of golf. 
A navy blue cap in ihe Johnson said during the hour­with whomever it wants. He is said to have worked Johnson certainly doesn't. Augusta National pro shop long interview. "A woman "This woman portrays us as behind the scenes to get the "The majority of Americans has "Masters 2003" stitched may be a member of this club being discriminatory and first black admitted to the arc with us on this issue," he in white -merchandise with one dav. but that is out in the being bigots. And we're not," club in 1990, shortly after the said, leaning back in his a message. future.;. Johnson said. HWe're a pri­a't!-white membership contro-leather chair. "I want you to 
Despite the controversy Asked if there was any vate club. And private organi­versy at Shoal Creek in know that." over its all-male membership chance there would be a zations are good. The Boy Alabama. How can he be so sure? that swirls well beyond the female member by the Scouts. The Girl Scouts. Augusta National allows "f just know it," Johnson gates of Augusta National, Masters, Johnson replied flat­Junior League. women to play its golf course said. "I know it by the chairman Ilootie Johnson ly, "No." Sororities. Fraternities. Are without restrictions. Women response I get here." says the Masters will be Burk was equally confident these immoral? See, we are played more than 1,000 He reached for a letter and played the second week ol' her group would prevail, and in good company as a single­rounds last year. and Johnson newspaper clipping on the April. no matter what. suggested that Johnson only gender organization." invited the South Carolina coffee table, a poll from the 
lie was equally decisive broke his silence because he He sees no connection women's golf team as his Lancaster (Pa.) Intelligencer about the club's membership: was starting to feel pressure. between guest. Journal, that asked readers to No women. "I had sincerely and gen­racial and S o , call in their vote on whether
..Our club has enjoyed a 
Not by the next Masters. uinely hoped it could be set­gender dis­w h a t ' s Augusta should admit women. And certainly not at the tled, and I still hope so," she crimination. camaraderie and a wrong with Of 624 callers. 90 percent point of a bayonet. said Monday afternoon. "Do you having one said no.
closeness thats served us 
Defiant as ever, Johnson "Hopefully, this is Bootie's know of any as a mom-On his desk were four files,
well for so long, that it
staunchly defended the rights last hurrah, and there still constitutional ber? each one bulging with letters of a privatn club, suggesting may he some pressure outside lawyer that's makes it difficult for us "We just he said supported Augusta the Masters has not been tar• the club to make this change. ever said they to consider change. " d o n ' t National and its rights as a nished and that most That might be the case, or he were the choose to private club. Americans were on his side. wouldn't have called this same? Do you do that at Johnson said he has read 
"We will prevail because interview to make points he know any civil Hootie Johnson this time," and responded to each one. we're right," the 71-year-old has made in the past." rights activists chairman he said. "I don't think we've been chairman said in a Nov. 4 Johnson spoke from his sec­that said it Johnson damaged," he said. interview with The Associated ond-floor office, whose walls was the said Burk's The only time Johnson's Press. bear a photo of him and for­same? It's not relevant," he letter hasn't had any effect on voice was tinged with agita­
Johnson's comments were m er chairman Clifford said. "Nobody accepts them the club's decision to invite a tion was when he wondered the first on the subject since Roberts and an original por­as being the same." woman to join. why his club should be penal-he fueled the debate with a trait of Bobby Jones painted Augusta National opened in Still, the chairman clearly is ized "for presenting some­three-page statement that by President Eisenhower. 1933, the vision of Roberts, a annoyed by Burk's campaign. thing that's good for the game defended the club's right to He was as unyielding as Wall Street investment He never mentioned her by of golf?" privacy. and criticized Martha ever, offering the kind of hanker, and Bobby Jones, the name, three times referring "Something that 150 million Burk and the National Council assurances usually reserved greatest amateur ever. to her only as "this woman" watch around the world? of Women's Organizations for for death, taxes and whether The Masters was created in or "that woman." Something that's a harbinger trying to coerce change. Tiger Wc.:>0ds has the game to 1934 and has evolved into the Asked if he had any regrets of spring? Something that is 
lie said in his July <J missive contend for a fourth Masters most famous of golf's four about his response to Burk -respected worldwide? We're that Augusta National may title. major championships. the three sentences vs. three going to be penalized for some day have a female mem­"There will always be a only one played on the same pages to the media -that?" ber, "but not at the point of a Masters," he said. course. Johnson smiled: "I seldom Burk has challenged several bayonet," which has become lie was adamant that Johnson, a retired banker, have any regrets. I don't look high-profile members of a slogan of his resolve. Augusta National would not was 4 when he attended his back much." Augusta National to own up 
"Our club has enjoyed a cave in to the demands of first Masters in 1935. He was Then he turned serious and to their public stand against 
camaraderie and a closeness Burk or anyone else who invited to join Augusta added: "I regret that she discrimination. threatened us. And I regret Lloyd Ward, CEO of the U.S. that she threatened our spon-Olympic Committee and one sors." of only a half-dozen black 
Johnson dismissed the only members at Augusta, said he TV sponsors of the Masters -would work for change from Citigroup, Coca-Cola and IBM inside the club. American -after Burk challenged them Express chairman Kenneth to live up to their own poli-Chenault, another black cies against sex discrimina-member, also said he believed tion. there should be female mem-
That will make next year's hers. Masters, which already gets That violates a cardinal rule the highest ratings among at Augusta. The club tradi­golf tournaments, the first tionally speaks with one voice 
j
commercial-free sporting -Johnson's. ;event on network TV. 'Tm not going to talk about Can the Masters survive members," he said, cutting off financially without sponsors a question about comments 
j
for more than one year? from executives like Ward 
"We could go indefinitely," and Chenault. "We'll handle Johnson said. "But I don't that internally." think we'll have to. We'll Johnson did not appear to have our sponsors back. I just he concerned, nor did he believe that we're right on think the debate would steal this issue, and that they'll be headlines from Woods going comfortable in sponsoring the after a record third straight Masters Tournament." Masters title. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 13, 2002 

NBA 

Lowe resigns as Grizzlies coach 
Associ:u~d Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
Sidney Lowe resigned as coach of the Memphis Grizzlies on Tuesday and was replaced by former NBA coach of the vcar Hubie Brown. · The 69-year-old Brown takes over the only winless team in the league. 
Lowe's resignation came the day afLer the Grizzlies lost their eighth game, playing at home against the Golden State Warriors. 
"I wish the team well," Lowe said in a statement. "The Grizzlies have some good, young talent here, and they are going to be good in the future." 
Lowe was in his third season with the Grizzlies, who have never had a winning season since the team began playing in l 995. The team moved to Memphis last year from Vancouver. 
The Grizzlies had their best records under Lowe, 23-59 in the two previous seasons. Lowe was formerly an assistant coach with the Cleveland Cavaliers .and · head coach with the Minnesota Timberwolves. 
During the off-season, Memphis hired Jerry West. one of the most respected execu­tives in the NBA. as president of basketball operations. 
West called Brown "one of the premier basketball minds in the business." 
"I feel fortunate that we are able to find such an individual in such a short period of time and that he agreed to step in and accept this job," West said. 


Brown was coach of the Kentucky Colonels from 197 4­76, and won the ABA Litle in 1975. He coached Atlanta from 1976-81, and was the NBA's coach of the year in 1978, and directed the New York Knicks from 1982-87. 
West's move to Memphis had Grizzlies fans fired up, and his additions, including 11rst~round draft choice Drew Gooden and Wesley Person, a shooting guard from Cleveland, increased the optimism. 
But the Grizzlies were criti­cized for uninspired play early i.nto the season. particularly on defense. 
Lowe was still experimenting wilh different lineups when he left the team. 
Before the Warriors' game, Lowe said he was still expecting the Grizzlies' play to improve. 
Prior to the team's Nov. 4 overtime loss to San Antonio. West said he had no intentions of replacing Lowe. The team also started last season 0-8. 
When he took over, West praised Lowe for the team's hustle last season, even though it ended up with a losing record. 
Lowe's resignation came after poor back-to-back perfor­mances in losses to Denver and Golden State. 
The Grizzlies scored 73 points against Denver, their worst scoring output since March 3, when they scored 71 against Seattle. Memphis trailed by 25 points in the second half against the Warriors, who won 108­101. 
Voled lt1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan• Cantonese -American Restaurant & lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 lor Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
(574) 272-7376 • 222 Dlxleway South 
(U.S. 31 In Roseland) South Bend, IN 
The Saint Mary's College Theatre presents 
Thursday. November 14 II 8:00pm 
;;o~D
Friday, November 15 fl 8:00 pm / ¾~rnE!TS 
Saturday, November 16 II 8:00 pm ~Nonrl!oA••. 1N Sunday, November 17 ·!I 2:30 pm LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 574/284-4626 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Knight sues for being fired 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Bob Knight is suing Indiana University, alleging he lost more than $2 million in income since being fired by the school two years ago. 
Knight contends he was fired without cause, without a proper meeting of university trustees and without a chance to defend himself. 
The lawsuit was filed in the Monroe Countv Circuit Court on Friday after talks between his lawyers and the school collapsed. Under state law, the former Hoosiers basketball coach had until Tuesday to take Ir.gal action. 
Knight was fired Sept. 10, 2000. by university President Myles Rrand, and gave Indiana notice in early 2001 that he might sue. 
The school denied Knight's allegations. 
"The universitv has fulfilled all of its obligations under the con­tract it had with Mr. Knight. Indiana university will defend its interests vigorously," the univer­sity said. 
Attorney have said a key issue in the talks is whether Indiana should pay Knight for lost income -and how much . 
Russell Yates, Knight's attor­ney, said Knight filed the lawsuit because he believes the universi­ty breached the contract both by firing him and costing him com­pensation. 
The university paid Knight under the conditions of his con­tract, but the coach lost income that was directly dependent on the agreement, including money derived from television and radio programs, a basketball camp, a shoe contract and other endorse-mcnts, the lawsuit said. 

"Coach Knight would not have gone into litigation for fun," Yates said. "He would not like this dis­traction, but we feel very clearly that he is owed money under the contract." 
Knight spent 29 seasons at Indiana and won three national championships. He took a job as men's coach at Texas Tech six months after being fired from Indiana. 
Brand fired Knight.because the president said the coach violated a "zero-tolerance" policy that IU officials had imposed to try to keep his behavior in check. 
Knight was fired days after an IU student claimed the coach had twisted his arm and admonished him after he greeted Knight by his last name. 
Knight has disputed the rea­sons for his firing. 
About 45 fans filed a lawsuit against Brand and the trustees in April 2001 over the firing. They alleged Brand and the trustees violated Indiana's Open Door Law the day before Knight was dismissed by holding two secret meetings about the firing without a majority present. 
In September, Knight agreed to pay $25,000 to settle a lawsuit 11led by former assistant coach Ron Felling. Knight, who acknowledged to shoving Felling in anger, also agreed to cooper­ate with Felling in a lawsuit against the university, according to attorneys. 
The lawsuit alleges that the university was negligent in super­vising its former coach. 

Do you like solvfng crimes and mysteries? Did you play CLUE when you were little? Then come to the production of ........................•, 




: ~AY~TFRY •• 
And find out "whodunit?" Saturday, November 16t'11 LaFortune Ballroom 9:30pm-11:30pm Cost=$2.00 
Cf ))sponsored by Flipside * Questions? Call Margaret 4-3199 
Wednesday, November 13, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Tejada named American League MVP 
Associated I'ress 
NEWYOHK 

Miguel Tejada beat all those more famous American League shortstops to the Most Valuable Player award. 
After leading Oakland to the AL West title, TrJada <msily defeated Alex Hodrigucz on Tuesday, earn­ing the AL honor when he rnceived 21 of 28 first-place votes ancl :-J56 points from a panel of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
"I don't think there can be any­one on earth more happy than I am right now," Tejada said from the presidential palace in the Dominican Hepublic, where about 1,000 peoplu attended a reception in his honor. "Inside, I feel ful­filled." 
lfis car to the palace was repeatedly stopped by the large crowd, and many of hL,; relatives joined him at the palace. 
"I don't know if l can count all the members of my family, because there's lots of people here," he said. 
In balloting that rewarded win­ning over statistics, A-Hod was second with live first-place votes and 254 points. I le led the major leagues in home runs and RBIs but played for last-place Texas. 
Among the other two star AL shortstops, Boston's Nomar Garciaparra was tied for 11th with 24 points and New York's Derck Jeter wasn't among the top 10 on any ballot. 
"It makes me real proud to be in the same group," Tejada said. 
New York Yankees second baseman Alfonso Soriano got the remaining two first-place votes and was third with 234 points, 
followed by Anaheim outfielder 
Garret Anderson (184) and 
Yankees slugger Jason Giambi 
(162). 

Tejada thought a player who 
makes the playoffs should get 
preference in the voting, but also 
said he would have voted for 
Rodriguez. 
"lie had a monster year. I've been thinking the whole way that he's going to win the MVP," Tejada said. "I got a surprise today when they made the announcement." 
While Tejada hit a career-high .308 with 34 homers and 131 RBIs, Hodriguez batted .300 with 57 homers and 142 RBIs. 
"I know one of these years he's going to win three, four MVPs in a row." Tejada said. 
While Rodriguez, Garciaparra and Jeter have received the attention in recent years, Tejada now has something they don't. 
"At no other time in history has the major leagues been blessed with so many Hall of Fame cal­iber shortstops, and for this year and today, Miguel stands taller than the rest," Oakland co-owner Steve Schott said. 
Tejada helped the A's win 103 games, matching the Yankees for the most in the major leagues. 
Rodriguez, who got married on Nov. 2, was on his honeymoon and unavailable for comment, played for a team that went 72­90, finishing 31 games behind Oakland. 
"The person who helps you win the most games should be the MVP," said Ken Macha, promoted from Oakland's bench coach to manager. "The idea is to win games, not just put numbers up. Miguel put numbers up every day 

Allsport Photos 

Miguel Tejada hits a two-run homerun against the Minnesota Twins on Oct. 5. The Oakland shortstop was named the American League MVP. 
for a contending team. Not only for the second ti-me in three sion era and letting the Cubs fill that, but he got a ton of huge hits years, with San Francisco's Barry in the salary-$500,000. for us. He was most deserving of Bonds winning the NL award for Rodriguez, who finished second the award." a record fifth time Monday. Two to Juan Gonzalez in the 1996 vot­
Oakland enters 2003 with the years ago, the Giants' Jeff Kent ing, impressed all season long, reigning AL MVP and Cy Young and the Athletics' Giambi were but Tejada made a big impression Award winner (Barry Zito). the MVPs. during Oakland's 20-game win­
'That is really cool for the A's," Giambi left the A's after the ning streak, the longest in the Macha said. 2001 season to sign with the major leagues in 67 years. 
The last team with both the Yankees, and Tejada is eligible to Tejada hit a three-run, ninth­MVP and Cy Young winners was become a free agent after the inning homer for the A's 18th the 1993 Chicago White Sox, with 2003 season. He will make $5 straight victory, then had a win­Frank Thomas and Jack million in the final season of an ning bases-loaded single the next McDowell. $11.3 million, four-year contract. night. 
The Bay area swept the MVPs "I think they're going to do "I never thought I would be the 
something to keep me in player I am right now," Tejada Oakland," Tejada said. said. 
The 26-year-old admitted he Tejada is the third Dominican was nervous in the days leading to win an MVP award, following to the vote announcement. Toronto's George Bell in 1987 
"I didn't eat from two days and the Cubs' Sammy Sosa in ago," he said. "My stomach is 1998. Tejada gets a $100,000 closed." bonus for winning added to his 
The only time a player on a $3.5 million salary, and last-place team won the award Rodriguez gets $200,000 added was 1987, when Andre Dawson to his $21 million salary, part of of the Cubs led the NL in homers his record $252 million, 10-year and RBIs after giving Chicago a contract. Anderson gets a signed contract during the collu-$50,000 bonus. 
2002-2003 Mainstage Season Norre Dame hlm, "lelevi.,ion, and Theatre PRESENTS 
wR1n·EN HY paula vogel • DIRECTED BY wendy arons 
Washington Hall 

WED, NOVEMBER 20, 7:30 P.M. 
THU, NOVEM!lER 21, 7:.'10 P.M. FRI, NOVEMBER 22, 7:30 P.M. SA"C NOVEMBER 23, 7:30 l'.M" 
SUN, NOVEMBER 24, 2:30 l'/vl. 
Tickets 

RESERVED SEATS $10 SENIOR CITIZENS $9 ALL STUDENTS $7 Available at the Lafortune Srudem C.cmer 1ickc1 office. Mastercard and Visa orders call 574-631-8128. 
This production is supported ~Y the Institute for SchoLmhip in the Liberal Ans. 

page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
As Senior VP of Financial Planning at a n1ajor movie studio you could: 
O.K. a $93 million budget 
Hire 7,500 extras 
Rent 273 palm trees 
(and 1big fan to make the1n sway) 
How do you get a job like this? Start today. 
,,# 


Apply for a Summer Dream Internship at: www.StartHereGoPlaces.com/biz1 
C 

IQ ·contesl Roi~: complete rulescJn be fou"o on the CollegeClub.com Web sI!e NO RJRCHf\S~ NECESSARY. Contest entrv period runs 10/01/02-2/01/03 and
u 

·.:: is ope" only lo legal reside"ts of th!! SO !mired Stares. e1gh1een 081 Of older M rime of entry, f!flmllro 111 a full/part-time accredited college or university. ~nd
.., 

is subJect to the complete Contesl Official Rules Ent1ies may tie s111:im11!ed on the StartHereGoPlaces:rom Web Sile located at www.StartHereGoPl'lces com
E 

or on the CollegeClubcorn Web site loc~ted m wwwCollegeClub.com. /\II entries become lhe property of Sprnsor. as defined m1he complete Contest Offi::181
<

., Rules Employees and larnily members of Sponsor not elig•ble to par1ic1pa1e. Sponsor is not responsible for techniCill or other malluncrions, lost or unavailable i5 network connections. Of failed electronic comm1mica1ions that may occur in !he processing ol the entries Tile authors of thetwof2) Grand Prize winning essays .,.,.. will each receive !heir choice of one of the ·summer Dre.1m Internships.. PfOVided by Sponsor. wh,ch includes five thousand dollars IS5,000J to be paid over 'O the course of the internship The Grand f'lize is not trnnsferahle, Pxcepr by Sponsor. who may substitute p,ize with aprize of equal value or opportunity No 
:; a, 

c.ish or priLe sobstilution i; allowed and other 1estr:ctioos apply. The m11horo, of the three 131 winning Rooners-Up essays Will receive one thous;md doll~r (S1 ,OOOl gift checks. The autho1s of the live (51 winning Honorable Mention ess.1ys will receive live hundred dollar ($500) gilt checks. Void where prohibited."' .,,C Winners will be responsible fof any and all ta,es Sponsor: The Amer,c~n Institute of Cer11fied Public /\ccountants, 1211 Avenue of the Americ.1s. New York. 
a. NY lOOJ&-8775; CollegeCl11b.com, a division or Student Advanmge, Inc. 2035 Corte Del Nogal. Smle 200. Carlsbad. CA 1)2009. 
V> 

Wednesday, November 13, 2002 
· · :Start here. Go places. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business ­strategic and analytical thinking, communication. and leadership ­
· ··· are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. .Even in the movies. Start going places with a Summer 
::..Qrearn Internship. Register on/ine. ·today and complete your application .by 2/01 /03 to compete for one of two 
.. $5,000 paid internships. Eight other ,. students wHI receive cash value awards · ·of up to $1,000~ . 


Wednesday, November 13, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Two Wildcats claw into preseason top 5 

Arizona teammates Luke Walton and Jason Gardner were among the five seniors selected to The Associated Press' prcscason All-America toam. 
David West of Xavier was the leading vote-getter on the team announced Tuesday and he was joined by Kirk Hinrich of Kansas and Erwin Dudley of 
Basketball Hall of Fame. The 5-10 Gardner averaged 
20.4 points, 2.9 rebounds and 
4.6 assists last season while playing 38.2 minutes a game. A third-team All-America pick last season, he shot 38.4 per­cent from 3-point range and his 106 3s were third most in school history. 
"He's the guy that has to direct pretty much every­thing," Olson said of his point guard. "It isn't a case of where he's saying a whole lot, but when he says something, a lot of times it's pretty stern. He's not afraid of getting into somebody's face. He's a tremendous competitor and he expects everyone to compete." 
West, a second-team All­America selection last season, averaged 18.3 points and led the conference in rebounding 
(9.8) and blocks (2.5). The 6-9 forward surprised a lot of peo­ple when he decided to return Alabama. 
Walton and Gardner became the fourth pair of teammates to be selected to the preseason team. which started before the 1986-87 season. One of the other sets also came from Arizona, Mike Bibby and Miles Simon before the 1997-98 sea­son. 
Walton and Gardner are two of the five starters returning to the Wildcats, who were ranked No. 1 in the AP's pre­

We've Got The Kevs To AGreat Vehicle loan! 
Whether You're looking For A Brand New Car, Or ANew-To-You Car, we can Help, With Rates As low As 
1··NCUA-1 "Annual Percentage Rate. Rates as low as 5.50%APR are valid for various financing terms on new and used vehl?les. _Rates are subject to change with?ut . -:i.=-notice. Certain restrictions may apply. This offer is not valid for refinances of existing Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans. Independent of the Un1vers1ty. 
season poll. 35 and Dudley 32. 
"We've had a lot of outstand­Western Kentucky senior ing leaders," Arizona coach Chris Marcus was sixth in the Lute Olson said, "and these voting with 31, while seniors two would compare with any­Nick Collison of Kansas (28) body that we've ever had." and Brandin Knight of 
The 6-foot-9 West, the ,i.ittsburgh (23) were the only Atlantic lO's player of the year other players to receive more the last two seasons, was than 20 votes. named on 43 of the 72 ballots The 6-8 Walton led the Pac­from the national media panel, 10 in assists last season at 6.3 ono more than Walton. per game, the first forward to Gardner was next with 39 do so since votes, while Hinrich received the stat 
became offi­long range
"{Gardner] is the guy
cial in 1974. shooting,
that has to direct pretty
He averaged hitting 50 
15.7 points much everything. It isn't percent as a and 7. 3 junior.
a case ofwhere hes 
rebounds, Kansas
saying a whole lot, but
while shooting coach Hoy 47 percent when he says something, Williams is last season. succinct
a lot oftimes it's pretty
His family when talk­
stern. He's not afraid of
knows some­ing about thing about getting into somebody's his guard. 
All-America face. He's a tremendous "I think 
honors. His Kirk Hinrich
competitor and he
father, Bill, is the best was a three­expects everyone to guard in the time selection country," he
compete."
at UCLA from said. 1972-74 and Dudley
Lute Olson
is a member was a third­of the Arizona head coach team All­
to the Musketeers for another season. 
"I thought he was gone," second-year Xavier coach Thad Matta said. "When he announced he was staying, 1 was shocked." 
Hinrich averaged 14.8 points, 4.8 rebounds and 5.0 assists for the Jayhawks last season, hitting 47.8 percent from 3-point range. He holds the school record for 
American 

last season and was chosen the Southeastern Conference's player of' the year. The 6-8 Dudley averaged 15.2 points and 8.9 rebounds while shoot­ing 56 percent from the field. 
''lle's a throwback guy, kind of old-fashioned," Crimson Tide coach Mark Gottfried said of Dudley. "He's a low-key guy. He's not really interested in all the hype." 
Tayshaun Prince of' Kentucky was the only senior on last season's prescason All­America team, but the other four -Jason Williams of Duke, Casey Jacobsen of Stanford, Kareem Hush or Missouri and Frank Williams of Illinois ­all declared for the NBA draft as underclassmen. 
Jason Williams, last season's national player of the year, was the only member of the preseason All-America team to 
-
earn the first-team postseason honor as well. Jacobsen was on the second team and Prince the third. 



AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM TUE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, November l 3, 2002 
-



around the dial 
NBA BASKETBALL Spurs at Nets 7 p.m., ESPN Bulls at Bucks 8 p.m., FOXCH 
NHL HOCKEY 

Panthers at Flyers 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 

Associated Press allowed. He also met with cutting payroll. The money. But they won't hes­
Glavine's agent, Gregg Yankees, Mets, Rangers itate to make a run at 
TUCSON, Ariz. Clifton, and talked directly and Colorado would like to Japanese slugger Hideki 
While baseball's big to Bell on Tuesday. dump salaries before mak­Matsui. Cashman and three spenders are looking to "I'd like to get three ing moves. Atlanta is just Yankees officials will travel save money for a change, voice mail messages hoping to be able to hold to Japan later this week. the usually low-budget tomorrow saying yes," on to one of its free-agent The Phillies aren't wait­Philadelphia Phillies are Wade said from the GM aces -Glavine and Greg ing. ready to spend. meetings. "But I'm not Maddux. They are believed to 
The Phillies started off going to bank on it." "Our payroll will be have offered Thome $75 the free-agent season That's because some lower next year," Yankees million for five years. at Tuesday by making offers players are waiting to see GM Brian Cashman said. "I least $10 million a year for to Jim Thome, Tom if more teams will join bid­don't know if it will be via three years to Glavine and Glavine and David Bell. ding. trade or the free-agent a three-year deal for Bell, The three offers are Glavine is waiting to visit market or a combination of who hired Tom Reich and believed to be worth more the cities of the teams that the two. How we're going Adam Katz as his agents than $100 million. are interested in him. The to do it, I'm not sure. But this week. 
GM Ed Wade didn't wait New York Yankees, Mets, we will do it." Wade, who would only long, e-mailing an offer Phillies and Texas have The Yankees would like characterize the offers as Thome's agent, Pat contacted Clifton. to trade Raul Mondesi, "significant, sincere and Rooney, at 12:01 a.m. EST For now, most of the big Rondell White or Sterling sufficient," isn't expecting -the first possible minute spenders are interested in Hitchcock to free up a quick response. 
IN BRIEF 
Tennis star Williams to start and introduced the company former team of Matsui, who official­design company Tuesday during a news conference at ly became a free agent at 10:01 Venus Williams has designs on the Pacific Design Center. a.m. ET Tuesday. 
more than being one of the world's Unlike most struggling entrepre­Also scheduled to make the trip top tennis players. She·s already neurs, Williams has a solid financial are Yankees general partner looking toward the day when she base, having earned more than $10 Stephen Swindal, the son-in-law of puts down her racket for good. million in prize money and millions owner George Steinbrenner; and 
Williams ~as started an interior more in endorsements since turning Gordon Blakeley, the team's vice design and decorating company pro in 1994. president of international and pro­called "V Starr Interiors," a play on fessional scouting. 
her full name of Venus Ebony Starr Yankees look to lure Matsui Assistant general manager Jean Williams. from Japan Afterman already is in Japan. 
"lt's the way I was brought up to It sure looks like the New York where Matsui is playing for always plan for the future," she said. Yankees are pushing for a deal with Japanese all-stars against a major "I love planning and I love putting Hideki Matsui. league all-star team. 
things together. That's just what I do Yankees team president Randy The working agreement with the well." Levine and general manager Brian Yomiuri Giants probably will be 
The Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.­Cashman are scheduled to travel to announced this weekend, the team based company isn't just a vanity Japan on Thursday, a team official official said. project for the two-time Wimbledon said on the condition of anonymity. Matsui, a 28-year-old outfielder and U.S. Open champion, who fin­The purpose of the trip, the team who is nicknamed "Godzilla," bats ished the season as the No. 2 player official said Tuesday, is to left-handed, and New York envi­behind younger sister Serena. announce a working agreement sions him clearing the short porch 
As V Starr's president and chief between the Yankees and the in right field at Yankee Stadium. lie executive officer, Williams is Yomiuri Giants, the top team in the hit .334 for 'the Giants this season involved at every level. .Japanese leagues. and led the Central League with 50 
She began a business plan in April Yomiuri also happens to be the homers and 107 RBI. 

Wednesday, November 13, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
allowed the 200-yard medley with a time of 1:00.89. The Senior captain Lauren when we needed them." team to give Saint Mary's the times she turned in were the Smith also made a solid con­Saturday's victory marked
Belles 

SIGNATURE EVENT 
Alulmni-Senior Club Wednesday November 6th 
9pm-2pm 
SENIORS, wear a white t-shirt! Come armed and ready to sign your name on classmates' shirts! We'll provide markers! 
MIDNIGHT CONTEST The person with the most number of signatures by 12:00 am wins $100 in Domer Dollars! Think of the possibilities! 
Take advantage of the Alumni-Senior Club facility before it closes in December! See you there! 
Must be 21 with valid ID/Alwnni-Senior Club entrance fee of $2 
Funny Shirts 
www.catholicshirts.com 
4 X-mas 

continued from page 24 
swimmer who stepped up when it muttered for tho Belles. 
Megan Ramsey, who strug­glcc.l Lbrough last weekend's meet due to illness, seemed to settle back into peak form when it most counted. 
With just two races left in Lhc meet, the junior was in second place by more than a body length with 100 yards [cf't. 
She kicked in on her final laps and took home a first placo finish in tho 400-yard individual medley. that 
The Nanovic Institute Film Series The New Rebels in European Film: Britain ana France 7:00 pm., Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
RENEGADES: 
November 13, Wed~ 'Trainspotting" (Britain, 1996) Author and professor Clive Bloom (NO's London Centre) will introduce the film--with Q&A atter the screening. 
> •• 
·,fi>':.f'i/t._:.:.t_,'Plf... . '-!f.V:'''·f../;\;_::f·:·..."'; 
"'-'•·­
.!"'" . 
t-.~~; 
November 14, Thurs., "Mauvaises Frequentations (BAO COMPANn" (French, 1999) DirectorJean-Pierre Ameris will introduce the film with QErA at=ter the screening. Co~sponsored by The London Program, International Study Programs, Film, Television and Theatre Gender Studies 
This 11rogram was made fJOSSible with the su11port of the Cultural Services ofthe French Embassy and the French Ministry ofCulture (CNC). 
Senior Class Council Presents its 
final victory. best times she has seen since "Kelly INelis] was the turn­her freshman season. 
ing point, but [Hamsey] had to win that or else it wouldn't have mat­tered who won the final relay." 
Ramsey took home two other first place victories ­one in the 
200-yard butterfly, finishing yard freestyle, the 50-yard with a time of 2: 15.66, and freestyle and the 100-yard in the 100-yard butterfly freestyle. 
"[The effect] is perhaps immeasurable . ... Not only the win but the way they swam to win, they are ready to go." 
Greg Petcoff Belles coach 
Maureen Palchak also added three first place fin­ishes for the Belles, in addition to swim­ming on the 200-yard freestyle medley. She medalled in the 200­

tribution, adding two first 
place victories in the 100­
yard breaststroke and the 
200-yard breaststroke. 
But the first place finishers 
weren't the only key finish­
ers, according to Petcoff. 
The Belles hurl some solid 
second and third place fin­
ishes that added needed 
points to the Belles victory. 
Leeann Godfrey, Katie 
Dingerman. Lane Herrington 
and Nelis all added top three ,.fl nishes. 
"A couple of people who don't usually get mentioned because they don't win were really important," Petcoff said. "They really stepped up 
ND WOMENS SOCCER 
Boland named All-American 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore women's soccer player Mary Boland has been named to the Verizon Academic All­District V 
team, as selected by the College Sports Infor­mation Directors 0 f 


A m e r i c a . Boland With her selection to the 11-player team, Boland now qualifies for the 2002 women's soccer Academic All-America ballot (that team will be announced in late November). 
Boland -a psychology major who entered the 2002 fall semester with a 3.85 cumulative grade-point average -is a versatile player who formally was named to the All-Academic team as a defender (she earlier made starts at for-
I 

the first time Saint Mary's has ever defeated Transyl­vania. The two schools have faced each other since Saint Mary's began swimming in the IUPVI invitational and the Belles have never won. 
The early-season victory, Petcoff hopes, will motivate the Belles. 
"[The effect) is perhaps immeasurable," Petcoff' said. " ... Not only the win but the way they swam to win, they are ready to go." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
ward and currently is start­ing in the defensive mid­field, after also playing at left back). One of just two sophomores named to the Academic All-District team, Boland heads into the NCAAs as Notre Dame's fourth-leading goalscorer (5G-OA). Her 2002 season highlights include a diving header to beat Seton Hall (1-0) and key defensive play in wins over Hutgers (1-0) and then-#8 Connecticut (3­
1). 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team produced nine Academic All-American selections from 1995-2001, including two in both 2000 and '01. Current senior defender Vanessa Pruzinsky -who became just the sec­ond Notre Dame student­athlete ever named a first team Academic All­American as a sophomore and a junior -was not eli­gible for consideration this year due to her season-end­ing ankle injury (she owns a 
4.0 GPA as a chemical engi­neering major). 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 13, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Irish trying to stay focused on Rutgers, notbowl 
Southern California before aren't very accustomed to fully it will make us better," who moved over from his
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
the bowls start beckoning. losing. Willingham said. defensive end position.
Sport> Edicor 
But Willingham knows that However. as the weather Sapp was injured during to look past the Scarlet starts to turn cold in South practice Thursday and was
Injury update 
Irish football coach Tyrone Knights, a team that had No. Bend, Willingham is faced replaced at safety by Garron
Two key starters on the
Willingham is trying not to 1 Miami beaten through with another set of relatively Bible against the
Irish defense were missing
specuiate about bowl games. three quarters, could be a unfamiliar circumstances -Midshipmen.
from action Saturday against
But with his 9-1 Irish facing big mistake. how to han-Willingham is optimistic
Navy

an off-week before playing "We want some awareness dle practice that both will return within
safety

1-8 Rutgers, it may be diffi­[about USC], maybe more for the coming weeks.
sessions "We want some Gerome
cult not to peek down that our coaches to have time under the "Sapp is day-to-day, and
awareness [about USC}, Sapp and
road that could lead to with SC than our players," wintry condi­hopefully we'll got him back
defensive

Miami. New Orleans Willingham said. "Our focus tions. maybe more for our on course for Rutgers,"
tackle

Pasadena or Tempe. has to be Rutgers. We've got "Well, the coaches to have time Cedric Willingham said after prac­"You can't help but do to be looking at Rutgers. If first thing is tice Tuesday. "[Cedric
with SC than our players. Hilliard.
something along those lines, we don't do that, then that's we'll try to Hilliard] had been day-to­
Hilliard

but I really don't focus on probably making a mistake." Our focus has to be day and then week-to-week.
stay outside injured his

it." Willingham said. "My as much as Rutgers. We've got to be leg during but now we're not sure belief is if we can do our­which direction he'll go. We
possible and

Facing the elements looking at Rutgers." the Florida
selves good by winning our anticipate he'll be ready
So far this season, use that as a State game
next ballgame, then probably soon, and soon may be
Willingham has faced several positive, on Oct. 26
by that time, in two weeks, Tyrone Willingham Rutgers, and if not. the fol­
facets of coaching that often because if we and has not
everything will start to clear lowing week."
didn't arise during his have the dis­Irish coach returned to
up a little bit more." 
tenure at Stanford, namely cipline and the field
Even if the Irish feel thev 
the constant attention from the tough-during a
can discount Rutgers, the 
national media and high ness to fight through any of game since that time, being
Irish still have to go into Los 
pressure and expectations the conditions that we have replaced on the line by Greg Contact Chris Federico at
Angeles and defeat No. 8 
from fans and alumni that to encounter outside, hope-Pauly and Kyle Budinscak. cfederic@nd.edu 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
wife is itching to do." Willingham said jokingly. "I think it's like most husbands that have a free moment, there's always something for you to do." 
One thing all members of the team will be doing Saturday is watching. With Ohio State, Oklahoma, Texas and Georgia -all schools ahead of No. 7 Notre Dame in the most recent BCS standings -in action this weekend, Irish eyes will be paying close attention to the television to see if their team can move closer to securing a BCS bowl selection. 
"Oh yes, there will be quite a bit of football being watched," Willingham said. "We'll have what they call strange bedfellows this week­
L... end -teams you may not be normally rooting for, you'll be pulling for this weekend." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


11Leading Responsibly" 
Chairman, Executjve Committee of the Board Procter and Gamble 
Marina Whitman 
Professor of Business, University of Michigan 
Former Vice President, General Motors Corporation 
TODAY 
3:00 p.m. -4:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

The lecture is open to the Notre 
N,..lD, 
Lm\·c~if\' of Norrc l)amc 
Dame/SMC communitv. 
.., Mendoza College of Business 
Wednesday, November 13, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 

JUMBLE 
~J]_
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I EJYTT ~ 
I rx 
Cl2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righi• R8"orved. 
DAAHE 
j
I I t t JtCLOPIE
IJ I j
WWW.Jumble com 
TELKIN 
I rr (J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnolo and Mike Arglrlon 
It builds up my stamina 
WHY THE 
MUSICIAN WORKED 
our 0A11...v. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer:TO rI I I J"( I I I I J" 
Yesterday's I Jumbles:  SCOUR  BAKED  (Answers tomorrow) DIVIDE INSIST  
Answer:  What she felt like when her hair was cut too  
short ­ "DIS-TRESSED"  

JUMBLE CLASSIC SE.RIES NO. 26 -To order, ¦ end your name, addreaa an,d $5.GS and mike ch~k payable to Tribune Medi• Service¦, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 80680-4330. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

ACROSS 34 Squids' kin 70 Tip or hip follower 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
1 Butts 38 Opposite of 11-Down 71 Swerves
5 Baffin Bay sight 
72 Whaler's
9 "Family Ties" 39 Margarine 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIUS DAY: Neil Young, Booker T. Jones, Nadia
direction
container

mother 
Comam:i, David Schwi~ 73 Attempt a
14 Antlered beast 41 Angler's buy 
Happy Birthday: It won't take you loog to pick up the infonnation yoo reed in orch 15 You might get 42 Menacing look 
break-in 
to clo somelhing !hat is important IO you and to your future. Yoo wm have the adckd disciplir.: !his year to quit bad habits and s1ar1 ar.:w. If you are reluctant to lis1en to
your mitts on it 46 Infamous 
oth:1,, yoo may miss 001 on sorrething of value. Your nwnlm are 10, 13, 15, 22, 28, 37
DOWN
16 Rifles W.W. I name 1 White hat 
ARIES (Man:h 21-April 19): Yoo can meet someone special if you gel inYOlved
17 Painter Nolde 50 Canned 
in woohwhile causes. Busir.:ss partnerships could evolve from conversations wilh
wearer 
e5tablish:d iooiviwals. Don't b!silale to express yourself. *tt*
18 "le Ro, d'Ys" 52 Ending of fame 
2"_Camera" 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional confrontations will inlerfere with your
composer or fortune 
performaoce at work. Separate silllations in orck:r to remain objective, or you will
3 Hardly rosy 
ieooanliz.e the issues most important to yru. tt 4 Bowling Hall of
19 Shivering fits 53 More cheerful 
GEMINI (May 21-JWIC 211): Take advantage of !his time of feeling relaxed 10 enjoy
20 With 59-Across, 
creative endeavors or physical fitness programs. It will re a wonderful evening for what the 
57 One of the Fame location 
social' ' 'tt"tt'/,;
Bobbsey twins 5 Moscow theater 

CAN'atk1 (June 21-July 22): You may find yourself taking care of !he needs
answers to the 
of older family memrers. Be sure to get relatives IO oclp you ralhcr than taking all the
58 Put on

11 italicized 6 Sen. Bayh of clues begin 59 See 20-Across Indiana 
~J~ji~;:~:*;ou can solidify aparurr,hip if yoo have played your cards right No reed IO pressw-e anymr. Your chann and obvious seK appeal will attract
23 San Antonio-to-64 Winter Olympics 7 Pass again on 
the iooi1iduals you least exp.:ctcd *** 
Dallas dir. athlete the track 
VIRGO (Aug, 2.l-SepL 22): Make plans to do things with children. Yoo can slabilize your relationship if yoo are willing to stroke your male's ego. Family projects will be
24 Durham sch. 66 Sch. with a 8 Folklore figures 
s=ful.*tt 

25 Arlington branch in 9 Like a bungee 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.~-0ct. 22): You will receive morey that you thought you'u rever 
Berkeley cord 

see again. Make sw-e you p~t~l~~iood use. Your plans for entertamment will be
landmark 
well roceived by yourfiieoos.

27 Brandy flavor 67 Seat of Allen 10 Journal 
SCORPIO (lkt. 2.'-Nov. 21): You may have been feeling stifled at home. Too manyCounty, Kan. 11 In one's salad 
Puule by Eric Berlin people have dropped in to see you. Don't allow family lo put unreasonable !kmands
31 _-crazy 
onyou.tt
68 Atoll component days

32 Test-taker's last 40 Undergrad degs. 51 Count expenses 60 "The lion King" SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may find it difficult to discuss pcrsonal slaw 12 Pad user when figuring lioness problems.. but you must get an_ outsider's opinion. It's imperative that you start to see
resort 69 43 Children's card 
y_ours1luatloo liom other ~nts. tttt
13 Krupp Works taxes
game 61 Baseballer CAPRICORN (la 22-Jan. 19): Yoo will be tom i'x:tween work and horre ooce again. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE city 53 454, in old Make the r=s;iry phone calls befae your mate is out of bed or iocluck him or her in
44 Brain trust Manny 
your rusiress lklil.mtions. "tt'lt:

~~~~-. 21 Aunties' members Rome 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): Yoo are alwaysa lillk: alx:ad ofyour tirre. Unfa1Unalely,
husbands 62 Smart
45 Bridle part 54 It may be open this can cause envy and opposition among otrers. Do your own thing and refuse to lc1 ---=-1--,-t-=-t-,-t-:-':'1 22 Within: Prefix 63 D.E.A. agent: anyone gel__P.Jr dani:r up. *** 
or safe

47 Cause of a PISCFS Web. 19-March 20): Put your efforts into beautifying your hom:. Rewards for --+----+--t 26 Know-how prickly feeling 55 Fireplace Var. ajob well done should Ix: in order. Treat everyore to dinner 001 or a movie. *** 27 Bug-eyed 
48 Ja1 56 Xerox 65 Poetic Birthday Baby: You will be coocenrd with what eveJYore around yoo is up to. Your 28 Sway, so to competitor contraction prea;cupation with the way things work can re advantageoos if yoo a~ly this curia.ity
49 Brooding?
r-:-~r:-:1 speak 10 life. You will be quick, in1eresting and cenainly a linle ahead of your time. 
29 Fix up Oieck 001 Eugenia's Web Siles at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromale.com.
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
.-,,+=+e-+:-+-:-1 30 Explosive 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. COPYRJGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICXTE 33 Bazooka, e.g. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 35 "The Plague" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. .--:=:-t-:-t-:E::1 setting 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -,-,-+-.,.,....,=-11-,:T.-i 36 35-Down is one past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). -=+-0,,..,....0~ 37 "And if_ Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, E D E N before ... " nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
~---------~~~-----------------------------------------------------------~­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa· nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
Name -------------------------­
Address City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 

PORTS 
Wednesday, November 13, 2002 

FOOTBALL 
Kicking back 
. Irish coaches will join the players in a week of rest and spend some time at home 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Editor 
The second bye week of the season couldn't have come at a better time for the Irish. 
After fumbling away their undefeated season two weeks ago against Boston College and narrowly escaping defeat at the hands of then 1-7 Navy Saturday, both the Irish coaching staff and players may be in need of physical and mental recovery. 
"I think [mental restj all comes with resting the body more than anything else, because now you don't have a game so you're not under the mental pressure of the preparation it takes to prepare yourself for a game that weekend," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "At the same time we still want our young men intense because you want value to their participation during each day you're out there on the field." 
The Irish will be spending a little less time on the field in practice this week to give their bodies more of a rest. 
"It will be similar, but probably a little bit less than we've done in some of the other weeks," Willingham said. "We'll cut back a little bit because it is now, I think, week 11 of the season. We've been practicing since it started. It is time to have a little bit of a break." 
The coaches, too, will have a chance to take a break from the everyday grind of a football season that includes the time on the field, hours critiquing film and late nights in the office. 
''I'll probably go home at night," Willingham said. "I mean that in the sense that I probably go home a little earlier, probably a lot earlier, to be perfectly honest. I need it. My family needs to see me some­times before it's dark." 
The true break. however, will come Saturday. as the Irish get their first break from the gridiron in six weeks. With no game weekend activities, Irish players will be able to rest , and coaches can return 
LISA VELTE/The Observer 

to a more normal lifestyle. "I think I probably have a lot of things that my Irish coach Tyrone Willingham signals the score during the 14-7 Irish loss to Boston College on Nov. 2. The Irish coaching staff will be using the off week to rest up, spend some time with their families and watch see FOOTBALL/page 22 some football that doesn't involve the Irish. 

,-:.. 
SMC SWIMMING 
Saint Mary's sinks its teeth into Transylvania 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor Kelly Nelis didn't know it, but her race was a turning point. Although her victory in the 200-yard freestyle was just one of 11 Saint Mary's victo­ries, it gave the Belles the emotional edge they needed to take the bite out of Transylvania and take home  the 145-138 win. the meet down to some very "[The win] lifted the team key races. that final little bit," coach Nelis' victory in the 500­Greg Petcoff said. " ... When yard freestyle was the most Kelly won that. the whole important of those races, team thought, 'We 're going Petcoff said. to win this.'" She beat four Transylvania Despite the fact that Saint swimmers, who finished sec­Mary's took home 11 first-..-ond through fifth respective­place victories, ly, finishing with a time of 5 Transylvania's swimmers minutes. 33.21 seconds for stepped up and took home first place. some imperative second and "It was wild,'' Petcoff said. third place finishes, bringing "The whole team was  
- 


FOOTBALL 
Staying focused 

Irish coach Tyrone Willingham is trying to keep his team focused. After a loss to Boston College and a close win against Navy, his team can't afford to look ahead to possible bowl game invitations. 
page 22 

screaming. It was a 500­free, and she started off a little fast and we wondered if she was going to be able to hold it. The other girl was catching her at the end, but her lead was just too big." 
Nelis also anchored two winning Saint Mary's relay teams -the 200-yard med­ley relay that finished with a time of 1:58.48, defeating Transylvania by more than a second, and the 200-yard freestyle relay that defeated Transylvania by more just about four seconds. That freestyle team. that finished with a time of 1:43.85, was just .81 seconds away from the school record of 1 :43 .04. 
"Last season we didn't even hit 1 :45 until the con­ference meet," Petcoff said. "That shows huge improve­ment." 
But Nelis wasn't the only 
see BELLES/page 21 

ND WOMENS SOCCER 
Boland named Academic All-American 
The sophomore midfielder was chosen to be on the Verizon Academic All-American District V team. Boland is a psychology major who entered the 2002 fall semester with a 3.85 GPA. 
page 21 





