
VOL. XXXVII NO. 20 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND students show Spartans their Irish pride 

. Irish fans follow team to Michigan State football game 
By LINDA SKALSKI News Writer 
"Cheer, cheer, for Old Notre Dame," belted sophomores Matthew Burkhardt, Kiran Pillai and S t e v e was apparent early Saturday morning when students from both schools walked around the Michigan State campus before kickoff. Notre Dame students, identifiable by their Kelly green shirts. endured much heckling from Michigan State fans, who wore white T-shirts. 
"I got a kick out of making comments to State kids," said freshman Christopher Murphy, who had never been to an 
pus. 

These Stanford residents were just three of the hundreds of Notre Dame students who made the three-hour drive to East Lansing, Mich., to cheer the Irish to their 21-17 victory against Michigan State University. 
"Seeing how our football team 1s unbelievably good this year and we finally had a chance to break our five game losing streak against State, I don't understand why anyone would not drive out to the game," said Burkhardt. 
The intensity of competition 
well outnum­
bered served to 
create a high 
level of cama­raderie among Domers. 
"Every time I walked past a student with a Notre Dame shirt on, I slapped them a high­five and shouted a cheer for the Irish, whether I knew them or not," said sophomore Justin Gallagher. "Practically every single Notre Dame tailgate offered us something to eat." 
The already high level of enthusiasm only increased after the dramatic win, and students 
see TRIP/page 4 


Seniors plan Margaritaville 
Smith. Smith said, adding that he
. Office of 

Inspired by the Jimmy Buffet worked with the Office of Risk 
Student Affairs song of the same name, Management and Safety, Notre 
allocates $15,000 Margaritaville is one of the Dame Security/Police, 
class-sponsored events backed RecSports and Catering by
for class events 

by new funding from the Office Design. of Student Affairs to encour­Poorman said he was "cau­
By HELENA PAYNE 

age the creation of more stu­tiously optimistic" when the 
News Editor 

dent events. The sophomore officers approached him in and junior classes have also April with their Margaritaville The senior class is using received $5,000, and the proposal. During that time, the part of a $5,000 allocation sophomore class is using its campus was bracing itself fol­from the Office of Student allocation to partially sponsor lowing Poorman's announce­Affairs to plan a class-spon­Thursday evening's Spiritual ment of the current alcohol sored event Blast concert with Christian policy that banned in-hall unlike any rock singer Bebo Norman at dances, restricted student tail-other. Stepan Center. gating and Thurs­"Classes eliminated d a y ' s ought to be "It may not be the hard alco­Margar­enabled to Atlantic Ocean out there. hol in the 
itaville, the have some dorms.
but it's a unique venue as
beach­other social Now that 
themed programs opposed to LaFortune the new event for than they Ballroom.·· policy is in seniors 21 have in the effect, and older past," said Poorman
Matt Smith
at St. Joseph's Lake beach Father Mark said the from 5 to 7 p.m., will include Poorman, vice senior class president senior class free food, entertainment and a president for e v e n t cash bar. Student sounded 
As students listen to the Affairs. feasible. beach tunes provided by the Though previous senior class "I thought it had the possi­DJ, they can also enjoy the pig councils have sponsored bility of being a really good, roast, kabobs and other foods events with alcohol at the responsible event where alco­and beverages, but students Alumni-Senior Club, the mix­hol just happened to be will have to pay for margaritas ture of alcohol and a served," Poorman said, adding and beer. Margaritaville theme by the that Student Affairs was glad 
..It may not be the Atlantic lake was new, senior class to see the senior class sponsor Ocean out there, but it's a officers said. an event outside of senior unique venue as opposed to a "We were trying to make week. LaFortune Ballroom," said events that we ourselves senior class president Matt would really want to go to," 
see EVENT/page 4 

away game

Delosh as "I got a kick out of 
before

they sped 
making comments to Saturday. "It's
along 1-96 
State kids.,. a whole differ­
N o r t h 
ent experience

toward 
being the

Michigan 
Christopher Murphy minority fan." 
State's cam­
freshman Yet being 
Students meet Hispanic leaders 
great Latino heroes, such as

. Saint Mary's Cesar Chavez, who dedicated 
students attend his life to working with The United Farm Workers for job
Chicago conference 
equality. The speakers led forums and lectures on topics that affect
By ROCIO ESTRADA 
Latinos today. Some of the 

News Writer 

workshops that students par­ticipated in included "Anatomy Ten Saint Mary's students of a Leader," "Latinos in the participated Media: this week­Friends or end in the "It motivated me to do Foes" and 20th annual .. W h y
something."
United Latinos 
S t a t e s Aren't Hispanic Evelyn Gonzales Making it Leadership in Schools."
Saint Mary's senior
Institute "It moti­Conference vated me to held in do some~ Chicago. thing and gave me the enthusi­
The conference attracts asm and the drive I need to do more than 8,000 people from something for my Latino com­nearly 40 states every year munity," said Saint Mary's and invites leading Latinos to senior Evelyn Gonzales. speak. Gonzales. along with seniors 
Speakers this year included Emma Melero, Erika Brito and 
U.S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez; Lt. Monica Ortiz agreed that the Consuelo Castillo Kiekbusch, conference was one of the President of Educational greatest experiences that they
Achievement Services; and have ever had. Joaquin Blaya, who was "I wish I could have goneawarded the National Hispanic Hero Award during Saturday 
Contact Rocio Estrada at
night's dinner. 
estr6038@saintmarys.edu.
The conference focused on 


VOL. XXXVII NO. 20 HTTP:!/OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



ND students show Spartans their Irish pride 

LISA VELTE/The Observer 
Notre Dame students traveled to Michigan State University on Saturday to support Tyrone Willingham and the team during the 21-17 Irish victory. 

Seniors plan Margaritaville 
. Office of Student Affairs allocates $15,000 for class events 

By HELENA PAYNE 
News Ediror 

The senior class is using part of a $5,000 allocation from the Office of Student Affairs to plan a class-spon­sored event 
Smith. 

Inspired by the Jimmy Buffet 
song of the same name, Margaritaville is one of the class-sponsored events backed by new funding from the Office of Student Affairs to encour­age the creation of more stu­dent events. The sophomore and junior classes have also received $5,000, and the .sophomore class is using its allocation to partially sponsor Thursday evening's Spiritual Blast concert with Christian 
unlike any rock singer Bebo Norman at other. Stepan Center. Thurs­"Classes 


event for Poorman seniors 21 and older at St. Joseph's Lake beach from 5 to 7 p.m.• will include free food, entertainment and a cash bar. As students listen to the beach tunes provided by the DJ, they can also enjoy the pig roast, kabobs and other foods and beverages, but students will have to pay for margaritas and beer. "It may not be the Atlantic Ocean out there, but it's a unique venue as opposed to a La Fortune Ballroom," said senior class president Matt 
Smith said, adding that he worked with the Office of Risk Management and Safety, Notre Dame Security/Police, RecSports and Catering by Design. 
Poorman said he was "cau­tiously optimistic" when the officers approached him in April with their Margaritaville proposal. During that time, the campus was bracing itself fol­lowing Poorman's announce­ment of the current alcohol policy that banned in-hall dances, restricted student tail­gating and eliminated 
d a y ' s ought to be "It may not be the hard alco­Margar­enabled to Atlantic Ocean out there, hol in the 
itaville, the have some dorms.
but it's a unique venue as
beach­other social Now that 
themed programs opposed to LaFortune the new 
than they Ballroom ... policy is in have in the effect, past," said Poorman
Matt Smith
Father Mark said the Poorman, vice senior class president senior class 
president for Student Affairs. 
Though previous senior class councils have sponsored events with alcohol at the Alumni-Senior Club, the mix­ture of alcohol and a Margaritaville theme by the lake was new. senior class officers said. 
"We were trying to make events that we ourselves would really want to go to,ff 
e v e n t sounded feasible. 
"I thought it had the possi­bility of being a really good, responsible event where alco­hol just happened to be served," Poorman said, adding that Student Affairs was glad to see the senior class sponsor an event outside of senior week. 
see EVENT/page 4 

. Irish fans follow team to Michigan State football game 
By LINDA SKALSKI News Writer 
"Cheer, cheer, for Old Notre Dame," belted sophomores Matthew Burkhardt, Kiran Pillai and S t e v e was apparent early Saturday morning when students from both schools walked around the Michigan State campus before kickoff. Notre Dame students, identifiable by their Kelly green shirts, endured much heckling from Michigan State fans, who wore white T-shirts. 
"I got a kick out of making comments to State kids,ff said freshman Christopher Murphy, who had never been to an 
away game

Delosh as "/ got a kick out of 
before

they sped 
making comments to Saturday. "It's
along 1-96 
a whole differ­

N o r t h State kids ... 
ent experience

toward 
being the

Michigan 
Christopher Murphy minority fan." 
State's cam­


freshman Yet being
pus. 
Th es e Stanford residents were just three of the hundreds of Notre Dame students who made the three-hour drive to East Lansing, Mich., to cheer the Irish to their 21-1 7 victory against Michigan State University. 
"Seeing how our football team is unbelievably good this year and we finally had a chance to break our five game losing streak against State, I don't understand why anyone would not drive out to the game." said Burkhardt. 
The intensity of competition 
Students meet Hispanic leaders 
. Saint Mary's students attend Chicago conference 
By ROCIO ESTRADA News Writer 
Ten Saint Mary's students participated this week­great Latino heroes, such as Cesar Chavez, who dedicated his life to working with The United Farm Workers for job equality. 
The speakers led forums and lectures mi topics that affect Latinos today. Some of the workshops that students par­ticipated in included ..Anatomy of a Leader," "Latinos in the Media: Friends or 

end in the "It motivated me to do Foes" and 
20th annual " W h y
something ... 
United Latinos 
S t a t e s Aren't Hispanic Evelyn Gonzales Making it Leadership in Schools."
Saint Mary's senior
Institute Conference held in Chicago. 
The conference attracts more than 8,000 people from nearly 40 states every year and invites leading Latinos to speak. 
Speakers this year included 
U.S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez; Lt. Consuelo Castillo Kiekbusch, President of Educational Achievement Services; and Joaquin Blaya, who was awarded the National Hispanic Hero Award during Saturday night's dinner. 
The conference focused on 
well outnum­
bered served to 
create a high 

level of cama­raderie among Domers. 
"Every time I walked past a student with a Notre Dame shirt on, I slapped them a high­five and shouted a cheer for the Irish, whether I knew them or not," said sophomore Justin Gallagher. "Practically every single Notre Dame tailgate offered us something to eat." 
The already high level of enthusiasm only increased after the dramatic win, and students 
see TRIP/page 4 
"It moti­
vated me to 
do some­thing and gave me the enthusi­asm and the drive I need to do something for my Latino com­munity," said Saint Mary's senior Evelyn Gonzales. 
Gonzales, along with seniors Emma Melero, Erika Brito and Monica Ortiz agreed that the conference was one of the greatest experiences that they have ever had. 
"I wish I could have gone 
Contact Rocio Estrada at estr6038@saintmarys.edu. 


Monday, September 23, 2002

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Broke down 
Last week one of the worst things that could possibly happen did. 
No, I wasn't ran over by a 10-ton truck, I wasn't robbed at gunpoint and I didn't break my leg. 
My car broke down. Sarah Nestor 
When I say my car broke down, I 

Saint Mary's
mean it would not 

News Editor 
start, would not turnover. nothing, nada and I couldn't even get my radio to work. This was a dire situation. 
Having no other option. I called cam­pus security with the hope that some­how they could help my poor car out. I should probably mention a couple of things at this point so there can be a complete understanding of the situa­tion. 
I like to think that my car has a lot of character. In other words, it's old, but it's been with me since I was 16 and I have a lot memories with my '89 Buick. 
That's right, 1989. 

I was 8 years old the last time my car was anywhere near the dealership floor. 
Some ofyou may be thinking with a car that old I shouldn't have been sur­prised that it broke down. But it should be pointed out that Buick's are built to last. They are just one of those cars that, no matter how much you want them to die and go to junk yard heav­en, they are almost always revived. 
These are some the thoughts that I contemplated as I waited 45 minutes for security to find me. And no, I wasn't parked away in some impossible hid­den crevice of campus because I was actually parked in the 'employee' park­ing lot at the Joyce Center. You know, that first line ofparking where it's too tempting when you just need to run to class for an hour or so. 
After many attempts during my 45 minute wait to get my car to do some­thing, anything, the security officers did locate me, pulled out the jumper cables and tried to get or blue revived. With little success we, ol' blue and I. were considered a lost cause. 
At this point, I have to give thanks for the fact that I have a cell phone because right then and there I was able call my Dad and sounding very pathetic I explained my crisis. 
Being a put-the-key-in-the-ignition­and hoping-it-runs type ofgirl, I was scared to call a mechanic, especially since my funds had been a little low. I barely know how to open my hood, so how was I going to know ifthat $500 "thing-a-ma-jig" really needed to be replaced or not. 
Luckily for me, home is only a three­hour drive from here and my Dad decided to make the trip, saving me the hassle of dealing with the car crisis. It only took him a few hours and he had all the problems sorted out, even teach­ing me a few things. 
In the end, all ol' blue needed was a new battery, some oil (only about three quarts worth), power steering fluid and all those other fluids that go in a car. Well, I'm still not an expert, I don't know what all those different liquids are, but I can learn one day. 
I did learn how to put oil in my car and it only took me five years. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Gilberto Cardenas was incorrectly identified in the Sept. 18, 2002 issue of the Observer. He is the direc~ tor ofthe lnsrirure ofLatino Studies. The _chair ofthe­ology chat organized the first hemispheric conference on "The Church in America" is Dr. John Cavadini. Also, the course, "Culture, religion and evangelization: Theology and the dynamics of inculturation," has not been taught yet and is planned to begin in the spring of 2003. The Observer regrets chis error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Payback

Money share UNICEF helps The myth of 
Saint Mary's 

European 
offices provide 

plan rejected promotes a the South 
Union: War 
diversity 

better world Bend party
talk not raising 
school
awareness 

oil prices 
The women's

Scene reflects on
Various offices, 
The EU rejects 

Swiss voters 
Notre Dame 
soccer team records 

the social culture
student groups and 

OPEC claims that 
decide not to use 
senior attacks the 
two 1-0 wins.

of Notre Dame
the College offer 

U.S. war rhetoric 
excess money from 
argument of a Sept. 

with and without
services to promote 

has added to an 
gold to aid the 
20 column on 
alcohol.
cultures on campus. 

increase in oil 
needy. 
UNICEF. 

prices. 
page4 
page 28

page 14
page 12

page 7
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
"Parking Lot Nation -The Coming End of Suburbia," James Howard Kunstlcr, New Urban novelist, 104 Bond I lall, 4:30 p.m. 

. 
Banc One Placement Presentation, McKenna Hall, Center Dining Arca, 5:30 p.m. 

. 
Emmaus Kick-off, Coleman-Morse Center Lounge, 8 p.m. 


.. 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. \Vindow on Musk Series, "New Directions for Soprano and Cello: Blending the Old and the New," Elizabeth Morrow and Soo llong Kim, Little Moreau Center, noon 
• 

. 
BOG meeting, 304 Holy Cross College, 4:30 p.m. 

. 
Meet the Candidates Night, lloly Cross College/ \tVelsh Parlor, 


7 p.m. 

WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Pasta Faziole Soup, Buffalo Chicken Lasagna, Hawaiian Pizza, Roast Top Round. Champagne Rice Pilaf, Chinese Noodles with Snow Peas, Cherry Crisp, Baked Cajun Pollock, Cheese & Vegetable Pie, Winter-Blend Vegetables, Oatmeal, Scrambled Eggs, Bacon, Sausage Gravy & Biscuits, Hash Browns, Grilled Turkey on Kaiser 
Today's Dinner: Minestrone. Buffalo Chicken Lasagna, Hawaiian Pizza, Roasted Turkey Breast, Bread Stuffing. Cherry Crisp, Broccoli Tofu and Garlic, Tuna Casserole, Potato Pancakes, Hot Chunky Applesauce, Baked Sweet Potatoes, Spinach, BBQ Rib Sandwich 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
LIJ 

::z:: 
ti 
LIJ 
3: 
..J 
<C 
(.) 


-I0 HIGH 66 HIGH 67 LOW 44 LOW 46 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

NDSP issue minors in consumption 
Two students received citations for minor consumption of alcohol at the Knights of Columbus building. The case is being referred for administrative review. 

NDSP arrest student driving drunk 
NDSP arrested a 27-year-old student for driving while intoxicated on Holy Cross Drive. 
Police tend to accident by Rolfs 
NDSP responded to a two-car accident in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center parking lot. No injuries were reported. 

Student finds his cellular phone 
A student reported the theft of a cellular phone from the Rockne Memorial and later nofitied NDPD that his sister had the cellu­lar phone. 

Employee finds student's wallet 
A University employee found a student's wallet in Coleman-Morse Center and turned it in to NDPD for safekeeping. The wallet has been released to the 1cwner. 

Student finds visitor's wallet in BP 
A student found a visitor's wallet in Breen­Phillips Hall and turned it in to NDSP for safekeeping. 
Information compiled from NDSP Crime Blotter 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Meatball with Sauce, Baked Cheese Ravioli, Pesto Sauce, Mexican Beef Pizza, Macaroni & Cheese, Cauliflower, BBQ Chicken. Grilled Tuna with Lemon, Turkey Breast, Bread Stuffing, Long Grain & Wild Rice, Grilled Chicken, Reuben Sandwich, Seasoned Fries, Onion Rings, BBQ Cantonese Pork, Arroz con Pollo 
Today's Dinner: Meatball with Sauce, Baked Cheese Ravioli, Pesto Sauce, Spinach Pie, Green Bean Casserole, Turkey Noodle Casserole, Fried Perch, Roast Top Round, Cajun Chicken Breast Sandwich, Seasoned Fries, Onion Rings, Chicken Kung Pao, Taco Baskets 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chefs pasta, mari• nara sauce, grilled vegetables, french fries, grilled cheese, cheese enchi­ladas, cilantro rice, refried beans, cheese pizza, pepporoni and mush­room pizza, deli bar with turkey salad. 
Monday's Dinner: Cantonese stir fry, savory rice, vegetable cacciatore, chicken patties, curly french fries, kidney beans, vegetable medley, cheese pizza, pepporoni pizza, deli bar with turkey salad. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 67 HIGH 71 HIGH 72 HIGH 67 LOW 49 LOW 56 LOW 55 LOW 47 
Atlanta 82 / 64 Boston 76 / 61 Chicago 67 / 45 Dallas 80 / 61 Denver 70 / 44 Los Angeles 76 / 63 Loui_sville 74 / 56 New York 76 / 59 Orlando 89 / 74 Phoenix 104 / 76 Pittsburgh 69 / 50 Salt Lake City 78 / 51 Seattle 74 / 52 Washington 76 / 55 

Monday, September 23, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
STUDY TIME 

LISA VEL TE/The Observer After a busy weekend, sophomore Kristin Boyd takes time out to study in preparation for another academic week Sunday evening in the Coleman-Morse Center lounge. 





Ukiil 

THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
.'';-·. 

fili When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 8, 2002. 

Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2003) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information contact Mrs. Lisa Tranberg (_631-6676). 
Congress nears OK for Iraq force 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Lawmakers are close to giv­ing President Bush the con­gressional authorization he wants to take on Saddam Hussein, saying they will limit the mandate to Iraq to satisfy Demo ­crats' unease ab o u t Bush's request to restore security to the whole region. 
On Sunday's television talk shows, Democrats also said Bush needs to more 


aggressively "It's much too broad; can 
correct that,
explain his 

there ·s no limit at all on I don't think
plans in 

order to win presidential powers. ,, that's fatal 
to the heart
domestic 
of the reso­
and interna­

Carl Levin 
lution," said
tional sup­

U.S. Senator Rep. Henry
port for any 
action. 
T h e administration has proposed a resolution that would autho­rize the president "to use all means that he determines to be appropriate, including force, in order to ... defend the national security interests of the United States against the threat posed by Iraq, and restore international peace and security in the region." 
"It's much too broad; there's no limit at all on presidential powers," said Sen. Carl Levin, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
"There needs to be some changes ... it's not even limit­ed to Iraq," Levin, D-Mich., said on "Fox News Sunday." 

Bush wants the U.N. Security Council to enforce bans on weapons of mass destruction against Iraq. The United States believes Iraq is stockpiling deadly chemical and biological weapons, and is rebuilding its nuclear weapons program. 
Sen. Joseph Biden, chair­man of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said 
20th Annual Domer Run 
2 0 0 2 
A Bmwl1t tor Notrt! Dame Prusl.ite Avrornnt!S$ Cirnt.111 [1hu:at1011 
..,, ___ ,

~'? t P-4r I Hid I -'~­
Saturday, September 28 11 :00am ALL ,..,fW R4CfCOUR~f! 
3 & 6 mile runs, 2 mile walk Pancake Breakfast Register in advance at RecSports $6 in advance, $7 day of the race Call 1-6100 for more information 
keeping "region" in the reso­lution would set too broad a precedent. 
The administration is amenable to change, and "I predict that won't be the lan­guage," Biden, D-Del., told CNN's "Late Edition." 
Some Republicans sympa­thized with the need to con· tain the language. "These are very, very important defini­tions. because it will guide the president and this nation probably into war," Sen. Chuck Hagel, R•Neb., said on ABC's "This Week." 
Even those comfortable with the proposed language said they would accommodate change to speed it through. The White House wants the legislation to pass before Congress recesses before elec­
tions Nov. 5. 
"We 
Hyde, R-Ill., 
chairman of 

the House International 
Relations Committee. 
Hagel and Sen. John Kyl. R­Ariz. predicted the resolution would easily pass before the November elections, but Biden said Bush needed to work harder to explain his plans. 
"The American people are grown up," he said. "You tell them what we need to do, tell them the threat, and they will back the president. But we haven't told them all of the story yet." 
Biden and Levin also urged Bush to work closely with the 
U.N. Security Council, saying it would bolster domestic backing for any war. 
"There is a degree of confi­dence that increases in direct proportion to the notion that we are not going to be going alone with this," Biden said. 
Levin said Saddam was more likely to fold before joint action than if he were threat­ened by the United States alone. "I want him to look down the barrel of a gun with the world behind it." 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 23, 2002 

Trip 
celebrated by doing everything from ripping off their shirts and running through the street to whooping out of car win­dows to simply going out to dinner. 
"Victory dinner was the best," said Delosh. "We toasted and sang the fight song in this elegant Mexican restaurant." 
Most students headed home to finish celebrating back on campus, but some opted to stay overnight and experience Michigan St. nightlife. 
"You can always find some­one who knows someone who will be willing to let you crash in their room overnight," said freshman Daniel Gediney who, along with four Notre Dame friends, slept on the floor of a Michigan State sophomore's dorm room. "She was an incredible host, especially since she only knew one of us." 
Many students said the victo­ry. which moved the Irish to 4­0 and No. 10 in both the AP and coaches' polls, left them with the desire to follow the team anywhere. 
"Everything about the week­end was unbelievable," junior Tom Fisher said. "I am making it my personal goal to attend every single away game." 
Contact Linda Skalski at lskalski@nd.edu. 


College provides services 
who are underrepresented

By AMANDA MISNIK 
to go to for help," said 

News Writer 
Mahoney. "Our job is to make sure the organizationsSaint Mary's offices and that are underrepresentedstudent groups are working have a voice. SDB also gives to ensure that diversity is international students a appreciated on campus. voice to directly connect Organizations such as with [Board of Governance)." Student Diversity Board The official purpose of SDB have worked to share and is "to unite the Saint Mary's 
it since her freshman year. 
advocate cultural aware­ "I have a [physical]  College community in celebra­ 
n e s s . Junior S a r a Mahoney, the presi­ disability, so I became the representative for students with disabilties."  tion of cul­tural diver­sity of e v e r y woman on  
dent of t h e Board,  Sara Mahoney president, Student Diversity Board  campus."Mahoneysaid. "It  
has been a part of  helps to develop  

"an awareness and respect
"I have a [physical] dis­of different cultures and reli­ability, so I became the rep­gions." resentative for students with SDB holds discussion disabilities," Mahoney said. forums once a month about 
SD B is one of the five a variety of topics, including 

In addition to the forums, SDB holds meetings every Wednesday at noon in room 304 of Haggar College Center. These meetings are open to all students of Saint Mary's, and can be placed on the agenda if they wish to discuss a topic. 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, student body vice president, participates with the SDB in many activities. Jablonski­Diehl is also a part of the Student Academic Council. 
"We have international students come to us for advice on classes," she said. 
New transfer students also turn to the Student Academic Council for guid­ance. 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs helps to aid the needs of Saint Mary's minority stu­dents and 13 international students who come from Albania, Uganda, Chile and other nations. 
major boards on Saint Breast Cancer Awareness 


Contact Amanda Misnik at
Mary's campus. 


Month in October. misn5648@saintmarys.edu.
"It's mainly for students 



Event 
Smith said that officials will ask students for identification Thursday and any students who display signs of intoxica­tion or inappropriate behav­ior would be asked to leave. 
Though 95 percent of the senior class is 21 and older, Smith said the senior class council initially thought of ways to include the five per­cent that is under 21. 
"It would have been a logis­tical nightmare," Smith said, describing early ideas of sec­tioning off the beach into two areas for those over 21, and those under 21. 
After abandoning that plan, Smith said the majority of the senior class will still have the chance to enjoy the event. Also, with the new allocation, Smith said he was optimistic about the senior class coun­cil's ability to create more events in the future. 
"Money's great and all, but it's what you do with it," Smith said. "There could be 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 






SIT Program in Uganda 

ert Nile­ ·.  
ulu• -UGAND·• ·  
·  -1 Lake ·  ' Morot  
..~;  ))Kwania Soroti  
·  ~~~JLake  
,1::  .  ·  N.~ Kyoga 

,.,ctona 1,e Iii • ·Kampa ; 
Ente 
~e---­
rge
• 
I • 

• Interestecfin)2ljrica? 
• 
lnterestecfin Cha[[enges el Issues of(J)_eve[oping :Nations? 

• 
Interestecfin J-fo[y Cross Work, in P,ast J2ljrica? 



(})on 't miss a study a6roacfopportunity tfirough the Schoo[for Intemationa('Training. 
Infonnation :Meetino on: 'TtllSday Septem6er 24th 2002 (RJ,om 129 ¾ayes -Healy Jf.t 5:00,,m 

Monday, September 23, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
JAPAN 


European Union: War talk not raising oil prices 
Associated Press 
OSAKA 
The European Union rejected accusations by OPEC produc­ers Sunday that U.S. talk of war in Iraq was driving oil prices higher. 
With prices near 19-month highs of $30 a barrel. the United States and other indus­trialized countries say hopes for a global economic recovery could be undercut if oil pro­ducers don't pump more crude and temper prices. 
Ensuring access to oil was a main theme at the International Energy Forum bringing together officials from 70 countries. The forum wraps up Monday in Japan's western industrial city of Osaka. 
Many OPEC states blame recent high prices on Washington's talk of toppling Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. They pointed to ana­lyst estimates of a so-called "war premium" that has jacked up prices by $2 to $4 a barrel. 
"This increment is attributed to the one who is provoking conflict, not to us," said OPEC Secretary-General Alvaro Silva Calderon. 
European Union Energy 
Commissioner Loyola de Palacio said: "To blame the Americans over the price of the oil is very simple, but this is not the reality. I don't agree that it is the fault of the Americans." 
De Palacio described talks at the energy meeting as "frank" and said the big issue was the gap between buyers and sell­ers over where prices should be. 
U.S. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham met private­ly with Saudi Oil Minister Ali Naimi on Sunday but neither side would say afterward what had been discussed between the world's largest oil con­
sumer  and  the  largest  
exporter.  
OPEC  last week  rejected  

importers' demands for more oil and left official output unchanged at 21.7 million bar­rels a day. 
Silva said Sunday that Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would try to boost oil supply if the United States attacks Iraq, but ..we just don't know what will hap­pen in the case of a war." 
The three-day energy forum. attended was intended to bring consumers and producers together for talks on promot­ing stable markets. But so far, it has underscored differences 

that will not be narrowed easi­Tuesday when Iraq said it into the $29 range since, as ly. would allow weapons inspec­Bush said he would ask Oil prices briefly plunged tors back in the country. But Congress to approve use of more than 4 percent on crude has been ticking upward military force. 

Threats to wetlands concerns Oceans Commission 
"The oceans are in trouble; the coasts U.S. commercial fish catches are disap­water, from fishers to corporations, face
Associated Press 
are in trouble; our marine resources are pearing each year, says the new U.S. a Byzantine patchwork of federal and in trouble. These are not challenges we Commission on Ocean Policy. now state authorities and regulations," the
AUSTIN, Tex. 
can sweep aside," said James Watkins, halfway through an 18-month study. commission said. It cited more than 140
Six months before the first man land­
sounding more like a lifelong environ­Of the fully assessed U.S. fish stocks, federal ocean-related laws administered
ed on the moon, a presidential commis­
mentalist than a former chief of naval 40 percent are depleted or are being by nearly 20 different agencies and com­
sion urged Congress to use more "fully 
and wisely" a different sort of vastness, operations and national security expert. overfished, the commission says in an missions. one teeming with life but just as mysteri­Since the last commission's report in interim report being released this week. "We're already assuming that there ous and far closer to home -the world's early 1969, pressures have increased on Also, 12 billion tons of ballast water has to be a national ocean policy coordi­
coastal areas that are home to half the from ships are spreading invasive alien nating body," Watkins said. 
oceans. More than three decades later, a sec­nation's population. Ocean resources species to new locales around world. The commission found that ocean pol­ond presidential commission, led by a once thought boundless are now recog­The panel points to a need for consoli­lution, largely from farmland and urban retired admiral who headed the Energy nized as having limits. dating the federal and state govern­runoff, and human populations are Department in the first Bush administra­About 40,000 acres ofcoastal wetlands ments' myriad and often conflicting poli­increasing so much near shorelines that tion, says the urgency is even greater providing essential spawning, feeding cies affecting oceans. proper coastal management is over­than when the Eagle landed. and nursery areas for three-fourths of "Individuals who work and live on the whelmed. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pakistan arrests l O linked to al-Qaida 
Pakistani security forces arrested 10 Arab men as they tried to sneak across the border from neigh­boring Afghanistan in the past week, officials said Sunday. 
The men, traveling with fake passports, were ordered held in northwestern Pakistan. Officials suspected they may be part of Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network. 
"The suspects are being questioned by the Pakistani authorities," a police official with knowl­edge of the case told The Associated Press. speaking on condition of anonymity. "None of them have been handed over to FBI agents for questioning yet." 

Vatican may object to priest abuse plan 
The Vatican next month will make known its position on the new U.S. bishops' strategy to erad• icate sex abuse among clergy. a policy expected to raise objections at the Holy See. 
The Vatican press office on Sunday said it would not comment about a report by the National Catholic Reporter, a liberal, U.S.-based publica­tion, that the Vatican would not grant legal approval to the guidelines, adopted in June at a Dallas meeting of U.S. bishops. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Man convicted in yogurt shop murder 
A man was convicted of capital murder Sunday for killing a 13-year-old girl at a yogurt shop 11 years ago in Austin. 
Michael Scott. 28, was the second defendant convicted in the slayings of four girls at the I Can't Believe It's Yogurt Shop. Police said he confessed to shooting and strangling Amy Ayers after he was arrested in 1999, but his defense attorneys argued police intimidated Scott. 
He could be sentenced to death or life in prison when the penalty phase of the trial starts Monday. He also could be tried for the other deaths, prose­cutors said. 
White House proposes Medicare cuts 
Medicare payments allocated to hospitals to cover many drugs and outpatient medical procedures would be reduced sharply under a Bush administra­tion proposal, a newspaper reported Sunday. 
The cuts would affect a wide range of drugs, including those used to treat cancer and arthritis, the New York Times said. It also would reduce pay­ments used to cover medical procedures ranging from the implantation of battery-operated pace­makers to routine breast biopsies, it said. 

Fla. couple accused of starving daughter 
A mother and her: boyfriend were arrested for . allegedly locking the woman's 7-year-old daughter in a room for four months and giving her so little food she looked like "a walking skeleton." 
The girl weighed just 25 pounds, less than half the normal weight for a child her age, when police found her this month, according to a police report. Advertisement 
Connie Warrington, 23, and David LaPointe, 36, were arrested Friday on multiple counts of abuse. including caging, food deprivation and medical neglect, police said. 
"She looked like a walking skeleton," police spokesman Joe Durkin said. 

Los Angeles "Hillside Strangler" dies 
Angelo Buono Jr., whose gruesome killing of young Los Angeles women in the 1970s earned him the nick­name "Hillside Strangler," died Saturday in prison, corrections officials said. 
Buono, 67, was found dead at Calipatria State Prison, said Bob Martinez, a spokesman for the state Department of Corrections. 
The cause of death was not immediately known but Martinez said Buono suffered from heart problems. 
page 6 The Observer . HEALTH NEWS Monday, September 23, 2002 
Colon cancer more West Nile may cause paralysis 


likely to target Jews 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
People of eastern European Jewish ancestry are two to three times more likely to develop colon cancer if they have a mutation of a single gene, according to a new study. 
The study of DNA from more than 3,000 Ashkenazi Jews in New York and northern Israel appears Friday in the journal 
Science. 
Earlier studies had shown that mutation of both copies of the BLM gene causes a disorder called Bloom syndrome. The study shows that it takes only a single flawed BLM gene to 
increase the risk of colon can­cer. 
Kenneth Offit, a Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center researcher and senior author of the study, said the conclu­sion is based on a finding that Ashkenazi Jews diagnosed with colon cancer were two to three times more likely to have a single mutation of the BLM gene. 
"This means there is about a three times greater risk for colon cancer in an individual carrying a single copy of the mutated gene," said Offit. 
The study evaluated the genes of 1,244 Ashkenazi Jews with colon cancer and 1,839 who did not have the disease. 
Bloom syndrome, caused by a mutation of both copies of the BLM gene, is linked to a number of physical conditions, including short stature, and to a predisposition for many 
..This means there is about a three times greater risk for colon cancer in an individual carrying a single copy of the mutated gene. ,, 
Kenneth Offit researcher, Memorial Sloan­Kettering Cancer Center 
types of can­cer. Bloom syndrome occurs in all ethnic groups, but is most common a m o n g Ashkenazi Jews, or Jews of Eastern European descent. 
Offit said t h e researchers 
looked for evidence that the single mutation also caused other cancers associated with Bloom syndrome, but no link­age was found. 
Only about 1 percent of the Ashkenazi Jews have the sin­gle BLM gene mutation, said Offit. A much smaller percent­age, he said, have the double mutations. 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
Government health officials are warning doctors that the West Nile virus can cause acute paralysis after the mos­quito-borne virus apparently caused six people to become paralyzed. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urged doctors to test patients for West Nile if they report sud­den, painless paralysis but do not appear to have had a stroke. 
The warning came as health officials confirmed that the West Nile virus can apparently be transmitted through blood transfusions and said that all blood donations will probably be screened for the virus as soon as a test can be devel­oped. 
The most serious effect of infection -life-threatening brain inflammation -occurs in only a small percentage of cases, mostly among the sick or elderly. But most of the reported paralyses, in Mississippi and Louisiana, have occurred among middle­aged people who were previ­ously healthy. CDC medical epidemiologist Jim Sejvar said. 
Some of these victims lost the use of an arm or leg; oth­ers needed ventilators to help them breathe. 
A CDC report said the symp­toms can be confused with a condition known as Guillain­Barre syndrome. There is no known way to prevent West Nile paralysis, but Sejvar said treatments for Guillain-Barre syndrome may be harmful to patients who actually have West Nile. 
Health officials also suggest­ed Thursday that the virus can survive in donated blood for 
days. 
A woman i n Mississippi caught West Nile after receiving transfusions from three infected donors. CDC doctors 

..What we're trying to do here is jump-start the process.,, 
Jesse Goodman Food and Drug Administration 
called that case "highly suspi­cious" and said that West Nile "probably can be spread by transfusion." 
Previously, doctors were not sure whether it was possible to spread West Nile through blood, although a Georgia case in which donated organs spread the virus to four recipi­ents in August raised that pos­sibility. 
Dr. Jesse Goodman of the Food and Drug Administration said that all blood donations will probably be screened for the virus as soon as a test can be developed. He could not predict how long it would take to develop such a test or how much it would cost. 
"What we're trying to do here is jump-start this process," he said. 
But screening for the virus could prove difficult. West Nile is much harder to detect than a virus such as HIV because there are relatively small amounts of West Nile in taint­ed blood. 
Furthermore, a screening would have to detect the virus itself-not just antibodies the body produces in response ­because the virus spends sev­eral days in the blood stream 
before symptoms show up. 
B l o o d banks sa,id they expect­ed the F D A ' s announce­ment. Dr. Louis Katz, president­
elect of industry group America's Blood Centers. said the important question is not whether West Nile can be transmitted through blood, because it probably can, but whether it's a threat big enough to warrant testing all donations for it. 
"Does it rise to the level of appropriate screening? That's what we have to figure out,·· Katz said, adding that some diseases known to be spread through transfusion aren't screened because they're so rare. 
West Nile was first detected in the United States just three years ago. The CDC has reported more than 1,700 human cases of West Nile virus so far this year. includ­ing 84 deaths. 
Most people who become infected with the virus suffer no ill effects at all; others develop only flu-like symp­toms. 
THE WASHINGTON PROG:RAM APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Wednesday, September 25 7:00 P.M. 136 DeBartolo FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME  

...-------------------------------------------------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 23,2002 COMPILED FHOM Tim Ons1mv1m WIHE SEHVICES 


MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 20 
DowJones 
7,986.02  ~  +43.63  
NASDAQ  
1,221.09  ~  +4.64  
S&P500  
845.39  ~  +2.07  
AMEX  
841.14  ~  +0.83  
NYSE  
458.97  +0.98 

~ 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.67 +0.08 12.08 
SUNrMICROSYS1tEMS:tSuNW~f55':+a?1ai :i:.sa 
IN BRIEF New batteries safe for environment 
Scientists have developed a variant of the batteries used in cell phones as a cheaper, safer and more compact alternative lo the nickel-metal hydride cells that power electric cars. 
The automotive versions of new lithium-ion batteries will he much bigger than thost) US{:d in cell phones but will share other trail"> that make the technology popular, said Yet-Ming Chiang, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
The work appeared Sunday in the electronic version of the journal Nature Materials. 
Since Sony Corp. introduced lithium-ion batteries in 1991, they have become popular in many consumer electronics, including lap­top computers, digital cameras and mobile phones. They're compact, lightweight and can store a lot of energy. 
But they're also expensive to mak,~. since they often contain pricey cobalt. Larger lithi­um-ion batteries can also be more dangerous. because of the risk of overheating. 
Peregrine Systems files Chapter 11 
Software maker Per,!grine Syst,:ms Inc. flied for Chapter 11 bankruptcy Sunday and said it planned to bring a $250 million law­suit against its former auditor, Arthur Andersen LLP, blaming it for P,:rcgri nc's dire financial condition. 
San Diego-based Percgrinn listed assets of $1.7 billion and more than $U)7 million in liabilities in its filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware. The Chapt<!r 11 p,:tition is the latest move in a downward spiral that began in May with the disclosure of irregu­larities in financial statements audited by Andersen 
An internal investigation found the compa­ny had innated its revenue by as much as $250 million from April 199'J to the end of 2001. The company said it improperly booked the sale of accounts receivables as revenue. 
SWITZERLAND 
Money-share plan rejected 
. Swiss voters say no to sharing excess money 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 

Swiss voters rejected sharing the windfall of a multibillion-dollar gold sale with the needy. and the chief opponent said tlw referendum proved the Swiss were immune to for­eign blackmail. 
According lo the orlicial final returns, 52 percent. or 1.05 million voters, turned down a government plan to spend ttw intcrPst from the sales of "excess" gold in three ways -one­third to the Swiss social security program. a third to regional governments and a third lo people in need at home or abroad. Just 984,590, or 48 per­cent, vot1id in favor of the plan. Some 44.1 percent of eligible voters cast ballots. 
"The unspeakable, Solidarity Foundation can­not be created," said Christoph Blocher, a nationalist lawmaker. "The Swiss people cannot be blackmailed." 
Bloch1!r maintains that the id1ia behind the foun­dalion was a waste, of morwy becaus1! it was pro­posed by th1: govcrnnwnl in 1997 as a sol id arily paymc11 ls -lo Nazi vic­way Lhrough tlu: Swiss The Swiss Nntiorml Ba11k fund to aid victims of the tims or any one else with a parliarrwnt, wilh pn:ssun: calculated that tt11: pn:­Nazis and any ottwr p1iople grievanc1: agai ns l Oil Switzerland from cious IIWlal's illCTf!,lS(! ill sulforing from gm10cide or Switzerland -am exclud­ahroad abating sinc:c 1CJ•J8 valtw ovc:r th1i d1!cade:s disaster. ed. wtwn Swiss hanks niachcd 11u:a11t that it had twice as 
Presid•rnt Kaspar Villig1:r "This foundation is a a $ I.l5 billion court sellh!­111ucl1 gold as it um:dcd to said tw "nspecially nign:t~ product of m 1: 11 l with hack l111: co1111lry's strong 
..The unspeakable
t<:d" tho vote, and add<:d, the black­llolocaust curn:1u:y. ttw Swiss fra11c. "The allegation of hlack­mailing of Solidarity Foundation victims a11d Some: I.:mo tons is hcin;{ mail isn't right." our country cannot be crealed. 11u1 ttwir lwirs. sold off at the rate or ahoul 
At th1~ time Switz<:rland by .J 1:w ish BI o c: h I\ r a ton a day, and the mmwy
,C.,'wiss people c<uu,ol be 
was rneling from attacks cird1:s in ttu: led his has tw1:11 pili11g up. The by .Jewish organizations U n i t 1: d blackmailed. ·· s w i s s gov1:r111111:11l hasn't dis­allnging that tho historical­States," Christoph Blocher Pt! op I e! 's closed tlu: total proceeds ly neutral country, and il<; Blocher, a natlonallst lawmaker Party in col­from ltu: rwarly h00 tons 
hanks, had amassed grnal billionaire l<!cli 11g Uui sold so far, hut al 1:urn:11t wealth at the expense of industrialist 11 t! c I\ s s a r y gold pric:cs iL would lu: Nazi victims during World and rn1:rnher of parlia­amount of signalur,:s worth ahout $(1_] billion. War If. rn,:nl, said in a recent trndt!r Swiss din!cl democ­Tiu: go;d is hr rais,: aliou L 
Blocher has ma.intairn1d int,:rvicw with the daily racy to challf!IIJ.{I! ttw law. $1 ].5 hilliou. his opposition even though Basl1:r Zeilung. "And you But tho proc,,ss was Th1i gov1:r111111:lll plan must nev1:r giv,: in Lo alrnady urnfor way, and in irtcludr:d dividing part of
all references lo the May lOOO th,: n~nlral hank Uu: mon,:y cv1:1ily f)(:lwf:P11
Holocaust were remov1:d blackmail." The found ati Oil was started sidling off part of s,:lf-hdp proj1:c:ts for us1: at
in the law setting up the modified as il work<:d its Uu: national gold reserves. ho1111: a11d abroad.
foundation. Compensation 


No rate change expected from Fed 
Anocia.tcd Prcu 
The slumping stock market, lack­1uster job growth and incn:a.sing worries about possible war with Iraq an1 battering th,: economy. Yet Federal Heserve policy-makers arc not cxp,:ctcd to come through with further interest rate cuts wtu:n they me,:t Tuesday. 
Private economists heli,:v1: 1.-,:deral H,:s,:rve Chairman Alan Cn:cnspan and his c:olleagw:s will d1:cid1: that by lfiaving rat1!s at a 40-y,:ar low, ttwy are doing 1:nough to prod a sustain­able economic n:covery. 
That outcome would disappoint Wall Strt1:t. .\tlany invest,irs b1:li1:vr: ttu: Fed ,w,:ds to makn additional cuts lo holstf:r consumer and husi­rH:ss confirh:ncf:, which has lH:f:11 shak1:n by ttu: n:c1:ssiou. t,:rror and corporat,: scandab. 
"Thi: l.,1~d1:ral Hcscrvf: is not going to cut ratl:s simply to boost Uw stock markr:t," said Sung Won Sohn. chi1:f 1:conomist at Wells f.'argo in Minn,:apolis. "Thr! economic num­b,:rs an: not as robust as thi: F1:d would lik1: to sci:, hut h:d officials lrnlifw1: rnmforalf: 1:conomk growth is occurring." 
Thr: h:d, at its last rru:,:ting on Aug. 1], dr:cid,:d to l,:avr: its targ1:t for ovr:rnight hank borrowing at I .7S pr:rc,:nt. whr:n: it ha.., h1:,:11 sinr:1: D1:c1:mhcr. Th,: 1.-1:d hdd out Uu: pos­sibility of further rate cuts hy Indi­cating it vicw,:d r:conornit: w1:ak1wss rathr:r tha11 i11f1alio11 as ltlf: higgcr thn:at in th,: mouths atH:ad. ­
l:v1:11 though ma11y aualysts said they ,:xrwct rates to rcm;tiu steady Tu,:sday. Uu:n: n:mai11s a chaw:,: of a rat,: cul at om: of ttu: ba11k's final two 1111:1:tings, i11 Nov1:mh1:r or Dcc1:mh1:r. That could br:cornr: rnon: possibl<: if tlH:n: arc mon: t:crrnomic shocks -for 1:xampl1:, a big drop i11 c:011surrH:r confidr:111:1: from a IJ.S. invasion of Iraq, or rH:w tr:rrorism attacks rir a pot,:ntial disruption iii oil suppli1:s b1:caus1: of Middli: J•:ast tr:11sirrns. 
Monday, September 23, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
GERMANY 
Germany elects new chancellor 
JORDAN 
Palestinian protest sparked by Israeli siege 
Associated Press 
Takeover of Arafat headquarters angers Palestinians 
RAMALLAH 

Thousands of Palestinians marched Sunday to protest Israel's siege of Yasser Arafat's headquarters, and Israeli soldiers opened fire on Palestinians who defied cur­fews. Four Palestinians were killed in the protests and a fifth died later in the day. 
Palestinian leaders declared a general strike for Monday, appealed to the Arab world for help and called on their people to resist the Israeli operation, which began Thursday after a Palestinian suicide bomber blew up a Tel Aviv bus, killing himself and six others. 
In Washington, White House spokeswoman Jeanne Mamo said Sunday that Israel's assault was "not helpful in Palestinian territories -a reducing terrorist violence or dramatic prospect that could promoting Palestinian redefine the terms of the cur­reforms." rent conflict. 
France led a European wave Palestinian officials had also of criticism against the Israeli warned that Israel's pulveriza­
assault, call­ tion  of  
ing it "unac­ceptable." A  "There is no physical  Arafat's compound  
G r e e k Foreign Ministry  danger, neither to Arafat not to the other people. ••  endangered the safety of the feeble  
statement  72-year-old  
said  that  Shimon Peres  Palestinian  
Arafat asked  Israeli foreign minister  leader, and  

Associated Press 
BERLIN 
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's Social Democrats won Germany's closest postwar election Sunday, after a cam­paign that focused on fears of a war with Iraq and unleashed anti-American rhetoric. 
A jubilant Schroeder appeared arm-in-arm with Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of the Greens party, the partner in his governing coalition, before cheering supporters at Social Democratic Party headquarters. 
"We have hard times in front of us and we're going to make it together," Schroeder shouted above the din. 
With 99.7 percent of the vote counted, official results showed the Social Democrats and Greens combined won 47.1 percent of the vote to continue their coali­tion for another four years. The conservative challengers led by Bavarian governor Edmund Stoiber had 45. 9 percent in a likely alliance with the Free Democrats, who had 7.4 percent. 
The Social Democrats and environmentalist Greens won 305 seats in the new parliament of 601 seats, compared to 294 for the conservative challengers led by Bavarian governor Edmund Stoiber, according to projections by ARD public televi­sion. Smaller parties won the remaining seats. 
Stoiber stopped short of con­ceding in a speech to rowdy sup­porters in Munich, but predicted that Schroeder's majority would be too slim to form a lasting coalition. 
"Should the result not allow us to form a government, then I predict before you that this Schroeder government will rule for only a very short time," he said. 
Stoiber said Schroeder will have to repair relations with Washington, damaged by a new German assertiveness that emerged over American deter­mination to oust Saddam Hussein. 
Schroeder, whose outspoken defiance against war with Iraq was credited with giving him a late-push in the tight campaign, said he won't back down. He has insisted he would not commit troops for a war even if the United Nations backs military action. 
Greece to work with the United States and Europe to end the siege, while Britain and Russia urged Israel to end the confinement. The U .N. Security Council was to con­vene Monday about the siege. 
Israelis themselves debated the usefulness of the opera­tion, the third inside Arafat's compound this year, especially given the persistent reports that its actual goal was to compel Arafat to leave the 
after night­
fall Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said the demolition work had ended. 
"There is no physical dan­ger, neither to Arafat nor to the other people," Peres said Sunday on CNN's Late Edition. 
"We don't want to expel him, we don't want to kill him, we don't want to hurt him," he said. "There was a vote in the government. The majority of the government decided against expulsion." 
Earlier in the day, Israeli sol­diers fired tear gas and bullets to try to stop demonstrations in West Bank towns as thou­sands of marchers disregarded military orders confining them to their homes. Four protest• ers were killed during the demonstrations, Palestinians said. 
"If Arafat is martyred, we will bomb embassies," some of the marchers shouted in Ein el-Hilweh camp. The demon­strators carried portraits of Arafat, Palestinian flags and placards calling on world lead­ers to protect Arafat. 
For three days, huge Israeli bulldozers systematically knocked down buildings in the city-block-sized compound in the West Bank town of Ramallah, closing in on Arafat's office, where the beleaguered leader was holed up in four rooms with his aides. The Israelis surrounded the building with barbed wire. 

_.. ::--,,.~\ :.~'-~ ~--•i
";.'..•· •~1:•; I.
-,:c--,-~«".f--!iO" 

While Schroeder's anti-war stand resonated with German voters, the rhetoric reached a damaging peak in the final days of his campaign when Justice Minister Herta Daeuberl-Gmelin was reported to have compared President Bush to Hitler for threatening war to distract from domestic problems. 
Do you see a tNindy day or a 1Nay to generate power for 1000 homes? 
Single wind turbines that can light entire communities. We're developing them right now at GE. If you're like us and see the world as full ofpossibilities, then you belong here. From advanced medical technology to jet engines, from financial services to power generation, the diverse businesses of GE will give you unlimited opportunities to make our world a better place. All you have to do is bring energy, ideas and passion to work every day. Visit us at gecareers.com/notredame. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Deadline for application for GE Interviews 
September 23rd 
Go /RISH! https://goirish.erecruiting.com/er/security/login.jsp 
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO SUBMIT YOUR RESUME AND APPLY ON-LINE 
THROUGH Go IRISH! FOR GE's UPCOMING ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. 


We bring good things to lite. 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext 123 
WWW.SUNCHASE.CD,\i 

Monday> September 23> 2002 page 9 
The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS 
'The West Wing' collects third consecutive best drama 
TV, won best series. Jennifer actress in the same role.
'Friends' finally 
Aniston won best actress, the "No way. Thank you to thewins best comedy ensemble's first major acting Emmy voters for this promo­award. tion," said Janney. 
after 8 seasons 
"This is so amazing, after Spencer, who plays the chief eight years and the last three of staff, and Channing, who 
Associated Press 
hours and 10 minutes. This is so plays the first lady, won the worth the drama series LOS ANGELES wait," said supporting The White House drama "The David Crane, "This is so arnazing, after acting 
West Wing" won its third con­executive pro­Emmys.
eight years and the last 
secutive Emmy as best drama ducer of W h e n series Sunday and "Friends" "Friends.·· three hours and IO min­Romano was honored as best comedy for In a year utes. This is so worth the won, he the first time in its eight years when some referred to
wait.,,

on the air. critics thought an earlier 
'Tm just as surprised as you edgy fare comment are," Aaron Sorkin, creator of would win, David Crane that his par­"The West Wing," said in only Michael ents said
executive producer, "Friends"
accepting the Emmy. The show Chiklis' best they would also produced acting Emmy actor award visit him winners in Allison Janney, John for FX's ''The Shield," broke the each year during the Emmys Spencer and Stockard mold. HBO's undertaker drama, until he won. Channing. "Six Feet Under," earned 23 "Mom and dad, we're going 
In comedy, the Emmys loved nominations but was nearly right to the airport ... I'm kid­"Everybody Loves Raymond" shut out, with one directing ding, of course. This is only spe­with acting awards going to Ray award. cial because you 're here Romano, Brad Garrett and Janney, who plays the presi­tonight,'' he said as he accepted Doris Roberts. dent's press secretary in "The the award for outstanding lead 
But "Friends," entering what West Wing," won the best actor in a comedy series. is expected to be its final season actress Emmy after winning the Garrett, who plays Romano's as the most popular comedy on past two years as supporting brother, and Roberts, who plays 
RECOMMENDS 
f'he Best American Nonrequired Beading 
is a selection of the best literature from mainstream and alternative American periodicals: from f'he New Yorker to ,Jane, 
Bolling Stone to f'he Onion. 
In an exhilarating tale of historic adventure, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Confederates in the Attic retraces the voyages of Captain James Cook, the Yorkshire farm boy who drew the map of the modern world. 
f'he Corrections is a comic, tragic masterpiece about a family breaking down in an age of easy fIXes. "An energetic, brooding, open-hearted and funny novel." 
-Chris Lehmann, f'he Washington Post 
Romano's meddling mother, both joked about their awards. The 71-year-old Roberts said, "This is what happens when you're young and sexy." 
Deadpanned Garrett: "I just hope that this award breaks down the door for Jewish peo­ple who are trying to get into show business." 
A puckish Larry Wilmore won the award for best writing in a comedy series for "Bernie Mac." 
"I feel like Halle Berry," the black writer said, mimicking Berry's weepy Oscar accep­tance speech earlier this year. 
Host Conan O'Brien opened the show with dubious help from rocker Ozzy Osbourne and his family, who joined in a skit in which they dressed O'Brien in outrageous Osbourne fashion and rushed him to the awards, only to mistakenly put him on the set of "The Price is Right" instead of the Shrine Auditorium. 
MTV's ;'The 

ing variety, music or comedy series. 
The award for individual per­formance in a variety or music program went to "Sting in Tuscany ... All This Time." 

"The Gathering Storm" was named best TV movie and Albert Finney was honored as best lead actor in a miniseries or movie for his portrayal of Winston Churchill. It also won a writing Emmy. 
Laura Linney was named best lead actress in a miniseries or movie for "Wild Iris." In the same category, Michael Moriarty was honored as sup­porting actor for "James Dean," and Channing, winning her sec­ond award of the night, won best supporting actress for "The Matthew Shepard Story." 
"Band of Brothers," a sweep­ing World War II epic, was hon­ored as best miniseries. 
HBO and NBC dominated the Emmys, · each receiving 24 awards 
Osbournes" received the  "There really is nothing  including honors given  
best reality series Emmy at an earlier cere­mony. The fami­ more important to me that striving to be a good human being.»  during the earlier cre­ative arts ceremony.  
ly,  who  gath­ CBS  was  
ered onstage as presenters, let mom Sharon  Oprah Winfrey talk show host  second with e i g h t awards, fol- 
Osbourne do the  lowed  by  
talking.  Fox  with  

"On a personal note, I want to seven, A&E with six and ABC thank you all for your prayers with five. and encouragement. It means a Talk show host Oprah Winfrey lot to me," she said. Mrs. received the inaugural Bob Osbourn-e is undergoing treat­Hope Humanitarian Award, ment for colon cancer. honoring philanthropic efforts, 
Sunday's event contrasted from presenter Tom Hanks. with last year's somber, post­Comedian Hope spent decades Sept. 11 ceremony, when par­entertaining U.S. troops. ticipants dressed down. The "There really is nothing more fashion parade of arriving stars ' important to me than striving to showed that glamour and be a good human being," revealing gowns were back this Winfrey said, acknowledging year. Hope, 99, and his wife watching 
"The Sopranos" was ineligible at home. for awards because it sat out a ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC were season, but it managed to have honored with the Governors an impact: A new episode aired Award for jointly supporting a Sunday on HBO in competition post-Sept. 11 telethon, with the Emmys, and O'Brien "America: A Tribute to Heroes." joked at one point that he would The program also received an turn the numerous TV sets that Emmy for variety, music or decorated the stage to "The comedy special. Sopranos." "Thank you on behalf of a 
"Late Show with David very grateful America," said Letterman" was honored for the former New York City Mayor fifth year in a row as outstand-Rudolph Giuliani. 
The English Department & The Career Center host 
\ .. 

Career Night 
for English majors and all Arts and Letters students 
Meet representatives of various career paths 
Tuesday, September 24 
7:00 pm DeBartolo 129 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 23, 2002 
~===:::::::::========================-====;;;;.=;;.=============================:::::·\\
) 
. 
• 

l l 
.... I ; --­
L 

I ] 

iBook 

Recommended Apple System for Notre Dame Students. 
$1,986 with Education Discount and three years of AppleCare 
Take up to an additional $50 off through 9/25/02 

PowerBook G4 
Live large. Travel light.~ 
Starting at $2,349 
Take up to an additional S152 off through 9125/02 
eMac 
A Ready to plug-and-play. 
Starting at $999 .. 


14.1-inch TFT XGA display 700MHz PowerPC G3 256MB SDRAM memory 30GB Ultra ATA drive Combo (DVD-ROM/CD-RW) Drive 
The new iMac 
Adjust your view. 
Starting at $1,249 
.
. 
PowerMacG4 
Tower of Power. 

Starting at $1,252 
Receive up ro SS00 back with the purchase ofan Apple Display throvgh 9/30/02 





~=------:,· · ~., ... 
,,,,,.,...,,..,. '14 ~ 

..•• 00~~-------­
Mac OS X v10.2 Jaguar 
With over 150 new features, the new Mac OS is Wildly Innovative. 
iTunes 
MP3 to the extreme, with built-in CD Burning and iPod support. 
iChat 
The built-in Instant Messaging application that works with AIM. 
iMovie 
Digital movie editing, brought to your desktop and made simple. 
1Po4 Jffl'j 
#DIG£ I 


iPod
HrolUH >) 
httrlP >, 
\~ttMni >: 
Abnwt )' 

l . 5, 10, or 20 GB versions Download a CD in seconds 10 hour battery life Works on Windows, too 
Starting at $269 
For more information, or to get your special Student Discount, visit: 
~oluttoh~ Cehter 
Notre Dame•s Computer Products Store 
Room 112 Computing Center/Math Building {CCMB) Phone: 219-631-7477 
or Visit The Apple Store for Education at: 
http:/ /solution.nd.edu/ 

---·· 


Monday, September 23, 2002 
The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS page 11 



WorldCom to block porn 
Associated Press 
HARRISBURG, Pa. 
A judge's order requiring WorldCom to block five child­pornography Web sites is the first use of a Pennsylvania law that raises concerns about turn­ing Internet service providers into government censors. 
The sites in question were not hosted by WorldCom but were accessible using WorldCom and other ISPs. According to an affi­davit filed by an investigator, the sites showed nude males and females, believed to be under age 18, in sexual poses. 
Montgomery County Senior Judge Lawrence A. Brown in Norristown on Wednesday ordered WorldCom to prevent its subscribers from accessing those sites. 
The ruling was the first under a new state law that requires ISPs to disable access to child­pornography sites. 
urt e~ 
_ree 
APARTMENTS 
WEARE NOW TAKING APPLICATIONSFoR 
THE 2003-04 SCHOOL YEAR! YOU CAN GET YOUR APPLICATIONS AT W\YWlURTLECREEKND,COM OR YOU CAN VISIT US AT THE LEASING OFFICE! WE ALSO HAVE SELECT STUDIOS AVAILABLE FOR EITHER THE 
REMAINDER OF THIS SEMESTER, NEXT SEMESTER AND EVEN BOTH!! GO ONLINE OR PICK UP YOUR APPLICATIONS TODAY! ·ruRTLE CREEK AiARTMENTS 
1710 TURTLE CREEK DRIVE 
sotrrH BEND, IN 46637 
P: 574..272-8124 WWW.TIJRTLECREEKND.COM 

The Office of Students with Disabilities 
is looking for students interested in being a 
personal care attendant 
for a female student with physical challenges. Attendants will assist the student with dressing, grooming, and other daily activities. Evening, morning, and weekend hours are available. The position pays ~7.25 an hour. If you are interested, please contact Scott Howland at 631-7141 orshowland@nd.edu. 
No other state has such a law, although at least three ­Arkansas, South Dakota and South Carolina -require ISPs or computer technicians to report any child pornogra­phy they discover. according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
Though child pornography is illegal, critics worry that forcing ISPs to do the blocking sets a bad precedent. 
Jonathan Zittrain, co-direc­tor of Harvard Law School's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, said a copyright infringement victim might someday demand that an ISP block access to a site contain­ing the copyright material. 
"The technology that may develop to be responsive to this request is going to be a Swiss army knife capable of being deployed in a lot of other areas," Zittrain said. 
Just last month, the U.S. 
recording industry filed a feder­al lawsuit seeking to compel four ISPs to block a Chinese Web site accused of distributing pirated music. 
Critics complained that the industry was trying to force Internet carriers into function­ing as the copyright police instead of going after the site directly. 
The lawsuit was later dropped, after the site mysteri­ously stopped working. 
Sean Connolly, a spokesman for Pennsylvania Attorney General Mike Fisher, said his office has worked cooperatively with ISPs to block access to about 200 sites since the law went into effect in April. 
WorldCom was the first com­pany to refuse initially. 
WorldCom officials had indi­cated in a letter to Fisher's office that they would block access only after receiving the court order. 
Commerce renews Internet committee 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The Internet's key oversight body won another year of life as the U.S. Commerce Department renewed the group's authority despite reservations about its progress. 
It is the third extension since the government selected the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers 
in 1998 to assume oversight of the domain name sys­tem, the core com­puters that help Internet users find Web sites and send e-mail. 
Initially, Commerce 
naming duties entirely to the private, nonprofit organization in 2000 after a two-year transi­tion. Instead, as ICANN faced questions of legitimacy and accountability, some critics have called for abolishing it complete­ly. 

The one-year renewal, to Sept. 30, 2003, marked a middle ground. 
In an updated memorandum of understanding, or MOU, Commerce on Friday said it would watch over ICANN more closely and demand quarterly, instead of annual, progress reports. 
"The department is frankly disappointed that ICANN's progress on the MOU tasks thus far has moved so slowly," said 
Yahoo! releases videogame service 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

In its latest move to generate revenue outside online adver­tising, Internet portal Yahoo! is launching a fee-based ser­vice Monday that lets users download and play videogames on demand. 
The service will offer well­known titles that can be rent­ed for a few days or weeks at a time and run as if the CD­ROM were bought at a store and popped into the personal computer, said Daniel Hart, Yahoo's senior director of games and entertainment. 
Most of the data required to run each game is streamed to the PC over the Internet before the game is started for the first time. The program then runs off the hard drive, down­loading additional files as needed. It expires at the end of the rental period. 
"It's a full-screen, rich audiovisual experience ­exactly like a CD from a store," Hart said. 
Other Internet gaming sites typically offer programs that 
that ulti­

"Nevertheless, the department 
mately affect 

considers the organization's e v e r y 
recent broad reform efforts to Internet user.
be a substantial justification 
It has

for affording /CANN a limited 
reorganized amount oftime to achieve several times, and a
the MOU tasks. " 
new round 

of reforms Nancy Victory was initiated 
Assistant Commerce Secretary in February. 
was to hand the 
Assistant Commerce Secretary Nancy Victory. "Nevertheless, the department considers the organization's recent broad reform efforts to be a substantial justification for affording ICANN a limited amount of time to achieve the MOU tasks." 
Since its formation, ICANN has been distracted from its regular work by endless debates about its authority, methods for select­ing board members and proce­dures for making important 
decisions 
Stuart 
L y n n , ICANN's chief executive, took Commerce's renewal as an affir­

mation that ICANN is  on the  
right  track  with  the  latest  
reforms.  

Those reforms, expected to be adopted next month at ICANN's meeting in Shanghai, China, call for the appointment of board members through committees representing various Internet constituencies with technical, business, government and com­munity involvement. 
In doing so, ICANN would no longer select members through direct elections. Defenders say appointments are necessary to ensure that board members have the knowledge and experi­ence to understand the issues. Critics say elections help ensure accountability. 
were developed in the Java 
programming language or run 
through the Flash multimedia 
player. 
The Yahoo service is sched­

uled to launch early Monday 
with prices ranging from 
$4. 95 for the rental of one 
game for three days to $14.95 
for the rental of 10 games for 
30 day. 
About 40 games ·-including Grand Theft Auto 2. Skate Park Tycoon, Tomb Raider Chronicles and Backyard Basketball -will be available. 
Once a game is selected, users must download a large file -up to 200 megabytes. The so-called "precaching" file remains on the computer, so subsequent starts of the same title are faster. The new ser­vice only works on Windows­base d personal computers with high-speed Internet con­nections. 
Sunnyvale, Calif. -based Yahoo has been launching numerous fee-based services since the collapse of the adver­tising market that supported the dreams of most dot-corns during the boom years. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 23, 2002
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROI.LER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIToR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOJNf.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu\ ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTFMSIWEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
~tions regarding Obst'TVerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oboc:rvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday <xccp< during cum and nc:ation periods. A •ubtcription ID The Obscrva i1 SIOO for one acadank year, 155 for one lfflleir.cr. 
The Oboe..., is publish<d at: POSTMASTER 
02. South Dining Hall Send addrcu coO"Mtiom to: 
N°"" D..,,.,, IN '46SS6-0779 The O""'°"r 
Paiodic.1 po<ugc paid •• Notte Dame P.O.l!oxQ 
and addirioaal mailing oflic.os. 024 Sou,h Dining Hall 
No.re Oamc:, IN 46S56-0779 
The Oboe,-IS• manbcr olchc Auoci-.1 Prcu. All rqnoducrion righ1> ,re reserved. 
It only takes three weeks 
My roommate has an interesting the­ory. He believes that after just three weeks in a completely new environ­ment, one can adjust. This doesn't mean life becomes easy or effortless, just normal. No matter how dif­
Laura Rompf

ficult the change is, after three weeks, you wake up Beyond the and it doesn't Bubble seem so differ­ent anymore. 
I listened to his theory, and even bought it partially, but being 1,000 miles from home, and having just graduated from the only place I dreamed of going for 18 years, I didn't think I could adjust to Oklahoma City in just three weeks. 
But sure enough, one afternoon dri­ving home from teaching, I took the exit off Interstate 235 and headed towards 700 NE 19th Street. Something clicked inside me. "This feels normal," I thought. "Being in Oklahoma City feels normal." I informed my roommate and he said, "Three-week rule, huh?" 
While at first, I was a bit aggravated that he was right again, suddenly I found comfort in his three-week rule. If I became acclimated to Oklahoma City in just three weeks, I was sure I could become acclimated to teaching as well. 
Unfortunately, I think I was anticipat­ing that teaching would become easy and effortless, but instead it just became normal. It was normal to get up at 6 a.m. after going to bed at 12:30 
a.m. It was normal to frantically run around during my planning hour, not to get ready for the week ahead, but rather to get things ready for my next class. 
It was normal to feel incompetent, stressed and overwhelmed nearly all the time. Things didn't become easy, but the frantic pace of my life became normal. 
Looking back I had a similar experi­ence my freshman year at Notre Dame. At first I didn't want to be there. I was content with my high school life. I had good friends, I loved my family and I was proud to live in Kentucky. 
But after three weeks of classes in DeBartolo Hall, one Rally in the Alley, rushing the football field after the 1998 Michigan victory and several dorm par­ties, things felt normal. I had adjusted. 
Overall, this is a quite a comforting thought for life. Even after I get mar­ried, have children, start a career and buy my first house, it's comforting to know that approximately three weeks later, things will seem normal. Just when we beli~ve our lives have changed too much, we adjust. 
So whether you're a freshman living on your own for the first time, or a senior hosting the parties rather than attending them, I hope you've adjusted after three weeks of being under the Dome. 
But don't take this sense of security as an invitation to sit back and relax, because I have just one more theory. You see, there are some of us who sit there and listen when an OK song comes on the radio. We have a fear that if we change the station, and noth­ing better is on. it will make us miss that OK song. 
And then there are some of us who change the station with just a glimpse of hope that an even better song will be on another station. To us, it's worth the risk. 
So my advice is, change the station. Take the risk. Because even if a new, unfamiliar song is on another station, it will take only three weeks to get used to it. And who knows, it may become your favorite song. 
laura Rompfis a 2002 graduate of Notre Dame. She is currently teaching in Oklahoma City through the Alliance for Catholic Education. Iler column appears every other Monday. Contact her at lrompj@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
UNICEF helps promote a better world 
UNICEF, the United Nation's Children Fund, does make the world more fit for children. In response to Professor Rice's Sept. 20 column, I add my perspective after having worked for UNICEF briefly. 
Rice's critique on UNICEF is not convincing. First, Rice criticizes UNICEF for considering controversial wording in the U.N. Special Session on Children's report. However, the lan­guage of this report resulted from a collaborative effort by the United Nations at large, not just UNICEF. Member states reached a consensus and those words in question were not included in the report. Second, Rice decries an endorsement by the United Nations that originated between 1992 and 2000. 
Again, I fail to see the connection between these ambiguous endorse­ments by the United Nations (which were also officially blocked) and UNICEF, a fairly autonomous organi­zation. Finally, Rice criticizes UNICEF for a book published by the Mexican government that addresses reproduc­tive health issues. Yet Rice proceeds to inform readers that Carol Bellmay, the UNICEF executive director, con­firmed the withdrawal of this book from circulation. I ask how this retracted publication effectively ques­tions UNICEF as a legitimate advocate of children's rights. _ 
Just as Professor Rice supports full disclosure and "truth in labeling," I elucidate on UNICEF as an organiza­tion. I volunteered at the U.N. historic Special Session on Children last May, so I can add to Rice's list of "intrigu­ing concepts" that emerged from these meetings. Largely discussed was the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child that bans use of child soldiers. The most "intriguing" aspect of this proto­col was the fact that at the time only two countries out of 192 failed to rati­fy this protocol: the United States and Somalia. Following the Special Session, the United States proved itself by ratifying the protocol over the summer. 
There was also discussion on the 800,000 infants that were infected with HIV last year and ways to com­bat this tragic growth; UNICEF, along with the United Nations, actively dis­cusses preventative measures. After listening to impressive speeches by Nelson Mandela, Kofi Annan and oth­ers, I learned that UNICEF supports vaccination programs including the millions of doses of yellow fever vacci­nations distributed in Ghana last year and how UNICEF helped reduce the cases of polio worldwide in 1998 from 2,000 to 170. 
In addition, UNICEF procured $600 million worth of supplies in 2001, dis­tributed 6,300 emergency kits to chil­dren around the world and sits on the Global Movement for Children cam­paign which has garnered 94 million pledges to the "Say Yes to Children" program. These compelling statistics are only a few ways in which UNICEF makes the world more fit for children, a claim that even the Vatican cannot belie. 
Finally, in regard to Rice's com­ments on "little kids carrying the UNICEF donation cans on Halloween," I would say as an adult, I have done this numerous times and encourage all people to participate in this impor­tant campaign to fight iodine deficien­cy disorder. 
Ken Seifert 
semor Carroll Hall Sept. 20 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Helena Payne Chris Federico Tim Heine Colin Boylan Laura Coristin Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint Scene 
Teresa Fralish C. Spencer Beggs Graphics Emily Howald Katie McKenna Lab Tech Lisa Velte 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you support a preemptive U.S. attack on Iraq? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You must be the change you wish to see in the world. ,, 
Mohandas K. Gandhi Indian nationalist leader 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, September 23, 2002 
page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Questioning 
Saint Mary's 
Catholic identity 
In the past year. Saint Mary's has launched a new program, as 
described in The Observer on Sept. 20, that encourages students, 
faculty and staff to focus on the identity of Saint Mary's as a Catholic 
institution. At first, this news was pleasant to my ears. Knowing well 
from experience how desperately faltering St Mary's is in upholding 
Catholic doctrine and in encouraging students in the true beliefs of 
the Catholic faith, I was initially hopeful that this program would 
bring much needed attention to the areas in which the College is 
misleading many students. 
I sadly learned that this was not the case, and that under the guise 
of a program that claimed to "explore and question our Catholic 
identity," these pressing issues were not so much avoided as they 
were masked. I have found this not only to be true within the semi­
nars but also in campus ministry, campus life and even in our class­
es. I have witnessed more than one individual attempting to teach 
their subjective feminisms, which fall outside of the realm of Catholic 
teaching. as part of the Catholic faith. I have seen the truth of the 
Catholic Church warped and mutilated in so many ways that my 
heart aches to try and describe them. 
As a young woman continually growing in my spiritual walk, I see firsthand the absolute and certain danger that is ahead if nothing is changed. We must have the courage to learn the real reasons why the doctrine exists and attempt to relate it to our lives and thoughts. Many Catholic students come to Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and other Catholic colleges full of questions about their faith and with little understanding of the reasons behind Catholic teaching. Professors and college administrators have a unique and unparalleled opportu­nity to answer questions, evangelize and support students in their Catholic-Christian walks. 
It is certain that these well-educated adults realize the ignorance of the student body in regards to Catholicism, and the task to inform students lies in their hands. I truly believe that there are many pro­fessors who don't know themselves what Catholic teaching is in many areas and unknowingly mislead students. There are many things that cause bright, talented and young students to believe falsehoods that claim the title "Catholic ... The best way to combat these problems is to realize that not all literature, media or view­points expressed that claim to be Catholic exemplify or support Catholic teaching. By using this propaganda as course material and ministry support, falsehoods have been leaking out from our halls and into the world. 
What a wonderful opportunity is being wasted. How many stu­dents could have benefited from unabashed sharing of the true Catholic faith? In many ways, we are being robbed of the invaluable and central sources of understanding our faith as Catholics. Why aren't the Catechism and the works of the Holy Father taught in classes -especially those dealing directly with the Catholic faith? How many more young Catholics would be on fire with the truth and use it to change the world if they could hear it directly stated and not avoided? I strongly feel that these are the questions that need to be addressed in the symposiums discussing Catholic identity. 
I realize that not all who work for the College are a part of this movement. I'm sure there are those who are and don't know it. I'm also certain there are those who disagree with what is happening and who quietly pursue change and holiness through prayer -a wonderful tactic. I give undue thanks and respect to those who have been faithfully holding to the sacred teaching and texts and who do their best to take advantage of the vocation in which God has placed them. Attending a Catholic college is an outstanding opportunity to not only grow in knowledge but in faith. I feel there is a great call to work together for a change, renewal and understanding of what it truly means to have a Catholic identity. 
Michelle Powell 
sophomore Regina HaJI Sept. 22 
America preaches false ideals 
President Bush has just released a new ver­
sion of "The National Security Policy of the 
United States." It stresses preemptive action 
against governments that may be developing 
weapons of mass destruction that may be used 
against the United States. As reported in the 
Sept. 19 edition of The New York Times, it also 
pledges never to let any country come close to 
us in our technological development of weapons 
of mass destruction. 
This document also stresses, "We will not hes­itate to act alone, if necessary, to exercise our right ofself-defense to act preemptively against such terrorists." Given our recent adherence to this policy of not listening to anyone but our­selves, this essentially means not discussing with anyone what we are about to do, whether we should do it, or why. At first, this may seem great. We answer to no one, we can do what we want. and we can subdue nations filled with vio­lent radicals that hate us all. 
As I was thinking about this, I was thinking about how similar this makes us to the Roman Empire. For hundreds of years, they were the power in their corner of the world. They had no military superior. they had no one to stop them from destroying and taking over another coun­try, another province. They also were responsi­ble for spreading their language and their cul­ture to the rest of the Mediterranean world. This could be considered a good thing in that it unified the area and allowed people to cultivate the arts and the sciences. It could also be con­sidered a bad thing in that it was forcible rule by fear of military strength and destruction of local culture and language by means of death and coercion. It is also very undemocratic. 
America, land of the free. We supposedly hold and preach the ideals of freedom for all. This involves dialogue, argument for the betterment of all and respect of new ideas. It is, in fact, these ideals that we use to justify meddling in the affairs of other countries, dropping bombs on them and murdering their people and their leaders. Yet I do not believe that that is what we are doing. How can we truly promote freedom of expression if we are their superiors as a result of our military might? It can't happen. The gospel we really preach is freedom of expression and ideas as long as you don't put it into practice and it doesn't mess with our expression of "self." Which, at the moment, is integrally related to making us more money at the expense of other's basic human rights, using up the world's resources faster than anyone else and making sure that the people who get mad at us for it can't get us while we sleep at night. 
This scares me. I do not believe that America, with a divorce rate at or above 60 percent, very high rates of depression, children shooting each other at schools because they are isolated and obesity rates due to unhealthy living that cost us $96 billion in health care costs last year should be leading the world. I say we have no right to act the way we are acting and that we are preaching false ideals. We are suffocating peo­ple's creativity and their ability to think for themselves, which is exactly what we're not supposed to be doing. I argue that this suffoca­tion is the first cause of those ills we're experi­encing in our own country. 
The Roman Empire was great. But once it fell, it fell hard, and it was followed by the dark ages. What put out the lights? Fear of military might, dependence on that might and people not being able to think for themselves. 
I, for one, am going to keep my light shining bright and appreciate the glow others give with­out trying to snuff them out. Ifthat means work­ing with other nations, making a couple of sac­rifices, not getting exactly what I want, then I don't mind. People probably won't want to bomb me then anyway. 
Danny Richter 
sophomore Keough Hall Sept. 22 
Sept. 11 reactions expose 
U.S. xenophobia 
I am writing this in response to the Sept. 18 letter advocating an attack on Iraq. First off, not all the information there is correct. It is not just military installations that are being inspected, but anything the United Nations wants to inspect. The foreign minister of Iraq stated that scientific installations would be included, so there does not seem to be any restrictions. Almost the entire former Bush cabinet, the one from the Iraqi war era, the United Nations, and the U.N. inspectors, including the American ones, all do not sup­port military action and say it has no merit. 
If you want to talk about state-sponsored ter­rorism, the United States is not in any way innocent. The School of the Americas in the United States trained the same people that ter­rorized and killed the Jesuit priests and lay people in El Salvador. After the Gulf War, for­mer President Bush sent in a CIA team to try and rile up the different ethnic groups in the hopes they would assassinate Hussein and that failed. 
Do you want to know what we learned from Sept. 11? We learned that we are no different from the rest of the world. What we do. espe­cially a preemptive war like this, is exactly like what the terrorists did to the United States. They believed that the United States was a danger to them, too, obviously. Instead of try­ing to figure things out through proper means, diplomatically, they chose the more military action. crashing planes. Are we any better because we use bombs or a formal army? 
Ifanything, the United States, because of so many twists and turns of foreign policy, has proven to be untrustworthy and self-serving. We have left rulers that we put at the head of their country out to dry the moment that things got too hot. We start wars and covert opera­tions in order to save economic interests. We assisted Hussein and then declared war on his country. 
Think hard, all you people who will call Bush a "strong and unifying leader." What has Bush done since he became president? He has been waving Sept. 11 like the bloody shirt, using it as a way to bring up his popularity where it was once the most unsteady of all the presi­dents before him. 
The events were tragic, yes, but U.S. reaction is too much. I remember reading in an editori­al last year that in the past our patriotic forefa­thers never placed security over liberty. And they saw Washington. D.C. burn down in front of their eyes. We suffered something so many other countries have suffered and we clamp down on liberties for our citizens in the name of security. 
This entire war on terrorism has only proved that the United States is xenophobic and is rejecting the opinions of the world because it believes what it is doing is right. 
Sounds a little like what Iraq did when they took over Kuwait, doesn't it? 
Ad.rianAcu 
sophomore Fisher Hall Sept. 19 
O
THE 

BSERVER 
us 

page 14 Monday, September 23, 2002 

PILLARS, SUB and FlipSide: an alternative way of life 
It's freshman year. You have gone through countless mandatory meetings _and a~ you want to do is be finished. You want it all to be over so you can get on with bemg a normal college student and not the impressionable freshman who is having rule upon rule imbedded into their mindset. There is only ?~e meeting left ai:id you ~o . not want to go, for its something called PILLARS and It IS about responsible soc1ahz­ing. This is a waste of time, you tell yourself, and I already know how to be responsible. 
That isn't always true. 
Every year freshmen enter into this environment quasi~clue­less. Everyone always thinks they know what they are domg and will never have to deal with alcoholism or alcohol poison­ing or anything else of this sort, but, more often that not, they are mistaken. 
In addition to this initial flawed philosophy, students are often misguided thereafter about the three Notre Dame stu­dent groups that have been formed in an attempt to protect and inform both the confident drinkers or those who choose alternative fun away from alcohol. 
When the term PILLARS comes to mind, most first thoughts are often "mandatory meeting" or "non-drinking." However, these are misconceptions. Yes, PILLARS is a mandatory meet­ing that freshmen must attend, but it is not because the administration is trying to make your orientation experience_ . as drawn-out as possible, but because they are concerned with the safety of their students. 
People often link PILLARS to two other alcohol affiliated organizations: FlipSide and SUB. When one is mentioned, people usually associate it with the other two. What they do not know is that these three organizations are separate entities and only share the commonality of being student groups here on campus. 
FlipSide is probably the most commonly known non-alcohol-affiliated organization throughout campus, albeit through an unfavorable stereotype. When people hear "FlipSide" they think "non-drinkers/no-fun." However, it is actually an organization that provides an alternative to drinking. . 
Their activities are open to the public and encourage anyone, both drmkers, and non-drinkers, to attend. Although some of its members do not drink, they do not solely represent the non-drinking community on campus, they merely show that there are ways to have fun without the use of alcohol. 
The Student Union Board's mission states that "the SUB Programming Body shall enhance undergraduate student life by providing undergraduate student services and social, intellectual, and cultural opportunities that respond to the needs and wants of the undergraduate student body in the most efficient manner available." 
SUB provides movies as well as the ev~r-popular ~coustica~e. They ~oo pro~de alternatives to drinking and often expenence the m1sconcept10n of bemg affiliated with non-drinkers or even FlipSide. The two groups are separate from each other and rarely cosponsor events. 
Peers Inspiring Learning Listening and Responsible Socializ~ng (PILLARS) is an organization run out of the Office of Drug and ~cohol Educat10n. ~h~ purpose of the group is not to add yet another mandatory meetmg on a freshman s hst, hut to edu­cate them on the effects of alcohol abuse and to encourage freshmen to be careful. 
Many people instinctively think that PILLARS consists solely of non-drinkers, but that is not the case. It is a group led primarily by students that consists fully of both drinkers and non-drinkers. The object is to try to reach the students on a level that they both can relate to. 
Both drinkers and non-drinkers talk to the students, so that both ends of the drinking spectrum are covered. The average meeting co~sists of a humorou~, yet realistic video produced by student that portrays non-drmkers, moderate drmkers, and recovering alcoholics. Before the meeting begins, a leader encourages each stu­dent to try to decipher which person represents their individual drinking sty~es: 
Small groups are then formed to give students a chance to talk on a more mt1mate level. The alcohol policy is discussed, high risk drinking is explained, differences between males and females drinking capabilities are demonstrated, and the myth of alcohol poisoning is uncovered. 
PIUARS emphasizes the importance of responsi1;>le socializin~ a~d being smart about their actions. They neither encourage, nor discourage drmkmg. 
These three groups are unique in their own ways and they all eI?-c~urage our st1;1­dent body to have fun in a responsible manner. Not only do they aid m strengthemng the Notre Dame community, but they also give us, the student body, an innocent and alternative chance to have fun. 
Often, there are misconceptions about these organizations at Notre Dame. However, the student body -drinkers and non-drinkers alike -should try to see these organizations for what they are: an alternative. 
Nothing more, nothing less. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. . . . . . . 
Emily Howald is a sophomore English and Marketing ma1or wzth a mmor zn Jour­nalism. She does not enjoy conflict and hates when people dislike her, so she begs readers to please be kind if they chose to write her not-so-nice mail at howald.2@nd.edu. 


By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
In commentaries on the 2002 change in the alcohol policy that banned hard liquor (defined as drinks containing 14 percent alcohol by volume or more), students pro­claimed that the Notre Dame tradition that the students know and love would be gone in the near future and that the new restrictive alcohol policy would drive stu­dents to move off campus, which would lead to a higher incidence of alcohol­related accidents in an uncontrolled envi­ronment. 
The ire was nothing new. When the last major changes to the University's alcohol policy, which limited the amount of alco­hol students could possess among other regulations, came into effect in August of 1984, the student outcry was the same. Banners hung out windows declared "This place is going to pot" and angry let­ters to The Observer chastised the admin­istration for ruining the on-campus lifestyle. The Observer's headline on April 17, 1984, boldly stated: "The Party's Over." 
But, had the party ever really started? As the years pass, students and alumni lament the University's descent from being a fun place. It seems that everyone remembers the campus being more liber­al, more traditional and more fun. 
Ironically, many of the traditions that students and alumni feel are threatened are not that old. It wasn't until 197.2 that women were even admitted to the 


oft~ 

University. Father Sorin's boys club was 
130 years old when the first pair of dou­
ble X-chromosomes sat through her first 
class. And even though mixed-company 
social events with women from Saint 
Mary's did exist, the sex relations before 
the admission of women were, by most 
accounts, non-existent. In fact, like female students, alcohol was prohibited from campus altogether until the early '70s. Notre Dame students frequented bars in Michigan and Chicago. But after a relaxation or regulations in the early '70s, the relatively non-existent alcohol policy lasted just over five years. 
In 1978, the University banned kegs from the campus, and the 1984 reg­ulations limit­ed where stu­dents could drink. 
The idea of an on-cam­pus life may have been around 30 years ago, but it was in a far different form. When Notre Dame was all male, students lived in a different dorm each year. The idea of hall spirit as it exists today simply wasn't a facet of Notre Dame's campus lifestyle. So, what hap­pened in 30 years that made the administra­tion feel that regulation was neces­
O
THE BSERVER 

us 

Monday, September 23, 2002 page 15 

exist there but it wouldn't be central," Nobody believes that the University's
ie South Bend 
Slusser said. problems with student drinking will be The campus group FlipSide offers a dif­solved overnight or by a single policy. The ferent perspective on the situation. unique situation of students going to col­"I think [drinking isJ a matter of conven­lege poses complicated problems for both ience. I mean, I think students and adminis­people think, 'Gee I trators and sometimes could pay for a taxi, help is not easy to find. pay for where [I'm] "For most people,
"/ think alcohol is more
going and pay for the their only interaction
associated with college
taxi back. Or I could with PILLARS is the just go next door,"' jun­than it is with University freshman presentation. ior Katy Hall, a former And freshman year
tradition ... I think Notre 
FlipSide co-president, you're getting so many
Dame has enough
said. mixed signals on FlipSide offers non­tradition that the what's cool what's not alcoholic events to the cool, it's hard to form a
absence ofhard alcohol 
campus. But the club is solid foundation,"
will not destroy people's 
not just for non­Slusser said. drinkers, but they do day to day lifestyle ... "Every rumor says, ask that alcohol and 'You're go to college 
intoxicated people not and there's drinking.'
Colleen Slusser

be present at their It's the first time we're 
fonner PILLARS co-president away from our parents
events. The group feels sary? hers of the group do not have the same that building a positive and the first time we 
Some have argued that the ultra-litigious perspective on issues of alcohol use and campus atmosphere have the opportunity. I environment of the country has Notre abuse. PILLARS is not a teetotaler organi­that gives students an alternative to drink­think it happens at every college," Hall Dame's near $4 billion lawsuit-inviting zation, some members do drink. ing can be part of the solution to the said. "I think part of college is making your 
endowment making the decisions. But, "PILLARS is a group where everyone has University's alcohol woes. own choices and being your own person. If "I think one of the biggest things that you deny [students] that opportunity you
while claims of liability must certainly be their own opinion, but has the same goals on administrators' minds, the same claim and objective which is to educate," Slusser needs to be done is [developing] a closer may, one, encourage them to do it more, 
was made in 1984 before the heyday of the said. relationship with the city of South Bend ... and two, deny them the opportunity to coffee-spill millionaire. Perhaps there was Slusser thinks that the new alcohol reg­If Notre Dame would work with the com­make adult decisions." another reason: Notre Dame had a drink­ulations are important for the health of the munity to make it a college town, not nec­ing problem. With a reported 51 cases of campus community. essarily with a lot of bars and a lot of clubs, alcohol poisoning in just one semester last "I think the changes in the alcohol policy it would make it easier for kids who are Contact C. Spencer Beggs at year, 49 of which involved hard liquor, the are very necessary, due to the fact that not 21," Hall said. beggs.3@nd.edu statistics seem to speak for themselves. alcohol abuse is one the rise on campus 
The debate has been between those who and there are statistics to back that up," feel that ending on-campus events, such she said. in-hall SYR dances, will destroy the Notre Heavy drinking is an unfortunate fact of Dame community the American univer­and those who feel sity experience. But that without regu­therein lies the prob­
''/ think [ drinking is] a matter
lating those events, lem between drink­
of convenience. I mean, I
and the drinking at ing and University them, the Notre think people think, 'Gee, I tradition: they've Dame community become entwined if
could pay for a taxi, pay for 
will destroy itself. not one in the same.
where [I'm] going and pay for
And despite the "Based on the fact cries of the the taxi back. Or I could just that [Notre Dame] is Cassandras, Notre an Irish Catholic uni­
go next door..,
Dame's on-campus versity, drinking is tradition has sur­territorial. Maybe it's vived. And despite Katy Hall an Irish thing, maybe the administra­fonner FlipSide co-president it's a Catholic thing, 
tion's often heavy­but it's brought into handed attempts to the University," curtail high-risk drinking, it continues to Slusser said. "I think that alcohol is more rise. The irony abounds. associated with college life than it is with 
While the debate is often portrayed as University tradition . . . I think that Notre one of the administration versus the stu­Dame has enough of a tradition that the dents, there have been a number of groups absence of hard alcohol will not destroy that have attempted to bring the two people's day-to-day lifestyle." together. Peers Inspiring Listening, Perhaps part of the impasse stems from Learning and Responsible Social Life (PIL-a mistake in understanding what 1ARS) is one such group. University lifestyle is. While some see it as 
PILLARS, a student organization that the upperclassmen on-campus dorm works closely with the Office of Drug and camaraderie, others see it as the "40s at 4" Alcohol Education, presents a range of drinking tradition. services including dorm presentations, PILLARS recognizes that there always sponsoring speakers and the freshmen has been drinking at Notre Dame and presentation each year. Though most stu­probably always will be. Rather than fight­dents don't have much contact with PIL­ing an impossible battle, the group hopes LARS after the first mandatory freshmen to change the perspective on drinking to presentation, the group is trying to be one of responsible behavior. more present on campus this year. "If there's one thing I'd like to see in 10 
Former PILLARS co-president and cur­years, it's that people would go out to party rent advisory board member senior and alcohol might be around, but people Junior Brian Adams waits for the administration to address student concerns Colleen Slusser pointed out that the mem-would not go out just to drink ... it would about losing campus traditions last spring at a CLC meeting. 


Monday, September 23, 2002 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS
i 

I I 
I 
\ NFL 
Saints, Patriots move to 3-0; Browns nip Titans 
Horn to get to the Bears 31. On The Super Bowl hero kicked things to win. We did enough in me and I believe in myself,"
Associated Press 
second down, Stallworth a 35-yard field goal 4:40 into bad things to lose." Couch said. caught the pass near the side­overtime Sunday, giving The Patriots (3-0) won the "Hopefully, today maybe I
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
line, got around defensive back unbeaten New England a 41-38 coin toss in overtime and start­proved a point."
The New Orleans Saints 
Reggie Austin and coasted into victory over the Kansas City ed at their 30-yard line. Couch. who sat out the firstwouldn't go away, even when it the end zone to make it 27-23. Chiefs in its first close game of Brady completed 3-of-4 pass­two games after tearing scarappeared they would be blown Brooks then ran in for two the season. es as a 22-yarder to David tissue in his right elbow,
out. That's why they're still 
points. "I go out there with the same Patten gave New England a showed why Cleveland coachunbeaten. 
"They left me 1-on-1 on the mindset," Vinatieri said, "if it is first down at the Chiefs' 22. Butch Davis had no qualms"You never want to put your­
corner and I the first quarter of the game or Three more putting
self in that 
got past him if it is the last minute of the plays gained him backkind of a hole, and then I game." in despite
but with the "It's tough when you ·re five yards, then "/ don't think there is a 
wasn't stop­And he usually succeeds. He Vinatieri con• Holcomb 
way we can down 20-0. especially in team in the NFL more
ping. I kind is 8-for-8 this season and has nected for his being the 
score, we 
the NFL. We were lucky of knew he converted his last 11 field-goal third last-play deserving to win a game NFL's sec­
don't think 
was going to attempts, including a 48-yarder field goal in six ond-rated
we're out of we didn ·t get blown out ... like this. with the times 
miss his that beat St. Louis in the Super games. passer.
it," quarter­we've been snake-bitten 
tackle Bowl. His 23-yarder T h e
back Aaron 
Aaron Brooks because he Tom Brady was MVP of that in the snow the last few years. ,. 1999 top
Brooks said 
Saints quarterback jumped way title game, and he and Troy gave New draft pick
after the 
outside," Brown were the MVPs Sunday England a 16-13 picked
Saints rallied Butch Davis
Stallworth before Vinatieri connected. win over apart the
from a 20-0 
Browns coach
said. Brady completed 39-of-54 Oakland in last Titans in
deficit to beat the Chicago 
"He was my man. He ran an passes for 410 yards and four season's first helping the Bears 29-23 Sunday. 
out route and I missed the tack­touchdowns, all matching or playoff game Browns (2­"It's tough when you're down le," said Austin, who had an establishing career highs. before he connected against St. 1) beat Tennessee for the sec­20-0, especially in the NFL," 
interception in his first career Brown set a club record with Louis. ond consecutive time. 
Brooks said. "We were lucky 
I 
start. "I have to make that 16 catches, totaling 176 yards. "That kid's got ice in his Davis said he was proud of 
we didn't get blown out. We 
tackle. Nine times out of 10, I But he watched the winning veins. He's done it for us forev­Couch for his play and how hecould have been down 28-0 at make that play." drive from the sideline with a er," Patriots linebacker Ted ignored talk by people trying tothe half." 
The Bears drove to the Saints sore knee after he hit it on a Johnson said. create a quarterback contro­Instead, the Saints (3-0) got 
18 when Miller hit a 19-yard helmet. He didn't think he was versy. He also loved how his
back in the game by scoring 
pass to Marty Booker and, after seriously hurt. Browns .overcame four
two touchdowns in a 58-second Browns 31, Titans 28 ( OT)
using his final timeout, an 18-"It wasn't good for your turnovers the Titans turned
span in the second quarter and Tim Couch did his best to 
yarder to Dez White. After spik­heart, but I think it's good into three touchdowns. 
pulled it out when Donte' shut up the critics who thought 
ing the ball to stop the clock, because it builds your team," "I don't think there is a team
Stallworth made a great move backup Kelly Holcomb should 
Miller threw into a crowd at the he said of the wild finish. "It in the NFL more deserving to
to score on a 29-yard pass from be the Cleveland Browns' start­
front of the end zone and gets you ready for later in the win a game like this, with the
Brooks with 1: 11 left in the ing quarterback. 
Knight intercepted with 2 sec­season. We've got to learn how times we've been snake-bitten 
game. Phil Dawson's 33-yard field 
onds remaining. to win these games, how to the last few years. I talked to
Sammy Knight then stopped a goal with 10:47 left in overtime 
Trailing 20-0 after a host of close them out." the team early in the week, and
last-second Bears drive by Sunday gave Cleveland a 31-28 
mistakes, the Saints quickly The Patriots, playing without we brought up the first game of 
intercepting a pass by Jim victory over Tennessee after 
regrouped with the two TDs, injured linebackers Tedy the year," Davis said of losing
Miller at the goal line, turning Couch rallied the Browns by away Chicago (2-1), which had the second coming after Bruschi and Roman Phifer. let throwing for three touchdowns, to Kansas City when Dwayne 
won its 12 previous games Chicago's Leon Johnson fum­Priest Holmes run for two including two in the final 2:35 Rudd was penalized for taking bled a kickoff. touchdowns in the last five off his helmet, giving the Chiefs
decided by a touchdown or less. of regulation.
"We came in at halftime minutes of the fourth quarter. the chance to win on a field
"It shouldn't have come down Couch was 36-of-50 for 326 
down 20-14 and the guys knew The Chiefs (1-2) tied the game goal with no time left. 
to the way it did," Miller said. yards in what he called his 
we were going to win the as time expired on Holmes' 1-"We said we can let that
"The play didn't develop. If biggest moment yet in the NFL. 
game," New Orleans coach Jim yard run and Morten game do one of two things. It
you let it develop any longer "There was a lot of talk this 
Haslett said. Andersen's extra point. Holmes can either build some character
the clock runs out, so either week whether I should even be 
finished with 180 yards rushing for the team, teach us a lesson
I've got to throw it out of the the quarterback of this team. 
and a 3-yard scoring catch. to fight the entire 60 minutes,
end zone or throw it quick." Patriots 41, Chiefs 38 (OT) I've said all along I don't care 
On the winning drive, Brooks The Patriots won't dominate "You can't make it much clos­what a lot of people on the out­or we can let it break us. I had a 14-yard scramble and every opponent. That's when er," Kansas City coach Dick side think, but I know these knew this team wouldn't want threw an 11-yard pass to Joe they turn to Adam Vinatieri. Vermeil said. "We did enough guys in this locker room believe to surrender." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Lost: Platinum wedding band with Earn extra money evenings sched-ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR Alum owned, 5Bdrm/2Bath, gold edging-Michigan weekend-uling appointments and making RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. W/D,Security, 10 ft ceilings, HUGE Alumni HalVCircle, or on the walk customer calls for local State Farm CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. Yard, very close to campus & well
NOTICES PERSONAL 
from Angela/St. Louis to Alumni agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, kept. 2Bdrm w/view of dome also 
Hall along ND Ave. you choose from Tuesday-DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW available.Call 674-0709. CJs Pub See whats happening Engraved : AKD & JD 11-18-00 Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must LEASING FOR 2003-2004 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do www.cjs,pub.com If found please contact me at be enthusiastic with great telephone SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN-not go it alone. It you or someone 
James.Dougherty@accenture.com presence. Fax resume to 574-232-T ANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM-you love needs confidential support Attention Spring Breakers Travel or 1-972-679-8no. 9984. PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED-TICKETS or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals REWARD ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY more information, see our bi-weekly Most Reliable www.sunspJaso-SYSTEM -MAINTENANCE STAFF N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please ad in THE OBSERVER. IQ!.ltlU;;Qm 1-800-426-7710 FOR SALE ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS • check our prices. 273-3911.
WANTED CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING Give adoption a chance ...we are www workforstudents com 574-282-FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME happily married and need your help 2357 Drafting tables -$25-30 Student (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 -GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593. in starting a family. Will provide a 
$250 a day potential/bartending. desks $25 631-4969 (57 4)674-2471 lifetime of love, laughter and end­
...ACT NOW! Guarantee the best Training provided Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289-less opportunities. Call our attorney spring break prices! South Padre, 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 Completely remodeled 2 bdrm. HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003: 8048 or astrog999@aol.com toll free at 866-215-2229. Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, home in Oakmont Park near We have a variety of houses includ-Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. PART-TIME WORK University of ND. Must see to ing two of the best undergrad hous-WANTED: ND tickets ND grad with Ph.D. doing child TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, $14.05 base-appt. Flex. around appreciate. Call 243-7434. es you can rent. Call Bill at 532-HIGHEST PRICES PAID care/tutoting ( ages 4-7)in home EARN$$$. Group Discounts tor 6+. classes. 1896 251-1570 near campus. 234-8004 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578 We train. LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO dept 2626)/www.sprjogbr~a~dis-All majors FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast ND TICKETS FOR SALE SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS coums,com Cust. service & sales. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD-has space available for football/par-LOWEST PRICES Americas #1 Student Tour Operator 
No door-to-door telemarketing Build ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, 289-9280 Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Sports car,88 Mazda RX7.Runs resume. Internships. cond. $99,500.Williamson.1@nd.edu hot breakfast, $80-$115, Information/Reservations 1-800­great.no rust. $3,950 o/b/o. 291-apply.www worktorstude .ts com Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 648-4849 or www.ststravel,i;;Qm 4048. 574-282-2357 HOME FOR SALE Great family TOIi Road, Exit 107, 800-41 8-9487. SALE. 
home with room for a home office AM 232-2378 Katie and Lauren, your grandpar­#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, close to Notre Dame, SMC, 4 bed-ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT-PM 288-2726 ents' daughters. Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! room, 3 bathroom, eat in kitchen, WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM• 
LOST & FOUND Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. formal dining and living room, sun PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-For a good time, call Chris at 1­Free Parties & Meals! room and finished basement Call UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL: ED 4543 ... work for Observer Sports 1-800-234-7007 Dan-Remax 1st, 574.273.9547 or leopei@hotmail.com AM 232-2378 
LOST: SIGNET RING AT MICHi-endlesssummertours.com dan@cdkhomes.com PM 288-2726 We should rename it the Knott Hall 
GAN GAME ON 9/14. Comfy, 5bdr home, 30 min.from Sports Department. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 634-Make $320 Weeki N.D. On Indian Lake, Dowagiac, Ml. ND vs. USC tix and Hotel, Irish Fest 1090. Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Next to golf course. in CA! NDCOC.com Beat SC! Shoutout to everyone:
FOR RENT

Sales Rep. positions available now. $1300-Thurs thru Mon. Hi everyone. Found: Womans gold watch on Largest commissions. $1,000 sec dep. Need 8 tix for Pittsburgh game. Saturday, September 14th in The Travel Free! All size homes available for 2003-Call Ron Call Jeff, We were riding that rollercoaster of Huddle. 1-800-SUNCHASE ext. 123. 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 312-907-9708 610-574-2939. emotions again. Good thing it didn't Call 245-3508 to identify. WWW,Sl.!~Ql::l~SE QQM www,rnmm~ma1s cQm email: ron@gsec9.com E-mail: jro22@comcast.net let off in the proverbial shack. 
Monday, September 23, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mariners barely stay alive by beating Angels 
eight hits in 6 1/3 innings. He at Texas for three then home
Associated Press 
walked three and struck out for three with the Mariners. four. "We have the edge," A'sSEATTLE The Angels, who are off manager Art Howe said. "Every The Anaheim Angels aren't Monday, will try to secure their game we take off the scheduleworried one bit. 
first trip to the postseason they're going to run out ofThe Seattle Mariners pre­
since 1986 on Tuesday night in time."
vented Anaheim from clinching Texas. Mark Mulder (18-7) pitcheda playoff spot as Ryan Franklin 
The defending AL West six strong innings to win his
outpitched Angels ace Jarrod champion Mariners begin a fifth straight decision as the A's 
Washburn in a 3-2 victory 
three-game series at home won their fifth in a row and
Sunday. 
Tuesday night against Oakland. eighth of 10.
"We are very disappointed in Boston is at Baltimore on Ricardo Rincon pitched a 1-2­
our performance the last two days, but it's not life or death," Monday night. 3 eighth and Billy Koch worked 
Seattle manager Lou Piniella the ninth for his 43rd save in
Washburn said. "We know it did not sound too optimistic 49 chances.
just takes one more win. We 
about his team's chances of Ivan Rodriguez had three sin­
will go to Texas, clear our 
catching Anaheim in the final gles, drove in a run and scored
minds and get back to busi­
week of the season. for the Rangers, who went 1-9ness." 
"You know we've got a day on their final road trip of the
Anaheim (96-60) fell three 
off tomorrow and we've got six season.
games behind first-place 
games to go to finish up our Alex Rodriguez drove in aOakland in the AL West with season," Piniella said. "Like I Texas run with a seventh­six to play. Seattle (90-66) and said a week or 10 days ago, inning double. He also struckBoston (89-66) are still mathe­let's finish up as strong as we three times.
matically alive for the wild can and let it go at that." "Discouraging isn't the
card. 
word," Texas' Rafael Palmeiro
Angels manager Mike 
said. "We played so well at
Sciascia doesn't think his team Athletics 7, Rangers 5 
home and then we go out onis pressing. After Jermaine Dye's two this trip and we can't do any­"Everyone knows we're home runs, David Justice told thing. You think you're going to close," he said. "I think we are his teammate to make sure he at least win some games on thegoing about our business the keeps swinging that way for road and then you don't."
same way. Everyone is another month. focused." "If Jermaine is hot, he can 
Ichiro Suzuki got his 200th carry a ballclub," said Justice, Yankees 4, Tigers 3 hit of the season for Seattle. who dresses next to Dye in the Now, Rondell White has Franklin (7-4), who moved into Oakland clubhouse. "I said, another thing to be excited the rotation Aug. 11, beat 'Just get hot for a month, that's about -the end of a long Anaheim for the first time in all I ask."' slump. three career starts. He gave up Dye showed signs of it One day after the Yankees' two runs on six hits in 71/3 Sunday. He homered twice, wild celebration of their fifth innings. including a shot that initially AL East title in a row, White 
Franklin said the Mariners' was ruled foul, as the A's beat broke out of a 7-for-50 skid sole goal was to ruin the the Texas Rangers 7-5 to main­with three doubles and two RBI Angels' day. tain their lead in the AL West. to lead New York to a 4-3 win 
"I kind of thought last night Scott Hatteberg added a two­over the Detroit Tigers on and today when I got to the run homer for the A's, who Sunday. ballpark that [ definitely didn't increased their lead over sec­"After all of the partying yes­want no one kind of celebrating ond-place Anaheim to three terday. I felt very relaxed and and clinching it on our home games when the Angels lost 3-2 happy," he said. "It's hard to field," he said. at Seattle. worry about a slump when you 
Washburn (18-6), who had Oakland plays three games in are having that much fun." won his three previous deci­Seattle and three in Texas to With Shane Spencer injured, sions, allowed three runs on finish the season. Anaheim is White is competing for the left 
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS 
PRESENTS 
VERSE THEATER MANHATTAN'S 
Homer in the Midwest! 
CHRISTOPHER LOGUE'S 

WAR MUSIC 
WITH 

JO BARRICK. MARYBETH BENTWOOD JENNIFER DON" 
ADAPTED FOR THE STAGE AND DIRECTED BY 
JAMES MILTON 
a•"fer.d¢iBu~~••BirtJrn.~Hb'FiJ!ptt611•ht•i-IJM~r's••JliaJ':''WAR.Mtfsie.i,!Jl'Bv¢i$•·•wfo~§JI. whb~·e betweer1poetrY reading and drama. Moving, brutal, and. cl1i1Hng/i{';~y£~~9§ as bQth}} •·-fAndrewStutt::tford,JVg,tfonal Re7;iew
•· ' ' • '.. . . .-::•.·.·.·-·······, .••••••••· •••.••• •,•, ,>, •. ,·.. : •.·.••·,• ••-.· -;,,.-,-.•;.-,,.-: •••• :-.-". ···.··,·,•.·,·.·,•••; •••;'.,'.' 


WAR MUSIC tells the story of the withdrawal of Achilles from the Greek army, the ferocious battle before the wal_ls of Troy that foll~wed, and the hero's_ fi~al. decisive reconciliation with his countrymen. Mortals and gods, mibt~ry carnage, rehgmus ceremony and mhmate conversation are all brought to vibrant life through Logue's 
ferocious, cinematic adaptation. 
Wednesday, 25th Sept -University of Notre Dame 7:30PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium, Notre Dame Campus, South Bend, IN 
Sponsored by The Department of Classics First Year of Studies College of Arts & Letters Intellectual Initiative Program 
All performances free of charge 
_ Visit our website at Ver:-seTheaterManhattan.Com llhutr.Jhon: -FAilen w..rrior" -p.,Jiment,ol Sculpture from the Tcemple of Aph.oi,1 in Aegin,1 
• ApfHtarln& C:ovrtny of Acton' EqlUty AHocuUon 
field spot in the postseason. 
"I don't know if it will be 

Rondell or Juan Rivera or John 
Vander Wal -that decision 
will all depend on who we are 
facing and just my hunches," 
Yankees manager Joe Torre 
said. "[t's nice to have that 
many options, though." 
The Yankees, playing a makeshift lineup the day after clinching the AL East, swept the three-game series to win the season series 8-1. 
The Tigers lost their fifth game in a row and their 101st of the year. 
"I never expected this coming out of spring training," said manager Luis Pujols, who began the season as Phil Garner's bench coach. "I try to think positive, so I was expect­ing at least .500." 
David Wells (18-7) won for the sixth time in his last seven starts, allowing three runs ­two earned -on seven hits in eight innings. He did not walk a batter. 
Detroit is trying to avoid set­ting an AL record for fewest bases on balls. 
"It's scary to face the Tigers, because they just hack like crazy," Wells said. "It's like pitching in A-ball again, and that was always my worst league. They will swing at any­thing." 
Rookie Mike Maroth (6-9) allowed four runs in eight innings for his fourth loss in five starts. He walked one and hit two batters with pitches. 
"I obviously didn't have my rhythm," he said. "I got behind too many hitters -I felt like I was 2-0 or 2-1 to too many bat­ters and then you have to give them something to hit. They hit the ball, that's for sure." 
Mike Stanton pitched the ninth for his fifth save. 
A crowd of 23,930 showed up for the last home game of retiring Tigers radio announc­er Ernie Harwell's career. The game started four hours before the scheduled kickoff of the Detroit Lions' home opener at new Ford Field, just across the street from Comerica Park. 
New York jumped out to a 3­0 lead off Maroth in the first on RBI doubles by White and Raul Mondesi and a run-scoring groundout by Ron Coomer. 
"He just made a couple mis­takes and got hurt by them," Pujols said. "Other than a cou­ple pitches with bad location, he threw the ball well." 
Red Sox 13, Orioles 2 
As another disappointing and unfulfilling season winds down for the Boston Red Sox, the tri­umphant return of Pedro Martinez stands out as per­haps the team's biggest high­light. 

Martinez earned his 20th 

win, and Trot Nixon hit a grand 
slam as the Red Sox cruised 
past the Baltimore Orioles 13-2 
Sunday. 
Sitting in front of Martinez's 

locker after the game were 
three balloons, two of which 
had the numbers 2 and 0. 
There was also a bottle of 
expensive champagne and a 
fruit basket. 
The victory kept Boston 

mathematically alive in the AL 
wild-card race, but the Red Sox 
long ago reached the point 
where the focus is on individ­
ual success. 
On this day. Martinez was 

recognized for his accomplish­
ments over an entire season. 
Martinez (20-4} has won 

three Cy Young Awards, but 
this is only his second 20-win 
season. 
It comes after an injury­

plagued year in which he won 
only seven games while bat­
tling a sore shoulder. 
•·1 remember having flash­backs to spring training and you guys asking me every day. 'Are you going to be able to throw the next day?' Today is the day I'm very thankful for the way things have come along," he said. 
Martinez joined Derek Lowe (21-7) to give Boston its first pair of 20-game winners since 1949. 
In that year, Mel Parnell (25­

7) and Ellis Kinder (23-6) accomplished the feat. 
"To become a 20-game win­ner with Lowe really means a lot to me." Martinez said. "I don't have any way to say thanks to God for keeping me healthy." 
Lowe, Nomar Garciaparra and Manny Ramirez have enjoyed outstanding seasons, but the comeback of Martinez proved to be inspirational to the entire team. 
"We wanted to win this game for Pedro," said Johnny Damon, who homered twice. 
After giving up two runs and four hits in the first, Martinez blanked the Orioles on three hits over the next five innings before leaving with Boston up 8-2. 
The right-hander struck out six and walked one. He's 7-1 lifetime against Baltimore, including 4-0 with a 1.88 ERA this season. Martinez said that winning 20 in a comeback sea­son makes this the most notable year of his illustrious career. 
"The one I'm most proud of is this one. The one I really get satisfaction from is this one, "he said. "It doesn't matter what the other ones are. The other ones are good seasons, but I was healthy. I never knew what being hurt was like." 
OUR PRINCESS IS 21! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY LIZ FALLON. 
WUV,MOMAND DAD 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 23, 2002 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Giants stay atop wild card race 


Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Another no-decision for Kirk 
Rueter. another big win for the 
San Francisco Giants. 
Jeff Kent and Benito Santiago hit solo home runs in the ninth inning and the Giants kept pushing toward the NL wild­card slot, beating the Milwaukee Brewers 3-1 on Sunday. 
San Francisco began the day with a two-game lead over Los Angeles. which played at San Diego, for the wild card. 
The Giants swept the three­game series at Miller Park. They have won five of six and 24 of 34. 
Rueter limited Milwaukee to one run and three hits in seven innings. 
Rueter's record remained 13­8 -but the Giants are 11-0 in games in which he starts and gets no-decision. 
"As long as we win, I'm fine," Rueter said. "We just need wins, no matter who gets them." 
Felix Rodriguez (8-6) got one out for the victory. Robb Nen pitched the ninth for his 41st save in 49 chances. 
"He just keeps us in games, big time, until something hap­pens dramatic, like it did in the top of the ninth," Giants man­ager Dusty Baker said. 
San Francisco now returns to Pacific Bell Park for five games, beginning Tuesday against San Diego. If necessary, the Giants will play a makeup game at Atlanta on Sept. 30. 
Kent's 37th homer came with one out against Luis Vizcaino (5-2) and broke a 1-all tie. After Barry Bonds grounded out, Santiago hit a 420-foot drive to center field. 
"They hit two homers off one of our best pitchers," said Milwaukee manager Jerry Royster. "That's exactly how our season has gone." 
Santiago's homer was the 200th of his 16-year major league career. 
'Tm not a home-run hitter," Santiago said. "Two hundred is 
200. I'll take it." 
Dodgers 4, Padres 3 
Thanks to an emotional home run by Alex Cora and an adren­aline-fueled, pinch-hit by Mike Kinkade, the Los Angeles Dodgers get to play a meaning­ful final week. 
Cora tied the game with a seventh-inning homer -then exchanged words with pitcher Adam Eaton -and Kinkade singled home the go-ahead run with two outs in the ninth as the Dodgers beat the San Diego Padres 4-3 Sunday to remain two games behind San Francisco in the National League wild-card race. 
A defeat would have been staggering, putting the Dodgers three behind the Giants with six games to play. 
"It was a fabulous game. It's two vs. three," manager Jim Tracy said. "The last week of the season, because of what we've done in this series, is now a must for both clubs. It would have made it a lot easier on them if we'd have lost this game and fallen three behind." 
San Francisco beat Milwaukee 3-1. The Dodgers' victory also prevented NL West 
leader Arizona from clinching a 
playoff spot. 

The Dodgers have six games 
left, all at home, starting 
Tuesday against Colorado. San 
Francisco has five games left at 
home and, if necessary, a 
makeup game at Atlanta on 
Sept. 30. 

Kinkade singled up the mid­dle off lefty Kevin Walker and Mark Grudzielanek scored from second, just ahead of the throw from center fielder Mark Kotsay. Grudzielanek had sin­gled off Jonathan Johnson (1-2) and stole second. 
After working the count full, Kinkade got a fastball he could handle. 
Cora tied it at 3 when he 
homered down the right-field 
line with two outs in the 
Dodgers' seventh. 
He had been 0-for-11 lifetime 
against San Diego's Adam 
Eaton until homering. 
After watching the ball sail out, Cora tossed his bat aside and raised his right index fin­ger in the air. He and Eaton exchanged words during Cora's trot, and both apologized later. 
"When you're in this situa­tion, you get a little too emo­tional," Cora said. "Just watch­ing on the replay. I think I did and I've got to apologize for that. At the same time, people have got to realize we are play­ing for our lives right now. We're in a situation where it's all heart right now. Sometimes when you get a big hit, you react that way." 
Braves 4, Marlins 1 
Greg Maddux did something that hadn't been accomplished in nearly 100 years. It took John Smoltz only one season to do his thing. 
Maddux joined Cy Young as the only pitchers to win 15 or more games in 15 consecutive seasons and Smoltz tied the NL record for saves in a season Sunday as the Atlanta Braves beat the Florida Marlins 4-1. 
"I never really thought about it," Maddux said of the record. "It feels good to be healthy enough to get it. It helps to be on a good team and having a closer like Smoltzie helps, too." 
"It's cool to do it, but at the same time I'd rather be com­pared to the guys I'm playing against. The game has obvious­1y changed from the early 1900s and the 1990s," said the four-time NL Cy Young winner. 
Maddux (15-6) allowed four hits and one run in seven innings to match the record set by Young from 1891-1905. 
Maddux earned his 272nd career victory, moving the four-time NL Cy Young winner within one win of Red Ruffing and 28th on the all-time list. 
Smoltz pitched a perfect ninth for his 53rd save in 57 chances, tying the record shared by Randy Myers of the Chicago Cubs in 1993 and San Diego's Trevor Hoffman in 1998. 
"To do something like that in my first year is pretty neat," said Smoltz, a starter his entire career. including winning a NL Cy Young in 1996, until his conversion to a closer late last season. 
"There's no way I'd think this was possible," he said. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
IN 

DUBLIN,IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
,....._,,,....__,,-.....J,,...._, 


Tuesday,Sept.24,2002 102 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 PM 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs Student Returnees 
,__,~,....._,~ 

Application Deadline: December 1,2002 For Fall 2003 -Spring 2004 A Y 2003-2004 Applications on -line: www.nd.edu/,....,intlstud available after Oct. 1, 2002 
Last Chance... 
Concession Stand Training 
... for Pittsburgh Football Game 
Tuesday, September 24, 2002 at 4:00pm in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center 
The last training will be on Wednesday, October 16, 2002 at 4:00pm in the Notre Dame Room of Lafortune Student Center 
For more information contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 
Monday, September 23, 2002 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Miami emerges from slow start to crush BC 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Larry Coker has learned not to panic with his top-ranked Miami Hurricanes. 
Willis McGahee had 221 total yards, and Miami erased a slug­gish start with a frenzied finish to beat Boston College 38-6 Saturday night and extend the nation's longest winning streak to 26 games. 
"Just another day at the office," said Coker, whose team trailed Florida 10-6 two weeks ago and led just 21-14 last week against Temple before blowing both games open. 
The Hurricanes (4-0, 2-0 Big East) trailed Boston College 6-3 in the second quarter but scored three touchdowns during a three-minute span of the fourth quarter to hold off the Eagles (2­1, 0-1) in a game that was much closer than the final score indi­cated. 
"They got the momentum on their side, and it was like a freight train running downhill," Boston College quarterback Brian St. Pierre said. "It's tough to stop, but we put them in that position. We have to blame our­selves." 
McGahee ran 17 times for 135 yards and caught three passes for 86 yards. He had three huge plays that led to three of Miami's five touchdowns. 
McGahee, who ran for 204 yards at Florida, now has 533 yards rushing in four games. 
Ken Dorsey finished 13-of -26 for 202 yards and two touch­downs as Miami won its 19th straight conference game and 13th straight over Boston College. 
Led by St. Pierre, who finished 14-of-24 for 138 yards, Boston College used a good mix of runs and passes to keep Miami's tal­ented defensive line off balance and out ofthe backfield. 
The Eagles had scoring drives of 11 and eight plays, but both ended with field goals. 
They also constantly pressured Dorsey: He was sacked just once but was hurried, harassed and hammered several times. 
The result was a 6-3 lead late in the second quarter. That's when McGahee took over. 
"If we learned one thing as coaches, it's don't panic," Coker said. "We were supposed to win this game and we did. The coaches didn't panic and the players didn't panic." 
Florida 30, Tennessee 13 
Not so fast, Gator Haters. 
Rex Grossman threw two of his three touchdown passes during a 24-point scoring spree late in the second quarter as No. 10 Florida surprised No. 4 Tennessee 30-13 on Saturday. 
The victory was exactly what the Gators needed in their quest to prove they can win big games under new coach Ron Zook, just as they did under former coach Steve Spurrier. 
"Every win is big, but obvious­ly this is a big one and I'm going to enjoy it a lot," Zook said. "At the same time, we're still not where we need to be but we're getting better and better." 
In a splish-splashing five­minute span to close the first half, the Gators (3-1, 1-0 SEC) made their point before a disbe­lieving crowd of 108,722 at Neyland Stadium. 
While the Volunteers (2-1, 0-1) fumbled seven times in the rainy first half, Florida thrived under the Swamp-like conditions. 
The Gators now have taken control of the SEC East and also remain in national championship contention despites 41-16 loss two weeks ago to No. 1 Miami that had fans worried about the team's direction under Zook. 
The Vols, meanwhile, were bit­terly disappointed after losing a game they expected to win. 
"That second quarter was an embarrassment. I apologize to tlie fans and to the people who follow Tennessee football," Vols coach Phillip Fulmer said, adding that he runs his team through a wet ball drill every Tuesday. 
When the rain subsided in the second half, Tennessee tried to come back when Casey Clausen threw a 15-yard TD pass to Derrick Tinsley and Jabari Davis scored from a yard out to get the Vols to 24-13. 
But the Gators refused to fold, thanks to Grossman. 
He threw his third scoring pass -a 21-yarder to Taylor Jacobs -with 10:49 left in the game. 
Grossman revived his Heisman Trophy chances by completing 20 of 34 passes for 324 yards and two interceptions. 
Jacobs, who caught a 7-yard TD pass in the second quarter, finished with nine catches for 141 yards. 
"Grossman, in my opinion, probably won the Heisman tonight," Fulmer said. 
Kansas State 27, USC 20 
Ell Roberson will have to wait to find out whether his up-and­down performance Saturday night was good enough to earn him another start as Kansas State's quarterback. 
Roberson came off the bench to throw one touchdown pass and run for another score to lead the Wildcats (No. 23 ESPN/USA Today, No. 25 AP) past No. 11 Southern California 27-20 Saturday night. 
Roberson also fumbled twice. giving the Trojans one touch­down and denying Kansas State (4-0) a game-clinching TD late in the game. 
"I was thinking, 'If they come down and tie it up, and we go into overtime and they win, I'm going to be the worst man in Manhattan,"' Roberson said. 
But Kansas State's defense, which had already surrendered two fourth-quarter touchdowns, stopped the comeback short. 
"We had to make a statement," linebacker Terry Pierce said. "Everybody was saying that we were going to lose, so we had to make a statement. If we didn't ... then everyone would be denying that Kansas State is a good foot­ball team." 
Kansas State earned its first­ever home win against a ranked nonconference opponent. 
The Wildcats had not played a ranked nonconference opponent in the regular season since losing 56-3 at No. 8 Washington in September 1991. 
Roberson, who lost the starting job during fall practice, replaced Marc Dunn to start the second quarter. 
He corn pleted 1 0-of-15 passes for 134 yards and ran for 70 yards on 23 carries. 
Still, coach Bill Snyder wasn't ready to proclaim Roberson, who started nine games last year, his starter for the Wildcats' Big 12 opener at Colorado on Oct. 5. 
"As of right now, he's one of our quarterbacks," said Snyder, who graded Roberson's perfor­mance "somewhere between average and C-minus." 
The Trojans (2-1) were the first ranked nonconference team to visit Manhattan since No. 17 Iowa beat the Wildcats 45-10 in September 1988. 
Carson Palmer, who came in averaging 273 yards passing for USC, was held to 186 yards on 18-of-47 passing. 
He didn't lead the Trojans on a scoring drive until the fourth quarter. That's when his 9-yard pass to Keary Colbert cut the lead to 27-13 with just over 10 minutes left. 
Colbert had a career-high 11 catches for 125 yards. "We had a chance to win this game," said Palmer. 
The USC quarterback passed Rob Johnson for the Trojans' career yardage record with 8,608. 
Johnson had 8,472. 
"We showed we had some fight, and the defense never gave up. But it just took us too long to get going," Carson said. 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE FAIR 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2002 
5:30 -8:30 P.M. AT STEPAN CENTER 
The Center for Social Concerns would like to thank the following programs for their continued recruitment, training and support of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students who commit to a year or more of full-time service after graduation. We appreciate the partnerships with these organizations and our collaborative work towards the creation of a more just and humane world. All students, as well as others on campus who are interested, are invited to meet with representatives from these programs at the Fair this Wednesday evening. 
Domestic, Faith-Based Pro,:rams 
Agnesians in !vlission (AIM) Alaska Radio Mission Amate House Andre House of Phoenix Augustinian Volunteers Bon Secours Volunteer Min. ProRram Boys Hope/Girls Hope Cabrini !vfission Corps Campus Ministry Internship -ND Capuchin Franciscan Vol. Corps -East 
Capuchin Franciscan Vol. Corps-Midwest Catholic Clwrities!Project Serve Catholic Network of Vol. Services Catholic Peace F el/owship Catholic Volunteers in Florida Change a Heart: Millvale Franciscans Christian Appalachian Project C/aretian Volunteers Colorado Vincentian Volunteers 
Covenant House Faith Community Cultivation Ministries Dominican Volunteers USA Edmund House Franciscan Outreach A<isociation Franciscan Volunteer Ministry FOCUS 
Franciscan Volunteer Program Franciscans/or the Poor FrancisCorps Gateway Vincentian Volunteers Good Shepherd Volunteers Holy Cross A,·sociates Holy Cross Vocations Office Humility of Mary Service 
l.H.M. Volunteer Program 
Jesuit Volunteer Corps Maggie's Place Marist Volunteer Program Mercy Home Mercy Volunteer Corps Missionary Cenacle Volunteers NET Ministries Paraclete Center 
Providence College Feinstein Vol. Corps Providence Volunteer Ministry Redeemer Ministry Corps Samaritan Inns. Inc. Slwre Foundation with the Handicapped St. Joseph Workers Program The Arch. Inc. Vincentian Service Corps -Central Vincentian Service Corps -West 
International Pro,:rams 
Associate Missionaries ofthe Assumption Christian Brothers Vol. Program Columban Lay Mission Program A-1aryknoll-China Teaching Program Maryknoll Mission Association ofthe Faithful Mission Casa de la Cruz 
Passionist Volunteers International Society ofOur Lady ofthe Most Holy Trinity The Haitian Project Youth/or the Third Millennium 
Secular Programs 
A,neriCorps Center for the Homeless Indiana Legal Services little Brothers: Friends ofthe Elder(v Peace Corps Rose Hill Center 
Teaching Pro,:rams 
Alliance for ·catholic Education Cristo Rey Jesuit Alumni Volunteers Inner-City Teaching Corps New Orleans Volunteer Service Community Operation Teach Red Cloud Volunteers New York Teacher Service Program Response Ability Teach/or America 

page 20 

')
1 
l 

®I 
!!!Iii 
Ill 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, September 23, 2002 
TENNIS 

Associated Press 
PARIS 

Andy Roddick and James Blake couldn't change the luck of the United States on the clay at Roland Garros. 
Sebastien Grosjean over• came an ankle injury and beat Andy Roddick 6-4, 3-6, 6·3, 6-4, giving France its third win in the best-of.five competition and clinching a spot in the final of the Davis Cup. 
James Blake beat Arnaud Clement 6-4, 6-3 in 49 min­utes in the final singles match. France won 3·2 overall. 
The loss was the United States' fifth to France in five 
appearances at Roland Garros. 
The U.S. team hadn't played at the home of the French Open since 1932, but Roddick, Blake and Todd Martin struggled on the slow surface -just as their predecessors had. 
Defending champion France will play Russia, a 3-2 winner over Argentina in the other semifinal, in the Nov. 29-Dec. 1 final. The French are seeking their first back-to-back titles since 1932. 
"He just stayed there mentally the whole time," Roddick said of Grosjean, ranked No. 9 in the ATP's entry system. "When I didn't make one or two forehand errors in a service game, he was ready to come up with the shots. I don't know if I wouldn't have minded a faster sur­face, but you've got to play with the cards that you're dealt." 
Both players battled injuries on the dry and slightly chilly center court. Grosjean had his right ankle taped after skidding and falling in the second set, which he lost. 
Roddick played the bulk of the match with a large patch on his lower back to soothe sore muscles. 
"I don't think I served my best today," Roddick said. "I didn't really have the same pop I had the other day on my serve." 
Rodditk also struggled with his forehand, although in the second set he fired one at Grosjean, who crouched at the net and used his racket to shield himself. 
The shot bounced off and Roddick volleyed it to the baseline to win the point. 
After the match, McEnroe saw improvement in Roddick's play. 
"His game's improved, but it's got to continue," he said. "Now players know him and they know his weaknesses. The stakes get higher as you get better." 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. women golfers beat Europeans, win Solheim Cup 
Led by Wendy Ward's amazing effort against Annika Sorenstam, the United States came from two matches down at the start of the day to defeat Europe 15 1/2-12 1/2 Sunday and cap­ture one of the most coveted prizes in women's golf. 
When Frenchwoman Karine Icher missed a short putt on No. 15 in her match against Rosie Jones, the Americans were assured of the 14 1/2 points they needed to bring the Cup back to their home turf. 
Moments later, Captain Patty Sheehan learned the news, and dropped her head to the ground in a moment of huge relief and celebra­guts." 
Sheehan came under criticism Saturday, when she rested three of her best players -Juli Inkster, Laura Diaz and Meg Mallon -during the afternoon matches, which Europe swept 4-0 to take a 9-7 lead. The move paid off. 
All three of those players won Sunday, as part of an 8 1/2-3 1/2 run­away in the singles. 
"We have a history of coming from behind on Sundays," Sheehan said. 
European captain Dale Reid, so con­fident after the Saturday-afternoon sweep, simply sat by the 18th green after she knew of the loss, and chewed on a piece of grass. 
"This was very hard," Reid said. "But we didn't make a lot of points. 
prise at the end -his first and only bogey of an otherwise flawless victory in the American Express Championship. 
"That last hole did get me," Woods said. 
It was about the only thing that did during a week in which his worst round was a 67, he went 51 consecu­tive holes with nothing worse than a 4 on his scorecard, and he claimed his fifth World Golf Championship event. 
But it wasn't easy. 

Woods had a five-stroke lead going into the final round, closed with a 6­under 66 and still had to hit his best shot of the week -a wedge from deep, gnarly rough -for a birdie on the 17th hole to stave off a spectacular charge by Retief Goosen. 
tion. We had a lot of three-putts. It just Goosen played six holes at 6-under She hugged Pat Hurst, and the didn't seem to want to drop today." par, including a 6-foot eagle putt on Americans who had already made it the 17th hole to get to within one shot,
around the dial 
off the course started jumping for joy. Woods steals American and had a career-best 62 to wind up "They put out every single ounce of Express Championship one stroke behind. NFL effort they had today," Sheehan said. Tiger Woods got a bigger fight than ..That is one of the best rounds I've St. Louis at Tampa Bay 8 p.m., ABC "These ladies have so much heart and he expected Sunday, then a real sur-played," Goosen said. 
. . 
Monday, September 23, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Dillingham is in the spotlight for now 

and will start against The
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Cardinal if Holiday can't play.
Sports Writer 
"There's no way of estimating [when Holiday will be back]." Willingham said. "Hopefully by Staring into the lenses of ABC the time of our next ballgamecameras following Notre Dame's he'll be in position to play. If not,
21-17 win against Michigan Pat Dillingham will be our
State Saturday, Pat Dillingham starter, and he'll be that untilgrinned like a country boy see­Carlyle is ready to resume hising big-city lights for the first duties as our quarterback." 
time. 
Willingham refused to elabo­Those lights could get a whole 
rate on the

lot brighter if exact nature
Carlyle 
"I doubt {Holiday] will be of Holiday's
Holiday's left injury, which
shoulder practicing before the end 
the Irish

doesn't heal in 
ofthe week ... It couldn't 
quarterback

time for the 
be a better week to have sustained in
Oct. 5 Notre D a m e -a bye . ., the third 
quarter

Stanford 
Saturday

game. 
Tyrone Willingham w h e n
Irish coach T y r o n e head coach Michigan 
State line-Willingham, backer Mike

who described Labinjo landed awkwardly onHoliday's status as "week-to­Holiday's shoulder. But the Irishweek" Sunday, said until Holiday coach was grateful that his teamrecovers from the injury to his 
TIM KACMAR/fhe Observer has an open date Saturday, as
non-throwing shoulder Irish quarterback Pat Dillingham fades back before his touchdown pass to Amaz Battle Saturday Dillingham will work as the first­he expects Holiday to spend most of the week in the training
against Michigan State. Dillingham may start Oct. 5 against Stanford If Cartyle Holiday is still injured. string quarterback in practice 
, ·u• __ • '•1',
-' ,,,, It -f; ' 
room. 
"I doubt he'll be practicing before the end of the week," Willingham said. " ... It couldn't be a better week to have a bye." 
While Holiday is injured, Dillingham will handle the majority of the snaps in practice. Dillingham took over for Holiday and finished 3-of-6 passing for 84 yards, including a 60-yard game-winning touchdown pass to Arnaz Battle with 1: 15 remaining. 
Behind Dillingham, freshman Chris Olsen and walk-on Matt Krueger will serve as the back­up and third-string, respectively, while Holiday is sidelined. Willingham said neither quar­terback has seen significant action in practice, but hinted that Olsen's command of the
You're the Homecoming chairperson. 
offense was better thanAll you have to do is organize Krueger's. 
Regardless, Willingham said10,000 students, neither is at the point where they could significantly chal­20 events and 1 parade. lenge Dillingham. And when Holiday does recover, Willingham made it very clear
r··---·--·­
the junior would remain the
i . --­
starter. "Pat is ahead, and we will begin to work Chris in based on
1 

Bf\1~§: Ih 
' . Carlyle's situation," Willingham said. "When [Holiday] is ready to ""fvley've e,\n CO\.\\\T"l\.\., 0\\ yotA. WhicL\ is why go, that means Pat gets fewer 
DIGITAL WALKIE·TALklE
> 
yotA \\ee~ Nextel's ~i.,i:h~.1 w"'l\:.ie+"'-1\:.ie snaps."
SPEAKER PHONE 
In the meantime, Dillingham

WIRELESS WED ACCESS .Pet:'\tv.ve. It lets yol.\ Bet vi-,L\t thvotABh 
will have to adjust to being in
AOL5 INSTANT MESSENGER™ service 
witL\ the fv.Sh c-P "'bv.H-o\.\. "°tVl(l'l.t 1Me0\\.\S the spotlight -a situation
TWO·:WAV MESSAGING 
JAVA™ GAMES 6 APPLICATIONS \.\O ""'isseJ-c"'lls, voice 1,4\(l'l.il ov rL\o\\e t"'"· Willingham is intimately familiar with. When Willingham played 
DIGITAL CELLULAR 'St"'y i\.\ co\\tO\ct witL\ evevyo\.\e .Pvo1M 
at Michigan State in the 1970s,
the Flo"'t Co""'""'it+ee to the Alv.lM\\i 
he stepped in at quarterback Co1M1MiH-ee, wii--hov.t 1Missi"'-' 0\ J-etO\il. when regular starter Charlie Baggett was sidelined with an
t-.{ow yotA've ve"'J-y-Svi\\B It. 
injury. 
"You would always say to a Now's ()'\ f)YeO\t t'itMe to ~et Ne,ctel: guy in this situation, the most difficult times are getting ready 
e,\n Notve DO\""'e sh"~et-\ts Bet 
to arrive for him," Willingham"' \Q,r.'• tAtSC()'-"\\t' ot-\ t:'\t-\Y v-"'te said. "When you're thrust into 
the lineup, emotions of the
r'"'" el\\\~ $loo· ().p.p 0\\-\Y rho\\e. 
moment take over. Now he gets all the calls from his relatives.
-roJ.""y \--he .Aie,H-""l ""'"'l\:,ie+"'l\:,ie 
-ro \,l.\y: 

Old girlfriends that haven't paid 
wOY\:-S ovev sevev"'I hlAI\.AveJ. ~nes. 
,,a t-o 1'\e>et-el.co~vish-st-l.\~e\\t-. attention to him will pay atten­
AI\J. \--Oi.--\OY'Y'Ow, ~"'Hol\wi.Ae. 
tion to him now. Media will find
# CO\ll t-011-Pvee \-8'77-S'"O,-Z.crz.,. , to co\\t-0\ci-yol.\v Ne>ete\ AlAthovi.i.e~ 
"He's got to be able to put all Repvese\\t-c,i.Hve, CO\ll S74-2.4'3-'38' \ 8'. that aside and focus on what he 
NEXrEl him. 
1-\o.s\-s1'0w wJi.l -S+-v..le..1-10 .,.. l-l-lis M 1-o ,4!:ceive .Aiscoo...1-. does. His discipline and focus 
are critical as he prepares him­!:}'t:<~~ ' self to play a football game." 
aild up\tes DtQ!mber 3J. 2002. While supplies last Requires new activation, one year Service Agreement and~Ii~ Ml/St.be 1~tyears qt aot,o purchase. In-store pu~es require at least 2fo,:ms of valid id_entificati~n. Account , t .~may vary by market $100 instant savings is off the Regular Retall Price and wlll be applied at pomt 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
11 plan ~ted with tbis. offer. Other restrictions may apply. Rat& plans are subject to taXBS. fees and other~f'iice Agrttment fQf details:@2002 Nextel COmmunk;ations. inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Nextel asoukup@nd.edu _ ~-loo;• MotOltlla and -1he Stylized Mlogo art registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and ­· of§utf Mi<:ros _ Ille. ~b 1,Buddy List ~d the TfianO~ design are register~ tr~~of America 
{,J '. -·?,·t~t' 
Monday, September 23, 2002 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish avoid letdown in defeat of Wolverines 
In game three, Michigan (6-4) took con­
ByMATTLOZAR 
trol of the match by capitalizing on three 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame errors and a kill from Jennifer Gandolph to extend its lead from 11-9 to Losing game three after winning the first 15-9. The Irish called a timeout and won two games against Michigan Saturday 
the next point, but that was as close as made the Notre Dame volleyball team they would get as the Wolverines won the think about Wednesday's loss to Purdue, game by seven. 
when the Irish won the first two games but "Personally, coming out in game three lost the match. 
and losing game three was the most frus­
"I thought we were playing really well in trating thing for me especially after games one and two where when we were Wednesday's loss," Kristen Kinder said. "In 
playing at Purdue, we won games one and game four we got mad and went out and two but we really got it." weren't playing well," 
Tied at 17, the Irish Irish coach Debbie "/ think [Kim] Fletcher won 13 of the match's 
Brown said. "That's 
last 16 points. Fletcher

did a great job coming in.
hard to go into the lock­served six consecutive 
er room for the break We needed a little more 
points, including an ace,and know that you are offense and she came in to allow Notre Dame (9­
not playing well." 
3) to go ahead 23-17. 

and gave it to us right
But the Irish learned ., Smelling the victory at from Wednesday's dis­away. 
26-20, Lauren Brewster appointing loss and used 

had two consecutive 

an impressive offensive kills and blocks by
Debbie Brown 
contribution off the 
Jessica Kinder and Neff

head coach
bench from junior Kim sealed the match for the 
Fletcher to close out the 
Irish. Wolverines in four "As a coach, you always look at things
games, 30-22, 30-24, 23-30, 30-20. 
and think, we can do this better and that "I think especially with Kirn Fletcher better," Brown said. "Luckily after our coming in, she had so many kills right off match on Wednesday it was good to come the bat, and I have all the confidence in the out and I was glad we could play again. 
world in her," junior Kristen Kinder said. 
Overall I think we did really good." 
"I think it is great that we have a deep Neff continued her breakout season with 
bench." 
13 kills. Sophomore Emily Loomis filled out Appearing in games three and four, the stat sheet with a .406 hitting percent­
Fletcher killed three balls on four 
age, six digs and four blocks while leading attempts, had two assists, an ace and two the Irish with 15 kills and three aces. 
digs. 
Notre Dame out-hit Michigan .257 to "I think Fletcher did a great job coming .059 and .324 to .160 in the match's first 
in. We needed a little more offense and she two games. Brewster had four of her six came in and gave it to us right away," kills in those first two games. 
Brown said. "I think that is a big lift for the team, and it's big for Kim, knowing she can come in and make that kind of contri­Contact Matt Lozar at bution. It just really fires the team up." mlozar@nd.edu 

Irish volleyball player Kristen Kinder hits the ball in a recent match. Kinder and the Irish defeated Michigan in four sets Saturday. 


If you've ever thought about a vocation as a priest or brother, join Fr. Sam Peters, C.S.C. and the Holy Cross community at ND for an hour of prayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 
Tuesday, Sept. 24, 9:00-10:00 pm at Corby Hall 


www.nd.edu/,,.,vocation 

Friday, September 23, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Revenge 
continued from page 28 
of the contest on a diving head­er. Warner created the scoring opportunity with her cross to freshman Katie Thorlakson, who headed the ball to Boland. Boland dove and headed the ball into the net, as Warner and Thorlakson were both credited with assists. Seton Hall's only real scoring opportunity came 10 minutes after the Notre Dame goal. The Pirates seemed to have a wide­open shot until Randi Scheller jumped in front of Jo Ann Flanigan's shot from ten feet in front of the goalie box to pre­serve the Irish lead. The Pirates never seriously threatened the net again. 
While the Irish outshot the Pirates 13-2, they were never in sync offensively. After the game Waldrum was disappointed with the team's performance. 
"Everybody's got to get on the same page and get a commit­ment level to what we're doing," Waldrum said. "Until we do that, every game is going to be tight like this. We've got a diffi­
Goals

cult schedule. These are the types of games we've got to win 
continued from page 28 

by five or six... With the victo­ries, the Irish improved to 2-0 in 
sides penalties in the first 24 the Mid-Atlantic Division of the 
minutes of the game. Big East. 
However, the Irish were able "The only positives that we're 
to overcome the Providence getting out of the last two weeks 
defense once in the first half, is that we're winning," Waldrum 
as Erich Braun put the ball in said. "We're a very average 
the back of the net to put the team right now." 
Irish ahead 1-0 with 33:54 left in the first half. Braun's tally was the lone 
Contact Andy Troeger at 
Irish goal of the period. 
atroeger@nd.edu 
Then the sun came out as the 


Graduate Research Fellowship Information Session W~dnesday.. September 25th De.Bartolo 102, 6:00-7:00 
Notre Dame Faculty and a representative from the NSF will be on hand to discuss the award, the application process and answer your questions regarding this prestigious fellowship. 
Juniors, Seniors, l51 Year Grad Student & 2nd Year Grad Students in the Social Sciences, Sciences, Engineering & Mathematics are encouraged to attend. 
The fellowship provides support for 3 years ofgraduate study, $21, 500stipend for twelve-month tenure; cost of-educa­tion allowance of $10,500per tenure year; and a one-time $1000International Research Travel Allowance. 
For more information contact the Office of Undergraduate & Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships at 631-0372 or fellows@nd.edu 
second half began, and the 
Irish took over. 
Six minutes in, Irish forward 
Devon Prescod stole a pass 
from a Friar defender and 
spun around goalie Michael 
Greulich on his way to scoring 
his first goal of the season. 
On the ensuing kickoff, Riley 
stole a pass and launched a 
cross pass that found Boughen 
in front of the net. Boughen's 
goal -his first of. the season ­
put the Irish ahead 3-0. 
Just over a minute later, 
Riley once again found 
Boughen, who blasted a shot 
past Greulich to give the Irish a 
4-0 lead. 
"It was nice for Luke. because Luke played really, really well against Bradley [on Thursday]." Clark said. "He's got a very good shot, but he hadn't scored any goals yet, so that certainly made a differ­ence for the team when he scored." 
As the Irish offense was busy running up the score, the defense held the Friars at bay, keeping them without a shot 

-
for the first 17 minutes of the second half. 
With the game comfortably in hand, Clark made plenty of substitutions, including swap­ping sophomore goalie Chris Sawyer with senior Greg Tait . 
"We haven't had a game like that in a wee while, since the Seton Hall game (on Sept. 71," Clark said. "It was really nice to get everybody in; that was important." 
Irish defender Kevin Richards sent a cross pass from the right corner which found Braun wide open in front of the net, giving the Irish a very comfortable 5-0 lead. 
Contact Bryank Kronk at kronk.3@nd.edu 

The llanley Leclu:re Series on PohHcs and Public Pohcy 
...... ... 
..,

E 
~~
...
• 

• 
.......
• 
r.

11o nne , 
aJ 

Washington Post Columnist and Author Senior Fellow, The Brookings Institution 
will deliver a public lecture 
"Will Enron or Saddam Dominate This Year's Election?" 
Tuesday, September 24 
4:15 p.m. 

Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Sponsored by: The Washington Program 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 23, 2002 
SMC SOCCER 
Albion escapes scare from Belles in victory 


However. just two minutes players." said Concannon. actually play with these guys, 1-1 in MIAA and 3-4 overall.
By KATIE McVOY 
into the second half, the "Especially their forward, No. and then we got our second The win gave the Belles con­
Associate Sports Editor 
Britons took 20 [Supanich]." goal and it gave us even more fidence in the fact that they the lead and Albion had [confidence]," Concannon said. have improved immensely as a Last year Albion, the MIAA never looked "/ think after we got our taken an early But Godlew broke the tie, team. The three wins they conference champion, domi­b a c k . 2-0 lead in the and then junior forward have recorded this season are
first goal, we figured we

nated Saint Mary's. This year. Freshman first half, but Lauren Gentry added an insur­as many as they recorded all
could actually play with 

the Belles almost managed to midfielder Saint Mary's ance goal with an assist from last year. pull it out. J a y n e these guys. and then we fought back. senior defender Theresa Kolly. "I think we have taken dras­In its second MIAA matchup Godlew Freshman Supanich opened scoring for tic steps from last year,"
got our second goal, and

of the season, Saint Mary's fell scored her Carrie Orr Albion just nine minutes into Concannon said. "Last year
it gave us more

to Albion 4-2. However. at half first colle­scored on a play on an assist from sopho­was a starting out year, but time it looked like the Belles giate goal on [confidence].,. penalty kick, more midfielder Karen this ·year we should be 10 might just have an upset victo­a pass from and sophomore LaFlair. Only seven minutes times better." ry on their hands. The score senior for­Stephanie later, Gentry scored on an Saint Mary's next match is
Jen Concannon

was tied at two. ward Stacey Artnak hit a assist from Supanich. on Tuesday at 4 p.m. against 
"The fact that we were tied Supanich to Belles forward goal just 13 Saint Mary's goalie Maureen Alma. with people who won our con­give the minutes later MacDonald tallied five saves ference was great," said Britons a lead they would not on an assist from Concannon. for the day, while Albion's sophomore forward Jen relinquish. "I think after we got our first Erica Williams had six. Contact Katie McVoy at Concannon. "They have a couple of key goal, we figured we could The loss drops the Belles to mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
.::, : 
< 

J.,
WOMENS ROWING 
-,,~,.· i· .

Irish boats finish strong in weekend tournament 
~-...-,,
"For having only been practicing on
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG ~: 
the water for less than two weeks, the t~~L n-ilalJ~clOw,ityU!Cl ~ ­Sports Writer F ·'.' l'iectrdlie 1111b bGue~ O>icfalo. Oitlllisry
weekend's race was a great experience," 
•. '. ~d~Caneg'diibUMJilf
Ladine said. "In all new line-ups, with '·: -· --'<"'' ,,_ · Wednolweinasustainabledvilzatioa. 
The womens rowing team secured sec­many rowers new to the varsity squad, · ·,/t . :"~:-:. _· Thus, sustainability is the most i..,,,ant single ond and fourth place finishes in its first we showed just how much potential and idea for universities for the next century. Sdentists and engineers are the race of the season Saturday at the depth we have on the team this year," prind~ cust~iau of the technological components of the sustoinablity ddemma. Milwaukee River Challenge. The team plans to work off of this As quickly as passile, we must leort how to fuHy develop the educa1ionol o¦d 
Four varsity eight crews competed for weekend's impressive performance., -, reseCl'di progra¦s tut wil steer our professional thinking aad our technology base · in sustainable cllreclions. '. " 
the team, each racing over a 2.2 mile "It was a fun race allowing us to get course. Each crew competed in two some experience that will hopefully put races, which were done in opposite us in a better position going into the rest 
directions. Iowa's varsity eight finished ofour fall races." Welsh said. the meet with of 21 :51, just 5 seconds The loss to Iowa may be disappointing ahead of the Irish 's first varsity eight. for the Irish, but the squad will be look­
The second-place varsity eight crew ing forward to meeting the Hawkeyes consists of Cassie Markstahler, Natalie again later in the season. Ladine. Ashlee Warren, Elizabeth "I thought everyone raced hard this Specht, Alice Bartek, Rachel Polinski, weekend," Warren said. "The top two Erica Drennen, Kerri Murphy and eights both placed behind Iowa, but we Kathleen Welsh. will see them again when we race at 
Not far behind, the second varsity Rockford so they will definitely be one of eight crew of Kathryn Long, Kati Sedun. the teams we will be looking to beat in Ann Marie Dillhoff, Casey Buckstaff, three weeks." Becky Luckett, Diane Price, Meredith The team will take on Kansas this 
Thornburgh, Shannon Mohan and Sarah Saturday and Sunday. The races will be Keefer placed fourth with 22:17. Notre held in Mishawaka and will begin at the Dame's fourth varsity eight finished Notre Dame boathouse located on the St. 13th, while the third varsity eight came Joseph River. in 20th place. 
The rowers were pleased with the Contact Christine Armstrong at overall finish among 27 boats. carmstro@nd.edu 


i;;~\~;;;;;;1J~l:;~;;i;;:;,;;.:41:.;;;~l1iI~1iit:1i~1it;,:,;;;;;;,;;;:;:;zj 

~Mt?? 
_ 

t l l
lnleresleJ l Ill JOilllllQ 
Come leru111. more Al our GenerJ MeeHng 

Tuesday the 24th at 8:30pm Room 116 DeBartolo 
Monday, September 23, 2002 page 25
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish squads dominate weaker competition 


tii>i • Cynthia Stoffe Nally and MiUie • BCBG 
. ., 
Lulu Guiness • ABS 
Nicole MiUer • MaxStudio 
James Persa • and more._ 
Downtown South Bend 
528 E. Colfax, Suite #2 South Bend, IN 46617 574/232-1822 
Granger Area 

312 W. Clevelaod Rd. Granger, IN 46~ 5 7 4/277-6693 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Writer 
The men against the boys ­or the women against the girls, as well. 
Both were the cases Friday as the Notre Dame mens and wom­ens cross country teams extend­ed their domination at the National Catholic Championships Friday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
Each squad of Irish runners again preyed on teams repre­senting nearly 30 Catholic col­leges and universities through­out the nation. 
"We've had an individual win­ner for the past two years," Wales said. "We wish we could have come out with one this year. As a team we all did really well." 
The 20th-ranked Irish men also took the team title, allowing none of their opponents to sneak into the top six spots. Canisius College, the nearest team chal­lenger to the Irish, finished 50 points away from Notre Dame. 
Irish junior Todd Mobley claimed the individual title, his second of the season. 
Despite his win, Mobley, who finished in 25:16, was a minute off his person­

Given that al record time
"We knew that coming 
none of the for the Burke
into this season people
Catholic Golf Course. schools with would expect us to have "I didn't go highly ranked all out or any­
a down year. . . . We ·re 
teams were thing," he said. 
underranked. We're a lot
present "The times except Notre better than 20th. ·· weren't that Dame -the fast just Irish were able because of the 
Todd Mobley
to dominate conditions. 
the team Irish junior People were 
standings. 
The fifth-ranked women finished first with 31 points, while second­place Dayton completed the rainy afternoon with a distant 120 as the Irish reclaimed the title they lost to Marquette last year. 
Junior Katie Wales, who fin­ished in first with a time of 18:08, led the Irish. Wales was only seconds behind the meet's individual winner, Detroit Mercy's Kim Hemstreet. 
"[Irish head coach Tim Connelly] had told us to keep a strong pack for the first mile and a half and not take over the lead early on, [but instead] to let someone from the other team take it out," Wales said. "By the time we got to the second mile, I was just sticking with [Hemstreet]. I couldn't pass her by the end." 
Wales' time was her career personal best 
more con­cerned with running together than trying to break out a fast­paced race. Yet, we went into there to win, and we won." 
The Irish did succeed in run­ning together, with freshman Tim Moore taking second place, 
senior John Keane finishing third, junior Brian Kerwin in fourth and junior David Alber taking fifth. Freshman Kaleb Van Ort and junior Kevin Somok completed the Irish lineup, with their sixth and ninth place fin­ishes. 
The Irish race plan did not go entirely as hoped, though. 
"We were hoping that'd we be in position to have John Keane win the race," Mobley said. 
The team had thought Friday's race would have been a good opportunity for Keane, the only senior on the squad, to win a race. 
However, 
Notre Dame 

for Notre "We ·ve had an individual would not let 
Dame's home a runner
winner for the past two 
course. from another The rest of the years. We wish we could team take the Irish followed have come out with one victory. 
close behind "[Keane]
this year. As a team we
their lead run­came close ner. Freshman all did really well. " [to winning]. Stephanie Madia but two other finished fourth kids started
Katie Wales 
and junior out-kicking
Irish junior 
Megan Johnson him, so 
was fifth. Two more freshmen. Jean Marinangeli and Lori King. finished in sixth and eighth, respectively. 
Junior Rachel Endress and senior Emily Showman rounded out the Irish top seven with their ninth and 10th place finishes. 

"We went out as a really strong pack and hung together until the end," Wales said. "A couple people fell off from the pack, but we really finished up with some good places at the end." 
Running as a pack was an intentional strategy for the Irish, in preparation for tough upcom­ing races. 
"This meet is kind of different because of the teams that are there," Wales said. "The reason that we run this is because that's the goal for the season, to run as a pack. It's good practice for when we run against tougher teams." 
Even though they didn't have the top individual finisher, the Irish were pleased with their performance. 
[Moore] and I had to close in." 
While Friday's competition was relatively easy for both the men and the women, the Irish cross country teams will see their biggest challenge of the season so far in two weeks, when they welcome some of the best competition in the country to the Burke Golf Course for the Notre Dame Invitational. 
"We'll be ready," Mobley said. 

Additionally. both teams are not overly concerned with the rankings. The womens team refuses to speak of theirs, while the men acknowledge that theirs probably should be higher. 
"We knew that coming into this season people would expect us to have a down year," Mobley said. "We graduated five really good runners. We're under­ranked. We're a lot better than 20th. I'll show people that even­tually." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindslc@nd.edu 



l 
'I' 

Help us help companies determine how import taxes, manufacturing costs and labor will affect their profits, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 




Monday, September 23, 2002 
page 27 
The Observer . TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE 
501£1 ME ~ET1fft 
... fltl) . : 
A9f'AT'E.UW. 
ES, 
HAPPY TOWN 
Oh I dunno. I think we We did a great job need work harder at saturday_ getting touchdowns. We? I scored a \ touchdown saturday. 


\ 
Yeah. we really 
What did you do? 
played well. 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
~T~r 
tt>fflffJK ~o 
A't~~ 
1lf£YCAN 

wrn-t IT... s,EJt... NO. 
~F>ENT 'P.l:>DY 
t>'£i"t,Rl~2S 

JACK MONAHAN 
Yeah welLI uh... screamed at the TV. loudly. Very... loudly. 
\ 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argfrfon

~[31rn.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
... to form four ordinary words. 
BOBAT 
t 


C2002 T rtiune Media Services, Inc.
r~f0Tl)
tDUNJOC I
I 
www.jumble.com 
t"voRGEN t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I I J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

AN:A "(IIIJ"(IIIJ (Xl) 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: METAL REARM ENTIRE JURIST Answer: What he got when he paid off his expensive watch monthly-TIME ON "TIME" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 25 • To order, Nnd your name, add,.aa and $5.95 and -ke CMC:k peyable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60880-4330. 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  34 Florentine  61 Never  
1 It may be filled with gunpowder 7 Cleaned out 14 Like cult rituals 15 qangerous singer  exiled in 1302 35 Year in Edward the Confessor's reign 36 Way to walk 38 Per  62 It's in a jam 63 One who does windows 64 Amusement arcade items  
16 Deli order  39 Sources of woe  DOWN  
17Putoff 18 Opening on Broadway  41 Lizzie Borden's cause celebre 43 Petrol units  1 Fictional Cossack_ Bulba  
19 Result of ruling 20 W.W. II weapons  45 Supplication starter  2 Not at ease, perhaps  
22 Gelling agents in foods  46 Some dashes 47 One bit  3 Like some French accents  
23 They make periodical changes: Abbr. 26 Seedeater, say 28 Spy's quest 30 They may be taken on the chin  49 "I don't buy it!" 53 Go (forth) 54 Fabulous loser 55 South American strangler 59 Snowy race setting  4 It may drive you to get out 5 Article in le journal 6 Crib 7 Likhovtseva of tennis 8 Blue bunch  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Lacking wrinkles  
10 Rolodex abbr. 11 Advised leader?  PuaJt by Pal M. Hugel 29 Chase scenes  50 Bad thing to  55 Conjunction  
designation  abound in this movie  make a decision in  56 Conjunction 57 Had  
13 Executed  30 Like Uriah Heep  51 w100 Centre  58 Firms: Abbr.  
17 It's not left underarm 19 Gap 21 "Hey, misterr  31 Vanilla 32 Pub orders 33 Just  Streer star 52 Makes less dependent  59 Inclined 60 The Sickle is in it  
23 Bud Grace comic strip character 24 Block 25 Blocks  37 Man-vs.­machine play 40 Annual quartet 42 Hammer 44 Golf lesson topic  Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
27 Barracks V.I.P.  48 Charcoal wood  years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julio lglesias, Ray Charles, Bruce Springsteen, Jason Alexander 
-
Happy Birthday: You will have inner strength, depth and courage, which will help you reach your goals. This is a year of rewards and recognition. You will have no trouble drumming up some help if you want it, and your ability to make others feel important will enhance your reputation and bring you the kind of popularity you've always wanted. Your numbers are 6, 8, 13, 22, 28 41 ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is a great day to set your standards high and focus on self-improvement. Emotional problems will develop if you try to force your will on others. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't count on getting help with your tasks today. If there is someone special in your life, today is a great day to further or nurture that relationship. Talks regarding personal issues will go well. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get together with people who are older or younger than you. You will relate to different generations better and you will also learn a great deal if you listen to the way these individuals view things. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Start thinking more about your health and well­being. Eat properly and exercise. You will be able to use your knowledge to teach others how to do things, but first you must set a good example. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't turn down an invitation tcxlay. Family gatherings will lead to a new romantic connection. This is the perfect day to communicate your feelings and personal goals. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work, work and more work is exactly what will pay the bills and get you back on track financially. You can make career changes if you are willing to put in some learning time. You have to set a game plan. 
**** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You can surprise everyone around you with your ingenious ideas and your creative talent. You will be able to make some sensational personal changes that will leave everyone admiring how good you 
look.***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Work should go well as long as you immerse 
yourself in your job. Someone you live with may be hard to please. Don't overreact to the changes going on all around you. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): This is not the day to sit around being lazy . 
Get out and socialize. Opportunities to become passionately involved with someone you already have connected with or someone entirely new will make your day superb. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be harboring some emotional issues that should be dealt with, especially if they have to do with someone elderly. Don't let the ones you love rule your every move. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be anxious if you don't make plans to do something that requires a little competitive energy. Get out with friends. New love interests may be met through the company you keep. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Hidden matters may come back to haunt you. Be an observer today, keeping your thoughts to yourself. Be sure to do your job well, but don't let someone take you for granted. *** Birthday Baby: You will make your family proud and you will stand out in a crowd. You will always be ahead of your peers and you will lead others in a positive direction. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address __________________ City _______ State ___Zip_____ ­


Monday, September 23, 2002 
.., 
ND WOMENS SOCCER 
Payback 
MENS SOCCER 
Three quick goals finish off Friars 

road, so it was one of those diffi­
By BRYAN KRONK 
cult games." 
Sports Writer 
Midfielder Luke Boughen scored twice -in a span of 1:12 With conditions at the begin­-and midfielder Chad Rileyning of the Sunday's Notre Dame added three assists to bring his mens soccer game more remi­season assist total to six. Erich 
niscent of coach Bobby Clark's 
Braun also added two goals,native Scotland than South bringing his season goals total to 
Bend, the Irish offense struggled 
six. Sunday's game already
early. 
\ marked Braun's third game this
' 
Then the clouds broke open season in which he has scored 
and so did the Irish offense. 

more than one goal.
Notre Dame scored three goals As the game began, both in a 90-second span in the sec­
teams got off to a slow start due ond half to put away a game in to the weather, as rain and wind 
which the Irish dominated exacerbated the chilly game
Providence, 5-1. 
time temperatures in the early"It was nice to get a game going.
where we could get everyone in The Friars' defensive strategyat the end," Clark said. "I was a 
of pulling Notre Dame's for­
little scared that the boys were wards offsides worked, as the going to be looking past this Irish were flagged for seven off-
game. [Providence is] the kind of team that can just get in the 
see GOALS/page 23 

MIAA tournament last season champion Courtney Rheinhardt
By KATIE McVOY 
but had struggled to find that from Alma and usual top-10 fin­
Associate Sports Editor 
first-place spot since. They fin­isher Stacy Chapman to end in ished a disappointing third in first place. 
It was a long time in coming, the championship tournament "We were definitely excited but the goal was definitely and have bounced between sec­for her," Hanlon said. "We worth waiting for. ond and third in other contests. knew going in that she's an 
Saturday, on an unfamiliar Earlier this season, the Belles awesome player. She's always course to all but one member of managed to put together a close. and it was awesome to the team, Saint Mary's Wtnt out record-breaking team finish at see her post that score." and proved that it could play a non-conference match and But for Hanlon, Simmerman and that it would play to be the were just waiting for the pieces taking home first place was very best in the MIAA. to fall into place. more than a moment to remem­
The Belles took home all the "This has been a main goal ber. It signaled the possibility honors a team can take home in for us," Hanlon said. "It helps that this team can go further. an MIAA tournament. They won leading up to the championship "Any of the girls on any given the tournament, defeating in a few weeks." day can do that," Hanlon said. league contenders Hope College But the fact that Saint Mary's "It all depends on the day." and Albion, and, for the first took home the victory was only Saint Mary's totaled 338 team time in Belles history. a Saint one feather in Saint Mary's cap. strokes, with Simmerman, Julia Mary's golfer won the medal. The team had one more reason Adams, Chrissy Dunham and 
"We're extremely excited," to pat itself on the back. Megan Mattia scoring for the junior Liz Hanlon said. "It's Sophomore Stefanie team. Dunham and Adams both been a long time waiting for us Simmerman made history. finished in the top 10 overall to get in there and show that we becoming the first Belle to win golfers. can play just as well, if not bet­medallist honors. ter, than those other teams." With a score of 81 strokes, Contact Katie McVoy at 
Saint Mary's won the opening Simmerman tied last year's mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
en 
FOOTBALL
CROSS COUNTRY 
WOMENS ROWING
SMC SOCCER 
FOOTBALL
ND VOLLEYBALL

LLI 
Irish quarterback 
Notre Dame 21
t--u Notre Dame at 
Albion 4 
Notre Dame at 

Notre Dame 3 
Carlyle Holiday suffered 
Michigan State 17
National Catholic 
SMC2 
Milwaukee River 
Michigan 1 
an injury to his shoulder 
Irish receiver Arnaz
cc =3 Championships 
The Belles went into 
Challenge 
The Irish bounced 

late in the third quarter 
Battle broke a 60-yard
The Irish mens and 
halftime tied with the 
The Irish had four 
back from a loss to 
and was replaced by Pat 
touchdown catch with
womens squads host 
strong Albion team, but 
varsity eight squads 
Purdue with a four
a: 
Dillingham. His status is 
just over a minute left to
and win the National 
the Britons scored two 
compete, placing teams 
game victory over the 
week-to-week. 
top the Spartans. 
Catholic Championships 
second half goals to win. 
second and fourth. 

Wolverines.
a. = 
page 21 

Irish Insider
page 25 
page 24 

page 24 
page 22

en 
. Irish score ,a pair of 1-0 victories over Rutgers and Seton Hall 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame womens soc­cer team got a little revenge this weekend with a pair of Big East victories over Rutgers and Seton Hall, although the feeling was a lot sweeter than the play. 
The Irish won both games 1-0. While the defense was stellar for the Irish, the offense struggled to generate quality scoring opportunities. Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum tried numerous lineup changes against Seton Hall with limited success, including moving junior forward Amanda Guertin and sophomore defender Candace Chapman to the midfield. 
Waldrum was upset after the game with the lack of produc­tion. 
"The changes didn't do any­thing," Waldrum said. "Until the team gets it right we're not going to get the season right." 
Friday night's game was dead­locked for 100 minutes of play before Amy Warner came through for the Irish. The junior crossed to freshman Maggie Manning to set up a shot that was deflected by Rutgers goal­keeper Christine Caldwell. Manning corralled the rebound and played it back to Warner who ripped a shot into the upper-left corner of the net for the win. 
With Warner's dramatic goal the Irish exacted some revenge for last season's 2-1 defeat at Rutgers. 
Freshman goalkeeper Erika Bohn recorded her first com­plete game shutout. Her six saves. including two in the first overtime, kept Notre Dame in the game. After competing with junior Lauren Kent early in the season, Bohn has established herself as the starting goalkeep­er. 
Sunday's game was more of the same for the Irish offense. 
On paper, Notre Dame should have dominated the game. The seventh-ranked Irish were the preseason favorites in the Big East while Seton Hall was expected to finish near the bot­tom of the conference. 
Twenty-two minutes into the game, midfielder Mary Boland scored Notre Dame's only goal 
see REVENGE/page 23 

O
THE 

Monday, September 23, 2002 BSERVER Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 17 

urturn 
Notre Dame makes the big play this year and defeats Michigan State 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Michigan State burned the 
Irish the last three years on a 
big pass play near the end of 
the game. This time, it was 
Notre Da.me's turn to light the 
match. 
Thirty seconds after Charles 
Rogers put the Spartans ahead 
with an acrobatic touchdown 
catch, Arnaz Battle scored on 
a 60•yard touchdown pass 
with 1:15 remaining as No. 10 
Notre Dame beat Michigan 
State 21-1 7, snapping a five­
game losing streak to the 
Spartans. 
"I think our guys knew we had the ability to come back if we'd just be poised and stay true to ourselves and our team." Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "We felt somebody would make a play." 
It appeared the Spartans would extend their streak of last minute victories against the Irish when Rogers leapt above two Irish defenders and landed with one foot just inside the end zone to give Michigan State the 17-14 lead. 
"[Rogers] is a great player making a great play, and he did that all day long, when he had the opportunity." Willingham said. "The catch in the end zone and his ability to hang and get one foot down ­that's big time." 
Former walk-on quarterback Pat Dillingham, who entered the game late in the third quarter after starter Carlyle Holiday was tackled hard on the Michigan State sideline, engineered Notre Dame's win­ning drive that started at the 28-yard line with just 1 :41 to 
play and no timeouts. the play off and score," Battle time expired. With just 11 seconds left in score to 14-10 on their first 
After a 6-yard pass to tight said. "The past two years, they the first half, Holiday complet­possession of the fourth quar­end Gary Godsey and a pass The Spartans had one last just beat us in the last few sec­ed his first touchdown pass of ter when Smoker found Rogersinterference chance to onds in the game, and it was the year on a 15-yard strike to in the end zone on a 38-yardcall on win the time for someone to just step receiver Maurice Stovall. The pass.Michigan "The past two years, they game when up and make a couple of play was the first collegiate Rogers ended the day with 
S t a t e , ..._.-. j11,$t,]J~at. us. in the last they got the plays," Sapp said. "Before we touchdown for the freshman seven receptions for 175 yards 
Dillingham ball back on went on defense, the coaches Stovall. The possession started and two touchdowns. He tied
few seconds in tlt~game, 
found Battle their 26-called us up, and we broke it at the Spartan 28-yard line an NCAA record with his 12th across the and it was time for yard line on the sidelines saying 'Win.' when Sapp intercepted consecutive regular season middle and someone to step up and with 1:09 to They said to do whatever you Michigan State quarterback game with a touchdown catch. the fifth-year play. They have to do to win this game." Jeff Smoker off Irish corner­The Irish moved to 4-0 on
make a couple ofbig
senior broke moved the The Irish opened an early back Shane Walton's deflec­the season for the first time
plays.,.
the play for ball to lead on Michigan State with a tion. since 1993. They also moved the winning N o t r e 10-play, 80-yard drive on their The tide appeared to turn for up to No. 10 in both the AP score. Dame's 46-first possession, capped off by Michigan State after the injury and coaches' poll, the first
Gerome Sapp 
" 0 n e yard line a 6-yard Ryan Grant touch­to Holiday and a missed 38-time since 1998 the Irish are
Irish safety
defender before safe-down run to take a 7-0 lead. yard field goal by Nicholas ranked in the top 10. missed and ty Gerome The Spartans moved within Setta with just over three min­fell down. I Sapp sealed four points on a 35-yard Dave utes to play in the third quar­had some key blocks down the the Irish victory with an inter­Rayner field goal near the end ter. Contact Chris Federico at field, and I was able to spring ception on the 3-yard line as of the first quarter. The Spartans closed the cfederic@nd.edu 

player of the game 
play of the game 
quote of the game

stat of the game 
Charles Rogers 
"To beat Michigan State -that's
Amaz Battle's 60-yard touchdown 
60 yards 
the best ... 
reception 

The Spartan wide receiver caught 
length ofDillingham 's final 
seven passes for 175 yards and two 
Gerome Sapp 

The reception gave the Irish the 
completion to Battle -the longest 
touchdowns 
lrlsh safety

Irish pass ofthe year 
21-I 7 win. the first in eight years 
against the Spartans 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 23, 2002 
-

report card 
B+ 
quarterbacks: Although Holiday and Dillingham only combined to com­plete nine of 24 passes, Dillingham 
came through in the clutch and threw for the winning touchdown. 
running backs: Grant and Powers-Neal 
A-
combined for 131 rushing yards and 
Grant scored a touchdown. They easi­
ly moved the ball, often gaining five or six yards a carry. 
B+ 
receivers: Stovall looked very solid for the Irish and Notre Dame made its first two passing touchdowns. In addi­
tion, Battle made the big play to win the game. 
offensive line: The offensive line looked 
B+ 
much improved this week. Although 
they allowed two sacks and both quar­
terbacks were still pressured, there were less hits than the last two games. 
A-
defensive line: The line had a good game, put excellent pressure on Smoker and sacked him four times. 
More importantly. they helped hold 
Michigan State to only 53 yards 
rushing. 
A 
linebackers: Led by Watson. the line­backers looked excellent. Watson had 10 
tackles, the linebackers scared Rogers 
and added to solid rush defense. 
defensive backs: The defensive backs had
B+their work cut out for them with Rogers. As well as they played, Rogers wasjust that much better. Sapp had two intercep­tions. 
special teams: Setta missed a field goal.
C+ending his 16-game streak for consec­utive field goals. Duff and Battle made some solid kick returns, but Hildbold was a little off on his angles. 
coaching: The coaching staff gets 
A-
points for keeping the team in this 
roller-coaster game. They coached 
Dillingham through high pressure and won in the first hostile environ­ment this team has faced. 
overall: The best GPA this team has gotten thus far. Despite breakdowns on
3.40 
offense, Notre Dame man­aged to pull out the win. 
adding up the numbers 
number of consecutive games Nicholas Setta made afield goal before missing a 38· 
16 

yarder and breaking his streak Saturday 
3 
total number of passes caught In the second quarter. One was an interception by Gerome 
Sapp 
number of times a Notre Dame opponent has 
o 

defeated the Irish in six consecutive meetings 
1993 last time the Irish began a season 4-0. The 1993 Irish finished 11-1 
number of consecutive Irish victories against 4 schools in the Big Ten 
20 
number of consecutive quarters in which the Irish did not score a pssing touchdown. They 
scored their first of the season Saturday 
combined number of points Notre Dame has 
13 

won its last three games by 
10 
Irish ranking in both the ESPN/Coaches Poll and the AP Poll. The Irish have not been 
ranked in the top 1 D since 1998 

EAST LANSING, Mich. 
They blitzed the safety. The quarterback dropped back and threw. The wide receiver scored on the slant. 
But this time, 
the wide receiver was wearing gold. 
It finally clicked in for Arnaz Battle on Saturday. After watching Michigan State 

defeat his team 
Katie McVoy
the last four years, knowing the Irish hadn't 
Associate
won against 
the Spartans Sports Editor since 1994, the win was his­toric. And the win came on a big play. "We got them on a slant," Battle said with a smile after Saturday's 21-17 win against Michigan State. "And they've beaten us with the slant the last couple of years. I think that's when it finally clicked in that I made a good play that's beaten us the last two years." The win alone wasn't the only reason Battle had to smile on Saturday. He's struggled through all four Irish victories this season, hoping to make the big play, any 
big play. He's watched the ball bounce off his hands while team­mates Omar Jenkins and Maurice 
Stovall have made 40-plus yard catches. 
"I've tried so hard to make big plays that it's kind of been like I'm shooting myself in the foot," Battle said. "It's like I'm trying to hard instead of letting it happen." 
It happened Saturday at the best possible moment. For five years, Michigan State 

has beaten Notre Dame. In their house, in Notre Dame's house, it didn't matter. Before Saturday, not one member of the Irish football team had defeated Michigan State. 
And with just two minutes-left in the game, it looked like it was going to remain that way. When Spartan wide receiver caught a pass from quarterback Jeff Smoker on a fourth-and-11 play in the very end of the end zone, it looked like it was going to be like 1999, 2000 and 2001 all over again. 
"Oh no, not again," defensive line coach Greg Mattison remem­bered thinking. 
Just before Rogers caught the around him," said linebacker Courtney Watson. "And then he was just running for like 50 yards. I was happy as hell." 
And Battle ran and ran until he crossed the goal line and won the game for Notre Dame. 
"It happened when I least expected it," Battle said. "I was able to make a big play and score a touchdown in a key situation. That's all it comes down to -just being an athlete and letting it hap­pen." 
And with that, the nightmare was over. The fifth-year seniors, the seniors, the whole team beat Michigan State. The five-game streak ended and Notre Dame 
pass, the Jumbotron at Spartan Stadium flashed the win­ning plays of the last three con­tests these teams played in -Gari Scott catching an 80-yard touch­down pass in 1999, Herb Haygood scoring on a slant in the final seconds in 2000 and Rogers scoring on a slant with seven min­
"It happened when I least expected it. I was able to make a big play and score a touchdown in a key situation. That's all it comes down to -just being an athlete and letting it happen.,, 
Arnaz Battle Irish wide receiver 
utes left last season. It looked like the Irish might be falling back into the nightmare. 
But then it happened. It just hap­pened for Battle. Michigan State's safety blitzed and Battle adjusted his route. Backup quarterback Pat Dillingham noticed the route change and fired a short pass across the middle. Battle caught the pass and ran. And kept run­ning. 
"I was watching on the big screen and there was nobody else could finally say it had Michigan State's number. 
"This is the best game of my life, by far," said fifth-year senior defensive end Ryan Roberts. "I could be done with football now as long as we beat Michigan State." 
And the Irish did. Battle finally came through with the big play 
and just one thing that matters to both football teams right now. 
"We didn't win the game," Spartan coach Bobby Williams said. 
Or in the words of Gerome Sapp: "To beat Michigan State -that's the best." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
; t" •·.\. 
...... c.. ...,~ 

Monday, September 23, 2002 page 3
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
•

Backup QB emerges as improbable hero scoring 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
EAST LANSING. Mich. 
The first game Pat Dillingham played as Irish quarterback, the public address announcer at Giants Stadium introduced him as Jason Beckstrom, an injured defensive back who wore the same No. 9 jersey as Notre Dame's backup quarterback. Although he was happy to get on the field, Dillingham hand­ed the ball off 10 consecutive times in garbage time against Maryland and became the butt of teammates' jokes for the 
P.A. man's gaffe. 
The second game Dillingham played as Irish quarterback, he threw a 60-yard game-win­ning touchdown with 1:15 left in the game. This time, team­mates laughed with him instead of at him. 
"You have to be surprised by his play," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "You worry about backups coming into a game like that into a pressurized situation.... I think he was amazingly poised and in control of his game." 
When a horde of Spartan players buried Carlyle Holiday on the Michigan State sideline late in the third quarter, knocking him out the game with a shoulder injury, Dillingham pulled on his hel­met, grabbed a football and started throwing passes to teammates even as roars reverberated throughout Spartan Stadium. 
Holiday's injury gave Dillingham the chance he had been waiting over a year for. He came to Notre Dame only because former offensive coor­dinator Kevin Rogers invited the California quarterback to take an official visit -the only school to do so. Dillingham fig­ured he was going to stay on the scout team the rest of his college career. 
But after Jared Clark switched to tight end and Matt Lovecchio transferred to Indiana, Dillingham became Notre Dame's backup by 

Playing in Mr. Rogers' neighborhood 
LISA VELTE/The Observer Sophomore backup quarterback Pat Dillingham throws a pass. Dillingham fired the 6()..yard game-winning touchdown. 
default and had a scholarship to show for it. 
Saturday, the "one hit away" mantra Dillingham kept repeating to himself became reality. As trainers started slapping ice packs on Holiday's shoulder, the former walk-on jogged onto the field and into the spotlight. 
At first, Dillingham certainly looked like a former walk-on. Shaken by the speed of college pass rushes, his first pass attempt sailed far over 6-foot­5 Maurice Stovall's head. His third pass looked less like a throw and more like a punt as the Spartans intercepted the ball at their own 3-yard line. 
"I can't repeat [what I said after that throw]," Willingham said. 
Yet his teammates continued to encourage him. Willingham made sure the Irish called plays Dillingham felt comfort­able running. Holiday pulled Dillingham aside after each drive and answered questions. Notre Dame's veteran offen­sive linemen helped keep the sophomore's confidence high. 
So when Charles Rogers hauled in a touchdown pass with less than two minutes left to give the Spartans a 17 -14 lead, Dillingham remained poised as he stepped under center, 72-yards away from the end zone. If Notre Dame was to beat Michigan State, its hopes lay in the hands of a for­mer walk-on who didn't receive a single Division-I scholarship offer out of high school. 

"You try to do some things in 
practice that put him under 
pressure situations," offensive 
coordinator Bill Diedrick said. 
"But until you get into that sit­
uation, and especially the way 
the emotions and the momen­
tum of the game were going, it 
was a very difficult situation." 
How many times Dillingham 
ran the two-minute drill in 
practice is debatable. 
Willingham said "almost next 
to nothing". Diedrick said a 
quarter of the time. 
Dillingham said he split reps 
with Holiday evenly. 
But what isn't debatable is 
Dillingham's composure when 
the Irish needed it most. He 
calmly started the drive with a 
pass to Gary Godsey and 
threw a dart at Stovall that 
drew a pass interference call. 
Two plays later, in a manner 
worthy of Joe Montana and 
Kris Haines, Dillingham 
noticed Battle adjust his route 
across the middle of the field, 
rifled a 10-yard bullet in his 
direction and watched Battle 
race 50 more yards for the 
score. 
Just like that, the unknown backup had become the improbable hero. 
"If you asked me last year, if I was going to be standing at this podium, I'd probably have to say no," Dillingham said. 
Nor could Dillingham have imagined fans would scream his name as he tried to answer questions after the game or television cameras would sur­round him as he celebrated. In fact, he didn't even know if people on campus knew his name before he threw the pass that preserved Notre Dame's perfect record. 
At least he knows he isn't going to be mistaken for a defensive back anytime soon. 
"I know his girlfriend is going to like him a whole lot more right now," Holiday joked after the game, his arm in a sling, his return uncertain. "He's the man right now." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 
There was no doubt in any­one's mind why Spartan wide receiver Charles Rogers is a Heisman candidate -he'-s unstoppable. 
The junior wide receiver had seven catches for 175 yards and both of Michigan State's touchdowns on long passes. A receiver who can post numbers like those will always be on the defense's mind. 
"Not matter what defense we're in, we're looking for No. 1," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said, "It's hard, because they do a great job of moving that kid around. You can't always roll up to him, and you can't always double him. it just doesn't work that way. You've got to be careful with a player like 
h. ,,
1m. 
With his first touchdown reception on Saturday, Rogers took his place in the history books. He joined Desmond Howard in holding the Big Ten record with receptions in his last 13 games. He also ties for first place in the NCAA record for consecutive receptions in regular season games (12) a record held by Howard, Marshall's Randy Moss and Pacific's Aaron Turner. 
"That's a great player mak­ing a great play, and he did that all day long," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
Coming up big 
Freshman wide receiver Maurice Stovall had a break­out game on Saturday. He caught two passes for 49 yards, but looked ready to catch the ball any time he was on the field. 
\Vith 11 seconds left in the first half, Stovall caught a 15­yard pass from Carlyle Holiday to become the first Irish player all season to haul in a touchdown reception. 
"He had a lot of big plays," Willingham said. "He's going to be a very fine receiver. It's nice to see him." 
A Rose Bowl bid? 
The Irish should be looking for a Rose Bowl bid -or at least they've proved to them­selves they're good enough for a spot in that game. 
With four consecutive victo­ries against Big Ten teams and this season's three-game sweep of Big Ten opponents, Notre Dame has shown that it can run with the big dogs ­the Big Ten dogs. 
"That was our goal at the beginning of the season, to be the unofficial Big Ten champ," said running back Ryan Grant. 
Changing it up 
Wide receiver Arnaz Battle and quarterback Carlyle Holiday did a flip-flop on Saturday. 
On the first Irish drive, Holiday pitched the ball to battle and then headed down­field. Battle, who hasn't played quarterback for the Irish in the last two years. completed a 30-yard pass to Holiday. The Irish quarter­back made a nifty catch, extending his body fully to grab the pass with the tips of his fingers. 

"It's a good throw," Holiday said. " ... I told them it was the best catch this year in the locker room. They don't believe me. But I think it was a heck of a catch." 
Breaking through 
With its win on Saturday, Notre Dame moved into the top 10 in both the ESPN/Coaches Poll and the AP poll, the first time since 1998 that Notre Dame has been ranked in the top 10. 
"I have seen it," Willingham said when asked about the ranking. "But there is no reac­tion to it, but I guess you need something, so here is my stab at it. It is better for them to say good things about you than bad things." 
Gameday captains 
Battle, linebacker Courtney Watson, lineman Sean Mahan and safety Glenn Earl were captains Saturday. 
summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  7  7  0  7  21  
Michigan State  3  0  0  14  17  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 0 
Ryan Grant 6-yard run with 10:48 remaining (Nicholas Setta kick) Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 4:12 elapsed 
Michigan State 3, Notre Dame 7 
Dave Rayner 35-yard FG with 0:55 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 62 yards, 2:16 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 3 
Maurice Stovall 15-yard pass from Carlyle Holiday (Setta kick) with 0:11 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 28 yards, 1:49 elapsed 
Third quarter no scoring 
Fourth quarter Michigan State 10, Notre Dame 14 
Charles Rogers 38-yard pass from Jeff Smoker (Rayner kick) with 13:22 remaining Drive: 3plays, 56 yards, 1:31 elapsed 
Michigan State 17, Notre Dame 14 
Rogers 21-yard pass from Smoker (Rayner kick) with 1:45 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 97 yards, 4:09 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 17 Amaz Battle 60-yard pass from Pat Dillingham (Setta kick) with 1:15 remaining Drive: 3plays, 72 yards, 0:30 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
¦S.:&lltlirBl'3~:4 
rushing yards 
1

¦!1'~~•~ 1-i~f~= s'r:E 53 
passing yards 
lltilllll¦••·••~•~0,:•1:••':•,•••:12s1 
return yards 

-
39-127  rushes-yards  34-53  
9-24-1  comp-att-int  19-34-2  
9-38.3 1-0  punts-yards fumbles-lost  8-42.1 0-0  
6-45 15  penalties-yards first downs  9-86 19  
passing  
Hollday  17-5-0  Smoker  34-19-2  
illinghamD  6-3-1  
attleB  1-1-0  15-70  

Granl owers-Nealp opienskiL olldayH  rushing 17-90 Richard12-41 Moss1·2 Hayes9·(·6)  9-9 2-5  
Batlle stovall Godsey olidayH atsonw  receiving 3-78 2-59 Rogers 2-24 Knott 1-30 Moss 10 Lovett  7-175 3-32 3-14 2-18  ....  

tackling 

Roberts 6 Wright 8 sapp 6 
Dukes 7 

Eart 6 
Wedlow 6 

Duff 5 
Stanley 6

Goolsby 5 
Lablnjo 6

walton 5 
Taplin 4

Curry 5 
Harmon 4

HI lliard 3 
Henry 4 
Rasmussen 3 

-
'­
f'""'\lHE 

Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 17 \JnSERVER Monday, September 23, 2002 
THE 
AKING OF A 
LASSIC 

LISA VELTE/The Observer 

After losing for five years, the 
Irish were on a mission to end their losing streak against Michigan State and remind them why Notre Dame leads the series. Charles Rogers may have come close to ending Irish hopes for victory, but Notre Dame was not going to let the game end on a big Michigan State play. They were going to make sure the game ended on a big Irish play. It did. 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer 



Arnaz Battle makes the game-winning touchdown (top left). Charles Rogers Is denied a reception although the catch was ruled not an Interception (top right). Tyrone WIiiingham shows some rare emotion over his team's victory (bottom left, top). Carlyle Holiday makes his first reception of the season from Amaz Battle (bottom left, bottom). Freshman wide receiver Maurice Stovall makes a reception (bottom right). 






