
VOL. XXXVII NO. 32 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
Possible war does not faze ROTC students 
BySHEilA FLYNN News Writer  Conley agreed. "It's sort of what you have to understand going into it," Conley said.  and wouldn't even report to their first officer class until August or September. The timeline is so  "Even if we talk about it in class or we talk about it with them, they're so far removed  an age group political identity," said Heidi Ardizzone, assistant professor of American studies.  
As the international atmos­phere increases in volatility and the United States prepares for military action in the Middle East, war is becoming a looming reality for Notre Dame ROTC stu­denl<i. "One of my friends who gradu­ated last year was with the 82nd Airborne," said Sara McMahon, a junior in the Army ROTC pro­gram. "He was going to get sent over there [the Middle East]. but now they're holding him back. It kind of hit home when he told us that." Despite this daunting possibili­ty, however, Notre Dame ROTC students and officers said that combat has not been a frequent topic of discussion. "It's more or less just business as usual with us," said John Phunter, a senior marine. "I think it's probably because, in selecting the military, you sort of just have to go into it." Junior midshipman Kevin  Matt Heibel. an Air Force ROTC long that any of our college stu­junior, said cadets rarely express dents, to include the seniors. anxieties. wouldn't be in a line unit until "We talked about it in class the probably 2004." other day and went over the rea­Rather than immediately enter­sons for why the country was ing active duty upon graduation considering war. but there was from Notre Dame, ROTC gradu­no talk of 'Oh, wow, that's going ates attend several months of to be us,"' Heibel said. "All my classes relating to the specific friends in branches they ROTC aren't each choose.'"All my friends in ROTCfreaking out or The training getting more aren't freaking out or periods differ serious or any­getting more serious or with the vari­thing like ous branches,anything like that...that." as do the possi­One reason bilities of actu­for this silence Matt Heibel ally seeing on the issue, combat.ROTC studentinstructors Students who and students elect to work in said, is the large stretch of time intelligence, for example, are less between graduation and the start likely to be sent to the front lines of active duty for ROTC studenl<i. than those who select infantry "After they graduate from and artillery. ROTC studenl<i can school, a lot take time off," said also apply for education delays, Army Major Don Gardiner, assis­which allow for them to attend tant professor of military science. medical or law school before "They can take 30 days of leave beginning their years in service.  from their Students said first assign­they rarely hear"Even ifthere was an allment that it the topic dis­really out World War III, they 're cussed and, fur­doesn't sink thermore, almost going to go through their i n , " never hear other classes first. " Gardiner students express said. any sort of con­" E v e n cern about theDon Gardiner though we issue.Assistant Professordon't have "It's not like the draft our boyfriends going on and brothers are right now, even if there was an going to get drafted," said junior all out World War III, they're Jessica Shedlock going to go through their classes "I've heard it discussed, but no first," Gardiner said of ROTC stu­one has very extreme views," dents. "Even people who haven't said junior Kelly Even. "The main been in the army before, they issue on this campus is what to would go first." drink next weekend, not what's And the nonexistence of a draft going on in Iraq." also contributes to the general And such ambivalence is a apathy-on campus toward possi­drastic change from the atmos­ble military action, experts said. phere on the Notre Dame cam­"Because of the lack of the pus during previous decades. draft and because of some of the In the 1960s, for example, civil liberties that were gained when the draft was still a mili­[after the Vietnam War], I think that there's not the same sense of see ROTC/page 6  

Harris speaks on dangers to democracy 
By SHEiIA FLYNN News Writer 
Jay T. Harris, who sparked a national journalistic debate when he resigned as publish­er of the San Jose Mercury News in 2001 on ethical principles, s a i d Tu-esday that the American experi­ment of democracy is in dan­ger of disintegration. 
"It has come to my attention that fewer people than I would think have a clear understanding of what the framers were trying to do," said Harris, the 2002-03 John 
W. Gallivan Journalist in Residence at the University of Notre Dame. 
In his lecture entitled "Journalism, Democracy and the 'American Experiment,'" Harris traced the develop­ment of America's democratic republic since its conception, citing observations about democracy and journalisn¥ by politicians and philosophers throughout its history. 
"It's sad to say both are less vital than they have been in the past," Harris said. 
Harris said the decline in citizen participation in gov­ernment and highlighted this passivity as a threat to true democracy. 
"Being a good citizen is more a matter of collective 


responsibility than it is a mat­
ter of individual rights," 
Harris said. "Citizenship is 
about responsibility -having 
more than a passing familiari­
ty of the issues of the day." 
Phrases such as "the com­
mon good" have been forgot­
ten, Harris said, and need to 
be brought back into focus in 
order for democracy to exist 
as the institution that the 
Framers of the Constitution 
originally intended. 
Journalism, he said, is a tool 
that can be used to revamp 
the government. 
"Journalism is not responsi­ble for this state of affairs," Harris said of the media's influence on political and social life in America. "But it is certainly the case that jour­nalism has contributed to the lack of understanding and acceptance." 
When citizens are not seri­ous about the government, Harris said, it becomes diffi­cult for the press to focus on weighty issues because the audience is not receptive. 
Harris said this precarious situation is fixable, however, invoking the words of Jim Cary of the Columbia school of Journalism: "The American experiment is still in the lab. There is no nobler task for our generation than to move it along." 
'"Move it along' means get­ting it back on track," Harris said. "The pendulum has gone about as far as it can in one direction without it starting to swing back." 
Addressing the aspiring 
see HARRIS/page 6 


KICKIN' IT FOR THE PAST 30 YEARS 
-·'~___.'.:,.·-.-: 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, October 9, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Alternative fall breaks 

I have a suggestion for anyone who is planning on going home for fall break and spending every day sleeping and watching television. 
Go on a service trip. Last year I was fortunate to be a part of a well-honored 
Mark

tradition, the Sorin 
Hall fall break ser­Zavodnyik 
vice trip. On the 
first Sunday of fall 
break, 50 residents Sports Wire from Sorin College, Editor 
1/3 of the dorm's 
population, 
embarked on a journey to Toronto. 
With the Canadians' hilarious accents and casual attitude towards carousing, we were certainly excited about the prospects of spending a week in Canada. However, in the end we found a place that gave us a chance to learn more about each other and gain some perspective on our lives. 
Eight hours later, when I saw the bright neon signs of the Labatt's Blue factory, I knew that we were home. We stayed at a Jesuit mission in Toronto that normally housed Jesuit retirees and other priests traveling through Canada. You can imagine the look on their faces when 50 American college students showed up at breakfast and ate all of the frosted flakes. 
Like most people on vacation, my compatriots and I were hoping to catch up on some sleep. We thought the ser­vice part ofthe trip was just something to pass the time between sleeping and going out. However that was not the case. On the first morning we were awakened at 8 a.m. and warned to get ready to be at work at 9. So, at 9:15 the gentlemen of Sorin College arrived at the work site to begin their service project. 
Our service project was to renovate halfway houses for troubled teens in the Toronto metropolitan area. The man who ran the organization was absolutely unforgettable. His name was David Baxter. He wore dangly, gold earrings, Nike warm-up suits, and enjoyed Maximum Ice. Despite his appearance and taste for strong Canadian beer, David Baxter was one of those people that can just blow you away with his complete selflessness. He got so much joy from helping others. 
There were three houses owned by the group and they all needed work. Over the course of the week, we did everything from cleaning gutters to painting kitchens. 
It was a vacation where not one man got any rest. Everyday we were up with the sun, not necessarily ready to work, but certainly present. During the day we worked hard, and at night we got an opportunity to enjoy the culture of Toronto. It was like we earned the right to party. 
Going on a service trip over fall break can teach you a great many lessons. Doing service gave me the opportunity to put into perspective what I'm doing with my life. Grades, internships, and other junk just aren't that important. When you can help other people improve their daily lives, it becomes very easy to identify and weed out the unimportant tribulations in your own iife. 
Sorin Hall is going to Detroit this 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Mark Zavodnyik at mzavod­ny@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In Tuesday's article, "JACC adds extra scats for Mellencamp concert," the date of the concert was incorrectly given as Nov. 2. The date of the concert is Nov. 9. The Observer regrets the error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NEWS  NATION  NEWS  VIEWPOINT  

Opening of Lecturer states Sniper causes 
Centerfolds, need for ethics 
West Coast 
twins and in business 
fear in D.C. 
ports approved Playboy-oh my! 
area 
A federal judge 
Scene columnist dent, Gale 
Boeing vice presi­
A day after a 

approved President
youngster was 
and Notre Dame Andrews, empha­
Bush's request to
wounded by a 
representative to sized need for 
open up Westsniper in a 
Playboy, Joe Muto, ethics at all levels 
Washington, D.C. 
Coast ports. 
expounds on a in business. 
suburb, citizens are 
favorite topic of his fearful. 
and seeks center­folds for his approval. 
page 3 page 5 page 7 

pages 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Film: Children in \Var, IIcsburgh Center Auditorium, 7 p.m. 

. 
Smart Associates Placement Presentation, the Career Center rooms 100-104, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. 

. 
Student Senate Agenda: Phillip Johnson, assistant director of NDSP, and discussion of ..The Shirt" Fund, LaFortunc, Notre Dame room, 6 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Aquinas Lecturer Dinner, DH-President's Hc>0m, 5 to 7 p.m. 

. 
Music Department Major of the \Vcek Planning. DI I-North \Vcdge 


Boom, 12 to 1 p.m. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Tomato soup, tortilla soup. [pepperoni calzone, honey-mus­tard chicken breast, red bliss potatoes, green beans amandine, cherry crisp, chicken and pea pod stir-fry, cheese and vegetable pie, wild rice with mush­rooms, baby Hrna beans. malt-o-meal, scrambled eggs, sausage patties, Texas french toast , hash browns, Italian beef sandwich 
Today Dinner: Tomato soup, tortilla soup, pepperoni pizza, baked manicotti, beef tips and mushrooms. potato-corn­bean casserole, cherry crisp, egg foo yong surimi. beef stuffed peppers, grilled salmon fillets, herbed vegetable medley 
TODAY TONIGHT 
0::: 
LLI 
% 
ti 
::LLI .... 
ca: 

CJ .J 0 HIGH 68 HIGH 60 LOW 55 LOW 47 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, fettuccine, greek pork loin, white beans with ham, cornbread, vegetable rice pilaf, sauteed julienne vegetables. turkey pot pie, long grain and wild rice, grilled turkey, seasoned fries, onion rings, soft pretzel. chicken teriyaki, portabello fajita 
Today Dinner: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, fettuccine, bianco pizza, peppered flank steak, barley risotto with greens and mushrooms, black beans with tomato and cilantro, buffalo chicken wings, grilled cod, lentil and barley stew, peppered tangerine chick­en 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 70 HIGH 74 LOW 49 LOW 55 
SCENE SPORTS 
Setta keeps both sex and HBO brings 
on kicking city to Notre Dame 
Despite strug­The highly 
poplar HBO series, 
gling in past 
"Sex and the City" 
games, Nicholas 
Setta strives to
provides informa­
improve.

tive and witty 
material to viewers. 
page 20page 10 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
NDSP keeps abandoned bikes safe / 
Three bikes, abandoned at Holy Cross College, were brought into NDSP for safe keeping on Monday. One of the bikes was released to its owner. 
Student taken to medical 
center 
A student from O'Neill Hall was transported in an ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness Tuesday. 
Bracelet lost at the Joyce
Center 
A visitor attending the Notre Dame football pep rally reported losing her bracelet in the Joyce Center Friday. 
Two cars collide in the 
parking lot 
NDSP responded to a two-car acci­dent in the Cl parking lot Monday. No injuries were reported. 
lnformatio~' ~ompiled from NDSP crime blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Chef's pasta, California wrap, cous cous salad. sauteed spinach and leeks. New Jersey shore deli, broiled chicken breast, grilled beef and swiss pita, pizza puff. turkey hot shot, mashed potatoes, gar­den vegetable pizza 
Today Dinner: Mini quiche, pretzel bites, assorted potatoes, fresh steamed broccoli, baked manicotti, meat balls, baked pasta, alfredo sauce, pesto sauce, garden marinara, chicken ten­ders. waffie cut potato, cheese sauce 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 74 HIGH 64 LOW 51 LOW 41 
Atlanta 74 / 64 Boston 56 / 50 Chicago 66 / 46 Denver 66 / 46 Houston 79 / 68 Los Angeles 79 / 59 Minneapolis 60 / 46 New York 63 / 54 Philadelphia 67 / 56 Pho_enix 96 / 7_0 Seattl_e 59 I 44 St. Lou~s 71 / 55 Tampa 89 I 71 _\Y~~hingt_on 67_ / ~9­
t. ·:-: :·:-: :-;·,:·;"°:: :-: ~ •;;: i.: •··•y~-~;.: ¦'" ¦ •;,. 'i,-•·• ~: ~: ·: ~-~ ,. ::.: :,;. • ; ~·--... i·"'~~•~:~~··;··:.-,, .. : ::.,· .. •.. -..:.:.,· .. _: .. -·~ '~ ' .•• 


Wednesday, October 9, 2002 page 3
The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 



Lecturer emphasizes need for ethics in business 
Take the 
URBAN 
INFORl\JlATION SESSIONS AT THE CSC 
October 8 (Tuesday) 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
October 9 (Wednesday) 7:30 -8:30 p.m. 
October 29 (Tuesday) 7:30 -8:30 p.m. 
**Stay Tuned for an Information Session at a Dorm Near YOU!** 
~ 

NOVEMBER l" (FR1D4Y) REGI.ITRATION DEADLINE 10:00 P.M. 
!his 1-~r_edit seminar enables you to witness the conditions of poverty, homelessness and racism ~n our c1_t1es throug~ the lens of Catholic Social Teaching. The "Plungen is a 48-hour urban 
•mr:ners~on over Winter break at one of40+ sites across the United States. To participate, a reg1strat1on fonn must be completed through the Center for Social Concerns. 
AU Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are eligible. 
. Boeing vice president stresses ethical decision­making at all levels 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
The road to ethical business is paved with good intentions, 
said Gale Andrews, Boeing's
-~---"'­
-
... 0 

0 
Wednesday Night at Alumni Senior Club (Last Call) Come see your friends and support Senior Bar's last semester on campus. Come out for Senior Bar lunch Friday 12-12:30 
vice president for ethics and business conduct, at Tuesday's installment of the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series. 
An intentions-centered model is the most effective way to ensure ethical decision-making, said Andrews. 
Andrews, who oversees 70 ethics advisors, emphasized the importance of a pervasive ethi­cal culture. Advisers are placed in each business unit, from rocket engines to commercial airplanes. to implement ethical policies throughout the corpo­ration. "It's about each person addressing his own intentions," Andrews said. 
He added that all Boeing business plans must include a statement of their intentions. so that consequences and inten­tions can be compared. "There is a differ-ence between real intentions and window dress­ing," Andrews said. 
The corporate ethics center at Boeing takes an active role in dealing with and learning from ethical problems, Andrews said. His office trains more than 95 percent of Boeing's 170,000 employees and managers at all levels, and Andrews personally reports to the chairman of the board. 
Andrews' speech comes on the heels of a string of alleged 
high-profile ethical failures at large corporations. including Enron. WorldCom, Tyco and Martha Stewart 0 m n i ­media. The executive criticized t h e Sarbanes­Oxley Act of 

Gale Andrews 2002 , a 
corporate 
reform bill that President Bush signed this summer. Andrews said laws would not deter executives with bad intentions. "Laws were already on the books, and peo­ple chose to break them," he said. 
While Andrews spoke about the importance of ethics for all employees, especially the need for well-intentioned executives. 
"It's not a grassroots effort," Andrews said. "It starts at the top." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 




page 4 Wednesday, October 9, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM APPLICATIONMEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Thursday, October 10 7:00 P.M. 208 DeBartolo FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME  


SMC lecturer emphasizes art 
. Hollywood art director advises students to express their talents 
~ 
By AMANDA MISNIK News Writer 
Hollywood Art Director Peg McClellan provided advice to students providing a career in any art field at Tuesday's lec­ture titled, "Filmmaking: the Art Director's Role." 
"When you're starting out, 
you have to have a can­do atti­tude," she 
said.  "You  
have  to  
have  that  

[mobile] personality to deal with free-lance w o r k . Concentrate on what you can do instead of what you can't do." 
McClellan told the audience members not to limit them­selves and to follow their pas­sions. 
"Ms. McClellan's speech reassured me, as a possible art major, that there are plen­ty of job opportunities avail­able in today's market for an individual willing to apply themselves. I enjoyed her enthusiasm and appreciated her expertise," Adrienne Brockhaus said. 
While she always desired to have a career in the arts, she never thought she would be active on the sets of Hollywood. 
Do you like to draw or illustrate? Ifyour answer is yes, join The Observer asan illustrator. Call Lauren 


atl-5303
. 

"When you ·re starting out. you have to have a can-do attitude. You have to have that [mobile] personality to deal with free-lance work. Concentrate on what you can do instead ofwhat you can't do." 
Patricia McClellan 
art director 
McClellan is currently work­ing on Universal Pictures' "Seabiscuit," which stars Tobey Maguire, and finds it to be a rewarding experience. Also she works with photogra­phy classes to offer her experi­ence and knowledge. 
"I really love what I do. [In each film]. I adapt an approach to each director's style. I help to form the direc­tor's vision," said McClellan. 
McClellan worked on "Melrose Place," "Quantum Leap" and "Columbo." She also worked on six Disney 
60-second trailer commercial for Nintendo. 
The theme of the ad focused on "Lord of the Rings," and McClellan's artistic ideas had to be translated into computer images. This task showed that one project contains "so many layers, and so many job oppor­tunities." 
McClellan graduated from Michigan State University with a bachelor of fine arts degree. 
She  took  classes  at  the  
Associates  of Art  Center,  
University  of  Florida­ 

Gainesville and UCLA. She has been involved with the Hollywood scene for over 20 

WINTER & SPRING 
BREAK 

Panama City Beach • South Padre Island• Vail Steamboat• Daytona Beach• Breckenridge 
films, including "Escape to w i t C h Mountain" and "The Love Bug." McClellan contributed to "Dick Tracy," Streets of Fire" and "Brokedown Palace." 
McClellan recently completed a 
years, and received an Emmy for her work on "Cinderella." 
McClellan's first employment opportunity came from Universal Studios. As art director for "Coalminer's Daughter," she provided illus­trations for the storyboards and worked beside producers. directors, writers and design­ers. 
McClellan will lecture again tonight at 7:00 p.m., where she will present storyboards and discuss the changes in movie design. 
Contact Amanda Misnik at misn5648@saintmarys.edu 

.. <'1(l1'.~~
/?-'. __ ,,. ,• -~ '"l""•'• '" •.•. ' ( -, ,,,. ••,r ..• ~ 






·•-.::::::~:~::,:~8:::,..::,~fg~i1~i·\t}1r:~t}~ 

•· · . ·· · .·• ·. > ·' , , •· · ··· · ·..A · ··· · ·· 

CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer Peg McClellan, Hollywood art director, implored students to utilize their artistic talents and to concentrate on what they 
are capable of achieving. 

.... ·.·. •·•···" .·· ...··"" -r· .., 
· 

~a;lv a~d Mi!Jie • ec~G i,:<0:~QfJ,lf;},:... 
* ·.. . ,i:,'.> ·. .....,·.,,.. , ·.·•· . 


.. ·•· ·...·· Setsey Johnson . Rayure Ptsri_S\f.7;;><.··· ··•· ; . 
...>,t.;·,.. ,, ... ,.,.; ••• ;•~-".~..,\./.:,·>~••'"t'r:'f..,.:,, ., Downtown South Bend 
-~~;! . :·; ':r.~;.;. ·~..~:-._;: :·". ..... ·.. ~,-~•-··~_·:~.._._.:. ,--.l;,.-~:1:(,.'\,:~·;o:.}•;<:~::.~:·_.,,:· /!.~~..,/4:,: 
;•:.j\<:J"'Nicofe Miaer:"•· MaxStudio)itT .. 528 E. Colfax, Suite 12 
:::xff1':.':}r-··rt:t,::'.'r;t .f:<.r..,:,"'1-;-~tr·t·'.f,;;.,/:···" S. th B d IN 46617
:·(~\l:}/{Jarn&sPerie\·anlmora'~-~' OU en,
;•f.:;4".:'.:"'' ii.,,! ·.--.. ,·•·i·:>•;,'.,,·· ~.:~: .. ,,.~ 574/232 1822
,../1,,;,-:-"-;~-.-~-,J1,,_..}..\· ~··j' .~· · ·'-,.,.:·,U:. ·} .. ,.,:·•-· ....,a-~,,..·..·ll-.,,' t·: -).'l •
•i.P~/{'i~J'.'.:j:;,}t'J'}.:\·,~,·•" ;.e,a ·:~· ·"}g:.r;;t>.>ii.. 


& Jired 
INSPIRED AND FIRED Granger Area· 
312 W. Clevelal)d.. Rd. Grang~r, IN ~~30 574/277-6693 
C; 1(. ? 
.... .,..... ,.. ...... 1( 
2 '·1-• /.ul.-.. "1.,1.J l"' ,..,. .."<'1111. h!nJ ,,,.../ 
...(:~---~J~••.t 
\\1 " ct 


t. . ' .·• 
' 1 ' • \. 

---· ­
··-· 

Wednesday, October 9, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Sniper terrorizes D.C. area, citizens fearful 
Associated Press 
BOWIE, Md. 
Playgrounds and parks were empty, shoppers darted warily across parking lots and shaken parents escorted children to and from school Tuesday, a day after a youngster was wounded by the sniper roaming suburban Washington. 
"Usually I'm embarrassed to walk around and hold my mom's hand, but I don't care today," said Amanda Wiedmaier, 13, whose Benjamin Tasker Middle School was the scene of Monday's shooting of a class­mate. 
Security firms across the region reported a surge in inter­est. About 50 Starbucks stores removed their outside seats. And mental health counselors scram­bled to set up crisis hot lines for people upset by the string of shootings that have left six peo­ple dead and two wounded since last week. 
"This is a person who is shoot­ing elderly men, shooting women and now shooting little chil­dren,"Gov. Parris Glendening said. "This is the act of an absolute coward." 
The latest victim, a 13-year-old boy, remained in critical but sta­ble condition Tuesday with a wound to the chest. He was shot early Monday after he was dropped off at school. 
With few solid clues or witness 
accounts, a task force of federal. 
state and local investigators is 
sifting through more than 6,000 
phoned-in tips. Police said they 
have 1,250 credible leads but 
refused to disclose details. 
Many Tasker parents kept their children home Tuesday; attendance was down by one­third. Other parents served as volunteer guards, watching over intersections. 
Dorothy Prather. a Tasker teacher, was impressed by how well students responded to the traumatic events. "They came right in today and sat down and went right on with their work,"she said. "The only ones who seemed really concerned were the parents." 
Before classes started, Prather said, the principal addressed the students over the intercom, urg­ing them to get back to business but reminding them that coun­selors were available if needed. 
Less than a mile from Tasker, the colorful playground equip­ment at the Cresthill Baptist Church nursery school went unused. School director Stacie Hall decided to keep her 2-to 6­year-old charges indoors all day, and let the teachers choose their own gentle explanations. 
"One little girl told me, 'We can't go outside today because we might get sunburned,"'Hall said. 
Her 13-year-old daughter, Krystle, attends Tasker and was a friend of the wounded boy. 


Zuma Press Photo Prince George's County Police officials gather outside Benjamin Tasker Middle School in Bowle, Md., where a 13-year-old boy was shot and critically wounded as he was dropped off at school by his aunt Monday. Police have linked the boy's shooting to seven other sniper attacks in the area. 
Hall said she did not want her to go." daughter to attend school The sniper has shot eight peo­Tuesday, but Krystle decided ple altogether in the past week. otherwise. One died on a Washington street, 
"She insisted, "Hall said. "After the others within five miles of much prayer and thought. she each other in Maryland's decided it was really important Montgomery County. 
Police believe the sniper is picking victims at random and firing from a distance with a high-powered hunting or mili­tary-style rifle. All of the victims were cut down by a single bul­let. 



Kuwaiti terrorists attack US forces in Gulf 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Two Kuwaiti gunmen in a pickup truck attacked U.S. forces during war games Tuesday on an island in the Persian Gulf, killing one Marine and wounding another before they were shot to death by U.S. troops. Kuwait called the assault a "terrorist act." 
The Pentagon said the assailants pulled up to a group of Marines conduct­ing urban assault training on Failaka, an uninhabited island off Kuwait's coast, and opened fire with small arms. They then drove to another site, stopped and attacked again before being killed by Marines, the Pentagon said. 
Marines later found three AK-47s and ammunition inside the vehicle, accord­ing to a statement released in Wa~hington by the Bahrain-based U.S. Fifth Fleet. It said the injured Marine was hit in the arm. 
In a brief statement, the Kuwaiti Interior Ministry condemned the attack and identified the assailants as Anas al­Kandari, born in 1981, and Jassem al­Hajiri, born in 1976. It said both were Kuwaiti civilians. 
U.S. intelligence has not determined if the attackers had any terrorist links, said an intelligence official, speaking on the condition of anonymity. 
An Interior Ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity, described the two men as fundamentalist Muslims. More than 30 of their friends and rela­tives were detained for questioning, he said. 
"The ministry announces that this is a terrorist act," the Interior Ministry said in a statement. "It will not allow anyone to undermine the country's security." 
Pentagon spokesman Lt. Daniel Hetlage said the Marines returned to their ships shortly after the attack, but would resume exercises on the island Wednesday. 
Failaka Island, about 10 miles east of Kuwait City, was abandoned by its inhabitants when Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, and Iraqi forces heavily mined it during their occupation. 
After a U.S.-led coalition liberated Kuwait in the 1991 Persian Gulf War, the government compensated islanders for their property and resettled them on the mainland. The island has since been cleared of mines and many Kuwaitis fish there on weekends. Some former resi­dents visit occasionally. 
The shooting attack was unprecedent­ed in Kuwait, a Washington ally since the Gulf War. More than a decade later, most Kuwaitis remain supportive of the close relationship. 
Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria Clarke said the two Marines were taken to the Armed Forces Hospital in Kuwait City. where one of them died of his wounds. Their names were withheld until relatives were contacted. 
The military exercise, dubbed Eager Mace 2002, involves Kuwaitis at some stages. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Tape threatens more attacks on U.S.: 
In a taped interview. a speaker purported to be Osama bin Laden's top deputy. Ayman al-Zawahri, threatens new attacks on the United States, its allies and its economy. The authenticity of the audiotape, obtained by Associated Press Television News on Tuesday, could not be inde­pendently confirmed, and it is not known when the tape was made. 
Allies react warily\: to Bush Iraq speech: 
France insisted Friday that force must be a last resort against Saddam Hussein and cautioned the United States against ignoring international opin­ion about the best way to confront the Iraqi threat. French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, whose nation is at the forefront of an effort to offer an alternative approach to disarm­ing Baghdad, insisted no single country can deter­mine the course of action against Iraq. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Farrakhan criticizes Bush Iraq policy: 
Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan suggest­ed Tuesday that the greatest threat to world peace is President Bush, not Saddam Hussein. "Is [Saddam] the greatest threat to world peace? Or is it the president of the United States?" Farrakhan asked. "It seems like there are only three nations that want to attack Iraq: Israel, Britain and the United States." 
Buffalo terror suspect released on bail: A federal judge granted bail Tuesday to only one of six men accused of being part of an al-Qaida sleeper cell. In granting $600,000 bond to Sahim Alwan, Magistrate H. Kenneth Schroeder Jr. said Alwan had "disclaimed any continued participation in the activities of al-Qaida" and had extricated himself from a training camp in Afghanistan. The judge detained the five others in fear of their possible flight. 
Tenet: Iraq may wait until provoked: 
CIA Director George Tenet told lawmakers Tuesday that Saddam Hussein might not use his weapons of mass destruction -unless provoked by fear of an imminent U.S.-led attack. Tenet's assessment, which came as both the House and the Senate debated a resolution to authorize President Bush to use force against Iraq. appeared somewhat at odds with Bush's assertion that the Iraqi leader might be planning a chemical or biological attack on U.S. interests. 
Men charged in bank guard death: 
Three men were in custody and two were charged with murder Tuesday, a day after a bank guard was fatally shot during a scuffie with would-be robbers, authorities said. Two men were charged with first­degree murder, attempted armed robbery and other charges in Monday's fatal shooting of Nathan Ley outside a Bank of America branch, police said. 


page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, October 9, 2002 

New study shows abortion rate dropped significantly 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The U.S. abortion rate dropped significantly during the second half of the 1990s, partic­ularly among teenagers, and experts attribute the decline to better awareness of contracep­tion and a fear of disease that has cut down on sexual activity. 
The rate fell 11 percent between 1994 and 2000, from 24 to 21 abortions for every 1,000 women of childbearing age, the nonprofit Alan Guttmacher Institute reported Tuesday. The rate among girls ages 15 to 17 declined a dra­matic 39 percent, from 24 to 15 abortions per 1,000 girls. 
At the same time, researchers were surprised by a sharp increase in abortions among poorer women, or those who earn less than twice the federal poverty level of about $17,000 for a family of four. 
"Their abortion rates were increasing while they were going down for everyone else," said Rachel K. Jones, who led the study, which was based on questionnaires completed by more than 10,000 women who had abortions. 

Sarah Brown, director of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, noted that the drop in abortions was accompa­nied by a decline in teen sex, teen pregnancies and teen births during the late 1990s. 
"This signals a deep and pro­found and robust change in adolescent sexual behavior in this country," she said. "I think it's cause for -I don't know if 'celebration' is the right word -but certainly our full atten­tion." 
Analysts have credited a broad set of factors for those trends. including fear of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases and more open discus­sion with youngsters about sex. 
"People are really aware, and we talk more about abstinence and staying away from it alto­gether," said Shannon Kilcoyne, 18, a high school senior from Greenville, S.C. Kilcoyne was not aware of the study, but said the findings about teenagers reflect concerns of sexual activ­ity among her peers. 
"It's more a fear of STDs,"she said. "feople always talk about how you have to know someone well enough to find out their past history and who they've had sex with." 
The Guttmacher institute receives some funding from Planned Parenthood, but its abortion statistics are generally regarded by both anti-abortion groups and abortion-rights sup­porters as accurate. 
the marketplace." Harris serves as the Robert

Harris 
C. Maynard Fellow in the Graduate School of Journalism 

continued from page 1 
at the University of California­journalists in the audience, Berkeley and was recently 
Harris said the future of journal­ism lies in t h e i r hands. 
"Mu Ch depends on the deci­sions you make the course 
you let journalism take," he  California.  
said.  
"I think you need to all be  
prepared to make the argu­ Contact Sheila Flynn at  
ment against the argument in  sflynn2@nd.edu  

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
tary institution, open protests were held and the subject of Vietnam was a ubiquitous topic for thought and discussion, said Mike McCarthy, a Navy ROTC senior whose father was in the ROTC program at Notre Dame during the Vietnam War. 
"The campus was really, really polarized," McCarthy said. "You could tell who was in ROTC. They had the crew cuts and everyone else had the hippie hair. There was just a real sense that the antiwar people would talk about how bad the war was and the ROTC people would talk about how unpatriotic the other 
"Much depends on the decisions you make -the course you let journalism take.,, 
Jay Harris Notre Dame joumalist•in-residence 
people were." This political disinterest, experts say. is typical. 
"Young people today are less likely to be interested in political events than the young people of 30 years ago," said David Campbell, assistant professor of political science. 
Yet despite the general trend toward political indifference, Ardizzone still cautioned that the campus could yet erupt into a politically tense "hotbed." 
"I would actually say you would find the same thing in the early period of the 60s," she said. "We're at a different point in the war." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sfiynn2@nd.edu 
n a m e d Annenberg Professor of Journalism and Communication at the Annenberg School for Communication 
at the 
University of Southern 


Alwavs Giving You Great Opportunities! 
o/o
APY* 






&-Month Certificate 
s10,000 Minimum Deposit -New Monev 
[Must also have either a$5,000 share draft account balance, or direct deposiU" 
'

.  
~  
NOTRE DAME  
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  
A  574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org  
Eill..Al•)P''0f<l~'<l'!l  

I 
LENDER "Annual Percentage Yield is accurate as of 10/7/02. Minimum opening deposit of $10,000, Must also have direct deposit. or S5,000 checking NCUA Iaccount balance, with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. Certain restrictions, such as early withdrawal penalties, may apply. Rate subject .....--=-tt) change without notice, Not applicable with other specials, Offer not valid on renewal of existing share certificates, Independent of the University, 
Do the eal"'th a big .favol" al-'\d l"'ecycJe The 
Obse~v-ve1'4! 
Saint ~'sCollee,e
NOTREOAE • INDIANA 

INFORMATION MEETINGS 
Monday, October 7, 7:00 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, SMC 
m:. 

Wednesday, October 9, 6:45 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND Open to all ND/SMC students 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE VIDEO HIGHLIGJITS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Excellent academic proeram at Sacred Heart Colleee in Cochin, India. 
5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Hong Kong, Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Lhasa (Tibet), Singapore, Bangkok, Saigon, Bali, Delhi, Agra, Jaipur, Ajanta, Ellora, Bombay, Mahabalipuram, Pondicherry, Tanjore, Trichy, Madurai, Periyar, Munnar, Cochin. More travel opportunities in Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 

EVER.YONE WELCO~! 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) 284-4866 
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; htt": I I www.saintmarys.edu/saw 
-----· ------­
.... 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, October 9, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch October 8 
DowJones 
7,501.49  t­ +78.65  
1,129.21  NASDAQt­ +9.81  
798.55  S&P500t­ +13.27  
AMEX* 
788.73  -9.24  
434.22  NYSEt­ +6.63  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 

IN BRIEF 
Utility and energy shares slumping 
Investors punished utility and energy trad­
ing stocks Tuesday, as Allegheny Energy Inc. 
defaulted on loans and TXU Corp. faced nag­
ging questions about its troubled European 
operations. 
Analysts said investors were also rattled by 
Florida-based Teco Energy Inc.'s decision to 
issue 15 million shares to bolster its balance 
sheet, which would dilute the value of existing 
shares. 
Power generators and energy traders are 
seeing profit margins threatened by low 
wholesale energy prices and a trading market 
that hasn't recovered from the collapse of 
Enron Corp. late last year. 

Honda unveils home gas refueling 
Trips to the gas station could become obso­lete for owners of an at-home fueling appli­ance for natural gas vehicles demonstrated for the first time Tuesday. 
Toronto-based FuelMaker Corp. said it will be the first company to mass-market a system that connects to a home's natural gas supply line to allow owners of natural gas vehicles to fuel up at home. 
American Honda Motor Co., which owns a 20 percent stake in FuelMaker, hopes it will help expand the retail market of its Civic GX natural gas car beyond government fleet sales. 

TiVo raises $25M in stock offering 
TiVo Inc., a leading maker of digital video recorders, said MondaX:it has signed a defini­tive agreement to sell $25 million of common stock to institutional investors. The San Jose­based company will sell 6.96 million shares at $3.59 per share -a 3 percent premium to the trailing 10-day average closing price. 
Additionally, TiVo will issue warrants to purchase 2.6 million shares of common stock at the exercise price of $5 per share. The company identified the investors as Crosslink Capital and New Enterprise Associates, a TiVo founding investor. 





Bush port request approved 
. Federal judge ends 10-day labor lockout 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
A federal judge approved 
President Bush's request 
Tuesday to reopen West 
Coast ports, ending a caus­
tic 10-day labor lockout 
that has cost the fragile U.S. 
economy $1 billion to $2 
billion a day. 

Three hours after Justice 
Department officials filed 
documents in a San 
Francisco federal court, 
Judge William Alsup agreed 
to impose an 80-day cool­
ing-off period in the dispute 
under the Taft-Hartley Act. 
"This dispute between 
management and labor 
cannot be allowed to fur­
ther harm the economy and 
force thousands of working 
Americans from their jobs," 
Bush said earlier Tuesday. 
Bush's politically charged decision made him the first president in a quarter-cen­tury to intervene in a labor dispute with Taft-Hartley. His speech, which was moved up 15 minutes, coin­cided with an announce­ment by the dockworkers' union agreeing to an eleventh-hour truce to return to work for 30 days under terms of the expired 
contract. president Joseph Miniace "more than $12 billion in welcomed the chance to But the Pacific Maritime said, "we have got to get goods and services that deflect questions about Association, which repre­this behind us." would otherwise have found Bush's handling of the 
sents shipping companies 
The petition, signed by their way into the U.S. economy. His economic and terminal operators, five of Bush's Cabinet secre­economy from the West policies have either stalled 
rejected the deal and forced 
taries, asked the court to Coast ports could not do in the Senate or have failed the Bush administration to require work at the ports to so." to jump-start the economy.seek the court's help. The "resume at a normal pace." The most often-cited Now he has an economic 
association insisted on a 90­
Shipping companies locked study puts total harm to the cause to promote. day extension. out dockworkers after economy at between $1 bil­At the same time, Bush's 
"They wanted to Taft­
accusing them of a slow­lion and $2 billion a day. intervention is expected to Hartley the union all down that was hurting pro­That study, by Martin energize organized labor,
along," said union 
ductivity. The union said it Associates of Lancaster. traditionally a Democratic spokesman Steve Stallone. 
was strictly following safety Pa., was prepared for the ally, just four weeks before 
"All along, they wanted the and health regulations. PMA. It estimated the cost midterm elections. government to come in and In supporting documents, of a work stoppage lasting Democratic candidates 
solve the problem for 
Commerce Secretary Don five days at $4.7 billion and depend on heavy turnout them." 
Evans said that if allowed to one lasting 10 days at $19 from union workers, and 
The Bush administration 
continue, the work stop­billion. some presidential advisers denied it has taken sides, page "would have a signifi­A court-ordered truce fear Bush's intervention will and insisted the timing of cant negative effect on the would keep the ports open drive angry labor voters to 
Bush's announcement was 
U.S. economic recovery and during the crucial the polls. not changed to scuttle an would lead to a decline in Christmas season, when Organized labor considers 
agreement. 

the rate ofgrowth." retailers rely on imported Taft-Hartley an anti-union 
PMA officials applauded 
Transportation Secretary goods to stock their shelves. mechanism for resolvingBush's move. Association Norm Mineta noted that White House advisers disputes. 


Tyco seeks damages from Ex-CFO 
funds and other assets." said Tuesday the arbitration pro­
Associated Press 

Swartz was indicted along with ceeding is confidential and the EXETER, N.H. former chairman and CEO L. company cannot release a copy of 
Tyco International Ltd. is seek­Dennis Kozlowski last month for its demand against Swartz. ing to force former chief financial allegedly stealing $600 million A source close to the company officer Mark Swartz to return mil­from Tyco. They have pleaded said the claim against Swartz is lions of dollars he allegedly misap­innocent. similar to a lawsuit filed against propriated from the company. Tyco has sued Kozlowski, seeking Kozlowski last month, although the 
Tyco filed an arbitration demand reimbursement of tens of millions amounts of money involved are with the American Arbitration in unapproved loans to employees smaller. Association on Monday, the compa­that later were forgiven. Last month, Tyco sued Kozlowski ny disclosed in a filing Tuesday The company cannot bring a law­for at least $730 million, seeking with Securities and Exchange suit against Swartz, but must seek repayment of outstanding loans, Commission. arbitration under the severance unauthorized compensation he 
The SEC filing says Swartz agreement Tyco and Swartz paid to other employees, including "breached his fiduciary duties" as re ached in early August worth Swartz, and all income and bene• chief financial officer and director about $45 million. fits he received from 1997 through and "misappropriated company Gary Holmes, a Tyco spokesman, June. 
,. . ' 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 8 Wednesday, October 9, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, [N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengasc  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROUER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sports .1@nd.edu 

ScENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 

SAJNT MARrs ............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc.1@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 

THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obserwr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporced as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assiscant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free apression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu.ations rq,arding ObJUVerpolicies should~ direct­ed to Editor in Chief Jason McFarl,ry. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th<~(USPS 599 240) is publiw<I Monday <htough Frid.ay -.ep, during cum and vauaon pc,iod,. A ,..bocripcion., n., Clbtctvct;. $100 fur""" ocadcmi,: ~SSSloro..,_,_,,_ 
Th< oi.cr-is publubed .., l'OSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send .addrcu: COnKrioru: to: 
Nom, Dame, IN 46556-077'1 TheOl.oav.r 
Pttiodicol pomg< paid or Nom, Dam, P.O.lloaQ 
..,d...!di<ion,lmailingoffico. N.-Dam,, IN 46556-0779 
The Obocn,,:,-is a member oi rJ,, Anocia~ p..,._ All reproduction righu _, 
........i. 

Centerfolds: apply here 
This summer I worked in a jewelry store. Situated in downtown Cincinnati, the store was an upscale establishment specializing in Rolex watches. However, nobody told this to 
the customers, as our clientele seemed to consist mostly of guys named Ray­Ray who came in with their girl­friends looking for replacement gold teeth. 

I was hired  
because the  Joe Muto  
owner, when he  
wasn't glued to a  
security monitor  
with his finger  Muto Time  
resting on the  
"911" speed-dial  
button, also ran an  

online store. My job was to take mer­chandise, photograph it and put it on the Internet. Not exactly brain surgery. Actually. only a notch or two above trash collection. 
But it paid the bills, kept me out of the sun and I didn't have to come in until 11 a.m. Plus the girls who sold the jewelry were hot. Not that they'd talk to the creepy, pale computer guy who worked upstairs, but I'd take what I could get. 
So, exiled to my upstairs computer room and scared to associate with the Rolex Bunnies downstairs, I used my lunch break to engage in political dis­course on the Internet. And it just so happened that one of the best sites on the Internet for highbrow political dis­course was playboy.com. 
I should add a disclaimer here for all future and past employers stating that I do not habitually view nude women in my spare time at work. I typed "Playboy" into the browser on a whim, hoping for the indication of an impend­ing Olsen twins appearance in the 
' magazine. Finding nothing about . Mary-Kate, nor Ashley, I was about to close the window when something caught my eye: large fake breasts. Actually, it was an ad at the top of the page. It said "Become a Playboy Campus Representative!" Underneath the text, a grinning Aryan frat-boy type had his arms around two gor­geous blondes wearing tiny cut-off black tees with the bunny logo. And underneath the tees? You guessed it: large fake breasts. rm going to digress here and talk about a subject that's close to the hearts of men and directly in front of the hearts of women. I'm one of the roughly five or six men in the world who don't like fake breasts. Sure, they fill a blouse quite aptly. They allow women to defy gravity well into their 80s. I'll admit that every time I talk to my friend here on campus who continues to deny her highly obvious reception of a breast enlargement last year, I can't stop my mouth from watering a little. But fake breasts are bad, because as any connoisseur of fine video pornog­raphy will tell you, they just don't move right. Porn breasts usually remind me of two sweaty, skin-covered tetherballs trying to escape the hot set lights. Despite my disapproval of silicon enhancement, I found the prospect of being Notre Dame's representative for Playboy Magazine very attractive. So, my head filled with visions of invita­tions to the Mansion, I tackled the rep­resentative application. It was remark­ably wordy and full of surreal juxtapo­sitions. One question demanded an essay on freedom of speech, while the next page queried, "How would you describe the way you dress?" I ended up doing the lengthy application at home. It took me 45 minutes. I could already taste the champagne that I'd be licking off bare Playmates. 
My initiation packet came last week. I am now the Official Playboy Magazine Representative to Notre Dame. I'm thinking of getting business cards made up. 
So what are my duties as a campus representative? Well, the first thing they sent me was a packet of promo­tional flyers I'm supposed to hand out. The grand prize in the contest they advertise is a rock climbing. kayaking and mountain biking trip with two members of the "Playboy Playmate X­Treme Team." 
I received the flyers and immediately had a little mental debate with myself. I couldn't decide what was more pathetic -me handing these out by the entrance to DeBartolo Hall or par­ents proudly telling their friends that they have a daughter on the Playmate X-Treme Team. I entered the contest five times. 
The agreement that I signed specifi­cally told me that it's not my job to find models. Someone got the crazy notion that propositioning women to pose constitutes sexual harassment. I am, however, allowed to accept pictures. So, anyone with a tasteful nude selec­tion of pictures can give them to me. Theoretically, I will pass them on to Playboy Magazine. 
So, my main goal at this point is to parlay my rep-hood into a job with Playboy. I'm a writer, and I hear that Playboy has articles, although oddly enough I've never noticed them. 

Joe Muto is a junior FIT and English double major who will be the emcee at the pep rally on Friday. He invites any women with large fake breasts who disagree with him to argue about it over dinner. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at jmuto@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghanne Downes Bill Puckett John Fanning 
Viewpoint 

Teresa Fralish 
Graphics 
Mike Harkins 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Chris Federico Mark Zavodnyik 

Scene 
Sarah Vabulas 
Lab Tech 
Tim Kacmar 

NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Are men and women treated equally at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The ultimate measure ofa man is not where he stands in moments ofcomfort. but where he stands at times ofchallenge and controversy . ., 
Martin Luther King, Jr. civil rights activist 

THE 
OBSERVER 

Wednesday, October 9, 2002 page 9 


Moose Krause embodied Notre Dame spirit 
Who is that big guy with the politically incorrect cigar on the bench outside the Joyce Center? Moose Krause. All­American, coach, athletic director and truly "Mr. Notre Dame." 
That is the title of Jason Kelly's excellent new book. If you have a Domer in your fami­ly. this takes care of one item on your Christmas list. Or you can find a miniature replica of Moose and the bench at the bookstore for only $1,500 (no kidding). Moose could not have afforded it on his salary, which never exceeded $30,000. He turned down job offers many times higher because he would not leave Notre Dame. 
Edward Walter Krauciunas was born in 1913 into a "cash-poor but spirit-rich" family in Chicago's Back of the Yards. His high school coach, Norm Barry, a team­mate ofGeorge Gipp, gave him the name "Moose" and shortened Krauciunas to Krause. Krause entered Notre Dame in 1930, Rockne's last yea.r of coaching, and was an All-American in football and bas­ketball. He joined Frank Leahy's football staff in 1942 and was also head basket-ball coach. 


In World War II, Moose was a Marine Corps intelligence officer with an aviation unit in the Solomon Islands. He routinely did his own reconnaissance, squeezing into the nose turret of a B-25 with no parachute. 
One night, a Moro scout, Antoun, led Krause and the chaplain, Father James Gannon, to Rabaul to recover the remains of six Marines. They escaped capture because Antoun hid them in a leper colony that the Japanese feared to enter. Krause later collected over $2,000 from the Marines to finance Antoun's studies for the priesthood. Moose carried Notre Dame to the Solomons. 
At a tense briefing before an important raid, he brought in 20 Moro scouts. The Marines expected the usual message, that if they got lost the Moros would bring them back safely. This time Moose turned to the young Moros and they broke into the Notre Dame Victory March in their native language. "The ... 200 men went berserk," Gannon says, "laughing and cheering and whistling." The raid was successful with not a man lost. 
During 1946-49, Krause was Leahy's assistant and head basketball coach. He served as athletic director from 1951 until his retirement in 1982. He built a program to serve all the students, emphasizing intramural and club sports. 
In January 1967, Moose's wife Elise suffered severe brain and other injuries when a car broadsided the taxi in which 
she was riding. She lost her rationality 
and control of her emotions. Moose 
Krause devoted himself utterly to the 
care of Elise until her death in 1990. He 
turned to alcohol but changed his life 
after a heart attack and pleas from his 
children. He became a leader in 
Alcoholics Anonymous. 
Jason Kelly concludes that Krause's greatest achievement occurred at Cardinal Nursing Home, where he spoon• fed meals and sang to his ailing wife. Although he described it as "a veritable crucifixion for both of us," there was no self-pity in Moose. 
"There's really no place I'd rather be than in that room with your mother," Krause said. "I know a lot of people feel sorry for me, but I'm the lucky one. I'm in the fortunate position of being able to extend care. That's the easy part. Mother has the hard part." 
"I call him Saint Edward," said Ara Parseghian. "[I]f every person had that kind of compassion and ... respect for his spouse, this would be a ... lot better world." 
Father Theodore Hesburgh concurred, describing Moose as, "Absolutely the Rock of Gibraltar, the soul of integrity. If I ever met a saint, he was one ofthem." 
Moose's son, Father Edward Krause, who teaches theology at Gannon University, calls Mr. Notre Dame the story of a whole generation who took God, the 10 Commandments and their faith seri­ously. Moose, as Father Krause put it, had a special affection for John Paul II as fell ow athlete and successor to Peter. In his funeral homily in 1992, Krause quot­ed his father: "Unless my eyes are getting bad, the Bible doesn't say, 'Thou art Peter, and upon this teenie weenie peb­ble, I will found my debating society. [It doesn't say] take up a Gallup poll, and tell 'em what they want to hear."' Moose Krause knew what he believed and why. 
College sports are now a major busi­ness, driven by money, media and gov­ernment regulation. Moose and his assis­tant, Colonel Jack Stephens, ran the show in a different and, in various ways. a bet­ter era. The common wisdom has it that it took 23 people to replace Moose. The athletic department has new faces and new skills. But the important things have not changed, like character and commit­ment. Moose would be pleased. 
Notre Dame will never see the likes of Moose Krause again. So buy the book. You can sit on the bench and read it with Moose. You will learn something about the real Notre Dame. And about yourself. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column nor­mally appears every other Tuesday. He can be contacted at plawecki. J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ticket prices and procedures should be fair for all 
When I was young, and if I remember, we paid about $2 to attend the football games. We had perfect se~ts. right under the press box on the 50-yard line. To attend the home basketball games, all we had to do to get into the old gym was to wear our habit -the "price of admission" was free. 
The price oftickets has gone up. And I personally think, at this time, the tickets are not only priced obscenely, but prohibitive for the same Religious 
of Holy Cross who, by historical facts, helped build this University almost single-handed­ly. But do we get any gratitude? Do we get any breaks? My answer is no. It costs me $116 to attend a single foot­ball game. I have to pay the regular price of $43 for two people, one to push my wheelchair in and one for me as a spectator, then I have to pay another $20 for a "special" parking space which is about three blocks away from the stadium. I might as well have the other brother push me across 933. 
One of the reasons I am writing this letter is because of a quote I read in Scholastic on Sept. 12 in the section called "Listening In." I quote from a pro­fessor of history commenting on the infla­tion ofstudent football prices. He said, "What do I care? I get my tickets for free." 
The Brothers of the Holy Cross don't get free tickets. I guess this professor probably makes about $80,000 a year to teach here, and I also guess that he is one of those scalpers on Angela Boulevard and 933 selling his free tickets. What a deal. I.have given 56 years to this community and I have to pay $116 to get into this very expensive Stadium for a single game. 
You figure it out. This amounts to $696 to see six foot­ball games, which I couldn't pay, even if I wanted too. I am poor, not rich like the University or its personnel. 
I realize that Notre Dame is a very wealthy University, for I get the donation letters all the time. I graduated in 1950, and this must go with the territory. No, the broth­ers of Holy Cross don't get any breaks. I do not forcer­tain, but I will bet that the Holy Cross priests either get their tickets for free or they do not have to pay the full price. 
A couple years ago, I asked University President Father Edward Malloy ifI could sit in the press box. He wrote me back to say, "No, we have spaces for wheel­
chairs down on the field for the disabled." This was 
before millions were spent on the Stadium. But I still had to pay the going rate just to sit on the field -the going rate at that time. I was not about to spend four hours looking at ankles -especially when they were 100 yards away, during half of the game. 
Now I know recently our Superior General, Father Hugh Cleary and one of his assistants were seated in the press box. vVhere they given free tick­ets? Why should the priests and lay people get all the perks? I was talking 
with a former employee of the University this morning and he told me, "You would be surprised how many free tickets were given out to many parties to the football games. Why, even the players get free tickets," he said. "You should see how plush the private box for Father Hesburgh is. I was invited to watch the game from that box one time. And how stocked it is with drinks and free food." "Well," I told my friend, "he was the former president, and he deserves some perks." Get my point? 
I had to get this off my chest, for at my age, as one who will probably never see another Notre Dame football game in person, I am broke from paying all that money at all those other football and basketball games for the past 50 years. 
Brother Thomas C.Orc.oran class of 1950 Oct. 8 
Questioning 
womens' 
equality at ND 
I am writing in response to Joanna Mikulski's Oct. 8 
column. She's right. The rules for guys and the rules 
for girls are totally different at Notre Dame. However, 
why does she want to ruin the fun for everyone? Why 
does she want more security at guys' dorms? Guys 
don't want or need more security from what I've heard 
from my friends. And, as a frequent visitor ofguys' 
dorms, I don't think they need to be more secure 
either. 

Instead, why don't they dial down the tone of the security guards for girls' dorms? Maybe Mikulski doesn't have that problem in her dorm, but I think most girls do. I mean, my boyfriend practically breaks out in hives whenever he comes over to my dorm when the security guard is on duty. Feeling paranoid around the opposite sex is not a good step toward good gender relations. 
The other comment that bothered me is the one about football receiving the most money and attention than any other sport. I think Mikulski has forgotten where she goes to school. Of course footbaQ is our showcase sport. I think Mikulski must spend her game days knocked unconscious because that would be the only way to ignore what goes on at Notre Dame because of a simple football game. She must not have heard about Knute Rockne or the Four Horsemen either. Also, could it be that football receives the most money because it makes more money that any other 
\ 
sport. male or female? Yep, that could be it. 
Mikulski is not the first to realize the gender issues on campus. We all know things are weird. However, don't ruin the fun for the guys. Yes, our rules are stricter, but why make the guys' rules like ours? Why don't we try to make our rules like the guys'? And don't try to downplay the importance of Notre Dame football. That's just dumb. Solutions are needed, but not ~ers. 
Carrie Graf 
sophomore Farley Hall Oct.9 



O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 Wednesday, October 9, 2002 
:-. 

HBO relates 'Sex 
In a place without sex and without city, 


l I 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
Scene Writer 

f 
i 
I The topics Carrie, Samantha, Charlotte and Miranda discuss on HBO's hit show "Sex and the City" are not typi­cal dining hall fodder. These independ­ent women celebrate, question and fix­ate upon their sexuality almost con­stantly, a practice easier done in a New York nightclub than said at a Catholic university. But despite the culture gap created by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's lack of both sex and city, the show's witty writing and situational comedy makes the characters, their exploits and 
l_ 
Courtesy of HBO.com 
Kristin Davis as Charlotte York 
especially their friendships, accessible and enjoyable even for viewers in South Bend. 
The show began five seasons ago on a fairly innocent premise: four 30-some­thing, single women living and loving in the Big Apple. Carrie Bradshaw, a news­paper sex columnist played by Sarah Jessica Parker, narrates "Sex." Her character is based on the actual New York Observer columns of the popular journalist Candace Bushnell (who visited Notre Dame during last spring's Sophomore Literary Festival). 
Within the first five minutes of most of the 30-minute, commercial free 
episodes, Carrie composes a question 
across the screen of her laptop in a 
practice slightly reminiscent of Doogie 
Howser, M.D.'s nightly diary. Typically 
inspired by a problem she or one of her 
three best friends is experiencing, the 
question leads her weekly column and 
frames that episode's content. 
Carrie's three best friends comprise 
the rest of "Sex's" core female cast. 
Samantha Jones, played by Kim 
Cattrall, is a seductive, and often lewd 
public relations executive whose bed­
room habits could have inspired Hall 
and Oates, "Man-eater." Charlotte York, 
played by Kristin Davis, is an idealis­
independent, if 
prominent New York 
law firm who refuses 
to let a man play a 
significant part in 
her life. 
In fact many of 
the show's male 
characters 
come and go with little emo­tion al attach­
~u~~:nc~~ rTh~hu~h the fourth season brought a series of more stable y-chromo­somes than its prede­cessors: a fiance for Carrie, a steady beau for Samantha, an .ex­h usban d Charlotte and newborn son and his father for Miranda; even they were flat charac­ters that often fell into the shadows of the women's many dimensions. Make no mis­take, HBO has not packaged soft­core pornography in expensive New York fash­ions and called it a series. Rather the cable station set a new standard for social acceptability by allowing women to candidly dis­cuss sex. These are notjust any women: They are four suc­cessful, eloquent a n d attractive women 
who are as ambitious in their sexual exploits as they are their professions. Though their language and topics are often uncouth, it's hardly a show you'd watch with your family after Sunday dinner; it's indisputable that they raise issues many women have long-pondered and probably wanted to discuss, but lacked the venue to do so. Thanks to "Sex" women can talk about their femi­ninity and passions without feeling licentious. They merely ask, "Did you see what Carrie was wearing last night?" and wait for the conversation to 
turn to the true top­
ics of 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, October 9, 2002 page 11 

:ND and SMC can still enjoy this HBO series 
interest. retary for her PR firm despite the fact 
Carrie and company's conversations he is incompetent at his work simply actually reverse a long-standing practice because she finds him physically attrac­of female objectification. The "Sex" tive. Carrie keeps a male-friend around, women talk about men in a way that has not because she cares about him, but traditionally been acceptable for men to just in case she feels randy. Miranda talk about women, but never vice versa. refuses to let anyone she sleeps with This, however, is not a two wrongs make spend the night because she has to a right situation. "Sex" is merely an wake up early for work in the morning. exercise in "what if?" What if women Are any of these situations problemat­universally treated men the way men ic? Only if the women think so. The have often treated women? show is a deliberately one-sided 
For example, Samantha hires a response to the tunnel vision of a previ­
male sec-ously male-dominated culture. While all four women admittedly desire a stable, long-term relation­
ship, they struggle constantly with the seeming impossibility of that occurring while they juggle the rest of their obligations. The fifth season shifts some as it introduces the serious possibility for choosing commitment over quick flings, but one thing remains the same: The show is real. The men they date look like real men, not under-we a r 

mod ­e l s ; t h e places they eat are real New York restau­rants, and the concerns they have 
are real women's con­cerns. The most unreason­able facet of the show is their wardrobe, and the 
clothes provide entertain­ment in their own right. 
The contrasting opinions, sexual practices and social habits of Carrie, Samantha, Charlotte and Miranda are the thrust of the series. "Sex" has coined terms such trendy terms as man­thrax, a man who invades your life, but is terrible for you; f---buddy, someone 
you barely know, but keep around for conjugal visits; and frenemies. women who cannot be trusted, but often play nice to get what they want. The women wax eloquent on life, love and lan­guish in a city that might not sleep, but certainly sleeps 
around. 

In its fifth season the show's characters have matured and its subject matter has changed to fit a changed New York. The post­Sept. 11 city has a differ­ent feel for natives, an ambiance 
"Sex" was 
AFIPhoto wise not 
to ignore. Without being cheesy, in a way a show on which the characters focus primarily on orgasms never could, "Sex" paid tribute to the culture of a city damaged, but invincible by making its characters behave in much the same way. They may go down, but they always bounce back. 
Although sex is admittedly the focus of most of their dialogue, the show's senti­ment is truly friendly. The four main characters are inseparable and loyal friends who support each other through not only male-related traumas, but other emotional, economic and physical crises as well. In fact, the prevalence of 
Courtes.Y of HBO.com 
Kim Cattrall as Samantna Jones 

sex in the women's conversations and behaviors has a numbing effect on view­ers, but in a positive way. After a few half-hour episodes, the nudity and cru­dity fades into the background. What true "Sex" addicts come to appreciate is the relationships among the women themselves. Their urban family is not unlike close roommates or lifelong friendships and this is where college viewers' ability to identify with the "Sex" women lies. 
Cont.act Kate Nagengast at nagengast.3@nd.edu 

There's a new No. 1 in the Sendwich Index, and they aren't from the Sunshine State. 
Despite a less than impressive 27 -16 vic­tory over No. 7 4 Northwest-ern, Ohio State tops the charts this week. 
With quality victories 
by former Buckeye vic­tims No. 26 Texas Tech and No. 7 Washing-ton State, Ohio State got a major boost to their strength of schedule, propelling them up three spots to the top of the charts. They previously 


defeated Texas Tech  Eric Chanowich  
by 24 and Washington  
State by 18.  
The Buckeyes hold a lead of only 0.17476  Sports Columnist  
Sendwich points over  
last  week's  No.  1  
Miami.  

The Hurricanes took a hit when their only prior top-notch opponent, Florida, fell to Mississippi. 
Don't expect Ohio State to stay on top long though. as they face both No. 13 Penn State and No. 11 Wisconsin in the next three weeks and Miami will likely get a major boost with a victory over No. 3 Florida State next weekend. 
Take Ty's Advice 
When asked about important upcoming games, Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham consistently answers with a nonchalant dismissal that his team is tak­ing its schedule one game at a time. 
Perhaps Texas and Oklahoma should have followed Willingham's lead this weekend, as they both narrowly escaped meager opponents while looking ahead to their face-off next week. 
Without a two-point conversion stop and a late interception, the Longhorns' nation­al championship hopes could have been damaged, if not dashed, by No. 77 Oklahoma State. 
With the close call, Texas slid 5 spots to No. 16. 
Oklahoma had to pull out all of the stops to defeat No. 70 Missouri. The Sooners scored the go-ahead touchdown on a fake field goal with 6 minutes. 33 seconds remaining. 
After the near-upset, Oklahoma fell five spots to No. 10. 
With the caste system that is the A.P. and Coaches' polls, the Longhorns and Sooners share No. 2 and 3 national rank-
l
I 
' 
I 
I 
: j
' /I 
Wednesday, October 9, 2002 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
SENDWICH INDEX 
Buckeyes leap 'Canes for No. 1; Irish jump to No. 4 


ings and everyone is calling next week's match-up in Dallas one of the top games of the year. despite the fact that they both have yet to prove themselves this year. 
Thanks, but we'll pass on the Red River Shootout to catch Miami versus Florida State. 
Rebels Overthrow Gators 
Despite a prolific college career, former Tennessee quarter­back Peyton Manning was never able to accomplish what his little brother Eli did on Saturday; the younger Manning defeated Florida. 
It took Matt Grier's interception returned for the winning touch­down to propel Manning and 
Mississippi to a 17 -14 victory over former No. 10 Florida. 
With the win, the Rebels moved up from No. 45 to No. 29. Florida dropped 12 spots to No. 22. 
The fans in Florida may be one step closer to a verdict on rookie head coach Ron Zook. Despite a recent win against rival Tennessee, the Gator nation is up in arms after Florida's faster two-loss season since 1993. Check out www.fireronzook.com to see just how they feel. 
Wrecking Crew Gets Wrecked 
Texas A&M's Wrecking Crew defense came into this weekend ranked third nationally in yards allowed, but this meant nothing to No. 26 Texas Tech and Kliff Kingsburry. In a 48-47 overtime victory, Kingsburry completed 49 of 59 passes for 4 7 4 yards and five touchdowns to lead the Red Raiders to victory over former No. 27 TexasA&M. 
The Aggies led for most of the game, but gave up a field goal as regulation expired that tied the game at 41. A&M struck first in overtime but missed the point after attempt, allowing for Kingsburry to toss another touchdown and Texas Tech to dramatically win on a successful point after. 
With its only losses to No. 1 Ohio State and No. 14 N.C. State, Texas Tech may be the best team you haven't head much about, and Kliff Kingsburry may be the best player you haven't heard much about -yet. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
CJs Pub See whats happening www.cjspub.com 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold initials JME, size 10 3/4; engraved within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14 Michigan game, stadium student section or on field. Jon Mack 309 Zahm, 634-1090. 
WANTED 

FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd edu That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS has space available for football/par-PRICES PAID 251-1570 Americas #1 Student Tour Operator ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free hot breakfast, $80-$115, ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST Information/Reservations 1-800­Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. PRICES 289-9280 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR I wonder if his status is still 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 (Holi)day-to-day. 
(Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-"Join Scholastic. It is your calling." 
Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations 723-7363 ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 -only if you dial the wrong number. Most Reliable #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, 
www.sunsplashtours.com Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from Need Home GA tix. Call 276-8507, yea ... when the scandal book 
FOR RENT
1-800-426-771 0 Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. ND. Basement, garage, safe and after 5 call 288-2877. comes out in a few years, they'll all 
Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234-private. $640/mo. Great location • be shocked ***ACT NOWI Guarantee the best 7007 endlesssummertours.com All size homes available for 2003-1122 Woodward Ave Call 360-NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) spring break prices! South Padre, 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 2500 bringing family, friends & girlfriend Kronk-dawg· a study in insomnia. Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Make $320 Week• Sunchase Ski www mmmrentals.com to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras and Beach Breaks Sales Rep. Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from at 877 654.8472 or email at jbmal-Only 9 days til fall break' TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, positions available now. Largest ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR Notre Dame • Perteet for Football ley@g1obal.t-bird.edu EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Scholastic: 1 888 THINK SUN SUNCHASE ext. 123. WWW.SUN-CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. Lake Michigan. Most units Wanted: 1 GA Pitt or BC ticket Jim Must be that time of the month. {1 888-844-6578 dept 2626)/ CHASE.COM rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 234-7228 www.springbreakdiscounts.com DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW I have an idea. I hate North. 
Earn extra money evenings sched-LEASING FOR 2003-2004 B&B-Pitts &Rutg. Best Area (574)· $250 a day potential/bartending uling appointments and making SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN-287-4545 Take that, Thagard. Training provided customer calls for local State Farm TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­
PERSONAL 
1-800-293-3985 agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, PUS-2-4-5-6-7·8·9 &10 BED· HOUSES FOR RENT FOR Anna Nicole Smith's show is a train ext. 556 you choose from Tuesday-ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896 wreck that Spencer is singlehand-
Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY edly prolonging. ROOMS B&B Near Campus for be enthusiastic with great telephone SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do FOOTBALL GAMES presence ON CALL-WASHER/DRYERS· not go it alone. If you or someone How's the cookie, Megs? ca112ss-53n Fax resume to 574-232-9984. CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING TICKETS you love needs confidential support 
FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Chris is bikini-on-quad neutral Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 (574)234-2436 • Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For per day. No experience necessary (574)274-9955 • N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please more information, see our bi-weekly Some of us are naturally hairless, LOST & FOUND Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. (574)674-2471 check our prices. 273-3911. ad in THE OBSERVER. because we haven't hit puberty yet. 
Wednesday, October 9, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

The College ofArts and Letters invites you to the presentation ofthe 
REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C.. AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN TEACHING 
Honoring 

PROFESSOR ANDREW WEIGERT 
Department of Sociology 

Friday, October 11, 2002 4:00"p.m. McKenna Hall Auditorium 
two years ago. and has never been challenged since. 
Setta 
Instead of the misses, Setta's trying to focus on the big kicks 
continued from page 20 

he's made in his career, most er already has attempted 17 notably a game-winning 38­field goals in five games this yard boot against Purdue his season, compared to only 16 sophomore year. By thinking attempts during the entire about the kicks he's made, 2001 campaign. S e t t a 
That confi­believe he 
can

dence from his "/haven't lost any confi­send 
coach keeps the ball
dence in myself, and
Setta from losing hurtling 
confidence in when the game comes through the Wmself. Much down to it. rm sure I'll goal posts 
iike a basketball instead of
make it."

player strug­fluttering gling to find his to the side. shot has to shoot Nicholas Setta "You just his way out of a have to
kicker 

slump, Setta keep going, thinks he just and coach has to keep jog-told me to ging onto the field. keep going," Setta said. "I 
"(Making or missing kicks], haven't lost any confidence in that's not luck," he said ...It's a myself, and when the game matter of getting through it comes down to it, I'm sure I'll and hitting it." make it." 
Setta's in no danger of losing his job -he beat out backup Contact Andrew Soukup at David Miller for the kicking job asoukup@nd.edu 

• j ' 
FSU TICKET lOTTERY WINNERS 
Tickets will go on sale Thursday 10/1 O starting at 9 am at La Fortune Info Desk for $35 each. Each winning lottery number holder can purchase up to 2 tickets and must bring the winning ticket and their student ID. Any remaining tickets will be sold to the general student body starting Monday 10/14 at 9 am. 
216001 222141 222506 222978 223347 223750 216005 222162 222556 222984 223354 223768 216047 222168 222558 222989 223367 223794 216055 222174 222568 222999 223375 223805 216058 222183 222577 223028 223384 223817 216060 222197 222606 223040 223387 223825 216067 222198 222659 223076 223389 223826 216082 222201 222678 223112 223484 223836 216117 222248 222682 223127 223488 223853 216136 222249 222690 223128 223493 223894 222026 222253 222693 223149 223526 223909 222030 222260 222695 223156 223541 223918 222037 222288 222713 223174 223574 223929 222041 222307 222724 223178 223600 223931 222087 222309 222732 223185 223624 223938 222091 222318 222736 223190 223629 223939 222094 222322 222762 223227 223630 223940 222099 222371 222797 223240 223634 223941 222101 222381 222814 223260 223640 223945 222113 222407 222833 223271 223680 223951 222115 ·222467 222867 223275 223681 223972 222124 222492 222888 223281 223701 223977 222126 222495 222925 223292 223710 223980 222127 222498 222963 223326 223727 223985 222137 222505 222974 223336 223733 
TRIVIA WINNER: John Kearney, Siegfried Hall 
e 

~ -4 
... ----­
................... -------.. -4 .. ---·-... 

½ 
\ 
page 14 

around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Angels at Twins 7 p.m., 6 WSJV Giants at Cardinals 7 p.m., 22 FOXCH 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, October 9, 2002 
NHL 


tumor. his progress will be moni-Under the terms of the 
As.sodated Press 

Ors. Dave Lewis and tored regularly," Shaw program, Fleury will not 
Brian Shaw of the said. "Our primary objec-be eligible for reinstate­
NEW YORK National Hockey League / tive is for Theo to restore ment until cleared by the 
Chicago Blackhawks for­National a p pro • supervising doctors. ward Theo Fleury was pr i ate Fleury voluntarily
H o c k e Y "This course ofaction is 
suspended indefinitely by League b balance entered the Substance 
the NHL on Tuesday for p 1ayers• est-suited to Theoren 's to his life Abuse and Behavioral violation of his substance A s s o c • situation . ., a n d Health Program on Feb. abuse aftercare program. iation th ere -28, 2001, while a member The 34-year-old Fleury, Substance Dr. Dave Lewis after to of the New York Rangers.
who has struggled with Abuse be able He was cleared to resume substance-abuse and a n d NHLPA Substance Abuse and t .. 0 playing on Sept. 4, 2001. anger-management prob­B e h a • Behavioral Program resume The 5-foot-6 Fleury was 
lems, signed a two-year, vioral h i s one of the top players in $8.5 million contract with Health career." . the NHL the first 10 1/2 the Blackhawks on Aug. Program are administer­"This course of action is years of his career in 
15. ing Fleury's care. best-suited to Theoren's Calgary. 
He said he missed two "Theoren will continue situation," Lewis said. "He He scored 40 or more practices last week to be assessed, an appro­needs time away from the goals three times and had because his father had priate treatment program game in order to work on a career-high 104 points surgery to remove a will be put into effect, and his issues." in 1990-91. 
IN BRIEF 
Vick doubtful for next game was tough, but we're just going to little information on Holcomb dur­Michael Vick's sprained right take it day by day and see how it ing his Monday news conference. shoulder hurt so much Monday that feels as the week goes on. Asked about Holcomb's injuries, 
he struggled to get dressed. If Vick can't play. the Falcons (1-Davis said Holcomb "gutted it out 
"I can't put socks on, Vick said. "I 3) will start Doug Johnson against and he finished the game." really can't do anything with it. It's the Giants (3-2). Johnson was 13-of-At the time, Holcomb was under­just that sore and it's just that stiff. 25 for 150 yards and three inter­going tests at a hospital. I feel like rm handicapped right ceptions, one of which defensive Holcomb's agents told newspapers now. tackle Warren Sapp lateraled to that Holcomb was injured when a 
A day after leaving in the third linebacker Derrick Brooks for a 15-Ravens lineman rolled onto his leg. quarter of Atlanta's 20-6 loss to yard touchdown. "Kelly told me (Monday) his leg Tampa Bay,,. the Falcons' star quar­was hurting like a dog, but he said, 
terback agreed with coach Dan Holcomb has broken leg 'I couldn't come out of that game,"' Reeves' decision to list him as Browns backup quarterback Kelly Holcomb's agent, Frank Bauer, told doubtful for this week's game at Holcomb broke his left leg and the Akron Beacon Journal. New York. sprained his knee during a fourth­Holcomb led Cleveland's frantic 
Vick fell on his non-throwing quarter comeback Sunday night fourth-quarter comeback from a shoulder. spraining his AC joint against the Baltimore Ravens. 2 3-0 deficit after starting quarter­when he sacked by Simeon Rice. Holcomb, who threw two touch­back Tim Couch was sidelined with 
Vick underwent several treatments down passes in the final period as a concussion. Monday -sitting in a hot tub, the Browns rallied before losing, Holcomb, who limped up to the receiving electric stimulation and sustained a hairline fracture of his line in the final minutes, threw two packing the shoulder in ice -but left shinbone, the team said touchdown passes and barely he still felt very sore and stiff. X­Tuesday. missed on a third in the closing sec­rays were negative. The team did not say how long onds, finishing 13-for-23 with 180 
"I got in the hot tub and tried to Holcomb would be sidelined. yards in a 26-21 loss to the Ravens. rotate it a little bit, Vick said. "It Browns coach Butch Davis offered 

Wednesday, October 9, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

ofENSTUD~ 

~Administrative Services cordially invites You~ 
Individuals, and small groups of 10 or less, to utilize classrooms for quiet study after class bookings 
DeBartolo Hall: Sunday 12:00noon tiU 12:00am. Monday through Thursday 5:30pm-12:00midnight. Non-technology rooms, first come first serve basis. If you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person for assistance. Room 104, 105. 
Mendoza: Sunday 12:00noon till 1 :OOam. Saturday 12:00 noon until 8:00pm.* non-football weekends only. Monday through Thursday 5:30pm-1 :OOam Rooms: 121, 122,266,369. 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 1:00am. Monday-Thursday 5:30p-1:OOam. Rooms: 108,109,203, 203A, 204,206,207,208,209. 


standard Mixed Drinks All Night Long 
Th is place tocks!~ 

100 N. Center St (The 100 Center) Mishavvaka -{574) 259-7522 
MUST BE 21 WITH VALID ID! 
BASEBALL 

Niesel, Gold shut down Blue squad, 9-1 
the loss for the Blue team, but
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
allowed only three of the team's 
Sports Editor 
runs in his five innings. Notre Dame will play the sec­

Sophomore pitcher Chris 
ond game of the series this after­Niesel hasn't lost a step since his 

noon with 6'7" freshman Tom

dominating performances in the Thorton set to go for the Gold
2002 post-season, logging five 
and senior Ryan Kalita slated toinnings of work and getting the start for the Blue.

9-1 victory for the Gold Squad in Highly-touted freshman Ryanthe first of the three-game Blue­Doherty -a right hander who
Gold intra-squad series to con­
stands 7'2" -is expected to seeclude the fall season for the Irish. 

significant time for the Gold

Niesel, who was 2-0 with a squad in the final exhibition of
2.23 ERA in three post-season games, shut down a powerful the fall series Thursday. Florida State team in the decid­Both games are scheduled for 
ing game of the NCAA Super seven innings and will begin at Regionals to send the Irish to the 4:30 p.m. at Eck Stadium. College World Series for the first time in 45 years. Contact Chris Federico at Classmate John Axford took cfederic@nd.edu 
2002-03 Mainstage Sea~on :\'otre Dame, Film. Television. anti Theatre presents 

Playing at \Vashington Hall 
\Vednesday, October 9 7::30 p.n1. Thursday. October 10 7:30 p.n1. Friday, October 11 7:30 p.1n. Saturday, October 12 7:30 p.tn. Sunday, October 13 2:30 p.m. 
Heserved Seats $10 Seniors $9 • All Students $7 
Tickets are available at the door or in advunce al the LaFortune Student Center. 
MasterCard and \'isn orders, call 6:H-8128. 

\ 

\ 
\\ 
'i 
I 
I \ Wednesday, October 9, 2002
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

i 
\ 
I 
I i 
t 
t 
I , I 
!
I 
I 
I 
' { 

fl 
C 
fl:I
... 
C 
::I 0 (l 
u 
< 
u 
.0 
::, 
a.. 
'Q 
G) 
:.;:::: 
·e 
G> 
(.) 
0 -~'5 G> 
-
t;; 
C 
C 
IV 
C,) 
·.:: 
G> 
e 
< 
CD 
,s 
>­
.,Q 
"Cl 
Q)
... 
0 
VI 
C 
0 
Q, Cl') 


·contest Rules complete rules can be found on the CollegeClub.com Web sI1e NO PURCHASE NECESSARY Contest entry period runs 10/01/02 -2/01/03 and is open only lo legal residents of the 50 United States, eighteen I18) or older at lime of entry, enrolled in a full/part•time accredited college or university, and is subject to the complete Contest Offi.:ial Rules En11ies may be submitled on the StartHereGoPlaces.'com Web site located at wwwStartHereGoPlaces.com or on the CollegeClub.com Web site locnted at www CollegeClub.com All entries become lhe property ofSpmsor. as defined in lhe complete Contest Official Rules Employees and family members of Sponsor not eligible to participate. Sponsor is not responsible for technical or Olher malfunctions. lost or unavailable network connections. or failed eleclrooic communications Ihat may occur mthe processing of the entries The authors of the 1wof2) Grand Prize winning essays will each receive their choice of one of the ·summer Ore.1m Internships· provided by Sponsor. which includes five thousand dollars (S5,000) to be paid over the course of the mlernship The Grand Prize is not tmnsferable. except 17f Sponsor. who may substitute plize with a prize of equal value a, opportunity No cash or prire sobs111u1ion is allowed and other 1estr1ctioos apply. The authors of !he three (31 winning Ruoners•Up essays will receive one thousand dollar (Sl.0001 gift checks. The authors of the five (5) winning Honrnable Mention essays will receive live hundred dollar tS500) gift cheds. Void where prnh1bited. Winners will be responsible for any and all taxes. Sponsor The Ame,ican lnsti1u1e of Ceitified Public Accountants. 1211 Avenue of the Americas. New YOik. NY 10036-8775; CoUegeClub.com. a division of Student Advantage, Inc, 2035 Corte Del Noga!, Suite 200, Carlsbad. CA 92009 
···  $tart here. Go places.·  
·  If you know business and accounting,· you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership -are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world.  
Even in the movies.  
Start going places with a Summer  

· Dream Internship. Register on/ine. today and complete your application 
by 2/01/03 to compete for one of two 
$5,000 paid.internships. Eight other· 
•,students will receive cash value awards · •of up to $1,000~ 

Wednesday, October 9, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles fall to first-place Flying Dutch in MIAA contest 
"I thought we'd do a lot bet-The stalemate with the
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
ter," Belles

Sports Writer 
forward Wendy Irvin

Playing on its home turf, said. "We the Saint Mary's soccer team P 1 a y e d had hope of grabbing an Calvin last MIAA victory Tuesday night. week, and 
But Hope, the MIAA's top I d 
we P aye

team, had other plans, shut-tough. We ting out the Belles 2-0. thought the 
"We were expecting them to m O men tum be very good," senior captain would carry Lynn Taylor said. through. I 
The Belles entered the think they're game with a lot of confi-the best dence, coming off a 1-1 tie team we've 
•~A-er the Calvin tie, we 
I.J" 

went in with a lot of confidence tonight. Del'ensively we played well,'J' but we weren't able to pull it off" 
Emily Wagoner Belles midfielder 
Knights, who are 5-1 in conference
play, showed that the Belles can play with the 
t t · 
op earns m
the MIAA. 
"After the Calvin tie, we went in with a lot of confi­d e n c e tonight, " sophomore 
with second place Calvin last played so far, so it could have Emily Wagoner said. w.,..e_ek_e_n_d_.__________be_e_n___w;..;o;.;.r.;;;.se;;;.;.;.....________".::..D....:.e~fensively we played well, 
University ofNotre Dame International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

INNSBRUCK 
2003-04 Academic Year 
BERLIN 

2003-04, Fall '03 and Spring '04 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber and Returnees ofthe Program 
Wednesday, October 9, 2002 118 DeBartolo 
7:00 pm 

Application Deadlines: Innsbruck: Dec.1,2002 Berlin: Oct. 1, 2002 for Sp '03 
Dec. 1, 2002 for F '03 and AY03-04 Questions??? Weber.15@nd.edu Applications: 
www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
but we weren't able to pull it off." 
The Belles need to become more consistent as they enter the second half of their sea• son, in which they will face each team in their conference a second time. 
"We have to work on our technique -there are little things we have to perfect," Taylor said. "We're a young team. We know how to play together, but we are not men­tally prepared. We get scared hearing stories about [other teams'] rankings." 
The team is still optimistic though, especially with sever­al weaker opponents on the immediate horizon, including Adrian on Oct. 12. Saint Mary's solidly defeated Adrian on Sept. 18 by a score of 5-1, and the Bulldogs are 2-5 in conference play. 
"I am excited to go back and play everyone again," Taylor said. 
"We've improved since last year," Wagoner said. "With each game we're improving more and gelling more as a team. We have every chance 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Lions, Pyros enter playoffs with wins 
By PAT LEONARD and LISA 
REIJUlA 
Sports Wrirers 

Lyons coach Andy Kowieski remained on the sideline for the end ofthis game. 
Coming off a 7 -6 loss to Lewis Sunday in which referees ejected Kowieski for arguing, the Lions needed their coaches and players to buckle down and keep their heads to defeat the Pangborn Phoxes. Tuesday night at Riehle fields, the Lions trampled the Phoxes 20-0 to end the regular season with a 3-2-1, good enough to secure a spot in the playoffs. 
The game was never in doubt. 

"I'm proud of the team tonight," Kowieski said. "We rebounded well from a tough loss -a game we should have won." 
Lyons quarterback Sara Jenkins threw for 140 yards and two touchdowns against a scram­bling Pangborn defense. The first Lyons touchdown came on a 5­yard draw. In the second half, a 15-yard pass interference call ignited a second touchdown drive for the Lions. 
Pangborn managed only 40 yards rushing and 25 yards pass­ing in the contest. The Lyons picked off the Phoxes once and penetrated into the backfield all 

game to force quick throws. While Jenkins was sacked 
once, her performance against 
Pangborn was a huge step for­
ward following an unproductive 

game against Lewis. . i I 
!
"We dropped some balls last ! game and had a tough time on offense," Jenkins said. "We need­ed to win this one and the team really stepped up." 
Pasquerilla East 13, McGlinn 0 
Pasquerilla East continued its 
winning ways Tuesday night in women's interhall play, beating McGlinn 13-0. 
The Pyros have not lost since their season opener against the Chaos of Cavanaugh and will cruise into the playoffs with a 5-1 record. 
Quarterback Abbey Coons again led her team to victory by throwing for a touchdown and running for another. Lindsay Terifay made a diving catch in the end zone to put the Pyros up 
in the first half. The extra point conversion was snuffed by the McGlinn defense. 
In the second half Coons ran in a score from the 3-yard line. The try for the extra point was good, as Coons connected in the end zone with freshman wide receiv­er Christin O'Brien. The Pyros dominated offensively and held possession for the majority of the 
game. Passing was the mainstay 
of the offense, as Coons was 14 
of 22 with one interception. 
Despite the loss, the Shamrocks most likely earned themselves a playoff spot. Their chances depended on a Lyons victory over Pangborn, and the Lions delivered with a 20-0 win. McGlinn came through the regu­lar season with a record of 3-3, and freshman lineman Jessica Fedor said her team is excited about making the playoffs. 
"We have improved so much since our first game," she said. 
However, the Shamrocks still have plenty of room for improve­ment. 
"We had a couple of break­downs on defense against PE, so we need to work on covering long passes," said Fedor. "It was good that we held them to only two touchdowns." 
Coons said her team will take a vacation from practice and then start preparing for the playoffs after fall break. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu and Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 


page 18 Wednesday, October 9, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Coaches still hush-hush about status of Holiday's injury 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spons Writer 

So goes the story with Carlyle Holiday and his oft-discussed shoulder. According to Irish coaches, Holiday has improved from last week, but they're not saying whether Holiday will play Saturday against Pittsburgh. 
When asked if he would wait until game time to make a deci­sion, as the Irish did last week, Willingham responded, "It could be, and it could come before that." 
Holiday's backup, Pat Dillingham, has already launched himself into another round of game week mental preparations, where he practices with the intent of being the starter. The preparation paid off last week, as Dillingham finished 14-of-27 with 129 passing yards. While his start won't rank among the great Notre Dame debuts -Dillingham had trouble throwing the deep pass and never tossed a touch­down -it gave the sophomore enough confidence that he can play when he gets into the game. 
"You can't simulate a game that much in practice," he said. "The only way to get those under your belt is to be out there. I got 60-70 snaps on Saturday. and that helped a lot." 
Dillingham said Holiday, who was not available for interviews after practice, is looking increas­ingly better in practice and added that the two split reps Tuesday about evenly. And from Notre Dame's perspective, the best aspect of having Dillingham working as the starter is he's under no illusion, at least pub­licly, that can wrestle the starting job away from Holiday. 
"Its Carlyle's team," Dillingham said Tuesday after practice. "He's started all last year and every­thing. I'm just going to do my job, if my job is backing him up, then that's what I'll do." 
If nothing else, Dillingham's selfless attitude helps create posi­tive team chemistry and earned him praise from his head coach. 
"At the quarterback position, if you can have two young men that are really focused on the team first, then you have a chance to have a very successful organiza­tion," Willingham said. "Quarterbacks, by the nature of their position, are natural lead­ers, and a team follows their sprit and the mindset. When you have Pat Dillingham following that approach, it really makes your team a lot stronger." 
Panther fear 

Nothing scared the Irish more than watching Pittsburgh disman­tle Syracuse 48-24 last week in the Carrier Dome. No. 8 Notre Dame isn't taking the 5-1 Panthers lightly, especially con­sidering their only loss of the sea­son was a narrow defeat at the hands of Texas A&M. 
"You need to start with what they are doing well, which is their defense," Willingham said. "It is an aggressive, get-after-it group that has a lot of confidence. They are really limiting what they can do offensively." 
Pittsburgh boasts the No. 8 defense in the country in number of yards allowed. Notre Dame's defense is just ahead of them, ranked No. 7. 
But Pittsburgh is far from an entirely defensive-minded unit. Quarterback Rod Rutherford, who has a phenomenal quarter­back rating of 149.2, directs a potent offense that features a trio of talented wide receivers in Larry Fitzgerald, Roosevelt Bynes and Lamar Slade, who are each averaging at least 13 yards per catch. 
"They've won four in a row, and beat a very good football team in Syracuse last week," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. " ... Anytime you go into the Dome and beat them like that, it raises a flag in a hurry. We're going to have our hands full Saturday." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


DO YOU KNOW HOW TO PREPARE YOURSELF FOR THE REAL WORLD? I HAVE A GREAT IDEA!! 
TAKE YOUR SENIOR YEAR, LIVE AT TURTLE CREEK AND GAfN THE EXPERIENCE OF EVERYDAY LIFE THAT YOU WlLL NEED IN THE REAL WORLD. NOW. WHO BETTER TO GAIN THIS EXPERIEANCE WITH THAN YOUR FRIENDS! YOU EVEN HAVE THE OPPORTIJNITY TO MAKE EVEN MORE FRIENDS. 
WE HAVE TOWNHOMES AND TWO BEDROOMS FOR AS LOW AS $275 PER MONTH PER PERSON 
TIJRTLE CREEK APARTMENTS THE CLOSEST APARTMENT COMMUNJTY TO NOTRE DAME CALL US TODAY -272-8124 OR CHECK US OUT ON THE WEB "\],.iV1/,v.TURTLECREEKND.COM 

Celebrate 

30 Years of Coeducation· 
at Notre Dame 
In the fall of 1972, women began enrolling as undergraduates at Notre Dame. Student Government's celebration of the S0th anniversary of coeducation continues with the following events: 
T!J/1111/T 
NOTRE DAME IN 1972 
Panel discussion with students, adninistrators. and faculty who were at ND in 1972 
101 DeBartolo 8 p.m. 
Reception with free food to follow. 
TlltfRcfMf/ 
THE GODFATHER-
Best Picture from 1972 
North Quad 8 p.m. 
FREE HOT CHOCOLATE AND POPCORN. 
cf,4T((ROiif/ 

FOLK CHOIR CONCERT 
To benefit the Holy Cross Missions 
BASCILICA 
7:30 p.m. 

Student Government's Coeducation Week October 6th -
Stfl/Ollf/ 
MASS 
BASCILICA 
11:45 a.m. 
ICE CREAM SOCIAL 
NOH and SDH Dinner hour 
13th 


Wednesday, October 9, 2002 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN 
Why should t have to kick 
...Besides, your lab 
You got your Viewpoint 

This is serious. Gender 
a girl out of my room at 
partner likes working in
letter written yet? Better 

relations are strained at 
12 o'clock? Because the 
the 24 hour lounge better 
yet, why not Just call Monk 

University says so? 
and ask him why you can•t 

anyway. \
rand=~=~~._
I 
get a girlfriend. 
\ ~-\. 

. • ZlMG. l~:~
.:#"~ 
;~· 
.·• 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 

·,

··~;~~fT"~ ) 
C2002 Trbune Media Servicee, Inc. All Righta Reaerved. I hope their
IDEPT 
tips are 
as big 
as their 
appetites
(J I 
WHAT TH£: 5E:RVE:R
tCOALLE j 
f=NDE=D UP WITH 
WHE:NTI-e6A5Kf=f-
I 
6AL..L-PLAYE:1<5 
www.jumble.com 
HAD DINNt=R. 
I REBOOL j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

I rx I I 
Answer: A 

"( I I I ]" rI I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) .,,. 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: KNOWN BOUND JARGON BALLAD Answer: What the musicians used to get to the concert -THE BAND WAGON 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 25 • To order, und your name, addreaa and $5.95 and make cMCk payable to Tribune Media Servlcfl, P.O. Box; 4330, Chicago, IL 6068()--433(), 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
itbt New lork ititnt1 
Crossword 
Edited by Will Shortz No. 0828 
ACROSS 39 One of a 68 Unmolested 22-card deck 
1 Harasses 69 Flamboyantnewbies 40 Way style 
6 Sting 43 See 45-Across 70 Throw things at 10 Goya subject, 44 Elbow 
71 Tie upnude and 45 With 43-Across,clothed leaver of a mark 

DOWN

14 Employ, as 46 Ready to bestrength 
1 Sailcloth fiber 15 TV newsman served 
48 Starring role 2 Turnaround Brit jump50 Nonverbal16 Golf bag item 
communication, 3 Second after 17 With 64-Across, for short delta a ticket issuer 
51 Money at a 4 At attention 18 Caspian feeder casa de cambio 
5 Steady flow 19 Stitched 53 New beginning? 
6 Treat as a 20 Weigh 55 Whey pariah 
23 Wee bit 63 Fall guy? 7 Brusque 
24 Salacious look 64 See 17-Across 8 Boy in a Menotti titlf
25 Blowgun missile 65 *_Water" (Bums song) 9 Free-for-alls
28 Fine spray 66 Dreyfus Affair 
31 Does 80, say 10 Villain
figure 35 Aardvark's fare 11 Neighborhood
67 Aptly named 37 Realtor's sale citrus fruit 12 Fleshy part 
13 Elizabeth l's 36 Leader 52 Old enough 
59 Prepare to run
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE mother 

38 Young 'un 54 Something to
21 Hateful disgrace 60 One of the
consider
41 Concert hall 

Aleutians22 Biological 55 Where rats race
42 "That's not what 

61 Burgles
I !" 56Teen_ 

(heartthrob)
4 7 Solicit, as 62 Hydrocarbon business 57 Hacienda room suffixes 
is heard 

Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 29 Cinch phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. 30 Alpine region of Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Austria and Italy crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
AN L 1 ....._.,,.._,..._ .........., ._.E,.._,,V..,E..i 32 Kovacs of Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000_=___ L E S ed past puzzles. nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).
A V E 5 
~ com Y Crosswords tor young solvers: The Leaming Network, L E S ..;;..i.~..i..;.. H I A T 33 People of action nytimes.com/leaminQ,'xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

PIIZ.Zle by Mel T111.b 
34 Pharyngeal woe, for short 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIBS BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Joon Lennon, J.dsoo Browne, Robert Wuhl Zachery Ty Bryan 
Happy Birthday: You will have to settle down and take things as they come this yeai Althoogh yoo will have lhe drive to get lhings dooe, yoo will also have a tendency to focu: on the wrmg things. Face emotional issues he.id-oo this year. Make some changes wid regard to the company you keep. If sonrone is holding you bock or influeocing y0t negatively, walk away. This year is a turning point foc yoo and you must put yoorself f~ fcrachange. Yoorm.unbe,;are 10. 16,23,29,36,41 
ARIBS (March 21-April 19): Take care of any persooal maners that face yoor famil) An older farrily member may need assistance from yoo. lf yoo aren't careful, yoo will ge run do'Ml ifyoo take oo too much. *"Irle TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 1rere are some challenges in your partrership at this tiire Yoo must have patieoce when dealing wilh your mate. lnsecwities will lead to jealousi and discooi in your relationship. **'* G&\.-IINI (May 21-June 20): Mincr mishaps concerning close fiiernh oc relatives ma) lead to disputes. Take better care of yoor heallh. Proper diet and rest will be a rrcessif.) 
*"Irle 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Social.events will be most exhilaniting. There is the possibility of love in the air. Since your mental attitude is changing, you will at1n1ct ; different kind ofmate. *~* 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Enjoy a quiet evening with ywr lover. A lack ofanention mai have caused your mate to be a little disgrunded. Discuss your future and make plans. *-­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be vulrerable regarding mooey. Be discriminatini when giving to aganizations. Cltiliten will ca.ta lot ....,--k-* LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Doo't get angry and upset overfinaocial matters. Look at yw situation realistically and decide what cwne of action yoo can take. A hidden asset ma) get yru out of yoor finaocial bind ....,*SCORPIO {Od. 23-Nov. 21): Problems wittl older relatives will cause friction at home Yoo will have to s~yoorself petty 1hin if yoo wish to please everyoo:. Call on ~ to help in ocder to take care ofall ywr responsibilities. tt-itr SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Edocatiooal pursuilli will be bereficial. Go to irJdt shows ex attend lectures that will broaden yoor scq:,e regarding imneymaking ventures Yoo may want to look into a rew business cwnuruty....._.* CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Yoo can get help frool others if you're willing to asl foc favors. TeU them what you need. Don't ignore yoor family oc personal losses wil follow.**'*'* AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Yoor need to do yrur own thing may cause problem with yoor family. Let them know what you are doing so they feel ilx:lured Don't refuse tl see both sides of an issue. "Irle PISCES {Feb. 19-Mardl 20): Expand ywrculrural knowledge. Yoo need to get rut an( experience new forms of entertainment Use diplomacy and charm when dealing wid 
influenlial indivicbtls. *** * * 
Birthday Baby: Yoo will be bold, lrdve and .ilways ready to help the wxlerdog. Yoo an very giving and mi.st pro(eC( ywrself frool people who will tty to take advantage of you 
Clleck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com COPYRIGIIT 2002 UNIVERSALPRFSS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please con1plete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ---------------------------­
Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

Wednesday, October 9, 2002 



FOOTBALL 
Setta keeps on kicking despite recent struggles 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Put slump and Setta in the same sentence and Tyrone Willingham snaps. 
"I haven't seen a kicker that's been in a slump," Notre Dame's head coach said Tuesday. "The one we have is not in a slump. He's missed a couple of field goals." 
That's putting it mildly. Since Nicholas Setta began the year with a 5-for-6 field goal kicking performance against Maryland, the normally dependable Irish kicker has struggled. He's made just three See Also of his last 10 field goal attempts and sunk to a new low against "Coaches still 
Stanford when he missed a hush-hush about career-high three field goals in 
status of

one game. To put Setta's statistics in per­Holiday's injury" spective, his eight field goal 
page 18

misses this season are as many as he had in 2000 and 2001 combined. 
"It's unfortunate the way things are going," Setta said. "The biggest thing for me is you're not helping your team out any. Games could have come down to those field goals and you want to be there.... You want the whole package." 
The Irish kicker isn't quite sure what the source of his recent problems is. The only thing he has noticed when he watched film of his errant kicks is that he started lifting his head up earlier to watch the ball's flight. But whether the fact that he's raisjng his head after a kick is the reason he's dropping his head after the ball sails wide, he's not quite sure. 
But what Setta doesn't have to worry about is losing the support of his head coach. 
"I don't believe in kicking slumps, that's a per­sonal thing," Willingham said. "Sometimes you can notice certain things, but usually the young men themselves, because they are so well taught in their fundamental skills, will notice some things during films that may be off. But there is always the possibility that they just missed it." 
If Willingham is losing faith in his kicker, even privately, he's not showing it by the frequency he 
CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer
sends Setta onto the field. Already, the Irish kick-
Notre Dame kicker Nicholas Setta lines up to kick against Stanford Saturday. Despite Setta's recent struggles, see SEITA/page 13 head coach Tyrone Willingham maintains that Setta Is not In a slump. 

WOMENS SOCCER 
Irish continue on string of bad luck in 3-1 loss to Purdue 
ByJOE LICANORO 
Sports Writer 
Soccer can be a very frus­trating sport. Sometimes one team can take three times as many shots as the other team, yet still end up on the wrong side of the outcome. 
Tuesday night, the Notre Dame womens soccer team outplayed Purdue for almost the entire game, but still lost 3-1. The Irish outshot the Boilermakers 15 to four. but three of Purdue's shots found the back of the net, propelling them to victory. 
span of six days, the Irish were hoping that a win against No. 20 Purdue would help erase some of the bad memo­ries from Sunday's tough 3-0 road loss to ninth-rankedWest Virginia. Unfortunately, the first half against Purdue was all too familiar for a Notre Dame team that has struggled recently. 
In the 25th minute, Purdue defender Chrissy Creamer took a shot from 10 yards beyond the goalie box that curled over the outstretched arms of Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn to give the Boilermakers a 1-0 lead. 
Less than two minutes later., 
another goal when Purdue's Annette Kent sent a shot past Bohn on a golden one-on-one opportunity. 
With just under four minutes left in the first half, the Boilermakers struck a third time. This time forward Jennie Moppert streaked past the Irish defense to a loose ball on the right sideline. Teammate Jessica Baumhoff took Moppert's pass and promptly shot the ball to the right corner of the net. 
Fifteen minutes into the sec­ond half, the Irish offense finally broke through when forward Amy Warner slipped 
sent a cross to Katie Thorlakson. Purdue goalie Jacelyn Cavalier deflected Thorlakson's shot, but Irish forward Amanda Guertin quickly pounced on the rebound for her fifth goal of the season. 
Midfielder and senior cap• tain Ashley Dryer could only play five minutes of the game due to an ankle injury that has kept her out of action the past few weeks. The Irish were also without starting forward Melissa Tancredi, who served a one-game suspension for receiving her fifth yellow card Sunday and defender Gudrun returned to action last week­end from a stress fracture but went down with another injury with 17 minutes left in the contest. It is unlikely that she will play this Sunday against Connecticut. 
With the loss, Notre Dame's record dropped to 7-6 on the season. While the Irish have already been eliminated from the Big East post-season tour­nament, they still could receive an at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament provided they perform well in their last five games. 
Contact Joe Licandro at 

Playing their third game in a the Boilermakers tacked on past the Purdue defense and Gunnarsdottir, 

SPORT 
Lyons 20 Pangborn 0 Pasquerilia East 1.3, McGlinn 0 
With their wins, the Lions and Pyros both quali­fied for the playoffs. 


page 1.7 
who just licandro. l@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

Gold 9 Blue 1. 
Sophomore pitcher Chris Niesel, coming off his heroic College World Series performance, shut down the Blue Squad in the first game of the Blue-Gold intrasquad series. 
page 15 
SENDWICH INDEX 
In the latest edition of the computer index generated by two Notre Dame students, Ohio State claims the No. 1 spot while the Irish jump to No. 4 after Saturday's win over Stanford. 
page 1.2 







