
Welcome, freshmen!
CLOUDY 
Saturday
Looking for an opportunity? Learn the ins and outs ofstudent government and then catch up on the events that affected campus last year. 
AUGUST 24, 
HIGH 74° 
LOW63° 
2002
News . page 4 &5 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 1 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
New class brings leadership to campus 
variety of socioeconomic back­
. Official says 
grounds, and roughly 75 per­University's class cent of the students are on is destined for financial aid, he said. 
However, Saracino said the
leadership 
office has come up short in the 
area of minority recruitment. By HELENA PAYNE Students from ethnic minori­News Editor ty groups in this year's fresh­
man class comprise 17 percent 
of the class, the same percent­After a yearlong process of age as last year.
scouring through academic 
"That's the one area that
records and recommendations, we're still notthe director of 
pleased
Notre Dame 
"They 're involved in such w i t h , " 
undergradu-
Saracino said.
ate admis-a myriad ofactivities." 
"We just have
sions Dan to spend
Saracino said 
Dan Saracino more time
the class of 
and energy in
director of undergraduate
2006 is des­
that area."
tined for lead­admissions 
While the
ership. 
admissions
Ninety percent of the 1,948 office has sponsored a visita­first-year students expected to tion weekend in the spring forenroll this fall participated in 
some minority applicants,
community service during high 
Saracino said the office is
school. 
planning to get high school
"They're involved in such a minority students on campusmyriad of activities," Saracino before the spring. He said thesaid. 
office also wants to include
Forty-four percent of the current undergraduate stu­
freshmen were in student gov­
dents in the recruitment
ernment and another 44 per­
process more by having themcent were involved in music, call potential applicants fromart or drama. 
the admissions office phoneHe added that the admis­
center.
sions office was happy with 
Other statistics about the
the "general diversity" of the class of 2006 include:new freshman class. The stu­
. The class is 53 percentdents represent all 50 states 
male and 4 7 percent female.
and 44 foreign countries, 
. The middle 50 percent ofmostly from Latin America, as 
the class scored between a
well as Europe, Southeast Asia 
1300 and 1450 on the SAT
and Canada. 
In addition, students in the see NOTRE DAME/page 9 
class of 2006 come from a 
. Nolan: new Saint Mary's class is strong academically 
By IAURA CORISTIN 
News Writer 
This week will mark the beginning of a new phase in the lives of 377 first-year students, 11 linkage stu­dents from Holy Cross and 42 transfers who will call Saint Mary's home this fall. 
The Saint Mary's class of 2006 is strong academically, said Saint Mary's director of admissions Mary Pat Nolan. The middle 50 percent of the class has a grade point average ranging from 3.33 to 3.91, SAT scores from 1060-1230 and ACT scores from 22-27. 
While the majority of the students are from the Midwest, the first year stu­dents come from many other areas. 
"The class is geographical­ly diverse, representing all of the regions of the United States," Nolan said. 
of geographical diversity is strategies to target minority
There are also students 
from five foreign countries interesting, "especially in a and international students. including Ecuador, India, year following the Sept. 11 These include a direct mail Hungary and Brazil, with terrorist attacks." campaign toward students one American student living She added that many peo­abroad, the College Board abroad in Korea. The 42 ple would be more inclined Student Search Program and 
to stay closer to home for college fairs. 
transfers include students from the countries Georgia, safety reasons. Albania and Rwanda. Saint Mary's also has Contact Laura Coristin at 
Nolan said the high degree implemented a number of cori0333@saintmarys.edu. 



Lafortune opens popular eateries 
faculty. eatery, Sbarra. Located in the
By MIKE SCHMUHL 
A second big name to move basement, where an old sub 
News Writer 
into Lafortune is the national sandwich shop, Allegro's oper­submarine sandwich chain, ated, Sbarro will try to lure stu­
Although Notre Dame's din­Subway, where customers can dents to the basement of ing halls offer a grand cuisine, "eat fresh" and have a "sand­LaFortune. sooner or later, every student wich artist" design their meals. Construction on the new needs a change. With the Tomasitos, the former occu­restaurant is scheduled to start recent additions of three new pant of the LaFortune shop, at the end of August and be eating establishments and $230 was replaced because of completed around fall break in Flex points to burn, students Subway's "overall national pop­October. Pizza delivery will also may find themselves spending ularity, the company's willing­begin in January 2003. more time at LaFortune than ness to grant us franchise Sbarro was chosen for many the dining halls. rights and because of their reasons, according to 
Last spring, a small study healthy, quick serve menu," Prentkowski. First, they could lounge was completely trans­Prentkowski said. "satisfy the 'slice· pizza meal formed into a Starbucks coffee However, long lines have business during traditional shop, one of the first in the been a problem at prime meal meal time periods." Secondly, South Bend area. times during the summer. with their menu boasts much more 
Dave Prentkowski, director of people waiting in lines for 30 than pizza, with pasta-type Notre Dame Food Services, said minutes or longer. Yet, dishes and calzoni, a pizza dish Starbucks was chosen "in an Prentkowski seems confident similar to Hot Pockets. attempt to bring people to that "people appreciate the Lastly and most importantly, LaFortune at nontraditional idea that they can customize Sbarra will serve pizza until 4 meal time periods." their sandwich exactly the way a.m. "We were looking for a 
NELLIE Its popular coffees, cappucci-they want it." concept that had a student-
A worker at the new Subway In Larfortune prepares a ham-and-nos and teas have already been Another establishment com­cheese sub sandwhich. a huge hit with students and ing to LaFortune is the Italian see EATERIES/page 6 
Saturday, August 24, 2002
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN 
It's t-o--w-n-i-e 
Oh, good, you made it past the front page. Now, only 26 more pages of advice, welcome let­ters, campus maps and athletic team previews to go. 
It's all very useful in that "thanks for giving 

me even more stuff to read this weekend" kind of way. Poor freshmen. At this point, some of you have probably received so many mailings and information packets that going to the bathroom without a list of detailed instructions is pos­ing a problem. 
Just for kicks, here's another list. Don't worry, it's a fun one. 
But just because I'm no "Dear Abby" don't think that these aren't wise words. In fact, consider 
Jason McFarley 
Editor in Chief 
clipping the column and saving it in a nice 
frame, wooden if you have one. Just a thought. 
Anyway. on with the list of dos and don'ts for life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Of course, life at the University and the College means life in South Bend, so we'll call this "the good, the bad and the Bend." 
First, an admission. I know a Notre Dame stu­dent who's from the Bend. We'll call him Jason McFarley since he's me. Sure enough, I've lived here for almost a decade now and in northern Indiana for all my life. 
So here's rule No. 1: Remember, the term "South Bend resident" is tops with me and my ilk. But if you must refer to us by the "t" word. please spell it "townie" and not "towny." 
We may not have much choice in the matter of being from South Bend, but darn it, we will have some control over our indigenous nickname. 
Another rule: l don't care what the sign says; for the next four years, you live in South Bend ­not Notre Dame, Ind. Get used to telling people that South Bend is where you live and go to school. And say it with pride, for crying out loud. You're going to college in the Midwest, not being banished to a Siberian prison. Deal with it. 
On that note, if by Siberian prison you imagine cold weather and strict rules, then disregard that last thought. 
Sorry 'bout that. But you'll thank me for these next observations. 
Here's the first: Townies are people, too. It's not all that necessary to go out of your way to shun us. 
Inevitably, you will venture off campus late one weekend night, destined for a downtown South Bend bar. In the back ofyour mind will be the story that some junior told you about the 35­year-old townie with two teeth, a mullet and no shoes who tries to pick up unsuspecting coeds at Boat Club. 
Fear not, the story's bogus. That guy has at least three teeth and got a better haircut this summer. 
Unless I've blown it at this point, all this is meant to get you to realize the charm of life here. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's long have realized that they are inextricably linked to South Bend, and both schools have invested a lot of money and other resources in the community. 
Someplace before the cornfields and flat farm­land begin, there's a city beyond the University, the College and Turtle Creek and College Park apartments. You'd do well to explore more ofit than the bars, stores and restaurants. 
Welcome, freshmen, to top-notch schools and a wonderful city. You're in a great place. Take it from a towny, er, townie. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards icsdf as a professional publication and strives for the highest standatds of journalism at all times. We do, however, rrcognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Obtcrv« (USPS ,99 2...-fOOO, ii pub!Uhed Monday rhrou.gh Prilbycc.tpr ci~riftg exam .md vact.uon pmocb. A,ubK:ripdon to The Ob,em:or U: SIOO for one at:umic year; J'55 fot one tcmam. 
Tk Ob..rva:r i.1 published at: POSTMA5TFR Send .ad.dnm corrrcciom ro: 024 Stiuth Dtning Hall ~ Obcc,-vc, N'"" D..,.,, IN 46)%-077'! P.O. !lox Q rcrioclical ~o.gc paid ac Nocrc Da.mr ~d 024 So,uh Dini.ng Hali ad.dition,al m~»ricofficd. Nll(rc UUDC', lN 46H6.0n9 
l1x: Ob:lcnii,,r is ~ memhcr ofdu: lu,ocia~ 11ret1. At! niprodu«ioa righa. an: ~c::f'V<cd. 
• 
Orientation Weekend 2002 

SUNDAY 
10 a.m. Mass, Joyce Center 
11:30 a.m. Box lunch, Joyce Center Noon to 1:15 p.m. Spirit ofNotre Dame perfonnances, Joyce Center 
1:30 p.m. Minority student reception, Joyce Center Monogram Room 2 p.m. Hesburgh Library Tour 
6:30 to 8:30 p.m. uiFortune Student Center open house 

MONDAY 
9 a.m. & 10:30 a.m. Academic-life discussions 
10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Enrollment, Joyce Center Concourse 2 p.m. Hesburgh Library tour 3, 4 & 5 p.m. Gender-issues presentation, Washington Hall 

TUESDAY 
8 a.m. Classes begin 
5:30 p.m. Year-opening Mass, Joyce Center 7 p.rn. Picnic dinner, DeBartolo Quad 

TODAY 
8a.m.Mas 11 a.m. Te ditorium Noon to ,r.1:11.0·== Green 

1:30 p.m lege" presentat 

3:30 to 4: la Athletic 

5 p.m. M 9 p.m." 
Auditorium 

SUNDAY 
10:45 to 1 p.m. Brunch, Noble Family Dining Hall 1 p.m. South Bend bus tour, LeMans bus stop 3 p.m. International student welcome, 303 Haggar College Center 5 to 6 p.m. "Dinner and Discourse/' Noble Family Dining Hall 8 to 11 p.m. "Jamaica Shaka," Library Green 9 p.m. Mass, Regina Hall chapel 

MONDAY 
8:45 to 10:30 a.m. Enrollment, LeMans Hall Stapleton Lounge 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Football ticket applications and yearbook distribution, Haggar College Center 5 to 6:30 p.m. Multicultural students orientation, 303 Haggar College Center 

TUESDAY 
8 a.m. Classes begin 1 to 5 p.rn. Choir auditions, 309 Moreau Hall 
4:45 p.m. Mathematics Department exam 
Film advisers to include Scorsese 
Special to The Observer 
Film directors Sydney Pollack and Martin Scorsese and actress Catherine Hicks are among the mem­bers of a newly established Advisory Council for the Performing Arts at Notre Dame. 
Other council members are Jeannelle Brady, Elkhart, Ind.; John 
S. Cullen II, Buffalo, N.Y.; John Goberman, New York City; Martha Head, Vail, Colo.; Jeremiah P. O'Grady, Radnor, Pa.; Mark Radcliffe.Tulsa, Okla.; Edward R. Smith, San Francisco; Susan St. James, Litchfield, Conn.; Timothy L. Strader, Corona de! Mar, Calif.; and Christine R. Swanson, Pasadena, Calif. 
The advisory council will guide Notre Dame's future endeavors in the performing arts, which will be boost­ed in 2004 with the completion of the University's new Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Now under construction, the 123,000-square-foot DeBartolo Center will cost more than $50 million and has been underwritten with a portion of a $33-million gift to Notre Dame in 1989 from the late Edward J. DeBartolo, a 1932 Notre Dame gradu­ate, in honor of his wife, Marie. 
The center will be home to the University's Department of Film, Television and Theatre and will house five performance spaces: the 900-seat Leighton Concert Hall, underwritten by South Bend civic leader and phil­anthropist Judd Leighton and his late wife, Mary Lou; the 350-seat Patricia George Decio Drama Theatre, under­written by Notre Dame Trustee Arthur J. Decio in honor of his wife; the 100-seat Regis Philbin Studio Theatre, underwritten by the popular television host and 1953 Notre Dame graduate; a 200-seat cinema theatre; and a 100-seat organ and chorale hall. 
An accomplished actor, director and producer, Pollack is a two-time Academy Award winner, as both director and producer of the 1985 film "Out of Africa." Other films he has directed include "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?" "The Way We Were," "Three Days of the Condor," "Absence of Malice" and "The Firm." A South Bend native, he is chief exec­utive officer of Mirage Productions, which has produced such films as "Presumed Innocent," "The Fabulous Baker Boys" and "Sense and Sensibility." 
Scorsese is the director of such notable films as "Taxi Driver," which won the Palme d'Or at the 1976 Cannes Film Festival, "Raging Bull," "Goodfellas" and "Casino." 
Pope-Davis takes on new positions 
Kantor, vice pre~!~ent of graduate Special to The Observer studJ.!IB.and research and dean of 
Donald Pope-Davis, professor --of -~Gr~duate Scho?l. "His lea~er­
psychology at Notre Dame, has been appointed assistant vice pres­ident and associate dean for gradu­ate studies at the University, effec­tive Aug. 22. 
In his new position, Pope-Davis will be involved with the promotion and administration of graduate studies for the University. 
"Don's experience and insight will be a tremendous asset to the Graduate School," said Jeffrey 
~hip will be essential to establ~sh­mg Notre Dame among th~ first ra°:k o! graduate schools m the nat10n. 
Po~e-Da~is also recently w~s a.ppomted director of Notre Dames CANDAX-ME McNair Program, a federally funded program that pro­motes and prepares first genera­tion and under-represented college students for doctoral studies. 
A member of the Notre Dame fac­ulty since 2000, Pope-Davis earned his doctoral degree from Stanford University. He has published exten­sively in the areas of cross-cultural and multicultural counseling, psy­chology and education. 
He recently was named a research fellow of the American Psychology Association and cur­rently serves as editor of the Journal of Multicultural Counseling and Development and associate editor of the Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology Journal. 
Saturday, August 24, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Orientation gives transfers chance to adjust 
By TERESA FRALISH 
N""'s Writer 
While Notre Dame and Saint Mary's begin to welcome about 2,500 new freshmen, another group of newcomers, transfer students, prepare to make their way on campus. This fall. 131 transfer students will enroll at Notre Dame and 43 at Saint Mary's. These numbers are average figures for the fall semester. 
All transfers are entering as either sophomores or juniors and bring previous experience at another college to Notre Dame and Saint Marv's. 
"Transfers are ve·ry special because they have had an experience somewhere else," said Mary Pat Nolan, director of admissions at Saint Mary's. "When they come to Saint Mary's, they adjust faster to the Saint Mary's family and seem very happy with their college choice." 
Along with experience at another school, transfer stu­dents also contribute a wide range of views and a sense of assuredness about their deci­sion, according to Michael Gantt, assistant director of admissions at Notre Dame. 
"[Transfer students bring] a sense of maturity and a variety of experience," Gantt said. "They can bring a diversity of opinion." 
Transfer students must meet stringent admissions standards and undergo a similar applica­the College arc required to fin­tion and admission process to ish a minimum of 68 credits on first year students. Saint campus. Both Saint Mary's and Mary's admits about 50 stu­Notre Dame will admit a dents each fall semester and smaller group of transfers in admission is not based on indi­December for the spring vidual class size or total semester. enrollment, according to Like the freshmen, transfer Nolan. students bring sound creden­
Notre Dame bases the num­tials and diversity to their new ber of their admission deci­schools. sions on a variety of factors, "Academically, they're prob­including revenue costs, stu­ably the most competitive dents study­ever," said ing abroad "[Transfer students bring) Gantt of the and the num­University's
a sense ofmaturity and
ber of stu­incoming 
dents who a variety ofexperience. " transfers. leave Notre The admis­Dame. Michael Gantt sions office 
looks for stu­"We looked assistant director of admissions at 
at total dents who
Notre Dame
enrollment have closely and said it matched would be their course ideal to enroll 150 [transfer selections to the University's students],'' said Gantt. Both requirements and a high col­Gantt and associate director lege grade point average, usu­Susan Joyce work closely with ally above 3.5. Once at Notre the undergraduate colleges Dame, transfer studen.ts per­when deciding which appli­form as well as regular stu­cants they will admit. dents, Gantt said. Notre Dame 
Both Notre Dame and Saint prepares to welcome two Mary's accepted more sopho­international students as well more transfers than juniors. as students from across the The University does not accept country, including many from senior transfers, while Saint Indiana. Four direct foreign Mary's will admit senior stu­exchange students will also dents, although the case is students at the University this rare, said Nolan. fall. 
Students at the University At Saint Mary's, transfer stu­must complete at least half of dents' qualifications match their degree requirements at first years' qualifications Notre Dame and transfers at according to Nolan. "Statistics parallel the freshmen in terms of quality and geographic dis­tribution," said Nolan. 
Three international students, from Georgia,_ Albania, and Rwanda, have also made their way to Saint Mary's. 
After being admitted, trans­fers must begin the search to find local housing, as both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's do not guarantee on-campus housing to transfer students. Despite having a high percent­age of on-campus students, all students at Saint Mary's who wish to live in a residence hall have been able to, according to Gerry Madsen, assistant direc­tor of residence life at Saint Mary's. "We're in the 90th percentile for capacity, but 1 wouldn't say we're at a short­age," said Madsen. 
While some transfers at Notre Dame have been assigned to a residence hall, the majority of students have been forced to look for other options. According to Gantt, Notre Dame faces a severe a housing shortage as last year due to fewer students living off campus than the University had originally planned for. 
In a reversal from last year, women transfer students are being given on-campus hous­ing much more slowly than men. "This year it's a problem for women," said Gantt. 
Residence Life officials at Notre Dame declined to com­ment. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer special orienta­tion events tailored to specific issues and concerns that trans­fers have. Notre Dame's trans­fer orientation began Thursday with a mass at Sacred Heart Basilica and lun­cheon with parents. while Saint Mary's program began Friday with a luncheon for stu­dents. The College's Office of Student Activities and Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions handle the preparations for transfer orientation. 
Planners for the orientation programs said they hoped the events would acclimate the new students to campus life. 
"My biggest hope is that they feel like they belong at Notre Dame," said Gantt. "We want them to feel welcome and acclimated to the Notre Dame culture." 
Both schools' programs include transfer orientation counselors who were once transfer students themselves. 
Georgeanna Rosenbush. director of student activities at Saint Mary's, said the coun­selors help provide incoming students with the best possible opportunity to feel welcome at their new school. 
"We hope it helps them to make a smooth transition to our college," Rosenbush said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu. 


ND Student Government • Office of the President 

Who we are ... 
The Office of the Student Body President consists of President Libby Bishop and Vice President Trip Foley, 
along with a staff of other students. We serve as a primary voice for undergraduates at Notre Dame. Our job includes representing students in University affairs, assisting other campus organizations, and planning special events. 
Where we 're located ... The Student Government office is located on the 2nd floor of LaFortune Student Center. Stop by or call 1-7668 to get 
involved! 
..., 
On the Web ... 
Visit www.nd.edu/~studegov ... Over the semester, we'll be adding information and new ways for you to give us your feedback. 
Some of what we have planned for this year ... 
•Celebration of 30 years of coeducation at Notre Dame 
•Improved Web site 
•Working 
with administrators on policy areas important to students 

•"Who 
Knew?" ads in The Observer every Wednesday 


•Establish Distinguished Lecture Series 
•Effective communication between 
Student Government and the student body 
.I 
page 4 The Observer . STUDENT GOVERNMENT Saturday, August 24, 2002 
Ins and outs of campus leadership 
Finding where first.year students fit in the big picture 
Libby Bishop President 

story by JASON McFARLEY 

Your new roommate was senior class president in high school. You were the student council secretary last year. If either of you wants to get involved in politics at Notre Dame, you're in luck. There's a leadership position here for anybody who wants one. But freshmen, take note: Notre Dame student government is a complex tangle of acronyms, committees and boards. Here's a basic sketch. 
Office of the President 
The different branches of campus government make up the Student Union. 
At the head of the Student Union this year are Student Body President Libby Bishop and Vice President Trip Foley. Elected every February by the majority vote of the undergraduate student body, the pair elected to these positions take office April 1. 
The Office of the President staff includes Bishop and Foley's appointees to the chief of staff position and other posts in divisions such as academics, policy and technology. 
After leading a campaign in the spring against changes to the alcohol policy, the office's key concern this fall will be helping students understand the new rules, Bishop said. 
"These are such big changes, we want to make sure everyone knows the rules and is clear on them," she said. 
Student Senate 
The Senate includes one elected student from each of the 27 undergraduate residence halls as well as one senator who represents off-campus students. Senators are elected every spring semester and begin their terms April 1. 
The Senate proposes and considers resolutions, which, if approved, are for­warded to administrators or the Campus Life Council. Members must serve on two of the Senate's seven standing committees that target such issues as resi­dence life and University affairs. 
Last spring, the Senate was part of the student movement against changes to the alcohol. policy. This fa.11, the group will continue the effort to give students a. voice in campus changes, said Foley, Senate chair. 
Beginning Aug. 28, the body meets each Wednesday at 6 p,.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. Meetings are open to the public. 
Campus Life Council 
The CLC's membership reflects all sides of Notre Dame residence life and includes administrators, faculty, rectors and students. Council members are elected to the group from other bodies, such as the Faculty and Student senates and the Hall Presidents and Club Coordination councils. 
The CLC drafts its own resolutions and considers those forwarded to the coun­cil from other groups, generally the Student Senate. In the past, the CLC has been one of the few bodies with student membership to make policy recommendations directly to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Work that began last semester on alcohol and tailgating issues will likely carry over this year, said Bishop, who chairs the CLC. Starting Sept. 2, the council meets every other Monday at 4:30 p.m. in the Not.re Dame Room. Meetings are open to the public. 
Student Union Board 
Think concerts, movies and other fun stuff. SUB, the programming arm of the Student Union, brings this entertainment to campus. 
In past years, SUB has brought actor James Earl Jones and singer Ani Difranco to the University's Stepan Center. Last winter, "Sex and the City" author Candace Bushnell spoke as part of SUB's annual Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Other annual events include the Collegiate Jazz Festival and Antostal. the weekend spring carnival. 
More student government 
If those groups don't bring out the student leader in you, there are other options. 
Getting involved in class council is one way to get a foot in the student govern­ment door. Each fall, 27 first-year students are elected to class council through their residence halls. The freshman representatives then elect from among them­selves the council's four executive officers. 
Every spring semester, rising sophomores, juniors and seniors are elected on a four-person class council ticket. The officers then appoint other students from their class to committee positions on the council. 
Two other important branches of the Student Union are Judicial Council and the Financial Management Board. "J-Council" oversees elections and runs the peer advocate program for students facing University discipline. FMB allocates money to student clubs and supervises the Student Business Board and the annu­al football "Shirt Project." 
And finally, the most basic unit of campus leadership is hall government. There are many dorm commissioner positions and hall president posts available to stu­dents. Hall presidents also are part of the campus-wide Hall Presidents Council. 
Bottom line: If you're unwilling to leave student government memories behind with your high school yearbook, or if you just want be able to distinguish CLC from SUB or FMB from HPC, the opportunities are there. 
Start by attending a meeting or looking for announcements around your dorm. Happy hunting. 



Student Body President Kim Jensen (middle) and Vice President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl pass out fliers In Regina Hall before the student body elec­tions in January 2002. 
story by LAURA CORISTIN 
During the next four years, first year students at Saint Mary's will become very familiar with the acronym "BOG." 
BOG, short for Board of Governance, is the primary student board on Saint Mary's campus. All other boards and clubs, including other major boards, class governments, hall councils, and academic clubs, branch off of BOG. 
In order to change, enhance or add a board. it must first be passed by BOG. BOG also serves as the communication link between students, admin­istration and the faculty. 
"BOG this year is working to strengthen all of its ties," said Kim Jensen, student body president. "We are also working on building ties with Notre Dame's student body President [Libby Bishop] and Vice President [Trip Foley]." 
Jensen. along with vice president Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, sat on the committee that has put the detex system into the washers and dryers throughout Saint Mary's campus, which Jensen says was one of their goals from the beginning. Through the detex system, Saint Mary's ID cards work like a debit card for laundry services. 
The pair has also been working on a new method to prepare the study proposal that includes a campus-wide survey with responses from over 700 students. Finally, Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl are working to bring designat­ed driver cards and other alcohol safety policies to Saint Mary's campus. 
Other major student boards at Saint Mary's include: 
Student Activities Board 
This board, led by President Adrienne Dorbish, aims to enhance campus culture with entertainment and social events for students. SAB serves stu­dents by planning student activities for SMC Pride Week, Midnight Madness, SMC Tosta) and Twilight Tailgate. Weekends are spiced up with smaller events including entertainers at Dalloway's coffeehouse and the occasional free off-campus movie. 
Student Diversity Board 
This board sponsors campus events to increase diversity awareness among students. In addition, President Sara Mahoney and other members of SOB work toward policy changes. 
Residence Hall Association 
Under President Jillian Kamaski, the RHA oversees hall councils and plans activities such as the All School Formal and Little Sibs Weekend. 
Student Academic Council 
This board deals with student concerns related to academics and faculty. SAC plans the Major of the Week and also works on policies. Student body Vice President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl is the president of SAC. 


page 5
Saturday, August 24, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Key Events: Last Year on Campus 
It's tough enough finding the wayfrom the dorm to the class to the dining hall and back. First-year students don't want to get lost in the conversation loop, too. Here's a brieflook at last year's news at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that might still come up in conversation on both campuses. 


Dykes 
Sept. 11, 2001 
The images of terrorist planes crashing into the World Trade Center towers and the Pentagon have become icons in American history, but during that time of sadness and mourning, thousands gathered on South Quad for a Mass to pray and reflect on the events of Sept. 11. A similar Mass was also held in Saint Mary's Regina chapel with about 400 people attending. Many students also embraced a patriotic spirit and displayed flags in their dorm windows. A collection at the Notre Dame-Michigan State game 

Elam
raised almost $300,000 for the families of New York firefighters and police. 

Chaotic coaching search 
After years of inconsistent performance from for­mer football head coach Bob Davie. the University decided that the football team needed a new leader. Athletic Director Kevin White fired Davie and put his confidence in former Georgia Tech head coach George O'Leary. But embellishments on the newly hired coach's resume led to a quick res• ignation and a widely reported embarassment for the Notre Dame football team. Over the course of a month, White reconsidered an earlier candidate, former Stanford head coach Tyrone Willingham, as someone to fill the void O'Leary left behind. On Jan. 1, the new year rang in a new leader for the Irish as Willingham was formally introduced to the pub­lic as the team's head coach. 



Sexual assaults 
Sexual assault cases emerged early in the 2001 ·2002 school year with reports of an alleged rape in Keough Hall and sexual misconduct in an off-campus student apartment. 
Yet when a Notre Dame female claimed she was raped by four Notre Dame foot­ball players in an off-campus house, the issue attracted attention both on and off campus. 
As the case remained in the St. Joseph County prosecutor's hands, the University arranged its own disciplinary procedure. 
It resulted in the expulsions of former 
Crawford students senior Donald Dykes, sopho­mores Lorenzo Crawford and Abram Elam and Justin Smith, who was taking gradu­ate-level classes while finishing a fifth year of athletic eligibility. 

On May 24, prosecutor Chris Toth charged all except for Elam with rape. All four were charged with conspiracy to commit rape among other charges. 
Dykes, who would have graduated last year, had a prior incident with the police last July when he was arrested for crimi­nal trespassing. 
The first trial begins in October. 
Smith 

Senior Jesse Hensley holds a flaming copy of Notre Dame's student handbook, duLac, as senior Ryan Schildkraut looks on during the alcohol town hall meeting. Students gathered to protest the announcement of a new alcohol policy that takes effect this fall. 
Alcohol policy backlash get of much student criticism as the author of the infa­the building's ballroom to accomodate the crowd. 
When the Office of Student Affairs bought a full-page mous letter that appeared in the March 19 Observer. The policy changes also spawned two rallies, one ad in the Observer last spring to announce soon-to­In one of the most largely attended Campus Life sponsored by student government and another come revisions affecting tailgating, in-hall dances and Council meetings in the past few years, Poorman planned by students in Walsh Hall. Both resulted in the type of alcohol permissible in the dorms, hundreds defended his decision before students, rectors, faculty small fires in front of the Main Building. Nevertheless, of students were in an uproar. Vice President of and other administrators. The meeting, usually held in Student Affairs did not budge and the changes take Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman became the tar-a small conference room in LaPortune, was changed to effect this fall. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 24, 2002 
FRESHMEN LEARNING THE BASICS 

NELLIE WILUAMS/The Observer Lance Cpl. Mouhamad Chaban shows freshman Patrick Nagorski how to disassemble an M-16. 
Eateries 
continued from page 1 
popular menu item for late night sales, so that the North residence halls had something like the South residents do in Reeker's," said Prentkowski. There is also talk that lounge area near the new Sbarra will be completely "refur­nished and redecorated to better ser­vice as a student hang out space." Also, the Huddle Mart will undergo a smaller conctruction project to create a taco stand to be completed in January 2003. 
Contact Mike Schmuhl at mschmuhl@nd.edu 

LOOKING TO BE PART OF A GROUP? 

AIR FORCE ROTC Make your decisionl 
Contact: 1 Lt Alan Acree @ 631-4676 or acree.1@nd.edu 
FUTON FACTORY 
SOFA BY DAY BED BY NIGHT 

Make the Most of your Space! 
Entertains like a SOFA. Sleeps like a BED. Priced LESS than a sofa bed. FUTON. The Smart Choice. 
BEST FUTON SELECTION IN TOWN! 
Over 600 cover choices & 25 frame styles. Bunkbeds, Extra-large Beanbags, home accessories. ~':.......~ 
***In stock and ready to take home today!*** 
~ FUTON FACTORY ~ 
The Midwest's Largest Futon Retailer 5632 GRAPE ROAD (Behind Pier 1) 
Mishawaka 574-273-2660 
http://lib.nd.edu/ 
the ultimate search engine 
----------------------------------' ­
Saturday, Augusc 24, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

E BEE 




*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo & Business to find out what you could do for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily student newspaper. 
Please Join Us for The Observer Open House 
Monday, August 26 
3:00 p.m. -6:00 p.m. Basement of South Dining Hall 
Food will be served. 
1 
l 
I 
l. 
; ; 
page 8 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 24, 2002 

for the 2002-2003 Acade1nic Year 
From the Division of Student Affairs 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, U.S.C. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 
Ml'. William Kirk Dr. G. David Moss Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F. 
Assistant VP tor Residence Lite  Assistant VP tor Student Affairs  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  Assistant VP for Student Affairs  
316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  316 Main Building  
631-6144  631-5550  631-5550  631-5550  

Ms. Ann Firth 
Ms. Jennifer Monahan 
Executive Assistant to the Vice President 
Assistant to the Vice President 
316 Main Building 
316 Main Building
631-5550 
631-5550 
ALCHOHOL &DRUG EDUCATION CAMPUS MINISTRY 
Ms. Gina Firth. Director Rev. Richard Warner. C.S.C.. Director 311 Lafortune Student Center 316 Coleman-Morse Center 631-7970 631-7800 
tAREER CENTER INTERNATIONAL STUDENT SERVICES &ACTIVITIES 
Mr. lee Svete. Director Ms. Maureen Fitzgibbon. Director 248 Flanner Hall 204 laFortune Student Center 631-5200 631-3825 
MULTICULTURAL STUDENT PROGRAMS &SERVICES RESIDENCE LIFE &HOUSING Ms. Iris Outlaw. Director Mr. Jeffrey Shoup. Director 210 laFortune Student Center 305 Main Building 631-6841 631-5878 
SECURITY STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
Mr. Rex Rakow. Director Mr. Brian Coughlin. Director 101 ESecurity Building 315 laFortune Student Center 631-5555 631-7308 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 
Ms. Ann E. Kleva. Director Dr. Patrick Utz. Director 217 Student Health Center 322 Student Health Center 631-7497 631-7336 
Saturday, August 24, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Notre Daille 
continued from page I 
compared with 1290 to 1470 in 2001. 
. 
The ACT average of the middle 50 percent was 30 to 33, the same as last year. 

. 
The first year-students are 84 per­cent Catholic. 

. 
23 percent of the freshmen are chil­


dren of alumni. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
Hours of Operation Monday-Thursday 4pm to 10pm Friday 4pm ta Midnight Saturday 11 am to Midnight Sunday Noon to 10pm 

Enjoy a hot cup of coffee or cappuccino in our lounge, or hop onto one of our high-end PC's and either surf the web through our T1 internet connection or play games with people in house or around the world. You can even hook your laptop t~ our T1. 
When you are looking for a place to relax or blow off some steam, LANLIZAROS is the place for you. 
r------­
Rank In Class of APPiicants vs. Admitted Students 

800 700 600 500 400 300 200 
100 0 
O N f
GET YOUR GAME ¦ 
Pre-Installed Games 
Half-Ute (Counter-Strike, TFC, etc.) Starcraft (Broodwar) Empire Earth Unreal Tournament Renegade Alien Vs. Predator II Quake Ill Medal of Honor Serious Sam II Neverwinter Nights Army Ops Ultima Online Everquest 
As heron's Call 
I 
System Specifications 
20 Athlon XP 2000 PC's each with; 256 Meg RAM GeForce3 Ti 64 Meg Video Card 19" Monitor and a T1 Baby! (i.e. phat pipe) 


www.Ianlizards.com 
~------­
Across from Orbit Music and Between the Buns On S.R. 23 

Welcome Students 
For you.r.. c·.·onv.·eni~.··.·.. ".:c.·.·e. th...e.··.. ·· fo.·110.. wing
Student Serv,.ce Offices will be open under the "Golden Dome" 

Cashier Servic.es  121 Main Buildi1ng  
Financial Aid  115 .M... ..·.. · •····.a1n  s· ·1·•d .. ..··.ut: .!Ing  
Registrar  105 Main B:uU,ding  
Stude1nt Accounts  100 Mai1n Bu:H,ding  
Stude1nt Employment  115 1Main Build1ing  
Residence Life an,d Hou:sing  305 Main Buil,ding  
Undergraduate Admissions  . ~220 M.·... :a1:n  a· ·1d:!!.. 1u11 1ng  

Regular Business hours are 8:00 am to 5:00 pm Monday through Friday.. 

•TIie Card IS 
ablOIUIIII fl.EE! 
•S•··.•llf._.:_._,,,_1111;-•;·.....~.-•,.·S·...
_ .. 
1110• On:e Minute!
•111,.,ca:n1 
l¦¦__ ldlatall!__
:___ 
a11,·•• •••1••-•-~• 
AS aStudent Plus Card Holder IOU WIii NICIIVI: 
• Elba • lrollr SIICIIISI 
•fllrl ¦-,
• l!llrllltl 
.··-­


O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 11 Saturday, August 24, 2002 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Nom Dame, !N 465S6 
EDITOR IN CHJEI' J:u.on McF..rley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
And,ew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR, Hdena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR, Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR; C Spencer Begg, PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EmTOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lura AD DESIGN MANAGE\\: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEil ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER, Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INl'O............631-7471 FAX............................ .................................631-6927 Af)VERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEf........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoR/AssT. ME .................... 631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
obseiver.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................ .631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAav's...... ......................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................ ................................631-8767 SvsrEMslWEB ADMINISTRATORS....... ..........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llob,ervn-.nd.edufor daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features ai>d opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from The Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mu.sic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
10 meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
Poum:s 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Obseiver reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. Tbe free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcacrs to che Ediro, must be signed and mwc include contact information. 
Q=tiom regarding Obsnwrpolicies ,houldbe direct­ed to Editor in Chuffttson McFarky. 
Most people who think of Notre Dame think of fall. 
Football games with pep rallies and tailgate parties bring more than 80,000 fans to campus every Saturday morning for bag pipes, burgers, beer and the band. But among the chaos of face paint, footballs, little girls in Notre Dame cheerlead­ing uniforms and old men in plaid pants there is a certain rever­ence shared by alumni, students and fans alike ­a respect for Notre Dame's history as well as its present. 
For every heated debate about Bobby Brown's "excessive celebra­tion" in '99 carried on in the parking lot next to Senior Bar, another con­versation about how difficult it must be to be admitted to Notre Dame can be heard on the steps of the Dome. 
But this is fall -a time for students to stand and scream and embrace the most well-known of Notre Dame's tra­ditions. while alumni knock at their old dorm room doors to remind new residents that Walsh wasn't always a girls dorm, or retrace their favorite path to the Grotto as the nation watches on NBC. Fall is for fans. 
Most students at Notre Dame dread winter. 
The first snowfall always seems innocent, but lake-effect snow brings permanent cold, endless papers, impossible exams and a general inability to recognize your closest friends beside you on South Quad due to excessive layers of clothing and a constant need to eye the ice beneath your feet. 
Melted snow floods the halls of DeBartolo and students who come to Notre Dame from anywhere between Tampa and Los Angeles question their own sanity every time they pass a dorm door whiteboard with a spring break countdown on it. Campus can feel tired and bleak, and in the same way the fall's traditions reveal a nationwide enthusiasm for Our Lady. 

Kate Nagengast 
Managing 
Editor 
winter's activities demonstrate frus­trations and cabin fever. 
But traditions prevail nonetheless. From Bengal Bouts, an annual cam­pus boxing tournament to benefit mis­sions of Bangladesh. to snowball fights on the quad and the Keenan Revue's comedic quips at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stereotypes, jabs of the physical and the verbal variety give students a cathartic escape from finals and freezing weather. 
But winter is also a chance to settle into Notre Dame. With little motiva­tion to leave the dorms, winter allows time to relax and really get to know the people you meet in the stands at football games or in Calculus 105. Winter is for friends. 
There is nowhere like Notre Dame in the spring. 
When I decided to study abroad during my junior year most people thought I was crazy to go to London during the fall semester and miss a football season. As it turns out, 2001 was the season to miss. But that cir­cumstance aside, I would have much preferred to miss a football season than a spring semester on campus. 
Of course the excitement of football season cannot be replicated, but it can be experienced throughout life. Many Notre Dame alumni are football ticket holders, and a few have even attempted to reclaim the traditions of their undergraduate days, such as standing through games and doing push-ups after points, by requesting tickets in this season's inaugural Alumni Alley section of the stadium. 
Current students and alumni alike feel the same swell of emotion as the band steps off from the Dome steps or the basketball team beats a Big 10 rival -which is why fall is for fans of all ages, but spring is for students. 
Only those who are in the midst of the four short years during which they call Notre Dame home can truly appreciate the traditions of spring. The first sunny day when thermome­ters break 65 degrees bring dozens of couches, stereos and Frisbees to the quads. 
Attendance in Friday afternoon classes can get sparse surrounding spring break, but students are not entirely absent. In fact, spring is the time students' presence -not specta­tors' -is most sincerely felt on cam­pus. 
By mid-March they swarm campus for events like Bookstore Basketball, the largest five-on-five basketball tournament in the country. Christmas in April. a day of service in the South Bend community, and dorm events like the Fisher Regatta, Alumni Wake or O'Neill's Mardi Gras. 
These are the events that alumni remember. but never recreate. They are solely for students, and the stu­dents make them their own with big­ger and more eccentric additions each year. 
Dillon had couches on the quad freshmen year, someone planted a palm tree in front of O'Shaughnessy sophomore year, and junior year brought kiddy pools and slip n' slides to the grass in front of Alumni Hall. Spring is the time for students to cre­ate their own traditions and "act their age" with the greatest abandon. 
This was my first summer at Notre Dame. But it was also my last, just as I am about to experience my last fall, winter and spring here. Though I wouldn't trade the time I've had at Notre Dame, I'm slightly jealous of the seasons freshmen have left to see. 
Although August may seem full of anxiety over meeting roommates and finding classrooms or even something edible in the dining halls, before you realize it, football season will become February and winter's frustrations will become springtime festivities. 
Weather is one of the most talked about and unpredictable aspects of life in northern Indiana, and it's impossible to predict what each sea­son will bring to Notre Dame through­out the next four years. Even campus traditions and rules will likely change, but for the most part, Notre Dame is for its students -so make sure your time here is full of memo­ries to reminisce about when you return to Notre Dame in the fall of 2006 as a fan. 
Kate Nagengast is a senior and the Managing Editor at The Observer. She can be reached at knagenga@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Helena Payne Justin Krivickas Sheila Egts Laura Coristin Sports Chris Federico Katie McVoy Joe Hetter 
Viewpoint 
Teresa Fralish Lauren Beck 
Scene 
Mike Schmuhl 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Lab Tech 
Tim Kacmar 
OBSERVER POLL 
In which colleges are incoming freshmen planning to enroll? 
Poll appears courtesy of First Year of Studies, and data is based on 1,958 incoming freshmen. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Education is not preparation for life; education is life itself" 
John Dewey 
philosopher 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Saturday, August 24, 2002 page 12 
LETTERS FROM ADMINISTRATORS 
Student Affairs extends blessing 
I would like to extend to you a warm welcome on behalf of all of us who work in the Division of Student Affairs -the Offices of Alcohol and Drug Education, Campus Ministry, the Career Center, Counseling Center, Health Services, International Student Services and Activities, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Security. Student Activities and the staffs of your residence halls. Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do everything we can to help facilitate your intellectual, spiritual and personal growth. 
We extend a special welcome to our new students -first-year students, transfer students and new graduate and professional students. We welcome back the sophomores, juniors and seniors, as well as the returning graduate and professional students. As a community, we draw our strength from the unique and diverse gifts offered by each of you. We hope that all of you -both those who are new and those who are returning -will be able to achieve the goals you set for yourselves this year. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's blessings. 
Father Mark Poorman 
Vice President for Student Affairs Notre Dame August 20, 2002 

Presidents welcome freshmen to community 
Welcome to Notre Dame. We have a beautiful campus and a talented faculty. I am sure that you will grow in every way as a thoughtful and reflec­tive person preparing to make your way in the 
world. We arc also proud of our residence tradition on campus and the many activi­ties available for you to use your God-given talents in leadership and service. 
It is my hope that during your time with us you will make some of the best friends 

of your life. We welcome 
students from every state in Malloy the union and from a wide array of foreign countries and cultures. We arc enriched by the different experiences and perspectives that you bring to our common life. 
I will have the privilege of teaching some of you in my seminar class. Others I will come to know through my residing in Sorin Hall. I hope to have a chance to interact with all of you in some way or another during your time at Notre Dame. 
Once again welcome to Notre Dame. I am confi­dent that this will be a great year for all of us. May God bless our life together. 
Father Edward Malloy 
President Notre Dame August 20, 2002 
Welcome to Saint Mary's for the 2002-2003 academic year. I hope that the summer for every student included a combination of rest and 
rejuvenation, a time to think about your acade­mic life and your future -and I'm sure for all of you earning money was a high priori­ty. 

Now that we 
are back into the Eldred new year, I hope that it will be very challenging and rewarding for you. In particular, I welcome our new first-year and transfer students and assure you that your experience at Saint Mary's will be an important time in your life. 
I look forward to meeting with stu­dents and faculty throughout the year and continuing our good rela­tionships with Notre Dame and Holy Cross College. 
Marilou Eldred 
President Saine Mary's August 20, 2002 
Learning what brochures don't tell you 
This summer, you probably received dozens of mailings from the place you're going to call home for the next four, five, maybe six years. If you took the time to read any of it, you'd learn the dining hall actually employs taste testers, your first year advisor really did spend lots of time making your excuse for a sched­ule and your fresh­man orientation staff thinks your dorm is the coolest on campus. 
All those brochures, pam­phlets, letters and other items you used to line your pet's cage this summer served one purpose ­adjusting you to college life. But nowhere will you read the stuff you really have to know. 
For example, this weekend, your fel­low classmates don't care about what music you like, what your hobbies are, or your views on how to achieve world peace. They want to know four things: name, hometown, dorm and major, and that's it. 
Did they tell you you're going to spend three days cramming for your first test, and you won't study half as long for any other test during the rest of your college career? You may think you will, but it's so much more fun to complain about how bad you're going to fail rather than actually study, Besides, in most cases, it's inevitable -no matter how much you study, the test will still kick your butt. 

Nowhere in Notre Dame's packet of goodies did they tell you the two most popular sentences around campus. The first is, "There's nothing to do on cam­pus." And after you've gone to the mall, the movie theater and Grape Road, you realize, "There's nothing to do off campus." Welcome to South Bend, Ind., the armpit of America. 
I didn't know about God's gift to procrastinators -Instant Messenger ­until I got to campus. With this wonderful program, you can communi­cate with your room­mate without opening your mouth, leave witty away messages so everyone knows what you're doing at any given moment and appall your gram­mar instructors with gibberish like "ok, gtg, be back l8r." 
Yes, you may be thrilled to have your parents oui of your hair now and pumped to expe­rience this wonderful thing called inde­pendence, but by late fall you can't wait for them to come back to campus so you get a free meal at a real restau• 
rant. And the best thing about being 
away from home is when fall break 
rolls around, the folks will be so eager 
to see you they don't mind washing the 
three duffel bags of laundry you dragged home with you. It's called freeloading. Learn to do it. Did you know that among the Y-chromo­somes, the second most popular pas­time on campus is complaining about the gen­der relations 
and whining that you can't get a 
date. The first is play­ing video 
games. 
If you're a guy in a female dorm when 
parietals rolls around, expect a highly dan­gerous and lethal team of commandos known only as "female RAs" to descend upon your location and fire dirty stares in your direction until 
you leave their innocent dorm 
mate alone. If you 're a girl in a male 
dorm, make sure you say goodnight to 
the RA when he closes the door at two 
in the morning. 
There are thousands of other things nobody told you about, either. You'll discover that girls have a recessive gene that, when triggered by Bon Jovi or other '80s music, causes them to scream ecstatically. jump up and down hysterically and dance together obnox­iously. 
You'll find out that the best thing about a high-speed Internet connection isn't easy access to hundreds of research sites, it's the ability to down­load MP3s before you can say "copy­right infringement." 
Yes, your dorm is the coolest on cam­pus, unless the word "Zahm" is etched in stone on your building. And the two greatest words in the English language are "free food." 
The greatest irony of college is that the one thing everyone told you is the one thing you brushed aside. When your four years are up, you're going to wish you could do it all over again. You're not here to get good grades; you're here to get an education. There's a difference, 
So get involved in an organization. Make friends that don't care if you turn your socks inside out to save a load of wash. Take classes in whatever seems fun. Lose your voice screaming at football games. 
But always remember the most important thing of all: It's pop, not soda. 
Andrew Soukup is a junior and the Assistant Managing Editor at The Observer. He can be reached at asoukup@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
.. -·---·-­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 13 BSERVER August 24, 2002 
LETTERS FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Exploring fresh opportun1t1es 
It is with warmest wishes that we, Libby and Trip, welcome you to Notre Dame. We took office as Student Body President and Vice President this past April, and we are excited about being your representatives this year. 
Even as two seniors we still vividly remember what a big transition ihis first weekend is. We remember the excitement, underlying anticipation, and the pressure of meeting hundreds of your classmates at orientation mixers and not remembering anyone's name. But the good news is that you're not alone ­no one remembers anyone's name from those mixers and every freshman is probably just as nervous as you arc this first week. 
Once you do get settled in. with your new roommate, friends, and class schedule (and once you finally think you know your way around the dining hall). then we hope that you will take time to sit down and think about what activities, clubs and organizations you want to be a part of during your next four years at Notre Dame. 
The Activities Fair that will be held in the JACC is a great place to start researching all the opportunities to get involved in everything from community service to the swing dance club. 
And our one piece of advice to you is this: Don't be afraid to try something new this year. This is your year to start over if you want, exploring things that you always wanted to do but never did for whatever reason. And here at Notre Dame there are numerous opportunities to do the extraordinary. 
The Student Government office is located in 203 LaFortune, and we invite you to stop by sometime to introduce yourself. We would be more than happy to talk with you about student government or other opportunities to get involved on campus. 
Elizabeth Bishop 
Notre Dame student body president 
Trip Foley 
Notre Dame student body vice president August 20, 2002 
Use individuality to contribute 
Welcome to Saint Mary's College. 
It is our joy and privilege to be two of the many to extend a warm welcome on behalf of Saint Mary's College. Here you will find a close-knit communi­ty, rich in history, tradition, and opportunity. The campus is small, but far-reaching, and the year ahead will be every­thing you make of it. Each stu­dent will find something to suit her interests, be it in acade­mics, sports or extra-curricu­lar activities. 
We are blessed with a very accomplished faculty, always willing to talk to and help stu­dents. We as students have access to some of the most amazing people around, and they are willing to share their knowledge and experience both in and out of the class­room. Reach out and hold tightly to the opportunities and friendships that lie ahead of you. 
Each person on this campus has something unique to con­tribute to our community. Your individuality is such an asset to the College, so take care to maintain it. While you are getting continually more occupied with classes and activities, do not forget to take a little time for yourself each day to reflect on who you are and who you are becoming. Get involved on campus, but rather than assimilating your­self into a group, focus on what your unique personality and abilities will add to it. 
If you ever have any ques­tions, please stop by our office on the third floor of Haggar College Center or give us a call. If we do not have the answer, we'll make one up. Just kidding, but we will do our very best to help you in whatever way we can. We love hearing from you. Bring your thoughts, cares and problems to us. If you'd like to be a part of Student Government Association, keep your eyes open for applications or for information on SGA. 
On behalf of the student body, we would like to wish all of you the best of luck for the year ahead. Welcome to the academic year of 2002-2003. Let's make the most of it. 
Kim Jensen 
Saint Mary's student body presidenr 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl 
Saint Mary's student body vice president 
August 20, 2002 

Move beyond cliches to make the best of college 
Welcome to planet Notre Dame. I'm sure you've heard all the hype before: "Notre Dame is great; it's different from anywhere else on the planet;" "You're entering the best years of your life," etc. True to any such cliche, each contains its own kernel of truth. But I urge you not to buy into them as a whole. 
I'm entering my fourth year as a Domer, and I can tell you for absolutely certain, there really isn't any other place quite like Notre Dame. Love it or hate it, it's different. You'll find in the coming months as you try to explain 
John Litle
Notre Dame's dorm setup to your state school friends, they just don't 
quite understand it, and no matter what you say, you just can't get the whole idea across to them. Some of you might have experienced 
my first night's horror as my mother was removed from my dorm by Observer 
RAs at midnight. I'm sure I was a little bit different from you, howev­Columnist 
er, as it was at that very moment that I first learned of parietals. 
Some people claim that Notre Dame never changes. That's true and false at the same time as well. You'll be joining Notre Dame with no graffiti dance, no football ticket campout and, most shockingly, no hard liquor. You will, however, have a con­cert by a famous funk legend. I never got that. Those are changes for sure, but at the same time, for all the alumni -many of your parents as well -Notre Dame seems just the same as the day they left (or so I hear). I'm sure that among other things not to change, during your time at Notre Dame, both Alumni Hall will remain the greatest dorm on campus and Father Poorman will retain his likable personality. I guess what I'm saying is that, while cir­cumstances at the University may change, the Notre Dame we all love will always be the Notre Dame we all love. 
Lots of people will give you lots of advice these first weeks of school, so I'm not sure if what I'm saying will have much meaning. However, there are a couple of things I wish someone had said to me when I was a freshman that might have helped me in my first year. 
The first thing is, welcome to college. You just got a chance to start out again from zero. No one here knows you, and everyone had great accomplishments in high school. The good thing is that now that you're here, you don't have to worry about all those things from high school, because no one cares. I wish I had gotten that through my head, as I might not have spent my first few weeks being intimidated by all these popular-looking, high-achieving peo­ple around me without realizing I was just the same as all of them: in a new place. alone, and wanting to meet some new people like me. Alternatively, and perhaps more upsetting in the long run, I might not have spent those first few weeks remembering how great I did in high school and how popular I was, only later to be brought down to earth realizing again, that I was just the same as everyone else, in a new place, alone, and wanting to meet people like me. 
The next piece of advice I might have wanted was the advice to go out and meet friends and not to be afraid to be yourself. Some might criticize my advice, but so be it. Notre Dame is a college, but whatever you hear from your state school friends, not all colleges are just huge meat markets. (You know what I'm saying). Notre Dame is such a college. If you're a guy, I've seen it done both ways, and I tell you, you're much better to start off here by going out and meeting ladies on a friendly basis. This is as opposed to hoping to find meaningless sexual encounters. Of course, this advice holds true for the ladies as well. Notre Dame isn't like most schools. and you're going to be meeting some of the best friends of your life here. Making guy friends is very important. In the words of one of my best friends (who also hap­pens to be female), "Don't get all focused on academics and only hang out with girls." I couldn't agree more. 
My last point, of course, is that whole statement "the best years of your life." I've never liked that statement, because if it's true, the rest of your life will just be a constant look back on the past. But what I can say is this: It should be your goal to make every year of your life the best year of your life. Notre Dame will give you the tools to complete that task. It's up to you to make it happen. 
John Litle is a senior management information systems major and a bi-weekly columnist for The Observer. He can be reached atjlitle@notredame.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

E· 
campus
page 14 
Saturday, August 24, 2002 

By C. SPE~CER BEGGS and MIKE SCHMUHL 
Scene Editor ah.d Assistant Scene Editor 
-youmade the grades. You survived the stress-relat­
ed, heart attack-inducing application process. You 
got accepted. You stuffed all your worldly posses­sions into the family station wagon or a few suitcases. You finally made it. And now you might want to know how to escape. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offer their residents a complete life. Any necessity you require is almost certainly available on campus. There are numerous restaurants, stores, salons, banks, laundry mats and doctor's offices that offer a student access to all of his or her needs. Hypothetically, a student could never set foot off campus until the end of the semester. In fact, as the workload increases, many freshmen will find that they spend more time on campus than they realize or would like. 
Despite the material conveniences on campus, inevitably students will want to break away from the campuses' iso­lated bubble. Luckily, The Observer's Scene staff has com­piled a brief guide to living large in and around the Bend. 
Shopping 
South Bend has the average Mid-West array of shop­ping. Students particularly frequent the University Park Mall and its surrounding shopping centers. Busses to the mall leave from campus from the street side entrance to the Hesburgh Library. Take bus No. 7 to the University Park mall; tickets cost $.75. The United Limo shuttle that runs between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame also stops at Hesburgh Library. The shuttle is free on weekdays, but there is a small fee after 6:00 p.m. on weekends. Bus schedules are available at the information desk in Lafortune Student Center at Notre Dame and in the Security Office or Haggar Hall at Saint Mary's. 
For the uninitiated, the most popular student pit stop is Meijer. Originally a small chain of general stores sprinkled across the Midwest, Meijer has been reborn as the apogee of capitalism. The new mega-stores sell everything: gro­ceries, clothes, furniture, hardware, gardening supplies, CDs, electronics and more. There are three Meijers in South Bend area; of the two closest to campus, one is located at 3600 Portage Road off Lincolnway and the other is at 5020 Grape Road about a half mile south of the mall. 
Late Night Munchies 
As the dining halls close at 9:00 p.m., most students are just opening their books. An all-nighter might require a lit­tle brain food and, if you aren't in the mood for a Reeker's pizza, South Bend offers a number of tasty and sometimes colorful late-night dining experiences. 
Boracho Burrito: The legendary Boracho Burrito is a culinary Mecca for weekend after-parietals partiers. Co­owned and operated by two Notre Dame graduates, Boracho Burrito regularly has students standing in lines out the door on Thursday through Saturday nights for fists full of Mexican goodness. A burrito with chicken, steak, or ground beef costs about $4.75. Boracho Burrito is located on at 1724 N Ironwood Drive, near Hollywood Video. 
Nick's Patio: Open 24-hours a day, Nick's Patio offers cheap American grill food. But there's not much more to say than the fact that it's always open and has American grill food. Nick's Patio is located at 1710 N. Ironwood Or. conveniently next to Boracho Burrito. 
The White House Restaurant: Most students will never hear this place called by its offkial name, but those names are secrets unto themselves and are best left. unspoken in the restaurant itself. The White House restaurant is per­haps the ultimate example of the American greasy spoon; eat your heart out Jack Kerouac. Serving all American diner food and a slice of South Bend culture to boot, The White House Restaurant stays open around the clock. It's located at the intersection of Mishawaka Avenue and Twyckenham Drive. 
Denny's is located at 52626 US Highway 33 just north of Saint Mary's and Steak and Shake is on the main drag of Grape Road between 180-90 and N. Edison. Both are open 

An incoming student's survival guic 
24 hours a day. 
Pizza 
A traditional staple of the college diet, pizza delivery is available from 
To a number of establishments across the Bend. A few student favorites are: 
Papa John's Pizza: Call (574) 271­1177 for delivery or carry out. Ask about campus specials, generally a large one-topping pizza for $7 late night. Papa John's is open Monday through Saturday from 11 until 2 
a.m. (depending upon demand), and from 12 p.m. until midnight Sunday. 
Domino's Pizza: The closest to campus, Domino's delivers from 4 to 1 a.m. on Monday through Thursday and 4 until 3 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. Call (574) 271-0330. 
Marco's Pizza: A bit farther from campus, but often a needed break from the hegemony of Papa John's and Domino's. Call (574) 243-1122 for delivery or carry out. Marco's Pizza is open from 11 a.m. to mid­night, Sunday through Thursday, and from 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. on Friday and Saturday 
East of Chicago Pizza: A newer player in the delivery scene, most students either love it or hate it. Call 
(574) 271-1277 for delivery. East of Chicago is open Sunday through Thursday from 4 until 10 p.m. and Friday and Saturday from 4 until 11 p.m. 
Ethnic Food 
South Bend is a bit short on quality ethic meals, but a few establishments hide out here and there: 
The Golden Dragon Restaurant: The quickest and cheapest Chinese food near campus; located at 3302 Portage Avenue. The Golden Dragon delivers very quickly too, call (574) 243-8800 to place an order. 
The Malabar: Located on the cor­ner at 1640 S Bend Ave adjacent to campus, The Malabar serves deli­cious but moderately pricey Indian food. 
Star of India: Located at 620 W. Edison Road near Grape Road, Star 
B«n ting t~of India has decent and cheap Indian food. They have a wonderful lunch 
buffet from 1l until 2:30 p.m. for about $6 per person. A mango shake is a delicious meal toppn for the culinary adventure. 
Student Favorite Dining 
Grape Road has a strip of American chain restaurants frequented by many students including T.G.I. Friday's, The Olive Carden, The Outback Steakhouse, Chili's, Lone Star Steakhouse and Don Pablo's. All are located on the main drag of Grape Road. 
CJ's Pub: Greasy burgers in this favorite South Bend haunt cost about six bucks. The pub has a live musician perform on Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, as well as a DJ that spins on Fridays and Saturdays. CJ's is locat­ed at 417 N. Michigan St., just south of Memorial Hospital in downtovvn South Dend. 
Rocco's: Serving Notre OamP students and alumni since 1951, Rocco's pizza is a popular hang out. With school memorabilia decorating every wall, it doesn't get much better than a great pizza with friends. Rocco's is located on the corner of St. Louis Street and South Bend Ave. 
Bruno's: Located about 15 minutes southwest of campus at 2610 Prairie Avenue, Bruno's serves the "largest" small a pizza lover will ever see. 
Movies 
South 81:md has three major multiplex theaters showing A­run movies. The Cinemark Movies 14 is closest to campus, located at 910 West Edison. The theater is often a week or two slow to release some features, but is conveniently located and 
Hypotheticall! never set foot o~ end of the Despite the ma of campus, inev~ want to break a 
puses' iso 
offers student tickets for $5 with a valid Notre Dame OJ Saint Mary's ID. The nearby "dollar theater" or Cinemarl 6 at 3464 Grape Road shows slightly older movies at 1 reduced price. The largest and nicest movie theater iJ town, Kerasotes Theatres Showplace 16 at 4:iO Chippew, Drive, is a 10-minute drive from campus down State Rout 
20. Not as central and a bit more expensive than either c 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Saturday, August 24, 2002 page 15

e to the good life around the "Bend" 


Taxis: 
Walking home from late night off-campus parties in South Bend can be both a pain when the weather is bad and dangerous any­
e Bubb 
Cleveland Rd. 
St. Joseph River Lincolnwa East 
the Cinemark theaters. the

a student could 
Showplace 16 has stadium style
campus until the 
seating and love seats. It also is semester. ... more in sync with current movie erial conveniences release dates. 
Vicker's Theater is 20 miles
ably students will 
north of campus on Route 20 at,ay from the cam­6 North Elm Street i.n Three lted bubble. Oaks, Mich. and is tho closest art 
theater for movie snobs and Scene editors alike. 
The closest places to rent movies are Blockbuster Video and Hollywood Video, which are both located on the corner of Ironwood Drive State Road 23 near Boracho Burrito and Nick's Patio. Both rent VHS and DVD as well as video games. Blockbuster has a better selection but higher prices and shorter rental periods than Hollywood Video. Hollywood Video offers a rent two VHS or DVDs and get a third free. Be careful because if you return movies late you are charged late fees for all three. 
Getting Far Away 
If you need to get out of Indiana Chicago is about two hours by train, the South Shore Train, which leaves from the South Bend airport. A round trip ticket to downtown Chicago costs a little under $20. Unfortunately, the late trains out of Chicago don't all stop in South Bend so check the timetables for information. Also, keep in mind that during the winter months there is a time difference between South Bend and Chicago. Heading west you'll lose an hour, so be sure to note the change. Chicago is about 90 min­utes by car, heading west on 180-90. Parking in Chicago, run by organized crime, is the biggest rip off ever. If you can't find a metered space you might be paying up to $48 a day to park in a garage. 
The fabled trip to Windsor, Canada takes about four hours by car. Windsor has a number of casinos, bars, clubs and other nightlife to offer in a country where the drink­ing age is 19. Remember to bring ID or you may be turned away at the board­er by the grumpy Canadian boarder patrol. If you look like a seedy American student expect you and your car to be searched. 
time of year. While South 
Bend isn't Hell's Kitchen, 
drunken students on foot get mugged occasionally on their way back to campus. The safest way home is a cab. Most offer about $2 per person for groups of three or more to and from campus. Sharing cabs ½ith strangers has been known to cause problems. Don't get in a cab if you feel unsafe; request an empty cab instead. If you are in an uncomfortable situation in a cab, ask for service directly to your dorm. There are a number of cab companies operating in South Bend: 
Ace Cab Lines: 295-6886 
University Cabs: 233-4004 
A-B-C Cabs: 233-4000 
Shamrock Cabs: 243-5500 
If a Saint Mary's student is broke after a late night out, the campus offers an honor system with local cab compa­nies where students can ride for free and pay the next day. Saint Mary's students can call campus security, (574) 284-5000, and explain the situation to the dispatch that· will call a cab for the student or, in case of immediate safety concerns, send a security vehicle off campus or con­tact South Bend or County police. Students are expected to reimburse the Security Office within 48 hours. 
Contra Bans 
Campus stores offer most amenities students want with a few notable exceptions: 
Cigarettes: Both campuses are non-smoking and no stores sell cigarettes. For smokers, the cheapest place to buy cigarettes is Low Bob's Campus Tobacco located on State Road 23 behind the Turtle Creek apartments. All night gas stations sell packs and cartons at higher prices but are open all hours. During the day some cabbies with drive to a gas station and buy cigarettes and deliver them to campus for a surcharge. 
Women's services: The medical facilities at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can treat most minor colds and infec­tions, set broken bones and fill most prescriptions. However, neither facility will prescribe or fill prescriptions for birth control pill regardless of whether they are pre­scribed for contraceptive or other medical purposes. Meijer, Wal-Mart, and Osco Drug mart all can fill any pre­scription. The Planned Parenthood at UrbanCare at 818 S. Miami offers a full array of medical services for women. 
A word to the wise 
College can offer brand new experiences to students. It's easy to forget that bad things can happen both on and off campus when you are surrounded by such a unique, friendly and open campus community. Freshmen year is a major transition for many students and many may find the bubble bursts when they don't want it to. Binge drinking, drug abuse and rape are present on both campuses. Neither campus nor South Bend are particularly danger­ous, but it's important to be responsible and safe inside and outside the bubble. 
Editor's note: The listings in this article do not repre­sent all the available services in South Bend. The informa­tion in this article was checked carefully but may change without notice. 
For more information check the yellow pages and The Observer. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. Contact Mike Schmuhl at schmuhl.5@nd.edu 
'11\XIS 
Ace Cab Lines 
295-6886 
University Cabs 
233-4004 
A-8-C Cabs 
233-4000 
Shamrock Cabs 
243-5500 
-
-
-
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, Augsur 24, 2002 
Sports 101: An introductory course 
VVelcomP. frPshmi>n. to Notn• Distance That's loooong dis­Dame. tance. or what the Irish cross 
You ·v., aln•adv toured the country tnarns run. Last ynar. tlw campus. loarnccl about tho dass­nwn finished sixth in th(' nation es you will takP and PVPll spPnl a and the women placed 19th. Thn night in a dorm in prPparation nwns sq1111cl may s11lfor Ii-om tlw for your first graduation of' All-Anwricans vear in rnl­Lukr Watson and Hyan Shay, but ii>ge. You haw onP of the top recruits in may fPPI a the nation tl1is ynar in Michigan bit O\PI'· sta!P champ Tim Moore. wlwlnwd. Epel' .\long wilh sabn· arnl t•xcit(•d. 1wr­f'oil makP up the tlmw W<'apons rnus. !)('wil­usPd in fnncing, a sport in which dored. tPtTi­tlw Irish are always rnnt,,11di11g fiP(I or possi­for the national titl!\. Aftrr hold­blv ev1•11 ing the top spot in 1.he nation last r.1)t1lid<'nL yl'ar. tlw Irish droppncl to third 
You'vr, in tlw NC/\i\ Combined FPn(·ing takon all of' (]iampionships but placed 10 tlw top mPmbr-rs on thr-All-AnH'rican classr>s in team. a school record. Fcmdng is high school 01w of the sports offnrnd in P. E. to preparP, rotations -mandatorv for frrsh­talhd to mnn -and those that"i!xwl hav,~ friends and a chancf' of making the squad as familv members about their col­walk-ons. lege experiences and even said a Fights Not what most room­few pray<'rs on the trip to South mates inevitablv do after a few Bend. months togcthe~·-but the lfongal 
Hut to trulv fit in benc>ath the Bouts. Thf' Routs are th£> flxhibi­gleam of the· Golden Donw. there tion tournament for tho Notre nization of students formod last Freshman 15. Willingham, Tyrone a.k.a. is one more arna of knowledge Dame boxing club held in the year. The group stakes out front South Bend Old Boys While "The Man." Coach Willingham is that may not be required at the JACC around the end of row seats to the home games. not officially associated with the Urn head coach of the football Ivy Leagues and Tech schools -February. These three-round pulls for the Irish and tries to University, this rugby club is team and looks to revive a pro­sports. And we're not just talking fights draw huge crowds, and give the team ANY advantage it composed entirely of Notre gram that has slow11d in recnnt football. first down and field proceeds benefit Holy Cross can over opponents. Dame students and compntes years. He's got a tough task at goal. Missions in Bangladesh. Michigan Whether the against other college clubs. hand. Last year, the Irish fin­
No, at Notre Dame -a place Golf courses There are two on University of Michigan or Tailgate parties What was ished 5-6 and begin the season where 85 percent of us were campus, one 9-hole and one 18-Michigan State, we hate them in once a Saturday morning cer­this year against six consPcutivc varsity athletes. a place where hole. and everyone should try to anything athletic. tainty is now becoming a more 2001 bowl teams. on any given sunny afternoon get out to one at least once a National championships The questionable subject. Xebec It's a three-masted the quads are packed with peo­year. Even if you've never Irish have won more in football Crackdowns on underage drink­Mediterranean boat. Bet you ple throwing footballs. baseballs played. there's nothing like skip­-11 -than anv other school. ing and unruly bohavior have didn't know that. Come on ... and, yes, even Frisbees -sports ping a Friday class to spend a Recent titles incl1.1de fencing in driven many students into the what else could I have done for are often as much a part of life beautiful afternoon on the links. 1994, women's soccer in 1995 dorms on game days. But don't "X"'? as the classes and parties. Helmets Golden ones. The and women's basketball in 2001. miss out on this fine tradition. Young The Notrn Dame 
So we here at The Observer most beautiful sight is Irish foot­Observer Where you can There's still nothing like a hot women's basketball team. When have compiled a little list' to help ball helmets glowing in the sun keep up with the campus sporl'i brat on a crisp fall morning Huth Hiley, Niele Ivey and Kelley you. the Class or 2006. get up to on a Saturday afternoon. scene. covering everything from while the fight song booms from Siemon graduated aller Notre speed on the campus sports Ice football Combining the Notre Dame football to every tailgate in the parking lots Dame's championship season scene. two things for which Notre Dame Bookstore Basketball. and soccer fields. Just don't get two years ago, it left the t1mm 
Athletics The reason we're is best known. After that first big Playstation 2 As much a part caught drinking if you're under­with a roster full of freshmen. making this list, the reason many snowfall, bundle up in raggy, of sports life on campus as any­age and don't stay over during This year, the Irish have only of us are here. Sports are as warm clothes, head out to the thing else. Most Irish men will the game. A new Notre Dame two seniors -guards Alicia much a part of life up here as quad of your choice and play spend more time studying their rule prohibits tailgating on cam­Ratay and Karen Swanson ­snow, mutant squirrels and that around in the snow like a five­Madden 2003 playbook than any pus grounds during game time. and eight of the team's 12 mem­noxious ethanol plant. year-old until your face goes textbook this year. NCAA Ultimate Frisbee This club bers are sophomores or fresh­
Brey, Mike The third-year numb. Football 2003 -need I say sport has become very popular men. The good news is that coach of the Irish mens basket­Juggling Hey, you've got four more? on campus, especially when the many of these youngsters saw ball team. After years of years, what else are you gonna Quick The perfect way to sky is clear and weather is significant playing time last sea­mediocre play. Brey has restored do? Might as well learn some­describe mens soccer forwards warm. As a great athletic activity son and should be ready to chal­the Irish to national prominence thing useful. Steal three apples Erich Braun and Devon Prescod, for both guys and girls, the game lenge conference rival with two trips to the NCAA tour-from the dining hall and teach the team's two leading scorers combines recreational Frisbee Connecticut, who lost four nament in his two years at the yourself a party trick. from last year's squad that fin­throwing with football, making seniors from last year's National
-
helm. including last season's Kachmarik, Lynn Saint ished 12-7 and advanced to the most games very fast and Championship team. near upset of No. 1 Duke. Mary's director of athletics. With NCM Tournament for the first intense. Zero The number of reasons Coxswain The "quarterback" a contracting budget and the time in five years. The squad Volleyball The Irish squad you have to not get excited about of rowing. It's the coxswain's job turnover of three coaches in soc­only lost two starters from last captured the Big East title last the year ahead. Fall is in the air, to keep the rowers in stride and cer, golf and softball, the A.D. vear and looks to continue the season for the sixth time in seven the first football game is just order them when to make a run may have a tough time keeping program's return to prominence years. That's domination. This around the corner. and you're or lay back. Last year's womens the Belles competitive. Even so, under second-year coach Bobby year, the Irish enter the season right in the middle of the best crew finished 16th in the NCAA. the Belles are still able to excel Clark. ranked 25th with an incoming environment a sports fan could _ Championships. Although rowing in sports such as tennis. Last RecSports We have two great freshman class considered one of ask for. is just a club sport for the men, year Saint Mary's won its second recreational facilities on campus the best in the nation. Attend both the mens and the womens consecutive MIAA title and at Holl's and The Rock. They some games this season. see The opinions expressed in this team look to take walk-ons. advanced to the NCAA tourna­offer dub and intramural sports them win their seventh confer­column are those ofthe author offering a great chance for stu­m1mt. as well as various exercise and ence title and do push-ups for and not necessarily The dents to join the Notre Dame Leprechaun Legion The mens aerobic classes. Take full advan­every point like at the football Observer. Contact Chris Federico athletic scene. baskAtball cheering/jeering orga-tage to help stave off the games. at cfederic@nd.edu. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.111. ro 3 f.m. at rhe Norre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, inclmling all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing rcfonds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
TICKETS 
N.D. Tickets. Buy and Sell Please check our pnces. 
273-3911 
Need 2 GA's for any home game. Call Jack 674-6593 
STARVING/THIRSTING STU­DENT? 
DON'T SELL YOUR TICKET! CLASS OF '98 GRADS WANTING TO RENT OUT TURTLE CREEK APARTMENT SAT NIGHT, SEPT. 14 (MICHIGAN WEEKEND. WILL COMPENSATE W/ CASH OR PREFERRED BEVERAGE. CALL ANDREW (949)433-5087. GO IRISHI 
WANTED: ND TICKETS HIGHEST PRICES PAID 
251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 
289-9280 
FOR RENT 
ALL SIZE HOMES AVAILABLE FOR 2003-2004 mmmrentals@aolcom www MMMRENTALS.COM 
Room for Rent: $350/rn., inc. pri­vate bath, garage space, ale, wash­er & dryer, kitchen privileges, no smoking, 2-3 miles from campus. Phone 574-272-4880, ask for Marcia 
FOR RENT -3 Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, alarm sys­tem, NC. Avail. immed.. $650/mo. Call 574-220-0499 
B&B LODGING w/ alumni family for ND/SMC events, football week• ends. JPW & graduation. 574-243­2628 or garyb@mvillage.com 
ROOM IN HOME FOR RENT $400 
Utilities incl., 8 min. to campus, Furn or Unfurn, Jacuzzi Call 255-4737 Donna 
Near N D , Quiet -Huge one Bedroom. Fireplace, Washer, Dryer, Garage 
1244 E. Madison 
299-0229 
FOR SALE 
Large one-bedroom condo for sale. One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly remodeled. Fully equipped. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
2 desks, 1 printer stand, 1 bookshelf -each $15 287-0060 
VARSITY CLUB mbrship sale ­DREAM PRICE! call: 574-537­0616. Lv. message. 
-
Saturday, August 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 ., 
CHECKING OUT THE IRISH 
Key losses Key freshmen 
Team Key returners Outlook 
QB Matt LoVecchio, RB Julius
QB Carlyle ltoliday, RB Hyan 
QB Chris Olsen, RB Nate 
First-year head coach Tyrone Grant, FL Arnaz Battle, C Jeff 
Jones, RB Tony Fisher, RB 
Schiccatano, WH Maurice 
Willingham inherits a team faine. DE Ryan Hoberts, LB 
Terranre Howard, WR David 
Stovall, WR Rhema McKnight. 
that went 5-6 last season and Courtney Watson, CB Shane 
Football 
Givens, WR Javin Hunter, DE 
DL Chris Frome, DL Travis 
had one of the most tumultuous Walton. CR Vontcz Duff. K 
Anthony Weaver, DR Grant 
Leitko 
off seasons in program history. Nicholas Sctta, P Joey l-Jildbold 
Irons, LB Rocky Boiman, LB 
Tho Irish will need to overcome Tyreo Harrison, SS Ron Israel, 
that off season and learn FS Abram Elam 
Willingham's new offense to succeed. 
Defenders Andreas Forstner
Forwarrls Eric Braun anrl 
Midficlders Nick Tarnay and 
The Irish lose only two Devon Prescod, Midfielders 
and Griffin Howard 
Jon Mark Thompson, 
starters from last year's 12-7 Justin Detter. Justin Ratcliffe, 
Defenders Ben Crouse and Dale 
squad. The offfmse should be Chad Hiley and Chris Sawyer 
Rcllas solid with a year of experience
Mens Soccer 
in coach Bobby Clark's scheme. 

Midfielder Mia Sarkesian, 
Midfielder Katie Thorlakson,
Defenders Vanessa 
The Irish return five of their Pruzinsky, forwards Amanda 
Defenders Monica Gonzalez 
Defenrler Catherine Sigler, 
top six scorers from the 2001 Gu11rtin, Melissa Tancredi and 
and Lindsey Jones, Goalkeeper 
Goalkeeper Erika Bohn sqaud that suffered a shocking
Womens Soccer 
Liz WagnerAmy Warner season ending loss to Cincinnati in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
Dcf'ensi\•e Specialist Keara 
Outside Hitter Marcie 
Middle Blocker Lauren 
The addition of an incoming Coughlin, Middle Blocker Kim 
Bomhack, Middle Blocker 
Brewster, Outside Hitter Meg 
class that is rated fifth nation­Melinda Goralski, Opposite 
HenicanFletcher. Setter Kristen Kinder, 
ally should help the Irish in Outside Hitter Emily Loomis 
Volleyball 
Kristy Kreher their quest for a fourth straight Big East title. 
Javier Taborga, Casey Smith, 
Brian Farrell, Matt Scott, 
Steve Roszak 
With the loss of All­Luis lladdock, Brent D'Amico 
Aaron Talarico Americans Taborga and Smith, who led the Irish to the NCAA
Mens Tennis 
Tournament, coach Bobby Bayliss will look to incoming freshmen to help fill the void. 
·Jlflt_;.,.. ·1·J,u1r· -,, ~1..rLO-J 
:, I 
•, r •. r_ i: 
Katie Cunha, Caylan Leslie, 
Becky Varnum, Nina 
Lauren Connelly, Liz 
The Irish finished the season Alicia Salas 
Vaughan, Lindsey Green 
Donohue. Kelly Nelson, 
23rd last year, but lost their Jennifer Smith, Kristina 
top three players -Varnum,
Womens Tennis 
Stastny Vaughan and Green -to grad­uation. The five freshmen com­ing in will need to contribute right away. 
John K(ian11, Todd Mobley, 
Ryan Shea, Luke Watson, 
Tim Moore, Tom Longo, 
Replacing five of their top David i\llwr 
Patrick Conway, Mark 
Kaleb VanOrt 
seven runners will be tough. Striowski. Sean Zanderson 
but the Irish have several 
strong runners to fill the void.
Mens Cross Country 
With a strong freshmen class that includes the Michigan ­state champ, Moore, the Irish should again field a competitive squad. 
.Jnn Handlev. .Jnnnifer 
none Stephanie Nadia 
The womens squad returns Fibuch, Mcga·n Johnson, 
all seven competitors from the Lauren King 
2002 NCAA Championship­
Womens Cross Country 
race. With inroming freshman Nadia. Notre Dame can only improve on last year's 19th place finish. 
Brandon LunhP, Steve 
Steve Hatay 
Tom Ralderston. Scott 
The Irish hosterl the Big East Colnitis. Hvan Marshall, K.C. 
Gustafson 
Championship last spring and \Yisrnnan · 
finished an impressive second. 
Losing Ratay, who set the
Mens Golf 
l\otrn Dame record for single season scoring average, will bi> tough. 
Fu(·hs. Kristin 
Sarah Hassett, Lauren 
The Irish had an up-anrl-­Barbir, Kathleen Brophy 
down season in 2001-2002, highlighted by a second placP finish at the 22-tcam Northern Illinois Snowbird Invitational in Tampa, Fla. The team returns its leading scornr, Lotta, and hopes to get immediate contri­butions from the four incoming freshmen. 

' ­
.,. 

page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 24, 2002 
: ,. -=========================================================================================================== 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS
' 

I I 
' 
'I 
I ~ 
' 
' 
I 
' 
'I 
I I 
' 
' 
' 
' ­
I 
I 
' 
' 
..' ' 
' .. 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
-
•
' 
t 
. 
. 
-
PRICES GOOD THAU 
SEPT. 8, 2002 
FOR ALL YOUR SCHOOL NEEDS 
5802 Grape Rd • Indian Ridge Shopping Center• Mishawaka, IN 
OFFICE IN A FUTON FRAME · BOX & MATTRESS 
9997 r.-:-r"997 
Includes Desk, Chair & Bookcase 
#16372153 
TDK CDRs 
797 
AFTER $700 MAIL-IN REBATE 
50 Pack 
#77600062 
5" Black & White TV 
2497 
AC/DC Cordless AM/FM Radio 
#07820020 
CORDLESS 
PHONE 
2997 

900 MHz 10# Memory 
..._____.;;;.;:..:;.#637'----'--440~15 
ALL TIMEX ALARM 
&TRAVEL CLOCKS 
:~~:!..6997 
t07740426-#79&30125 
20" 
BOX FAN 
1397 
3-Speed 
#27720044 
G.E. CLOCK RADIO 
997 
Large LED Display Battery Backup 
#17457805 
CALCULATOR 
9697 14997 4997 
Tl83+ Graphing Calculator 
._______177_8799___.97 
RELIC WATCHES 
JUMBO BED PILLOW 
747 
95% Feather Filled 5% Down Filled 
,________,64_9404___,14 
HEAVY BATH TOWELS 
497 
100% Cotton 
34" X 50" 
Assorted Colors 
#29770351 
PLUSH RUGS 
Great For The Dorm 
2297
5'x8' 
2697
6'x9' 
Assorted Colors, Fabrics & Patterns 
123450034 
MINI STEREO SYSTEM 
3 CD Changer 
200 Watt With Remote 
._______#00_2110__,11 
700 Watt MICROWAVE 
MATTRESSES  TWIN/FULL  
or BOXSPRINGS  FRAME  
59!c?  2997  

Star Dust Twin Size 
~---•o4_5ao_23s_-os1_0_____,_o4s_aoo__,31 
EXTRA LONG SHEET SETS 
~ 
997 
To Fit Dorm Twin Bed 
Navy, Lt. Blue & Lt. Green 
CHEST 
9997 
Woodland Oak 4-Drawer Easy To Assemble 
#16371486 
COMPUTER CART 
Wood & Metal 2 Tier Cart 
,________#80_5000____,Tl 
GEORGE FOREMAN 
I 
.._____,_1637_220_3-11____,·29 
REFRIGERATOR 
EGG CRATE MATTRESS PAD , 
997 
Extra Long To Fit Dorm Twin Bed 
#08250045 
HOME THEATER 
9997 
5.1 Dolby Digital Multi-Media 
#67813014 
BOOKCASES 
1 4 97 i,' 
2-Shelf 
3-Shelf 1 9 97 
2497 
4-Shelf 
7997
5997 
1997
20°/4OFF 
35°/4OFF
_, 
K's Regular Price 
Mfg. Sug. Ref. Price 
.7 Cu. Ft. 
1.8 Cu. Ft.
Champ Size Grill
10 Power Levels
Men's &Women's 
Ice Cube Tray Included
Turntable 
#19160019
#10560001 
#72400609-0062-0070 

Saturday, August 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
Countv and /\lwrdenn FC Under 2-1 h}' ri~sprn:tivn sf'.ores of l-0 and 2-0. Tlw Irish then tied Dunwoody Uniil'd 1-1, surren­dPring tlrn tying goal with just tl1n1 t\ minut,~s to µlay. 
"01' al.I Llw IP,uns l'w takPn on tlw Scotland trip -I Look llarlmouth lwicP and Stanford one,, -that. was cnrtainly our l)('st J)('rforn1ant'.P ov!!r tlwrt\," Clark said "'That nwans this wuld lJ<' Llw b1:st u~am t.lml I've tak,,n tlwrn. or that /\nrnrican srnTPr is rl':i lly improving. " 
Tlw Irish lost onlv two starlnrs l'rnm its 200 I squad -dcfPncf<'rs Cri!Tin !loward and .\ndy 
l·orstrwr. 
Sonw position shirting in llw ol'l'-st>ason and summ,•r Pxhibi­lions, rnmhirwd wilh tlw arldi­ti1111 nf 11 n1upli-ol' f'r,•shrn1'n dr,fr11d1•rs who could push !'or playing timP makf' thr• hal'klklcl . tlw most unstablt> arna of' tlw f)rf'S!';!Sflll. 
"It ·s 111'v1'r 1'asy to rqJlacr: 
good players, hut that's some­thing wc'vn got to deal with," ( :lark said. "We havn had to do som<~ shuffling them over the spring and sunnner." 
Sophomore Jack Stewart, who, along with defender. Kevin Coldthwaitr and goalkeeper Chris Sawyer, moved into start­ing roles last season and fresh­men. St<'wart. Coldthwaite and follow ddcndcr Kevin Richards should sncurc three of the back­fiPld spots. ThP final slot is up in tlw air since the likely starter, Boughcn, will Im lPmporarHy sidelined with a bout of mononu­dnosis, Contenders for the spot arn sophomorn Christopher High and f'rnshnrnn Dale HPllas and B1•n c:rnus1• 
"Tlw position that's up for grabs in tlw backfield is tlw oth<w central dnl'Pml<•r." Clark said. "Lukn Bouglwn has really playNI wl'II then• in th<' spring, but lw canw down with mono. so lw won't lw ablP to go right away. ChristophPr lligh playPd in Srntland in that spot a11d did pr!'tty wf'IL WP'vp also got a cou­ple\ ol' f'rnshm<·n coming in thal could play in tltat spot as ,Vl'II. ·· 
Off,•nsivr•ly, tlrn Irish rnturn 
Join the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre for A TALE OF TWO CITIES A 16-day Theatre/Art Tour to London & Paris Friday, December 27, 2002 -Sunday, January 12, 2003 Last day to register: October 23, 2002 ­or until tour is filled Join us for a Theatre/Art tour to London (7 nights) and Paris (8 nights), or choose just London. The tour includes a balance of theatre performances, museum visits, and sightseeing -with ample free time. The trip is open to students, parents, faculty, staff, and community members Single, Double, and Triple Rooms available THE TOUR INCLUDES: -Roundtrip transportation from Notre Dame -7 nights Mornington Hotel (Lancaster Gate) -Buffet Breakfast -8 nights Hotel la Beaugency -Continental Breakfast -Tube and bus passes in London and Paris -4 plays/musicals in London -Round trip transportation to Canterbury for a guided tour -Tour of New Globe Theatre, National Gallery, Tate Gallery -One-way ticket on Euro Star to Paris -Theatre ticket in Paris -Evening at the Moulin Rouge -Tour of the Paris Opera House, Louvre, Orsay Museum -Day trip to Versailles For more information contact: Rick Donnelly, Dept of Film, Television, and Theatre, 108 Washington Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (574) 631-5958 Richard.E.Donnelly.4@nd.edu  
AUDITIONS fcrtre University of Notre Dame Choirs ND Chorale, ND Glee Club, ND Liturgical Choir, ND W:Iren' s Liturgical Choir, & Ea.silica Scbola Sign Up in Crowley Hall Sun. Aug. 25: 3-6, 7-10 pm Mon. Aug. 26: 9 am-12 pm 1-4:30 pm, 7:30-10 pm ALL ARE WELCOME You are strongly encouraged to sign up for the earliest posible audition time. There will be no auditions held on Tuesday, August 27! .Audi.tia,s will te reld in 124 Cn:wley tall Please call 1-6211 if you have any questions.  

their top six scorers from last season. Forwards Erich Braun and Dev1m Prescod -the team's two leading scorers in 2001 ­have already bt~gun to assert their offensive potency, scoring eight of Notre Dame's 19 goals in Scotland. 
Freshman striker Tony Megna, who has shown the promise of being an "arly contributor to the Irish offense. has been sidelined since the start of summer prac­tice with a back injury that kept him out of his entire senior sea­son in high school. 
J\t midfield, the Irish l'inallv have the advantage of depth and consistency, returning all players at that position and 11ot having to endun~ u coaching change for the first time in three years. Tri­captains Justin Hatcliffe and Grng Martin, and juniors Justin 1)1\lter, Chad Biley and Filipo Chillemi. havr~ had a rull yPar to learn Clark's offensive and cldnnsiv1! sclwmos and play togethnr as a unit. 
This d1'pth will allow incoming l'r<~shmen Nick Tarnay, .Ion Mark Thompson and the injured John Stnphnns tirno to settle into both Clark's system and the pressurns of' colloge lire. 
"!The frpshmcnl am all work­ing away, and I think it's far too early to say right now how much they'll lrn abh! to do right away," Clark said. "They're all young and arP still cxcitNI to be out them. We 'II let them settle in, and tlmy'II basically tell us when tlwy're ready. They'll tell us by tlw way they comn out to prac­tice every day. I've never been in a hurry to rush frnshmen in because I think it's good to let tlrnm sntlle into school life first." 
With tlrn returning starters and the confidence of a success­ful first year together under their 
belts. the Irish hope to take another step this season toward achieving national prominence as a soccer program. 
"We want to win every game as they come up, and we can't look beyond our next game," Clark said. "I think we all know what we want to do. I never try to jinx myself by saying [that a certain accomplishment should be our goal]. But I think every­one realizes that we want to play well in every game, because if we play well in every game, I -,. believe we have a fair chance of winning every one." 

Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

-
page 20 The ObJerver. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 24, 2002 
-

THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 
NETWORK 
-

-
J 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS WELCOMES THE CLASS OF 2006. 
WHAT IS THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS? 
We members of the Standing Committee are administrators, gay and lesbian students, and faculty who are a resource in identifying the ongoing needs of our gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. By implementing campus~wide educational programming on gay, lesbian, and bisexual issues, the committee strives to eliminate homophobia and make Notre Dame a place that accepts and prizes the 
. uniqueness of all its students. For more information, consult our Web page: 
www.nd.edu/~scglsn. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and Professor of Romance Languages (Standing Committee Chair) Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C., Professor of Philosophy and Theology Sr. Susan Dunn, O.P., Rector, Lyons Hall Jason Klocek, Senior, Psychology and Philosophy Major Brad Manzer, Senior, Science and Business Major Bunnoi McDaniel, Senior, Psychology and Pre-Professional Major Molly Morin, Fifth Year, Studio Art-Sculpture Major Nicole Ortega, Senior, Management Information Systems Major Jeffrey Thomson, Junior, Sociology Major Fr. Richard Warner, C.S.C., Counselor to the President and Director of Campus Ministry 
RECEPTION FOR GAV, LESBIAN, AND BISEXUAL FIRST-YEAR STUDENTS 
WHO:  Gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning first-year students at Notre Dame  
WHAT:  Drop-in Reception  
WHEN:  Monday, August 26, 1:30-3:30 p.m.  
WHERE:  Coleman-Morse Building (Third Floor Lounge)  
WHY:  to meet members of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and find out more about resources available to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students on the Notre Dame Campus.  

For more information, please visit our Web site, www.nd.edu/-scglsn and check under "Current Events." 
-
Saturday, August 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Fewer freshmen fit in just fine 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spons Ediror 
This summer, there were more old faces than new. Following a season with six new freshmen to break in. the Irish were glad to welcome just two ni>w recruits Lhis summer as Megan Duffy and Courtney La Vere joined last year's returning veterans. 
The two incoming freshmen got their first taste of college life this summer, taking classes, training in the weight room and practicing with teammates. Unlike last year, the veterans outnumbered the rookies. However, being new to campus was a memoi~y that was still frosh in the minds of most of the players. 
"It was so much easier mainly because our sophomores did such a fantastic job with them and I think that was really a great thing," said head coach MuffPt Mc<;raw "They really fit in woll. ThP chemistry was Lremnndous." 
Duffy nnd Lavere spent the summPr rooming with post play­er Teresa Borton and guard Allison Bustamante. Borton and Bustamante, along with the otlwr four returning sophomores who still rPmember being the newhi,\s, w1're more than willing to share those important bits of knowli·dg,i with the new recruits -lik,, what timP curfew is dur­ing a,.,,ay games, 
"Tlwy'vn told us just the little tf1am ru!Ps. road trips. things that will lwlp us that th,~y didn't learn 
Football 
continued from page 28 
While the door is open for Stovall and McKnight, the complex pass routes of Willingham ·s pro-style offense often leave the two stumbling around trying to find their way, 
"When you look at the two young freshmen. from experi­ence-wise, they're truly green, but they're so talented," offen­sive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "It's kind of a love-hate relationship. They'll go out and make a couple of bone­head plays and then they'll make a couple of really great plays." 
Now that the team has start­ed game preparations for the Aug. 31 season-opener against Maryland, the oppor­tunities for freshmen have slowly diminished as coaches prepare to implement specific straL1!gies. Just when many freshmen were starting to grasp the system, they now find themselves watching from the sideline and therefore los­ing the chance to learn even 
more. 
"What we have as coaches is an understanding about lhat. so therefore, we've got some patience." Willingham said. ''We'll keep working with them tu ke11p them progress­ing so they can make a contri­bution to this team." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
about until later," Dnfly said. 
In addition to getting to know their teammates, Duffy and LaVerc got an added bonus -a leg up on the rest of the fresh­man rlass hitting rampus this week. They both have two col­lege classes under their belts. have worked on balancing prac­tice with academics and, most importantly, they know where the dining hall is. 
"Yeah, I'm going to be a pro at freshman orientation," Duffy said. 
Duffy and LaVere both seemed to take to college life without much trouble. 
"I was so pleased," McGraw said. "They didn't seem to go through that normal period of freshman homesickness. There weren't a lot of bumps in: the road. So that seemed almost too easy." 
But there is still much to do. 
Duffy, a 5-foot-7 point guard from Dayton, Ohio. will have her work cut out for her, both physi­cally and mentallv. She suffered a season-ending knee injury midway through her senior sea­son at Chaminade-Julienne High School but was back on the court in time for summer workouts. She will continue to rehabilitate the knee through the preseason. 
"I My knee I is getting there," Duffy said. "It's starting to feel pretty decent. I'm excited to get back and start playing full go." 
In addition to making sure her knee is in working order, as a point guard, Duffy will have to not only learn her position on the floor, but also get to know her way around the whole offen­sive scheme, to know what everyone is supposed to be doing at any given moment. 
"It's definitely going to be exc.iting," Duffy said. "U's com­pletely new. That's why I came here -for the opportunity to play under Coach McGraw and play with LeTania [Severe]. I'm excited to learn completely new information." 
Duffy should be able to step up to the challenge. She ended her high school career ½'ith an aver­age of 15.1 points, 4 rebounds, 3,8 assists and 3 steals a game. In addition to the statistics, Duffy also has a good head for the game. 
"She's someone I'm confident has a great mental game, some­body that I feel I can really relate to and I just feel like we're going to have a really good chemistry," McGraw said. "l really like her attitude." 
LaVcre will add to the depth at the Irish post position. in an offense that often plays three women at post. The 6-foot-3 for­ward from Ventura, Calf. should feel right at home. 
"Not that it's going to be easy for Courtney, but the offense 
Welcome to Notre Dame. 
we're going to run is perfect for her," McGraw said. "l think she's going to fit in really well. We only have the three post players and we can play three at a time. We really need to sure up our depth. She should got a lot of playing time as a freshman." 
Lavere, a third-team Parade All-American selection, wrapped up her high school career aver­aging 26.5 points, 11.4 rebounds and 3.5 blocks per game. 
She and Duffy should both find themselves right in the thick of things. 
'Tm excited about both of them and l see both of them jumping right in," McGraw said. 
The Irish will begin individual workouts next week and will begin practice officially on Oct. 12. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
\ ,,.., lvo\\woo.A t)vive, <;ol.\t-\.\ Be\\~NEXTEL S74-241-,gig ~-1--1-·­
kv.st-shi0w v-.li.A. "-'kt.J..e\\t-l'D o... i-k.is N h, Y'ecei.v~ Aiscov.\l\t--. JI I I 
.~-~'!,l'·''ln':1·, :'il~tr=:~7
,11"11
""{~--+-:---1--L-r -]+r-:-r:: t-i---+---:--7 -+
!!!'!!! 
NoiieUame1students ~nd parents and 1expirk December 31 2002. While supplies last Requires new activation, one year Service Agreerne t and ~ __ _1 ~Off eiiily lerrnlilll!iifrilee-applies.i Must bif 18yearsotagefop7lrchasefln-'store purchases (equire at l~ast ~ forms of valiifid,enlificatrq~Aqcount-~ I peq1~11_ne;m~xLmllrt1 FQ pe,_!.o,!,_Oll!1Lfe_es~~t~ar:,:_QY,£ket,J1 QQ 1nst~_v111~s_1s-9H ttle Reg~larR,e~ ~IC~:~d_w1!1.!J~~~Q.lled a~p.ci1~ ~ _, _t 
onthfy rate plan 1is valid on any rate plan activated wrth this ofter. Other r~stnctmns may ~pply, Rate, pfan~ arelsubJ~ct to, taxes, fees and other ~ pri~_ilre subj~cl to ct,rn.ge. R~tiervicef;areernent tor details, ©2J)02Nextel1Comrnu~tiol]klnc._AILrights reserv~Nextel an~_ !!!"' ___ 1 d:traderirarks of Nextel Communications, Inc, Motorola and the StYllzed Mlogo are registered mthe l!J.S, ~atent and Trademark[office. Jaya and = 
av.hbased maiks araregister.e,d,trademarks_of,Sun_Micro,sysie\ns~tru:._AOLAIM,,Budcly Ust andJ~~Triangla,de.sign a,:e_cegisW.eJltradJ!mar~sµitMwrica_ 
1
, ,,'Ille, III.Stallt,Messenger Is atrademark ol America Online, Inc, : , , ' ' i 
1
''.'Ji¼···.·~= ..,t:~-~'=t..-.-·-· '_....._1----' ___ ,,____ l__ _j __ __ i _J.._~J-1 ·---------,_ ----· -------------~--­
_i. I 
_... 
--
) DIGITl\l WUKIE-TALKIE ) SPEAKERPHONE ) WIRELESS WEB ACCESS 
'., ) AOL~ INST.\NT MESSENGER'N service ) TWO-WAY MESSAGING 
. ) JAVA'" GAMES & APPLICATIONS ) DIGITAL CELLULAR 
Your life just went from O to 90. 
Whod·evev twist-s .,....,~ t-1..\v\\S colle~e +-hvows .,..t, yol.\ -yol.\ CO\\\ ~e.,..\. A.-.~ Ne,-:;t-el Co<.\\ heir. We've ~ot-t-he .-.ewes+­rho\\es, coolest-.Pe.,..t-1..\ves .,._..,~ sweet-es+­voi.t-e plo<.\\S yol.\ .-.ee~ .Pov t-he viJ.e o.P yol.\v Ii.Pe. Yol.\'ve v-e.,..~y-Bvi\\~ It-. 
t-iow's "" ~v-e""t-H...-.e t-o 1et-t-le,-:;t-el: .,.,11 t-lotve Doo.""'e s+v.J.e~i-s .,.,.-,J. f""v-e~i-s ,e+-"" \0%"' o\tSCOlJ\~i--o\\ ""'"'Y v-tl\+-e pl.,...-, .,.,..,~ $ \ 00,.. 6-f!-P "'-\\Y pho.-.e. 
10 t>l.\y: , ~o t-o ~e>d-el.colM/iv-ish-st-1.\J..e\\t-. 
, c01.ll t-oll--Pv-ee l-~77-"i0C.-212,. , visH-JD!-\ Co""""""".-,ic01.t-io\\s 01.t-: 



Get your school year Off to a great start! 
From coffeemakers to toasters, we have ev~ry small.appliance you need! 
6' x 91 Oversized Rug . . 
•Fashion colors blend w[th iioy decor •Perfect fpr dorm 
ro·o·ms, der.is. bedrQQms, classrooms, etc. •Heavy~we[ghtboood rug •Durable for hi@ traffic areas # t83$S() 
.· Cu" Ft. ComfJiict Refrigerator .$·..10 7 
•freezerwith ice cube tray •Adjustable automatic · · · thermostat • 1fulf width refrig£1rator shelf#114519 
~ Ge>ldStar· 
$43.97 
'tc;1.1.. Ft. 
,~.,f9rtop
lcrowave 
.·· t ..#910 
-
.. 

$9.98 
14"x 50" 
Polished 
£c:.l9eDoor 
Mirror 

#26204 
t
$24.94 j 
GS" 3. Light .;f Hutch and](eybqard Tray . G-..y. 
Tree Flocw f 
•48"W x24"0 x34"H • Spacf.l saving Cltenflle Chail' Boo~case • Lamp#2s42~ 
corner de$l911 #204176 •Pneumatic soat l'reigllt •Durable e<'lsy clean surface adj~stment #156244 • Sturdy c:oostructloo #204136 
Lowes 4660 North Grape Rd. Mishawaka, IN (574) 272-0900 
~~--OY~i:r2:.1;i,--z;~.(:$t-;,P"~,;..olV.,.,'1if:' ...,,~..o.;;.~5'~,.~~l'M,('1$-x4~.1: .i>::>J-n:·...:.:,ol,:,.tt -~»Jb'.ff :,,:~-ilt~·X': -~·'Y.:ti,:11~. 
~4~1 P'(_~-•1•:~I lY,ilr+r~Kn·od t:.~•~•:(J(l.:ttt}•;.Jtd• 3u·:,an or~ r"i11~c,,d 1'r~i.,Dt-ff,UC .MG1.J..J 

Saturday, August 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

ND Freshman Ladies  
Cheerleading Tryout  
i) Two positions available ­Fall Semester @ Cheer & Tumbling Experience Needed • Joyce Center, Gym 2, August 29 at 6:30 p.m . @ Pick up forms to complete before tryout at Joyce Center -Above Gate 3 -See Beverly  

SAVINGS UP TO 50% 
. . . • • . . . 
Dough~& Road east to Grape. turn right (south) onto Grape Road, 1/2 m•1-.on left·•· •t· stopFg·h• t··m· ri·ght
. h~ . . . . . . g. . . . .. , • 1,-; U. . ... 
for the best deal& on carpet 
MON."' FRI. 9:·00-8:00 
SAT. 9:0~5:30 
-
SUN. 12:30..5:00 
WOOD CERAMIC AREA RUGS 
Decorators vvatk Shopping Center .. Grape at Day Road. Mishawaka 
OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALEI 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles look to start fresh 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spores Ediror 
There is only one word to describe the Saint Mary's volley­ball team -young. With one senior returning and no player with more than one year of col­legiate play, experience will not be on the Belles' list of assets. 
"Everyone returning is only a second year player with this program," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "So. in terms of experience, [we're} very young." 
Four new freshmen will be joining the team, which finished last season with a record of 4­23, 1-13 in the MIAA. Shelly Bender. Julianne Miller, Talia Matury-Vicaro and Heidi Superczynski will team up with the eight returning members of the team. including lone senior Elizabeth Albert. 
Tryouts for the team conclud­ed Thursday, leaving three of the seven women who came out for the team without a position. 
"All that tried out were very talented and hard-working," Schrooder-Biek said. "[It was] a very difficult cut this year ­nothing was clear cut. It just came down to how much depth was needed at the various posi­tions." 
The four players joining the team will have to step up to make up for some serious loss­es. During the course of the sea­son last year, the Belles lost team leader Angie Meyers to a season-ending ACL tear. With graduation, they also said good­bye to co-captain Jolie Lebeau, setter Jaime Dineen and defen­sive specialist Denise Langlois. Meyers and LeBeau were both four-year players. 
The Belles will be looking to recover from a last-place finish in I.he MIAA last season. They open play on Aug. 30 at the Alma Tournament. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695l@saintmacys.edu. 
SMC SOCCER 
Young team expects challenging season 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
New faces are not unusual on the soccer field at Saint Mary's. 
Following a year that saw major improvement marred by the departure of key seniors, starters and the head coach, fresh players and coaches wiU be as commonplace as return­ing veterans. 
For the third time in for four years, the Belles soccer team will be adjusting to a new coaching style -this time under the leadership of Chris Pfau. Pfau. who came to Saint Mary's from Mount Marty College in South Dakota. will take over a team that saw improvement under coach Bobby Johnston, who left Saint Mary's for the University of Tampa last spring. 
With so many changes the past four years, Pfau recog­nizes that the focus this season can't be fancy footwork or long shots on goal. It must be noth­ing other than laying the first stones of a foundation neces­sary for success. 
"All I'm going to do is give them a structure, something solid, a foundation on which they can play," Pfau said. "It might take a month, it might take the whole season. That's my biggest goal." 
Pfau wiU be passing that goal along to a very young team. Saint Mary's graduated three key seniors and lost senior Heather Muth, who suffered several injuries last season and decided not to return after Johnston announced his resig­nation. 
This season, the Belles will be welcoming six new recruits to the playing field. 
Leading the incoming class is freshman Carrie Orr. The mid­fielder from Dayton. Ohio, stands a good chance of start­ing this season. Fans may also see freshman Shannon Culbertson blocking opposing players at a defensive position. 
Pfau identified Orr and Culbertson as "big impact play­ers" for the class of 2006. 
Lynn Taylor, the only senior and four-year member of the squad, will undertake a heavy leadership role. However, the Belles will alc;o be counting on sophomore Jen Concannon, who led the team in scoring last season. 
Following the tumultuous off-season, it's back to the drawing board with hopes of finding something stable enough to bring home some victories. 
"There's been a lot of turnover, so [I want] something they can always fall back upon and some stability," Pfau said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmacys.edu. 
-


page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, August 24, 2002 
CROSS COUNTRY ND VOLLEYBALL 
Same goal, different paths for 2 squads 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame mens and womens cross country teams will start their respective sea­sons trying to reach the same goal -a national champi­onship. Each will he eyeing that goal from very different standpoints, however. 
The mens team graduated five of its top seven runners from last season's fifth-ranked squad and hopes to use a strong incoming freshman class to turn more than a few 
-heads this season. 
"Are the [freshmen] going to be able to replace five All­Americans that graduated? No, of course not," national coach of the year Joe Piane said. "[But] I think we'll be better than people give us credit for." 
The Irish do return All­American Todd Mobley and top runners David Alber and John Keane as well as Eric Morrison and Brian Kerwin. Kernin was 
_ bothered by injuries last sea­son, but is healthy and looking towards a solid season. Notre Dame will also be aided by three exceptional freshmen, including highly­touted Tim Moore. Moore was the highest underclassman fin­isher at the Foot Locker ,, National meet and, according to Piane. should be one of the top five runners on the team. Newcomers Tom Longo and Kaleb VanOrt also are also expected to contribute signifi­cantly this season. 
We 1>0 Mondays Like No 1Place Else! 
-

Enjoy a double order of faji±as (enoueh for fwo) for jus± $111 Your choice of erilled chicken, s±eak or bo±h served wi±h warm ±or±iIIas, euacamole, pico de eaIIo. cheese and sour cream. 
-

Mishawaka 4810 Grape Road 574-271-1330 
For the women, graduating All-Americans won't be a prob­lem because the team lost no one from last season when they finished ranked 19th. Coach Tim Connelly has high expecta­tions for his team. 
"We're in a pretty good posi­tion, we finished 19th at the NCAA Championships last year and we're bringing everyone back," Connelly said. 
The Irish return top runners such as All-American Lauren King as well as NCAA qualifier Jen Handley. Connelly also expects large contributions from Megan Johnson, Jennifer Fibuch, Christi Arnerich, Melissa Schmidt, Julia Schmidt and Rachel Endress. 
Freshmen Mollv Huddle. Stephanie Nadia, Laurie King and Jean Marinangeli will all be counted on to contribute as well. 
However, Connelly does not expect to start his full team at Notre Dame's first meet, the adidas Invitational hosted at Notre Dame on Sept. 6. 
"To be honest, we probably won't run our whole team [at the first meet] because I want [the freshman] to get settled into school." Connelly said. "I think we have enough depth to do that early in the season." 
Both the mens and womens cross country teams will open their season on Sept. 6 in the adidas Invitational at Notre Dame. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
Recruits stand above rest 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
After graduating the starting front row from last year's Big East Championship team, Notre Dame volleyball coach Debbie Brown recruited six tall players to comprise her nationally­ranked freshman class. And their impact in summer prac­tices has shown instantly. 
"They have lit in really well." Brown said. "Even though we lost considerable experience, we have more depth than we have had in a long time. The practices have been very competitive." 
Outside hitters Meg Henican and Lindsay Peterson. setter Kelly Burrell and middle block­ers Lauren Brewster, Carolyn Cooper and Lauren Kelbley were rated fifth-best by Volleyball Magazine. 
Each player is at least 5-foot­10 and Student Sports Magazine ranked the class as third in the country. 
Henican earned Louisiana Player of the Year honors in her junior and senior years. Brewster was named the state tournament MVP in 2000 and 2001. Student Sports Magazine named Burrell a preseason All­American as a junior and senior. 
Although the Irish have not played a game, the freshmen have noticed some differences between high school and college volleyball. 
"We have to look at things more mentally than physically," said Kelbley. 
"The time commitment is year-round," Brewster added. "With this team, the team unity is also better than any high school team I have been on." 
Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to dose. 
Brown knows the freshmen are about to experience an entirely new level of competition. 
"The ball is coming a lot faster, hitters are bigger," Brown said. "The front row is significantly bigger than the past. We play above the net. The power is a lot more than their high school and club teams. 
"Also. in terms of their high school season. the duration of the season and the intensity is different. That is very taxing mentally. Not being used to play­ing at that level for an extended period of time can be difficult." 
Besides making the transition on the court, the freshmen have to adapt to the change of living at college. Their upperclass teammates are attempting to make that transition as smooth as possible. 
"The upperclassmen are amazing. They have all been great," Brewster said. "They were helpful in knowing what is going on -finding our classes, 
See Our Large Selection Of Backpacks & Duffles! 
Lattdmart University Park Mall 
Luggage & Gifts 247-3717 
Complimentary Gift Wrapping & Monogramming. 
who we need to talk to. They made the transition easy." 
"They are great," Kelbley agreed. "They gave us a little booklet telling us what we need for preseason. They are really helping us on and off the court." 
Even before the freshmen arrived on campus, the upper­classmen were making their new teammates feel welcome. 
"There has been a great job by the returners making the fresh­men feel at home." Brown said. "Even before the first day, dur­ing the summer, the returners sent them stuff to let the fresh­men know what to bring." 
Overcoming the adjustment to college volleyball will allow the freshmen to contribute to the Irish's goal of winning a third consecutive Big East Championship and make its 11th straight NCAA Tournament appearance. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 


Francesco was Chefat Notre Dame for 25 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Welcome Back Parents and Students! 
Francesco's needs servers and a host! We specialize in special events and hanquets. With private rooms seating 20 or 120, we custom tailor each event according to the customer's expectations. We also welcome luncheons and events on Sundays. Be it a business retreat, Board Meeting, Birthday, or a Holiday Party. we wish to serve you. Please stop in or call for additional details and a quote. 
FULL BAR AVAILABLE 
(must be 21 or older to purchase or consume alcohol) 
page 25 
,,.
Saturday, August 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
ing players to adjust tn the challenge of Division I college soccnr. "The tnam now understands the impor­tance of' leadership -not just from your 
seniors, but all the veterans," Waldrum said. "They know we went astray last sea­son, but that chapter is closed." 
All three starting forwards from last year's team are back, including Amy Warner, Melissa Tancredi and 2001 Big East Tournament MVP Amanda Guertin. Freshmen Holly Law and Maggie Manning could provide solid energy off the bench to assist the trio of returning juniors. 
The Irish also return midfielders Dryer and junior Randi Scheller. Waldrum was extremely impressed with Scheller's hard work and dedication over the off-season and believes she is poised for a break-out season. 
"[Scheller] made a big step last year, but we think she can make a bigger one this year, to the point of getting some national recognition and getting into the national team pool," Waldrum said. 
The Irish must replace the playmaking ability and creativity of departed captain Mia Sarkesian at the third midfield posi­tion. Juniors Kim Carpenter and Molly Tate and sophomore Mary Boland are all candidates to replace Sarkesian in the starting lineup, with highly touted fresh­man Katie Thorlakson also figuring into the mix. Fellow freshmen Michelle Daley 

... just come to 1st Source. As the area's leading financial 
institution, we can offer you unparalleled convenience, 
competitive products and pricing, and a level of service 
second to none. 
Convenience • With over 50 banking centers and ATMs in the area, 1st Source is everywhere you might be. At Saint Mary's, visit our full-service office with ATM in the Haggar College Center, or step-up to the ATM in LeMans Hall. We also have a convenient ATM located in the Hesburgh Library on the Notre Dame Campus. 
Internet Banking • With 1st Source Bank's Online Banking service for students, BankOnCampus.com. you can check your balances, transfer money between accounts, and even pay bills. For all the details visit us online or drops us an e-mail at bankoncampus@lstsource.com 
Electronic Funds Transfer • Expecting money from home? 1st Source can make getting money from home fast and easy by arranging to have the money transferred to you electronically. 
When it comes to banking, 1st Source has you covered. So save your prayers for a real crisis -like finals! 
Saint Mary's Banking Center• 235-2019 M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 
,,;_--,;-_-_-_-_-::.---:_-_-_-_-_-,:_-_-:.---,:_-,,:_-------,:_---------------------------_-.;-_-----_-_-_-_-_------~­Welcome Back notre Dame,St. mary's 6 Holy Cross Students! 
Beacon Bowl 
"Your Home for Fun~" Across from South Bend Regional Airport 
OFFERING OPEN BOWLING STUDENT DISCOUNTS GROUP OUTINGS & PARTIES 
COLLEGE NIGHT MONDAYS & THURSDAYS, 9 PM TO MIDNIGHT 
ROCK, ROLL & BOWL SATURDAY NIGHTS, 11 PM (GLOW IN THE DARK) 
FOOTBALL FRENZY FRIDAYS, 10 PM TO MIDNIGHT (GLOW BOWL & THE BEST TUNES ANYWHERE) 
FORMALS! $5 off 
Rock, Roll & Bowl Saturdays at11 pm.· 
, 
, . . .... ifif:r •. 
Expires September 7j 2002;' 

.. 
and Jenny Walz are also expected to com­pete for playing time at midfield. Versatile sophomore Sarah Halpenny -a transfer from UC-Irvine -may see time at either midfield or defense. 
With only two returning starters, the Irish defense and goalkeeping positions remain the biggest question marks. Sophomore Candace Chapman and All­American Pruzinsky will be back at their starting defensive positions, but the Irish must replace All-American Monica Gonzales and three-year starter Lindsey Jones. To make matters worse, the Notre Dame defense suffered a huge blow before the season even began when top recruit Annie Sheftcr tore her ACL in late July and is expected to miss the entire season. 
Sophomore Gunnar Gunnarsdottir fig­ures tu have the insidfl trar.k for one of the two opening starting positions. Freshman Kat Sigler from Windsor, Calif., emerged as a leading candidate for the fourth defensive. Sophomore Kate Tulisiak and freshmen Amber McMillan, Annie Wieber and Miranda Ford will also see action at midfield. 
The Irish goalkeeping position is still up for grabs. Junior Launm Kent and fresh­man Erika Bohn arc battling to replace the departed Liz Wagner at the starting goalkeeper position. Kont and Bohn·s pm·­formances in upcoming exhibitions against perennial powers North Carolina and Kentucky will go a long way in helping Waldrum determine the starter. 
Contact Joe Licandro at 
Licandro.l@nd.edu. 
....------------· 
_ 
.... 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Saturday, August 24, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshmen add depth to talented roster 
that finished second in the Big to do it and make the transi­in wanting to sit on the 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
East West Division last spring tion in a laid-back atmosphere bench." Sports Writer 
and narrowly fell to top-seed­rather than in the fall with the While Francis and Cornett ed Duke in the NCAA tourney. rest of the other freshmen. In banged away on the inside. Mike Brey called his team in For the first time since Brey the fall, we're not really new Quinn quickly established him­for a meeting just before the took over as Irish head coach, students, we know the place." self on an Irish perimeter that group concluded summer three of the four Irish fresh­The 6-foot-10 Francis, from includes tri-captains Matt workouts. men -Francis, Cornett and Boston, is the most heralded Carroll, Dan Miller, Thomas, As he 
Quinn -came on campus to recruit arriving on campus and junior Torrian Jones. looked at participate in summer work­this fall. He joins When the the 11 outs with the rest of the team. sophomore point t e a m
"I think [Chris Quinn's] 
players So when Brey stood in front of guard Chris played
going to be one ofthe
gathered in his team in early August, he Thomas as the pick-up front of could praise the team's depth second straight amazingly pleasant games, him, he since a talented crop of fresh­McDonald's All­Q u i n n
surprises ofour program. 
knew the men had spent all summer American to play matched
People talk about him a
Irish were practicing with the veterans. for the Irish. Six­up against in good During the six-week summer fo ot-9 Chicago little bit, but he can Thomas,
Brey
shape. session, the freshmen played native Cornett last year's
really play. " 
"I said, nearly every day with the rest could also help national "Everybody here can play,"' of the team. The increased tal­Notre Dame on freshman the third-year mens basketball ent level meant pick-up games the boards. Mike Brey of the 
.-coach said. "I didn't feel that were significantly more With the gradu­Irish head coach year. way my first intense. And ation of Ryan "It was year, I couldn't when the Humphrey, a a lot of
"/ think ifyou have a
look all 12 in I r i s h first-round pick of the Orlando fun, knowing that you're going the eye and say major prospect out of weren't on Magic, and Harold Swanagan, up against one of the best in I feel comfort­high school, you expect the court, the Irish have only senior tri­the nation every day," Quinn able with you they were in captain Jere. Macura, junior said. "He's so good, and when
them to be contributors.
in the game, class. Tom Timmermans and sopho­you play against other players because I Everyone wants to make Francis, for more Jordan Cornett returning like that, it makes you better." didn't. Last a contribution. You don't example, on the inside. The trio only Quinn himself earned the year, same begins averaged 11.7, 8.3 and 14.9 respect of his teammates
come in wanting to sit on
thing. This classes this minutes per game last year quickly with his maturity and year, I really the bench. " fall with 12 respectively and Brey expects poise on the court. Brey thinks feel that way." credits Francis and Cornett to come in Quinn plays like a junior and The addition under his and compete for playing time. says the Ohio native is going to 
Torin Francis
of freshmen belt. "I think if you have a major surprise a lot of people. 
freshman
Torin Francis, "I think it prospect out of high school, "I think he's going to be one Rick Cornett, was very you expect them to be contrib­of the amazingly pleasant sur­Chris Quinn and Omari beneficial," Francis said. "It utors," Francis said. prises of our program," Brey Peterkin strengthen an was really laid back, and I "Everyone wants to make a said. "People talk about him a already talented Irish roster think that was good to be able contribution. You don't come little bit, but he can really 
Medium Pizza 
Cheese & 1Topping 
Large Pizza 
Cheese & 1Topping 
Fresh-baked bread strips with 3 kinds ot
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
cheeses & garlic butter; topped with Parmesan & Roma Seasoning. Served with a side of
52750 IN 633 ..............574-243-1122 
Now Open Until 3:00am Friday & Saturday! 
Serving Bethel College 
326 N. Ironwood ..........574-243-1111 ,.,t1·~' ~-·, Corner of Ironwood & McKinley
No Coupon Necessary. Plus Tax. FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 . Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Valid Only At Listed Marco's Pizza Locations. Expires 12-15·02. HAVING A BIG PARTY? t 
/•~
WE CAN CATER YOUR EVENT! t,
El=!i:11 ,,
ACCEPTED HERE 
-
< ~ vy ~ h ' 
Must provide credit card information when ordering for delivery 
play. He's a big-time guard, and he's ready right away. Our older guys are unbeliev­able confident in him, and there's the endorsement right there." 
Brey admits he's concerned about how Peterkin, who com­mitted to the Irish in May, will adjust to the team. While Francis, Cornett and Quinn are completely immersed with the rest of the veterans, Brey said he would pay close atten­tion to see how Peterkin adjusts. If necessary, he said he would consider holding the 6-foot-9 freshman out of games his freshman year to preserve a year of eligibility. 
But when Quinn, Francis and Cornett join Peterkin on campus this weekend, Brey laughed at the thought of the other three freshmen helping Peterkin adjust to college life. After all, Brey said, they spent six weeks on campus and can't wait to help their teammate out. 
"I think it was a giant help just getting acclimated to the college level," Quinn said. "We got to learn about how a col­lege class would go, and ath­letically, we got to play against guys day in and day out. It just kind of set up the process of learning about what we have to do." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Fresh baked and buttery-topped with cinnamon sugar Complete with aside of vanilla topping. Mmmm ...try some today1 
Visit u:P on lha W1;1b q\ www.marcoa.com 02002 Marco's, Inc 2682(1 )·802 
~Pizzas Crust Styles ~ 'Cia.kd Subs $4.69 
• ITALIAN sue Salam,. ham. cheese. onions. tomatoes. banana• DELUXE Cheese. pepperoni. mushrooms. green peppers, • Original Classic Crust • Crispy Thin • Pan Style peppers & Italian dressing
onions, llallilll sausage & extra cheese 
Party Size It... • STEAK & CHEESE SUB Steak. cheese, mushrooms &mayo dressing• TACO Cheese, seasoned ground beef, black olives. onions, • HAM & CHEESE SUB Extra ham. cheese & mayo dressing
tomatoes & Ghedda, cheese (side of sour creamJ 2nd Pizn of Equal or Lesser Size & Toppings Only... 
• CHICKEN CLUB SUB Chicken breast strips. cheese, tomatoes.
• ALL MEAT Chal)Se. ~pperoni, mushrooms, green peppers. 
Small 10" $4.99 Medium 12· $5.99 bacon & mayo dressingonions, llalian sausage, ham, bacon & ext,a cheese • VEGGIE SUB Mushrooms, green peppe,s. onions. black olives.
• GARDEN Cheese, mushrooms, black olives, onions. sliced Large 14' $6.99 Xlarge 16" $7.99 
Cheddar cheese, tomil!oes & Italian dressingHoney 
tomatoes & Feta cheese Mustard 
• 
HAWAIIAN Cheese, extra ham, bacon, pineapple & extra cheese Toppings Marco's Salad $1.99 

• 
CHICKEN 01.UB Cheese, seasoned chicken. bacon, onions, • Pepperoni • Ham • ltalia11 Sausage • Grau nd Beef Crisp lettuce, pepperoni. tomatoes, banana peppers, black olives. 


tomatoes & Cheddar cheese • Black Olives • Pineapple • Anchovies • Fresh Tomatoes Feta & Cheddar cheese & Italian dressing
• Mushrooms • Green Peppers • Fresh Onions • Bacon
• WHITE CHEEZY Butter garlic sauce with 3 blended cheeses. FREE Pizza Crust Toppers
• Seasoned Chicken • Banana Peppers • Feta Cheese
bacon. onions. tomatoes & Feta cheese • Roma • Butter Garlic •l'armesan Cheese 



'I 
Day, Month ##, Year The O!mrver . TODAY page 35 
WILLSHORTZ EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 31 Sauce with basil 62 Wind dir. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Guttenberg, Marlee 1 Locker room 32 Toast toppings 63 Aquarium Matlin, Cal Ripken Jr., Yasser Arafat handout favorite Happy Birthday: It's time to be good to yourself for a change. Your health 
33 Grub 
and well-being must be put before anything or anyone else. Get back to a
64 Poem of lament
6Alrna_ 34 Part of LED simpler lifestyle and you will see how quickly your life improves. Rid yourself of anyone or anything that has been aggravating or stressful. This is your year,
11 Madison Avenue 36 Grub 
to put yourself first. Your numbers are 4. 19. 28, 31, 42. 46 
products DOWN
40 Whittle down 14 Post of etiquette 1 Head of France? ARIES (March 21-April 19): Emotional matters may be brewing today. Face 
41 Reporter's 
any dilemma head-on; chances are there has been a misunderstanding. Do not.
15 Line to the question 2 Muscat's land 
however, interfere in the private affairs of others. *** 
audience 
42 Deejay's bribe 3 Kind of show TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your involvement in groups that you believe in 16 Dog doc will bring you satisfaction. Use your past record to get what you want when
45 32-Across, e.g. 
4 Lodge member 
presenting ideas. **** 
17 News host, e.g. 47 Sign of 
5 Deceiving GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let the things going on around you get you unfaithfulness down. Get out and do things that will please you. A little shopping or spending
19 Gabor or Peron 
6 Noisy bird time with a trusted friend will help. ** 
49 Angelic strings 
20 fi may be bitter CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your memory and vast knowledge will be
7 White-faced
50 Long, long time admired. You have some good ideas and wonderful suggestions. Don't let
21 "Uh-uh" 8 Haberdashery 
anyone stand in your way or hold you back.*****
51 Misfortune
22 Token of item LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Financial opportunities are apparent. You will be able respect 54 Simile's center to help an older relative handle his or her responsibilities. A younger person
9 Author LeShan 
may turn out to be a burden. Being strict will be necessary. ***
55 Bit of aid 24 Gossip's 
10 Cinnamon VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone may be playing with your emotionsattribute 59 Hamster. e.g. treats today. Don't let anyone make you feel guilty. Plan your day carefully and don't 28 Sandal feature 60 Bay window 
pass on something you really want to do. *** 
11 Exact retribut10n 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may have some difficulties with a friend 30 Former partner? 61 Bathed for today if he or she doesn't want to do the same thing you do. Give this friend 12 Gobble up some space. Someone may withhold pertinent information so be sure to ask 
questions. *** 
13 Glassy look 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be in a good position if you have 18 NASA scrub Pllzzle bf Louil Hildebrand already made plans lo help a worthwhile cause. Children may play an important role in your life today. Take an interest in what these youngsters are
36 "Believe· singer 46 Lowly laborer 53 MacDonald's 
~~L;;,.,,;Y~ 23 N.Y. neighbor 
doing.*****
partner in old 
C O ....+,,.,+,,,...t 25 Small colonists 37 Dog days 47 Rodeo wear SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be daunted by someone who just
movies
phenomenon won't agree. Keep your suggestions to yourself. You are going through a
T U 26 Garden bloom, 
48 Slack-jawed 56 Bard's before make-it or break-it period. Although you may feel like calling it quits. just be informally 38 Former observant fo1· now.**
California fort one 57 Inebriated 
CAPRICOR!'i (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get together with goocJ friends and you'll
,..,..+,,,,+-,-+,,,,...,._ """"..;..+...+,.+,....1 27 Hardly racy 
39 Director Craven 52 Force on earth, 58 "2001" enjoy stimulating conversations. At work. try to avoid getting into a debate 28 Reveal, briefly computer with someone who may be trying to make you look bad. **** 
40 Aimless bit of 
poetically AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your creativity to make extra income.
gunfire 
Financial matters are picking up. You will be able to make good investments if 
29 Stew item 
4t Quarrel noisily Answers to any clues in this puzzle are you are quick to respond to an opportunity.*** 32 Six-Pack PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may find it difficult to deal with loved ones
available by touch-tone phone: 
42 Moon stages 
today. Added responsibilities will get you down. Plan to lift your spirits by 
C O M 34 Painter of limp 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute}. 
43 Make bubbly doing something special with someone you enjoy. *** 
0 R O watches Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You will be caring. loving and sensitive. You will .have a44 Big mouth 
T I S 35 Farsi-speaking best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 practical outlook as long as you don't let your emotions stand in the way. You T A T land 45 Aussie lassie years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. will be cautious. forever looking out for the people you feel responsible for. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, astro1nate.c01n. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-~--------------------------------------------------------~-~-----~------­


HENRI ARNOLD 
CLAIRE O'BR1EN 
JUMBLE
SCHOOL DAZE 
MIKE ARGIR10N 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HUGAL 
> 
I I I 
<02002 'rribune Media Sel'\llces. Inc. All Rights Reeerved. 
HEWIG 
I I I
tRITHEH j

J rx
JACK MONAHAN 
www jumble.com
HAPPY TOWN 
form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: rI I I JON rI I JrI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Jumbles: RUSTY TULIP FEDORA PICNIC
Yesterday's J Ariswer: What the ice fisherman ended up with when 
he filleted his catch -COLD CUTS 
..... 
JUMBLE CLASSIC S!Rlf'.S NO. 18 • To order, send your name, address and $S.45 and mak@ ahac:k payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 606804330. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ______________________ Address-------'-----------~-­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ ... 

PORTS 
Sarur<lay, Augusr 24, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Fresh in the system 
. Freshmen look to adjust to new offensive, defensive schemes 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports \Xlrircr 
Chris Olsen was nervous. 
In the corners of team meeting rooms and 011 tlrn summer practice fields. uppPrclassmen hintf'd what kind of' initiation routine the freshman quarterback would have to go through. Somo hinted at shaving heads. others 111enlioned climbing up on tablPs and singing high school fight songs. 
Rookie quarterback Olsen and the other 17 frPshman recruits wr,ren't quite sure what to expect.. But they didn't plan on first-year head coach Tyrone Willingham banning freshman hazing. 
"I think that made the freshmen feel a lot better." Olsen said. "There were a few worries that we were going to havp to do something things hazing­wise. but most of tlw upperclassmen told us that there would be none of that this year, and they wanted to make it easier on us as freshmen. I think that put everyonP at ease." 
Besides, the freshmen had enough to worry about trying to learn the complex new offensive and defensive schemes thrown at them by [rish coaches. 
When the first-year players arrived on campus nearly three weeks ago, the coaching staff handed the entire playbook to the young recruits, forc­ing them to try to understand every­thing to which the rest of the team had eight months to assimilate. 
That's a ton of information to learn in a short puiod of time. Blocking schemes, cov1~rages, pass routes, audibles -the list piled up quickly. In many cases. the newest membnrs of' the Irish squad lf'arned more schemes iu a week than Orny did during their senior seasons. 
"It's a lot to learn. and at some point, that overload hits. and then they don't respond very well to the conditions around them." Willingham said. "Most freshmen go through it, and ours are no different. They're going through it. anti they're trying to find thrir way to -bi·rak through it and really start to find their place on this 
team." 
Four freshmen -Olson, running back Naw Schiccatano. safety Jake Carnry and offensivE' linPman Scott Raridon -spent the summer with the rest of the team participating in con­ditioning drills. That gave thE'm a bit of a clue about what to expect when fall camp started in August. 
"Anything is going to be difficult at first," Carney said. "But once we got in and got some reps, we started to grasp it a little better. and having the team around makes it a little less nerve-racking." 
"The first few davs it's real intimi­dating being out the"re with the other guys, but l got more comfortable with them," Olsen added. "They always say good job and try to make it easier for me." 
Highly touted wide receivers Maurice Stovall and Rhema McKnight have the greatest chance of playing as freshman. Under the option-oriented offense former head coach Bob Davie used during last year's 5-6 season, the Irish finished 114th in the nation in scoring offense and rarely threw the ball. Only Omar Jenkins and Arnaz Battle had at least five catches. 
see FOOTBALL/page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 
... 
Irish return with depth 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spores Editor 
After a verv successful inau­gural season· for men's soccer coach Bobbv Clark in 2001. the sophomore ·coach will return to Alumni Field this fall with a young. but experienced squad looking to build on last season's NCAA. Tournament appear­ance. the program·s firsl in five vears. 
• The Irish return nine starters from last season's tPam that shocked many in the collegiate soccer world by turning a 7-8-2 tram in 2000 into a 12-7 finish­er. The Irish played to a 7-3 record in the Big East and fin­ished in a tie for second by advancing to the Big East Tournament Semifinals before dropping a 1-0 decision to the r-wentual conference champion St. John's University. 
The 2002 campaign actually began for the Irish on Aug. 2 in Scotland with a two-week, five­game exhibition tour for the n•turning upperclassmen. 
"On the Scolland lrip, the guys worked very hard. Tlrny played five games in 11 days with only an 18 man roster," Clark said. "\Nhen you consider that two of those guys [senior Alan Lyskawa and sophomore Luke Boughen] were unable to play because of an injury, and two were goalkeepers. that left us with 14 players. Since European rules don't allow us to have free substitution like we do in the states, that can be very exhausting for th<l guys." 
The Irish went 4-0-1 during the trip, knocking off semi-pro squads Formantine United 6-1 and Banks of Dee 8-1. Notre Dame then faced the heavier competition of the full-time professionals, beating Hoss 
see SOCCER/page 19 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer Freshman quarterback Chris Olsen drops back to make a pass during practice. Olsen, like the other first years, is trying to adjust to Willingham's schemes. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Waldrum looks to rediscover focus 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Wricer 
A shocking second-round NCAA Tournament upset loss to Cincinnati ended Notre Dame's frustrating 2001 campaign. This season. with ten new names on his roster and thirteen returning players, Irish coach Handy Waldrum is hoping that his squad is ready to return to national prominence. 
"Our freshman class also will be led by some highly-competi­tive and driven players," he said. 'Td be very surprised if we don't rediscover that focus and consis­tency that's so important to what Notre Dame soccer is all about." 
Of 23 players, only Ashley Dryer and Vanessa Pruzinsky are seniors, meaning learlership could be an issue for the Irish. However. Waldrum is confident in the leadership abilities of the other veterans to help the incom­
see IRISH/page 25 
en 
SMC VOLLEYBALL
MENS BASKETBALL 
SMC SOCCER 
WOMENS BASKETBALL UUSH SPORTS COLUMN 
LI.I c,:, Freshmen add 
Young team 
Belles look to 
Fewer freshmen Checking out the Sports 101 
= ~ 
start fresh fit in just fine z depth to talented expects challeng-Irish 
~ 
ing season 
Following last year's
roster 
Two freshmen, rather A lesson in sports jar­
... 

disappointing last place 
than six, spent the sum-
Peterkin, Francis, With a new head 
A guick glimpse at a 
-
= 
gon that any Irish fan Quinn and Cornett add 
MTAA finish, the young
coach and a young ros­mtr with the Irish gear-whole year of Irish ath­
needs to know to sur­
ter. the Belles will have 
squad wants to bring
their talents to the Irish ing up for the season. 
letes. 
vive freshman year. team. 
home some wins.
a tough season ahead. 
page 16
!:i ~ 
page 21 page 17
page 23
page 26 page 23 









