
VOL XXXVII N .4'!8"" HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Bush tackles national security at South Bend 

By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
SOUTH BEND 
President George W. Bush said his 
administration would make the 
United States a "safer, stronger and 
better nation" in his speech Thursday 
at the South Bend Regional Airport. 
Visiting South Bend on a two-day, $1 million tour to promote Republican House candidates, includ­ing Chris Chocola of Indiana's 2nd Congressional District, Bush spoke to a crowd of about 5,000 about the nation's economic, military and spiri­tual resilience. 
"I've come to talk about the prob­lems we face as a nation of great character," said Bush before delin­eating economic security, new energy sources and the war on terrorism as issues currently plaguing the United States. 
"The money we spend in Washington is not the government's money, it's your money," Bush told the crowd battling heat in the airport hanger. 
Bush pushed his $1.35 trillion, 10­year tax cut as the primary solution to recession. 
"For the sake of people who want to find work ... tax relief is important for job creation," the President said. 
Bush mentioned corporate reform, mitigation of the marriage tax and extinction of the death tax as promis­ing plans for economic reform. 
The President also used his speech to push U.S. lawmakers to approve a broad energy bill that he said would be "good for job security, national security and encourage conserva­tion." 
"We must do everything we can to become less dependent on foreign sources of crude oil," Bush said. 
The President's highest priority, 
however, remains national security, 
and he acknowledged that the tech­
niques of war have changed since the 
days when "you could count tanks 
and determine the strength of an 
army." · 
"My biggest job is to protect you 
and your families and secure the 
homeland," Bush told a crowd he had 
previously noted as being full of fam­
ilies with children. 
The President's rhetoric consistent­
ly referred to children's understand­
ing of America's enemies. 
"I think there is still an enemy out there that hates us," Bush said. "You need to tell your kids that these [ene­mies] hate America because of what we love. We love freedom. 
"We hold freedoms dear and we're willing to defend them. . . . This also distinguishes us from the enemy because we value the worth of each life, everybody matters. That's not the way the enemy thinks. They've got their desires and dark, dark ambitions. But now they've got a mighty nation that stands between them and their ambitions." 
Bush went on to describe the neces­sity of a new Department of Homeland Security that would pro­vide the President with flexibility needed to protect the American pub­lic. 
"The Executive needs the capacity to move people to the right place at the right time," Bush said. "But the bill micromanages.... Some senators are more concerned about special interests than safety." 
"I will not accept a lousy bill, I will insist that Congress get it right," he added. 
see BUSH/page 4 

Transfer students out in the cold 
. No guaranteed housing for transfers leaves some wait-listed 
By TERESA FRALISH 
News Writer 
Despite opening study lounges again this year for freshman, 20 Notre Dame transfer student<; still remain in off-campus housing and on residence hall waiting listc;, according to Scott Kachmarik, associate director of residence life. 
The University does not guaran­tee on-campus housing to incom­ing transfers, so students on the lower end of the wait list often rent a sleeping room or apart­ment on a weekly or monthly basis until a room on campus becomes available. Students are informed of this policy in their 
see HOUSING/page 4 

2002 Shirt and towel gear ready for 
By CALLIE WHELAN and 
CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writers 
Sung at the closure ofeach home football game, Notre Dame's Alma Mater states, "Notre Dame, Our Mother/I'ender, strong and true/Proudly in the heavens/Gleams the Gold and Blue." Clearly, blue and gold are synonymous with Notre Dame's long-standing tradition. However, these two familiar colors are not the only option for students, facul­ty, staff, alumni and fans to show­case their spirit. A new color, kelly green, is rapidly making a name of its own among the Irish faithful, including the 2002 version of The Shirt. 
Each year, the design for The Shirt is carefully selected from entries in a contest open to all Notre Dame students. Sophomore Carl Elkins submitted the winning design for this year's shirt, which features a realistically dented, game-worn golden helmet raised triumphantly in a player's fist. The image of the helmet is joined by the words "Heturn To Glory, Notre Dame Football 2002," as well as the famous Knute Rockne quote, "We're gonna go, go, go, go! And we aren't going to stop until we go over that goal line! And don't for­get, men -today's the day we're gonna win! Go in there and fight, fight, fight ... " The Shirt's finishing touches include the shadowy fig­ures of Rockne and the Four Horsemen in the background. 
After Elkins' initial design was chosen, he worked alongside Shirt Committee President Courtney Schuster to refine and improve the finished product. Shuster describes the process as "working with him to perfect the design and to incorporate a few more things." Among her additions was the Rockne quote, which she says was important because it "ties together the generations. It was in Rudy, so it is very recognizable and popu­lar." 
The idea of linking past and present is central to the "Return to Glory" theme. Schuster explains the significance of placing the hel­met in the foreground, saying. "We remember our predecessors and traditions in the background, but it's important that we're in the 

see SHIRT/page 4 


Friday, September 6, 2002
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Living in a fantasy world 
Last night was a special one for many guys across the country. No, the scram­bled porn channel on their televisions didn't right itself. Sadly, model Brooke Burke didn't stop by their houses to greet them. The University didn't leave complemen­tary kegs outside their dorms either. What happened was the beginning of an event that will captivate guys from September to January. Fantasy football. 
When the San Francisco 49ers and the New York Giants kicked off the NFL season last night, the hopes and dreams of thou­sands of fantasy fans across the coun­try kicked off as well. The preparation of pre-rankings players, reading about injuries and holdouts, drafting a team, cutting players, picking up players off of waivers and trading all makes up the elements that help build a solid fantasy team. 
For the next 17 weeks, fantasy play­ers will sacrifice work, studying, prac­tice, communicating with their peers and sometimes, when it gets close to playoff time, eating and sleeping. On Mondays, friends will gather at the din­ner table and discuss the important issues in life, such as what the United States should do about terrorists or, more importantly, whether to start Denver's Orlandis Gary or rookie Clinton Portis at running back for the upcoming week. 
Fantasy also unities enemies. I'm a huge Cleveland Browns fan, but if I had drafted, let's say, Pittsburgh Steeler running back Jerome Bettis (which I didn't. by the way), I'd be rooting for him to score as much as possible even though I hate the Steelers with a pas­sion. Scenarios like this demonstrate the kind ofimpact fantasy football can have on people's lives. 
Without fantasy, I would only watch and root for the Browns on Sunday's. But with it in my life, I can now turn on almost any game and have some inter­est in what's happening. Did Oakland's Rich Gannon throw a touchdown? Why in the heck didn't I start Chicago's Dez White at wide receiver? Questions like these haunt fantasy players minds throughout the season. Trading some­one now could be costly if that player ends up having a good season. 
Fantasy football is not for the faint of heart, to say the least. Finally, the exciting thing about fantasy football is that it lets guys that may not have the skill. size, desire, determination, strength and quickness to play football an opportunity to still be apart of a great sport. Fantasy gives guys some­thing to look forward to on Sundays, something to work towards during the week and something to give them an excuse not to do homework on the weekends. 
So to all those fantasy football play­ers reading this, I wish you the best of luck this season. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Contact Joe Hettler at jhettlcr@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The faculty member from Film Television and Theatre is Rick Donnelly and Steve Buechler from Mathematics is the other faculty member appointed to the committee to review and revise the Senate's bylaws. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Afghan
Folk artist 
president
John Kennedy 
escapes
to perform 
assassination
tonight 
attempt 
Afghan president 
Kennedy will be 
Hamid Karzai
performing original 
escaped an assassi­
folk music with a 
nation attempt on
number of songs 
Thursday while
celebrating local 
visiting his home­
areas and history 
town of Kandahar. 
tonight at Saint 
Mary's. 
page 5
page 9 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Mens and \Vomcns Cross Country 5p.m. at Burke Memorial Golf Course 

. 
Football pep rally 6 p.m. at the Joyce Center 

. 
\Vomens soccer vs. Santa Cruz 


7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Concert: John Kennedy will perform classic folk music. 7:30p.m. Little Theatre 

. 
Faculty Mentor Meeting 4:30 p.m.-6:00 p.m. IICC/\Velsh Parlor 

. 
Office of Multicultural Affairs Movie: "Enough" 7:00 pm, Carroll Auditorium 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chicken sea gumbo, tomato soup, bianco pizza, buffalo chick­en wings, macaroni and cheese. green beans, cherry crisp, cheddar crumb scrod, tofu jerk, lentil stew and barley, baked sweet potato, oriental vegetables, whole beets, BBQ sandwhich, lone star rice, chicken tamale, corn and blackbean fiesta. 
Today's Dinner: White chili cream of broccoli soup, corned beef, boiled cab­bage, peas and carrots, apple crisp, cheese strata, grilled turkey on kaiser, Italian risotto, spinach, scrambled eggs, potato triangles, tacos, cinnamon French toast, sausage patties and grits. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
0::: 
LIJ
:c 
tc 
;:LIJ ...I 
ct 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 84
..I 
LOW 58 

84 58 
BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT
NEWS 
Bush rejects 
Actions, not corporate 
clothing, fraud 
express unity 
Both "Ties for Ty"
President Bush and The Shirt
speaks to a crowd 
express unity,
in South Bend and 
enthusiasm and
professes his administration's 
school spirit. tough stance on corporate fraud. 
page 16page 7 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Cars towed for project 
Twenty one vehicles were relocat­ed from D6 North to D6 South park­ing lot due to work being done in the lot. 
Suspicious person apprehended 
NDSP responded to a report of a suspicious person in Lafortune Student Center. The person was apprehended, identified, issued a no trespass warning letter, and told to leave campus 
Visitor reports missing bike 
NDSP is investigating the attempt­ed theft of a bike near Alumni and Dillon. 
Student injured during 
activity 
A student was transported by ambulance to Memorial Hospital for treatment of a sports injury on Stepan Field. 
NDSP issues seat belt 
citations 
NDSP issued several state citations for seat belt violation on Douglas Road, Juniper Road and Edison Road. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, mostaccioli, tri-color rotini, linguine, pastaria meat sauce, spaghetti sauce, meatball with sauce, alfredo sauce, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, veg­etable pizza, brown-n-serve bread­sticks, chicken mozzarella pastaria, Cajun pasta sauce, cut corn and stewed tomatoes. Today's Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, mostaccioli, tri-color rotini, linguine, pastaria meat sauce, spaghetti sauce, meatball with sauce, alfredo sauce, Italian beef and macaroni, Cajun pasta sauce, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, brown-n-serve bread­sticks and corn cobbettes. 
SCENE  SPORTS  
Fashion 101: Campus cool this fall  Soccer tournament draws top teams, players  
See what's in and what's not this year, from your clothes, accessories, outerwear and shoes.  The Notre Dame Classic tournament pits four top 20 teams against each other in four games to be played Friday and Sunday.  
page 18  page 36  

Walled found and returned 
A wallet was found and turned in to NDSP for safekeeping. The wallet has been released to the owner. 
Parking decals stolen 
A victim reported her University parking decal was taken from her vehicle while parked at an off cam­pus location. 
Harrasmient case investigated 
NDSP is investigating a harassing telephone call complaint on campus. 
Driver cited for speeding 
NDSP issued a state citation to a driver for exceeding the posted speed limit on Douglas Road. 
Information compiled from the Notre 
Dame Security/Police blotter. 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta, marinara, hummus and cucumber pita, rice veg­etable asparagus roll up, baked potato, sizzling seared beef, salad, hamburgers, vegetable patties, turkey melt, French fries, chicken kabobs, saffron rice pilaf, chers vegetables, tomato basil pizza, cheese pizza, and deli bar with veg­etable cream cheese. 
Today's Dinner: Chefs pasta, marinara sauce, steamed broccoli, Asian tofu, sticky rice, Cuban sandwhich, chicken breast, fried cheese ravioli, bread sticks sauteed, cajun beef tips with mushrooms peppers and onions, potato skins. red beans and rice, chefs vegetables, sausage pie, cheese pizza, deli bar and Cajun food. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

86 65 

HIGH 87 LOW 68 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 88 LOW 68 

HIGH LOW 

r 
Friday, September 6, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Bush remarks spark student response 

By MATI BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
President George W. Bush's remarks at South Bend Regional Airport on Thursday were met with raucous applause from Republican supporters filling the hangar. Student responses, however, were more mixed. 
"It was a good speech, but I'm still concerned he might attack Iraq prematurely," Notre Dame junior Erin Lagor said. 
Among the president's supporters was junior Ben Gilfillan, who said he was impressed with Bush's speech. "The president's leadership in the past year has been amazing," Gilfillan said. 
Campus political groups also weighed in with their opinions on Bush's address, which touched on the cur­rent economic recovery, cor­porate reforms, and the administration's case for a regime change in Iraq. 
Bush's presence Thursday night at a South Bend fundraising dinner for GOP congressional candidate Chris Chocola drew com­ment from the opposite end of the political spectrum. 
"Money is important, but the election will come down to the issues," said Notre Dame College Democrats President Erin LaRuffa, referring to the $250-per­plate dinner fee. Her organi­zation is "clearly behind Jill Long Thompson because of her support for student loans and job creation," LaRuffa added. 
College Republican leaders could not be reached for comment because they were attending the dinner. 
A few politically neutral students, like Saint Mary's freshman Jennifer Parker, lined up against the back­drop of Air Force One's gleaming presence in order to witness Bush's arrival. 
"We just came to see the President," Parker said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 


f
\ 
Friday, September 6, 2002 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's appoints new director for diversity leadership center 

Sarkees accepted a new position as the director of the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership at Saint Mary's. 
Shirt 
continued from page I 
forefront -the focus is on who we are today, now, in the pre­sent." 
Another improvement to this year's Shirt was the production of 6,000 medium sizes, in addi­tion to the usual 38,000 extra­larges, all of which were pro­duced by St. Clair Apparel. The Shirt is available for purchase on campus in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, the two Varsity Shops in the Joyce Center and at the information desk in LaFortune, as well as for online orders. The cost of The Shirt is $15. 
The Shirt has been a tradition in its own right since 1989, when Sister Jean Lenz encouraged stu­dents to purchase them in sup­port of graduate student Zheng de Wang, who had been serious­ly injured in a hit-and-run inci­dent on Notre Dame Avenue. Wang's parents traveled from Tianjin, China to be by his side but realized that the medical expenses for his care were beyond their resources. Sister Lenz responded by collaborating with the Student Union Board and the Hall Presidents Council to create a shirt whose proceeds would benefit the Wang family. 
The student body responded to the fundraiser with widespread support, purchasing over 11,000 shirts in time for the 1990 game against Miami. Total sales of The Shirt reached over $100,000, all of which were donated to Wang's medical costs.This same spirit of support continues to underwrite current Shirt pro­ceeds. Each year, the money raised on sales of The Shirt is used to fund several scholarships and charities (including last year's Bone Marrow Drive), as well as contributing to student government. The fact that The Shirt's purpose goes beyond football unity to include involve­ment in a genuine cause "says so much about our student body," said Schuster. 
She believes that this season's Shirt is just as meaningful, say­ing. "[The students of 1990] pulled together in support of another student. We 're also dearly proclaiming support for one another here at ND." 
The Towel 
This year. in addition to The Shirt, Notre Dame students have another way to show their Irish pride when game day rolls around with the advent of The Game Day Spirit Towel, a.k.a. The Towel. Measuring 11 by 18 inches, this Kelly green towel matches The Shirt exactly and is brought to Notre Dame students by sponsorships through the Notre Dame Bookstore, The Alumni Association, SARG (Student Alumni Relations Group) and adidas. 
Last year's early loss to Nebraska proved that inspiration can come out of bad loss. Two Notre Dame graduate students, Shane Fimbel and Shane Woods, were as inspired by the Nebraska fans as the Husker football team was. Each Nebraska fan waved his or her own red golf-sized towel at opportune moments in the game, creating an oscillating sea of red. 
The duo of Shanes brought the idea back to Notre Dame, where they proposed it to Student Government, who already had their hands full with production of The Shirt. Next, they took it to the Alumni Association, which was more than willing to get the project rolling.Chuck Lennon, president of the Alumni Association, is enthusiastic about the towels, and the role they will play in the stadium this year. 
"We've seen what red and Nebraska can do," he said. "We're going to make it a stadi­um of green" this year. By get­ting rid of the "modest blue and modest gold," the student section of the stadium will be bolder and brighter, said Lennon. 
"The towels will be sold for only $5," Lennon added. "They'll be cheap so more people can have it." The hope is that each student will buy a towel to increase the effect in the stadi­um. Proceeds benefit SARG, who, in turn, will "use funds to increase programs on campus," said Marella Riley, student rep­resentative to SARG. 
The Towel. which reads "Go Irish" in navy blue and includes The Hammes Bookstore, The Alumni Associ.ation and Adidas logos, will be on sale before and during games at The Hammes Bookstore, 19 stadium locations, 14 trailers, at the two Varsity Shops, the Morris Inn and Lafortune Student Center. 
Students will get their first look at the towel at the Friday Pep Rally, where the football team, cheerleaders and marching band will be displaying theirs. 
They were also sold at the Meadowlands game outside of the hotel in New Jersey, but they are "making the big push for Purdue," said Lennon. 
Other than helping sponsor The Towel, adidas, who has sponsored Notre Dame athletics for six years, is taking a back seat in football merchandise this year. In the past, adidas has given students shirts, hats and visors at the beginning of foot­ball season, but it is "shifting the focus towards the basketball season this year," said, Molly Anderson, adidas consultant to Notre Dame. Even with the decreased adidas football mer­chandise, The Shirt and The Towel provide an abundance o'green to promote Irish unity and pride. 
Contact Callie Whelan at cwhelan@nd.edu and Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
Housing 
continued from page I 
transfer application, but the exact situation can vary widely from year to year. Although some students never wanted a place on-campus, 118 of 131 transfers eventually did elect to be placed on the wait list early last sum­mer. 
In a reversal from previous years, transfer men were housed at a much faster pace than women and as a result all 20 stu­dents left off-campus are women. "We were always able to house all women with a waiting list for men," said Kachmarik. "The gen­der breakdown of men to women seems to have changed slightly among the on-campus popula­tion." 
While many transfers are forced to live off-campus, officials have been gradually offering rooms to tran5fer students since the year begun. "We continue to get vacancies and make offers to one or two women at a time," Kachmarik said. 
Though vacancies have opened up slowly, Residence Life expects that all requests for on-campus housing will be filled by next semester. "We should be able to house anyone who wants to live on campus for the spring semes­ter," said Kachmarik. 
Students who foW1d themselves still on the waiting list once class­es began said they felt upset and frustrated about the uncertainty of their living situation. 
"It was pretty nerve-wracking," said sophomore Mary Ann Jentz, who was given a room in Badin Hall last Friday. 
Jentz, originally No. 49 on the wait list, said she did not realize that the shortage would be so high and had expected to be placed on-campus much sooner. "I didn't think it was going to turn out like this," said Jentz. 
Even with the confusion about finding a place on campus, Jentz said her interactions with Residence Life were mostly posi­tive. "They were generally help­ful," she said. ''They tried to give me the truth." 
Sophomore Chrissy Rochelle, who remains off-campus, said she felt alienated from the com­munity atmosphere at the University. "We came to Notre Dame for the family environment and it's hard to get that off-cam­pus," said Rochelle, a transfer from the University of Kansas. Rochelle, now No. 16 on the wait 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Merideth Reid Sarkees, Ph.D., the newly appointed director of the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, believes Saint Mary's students need to focus on diversity. 
"I hope to encourage students to be open minded toward other cultures and to always be open to new ways of learning,.. Sarkees said. 
Sarkees' previous experience in political science provides an extensive background in gender issues, international relations and woman's studies. 
Her most recent position was political sci­ence faculty member at DePaul University. This knowledge will promote an awareness of diversity both inside and beyond Saint Mary's gates. 
"While at DePaul, I was able to teach a class on global gender issues and I hope to convey some of the lessons learned in that course such as how to grapple women's issues and their roles in international politics that we don't always see," Sarkees said. 
Many discussions and speakers will be brought to campus in order to highlight inter­national women's issues. 
The keynote speaker of the year is former president of Ireland and current United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson. Robinson's recent controversial outspokenness provides an excellent opportunity to discuss international women's diversity issues. 
Sarkees also believes in the importance of looking to Saint Mary's alumnae when exam­ining diversity. She intends to have speakers who will focus on business and culture in the workplace. 
"It is important for memqers of the Saint Mary's community to be aware of broader areas of diversity. These include health issues, politics and even women's involve­ment in peace activities," said Sarkees. 
Sarkees believes that the wealth of experi­ence and information from Saint Mary's alumnae will be able to partially fulfill the need of diversity education. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at snelliga@nd.edu 
list, has been renting a Castle Point apartment on a monthly basis and driving to the University. 
Though excited about attend­ing Notre Dame, Rochelle said her experience with Residence Life has often been frustrating and upsetting as she felt officials did not provide her with solid options for living off-campus. 
"They don't give us any definite answers," said Rochelle. "They haven't really given us much help." 
Despite 102 percent residence hall capacity, Kachmarik does not expect the situation to change in the near future. "We anticipate remaining at full capacity for the next several years," he said. 
Along with the special sense of community at Notre Dame, Kachmarik credits 2001 's extra­large freshman class and as a factor in the current housing shortage. 
"The incoming class was almost 100 students over the expected number," he said. "That bubble will carry through for the next four years." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

Elia's 
.Mefu~e.vr-~,U~e 
*************************** 
Open: Tues.-Sat. l lam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) 
We offer ... 
Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie 
and many delicious dishes ... How about some Baklawa dessert to compliment your meal.. Wine and Beer are also available 
***************** 
Our address: 115 Dixie Way North South Bend. IN 4663 7 
(574) 277-7239 
We are located within few minutes from campus, in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 



Friday, September 6, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
AFGANISTAN 
Afghan president escapes assasination attempt 
Associated Press 
KANDAHAR 
An assailant dressed in the uniform of the new Afghan army fired on a car carrying President Hamid Karzai on Thursday, hours after an explosives­packed car tore through a crowded Kabul market, killing at least 10 people. 
The violence was the most serious challenge to Karzai's government, which has been struggling to bring order and security to a country wracked by decades of bloodshed. 
Afghan officials were quick to blame Osama bin Laden's al­Qaida network for the violence, which came less than a week before the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"Terrorists are behind both attacks, there is no doubt about it. And terrorists in this region are led by Osama and his associ­ates," said Foreign Minister Abdullah. 
The government offered no immediate evidence of bin Laden's involvement, and others blamed the rising anger of the Pashtun majority toward a gov­ernment controlled by Americans and dominated by rival Tajiks from the north. 
The Bri-tish Broadcasting Corp. said the attacker came from a former Taliban strong­hold. 
President Bush expressed relief that Karzai was safe, and administration officials pledged to keep helping rebuild the country. 
"We're not leaving," Bush said. "We want to help democra­cy flourish in that region." 
The assassination attempt occurred soon after Karzai, who was in his hometown of Kandahar for the wedding of his youngest brother, finished evening prayers at the city's his­toric Khalqa Sharif mosque. 
After the prayers, Karzai and his party were given a tour of the governor's mansion, located across the street from the mosque. Karzai's motorcade was preparing to leave the gov­ernor's compound as hundreds of well-wishers were pressing against the gates to catch a glimpse of the president. 
"We were standing at the gates and saw Karzai wave," said Sardar Mohammed. "Then I saw one guard point a Kalashnikov at Karzai and fire. There was a kid behind him. and he grabbed the gunman from behind." 
Kandahar security chief Dur Mohammed said Karzai's U.S. military bodyguards immediate­ly opened fire, killing the assailant and two others. The presidential motorcade sped off within moments of the attack, while gunsmoke lingered over fied the attacker as Abdul Helmand. an ethnic Pashtun the mansion's grounds. The gov­Rahman, who had joined the region west of Kandahar. ernor of Kandahar, Gul Agha security forces of Sherzai less Helmand is one of the areas Sherzai, was grazed in the neck than three weeks ago. where U.S. forces searched for and Karzai was unharmed. The BBC said he was from the fugitive Taliban leader 

In its report. the BBC identi-Kajaki in the province of Mullah Mohammed Omar. 
Senate approves arming airline pilots in the cockpit 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate voted overwhelmingly Thursday to allow commercial pilots to carry weapons in the cockpit after the Bush administration dropped its opposi­tion to the idea. 
The administration, though, said a number of safety and logistical issues needed to be resolved. 
In a letter to two senators, the White House recommended giving pilots lock­boxes for the weapons so they won't be left in the cockpit. It also said only pilots who volunteer to carry weapons and receive extensive training should be armed. 
Al Aitken, a pilot speaking for the 14,500-member union representing American Airlines pilots, which sup­ports arming pilots, said the 87-6 vote meant the Senate recognized that all the security layers the administration is putting into place are still inadequate. 
"The people who need the weapons as a last line of defense are the pilots,' he said. "They're the only ones they're try­ing to keep the gun from,' he said, adding that thousands of state and fed­eral law enforcement officers travel on planes while armed. 
Until the early 1960s, federal regula­tions required pilots to carry guns when they flew a plane carrying U.S. mail, Aitken said. 
The heads of 21 airlines, which oppose the measure, sent a letter to each senator Thursday saying they wanted to discuss the idea of arming pilots with Congress and the adminis­tration. 
"It must be noted, however, that while we are spending literally billions of dol­lars to keep dangerous weapons off of aircraft, the idea of intentionally intro­ducing thousands of deadly weapons in to the system appears to be dangerously counterproductive,' the letter said. 
To address some of the airlines' con­cerns. the administration suggested a "detailed, effective' training program be designed from scratch and tested before an estimated 85,000 pilots are allowed to carry weapons. 
The administration also warned the cost would be significant -$900 mil­lion to start and $250 million annually thereafter -and said there is no money now in the Transportation Security Administration budget to cover the expenses. 
How long it would take to arm the first pilot is a question that still has to be answered, said Robert Johnson, spokesman for the Transportation Security Administration. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israel hits back with missile attack: 
Isl-aeli helicopters attacked a suspected bomb factory in the Gaza Strip early Friday, hours after Palestinian fighters blew up an Israeli tank, killed two soldiers and tried to plant a huge car bomb in Israel. The Palestinians launched their assaults Thursday despite heightened Israeli security before the Jewish New Year. The militants called the attacks retaliation for killings of civilians. The attacks broke a monthlong lull in Palestinian strikes. 
Gunmen Kill Colombian Police Chief: 
Gunmen on motorcycles killed the new chief of secret police in a violence ridden Colombian province Thursday as he drove his car in Medellin. The killing of Fernando Mancilla recalled the numerous assassinations carried out by Pablo Escobar's Medellin cocaine cartel in the 1980s and 1990s. No one immediately claimed responsi­bility for the attack. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Alert shuts Utah chemical depot: 
Officials at an Army depot where nerve gas and other chemical weapons are stored found no trace of a reported intruder after a terrorist alert was sounded Thursday. Col. Peter Cooper, com­mander of the Deseret Chemical Depot, said the security of the depot was never at risk and that the person didn't get close to the chemical stor­age area. 
Calif. wildfire destroys I 7,000 Acres: A 17 ,000-acre wildfire believed to be caused by an animal sacrifice ritual crept toward bighorn sheep wilderness Thursday, but authorities said cooler weather could slow it down. Officials found burned animal remains inside a ring of rocks in the canyon where the fire began five days ago, leading them to suspect a ritual involving animals and fire, said Forest Service Cmdr. Rita Plair­Wears. way Body copy the rest of the way. 
9/11 flight restrictions loosened : The federal government on Thursday announced less stringent flight restrictions coinciding with ceremonies at the three Sept. l 1 crash sites. New York will be affected far more than Washington or Somerset, Pa., said Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Bill Shumann. Air traf­fic will be slowed in the city's airspace for three days, with some flights rerouted and others being held, he said. 
Diocese, ex-priest hurl accusations: 
The Diocese of Peoria and a former priest have accused each other of lying in statements to the media regarding a defamation lawsuit the priest filed after he was accused of sexually abusing girls. Edward Bush, 71, was one of seven priests asked to step down in April amid the allegations. He is suing for more than $50,000 in damages, though he says he wants only to clear his name. 

Friday, September 6, 2002
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
New library dedicated Senate OKs arming airline pilots 
By MARIE FRALISH 
News Writer 
The Mathematics Department dedicated its new mathematics library branch in the lower level of the Hayes-Healy Center Wednesday. The library was previously located in the Computing Center and former math building near the Hesburgh Llbrary. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh opened the ceremony with a blessing and his comments on the new library. "[The library] will bring new knowledge to the benefit of students and to the research of this University," he said. Hesburgh explained how he felt a special connection to the new facility since he had previously worked at the United Nations with one of the library's original main donors. 
Though the library's building stage is completed, other changes will continue to take place. Parker Ludwig, head librarian at the new library. said the new library will work towards two main goals in the next several years. 
..We want to focus on the library collections and services most important to our patrons," he said. 
Ludwig also hoped the new library would strongly con­tribute to the work of students and faculty and play an impor­tant role in mathematics-relat­ed research. 
The library will attempt to receive input from all mathe­matics professors on how it can better serve faculty and stu­dents. Llbrary officials intend to study other universities' mathe­matics libraries in order to improve Notre Dame's library. Ludwig said the library will also look into purchasing some mathematics-related art for the 
Bush 
continued from page 1 
Bush ended his speech with­in 45 minutes of Air Force One's 1:45 p.m. runway touch­down on a note of seriousness and optimism. 
Bush declared that he would not permit "the world's worst leaders to use the world's worst weapons" against the United States. But he also said he saw "peace by being a strong and forceful nation, and speaking about good and evil." 
The President invoked the Golden Rule twice during his speech and stressed his belief in the United States' ability to care about every citizen indi­vidually. 
Bush on Notre Dame 
. At the beginning of his speech, Bush thanked former Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps for attending the rally and praised Notre Dame for hiring head football coach Tyrone Willingham. 
"If you're a Fighting Irish 
new facility. 
Also speaking at the dedica­tion were Jennifer Younger, the director of University libraries, and Steven Buechler, the chair of the mathematics department. The ceremony concluded with a reception and demonstrations by the library's staff of some of the facility's new computer research abilities. 
The new library, which has been open since the May of 2001, was first planned when the mathematics department made preparations to move from the Computing Center building to new offices in the Hayes-Healy Center. 
The new library is divided into various sections and fea­tures a large reference desk in the center of the facility. All of the library's journals are locat­ed in one area with books in another. According to Karen Lanser, the library's supervisor, the amount of storage space has been doubled. Some books and journals were added to the col­lection and relevant materials from the Hesburgh Library were also brought to the new library. 
The library also contains five small study lounges that have been used extensively by faculty and undergraduate and gradu­ate students, Ludwig said. 
"We had very little study space in the old building," said Lanser. 
A main improvement from the former library has also been increased technology applica­tions, including the addition of portals for ResNet access with laptops, according to Lanser. Wireless networking is also available anywhere in the library, she said. 
Contact Marie Fralish at 
tfralish@nd.edu. 
fan, be proud that this great university hired a really good man to be it's head coach," Bush said. 
He added that Condoleezza Rice, National Security Advisor and friend to Willingham is "constantly telling me to watch 
out for the Irish."  
Willingham  had  equally  
benevolent  words  for  the  
President.  

"There's no question about his leadership skills and his ability to project our country in the right direction," Willingham said after practice Thursday. "It's always a great opportunity and honor to have the chance to shake the hand of the man that leads this country." 
. Bush specifically acknowl­edged Ricardo Rios, a math and science teacher through the Alliance for Catholic Education program at Notre Dame as an example of putting other above oneself. Rios was also invited to ride in the motorcade with the President. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu 

Associated Press 
The Senate voted over­whelmingly Thursday to allow commercial pilots to carry weapons in the cockpit after the Bush administration dropped its opposition to the idea. 
The administration, though, said a number of safety and logistical issues needed to be resolved. 
In a letter to two senators, the White House recommend­ed giving pilots lockboxes for the weapons so they won't be left in the cockpit. It also said only pilots who volunteer to carry weapons and receive extensive training should be armed. 
Al Aitken, a pilot speaking for the 14,500-member union representing American Airlines pilots, which supports arming pilots, said the 87-6 vote meant the Senate recog­nized that all the security lay­ers the administration is putting into place are still inadequate. 
"The people who need the weapons as a last line of defense are the pilots," he said. 
"They're the only ones they're trying to keep the gun from," he said, adding that thousands of state and federal law enforcement officers trav­el on planes while armed. 
Until the early 1960s, feder­al regulations required pilots to carry guns when they flew a plane carrying U.S. mail, Aitken said. 
The heads of 21 airlines, which oppose the measure, sent a letter to each senator Thursday saying they wanted to discuss the idea of arming 
pilots with Congress and the administration. 
"It must be noted, however, that while we are spending lit­erally billions of dollars to keep dangerous weapons off of aircraft, the idea of inten­tionally introducing thousands of deadly weapons in to the system appears to be danger­ously counterproductive," the letter said. 
To address some of the air­lines' concerns, the adminis­tration suggested a "detailed, effective" training program be designed from scratch and tested before an estimated 85,000 pilots are allowed to carry weapons. 
The administration also warned the cost would be sig­n ifi cant -$900 million to start and $250 million annual­ly thereafter -and said there is no money now in the Transportation Security Administration budget to cover the expenses. 
How long it would take to arm the first pilot is a ques­tion that still has to be answered, said Robert Johnson, spokesman for the Transportation Security Administration. 
The letter from TSA chief James Loy was delivered to Senators Ernest Hollings, D­
S.C.. and John McCain, R­Ariz., as the Senate debated the measure that would allow all pilots to carry guns into the cockpit. Hollings is chair­man of the Senate Commerce and Transportation Committee; McCain is the committee's ranking Republican. 
"If there is to be responsible legislation establishing a pro­gram to allow guns in the cockpit, it must address the 
numerous safety. security, cost and operational issues," Loy wrote. 
Sen. Bob Smith, R-N .H., offered the amendment to the homeland security bill that would prohibit airlines and the federal government from barring armed pilots. 
"We prefer a more compre­hensive approach in our amendment, but are grateful for any efforts by the adminis­tration to roll the baLI down the field," said Smith's spokeswoman, Lisa Harrison. 
The chairman of the House Transportation Committee's aviation subcommittee, Rep. John Mica, R-Fla., said pilots should be armed at least until bulletproof cockpit doors are installed in all planes. The Federal Aviation Administration said Thursday that manufacturers and air­lines agree an April 9 dead­line to install the new doors can be met. 
Mica said the administration realized that the momentum in Congress favoring arming pilots is strong. The House passed a bill 310-113 in July to create a program that would train and arm some pilots who volunteer as special deputies. Hollings opposed the measure until it was amended to require that cabin doors be locked throughout the flight, which is the policy of the Israeli airline El Al. 
Transportation Undersecretary John Magaw, who headed the TSA until July, said in May he would not allow pilots to carry guns. Reinforced cockpits and armed air marshals provide enough protection against ter­rorists who try to take over an airplane, Magaw said. 
I] I El 
The Center/or Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
Ill 
and 
~l .~__ri_ne_l_m_ffl_ure_fe_r_ID_hi_ca_lB_w_m_~_s~_o_rl_~_id_e_~ 
Proudly Present 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Mr. Doug Ford (Retired) ChiefExecutive, Refining and Marketing for BP p.l.c. 
"Corporate Ethics-AValues Led Approach" 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
7:00 p.m. 
.Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
.... 
O
THE 

BSERVER 
USI 
ESS 
Friday, September 6, 2002 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page? 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se11tember 5 
Dow Jones 
8,283.70  '  -141.42  
lVASDAQ  
1,251.00  '  -41.31  
S&P500  
879.15  '  -14.25  
AMFX  
862.02  '  -0.29  
NYSE  
478.03  -6.00  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) -2.46 -0.56 22.l 
it!l1m:!lilil!ill1ll:tlllll!il1illllr~r~lll!:J,lll:iilii!!ll1ilill!illl111ll 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -6.21 -1.00 15.1 
~~~~:;:::i~~:;:::::i~:~ij~iii~i;t~ii;iiiii1;~;i;~~:~f=~;~~~ii[~iii:~:~~i:i1i:i:::i:ii~:~:li 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) -0.47 -0.47 88.4. 
IN BRIEF 
Asian share prices tumble down 
The barometer for Asia's main stock mar­
ket tumbled Friday amid renewed doubts 
about the American economy that are 
almost certain to derail Japan's shaky 
export-dependent recovery. 
The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average, the index for the Tokyo Stock Exchange, fell 
204.83 points, or 2.22 percent, to 9,017.29 at the end of morning trading. That was below its Wednesday close of 9,075.09 -its lowest close in 19 years. 
On Thursday, the Nikkei had been encour­aged by the overnight gain on Wall Street, closing up 147 .03 points, or 1.62 percent, at 9,222.12. It had been the first day of gains after seven straight sessions of declines. 
Two Airlines Adopt 'Use Or Lose It' 
Northwest Airlines and Delta Airlines on Thursday followed their biggest rivals by adopting a "use it or lose it" policy for non­refundable tickets, the low-priced seats typically bought weeks ahead of a flight. 
US Airways last week became the first major airline to throw out the one-year grace period for passengers with nonre­fundable tickets who miss flights. The Arlin•gton, Va.based carrier, which is restructuring itself in a bankruptcy pro­ceeding, said it wanted to make the cheap­est tickets less attractive in order to drive customers to buy higher-priced tickets with fewer restrictions. 
By the end of the week, American Airlines and Continental Airlines said they'd go along. And now, Northwest and Delta are joining in. 
"I just think it's got to be the dumbest thing they've ever done," said Kevin P. Mitchell, head of the Business Travel Coalition, a group that represents large corporate fliers. Mitchell predicts that rather than create revenue, the move will drive customers to low-fare airlines. 
Bush rejects corporate fraud 
. President won't tolerate banking scandals 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
SOUTH BEND 
In an effort to promote 
both national and economic 
security, President George 
W. Bush urged Congress to pass legislation to support his goals before a crowd of 5,000 that included Notre Dame representatives Thursday afternoon at the South Bend Regional Airport. 
Bush, who traveled to 
South Bend in support of 
congressional candidate 
Chris Chocola, referred to 
recent corporate accounting 
scandals, stressing that he 
would not tolerate people 
who try to "cook the books." 
"There's no easy money 
in America, just hard time," 
Bush said. 
Consistent with his usual 
rhetoric of freedom and jus­
tice, the President called on 
corporate criminals to take 
heed that their illegal 
actions would have conse­
quences. 
"We're going to find you and we're going to hold you accountable," Bush said. 
The President also focused on economic securi­ty and reminded the crowd of his $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax relief plan, saying it will boost employment. 
Bush proposed the estab­lishment of a terrorism insurance policy to help workers, particularly in the United States," she said to capacity to care and faith. there's darkness," Bush construction industry, who the audience. At the close of his speech, said, referring to people like are still affected by the WOO, Bush sin­Rios who serve others attacks of Sept. 11. who also gled out through their work. 
"Congress ought to help," teaches "There's no easy money No tr e Rios is currently serving Bush said, adding that $10 manage­in America, just hard-Dame as a math and science billion in construction pro­m e n t graduate teacher through the
time.··
jects have been delayed. classes at student Alliance for Catholic 
Dean Caroline Woo of t h e Ricardo Education program that Notre Dame's Mendoza University, George W. Bush Rios, who allows students to earn College of Business was one shared an w a s their master's degree in
U.S. president
of the local figures chosen anecdote selected education while teaching at to speak before Bush about her to ride in under-resourced U.S. arrived. childhood t h e Catholic schools. 
"I could not imagine that in Hong motor-one day I would be here to Kong and promoted educa­cade with the President. 
Contact Helena Payne at 
greet the President of the tion, an open economy, the "There can be light when 
payne.30@nd.edu 

Retailers report sluggish sales 
based apparel retailers were the "Consumers are still out there. 
Associated Press 
hardest hit. But even Wal-Mart They're buying cars, but they are NEW YORK Stores Inc., Target Corp. and Kohl's staying clear away from department Back to school sales failed to give Corp., which are considered largely stores and general merchandise the nation's largest merchants a recession proof, posted results stores," said Michael P. Niemira, much-needed lift, as parents fretted below Wall Street expectations. vice president of Bank of Tokyo­about job security and stock market "Consumers aM shopping only on Mitsubishi Ltd., noting a surge in 
volatility. need, and they are being rewarded spending on autos in August, fueled 
The question looming over the by waiting," said Richard Jaffe, an by a slew of no-interest financing industry now is whether consumers, analyst at UBS Warburg Securities. and rebates. who have helped buoy the economy •• Economic uncertainties have The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi 
by spending on homes and cars, will caused people to think twice about Ltd.'s same-store sales survey of 76 continue to penny pinch at the mall spending." chain stores was up 1.6 percent, in for the all-important holiday sea­Jaffe added that cool weather ear• line with Niemira's reduced projec­son. lier in August hurt apparel sales. tions. Niemira had projected a 2.5 
As retailers reported August sales When they have opened their wal­percent gain earlier last month. Thursday, it was evident that lets, it has been to answer the lure That compares with a 3.6 percent department stores and some mall-of automakers' generous incentives. increase a year ago. 

/ 
Friday, Septmeber 6, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Congregation o Holy Cross 
0
We only take the best. 
Welcome to our new Seminarians at Moreau Seminary and Old College. 









ANSWER~ THECALLY)y 
.•. ~i} .:~~~~: .. ~· 
' . ··.;.· ~:­
,.,.' 

Drew (;awrych, ND '02 
Leavenworth, KS 
Moreau Se111i11arr 



page 9 
Friday, September 6, 2002 The Observer . NEWS 
Folk artist Kennedy to perforlll 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Local artist John Kennedy will open the Shaheen Discovery Series on American Folk Music today. Kennedy will be playing original folk music with a number of songs celebrating local areas and history. 
"The tradition of folk songs, in my case Irish songs, is not just that of playing old music but of making new music as well and in new places," said Kennedy. 
John Kennedy grew up in a rich tradition of folk music. He believes it to be, "what people do at home, what we sing and create for each other. The tradition of folk songs is not just that of playing old music but of mak­ing new music as well." 
The theme for this year's discovery series came out of the creation of a new class on American Folk Music taught by Professor Clayton Henderson of the Saint Mary's music department this semester. 
The Shaheen Discovery Series start­ed in the mid 1990's as a lecture series and developed into a series highlighting young artists. As recently as last year, the Cultural Affairs Committee became involved in the program by selecting a genre of music and then scheduling the per­formers accordingly. 
Kennedy opened last year's Celtic Music series with his band, Kennedy's Kitchen. Richard Baxter, director of Special Events, described Kennedy as a "folk singer and Celtic musician rolled into one. His range is incredi­ble." 
Kennedy sees the music for his per­formance today to be an extension of the Irish music that he performed last year. 
"Many of the songs that I'll be doing . .. are songs about Indiana; narrative songs in the Irish tradition but rooted here as so many of the Irish them­selves," Kennedy said. 
In addition to Kennedy's perfor­mance at 7:30 p.m., Julie Henigan of the Notre Dame Irish Studies Program will be coming on Oct. 4 to perform folk music from Britain and Ireland, and Jean Ritchie a long standing icon in American folk music will perform on Oct. 18. Also, Kim and Reggie Harris will perform Oct. 30 presenting music and stories of the Underground Railroad. Sally Roger will be closing the series on Feb. 7 presenting a show for families with her guitar and mountain dulcimer. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail1407@saintmarys.edu. 
STUDENTS DEMONSTRATE FOR PEACE 


. ..··· 
Welcome to Notre Dame. ~; ,;.;-;,_. 
Your life just went from Oto 90. 
)  DIGITAL WALKIE-TALKIE  
)  SPEAKERPHONE  
)  WIRELESS WEB ACCESS  
)  AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER™ service  
)  lWO·WAV MESSAGING  

> JAVA1" GAMES & APPLICATIONS ) DIGITAL CELLULAR 
'i10c 
Wh"'tevev-twists D\\\J.. i-1..\Y'\\S co1le~e thvows "'t yol..\ -yol..\ C"'\\ J..e"'I. A'tl\.J.. Nextel CO\\\ help. We've ~o+-+-he '11\.ewest pho\\eS, coolest .Pet:'\tl..\v-es "'\\J.. Sweetest v-"'te p1"'\\S yol.\ \\eeJ.. .Pov-the v-lJ..e o-P yol.\v li..Pe. Yol.\'ve veMy-Svh\~ It. 
~ow's D\ -'ve"'t titMe to -'et Ne,c¼-e1: 
D\n Noh-e D"'""e si-l.\J..e\\ts D\\\.J. f>"'-v-e\\ts ~et-A 10%"~lSCOu.l.\~ O\\ D\\\Y ve,\t-e
s•oo· !':"
p1D\\\ D\\\J.. i 0-t-"-r D\\\)' pho\\e. 
\0 t>IA)': 
, Bo i-o '11\.exi-el.co~vish-st-L\~e\\t-. , c"'11 i-ol1-.Pv-ee 1-n1-s-o,-212,. -visit-J\)~ (OIMIML\\\\C"'t-io\\S t'\i-: 
I"31 lvo\\woo~ \)vive, Sol>.i-h Be\\~ 
574-24'3-'38 I8 
Agents raid Inedical Inar11uana farin 
Associated Press 
SANTA CRUZ, Calif. 
Federal agents raided a marijuana farm Thursday and arrested the owners, who helped write the state law legalizing medical use of the plants. 
Officers seized more than 100 marijuana plants, three rifles and a shotgun, said Richard Meyer, a spokesman for the Drug Enforcement Administration in San Francisco. 
Valerie and Michael Corral were arrested on federal charges of intent to distribute marijuana and conspiracy, he said. A spokesman for the U.S. attorney could not determine Thursday whether formal charges had been filed. 
"These are incredibly com­passionate people who've worked closely with law enforcement to help the sick and dying in our community," said Ben Rice, an attorney for the Corrals. "This is absolutely outrageous." 
The Corrals helped write the 1996 law that allows patients to grow marijuana for their own medicine. They work with local authorities to dispense their pot to people with doc­tors' recommendations to use marijuana. 
The farm about 15 miles 
north of Santa Cruz is known 
to local law enforcement, 
which have complied with 
state law rather than federal 
drug laws, said sheriff's 
spokesman Kim Allyn. 
"The DEA didn't tell us they did this. not before, and not after," he said. 
DEA agents have recently cracked down on high-profile medical marijuana advocates and distribution clubs and bypassed local law enforce­ment agencies that have con­doned them. 
--·· -------------­


Friday, September 6, 2002 
page 10 The Observer . DILLON PEP RALLY 2002 

KING CAMPUS SEE RED 

No football home opener would be complete without insults from the Big Red. Heres what the men ofDillon Hall brought to South Quad Thursday night at their annual pep rally. 
. 
photos by 
LISA VELTE 





Notre Dame, and more Importantly, DIiion Hall alumnus Joe Parker returned for a cameo appearance at the 2002 rally after his original appearance as "Crackhead Joe" In 1999 when "Blood, Blood, Blood made the grass grow." This year, Parker again broke plates -not to mention his own record for breakage and bloodshed. 
... 
Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
BRAZIL 
Nations discuss environment at oil summit 
The world's oil producers mit in Brazil held against the
Associated Press 
said they must do more to pro­backdrop of a possible U.S. tect the environment at a sum-attack on Iraq that could dis-RIO DE JANEIRO. Brazil 
MAYBE YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT Us. 
USDA "Prime" Steaks 
Dry Aged & Cut to Order. 
Exquisite Fresh Fish and Seafood. Wine Spectator Award of Excellence. Live Entertainment. Reservations too! 
We're EasternPacific Grille and Bar. Featuring the Fusion Cuisine of Chef Sean Garrett and his staff. 
Private Dining Rooms Available. 
. ~~[ruu[r>~«. fffl« 
grille & bar 
EASTERN PAClflC GRILLE AND BAR -501 NORTU NILES AVENUE -SOUTH BEND, IH 46611-514-Z33-BOO 

rupt oil supplies. 
More than 3,000 delegates from 59 oil-producing nations and companies opened the World Petroleum Congress Monday, amid pledges to safe­guard the environment, seek cleaner-burning fuels and reduce the gases blamed for global warming. 
"Oil companies have to con­tinuously seek out new, alter­native ways of doing business which will have the least impact on the environment," India's oil minister, Ram Naik, told the convention. 
Delegates were clearly try­ing to rid the industry of its image as an enemy of the environment. 
For the first time, environ­mental groups such as Greenpeace, Conservation International and the World Wildlife Fund were invited to the meetings. 
A recycling center for the tons of garbage produced by the congress was even set up at the site. 
Naik urged governments and oil companies to share "clean"technologies and redouble efforts to protect the environment. 
He said that India, with a market of nearly 1 billion peo­ple, has followed Brazil's lead in mixing gasoline with ethanol to reduce emissions of polluting greenhouse gases. 
Other delegates pledged to seek cleaner-burning fuels and reduce the gases blamed for global warming. 
''It is no longer possible for any of us to carry out our oil or gas exploitation activities without proper regard to the broader issues of environmen­tal protection," said Lew Watts, group managing direc­tor of Shell Sustainable Development and Latin America. 
But for some groups, the environment-friendly spin was simply for show. 
"I think it's greenwash."said Frank Guggenheim, executive director of Greenpeace in Brazil. 
"We are participating so they can't say we're against 
dialogue, but I don't think the people at the conference are serious about protecting the environment ... They talk about environment, but from the point of view of accidents, you have to be a little skepti­cal." 
Norwegian oil minister Einar Steensnaes said not enough has been done to implement the promises to protect the environment issued at the Earth Summit in Rio in 1992. 
A followup summit, in Johannesburg, South Africa, ends Wednesday. 
"Fossil fuels. at least for the next 20 or 30 years, will con­stitute the main source of energy in meeting increased global demand," Steensnaes said. "Coal, oil and natural gas all contribute in varying to degrees to ... increasing the level of greenhouse gases." 
"Ten years after the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, we once again need to address the links between energy and the environment," he said. 
An OPEC meeting on Sept. 19 in Osaka, Japan, is to decide future production levels for the oil cartel. 
Oil officials fear a conflict in the Middle East could disrupt supplies from the oil-rich region. Last week, oil prices rose to around $30 a barrel amid fears of a U.S. attack on Iraq. 
Other oil pro-ducers could raise output to cover the shortfall. 
Ali Rodriguez, the president of Petroleos de Venezuela, said Monday that Venezuela has the capacity to greatly increase its current oil output. 
But he said any additional pumping would depend on the decisions of OPEC. which opposes an increase in the quota system and is likely to maintain that standing at their next meeting. 
Among the delegates were energy ministers from Great Britain, Algeria, Canada, Cuba and Venezuela. Also present were top executives from oil giants such as ChevronTexaco Corp., ExxonMobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell. 
LOOKING TO BE , PARl. OF A GROUP? 
.,L 

.~ . -.,.:
• 
-
.. 
~-:· ··_ l;t • 
't~~~ 1 6,!.:.. f .. ,q-·· __ · •.
,:_,: Mi t'J,i,,tr'·,;_, -. · ,i:i_ .. ,__"i --~ i~~"' . .
... •,•'••' :••.•; ~ ,~r~ .. .'\.
~~~ ~~ 
!:·'.· r •:,·/: .,.., 
-.-~~ ' 
. ~ '\. :io:-J·•.......;·~ 
,.J 

AIR FORCE ROTC Make your decisionl Contad: 1Lt. Alan Acree@ 631-467 or acree.1@nd.edu 
page 12 
Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Campus Ministry 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
• 
Purdue Football Weekend September 7-8, 2002 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:30, 8:00, 9:30 & 11:00 am 

Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 13 
U-WIRE 
Koran controversy settled at North Carolina 
'IP 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better . 
Indiana and Michigan 
5 7 4/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 
Whether your next step is buying a new home or refinancing the one you have, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union offers some of the lowest interest rates around. There's never been a better time to see us for a fixed-rate mortgage. Plus, we offer first mortgages nationwide. Clearly, when it comes to home financing, nobody puts out the welcome mat like Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
5.'9.!;i;; 
a www.ndfcu.org GJ
E<J.W.""""'1\Hl'f 1:i:!i:\?:;.....::.:·Jr:·:·:::::·.:;···:·z::·:!;f:.....
Independent of the University LENDER . 
~ 

ByJULIA ZUCKERMAN 
Brown Daily Herald 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
After a summer-long contro­versy that thrust the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill into a nationwide debate over religious and academic freedoms, first-year students sat down in August to discuss an annotated translation of excerpts from the Koran. 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 
152 HURLEY BUILDING 
T: 631-5882 
F: 631-5771 
SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni 
Student Returnees 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 129 Hayes-Healy 6:00-7:30 p.01. & Wed.,Sept.18,2002 129 Hayes-Healy 4:45-6:15 p01. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 
Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall '03 and All Year 2003-04 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
UNC-Chapel Hill's decision to assign "Approaching the Qur'an: The Early Revelations" as summer reading for incom­ing students drew scathing opposition from conservative critics and heavy media atten­tion over the summer. 
The UNC-Chapel Hill Faculty Council issued a statement in support of academic freedom, but the UNC Board of Governors chose not to adopt a similar resolution. 
The state Legislature even got involved, threatening to cut funding for the school's sum­mer reading program unless UNC chose material that rep­resented all religions, the Chapel Hill Herald reported. 
The Family Policy Network, a conservative Christian policy group, filed a lawsuit against the school on behalf of three incoming students. In an op-ed published in USA Today in August, FPN President Joe Glover wrote that the school's 
assigning the book "constitutes 
religious indoctrination" 
because it contains passages 
from a religion's "holy text" 
and presents Islam in a posi­
tive light. 
A federal appellate court 
threw out the lawsuit just 
hours before students were 
scheduled to discuss the book, 
which was written by 
Haverford College Professor of 
Religion Michael Sells. The dis­
cussions went ahead as sched­
uled. 
Brown University Chaplain 
Janet Cooper-Nelson said she 
saw UNC-Chapel Hill's goal as 
"rais(ing) the general level of 
knowledge" in the student 
population. 
It would be questionable if "someone were up there trying to teach the Koran as a belief," she said. But in this case, the religious book represented a view into another culture, a perspective the UNC faculty viewed many students as lack­ing, she said. 
"Should we (educators). observing a great ignorance of Islam and stereotyping of Muslims, do something about it? Absolutely," she said. The fact that the topic in question is a religion doesn't make it any less worthy or appropriate for discussion, she added. 
"You can't really get an edu­
16 Inch 2 Topping "Big E" Pizza $8.99! ~ 
Hurry ......... Limited time only! 

Visa & Mastercard Accepted. 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to Subway) 
cation if it begins with the 
premise that there's some 
book or doctrine that's too 
dangerous for you," she said. 
Many UNC-Chapel Hill stu­
dents said they were glad they 
read the book, and that the 
debate about it was 
overblown. 
"We're at a liberal arts 
school that's supposed to open 
our minds. You're supposed to 
get new perspective," UNC­
Chapel Hill first-year Matthew 
Neidich told the New York 
Times. "You don't get new per­
spective by not trying to learn 
about new things." 
UNC student and Campus 
Crusade for Christ member 
Maggy Lampley praised her 
university's decision. 
"I don't believe that igno­rance of other religions is the guide that Christ set before us to follow," Lampley told the Times. 
The debate is not over yet. Another conservative group, the American Family Association, has vowed to pur­sue the original lawsuit, the school's newspaper reported. 

The University of Maryland also came under fire for its summer reading choice when it distributed copies of "The Laramie Project," a play about the 1998 murder of 21-year­j 
I 
ol d gay student Matthew 
l 

Shepard. I 
l
'i ,' 
' 
E")(+ta L4't-:-,e I,~ 



' 
page 14 Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AFGHANISTAN 
Afghan n1ass graves investigated 
the controversial deaths. cumbed to battle wounds and be limited to Dasht-e-Leili," U.N. Northern alliance comman­
Associated Press 
The U.N. officials held talks in disease and their deaths were mission spokesman Manoel de ders said they needed help to do the northern city with Dostum unintentional. Almeida e Silva told reporters in so, de Almeida e Silva said. 
KABUL, Afghanistan and other commanders from The bodies were later dumped Kabul. "They said they could offer
Warlords in northern 
Monday to Wednesday. Dostum into a mass grave at nearby The Boston-based Physicians some security to investigatorsAfghanistan told a visiting U.N. 
was not immediately available Dasht-e-Leili, according to wit­for Human Rights, the organiza­and witnesses, however. theydelegation that any inquiry into for comment. nesses and investigators for the tion that originally identified the also said they wold not he able
the deaths of hundreds of 
Northern alliance forces cap­U.S.-based Physicians for mass grave, went public with to guarantee full security and
Taliban prisoners last year 
tu red thousands of Taliban Human Rights. the information after letters to therefore would need interna­should also investigate alleged fighters during battles last year Dostum and other northern both the United Nations and tional assistance." 
Taliban atrocities, a U .N. 
in Kunduz as the Taliban regime alliance leaders say they have Afghan President Hamid Karzai De Almeida e Silva also saidspokesman said Thursday. 
was collapsing. been unfairly singled out and about the site were ignored. the United Nations wouldA three-man U.N. delegation Critics say hundreds of argue the international commu­After the grave was identified, increase its visits to the grave atvisited Mazar-e-Sharif after an Taliban soldiers suffocated to nity should look into alleged the United Nations conducted Dasht-e-Leili but he said theoffer last week by several north­death while being transferred in atrocities committed by Taliban preliminary investigations which world body does not have the
ern alliance commanders, 
unventilated metal shipping con­troops. they later suspended saying the means to give it "full protec­including powerful Uzbek war­tainers to a prison in Shibergan. "They all reiterated their will­Afghan authorities must first be tion." He said that was thelord Abdul Rashid Dostum, to Dostum admits that 200 prison­ingness to cooperate with an able to protect eyewitnesses responsibility of Afghan authori­cooperate with any inquiry into 
ers died, but says most sue-investigation provided that it not from reprisals. ties. 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
Arab TV to air interview with al-Qaida members

l 
sary of the attacks against the FBI's most-wanted terrorists and no comment because the pro­Federal prosecutors in Newl Associated Press World Trade Center and is believed to he at large in gram has not yet aired. York charged Mohammed in 
l I 
Pentagon. Afghanistan or nearby, a law Although Mohammed was 1996 in connection with the DUBAI, United Arab Emirates Al-Jazeera said the al-Qaida enforcement official told The born in Kuwait, officials there alleged 1995 plot. The State 
Arab station Al-Jazeera said members, Khalid Shaikh Associated Press in June. U.S. say he is a Pakistani national Department is offering a reward Thursday that it will broadcast Mohammed and Ramzi investigators believe and note that people born in of up to $25 million for informa­

i 
interviews with two al-Qaida Binalshibh, were interviewed Mohammed, working under bin Kuwait do not automatically tion leading to his capture. members who admit to helping recently at a secret location but Laden's leadership, planned qualify for citizenship. Al-Jazeera chief editor
the terror network plan and 
did not elaborate further. many aspects of the Sept. 11 Mohammed is accused of Ibrahim Helal told Thecarry out the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Binalshibh, a Yemeni believed attacks. working with Ramzi Yousef in Associated Press that the station 
The Qatar-based, pan-Arab to he in his late 20s or early 30s, U.S. officials regard him as one the first World Trade Center will mark the Sept. 11 anniver­
broadcaster, which drew world was a member of a Hamburg­of the highest-ranking al-Qaida bombing, which left six dead in sary by running "reports on howattention when it carried video­based cell led by Mohammed leaders still at large and believe 1993. He and Yousef, who is the attacks and the war affectedtaped interviews with Osama bin Atta, the Egyptian-born suspect­he is still planning attacks now in prison, also were accused the lives of the American andLaden, said the interviews would ed lead Sept. 11 hijacker. against U.S. interests. of plotting in 1995 to bomb sev­Afghan people, and investigativeair next Thursday as part of its Binalshibh remains at large. 
A State Department official eral trans-Pacific airliners head­reports on the attacks them­coverage marking the anniver-
Mohammed, 36, is one of the said the department would have ing for the United States. selves." 
-

f'f)(/1) 

.,,..,_,.K I~.lf.,K 'f.1/1~ 7UN1JlrY !!! '7tP-r. e,,­
~~U1l~Jl~tt 
Jf:IJIJ PM -'1:IJ(J PM 
.,tP1K/1Jlv1~ 
t:,g1,,:,:14..,+p.A,iQ~~f: t:-f:N-rf:~ 7-rU11f:N-r i,,QUN/f1 
fl/NG .,4 fllll:N1? * 


Friday, September 6, 2002 page 15 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Florida brothers' murder case wraps up 


Associated Press against being swayed by anger Chavis and parroted what he brothers had originally con­closing that the boys had no with Chavis. had coached them to say. fessed. motive to kill their father but "You don't like Chavis?" That included such gory All three defendants are fac­Chavis did. She said Chavis
PENSACOLA, Fla. 
Rimmer said. "Nobody likes details as being able to see the ing a mandatory penalty of life wanted to keep Terry King
A prosecutor urged jurors 
Chavis. Chavis is the kind of victim's brain through a hole in prison without parole if from finding out he was hav­
T,hursday to put aside any 
guy every-in his head convicted of first-degree mur­ing sex with Alex. 
sympathy for 13-and 14-year­
body wants and the raspy der. Rimmer argued the boys'
old brothers when deciding 
to hate. sound of his Earlier Thursday, Derek motive was to escape a con­
whether they beat their father "The boys· stories line 
What's lower last gasps. King took the witness stand trolling father and live with
to death with a baseball bat 
than a child up because the boys· "Everyone only to tell Circuit Judge Chavis.
last year. 
molester?" in this court­Frank Bell he would not testify He let them play video
The jury was to begin delib­stories are rehearsed. ,,
Firefighters room can in his own defense. games, stay up late watching
erating Friday whether Alex 
found the repeat those "Yes sir, it television
and Derek King are guilty of 
body of Terry James Stokes details," said was my deci­and smoke
first-degree murder. a verdict 
King, 40, on Alex King's lawyer James Stokes, sion," he said "Before I met Rick I was marijuana
that would send them to 
a recliner Alex's lawyer. in a clear, when they
prison for the rest of their straight but now I am
inside his "The boys' strong voice. went to his
lives. 
burning stories line His soft-spo­gay. " house after 
In an unusual twist, it is the 
home in up because ke n brother running
second trial in the same 
nearby Cantonment. the boys• stories are testified away from
killing. Convicted child moles­Alex King
The brothers confessed to rehearsed." Wednesday home 10
ter Ricky Chavis was also tried 
police a day after the murder, The boys changed their sto­that the broth­defendant d a y s
under a completely different 
but now say Chavis is the real ries more than four months ers took the before the
theory of the crime -that he 
killer. Rimmer argued the after the murder, telling a. blame because killing,
wielded the bat that killed 
boys were telling the truth grand jury that Chavis killed they wanted to Rimmer
Terry King. 
when they admitted the killing their father while they hid in live with Chavis and he had said.
The verdict reached last 
to sheriff's investigators. He the trunk of Chavis' car. The told them they would be exon­He also pointed to Alex's
week in his trial was sealed 
said their confessions are grand jury then indicted erated by claiming self­affection for Chavis, reading
until the King brothers' trial 
filled with the kind of detail Chavis, 40. defense because they are juve­from several love letters he 
ends. 
only someone who was there But Rimmer argued that niles. Both boys testified had written including one that 
On Thursday, prosecutor 
would have known. Derek swung the aluminum against Chavis last week. ended. "Before I met Rick I 
David Rimmer asked jurors in 
Defense lawyers contended bat while Alex urged him to Sharon Potter, one of Derek was straight but now I am 
his closing argument to guard 
the boys confessed to protect commit the killing, just as the King's lawyers, said in her gay." 
The WALL STREET and 
FINANCIAL SERVICES FORUM 
Monday, September 9, 2002 Mendoza College of Business Jordan Auditorium 
5:00-6:15 Financial Services Panel 6:30-7:45 Investment Banking Panel 7:45-8:30 Roundtable Discussions & 
Hors D'oeuvres will be served 
Financial Services  Investment Banking  
Aon  Banc of America Securities  
Bank One  Citigroup  
Jones Lang LaSalle  Deutsche Bank  
Northern Trust  Houlihan1  Lokey, Howard & Zukin  
Western and Southern Financial Group  Morgan Stanley  

Sponsored by the MBA Career Development Center and The Career Center 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, September 6, 2002 
page 16 
THE OBSERVER 
TM 1..,,,,,,..,/nu. 0.-, N_,,.,.,.., SnriJeJ N,,,,.. 0.-,,,,.,J s.;,.,M_,,, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CoNTR0LLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0....•.........631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63 l-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT ................................................. 631-5303 observer.vicwpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
V1Sit our Web site at http:llt1bsnver.nd.eJu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisuation of either institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the: authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policin shouM be direct• ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The CJb.e.....,, (USPS S99 2-4000) is publidv,,d Monday 1hrougl, Friday <"""J'< durin& c:nm and vacation pcriodi. A1ubicriprion IO The Oba,,IVcJ' ia $100 for one ac.adrmK ynr; SSS lo,, one ....,,..,.,_ 
The rn,.,,... is puoti,h,d ar: POSTMASTER 
024 Soud. Dininc H.U S...d ..ldra. corm;uocu to: No<n: D>m<, IN •6SS6-0779 Th<O~, 
Pfflodical ponagc paid ar Notte Dame r.o. Bo•Q 
and additional mailing offias. 024 Sou1h Dining H.Jl No<tt Dun.. IN 46SS&.0779 
The Ob,,c..., is• member of chc Aaoci•<cd r ..... All rq,roduction right. .,. ta<trvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Killin Turner Chris Federico Justin Krivickas Matt Lozar Sheila Flynn Joe Lindsley 
Viewpoint Scene 
Kurt Bogaard C. Spencer Beggs 

'i Graphics Lab Tech 
Andy Devoto Brian Pucevich 

Actions, not clothing, express unity 
Notre Dame football is about enthusi-The Shirt over rival football gimmicks. for the team. asm, school spirit and unity. Notre Schuster told the Senate, •"Ties for Student government, including the Dame football is not about, and should Ty' is a cute idea, but we need to be president of The Shirt Project, should not be about. arguments over specific unified as a student body. If we get dis-represent students and stand behind ways to appropriately express those tr:_acted wearing the ties, that hurts the them and their ideas. Whether students 
emotions. project, and I don't choose to demonstrate their school When junior Eric Bilinski otrrerver think any student wants spirit by wearing a shirt or a tie, stu­dent government should support their 
wrote a Letter to the Editor Edi •al to hurt the project." 

efforts, rather than try to thwart a stu­
encouraging the student It's not the 
1Jon 

body to wear ties at Manhattan Project; it's dent's plan to express his enthusiasm Saturday's game as a way to deciding what students for the team. show support for head coach Tyrone will wear for six Saturdays of the year. Schuster and the Senate should cer­Willingham. he intended students to Wearing a tie does not have to rival tainly promote sales of The Shirt -its wear the tie with the traditional football wearing The Shirt. In fact. the "Ties for proceeds go to worthwhile causes. But shirt. Ty" campaign shares The Shirt's goal: they shouldn't let school spirit end 
He wasn't persuading students to to unify the student body in its show of there. wear a tie in lieu of The Shirt. He support for the Notre Dame football Why suppress other expressions of wasn't advocating a boycott of The team. Wearing a tie as well as The Shirt spirit or demand that Senate squelch Shirt. He wasn't organizing a separate will not damage the unity Schuster other efforts? Wear The Shirt. and financial project to detract from The wishes to establish. If anything, an wear a tie, too. Wear whatever you Shirt's profits. addition to the ensemble will serve to want. 

Bilinski proposed an addition to The strengthen support for the Irish. After all, unity isn't about attire. Shirt, something that would show a bit Bilinski's initiative to organize a cam-Unity is about cheering for the team, more support for a new coach and an pus-wide movement was refreshing. A standing behind the coach and showing improved team. student, not a member of student gov-class and spirit as a student body. And 
But The Shirt president Courtney ernment, took the time to address the that's what Notre Dame football should Schuster told Student Senate student body and propose his idea for inspire in its fans, not a petty dispute Wednesday students should support uniting the fans and showing support over what to wear. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Anger over the Sept. 11 attacks must 
•
continue 

My family lost a very close, dear friend, my cousin, in the ter­adhere, were wantonly disregarded. Our friends, our family. rorist attacks on New York City on Sept. 11 of last year; he was our countrymen were murdered-2,819 of them. We must just months out of college. Now, as the calendar draws us clos­not continue as we are, bogged down in remorse and self~pity, er to the first anniversary of those attacks, and as I think about and the recurrent attempts to somehow justify the motivations the loss of my cousin Peter O'Neill and approximately 2,818 of the murderers. others that day. I think: where is the sense 
of national We must remember that they represent a militant anger? Do we fear anger, or feel guilty for feeling movement which drawn hundreds of thousands of angry? I am angry. supporters, or more, from the Middle East and 
There was no national tragedy last parts of the West. They openly proclaim hatred September; tragedies involve car wrecks, of the West as a whole, of Americans in par­train derailments and accidental plane ticular. They have acted on that hatred, and crashes. Those planes did not crash by have attempted to do so again and again. accident. They were flown into the Twin I do not presume to know the proper Towers, miles from my home; flown into future course of our war on terrorism; I the seat of our national defense agency; hope national debate on various levels nearly flown into another target in our will settle that as well as possible. I national capital. hope, though, that the national debate 
The last flight crashed because a few continues in a context of national anger, passengers had learned what was afoot for mass murders have been perpetrat­around the nation, and reacted with ed on our very shores. courage and anger. They told their We must not tire in our resolve for wives they would not allow another national self-defense; we must not grow human missile to hit its target. We, as a complacent in our short-term victories, 
nation, could learn from them. stagnant in grief, awed by foreign leaders 
We as a nation ought to be angry, just as telling us through our media that we need we as a nation were angry after the attack fear them. The only thing we have to fear is on our fleet at Pearl Harbor in 1941. We did our own fear. We must be committed. bold and not allow that anger to dissipate in the face of prolonged world war and repeated setbacks. We need to remember that the attacks ofSept. 11 constitut-Padraic McDermott ed not tragedy but mass murder. junior 
Civilians were targeted and killed. The rules of warfare to Morrissey Manor which our friends and critics rightly demand the United States Sept. 5 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 


'its long as war is regarded as wicked, it will always have its fascination. When it is
Do you feel safe 
in South Bend? 
looked upon as vulgar it will cease to be popular.,, 
Oscar Wilde 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com 
writer
and is based on 294 responses. 

.., . ~ THE 
OBSERVER 

Friday, September 6, 2002 
page 17 
Taliban John ... Ashcroft 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending the use of the flag 
I had a revelation over the summer. It was hard for me to accept but in reali­ty, it's completely undeniable. For as much as liberals are na'ive, lack busi­ness sense and always seek revolting levels of political correctness, at 
John Litle
least none of them are actively trying to undermine our country in the Frankly manner of John Obnoxious Ashcroft. At first I gave this man more than ample chance -after all, he is pro-life, and in today's political cli­mate that at least shows the ability to stand up for your beliefs and morals (something sorely lacking in the days of Reno). Time and experience have since changed my mind. 
But let's start from the beginning. This man lost an election to a dead man. This should have set off my warn­ing flags. If the people of Ashcroft's home state would rather have a corpse running things than him, it's a clear sign to the rest of us: avoid. Yet our fearless leader has chosen to throw him in the highest position of law enforcement in the country. So be it. 
Ashcroft's next big move was to com­pletely cover any statue in his year-old office that had exposed breasts or any such. I'd love to say that this was a sign ofjust how much respect he feels the bodies of his fellow Americans are worth ("Capture them, hide them away, and don't say another word about it") with the terrorists he seeks to steal 
but rather it's a reference to his ultra­every liberty we have left in order to 
fundamentalist faith. Now, I don't mean maintain ..security." 
to rock the religion boat here, as I've Secret trials of U.S. citizens (I don't 
seen more than my share of unintelli­care about those who aren't; they don't 
gent blind-to-faith Catholics, but in my share our rights). a TIPS program
mind, ultra-fundamentalist where every cable man and 
Christianity as funda­
mentalist Islam is to 
normal Islam. the library, denying 
Basically if you say the right of counsel that someone of to anyone suspect­
another faith is 
ed under the far going to hell, reaching patriot you're a danger act ... this isn't 
to everyone the United 
else. Ashcroft States he 
is the wants. He 
Mohammed 
wants East Omar of the Germany under United States. the Stazi. Ben Whoa, whoa. Franklin once 
Hold on, did I stated, "Those just say that? who would sacri­
Yes. I'll probably fice liberty for disappear from security deserve nei­campus tomorrow ther." John Ashcroft's 
and be locked away 
to anyone of where I am. I suppose I had better support that some of the constitution does not apply statement. Anyone who knows me, or during times of war. This is inextrica­
has read my columns in the past, will bly and undeniably wrong. This is not 
be well aware of how much I support to say I'm one of those bleeding-heart, the war on terrorism and our current ignoramuses whining about the treat­administration, but Ashcroft goes too ment of the Taliban in Camp X-Ray. far. He is our Omar because, united They're not American citizens. Their 
rights stop at bread and water as far as 
I'm concerned. What bothers me is the 
ability of Ashcroft, and the willingness 
of Americans, to sacrifice the rights 
and privileges that men are in 
Afghanistan dying to protect for the 
sake of a nameless, government­
ensured security. 
Republicans constantly whine about 
how liberals create ..big government.·• 
but what government is bigger than 
one on which you blindly depend for 
your safety and security? I'm sorry. but 
I just don't trust any politician to be a 
protector of my rights, so I resist any 
efforts to put my rights in their inept 
hands. 
Islamic terrorists hate us precisely because of the rights we have. Giving them up in order to fight terrorism is the same as surrendering to their demands. With men like John Ashcroft working for us, we needn't worry about the Taliban working against us. Get rid of Taliban John ... Ashcroft. 
John Litle. a senior MIS major. is a Libertarian and has been known to state an opinion from time to time. His childhood was typical: summers in Rangoon, luge lessons. In the spring, he'd make meat helmets. When he was insolent. he was placed in a burlap bag and beaten with reeds. Pretty stan­dard. really. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Flyingflag shows dedication to humanity 
This letter is in response to Anna Nussbaum's Sept. 4 letter. 
We agree that the attacks of Sept. 11 were crimes against all humanity, but that does not discount that they were crimes against America. The reason that other nationalities were victims in the attacks is because they had come to America to be involved in the freedoms and opportunities in the capitalistic society we enjoy, and the tragedy is as much ours as it is anyone's. 
It seems that your argument stands on a misrepresentation of what the American flag actually is. Every Memorial Day, one of our families hangs a flag given t.o them after the death of a grandfather and WWII veteran. The flag is not a celebration, as you called it, of his death or the deaths of anyone remembered for their service on that holiday. It is a show of solidarity in the face of opposition and conflict. It is a show of how we will not give way to the violations against humanity you cited. It is a show of how in terrible times and in glorious times, we have managed to push this country and its people forward to the life we are so privileged to have today. 
Nussbaum must come to an understanding of what this symbol truly is and not be so quick to judge other's intents. 
Regarding humanitarian efTorts, the United States has given more money, more manpower, more food and more diplomatic effort to the suffering and war~torn nations of the world than any other country. ever. We'd like to think that flying the American flag shows some empathy for these causes as well. 
You said, "Patriotism is no antidote for hatred," but what better antidote could there be to hatred than love? And what is patriotism but love of one's country and fellow people? Although America has committed wrong, just as every country, we are still the greatest experiment in freedom in the history of humanity. 
Patriotism and solidarity are, in fact, the exact opposite of the hatred that drove the attacks of Sept. 11. Flying the flag expresses our continued dedication to humanity. 
David Belceyk 
David Baker 
seniors 
Sc. Edward's Hall 
Sept. 5 
Balance U.S. blunders with achievements 
Those who know me will verify that I am a staunch critic of many areas of American life. I am an advocate for socialist measures and gun control. I find nothing inherently evil with legal homosexual unions. I feel nauseat­ed when I have to choke down the 20th play­ing within the hour of Nelly's "Hot in Herre" over the radio (it's no accident that the Midwest is notorious for terrible rap). And recently, I have been relatively outspoken on why attacking Iraq is absolutely moronic, both on moral and strategic grounds. 
And you know the best part? I can be per­fectly vocal about every one of the above views without fear of governmental retalia­tion. Hell, I could burn a flag on the Capitol steps and be well within my rights. And not just myself -everyone living in America enjoys these same basic, albeit important, freedoms. Which is why I was particularly taken aback by Anna Nussbaum's Sept. 4 let­ter entitled "Think twice before hanging the flag." 
I find a few particular ironies in Ms. Nussbaum's article. First, does it strike any­one besides me as odd that in the very coun­tries in which she claims "murder on the part of our government" has been committed, she would have been either imprisoned or shot for expressing her anti-nationalistic views in print? Or that if she even attempted to mount her soapbox under the Taliban rule in Afghanistan she would have been stoned to death? In her America-is-evil rhe!oric she takes for granted the fact that she can legally express those very viewpoints. 
But another, more subtle irony. is that she condemns America for wrong acts it has com­mitted, yet is gung-ho for allegiance to Christianity. For those who are unfamiliar with the last millennium of history, allow me to recap some of Christianity's greatest hits: the Inquisition, the Crusades, imperialism of three continents and slaughter of the natives living there, moral support of slavery. ousting of the Jews from Spain, neutrality during World War II, Jerry Falwell and a slew of sex scandals (and I don't just mean the recent one in the Catholic Church -the term nephew originally meant "son of a celibate clergyman" during the Middle Ages, and the definition still exists in some dictionaries today). I think this will suffice, although I could go on. 
My point in bringing up Christianity's blun­ders throughout history was not to advocate thinking twice about going to Mass, but rather to prove a point. Human institutions inevitably commit serious errors by virtue of the fact that they're human. Our responsibili­ty, then, is to judge those institutions not on the basis of their blunders, else we would be forced to condemn the whole lot, but rather for what they stand as a whole. 
Christianity is not about televangelists, tor­ture and intolerance, but faith, hope and love. Similarly, the United States is not about war and murder, but freedom and respect of those who are different. 
And no matter how many bombs our gov­ernment drops, no matter how badly mistak­en its policies are, no matter how much it errs, I, and I hope others as well, will still wildly wave Union Jack, not because I con­done America's failures. but because I love its principles. I do not state it lightly or as a plat• itude when I say that we live in the greatest country on earth. If nothing else, at least we have the right to say otherwise. 
Brodie Butland sophomore St. Edwards Hall Sept. 5 

~HE
vnSERVER 
on 
page 18 Friday, September 6, 2002 

are some of the newest looks for both 
By EMILY FORD 
men and women. Scene Writer 
What to wear, what to wear? 
Men
Perhaps this is not the most pressing issue of your day. but as the seasons change, you get a new chance to pass Runway review on your pajama pants (not permanent­Trends usually originate straightly, of course) and step into something from the drawing boards of world­a tad more stylish. This fall is no dif­renowned designers. The general con­ferent. You don't have to fly to Milan cept of Fall 2002 to view the latest 
men's collections is 
and greatest in fash-"Men in Black." ion. All you need to Prada's fall collec­do is look around "The more youthful, tion showcased clas­campus to see the 
nontraditional designers sics with a twist. 
emerging fall trends. 
Crisp white-collared
are making a lot of
The first day of 
shirts and black class is often the funkier designs for men. •• tuxedo jackets were best day to notice topped off with snug
those with fashion nylon skullcaps in
Priscilla Gallagher
prowess before they light blue. revert to their trusty Nordstrom's shoe sales associate If you'd rather not sweats. If you would 
cloak yourself in 
like to show your 
complete darkness,
professors and fel­try the Prada look of low students that you can consistently a black pea coat. slim-legged slacks 
look like a productive member of soci­Additional accessories
and red shoes for a splash of color. 
ety rather than a couch potato, here The best way to break in new
Ralph Lauren also went back to basics 
trends is to incorporate differentwith black and accessories into your currentwhite, but added 
look. According to Parrish, thick
urban attitude 
leather belts with oversized (notwith poorboy hats huge) buckles and a leather or
think beret 
corduroy poorboy hat are subtle,meets golf cap. 
but sophisticated ways to update a T-shirt and jeans. Messenger
The ins and outer­
wear bags are still a mainstay and a sleeker option compared with the
If this haut cou­
traditional backpack.
ture is simply too avant-garde, just delve into depend­Out in the cold able denim. Denim If there's a chill in the air, cor­is huge this fall duroy and denim jackets create with emphasis on smooth lines and are not exces­black denim for sively heavy. When tho tempera­men, according to ture starts to drop, ditch your Troy Parrish, down coat for the time being. Store Merchandise Parrish said a more stylized win­Manager of Gap on ter coat is the sherpa jacket, Michigan Avenue which comes in denim, corduroy in Chicago. If you and canvas. Sherpa is a white plan on mixing knubby, insulating material that your jeans with a can provide warmth without the denim jacket, you bulk. The pea coat, though a clas­don't have to per­sic every season, is au currant 

fectly match their this fall. It's worth investing in Pea coats are in for both men and women this year., 
shades. The goal is one because it works well with shorter pea coats. "casual cool," not almost anything from sweaters to compulsive coordi­suits. Cole's "Mount Kilimanjaro" boot in 
nation. burgundy. It's always a 
If the shoe fits 
good idea to have 
Fall footwear allows you to step out 
wardrobe staples 
in comfort as well as style. According 
Women
like well-made T­to Parrish, Chic tennis and flat-soled shirts in your clos­
shoes can bring an outfit together. et. Parrish said Priscilla Gallagher, Sales Associate in Designer duds that in addition to Nordstrom's Shoe Department in The Fall 2002 women's collections the usual autumn Oakbrook, Ill. thinks that one of the are more eclectic than the men's, colors like camel, top shoes for spring, a Cole Haan mule exploring unique cuts and colors of forest green and with Nike Air technology, will also be traditional pieces. Prada took a black, red is the T­popular this fall. romantic look and gave it an edge by shirt and sweater "The more youthful, nontraditional mixing a black tea-length flowing skirt color for this fall. designers are making a lot of funkier with a fitted camel leather jacket. Deep burgundy designs for men," Gallagher said. Ralph Lauren explored feminine mas­and merlot are If you're looking for a shoe that's culinity with snug suits, crisp, white good ways to wear less corporate and more college, try collared shirts and black ties, topped the trend if bright Bacco Bucci's "Patrick" oxford, a hip­off with poorboy hats. Donna Karan red is a bit much per take on the traditional shoe in red dove into fall with deep burgundy for you. and grey leather, or Heaction Kenneth long-sleeved dresses with sheer over­




AFP PHOTO 

·Models above show off Ralph Lauren's line of 
topped off with poorboy hats. Donna Karan dove into fall with deep bur­gundy long-sleeved dresses with sheer overlays. Yves Saint Laurent contin­ued the hippie/bohemian theme with a daring twist: a black peasant top with revealing vertical slits. 
Trends in outerwear 
Knee-length skirts or ones that hit just above the knee _are big_ in d~nim this year. Go for a Jean skirt with a yellow or brown wash instead ?f the traditional stone wash for a vmtage flare. Pair it with a white tank top and colored bra with the straps peeking out or, a white dress shirt for a more professional look. 
If you want to sport a skirt, but want softness, try one in sweat material with a drawstring waist. If you prefer 
t 0 
keep your legs covered, you can hang on to your peasant blouse from sum­mer and wear it with low-rise jeans. Gap offers a pair with a Long and Lean fit that is slimming for many women from sizes 4 to 12. Cuffed trousers, especially in pinstripes, are also making a comeback, getting a "leg up" on the masculine style seen on the Fall 2002 runways. 
Additional accessories 
Thick belts with fringe provide 
punch to a simple outfit. Parrish said 
that brown belts are entering the 
scene this fall, but they don't have to 
be matched to brown shoes, dispelling 
the popular misconception that 
footwear and belts must always be the 
same shade. Scarves can double as a 
belt and are a great way to recycle 
those pashminas from seasons past. 
Long scarves are the hip headband 
and are perfect for those summer 
haircuts in the growing-out stage. 
Don't precisely match them to your 
ensemble; instead, choose a color or 
pattern to express your individuality. 
The poorboy hat is extremely popu­
lar and it's a great way to camouflage 
bed head. Turquoise, the stone of 
summer, is still going strong and looks 
great with fall colors like chocolate brown and camel. Rings with slightly enlarged gemstones in rich autumn hues like amber and garnet are subtle ways to reflect the change in leaves in your outfit. 
To have and to hold 
Hobo bags big enough to carry all your purchases from the bookstore are must-haves. Coach's new "Ergo Collection" gives a more structured form to the hobo style and comes in saddle, black, red and white. If you don't want to tote a treasure chest of a purse, this fall's clutches provide styl­ish storage for your lip gloss and stu­dent ID. Prada displayed a gorgeous emerald green satin clutch in her Fall 2002 collection. 
If you want something a tad larger 
and less expensive than the Prada clutch, the crescent bag could be for you. Furia has a brown suede version called "fly" and Banana Republic has the half-moon handbags in tweed, suede and leather. 
If the shoe Fits 
Before you run to the nearest mall to purchase the latest items for fall, it is important to keep in mind which styles flatter you and what your personal tastes are. Find a few key pieces that can easily collabo­
rate with your exist­
Red shoes, not ..For women, I would 
ing clothes. Don't
Dorothy's ruby 
suggest a shorter pea coat simply buy a trendy
slippers, but rich 
rather than a longer one. pair of shoes only to
burgundies are 
have to buy a trendy
red-hot right now. there's more than one 
outfit to match.
Leather shoes that 
option this year. ·• If you're leery of
lace up the leg are 
leaving your usual
great with the knee 
look behind, acces­
length skirt this Troy Parrish 
sories can ease the
season. Stuart Gap store merchandise manager 
transition to a trend.
Weitzman created a dressy pump that ties above the ankle. If your tootsies can take it, pointed boots and pumps are sharp completions to jeans and cuffed pants. According to Gallagher. pumps with more delicate heels and rounded toes are also en vogue this fall. The spring and summer pointed toe slingbacks can be strapped on into fall. Though shoes have been models of simplicity for the past few seasons, this fall, shoes will be adorned with bows, buckles and contrast stitching. 
"Th.ere's going to be a lot of orna­mentation on shoes," Gallagher said. 
Out In the cold 
This fall, the pea coat is great to bundle up in for women as well as men. Even better, women don't have to purchase the standard mid­thigh or mid­calf version this season. 
..For women, I would sug­gest a shorter pea coat rather than a longer one. There's more than one option this year," Parrish said. 
If you define yourself as more funky than formal, try a hip-length coat in faux fur, which Parrish fore­cast to be pop­ular this sea­son. 
If it takes you a little extra time in the morning to put all 
the trendiest in fall fashion together, at least you'll arrive to class fashion­ably late. 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@saintmarys.edu 


' 
\ 


toor ,IJ 1~drn5,, 
t (' '"'"' 
Friday, September 6, 2002 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Phillies defeat Expos be£ ore small crowd 
Wolf's scoreless-inning remaining, while St. Louis has to be frustrating." Marlins left fielder Kevin 
Associated Press 
Peavy gave up four hits with Millar said. "To see the storiesstreak ended at 27 when he 23 games left. 
gave up Vladimir Guerrero's "Certainly when you're in the a career-high nine strikeouts, brings you back -it's a realityMONTREAL 
solo homer with two outs in position we are in, you just including getting Berkman check."
The Montreal Expos' atten­the first. need to win games," Houston three times. Mets fans continued theirdance problems hit an all-time 
Abreu hit a solo homer off manager Jimy Williams said. Miller pitched out of a one­recent trend of prodding thelow. Javier Vazquez (8-13} in the "We got everything we needed out bases-loaded jam in the plodding Trachsel to "Throw
Before the smallest crowd in first and added his 19th shot today with a great pitched sixth when he retired Kory the ball!" in the first inning,
Olympic Stadium history, 
leading off the eighth. He led game and clutch hits." DeHaan on a forceout at home but cheered him as he got his
Bobby Abreu homered twice 
off the fourth with a triple and Tom Gordon, Billy Wagner and Gonzalez on a groundout. final out of the night, a hardand tripled as the Philadelphia scored on Burrell's double to (4-2} and Octavio Dotel com­The Padres threatened in the comebacker with runners onPhillies avoided a four-game put the Phillies up 2-1. bined with Miller on a seven­first after a leadoff single by first and second to end the sev­sweep with a 4-1 victory over hitter for the Astros' 10th Ramon Vazquez and a one-out
All of Wolrs complete games enth.
Montreal. 
shutout. The three relievers
have come in his last four walk to Ryan Klesko. But Trachsel (9-10) got 13Players' voices could be 
allowed just one hit over the Miller escaped when he got
starts -all victories. He groundball outs to win for the
heard over the sparse and 
final four innings as Wagner
worked 3 5 of the 36 innings in Nevin to hit into an inning­first time in five starts despite
quiet crowd, announced as 
pitched 1 2/3 innings for the
those starts. ending double play. allowing just seven earned2,134 -which represents tick­win.
"That's awesome, especially runs over 28 innings. He hasn'tets sold. The actual attendance 
The Padres were shut out for 
the way the game is played allowed more than three
appeared to be closer to 1,000 the 14th time this season, tops Mets 4, Marlins 1 
now," Bowa said...He's been
people. in the NL. Steve Trachsel has repeated-earned runs in any of his last 
phenomenal. He's what an ace nine starts but is 3-3.
'·To me, it felt like a 'B' game Jose Vizcaino led off the 11th ly given the New York Mets
does. He saves your bullpen,
in spring training, a nine with a single off Jonathan opportunities to win and He gave up a run in eight
keeps you in the game, and
o'clock game," Phillies manag­Johnson (1-1). Craig Biggio wasn't about to change his innings of a 1-0 loss to 
wins against a really good hit­Philadelphia last Saturday.
er Larry Bowa said. attempted a sacrifice bunt approach.
ting lineup. He's starting to
The previous smallest crowd down the first-base line, but His patience paid off. He scattered six hits while 
spoil us." 
since the team moved into Johnson threw high to first Trachsel allowed a run in walking three and striking out Olympic Stadium in 1977 was base for an error. seven sharp innings as the four. 2,803 for a weekday game Astros 5, Padres O Mike Holtz then allowed a New York Mets beat the "The governor came in (to 
the clubhouse) and said 'Are
against St. Louis on Sept. 27, Jeff Bagwell stepped up at an single to Lance Berkman to Florida Marlins. 1984. important time for the Houston load the bases and was Jeromy Burnitz and Ty you ready to go?"' Trachsel 
"You could hear everything," Astros. replaced by Doug Nickle. Wigginton hit back-to-back said. I said TU be locked in." Phillies catcher Mike Bagwell's RBI single snapped Bagwell grounded a single to homers for the Mets, who have Trachsel had runners on Lieberthal said. "It was funny. a scoreless tie in the 11th as left field to score Vizcaino and won three in a row since set­base in six of his seven innings 
It was like a golf or tennis Houston broke out with five give Houston a 1-0 lead. Mark ting an NL record by losing 15 but managed to get out of each match where everyone is quiet runs in the inning for a victory Loretta added a sacrifice fly straight home games. jam unscathed. until the ball is hit." over the San Diego Padres. and Hunter's triple put the "He has been our most con-"Part of my success is mak­
The franchise low is 2,107 on Brian Hunter added a bases­game out of reach. sistent pitcher," Mets manager ing quality pitches from the Sept. 7, 1976, in the team's loaded triple to cap the inning "To shut them out for 11 Bobby Valentine said. "He had stretch." he said. eighth and final season at as the Astros pulled within innings and not come through a great split and a good fast­Armando Benitez pitched the Jarry Park, the Expos' first 41/2 games of first-place St. with a win is tough," Padres ball." ninth for his 30th save, his first home after joining the National Louis in the NL Central. The manager Bruce Bochy said. Playing their final home at home since July 28. League in 1969. Cardinals were idle on The Astros had the go-ahead game before Sept. 11, the Mets With one out in the second, 
"I can't say that it's not frus­Thursday. run thrown out at home in the held a pregame "Night of Burnitz hit his 14th homer and trating, but the fans have been . "We had to win today," ninth inning when Biggio tried Remembrance" to honor the Wigginton followed with his good all year," Expos catcher Bagwell said. "With so few to score from second base on,. rescue and recovery workers fourth off Brad Penny (6-5). Michael Barrett said. "It's a games left, every game just Bagwell's single. .. who tirelessly labored at the, li0.wiis the seventli tirile this day game, middle of the week gets that much more impor­But Cesar Crespo's one-hop World Trade Center site after season the Mets hit back-to­and I understand why it would tant." throw from left field caught the terrorist attacks. back homers. Burnitz and be difficult to make it out. Wade Miller kept the Astros Biggio, who was blocked at New York Gov. George Pataki Edgardo Alfonzo did it School's started back but we in the game with seven shutout home by catcher Wiki addressed the crowd during Wednesday night. try to stay positive. Even innings. But he was matched Gonzalez. the 20-minute ceremony. Burnitz hadn't homered in though it's 2,000, it's 2,000 by Jake Peavy, who held Miller constantly pitched out Between innings, the Mets consecutive games since April more than zero." Houston scoreless through of trouble, stranding 10 run-showed brief interviews with 12-13 against Montreal. 
Randy Wolf (11-7) allowed seven innings. ners. Miller, who has won a the honorees and manager "He's had good swings in his five hits in pitching his third "That was a very intense career-high nine straight deci-Bobby Valentine and John last two games," Valentine complete game of the season. game," Hunter said. sions, allowed six hits. He Franco, and clips of the said. 
"One time. I was on the "Whenever you can win a struck out seven and walked cleanup effort. Each clip The Mets made it 3-0 in the mound and I heard (left fielder game when runs are tough to five -two intentional. received a rousing ovation third when Roger Cedeno led Pat) Burrell yelling, 'Come on, come by, it's a big win. For us, "(Miller) threw well and used from the Shea Stadium crowd off with a double and scored Wolf!"' Wolf said. "There's no it's even more important his defense," San Diego's Phil of 31,211. on Mo Vaughn's single. way I should hear him right because we have still some Nevin said. "But any time you "Once you get between the Penny gave up five hits and there. That's how quiet it work to do." have that many guys on base lines you compete, but the cer­did not walk a batter in six was." The Astros have 22 games and don't score any, it is going emonies were tremendous," innings. He struck out seven. 

I 'J I  CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
$250 a day potentiaVbartending.  1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee.  B&B LODGING w/alumni family for  All Notre Dame vs Michigan State  3 MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED.  
Training provided 1 ·800-293-3985  Excellent Condition $12,000. 631­ ND/SMC events, football week- football tickets for sale at 517-351­ Seats can be separated.  
NOTICES  ext. 556  7829.  ends, JPW & graduation. 574-243­ 1992 or go to:  
2628 or garyb@mvillage.com  www.JamestheTicketman.com  Need many tickets(6)for BC game.  
WANTED: Notre Dame vs Michigan  MAC G3 computer 300 mhz; 6g hd;  Call Brian at 4-0881  
CJs Pub See whats happening  tickets Date: Sept. 14, 2002 Need  192 mg memory; monitor $600; call  All size homes available for 2003­ Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­ 
www.cjspub.com  tickets for a special anniversary sur­ 631-9388,  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  8048 or astrog999@aol.com  
prise.  www.mmmrentals.com  
l i ) 11 11 r,()I ,  Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable www.sunsplash­tours.com 1-800-426-7710 LOST & FOUND  Please call John Jacob Phone # (814) 893-5701 ND family looking for babysitter in home-Tues. 3-6pm AND/OR Thurs. 5-Spm. Some flex. Great kids, good pay. Call Michelle 233-2921.  Nissan Sentra 94 XE, beige, auto, mint condition, 81 k mi, $4250, 273-1714 FOR RENT  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. Awesome! We have a 2 bedroom 2 bath apartment available now at College Park Condos on Bulla. Celebrate Junior or Senior living at its best. Call Patti 235-7234.  Needed: Large quantity of Stanford tickets for reunion. Please help. 289-8048. Need 2 or 4 GA tix to home games. 276-8507. Call 288-28n after 5. Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich. game. 255-8256.  PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly  
Housemate in 3 bdrm house in a  WANTED: ND tickets· HIGHEST  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
quiet nbrhood. close to campus.  Room in Home for rent. $400.  PRICES PAID 251-1570  
FOUND: Set of small keys between  $350/mo incl all util. Call Niki 574­ Utilities incl. 8 min. to campus. Furn  Closing Time? Ha! I wish it was  
BP & Farley. Call 4-4225.  287-7869.  or unfurn. Jacuzzi.  TICKETS  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280  closing time.  
Call Donna 255-4737.  Two losses in a row. What a bunch  
We need Michigan tickets! Call 4­ ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  of losers. Give me the Irish against  
FOR SALE  Available immediately -Fall sernes­ 2899 or 256-5633.  SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  the world.  
WANTED  ter only -2 BR cottage five min from campus. Dave 243-5353.  For Sale: single football tic for  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT- Advice for the weekend: learn how  
91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal,  Purdue and Ml. Call 233-3618 after  ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  to tie a tie. Oh, and watch out for  
clean, 1-owner, very good condi- Furnished rooms for rent in a spa­ 6.  undercover officers. They're  
BENCHWAAMERS SPORTS  tion. $4200. 277-0189.  cious comfortable home. Includes  Philadelphia-area alum needs one  sneaky.  
LOUNGE 236 So. Michigan Needs  kitchen privileges, washer/dryer,  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  ticket for U. of Michigan game. Cau  
bartenders, DJ and promotional  large one-bedroom condo for sale.  NC, internet, quiet reading rooms,  check our prices. 273-3911.  John 610-688-171 O  I know who I want to take me home.  
people.  One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly  swimming pool and patio. 2 miles  
r• r: i-'  232-0022.  remodeled. Fully equipped. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu  from campus. $330 month. Call Tom at 574-243-4749.  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL JACK 67 4-6593.  PURDUE TICKET for sale. Student section, standard price.  And as usual...YOUR MOM ...l'm out  
fl,/ j'I  
[  -­ 
r  

Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

MLB 

Owners ratify labor deal by 29-1 vote ­

Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Baseball owners approved 
their new labor contract quickly 
and overwhelmingly, voting 29­
1 to ratify the deal negotiators 
struck last week to avert a 
strike. 
The New York Yankees, the 
team that stands to lose the 
most, voted against the agree­
ment, which ensures labor 
peace until December 2006. 
Approval by the executive board 
of the union is considered cer­
tain. 
·Tm not going to suggest to 
you today that there are not 
clubs with very different views, 
but at some point you have to 
come together." commissioner 
Bud Selig said after the two­
hour meeting, flanked by his 
chief negotiators, Bob DuPuy 
and Rob Manfred. 
"I told you last Friday I was a 
Yogi Berra theorist -'It ain't 
over until it's over.' It's over." 
But baseball's turmoil might 
not be. 
The Yankees are considering a lawsuit, and owners must resolve the uncertain status of the Montreal Expos, who could try to move to Washington or another city by next season. Expos president Tony Tavares wants to know within 10 days whether the team will stay or explore a move. 
Selig had spent thousands of hours on the telephone with owners to develop a consensus for the labor agreement, and he approved the final moves made by his negotiators last week. The near-unanimous vote was a sign of support he has among 
the owners. 
"I'm in Mayor Richard J. 
Daley's hometown. They'd have 
been pleased with the result, 
and I'm very pleased with the 
result," Selig said. 
The Yankees, who generate 
the most money in baseball. 
estimate the annual amount 
they give up to other clubs will 
increase from $28 million in 
2001 to between $50 million 
and $55 million next year. The 
team's lawyers have been exam­
ining grounds for a lawsuit. 
Yankees president Randy 
Levine declined comment after 
the meeting. 
"There's absolutely no basis 
for any challenge to the agree­
ment whatsoever," said DuPuy, 
baseball's chief operating offi­
cer. 
Kansas City Royals owner 
David Glass said during the 
meeting that the agreement was 
only a start to reforming base­
ball's economics, according to 
one baseball official at the ses­
sion, who spoke on condition of 
anonymity. 
"It doesn't solve things, but it improves them," Glass said ,.,,, before leaving the hotel at O'Hare International Airport. "It makes things better. but not where we'd like to be. The main thing is we didn't have a work stoppage. That's the big plus." 
Negotiators agreed to the deal Friday just 3 1/2 hours before the first game that would have been affected by a strike. Since the last deal without a work stoppage in 1970, baseball had been disrupted by five strikes and three lockouts. 

hypnotist  hypnotist  hypnotist  
hypnotist  hypnotist  hypnotist  
hypnotist  hypnotist  hypnotist  

saturday september 7 10 pm Washington hall 
e 







Friday, September 6, 2002 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Rodriguez first to 50 home runs in 11-2 win 


Cleveland, allowed four runs The Blue Jays added two runs the year in the fourth inning and Drew Henson, the former
Associated Press 
and five hits in five innings to in the eighth inning on RBI sin­tied the game with his 12th Michigan quarterback and con­earn the win. gles by Jayson Werth and Wells. homer in the sixth. Phelps' other sidered the Yankees third base•BALTIMORE Miller (7-4) gave up two runs multihomer game came exactly man of the future, made hisAlex Rodriguez hit two home Blue Jays 5, Red Sox 4 and five hits in seven innings to a week ago against the New major league debut as a pinch­runs to become the first player 
Josh Phelps hit two home runs get the win. After allowing a York Yankees. runner. He replaced Berniein the majors to reach 50 this 
and Justin Miller won his third two-run double to Manny Williams, who hit an RBI singleseason, and three of his team­straight decision as the Toronto Ramirez in the first inning. Yankees 9, Tigers 3 in the eighth.
mates also connected as the 
Blue Jays beat the Boston Red Miller retired 11 consecutive hit­Raul Mondesi homered, dou­Mondesi drove in a run with aTexas Rangers cruised past the 
Sox. ters before walking Jason bled·and drove in three runs as double in a four-run third thatBaltimore Orioles 11-2 on. 
Boston lost for the seventh Varitek to lead off the fifth the New York Yankees defeated made it 5-2 and chased Steve
Rodriguez homered twice 
time in 11 games and fell 7 1/2 inning. the Detroit Tigers. Sparks (8-15).
against Jason Johnson, hitting a games behind AL wild-card Kelvim Escobar pitched the Orlando Hernandez (8-4), try­Mondesi greeted reliever Josetwo-run drive in the first inning leader Anaheim. The Red Sox ninth for his 29th save. ing to boost his chances for a Paniagua with his 25th homer, aand a solo shot in the third. It trail the Yankees by 9 1/2 games The Red Sox scored two runs spot in the Yankees• postseason two-run shot, in the seventh. 
was his ninth multihomer game 
in the AL East. in the ninth on a passed ball by rotation, gave up three runs in Bobby Higginson gave theof the season and the 29th of his 
Phelps hit solo homers off Ken Huckaby and an RBI double seven innings. Tigers a 2-1 lead in the third career. 
John Burkett in the fourth and by Carlos Baerga. Escobar Hernandez allowed seven hits, with an RBI single. He drove in
Rodriguez, who hit 52 last 
sixth innings for his second mul­recovered to retire Johnny including five doubles. He struck Damion Easley, who had hit an year, is the fifth player in major tihomer game in his rookie year. Damon on a flyout to center with out seven, walked none and won RBI double.
league history to record succes­Phelps added a tiebreaking dou­the tying run on second base. for only the third time in 10 The Yankees scored four times sive 50-homer seasons. He fol­
ble in the seventh off Dustin Damon led off the first inning starts. in the third after Alfonsolows Babe Ruth, Mark McGwire, 
Hermanson (1-1). for the Red Sox with a walk, The AL East-leading Yankees Soriano was hit by a pitch lead­Sammy Sosa and Ken Griffey Jr. 
Vernon Wells singled with two Shea Hillenbrand followed with would most likely use a four­ing off. Jason Giambi, Jorge
Carl Everett, Todd 
outs in the inning and moved to a double. One out later, Ramirez man rotation in the playoffs. Posada, Robin Ventura and
Hollandsworth and Michael 
second on Carlos Delgado's drove in both runners with a New York can choose from Mondesi all drove in runs.
Young all homered in a five-run walk. Phelps' double broke the double giving Boston an early 2-Roger Clemens, Andy Pettitte, Sparks had now allowed 22fifth inning to give Texas an 11­
tie and gave him 47 RBIs on the 0 lead. David Wells, Mike Mussina and earned runs in 9 2/3 innings1 lead. 
season. Phelps hit his 11th homer of Hernandez. over his last three starts.
Texas has homered in a team­record 23 straight games, two short of the major league record. Rodriguez has account­ed for 13 of the Rangers' 47 homers during the streak. 
Rodriguez drove in three runs to boost his major league-lead­ing total to 124. The last player to lead the majors in homers and RBIs in the same season was Cecil Fielder in 1991. 
Making his 300th career start, Kenny Rogers (13-7) gave up two runs and six hits in seven innings for the Rangers. who took two of three from the Orioles to win the season series 


I. 6-3. Jeff Conine homered for the Orioles, who have lost 11 of 12. Using Rodriguez's two homers, an RBI single by Carl Everett and a two-run double by Ruben Rivera, Texas built a 6-1 against Johnson (4-12) after three innings. The Rangers turned the game into a rout in the fifth. Everett hit a leadoff homer off Chris Brock and Hollandsworth added a three-run shot. Young then .you take care of the patients, 

greeted Yorkis Perez with a drive into the left-field seats, the 


we'l.l hel.p take care of the
ninth time this season Texas has hit back-to-back homers. Conine hit his 13th homer in the sixth. 
[tuition].
Indians 11, White Sox 6 
Karim Garcia hit a grand slam and Jim Thome added a two-run homer as the Cleveland Indians If you want to give your nursing career a shot in the arm, you need experience ­defeated the Chicago White Sox. 
Trailing 3-2. the Indians took not the headache of how to pay your tuition. Qualify for an Army ROTC nursing the lead with a six-run fifth 
scholarship, and you'll not only get hands-on clinical training, you'll develop 
inning. John McDonald singled and White Sox starter Gary 
leadership skills you'll be able to tap into for your entire career. Talk to us at the
Glover (7 • 7) gave up back-to­back walks to Milton Bradley 


Army ROTC department. We'll take care of you. 
and Omar Vizquel to load the bases. Ellis Burks chased Glover out of the game with a two-run single to give the Indians a 4·3 
ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take.
lead. 
The White Sox had a chance to get out of the inning with a double play. but shortstop Jose Valentin bobbled Thome's grounder, allowing all runners to advance safely and load the bases for Garcia. 



Mike Porzio relieved and allowed Garcia•s third career grand slam, making the score 8­3. 
Josh Bard hit a two-run homer and McDonald added a solo For more information on our Nursing Scholarship Programs,


shot, the first of his career, as Cleveland extended the lead to contact Captain Hennessey at (219) 631-6264 or 631-4656 11-4 in the eighth inning. 
Ricardo Rodriguez (2-1), mak­ing his fourth career start for 

Friday, September 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Couch downgraded for opener 


tious all week with Couch, limit­
Associated Press 
ing him to just short passes on Monday and Wednesday. In theBEREA, Ohio 
half-hour session open to the
There were two surprising 
media, Couch threw one pass ­developments at the Cleveland a left-handed lob to one of the
Browns' practice Thursday: 
ball boys. 
Tim Couch didn't throw and The club also downgraded
William Green didn't show. 
Couch on the injury report fromCouch, who has a sore right 
probable to
arm after tearing questionablescar tissue near 
-perhaps
his elbow in the "He came back today 
the clearest
preseason, was slightly sore, but it gave
kept out sign yet thatof us the benchmark as to backup
throwing drills 
K e I l y
as the team pre­where he is. " 
Holcomb
pared for the 
will start on
opener against 
Butch Davis Sunday.
the Kansas City 
Cleveland coach "He came
Chiefs. 
back today
Meanwhile, 
slightly sore, Green, the rookie but it gave us the benchmark asrunning back, was sent to the to where he is," Davis said ofCleveland Clinic for undisclosed 
Couch. "There's no negative
tests. 
steps backward. With more
Head coach Butch Davis said treatment. he'll be a lot betterGreen, expected to start, got a tomorrow. We're just going to
"little stiff and sore" in the 
proceed like that. He will haveteam's morning walkthrough. 
to throw again and see if the
The Browns have been cau­bar gets raised more. 
"Tim's smart. He knows his career is something you'd never want to jeopardize. As much as everybody in this organization wants to win and if we thought that by playing him Sunday we would win the game and lose him for 16 games, that would be absolutely foolish." 
If Couch is unable to play, Holcomb will make his first start since 1997 when he filled in for Peyton Manning at Indianapolis. 
Interestingly, the Browns printed Holcomb's preseason stats -35 of 47 for 437 yards and three TDs -on the front page of their weekly media release right below Couch's. 
Running back Jamel White said Browns fans shouldn't worry if Holcomb starts. 
"They should just chill out," White said. "If Kelly has to play, people should just chill out because they don't know what kind of player Kelly is. Kelly's a competitor. He's a player." 
MAKE WAVES 

5PM 
,<,~f11~t&,,.,~ Iwfo~~sess~~for :'iw:-·r~f,; sopko~res a~}i~ors 
s~tt~er10 :201 t)tlArtolo 
511JDY IN TOKYO, JAPAN SPRING, 2003 

In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mission. The mission was to provide a personal, caring, educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year 
institution of their choice. Holy Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fundamental mission. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
Our mission is what has made us successful. SO while many things change, our mission is one thing that will not. 
P.O. Box 308 • Notn: Dame!, IN 46556-0308 • 574-239,8,400 • FAX 574-233-7427 • www.hcc-nd.edu
,___________________________----­


@ ~otre Dame Athletics ® 
Notre Dame Cross countrv 
Irish Men's Soccer
Notre Dame Soccer Classic Adidas Invitational Presented avStAndrews Products Friday, September 6th Emerging in 2002 
..~'-NO~E DAME -~'­ad1das Arizona St. ad1das North Carolina St. Tennessee Women's Race -5:15 PM Men's Race -6 PM Burke Memorial Golf Course 


-------------------------------------------------------~-. 
page 24 Friday, September 6, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Lennox Lewis will give up one of his heavyweight titles rather than fight mandatory contender Chris Byrd, claiming that Byrd offers him no great challenge and that no one wants to see the fight anyway. 
Lewis' decision to give up the IBF version of the title means the heavyweight championship will likely be further fractured, though the public generally recognizes him as the legiti­mate champion. 
It also opens up the door for Evander Holyfield to fight Byrd and try to become a heavy­weight champion-for the fifth time at age 40. Byrd is the IBF's top-ranked contender, while Holyfield is No. 2. 
Ross Greenburg, president of HBO Sports, said his network was interested in airing a Holyfield-Byrd fight, possibly on Dec. 14. 
"Evander Holyfield has per­formed beautifully on our net­work for a decade," Greenburg
" 
said. "He has been one of the 

,_
!\ ; premier heavyweights and has tremendous drawing power and charisma.,. 
Lewis still has the WBC crown and seemed to back

Ii~ ( \ ~ 
{ away from threats of retire­
\ 
ment last week when he said,

' 
"The world hasn't seen the best

:} of me." Lewis made the com­
l 
ment to reporters after he ~ arrived in Ghana for a 10-day
-H 
tour. He was still in the west

q 
African country and could not

' ! 
be reached for comment.

} j 
I 
! i 
I ) 
! 
:
' 
} ) l 
i 
; I I 
i ' ' 
I _. 

BOXING 
Lewis won't fight Byrd, gives up title 
His attorney, Judd Burstein, said "the only person who is authorized to speak about Lennox Lewis' future is Lennox Lewis." 
A source familiar with Lewis' plans, speaking on condition of anonymity. said he likely would fight next against the Ukraine's Vitaly Klitschko, but probably not until sometime in February. 
The decision by Lewis came just as the IBF was to take purse bids from promoters for a fight against Byrd, a crafty left-hander who tends to frus­trate his opponents and make them look bad. 
In a statement, Lewis, who for a brief time held all three major heavyweight titles, said the champion was more impor­tant than the title. 
"Prior to today, my team and I had already determined that there was no public interest in a Lennox Lewis-Chris Byrd bout," he said. "My decision was also based upon the fact that I believe, as I have said repeatedly, that Chris Byrd offers no competitive challenge to me." 
HBO had set aside Dec. 7 as the date for a possible Lewis fight, but a network executive said earlier this week that the heavyweight champion would have to quickly agree to an opponent for the fight to hap­pen on that date. 
Lewis has hinted of retire­ment since stopping Mike Tyson on June 8, saying there were few challenges among the current group of heavyweights and not enough money to lure him back into the ring. 

Early I 
ChildhOOd 
Devel01'ffll!ltt ~ life. 
284,.4693 
(ECOC·SMC) 
6JJ..JJ44 
(ECJ)C-ND) 

ND 
~ 
~·n1 
0•·1•e•· 
DoorJnats 

Tonight we will be using fabric paint and various other objects to decorate a door­mat for your dorm room. Con1e and ~ake a doormat that expresses who you are! 
Friday" Septeinber 6., 2002 9:00pD1-11:00pm in the LaFortune Student Center 
,
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
INVITES YOU TO ATTEND AN OPENING RECEPTION FOR BOTH EXHIBITIONS SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2002, 2-4 P.M. 
Gallery talks, slide lecture and demonstration, given from 2:00 to 4:30 p.m. 
/ SNI1'E 
Museum oJART Forfurther information call (574)-631-5466. 


This event isfree and open to the public. 


-J. 
Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
Last second score lifts 'Niners 


Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
What seemed like a dud of a season-opening party for the NFL actually turned into a thriller. 
Jose Cortez kicked a 36-yard field goal with six seconds to play. giving the San Francicso 49ers a 16-13 victory over the New York Giants in a Thursday night season opener. 
Cortez also had field goals of 23 and 33 yards and Garrison Hearst score on a 9-yard pass for the Niners. 
cQ60LE ~AVOU cAFE A f<.€STAUQ.AtJT WiT~ A DiFF€'2.€tJT FLAV0'2. JAf-'16ALAVA, _Cl<.AWFi6!-I, c.ArFi5~. f<GDfiS!-1, tf:'~Q.it-'ft7, r;rouF66 c;rGAKS, ?0'2.K c!-IOPS, Ri65, Wil\JGS, f''2.i6D c4-tiCK61\J HOf-'16f-'1AD6 P6CAI\J Pie, tf:'W6€r POTATO Pi6, cA"2.'2.0r cAK6 
4150 ~QA'PG f<.OAD 
oAV i<DAD@ (;;1'2.AP6 
.25J--11fG LUIVC..t 11:00-2:JO oil\Jfv6'2 5:00-10:00 c;ul\JPAY r1t2.UI\JC'-l 11:00-4:00 F~r; TAXI f<.lof; TD (<f;'f:TAvtf<A>JT f'DR PAR.TIP;" DF FIVG Df<. HD~ Pf<DVloG't:> '1'f c;HA'HFU>CC: cAr1 cD't-t'PA>J'f 
c:;'AM€ bAY PA.'2.rY Wir'-1 'HAGiC 95.J­LiVG il\J rt-t6 PAQ..Kil\JG tor ALL bA"f rlCAFFIT 1"1cLCAbf;<;' (Zie,5 WiNG5 f'AJITA<;" ~ MDRG 
YlE:f:(Z -" WIJiJG 
Df<. CDHG 1>Jc;fi:>G A>Jo WATCH THE= (;;A'HG g. H1c;;HL1(;;HTc; D>J Dvtf< t'lta s;cf<.t'Gkl TV 
~f<.t'AT TAIL(;;ATG HtklCA "(;;DD't:> TD ao" f'GATCA(ZuJt; THG cOAcH T'f FODTYlALL 1-lGfZ.D ~A>.JbWICH ~HA"f>t:=i) LICE: A f'CALL <,;12~ FDDTr1ALL (WA'{ cDOL) 
Tiki Barber tied the game at 13 with a 1-yard with 1 :49 to play, and rookie Matt Bryant made field goals of 29 and 33 yards for the Giants in a mis­take-filled game that turned into a nail-biter in the fourth quarter. 
San Francisco went 52 yards in six plays on its winning drive, with the big gain com­ing on the opening play. 
_Terrell Owens, fairly invisi­ble the whole game, caught a 33-yard pass down the right sideline, moving the ball to the New York 37. A 12-yard pass to J.J. Stokes got the ball to the 25, and Hearst's 7-yard run set up Cortez, who earlier had a 25-yarder blocked and was short from 48. 
This one was down the mid­dle. 
San Francisco seemed in control in the fourth quarter after wiping out a 6-3 halftime deficit on Hearst's 9-yard touchdown catch on a swing pass from Jeff Garcia, and Cortez's 33-yard field goal, which came after Collins was intercepted for the third time. 
However, the Giants responded with a 77-yard, 14­play game-tying drive that fea­tured a key 23-yard pass from Collins to Amani Toomer on third-and-16. First-round draft pick Jeremy Shockey caught a 20-yarder and Barber made a third-down catch and roll to give New York a first down at the 4­yard line. 
Barber swept the left side 
two plays later for the go 
ahead touchdown, diving into 
the corner of the end zone. 
The Giants outgained the 
49ers 361-279, with Collins 
and Toomer providing most of 
the yardage. 
Collins was 28 of 45 for 342 
yards, but his three intercep­
tions and some key penalties 
hurt the Giants. Toomer, who 
had nine receptions for 134 
yards, lost 44 yards on one 
third-quarter pass to the 
Niners 7 because of a holding 
penalty against left tackle 
Luke Petitgout. the one 
returning member of the 
Giants' revamped offensive 
line. 
Garcia finished 16 of 26 for 
166 yards. Owens, considered 
the best receiver in the league 
by many, had only four catch­
es for 41 yards. but he had the 
big one at the key time. 
Despite two first-half inter­ceptions of Collins and a fail­ure to convert on two chances from the 49ers' 21, the Giants took a 6-3 halftime lead on field goals of 29 and 33 yards by Bryant. 
San Francisco left three points on the field on its open­ing series. 
An interception by Tony Parrish on the third play and a 16-yard run by Garcia gave the 49ers a first down at the 7. Cortez eventually had a 25­yard field goal blocked by Mike Rosenthal, the Giants 6­foot-7 offensive tackle. 
More than 30 years after his over-the-top 1971 cult shriekfest Let's Scare Jessica to Death, director John Hancock returns to the genre fold with a new flick that leaves the top but the merest speck in the (decidedly cracked) rear-view mirror. With enough goofy, gruesome twists to fill a half-dozen thrillers, Suspended Animation starts out as a cannibalistic Misery (complete with Kathy Bates clone Allen) as major Hollywood animator Tom Kempton (McArthur) finds himself a captive of a supremely scary middle-age sister act-backwoods Baby Jane variation Vanessa Boulette (Estennan) and her portly sib Ann (Allen)-following a Midwestern snowmobile mishap. After a couple of sadistic, squinn-inducing vignettes, the film suddenly veers into icy deliverance terrain before time-and-place-shifting to L.A. and a profusion of additional shocks and surprises so extreme as to border on literal overkill, including a close-up pimple-popping moment to rival Clean Shaven's infamous fingernail-removal scene. To delve into specifics would seriously risk ruining Suspended Animation '.r unapologetic Grand Guignol pleasures; suffice it to say that Hancock and scripter Dorothy Tristan have the chops to pull off one of the most outlandish fearfests of recent years, one that would fonn a terrif twinbill with the Don Dobler gore-a-thon Ha, i1esters (VS#42). Among the thesps, former screen psycho McArthur (Rampage) turns in strenuous work as an ultra-victim, rivaling Zohra Lampert's ordeal in Jessica. The Boulette Family-including serial-killer teen grandson Sandor (Meyers) and creepy jailbird brother Philip (Freeman)-can take its rightful place beside The Texas Chainsaw Massacre '.S' Sawyer clan as one of the nuttiest nuclear units in fright-film history. When we caught Suspended Animation at a Palm Beach International Film Festival matinee, the audience gasps were loud and frequent; this would have been a great flick to watch with a vintage 42nd Street crowd. Look for it wherever it turns up next, hopefully in time for Halloween 2002. 
1he PhantoM of the Movies 
Starts Friday the 13th South Bend, IN• Michigan City, IN• Elkhart, IN St.Joe/Benton Harbor, Ml• Niles, Ml 

----·-.. 
page 26 Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 



V 
(, 
~ 
,
lli \ j) ' 
' 
·, 

~ 
~i 
~· 
( 

)
\ 
' ) I 
I
, , 
l 
,i 
l 
' 
( ) 
) \ 
\ 
) 
I 
, ! 
'I ) ; 
,' 
( ' 

TENNIS 
German man pleads guilty to stalking 


Associated Press 
NEWYORK 
A German man pleaded guilty to stalking top-ranked tennis player Serena Williams. 
Albrecht Stromeyer, 34, entered the plea to fourth-degree stalking -a misdemeanor -in Criminal Court in Queens, and was discharged. 
Judge Suzanne Melendez told Stromeyer to stay away from Williams and her family and at least 1,000 yards from any wrA Tour or U.S. Tennis Association tournament. including the U.S. Open. 
"My absolute concern is the safety of Serena Williams and her family," the judge said. 
Stromeyer waived his right of appeal and agreed to get psychi­atric treatment in his hometown of Frankfurt. An Oct. 23 hearing was scheduled to review the case; Stromeyer is not required to attend. 
"This is the outcome that my client wanted," said Gerard Savage, Stromeyer's Legal Aid attorney. 
Savage also apologized on behalf of Stromeyer, saying, "In his mind, it was a love story.... It was romantic poetry." 
Stromeyer's brother and cousin attended the hearing; no mem­ber of Williams' family came. 
The judge denied a request by Stromeyer to speak in court. 
"His family has assured us that he will receive appropriate psy­chiatric care and that every effort will be made to prevent him from engaging in this kind of conduct in the future," Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said. 
"Today's disposition will hope­fully get Mr. Stromeyer the help that he clearly needs and will assure that he is kept far away from Ms. Williams and other members of the women's tennis tour," Brown added. 
Following his plea, Stromeyer was to be placed in the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. 
Stromeyer was arrested Saturday at the National Tennis Center and held on $3,000 bail. He was charged with two counts of stalking after police spotted him watching through a fence as Williams, the reigning Wimbledon and French Open champion, played her third­round match against Nathalie Dechy. 
Williams has been traveling with a bodyguard since May because of the threat. 
Stromeyer admitted in a writ­ten statement to police that he had been following Williams around the world. He was arrest­ed outside the gates of Wimbledon in July after scuffiing with police and told the officers he loved her and would never hurt her. 


Planning to visit a 

Here are some keys to stay trouble-free: 
Don't: 
• 
Play drinking games 

• 
"Funnel" beers 

• 
''Shotgun" beers 

• 
Drink directly from a wine bottle or 40 oz bottle of beer 

• 
Charge money for alcohol at tailgates 

• 
Have kegs 

• 
Take shots 

• 
Serve alcohol to minors 


Do: 
• 
Register your tailgate at www .nd.edu/~tailgate 

• 
Bring you student ID and Drivers License with you 

• 
Make sure to have a ND student parking decal on your car or bring $30 

• 
Have food and soda 

• 
Be responsible if you choose to drink 




If you are cited by the police call the Judicial Council at 1-4556. 
For additional information: read the FAQ at www.nd.edu/~tailgate, e-mail tailgate@nd.edu, or call Student Government at 1-7668. 
this Saturday? 
Important things to now 
• 
All Notre Dame students are now allowed to host a tailgate if they register, but only students who are 21 years old may host a tailgate where alcohol is present. 

• 
All tailgating lots will be patrolled by University, state and local police. There will be both uniformed and plain-clothed officers. 

• 
Remember that if you tailgate off-campus and then arrive on campus intoxicated, you can still be cited for public intoxication, regardless of age. 

• 
"Hard" alcohol is permitted in the tailgating lot but nowhere else on campus. 

• 
Notre Dame undergraduate students are only allowed to host tailgates in the Blue Field South (radio tower lot). 


The key is not to draw undue attention to yourself or your tailgate. 
Friday, September 6, 2002 
page 27 
The Observer . SPORTS 
-
U.S. OPEN 
Sampras dominates Roddick in quarters 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
As Pete Sampras pumped his fist to cel­ebrate a volley winner that closed the sec­ond set, Andy Roddick flashed an admir­ing thumbs up and then bowed. acknowl­edging that his idol still has what it takes to put him away. 
This cross-generational matchup was no match at all. 
Smacking aces at over 130 mph. cover­ing every inch of the net, Sampras looked like the younger man and dominated an apparently awe-struck Roddick 6-3, 6-2. 6-4 to reach the U.S. Open semifinals. It took all of 90 minutes. 
"This is what I play for. I was ready to go from the first point on," said Sampras, who hasn't won a tournament at any level in two years. ·Tm just confident in the big moment that I'm going to come through. I spent moments of struggling with the con­fidence this year but I can get it back pretty quickly." 
It was Sampras' 29th Grand Slam quar­terfinal, and Roddick's second. Sampras came in with 200 match victories in majors, Roddick with 15. 

"You guys say Pete is washed up. I never said it," Roddick said. "I don't think anybody doubts the fact that he's capable of great tennis still." 
The difference in the players' ages was obvious when they walked out on a windy night: the 20-year-old Roddick in his shiny blue T-shirt, his spiky hair peering out from above a visor, and the 31-year­old Sampras in his proper tennis whites, nothing covering his receding hairline. 
Sampras, seeking his fifth U.S. Open championship, will be a big favorite Saturday against No. 24 Sjeng Schalken, 
who outlasted No. 28 Fernando Gonzalez 
6-7 (5). 6-3, 6-3, 6-7 (5). 7-6 (2} to get to 
his first major semifinal. 
Saturday's other semifinal is Andre Agassi vs. defending champion Lleyton Hewitt, yet another duel between a 30­something and a 20-something. 
The women play their semifinals Friday, with Venus and Serena Williams bidding to set up a third straight all-sister Grand Slam final. Venus, the two-time defending champion, faces Amelie Mauresmo, followed by Serena against Lindsay Davenport. 
Arthur Ashe Stadium was a sea of empty blue seats for Schalken-Gonzalez. It was packed at night for Sampras­Roddick, which didn't live up to the billing 
To put it simply: Youth was outserved. And outvolleyed, outhit and out-just­about-everything-elsed. 
Asked by USA Network announcers what advice he'd give Roddick, Boris Becker said, "Get out of the stadium." 
Sampras had 13 aces and a total of 43 winners to 18 for Roddick, who might have been a step slow, having bruised his left foot during an earlier match. 
Still, he never came close to solving Sampras' serve, managing only one break point. It came early in the second set and was erased, appropriately, when Sampras struck a good serve and followed it up with a crisp volley to the corner. 
"You can't be upset at not breaking Pete Sampras," Roddick said. 
Sampras has played his best tennis of the past 24 months in the U.S. Open, reaching the finals in 2000 and 2001. Now he's doing it again. 
Roddick, who was seeded 11th to Sampras' 17th, looked tight right from the start. He lost the first seven points of the match en route to getting broken immedi­

"I wanted to set the tone early." to get broken at love. At the changeover, Sampras said. Roddick chewed on a towel. then tried to 
He was popping serves by Roddick, and rip it. not just with pure power. Sampras closed Sampras broke again to get to 5-2, the first set with a spinning offering at helped by Roddick's backhand into the 101 mph that Roddick barely got to, his net. Roddick -as emotive on the court as forehand return bouncing before it Sampras is stoic -dropped his racket, reached the net. twisted at the hips, and yelled, "Awww, 
Roddick handed Sampras a 2-1 second-come on!" 
elfim Carll is absolutely FREE! 
t)SIOP-HIJ takes about one r~1inuie! 
~Get Your card lmmediatelu! 

m,u IIIMSI SHOW YOllt val!~ U11ivers1tv SlddClll ID wlrnn ~nu a11pl~ l 
£\S a SUH!eHI Plus Card holder vou wm receive: 
• 
Extra sauinys on Kroger speclatsi 

• 
Exira Student Discounls! 


Aancmatic cntrv into co1ncsls 
& swr.epsta&rns! Ualuas at othflr local !msinesirns nmmJ to\/lm! 




page 28 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, September 6, 2002 





. .··l' ' 
) 
I 
I 
I, 
~. 
-,,,; 

around the dial 
TODAY 
MLB 
Cubs at Cardinals 8 p.m., WGN 
Expos at Braves 7:30 p.m., TBS 
SATURDAY COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Purdue at NOTRE DAME 1 p.m., NBC Miami at Florida 5 p.m., CBS 
SUNDAY TENNIS 
U.S. Open mens finals 4 p.m., CBS 
U.S. Open womens finals 1 p.m., USA 
INTERNATIONAL BASKETBALL 

78. The loss ensured that Cheered on by a raucous 20 points. Vlade Divac
Associated Press 
there will be no medal -crowd of flag-waving, fran­added 16 -all in the first 
INDIANAPOLIS gold, silver or bronze -for tic fans who drowned out half -and Milan Gurovic 
George Karl sighed as he the host team at the World the home country's sup­had 15. dug his fingers into his fore­Championships. porters, Yugoslavia Gurovic hit his third 3­head, struggling to find the "Last night was much advanced to the semifinals pointer of the fourth quar­correct words to express his more discouraging. Tonight against New Zealand. ter to give Yugoslavia a 77­disappointment. Next to is disappointing," Karl said . Miller had a chance to 73 lead with 56 seconds him sat Michael Finley, his After going 58-0 using force overtime, but his long left. Miller answered with a chin resting on his fist and NBA players in internation­3-point attempt just before 3-pointer 18 seconds later, his eyes barely open. al competitions, the the final buzzer came up and Marko Jaric sank two 
The Americans were a Americans have shockingly short. free throws with 23 seconds picture of failure and frus­lost twice in a row. Much like Argentina did left to restore a three-pointtration Thursday night after The best they can do is after defeating the United lead. their second loss in as many finish in fifth place in this States on Wednesday night, Reggie Miller got opennights at the World topsy-turvy tournament. the Yugoslavs celebrated, underneath for a layup with Championships. "Obviously it's embar­danced and hugged at mid­13 seconds left, and the 
In yet another stunning rassing, on our home turf. court as the stunned U.S. Americans quickly fouled outcome, Yugoslavia came We have to walk away from team could only watch. Jaric. He sank both, and the back from a 10-point deficit it as a learning experience," Stojakovic, one of five Americans were forced to in the fourth quarter and U.S. guard Andre Miller NBA players on try to tie it from behind the defeated the U.S. team 81-said. Yugoslavia's roster, scored 3-point arc. 
IN BRIEF 
plagued by injuries. He has torn the
Best signs with Heat Johnson leaves Patriots 
pectoral muscles in both arms, wasFree agent guard Travis Best New England Patriots linebacker limited to 13 games and 11 starts insigned Thursday with the Miami Ted Johnson has left the team for 2000 and started only five gamesHeat, his third team since February. undisclosed reasons. 
last year, when he had a career­
The 30-year-old Best becomes a "Ted was not here yesterday, he's low 46 tackles. 
possible successor to starting point not with the team," coach Bill 
guard Rod Strickland, who is 36 and Belichick said Thursday...I've 
a free agent. talked to Ted a couple times, and Boes practice in parking Best split the 2001-02 season certainly would not want to say 
garage
between the Indiana Pacers and anything on his behalf or try to 
Lomas Brown thought he had 
Chicago Bulls, appearing in 74 characterize anything for him." 
seen it all in his 19 seasons in the games with 21 starts. He averaged When asked if Johnson would be NFL. 
7.9 points. 4.4 assists and 23.6 min­back, Belichick replied, "I don't That is, until lightning and heavyutes. know." 
rain Thursday forced the Tampa
The 5-foot-11 guard spent 6 1/2 Johnson, drafted in the second Bay Buccaneers to practice in a seasons with Indiana. His playing round in 1995, signed a five-year, parking garage.
time slipped last season following $25 million deal in 1998. Since "I have never done that before. It 
injuries to his leg and back and the then, his contract has been restruc­was definitely the first time," the emergence of rookie point guard tured six times. He agreed to have offensive tackle said. "I've prac­Jamaal Tinsley. Best, upset when his base salary cut from $3.1 mil­ticed in a gym, inside the (training)pulled from a game against lion to $650,000, although he still facility and even an auditorium, but Washington by coach Isiah Thomas, received a $1 million roster bonus never before in a parking lot.'' 
later refused to go back in. in March, and was set to count $4 Rather than cancel the two-hour 
He asked for a trade in December million against this year's salary workout. coach Jon Gruden moved 
and was dealt to Chicago on Feb. 19. cap. 
practice to the third level of a park­Best has averaged 8.2 points and Johnson had a career-high 142 
ing garage at an office building
3.9 assists in 499 NBA games. tackles in 1998, but has been adjacent to One Buccaneer Place. 


Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 
-


... _ UNIVERSITYOF 
,,~~1~ NOTRE DAME 
University Libraries 
SPRING 2002 LIBRARY (LIBQUAL+) SURVEY 
In March, the University Libraries ofNotre Dame, along with 168 other academic and research libraries, participated in a pilot web-based survey asking students and faculty to rate the quality and importance of a broad range of library services. Ofthe 2800 students and faculty randomly selected and contacted, 794 completed the survey. The library thanks everyone who responded to the survey. 
Some Initial Observations: 
l1I 
Our users rate us highest for our willingness to help and for our consistently courteous employees. 
~~ University ofNotre Dame students and faculty want, first and foremost, to have knowledgeable library employees and library resources & tools designed so that they can easily find what they need on their own. 
l'ii 
It is important to students and faculty that we improve the accuracy and functionality ofour online catalog; reduce the turnaround time to receive Interlibrary Loan materials; and add to the depth and breadth ofour collections. 
~;. We must continueio work on improving the attractiveness and aesthetics ofour library facilities and also on making more electronic resources accessible from home or office. 
,~ There are some differences among responses from faculty and students. Access to comprehensive collections and an easy-to-use web site are especially important to faculty. While these are important to students as well, they also want convenient business hours and a quiet place to study. 
ii 
The University Libraries ofNotre Dame results are, for the most part, well above national averages. 
. The library will look at the survey data in more detail, analyze it in conjunction with other survey results, and identify ways to deliver services and collections that are more closely aligned with our users' expectations. 
Thankyouforyourpar.icipaUon! 



page 30 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 6, 2002 


-
Saturday Scholar Series Fall 2002 

A different game plan from the College of Arts and Letters 
SATURDAY SCHOLAR SERIES INAUGURAL FALL 2002 LECTURE 
9:30 a.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
"SECRECY IN EVERYDAY LIFE" 

Anita Kelly 
Associate Professor of Psychology 
Kelly is the author of "The Psychology 
of Secrets" and several studies on 
self-presentation and the 
circumstances under which keeping 
secrets -even from one1s self ­
can cause emotional harm. 
Join the Saturday Scholar Series every home football game 3 1/2 hours before kickoff 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Sept. 14 -11 The Crisis Facing the Roman Catholic Church,11 a panel discussion with 
.,_ '. ~; : ;i : Rev. Richard P. McBrien, John Cavadini and Carol Mooney. Oct. 5 -"Shakespeare on Film" with Peter Holland, McMeel Professor of Shakespeare 

! 
Studies and one of the central figures in performance-oriented Shakespeare studies. 

) 
f'4:t. 12 -"The Historical Jesus" with Rev. John P. Meier, William K. Warren IV Professor of Theology. Meier, author of the multi-volume "A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the



Historical Jesus.•• 
Nov. 2 -"The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict11 with Alan Dowty, professor of political science and a faculty fellow, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. (2:30 p.m. kickoff) Nov. 23 -11 Art and the Religious Imagination" with Meredith Gill, assistant professor of art, art history and design and a historian of the Italian Renaissance. (1 p.m. kickoff) 
Ongoing information about the series is available at http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu. 

Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
-

CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish host season opening adidas Invitational 
Special ot The Observer 
The Notre Dame mens and 

womens cross country teams 
begin the 2002 season early 
this year, hosting today's inau­
gural adidas Invitational at the 
Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
This will be the earliest cross 
country meet the Irish have 
hosted on campus and it gives 
Notre Dame three home meets 
on the season. 
The 2002 adidas Invitational may be a small meet, as only four teams will be competing in the mens race and three in the womens, but it will be a com­petitive event. Traditional cross country powers North Carolina State and Arizona State will run in both races while Tennessee will only participate in the mens race and Tennessee will participate only in the mens race. 
In the men's MONDO presea­son cross country poll, North Carolina State was ranked sev­enth, Arizona State was 13th and Notre Dame ended up 25th. Tennessee was in the also receiving votes category of the poll. 
Even though the meet will be highly competitive this week­end, both Notre Dame cross country teams will be using their first time together on the course this season as just a first step toward their ultimate goals of making the NCAA Championship. 
The men will have their top 
Life at Lilly 
runners together for the race 
this weekend, but the youthful­
ness of the Irish team will be 
readily apparent. John Keane 
is the only senior in the 15-run­
ner entry list for the Notre 
Dame men's team, while seven 
freshmen and sophomores will 
be in the field. 
All-American Todd Mobley should be among the race lead­ers. Mobley finished 38th at the NCAA Championship last year and had a great off season of training, ready to take over the leadership of a team that lost three All-American runners to graduation. 
Rookie Tim Moore, the 2001 Foot Locker Cross Country Champion, will also make his debut for the Irish. 
The womens team will enter all of their talented veteran runners, but head coach Tim Connelly will keep his fresh­man class off the course on Friday. 
Jennifer Handley also will be among the contenders in the womens race. Handley was in the running for the Big East Championship last year, ending up seventh in the field to earn all-Big East honors. 
Returning All-American Lauren King is coming off one of the best freshman seasons in school history last year. King finished 27th at the national meet a year ago, then moved on to qualify for the NCAA track and field indoor meet in the mile run. She would then 

earn All-America honors for early in the 2001 cross country until the Notre Dame her performance in the 1,500 season due to some late Invitational. meter run at the NCAA outdoor Canadian track and field com­The womens race starts at meet later in the year. petitions, so the Toronto, 5:15 and the men are sched­
King was not able to compete Ontario, native did not compete uled to start at 6:00. 
real people doing extraordinary things 
Eli Lilly and Company Information Session CAREERS IN FINANCE 
All Majors \/Velcome 
Monday, September 9, 2002 
Room 100, Center for Continuing Education 
6:00 p.m. Talk with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's Alumni who work in Finance at Lilly 
7:00 p.m. Presentation 
Position information available on 1Go Irish'. 


www.lilly.com/careers 
AM\11\lrs That Matt1r.. 

page 32 Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
\\ 


..... 
,•,, ;,; 
, 
opper. 
m 4: :0 
Busi 1nis 
ot In ··•·· · ishly,. 
:00 p 

s of  otre D  
a.m.  :00 a.  
pies  . . .  agnifice  

he Lombardi Dy 
. 1:00 a. 
pies o > ,: e Fightin al[Broadcasting on 
. ; 
0 a.m. to ·11:00 a. 

ing copi~s of 
11:00 to Noo 
acappeUa grou ch home game. 

ES 
·.. · ij ~ m . 
CENTER ·sf . : · . 
:i; 
Sunda . . . ,: . . 10:00,#in" 4:0 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
,• .. ,if:, . ' 


,· .~ 

Friday, September 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
VOLLEYBALL 
Chance to improve in L.A. 


ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Looking to build on last week­end ·s· Shamrock Invitational title, the Notre Dame volleyball team travels to Los Angeles this weekend to participate in the Loyola Marymount Volleyball Classic. The Shamrock Invitational showed the Irish where they needed improve­ment. 
"It's early in the season, so there is a lot of room for improvement," Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown said. "We need to work on passing, some of our rotations, key subs and getting [freshmen] Kelly Burrell and Meg Henican in on some sub situations. 
"I think we feel like we can hit a little more efficiently against the block. Probably the area we were most pleased with was our blocking." 
Freshman Lauren Kelbley agreed with her coach. 
The Office for Students with Disabilities 1s looking to hire students for the following position: 
Student Aide: This person will help a Notre Dame student travel to events on campus. Evening hours weekdays and weekends Flexible hours. $10.00 per hour. 
If you are interested, please call the Office for Students with Disabilities at 631-7157 
kickoff the year with 

Is WELCOME WEEK 

thurs 
sat 
8 
sun 
rudy on the quad 

welcome picnic 
4-7 pm, fieldhouse mall free pizza and snowcones 

acousticafe 
9 pm, the huddle student bands 

jill sobule 
9 pm, lafortune ballroom loft show with "supermodel" singer 
dale k 
10 pm, washington hall· 
hypnotist 

henna festival 
3-6 pm, dooley room, lafortune 
free henna tattoos 

"We need to improve our "Loyola Marymount went 2-1 overall play, make less errors last weekend. They lost to Duke and play as more of a team," and won against Bradley and 
Oklahoma. They had a prettyshe said. 
For her efforts last weekend, good start," Brown said. "They Kelbley was named the Big East have Kristen Gallup who is 
co-rookie of the week on their go to player. It is impor­Monday. In the tournament, tant for us to neutralize her." Kelbley led the Irish in kills and In the loss to Duke, Gallup led 
hitting percentage. Loyola Marymount with 19 kills "We were told a couple weeks and 18 digs before who would be starting," Colorado appears to be the 
Kelbley  toughest  team  
said "I was sur­prised to  "'It's early in the season. so there is a lot ofroom  Notre Dame will play in Los Angeles. Despite  
actually  for improvement. "  starting the sea­ 
be playing  son  0-3,  Brown  
the whole  Debbie Brown  knows the Buffaloes-a pre­ 

time. I 
Irish coach
was really surprised to be play­ing that well. It was really exciting." 
Over the three matches, Kelbley committed only two attack errors and recorded 14 kills, 22 digs, six blocks and two aces. This success did not totally surprise the coaches. 
"We were hoping [the fresh­men] would do what they were doing in the preseason," Brown said. "It was great to see in them perform that well in actu­al competition. 
On Friday, Notre Dame faces host Loyola Marymount. Not only will the Lions have the home crowd on their side, they are retiring the jersey of for­mer two-time All-American Sarah McFarland. 
.. 
season top 25 
team-are a dan­
gerous opponent. 
"Colorado is the strongest ... team there," the coach said. "They played three Top 2 5 teams [No.4 Hawaii, No.9 Ohio State, and No.11 UCLA]. I think they are going to be very, very good." 
The second game on Saturday for Notre Dame will be Saint Louis. The Billikens present a problem similar to the Lions. 
"Saint Louis is a little similar to Loyola Marymount," Brown said. "Colleen Hunter is a great player. We could not stop her when they beat us last year, so we need to contain her." 
Last October, Notre Dame lost at Saint Louis three games to one. 
Despite sweeping its first three opponents, the Irish 

Friday, September 6, 2002
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS 



Opponents 
continued from page 36 
Sinclair drew the awe and atten­tion of the soccer world in the Under-19 tournament, scoring 10 goals in four games, including a five-goal performance against England. 
"Her pace and power we couldn't deal with...," England's coach Mo Marley told The Edmonton Journal. 
In fact, Sinclair's play was so cap­tivating even her Canadian team­mates were in awe. 
'TH catch myself standing around in practice just watching her," teammate Kara Lang told the Journal. "There's something in her. She's special. She'll score goals that you'd never think could end up going in. She does things that peo­ple won't ever be capable of doing. Sometimes it blows my mind." 
Those 10 goals were more than four other teams scored in the tour­nament. But try to tell her she is one of the best, and she won't have it. 
"I don't know what to say to that because I know so many great play­ers out there," Sinclair told Barnes. "It's hard to say I'm one of the best players in the world because I'd never do that." 
Santa Clara's Wagner has had 
her fair share of international com­petition as a current member of the 
U.S. National team. In fact, she nearly made the U.S. 1999 Women's World Cup roster and was an alternate for the team in the Sydney Olympics. 
"She was 
in the pic­Wagner led her school
"It's hard to say I'm one
ture, with to its first national 
plenty of ofthe best players in the championship last sea­opportunity world because I'd never son. She also won the 
to make the Herman Trophy ­
do that."
team," U.S. soccer's Heisman national Trophy, awarded to team coach Christy Sinclair the most valuable play­A p r i I er in the sport -in
Portland forward 
Heinrichs told Soccer America's Scott French. "But she hadn't realized the difference between being talented and being impactful. ... We've seen phenome­nal improvement since January, and, yet, she really prides herself on working.... It's about being impactful. being a player who can help us win the world champi­onship. She is one of the most focused players we have on the national team right now." 
That's high praise form the man who works with the top players in the country. 
"Aly is the best final passer in the women's game today," added Heinrichs. "She puts the ball right on your foot ... that makes wonder­ful things happen behind the defense. The texture, pace, accura­cy, timing of delivery is phenome­nal." 
Running the offense for a Santa Clara squad that has been called the sharpest in the game for either 
men or women, 
that stellar season. 
"She's got the best vision of any player I've ever played with," Penn State's Christie Welsh, a U.S. National teammate, told French. "Passes you wouldn't see on the field, she gets it to people." 
Add that to the skills of numerous superstars and international play­ers for No. 6 Notre Dame, No. 13 Clemson, No. 14 Santa Clara and No. 19 Portland, and that gives the· making for some exciting soccer. 
The Irish face Wagner and her Santa Clara Broncos Friday at 7:30 p.m., and then play Sinclair and her Portland filots Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfcderic@nd.edu 

Irish 
continued from page 36 
season. It's always been my philosophy that these types of games make you a stronger team at the end of the season. 
"We're Notre Dame, and we want to compete against the best teams in the country." 
Last weekend, Notre Dame opened its season in impres­sive fashion with two blowout victories over Big East Conference opponents Providence and Virginia Tech. The Irish netted eight goals over the weekend and didn't surrender a goal to their oppo­
nents. 
While these wins were confi­dence boosters, Providence and Virginia Tech are simply not the same caliber opponent of Santa Clara and Portland. 
"We all know how big this weekend is for us," senior cap­tain Ashley Dryer said. "Everyone is really excited this weekend for these games and the first home football game. We just need to stay focused right now. This weekend will be a lot tougher than last weekend. These teams will be a lot faster and more physi­cal." 
Last week, five different 
top two returning scorers in forwards Leslie Osborne and Veronica Zepeda. The defend­ing national champs also have the services of USC transfer and 2001 Pac-10 Rookie of the Year Megan Kahadelas. 
Sunday will not be any easier for the Irish defense. Portland's Sinclair, the star of Canada's Under-19 National Team, was the NCAA Freshman of the Year last year. The All-American ranked fifth nationally in scoring with 23 goals and 8 assists. 
Ironically, Sinclair's team­mates on the U-19 Canadian National team during last week's World Championships -Candace Chapman and Katie Thorlakson -will now be responsible for trying to slow her down. 
Chapman and Thorlakson return to an extremely young defense after missing last weekend's action. Also, All­American Vanessa Pruzinsky is expected to play this weekend after recovering from a leg injury that kept her out of action during most of the pre­season. 
Last week, the Irish defense started two sophomores Gudrun Gunnarsdottir and Kate Tulisiak and two fresh­men Miranda Ford and Cat Sigler. None of these players were regular starters on the 2001 squad. Only Gunnarsdottir, the current Big East Defender of the Week, had ever seen significant game action before. 
Coach Waldrurn is counting on his young defense to allevi­ate some of the pressure off his inexperienced tandem of goal­keepers. Both Erika Bohn and Lauren Kent played extremely well last weekend, but neither keeper had ever started a game prior to the games against Providence and Virginia Tech. 
"I still have not decided on a starting goalkeeper," Waldrum said. "Regardless of who is in net, our defense really needs to step up. Our goal is to try to integrate all of the new players into the system this weekend. Hopefully, getting these play­ers back will really help us." 
"This being Notre Dame, we expect to be one of the top teams in the country every year," said Amanda Guertin. "When you're playing good teams, you have to expect to compete. We just need to con­centrate on Notre Dame soccer and the rest will fall into place." 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 
players accounted for the lrish's eight goals. Midfielders Mary Boland and Randi Scheller and forward Amy Warner led the Irish offense, scoring two goals each. 
In order for Notre Dame to repeat last weekend's success, the Irish offense must play tenaciously to keep the Broncos and the Pilots' defense on their heels. The play of 
starting 
midfield­in the world this
"We're Notre Dame, and 
e r s weekend in 
Boland, we want to compete Wagner and 
Scheller. against the best teams in Sinclair," a n d Waldrum said.
the country. " 
Dryer "This will be an will be extremely tough critical in Randy Waldrum challenge for our maintain­us. Defensively.
Irish coach 
ing pos­session of the ball and creating quality scoring opportunities for the Irish offense. 
"The game will dictate our role [as midfielders]." said Dryer. "Santa Clara has three talented offensive midfielders. We have to play aggressively and force them to play a defen­sive game." 
Waldrum echoed the senti­ments of his midfielder. 
"We have enough weapons on offense that we're going to create scoring opportunities," the coach said. "The key is to 
NOTRE DAME :IRISH 
NO NAME POS Yr 0 Er-ita Bohn GK nt 1 t.auren :kent GK JR: .2 Gudrun G-unnar$dottir ti SQ l Randi Scheller MF JR 4 -.i 1lin ,i1@00.~,,,,,,,~ffii:::.:% FR 
5 
6 
20 Annie Sahefter MF FR 22 Catherine-Sigler ti FR 23 Holly Law F FR 

25 Kim ca.rpent~.r MF JR 26 Anna Wiebe~ D FR 29 Miranda Ford D FR finish some of these opportuni­ties. We just need to play aggressively and consistently for the full 90 minutes." 
While offense may not be the fourth-year head coach's pri­mary concern this weekend, stopping Santa Clara midfield­er Aly Wagner and Portland forward Christy Sinclair cer­tainly is. 
"We will be facing two of the 
best young players 
we're going to 
have to be very good and sharp for the entire 90 minutes. We cannot afford to have any mishaps or defen• sive letdowns." 
Wagner, an emerging star on the U.S. national team, is the premier women's college soc­cer player in the country. The fifth-year senior scored 17 goals and 20 assists last year en route to capturing the Herman Trophy that recog­nized her as the most valuable player in the country. 
In addition to Wagner, the Broncos also return their other 

PO.l\TLAND PILOTS 
~~..~· 
1!1Etft1J1iJ f.
j;li\:~il1,~1J\,!I
;: ~t ::!l::::=:!::;::1ij1l1 :1M nl( • 1;Jf~tll:tJl:f;::~ t· 
14fi:£iur4h .:r:·1~do~) {; O!I <t $:t'' !.~: J~~~f,f•t->lfi:i~ ::i: •:':\Jot/ .· <,\,.,~::? 
CLEMSON TIGERS NO ·~ ros Yt." 00 Leigh Ann lta~-d..son G JR 
o Laur-en l!eot:J o-ra 1 Sarah MeClUt::Q: <·· G tR 
! ::;aci~lllli!liiii•lJ ! ~! _..:if::::1110;1;~,1•~!1'...,,.,.::::::~im•••••::, 
SR 
.;:;.;:$Qi• 
·:1:1;1••···••g111:0;~:;~:::••···:•·•!. :·=•····<•=•···~=••···...••••· ••i1==• 
'!!~¦JJiD!":!,;'E 
20 J~nny •tn~r~ori. M/B $() 21 Clarice Seifert a so 22 R-Obyn Shelby· M/B ~R 23 Mary Jean Sullivan F JR 24 Sarah Hect M JR 
25 K:t-ii!lten Prot;::opi() B so 
1~ Valeri~ '.tlet.cne.r .·· :w .:,S:i:i
14 :t%~~i~tr11 ,~:i~>:/.....•··. lf't;\!:[;f[:;'*:r,;,: .-i.~i t~ldfan ~ij:i~: ii ;'.: ~i rsJ•·; •i!ittJs~i~ tiJ&:iel? <·:: • \ L,Ji!:~J:i
•iH>e~:ri:~:it='~:,1:1:~suf.y :fi•·= ;,;f•= 
.21 Kim Head GK Fr 


Friday, Septermber 6, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 35 
.. 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 


HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 37 Hammer and 65 Make haste sickle

1 Popular combo 66 California's 38 Words of relief Santa
11 Starting lineup Valley41 Going rate15 Dictatorship 67 Like Romeo42 Chair designer 
16 Bring up and Juliet, to
Charles Shakespeare17 One who raises 43 Banquet

the spirits? 44 Used too much
18 What a stocking DOWN needs 45 Yclept 
1 "Why?"19 Sans 
47 Ages 

2 Cl", e.g.20 Doesn't stay up 
48 Item advertised 

3 Computer 22 It keeps an eye in Vogue application on TV 51 Patronized, as a features 23 Like some 4 "Cocoon"
bistro breezes co-star
55 Homes on 26 Came across wheels, briefly 5 Something with 
27 Controls 56 Sukiyaki a ceiling ingredient 
6 Chain material 

28 Organic chemistry topic 58 Drink with 7 Lifesavers, sukiyaki, maybe maybe: Abbr.
30 Mosey 59 Salty septet 8 Mettle
32 "Good Will Hunting" 61 Bully 9 Twinkle setting, for short 
64 John Paul 11, 1 O Suit material 35 Like bok Choy e.g. 
11 Hand-holder 
12 Resort

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
attendants 
13 Jane Fonda role 39 Pick up clearings 
14 Gets ready for a 40 Sesqui-divided 54 Beat party, perhaps by three 57 "Major" animal 63 Company name 21 Capitol worker 
46 Firedome or 60 States, 24 Edwin Drood's Adventurer informally tag? betrothed 
25 Use a short Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone form phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1 .20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
29 Tempting one 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-?-ACROSS. 31 Skier Tommy 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 32 Le Carre's past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year) . George Smiley, Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 
e.g. nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GUJED 
j
I I r 
C2002 Tribune Media Seivicea, Inc. All Ai ta Reserved. 
TOAPI 

NEEGIN 
j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 
HE "( I I I I I ]" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday' I Jumbles: BISON MINUS SUPERB DAHLIA S Answer: When the zoo built a monkey house, the crowds grew by -LEAPS AND BOUNDS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To order, Hnd your name, addrNa and $5.115 and mau check payable IO Tribune Media s.rvk:N, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL tlOSII0-4330. 
1 1 
1 
4 
.
l 
. 

... . 
j I 

1 
i 1 
1 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIF.S BORN ON TIDS DAY: Swoosie Kurtz, Jane Curtin, Billy Rose Happy Birthday: You must be willing to do what's best for yourself this year. Don't put up with people who stand in your way or you'll feel let down. Start preparing yourself for change by getting organized and setting your priorities straight. Having a game plan will be half the battle this. Rely on yourself and you'll be in a far better position to help others later. Your numbers are 9, 14, 22, 25, 36, 45 ARIES (March 21-April 19):You're going to get a lot of attention at social gatherings today. You'll definitely be the life of the party. However, the person you're most attracted to may need a little probing. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It's likely to be an upsetting day if you are ... expecting others to do things for you. You're the only one who can make yourself feel better. Have fun and do the things you enjoy the most. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's time to be honest with yourself. Even if the truth hurts, it's better to deal with it now than to let things progress. Observing the situation longer will be tiresome. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on friends, doing things you enjoy and taking short trips. If you put in extra hours, you may end up meeting someone who will become important to you. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your dynamism will beckon new friends and lovers. Be careful not to exaggerate too much or you may upset someone who is already close to you. If you are willing to take a small risk, you may even make some money. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be upset over the cost of a repair today. Unnecessary spending is evident. Don't let anyone convince you that you need something that really isn't necessary.***LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You can't expect to keep someone happy if you curtail their freedom. You will be in a good frame of mind to get into self-improvement projects. The results you get will make you glad that you 
did.*** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get involved in something that will make you feel good about yourself. The new people you meet will be far more accommodating than some of those you have known for some time. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't take anything for granted at work. 
Know that you won't get something for nothing today. The chance that someone may talk behind your back should be reason enough to keep your secrets to yourself. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Financial gains are apparent if you're willing to take a risk. A residential move may be necessary, but in the long run will do you a world of good. An adventure is just around the corner. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can meet potential new mates while traveling or attending an event. Your interest in foreign cultures will expand. You should get involved in community events. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Attractions to clients will be hard to resist. Use your head and be careful not to endanger your professional position for the sake of a passionate affair. *** Birthday Baby: You will be practical and caring. You will use your charm to get yourself out of tight spots. You will be responsive and supportive and you'll attract lots of friends. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.corn. COPYRIGITT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­Address --------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 



Friday, September 6, 2002 
WOMENS SOCCER 
Weekend showcase 
Notre Dame Classic brings top teams, players to campus for tournament 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has been a hot seat of womens soccer in America for the past decade, yet this area has never seen such a showcase of talent as comes to campus this weekend for the Notre Dame Classic held at Alumni Field. 
The tournament pits four top 20 teams against each other in four games to be played Friday and Sunday. It also brings two of the best womens soccer players in the world in Santa Clara mid­fielder Aly Wagner and Portland forward Christy Sinclair. 
Sinclair will be making her season debut -as will Irish defenders Candace Chapman and Katie Thorlakson -after the recent completion of the Under-19 World Championships. 
The three were teammates on the Canadian Under-19 team r that dropped a 1-0 loss to the United States in the champi­onship game. Three Santa Clara players -sophomores Leslie Osborne, Megan Kahadelas and Jessica Ballweg -were on that 
U.S. team and will be making their debuts as well this week­end. 
Sinclair drew the awe and 
see OPPONENTS/page 34 

Santa Clara Sports lntonnation Santa Clara midfielder Aly Wagner takes a shot in a game. The senior won the Herman Trophy last year In leading the Broncos to their first national title last year. Santa Clara plays Notre Dame today. 

By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
It may not be the Final Four, but it will certainly feel that way at Alumni Field this week­end. 
No.7 Notre Dame will face defending national champion Santa Clara on Friday at 7:30 and No.19 Portland on Sunday at 1:00. With No.13 Clemson also playing this weekend, this may be one of the finest fields ever assembled in the four­year histbry of this weekend's exclusive soccer showcase. 
While it might only be the second week of the season, regular season games rarely get any bigger than this week­end's games. Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum knows how important these marquee matchups will be in determin­ing the future success of his team. 
"We'd love to win both games this weekend," said Waldrum. "More importantly, we'll use these games as a measuring stick to evaluate where we are now and where we need to be. I've always believed that it is important to play top teams early in the sea­son so you can make adjust­ments for the rest of the sea-
see IRISH/page 34 
MENS SOCCER 
Irish hope to shipwreck 6th-ranked 
the season 12-7, and it returns a squad that has proved its mettle two players -forward Phil and Jack Stewart look to contin­
Special to The Observer 
squad largely unchanged from already this season with a last­Swenda and midfielder Luke ue to the dominating style of There's no place like home. last year's NCM Tournament minute 3-2 win over then-No. 5 Vercellone -accounting for four defense that tallied eight Just hours after the Irish foot­team. That postseason appear­Connecticut. of those eight goals. shutouts for the Irish last season. ball team concludes its home ance was the first since 1996 for "The scene is really set for this "We're more concerned with Notre Dame also hopes it won't opener against Purdue, another the program. game," Martin said. "We're very what we do as a team than what need a late-season charge as it Irish squad begins its home "Having been in the system for excited -and we try not to get they can do," Martin said. "We did last season. The Irish started schedule Saturday. a year under [second-year Irish pumped up over rankings -but attribute the goals that they with a 1-2 conference record 
The mens soccer team begins coach] Bobby Clark, we feel very we kind of feel the nation is scored in those first two games to before finishing the year 7 -3 in its home season with a confer­comfortable," Irish tri-captain watching." the fact that they're a hard-work­the Big East with a No. 2 ranking ence match-up against Seton Hall Greg Martin said. "With the year For Notre Dame, senior for­ing team. But nobody comes to in the conference post-season University at 7:30 at Alumni of experience and the successful ward Erich Braun leads the team our field and outworks us. We're tournament. Field. off-season, we have a lot of confi­with two goals while forward very confident in our defensive "We see last season as a build­
The Irish can play the revenge dence, and that should show Rafael Garcia and midfielder ability." ing block," Martin said. "We are card in this meeting, as the through our play." Greg Martin tallied a goal apiece The only two starters Notre in a process to improve right Pirates knocked off Notre Dame The Irish enter the game with a over the weekend. Dame lost from its 2001 squad now, and we're not close to the 1-0 last season at Seton Hall. 1-0-1 record and No. 11 ranking The key in Saturday's match is were defenders Andreas end, but we're much further in. That loss was one of only two for in the NCSANadidas Poll after the Irish defense stopping the Forstner and Griffin Howard. From that perspective, this is a the Irish in their final 11 regular winning the Diadora Challenge in Pirates' hot scorers. In just its The Irish defense remains different team than last year. We season games last year. Nebraska last weekend. They first two games, Seton Hall has strong, however, as defenders have much more confidence, and 
Notre Dame went on to finish face a sixth-ranked Seton Hall already notched eight goals, with Luke Boughen, Kevin Richards that should show in our play." 

CROSS COUNTRY Notre Dame at adidas Invitational 
Friday, 5:15 p.m. 
Notre Dame hosts the first of three meets this year as the Irish open their season at home ear­lier than any previous year. 
page 31 
VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame at Loyola-MarymountVolleyball Classic 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
The Irish look to continue to improve after win­ning last weekend's Shamrock Invitational. 
page 33 
FOOTBALL 
Purdue at Notre Dame 
Saturday, noon 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham looks for his second win as the Boilermakers come to Notre Dame Stadium 
Irish Insider 

FrldaJ, September 8, 2112 

r 
Senior klc er, •t\'C '.'2,:
Nicholas Settcr!W,:>
the 9011.e thel ·~ ·: ·... · time Purdue c 
·; ·.:i :-·: ;-: ·,:\. ·. ·.. ;···, ·. ·. ·;:::·~·;:://~'T::)\f__ .-_: . 
. . . ) :_·:_ ·. ·. ·: ... -. . . ·: <:'.--:~_-::::\ ..:·(_ ".\ 
,.1-·' ,, 
~t ~ 


<£i) 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 6, 2002 

"NiTRE DAME STYlE" 
Thursdav September 12, 2002 9:00-11:00 POI 
Check Dorm Posters tor locationll 

Guest speakers ND leprechaun and Cheerleaders 
Irish can't be green in the red zone 
On Saturday, the Irish offense showed major improvement from last sea­son. Carlyle Holiday passed for 226 yards and eight dif­ferent re­ceivers caught the ball. Notre Dame scored 22 points, 2.5 points more than its average points scored last season. 
But there was a problem -not one Irish offensive player scored a touchdown against Maryland. 
Last Saturday, that didn't spell defeat for the Irish. Thanks to five field goals from Nicholas Setta and Vontez Dufrs 76-yard punt return, not to mention stel­lar play by Notre Dame's defense, the Irish managed to come out with a solid vic­tory against the Terrapins. 
As for the rest of the sea­son -Notre Dame will not be playing teams that exited the fairy tale and entered Tales from the Crypt. Starting Saturday, Notre Dame will have to worry about teams that are going to score more than zero points. 

What does that mean? 
The Irish offense has to produce. 
"We need to not make so many unforced errors," Tyrone Willingham said dur­ing a Tuesday press confer­ence. "We need to make bet­ter decisions in every area." 
Those better decisions start with eliminating penal­ties. 
The offense was charged with a false start five times during Saturday's game. That is not acceptable for a veteran quarterback and an offensive 
line com­to be the
Whether it was any of
posed of team's 
players who those first-game­leading 
all have problems or the fact that scorer in a serious game and
the Easter Bunny was 
game expe­for a kicker 
rience. distracting the team to be an 
Notre Dame during play calling, the MVP, it's lost 60 time for the
Irish created problems 
yards in offense to offensive for themselves. let some 
penalties. A team other than Maryland is going to capital­ize on that. 
"We had a lot of penalties when we're not supposed to and a lot of breakdowns sometimes in the offense, and we really have to work on that." Holiday said. 
Maybe it was playing against Maryland's defense that caused the problem. Maybe it was first-game jit­ters. Maybe it was playing in an unfamiliar stadium. 
Whether it was any of those first-game problems or the fact that the Easter Bunny was distracting the team during play calling, the Irish created problems for themselves. 
"I'll go back and say that probably some of our prob­lem -not probably, but all of our problems -may have been in many cases what we did to ourselves," Willingham said. 
Stopping offensive penal­ties isn't enough. The Irish have to stop relying on Nicholas Setta. As nice as it 
is for him 
other 
names put 
points on the board. 
This Saturday when the Irish take the field against Purdue. they need to capi­talize when they're inside the 20-yard line. The Irish were within the 20 three times against Maryland, and all three scoring drives ended in a field goal. 
"I was surprised [at pro­duction in the red zone]," said running back Ryan Grant. "I think that that wasn't a representation of what is to come." 
Let's hope not. If it is, Setta may end the season with 192 points, but Notre Dame is certainly not going to be bringing home wins against good offensive teams such as Michigan and Florida State. 
"Nick, he's automatic, he's an automatic three, but at the same time, we're really tired of seeing Nick run onto the field," Holiday said. "Right now, he's the leading scorer on the team, and that's not just right. I'm sure we're going to get something going in the red zone." 
The offense showed some of what it is capable of in the Kickoff Classic. But they need to show a few more classic kickoffs -kickoffs that follow touchdowns. The offense needs to run some of its slant patterns and its occasional option play right into the end zone. 
And they need to do it now. 
If the offense has just scratched the surface. it needs to start digging and the Irish need to keep dig• ging until those golden hel­mets discover a golden scor­ing opportunity. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Katie McVoy at mcuo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


game hype 
Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
nWe will run hell or high water." 

._JJ} 
Kyle Orton Boilennaker quarterback 
'1Notre Dame] is a veteran football team, it should be a good football team, and it is a good football team." "Our field staff... said they will line up and make sure I go to the right sidelines. " 

Bill Diedrick Irish offensive coordinator 
"Although it's only the second game ofthe season, it's a key
.. 
game. 

Walsh Hall's 
Relresh01ents 

• 
....r· 
Friday, September 6, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Finding the right goal 
Although soccer is his first love, Setta found success between the goal posts 
were setting up for a kickoff
By KATIE McVOY 
than a field goal with field posi­
Associate Sports Editor 
tion like that. So when Willingham sent Setta Nicholas Setta has a deep love in Saturday to try for a 56-yardfor the field. 
field goal on the first Irish offen­
He can see himself standing 
sive drive of the season, Setta outside on an autumn day with wasn't surprised.
the crisp breeze blowing in his 
"We had practiced it and 
face as he puts on his cleats and [Willingham] felt confident with steps onto the freshly cut grass. 
it and he showed confidence in 
The fans have all turned their myself," Setta said ...That was a eyes to him, knowing that if he 
huge part of me getting the rest can score on this kick the team of the field goals was that confi­
has won. He looks ahead; there dence." 
is nothing standing between the Neither were his teammates. 
ball he will kick and a victory. "I don't know how long the He looks at where the ball is, 
.first one he attempted was, but decides on the angle at which he just going in there at the begin­
must kick. He imagines that he ning of the game, that's how digs in, he runs at the ball and 
much confidence we have in 
he lets his leg fly. 
him," said quarterback Carlyle
On Saturday, Irish coach 
Holiday.
Tyrone Willingham sent Setta in Although he missed that kick, not just to kick a ball, but to kick on the very next scoring drive, a ball 56 yards for the Irish. Setta hit a 51-yard field goal that 
That decision showed a lot of broke his previous collegiateconfidence in a young man 
record of 47 yards. 
whose first love is soccer. 
To say that Setta's kicking sta­
..Soccer is actually my 
tistics are impressive would be favorite," Setta said. " ... I was 
an understatement. Setta has 
going to play international [soc­kicked field goals in 17 consecu­cer] but decided to come and get tive games. That's the longest a degre.e at the University of streak in Notre Dame history.
Notre Dame and play football." 
Setta passed John Carney's
Who would have guessed that 
record off 11 straight games
the Irish football team's 2000 with a field goal againstleading scorer and guaranteed Tennessee. He has made 55 con­point-after man is a soccer buff? 
secutive point-after attempts, the And who isn't saying thank you fourth longest in school historyto the powers that be that Setta and, in 2000, became only the is on the football field at Notre second Notre Dame kicker in the Dame instead of on a soccer field past 10 seasons to lead the Irish in Bolivia? 
in scoring. "Kickers usually are the lead­
Hitting the heights -and the 
ing scorers of the team," Setta
lengths 
said. " ... That's just a bonus."
When Nicholas Setta was in But it isn't just his statistics
high school at Lockport 
that impress his teammates andTownship in Lockport, Ill., his his coaches. Ifs his demeanor. 
coaches and his teammates had "He's kind of not your tradi­remarkable faith in the young tional kicker in terms of -andkicker. But why not? He hit a 59­I'll probably be getting calls andyarder for the Porters in 1996 as letters about this -I think often a sophomore. That set an Illinois they are considered flakes, tostate record. Not bad for a boy some degree, but he doesn't fitwho learned how to place field in that category," Willinghamgoal~ not from some great place 
said.
kicker, but from his father and Despite the fact that footballhis brother. 
may not have
"I've never been Setta's
really kind of 
"He's kind ofnot your first love, his
watched any work ethic
traditional kicker in 
one person," 
shows no evi­
Setta said. terms of -and I'll 
dence of that"I've always 
probably be getting calls fact. Before
really just 
and letters about this -· I the 2001 sea­
been taught by 
son, Setta
my family. My think often they are 
found someone
family is my considered flakes, to to let him into
biggest role 
some degree, but he the Stadium
model. ... It and would
was my broth­doesn't fit in that 
spend hours in
er and my category." the summer
father who 
practicing
really taught 
kicking on the
me." Tyrone Willingham 
Irish field. 
But his Irish head coach 
"I used to getcoaches knew 
in here and
he could do there," Setta said, " ... You really
more. In a game against 
want to use it as a home fieldWheaton Warrenville South, in advantage."
the Class 6A playoff opener, Setta took the field at Lockport's 45-yard line. He let sail a 72-Showing real range yard kick that hit the crossbar. Setta has real range. And 
Seventy-two yards wasn't out we're not talking about the of range. length of his field goals. He has a 
In practice for the Irish, Setta range of talents, both on and off has hit field goals as long as 73 the football field. yards. In a game situation, that As a football player, Setta has means he would be kicking from often been described as a real Notre Dame's own 44-yard line. athlete. He doesn'tjust kick. It would look more like the Irish In consecutive games during the 2000 football season, Setta proved to Notre Dame's oppo­nents that he was a threat with more than just his foot. On Nov. 11, during a 28-16 -Irish victory against Boston College, Notre Dame special teams set up for a field goal. But when Adam Tibble took the snap, he didn't hold for Setta. He pitched the ball to the Irish kicker, who ran it in five yards for a touchdown, becoming the first Irish kicker in 20 years to score a touchdown. 

The very next weekend during a 45-17 route of Rutgers, Setta thought he might try his hand at quarterback. With a shallow 7-3 lead in the first quarter, Setta took the snap and threw a 25­yard pass to Tom Lopienski and then hit the point after to give the Irish a 14-3 lead. 
"I love those kinds of things, I love those kinds of trick plays," Setta said. "It's another way to score points and it's an easier way to score more than three points. You're putting six points on the board and hopefully a seventh." 
Setta's athleticism isn't appar­ent only on the football field. In addition to his pick-up soccer games with teammates during the summer, he's out on another athletic playing surface -Notre Dame's all-weather track. 
"Nick is a little unusual, and I think he's unusual because of his total athletic performance," Willingham said. "And that includes things outside of foot­ball, you know, his track career and all of the things that he's done." 
Setta runs middle distance for the Irish. Running middle dis­tance requires two things ­speed and stamina. It's an all­out sprint, but it's not over in 10 seconds. 
"It's very difficult because you're running one of the hard­est events in terms of it being middle distance and needing a lot of training," 
Setta said. " ... You really only have one week, maybe two weeks to train." 
Despite the difficulty of com­peting against runners who train all year, as Setta says, "It's worth it." 
If it's worth it to work hard to run middle distance, then it must be worth it to work hard and run 10 yards onto the field to win one for the Irish. 
Coming through in the clutch Setta-is the player who will get it done. 
"He's the kind of kicker you need to win ballgames," Holiday said. 
At least once, that was true. When the Irish take the field on Saturday against the 
Boilermakers, memories will awaken of the last time these two faced off in a contest at Notre Dame Stadium. That image of Setta taking the field to make the game-winning score will not seem so far from reality. 
In the final seconds of the con­test, the Irish were losing 21-20 to the Boilermakers with the ball on Purdue's 21-yard line. As time ticked down to zero, Setta hit the game-winning field goal. He came through in the clutch. 
That kick was good enough to land Setta in the NBC Sports Player of the Game spot and the USAToday.com Player of the Week. Add to those honors being named the Kickoff Classic MVP and you get three places a kicker doesn't expect to find himself. 
"It's not one of those things that even comes into your mind being a kicker. You think if there's no news you did a good job because nobody's worried about you losing the game." 
But as for Setta, he said that he knows he can be the go-to guy. As a kicker, he has to be. 
"You feel that way," Setta said. " ... You have to have that atti­tude, and you have to be cocky in terms of knowing you can do this." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Oct. 5  ·st<  STANFORD  
;;;·p1rrseURGH  
dtAir Force  
Oct. 26  at Florida State  
Nov. 2  BOSTON COLLEGE  
Nov. 9  at Navy  
Nov. 23  RUTGERS  
Nov. 30  at use  


-
.. 
i ' 
Friday, September 6, 2001 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 


EAD T(

Tyrone Willingham first season at Notre Dame career record: 
45-36-1 
at Notre Dame: 
1-0 
Willingham against Purdue: head coach 0-0 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. HL 1 Jared Clark QB 6-4 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine ILB 6-3 2 DanNovakov QB 6-1 3 AmazBattle FL 6-1 4 Justin Smith FS 5-11 5 Ron Israel ss 6-1 6 David Givens FL 6-3 7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 8 Lorenzo Crawford FL 5-10 8 Matt Krueger FL 5-10 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 10 Matt LoVecchio QB 6-4 10 Ryan Krueger QB 5-9 12 Tony Fisher TB 6-2 13 NickSet!a K/P 5-11 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5.9 16 Abram Elam ss 6-0 17 Joey Hildbold p 5-10 18 Ronnie Rodamer SE 6-4 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 20 Gerome Sapp ss 6-0 21 Javin Hunter SE 6-0 22 Julius Jones TB 5-10 23 Qu-isYura TB 6-0 24 ChadDeBolt ILB 6-0 25 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 26 Garron Bible CB 5-10 28 Donald Dykes FS 5-11 30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6-4 31 Dwayne Francis FS 6-0 32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 33 Courtney Watson ILB 6-1 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 35 David Miller K 5-11 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 
36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 37 Dwight Ellick CB 5-11 38 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 38 Eric Nelson FB 6-0 39 Brandon Hoyte !LB 6-0 40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 45 Matt Sarb ss 5-11 46 Corey Mays ILB 6-1 47 MikeMcNair FB 6-0 48 Justin Tuck OLB 6-5 49 Derek Curry ILB 6-3 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 51 Tyreo Harrison ILB 6-2 52 Jeff Faine C 6-3 52 Mark Mitchell OLB 5-10 53 Jason Halvorson DL 6-2 55 Zachary Giles OL 6-4 56 John Crowther C 6-2 56 Pat Ryan ILB 6-3 57 Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 59 Brian Dierckman ILB 6-1 60 Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 61 Jesse Desplinter LB 6-1 62 Casey Robin 0G 6-7 63 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 64 Jeffrey Campbell DE 6-1 65 Sean Milligan 0G 6-4 66 JW)ordan C 6-1 67 Ryan Gillis 0G 6-3 69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 72 Ryan Scarola 0G 6-5 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 75 Kurt Vollers OT 6-7 76 John Teasdale OT 6-5 77 Greg Pauly DT 6-6 78 Jordan Black OT b-6 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-3 80 AdamTibble K 5-11 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 81 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 82 Bernard Akatu SE 5-10 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 83 Josh Gentine K/P 5-11 84 John Owens TE 6-3 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 86 Brendan Hart TE 6-2 87 Jonathan Smith WR 6-4 88 Carlos Campbell WR 6-1 89 Matt Root TE 6-6 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 91 Jeff Thompson DL 6-5 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 94 AndyWisne DT 6-3 95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 98 Anthony Weaver DE 6-3 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 

Irish 
experts 
Andrew Soukup Chris Federico
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 assistant managing editor Purdue 17 sports editor Purdue 31 
NOTRE DAME 2002 Schedule 
Aug. 31 Maryland -W Sept. 7 PURDUE Sept. 14 MICHIGAN Sept. 21 at Michigan State 
COACHING 
LI.I 
:E
er: 
C 
LIJ 
a: 
t­
o 
z 
LIJ 
:::, 
C 
a: 
:::, 
£L 

Hanging 51 points on a Division I-AA 
Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton looked less than team? That's one thing. Trying to score on impressive against the Irish last year. The an Irish offense that allowed 13 3 total Boilermakers have a corps of speedy receivers. yards last week? That's quite another. but will be without last year's top target Notre Dame's defense will be well-pre­Stubblefield. Free safety Stuart Schweigert is pared to handle Purdue's new rushing returning from an injury. Purdue's spread sets attack, and Nicholas Setta will finally kick may be a problem for Notre Dame's inexperi­an extra point after an Irish touchdown. enced defensive backfield. 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 

LEFT TACKLE 
CORNER BACK
TAILBACK 71-Btack 
12-Roiers
4-Grallt 73·LeVolr 
-Oicllerson
11-Wllson 
STRONG SIDE 
LINEBACKER 
51-t)dom 
39-1wuchukwu 
FULLBACK 
36-Loplenskl 
-
47-McNair 
55-Vrr 
-,
-falal .­
72-ScarolaRIGHT TACKLE 
63-Curtln 
70-Molinaro 
-, 
, / 

FREE tmlll' SAFElY 
4i~-, -9-Scllwelgelt 
19-Huddleston ?::_:,. -.:.--.. ,/~ :··=.i··_-:: 
·: . ..--_:· ?~"-'_ 
,_-,":· ·-: ::· :·,'.. , 
OEFENSNE:EjD. 
C 
53.Jltilffl,S . ­
.. fJ2.·0ZOIOviC 
QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Wt. 
230 241 215 210 197 212 212 218 190 175 186 205 186 226 175 270 176 210 
188 
210 
210 214 
191 210 225 202 
198 
191 195 240 
198 
195 232 192 208 175 
249 
170 
176 
225 
219 
260 
240 
186 
275 
200 
234 
237 
215 
228 
290 
242 
296 
200 
240 
285 
242 
231 
245 
250 
296 
177 
300 
305 230 295 275 296 
285 
295 
308 
310 312 305 
208 
318 292 186 180 242 190 170 205 260 265 255 195 
190 
225 265 265 
265 
285 
262 286 
250 
YR 
so 
SR 
JR SR SR SR 
SR 
so 
so 
so 
JR 
so 
SR SR JR JR SR 
so 
JR 
so 
JR 
JR 
SR JR JR 
SR 
FR 
so 
SR SR 
SR SR 
JR 
so 
SR SR 
SR FR 
so 
SR 
FR 
SR 
so 
SR 
SR 
SR 
FR 
SR 
FR 
so 
JR SR JR SR JR FR SR JR JR SR JR 
so 
SR JR SR JR SR 
JR 
FR 
JR 
SR 
FR 
SR 
SR 
so 
SR SR SR 
FR 
so 
SR 
FR 
JR SR 
so 
so 
so 
FR 
FR 
FR 
FR 
so 
SR SR SR 
so 
Willingham looks to be settling his team into his new scheme, but his offense had some self­inflicted mistakes. In addition, he may suffer under the jynx of Notre Dame coaches in second games. He needs to keep his team cool and focused on the game.  Holiday showed real poise against the Terrapins in the Irish opener. He is patient in the pocket and he is dangerous on the run. However, he did make a few mistakes and fall short when trying to score in the red zone.  Notre Dame's backfield did not prove itself against Maryland. In the first half, the Irish only had 130 rushing yards and rarely got more than two or three yards per carry. Grant and Powers­Neal looked solid in the second_ half, but have room for improvement.  Notre Dame's receivmg corps looks solid if still slightly inexperienced. Eight Irish players made catches last weekend. It remains to be seen. however, if the Irish receivers can run pat­terns different enough to throw a real defense off its game.  
Tiller has a 2-3 record against Notre Dame and has lost both times he faced the Irish in South Bend. He helped bring the West Coast offense to college foot­ball, now he has to play against it.  Orton came out with guns blazing in Purdue's open­er. After vying for the quarterback spot last year, he's settled in with confidence this season, throwing three touch­down passes and 250 yards. It was his first career victory at quarter­back.  Purdue will present a real problem for the Irish with Johnson. He fin­ished with 82 tackles last season and. according to Tiller, could be the best tackler in the Big 10 this year. He is joined by Odom and Koutouvtdes. who switched spots dur­ing spring camp.  Schweigert, the All­American. will lead the Purdue secondary. The free safety holds the school record for intercep­tions with 11. Turner and Ferrell, both with starts for the Boilermakers. will join Schweigert, who sat out Saturday's game with an injury.  
Notre Darn,~il\,rushing is  The Irish have some  
less than :~'ifect. With  flexibility with their  
John$-Q:n'<~l?tlt. e line- receivers. With eight  
f~~lflfl  (;;!~\~J~1~;~:J\:~~ targets :ti:fr Holiday~ tfMy will present an offense that is different than the  
seeing mo·i::eJtti:ff than %. -1'"yardage. ·-,.,,. ·  Notre Dame offense Purdue faced last year.  

'1­
... 

Friday, September 6, 2001 page 5 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Purdue 
Boilermakers

) EAD 
WlOE RECIEVER
Purdue 
WIDE 92.....,,.,rd 
REC!l::VER S.James 
Z1·Sllibllltffelll

OFFENSE 
4-chambers 
CORNERBACK 
42-WllteA 
37-eRick 
LEFTGUARO 
61-Kltcll1II 
56-TUmef
RUB
3-lawt 
25-Harris 
FREE 
SAf£lY 
1!Harl 
29-Burrell 
RIGHT TACKLE 
71-Blltltr 
75-Wang 
TIGHT ENO 
STRONG
14-Rhilleflalt
23-Da . . •. ·. SAFETY 
20-Sapp 
26-Blble 
OUTSIDE 
LINEBACKER 
A9-Cany
57-Thomas 
LEFTEND 2_j CORNERBACK < . 
,..._~
34-0llfl --;.;
t2-Balll111ea, 
NOTRE DAME
15-Jaci<son ­
90-Beidatscll 
,..,,,i
DEFENSE 
---,._.,. 

BolLERMAKER RusHING BolL.ERMAKER PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
Notre Dame's defense completely shut down Maryland's rushing game, allowing just 16 total yards. Despite the relative inexperience of the linebackers, they've learned on the job and, to top it off, Courtney Watson should be back on the field.  Notre Dame's secondary is deadly to any passing game. Walton and Duff at cornerback go after any ball that comes their way. Against Purdue's offense, however, the Irish will have to tap into their shallow reserves. Jackson is still inexperienced.  Despite the fact that spe­ciaI teams are often behind early in the sea­son, Irish special teams are ahead. Nick Setta hit a career-long 51-yarder and remains the consis­tent point after man. Anytime the ball comes to Duff, there is a. danger that he could rurrit back.  The Irish have home-field advantage, which means a lot against a Purdue team that hasn't won in Notre Dame Stadium since 1974. In addition, the Irish are coming off of a solid win under their new coach and will be looking to give the fans a good show.  

Harris rushed for 144 yards last Saturday, 14 more than the entire Notre Dame offense com­bined. In all seven differ­ent rushers carried the ball. Tiller said he wants to limit the number of touches Harris gets to keep him fresh.  Purdue returns two of three starters from last season to the playing field. However, they are without leading receiver Stubblefield, who had a skull fracture during fall camp. Ruck and Standeford will he good opponents for Notre Dame's secondary.  All-American kicker Travis Dorsch left for the NFL, leaving a big hole for the Boilermakers to fill. Lacevic missed his first extra-point attempt of the season. Harris will be dangerous on both kick and punt returns.  Purdue is looking for revenge. The last time the Boilermakers visited South Bend, they lost in the final seconds of the game on a Setta field goal. They are coming off of a stellar offensive performance last week and looking for their first win in 28 years in Notre Dame Stadium.  

Neither Notre Dame's defense or Purdue's iit€:1ah:fuif''l,,!,fr~~:..... .,.. g •,•, .·.' ..... .... r. <.ft\ one=ntf Hkrris lo'bki...rP ..........-.•. w ........ ifupressf\.le, bht::.so db thi Irish linebackers. If Watson plays full strength, the Irish may have the advantage.  The Purdue offense will stretch Notre Damets sec-strong enough to still hold the advantage.  Without a solid kicker, Pur<hHi',:ii~ spec;til:J,amsdon~tdiold..a caffdle to ;tiilllI~!!~lli;;1:~:,1~:,,~~: if the Boilermakers will p11nt to him.  There is no question Notre be defeaning as the Irish come through the tunnels.  

PURDUE 

Aug. 31 ILUNOIS STATE -W Sept. 7 at Notre Dome Sep. 14 WESTERN MICHIGAN 

Oct. 12 Oct. 19 Oct. 26 Nov.9 
at Illinois MICHIGAN at Northwestern OHIO STATE 
INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
.... 
::a 
m 
C 
:I> 3: 
m 
i:, 
C: 
::a 
C 
C: 
m 

Joe Tiller fifth season at Purdue career record: 
78-52-1 
at Purdue 
39-22 

Tiller
against Notre 
head coach
Dame: 2-3 
Roster 
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
2  Ray Williams  WR  6-2  176  FR  
3  Montrell Lowe  RB  5-8  196  SR  
4  Anthony Chambers  WR  6-1  200  JR  
5  Chris James  WR  5-10  194  SR  
6  Sam Steiner  QB  6-4  209  FR  
6  Deaunte Ferrell  ss  5-11  200  JR  
7  Kyle Smith  QB  6-4  208  FR  
8  Ralph Turner  55  6-2  220  SR  
9  Stuart Schweigert  FS  6-3  215  JR  
10  Berin Lacevic  K  5-10  162  FR  
11  Brandon Kirsch  QB  6-3  203  FR  
12  Bobby Farmer  QB  6-1  213  FR  
12  Antwaun Rogers  CB  6-2  170  so  
13  Eric Smith  FS  6-1  189  JR  
14  Chad Dickerson  CB  5-9  176  FR  
15  Shaun Phillips  DE  6-3  267  JR  
16  Gilbert Gardner  LB  6-2  236  JR  
17  Mike Woodard  CB  HO  192  so  
17  Andy Nelson  K/P  6-2  218  JR  
18  Kyle Orton  QB  6-4  215  so  
19  Marc Huddleston  FS  5-11  200  FR  
20  Andre Chattams  • WR  6-0  206  FR  
21  Taylor Stubblefield  WR  6-1  172  so  
22  Jerome Brooks  RB  5-11  169  FR  
22  Patrick I<ohlz  ss  !,-1  200  FR  
23  Kevin Noel  WR  6-3  211  so  
24  Sean Petty  CB  5-11  171  FR  
24  GeoffBeck  K  5-11  159  FR  
25  Joey Harris  RB  5-11  212  JR  
26  Coyla Dailey  WR  5-10  171  JR  
27  Brandon Jones  RB  5-11  220  FR  
28  Jacques Reeves  CB  6-l  191  JR  
29  Aarort Levin  p  5-11  214  so  
30  George Hall  LB  6-2  223  FR  
30  Chase Lecklider  WR  6-0  176  FR  
31  Jeremy Burnett  FS  6-0  198  FR  
32  Jerod Void  RB  6-2  210  FR  
33  Brian Hickman  CB  6--0  175  FR  
34  Niko Koutouvides  LB  6-3  238  JR  
35  Greg Stevenart  RB  5--10  205  FR  
36  Torey Vogel  55  5-11  199  JR  
37  Shane Swnmers  FS  6-1  205  JR  
38  Justin Green  KIP  5-8  190  FR  
38  Brian Mattaway  FS  5-8  191  FR  
39  Bobby lwuchukwu  LB  6-2  233  FR  
40  Kevin Nesfield  DE  6-3  255  JR  
41  John Lampert  ss  6-3  208  FR  
42  Patrick Schaub  RB  6-0  248  JR  
43  Jeff Bennett  DE  6-4  251  FR  
44  Jon Goldsberry  LB  6-3  243  so  
45  Jacob Rowe  RB  5.9  244  SR  
46  Brent Slaton  p  6-3  196  JR  
47  Llllldon Johnson  LB  6-2  225  JR  
48  Ryan Bucher  LB  6-3  220  FR  
49  Anthony Spencer  DE  6-3  243  FR  
50  Tyler Moore  or  6-7  294  so  
51  Joe Odom  LB  6-2  243  SR  
52  Jason Leimberger  LB  6-2  228  FR  
54  Rob Turner  0G  6-4  229  SR  
55  Brandon Villarreal  DT  6-2  285  FR  
56  Matt Turner  0G  6-3  279  FR  
57  Brent Hawkins  LB  6-2  238  FR  
58  Brent Grover  DE  6-4  272  FR  
59  Doug Swann  DE  6-5  233  so  
60  Mark Reid  LS  6-1  231  so  
61  Nick Hartwick  0G  6-4  295  JR  
62  Vedran Dzolovic  DE  6-3  264  JR  
63  David Owen  or  6-6  287  so  
64  Danny May  0G  6-2  299  so  
65  Mike Otto  or  6-5  266  FR  
66  Jason Eisele  0G  6-5  290  so  
67  Uche Nwaneri  DE  6-3  298  FR  
68  Kelly Kitchel  0G  6-6  299  SR  
69  John Shelboume  lS  6-6  253  SR  
71  Kelly Butler  or  6-8  299  so  
72  Max Miller  0G  6-3  299  SR  
73  Blake Searer  LB  5-10  206  FR  
73  Mike Holle  0G  6-2  290  JR  
74  Nick Pilipauskis  C  6-2  286  JR  
75  Brian Wang  OT  6-7  294  FR  
76  Willie Bach  or  6-2  270  so  
'Tl  Pete Lougheed  or  6-5  299  SR  
78  John Tomsheck  0G  6-6  299  FR  
79  Gene Mroczkowski  V  6-2  299  SR  
80  Jamaal Wilson  WR  6-3  191  JR  
81  Al Royal  WR  6-0  214  FR  
82  John Standeford  WR  6-4  202  JR  
83  Mike Rhinehart  TE  6-6  263  so  
84  Seth Morales  WR  5-10  184  SR  
85  Jameson Evans  WR  6-3  211  FR  
86  Zach Hill  WR  5-10  173  JR  
87  Charles Davis  TE  6-6  2£,0  FR  
88  Drew Rucks  WR  6-2  211  FR  
89  Brian Coker  WR  6-0  175  FR  
90  Brandon Johnson  DT  6-0  292  SR  
91  Nick Cavallo  TE  6-3  251  FR  
92  Craig Terrill  DT  6-3  295  JR  
93  Steve Jenkinson  LB  6-2  204  FR  
94  Dontrey Flemings  DT  6-2  299  FR  
95  Jarod Ramirez  DE  6-4  245  JR  
96  NickRaben  TE  6-3  238  FR  
~  Ryan Davis  DE  6-4  278  FR  
98  DanMcGowen  DT  6-0  258  FR  
99  Oaemeon Grier  OT  6-1  299  JR  




Notre Dame will score its first offensive touchdown of the season, in fact they'll score three. Look for Notre Dame secondary to contain Orton and Shane Walton to get another interception. The home crowd will tip the scales for the Irish and help them reach 2-0 heading into Michigan next weekend. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Joe Hettler Nebraska 20 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 

Katie McVoy associate sports editor 
\
l ,
\ 
. I l 
' 
l ( 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and the Boilermakers 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs 
PURDUE'S DEFENSE 

ltlSlf!-1130 
,,••226 
kick return yards gained NOTRE DAME 31 kick return yards allowed l!i:::IWB.:lliiJ:i:I:::::::::1:!:t::i!i!i;!!;;:!llii!!i~!~!ilt!l!:i!ll!li:1:::::l} 142 
punt return yards gained r1t•i•dl•Mli...84 
punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored points allowed 
PURDUE 1
______________, 
~l@di•ffldi...36.a 
PURDUE 0 
NOTRE DAME 0 

PURDUE'S OFFENSE 
vs 
NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 


273 
NOTRE DAME 16 

~frnil•m=---36.5 
NOTRE DAME 0 


20 ::••••••·~C)JIBi:•••PAMiI::Ii:iII!:::ii:•,I:~:!:i:II:lt:i!llI!tiIIi:i 2o 
~frnd•ffi---51 
LNOTRE DAME 0 
Friday, September 6, 2002 
KEY MATCHUP 
NOTRE DAME'S PURDUE'S DEFENSE OFFENSE 

The Irish have to pick -contain Purdue's running game or its passing game. But which one will it be? 
The Irish didn't,blitz last weekend. They left it up to their seecondary to stop the pass once it had left the quarterback's hands. Based on last week's performance, Orton is dangerous once he has released a pass. The question is whether the Irish will try to stop Orton before he throws or keep their trust in their secondary. 
by the numbers 
last time the Boilermakers defeated 
1974 
the Irish on Notre Dame turt 
5 5 6 number of offensive yards Purdue put up last week against Div. I-AA Illinois State 
number of coaches who have won their second game 
2 
with the Irish. Both played Purdue in the second 
game. 

TAILGATE 

on Football Saturdays? 
All Notre Dame students can host tailgate parties in the Blue Field South (radio tower lot) but ONLY if they apply first. 
To REGISTER, follow these steps: 
1) Visit www.nd.edu/~tailgate 
2) Read the policies and procedures on the website 
3) Complete the Online Application form each week between 8AM Monday and 6AM Thursday 
4) Pick up your tailgating hang tag at Student Activities in 303 LaFortune on Friday bet\veen 10AM and 3PM 
Important things to note: 
• 
ANY student can host a tailgate but ONLY those students who are 21 years old may host a tailgate where alcohol is present 

• 
Up to 4 students can host a tailgate together but all must sign acknowledgement forms on Friday in the Student Activities Office 

• 
Students must abide by Indiana State Law and University Policies at tailgate parties. University, state & local police will enforce these rules 


For additional information: read the FAQ at www.nd.edu/~tailgate, e-mail tailgate@nd.edu, or call Student Government at 1-7668 
Ad Sponsored by Student Government 
Students: Do you want to 


Friday, September 6, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 


A year later, a year older, Orton ready to roll 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Mere hours after he finished 
leading the Boilermakers to a 
51 -10, Purdue quarterback 
Kyle Orton settled into his 
chair to watch some television. 
The game of choice· was Notre Dame-Maryland, of course. 
Orton watched Irish corner­back Shane Walton pick off three passes. He saw Notre Dame's defensive line pressure Maryland quarterbacks all day long. He turned the volume on the television down and tried to figure out how the Irish hung a shutout on Maryland. 
"They are big and strong up front, and they hit hard," the sophomore said. "They also have some guys in the sec­ondary that can make plays. They don't blitz a lot, and they trust their front four to pres­sure the quarterback and they trust their backs to shut down the pass." 
Orton watched so closely because he knew he would face that same defense a week later. And he was anxious to correct the mistakes he made last December, when the Irish and Boilermakers last faced off. 
Last year against the Irish, Orton completed only 24 of 58 passes and threw three inter­ceptions -the culminating game in a rocky season for a Purdue offense that finished 105th in the nation in offense. 
Some of Purdue's offensive struggles last season came as a result of uncertainty at the quarterback position. Throughout most of the season, Brandon Hance and Orton bat­tled to fill the void left by the graduation of Heisman Trophy finalist Drew Brees. But Hance, anointed by many as the Brees' successor, struggled for most of the season, giving Orton the chance to creep his way onto the field. 
The season culminated for Orton when he first saw signifi­cant playing time in mid­November against Michigan State and started against Indiana a week before the Notre Dame game. 
In between the loss to Notre Dame and Purdue's appear­ance in the Sun Bowl, Hance surprisingly decided to transfer to USC, leaving the relatively inexperienced Orton the unchallenged starter. Just like that, Purdue's team became Orton's team. 
Yet coaches weren't fazed. Orton. who can throw a foot­ball more than 70 yards, passed 7 4 times in a 33-27 loss to Washington State in the Sun Bowl. Heading into this season, Purdue head coach Joe Tiller said Orton has the potential to be better than Brees. 
Now. a little more than a year after he arrived on Purdue's campus, Orton is as confident as he has ever been. Against Division I-AA Illinois State, Orton completed 14 of 28 passes for 250 yards. By com­parison, last year against the Irish, Orton tossed twice as many passes yet only picked up eight more yards. 

However, he knows he still becoming a better quarterback. ue working, as time goes by, has a long way to go, and fac­"You can't just come in as a you will get better." ing a Notre Dame defense that freshman and be the best quar­returned six starters from the terback you are ever going to squad that stymied him last be," Orton said. "It's a natural Contact Andrew Soukup at year will be the first step in process. As long as you contin-asou.kup@nd.edu 

Irish receivers catching the spotlight at last 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
Irish receivers are finally getting respect. And for the first time since Ron Powlus aired out floaters down the side­line to Derrick Mayes, they are drawing the attention of opponents. 
Purdue coach Joe Tiller recently com­mented on the difference he noticed in Irish receivers from a year ago. It is more than having an extra year of experience .. he said. It is having confidence. 
"I don't think there's any question they're playing with a little more confi­dence," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "I think they are under­standing the system a little better. Each week they should be getting a little more confident. I think when you start under­standing, you feel confident that you can execute." 
For the first time in years, the Irish receivers have confidence in their coach­es, confidence in their system and ­most importantly -confidence in them­selves. 
..I think [our boost in confidence] goes to the offensive scheme that we have," Irish flanker Arnaz Battle said. "It's something that the coaches have brought. It's more comfortable for us to go out and make plays. It allows us to use the capa­bilities that we have to do that." 
The new West Coast scheme imple­mented by Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham and his assistants has already shown results. Notre Dame's 226 yards passing against Maryland was more than the team put up in any game last year. 
Also, Notre Dame finally has some much•needed depth at the wide receiver position with starters Battle and Omar Jenkins, Carlos Campbell, and the fresh• men Rhema McKnight and Maurice Stovall coming off the bench. Irish quar­terback Carlyle Holiday connected on passes to eight different targets last weekend. 
"I think with our team and the skill we 
have now, you can look across the board 
[for contributions]," Battle said. "We have 
dangerous guys across the board. I think 
we are. an off errse that has the ability to 
get the ball in several receivers' hands 
and make plays." 
It seems the ones that are most worried about the Irish receivers are the Notre Dame coaches. They see the team's first game against Maryland as a step in the right direction, but they realize there is 
. ...
stiIJ a long way to go. 
"I thought we were very average [last week]," Irish receivers' coach Trent Miles said. "We made a lot of mental mistakes. We had two young guys put the ball on the ground twice, and I didn't feel good about some of the routes we ran. We're not even close to having a strong perfor­mance yet. We're just very average. That was a ·c· for us." 
For a team whose returning quarter­back surpassed 100 yards passing in the final two games of last season, that "C" performance looks pretty good. 
But coaches such as Diedrick and Miles want to see continued improvement. 
"There's a ton of work still to do, a ton of work," Diedrick said. "When you look at the overall execution, I think we can always become a lot sharper. We're chal­lenging ourselves to where we have no drops and no bad throws. We want to be almost pinpoint perfect." 
With that first win on the books, the Irish have new life in a new season, and they can finally put a tumultuous 2001 and offseason behind them. 
"There's new life in everyone on the team," Jenkins said. "Everybody that steps on the field has new life -we're a completely new program. Right now we have that one game under our belts. I think anybody that goes out and plays the game can have confidence after a win." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfcdcric@nd.edu 

-


O
THE 
BSERVER Friday, September 1, 2000 
Notre Dame vs. Texas A&M 

( 
' 
' 
: 
' 
I 
i 
I 
f ' 
I) 
I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
i 
' 
; 
\ 
' 
~ 
( 
' 
, 
i 
J 




