
Thursdav,,I December 5, 2002
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 68 
Senate criticizes First Year of Studies 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
A.ssisrant New~ Editor 
The Student Senate unani­mously passed a resolt.1tion that urged lhc First Year of Studies lo review its evaluation pruct\Sses because it feels that student needs were not being addressed. 
Work began on this rcsolu lion last year after Jeremy Staley, senator from Sorin l!all, noted his disappointment with First Year of Studies. Staley said, "First Year of Studies is not really in touch with what the students need. There is a big discrepancy over what it claims to do and what it does." 
Members of the Academic Affairs Committee met with Eileen Kolman, dean of the First Year of Studies, and reported that the meeting was unproductive, said Staley. This led to the drafting of the reso-requirements and expressed of a survey that freshmen are Senate offered itself as a 1u tion and Staley said, "It's a uncertainty about the purpose asked to complete each spring, resource for First Year of recommendation and we want and quality of peer advising. said Staley. Last spring, Studies and asked it to conduct lo use strong language because The Academic Affairs approximately 40 percent of a more thorough evaluation we feel it is necessary and that Committee, which proposed the freshmen responded. The reso-process that includes input the issues need to be amendment, said First Year of 1ution said, "First Year of from sources other than upper­addressed." Studies could realize its mis­Studies has expressed that 'our classmen, new student focus 
The resolution said students sion statement if increased stu­efforts to understand the first groups and the Academic were confused about the role dent input existed. First Year year experience are severely Affairs Committee of the of their advisors, experienced of Studies makes many of its undermined by a low response Student Senate. incons is tent ad vising, were decisions and curriculum rate' of first-year student sur­misinformed about classes and changes based upon the results veys." ·see SENATE/page 3 



Bond's back into action 
page12 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Notre Dame No. l in students overseas 
Special lo The Observer 

Notre Dame has the highest percentage of students partici­pating in study abroad pro­grams among American research universities, according to a new report from the Institute of International Education (IIE). 
For 2000-01, the most recent academic year for which statis­tics are available, 39.2 percent of Notre Dame students had participated in study programs in other countries. Yeshiva University in New York City is second with 38.8 percent, fol­lowed by Cornell (28.2), Duke 
(26.5) and Georgetown (26.5) universities. 
With a total of 1,133 students who studied abroad, Notre Dame is among the 24 universi­ties with more than 1,000 stu­dents who studied in another country. Michigan State University ranks first for the actual number of students (1,835) studying abroad but is 19th on a percentage basis at 
19.2 percent. 

Turnitin.com detects student plagiarism 
By CAITLIN EARLY 
News Writer 
In a recent e-mail sent to the entire student body, the Honor Code Committee addressed sever­al points of concern surrounding the University's use of Turnitin.com, an online plagia­rbm-detection company. 
Turnitin.com enables professors ,m<l faculty members to submit a student's paper and to receive a set of "Originality Heports" within 24 hours. revealing if any Internet documents or resources are used in the student's work. 
The most contested aspect of Turnitin.com, however, is the direct submission of students' work without any prior indication of plagiarL'im. 
The Honor Code Committee's official response to the use of Turnitin.com recommends, "A student's work be submitted to Turnitin.com only if the instructor of the course believes there are reasonable grounds for suspecting academic dishonesty on the part of the student." 
As it currently stands, only about five professors are submit­ting all students' papers to Turnitin.com. 
"With regnrd to Turnitin.com. the I lonor Code Committee feels that automatic submission of papers without prior suspicion of plagiarism expre~r,s a degree of distrust that is at odds with the very spirit of the Honor Code," said Thomas Flint. faculty Honor Code officer. 
Students' reactions towards the use oITurnitin.com continue to be mixed. 
"We found that most students were initially weary when they were informed about Turnitin.com. Some students feel that the plagiarism service is ben­eficial because it ensures that their peers will be more honest. Others, however, are concerned that use of Turnitin.com under­mines the whole idea of honor," said Maura Kellv, a student mem­ber of the University Academic Honor Code Committee. 
The University decided to con­tract the services of Tumitin.com for this academic year in response to ihe ovenvhelming problem of computer-related cheating that continues to plague Notre Dame, as well as many other colleges throughout the country. 
"In the past few years, many professors have been looking for a tool, like Turnitin.com, to deal with the rising problem of online plagiarism. The University has a yearly contract with Turnitin.com and wn ¼'ill continue to re-evalu­ate the use of its services in ihe years to come," said Flint. 
Contact Caitlin Early at Caitlin.].Early.2@nd.edu 
SMC sponsors religion forum 
By MEIANIE BECKER 
News Writer 
In order to increase reli­
gious awareness on campus 
during the holiday season, 
the Student Diversity Board 
(SDB) hosted a forum on 
major world religions in the 
Haggar College Center last 
night. 

"This was to provide .awareness of other religions, 
some knowledge and to erase 
s o m e 
miscon­

ceptions geous things
'This was to provide
a n d when we stereo­awareness ofother think about it, types," religions, some our God S D B became
knowledge and to erase
spiritu­human," 
a I i t y some misconceptions and Mongrain repre­stereotypes." said. 
senta­Doherty, t i V e spoke of her Anita Anita Doherty experiences of Doherty SDB spirituality representative being brought 
said. 
A panel of students, faculty and staff represented six religions. 
Johnea Brooks De-Vitta, senior humanistic studies major spoke about Baha'i and its origins. Founded in Persia during the mid-19th century, followers of Baha'i believe that there is one God who created all messengers, or prophets to guide individ­ual search for faith during times of spiritual crisis. De-

Vitta explained there are several obligatory prayers but little ritual in Baha'i and that there are 19 days of fasting during sunlight hours in March. 
Cindy Mongrain, a member of Campus Ministry present­ed Roman Catholicism and described the ritual practices and sacraments of Catholics. Catholicism is a faith com­munity that believes the end of life to be the beginning of a new life, Mongrain said. 
"We believe 
kind of outra­
up as a 

Presbyterian whose family was unable to find a Presbyterian Church in southern Indiana and joined a United Methodist Congregation. The congrega­tion was founded in 1968 with the principles of abstaining from alcohol, ille­gal drugs, gambling and tobacco. They attend services that last from one and a half to two hours. receive com­munion once a month and have male and female pas­tors. 
"A Jot of times Christians will move into different denomination !of Christianity] to find the prac­tice that fit their beliefs," Doherty explained. 
Junior Nila Ahmad, SDB vice-president, represented Islam and explained how it is practiced in daily life. 
The six core beliefs of Islam are that there is one God, belief in all prophets of all religions, belief in reli­gious books of all religions, belief in all angles and Mohammed as the messen­ger and the Day of Judgment. 
The five pillars, prayer five times a day (Salat), Charity (Zakat), a month of fasting (Ramadah). pilgrimage to Mecca (Hajj) and the belief in one God (Kalima) are the principles in which Muslims live their lives. 
"We fast so that we may empathize and know what it means to be poor," Ahmad said. 
Carla Johnson, professional writing specialist and English Department assistant of writing proficiency profes­sor, spoke on Judaism. Judaism was the first monotheistic religion and the root of Christianity and Islam. 
Jewish declaration of faith is through the Shema. the 
see FORUM/page 6 
Thursday, December 5, 2002

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE
INSIDE COLUMN 

Can you

keep
protn1se? 
The end of the semester is approach­ing and with it the shock for seniors, like me, that pretty soon decisions are going to have to be made about what 
Sarah Nestor 
life beyond South Bend will be. With 

Saint Mary's
these decisions 

Editor
many commit­ments are being made, and others broken. 

While home over the break my best friend from high school shocked me with her pronouncement that she was becoming a nun. 
Now I shouldn't say that it was a com­plete shock because it is something she has been considering for a couple of years no_w but I never actually thought she would do it. 
Now it's not like you can just wake up one day and say, "I think I'm going to be a nun," and you can just join a con­vent like that. It is a major commitment and it will take her several years to actually receive the title of Sister. 
Apparently there are three levels before you make final vows. First there is postulancy, when you live in the con­vent for one to two years, then there is novitiate, which is the beginning stage of religious life and is another two years, and then there is the junior pro­fessed stage, which is the first profes­sion of vows of chastity, poverty and obedience. It is only after five years of yearly renewing these vows that per­petual vows are taken and only then will my friend give herself forever to God. 
The time and contemplation that goes in to becoming a nun has made be aware of the commitments many seniors are making, especially when I consider the amount of seniors becom­ing engaged. Marriage is just as an important commitment as a vocation but it worries me when so many today seem to rush to get married. When you consider that the divorce rate in America hovers around 50 percent, maybe a longer period oftime between becoming engaged and married should be made. It's not that I don't believe young people are capable of making long term commitments; my parents were married at 18 and have been together for over 20 years but it seems like people just don't take marriage as seriously. 
Consider all the celebrities that seem to easily marry and divorce, over and over again. I'm not saying that celebri­ties are representative ofmost people but that there even is the attitude that marriages can so easily be absolved is demonstrative of the lack ofrespect for the institution ofmarriage. I mean look at J-Lo, that girl really needs to slow down before she turns into today's Elizabeth Taylor. 
For me having a friend that is going to be a nun, and knowing the great commitment she is making, has made me reevaluate the commitments in my own life and how I plan to fulfill them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Wednesday's story, "Student launches poster pro­ject," Robert Mason was incorrectly identified as fourth-year graduate student in graphic design. He is a second-year graduate student. Also, NDesign is the student group for industrial and graphic design students and nor draft design students as the article reported. 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Bush: al-Qaida detects 
Turnitin.com 

responsible student 
for attacks on plagiarism 
Kenya 

During an inter­contract with 
ND has signed a 
view with reports Turnitin.com to 
Bush remarked that help faculty cope 
he believes al­with cheating. 
Qaida was respon­sible for the attacks in Kenya. 
page 5

page1 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
United loses loan guarantee 
United Airlines finds itself on the verge of bankrupt­cy after officials denied the compa­ny's request for loan guarantees. 
page 7 
. 
CNlCEF card and gift sale: 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the Ilesburgh Library Concourse. 

. 
Lecture: "Critical Thoughts on the (Allegedly) Poor Quality of Democracy in Latin America," 4:15 p.m. in room C-103 of'the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 

. 
Movie: "The Man Who Wasn't There," 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium on the first floor of' the llesburgh Library. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Lilly Campaign Meeting: 7:30 a.m. to 10 a.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. 

. 
Heligious Studies Christmas Party: 4:30 p.rn. to 6 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. 

. 
Moreau Chamber Ensemble and Wind Ensemble: 


7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre. 
VIEWPOINT SCENE 
Scene rates newly released movies 
Scene reviews the newly released motion pictures "Bowling for Columbine," "Solaris" and "Die Another Day." 
page 11 Holidays should be a time for action and change 

A columnist voic­es his opinions on what the holiday season should mean to us and that it should be a time to remember and a time to take action. 
page 12 
SPORTS 
Too close for comfort 
Irish womens basketball defeats Valperaiso 74-68 in a very close game. The team will next face Arizona State. 
page 24 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled mostaccioli, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, four cheese pizza, cherry turnover, Texas chili, cream of broccoli soup, tomato soup, chicken and dumpling soup, Southern fried chicken, whipped pota­toes, bacon slices, plain rice and fries. 
Today's Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled mostaccioli, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, cherry turnover, breadsticks, Texas chili, tomato chili, corn, cherry crisp, steak­house fries, butternut squash, plain rice, vegetable eggrolls, breaded cheesesticks and chicken patties. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach cheese, tortellini, calzones, pretzel sticks, gar­den quiche, baby lima beans, baked potato neptune, beef tips and mush­rooms, kluski noodles, roast top sirloin of beef, long grain and wild rice, Italian chicken sandwich and Fries. 
Today Dinner: 
Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom mari­nara, spinach-cheese tortellini, cal­zones, pretzel sticks, eggplant parme­san, herbed vegetable medley, swiss steak, grilled salmon fillet, rotisserie chicken and roasted herb-garlic russet potatoes. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0:: 
LI.I 
:c 
ti 
LI.I 

3: 
_, 
~ 
(,) 


0

.... HIGH 26 HIGH 21 HIGH 30 HIGH 35 LOW 17 LOW 13 LOW 24 LOW 17 
Suspicious person case closed 
The case reported on Nov. 21 of a suspicious per­son at the Loftus Center was investigated further and is being closed. The case has been reclassified to soliciting without permission. 
Car vandalism in parking lot 
A student reported vandalism to his vehicle while parked in the Library lot on Nov. 30 between 11 
a.m. and 8 p.m. There are no suspects. 
Citations issued for driving violations 
NDSP issued state citations for exceeding the post­ed speed limit and no driver's license on Ivy Road on Tuesday. 
Occupational accident reported 
A University employee was transported to the University Health Center for treatment of a knee injury in the Lafortune Student Center on Wednesday. 
Vandalism case updated 
The case of vandalism at the Stadium on Nov. 23 has been assigned for a follow-up investigation. 
Compiled from NDSP blotter 

Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Spicy beef and rice soup, potato leek soup, cheese pizza, pepperoni pizza, battered fried pollock, golden fried catfish, chicken breast cordon bleu, yellow suah, California wrap, herbed pasta, dilled pea salad, brownie bar, chocolate cookies and cherry ribbon gelatin salad. 
Today Dinner: Spicy beef and rice 1:;oup, potato leek soup, cheese pizza, turkey pot pie, philly-style cheese steak sandwhich, BBQ pork ribs, corn falafels. dilled peas salad, poppy seed cake, Boston cream pie, citrus lentils and rice, roasted butternut squash and french fries. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 27 HIGH 33 LOW 20 LOW 22 

Atlanta 47 / 31 Boston 30 / 27 Chicago 26 / 14 Denver 41 / 25 Houston 52 / 32 Los Angeles 74 / 48 Minneapolis 20 / 10 New York 35 / 27 Philadelphia 32 / 22 Phoenix 72 / 47 Seattle 48 / 38 St. Louis 32 / 19 Tampa 75 / 59 Washington 34}_?~ 



Thursday, December 5, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 




40,.,U Chifcfr.en J· Christmas Par(!j 


~riaa3, 1Jecem6er G, 2.002 

7.-oo-8.30PXf 
Universi(!j Viffa3e Center 
Chi Uren 's3ames, Christmas SOYJ_JS ~ stories, 
q: a visitfrom ,Santa Cfaus. 

A

~;;r J'lff3radstuden6-&;: famjfies are jnvjfetf. 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
Jake Teske, senator from Keough Hall, said, "It's detailed and we think it's a fair proposal to pass and we feel that Academic Affairs could serve a greater role and that they University can use us." 
In other Senate News: 
. Senate unanimously approved Dave Brenner. sena­tor from Dillon Hall, as the 2003 president the The Shirt. Brenner will be responsible for choosing the design, mar­keting and processing aspects of The Shirt. When asked about how the saturation of the market will effect The Shirt, Courtney Schuster, the 2002 president of The Shirt, said that more people are aware of the shirt, making it a collector's item, and that peo­ple may have an incentive to buy The Shirt because it sup­ports student clubs and chari­ty. 
Brenner said, "We want to build from off the momentum 
page 3 

from this year and we want to sec the percentage of people wearing The Shirt T-shirts continue to go up. I think if we focus on the excitement and unity from The Shirt then the money issues will handle themselves." 
. Senate chose Staley to replace Kate Schlosser. sena­tor from Pangborn Hall, as the Faculty Senate Representative. Schlosser said, "It is a great opportunity [to serve as the representative] because you get to work wilh professors on a level that you usually don't get to." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdowncs l@nd.edu 
Accepting Applications for Controller for Observer 
Sophomore Accounting Majors Need to contact Business Office 




631-,5313 
or email: 
lewalski. 1@nd.edu 
Call 259-2000 for more details 

ft<IDA.Y, 0EC£MBER l, 

8:30PM NO EXPf~ESS 
fJ..01Jm I.Wt!-Of UfD:mJi'!l'i 
·flEU> tlMITTD fO f~ ~ (E.~ -llJ.MS dt}Sf Bl f 61l'i q t ~IR&. -O~if PP.)..Cna BU~ SN -MO EHIRY FEE St6H Qp NOlJ· ~T HD EftESS~ 
~~ av S'Wl)EHf k-TNIIE 

Give your car aChristmas present 
Store your automobile indoors during vacation. 
Avoid theft, vandalism, and weather damage. 
To reserve call Abe,''The Dorm Storage Man" 
574-239-1310 or email storage@sbwd.com. Free ride from storage facility to campus or airport! 
page 4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, December 5, 2002 


Outspoken priest breaks ranks in Boston diocese 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
The Rev. John D'Arcy told his superiors just what he thought about a priest sus­pected of sex abuse. alco­holism and drug use so fre­quent he was known as a "pothead." 
"If a man like this does not seek help. he should not be given an assignment,·• D'Arcy wrote in 1983 to Bishop Thomas Daily about the Rev. Richard Buntel. 
The letter was not unusual for D'Arcy -he sent notes seeking to intervene in at least three cases of troubled priests in the Boston Archdiocese, some of which were released Tuesday among a cache of documents related to the clergy sex abuse crisis. 
But D'Arcy's outspoken­ness was so rare among the Boston clergy, it highlights 
their errant colleagues range from a church culture keen on avoiding scandal to simple ignorance that crimes were being commit­ted. 
There's also little evidence speaking out had an effect. Bunte! was reassigne-d despite D'Arcy's warning that he was called a "pot­head" by members of a for­mer parish because of fre­quent drug use. 
Buntel was placed on administrative leave in March 1994. That year. an allegation from 1983 resur­faced that he had offered cocaine to a 15-year-old boy for sex. 
In most cases, however, priests had no direct knowl­edge of their colleagues' crimes and were reluctant to act on distant rumors of problems, said the Rev. Robert Bullock, head of the by priests might saved or

Boston Priests Forum, which  "I see  the situation there  
represents several hundred  now  as  critical and it could  
clergymen.  h  a  v  e  
Still, intervention  b  e  e  n  

"It's the same kind of
have helped blunt prevent­
blindness people have 
the damage of the ed," he current scandal, when it happens in wrote. he added. I n
families."

"In hindsight, we church could have been d O C U • more responsive," Rev. Thomas Reese men ts 
he said. 

D'Arcy, who is now bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese in [ndiana, was out of town and did not respond to calls for com­ment. He explained his rationale for coming for­ward in a letter about Bunte!, written while he was an auxiliary bishop in Boston. 
"It is my conviction, as I believe it is yours. that we who are in the position of 

responsibility 

the general "I see the situation there silence in now as critical and it 
other parts of 

could have been saved or
the priesthood, 

observers said. prevented." Explanations 
for priests fail­

Rev. John D'Arcy
ing to call out 

church leader 
have the obligation to pre­.v e n t scandal in those c a s e s where it s e e ms almost definite that it w i l l occur," he wrote. 
In 1978, when Cardinal Humberto Medeiros led the archdiocese, D'Arcy wrote to church officials relaying complaints about the Rev. Thomas Forry's abrasive manner, according to the church files released Tuesday. A year later, after Forry was accused of beat­ing up a housekeeper, D'Arcy wrote again. 

,ca,, 259-1000.formore detdil$ 
····················~·····-·-····················
•
University Resources •
•
•
•

for Gay, Lesbian, & •• 
•
•

Bisexual Students • 
TH~ 9TANDING COM MtTTEE ON GAY AIU) l.uatAN STUDENT N£1!.H 

• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
• 
,.• 
Lesbian Student Needs 
•
• (Confidential infonnation, education, and resources)
•
• Contact-Sr. M.l. Gi{de, CSC, J-5550, or student •
..• •
members (see web site.for student contact info.) •
• .. 
• Office of Campus Ministry • • (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students • • and their friends; pertinent library resources in • 
304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Stee1e.3l@nd.edu 
•
• 

University Counseling Center 
(Iridividual counseling) 
• 

Contact Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen •
• 

Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu •
• • For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' • 
•
••.•••.••••••.••..••...•.•......•...............•• 
church leader released earlier, D'Arcy a l s o wrote to Cardinal Bernard Law. warning him about reassigning John Geoghan. who was ousted from the priesthood and has since been convicted of sexual abuse. rn the letter, D'Arcy cited Geoghan's history of sexually abusing young boys. A spokeswoman for the archdiocese did not immedi­ately return a telephone call seeking comment. Roderick MacLeish, an attorney for alleged abuse victims, said D'Arcy took a stand because he was one of few Catholic officials who truly cared about the vic­tims. But the Rev. Thomas Reese, a priest and editor of the Jesuit magazine America, said many clergy­men may have called church officials with concerns, but not wanted to go on record with a letter. Reese adde.i that priests are taught to be nonjudg­mental as part of their pro­fession, and that could lead them to give other clergy a pass when things seem awry. "It's the same kind of blindness people have when it happens in families," Reese said. 
He added that criminal priests are often expert deceivers, and can fool even the people they live and eat with daily. 
"These guy are incredibly manipulative and they lie," he said. "They could get Academy Awards." 
Dean Hoge, a Catholic University sociologist who has studied the priesthood, said while priests may not know intimate details about each other, the culture also reflexively protects itself, keeping scandal bottled inside. 
"It's a little like a club or military unit," he said. "In general, there's not much whistleblowing." 




TEN THOUSAND VILLAGES SALE 
An opportunity to buy gifts that support fair trade for developing countries. All profits support artists and help in paying a fair wage for their work! 
STOP IN ON FRIDAY.TO BUY YOUR CHRISTMAS AND ADVENT GIFTS! 
Cookies and Hot Cocoa will be available Sponsored by: BP, Cavanaugh, Farley, and PE 
Friday, December 6 I 2002, 1:00 4:-00 PM Breen Phillips Hall 24 Hour Lounge 
-, 

WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, December 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush: al-Qaida responsible for attacks on Kenya 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
In a grim update on terror­ism's global reach, President Bush said Wednesday he believes Osama bin Laden's network was involved in last week's Kenya attacks, and he complained that terrorists ha·ve been able to "stop the peace process" in the Middle East. 
Pledging anew to fight ter­rorism "wherever it exists," Bush sidestepped the question of whether bin Laden's al­Qaida organization has infil­trated the West Bank but said tMroristn in general has left its mark on the Israeli­Palestinian conl1ict. 
"I am conccrnocl that terror­ists have disrupted the ability for peace-loving people to move a procnss forward," the president told reporters in a brief exchange about Iraq and the war on terrorism. 
Bush said he understands both Israel's need to fight ter­rorism and the Palestinian people's desire to improve their living conditions. Ile pledged to continue working on both fronts. 
"But the net effect of terror­ism is to not only stop the peace process. but is to cause suffering amongst all the peo­ple of the region," Bush said. "i\nd that's why our war against terror must remain steadfast and strong wherever terror exists." 
Since the first days af'ter the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on Washington and New York, Bush has said tho war against terrorism is a global proposi• tion. His remarks Wednesday indicated he believes the Middle East peace process will be in jeopardy until terrorism is cui:bed. 
The remarks were made in advance of a Dec. 20 confer­ence in Washington to plot peace moves in the Middle East. Even as they prepare for the summit of U.S., Hussian and European diplomats, administration officials con­cede there is little chance for headway in the talks amid vio­lence and terror attacks in the region. 
Bush was asked whether he is concerned that al-Qaida, feeding off the harsh plight of many Palestinians, may be gaining a foothold on the West Bank. 
"I am concerned about al­Qaida anywhere," the presi­dent replied. "I believe that al­Qaida was involved in the African bombings in Kenya. I believe al-Qaida hates free­dom." 
Evidence continues to mount that al-Qaida was behind the Kenya attacks -a bombing at a hotel frequented by Israelis and the firing of missiles at an Israeli charter flight. 
Experts said Monday the missiles had serial numbers 
Qalda responsible for last week's attacks on Kenya. 
similar to those on one Islamiya. may have played a involved in an attempted hit role in the Kenya attacks. on a military plane in May, "I believe al-Qaida will strike and al-Qaida has claimed anywhere they can in order to responsibility for the hotel disrupt a civil society," Bush attack. said. "That's why we're on the 
U.S. officials have suggested hunt." that an affiliated Islamic Bush answered questions extremist network from during a White House ceremo­Somalia, al-ltihaad al-ny for a new law designed to 
IRAQ 
Iraq protests -weapons inspections, calls experts spies 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD Iraq protested sharply Wednesday over 
U.N. weapons inspectors' surprise intru­sion into one of Saddam Hussein's presi­dential palaces, accusing the arms experts of being spies and staging the palace search as a provocation that could lead to war. 
The harshest criticism came from Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan, who charged -in language reminiscent of clashes with inspectors in the 1990s ­that the new teams of U.N. monitors are gathering intelligence for Washington and Israel. 
"Their work is to spy to serve the CIA and Mossad," Israel's intelligence ser­vice, Ramadan claimed to a visiting dele­gation of Egyptian professionals. 
Ramadan, known for his fiery state­ments, claimed to his all-Arab audience that the inspectors went to the palace hoping to provoke the Iraqis into refus­ing them entrance -something he said would be interpreted as a "material breach" of the U.N. resolution that man­dated the inspections, and a cause for war. 
The resolution includes "several land mines," Ramadan said, "and the aim is that one of them will go off." 
Responding to Iraqi protests over Tuesday's palace visit, a U .N. official countered that the inspectors are taking the right approach -navigating between Iraqi complaints and U.S. pres­sure for more "severe" inspections. And, said inspections team leader Demetrius Perricos, "we are getting results." 
Among other things, Perricos reported that on a five-hour inspection of a desert installation his experts secured a dozen Iraqi artillery shells -previously known to be there -that were loaded with a powerful chemical weapon, the agent for mustard gas. It was the first report of such armaments traced and controlled in the week-old round of new inspections. 
The inspections resumed last week after a four-year suspension, under a new U.N. Security Council resolution requiring Iraq to surrender any remain­ing weapons of mass destruction and shut down any programs to make them. 
A critical deadline approaches this weekend for the Baghdad government. On Saturday, a day ahead of the dead­line, it is expected to submit a declara­tion to the United Nations on any Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, as well as on nuclear, chemical and biological pro­grams it says are peaceful. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli troops murder suspected militant: 
Israeli helicopters blasted a Gaza City building with missiles on Wednesday, killing a suspected militant, one of several violent incidents on a day also marked by Israeli statements about Palestinian statehood. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said that as pllft of the U.S.-sponsored "road map" for Mideast peace, Palestinians could set up a temporary state in part of the West Bank and much of Gaza. But Foreign Minister Benjamin Nctanyahu said that even before peace talks, Palestinians would have to give up their demand to relocate millions of refugees in Israel. 
U.S. plans Turkish army bases upgrade: 
A top U.S. official said Wednesday that Iraq is "sur­rounded" and that Washington is looking to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade Turkish bases that could be used in a war against the coun­try. 

President Bush answers a reporter's question during a White House ceremony to make the Internet safer for children's viewing. During the ceremony, Bush remarked that he believes al­
make the Internet safer for children. 
Afterward, spokesman Ari Fleischer said Bush was not making a definitive statement about al-Qaida's link to the Kenya attacks. "He's sharing with you suspicions you've heard from previous quar­ters," Fleischer said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Judge rules on "dirty" bomb suspect: 
Overriding government objections. a judge ruled Wednesday that a formtlr Chicago gang member accused of plotting with al-Qaida to detonate a radioactive "dirty" bomb can argue he was improperly detained as an enemy combatant. Although U.S. District Judge Michael Mukasey upheld President Bush's authority to detain enemy combatants. even if they are U.S. citizens. he also carved a role for the judiciary to make sure the executive branch was doing so properly. 
Perilous snow forces school closings: 
A vast storm spread freezing rain and up to a foot of snow from the Texas Panhandle to Virginia on Wednesday, shutting down hundreds of schools, making highways dangerously slick and knocking out power to nearly 100,000 people. "Everybody needs to stay home," Oklahoma Highway Patrol Lt. Jerry Treadwell said. 
Panel permits Law to file bankruptcy: 
A financial panel of the Boston Archdiocese gave Cardinal Bernard Law permission Wednesday to file for bankruptcy as the church tries to settle poten­tially crippling lawsuits in the priest sex abuse scan• dal. Law would need approval frorn the Vatican before filing for bankruptcy. No Roman Catholic archdiocese in the United States has ever taken such a step, which would give a secular court con­trol over its finances and open it up to unprecedent­ed scrutiny. 
Clouds delay landing of space shuttle: 
Thick clouds moved in at the last minute and pre­vented space shuttle Endeavour from returning to Earth on Wednesday with the former residents of the international space station. The delay added a 183rd day in orbit for American astronaut Peggy Whitson and her two cosmonaut crewmates -and probably a 184th day. given Thursday's stormy forecast. 
Thursday, December 5, 2002
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Forum 
continued from page 1 
most basic and frequently used prayer. The Torah, which became the first five books of the Christian Bible, is used as the religious book of Judaism. 
"[Historically] The Sberna becomes the last rite of the Christian," Johnson said. 
Additional dietary and kosher restrictions exist in Judaism as a sign of the respect of all life forms, including animals. After death they believe there is no hell, but estrangement from God from those who have sinned and not done peni­tence. 
Within Judaism there are three branches of faith. Orthodox, the strictest sector, has dress regulations, preser• vation of life by refraining from birth control and abor­tion, and sex segregation. The Conservative sector allows for men and women to worship together but does not allow for the prevention of birth. Reformed Jews have a differ­ent interpretation of Judaism and have female rabbis. 
"There are different views [between branches] of gender and how strictly laws should be enforced," Johnson said. 
Tanushree Bera, first-year biology and physics major, spoke about Hinduism. 
Known as the oldest reli­gion, Hinduism has three Gods, Brahma (the creator). Vishnu (the protector) and Shiva (the destroyer of evil). 
Hinduism was the root of what is known as the caste system. Brahmins (priests and teachers), Kstriya (Rulers and Warriors), Vaiysa (Tradesman and craftsman) and Sudra (the menial workers) make up Hindu society. 
Hinduism has many dietary "The truth is one, but called restrictions, including cows, by different names," Bera which are said seen as Additional t h e "The truth is one, but displays have providers been set up in
called by different
of milk ,, each residence and life. names. hall by SDB. L i k e McCandless Baha'i, features
Tanushree Bera 
Hinduism Judaism,
fim year student
believes LeMans, that God Buddhism, Holy has come Cross, to earth Hinduism and several times to save the Islam in Regina. world in times of crisis. 
Hinduism is based on the 
Contact Melanie: Bc:ckc:r at
honesty, purity, self-control 
heck093l@saintmarys.edu
and non-violence. One who has not followed this way of life will not have a restful soul. 
The session was wrapped up with several questions from the audience and panel members discussing the con­nections between the reli­gions represented. 
n~ASMUS800Q 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books



NORTHFACE 
-25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 
-Out,of-Print search service 
at.a.:• 
-Appraisals large and small
OUTPOST 
Open noon to aJx 
Tuesday through Sunday 
--;;:J:J•1•2i/: ­
Cold Weather Experts 
1027 E. Wayne
5minutes from Campus 
South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232..&444
Call 259-iooo for more details 
.. 
Tickets ($3-6) available Lafortune Box Office (574) 631-8128 




Thursday, December 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
•~Eli3D\mt9fl,JSS9•0!Atf111 
DowJones 
8,737 85 • -5.08 
NASDAQ 
1,430.35 -18.61
•
S&P500 
917.57 -3.17

• 
822.39 +9.75 
NYSE 
487.57 -0.87
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
' 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -2.21-0.6026.57 
c·isco·••·••svs.r·e•t-i~{i<pscq)i¥auis2:i;[ei:09\1i~il~
: .--: ' ::•:;::,::;:::;:;:;:;:~:::=-;::;:»;.;.;«::,;«:.:~:;:;:;:;;::;:;:::;::=:;:::::;;:;::::i:=::;:;::::=::::::::::;:::::::;:;:;:::;:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::­
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.81-0.57 19.74 
.·~y~ •. MIS.BB~XlI§i:::11!1!fif,j!:!!lllili~i!(li!f:. ····•····~ 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY)-0.45-0.42 92.45 
IN BRIEF 
Mechanists urge vote ratification 
United Airlines mechanic Ricky Taube drove 70 miles to his union hall last week to vote against wage cuts the carrier says are neces­sary to keep it out of bankruptcy. 
On Thursday, he planned to repeat that sce­nario in a second mechanics' vote that could unravel United's effort to avoid a Chapter 11 filing. 
But a government panel took the urgency out of the vote late Wednesday, rejecting the airline's request for a federal loan guarantee it needed to avoid defaulting on nearly $1 bil­lion in debt due next week. 
The Machinist's union had no immediate comment on the decision by the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, and cir­cumstances surrounding Thursday's vote were unclear. 
American to fire flight attendants 
American Airlines will trim 1,100 flight attendants in coming months as it prepares to operate fewer flights next spring. 
The company will offer voluntary options such as job sharing and leaves of absences to reduce the flight attendant numbers, American spokesman Todd Burke said Tuesday. 
fle said that the window for night atten­dants to take the options will begin Dec. 11 and close Jan. 7. After that, American will have a clearer idea of how many will be laid off. Any job cu ts would take place Feb. 1, Burke said. 
The Fort Worth, Texas-based company noti­fied the Association of Professional Flight t\ttendanls, the union representing American night attendants. on Monday. 
Union spokesman George Price said American's absence program will provide night attendants with all of their regular employee benefits, but no paycheck. 
t\merican has about 21,000 active atten­dants. Layoffs would begin with the newest employees. 
United loses loan guarantee 
. Company set­back after Feds reject plea 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
United Airlines lost its bid for $1.8 billion in federal loan guarantees Wednesday. a major set­back to the nation's sec­ond-largest air carrier in its efforts to avoid bankruptcy. 
The Air Transportation Stabilization Board said that despite efforts to pare costs, "the business plan submitted by the company is not financially sound." 
Chicago-based UAL Corp., United's parent com­pany, had asked that the government guarantee $1.8 billion of a $2 billion pri­vate loan package. Without the guarantee and the loan, the airline said it would probably have to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. 
The $1.8 billion is the largest request received by the board, double the amount that US Airways was conditionally granted earlier this year. 
The board was estab­lished by Congress last year to oversee a $10 billion loan program, part or an airline industry bailout sions, and I certainly feel United is on course to hours trading, losing 55 after last year's Sept. 11 for the effected employees," exceed that loss this year percent of their value, or terrorist attacks. said Gramlich. "At the as it struggles amid a weak $1.72, to $1.40 each. 
The board, in its state­same time, the loan board economy and a decline in The board's decision ment, said United's plan has a responsibility to tax-business travelers. makes it "highly likely" that "does not support the con­payers and to fostering the A bankruptcy would be United will be forced to file clusion that there is a rea­long-term health of the air­unlikely to have any imme­for bankruptcy, said Aaron sonable assurance of line industry," he said, diate effect on passengers. Gellman, an airline indus­repayment and would pose explaining his decision to United has said it would try expert and professor at an unacceptably high risk reject United's request. continue flying its normal Northwestern University's to U.S. taxpayers." Fisher said: "This is not schedule, as US Airways Transportation Center. 
Two of the three board just about costs; it's about a has been doing since its But the decision doesn't members -Treasury's business plan that is funda­Chapter 11 filing in August. mean United's schedule undersecretary for domes­mentally flawed." But United is trying to will be decimated, he said. tic finance, Peter Fisher, The board's executive avoid a filing because its "They will not stop flying. and Federal Reserve Board director, Daniel stock shares would proba­When they come out of member Edward Gramlich Montgomery, told reporters bly become virtually worth­bankruptcy, they'll come 
rejected United's that United still has an less and it would lose con­out leaner and meaner." request. The third member, opportunity to file a revised trol of its restructuring to a The board in early Kirk Van Tine, the general request with the board judge. The airline is 55 per­November sent a letter to counsel of the even if the airline were to cent owned by its employ­United, seeking additional Transportation file for bankruptcy. ees. information including Department, voted to defer There was no immediate United shares had risen 7 details on cost savings that a decision until Dec. 9 to comment from United nor cents in regular trading could be achieved from allow United to submit its unions on the board's Wednesday to close at labor unions and from additional financial infor­decision. $3.12 on the New York management, capital mation. After losing an industry­Stock Exchange. But the spending commitments and 
"These are hard deci-record $2.1 billion in 2001, shares plummeted in after-pension obligations. 

Productivity expands 5.1 percent 
a rebound from the tepid 1. 7 per­ances, posted a 2.4 percent increase 
Associated P rcss 
cent pace in the second quarter. in October and "nondurable" goods, WASHINGTON Gains in productivity are helping such as clothes and food. rose 0.6 
U.S. companies' productivity grew to keep a lid on inflation, an impor­percent. more briskly in the summer than tant factor for Federal Reserve poli­''The reports show that the econo­previously thought and orders to cy-makers as they try to energize my by no means will go into a dou­factories rose in October for the first the economy through low interest ble dip recession," said economist time in three months, suggesting the rates. Clifford Waldman of Wald man struggling economy will avoid falling Separately, factory orders rose 1.5 Associates. "Consumers have into a new recession. percent in October after falling in enough energy to stay alive and 
Productivity, the output per hour both August and September, the keep the economy going because of work, grew at a sizzling annual Commerce Department said. That wages are growing at a healthy rate of 5.1 percent in the third quar­provided a dose of good news for the clip." ter. the Labor Department reported nation's manufacturers, who have But on Wall Street stocks dipped Wednesday. been trying to get through a late• on profit warnings from Disney and 
The performance was even better summer rough patch. Hewlett-Packard. The Dow .Jones than the 4 percent growth rate esti­Big-ticket manufactured goods, industrial average closed down 5 mated a month ago and represented including cars and household appli-points at 8,738. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 5, 2002 
This 
Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
•NOE Retreat #74 Retreat Date: January 31-February 2 Sign-up dates: December 2-6, 2002 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Freshman Retreat #45 
Retreat Date: January 24-25, 2003 December 9-January 20 -sign-up dates 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday-Saturday Fatima Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #44 
Friday-Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Retreat Center 

RCIA Session 
10:00-11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
RCIA -Rite of Welcome 
11:30 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
7:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
L 
Feast of the Immaculate Conception 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rehearsals to Sing at the Basilica this Advent and Christmas 
7:00-8:45 p.m. 329 Coleman-Morse 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 




CIIMPUS MINISTRY 
A I • c-:a 
Waiting for What? ­
¦ by Kelly Rich ­
111
Campus Ministry Intern 
..... 
It's hard co believe the end of the semester is already so quickly approaching. Just a few months out of undergrad, I remember all too well the nervous craze of finishing up class work while at the same rime getting ready to leave for home, or trying to pack up an entire dorm room before heading 
-
into a semester abroad. 
... 
This is che context in which most of us find ourselves as the Advent season begins. fu the four Decembers of my undergraduate career came and went, it's not that I wasn't mindful of a spirit of waiting. I was waiting alright -waiting for finals to be over, the semester to be done and for Christ­
-
mas break to begin. But each year, when I finally made ir home and joined my parish for the fourth la. Sunday of Advent, I was inevitably saddened by the realization that the season had, once again, passed me by with my hardly noticing ir. And I would promise myself char rhe next year would be 
..... 
different. 
.....
Now almost one week into this year's Advem season, and remembering the promise I made to myselfso many cin~es before, I would like to invite you to chink with me about what exactly this rime of the year signifies for us as Christians. During this season we are reminded that we know neither the day nor the hour that Christ will come again, and Advent is meant, in part, to turn our minds and ­hearts to preparing for that unknown day. But the season is not simply about something far off and 
undisclosed; it is about remembering that ­Christ has already come, and that the King­111 dom, though nor fully so, is already among
As the four Decembers of my • 
us. During Advent we are urgently called to 
•
undergraduate career came let Christ be born in us today, so that, by our own work and by the witness of our lives, the •
and went, it's not that I 
building of the Kingdom continues here and wasn't mindful of a spirit of now. The real challenge ofAdvent is making straight the path of our own hearts so that we might be­
waiting. I was waiting, alright 
come Christ for one another. How do we do this? -waiting for finals to be over, We can start by asking ourselves: Who is Christ? He is the Lord of Love. If we want to let the Lord of Love
the semester to be done and 
live in us, we must ourselves be defined by love. Perhaps
for Christmas break to begin. we can say with confidence that we love our friends and family well. And yet, Christ tells us to love even our enemies. How well do we love the person who has be­trayed us in some way, the person who we find to be stubborn, or hard of heart? "Love is the measure," Dostoevsky wrote. Let us make it our measure. 
Christ is the Prince of Peace. As violence and war increase in every part of the world, and our own country prepares for war against Iraq, we are challenged to ask ourselves if we reveal the Prince of Peace in the way we live and love. Or instead, do we argue that peace is not practical, and speak of waging a war we claim can be just. Proclaiming a message of peace and non-violence -proclaiming God's own mercy and forgiveness -is most certainly counter-cultural, but it is the message of Christ, and so for us who call ourselves Christians, can there be anything else? 
Christ is the Lamb of God. During Advent we are asked to think ofhow we make ofourselves a sacrifice for others. Do we give of our time and resources -which are economic, but are also spiritual, emotional, and intellectual -to help others? Do we seek out the lonely, the despairing, the excluded, the poor, the sick, and the hungry, in order to offer what we have to care fot what they lack? Are we liberators as Christ was, working on behalf of the oppressed and marginalized, which includes people as close as our own community and as far as other pans of the world? What gifts has God given each of us to offer for the sake ofthe rest of the Body, and do we use our gifts for this end, rather than for our own gain? 
These challenges are great, but they should not overwhelm. Rather, they should keep us hopeful, for it is in accepting them that we accept the invitation to life in Christ, and Christ's life in us. Our joy during this season of Advent is in knowing that although we wait for Christ's coming again in glory, we have the opportunity by our own lives co let him come every day on earth. 
Second ¦ Basilica of the Sacred Hean ¦ Around Campus Sunday of 
Saturday, December 7 Sunday. December 8 
Advent 
5:00 p.m. Spanish Mass Basilica Vigil Mass 
1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall ChapelMass Schedule Rev. William M. Lies, c.s.c. 
Sunday, December 8 Law School Mass 
10:00a.m. 5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel 
Rev. William M. Lies, c.s.c. 
MBA Mass
11:45 a.m. 
7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Faculty LoungeRev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
¦ SUlllarSSClil)U'elleadil.as 1st READING Is 40:1-5, 9-11 2nd READING 2 Pt 3:8-14 GOSPEL Mk 1 :1-8 


Thursday, December 5, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

The Year of the Euro A Conference of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
The Year of the Euro will explore numberous ramifications of the introduction of the European Union's new single currency in twelve participating countries in January 2002. This unprecedented project of currency change emerged from a series of political and economic aspiralions for transformation and convergence. With the introduction of the Euro as a circulating currency, this large proiect finally entered the fabric of daily life for milions of Europeans. 
December 6-8, 2002 McKenna Hall, CCE, University of Notre Dame 
For information or to register: contact the N anovic Institute for European Studies 574.631.5253 www.nd.edu/ --nanovic 
Co-sponsored by the European Union, the Graduate School's Office of Research, the Henkels Lecture Series, the Kellogg Institute, the Keough Institute, and the Departments of Political Science and Sociology. 

VENEZUELA 
Protests escalate in strike against gov't 
Associated Press 
CARACAS 
Marches aimed at ousting 
President Hugo Chavez's leftist 
governmenl spread across 
Venezuela on Wednesday, with 
tens of thousands of people 
banging on pots and waving 
flags to support an indefinite 
general strike. 
Under international pressure, 
strike leaders suggested they 
were ready to resume talks on 
early elections, but extended 
their strike for a fourth day. 
More businesses were open 
Wednesday, even as the strike 
began to affect production in the 
world's No. 5 oil exporter. 
More businesses opened as 
the strike wore on. but disrup­
tions began to affect Venezuela's 
oil industry, the world's fifth 
largest exporter. A shipping 
agent claimed workers stopped 
loading tankers, and a tanker 
.-----------• 

Notre Dame's Computer Products Store 
crew anchored off the western city of Maracaibo, refusing to deliver gasoline. 
Chavez's government. howev­er. insisted oil operations were normal. Thousands of Chavez supporters staglid rallies in two · downtown Caracas plazas. 
Opposition and government delegates met with Organization of American States Secretary General Cesar Gaviria to explore resuming talks on an electoral solution to the crisis. 
Hopes for a solution grew after the national elections council voted 4-1 Tuesday to hold a nonbinding referendum on Chavez's rule on Feb. 2. Council members said their vote should overcome objections by the Supreme Court. which ruled last week at least four votes were needed. 
The opposition threatened to intensify the strike. 
"We ratify the success of this active strike, and if necessary in the coming days it will become 
even more active," said strike 
leader Carlos Ortega, president of the country's biggest group of labor unions. 
Chavez, who canceled a planned trip to Brazil on Wednesday, has insisted that the constitution allows a binding vote only halfway into his six­year presidency, in Aui,rust. He called the strike a "desperate" effort to oust him and said it would fail. 


Customer Appreciation Day! 
Gateway 4S0L 
December 5th 
Style, reliable performance, and affordability! Featuring a sleek industrial design, a large screen for easy viewing, anc:! ample connectivity for peripherals such as a scanner, printer and more. Plus, it's easy to stay 
Join us at the 
connected with the wireless connectivity option. It's a perfect notebook for the value shopper! 
Solutions Center at 
System includes: fntel@ Pentium® 4 Processor 1.8GHz 
1 1 :OOam for a Free Digital
14.1 Active Matrix Display 512MB DDR SDRAM 

Photography Clinic!
30GB Hard Drive 16x/10x/24x/8x Combo CDRW/DVD & Floppy 56K Modem & 10/100 NIC Microsoft® Windows® XP Professional Edition Get MS Works 2002 FREE! 3 Year Parts & Labor Onsite limited warranty, lifetime limited hardware and software tech support. 
$1,699.00 
You save $52 off our regular educational price! 

Profile 4L 
With Its sleek lines and futuristic design, the Gateway Profile 4 PC Is easily one of the most stylish computers to ever grace a desktop. Yet, this surprisingly flexible computer delivers all the benefits of a network-ready, multimedia office PC, all in the same desktop space as a simple LCD Monitor. 
System Includes: Intel® Pentium® 4 Processor 2.0GHz with 512K L2 Cache 256MB DDR SDRAM 40GB Ultra ATA Hard Drive 16x/10x/24x/8x Combo CDRW/DVD & Floppy 56K Modem & 10/100 NIC Integrated Speakers Hot-Key Keybrd/USB Mouse Microsoft® Windows® XP Professional Edition Integrated 15" LCD Display 3 Year Parts & Labor Onsite limited warranty, lifetime limited hardware and software tech support. 
$1,609.00 
You save $25 off our regular educational price! 
Visit the Solutions Center Today to learn more about these great specials! 112 Information Technology Center Ca/1631-7477 or visit us on the web at: http://solution.nd.edu 

O
THE 
BSERVER 










IEWPOINT 
page IO Thursday, December 5, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Noae Dame, IN 465S6 024 S.,utl, Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGJNG EDITOR  OPl!J\ATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico Sa.NE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna SAINT MA!tv's EDITOR• Sarah Nestor 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mau Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB Am,11NJSTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER, Lori LewaJski 
CONTACT Us 
OH'ICE MANAGER/Gt;NERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX. ........................................................ ....631-6927 ADVERTISING ................................ .....631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIF.f.. ......................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu· VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoim.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE......................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR'i's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire athttp://obr01Jer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department e<licors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Oburoerpolicies shou!.d be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObKrv-c:r (USPS 599 240) i, published Monday through Fru:Liy except during exam and vacaiion periods. A subcriprion ro The Obfet'W't is S l 00 for ont" ~adCmi1.: yew:fijt;forollt"iC'TT\~, 
The-Oluuvcr i1 pul,1i1hcd ;1.1; f'OITMASTER ll24 ~1h Din~ng Hall Send addrns rnrrrcllon1 10: 
Noire Dmir. lN 46556 Th~Ohsava­
P.O. llol<Q Periodical pw1• paid • Nouc Dunc Nn1tt' Uarm, IN 465-5,6--0779 ~d M.iduion.J 1n.:aiLng affiQ:1. 
The Ob1ervn 11 • mrniba uf the A..MK..alc;J Prca. All sqnoduttiun righ.s arc rcscr,c:d. 

This summer I was a best man at the wedding of a close friend. I say "a" best man because, by a somewhat unorthodox arrangement, I was shar­ing the hon or with two other friends. But while we were three in Peter Wicks number, we were one in purpose: We all wanted to 
Englishman
make sure the 
Abroad
wedding was the 
best day of our friend's life, while at the same time accepting the least possible amount of responsibility. 

Two duties were absolutely unavoidable. Firstly. each of us had to wake up nightly in a cold sweat after dreaming of increasingly elaborate scenarios involving the loss of the rings (on good nights, involving the loss of the rings and Oscar Winner Halle Berry). 
Secondly, we had to organize the stag night. The stag night tradition began in England as a ritual to ward off evil spirits, but that was a long time ago. In these less superstitious times the principal purpose of the stag night is to get the maximum amount of alcohol into the groom in the shortest time possible. 
Traditionally, the stag night took place on the night before the wed­ding, but a full two weeks before the ceremony has become the norm in modern England. This gives the groom ample time to have his stom­ach pumped and let the hair grow back. Organizing the stag night requires a delicate sense of judgment: As best men it was up to us to navi­gate between the Scylla of a sober groom and the Charybdis of a dead one. (The bride was particularly insis­tent that the latter outcome would not be tolerated.) 
We did not take on the challenge empty-handed. To aid us in our duties, we had acquired the Bottle Bong, a device of such fiendish bril­liance it's hard to imagine how people ever got blood poisoning without it. 
Deceptively simple in appearance, the Bottle Bong is in essence two rub­ber tubes, a short thick one and a long thin one which fits into its side. Used correctly, the bong is capable of thrusting the entire contents of a beer bottle down the user's throat in a matter of seconds. (I don't fully understand the scientific principle involved, but I think it has something to do with quantum gravity.) With the possible exception of the Resident Evil series of video games, science has never been so much fun. 
This powerful device was ideally suited for our nefarious purposes, and yet on the back of the packet were printed the following words: not for use with alcohol. As shameless abdi­cations of responsibility go, this was almost heroic in its brazenness. It occurred to us that other companies would do well to learn from the Bottle Bong's manufacturers. For instance, Smith & Wesson might have avoided all their expensive legal difficulties by the simply selling their handguns in packaging which clearly explained that they were "under no circum­stances to be used with bullets." 
Our attempts to do permanent dam­age to the groom's liver were based solely on reverence for tradition; there was no malice involved. But that is not to say we were without griev­ance; the groom had after all man­aged to organize a wedding which, at three to zero, had what is probably the worst ratio of single best men to unmarried bridesmaids in human his­tory. 
Now, I don't want to come across as another hormonal, sex-obsessed guy, but those of you who have never 
watched close friends your own age 
get married will just have to take my 
word for it that the aphrodisiac effect 
of such events is so well-established 
as to constitute a scientific law. Since 
the wedding, all three of us have been 
feeling rather, well, not to put to fine 
a point on it, frisky. 
Shortly after the wedding Andy 
actually asked out a complete 
stranger on the street. Sh13 said "Yes," 
which is the sort of thing that hap­
pens in movies, except that she wasn't 
on the run from corrupt government 
operatives from whom she had stolen 
crucial computer files. Or if she was, 
she didn't mention it. 
Meanwhile, Mark has announced 
that he's looking for a wife, which is 
fine except that I have images of him 
going up to women and saying things 
like, "I was wondering whether you'd 
like to get some coffee sometime, 
because I'm terrified of dying alone." 
It was his birthday last month. I sent 
him a copy of "The Rules." 
As for myself, I spent most of the 
summer watching "The West Wing" 
on DVD and developing a serious 
crush on Stockard Channing. It may 
seem like a pipe dream. but according 
to the Internet she's had so many hus­
bands that from a statistical point of 
view, it's almost inevitable that we'll 
get married. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in philosophy. He can be reached at pwicks@nd.edu. Tonight Peter will be performing in "Is This Thing On?," a stand-up comedy show at the Alumni Senior Club. The show starts at 9:30 
·p.m. and features graduate and 
undergraduate performers. Entry is 
limited to those over 21. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports 

Joe Trombello Matt Lozar Sarah Nestor Rachel 
"Marriage is the operation by which a

Should University employees be allowed to 
Justin Krivickas Protzman 
woman's vanity and a man's egotism are

unionize? 
Viewpoint Scene 
extracted without an anaesthetic." 
Kristin Yemm C. Spencer 

Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
Graphics Beggs 
Helen Rowland 
Chris Naidus Lab Tech 
U.S. journalist
Nellie Williams 

---·---­

O
THE
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Thursday, December 5, 2002 page 11 
Holidays should be a time for action and change 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame should decline a BCS invitation 
The Notre Dame Mission Statement claims. "The University is dedicated to the pursuit and sharing of truth for its own sake." A noble ideal by a noble institution. But is Notre Dame willing to put life to those words when the issue is football? 
I am an Iowa Hawkeye. l graduated long ago, but black and gold runs through my veins as strong as the green and gold that drives many a Notre Dame alum. Yours is a prestigious school. Its history, academic and athletic, is the stuff of legend. The University of Iowa is no lesser place, but it is less­er known. Our universities are now brought together in a controversy not of their own making, but real nonetheless. Although the issue will not be framed until this Saturday's contests are finished, the question will likely be who is more worthy of a Bowl Championship Series (BCS) bid: Iowa or Notre Dame. Make no mistake, I recognize this is not a question of biblical propor­tions. But to those who love their school's football (and no one loves it more then the legions of Notre Dame), it is an issue of some importance. 
We llawkeyes are rightly proud of our team's accomplishments this year. Lacking the opportunity to match talents in a playoff system, the Hawkeyes. like the Fighting Irish. must rely on computers and pollsters to determine their role in the ycar•end beauty pageant known as the BCS. 
But college football is big business. and the BCS is college football. So. the question posed is whether Notre Dame. with a l0-2 record but unavoidable fan and media appeal. should be given a BCS berth over higher ranked 11-1 Iowa. Such issues should be decided on the field, not through binary combat. However, lacking that opportunity, record and ranking should be enough to give Iowa the BCS bowl it deserves. Unfortunately, at this point, football apparently means less than the balance sheet of viewership and attendance. 
My purpose in writing is to ask this University to demonstrate its pursuit of faith and truth. What better opportunity to rise above in a show of honor and courage then to say to the BCS, "Thanks, but no thanks." Yours is a school based on noble pursuits. Your coach is a man of integrity. Live your ideals of "truth for its own sake," and tell the BCS that at least for this one year, the University of Iowa is the better team and more deserving of a BCS bid. 
Steven Leach 
Phoenix, Ariz. Dec. 3 
Registration system frustrates freshmen 
Throughout this last summer, I wor­ried about what classes I should take during my first year at Notre Dame. But now that I am here, l am left to worry whether or not I even have a choice. The freshman class registra­
tion system is seriously Now I don't claim to have all flawed in many the answers, but there has to respects. (I exclude be a better way. Perhaps other classes' regis­students could register in trations because I intervals of two classes am not familiar at a time so as to allow with them; that a more equitable dis­does not mean tribution of the cours­they are not as es. I'm not sure what equally insane.) the solution is, but 
I like to con­then again, I'm not sider myself a being paid to come up realist. I know with an answer. not everyone One would imagine can be perfectly that for the average happy with their yearly tuition of schedules, but that $34,900 the University shouldn't mean that should be able to accom­some students have to modate our academic aspi­be miserable. I was one rations. I certainly don't plan of the unfortunate souls to pay $60 a class for courses that 
who was scheduled to sign up on Dec. 3 at 4 p.m. As I frantically searched for open classes -any classes -I began to realize how absolutely ter­rible my spring semester was going to be. I am currently facing the prospect of having all my academic classes on the same three days (which wouldn't be so bad if I actually wanted to take those classes). 
My point is: Why should I, and other students like me, be penalized by some asinine class raffie simply because the First Year of Studies program is not cre­ative enough to come up with a just sys­
tem? 
I didn't even want to take. I doubt much can be done to make matters better for us freshmen. but for the sake of classes to come, I hope the First Year of Studies program gets its act together. 
Patrick Dunn 
freshman Keenan Hall Dec. 4 

The "Holiday Season" is a time full of joy in which we are thankful for family and friends. We show this love by visit­ing our favorite shopping centers, whether it is the local mall or the local bookstore, and buying gifls for our Paul Graham loved ones. We start off this sea­son by giving 
Another 

thanks l'or every­
Perspective

thing and every­
body. 
Thanksgiving is a day dedicated to giving thanks for all that we have -it is a reflection on our lives. This past Thanksgiving, 1gave thanks for my parents and friends; for my brother and sister and for my safe journeys. I also gave thanks that ! have a house, that I have food, that I have a job and that I have an education. 
Many people arc thankful for similar masons and for similar possessions, but this docs not give us permission to be apathetic about what others are unable to have. By being thankful. we are admitting to ourselves that we have what others do not. 
As we proclaim our thanks, we must realize that our gratitude comes from our recognition that others are not so lucky. This is recognition that others are victims of oppression and violence, attend poor schools, live paycheck to paycheck and are struggling just to make it. 
This Christmas season, in the memo­ry of Jesus Christ. many of us will come together with our families to feast and give presents. Jesus taught us how to live. He acted as an example of how to live the good life. He ate with sinners, healed the poor and criticized the wealthy and powerful for their habits and lifestyles. In memory of His life and of what He did for us, we take time off school and work to celebrate Him. 
We celebrate by going to the mall to buy presents rep­resenting our love for our family and friends. We buy Abercrombie and Fitch, Aeropostale, Tommy llilliger. Nike and the likes. We buy expen­sive chocolates. plan large feasts with fal birds as the center piece, decorate a tree with ornaments and write cards to loved ones. 
Many of us will go on consuming as if there are no problems in the world; to some, there are no major or unsolvable problems in the world. But in the other "world," the world where a majority of people throughout our country live, the world of poverty and struggle, Christmas will come with layoffs, lost homes, lower wages and bombings in 
Iraq. How is it possible to celebrate 
Christmas in the traditional American way: full of consumption and at the same time joyfully? This Christmas will still be Jesus' birthday. the celebration 
most likely will still continue, but the authentic joy is gone. Instead, sorrow will permeate the lives of those affected by greedy economic and foreign poli­cy. Many of us will try to for­
get and go on shopping and buying and 
consuming like the good capitalist Americans 

we are, the way our President so confidently commanded us to do. But how can there be Christmas when so many are unemployed, in poverty, going hungry and left home­less? This is injustice. 
How can we. as students at Notre Dame, celebrate the Christmas season when many workers on this campus are afraid to speak up about their con­ditions, when they have no real voice or bargaining ability with the adminis­tration and when they are often over­worked? 
I am not requesting that we remem­ber and pray for others who have less or pray for workers' rights here or 
elsewhere. We have all heard this 
request, and many of us have followed 
through. I am asking more of each of' 
us. I am asking that we dedicate our­
selves -starting now. starting this 
Christmas season -to working for 
change. I am asking that we nut only 
remember others when we open our 
presents. but also that we work for a 
more just world. This is our gift to 
those we will never meet in life. 
We have an obligation to do more and to work for more. We have an obligation to light for the poor of our country and of the world. We have an obligation to make sacrifices, to give up some of our possessions -to opt for the poor by doing everything we can. We have to change how we live. We cannot let Wal-mart tell us how to love each other, nor should we allow McDonald's tell us how to cat. We must start working for peace and justice. 
Christmas is meant to be a time of joy. but how can we ignore what is happening in the world right now? This is what Jesus asked us to do, and this is· what we must do. We should not brush off the widespread poverty and suffer­ing of this country. We have an obliga­tion to do more. 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major and a Catholic social tradition minor. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. His column normally appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

THE 
OBSERVER 

Thursday, December 5, 2002
page 12 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Bond returns for 'Another Day' 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

While "Die Another Day" is the 20th installment in the James Bond franchise. this film pounds the final nail into Bond creator Ian flcmming's coffin. The series has long since forgotten the heydays of Sean Connery's dashing secret agent. The recent slew of Bond films seem to have dropped the secret part: Bond is more like­ly to pull out his Berretta and blast American secret agent. Jinx isn't the run­of-the-mill "oh. James" Bond girl. rather she's Bond's equal in every way. Of course, she's still uncontrollably attracted to him. 
"Die Another Day" doesn't really have an innovative plot, but it is an incredible trib­ute to the franchise. For example. when Bond first sees Jinx emerge from the ocean ala Phoebe Cates from "Fast Times at Ridegcmont High," the shot (and bikini) are recreations of the entrance of the first Bond girl, Honey Ryder (Ursella Andrews), from the first Bond movje, 1962's "Dr. 
his way through No." Bond poses as
"Die Another Day''
200 goons Rambo­
an ornithologist for stvle than. God for­about five seconds bid, make up a -a subtle refer­cover stor~ But ence to where even though the Flemming borrowed 
Director: Lee Tamahori 
new movies have the name of his
Writers: Neil Purvis and Robert Wade
become glorified hero: famous
Starring: Pierce Brosnan, Halle Berry,
action flick, they're ornithologist, you
Dame Judi Dench, Rosamund Pike, Toby
still fun to watch guessed it, James
Stephens, John Cleese
and there's still plenty of classic 
Bond elements that show through. 

"Die Another Day" begins with Bond (Pierce Brosnan) surfing on typhoon-like waves onto the coast of North Korea to stop the sale of some high tech military equipment to a obtusely evil warmonger general by impersonating the moneyman. But Bond's plan is botched when he's almost instantly recognized. After a slightly tough to swallow hovertank battle, Bond is captured and tortured in a prison as the classic opening sequence of writhing sil­houettes of naked women dance to the Bond theme song, this time covered by Madonna. 
Bond is eventually ransomed by M6 when the name of one of their agents is broadcast from the prison. Thinking Bond had cracked his cool. his boss, M (Dame Judi Dench), makes a prisoner swap. Back in an M6 medical facility, M rescinds Bond's double-0 status. Bond, of course, immediately escapes and begins an investi­gation into who set him up, taking him all around the globe including exotic locations like Havana and Iceland. But Bond doesn't have to take this one on alone; Halle Berry joins as the latest Bond girl named Jinx, an Bond. "Die Another 
Day" even come deliciously close to parodying itself ala "Austin Powers;" the bad guy has a conve­niently placed Earth-destroying laser beam in space. 
"Die Another Day" suffers from a bit of awkward acting. Surprisingly, a lot of this comes from Berry who sounds like she's reading from a children's book at times. Even worse is a bit part written in for Madonna; while she contributes a decent theme song, there should be a constitution­al amendment forbidding her from appear­ing in movies ever again. 
And like other recent Bond films, the bad guy has to have a justification for why he's evil. This time it's because his father didn't love him enough. Seriously, audiences can probably accept an old school irrational drive to destroy the world from any guy who has his own laser beam in space. 
The film muscles through most of these difficulties. Brosnan has mastered his ver­sion of Bond and carries the film. Of course. he's aided by a bunch of cool new gadgets like an invisible Aston Martin and a shockwave ring. A:nd the Bond girls aren't exactly unappealing either. 
But Berry may end up being more than 

Halle Berry as the American secret agent Jinx In "Die Another Day." MGM Is considering spinning the character off and giving her a franchise of her own. 
one of Bond's conquests; there's been a considerable buzz in Hollywood that MGM may spin-off the Jinx into a new franchise of secret agent films. Perhaps this may end up being a profitable venture', but given Berry's lackluster performance in "Die Another Day," MGM might be well advised to let Jinx work her voodoo in just one film like the other memorable but oh so forget­table Bond girls. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.cd.u 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Solaris' shines as an art flick 
ond day his wife is in bed with him. blend of romance, theology, philoso­By C. SPENCER BEGGS 

Of course, his wife committed suicide phy and science fiction. Basically, this Scene Editor 
three years before. . movie is a PLS major's wet dream. The apparitions on board aren't Unfortunately, "Solaris" really isn't 

In the near future. NASA discovers monsters; they seem to be real flesh meant to be a mainstream movie. a planet deep in space called Solaris. and blood and have memories of Released over Thanksgiving week-The planet is a glowing soft purple their former end in 2.500 the­orb with vivid solar flare-like bands lives on Earth. aters nationwide, emanating from it. But when a team Kelvin and the ''Solaris" the film wasn't of scientists sent to analyze whether crew must 
well received by it Solaris can be harnessed as an unravel the audiences. energy source send cryptic and dis­mystery of the "Solaris" was turbing messages back to Earth pulsating marketed as a sci­requesting that a psychiatrist be sent Solaris that Director: Stephen Soderbergh fi flick. but the to help the crew, Chris Kelvin seems to be Writer: Stephen Soderbergh movie really fits (George Clooney) is selected to make the key to the Starring: George Clooney, Natascha into a romantic or the journey to Solaris. visitors before MCEihone, Jeremy Davies, Viola Davis psychological 
Upon arrival, Kelvin discovers two they crack up drama genre. of the five crew members dead in the entirely. "Solaris" doesn't morgue and one missing. The "Solaris" is a remake of renowned have brain-eating aliens or a prince remaining two are agitated. Russian filmmaker Andrei charming figure; it L'> a fairly complex 
depressed and unwilling to submit to Tarkovsky's 1972 adaptation of' movie that might disappoint audi­Kelvin's psychoanalysis of their space Stanislaw Lem's novel. The film is a ences looking for run-oHhe-mill for­madness. But the lines between mad­classic and the remake follows in its gettable Friday night date faro. ness and sanity get blurred as Kelvin footsteps nicely. begins to experience what has driven "Solaris" is a slow boiler. The the crew to its loopy state: when he movie requires a lot of thought to Contact C. Spencer Beggs at wakes up in the morning of the sec-come to terms with. It has a unique beggs.3@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

Thursday, December 5, 2002 page 13 
THE ARBITER OF TASTE 
Moore bowls a strike in 'Columbine' 
Michael Moore's latest documentary is a curious case of' slovenly brilliance. The unanimous winner of the Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival this spring, "Bowling for Columbine" became the first documentary to compete in the competition in 46 years. Ever since 1989's "Hoger and Mc," Michael Moore has offered us a candid and satirical look at the absurd 
in American cul­
ture. 
This lime Moore sets a table or criti­cal inquiry over America's gun­craze with servings of media mania and corporate controversy. invites president of the National Hitle Association Charlton Heston, James Nichols (broth­er of Timothy McVeigh partner Terry Nichols) and Marilyn Manson for candid interviews and lays out the April 1999 Columbine High School tragedy as the centerpiece. 
The film takes its title from reports that students Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold went bowling the morning before they went on their killing spree in Littleton, Colo. "Columbine" follows Moore on his quest to !ind out why America suffers from an epidemic of murder. 
Moore begins his search for answers by opening an account at a Michigan bank that gives new customers a free gun. While flipping though their cata­logue of rifles he asks incredulously, "You mean you're a bank and a licensed lirearms dealer?" 
Ile then travels to one of the world's largest weapons manufacturer, Lockheed Martin, which is located just a few miles from Columbine High and takes a tour. While there he points out that the United States dropped its largest amount of bombs during the war in Kosovo the morning of the Columbine shootings. Moore also has a very scary visit with Terry Nichols in which Nichols explains just how easy it is to make a bomb and later tells Moore how Timothy 

Anne Hamilton 
'11le Arbiter ofTaste 


,,­
Michael Moore's documentary "Bowling for Columbine" Is a crltlcal look at the epidemic of violent crime In America. The film consists mostly of candid Interviews with celebrities on topics from guns and racism to corporate greed. 
McVeigh was "a nice guy" during the months he stayed at Terry's house. 
Moore also serves up a few surprises. Dick Clark of "American Bandstand" fame turns out to be not such a nice guy and Charlton Heston reveals he is a racist. while Marilyn Manson (whose music was initially cited as partly to blame for the shootings at Columbine) turns out to be thoughtful and eloquent. He also interviews a few students and a politician in Canada where 7 million guns are present in 10 million house­holds but murder is practically nonexist­ent about issues such as healthcare, unemployment, welfare, the media and why they think America has such a problem with guns. 
While interviewing a college professor who recently wrote a book on what the media chooses to cover and why, the man tells Moore that although gun relat­ed violence has decreased by 20 percent in the last 15 years, news coverage of it has increased 600 percent. Half of the film is made up entirely by interviews and that is where Moore shows his genius. Although he sometimes uses the camera as both a pulpit and as a way to bully people, which happens when he takes his crusade to Kmart headquar­ters, Moore does his best work by simply getting people to speak candidly about their views. Most of what was educa­tional and terrifying in this film actually came from people just answering hon­estly about what they thought. 
What makes "Columbine" a solid film is that Moore does his homework by sighting very interesting facts and statis­tics. Moore points out that the NRA was founded in 1871, the same year that the KKK was declared an illegal terrorist organization and that 33 million people in the U.S. live in poverty. He illustrates that the requested increase for the against the Soviets. While all of this information flashes on the silver screen. we hear Louis Armstrong's "What a Wonderful World" playing in the back­ground. 
Moore can either been viewed as tak­ing things too far in this film about vio­lence in America or he can be seen as a whistleblower who does not cut his enemy any unnecessary slack. Rarely clean-shaven and always with his shirt un-tucked, Moore can sometimes come across as a too slovenly and conde­scending to make an honest documen­tary. He points his linger sharply at both corporate America and American for­eign policy in both the recent Bush and Clinton administrations, which has the potential to make some viewers a little uncomfortable. 
Whatever your 
views, while 


U.S. military "Bowling for Columbine" watching this film budget for 2003 is 
it is good to $396 billion, remember that all 
which is more stories are told than enough to with a good deal adequately of personal bias
Director: Michael Moore 
•

upgrade every and Moore's is no
Writer: Michael Moore wanting school in Starring: Michael Moore, Charlton Heston, exception. It 
America. He also remains, however,
Marilyn Manson, Terry Nichols 

gives statistics showing the U.S. to have had 11,127 firearm homicides in the last year, which was around 100 times the number of as other countries such as Germany, France, Canada and Japan; Japan, in fact, only had 39. 
The film is also served well by its edit­ing and music. Moore chooses clips from local and national news stations depict­ing messages meant to scare and manip­ulate people. fie points out that Americans live in a media culture and contrasts relatively non-dramatic clips from the BBC news with those from the United States in which the anchor's voice carries shrill. alarmed tones and suspenseful music plays in the back­ground. 
There is also a wonderfully put togeth­

er sequence of the history of U.S. bomb­ings and military campaigns in other countries over the years where Moore points out how many foreign people we've killed and how we trained the young men in Afghanistan how to fight that "Bowling for 
Columbine" is an exceptional film that should be seen by anyone who wishes to take being an American or living in America seriously. 
"Bowling for Columbine" is a film that is designed to affect its viewers and is hugely successful in this attempt. In my experience, it left most of its audience either walking out of the theater or in thankful applause. While no doubt Moore certainly has his detractors. as will "Columbine," his insights and irony arc brilliant. It is unfortunate that this film probably will be missed by those who need to see it most. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not ,ieces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Anne 1/amilton is an overly opinioned film critic who spends Jar too much time watching movies. She can be contacted at ahamilton@nd.edu. 
Thursday, December 5, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 
Sollmann tabbed as preseason Big East Player of the Year 
Special to The Observer 
The preseason accolades have started to pour in for the Notre Dame baseball team, with junior second baseman Steve Sollmann and sophomore righthander Grant Johnson earning individ­ual honors while the Irish have been picked to repeat as Big East conference champions. 
The National College Baseball 

... 
Writers Association named Sollmann a preseason second team All-American while the Big East coaches tabbed him as the 2003 preseason Big East Player of the Year. Johnson was named a third team NCBWA prcseason All-American and joined Sollmann on the 15-player pre­season all-Big East team. 
Sollmann -whose .362 career batting average ranks ninth in Notre Dame history -overcame an injury-plagued first half of the 2002 season by hitting .561 f23­for-41) in nine 2002 NCAA Tournament games. He also had 12 runs batted in. scored 15 runs, made just one error and did not strike out in those nine NCAA games. 
After batting just .171 through his first 11 games of the 2002 season, Sollmann recovered to match his 2001 mark and post a .362 season batting average. He finished among the Big East overall 2002 leaders in hits (fifth), runs (fifth) and triples (fourth). Sollmann's other season stats included 47 RBI. two home runs, eight doubles, 6-of-6 stolen bases and just eight errors in 59 games played (.969 fielding pct.). 
His clutch hitting included a .443 hatting average with run­ners in scoring position, high­lighted by the game-tying hit in the ninth-inning rally that elimi­nated Rice from the College World Series. 

Johnson -who earned Freshman All-America honors from Baseball America and Collegiate Baseball -capped his stellar rookie season by earn­ing a spot on the U.S. National Team. He was part of the start­ing rotation on an elite staff that set a Team USA record with its 
1.48 summer ERA. 
Johnson's freshman season with the Irish included a 3.46 ERA in 18 appearances. The 6-6, 220-pounder led the Big East in overall innings pitched (101.1) while ranking second among Big East players in overall wins (9­5). third in starts (14) and sixth in strikeouts (86). His other 2002 stats included 44 walks. 94 hits allowed, a .249 opponent batting average, five wild pitches and nine hit hatters. 
Collegiate Baseball named Johnson the national pitcher of the week after his one-hit, one­walk performance in the 25-1 NCAA Tournament win over South Alabama -becoming just the 13th pitcher, and fourth since 1981, ever to toss a no-hit­ter or one-hitter in the NCAAs, He followed up that win with an opening-game victory in the Super Regional round at top­ranked Florida State. 
Notre Dame received nine of a maximum 10 first-place votes in the Big East preseason poll. Other top teams in the poll were Virginia Tech, Boston College and Rutgers. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Gesser's status uncertain as Cougars prepare for Bruins 
The No. 7 Cougars (9-2, 6-1 Pac-today. He said he was feeling to go out there and show the Since then, Kegel has played
Associated Press 

10) will clinch a Rose Bowl berth if great," Price said. "Jason will take coaches I can play and be produc­sparingly in a dozen games. This they beat UCI.A (7-4, 4-3). snaps and throw in practice tive." season, he completed 26 of 39SPOKANE. Wash. 
Gesser, a senior who was picked today." Junior Matt Kegel has had most passes for 203 yards, a touchdown
Jason Gesser tested his sore 

as co-Pac-10 offensive player ofthe Gesser said he hopes to be able of the snaps with the first-team and an interception.
right leg in practice, but 
year, suffered a high right ankle to play, but would practice gingerly offense in practices since the Price said the Cougars plan toWashington State coach Mike Price sprain, pulled calf muscle and so as not to exacerbate his sore leg. Thanksgiving break ended. practice some plays from the shot­said it is still not known whether bruised knee when he was sacked 'Tm just going to throw the ball Washington State faced a similar gun to accommodate Gesser's llin­
his star quarterback can play 
in the fourth quarter of a 29-26 and see how it feels. See if I can situation in 2000, when Gesser ited mobility. 
against UCI.A on Saturday. 
loss in triple overtime to transfer my weight," he said. "I broke his right leg in the ninth Gesser said he has been in reha­The decision on whether Gesser Washington on Nov. 23. don't want to strain it by trying to game of the season against bilitation four-to-six hours a day,can play likely won't be made until Price said Gesser has been fitted hand the ball off." Oregon. icing the injury and trying to buildjust before the game, Price said. 
with a special brace molded into Gesser said he feels he ~ill be Kegel started the next two strength and mobility through
"It's still 50-50 and no one's 

his shoe that will allow the lower able to play. games, leading WSU to a 33-27 massages and exercises. 
going to know until Saturday at leg to be wrapped for some mobili­"I think so. I told you guys I was victory over Southern California ''I'll do whatever it takes to play."
1:30 p.m.," Price said, referring to ty. going to play two weeks ago," he before suffering a 51-3 loss to Gesser said. "I don't know what Ithe scheduled kickoff. 
"He's real good. I talked to him said. "I feel the same way. I've got Washington. can do with this type of injury." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the rignc to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

LOWEST PRICES. FREE MEALS  WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME  BCS BOWL TICKETS FOR SALE  UNPLANNED PREGANCY? Do  
NOTICES  AND DRINKS! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND  YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296.  FOR SALE  (ALL LOCATIONS) Local (574)654­0168. TOLL FREE(B00J272-8553  not go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support  
.,At Last Spring Break.. Book now,  BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! 17 YEARS EXP.! REPS WANTED!  Males roommate for Spring semes­ter,  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
Free meals, Parties, drinks, 2 free trips, Lowest prices  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR  Turtle Creek Town Home. Call Leonard 272·8582  Juday Lake 3 bdrm ranch on lake. Walk/bike to campus Broker  PERSONAL  more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER  
Sunsplashtours com 1-800-426­ 2003/2004 Anlan Properties. LLC  owned. 272-6306, 329-0241  
7710  532-1896 Call Bill.  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI­ FOR RENT  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  Powertul prayer to the Holy Spirit You who solve all my problems,  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  
- TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only company exclusive to Acapulco! That's why we're the BEST. "Go Loco in Acapulco" with the #1 Spring Break Company in Acapulco tor 16 years! Call 800-875-4525 Today. www.bianchi-rossi.com. Be a rep, travel FREE ­ask how'  WANTED Bartenders needed! Earn up to $300 Per day No experience necessary. Call 1.866 291 .1884 ext U187.  Turtle Creek Townhouse available at discounted rate for Spring 2003. Maximum 3 people, 2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, AC, dishwasher. Call 277-0900 for details. All sizes homes available for 2003­ NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Wi!liamson.1@nd.edu Notre Dame insignia medium black men's leather coat-brand new ­Sacrifice ... $200. Call Diana at 631-6234 or (269)  who lights all roads so that I can obtain my goals. You who give me the Divine gift lo forgive and forget all evil against me and in all instances of my live, You are with me. I want in this short prayer to thank you for all things and to con­firm that I never want lo be separat­ Information/Reservations 1-800· 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Where's my snare? I have no snare in my headphones Note to men everywhere: don't  
SPRING BREAK INSANITY! WWW INTER-CAMPUS .COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­TEED  #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 2 & 4-bdrm houses for 2003 Close to ND. 616-699-5841  684-6692. TICKETS  ed from you, even in spite ol all material illusions. I wish to be with you in eternal glory. Thank you for your mercy toward me and mine E.J.P  swear at your fiancee on your wed­ding day. McVoy, you're getting old Happy belated 22nd from The_9bserver.  

Thursday; December 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Wagner scores 29 as Cavaliers end 15-game skid 
a 16-0 spurt that took up the first half of the fourth quarter. Elden Campbell had a jumper, a layup after an offensive rebound and a pair of free throws during the run, while Courtney Alexander hit two free throws and a 3­pointcr that gave the Hornets a 77-60 lead with just under six minutes left. 
Toronto failed to score on eight straight possessions during the run, missing seven shots -one al'ter an offensive rebound ­and turning the ball over twice. 
Jamaal Mashburn scored 10 for New Orleans, as did Campbell coming off the bench. 
Both teams struggled in the first half. 
Four minutes into the second quarter the Hornets were shout­ing about 25 percent and looking sluggish compared to their victo­ry in Chicago a night earlier. But the Haptors could only push their lead as high as nine. 
New Orleans then put together a quick 7-0 run to tie the game at 31. It started with a 3-pointcr from Mashburn. 
Davis followed with layup after putting the ball behind his back during the drive. 
Davis then stoic the ball and dunked. 
The teams fought evenly through the rest of the period. After Carter caught a high pass in the lane and converted a reverse dunk, the Hornets missed their next shot, but Davis stole the ball back quickly and fed Magloire for a tomahawk jam to give the Hornets a 41-40 lead at halftime. 
® 

Associated Pre» 
CLEVELAND 

Rookie Dajuan Wagner scored 29 points to help the Cleveland Cavaliers snap their 15-game losing streak with a 111-101 vic­tory over tho Chicago Bulls. 
Hookie Carlos Boozer and Hicky Davis each scored 26 poinls for the Cavs, who won for the lirsl time since a home-open­ing triumph over the Nl3A cham­pion Los Angeles takers on Nov. 
5. The losing streak was four shy of the franchise's worst single­season loss string, set at the end of the 1981-82 season. 
Jalen Hose scored 37 points to lead the Bulls, who have lost eight straight and 14 of 16. 
Cleveland's two rookies missed all rour of their shots in the fourth quarter as Chicago cut a 20-point deficit to four. Boozer went scoreless and Wagner had only one point in the period. 
Hose sparked a 23-7 charge that brought the Bulls within 103-99 with 1:38 to play. Davis drove for a layup 17 seconds later for a 105-99 lead and hit two free throws with 41 seconds left to make it 107-99. 
The announced attendance of 7,295 was the lowest for a Cleveland home game since Jan. 6, 1988, when 7,017 saw a victo­ry over the L.A. Clippers. 
Davis returned from a two­game suspension by coach John Lucas for an on-court argument with teammate Tyrone Hill last Friday. 
Before the g,l!:me, Davis addressed the issue for the first time and said his outburst came out of the frustration of losing. 
Hill also returned after missing two games with a sprained left ankle. He had nine rebounds as Cleveland controlled the boards,. 56-38. 
Sixers 99, Celtics 93 
Allen Iverson had 27 points and Derrick Coleman scored a season-high 20 as the Philadelphia 76ers extended their winning streak to eight and stayed perfect at home with vic­tory over the Boston Celtics. 
Eric Snow made a spinning 12­foot jumper to break a 92-92 tie, and Coleman made a 3-pointer with 1:10 left to cap a 9-0 run and give Philadelphia a 97 -92 lead. Iverson made two free throws with 28 seconds left to seal the win. 
Keith Van Horn had 13 points and matched a season-high with 13 rebounds, and Snow added 13 points and eight assists for the 76ers, who are 10-0 at home. The start is Philadelphia's best since winning 22 in a row to begin the 1966-67 season. It is the longest home winning streak since 1999. 
Paul Pierce had 34 points, Antoine Walker had 19 points, nine rebounds and seven assists and Walter McCarty scored 10 for the Celtics. 
A driving layup by Walker gave the Celtics a 92-88 lead with 
3:36 left. Snow answered with a layup to pull the 76ers within two, and a leaner by Iverson knotted the score at 92. 
After trailing by as many as 16 in the first half, Philadelphia came back to tie the score at 60 when Iverson made a 3-pointer with 6:40 left in the third. The Sixers scored 13 of the last 16 points of the quarter to lead 75­71 after three. 
After a 3-pointer by McCarty, Boston took a 54-38 advantage with 2:45 left in the first half. The 76ers then scored 11 of the last 13 points to pull within seven, 56-49, at the break. 
Wizards 88, Pistons 83 
Jerry Stackhouse and Michael Jordan combined for 16 points in the fourth quarter as the Washington Wizards beat the Detroit Pistons. 
The game marked Stackhouse's first regular-season appearance at the Palace since being traded from the Pistons to the Wizards for Richard Hamilton in September. 
Stackhouse and Jordan each scored eight points in the final period, and both finished with 
21. 

Chucky Atkins led Detroit with 17 and Cliff Robinson and Richard Hamilton had 16 each. 
The game was tied at 81 with 
1:30 to play when Jordan rebounded a miss by Larry Hughes and was fouled by Robinson. He hit both free throws, and after Ben Wallace missed at the other end, Stackhouse made one of two from the line to make it 84-81 with 54 seconds left. 
Stackhouse fouled Hamilton, who made one of two free throws. Jordan lost the ball out of bounds under pressure from Atkins, and Brendan Haywood fouled Robinson at the other end. Robinson missed the second of two free throws, leaving Detroit down 84-83 with 16.5 seconds left. 
Robinson then fouled Jordan, who made both shots to give the Wizards a three-point edge. Atkins missed a long 3-pointer, and Stackhouse put the game away with two free throws. 
Hornets 89, Raptors 74 
Baron Davis returned from a two-game absence to score 18 points as the New Orleans Hornets defeated the Toronto Raptors. 
Davis, who has a herniated disc in his back, started stow, hit­ting one of his first four shots and turning the ball over once. But his ballhandling and passing looked sharp after that, including several spin and behind-the-back moves as he drove to the hoop. 
Davis also had eight rebounds, and his five assists could have been higher if several crisp pass­es inside hadn't been mishandled or ended up as missed shots. 
Jamaal Magloire added 16 points and P.J. Brown 15 for New Orleans. now 10-0 at home. 
Vince Carter scored 26 for Toronto, but he had little help as the Raptors shot 36 percent (30­of-83) and went stone cold dur­ing a critical stretch of the fourth quarter. Antonio Davis had 11 rebounds but shot only 1-for-15 from the field. Alvin Williams scored 13 for Toronto. 
New Orleans took control with 


-J.>s;_,: . :. a_.• '.~-....·._~>-::·--• . . . 
.·. : .,
. 


Kick-off the weekend early TONIGHT. AThursday Tradition... 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 5, 2002 
NCAA 

Judge awards $506 million to 46 videotaped athletes 
Associated Pren 
CHICAGO 
A federal judge has ordered eight companies and three people to pay $506 million to 46 male college athletes who were secretly videotaped in locker rooms, restrooms and showers. 
The videotapes were sold through Internet sites advertis­ing "hot younger dudes." 
"We look at this judgment as the court system sending a sig­nal to the sexual predators that they're not going to get away with this," said attorney 

Cindy Fluxgold, who repre­sents several of the athletes. 
U.S. District Court Judge Charles P. Kocoras' decision, handed down last week, grants each of the 46 plaintiffs $1 mil­lion in compensatory damages and $10 million in punitive damages. The remainder of the $506 million award pays costs and attorneys' fees. 
Kocoras also ordered the defendants to surrender the videotapes and get out of the business of making and selling them. 
The tapes, with names such as "Straight Off the Mat" and "Voyeur Time," first came to light in April 1999, when the Chicago Tribune reported that hidden-camera videotapes, including footage taken during a 1995 wrestling tournament at Northwestern University, were being marketed online and by mail. 
No criminal charges were filed. Illinois has since enacted a law making it illegal to secretly film anyone in locker rooms or bathrooms. 
Fluxgold said that the 46 unnamed plaintiffs represent a fraction of the men caught on tape, many of whom have not been identified. She said she didn't have an accurate count of how many athletes were videotaped, but that the num­ber is "in the multiple hun­dreds of people." 
The lawsuit alleged invasion of privacy, unlawful use of (he plaintiffs' images for monetary gain, and mail and wire fraud under the federal Hacketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. 
The plaintiffs, who were granted anonymity by the court, are described in the lawsuit as 28 "John Does" and ~unknown Illinois State University football players." 
The lawsuit says they are past or present athletes at 

Northwestern, Illinois, Illinois State, Eastern Illinois, Indiana, Penn, Iowa State and Michigan State. 
Kocoras· judgment was entered against Franco Production, Franko Productions, Rodeo, Hidvidco, Hidvidco-Atlas Video Release, AMO Video, Atlas Video, Gamport/Earthlink, and indi­viduals Daniel Franco, George Jachem and R.D. Couture. 
The District Court clerk's office said no attorneys had appeared on behalf of the defendants since at least 2000. No telephone numbers could immediately be found. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Webber's father admits receiving gifts from booster 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
The father of former Michigan basketball star Chris Webber acknowledged in testi­mony before a federal grand jury that he took gifts from a banned booster. 
Mayce Webber Jr.'s admis­sion in court documents was the first time he publicly acknowledged taking anything from Eddie Martin, who plead­ed guilty in May to money laun­dering and admitted lending $616,000 to four former Michigan players. The Detroit News reported Wednesday. 

Webber Jr., his son and sis­ter-in-law, Charlene Johnson, were indicted in September for conspiring to obstruct justice and making a false statement to a grand jury. All three have pleaded innocent. Each charge is punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
Webber Jr. "acknowledged that Martin had given some gifts to him, and Martin put a hotel bill on a charge card and was paid back," his lawyer, Hobert Morgan, said in a request last month in U.S. 
District Court that the indict­ment to he dismissed. Morgan declined comment Tuesday. Webber Jr. testified in June 2000. 
According to the News, a uni­versity report said that Martin paid for a hotel room for an unidentified player's father and apparently was repaid in cash. Martin violated NCAA rules when he paid for the room. 
Prosecutors said Martin gave the Webber family $280,000 between 1988 and 1993, but Webber Jr. denied the claims in March. 
Now with the Sacramento Kings, Chris Webber told the grand jury in August 2000 that he took gifts from Martin in high school, but couldn't remember whether he took money while at Michigan, according to a partial transcript of his testimony. 
Steven Levy, who represents Webber Jr.'s sister-in-law, Johnson, said she wouldn't accept any plea bargain ·and doubted any of the three defen­dants would plead guilty to a lesser offense. 
Attorneys for the Webbers won't comment on possibilities of a plea bargain. 

U.S. 
District Judge Nancy Edmunds will meet with attor­neys Monday to decide when to hear defense motions calling for the prosecution's indictment to be thrown out. 

Keith Corbett, head of the 

U.S. 
attorney's organized crime strike force in Detroit, said if the trials were scheduled dur­ing the NBA season, Webber would still be expected to show up. 


The government may seek to delay Martin's Feb. 20 sentenc­ing until after he testifies at a criminal trial. 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TO 'W NH OM ES We have whatyou need in off-campus living! l.Dts ofapartments available for 2003-04! 
•4 & 5 Private Bedroom Apts
SPLIT the rent! ­
·3 Floors Tall/Patio Area 
•Central 
Air/Cable Hook-Up

•Stove, 
Fridge, Dishwasher 

•Washer/Dryer 
in EACH Unit 

•6 
Blocks from Campus

•ADT 
Security Systems


·24-Hour Maintenance 
CALL TODAY FORA PERSONAL WALK-THROUGH! 
574-234-9923 
TCLARK@CBRESB.COM 
"BEST VALUE PER STUDENT" -ONLY $281 PER STUDENT FOR A S BEDROOM PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. 
-
Thursday, December S, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Sharks hire Wilson as new head coach 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

Hon Wilson was hi.red to coach the San Jose Sharks, days after Lhe team fired Darryl Sutter and his two assistants. 
Wilson, fired by Washington lasL May after four mostly suc­cessfu I seasons. coached the 
U.S. team in the 1998 Olympics and in two World Cups. He also spent four years as the first coach of' division rival Anaheim. 
The Sharks moved quickly to fill lhcir vacancy with a veteran coach. Sutter. the winningest coach in franchise history, was fired on Sunday along with assistants Hich Preston and Lorne Molleknn in a surprising shakeup of' a struggling team that aspires to be a Stanley Cup contender. 
"Hon Wilson is an experi­enced NHL coach with a strong truck record in both the regu­lar season and the playoffs," Sharks general manager Dean Lombardi said in a release. 
The Sharks struggled to an 8­12-2-2 start that put them in las l place in the Pacific Division. but they got a 3-2 overtime victory over Phoenix on Tuesday night with scout Cap Bander and team executive Doug Wilson coaching the team. 
Hon Wilson got his first head coaching job in Anaheim in 1993. In his fourth year with the Mighty Ducks, Wilson coached Teemu Selanne, who is now the Sharks' leading goal scorer. 
Wilson had his greatest suc­cess in Washington, where he led the Capitals to the Stanley Cup finals in 1998. He won two division titles, and he led Washington to 102 points in the 2000-01 season -more points than the Sharks have earned in any of their 12 sea­sons. 
Wilson had been out of coaching since leaving Washington, where the Capitals missed the playolfs by two points following a 36-3:i­11-2 season. He apparently was the only candidate inter­viewed by Lombardi, who promised his search wouldn't take more than a few days. 
Wilson will make his debut as the Sharks' sixth permanent head coach on Friday night, when San Jose hosts Columbus. Following Saturday night's home game against Nashville, the Sharks have four days off, which will allow Wilson to further implement his plans. 
Sutter led the Sharks to five consecutive seasons of improved point totals, but was fired after San Jose's slow start. 
NFL 

Faulk may start Sunday vs. Chiefs 
A.sociated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

There's a chance St. Louis Rams running back Marshall Faulk could make his first start in four weeks Sunday at Kansas City. 
Faulk played as a reserve last week after missing two games with a high sprain on his right ankle, and he ran nine times for 29 yards. Head coach Mike Martz said that Faulk was "no worse for the wear." 
Offensive tackle Orlando Pace might miss the rest of the season with what Martz characterized as a "significant hamstring tear." 
"If we have him back at the end of the year for a game, I think we'd be very fortunate," the coach said. 
Martz said rookie Lamar Gordon, despite continued fum­bling problems, probably would get his third straight start at tail­back. But he left the door open for Faulk. who again is listed as questionable. 
"I don't know where Marshall is for sure." Martz said. "As the week goes on, if he feels real good, then we'll start him. But that'll be up to Marshall." 
Martz said the injury isn't going to heal before the olfseason. 
"I think this is something he's going to have to deal with," Martz said. "It probably won't get a whole heck of a lot better through the rest of the season, so we'll monitor that." 
Quarterbacks Kurt Warner and Marc Bulger also were listed as questionable, although Warner is expected to miss at least two weeks with a broken hand. Bulger has made slow progress after spraining a ligament on his right index linger Nov. 18 against the Rears. Martz said he would like to hold him out of practice all week. 
Martz added that Bulger's fin­ger can be taped to allow him to throw Sunday if needed. He'll probably be the backup behind Jamie Martin, although the Rams also re-signed Scott Covington. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sox' Tho111as running out of time 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO Frank Thoma.<; is running out of time to find a better deal. 
The two-time AL MVP has until Dec. 7 to sign with another club or return to his existing contract with the Chicago White Sox. Thomas is testing the free agent market for the first time in his career after the White Sox invoked a contract clause that allows them to defer most of his $10 million salary. 
"Frank's a free agent, and he's still out there exploring," White Sox general manager Kenny Williams said. ''He will inform us on the seventh as to what he's found and we'll continue to moni­tor it up until that date. At that point and time, on the seventh, I'll have more to say on the subject." 
But odds are Thomas will find himself back in a White Sox uni­form again next season. The free agent market is tighter than in recent years with the luxury tax looming, and there's been little visible interest in the slugger. 
If Thomas does stay in Chicago, his paychecks are going to have a few less zeros. 
Thomas signed a contract in 1997 that was to pay him $9,927,000 in each of the next four seasons, including $3,827,000 deferred with 7 .73 percent compounded interest. But because he didn't make the All-Star team, didn't finish among the top 10 in MVP voting and didn't win a Silver Slugger this season, the White Sox invoked what's called the "diminished skills" clause, allowing them to cut his upfront salary. 




Close to campus! (Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way 
(57 4) 272-1441 




AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, December 5, 2002 

KAT Photo 

Alabama head coach Dennis Franchione looks on in his team's game against Oklahoma earlier this season. Franchione is rumored to be the leading to replace R.C. Slocum as head coach at Texas A&M. 
Franchione to Aggies rum.ors continue 
11~iliiil;ii1~i111i::,:,y;:g::i;::-<v·· 
:::~:=: 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
COi.LEGE STATION, Texas 
Texas A&M president Robert Gates declined to confirm reports that school officials had received per­mission to speak with Alabama coach Dennis Franchione about becom­ing the Aggies coach. 
Told that Alabama ath­letic director Mal Moore confirmed Wednesday that A&M officials had asked for and received permission to talk with Franchione, Gates only replied, "That sounds reliable." 
Gates, speaking face-to­face to reporters for the first time since firing coach R.C. Slocum on Monday, wouldn't go into detail about the plans for replac­ing the 14-year head coach. 

"We have a process under way in looking for a new coach," Gates said. "I hope we'll have some results soon. That's all I'll say about the future." 
Gates also wasn't specific about a timetable for find­ing Slocum's replacement. 
"I hope soon," he said. 
Franchione has for sever­al weeks been considered a possible replacement for Slocum. even before the coach was fired Monday, three days after a 50-20 loss to Texas that ended a 6-6 regular season. That matched the Aggies' worst record in 14 seasons under Slocum. 
Franchione Jed Alabama to a 17 -8 record over the past two seasons, finishing at 10-3 this season after 21-16 victory at Hawaii on Saturday night. 
The Crimson Tide, which is on NCAA probation for recruiting violations that occurred before Franchione took the job, isn't eligible for a bowl game this year or next year. 
Franchione hasn't yet signed a contract extension with Alabama reported to be worth $15 million over 10 years. 
"I will not impede coach Franchione in any manner if he wishes to talk to A&M," Moore said in a statement. "However, I want to stress that we want coach Franchione to finish his coaching career at the University of Alabama. 
"We have made what we feel is a strong and fair contractual offer for him to stay." 
Before going to Alabama, Franchione was at TCU for three seasons. He led the Horned Frogs, 1-10 the year before he arrived, to three straight bowl games and the share of the WAC title his last two years. 

around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Fresno State at Louisiana Tech 
9 p.m., ESPN 

MENS COLLEGE BASKETBALL Nebraska at South Florida 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Milwaukee at Atlanta 7:30 p.m., TNT 
IN BRIEF 

LeCiair out 10 to 12 weeks 
Flyers star John LeClair had shoul­der surgery and is expected to be out 10 to 12 weeks. 
The 33-year-old left wing left the hospital in minimal pain within a few hours of the operation with his arm in a sling, Dr. Peter Deluca said. 
Whether LcClair immediately begins rehabilitation will depend on how he feels Thursday, Deluca said. 
Deluca, the team orthopedist. was one of two surgeons who operated at Hahnemann University Hospital. 
LeClair injured his shoulder after colliding with Pittsburgh defenseman Marc Bergevin last week. 
A three-time 50-goal scorer, LeClair was plagued by back injuries in recent years, twice having surgery. He had 25 goals and 26 assists last season and played every game. He has 11 goals and six assists this season. 
LeClair had surgery in July to clean out scar tissue and was pain-free until his shoulder injury. 
He is the team's highest-paid play­er, signing a five-year, $45 million contract in 2001. 
Prentice signs with Arizona 
Running back Travis Prentice signed with the Arizona Cardinals on Wednesday after being cut by the Houston Texans in training camp. 
Thomas Jones broke a hand two weeks ago, leaving Arizona with just two running backs -Marcel Shipp and Damien Anderson. Jones told the Cardinals he slammed his hand against a counter while trying to answer a phone at home. 
To make room for Prentice, Arizona released safety Don Morgan. 
Prentice has been out of football since the Texans cut him. He was Cleveland's third-round draft pick in 2000 and led the Browns in rushing as a rookie with 512 yards on 173 carries. 
He was traded to Minnesota last year and appeared in 14 games, pri­marily on special teams. He was waived by the Vikings on May 2. 
Prentice, 5-foot-11 and 221 pounds, set NCAA career records in points, rushing touchdowns and overall touchdowns in four seasons at Miami of Ohio. 
Browns great Reynolds dies 
Billy Reynolds, a kick returner on the Cleveland Browns' championship team in 1954, died at 71. 
Reynolds died at the suburban Bedford Medical Center. He had been recuperating from hip replacement surgery. 
In 1954, Reynolds led the NFL in kickoff returns. He set up two touch­downs with punt returns in the Browns' victory against the Detroit Lions in the title game that season. 
The 5-foot-10 haltback played in college at Pittsburgh, where he was known as "The Rock." Reynolds was drafted by the Browns in the second round 
His funeral is Saturday in Northfield, Ohio. 

Thursday, December 5, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
l!I~·~·Iii
~

i Career, Job and Internship Fairs 2003 II University of Notre Dame I I The Career Center I 
~ L-------------------------=== ~
I The job and internship search is f arfrom over! Look at the following ~ 
~ ~
E events to continue your search.for permanent and summer employment IiiI opportunities!!! ~ 
~ i
I ~------. I 
/M NEW YORK .------__, i
ICareers 2003 • NeL-w-=Yt=or=k=====::::::::.::::.__. J=N::::::::D:::I=A=N:::::::::::A:-JI ~
t....::I

I Monday, .January 6, 2003 Indiana Journal.ism Job Fair ~ ~ • lOOcompanieswithadiversearrayofcareeropportunities Saturday, February 1, 2003 ~ ~ • Applyonline at www.careerconferences.com Franklin College, Franklin, IN ~ ~ • Application deadline hi.IS been extended for the Notre Dame students· Newspaper editors from the state of Indiana will be recruiting students for full-time ral ~ MQ003.V. December 16. 2002 by 12:00 noon . employment and internships. ~I • Students are responsible for theirown transportation • Specific time, participating employers, and the contact to schedule ~
I . intmiews will he a,ailable soon on ca«eccenle,-.nd.edu. I 
ri!.I The University Recruiting Consortium career fair link i
I~ Tuesday & Wednesday, .January 7-8, 2003 . E-mail contact: rees.4@nd·edu ~,~~ ~ Double Tree Guest Suites Hotel, Times Square, Manhattan, New York ~ ~ * Sample Careers: Business, Marketing, Media, Advertising, Public Relations, etc. ~ • Apply online at UnjversityConsortium.erecruitjng.com or link through the lndULna Collegiate Job Fair ~ 
~ Go IRISH Homepage Friday, March 28, 2003 ~ ~ • Application deadline: Monday. December 16. 2002 by 12;00 noon Sagamore Ballroom -Indiana Convention Center, Indianapolis, IN ~ ~ • Students are responsible for their own transportation. • A great opportunity to meet face-to-face with many quality !iJ ~ • E-mail contact: Pruitt.8@nd.edu employers looking to hire late in the school year !il
INew York Metro Unk •E-mmkomact rel"""®i"l)rn.edu I 
~ Monday, March 24, 2003 I I i 
~ American Management Association, 1601 Broadway, Manhattan, NY ON-CAMPUS ~ 
~ * Participating Colleges: Notre Dame, Duke, Yale, Richmond, and L:.==========--..J ;I William & Mary Winter Career and Internship Fair ~ !il * Careers in Media, Advertising, Publishing, Paralegal, Fashion, etc. Tuesday, January 28, 2003 ~ !il •Apply on-line at Metro Link.erecruiting.com or link through the Joyce Center Field House ~ ~ Go IRISH Homepage. • All Majors Welcome i ~ • Application Deadline: Wednesday, February 5. 2003 by 12:00 noon • Internships and Full positions @ ml • Transportation will be coordinated through the Career Center • Review opportunities and participating employers on Go IRISH at ~ m • E-mail contact: Pruitt.8@nd.edu careercenter.nd.edu ~
I -------------------------•Use "WCIF' as keyword search under jobs or internships ~ 
I .-------. --------------I
I CH IC A GO School ofArchitecture I 
~ Careers 2003 • Chicago Thursday & Friday. March 20-21, 2003 II Monday, .January 27, 2002 Bond Hall Gallery -Breakfast and Lecture ~ 
; 
===,,.µ...u.:,==~=-=-;ii....:== * Joyce Center -Heritage Hall and Monogram Room -Fair and Luncheon ~ 
~ Oak Brook Terrace Conference Center, Chicago IL ifil ml * Flanner Hall -Interview Center -Interviews held on the 21" ral
~ • More than 80 companies and organizations are confirmed to attend. •Transportation will ~I be provided by The Career Center for the first 45 students • E-mail contact: ford.41@nd.edu ; 
who sign up. --------,--=..-=..-=..-=..-:_-=..-=..-=..-=..-=..-=..-=.-=..-=-,-------I 
~ ; • Application deadline has been extended for Notre Dame students: Monday. @ 
~ December 23, 2003 by 12:00 noon VJRTUAL ~ ~ • E-mail contact: ford.4l@nd.edu L:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==::::::_J ~ ...,
I ___________________ Hire Big 10 Plus -Live Event II Hire Big 10 Plus Consortium. Live Event .January 27-February 24, 2003 ~
I ~
* Full-Time and Internships ~ Thursday, April 3, 2003 •Hire Big 10 Plus is a consortium of midwest universities including: University of ~
II I
University of Chicago Notre Dame, Michigan State University, Northwestern University, Indiana I •Hire Big 10 Plus is a consortium of midwest universities including: University of University, University of Michigan, University of Chicago, University of Illinois, I ~ Notre Dame, Michigan State University, Northwestern University, Indiana University of Iowa, and the University of Wisconsin ~ ~ University, University of Michigan, University of Chicago, University of Illinois, • Apply online at: Available soon on careercenter.nd.edu, career fair link ~ m University oflowa, and the University of Wisconsin • E mail contact· Pruitt 8@nd edu ~ 
~ • Students are responsible for their own transportation -· · · ~ 
~ • E-mail contact: Pruitt.&@nd.edu Hire Big 10 Plus -Virtual -Just-in-Time Career Event ~
I ----.----:.--_--:_---------_-----_--:_-----------------.---April 4-April 25, 2003 I 
~ IWASHINGTON D.C. I ~
*Just-in-Timehiringneeds 

~ L.==============:=:..J. •Hire Big lOPlus is a consortium of mid west universities including: University of ~
i Washington D. C. Metro Link Notre Dame, Michigan State University, Northwestern University, Indiana ~ i Monday, March 31, 2003 University, University of Michigan, University of Chicago, University oflllinois, ~ i Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Building, 1179 Massachusetts Ave, NW University of Iowa, and the University of Wisconsin ii * Participating Colleges: Notre Dame, Duke, Yale, Richmond, and William & Mary : ~~!~i:~l~:c:~:;;2;~;~::on careercenter.nd.edu, career fair link Ill 
; 
* Careers in Media, Advertising, Publishing, Paralegal, Lobbying and Public Policy, etc. 1 ~ ~ • Apply on-line at Metro Link.erecruiting.com or link through the ~ ~ Go IRISH Homepage. ----=--.... ~ 
; 
• Application Deadline: Wednesday, February 12, 2003 by 12:00 noon G , --~M. 1§1I •Transportation will be coordinated through the Career Center C .· J• / I
i • E-mail contact: Pruitt.8@nd.edu ....,.._..,__ ~ i 
I -----· I 
I logonat~c~a_r_e~e_r~c~e~n~t~e~r_.~n~d~·~e~d~u~ I 
I!] 13 

I I I 
' 
I I 
i 
.
I . I I 
.
I I I I I 
t 
i 
I I I I I I 
page 20 
Gator 
continued from page 24 
Bowl. Washington State and Iowa would play in the Rose Bowl and USC and the Big 12 champ would meet in the Orange Bowl. 
The Irish still have a narrow chance of squeaking into a BCS bowl. If 7-4 UCLA beats 9-2 Washington State, USC would win the Pac-10 title and the automatic Rose Bowl berth awarded to the confer­ence champion. where they would probably face Iowa. That frees up an at-large bid that would most likely be given to Notre Dame. 
If Miami makes the Fiesta Bowl, the Orange Bowl would be able to select its at-large team first. 
In addition to Notre Dame, an Orange Bowl official said the bowl is also considering 10-2 Kansas State, which promised the ·orange Bowl Tuesday it would buv 25,000 tickets if selected. · 

Another, more unlikely, sce­nario involves undefeated Miami losing to 9-3 Virginia Tech this weekend. 
The loss would move 11-1 Georgia into the national championship game and pos­sibly knock USC out of its automatic spot. 
Then the Sugar Bowl could select Notre Dame. 
Minutes after Notre Dame lost to USC 44-13, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham started arguing his team's case for a BCS berth. 
"The case is that we've played 12 ballgames and we've won 10 of those ball­games," he said. "We've been a very improved and very sound football team. This one game can not be a true indi­cator of that." 
But Willingham's campaign­ing won't have any impact unless UCLA wins Saturday. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
. The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 5, 2002 
~-. 
:{st:"'• UNIVERSITY OF NOTR,;E DAME
12:''t'.'-' -· •.. -· -,. -· · -----: 
;1WASHINGTON PROGRAM,
:it··' . : ': ...--~ . 
•
Studyinthe nation's • Applications for capitol Fall 2003 & 

•
Workin aninternship Spring 2004 are now 

•
Fulfill philosophy, being accepted online theology~and fine arts •Open to Freshmen, requirements Sophomores, and 

•
Study public affairs Juniors from all 

•
live in an exciting city colleges 


John Eriksen, Director 
/(4~-------

338 O'Shaughnessy 
[JalJ~ 
Er.,-,,ik..,..s,.e,,.=n=.l=@=n-c_Le_d_t_1---~-··-----.~!'_ 


I• «> > >l ~:>,,r/, ;, • ,I> {,1 :; 1,f. 1
·.! . < • www.nd.edu/~se1nester . .·.::: 

Come to an informational meeting Thursday December 5th at 7pm in the Montgomery Theater. Information will be given out regarding elections, and we will be able to answer your Questions. 
Ifyou are unable to attend, but are interested in running, please email Judicial Council President Danielle Ledesma at dledesma@nd.edu. 

Thursday, December 5, 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

~tlJtl! 
MENS SWIMMING 
Irish look to get back on track at ND Invite 



FUN! GAMES! SHOPPING! 
,gupetrruu·ket ~weep Sc8V.enger Hunt~ Eating ConteRfg Oreo ~taekmg Muclt, Mueh Moro! 
By LISA REIJULA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame mens swim­ming and diving team will have plenty of chances to show its talent in the pool this weekend. 
The Irish host the Notre Dame Invitational starting today at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Five other teams will be in attendance at the three-day event -Virginia, Louisville. Wyoming, North Dakota tunity for the freshmen to see what the championship format is like at the college level," Obringer said. 
At the Invitational, look for the relays to be close races. Several teams from the com­peting schools have similar times, and winning the valu­able double relay points could give a school the edge in win­ning the Invitational. 
For the Irish, the 400-meter medley and 400-mctcr 
freestyle 
relay teams 

~;~--~~;.,1.:, ....;\··:--.··:,,..,:._«;.:.;•:-.-:.;..N.;":.;-:-,":•N\\;;;,:,-..:,._:.;•;,";1":'#._;..-:...,.:-.";.;•:\·:,,"-:.-.-.;,-;;,:.,-;.:.:_-:.;,t,.'::,},:.:-:.;.1 
and Saint "Having a good team have been Louis. atmosphere while we 're strong all

~ FRIOA~t· DtcEJ'J\atR 6JH B 
Junior Matt season long.
out there has a bigger
Obringer The team

i 9t30PM .. 'l:OOAi'J\ ~} 
cited Big East effect than other people has been 

1'•...:1.-.1.•:1::•::1.•,·.-_.:,,p:.-;1;.._-:,,~·r;,;.1:~t:::.~~f,jr_!,~,-_~;-:i,-:;r-;:~~:,:;z~.~J::.•:'!•"$:,,;.;,-.•1.,~r.•:1.•~.~,.-:1,-.·,•~1 
rival West working on
think." 
Virginia as a improving tough com­its relay

BusPickups: leMansCircle@ 9:15pm 
Tim Randolph Freshman freshman practice in 
p et it or. times in 

Library Circle@9:30pm 
preparation for the meet. Several of the participating teams have faced one another or common opponents already this season. Louisville lost to West Virginia and TCU -a team the Irish defeated Nov. 
16. Wyoming beat North Dakota in a dual meet earlier. 
The three-day format will be a test of the swimmers' endurance and focus. Team unity and support is crucial in keeping the athletes motivated all weekend. 
"Having a good team atmos­phere while we're out there has a bigger effect than other people think," Randolph said. "Just staying motivated and cheering for each other is really huge." 
The Notre Dame Invitational will be a great opportunity for the Irish (4-3) to make a state­ment in the pool and prepare themselves for important upcoming meets. 
The Invitational will take place all day today, Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 

ND SMC HCC Students ONLY! You MUST ride the bus with Flipside to participate in the events 
Questions'! Call Jeff4--2174 
Visit our website at ,vww.nd.edu/~flipside or on AIM--our screen name-is FlipsideEvents 

T i m Randolph said Wyoming and North Dakota also have swimmers with fast times. 
Notre Dame will look to dominate the field after a close loss to a talented Purdue team. The three-day meet for­mat is similar to the schedule of the Big East Championships in February. 
"We feel really prepared for this meet," Obringer said. "It will be a good marker of where we are with our season right now." 
The Irish will concentrate on qualifying swimmers for the Big East Championships, espe­cially the freshmen. 
"This will be the first oppor-

JMI ~mt~ ~ ~ wlmm mm 1rm~ Notre Dame Invitational Thursday -Saturday ALLDAY!! Rolfs Aquatic Center 

t


**GOLD GAME on Friday -Finals begin at 6:30 PM 
155 DBRT

FIRST 100 FANS RECEIVE A FREE ADIDAS T-SHIRT 
$2 
101 DBRT ~ 
~12/5 
u
RlO PM 
s ~12/6 
I 
7:30 & 10 PM A?12/7 T 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 5, 2002 
Crusade 
continued from page 24 
and they play defense like USC and we thought that would be an advantage for us to have had a game like that, so we thought we'd be a little more ready," McGraw said. "But we actually looked really unpre­pared." 
The Irish saw domination only once in the game. In the opening minutes of the second half, after allowing the Crusaders to score on two Jeanette Gray free-throws, Notre Dame scored 12 unan­swered points in three min­utes, taking a 42-30 lead with 15 minutes left to play. 
"We got out and were able to transition and got some easy baskets," McGraw said. "That's what we had not been getting and did not get outside of that little stretch." 
After that. it was a struggle for Notre Dame to keep the lead. With just under five min­utes remaining, Le 'Tania Severe, who had the best Notre Dame defensive perfor­mance along with 15 points, scored Notre Dame's last field goal. It was all foul shooting for the rest of the game. In fact, in the second half of play, Notre Dame scored 23 points on foul shots; the Irish only scored 20 points from the floor. 
"There were a number of 

Call 259-1000 for more details 

things [that didn't go well]," Ratay hit six field goals and 
Irish forward  one  trey  on  
Jackie  the way to a  
Batteast said.  "There were a number of  team-high 21  
"A  lack  of  things [that didn't go  points.  
intensity at the beginning  well]. A lack ofintensity  "I that  knew is was  
of the  game  at the beginning ofthe  getting closer  
and we didn't  game and we didn't come  and  closer  
come out and match the way they played."  out and match the way , they played. ,,  and I knew I had to score." Ratay  
It was senior  said.  
Alicia Ratay, coupled with Severe, who  Jackie Batteast Irish forward  The Irish will have two days off  
led the Irish  before trav­ 
on the court.  eling  to  

Although Batteast and Katy Arizona State to face the Sun 
Flecky each added 13 points, Devils on Saturday. 
Ratay took control of the ball 
to keep the score close and 
Severe took control of her Contact Katie McVoy at 
team to keep them focused. mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

LOFT SHOW CON 
ERT 
Friday Dec 
6 
LaF 
rtune Ballroom 
Free 
9 pm 
illiams 

singersongwriterstoryteller 

"As You w.ish" 'g'. . _,. --WALLETPURSES 
-~ -INCENSE "\ -HAMMOCKS
I t

mpor 5 ,,, , -CHANGE PURSES 
LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY, SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Gua-cemala -Bolivia -Peru -Mexico • Thailand -India Lafortune Room 108 
Dec. 2-7 (Sat.) 10-5pm 
Pl-oceeds from sales of Jewelry guarantu the l0vlng hantl,; of Guatemalan famllle,; 3 times their average salary. a,; well a5 funds for their education. 
N D unplugged 
Come join the Sophomore Literary Festival In conjunction with Acousticafe for a night of : 
~ 
I 


~ ~ 

Student songwriters performing their music! 


Student writers peforming poetry and prose! 
Coffeehouse fun! 6 
-
Huddle 
---. 

Thursday;-Oecember 5, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN 
HAHAI The tyranny offb&:/'.~;-,. 
£\ dining hall will soon >·.> ,,/ 
·· · 1 be at an end!.< -.· • . s 
Is he that nugget­
shaped guy 
under the sneeze guard? 
l 
JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME  
~  by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon  
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one  

letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LELOH 
± 
I [I J 
CQ:002 Trt>une Media Servlcee, Inc. 
All Aighta Aoeervod. 
GISEE 

j 
WHAT JUNIOf<.
DIMPER 
± 
TUf<.Nf:O INTO AFTE:R HE SAW THI= MONSTl=R MOVIE:. 


THIGEY 
Now arrange the circled letters to form 1he surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
I [I J I 
Ans:A ''(XJI I J'( I I I l llJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: GNARL TWINE RADIUS PALATE Answer: How they drove to their school reunion -IN THE "PAST" LANE 
Stumped? Call 1-900-776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 0'Neal of "Love Story"

1 Tungsten, e.g. 30 Unit smaller 
6 Hickory-smoked than a foot
items 31 Varied group
10 Ensnaring scheme 34 Extra-large and others
14 Goner? 38 Second part of 
15 Overseas what's hidden
carrier 42 Provincial one
16 Opening words 43 Orally convey 
on an agenda 44 Trio after Q
17 Dos 45 "Too bad"
,a Nude dancer St. Cyr 47 Erases 
50 Diversified periods 19 Extended publishing giant 
53 Tune from the 56-AcrO&S, 20 With 38-and 
past what's hidden In 65 Husk this puzzle 56 End of what's 
22 St. Peter was hidden 
the first 61 Half of ii is a 23 Islamic text nickel 24 Stubborn, as a 62 Italian-American 
problem film vamp Naldi 
26 Yap, for one, in 63 Dumb film the western 
brother Pacific 64 Decorated pilots 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
L I B R A A S E A M A T E I N L E T B E A R O X E N S C U S E I M R 
R L O L O P E S E A S E L I E N E V E N T N U T S E L S E R E E S E 
65 Expectant times 66 Necromancer's home, in the 
Bible 67 Mariners 68 Evening in 
Venezia 69 Swillpot 
DOWN 
1 Super: Prefix 2 Academic 
challenge 3 Glazed square 4 Eskimo's home 5 Teacher's 
instruction 6 Hagar the 
Horrible's wife 7 Extraterrestrial BBamako is its 
capital 9 American toy introduced in 1945 1o"Don't go so slow!" 
11 Noted French landscapist 12 Establish new 
habits for 13 Walk slowly 21 Strong liking 25 Illustrator who 
lampooned Tweed 26 Small word 27 Tribeca is next to it 28 Hot or cold soup ingredient 29 Air maneuver 32 Transports in 
W.W. II: Abbr. 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACR0SS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/1eaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Strom Thurmond, Morgan Brittany, Carrie Hamilton, Jose Carreras 
Happy Birthday: h's time to take control and make your move. You must concentrate on what is important and refuse 10 be sidetracked. Be smart, do your research well and nothing will stand in your way. Your numbers are 13, 20,22,29,35,38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Work may prove to be frustrating. Superiors will put unreasonable demands on you. Do your job quietly and look forward to spending an evening socializing with friends. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): People from your past are popping up all over. Keep your eyes open as past romantic partners may show new interest in you. This is a great day for business connections. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This is a great day to get involved in competitive sports. You have lots of energy to spend. Emotional relationships will be extremely passionate. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't rush things. Take your time, look around and discover what it is that will really satisfy your needs. Someone you love may become erratic if you have been too busy.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Socialize with friends and peers. You may find that people from your past or those you don't get 10 see often will unexpectedly show up. Be ready to change plans. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Concentrate on impressing those you work with and for. Your ideas and efforts will be well received. You may find thal someone at home will be difficult to live with.** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your ability 10 see both sides of an issue will enable you to keep things harmonious when dealing with groups. Changes and busy ac1ivities in your home will cause fatigue. Be sure to eal properly and get some 
rest.**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be able to handle the fine de1ails 
concerning functions both al work and at home. Don't overreacl to, or question. the decisions made by others. Work quie1ly on your own. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You are willing and able to dig in and help 
others. Your capacity for unique solutions and your efforts will be appreciated. It's time to address personal problems head-on. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Work behind the scenes on important deals that must be completed before the end of the year. This is a time lo make changes, but certainly not a time to gamble. Make sure you have done your research. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Socializing at a party should allow you to planl seeds and win points with people who can make a difference. Articulate what ii is you want to accomplish and others will bend over backward to help you succeed. **** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make money if you make decisions quickly. Emotions may get out of hand al home if you haven'I done your share of the work. Re-establish some balance between your work and home life. 2 slars 
Birthday Baby: You will have built-in know-how when it comes lo getting ahead. Your charm, coupled with intensity and ambition, will take you a long way. 
Oieck oul Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
35 Horrible grade on a test 36 Irish relalive 37 Speedy fliers 39 Intrepid 40 Societal woes 41 Avoid 
48 Little markets 
49 It's the ·o· in a presidential monogram 
50 Took on vigorously 51 Heath plant 
52 Archer, at times 
WILLSHORTZ 

53Sea_ 
54 Tibet's capital 
570nein_ (20%) 
58 South Asians speak it 59 "Aeneid," e.g. 
60 Your throat might be this from yelling 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-


PORTS 
Thursday, December 5, 2002 
C: WOMENS BASKETBALL 
. No. 9 Irish have trouble with Valparaiso, but escape with 74-. 68 victory 
By KA TIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
VALPARAISO, Ind. The war wasn't holy. Nonetheless, the crusade 

was on. 
Valparaiso was on a quest to end its 15-game losing streak to Notre Dame, and the Crusaders almost reached the promised land. 
With just under two minutes 

Too close for comfort 
win. 
"We played fearlessly," said Crusaders guard Kathy Knoester, who totaled 14 points in a strong second half of play. 
Under tho leadership of junior Suzie Hammel, who scored 17 points, the Crusaders played above and beyond the expectations of their opponent. In the first half. Valparaiso rebounded from a nine-point deficit to bring the game within three as the teams headed into the locker room. 
"I thought Hammel was out­standing," McGraw said. "She was impossible for us to guard . .. We just didn't have an 

left, ihe Crusaders were trailing the ninth­ranked Irish by only seven. 
But the Irish won the final battle, and Notre Dame man­aged the 7 4­68 victory. · 

''This has-been a tough place to play. ... We're thinking about not coming here anymore." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
But right now, they don't want to have to fight again. 
"This has been a tough place for us to play," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. " ... We're thinking about not com­ing here anymore." 
Valparaiso came out ready to play. The Crusaders looked intense, they looked prepared, and, most importantly, they looked like they wanted to answer for her. She did pretty much whatever she wanted to." 
The lrish, on the other h a n d • looked any­thing but ready to play and 

McGraw had to keep her team focused on the task at hand. In the first half, Notre Dame only out-rebounded its much small­er opponent by two. The Irish looked sluggish and, despite facing a similar defense in USC, the offense looked like it was completely unfamiliar with its opponent. 
"We watched them on film 
see CRUSADE/page 21 
ANALYSIS 

Gator Bowl will choose Irish if BCS overlooks them 
Dame's BCS hopes is that one reality and the Irish aren't

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
of the at-large berths may sBlected for a BCS berth, a
Spons Writer 
have already disappeared. Gator Bowl representative 

Notre Dame's bowl picture The Big Ten announced said the Gator Bowl would is slowly coming into focus, Tuesday 11-1 Iowa was guar­choose Notre Dame. and the Irish may not like the anteed a berth in one of the Moreover, because a non­image they see. BCS bowls, most likely the BCS Notre Dame team falls 
The only way the 10-2 Irish Rose Bowl. into the Big East bowl can lock up a. spot in a BCS Assuming Miami and arrangements, the Irish could bowl is by earning one of the Washington State win not reject a Gator Bowl invita­two at-large spots and finish­Saturday, each clinching their tion in favor of another bowl. ing in the top 12 of the final respective conference champi­That means the Irish would BCS rankings released onships, USC would finish face 10-3 North Carolina State Sunday. If Notre Dame doesn't fourth in the BCS standings on Jan. 1 in Jacksonville, Fla. qualify for a BCS bowl. the and automatically clinch the Under that situation, Miami team would probably be head­final at-large spot. According and Ohio State would meet in ing for the Gator Bowl, to the BCS rules, a team that the Fiesta Bowl for the nation­according to a Gator Bowl finishes fourth in the final al championship, the SEC official. rankings but doesn't win its champ would play ACC champ 
The Irish officially learn conference championship is Florida State in the Sugar their bowl fate Sunday. guaranteed a BCS berth. The problem for Notre If that scenario becomes a see GATOR/page 20 


BASEBALL 
MENS SWIMMING
LLI 
c..:a 
Notre Dame Invitational

z Irish second baseman Steve Soltmann was selected Big East Preseason Player of the Year, and the Irish were selected to win the conference. 
Today-Saturday
:s 
The swimming team will face off against competitive squads from across the 

..._ C, = c::c 
country in the Notre Dame Invitational today, Priday and Saturday.

' 
I 
I 
I ti page 14 
page 21 

I 
I I en
' 
-

