
As seen on TV
SUNNY 
Friday 
Scene reviewers test info-mercial products to find out ifthey really live up 
to their hyped expectations 
JANUARY 25,
HIGH45° 
Scene . pages 12, 13
LOW32° 
2002 

The I11depe11dent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 74 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

Talk focuses on compassion after Sept. 11 

ND student government campaign begins today 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
When Notre Dame students wake up on Saturday morning, they may notice something new on the walls of their dorms: cam­paign posters for the upcoming campus-\.\ide election. 
The campaign for student body president and vice president starts officially at midnight on Friday. Four tickets are seeking the office. 
One of those tickets consists of juniors Libby Bishop, the presi­dential candidate, and Trip Foley, the vice presidential can­didate. 
Their campaign slogan, according to Bishop, will be "More students, less govern­ment." Going along with that slo­gan, some important themes of their campaign will include "focusing on being student rep­resentatives" and "listening more to students," she said. Bishop added that she and Foley have several ideas for increasing communication with students. 
After spending last semester in the London Program, Bishop is currently the social co-chair for the Class of 2003. Foley has pre­viously served as treasurer for the Class of 2003 and as student body secretary. 
Presidential candidate Brian Moscona and vice presidential candidate Keri Oxley plan to run on the slogan "en VISION the pos­sibilities." 
Based on their experience in student government, Moscona and Oxley have heard from other campus groups that various organizations seem to be com­peting against each other in their programming and student ser­vices. If elected, Moscona anrl Oxley plan to use their office to unify these different organiza­tions Instead working alone, Moscona said. 
Moscona, a junior..is currently the student body vice president, while Oxley is the president of the Class of 2004. 
Running with the slogan, "We're serious -seriously," presidential candidate Nikki McCord and vice presidential 
see CAMPAIGN/page 4 By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 

Martha Nussbaum gave the keynote address "Patriotism and Compassion" as a part of the Play of the Mind conference last evening at Saint Mary's. 
Nussbaum's lecture focused on what compassion is and whether or not the feelings of compassion that are present post-Sept. 11 will continue far into the future. 
"America's towers have burned too." Nussbaum said. "In that evidence, com­passion for people who had never been thought of before was found." 
Nussbaum began the lec­ture with classic Greek play by Euripides entitled "Women of Troy." The play deals with issues such as destruction, rape, slavery and a myriad of awful deeds. Nussbaum noted that Euripides likened his char­acters to those found in Athens, pointing out that people feel compassion when they can relate to them. 
She also spoke on how that compassion can easily be forgotten. She recalled Adam Smith's observation that a man in Europe who hears about an deadly earthquake in China will feel compassion but he will still sleep easily that night. Though, if he cut his finger it would not be as easy to forget and sleep easy. 
"We thought Sept. 11 was bad because it happened to us. But when there was genocide in Rwanda, and innocent civilians in Saudi• Arabia were killed, and for the daily deaths of malnutri­tion and hunger there is lit­tle compassion," Nussbaum said. 
She described this as a momentary flicker of emo­tion that easily fades. Nussbaum said that compas­sion is not just a warm feel­ing in the gut but an emo­tion focused on another's suffering. She also added that compassion couldn't be experienced if we believe they deserve the suffering. 
"The things that bring about strong emotions are those things that we have put great importance in," Nussbaum said. "We have compassion for what we have an interest in and feel by those things that are important to us." 
Compassion requires an understanding of and respect for human dignity. Humans must put their value for themselves and others at a higher level than the value of external goods such as power and money. 
"An ideal patriotism is constrained by a respect and compassion for others," :'.'Jussbaum said. 
Nussbaum is an Ernst Freund Professor of Law and Ethic at the University of Chicago and holds appointments in law, philos­ophy, divinity and classics at Chicago. She is one of the premier public intellectuals and was recognized by Time magazine as one of the seven prominent intellectu­als of the 21st century. 
Nussbaum has written a number of books about ideals. The recent "Cultivating.Humanity: A <:;lassical Defense of Reform in Liberal Education" was awarded the Grawemeyer Award in Education. 
The 11th Play of the Mind conference continues this weekend at Saint Mary's with representatives from 13 different colleges partici­pating. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

COTTON CANDY AT THE CARNIVAL 

PETER RICHARDSONfThe Observer 

Lunch-goers Thursday were treated to cotton candy to compliment the Carnival lunch theme at North Dining Hall. Complete with balloons and decorations, the festive event attracted students by blasting circus music outside the dining hall. 
.. -------­

INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Students protest Gulf War in DC Hiring cutbacks discourage '71 grads


Magic Touch 

Friday, January 25, 1991 Monday, January 25, 1971 
So when you hear the words "It's magic," what do you imagine? Oo you see the old man at the county fair doing tricks with cards and doves, pulling a rabbit out ofhis black top hat? Do you see yourself at Christmas getting a magic set under the tree, wonder just how Santa knew that you wanted it (because you had forgotten to put it on your list to him)? Or is it watching magicians performing death-defying feats on the World's Greatest Magic on television? 
That's the stereotype of "magic." 
But what I am going to talk about next will not seem like ''magic" at all. 
It's more touchy-feely than just being seen. When was the last time you shook hands with someone? Patted someone on the back? Gave someone a hug? That's all magic. 
Now, before you write me off as some weirdo who doesn't have a clue, take a look at what each of these things does. Shaking hands breaks the ice when new people are meeting each other. Patting someone on the back can reassure the person or make him feel better. Giving a hug can be a warm greeting, a way of saying "thank-you," or consolation for someone grieving. How can something so mundane as touching another person be "magic?" 
Well, let me ask you this, when was the last time you had a really good back massage (any kind, professional or friend)? How did it make you feel? Were you relaxed when it was over? Did you realize you had been hiding so much emotion inside of you that it made your mus­cles stiffen and not want to move? 
I guess the biggest thing to ask you to recog­nize is how it made you feel that a friend could make you feel good and help you even without needing to say a word. Just touching your shoulders and rubbing out the pain, the hurt, the negative energy that exists in tightened muscles. 
Imagine what would happen if we never had this "magic" of touch, and we had to go through the entirety of our lives without touch. Everyone would be shriveled and cranky, because we would all have to carry all of our burdens with us at all times, could never (or have a hard time trying to) let them out to relieve ourselves of the pain. It doesn't have to be something elaborate, or even something that you have to study. As long as its done with friendship and love, it creates a powerful magic. 
Unfortunately, it doesn't do your homework for you, but it's magic, not a miracle. This magic brightens the day. It eases pain. It makes things peaceful and helps evil go away (if only for a while). The magic of touch, the golden touch, but it doesn't make things turn into cold, hard gold like it did for King Midas. It is golden because it does so much good. It cre­ates bonds between friends. It shows people that you care. It lives and helps others keep liv­ing. It's not so hard. It can be a hug, a hand­shake, a back massage -or a lot more. It real­ly does work. 
Try it, it's magic! 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ac 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Obaetvei (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday tlm,ugh Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obse,vc:r i, a member of the A,sociarcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Notre Dame's Gulf Crisis Action Group marched for peace and an end to the Gulf War along with several other college organizations and peace groups. In addition to proposing the establishment of a peacekeeping force in the Middle Eastern region, the group also wanted an end to the bombings and deaths of Iraqi people. 
Notre Dame's Placement Bureau reported that many employers had cancelled their campus visits due to a "tight employment situation." About 22 percent of the employers scheduled to come to Notre Dame had changed their plans since August of that year. 
.. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Stanford scientists map malaria DNA sequence 
STANFORD, Calif. 
sequence of malaria by cloning pieces 
With the help of Stanford of the parasite's DNA Davis explained University's biochemistry and genetics the teams from Stanford, the United research departments, the DNA Kingdom and Maryland encountered sequence of malaria -one of the problems from the beginning. world's most lethal diseases -finally "It's very tough to clone [malaria] has been mapped out. DNA." he said. "The base composition 
The breakthrough may provide the makes it very hard to work well [with pharmaceutical industry with a the disease].·• plethora of information for research However, Davis emphasized the and vaccine development. atmosphere of free-flowing ideas and 
The University, along with the the sharing of information among the Wellcome Trust Sangre Institute, a teams was integral to the success of United Kingdom-based research cen­the project. ter, and the Institute for Genome Genome Research. An estimated $30 Stanford's role involved mapping Research in Rockville, Md., led the million went to sequencing the DNA, out the sequence of one chromosome four-year project. according to genetics and biochem­of malaria DNA. The Wellcome 
Funding flowed mostly from the istry professor Ronald Davis. Institute and the Institute for Genome Wellcome Institute, while the U.S. According to Davis, who was Research handled the rest of the chro­Defense Department provided a small­involved heavily in the project, the mosomes for the DNA sequencing. er sum of money to the Institute for goal was to map out the ONA The Stanford Daily 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Ticket fiasco occurs for Clinton talk 
BERKELEY. Calif. 
Hundreds of University of California-Berkeley students were turned away from the ticket office Wednesday, after waiting in line to attend former president Bill Clinton's speech on campus next week. The 500 tickets allotted to students were sold out by 10:20 a.m. Wednesday morning -just 20 minutes after they first became available. The scene at the Cal Performances ticket office was described as "mob-like" when the final tickets -free to students with identification -were handed out. Roughly 1,000 students had lined up across Lower Sproul Plaza to get one of the coveted tickets. Some students even spent Tuesday night in front of the ticket window to ensure they would see Clinton speak. Adding to the frustration of those who did not get tickets, many students cut to the front of the line. "I saw hun­dreds of people cut in front of me," said Llsa Alberta, a senior English major who had been in line since 7:45 
a.m. Wednesday morning. "It's really ridiculous." 
Daily Californian 
EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY 
Greek 'thug night' raises concerns 
GREENVILLE, N.C. 

About 30 minority students walked into East Carolina University's Gamma Chi Epsilon's spring rush "thug night" with questions and concerns Wednesday night. Junior Rebecca Boone, president of Gamma Chi Epsilon, said she was shocked to see the mass of people enter the Bate room. "I'll cut to the chase," said junior Teresia Paul. "We'd like to know what exactly is 'thug night."' Dennis Mitchell, president of the Black Student Union, said many minority students were concerned about the event, due to the events that took place at Auburn University last semester. During Halloween festivities, several members of white fraternities painted themselves as African-Americans, while others dressed up as the KKK. Boone explained she had no intention of offending anyone by the name of the night. "Thug night" involved sorority girls dressing in baggy sweatshirts, sweatpants with one pant leg up and winter hats and carrying around 40-ounce bottles. 
East Carolinian 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 25. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
,,........ 


0 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
®~'"'co . [Z] wJ [2:J 1:§1 [@ () 
High Low Shower¦ Rain T..tom1• Flurrte• Snow loot Sunny Pl, Cloudy Cloudy 
page2  The Observer . INSIDE  Friday, January 25, 2001  

Friday, Ja~~ary 25, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Late night olympics becomes tradition 
water polo and 
last two year, one addition to this
. LNO benefits the 
broom ball, a years, said, year's event is the Penny War. St. Joe's Special popular game "The Late Each team has a jug in Rolfs Olympics similar to hockey N i g h t that will be moved to the but without the Olympics is a Joyce Center on the night of skates. great event the event. 
By JOHN FANNING 
Before the that provides Team members can put pen­News Writer 
event campus is some variety nies or dollars into these jugs divided into 13 into a stu­to give their team extra As a result of the efforts of 
teams, pairing dent's social points, while any silver coins RecSports, the 16th Annual 
male and female life. The lit­that they put in the other· Late Night Olympics will take 
dorms from tle medals teams' bins will detract from place tonight at the Joyce 
Notre Dame, they handout their point total. Center from 7 p.m. -4 a.m. 
Saint Mary's and are cool too." Though this adds an even The event has become tradi­
Holy Cross. "Students greater sense of competitiontion and allows between 1,300 
LNO is open to get extremely to the event and will be a and 1,500 students to partic­anyone who reg­competitive great help in the fundraising,
ipate in 18 different events 
isters in advance about the O'Leary warns that the LNO 
that make use of all of the 
with his or her events," said champions will not be deter­facilities that the Joyce Center 
dorm. Students O'Leary. mined until all of the money
offers. 
are asked to "They bring has been counted, which mayLate Night Olympics serves make a $1 dona­lots of spec­take until Monday or Tuesday. 
as a source of charity for the tion at the door. tators, and However, she feels that the St. Joseph County chapter of 
Those students some even extra money to be donated 
the Special Olympics, donating 
planning to par­run around will definitely be worth the between $4,500 and $4,700 
ticipate in the carrying wait. 
through the event each year. 
open skate from flags. They Kicking off the event at 9 According to Kara O'Leary, 10 p.m. to mid­treat it like p.m. is the Special Olympics
the assistant director of 
night, which does it's the real basketball game.
RecSports and coordinator of not require prior Olympics." Each year the best Specialthe event, "students get very 
sign-up, will be There is Olympians from the South excited about LNO, and its 
charged $2. motivation Bend area come to LNO for a popularity has really allowed 
L N 0 behind this basketball game against the 
RecSports to build a tradition 
began 16 years mayhem, faculty.
out of the event." 
ago as a spin-off however. "It is a nice way for the staff 
There 
of an Every year and students to get a feel for 
a r e 
event the Alumni the charitable aspect of the 
many ''The Late Night 
held at Association event," said O'Leary. "And the 
st an ­
Olympics is a great t h e donates faculty loses every year."
d a r d 
event that money so Students who come as spec­
sports 
that the win-tators may also enter in a raf­
provides some variety

such as 
ners of each fle for prizes donated by local 
basket­into a student's social It was not until later that the
University of Indiana event may receive gold businesses. 
b a l l , event became a fundraiser for
life." called "The Spirit of medals, while the dorm team The tickets are two for $1 
soccer, the Special Olympics. Since
Sport All-Nighter." It who wins the most events and O'Leary encourages the
then both attendance and
a n d 
started in an effort to overall has their name students to "come with a little 
football, Peter Kenny donations have gradually
allow students to get engraved on a trophy and they bit of cash", as these proceeds 
a Ion g junior LNO participant increased as the event has
out and have some reign as the LNO champions will go to charity as well. 
w i t h become more and more popu­
fun during the dreary until the following year.
several lar.
South Bend winter and the Though the event schedule 
Contact writer at 

out of. the ordinary, such as Peter Kenny, a junior who
event quickly became popular. has not changed since last 
jfanning@nd.edu.

monster dodgeball, innertube participated in LNO for the 
CONGRATULATIONS, 

MARY! 

During the first timeout of the men's basketball game vs. Seton Hall on Saturday, Mary Brosnahan Sullivan, Class of '83, will be presented with 
THE DR. THOMAS A. DOOLEY AwARD by Jamie Kimmel Eifert, president of the Alumni Association and Chuck Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Asociation. Mary is recognized for her distinguished service to the homeless and other disadvantaged residents as executive director of New Yark City's Coalition for the Homeless. The Notre Dame community thanks Mary for her continued dedication to the underserved. 
The Dooley Award is given annually to an alumnus/alumna who has exhibited outstanding service to humankind. 

'Nothing to Wear? 
join us for our S:E'M'l-'A.'N'Nril'AL S11.L:E ef 40-75% off'Desig_ner C{otfiit1ff and§ifts rifow thru 'Fe6.15th 

Jrwpire rf'/e! 
CORNER OF COLFAX AND HILL 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
HERE'S OUR PHONE NUMBER: 
232-1822 
(BRING FRIENDS OR COME AND 
MAKE NEW ONES) 
YOUR FRIENDS AT INSPIRED &. FIRED ANO INSPIRE ME! 




page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 25, 2002 
Information Meeting Sunday, January 27 RSRC Activity Room 2, 1:30 PM 

Classes Will Meet : 
ND grads receive awards 
Special to The Observer 
Two University graduates will receive special awards from the Notre Dame Alumni Association at receptions to be held on campus today. 
. 
Mary Brosnahan, a 1983 graduate and executive director of New York City's Coalition for the Homeless, will receive the Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award, which is presented each year to a graduate who has engaged in an outstanding humani­tarian service. 

. 
Brosnahan has led the Coalition for the Homeless since 1990, increasing the organization's budget by $7 million and adding 72 members to its staff. The coalition serves more than 3,000 New Yorkers every day through food pro­grams, a. summer camp for homeless 


Campaign 
continued from page l 
candidate Nick Williams want to find "simple solu­tions for simple problems," according to McCord. 
McCord added that Notre Dame has many positive aspects, but that she and Williams plan to fix what is not working. McCord, a junior, is in her second term representing Pasquerilla East in the Student Senate and is also a member of the Student Wellness Advisory Board. Williams is vice president of the Class of 2004. 
Another of the four tick­ets -presidential candi­date Scott Palko and his running mate P.J. 
ND accepts MBA grant donation 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $42,000 grant from the William G. McGowan Charitable Fund of Washington, D.C., for two scholarships in the Mendoza College of Business'master of business administration pro­gram during the 2002-2003 academic year. 
An earlier McGowan Fund grant supported two MBA scholarships at Notre Dame for the current academic year. 
Mercanti -is running under the slogan, "Leadership is action, not position." 
"A good chunk of our platform is student­based," said Mercanti. "We want to show our leadership through action." 
A junior, Palko is the former president of The Shirt project and currently the president of the NDToday Web site. Also a junior. Mercanti has served as a commissioner in Keough Hall and is cur­rently a captain of his hall's hockey team. 
Unlike last year, when candidates began as soon as they handed in their 
qualifying positions, all candidates will begin cam­
Contact Erin LaRuffa at paigning at the same time elaruffa@nd.edu. 
"The McGowan Charitable Fund's support helps sustain our MBA students in the ranks of the nation's finest," said Notre Dame President Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
"We are grateful for this instance of generosity and gratified by the recognition it expresses." 
The McGowan scholarships will be given to MBA candi­dates who demonstrate unusual leadership qualities, character, and outstanding academic achievement. 


Beginner: Monday 6:30-7:45 pm Thursday 7:00-8: 15 pm Advanced: Monday 7:45-9:00 pm Thursday 8:15-9:30 pm Register in Advance at RecSports 
The Fee for the Class is $39.00 Sign-Ups Begin Monday, January 28, 8:00am Classes Begin Thursday, January 31 Space is Limited Open only to Notre Dame students, staff and faculty and their spouses. Please call 1-6100 with any questions. 

children, rental assistance and job readi­ness training. 
. Lemuel Joyner, a 1957 graduate and accomplished artist and teacher, will receive the Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., Award, which recognizes a gradu­ate for achievements in the fine and visual arts. 
Currently a spiritual therapist at the Center for Integrative Healing at South Bend's Memorial Hospital. Joyner previ­ously worked as a designer of church interiors at St. Christopher's Workshop in Bremen. 
He earned his master of fine arts degree from Notre Dame in 1969 and served as an assistant professor of art and as special assistant to the president in the office of Inter-Cultural Development at Saint Mary's. 
in this year's election. 
Judicial Board vice pres­ident John McCarthy said the uniform start time makes the elections easier for the judicial board to control. In addition, it makes the campaign peri­od sho:rter, which McCarthy said most stu­dents prefer. 
"It was a long time last year, and it got kind of annoying," he said. 
The four tickets will debate each other on Feb. 
6. The primary election is scheduled for Feb. 11. If no ticket receives more than 50 percent of the vote, there will be a runoff election on Feb. 14. 
Write for The Observer call 
1-5323 

''This rates 
as the coolest carI've ever owne&' 
You've found your dream car. Make it yours through Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
Our PRIMEquity line-of-credit loan lets you borrow up to 90% of your home's value at a very special six­month introductory rate. Plus, there are no closing costs and no appraisal or annual fees. On the other hand, maybe you'd like to pay off some bills before you buy your dream car. Our home equity loan is ideal for debt consolidation, too. Act now. These rates won't wait. 
Student play to benefit South Bend AIDS ministry 
By SPENCER BEGGS 
News Wrirer 
The Student Players will present a staged reading of one of Tony Kushner's two-part dramas "Angels in America," which won the Tony Award for best play in 1993. The group will present the first half of the show entitled "Millennium Approaches" as a benefit for the AIDS Ministry in downtown South Bend tonight in Washington Hall. 
The major storyline follows a turn in the life of a man named Joe, played by sophomore Adel Hanash. As a Mormon, Joe is a repressed homosexual who confronts his nature when he meets Lewis, played by 2000 alumnus Dave Hartwig, who has left his boyfriend when he discovers that his lover is infected with HIV. Joe must come to terms with his sexuality and Lewis with the nature of his love for his boyfriend. 
Kelly Hart, the president of The Student Players believes that the play is especially relevant to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses because it addresses issues that are not often discussed in a public forum, especially by the campus' administra­tions. 
"Hopefully, [theatre goers] will walk away with more of an open mind 
[after seeing the show] -The 
Contact Spencer Beggs at 
Students Players has always been a 
heggs.3@nd.edu.
group that to tries to open people's 
minds," Hart said. Senior Kathleen Lane, the director of the show, concurs. 
"Notre Dame doesn't like to address the issues like diseases on campus or homosexuality. We here to .remind them that just because they don't choose to recognize them doesn't mean they don't happen." Lane said. 
Although, the actors have only had a very short time to put their show together, Lane feels that the produc­tion has been blessed with a talented group of actors that can produce a quality show even with the minimal staging and blocking of the show. 
Although the show has a very heavy subject, actor Matthew Holmes thinks that the show is not meant to be depressing. 
"I think it's a message of hope ­basically the world is a big chaotic mess in this play, [but in the end] it's all about believing that something good can happen," he said. 
The Student Players are not charg­ing admissions to the show; they are however, accepting donations for the AIDS Ministry, located on 222 South Williams Street. Call (574) 234-2870 for more information about the clinic or making donations: 
"Angels in America" will be pre­sented tonight in Waphington Hall at 
7:30 p.m. · 
r~NOTRE DAME
y.l 

FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Call our Loan-by-Phone at 800/567-6328, stop by the branch nearest you, or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 
•Annual Percentage Rate. Property insurance Is required. Not valid with any other offer. Rates subject to change. Consult a tax advisor [QU.L IOUSINC regarding the deductibility of interest. A balloon payment will result al maturity. After the six-month introductory period, the rate will revert LENDER to the highest prime lending rate of the pl'evious quarter. Minimum amount is $5,000, maximum Is $100,000. Independent of the University 
G:t 

• 


3.8%APR* 6.0%APR* 
Low 1n1roduc1orv Rate Low nauularnato 



ATION 
Friday, January 25, 2002 COMPILED FR0\t THE OBSERVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. chopper downed in Colombia: 
Colombia's military dostroycd a U.S. govern­ment helicopter to keep it from falling into the hands of gur\rrillas who forced it down during an anti-drug mission, Colombian and Amorican officials said Thursday. Five Colombian polir.e officers died protecting the downed Ull-1 N lrnlicopter aircraft, and throe Colombian soldiers were wounded. 
Activists threaten London lab: A 
Brilish rcsnarcb laboratory long targeted by animal rights activists canceled trading of its shares in London on Thursday as part of a plan to transfer its financial operations to the United States. Protesters called the move a ''huge moral victory." Huntingdon Life Sciences Group PLC docs testing on rodents, primates and dogs. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Tyson Foods manager pleads not guilty: Tyson Foods Inc. and six former managers pleaded not guilty Thursday to fed­nral charges of conspiring to smuggle illegal immigrants to work at the company's poultry plants. A federal magistrate told them to get ready for a February 2003 trial. Tyson attor­ney r<.!ark Hobson said a trial would not sup­port prosecutors' contentions of' a r.ompany conspiracy. but instead would show immi­grant smuggling by government undercover agents. 
Anthrax hoaxer indicted: A man who allegedly mailed fake anthrax letters to abor­tion clinics nationwide was indicted Thursday in Ohio on firearms and stolen-car charges. Clayton Lee Waagner, 45, is behind bars in Urbana, Ill .. where he is to be sentenced Friday on other federal convictions. Federal prosecutors must then decide whether he should be brought to Cincinnati or taken to Philadelphia for prosecution. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Goshen teen sentenced: A teen-ager who admitted taking part in an attack in which a high school teacher was savagely beaten in a school parking lot was sen­tenced Thursday to 30 years in prison. Charles Woods, 18. received the maximum sentence allowed under a plea agreement he reached with prosecutors last month. In exchange for pleading guilty to robbery causing serious bodily injury. prosecutors agreed to drop a charge of attempted mur­der and limit the judge's sentencing options. 
Market Watch January 24 

Dow 9,796.07 +65.11 
Down Composite

]~ s~rr 
Volume: 
'-',.,,h•'"\µ,"";·,/"7 1,501,645.184 

AMEX: 834.35 +3.96 NASDAQ: 1,942.58 +20.20 NYSE: 578.92 +1.30 S&P 500: l,132.15 +3.97 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
KMART CORP (KM) +4.49 +0.04 0.93 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +l. 33 +0.51 38.94 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.63 +0.12 19.05 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.31 +0.75 33.20 TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) -1.62 -0.73 44.37 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Lawyers for John Walker Lindh say he didn't get legal help when he wanted it. But a piece of paper he signed under­cu ts those claims, some legal experts say. 
Part of Lindh's defense strategy turns on a judge agreeing that he was denied an attorney before talking to the FBI in December -and that _a jury should not be told about any damaging com­ments he might have made at that time. 
"His chances of suc­ceeding are very small" in making the case that the FBI interview should not be used, said Ronald Rotunda, a law professor at the University of Illinois. "If he can show that's not his signature or that he was beaten over the head and tortured until he signed it, that's obviously a different case." 

Lindh's lawyers plan to argue that he asked for a lawyer after he was cap­tured near the northern Afghan city of Mazar-e­Sharif following an upris­ing by Taliban and al­Qaida prisoners. 
After Lindh's first court appearance Thursday, 
lawyer James Brosnahan said, "From Dec. 2, John Lindh asked for a lawyer, repeatedly asked for a lawyer." 
Attorney General John Ashcroft said Lindh, 20. signed a statement waiv­ing his right to an attor­ney before he spoke to the FBI on Dec. 9 and 10. 
"The district court judge will have to decide who to believe," said Anne Bowen Poulin, a professor at Villanova University School of Law. "It's a swearing contest between him [LindhJ and whoever the government brings in." 
The judge would have to conclude that they are lying, and judges don't like to do that." 
Similar defense strate­gies are often used in criminal cases, but not usually with success. 
Lindh is facing various charges, including conspir­ing to kill Americans out­side the United States. He is accused of supporting Osama bin Laden's al­Qaida terrorist organiza­tion. 
Lindh had no attorney and was recovering from a battle wound when he talked to the FBI. 
Justice Department offi­cials refused to release a copy of paperwork Thursday. 
AFGHANISTAN 

U.S. forces attack Taliban HQ 
Associated P ,ess 
KANDAHAR 
U.S. Army Special forces attacked a Taliban headquarters north of Kandahar, killing a number of fight­ers and taking 27 prisoners, V.S. officials said Thursday. One American soldier was wounded in the attack. 
Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in Washington that American troops attacked adjacent sites in a moun­tain region 60 miles north of Kandahar. 
"Our forces attacked two com­

pounds and detained 27 individu­als," Myers said at the Pentagon. "There were enemy forces killed in this action and one U.S. special forces soldier was slightly injured. He was wounded in the ankle and was then evacuated." 
The soldier, who was not identi­fied, was the first American battle­field casualty since Army Sgt. 1st Class Nathan Chapman was killed .Jan. 4 in an ambush in eastern Afghanistan. Eleven U.S. troops have been killed in aviation crashes during the Afghan campaign. 
U.S. officials said they believed the prisoners seized may include both Taliban and members of Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terror­ist network but they were unsure whether ,senior leaders were among them. 
"There's a whole lot more of these," Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said of Taliban and al­Qaida outposts. "We're going to keep at them until we get them." 
Also Thursday, the Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press reported that 
U.S. warplanes bombed a suspected al-Qaida terrorist camp near the eastern town of Khost. The agency quoted residents as saying the camp had been abandoned for some time. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, January 25, 2002 
PAKISTAN 
Bush warns Arab leaders 
Annan requests 
+ President shows evidence of Arafat group's smuggling 
Kashmir dialogue 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD 

U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan called Thursday for a "sustained and determined dia­logue" between Pakistan and India to resolve the protracted dispute 
o v e r Kashmir, w h i C h brought the nuclear­a r m e d rivals to the brink of war. 
Annan told reporters that a temporary reduction of ten­sions and an end to the imme­diate crisis -a major military buildup along the neighbors' shared border -was not enough. "The world does not want another crisis in a few weeks and months," he said. 
Suggesting both Pakistan and India must both do more, he called for a "sustained and determined action against extremist groups ... and 


more arrests connected to the
equally sus­"The world does not want 
with Annan,

tained and 
another crisis in a few 

determined 
weeks and months." 

dialogue between Pakistan and 
Kofi Annan 

India to 
U.N. Secretaru-General

resolve their differences by peaceful means." 
"There is enormous support and encouragement in the international community for this twin track approach," Annan said. 
Annan arrived Wednesday for a two-day visit aimed at cooling tensions that rose after a Dec. 13 attack on the Indian parliament, which New Delhi blamed on Pakistan's spy agency and two Pakistan-mili­tant Islamic groups. Pakistan and the groups denied involve-
Associated Press 
ment. 

WASHINGTON
Diplomatic efforts by the 

President Bush provided
United States and other nations 

three key Arab leaders with
have helped avert war, but ten­

evidence Yasser Arafat's
sions remain high, with India 

Palestinian Authority was
demanding Pakistan crack 
involved in
down further on Muslim guer­
trying to
rillas waging a secessionist war 
smuggle
in the Indian-controlled part of 
50 tons of
the disputed Himalayan 
weapons
province of Kashmir. 
to the
Under pressure from the · 
Palesti­
United States and India, 
nians,
Pakistani President Gen. 
senior
Pervez Musharraf banned five 
adminis­
Islamic groups this month, 
tration
including the two accused by 
officials
India in the Parliament attack, 
said Thursday. 
and police have arrested more 

The weapons were inter­
than 2,000 extremist activists. 

cepted by Israeli commandos
Later on Thursday, Annan 

in the Red Sea, and Israeli
met Musharraf and discussed 

security officials informed the
several regional issues, includ­

United States the arms were
ing Pakistan's tensions with 

designed to be used in terror
India. Annan praised the mili­

raids against Israeli civilians. 
tary ruler for what he ca.lied his 

Bush provided the evidence
"courageous" stand against ter­

in letters last week to the lead­
rorism, saying that his steps 

ers of Saudi Arabia, Jordan
were in the right direction. 

and Egypt, all considered
India has said it will not 

moderate Arab nations with
reduce the number of troops on 

close ties to the United States, 
the border or consider talks 

the officials said, speaking on
until Pakistan does more to 

condition of anonymity. He
rein in extremists. 

also asked the leaders' help in 
At a press 

persuading Arafat to make
conference 


escalation and resumption ,of 

Arab ambassadors to provide
dialogue with India." He said 

them with more information
Pakistan would pull troops 

about the smuggling incident
back from the border if India 

smuggling and to combat ter­
Pakistani 

rorism generally. The officials
Foreign 

didn't describe the evidence,
Minister Abdul 

but diplomatic sources told
Sattar said 

The Associated Press it was
Pakistan is 

basically American intelli­
making earnest 
gence.
efforts for the 

On Friday, Assistant
"preservation 

Secretary of State William
of peace, de­

Burns will summon two dozen 
and to underscore U.S. insis­tence that Arafat combat ter­rorism more vigorously, another U.S. official said. 
The Palestinian Authority, under U.S. urging, has detained several suspects. But State Department spokesman Richard Boucher repeated on Thursday that Arafat had nei­ther provided an explanation of the smuggling nor arrested the key figures. 
Israel's account. given to the administration by top security officials who came to Washington, had Arafat directly involved and said Iran supplied the weapons and the ship was loaded at an Iranian port. 
While Arafat has denied any role, Secretary of State Colin Powell publicly has demanded an expla• 
and it is up to Chairman Arafat to demonstrate the leadership to combat terror­ism," Fleischer said. 
Bush discussed the volatile Middle East with his senior security advisers at the White House. Closing the Palestinian office in Washington was reportedly discussed, but no decision was made. 
A decision depends largely on what Arafat does about combatting terrorism, a senior 
U.S. official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. No option, including closing the Washington office. is being ruled out, the official said. 
Arafat has been under virtu­al house arrest on the West Bank for nearly two months. From his office window in Ramallah, he can peer out at 
Israeli sol­

nation from him. At the same time,  "The president understands the reason that Israel  diers who are posted down the  
Powell has  has taken the action  street.  
said he has seen no evidence  that it takes, and it is up to Chairman {Yasser] Arafat to  In the town, a member -of  
against the Palestinian leader.  demonstrate the leadership to combat terrorism. "  t h e Palestinian intelligence  
Dispatch  service,  
of  Bush's  Ari Fleischer  Riyad Sadi,  
letter, first reported  White House spokesman  26, killed  was in a  
Thursday  clash  with  
evening by  Israeli  

CBS News, surfaced as the forces. In response to a administration again turned Palestinian shooting attack, up the heat on Arafat. Israeli tanks tightened their 
White House spokesman Ari cordon around Arafat's head­Fleischer said the president quarters. understands why Israel has State Department confined Arafat to his West spokesman Boucher said, Bank headquarters. Fleischer, "We've always been against on Bush's behalf, demanded incursions. We feel they aren't Arafat eliminate terrorism, helpful." which he said posed "a threat But he stressed: "We under­not only to Israel, but also to stand Israel's need to take Arafat." steps to ensure its security. 
"The president understands We understand the need for the reason that Israel has Israel to take steps in self­taken the action that it takes, defense." 
does. 
Annan said Pakistan and India "have much to lose from tension and confrontation and 


aft;ing
much to gain through coopera­tion." They should resolve all their 



orner 
differences including the 

...Sponsored by Student Activities Kashmir dispute through talks, and the United Nations is ready to help, he said. 
UH-OH... 
*Need a present for your SYR date"? 
)le 

*Just; don't know what t:-o get; your friend whose bin;hday is soon"? 
MAKE YOUR OWN TEDDYBEARH 

FREEH 
Friday, Jan. 25th LaFun Dooley Room For More Info. call 1-7308 


*Did you get a Valentine's Day present; for your special someone yet"? 



Friday, January 25, 2002 The Obseroer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Reps vote on reform 
. Supporters force bill on the floor by petiton 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In a slap at Republican lead­ers. supporters of campaign finance legislation won their fight Thursday to force a House vote on a bill to curb the influence of big money in poli­tics. 
"Campaign finance reform will finally get a fair vote," said Rep. Christopher Shays, a Connecticut Republican who has long defied his own party's leaders on campaign finance legislation. 
Democrats rejoiced, too, hav­ing put up the vast majority of the 218 signatures needed on a petition to force the bill to the floor. "As the Enron storm clouds roll in, the public's tol­erance for this soft-money sys­tem is growing increasingly thin." said Rep. Martin Meehan. 
Enron. a bankrupt Texas energy trading firm, donated millions to candidates and to both political parties. No date was set for a debate on the bill, · which would impose the most far-reaching changes in the nation's political finance sys­tem since the Watergate over­haul of a quarter-century ago. 
"We want to deal with the issue as expeditiously as possi­ble and provide a fair forum for it to be considered on the House floor," said Terry Holt, a spokesman for Majority Leader Dick Armey of Texas. 
Some Republican officials said they expected a vote as early as February or March. House supporters have tried for months to force the bill onto the floor through a leg­stop just short of explicitly islative petition that requires advocating a candidate's elec­signatures of a majority of all tion or defeat. House members, 218. Such The measure also would ban petitions rarely succeed, large­certain types of political adver­ly because lawmakers of the tising in the last 60 days of a majority party are reluctant to campaign. Opponents claim a support initiatives that essen­ban on soft money ban would tially usurp their leaders' right be unconstitutional because it to set the legislative agenda. would infringe on First 
As the House opened for Amendment rights of free business Thursday, the petition speech. The two parties raised at the clerk's desk inside the almost $500 million in soft chamber contained 214 money in the two-year period names, four short of the 218 that ended on Dec. 31, 2000, required. and an additional $133 million 
Rep. Dick Gephardt, the during 2001. party leader, As an who had lob­additional
"The American people 
bied his col­indication of leagues vig­deserve a full debate the impor­orously for tance of soft 
about how campaigns are
months to money,
financed.'·'
sign the peti­Democrats tion, inter­solicited rupted a millions in
Richard Neal 
rehearsal for pledges last
House Representative
an economic to 
speech he was to deliv­er during the day to meet Reps. Richard Neal and Corrine Brown just off the House floor. 
Neal long had promised he could be counted on as the 218th name, and Brown, a Floridian, had more recently indicated she, too, was pre­pared to sign. 
"Let's do it," Gephardt said with a broad smile, and escort­ed them into the chamber. "The American people deserve a full debate about how campaigns are financed," Neal told reporters. 
The legislation would consti­tute a virtual ban on soft money, typically five-and six­figure donations that unions, corporations and individuals make to political parties. Most of the money is pent on critical television commercials that 
year 
finance con­
struction of a new parLy headquarters in the nation's capital. 
Rep. Robert Ney who sup­ported an alternative bill last year, issued a statement saying he would "rather defeat so­called campaign finance reform than pass legislation that stops the voices of citizens' First Amendment rights to speak out, obliterates the polit­ical parties and hinders crucial get-out-the-vote efforts." 
In fact, some members of the Black Congressional Caucus have expressed problems with the measure, saying they fear its passage would affect adversely their voter education programs. Brown, a member of the black caucus, told reporters she hoped support­ers on the bill would address those issues as the bill advanced. 
Sl\TURDC\V, JC\N. 2B 
10 P.M. 

SPLClt\L Cor Fttttoust PtRFORMt\NCL 

(NJOV FR[[ REFR[Sl1MtNT t\ND tNTtRTt\INMtNT 
IN TME COMFORT Of Tl1[ tlt\MM[S BaoKSTOREI 
SPONSORE,D BY TNE STUDENT l\CTIVITIE.S OFFICE.. 
FOR MORt INFORMC\TION C/\LL 1-7305. 

Ashcroft OKs special visas 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Attorney General John Ashcroft approved new rules Thursday creating special immi­gration visas for people smug­gled into the United States and forced into prostitution, domes­tic service or farm labor. 
These "I-visas," created under a federal law passed in 2000, will allow victims to remain in the United States if they can persuade immigration authorities they would face "extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm" if returned to their native coun­tries. 
After three years, victims can apply to remain in America per­manently. In most cases, they also can apply to have their spouses and children join them in the United States. Applicants under 21 can ask to have their parents join them. 
"America will not stand idly by as those who seek to profit from modern-day slavery ignore the humanity of their prisoners and show their disdain for the rule of law," Ashcroft said. 
Ashcroft said as many as 50,000 people -mostly women and children -are brought into the United States each year, although the government can approve only 5,000 of the new visas annually under the law. The Immigration and Naturalization Service is setting up a waiting list if more than 5,000 victims apply. 
Ashcroft had promised earlier that the first applicant for these new visas would be Phanupong "Got" Khaisri, 4, an AIDS-strick­en Thai boy who was used by smugglers in Los Angeles. The INS had denied Got asylum, but a federal judge blocked his return last summer. 
The Justice Department said Thursday it has already received two letters from lawyers for Got saying that he intended to apply for the new visa as soon as it is available. in 30 days. 
Got was 2 years old, malnour­ished, HIV-positive and suffering from a severe ear infection when he arrived at Los Angeles International Airport in April 2000. 
Ashcroft cited another case on Thursday; that of Maria Choz, 19, who was kidnapped from her parents' home in Guatemala three years ago and smuggled into Fort Myers, Fla. Ashcroft sa.idChoz was forced to labor in tomato fields during the day, then turn over her earnings to her abductor and perform sexu­al favors for him at night. 
A federal jury last year con­victed Choz's abductor, Jose Tecum, on six counts of kidnap­ping, slavery, immigrations vio­lations. and conspiracy to manu­facture false documents. 
"Maria's story stirs all Americans' sense of compassion and humanity, one woman's struggle against the bonds of slavery, not in some faraway land but right here at home," Ashcroft said. 
Ashcroft pledged in March that the Justice Department would consider the fight against human trafficking a top priority. The department prosecuted 33 defendants last year in human­trafficking cases under different statutes. INS Commissioner James Ziglar on Thursday called the new visas "a powerful new tool to protect the most vulnera­ble victims and prevent future trafficking." 
The visas will cost $200 for an application, plus $50 for each family member, up to a maxi­mum of $400. The government said fee waivers were available. 
People who were victimized before Oct. 28, 2000, must apply during the next 12 months or within one year of their 21st birthday, whichever is later. 
drink up, it's 
your 21st! HAPPY 
,Love, The Girls 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 25 2002 
NETHERLANDS 
Lockerbie appeal focuses on witness 
Associated Press 
CAMP ZElST 

Defense attorneys argued Thursday that judges who convicted a former Libyan intelligence agent of bombing Pan Am flight 103 were too quick to accept testimony linking him to the attack and overlooked witnesses who could have vindicated him. 
On the second day of the appeal hear­ing for Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, lawyers asked the five appellate judges to review key testimony from the only witness to connect him to the 1988 dis­aster over Lockerbie, Scotland that killed 270 people. 
Al-Megrahi, 49, was convicted last January and sentenced to life imprison­ment. with no possibility of parole for 20 years. He has been serving time in a special lockup in the Netherlands under Scottish guard since the verdict, but would likely be transferred to a prison in Scotland if he loses the appeal. 
A second defendant, Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, was acquitted and returned to Libya. The United States has repeatedly demanded that Tripoli accept responsi­bility for the attack, in which 189 Americans died, and pay damages to victims' families. Only then would it lift sanctions imposed in 1986 for what Washington viewed as Libya's support for international terrorism. 
The United Nations ended sanctions against Libya in 1999 after leader Moammar Gadhafi agreed to surrender the two Lockerbie suspects, in a deal that called for the trial to be held by a Scottish court on neutral territory. 
The appeal hearing focuses on two main defense strategies. One contests a prosecution witness who identified al­Megrahi as the purchaser of clothing that was in the same suitcase that con­tained the bomb. concealed inside a cas­sette recorder. 
Secondly, the defense seeks to call a new witness to testify that the lethal suitcase could have been put on board the plane at London's Heathrow airport, rather than onto a feeder flight in 
Maita. 
During the hearings, which are expected to last up to five weeks, the burden of proof lies with the defense. Prosecutors need only reaffirm their support of the verdict, while the defense has to discredit the trial court's conclusions. Scottish legal experts say the defense will have a difficult task per­suading the appeals court to overturn a ver­dict rendered by three professional judges. 
Defense attorney William Taylor said the three trial judges misin­terpreted information and failed to give enough weight to con­tradictions in the testi­mony of Maltese shop­keep er Toni Gauci, whose evidence provid­ed the essential link between al-Megrahi and the explosives-packed suitcase. 
He said mistakes in the"crucial issue of the date" of a visit to Malta led the judges to the wrong verdict. 

Gauci testified in July, 2000, that a man resembling al-Mcgrahi bought men's clothing, baby apparel and an umbrella from the boutique Mary's House in December 1988. His testimony led the judges to conclude that al­Megrahi had bought the clothing on Dec. 7 in Gauci's store, later found in the wreckage. 
Taylor said the trial judges erred in determining his client's whereabouts from Gauci's statements and asked them to reconsider testimony from one of three defense witnesses, Maltese meteorologist Joseph Mifsud. Mifsud asserted that on the day al-Megrahi was said to have been in the store it hadn't rained but only drizz'1ed briefly, making it unlikely he would have bought an umbrella. 
Mifsud said it was more likely to have rained on Nov. 23, not on Dec. 7 which was the only day prosecutors said al­Megrahi had been to Malta. Gauci was the only witness out of 229 called dur­ing the trial to identify al-Megrahi. 
Taylor said the wide publication of al­Megrahi's photo in newspapers and the 12 year lapse between the trial and time of the purchase had biased the identifi­cation and rendered his testimony unre­liable. 
The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
L __ _ 
page 9

Friday, January 25, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



How do you choose an emplcyer in todays eoonomy? Do you seekan orgarizati01 wh:> has been successfwfor nearlya certury? Acultuie that pranote learning and a "thinkstraight, talk straight" philosophy?Or, do you want to be part of an organizaion that's committed to creating tangible,positi\8 results for clia,ts? 
If you've replied "yes" to all of the above, then Anoorsen maybe right for you. 
Attention NotreDame and Saint Maris freshmenand sophcrnores: it1snevertoo early to explore career opportunities. Take afew minutes out of next week to speak with an Ardersen representative to learn more about an exciting career in professionalservices. 
Winter Career Fair 
Thursday, January 31st 4pm-Bpm Joyce Center Donl forget acopy of your resume! 
:) 

www.andersen.com/careers ANDERSEN 
©2002 Andersen. All rights reserwd. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nuuc Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING ErnTOR  Bus1NE~S MANAGER  
Noreen Gill.espie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SroRTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadtcr 
SCENE EorroR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McCriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MA.'IAG.ER: Kimberly Springer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin 
WEll ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO•...........631-7471 FAX .............................. ···••··••·••··················631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME .................... 631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. t@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS........................................ .....631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS . ...............631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:llobserver.tld.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews 

minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves rhe righc to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivelr as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managir1g Editor, Assisrant Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, lerters and colwnns presenr rhe views ofche authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available tO all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct" ed to Fditor in ChiefMike Connolly 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Kiflin Turner C. Spencer Beggs Helena Payne Graphics Katie Rand Andy Devoto 
Sports Production 

Noah Colin Boylan Arnstadter Lab Tech Viewpoint Nellie Williams 
Lauren Beck Friday, January 25, 2002 
New government needs new attitude 
The Kirn Jensen and Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl ticket was relations is an admirable goal but it is nut enough. Jensen the only ticket willing to take a chance and stand up to the and Jablonski-Diehl ner.d to realize they are advocates of the public scrutiny of running for public office. In a field of fallen students. They must be willing to step up and challenge the tickets, they have volunteered to be leaders for a student administration on matters critical to students. body that has produced no other leaders. For Student leaders will not be able to address this they should be commended. OJhe these issues if they remain passive. By waiting 
The Board of Governance insiders will deliv­userver for issues to be brought to their attention by er on the promises built on the philosophy of others, events that will determine the fate of the current board. They've made reasonable the College pass by while they pursue trivial
Editorial
proposals about expanding Detex cards for matters like Detex or study days. Student use in the bookstore, at vending machines and leaders are students, too -students with in laundry rooms. They have committed themselves to con­eyes, nars and most importantly, voices. They need to look, tinue the fight for study days. and have the connections and listen and speak to students to find out what the issues are relationships necessary to propel that proposal to comple­-and in the process, become active leaders. tion. But Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl don't want to do this. In 
But the ticket has substantial problems. It simply doesn't their interview with The Observer Tuesday, Jensen said that roach high enough, contl'nt on sticking to easy, everyday stu­personally, she "wasn't conc,irned" about the Department of dent life issues rather than issues that stir the waters. !Ls Education's investigation of Saint Mary's alleged misrepre­philosophy of government ts that 130G shouldn't tackle an Sflntation of rape statistics. In light of the investigation which issue unless it is brought to them by the students. "Ifstu­began in May 2001, student safety is a critical campus issue. dents don't bring something to my attention. 1can't take a But last year's leaders -and next year's -won't speak up. stand on it," presidm1tial candidate Kim J1rnsen said in a Jensen and Jablonski-Diehl will be the leaders for Saint Tuesday interview with The Observer. Mary's in 2002-03. Saint Mary's students must push for 
The Jensen/Jablonski-Diehl ticket sees itself as a liaison these leaders to be active. They are in a position to change between students and tho administration. It is a reasonable the College. Students and student leaders must work togeth­approach tu leadership. Improving student-administrator er to ensure that change happens. 
Play a responsible part 
This semester, perhaps in an attempt "administration," intent on squelching In effect. the students had little knowl­
to escape "the bubble" and to have the fun and enjoyment and distributing pun­edge of how the decisions on campus are 
privilege of parking a car in D6, I decided ishment. made or who had tlrn authority and 
to take the opportunity to work as an This negative impression of the responsibility to mah the decisions. 
intern on the editorial page of The Truth, University government exists for many This question of communication on 
a local newspaper Joanna reasons. First. many students, consumed campus becomes particularly pertinent 
in Elkhart County. Mikulski by their own lives and activities, have no with the approach of the campaigns for 
On Tuesday, I regard for the work of others that student government, a body intended to 
took my first drive enables them to go to their classes and serve as an intermediary between the 
down the toll road Tuesday Voice partake in their activities. I often recog­students and the University government. 
into Elkhart to on Friday nize my own propensity to see my life on An improved dialogue between admin­
meet with my edi­campus outside of the community con­istrators and students should be the pri­
tor, Larry Murphy. text. mary focus of the new student govern­
Mr. Murphy introduced me, a virtual for­Consequently, administrative policy ment. Students need a central and well­
eigner to Indiana. to the region that the changes that affect student life are often publicized place to voice their griev­
newspaper serves. lie gave me brief his­met by intense complaints from the stu­ances. They need the assurance that the 
tory of the state, an explanation of the dents who are unable to see the intention individual or committee possessing thn 
layout of Elkhart County and finally an or communal purpose behind the authority to effectively address the stu­
outline of the structure of the county gov­change. Yet, simultaneous with thn dents' specific concern, hears their com­
ernment, including various officers, unrest there exists an apathy on campus, plaint. The collective administration of 
councils and their respective responsibil­an unwillingness on the part of the stu­the University. in turn. has responsibility 
ities. In effect, he told me how things dents to actively and constructively to listnn to the studnnts and to truly 
happen in Elkhart and who has the address their grievance. respect their viewpoint. 
authority to make them happen. However. this apathy does not resuli Yet. just as I must learn the context of 
His orientation served not only to only from the individual student's ten­the Elkhart community to write for their 
broaden my knowledge of Elkhart dency towards self-centeredness. It also local paper, the students of this 
County, but also to expose my own igno­stems from the student body's frustration University have the task of actively 
rance about the communities. within that they have no effective means of informing themselves about the campus 
which I live, namely my hometown and expressing their opinion or influencing community and determining their role 
this University. I have little idea of the University policy. within it. 
structure and function of the government The tailgating saga of last semester In this community. we all play a part. 
ofmy home county. I also sadly have only serves as prime example of this lack of We all have certain responsibilities and 
a vague knowledge of the structure of the communication between students and tasks. some of which we consciously 
government here in "the bubble." Among administrators. Students, unable to see assume and others that simply come 
the students, I am not alone in my igno­the University's concern for their well­with our position as students. And 
rance. being and sa1'ety, became enragnd over inevitably. the greatest responsibility for 
This community, like a county or state. the apparently malicious dnstruction of a the improvement of campus life depends 
functions through the work of many indi­sacred fall tradition. Yet, at the same upon the students. 
viduals, councils and groups that each time, they seemed to have no power to We are after all the reason that this 
possess certain authority and hold vari­change the University's decision, appar­learning institution exists. 
ous responsibilities. Each facet of the ently made without student input. Few Joanna Mikulski is a junior English 
local University government plays a par­people even knew to whom in the admin­and German major. and her column 
ticular role in making the lives of the stu­istration to voice their grievance. Should appears every other Friday. Contact 
dents possible. Yet, from the standpoint they have complained to the NDSP olli­Joanna Mikulski at.mikulski.J@nd.edu. 
of those of us who go to school here, this cers, who issued the tickets? To HesLife, 11ie views expressed in this column are 
University often seems to function under which doled out punishment? To Father those ofthe author and not necessarily 
the invisible hand of an all-powerful Malloy or Father llesburgh? those of The Oliseruer. 
NDTODAY.COM/OBSERVER POLL RESULTS 
Do you plan to participate in activities ,., --. celebrating Martin Luther King day'! / ,. \ 
*Total votes: 157 ( No 
I 

. Poll courtesy of NDToday.com \89% 
/J 
', .-. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Whenever you have an efficient government you have a dictatorship. " 
Harry Truman president 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 25, 2002 page 11 
Walking down a red carpet to recovery 
ITHACA, NY 

Glistening diamonds, !lowing chiffon and llawless skin abounded on the Golden Globes red carpet Sunday evening. Hollywood was back in full regalia and dropping names like Harry Winston and Oscar de la Renta in Danielle Stein response to Joan and Melissa Rivers' prodding questions 
Cornell Daily 

about their extrav-
Sun 

agant Pvening wear. 
It was a huge jump from tlrn sparse and solPmn Emmys, which aired late last fall after being twice postponed due to the Sept 11 attacks and America's initial bomb­ing of Afghanistan, respectively. 
In fact, many of the sl.ars were wear­ing the ou tf1ts they had planned to don at thP Emmys bcforn tragedy drove them to ditch the seemingly inappro­priate glittflr and gold for minimalist pantsuits. But corning off as materialis­tic or excessive in the face of war was clearly not a concern on Sunday night. Which prompts the question: Has America begun to heal? 
Perhaps !lollywood is not represen­tative of the whole. But while a few­months ago Americans could hardly tear themselves away from CN1" long enough to sec which show won the Emmy for best comedy series, on Sunday night viewers were torn between the awards show and a new episode of Sex and the City, a show that matches the red carpet in deca­dence. · 
The amount of time per day Americans spend anxiously glued to 
the bottom line running across the 
television screen has decreased over 
the past few months, while consumer 
confidence levels have recentlv risen. Prada's new archi­
ter,turally mind­
blowing shop in 
Sol-lo has made head­lines. Many of us flew back home for winter break, or 
to vaca­
tion des­tinations or job inter­
views, despite the fact that mere months ago we 
vowed it 
would be an 
eternity before we would again set foot on an air­plane. Even our obsession with Osama bin Laden has dwindled. Before, his hatred-filled videos were 


compelling to us, though we knew them to be propaganda in its worst form. Now, news of another video hardly piques our interest. Even bin Laden's whereabouts have 

become a rarer conversation topic; while Americans used to keep daily track of the narrowing area in which we supposedly had our nemesis cor­nered, last week's news of his suspect­ed escape from the southern part of 
akistan has left us merely shrug­
ing with exasperation. There have been complaints hat Americans are returning 
o their pre-Sept. 11 ways. )romises of simpler, more 
eaningful ways of lifo stripped of materialism and superficiality have been 
reneged, and once again -oh, the horror ­Americans actually care 
about the lives and wardrobes of Tom and Penelope. Such phenome­na, some claim, 
arc a sign of how shal­low we are and how easily we forget. 
But thPre is a difference etwcen forgetting and ealing, and America's 
eturn to shopping malls, air­nes and upscale restaurants merely an encouraging sign 
This is not to say that Americans, 
general, couldn't stand to be more aware of and concerned with world affairs, nor is it to say that we should prioritize luxuries over family, health and friends. 
But to say that Americans are forget­ting, are once again becoming so Sept. 10 -well, that is to ignore the men with machine guns that now patrol our airports, the millions of people who continue to donate money and time to terrorism victims and the hundreds of civil rights advocates who fight every clay to make sure America treats its enemies the way a civilized democracy -and not a terrorist organization ­should. 
It is to ignore the thousands of American Muslims who now live with fear of hate and revenge from their own neighbors. It is to ignore the thou­sands of families that celebrated the holidays this year with one less loved one. Forget? How can we? 
We will not forget. But we will heal. Our love of lavish lifestyles has begun to return. Our craving for stylish clothes, faster cars, playoff tickets and Hollywood gossip has resurfaced. And as long as we don't lose sight of what is truly important, it's OK -after all, we're human. 
We are still at war. But to get plea­sure from sitting in front of your televi­sion set, critiquing the gowns that will skim the red carpet on Oscar night this March will not make you a bad person. 
As long as you understand the activi­ty is a luxury not accessible to much _of the world, and that the best parts of the evening are the people sitting on the couch with you. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 23 edition of The Cornell Daily Sun, Cornell University's campus newspaper. It is reprinted here cour­tesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
Bush not connected to Enron collapse 
LOS ANGELES bought or sold -in the past, Bush has repeatedly turned down requests by Enron on 
Tom Daschle can't stop smiling, Henry Waxman is unable to conceal his glee. The energy policy. Enron backed several environmental restrictions (for business rea­McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform backers are jumping around and scream­sons), including the Kyoto Treaty and a limit on carbon dioxide emissions, both of ing, "See! See!" which Bush rejected. 
Unfortunately, there's nothing to see. The Democratic eagerness to jump on the Furthermore, Enron has donated large sums to Democrats as well as Republicans, "Enron and Bush Sitting in a Tree" bandwagon completely ignores the facts. Wild, including two $50,000 donations to the Democratic Party just a week before Enron's unfounded accusations of governmental corruption are flying collapse. like lingerie at a Bill Clinton birthday bash, but any credible Ben Shapiro The liberals on Capitol Hill continue to cry about Enron's "top-shelf access" to the illicit connection between Enron and the Bush administration Bush administration. Rep. Henry Waxman (D-Calif.) has made several statements has yet to be shown. concerning Enron's contact with the Bush administration. Even liberal Democrats 
The zeal with which liberals are attacking Bush is under­The Daily like Waxman are not so ignorant. Does Waxman really expect the Bush administra­standable. Normally, Democrats and scandal go together like Bruin tion to turn down a call from the largest energy producer in the country? Or does he bread and mold: leave the former alone long enough and the expect them to take calls from all energy producers, even the guy latter is sure to develop. Over time, the Democrats have devel­who is stealing batteries from the 7-11? oped a serious case of "cleanness envy" -they can't deal with the squeaky clean The Bush administration is handling this with the grace image projected by conservatives. So any hint of impropriety amongst the right-wing and courage Americans have come to know and ranks is as appealing to them as a young, scantily-clad intern. admire. Instead of attempting to redefine what "is"
No• • 
Unlike a scantily-clad intern, however, this story doesn't have legs. Enron is ..I _• means, Bush has set up a large federal investiga­bad news, all right, but leave Bush out of it. ..'\ tion of the Enron matter. Attorney General John 
Enron is an energy company that buys energy from generators and sells it to Ashcroft has recused himself from the prosecu­homes around the r,ountry. The company inflated its earnings estimates by i...l b A N l"-°"'0\'161 tion to avoid any possible con~ict of interest. about half a billion dollars, which sent the stock of the company skyrocketing. I-, r-,1.J Other Bush officials are steppmg away from the Soon. however, the company's overestimation was revealed and the actual ~ _.. ~ ~A, investigation. This is what people call, in collo­
· 

income of the company spiraled downward. •.\ _. r'LJI'~ quial terms, honesty. 
Knowing this beforehand, Chairman Kenneth Lay and other company (\ . _ Coming from the Democrats, this manufac­honchos sold their stock without telling investors the company was in seri­' :,,.4.., ~ ~ l.J-IE:: tured "Enron scandal" makes sense. If you ous trouble. Meanwhile, Enron officials forbade company employees from :~ y \v can't stop your own party from disgracing switching their stocks to savings accounts. When last-ditch attempts to save itself, look to deflect attention elsewhere. the company fell through, the stock dropped precipitously, leaving many There's only one problem with the strategy. investors nearlv broke. There's nothing to find. When this is all done, 
AH of which goes to show Enron officials were probably crooks. But none of \ ~ Bush will be able to lean back in his chair, this has any connection to the Bush administration. \O• f..Yt... smile and smoke a good, Republican-clean 
Lay never spoke with President Bush, but he did speak to Commerce \ cigar, knowing that he and his administration Secretary Don Evans and Secretary ofTreasury Paul O'Neill in the weeks pre-' 't)o.f1l11\' '1i:. ~t, are not to be bought or sold. And the Democrats ceding Enron's collapse, as well as Vice President Dick Cheney. None of these ~ l can return to their scantily-clad interns -and conversations involved any soul-purging on Lay's part. And none of these conver-· \1Jr'1>W\.d -\-y~e,7 their cigars. sations resulted in any action by the Bush administration. But even this is enough ·~ • for the Democrats to cry foul. .A/ This column first appeared in the Jan. 22 edition of 
Lay called O'Neill to inform him Enron "was headed for bankruptcy," and he called _ ~ The Daily Bruin, the campus newspaper ofthe University of Evans to tell him "he would appreciate any help the administration could give." The California-Los Angeles. It is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. amount of help was zip. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily 
If Lay's strategy was to "buy Bush" during the 2000 election campaign, as so many those ofThe Observer. Democrats are whining, he got the short end of the stick. Bush is not a man to be 


OBSERVER 

E
nology
page 12 
Friday, January 25, 2002 

Gizmos and gadgets 
The Observer tests out three infomercial pro 
system comes out of the box to the time it is ready to use is about three minutes. 
The Ronco infomercial does down­play a few of the oven's negative aspects; particularly, after use the oven has heavy grease stains which are difficult to lift out. Soaking the removable metal parts in a warm dish detergent solution makes the stains fairly easy to remove with an abrasive dish pad. 
Similarly, the ''Set It and forget It" feature by which the machine oper­ates itself is a bit of a misnomer; the oven needs supervision during use, drops of grease jumping off meats can ignite and cause a serious fire. Of course, leaving any heat source unsu­pervised while preparing a meal is irresponsible. 
The machine does, however, pro­duce juicy and well prepared meats in a remarkable amount of time with lit­tle or no preparation. The Observer tried the Apricot-Orange Game Hens suggested in the oven's manual. Two 
1.5 pound game hens can be cooking about one minute after removing them from their packages (after being defrosted); the Apricot-Orange rub can be prepared in another about two minutes. In fact, most of the time amateur gourmets spend with this machine will be cleaning it, not using it. 
Another fairly clever feature of the oven is the steamer tray. The tray lies on top of the oven and can cook most vegetables in the time in which it takes to thoroughly prepare the meat. The Observer used of a cup of frozen peas, a half of a cob of corn and the remaining apricot-orange glaze in the steamer tray, all of which came out properly prepared. 


Scene Staff Report 
Once upon a time there was no Internet, no cell phones and no TV. In those dark days, people used to go to buildings where products were on dis­play for them to examine and buy. Salesmen used to have to convince consumers that their products were more than snake oil and tonics. 
How the times have changed; today, the average college student sees about 360,000 commercials before their freshmen year. And of course, no late-night TV watcher can avoid the granddaddy of all commercials: the infomercial. 
But not all infomercial salesmen are charlatans and thieves, right? The Observer has taken three products to the testing floor to see if they can live up to their own hype. 
The Ronco Showtlme Rotisserie Oven and BBQ 
Ronco Inventions, the company that also advertises the "Inside-the-Shell Electric Egg Scrambler" and the much parodied "GLH Formula Number 9 Hair System," has actually invented devices that has a practical use for those of us who are competent enough to use a whisk and are terrified by the idea of spray-on anything. 
The Ronco Showtime Rotisserie Oven and BBQ a relatively hassle-free device that is ideal for people for want home-cooked food, but either aren't particularly talented in the culinary arena or are simply lazy. 
The unit, which is a little smaller than a microwave and looks like a toaster oven with a large geared spit on the inside, has three settings and a timer dial. From the time the whole 

C. SPENCER BEGGSfThe Observer 

The Ronco Showtlme Rotisserie Oven and BBQ Is a falrly hassle-free device to use. Cleaning the oven, however, can be a moderate problem. 
The rotisserie oven is particularly convenient because it can eloquently prepare dishes for a very small price. Ten dollars worth of ingredients is more then enough to have a full meat portions with a glaze or marinade and two side dishes for two people. Combined with the relatively small preparation time for most dishes the oven is ideal for off-campus stu­dents who would like to eat cheaply but not spend a lot of time in their kitchens. 
The Ronco Showtime Rotisserie Oven and BBQ is available in two sizes for $149.90 and $99.95 (the smaller size is sufficient to cook for up to four people) from www.ronco.com or by callingl -800-4 8 6-1806. Interestingly enough, if you leave your number on the Web site to order, they will call you back in about five minutes. And of course, Ronco takes every credit card under the sun. 
C. Spencer Beggs 

The Gazelle Freestyle 
He is the Fabio of infomercials. With his blond pony tail and spandex shorts, Tony Little the guru of such exercise videos as Bodycise, World­class Buns and Legs and Tighten Firm and Smile tries his hand in indorsing an exercise machine -The Gazelle. 
Produced by Fitness Quest, The Gazelle's slogan is boosted on the infomercial and Web sight, sucks the lazy work out consumers with lines like, "The more muscle you use, the more you can raise your metabolism, the more calories you burn -and here's the great part: with all of this, you actually do less exercise." 

About the only thing true about the Gazelle is a person actually does less exercise. 
After unloading the 54 pound box full of bowed steel, foot pads and instructional videos about hard abs 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


E
nology
Friday, January 25, 2002 page 13 

nd gougers 
hm 
ts to see ifthey can live up to their own hype 



and "butt­
kickin"' workouts, 

the 45-minute assembly couldn't have been worse. 
Surprisingly, The Observer found only one bolt missing when it unpacked its Gazelle, although it wasn't that necessary. 
However, the easy assembly is the sole highlight of the Gazelle. After standing the machine up, the cross bar was loose. 
One feature the Gazelle Web site mentions is its "self centering design for rock-solid stability" making a steady crossbar essential to achieve the low-impact work out, strike one. 
For men looking for a machine to work up a sweat or women looking for machine with a burn, the Gazelle is not it. Most people can break a sweat walking on a treadmill in 15 minutes. But the Gazelle will have most work­out buffs swinging in the air for an hour for nothing. 
Not only was there no sweat and no burn but there was no resistance, which begs tho question: how does one build muscle and burn fat without resistance'? 
But before The Observer wrote the Gazelle off completely, their testers followed Little's instructional tips like leaning forward to work the abs and leaning back to work the back and quads. The only reason either one's stomach or back muscles would become engaged using this machine has more to do with trying to not fall rather than feeling the burn. The Gazelle is not stable. 
Monica Mendoza tried the Gazelle. Stepping on tentatively, the first thing she noticed was that the foot pads suspended by wires were wobbly. 
"You could fall on here; I mean, I don't feel secure at all. It is not a safe machine," Mendoza said. 
Although Mendoza is not an exercise machine expert, the Gazelle's instabil­ity threw it a second strike. 
Strike three rest in the generic way 
in which Fitness Quest operates. 
The company sells more than just 
the Gazelle and really do not 
seem too interested in its cus­
tomer service department. To 
return the defective Gazelle 
(which is actually a mammal 
that looks like an antelope 
and resides in the African 
Sudan and survives on 
shrubs) The Observer 
called the 1-800 number. 
But surprisingly the cus­
tomer service contact 
didn't even know the prop­
er way to send the machine 
back. 
If the choice for exercise 
lies between buying the 
$264.70 Gazelle or buying a 
new pair of sneakers to hit the 
track, buy the sneakers -in 
the end you can still wear the 
sneakers. 
Myra McGriff 
OxiClean 
Bar-b-que ribs, salsa and French­
onion dip may be staples of a Superbowl party, but they can be death to your favorite clothes if you drip on yourself; deep stains can ruin one's best shirt faster than George O'Leary's coaching tenure. 
Fortunately for messy football fans, OxiClean, claims it can use the power of oxygen to blast stains right out of their cherished fabrics. 
The "stain specialist" claims it is safe and effective for all organic stains. According to the box, using the OxiClean spot and stain pre-treater with the laundry detergent should remove those drip stains easily so you can spend more time watching the game and less time making sure all of your snacks make it into your mouth .. 
To test the "oxygen-powered" stain fighting abilities of OxiClean, The Observer stained a shirt with bar-b­q ue sauce, French-onion dip and salsa. After the stains set for an hour, the spots were sprayed with four squirts of the pre-treater and rubbed vigorously for minute as per the directions. The shirt was then imme­diately dropped into the washing machine where the OxiClean laundry dAtergent went to work. 
The results were disappointing. Although the salsa and French-onion dip were washed clean, the deep bar­b-qu e sauce stains were mostly untouched. The results were similar to using a standard. pre-treater like Shout and a regular laundry deter­gent like Tide. Not even "oxygen-pow­ered" cleaning could removed the tough stains. 
While the OxiClean laundry deter­gent failed to remove the bar-b-que stains, it was effective at whitening the T-shirt. After awhile, T-shirts tend to get dingy from the sweat and oil from the skin. While regular deter­gents did not effect the dinginess of bathroom products are not nearly as the shirts, after washing the shirts effective as OxiClean for breaking up with OxiClean, the shirts were mildew. restored to their previous bright Overall, OxiClean is overrated. The white. television commercials make OxiClcan 

OxiClean has many uses besides seem like a product that can clean laundry, however. For $19.99, you get anything with little to no effort. In the starter kit with the laundry deter­fact, it only slightly more effective gent, the pre-treater, four toilet bowl than regular cleaning products and in cleaning tablets and a multi-purpose some cases, less effective. You should stain remover for all kinds of house­definitely pass on the laundry deter­hold uses. gent; Tide or any other brand works 
The toilet bowl tablets were nothing just as well for a lot less money. The special. After dropping one into your toilet tablets are pretty much useless. bowl, you wait a few hours, then come A little elbow grease and a brush can back and flush the toilet. The tablet clean a bowl just as easily. The multi­has removed all the bowl stains. ple flush tablets like 2000 Flushes are ... However, it is only a one-time use better if you don't like to touch a dirty tablet. The stain fighting power disap­toilet. pears as soon as the bowl is flushed. The multi-purpose cleaner is really Products like 2000 Flushes are much the only item that is worth purchas­more efficient for toilet cleaning ing. It is recommended that you buy it because they worked for months with­by itself and not as part of the starter out any work. kit. It won't make your stains disap­
The multi-purpose stain remover pear but it will make your cleanings was the best part of the OxiClean set. tasks a little more effective. 
-

It could be mixed with water to clean Mike Connolly any number of household items from carpet stains to shower curtains. The mixture can be sprayed onto almost any dingy item and the bubbling action of OxiClean begins loosening stains. 
The mixture was sprayed onto some heavy mildew in an off-campus apart-· ment shower and it made a big differ­Contact C. Spencer Beggs at ence. The bubbles loosened up the beggs.3@nd.edu. Myra McGriff at mildew enough that a little elbow mcgr0181@saintmarys.edu and Mike grease got the shower clean. Other Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

... 
Photo courtesy of www.fttnessquest.com 

The Gazelle Is about as ridiculous as it looks. Beside being unstable, the machine Is very hard to get a good workout on or a refund for. 
-page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 25, 2002 
gets to work with him and I think everyone wishes they

Auriol 
could but he does get in as many people as possible."

continued from page 24 
Auriol is also able to adjust He certainly wants to win the his lessons and drills to llt with 

..... 
championship in his last sea­each fencer's individual styles. son -but for Auriol that goal Each Irish fencer was taught is the same every year. by a different dub coach and 
"I would be nice to go out employ unique styles. Auriol is with a national championship able to adapt his lessons for but I don't want them to feel each individual need. like they have to win it for me," "If you change coaches, you 
he said. "I kno,v that is what can really screw a fencer up," they are thinking." Walton said. "Their styles are 
Auriol has consistenlly kept so completely different. Ile his teams at the top of the col­doesn't try to r:ompletflly legiate fencing world, Since he change you which could screw started coaching the women in you up in the long run." 1986, his teams havn never fin­:\uriol's success with private ished lower than sixth and fin­lessons stems from his love or ished first in 1987 and 1994. teaching. In addition to his As the head coach of the com­duties as head fencing coach, 
binnd teams since 1996, Notre~ Auriol also teaches freshman Dame has finished second five physical education classes in times and third once. llis 200 I fencing and rugby. II e was a squad could be the best yet but professional rugby player in Auriol is bowing out because France before he started he sees a decline in talent in coaching fencing. 
the future. "My job will always be teach­"It doesn't have anything to ing. I always loved being at 
do with the strength of the Notre Dame because I could team," he said. "There may be concentrate on teaching," said better teams in the future than Auriol, who moved to thfl U.S. 
we have right now." in 1972 to open a fencing arad­Auriol said that 2002 wa.s emy in Portland, Ore. 
just the right time to leave. His Rut coupled with his love son Stephane. who fenced foil teaching is an intense desire to for the Irish for four vears, be the best. He served as an graduated in 1999. He prefers Olympic coach for the United warmer weather. For 17 years States in 1980. '84, '88 and he has dedicated his life to '92. He also coached the U.S. Notre Dame fencing. now it junior world championship was time to dedicate more time team from 1976-79. At the to his wife. same time he was an Olympic 
"He indicated he wanted to coach, he also coached the move on to the next phase in women's team at Portland his life," assistant athletic State, director Bernard Muir said Soon, however. he wanted 
about Auriol's decision to more stable employment than retire. "He has provided us the Olympic team could pro­
-great service during his time vide. here. We completely under­He didn't, however, want to stood his position." stop coaching top athletes. Auriol's commitment to fenc­Portland State offered a steady ing made him a great coach, job, but not great athletes. according to De Cicco. Every "It's pretty frustrating when day, Auriol gave 100 percent of you are a national coach or an 
straight to the top -winning a "It was frustrating those five and attention at every practice.
his attention to his athletes. Olympic coach and you have to women's national title in 1987. years to always finish second So far he hasn't seen that from "When you hire a fencing go to a bad program with only 
Since that time, Auriol's but I think this year we have this team yet but he expects
master particularly of the so-so fencers," Auriol said. 
biggest challenge has been the talent to win it all," Auriol · that the focus will soon return. 
European school. they When De Cicco offered Auriol
are maintaining the high standards said. In the past, Auriol's teams 
totally committed to the sport," as position as women's head he set for himself. With his best team in years, have taken on the same deter­said De Cicco. who chose coach in 1985, Auriol knew it "You are always at the top," his fencers say he has stepped mined, even keel as its coach. 
Auriol to replace him as men's was the perfect opportunity. 
he said. "Everyone always up the intensity. Practices are Every practice, every dual coach when De Cicco retired in Notre Dame could offer him a expects the fencing team to be more difficult and Auriol is meets is important in reaching
1995. "They get up in the steady paycheck -plus the 
at the top. It's not easy. Just playing a more active role than the ultimate goal -a national 
morning, put on their warm­opportunity for free tuition 
because you are good one year, before. championship. 
ups and start giving fencing when Stephane was ready for 
doesn't mean you will be good "He has been involved more Auriol expects his teams to lessons, all day long. Then they college -as well as the chance next year but we have stayed with the practices on a day-to­act the same was he does. Put go home, take their warm-ups to coach some of the best near the top." day basis," epee captain Jan on your warm-ups, go to prac­off. shower, go to bed and fencers in the country. Notre Since De Cicco's retirement Viviani said. "The last few tice, work hard, go home and 
come back the next day and do Dame had won the national 
as men's head coach in 1996 years, the captains have been to bed, come back the next dayit all again. He's done that the championship in 1977 and '78 and Auriol's promotion to head running the basic things." and do it all again.
whole 17 years he has been and been the runner-up in 
coach of both teams, Auriol "He is doing to utmost to get But March 24, all that will here. He is a tireless worker." 1983 and '85. 
has kept his teams near the top us into shape and get us into change for the first time in 17 Auriol's work ethic and time "It's nice to step in and start but hasn't quite been able to gear," Walton said. "He knows years. After the final bout of 
management skills are his working with good fencers break through. From 1996-this is the team we need to the NCAA championships,
greatest attributes, according right away," Auriol said. 
2000, his teams finished sec­beat everyone else. lie thinks Auriol will take off his warm­
to women's e·peeist Kerry In his first season as Irish 
ond at every NCAA champi­this is the strongest team we've ups, go to bed and wake up to Walton. coach, the women put together onship. Last year, the Irish had in a while so he knows this a new phase of his life. 
"He manages the time so that and undefeated regular season slipped to third but his 2002 is our chance to do it." 
he can fit in a maximum and finished sec·ond at the 
team probably has the best tal­Auriol said he isn't treating 
amount of private lrssons," the NCAA Championships. The Contact Mike Connolly at
ent overall since Auriol bncame this team a.ny differently from 
sophomore said. "Not everyone next year, Auriol took his team connolly.28@nd.edu.
head coach. past teams. He expects focus 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts dassifie<ls every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Notices NOTICES  WaAted FOR RENT  3-bclrm. 1-1/2 bath tri-level, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/D.  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 3 Bedroom House Close to  PERSONAL  Do you have your tickets for Damn Yankees? Get them now at the LaFun info desk!  
$400 CCTour&Travel Florida SpringBreak pkg. Call 258-0718  Do you miss your family pet? Consider becoming a FOSTER or  Aug. 2002, $1,050/mo. 232-4527 or  Campus $595.00 per month Call 233-1440  Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote  Sl1ow opens Feb. 7!  
tosr0 ul FOUND  VOLUNTEER for the cats and dogs at PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 1 o minutes from cam­ 616-683-5038. New 3-4 bdrms, 3 bath homes lea- HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9· bedroom houses.  trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648· 4849 www.ststravel.com  TO THE COWARD IN GENERAL ACCOUNTING WHO WILL NOT EVEN SIGN HIS/HER NAME TO  
pus, Please visit www.pe­ luring fireplace, skylights, cathedral  THE ANONYMOUS NOTES:  
LOST: January 3, 2002 in or out­ !refuge.com, e-mail webmaster- ceilings, family room, 1Ox20 deck,  Call Bill  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
-­ side the Main Building or in the Stepan parking lot, a Christmas tree  @petrefuge.com, or call 256-0886.  2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232­4527 or 616-683-5038.  at 532-1896  alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis- The East Chicago Pizza ad is the way it was requested to run. If you  
pin about 2 inches in length made  Why live in crowded houses? Have  HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03  tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  have any problem with any more  
of green and white Austrian crys­tals. Has sentimental value Please  your own space, privacy & security. Mar-Main Apartments  nice homes north of ND [close] for next school year ideal for 3-8 stu- YR.FURN.  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in  ads, have the guts to call the Advertising Dept. at 1-6900.  
call Debbie at 1-5536.  233-2098  dents great area 2773097  272-6306  THE OBSERVER.  Shirley  

Friday, January 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to catch Gophers in Minnesota 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writet 
With the season off to a per­fect 2-0 start, the seventh­ranked Irish men's tennis team looks to keep its winning streak alive as it heads into two week­end battles against 68th-ranked William and Mary and 32nd­ranked Minnesota. 
Notre Dame squares off against William and Mary on Friday, as the Irish and the Tribe will meet for just the fourth time in history and the 
.; 
first time since 1999. William and Mary also won two match­es to open the spring season, sweeping both the University of Richmond and East Carolina University by the score of 7-0. 
\Nhile the Irish are not taking their opponent lightly, they expect to win handily, knowing their lineup boasts more talent and depth. 
"William and Mary is an NCAA [Championship] level team, but I would expect to win that match," Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss said. "They gave us a reasonably good 

lisil LINCOIN LABORATORY
~l M;$ArnusFns INsnmn ol'n:rnxoHJGY w w w . I I . m I t . e d u 

DISCOVER 
the power
to innovate 

CELEBRATING 50 YEARS Of INNOVATION 
match in the fall when we played them here. I think we're much deeper than they are at four, five and six [singles]." 
The Irish will undoubtedly face a tougher battle on Sunday against the Gophers of Minnesota -a team that includes the second-ranked sin­gles player in the nation, Harsh Mankad. Mankad, a junior from India, finished the fall season with a 12-1 record, while also winning the National Intercollegiate Indoor Championships in November. 
Bayliss is certainly aware of 
. 
Put ,ome puwer behind your ideas. At MIT Lincoln Lnlmmtory, your research and ideas will be transfemd directly into the develop­ment ofleading-edge, real-world applications, including air defense, space suroeillance, communications and air tmffic control systems. 
If you are pursuing a degree in:  
• ELECTRICAL  ¦ COMPUTER SclENCE  
ENGINEERING  ¦ AERONAUTICS/  
¦ PHYSICS  ASTRONAUTICS  
¦ MATHEMATICS  ¦ MOLECULAR  
¦ MECHANICAL  BIOLOGY  
ENGINEERING  ¦ BIOCHEMISTRY  

maybe you have the power to succeed at Lincoln Laboratory 
For more information about our scheduled on-campus recruiting activities, please visit our website or your Career Seruices Office. 
If you're looking for a way to power up your career, please 


forward your scannable resume by e-mail, fax or mail to: resume@ll.mit.edu; Fax: 781-981-2011; Office of Human Resources, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Job Code CNOl, 244 Wood Street, Lexington, MA 02420-9108. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F!D/V. US Citizenship is required. 
fjJ 
11
Ci I 
COLLEGE 
RECRUITMENT 
PROGRAM 


College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for Kaneb Teaching Awards 

Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Greg Dowd, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, February 11, 2002 

the threat Minnesota poses. 
"Minnesota is very good," Bayliss said. "They are very under-ranked. They're a top 10 to 15 team." 
The Irish will try to counter the Gopher threat, being led by a solid core of seniors and a lineup that also has some ammunition of its own. Three Irish singles players are ranked in tl1e top 100 -Luis Haddock­Morales at No. 83, Casey Smith at No. 88 and Javier Taborga at No. 95 -and the doubles pair­ing of Taborga and Smith is ranked sixth. 
While the contest against nationally touted Minnesota will deny or confirm Notre Dame's top 10 ranking, preparing for the match-up was the same as usual. 
"I don't think you do any dif­ferent to prepare," Bayliss said. "You get your routines down, Each of them has individual weaknesses that we're working on. This isn't like football or basketball where you have to rebound better or you have to block better, It's more like one player has to work on his back­hand passing shot, another player needs to work on coming to the net a little more. There really isn't a key ingredient for the whole team." 
Notre Dame and Minnesota know each other well, as the two teams have met in 12 of the past 13 seasons. The Irish blasted the Gophers 7 -0 last season, but Minnesota has taken four of the past six meet­ings. However, Notre Dame has recorded a perfect 4-0 record against the Gophers at Minnesota in the Bayliss era ­a record they hope to see remain intact. 
Contact Rachel Biber at rbiber@nd.edu. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Boozer ties career high as Duke wins 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Carlos Boozer tied his career-high with 28 points and added seven rebounds Thursday night as No. 1 Duke opened a 29-point first-half lead and coasted to an 88-78 victory over Boston College. 
Dahntay Jones had 16 points and six rebounds and Mike Dunleavy had 16 points, five rebounds and five assists for Duke (17-1). which has won five consecutive games by an average of almost 20 points since its only defeat, against Florida State, on Jan. 6. 
Jason Williams scored 15 points and Chris Duhon had 10 points and seven assists for the Blue Devils. 
Troy Bell scored 26 points and Ryan Sidney had 10 as Boston College (14-5) lost for the fourth time in its last six games. Uka Agbai had nine rebounds and a career-high 20 points and Kenny Walls scored 14 for the Eagles, who had been ranked in the Top 25 for 20 consecutive polls -climb­ing to No. 10 earlier this sea­son -before dropping out this week. 
Duke used two 13-0 runs in the first half to open leads of 20-3 and 42-13. The Blue Devils led by 20 at halftime and 70-42 on Boozer's layup with 12:51 left in the game before BC mustered enough of a charge to make it respectable. 
It was 71-44 when BC scored 10 of the next 12 points, then added an 8-0 run to make it 75-62 while holding Duke to one basket over six minutes. Bell hit a leaner from the lane to make it 77 -66 with 4:07 left. 
5 R• XXXI 

COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS 
Applications Due Friday, Jan. .2:S 
Picknp an application at the StudentActhities Office at 314 LaFortune and sign up for an interview. 
Checkontthe website for more info: www.nd.edu/,..,bkstr/ or Email us at bkstr.l@nd.edu 
-
..... 
-
page 16 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 25, 2002 
THE FOLLOWING IS ALIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES Friday, January 25 FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 
7:00 PM -4:00 AM 

Nig,ht, 
TIMES FOR FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED Joyce Center AT THE END OF THE FIRST ROUND. 
631-6100 
( l~)11tpi(',:; 
.\I//..\'() Medal~ \t'ere /)i,11111,,tf l1y

/Je a Real Champion -Support Special Olympics!!! 
iln \ 11'1i' I>umr., [1111111i. lnociati,m
l;' \\ '~. 
, f• If Ill 

$/.()() 1)01wtio11 Reque.,·ted at the Door 

Carroll /Badin /Re~ina 
V0LLEY8A.Ll. TtAM A e,oo fl4EN'• RAClaUttTaALL CAL.I. 1·11 I 00 VOLLI.Y ¦ ALL TK•M A 7100 MitN'a M'A.DQUS.T¦ ALL. CALI,,, 1 ·6 J 00 TtAM B BIOO W0MICN1e RACQU~T¦ALL NA T1tAM B 7130 WDMl:N 1¦ RAQQUST¦ALL NA TtAM A 9120 M1:N' ¦ B"00M ¦ ALL 1211 5 TllAM A 9140 Ml:N1• BIIDCiM ¦ ALL 12,.c.& Tl.AM B 11.1120 WCIMEt-1 1¦ El,.C0M ¦ ALL 9130 Tc.-..,_. El 10100 WoMu..'• 8fl00M ¦ Al.\,, 1 21 t !t 
WCIMt:N'a BAaM:1tTaALL T~A.M A 10100 KtCK¦ ALL 1 \ 150 TltAMA NA KJOK ¦ AU. 1 1130 TaAM e 9140 Ta:•M 8 NA 
N lr:ttF' FCICIT¦ALI. TEAM A 0130 W1.-,.L. ¦ALL Tllt,.M A. 8115 Nl:11',. F'°CIQT ¦ALl. TC:AMA 71-45 Y/ln"L.CaALL 9100 Tl:A.M 8 s,1 s Tll:.-.M B 7130 TrU,M B 10115 NA Tr.A.MA 9100 MoNe•n:.111 Daolll: ¦ Al.L 12,00 T&AMA 9100 MaH ¦TEfl DDODl.¦AU. 12,00 Tt:AM 8 NA INNl:ll'f'U ¦ I: WAT~II PDLCI TlltAM A NA TUM 8 NA INNl:Wl"U ¦ I: WATP P01.0 TUM A 9100 TCAM A lClOC TltAM S NA 1'1:AM A '1100 Tl:AM 8 N-. T1tAM B NA LN O .••TA.CLC CO.ULll ¦ E Tl:AM A 9t~0 TE.AMII NA LN0 D ¦ aTACL. Cau••· Tll:AM A I 0130 
KAYAKINCI TEAM A 9100 TllAM 6 NA K,t.YA.KINII T&AMA 912 . T....,M a NA T~AM 6 11100 CAL.I. 1•610 . Tl:AM B NA TA ¦ Ls. T•NNI ¦ CALL J-61 DC 

TIAM B 7130 WOMW:N'¦ AACQUl:T ¦ -.Ll. NA TlrAM II 1!1130 Wo11,i11:N1• AACQUttT ¦AU CALL 1•61 00 TEAM A 10120 MrN'a 81100M ¦ A"l.L 9100 MEN'¦ BAaJC..T ¦ A.Lt.. TIIAM A 9100 MCN 1¦ e .. aaM ¦ ALL 9100 TllAM 8 10,00 WOMEN'¦ Bll'IODM•ALL NA TEAMS 9100 WOMKN1¦ B,.DOM ¦ AL~ B100 
WCMt:N' ¦ SASK&T ¦ A.LL TIEAM A NA KICK¦ AJ..L. 12130 TltAM A 9140 KICK ¦ ALL 11110 Tl:AM B NA TS.AM & 11120 TEAM A 10130 9130 N EM P" F'00T¦ AU. TUM A 'illl 5 W11rn.& ¦ AU. 7115 TEAM B 7115 e100 TIE.AM 9 8130 10,ao 
TA,IUltT Gru.P-TIAMA NA MnN¦ YCII D01Hlll ¦ ALL ..... Ta11an Go1., TIEAM A ¦ 14l!> Mgf•rUITIE" DDDll& ¦ ALL. 12100 TICAM B NA IN!t.lf:"TU ¦C WATStll POLO TEAM A Tl:AJ14 B NA IH,.l:fl'TU•K WA.TC• POUi TSAM A 11,00
"" 

TEA.MA .... TIAM & NA Tr.AM A 9100 Tl:AM II NA 
TEAMS NA LNC D ¦¦ TACLE Cau"•a: T11:AN A NA TltAM B 11,00 L.ND D ¦¦ TACLII: C0u111•1: TKAM A 9145 l(...,y,,,,..KINII TIC.-.M A 10,ao TEAM B NA K.AYAl(INal TICAM A 101-40 TaAM a MA TEAM B NA TABLE TENNIS CALL J•6 l 00 TEAM 8 NA TA ¦ LIE TSNNI ¦ CAL.L. 1•11100 
1Uumni /Ureen-Phillips 
MEN~¦ BA¦K•T¦ALL TUM A 9100 WIFFL.EBAL.L. 9115 WOMIEN°¦ 8A¦KET¦ALL T'WAM A 9100 MKN'¦ B11oaM¦ ALL 12115 Tl'.AM 8 9140 WCMIEN 1 ¦ BRDOMBALL 8130 CG·Ra:O &CCCI.It TUMA 713. TA¦LI. TENNI¦ CAI.L 1·6100 TEAM B 1 . 130 KJCIK ¦ ALL I 1130 KAYAKINII 10100 MaN ¦ TER Dao•a: ¦ ALL 12100 
-l1isher /Panghon1 /Holy Cross 
VDLLltY¦ ALL  TEAM A  7s30  MEN1 ¦ AACQUKT ¦ ALL  CAI.I. 1•6100  V0LLltY¦AU.  TllAM A  ?130  MK:N1 ¦ RAOQUKT ¦ ALL  NA  
TEAM B  9:00  WDMKtl¦ RACQUI.T ¦ AU.  CAI.I. 1•6100  TEAM a  NA  waM1tN1 ¦ AAcQuuaALL  CALL 1•61 oo  
MEN1 ¦ 9A¦ KE.T¦Al.L  Tl:A.M A  10100  Metil¦ BfltlDN ¦ ALL  Br30  TEAM A  NA  M&N1 ¦ BIICDM ¦ALL  '11130  
Tc.-.M B  9120  WOMIE~'• a..oaM ¦ ALL  12145  TEAM B  NA  WDMl:N'a Bll'DOM ¦ A.U.  1115  
TEAM A  9100  K~CK¦ ALL  I 1110  WaMc,-la 8.A ¦ K ..T¦ .ALL  Ts.AM A  91:IO  KICK¦ ALL  10130  
TEAM B  9120  TEAM 8  NA  
NtE:"P' F'CDT ¦ALL  TEAM A  9100  Wtf'n.lE¦ ALL  Tl.AM A  8145  NICllr F"DDT¦ ALL  TEAM A  7130  w1,-rLl: ¦ ALL  TUM A  8130  
TEAM B  714!!  Tl"AM B  7115  Tl.AM B  NA  TEAM B  NA  
TAfl1lltT Bou·  Tlt'AM A  8115  MDN ¦ Y•" Daom• ¦ •LL  12100  TA,.DCT OaLr  Tl:AM A  B130  MON ¦ TC" 000111: ¦ ALL  12100  
TEAM B  914!!  IHNIE11111"U ¦ K WATIE" PDL0  Tl:AM A  9130  TEAM B  NA  INNll"1"U ¦ IIC WA.TIEii Pou,  TPM A  NA  
Co-Ra:c SDCCI"  TEAM A  12100  TC..ft.M 8  10100  Ca•RICD BccCEII  TEAM A  Br30  TSAM B  NA  
TEAM B  111:JC  LNO C ¦¦ TACLIC CDUfl. ¦W.  TIIAM A  91 . 5  TEAMS  9130  I.NO OHTAQLII: CDUHII:  TUM A  '11100  
KAYA.KINII  TEAM A  11140  TEAM B  9115  KAYAJUNd  TEAM A  NA  TEAM B  10100  
TEAM B  1100  CAI.I. 1•6100  TllAM B  NA  TA ¦ LC T&NNI ¦  CAL.I. 1•111 . 0  
Sic~fried  /Pas querilla West  
VDLLJ:Y ¦ALL  fEAM A.  B130  M,:N'• RA.Cc;un¦ ALL  CALL 1-0 1DO  VoLLn¦ ALL  
TEAM B  7100  WaMKN1 ¦ RACQUltTaALL  NA  TEAM B  e1oc  W0M&N 1 ¦ AACQUCT¦ALL  CALL 1•6100  
MEN' ¦ BA ¦KcraJALL  TEAM A.  9100  M1:1•i¦ SIIICIDM ¦ ALL  121-45  M•N'¦ BA ¦ KltT ¦ A.LI..  TIEAM A  91-40  Ml:N1 ¦ B"-llDM ¦ ALL  8130  
TEAM B  I ltOO  WaMllr•I'• BIIDOM ¦ ALL  e100  TUMB  10120  WDMCN1 ¦ BflCDM ¦ ALL  9rOC  
Tl:AM A  1 D100  KfCK¦ALL  12110  WDMEN1 ¦ BA¦KIET ¦ ALL  TltAM A  101:ZD  K1c1C ¦ ALL  10150  
TEAM B  NA  TEAM 8  NA  
Nl:ltr F'OCTIIA-LL  TEAM A  7100  W1rrLE ¦ALL  TEAM A.  7130  NEIIIIF F'DOT ¦ALI.  TCAM A  711 !!  W1f'n.1C ¦ ALL  ere .  
Tl:AM S  8145  TEAM B  9100  TaAM B  91-45  NA  
TA,tan GOLF  TKAM A  NA  MCN¦'TK"­ 0DD¦ S. ¦ ALL  12100  T.A"CIIET GOLF'  Tt:AM A  9115  MCN ¦ Tl:JI  DDOIIE ¦ ALL­ 12,00  
TtA~ B  NA  .NNllffTU ¦&' WATER POLO  TEAM A  10100  TtAM a  NA  INNWlffU ¦ E WATll:11 Pol-0  Tl::AM A  8130  
CD·AEC BDCCIUI  TEAM A  10130  TEAM B  NA  Ca•A._c Sacca:"  Tl:AM A  7130  1'1:AM B  NA  
TEAM B  8130  LNC D• ¦TACLC Cau"•·  TEAM A  NA  TEAM B  910 .  I.NO o¦ aTACI.& Cou11•tt  TUM A  91 I!,  
IC.AYAKINCI  Tl:AM"  1 Zr40  TEAM B  NA  KAYAKtNl:I  TltA.M A  1:11100  TSAM B  10115  
Tt:A.M 8  I 1,20  TA¦L1t TENNf ¦  CAL.L 1•6100  Tll:AM B  NA  TA¦ LC T&NNt ¦  CAI.I.  1•6100  

St. l~,l's /l~arley / MeCandless 
Tt:AM A 7100 Ml:N1¦ RACQUET¦ALL CALL 1•61D0 

Vct.LSY ¦ ALL TUM A 7130 Mt1:N'• RAcgul:T ¦ ALL CALL. 1·61D0 TEAMS NA WCIM•N1 ¦ RACl;iUl:T ¦ At..L NA 
TEAM B NA WDMI.N'¦ AACOUIET ¦ ALL CAl.L 1•61 DD MEN1B BA¦ K&T¦ AU. TIEM-f A 912D MEN1¦ Bll'DCM¦ At..L 8100 
Mll'N1¦ BA¦KCT¦ALL TUM A 1D140 MEN1 ¦ BIIDDM ¦ ALL 9130 TEAM B 10140 Wot-11:N'a BIIIDDM ¦ AL.L 1145 
TEAM B 9140 WOMEN'¦ 8111DDM¦AU. 9130 TS.AM A. 9140 KICUALL 1 0150 1
WDMEN ¦ BA.KI.T¦ALL T•AM A 9120 KlCK¦ ALL 1Oa30 TllAM B NA 
TUM B NA Na:11:,-F"DCT ¦ ALI. Tit.AM A 7100 W!f'f'LE ¦AU.. 8145 
Nt"r f"DQ"r8AL.L T&AM A e,oo w,rn.&¦ ALL TUM A 1114!1 TIEAM S 8100 NA 
T&AM 8 8145 TUM a NA TAftDIET GOU' TS.AM A Sl!5 MCN¦T•II Doooa¦ALL 121100 
TltAM A NA M0N ¦ TIIIIII 00D ¦ l! ¦ Ai.L 12,00 TltAM El NA l"N&IITUH WATSII Pou:, TltAM A 'il1'31l 
TSAN 8 NA INHtllll'TU ¦& WAT&ft P0\.D T&AM ,.. NA TaAM A NA TCAM 8 
Cc•Rrc f!IDCOIUII Tlt'-M A 9130 TSAM B NA
N" 

Ts•M S NA i.N0 D ¦¦ T~L• cau..¦E TEAM A NA TEAM B NA LPl(IO D ¦¦ T.ACLa Cau" ¦ E Ta:AM A NA KA.YAKtNtl T&'A.M A 12,zo TtrAM 8 NA 
KAYAKINCI TltAM A NA Ta4M B NA Tl'...ft.M S NA CALL1·6100 
TUM B NA TA¦L& TKNNI¦ CAI.I. 1•6100 
Zah1n / Ca\Tantu1~ O'Neill /i\leGlinn 
-·. 
VDLLl'.:'Y ¦Af..l.. TUM A 8100 M«N' ¦ flADiiUCT ¦ AL.L CALL. 1'61 DO VDLLllY ¦ AI.L TEAM A 7100 MIN'a AACQUET ¦ ALL CAL.L 1•6100 T••M B 7100 WcM&N'a RACJaLIIET¦ M.L. N" TltAM I a100 wa.......... AACQUl:T ¦ A.l.l.. CALL 1•6100 Ttt•M A 9140 ,...,_,-. B•oaMe.ALL TEAM A 11,00 MIEN'• ¦ ft00M ¦ALI. B10D "'5
TUMS NA WOMl;N 1 ¦ BIIIICSOM ¦ ALL 9100 TUMl!I 9120 WDJ4aN' ¦ a ..ctOM ¦ ALL 8130 W0"'4SN 1¦ DA¦ KtcT¦ALL Tll:AM A 9J(]0 KtcK.AL'L 1211 o WOMIEN1¦ BA ¦ KE.T ¦ ALL TICAM A 10100 KICK ¦ ALL 11150 T&AM 8 10100 11,00
T"",. a 

Nl'.flf" F"COT¦ ALL TUM A ens W1r.-Lll¦ ALL TCAM A 7145 NS.flt,. F°D01" ¦ At.L Tl:AM A 7130 W1,-n.1:IIALL. TCAM A Bt:ID TaA"" Q 9130 TSAM B 8115 TUM 8 10100 n,-.. 11 714!1 
TA..¦ ltT Daa..r TCAM A NA MCN.TEII DCIDDIE¦ALL 1Z10. TAIIIGlllT G0L.P' To:AM A Br30 12100 ,-,.,_,. B NA lNNWIITU ¦ C WATR"II PaLa TCAM A NA T&AM El NA INNl:,n-U ¦ K WA1'&,_ PDL.D Ta:AM A 91:ID Tr4M A e100 Tr•M a NA TkAM A 10100 TSAM. NA Tir..ft.M B 1Zt30 L.ND D ¦¦ TACLll COUJIIE TE'AM A 9100 TEAM 8 e100 LNO OaaTAl!Lll Cl!IU11 ¦ 0: TtAM A V1JD 
KAYA.KIND TIEAM A NA TitAM S NA Tll:AMA 11,..0 TEAM B NA 
CALL. !·Al 00

TUM B NA TA. ¦ LK TS.NNI ¦ CAI.I. 1•61 O .. TUM B NA TA¦ U: Tl:HNI ¦ 

page 17

Friday, January 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
PHOENIX OPEN
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Tryon struggles in
Ted Williams hospitalized 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla 

Ted Williams, slowed by a series of strokes and conges­tive heart failure in recent years, was back in the hospi• tal Thursday. 
The 83-year­
old baseball Hall "There's nothing I can of Farner was 
compare it to in my life. I 

taken from his 
really have been 

home by ambu­lance to Shands through hell." Hospital at the University of 
Ted Williams

Florida, about 50 
Baseball Hall of Farner

miles away. He 
had open-heart surgery last January. 
No details were being released on his condition, hospital spokeswoman Kristi Lam said. Williams' family would not comment. 
Lori Cronshaw, spokes• woman for the Citrus County Sheriff's Office, which dis­patched the ambulance, also decl111ed to discuss Williams' condition. 
Williams had a series of strokes in the 1990s, includ• ing an especially severe one 
in 1994 t h a t limited h i s vision a n d mobili• ty. He also has had an i n C ­reased heart 
rate and high blood pressure in recent years. 
In November 2000, doctors placed a pacemaker in Williams' chest and two months later he had the open-heart surgery because of congestive heart failure. 
He spent part of his time 

his PGA debut 
recovering in San Diego, his hometown, and has been at his Florida home since Aug. 30, his 83rd birthday. 
In a rare interview in September, the former Red Sox star told The Boston Sunday Globe, 'Tm feeling pretty good." 
"But my whole life has been knocked out of joint," he said. "Oh, boy. I've never been through years like I've been through in the last four years. There's nothing I can com• pare it to in my life. I really have been through hell." 
Known during his playing days as "Tho Splendid Splinter," Williams has lived in Florida since retiring from the Red Sox in 1960. 
The Hall of Farner played his entire 19-year career with Hoston and was the last man to bat .400 for a season, hit­ting .406 in 1941. 



with everyone watching. Today 
Sat. JanuarY 26 @ 12:00 VM 
• 
was knocking a little rust off, getting through that first PGA Tour round. He'll be fine." 
NOTRE DAME 


Tryon concurred. "I had to go through the tough­est part, I guess," he said. "It
vs. 

might get a little easier from 
here, but I'm happy I went
Vll!JI 
SETON HALL 

through it. You've got to experi• ence the bad shots." In that respect, he gained a lot
Come see the "Hoop Wizard," 

of experience Thursday. He didn't hit a fairway until his 
the basketball dribbling extraordinaire perform at halftime/I 
eighth hole, and that was with an iron. He didn't have a birdie putt on any of the par-5s. Birdie opportunities were scarce. 
His round ended with a 20-foot birdie putt that he tracked all the way into the cup, giving a faint fist pump and a smile. 
"It was a tough day," he said. "It was windy, cold, I was ner• vous and I was hitting shots that I didn't want to hit." 
It wasn't an easy day for any­one who played early. 
The round began 15 minutes late because of frost, and the temperature was 41 degrees when play finally began. Fittingly, the best score of the morning group came from a Canadian, Glen Ilnatiuk, who overcame bogeys on two of his first three holes for a 67. 
"We were fortunate," Flesch said of starting in the afternoon, when the wind died and temper­atures warmed considerably. "We got the good end of the draw. Obviously, I'm sitting in a good spot." 
Vijay Singh had a 66 in his first round of the year and was joined by Matt Kuchar, Skip Kendall and Tom Lehman. Mike Weir, Cameron Beckman and Stephen Ames were among those at 6 7, while John Daly, Fred Couples and Charles Howell III were at 68. 
Most of the attention was on 
Tryon, who became the youngest 
player to earn his tour card last 
year with a 66 on the final day of 
Q-School. About 500 gathered 
around the first tee and followed 
him along the TPC at Scottsdale. 
The crowd tapered off toward 
the end of the round, but that 
was to be expected. 
"I scared them off with my 
great performance," Tryon said. 
"If I want a bigger crowd, I 
guess I've got to make some 
birdies." 
Bird-ies? At one point, par 
would have been a good com• 
panion. 
He hit into a bunker on No. 10, 
his opening hole, and missed a 
7-foot par putt. He badly missed 
the fairway to the right on his 
next hole, had to pitch into the 
fairway and took another bogey. 
On his first par-5. he sprayed his 
tee shot into the water. 
Then, he showed his youth ­
dipping a wedge into the water 
to retrieve the ball, cleaning it 
off and taking his drop. 
"I tried to rake a trap, too," 
Tryon said. "Hey, I'm a rookie." 

ND Department of Music Presents Senior recital 
Danielle Skorich, soprano 
Saturday, January 26, 2002 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Free and open to the public 

Associated Press 
SCO'ITSDALE, Ariz. 

The PGA Tour's youngest rookie received a rude welcome Thursday in the Phoenix Open. 
Ty Tryon, 17, figured the toughest part of his debut would be nerves. He also had to deal with cold, blustery conditions, and a golf swing that went on recess during a front nine that left him numb. 
Ty Tryon struggled on the greens, needing 31 putts during his opening round. "The more bad shots I hit, the more nervous I got," he said. 
Tryon recovered with a birdie on his final hole for a 6-over 77. Only one other player fared worse in the opening round, although Tryon was hardly con­cerned. 
Neither was the man 13 
strokes ahead of him, Steve 
Flesch, who ran off four straight 
birdies and wound up with a 64 
for a one-stroke lead over Duffy 
Waldorf. 
"Believe me, he won't shoot 
many 77s," Flesch said. "I saw 
Q-School on TV when he shot 66 
... 

page 18 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 25, 2002 
ND SWIMMING 
Irish look to make a splash against 'Cats 

By SHEIIA EGTS Sports Writer 
The Irish seem as calm and serene as the undisturbed waters of the Rolfs Aquatic Center as they anticipatf' the dual meet competition against Big East opponent Villanova on Saturday. 
The men's swimming and diving team has not competed against Villanova since the Big E a s t 
team is confident in its advan­tage against Villanova and plans to swim to win. but not necessarily for fast times. 
The biggest threat to the women's team is Villanova's lead swimmer, Maddy Crippen, who finished sixth in the 400 meter intermediate at the 2000 Summer Olympics. 
Labosky, who has swam and trained with Crippen since the eighth grade, will swim against her in the 400 intermediate. 
Labosky last 

Championships s w a m
"We finished ahead of

last spring Crippen in
them [VUlanova] last 

where thev this even last beat them spring at the Big East. spring at the soundly. Big East
We like to swim in our 

"We finished where she
pool and to be honest, I 

ahead of them finished sec­(Villanova] last think we have the ond to spring at the Crippen.
advantage going in." 

Big East. We "I respect like to swim in Maddy more our pool and to Tim Welsh than any ath­be honest, I men's head coach lete as she is 
think we have the advantage going in." said men's head coach Tim Welsh. 
With only tqree dual meets remaining until the Big East. both teams arr. very interested in preparing for the Big East and landing invitations to the competition, according to Welsh. However, the women's team's main focus is on its more difficult dual meets against Northwestern and 
Michigan. 
According to sophomore Marie Labosky, the women's one of' the 
best in the country in hfir evPnt," said Labosky. "I trained with her over Christmas break again. n.nd ! know her weaknesses and strengths. I don't want to go in and say I'm going to lose, but it should be fun to see what happens." 
The men's and women's meets both begin at Rolf's Aquatic Center at 4 p.m. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 







r=r1. Jan. ~l'.i Men's & Women's Indoor Trade ~t.-Jan. ft Women's Tennis 
and 

Men's &Women's Swimming Women7s Basketball 
@ 6:00 PM vs. Michigan State 
@ 10:00 AM vs. lliinois State 
@ 3:00 PM vs. Northern Iowa @ 4:00 PM vs. Villanova @ 6 :00 PM vs. Virginia Tech 

Cleveland and /ronwuud Road, /801 I C/eve/unJ Road'Su11th Bend Jndiana -166]7, (2!9)]72-8/ IU 
New Castle Point Select Units Avail ab 1 e for Next Semester *Within minutes ofcampus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious ont and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


Friday, January 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 


BRIAN PUCEVICHfThe Observer Notre Dame players Le'Tania Severe (left) and Kelsey Wicks battle for the ball against Connecticut. 
WoDien's 
MIKE CONNOLLY{The Observer 
Junior foilist Liza Boutsikaris touches off target in a bout at the 2001 NCAA Championship. 
continued from page 24 
Boutsikaris is fencing No. 3 foil this year after the addition of two top freshman to the foil squad. 
Preview 
continued from page 24 
it when Notre Dame battles St. John's. 
"It will be a good test to see where we are." epee captain Jan Viviani said. "They are obviously one of the teams we are going to have to beat to get where we want to be." 
The defending national champs return 10 of 12 starters from the team that ran away with the national title last year including indi­vidual national champions Ivan Lee in sabre and Emesa Takacs in epee. 
Although St. John's returns a lot of good fencers. it lost two of its best from last year -two-time national sabre champion Keeth Smart and 2000 national epee champion Alex Roytblat. 
Although the Red Storm have yet to find a strong replacement for Smart, Arpad Horvath from Hungry has filled in for Roylblat with a undefeated start to the 2002 season. 
"Epee is such a strong field." Irish head coach Yves Auriol said. "St. John's has guys that can win the nation­al championship. It's going to be tough competition." 
Women's epee will be no easier as in addition to Takacs, St. John's returns the national runner-up for 2001, Arlene Stevens. 
At the 2001 championships, Irish junior Meagan Call pulled out two close 5-4 wins against the St. John's duo. Captain Anna Carnick, how­advantage in 2002. Auriol believes Walton is capable of beating both St. John's fencers. 

This dual meet will also mark the debut of freshman foilists Andrea Ament and Alicja Kryczalo. The top Irish foilists did not fence at the opening Northwestern meet because of a conflict with a World Cup event. Auriol said Ament and Kryczalo are the best 1-2 combination in colle­giate fencing. This weekend. they will face perhaps their biggest challenge for that dis­tinction -Liz Thottam and Irina Khouade both of whom started the season 12-0. 
In addition to St. John's, Notre Dame will also face Columbia, NYU and Yale. 
well. which is-our weakness
'''''''''''''''' 
ever, dropped both bouts. 

somebody that we're looking at The addition of Walton Contact Mike Connolly at 
to move into the starting line­should give the Irish the connolly.~8@nd.edu. 
up... She played well the last two games. She's rebounding 
' 
'-Saint Mary's 2002-2003 ' Student Body Elections '-Are Coming! 
' Monday, January 28th , 2002 
' A11 Day 
'-On-Campus Students vote in the ' dining ha11 during a11 meals. ' Off-Campus Students vote in the '-off-campus lounge from 9am-4pm. 
' 

' ' '­
' 
' 

'­' ' ' 
"We need Ericka's defense," McGraw said. "Starling is a really good player and I'm not sure if we have a lot of people who can guard her." 
Another Hokies player who could give the Irish fits on the defensive end is sophomore center Icva Kublina. The 6­foot-4 pivot player averages 
13.6 points and 7.6 rebounds per game. Not just an inside threat, Kublina has hit seven of 21 attempts from 3-point land. 
"Last year. she had Ruth [Riley] running around the 3­point line because she's a decent 3-point shooter," McGraw said of Kublina. who totaled 25 points in three games against Notre Dame last year. "So that really hurt is in the game down there. She didn't do much against us here but she played well down there." 
The Hokies also feature a tough defense that has held opponents to an average of 
55.1 points per contest. 
"They play the pressure man­ta-man. they're a great defen­sive team," McGraw said. "They're a really fundamentally sound, hard-working team." 
The game also gives the Irish a chance to show how much better they are now after start­ing the season out 2-4. includ­ing losses to ranked teams in Michigan, Purdue and Colorado State. Other than Connecticut. the Irish have not played a ranked team since falling to Purdue on Dec. 6. 
"I think we are hungry for a win," Wicks said. "We're hun­gry to make a statement about how much improvement we've made over this season." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 

this week off of practice to nurse nagging leg injuries, and her status for Saturday's game is uncertain. Le'Tania Severe, who has been coming off the bench in recent games, would tah1 Joyce's spot at the point. 
Another spot that appears to be up for grabs is the forward position next to freshman Jacqueline Batteast. Ericka Haney has started in that spot most of the year, but played just 17 minutes in Notre Dame's two games against Connecticut and Providence over the weekend. 
In Haney's place, McGraw might move Wicks into the starting lineup. The freshman led Notre Dame with 16 points off the bench against the Huskies on Monday. 
"Kelsey's really playing well," McGraw said. "I think she's 
right now. That's something that we need. If she can rebound, she can help us." 
But McGraw's decision wasn't definite. The Irish coach point­ed out that Virginia Tech, who had won 12 games in a row before fa1ling 75-59 at Syracuse Wednesday night. feature a tal­ented forward in Chrystal Starling, who averages a team­leading 16.3 points per game for the Hokies. Haney, still one of the team's best defenders despite her offensive struggles. could help neutralize Starling. The two played together in Germany on a Big East AH-Star team over the summer. 
' Come and p1ace your vote for your ' 

BALLET '-Student Body President & Vice '­~ President for the 2002-2003 schoo1 ~ 
INSTRUCTOR 


Donald Jtikeleafher -lnsfrucfor of Balle!, Modern and Jazz Dance 
' year! '­
-Guest Performer in the Midwest -Eleven Years Collegiate Teaching Experience
' ' 
~Choreographer 
Classes Meet: Be"i1111er ($39) Sundays Wednesdays 
' ' 
~ Sponsored by SMC Board of Governance ~ 
Advanced ($39) Sundays Wednesday 
Sundays Wednesday 
All classes meet at the RSRC Information Meeting Sunday, January 27
,_ ' ' ''­1:00 PM
' 
I :00pm-2:30pm 6:30pm-7:45pm 
2:30pm-4:00pm 7:4Spm-9:00pm 
4:00pm-4:45pm 9:00pm-9:30pm 

-RSRC Act. Rm. 2 
'-
Sign-Ups Begin Monday, January 28 at 8:00 am Fees are due at time of registration 
Space is Limited Classes Begin Wednesday, January JO Open to all Notre Dome students, faculty, staff, retirees and their spouses. 
'''''''''''''''' 
page 20 The Obm-ver . SPORTS Friday, January 25,2002 
NBA ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Jordan's 
Irish open spring with dual matches 
40leads 
Wizards 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Michael Jordan scored 40 points as the Washington Wizards handed the Cleveland Cavaliers their 11th straight loss, 94-85 Thursday night. 
Jordan's only real slip-up came when he lost his foot­ing and crashed to the floor trying to make a move in the third quarter. 
For the first time in a while, Jordan didn't leave his game in the locker room at halftime, scoring 16 points after the break. 
Jordan went 18-for-29, 7­for-14 in the second half, and had eight rebounds in 40 minutes. He scored eight points in a 10-0 run, includ­ing a 16-foot jump shot over a triple-team while being fouled, as the Wizards took command midway through the third quarter. 
Jordan went 2-for-15 and 1-for-8 in the second halves of the last two games, both losses, as his legs tired against zone defenses and double teams. The slumping, undermanned Cavaliers gave him no such problems. 
The Wizards had lost six of seven, mostly against the best teams in the league, so Cleveland was a change of pace, although an uncertain one. The Cavaliers dominat­
ed the only previous meeting this season, a 94-7 5 romp on Nov. 27 that dropped the Wizards to 3-10 and prompt­ed Jordan to utter "We stink." 
The sequel to the "We stink" game should be remembered for Jordan's great recovery to his stum­ble. Lying on the floor, he drilled the ball off Wesley Person's knee, sending it out of bounds so the Wizards could retain possession. 
Chris Whitney added 15 points, and Popeye Jones had nine points and eight rebounds for the Wizards. 
Person scored 19 points ­

16 in the first quarter -to 
lead the Cavaliers, who have 
lost 11 in a row for the first time since the 1990-91 sea­son. 
The Cavaliers were worth watching only when Person was hot. He and Jordan put on a show in the first 12 minutes, working free on screens to match jump shot for jump shot. Both had 16 points at the end of the first quarter, with Person making 8 of 9 shots and Jordan 8 of 
11. 
FILE TAX RETURN ONLINE 
Refund in about 14 days with direct deposit 1040EZ -$9.95 1040A -$14.95 Log onto www.1040.com/ctstax 

hard, we should be fine. 
it to at least the sweet 16 of cboylan@nd.ed(!.
...,. . :ttto/ ....,,, 

CE CORPS 

~ 
Volunteers Needed 
What will you be doing after graduation?Apply to the Peace 
The Early Childhood Development Center located :at Sabt MarysCorps andyou could be servingoverseas by this summer. It's 
Co!Jege and the University of Notre Dame is looking for volunteers
-the toughestjob you'll ever love. 

who enjoy young children. If you would be interested 1n 5pending 2 hour.s per week m,ding to .children and playing with children, r!ease

Northern Indiana Peace Corps Info Meetings 

call: Kari at ECDC-SMC 284--4693 or Sue at ECDC-ND 631-3344 tor 
Tues., Jan. 29, 6 to 7:30 p.m., 

more information. (Summer employment opportunities also available,) 
Valparaiso University Union, Crusader Room 
Early Childhood 
Wed., Jan. 30, 7p.m. 
Development

(panel addressing post-grad full-time service 
Center, Inc. opportunities) 
284-4693
St, Mary's College, Carroll Auditorium 
(ECDC-SMC) 
Thurs., Jan. 31, 7 to 9 p.m., 
631-3344Univ. of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns 

(ECDC-ND)
Questions? Call 800.424.8580, option l http://www.peacecorps.gov 
-_J 
By COLIN BOYLAN 
Spores Writer 
The women's tennis team returns to action this week­end with home matches against Illinois State and Northern Iowa. And for the players, the start of the spring season can't come soon enough. 
"We're really excited about the match this weekend," said senior Nina Vaughan. "Especially since we'll be playing at home." 
The 14th-ranked lrish may have to shake off a little rust for their first dual match in over two months, but the lay­off shouldn't affect them too severely. According to assis­tant coach Liz Barker, most of the players had great win­ter practices and are looking forward to maintaining their momentum from a solid fall season. 
Captain Becky Varnum will try to continue her torrid fall pace in which she scored vic­tories over several highly ranked opponents and firmly entrenched herself as a No. 1 singles player. 

"We have a lot of confi­dence in Becky as our num­ber one," said Vaughan. 
Behind Varnum, Linsdey Green and Vaughn will fill out the two and three singles slots. Meanwhile, Katie Cunha, Alicia Salas and Sarah Jane Connelly will round out the starting lineup. Noticeably missing is sopho­more Caylan Leslie, whose absence because of a shoul­der injury caused the coaches to re-shuffle their starters. 
"We'll certainly miss Caylan's presence out there, but l think our team is deep enough to survive some injuries," said Barker. 
Injury concerns aside, Notre Dame should have little trouble with their opponents this weekend. Although Illinois State does feature the talented doubles pairing of Liina Suurvarik and Alesia Mikalayeva -who gave the Irish trouble in regional com­petitions earlier in the year -neither they nor Northern Iowa has enough singles fire­power to compete with the Irish. ­
"I think as long as we play 
NELLIE WILLIAMSfThe Observer 

Irish senior Becky Varnum returns a serve during a match this past fall. The Irish open their spring season this weekend. 
Hopefully we'll be able to the NCM's," she sa~d. give a lot of people a chance Match play begms at 10 to play and get some match a.rn. this Saturday against experience," said Barker. Illinois State and at 3_ p.m. 
According to Vaughan, the against Northern Iowa m the team wants to use this week-Eck Tennis Pavillion. end's matches as a stepping­stone towards completing their season goals. "This year we're hoping to go undefeat­ed in regional play and make Contact Colin Boylan at 


,, 

. ... or are you interested in leadership? 
~ 
~4!.lr&t•l~tLllkll~tl-Ill\ ~.:,l111;li.k°;I 


. 
' 

•Transportation 
provided •No service obligation 

•Over 
60 leadership positions currently available 


•iO projects per week at different days and times 
Alladagerad 11Eetirga,SLn. Jen 27'hct 5pn
Specid locaticn: TI7 l-qgw! 
Regular meetings are held at 5pm on Sundays in the Library Auditorium; for more info. you can contact our president Bo Rottenborn at Rottenborn.2·iind.cdu You can also visit our website at www.nd.edu/~circlek 

Friday, January 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Men's 
continued from page 24 
1know how to play." 
After Monday's loss, both Brey and Graves criticized the senior forward's defensive effort. 
' That's whv Jonl.'S, who has never started but is one of Notre Oame's top perimeter defend­ers, would be a logical choice if Brey decides to make a change. Jones could provide a strong defensive spark to keep the Irish in the game early. That's a problem that that has plagued the Irish this year. In their 18 games, the Irish have trailed at the half nine times by an aver­age of 8.4 points. They've only come bac:k to win three times. "We always seem to get down early because we tend to feel teams out early and don't attack them the way they attack us," he said. "It's not so much as changing the lineup as it L'i get­ting a differenl mindset going 

Hear the Experiences 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
ofGang Members from Chicago 
4:00PM 
For more information please contact the Center for Social Concerns at 1-5293 

Take the Opp<:>rtunity t<> Open Your Mi11d 
into the games." 
"He's done a great job oJI the 
bench," Brcv said. "Whatever 
we ask him· to do, play more 
minutes, play less minutes. 
start. he always gives us energy 
and does whatever we ask." 
While Graves admits he ·s 
been struggling, he thinks he 
shouldn't be pulled out of the 
starting lineup. Last year, after 
the Irish lost their third game in 
four tries to Kentucky, Brey 
benched Graves and started 
Harold Swanagan to give the 
Irish a different look. Then, 
Graves said he was hurting the 
team and he shouldn't be play­
ing. But he knows that's not the 
case this time around. 
"Regardless of how I've 
played in the last five games. 
you have to look at the whole 
picture," said Graves, who is 
averaging 14.2 points per game. . "I don't think I have anything to 
prove to anybody. It's not how 
hard you fall, it's how high you 
bounce." 
Regardless of who starts 
Saturday, the Irish will face a tal<mtPd Seton Hall backcourt. ff the Pirates, who are 10-8 over­all and 3-3 in the Big East. hurt an opponent, they tend ~o do it with their perimeter players. Guards Andrew Barrett and Daruis Lane enter Saturclav's contest averaging 17.2 and 12.3 points per game, respectively. Forward Jon Allen is third on the team in scoring and also averages 5.2 rebounds per game. 
While thri Trish aren't approaching Saturday's game panicked, several players said they feel a sense of urgency to find the style of play that allowed them to cruise to easy victories earlier in the season. And the only way they know how to do that is to simply go out and play. 
"You can practice hard and say the right things and do all the things you need to do," Jones said, "but when t.he lights come on and the fans are out there, that's when it really counts." 
Notes: 
. Brey said Swanagan's status for Saturday's game is still ques­tionable. 
"He's better. but I think we'll make a decision tomorrow," the coach said. "I think we're still sticking with our philosophy of we want him closer to 100 per­cent." 
If Swanagan's ankle injury keeps him from playing, Jordan Cornette appears to have an edge over Jere Macura to replace Swanagan in the start­ing lineup. 
"We'll evaluate [who starts] over practice, but I'm very happy with Jordan Cornette," Brey said. "You feel pretty con­sistent about going back that way." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

HOCKEY 
Irish look to get back on track 
shots. more than any other 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Irish opponent this year. Assistant Sporrs Editor 
"We had a great week of 

practice this week," Poulin 
The Irish hockey team said. "The team has accepted takes to .the road tonight for that they ran into a hot goal­a two-game series with CCHA tender." rival Miami of Ohio. The Irish Even though the Irish and the Redhawks are cur­appeared to outplay their rently tied for the eighth spot opponents last weekend. the in the division with 16 points team still lost both matches, each. as they failed to convert on 
With only the top 10 teams many scoring opportunities. advancing to the conference "I think the only thing we playoffs. the next two games need to change from last could prove pivotal to the week that we worked on this team's post-week is scor­season ing." Dunlop
"I think the only thing we
future. said. "We 
"Obviously need to change from last had the it's a big chances to
week that we worked on 
game, espe­win the
this week is scoring. " 
cially since games last it ·s against weekend. We Miami. but thought we
Connor Dunlap 
really every played pretty
Irish center 
game from here on out is a big game," Irish center Connor Dunlop said. "It just makes it that much bigger being tied with [Miami]." 
The Irish are coming off of a disappointing conference­weekend in which they dropped two games to Nebraska-Omaha, and failed to take a poin·t in a confer­ence two-game series for the first time all year. 
"We had a disappointing weekend last week," Irish captain Evan Nielsen said. "It ju1,t put a little more impor­tance on these games now that we're tied." 
The division standings in the CCHA conference are still very much up for grabs, as only seven points separates the eight teams between third and 10th place. 
"We are still right in the middle of the pack fin the CCHAJ." head coach Dave Poulin said. "We are looking to go into this weekend and get some points." 
In the last weekend series, the Irish fired a commanding 90 shots on goal, but only got four past the impressive Nebraska-Omaha goalie Dan Ellis. In the Friday night ses­sion, Ellis turned away 45 
Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Saturday, January 26 • 10:00am 
Clinics held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $9.00 Includes Rental 
Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
R-~ 
well. but we 

just couldn't put a few of the shots in the back of the net like we need­ed to." 
During the week of prac­tice, the Irish worked on con­verting their scoring chances. For the most part, the team knows that it played well enough to win last weekend, but was unable to finish their chances. 
"We just made a couple of. little changes," Nielsen said. "We tried a couple of things that might give us a spark to score a few more goals." 
The trip away from home ice at the Joyce will be the first in six games for the Irish. During their last home­stand, the Irish finished only 1-4-1, so the trip away from South Bend may be a wel­come change for the team. 
"I think we play pretty good hockey on the road," Nielsen said. "The change of scenery will be nice for us I think." 
The Irish and the Redhawks will face off at 7:35 p.m. Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 25, 2002 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Cross country rivals set to meet on track 
We should have done significantly better
By DAVE COOK 
than that," said Pianc. "But then again

Spom 'X'rirer 
you miss those five guys. Certainly 
enough points out of' those five would 

When the distance runners of the have gotten us the win." men's and women's track and field team The Michigan State women. under a toe the line on Friday, they will be lining new head r.oach in Angela Goodman, will up against opponents who are very famil­bring many strong athletes to Notre iar -probably too familiar for their own Dame on Friday. 
comfort. Senior tri-captain Ann Somerville leads 
The last time the Notre Dame distance the MSU track and lield learn. posting runners raced against Michigan State NCAA provisional qualifying times last was in the NCAA cross country champi­year in the 3000 meter steeplechase and 
onships in Greenville, S.C., Michigan the 5000 meter run. 
Slate took 18lh place in the team stand­Senior Sherita Williams also poses a ings while Notre Dame claimed a fifth threat to score many points on Friday. place fi11ish. She was the 2001 Indoor 13ig Ten 
In the women's race, Michigan State Champion in the triple jump, breaking an had finished in an impressive 11th place MSU school record three times last sea-with the Irish finishing in 19th plar.e. son. "They have excellent distance runners. In the field events. junior tri-captainExcellent," said Irish head coach Joe Lynlee Philips leads the Spartans, com­Piane. peting in the 20-pound wr.ight throw and For the men. the formidable Michigan the javelin. She holds the Michigan State State distance squad is led under the school record in both categories.
stellar performance of All-American The Notr(' Dame women look to contin• Andv Lixey. Lixey was rf"d-shirted as a ue their success with a second win on the sophomore. but came back in his junior season. They began the season with a 
year to take a fourth-place finish in the 
bang. winning 11 of 16 events in a trian­800 meters at the Big Ten gular meet last Friday. And according to Championships. Liz Grow, they have their expectations 
Also among the distance men is fresh­set high for this 2002 season. man phenom Chris Toloff, who led the "Our mile relay team is so fast. I'm veryMSU cross country team, finishing 64th confident that we'll all get All-American at nationals. this year in the mile relay," said Grow. Complimenting the distance runners is The women show depth all around. 
senior Paul Terek, who earned All­Grow leads the sprinting corps. the dis­American honors in the heptathlon at the tance group is coming off a very strongNCAA championships. He specializes in cross country season, and in the field 
the pole vault competition, where he has events Tameisha King and company look a personal record 17-feet, 5 inches. to create a lot of noise in the Big East. Rounding out the Michigan State squad Notre Dame and Michigan State square are Steve Manz in the shot put, Jeff Kus off this Fridav. Field events begin at 6 
in the high jump, and Julien Williams in p.m. on the Meyo Track. the long jump, all of who are looking for victories at the Big Ten Championships. Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
The Notre Dame men's team is coming off a somewhat disappointing third place finish last Friday with the absence of several key athletes. 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to rebound 
team in the close game ver­!lope College WednesdayBy JOE LINDSLEY sus Adrian last Saturday. night, breaking Hope's 39 
Sports Writer 
Also, in many ways, the game winning streak. But 
tnam seems to be just as Hope was without its best 
With seven gam0s left in united as beliire. player, who is out for an the regular season, the "I was just talking to a injury for five weeks. Saint Mary's basketball few of them who went to Despite the fact that a tP.am is trying to recover lunch together. They're win would bP warmly wel­
from two consecutive loss­definitely still focused, They comed by this Belles squad, 
es. including a 74-51 defeat know we have the talent. Smith drrns not consider at Kalamazoo Wednesday It's just a matler of pulling Saturday's meeting with night. it all together," Smith said. Albion a must-win game. 
Coach Suzanne Smith It sef"ms that the Relles' 'There are three games I cancelled Thursday's prac­major weakness at the look at as a must-win situ­ticr. to give hr.r team, 6-12 start of Wednesday's game ation, and four that we overall and 2-5 in MIAA was a lack of assertiveness, would to like get one ol' play. an opportunity to rest not a lack ofdepth. those, and Albion L<; one of 
some minor physical "J don't think we came those four," she said. injuries. as well as to get out with the same intensity The "must-win" gamesm'frntally ready for after coming off a good are home gam('s verse Saturday's contest at game with Adrian," said Alma and Calvin, as well as Albion. Smith of the Kalamazoo an away game at Olivet. 
"I just think we nt':ed to game. "II'ml not at all The Belles' goal for the heal. We are a smaller pleased with [Wednesday] remainder of the season is team now. and people are night's performance." to beat these three teams 
playing a lot of minutes," After Thursday's day of plus at least one additional Smith said in reference to rest. Smith expects the squad. the loss offour players over Belles to be ready to beat While the outlook for the the winter break. "I think Albion for the second time rest of the season is posi­
more than anything we just this season. The major dif­tive. the past few months ' nrled to get mentally rnady ference this time, though, have had many struggles, for the second lmll' ol' con­is that the game is at as well as great moments. ference play." Albion, and the Belles have for the Belles. 
But the loss of those play­difllculty winning on the "[The season] has had ilc;; ers, according to Smith. road. ups and downs. There have has not been a factor in the . Nevertheless, the Belles definitely been moments 
Belles' recent lossBs. are optimistic. when. vou !'eel really good 
"To be honest. I'm sick of "We're excited. I know about· things, and then talking about !losing the they're going to come out there are moments when players]. It's done and over wanting to get us because you wonder 'OK, are we with. We've moved on," we beat them here on going anywhere?'" said 
she said. January 2nd, so they're Smith. Certain players. especial• going to want revenge. The Belles hope they will ly sophomore Katie Miller, They played awful that not have to wonder about have stepped up to lead the game. But I also think it their direction Saturday Belles after the exodus of gives us a little bit of an night. sorts. Miller led Saint edge, knowing that we beat Mary's with 13 points them once," Smith said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at 

against Kalamazoo, and Albion narrowly upset 
jlindsle@nd.edu

was a great asset to her previously undefeated 
Quill Redwine and Tom Gilbert 

The Class of 2004 and DICE 
were sidelined due to sickness. while distance runners Marc 
would like to treat you to...
Striowski and Pat Conway were out of competition because of minor 
~-----------­

injuries. High jumper Godwin Mbagwu 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 

was also not in full form last Friday 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest 

because of pains he was having in 
Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! 

his legs. 
"I was not pleased with the men. 
Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710

I 
I I I I I
.. 
ANDA 

217-1277 
54533 
EAIT O,f lTerrace Ln 

I OHCAQO I(Off of S.R. 23)
I I I 
I ..... P1ZZA....COMPANV$'_j 


Saturday, January 26
I I I LARGE 10 ITEM TOWER 
Starting at 8 PM at the Alumni Senior Club
I 
I PIZZA $9.99 
Enjoy Free Food from
I 
I and
I 
The Olive Garden and Outback Steakhouse 
I 
I ADD 6 BREADSTICKS 
While there, pick up a free Admit One Ticket to
I 
I 
the SUB movie of your choice: 
I I ar SAUCE $1 .49! 
I 
Monsters, Inc. 
I We'll match any Papa )ohn's,Domino's 
I 
or

I or Marco's Coupon
I 
The Big Lebowski
I 
I We take Visa & Mastercard! 
: Expires 2/2/02 
·----------------~------------------· 
Friday, January 25, 2002 The Observer . TO DAY page 23 
B B RYAN
TOM KEELEY 
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNIGNHAM
FOURTH AND INCHES 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 It may come 57 Shade near from a pound aquamarine
1 Move across the 24-Across 31 "Fantastic Mr. 60 Heyerdahl title Fox• author start
9 Hardly scanty 61 Lurker's plan, 
34 Not once, in14 Defense perhaps

Numberg 15 "The Amityville 62 Wright field? 
35 WaffleHorror" star 

alternative 64 Place for proofs 16 Smashes 
39 like soma pigs 65 Place for a pilot 17 Don't skip 
66 Omegas and 18 R &B.'s Hill Vectras 41 Santa 
42 Silver piece 

19 Prepare 67 Relatively rapid 44 M3, e.g.21 Isn't idle., 45 Some 66-Across 
DOWN

23 Lowdown 46 "_for igloo• 1 It has many 
24 Where swelling techs 
occurs 48 Colt 45 producer 2 Summary
25 1954 Bogart role 52 Signs of surprise 3 Spiral ornament
27 like Bacon or lamb: Abbr. 53 Digit 4 Nefarious 5 Gunks
28 SFO info 56 Edible pocket 6 Some fevers 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Scintilla 
8 London section PuzzJe by llary Jung
A B L E S C R I M 
9 Pretentious 30 Not to, maybe
I HAO A 
I K E S 
10 Pioneering U.S. 32 Quoits game V E A T 
feminist 
33 Place for a
E S M E 
11 Hospitable genie
I E R 
12 Items of sheer 
35 Tutuila harbor 
N N S 
delight? 
36 Hardly obscure 
13 Won over 
370.K.
15 Performer of many Dylan 38 Kind of question 
songs 
40 Kind of meet 20 Fictional Viking 
43 Soldiers' 22 Ticket info burdens 
26 Austrian earl 47 Woodsy 


49 It has a top and 54 Fluish, perhaps a bottom 
55 Miller of opera 50 Dimwit 
58 Get the best of 51 One processing 59 1994 Costner pelts role 53 Doctors' orders 63 Select 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Robert Stack, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Richard Moll 
Happy Birthday: It will be too easy for you to think that you can handle everything by yourself. Let others handle the trivial jobs so that you can focus on what really counts. Your numbers are 3,19,21,28,35,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The more you do to turn your home into a place of beauty and comfort, the better you'll feel. Do the bulk of the work yourself and you will feel great satisfaction. 
00 TAURUS (April 20-May 20)): 
It's time to give yourself a big push. If you've been sitting around thinking about making some self-improvements, the time to actually do something is 
now.00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'd better keep a close eye on your bankbook. Overspending will be a problem. You are likely to think that you have more money than you do. 000 
CANCER (June 21-Juiy 22): You may be a little emotional today if someone you love does­n't pay enough attention to you. Don't get upset Be honest. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You 
may want to prerare for the upcoming week. I you make a list of what it is you want to accomplish this week you will find it much easier to get every­thing done. Make sure that you get enough rest 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): If 
EUGENIA LAST 
you have a creative project you should be able to get a good por­tion of it finished. Doing things with older or younger relatives will give you great joy. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0cl 22): You will take on too much today. Be careful because overindulgence can come in many forms. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Talk to friends or family about your latest project or your future intentions. You may get some unexpected help as well as some clear-cut advice. 0000 
SAGrrrARIUS (Nmi ZZ-Dec 21): 
Money matters can cause prob­lems for you if you get involved in joint ventures that may not be aboveboard. Make sure that you know the facts before you get involved. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): 
Don't get confused because someone is sending you double signals. If you really want to find out what's going on, feel free to ask direct questions. You may not like what you hear but you should be able to do something about it. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't get involved in secrets. Not everyone will be telling you the truth. If you don't have all the information about a deal, pass. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be up for whatever event is going on in your commu­I nity. The more interaction you l have with those from different backgrounds the better you will 
j 
be able to deal with them. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You like the unusual and will always follow the road less traveled. You are inventive, caring and a little ahead of your time. You are insightful and can solve problems with ease. 
(Need advice? Oleck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-------------------------~----------------~------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
Campus Sports 
. 
ND Track, p. 22 

. 
SMC Basketball, p. 22 

. 
Hockey p. 21 




---,,---------~~-------------, 
O
THE Campus Sports
BSERVER 
. 
ND Women's Tennis, p.20 

. 
ND Swimming, p. 18 

. 
Men's Tennis, p. 15



PORTS 
Friday, January 25, 2002 
FENCING 
Finishing at the top 
. Auriol to call it a career at 2002 season's end 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
When Irish head coach Yves Auriol called a team meeting at one of the lirst practices of the year, he made an announcement that would define the entire season to come. After 17 years at Notre Dame, Auriol said that 2002 would be his last season as head coach. 
The announcement wasn't especially shocking. Auriol had told then-head coach Mike De Cicco that he wanted to retire at 65 when he was hired in 1985. Auriol will turn 65 in August. Even so, 2002 sudden­ly had a whole new meeting for many Irish fencers. 
"I really want Coach Auriol to go out on a high," sabre captain Andre Crompton said. "He has won national champi­onships before but I really think it would be nice if he went out on top." 
Auriol, however, dismisses any talk of his fencers dedicat­ing this season to him. Even though this season is his last, he isn't approaching it any dif­ferently than his previous 16. 
see AURIOL/page 14 


MIKE CONNOU.Y/The Observer Irish head coach Yves Auriol discusses strategy with Jan Viviani during Vlviani's semifinal loss to Adam Wlercioch at the 2001 NCAA Championship. Aurlol will retire at the end of the 2002 season. 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Streak faces Hokie test 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
I 
. 
~ On Dec. 8, 1998 the I Notre Dame women's bas­
I 
I 
I ketball team -a team I featuring a sophomore
I 
I center named Ruth Riley -fell to Connecticut 106­81 on the Joyce Center floor. Since that game, the Irish have been perfect at home, winning 46 games in a row at the Joyce Center, the longest such active streak in the coun­try. But that streak faces its toughest test yet on Saturday. On a game that will be televised on Fox Sports Chicago, the Irish host the Hokies of Virginia Tech at 6 p.m. Tech, ranked No. 20 by the Associated Press, is the 
first ranked opponent the Irish have hosted this sea­son. Coming off of their worst loss of the season, an 80-53 drubbing at the hands of No. 1-ranked Connecticut, the Irish are glad to be home and ready for the challenge. 
"We've been tossed a lit­tle bit at sea, but we're home, you know, docked at port," said freshman forward Kelsey Wicks. "This is where we like to do it so we're just coming in like it's any game. Our focus for every game is to play our best and that's what we're going to try to do here. There's no ques­tion, though, that it's a big game for us." 
While the Irish players are proud of their home­court dominance, head coach Muffet McGraw 
hopes that the streak does not become a distraction. After all, the win streak is this long because of wins last season against Purdue, Rutgers and Connecticut -wins led by graduated seniors Riley, Niele Ivey and Kelley Seimon. 
"I hope they're not thinking about it," McGraw said. "The streak doesn't really belong to this team, that's how I feel about it. They need to start some streaks of their own. It's not anything we ever talk about." 
Instead, the Irish are talking about Saturday's game, specifically adjust­ments to the starting line­up. Starting point guard Jeneka Joyce was given 
see WOMEN'S/page 19 
. Irish face No. 1 St. John's at NYU this weekend 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Sunday the hype stops. 
Ever since three heralded freshmen stepped onto cam­pus last fall, the Notre Dame fencing team has been blunt when asked about its chances to win the national title. 
"I think this team is the best team Notre Dame has ever had," epee captain Anna Carnick said last fall. 
"I think we can take gold this year," sophomore Kerry Walton said this week. 
When the Irish travel to New York this weekend for a dual meet at New York University, they will have to back their words up with tough fencing. Because although the Irish are talent­ed, they currently aren't the national title favorite. Defending national champion St. John's is. In the latest USFCA poll, the Red Storm hold the top position in both men's and women's while the Irish hold the No. 2 spot in both polls. If this Irish team is going to win the national title, Sunday is its chance to prove 
see PREVIEW/page 19 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Slumping Irish face tough Pirate backcourt 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Don't think. Just play. 
That's the mantra Notre Dame bas­ketball players keep repeating as they prepare for Saturday afternoon's game against Seton Hall. 
"We've tried everything in the book, different tactics, strategies, this and that," guard Matt Carroll said. "You ahnost get caught up in thinking about it too much. Maybe there's not really an answer, it's just a matter of pulling guys together and saying, 'Amen."' 
But the Irish, who are 12-6 overall and 2-3 in the Big East, are having a tough time figuring out how to break out of a slump in which they lost their last three games and five of their last eight. Although they just wrapped up a diffi­cult stretch in the schedule that included games against Top 25 foes Pittsburgh, Kentucky and Syracuse as well as tough games against Villanova and Georgetown, the recent struggles are causing head coach Mike Brey to con­sider making changes to the starting lineup. 
"Anything's open to evaluation over these next two days of practice," he said. "When you haven't played as well and you've had disappointing losses, any­thing's open." 
If Brey decides to make a change for Saturday, he might replace David Graves with Torrian Jones. Graves has shot just 27 percent overall in his last five games and only scored five points in Monday night's loss against Georgetown. 
"My confidence just isn't there," Graves said. 'Tm questioning what I'm doing, I'm waltzing on defense ... I just have to come out and play, and play like 
see MEN'S/page 21 
. Track vs. Michigan State, Today, 6 p.m. 

OBSERVER 
. Hockey at Miami (OH), Today, 7:30 p.m.

SP 
s 
onHne 

. Women's Swimming vs. Villanova, Saturday, 4 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Tennis at Minnesota, Saturday, 6 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 



