

Panel recalls early days of coeducation 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Roughly 20 students sat atten­tively in a large DeBartolo Hall lec­ture room Wednesday night, as three University representatives shared anecdotes of the early years of coeducation at Notre Dame. 
The panel included history pro­fessor Father Tom Blantz, 

school year. It also included Welsh Ball rector Candace Carson, class of 1977, and Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Sister Jean Lenz, formerly the first rector of Farley Hall after it became a women's dorm. 
Student Body President Libby Bishop, whose office is sponsoring activities this week to observe the 30th anniversary of coeducation, moderated the discussion. 
In general, the panelists said the early years presented challenges and adjustments for women and the University, but the changes helped Notre Dame to grow. 
"The women really made a fine, intelligent mark on campus," Lenz said. 
The first group of female under­graduate students came from Saint Mary's in fall 1972. After that year, the University accepted admissions 
to which the University initially responded with flexibility. 
"I think of someone pointing to a piece of marble today and saying, 'Go make something,"' Lenz said, explaining how there was no established job description for the women's rectors that came in the first two years ofcoeducation. 
Blantz discussed how societal 
see PANEL/page 4 
applications from female stu­dents every­where. Lenz, who had 130 females in Farley during the 1973-1974 school year, referred to the first years of coeducation as an experiment 

First woman graduate of Notre Dame tells her story 
By MEGHAN MARTIN and 
JESSICA DALSING 
News Writers 
The news arrived on official­looking paper in the kind of thin envelope that immediately signals trouble. 
Although she was well into her senior year at Saint Mary's, Mary Eileen Davey learned she would not be invit­ed to graduate from the College, and should no longer consider herself a Saint Mary's student. 
The oldest of seven children, Davey was born to Gene and Eileen Davey of Columbus, Mont., pop. 1,000, a town with one traffic light to its name. 
"I wanted to go to a good Catholic school, and that's why I went to Saint Mary's," she said. 
The year was 1972, and the College's anticipated merger with Notre Dame had broken apart because of irreconcilable differences between the administrations of the two schools. 
"I said to the sisters [at Saint Mary's], 'We're using mar­riage metaphors, and I get the impression that you're in favor of the marriage, but, No. 1, you don't want to take our name, and two, you don't want to live with us," then­University president Father Theodore Hesburgh said of merger discussions. "So we agreed to disagree." 
That single disagreement left Davey and many other Saint Mary's students out in the cold without even the hope of a diploma to keep them warm. 
"Here I am senior year, I was just happy ... in the hustle and bustle of being a senior, I wasn't thinking about not being able to graduate," she said. 
Despite, or perhaps because of, the fact that she had ful­filled all of the required credits toward a bachelor's degree in marketing through the University, Davey remained ineligible, according to Saint Mary's standards. to graduate from the College, and was told not to attend the graduation ceremony with her fellow stu­dents. 
The issue that plagued Davey, her fellow students and both institutions lay in the co­exchange program that had been implemented by the two schools a few years earlier in order to facilitate a smooth transition to the anticipated coeducation through the schools' merging. 
Davey, like many of her peers, had elected to fulfill a major outside of the realm of liberal arts programs offered at Saint Mary's, and instead fulfilled all of her major requirements at Notre Dame while completing Saint Mary's core requirements. 
When merger negotiations fizzled, Saint Mary's no longer accepted the credits earned toward degrees at Notre Dame because majors such as busi­ness and engineering, for which women studied at the University, were not offered within the College's liberal arts curriculum. "Girls were protesting and everything," said Davey. "They wanted Notre Dame degrees." 
Fortunately for Davey, fate and Hesburgh were on her side. Because she declared her intention to pursue a major in marketing her junior year, Davey had taken all the neces­sary business classes for a Notre Dame degree. 
"I hadn't taken any Saint Mary's requirements -my 
see GRADUATE/page 6 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
Officers at the Notre Dame Security/Police Department watch for suspicious activity, said Phillip Johnson, NDSP assistant direc­tor. at Wednesday's Senate meeting. 
Johnson's comments came in response to questions regarding the recent increase of alcohol-related citations on campus. 
The significant rise in alcohol citations is a result of the increased awareness of offi­cers on football weekends last year and the higher levels of intoxica­tion coming to the atten­
Since the start of the school year, the number of incidents where students were stopped by officers coming from the parking lot carrying alco­hol in their backpacks increased. Johnson said that the presence of officers around and within the parking lots is a precaution­ary measure to avoid theft in the parking lots. 
"I don't think carrying a bag is suspi­cious; but you have to look at a fact pattern and the circumstance," said Johnson. 
Dillon Hall Senator Jake Teske asked why students who are 21 and older are prohib­ited from driving on campus with alcohol and other grocery items. Johnson said stu­dents are expected to be able to carry their items from the parking lots and that this should not be a problem because duLac states that students are only allowed to have enough alcohol for personal consump­tion. 
"We are not in the interest of facilitating the delivery of alcohol." said Johnson. 
Johnson said students are limited in the reasons they are allowed on campus with their cars due to the structure of the cam­pus and limited parking spaces. These rea­sons include delivery of cumbersome goods, disabilities and Sunday Mass. 
NDSP officers increased 
their presence at Reckers 
cerned for their safety 
and the safety of the peo­
ple at Reckers." 

Officers administer "alco-sensor" tests to students who appear intoxicated. The test is a measure to pro­vide safety, Johnson said. 
Asked if it was within the rights of stu­dents to refuse the test, Johnson said, "I suppose so. It depends on the circum­stances." 
Other offenses handled by NDSP include larceny, burglaries and bike theft. Larceny or threat of property, the most frequent offense, is experiencing a downward trend, 
see SECURITY/page 4 
who sat on the Board of Trustees as then-vice presi­dent of student affairs when the decision was made to admit women for the 
1972-1973 


.. SMC

Thursday,., October 10, 2002
THE gala 
salutes 
•


service 
page 3 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
XXV NO. 33 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 




Security on heightened alert for alcohol-related activity 
tion of officers, said "We are not in the this year in response to Johnson. interest offacilitating the the behavior of students 
"Our interaction with who were disruptive.
delivery ofalcohol."
students or, for that fact, "We are very concerned anyone should be based about intoxicated people on behavior," said Phillip Johnson being there," said Johnson. Johnson. "We are con­
assistant director of NDSP 
Thursday, October I 0, 2002
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Where's the 
culture? 

The lack ofculture on campus is depressing. The biggest thing to look for­ward to is ne:xi month's arrival ofJohn Mellencamp, but what is there for those students whose artistic appetites aren't satisfied by Indiana's own? Justin Regrettably, an Krivickas answer might be difficult to come by. 
Assistant

Whatever hap­
News Editor 

pened to the golden eras of the Sophomore Llterary Festival and the Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival? I'll spare you the laundry list of celebrated personalities who once-upon-a-time graced this campus. These days, boast­ing about the glory of the past seems to be the only way to remind us ofthe artis­tic Zion that Notre Dame might have been. 
Admittedly, organizations like the Student Union Board work hard to keep us entertained, and they should be laud­ed for their efforts, but far too many of their endeavors are met with far too little success to consider them much ofa start­ing point. I know, because I've heard the hollow echoes reverberating through the nearly empty LaFortune Ballroom when bands, expecting a warm reception, are reduced to grudgingly upholding their end of a contractual agreement. Last spring, a young singer/songwriter from New York Oty left Reckers in tears because no one was listening to her. 
Is that the problem? Is it that no one cares? I don't think so. I'd say a large part ofour student body is really into some aspect of literature, music or visual art, but the chances of hearing about it are sadly small. More importantly, every­one here has something to say. Why aren't we hearing about it? Is being cre­ative not cool? 
Some may think that the Midwest is no place for this kind of thing and that artsy stuff belongs on the coasts. Perhaps they should vi.sit places like Oberlin College in Ohio or the University of Wisconsin, Madison, where one can find as much to see and hear as anywhere. 
I've heard other excuses, suggesting that our particular institution is more focused on academia and fostering a community offaith than it is upon nur­turing a vibrant culture. To this I say that real education requires not only opening your mind, but opening your eyes and ears as well. Llnear Algebra and Plato teach us all about ourselves and our world, but wouldn't having an artistic community as equally dedicated t.o seek­ing and expressing truth show us even more? 
As members of this University, I think we owe it to ourselves and to those around us to seek and produce intellec­tual stimulation outside ofthe classroom. Only with your help can you create an artistic environment that Notre Dame can be proud of. Show some initiative, go out on a whim or just do something cre­ative and let everyone know about it. The word will spread, and soon "creativity" will once again be a beacon that can stand up to the challenge of being trendy. Iknow all ofyou out there have some­thing you want to say, and I. for one, run listening. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
SMC honors 
U.S. suspects 
students and 
al~Qaida in 

community for 
two attacks 

service 
on marines 

Saint Mary's 
U.S. officials say 
al-Qaida agents
President Marilou 
Eldred presided at 
may be involved in 
two violent attacks
a gala benefit to 
honor students and 
on marines in 
volunteers in the 
Kuwait in the past 
South Bend com­
two days. 

munity. 
page3 

page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ NO 
. 
The Mandrake, play by Niccolo rvlachia velli 

7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall 

. 
Blue Mass for police officers, firefighters, rescue workers and families 


5:15 p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Math Department Open House 5:30-7 p.m. at Noble Family Dining Hall, North Wedge Boom 

. 
Women and Minority Business Development Council 6:30-8:30 p.m. at Madeleva Hall, Boom 247 


I 

WHAT'S COOKING North Dining Hall 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Democrats urge Bush to remove SEC chairman Pitt 
Democrats in Congress, lead by Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle call for the removal of Securities and E x c h a n g e Commission Chairman Harvey Pitt. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Notre Dame must show respect for gay students 
Columnist Marlayna Soenneker reflects on her experiences with the gay com­munity and encour­ages support for gay groups on campus. 
page 10 
SCENE 

Scene reviews the latest movie releases 
Scene reviewers discuss the good and the bad of three new flicks: "Red Dragon," "Chicken n' Porn" and "The Four Feathers." 
page 12-13 

SPORTS 
Notre Dame womens golf finishes 13th in tournament 
Notre Dame womens golf fin­ished the two-day Legends of Indiana Golf Tournament with a team score of 943. 
page 24 
Car towed from Main Circle 
A student's car was towed from Main Circle Tuesday afternoon for a parking violation. 
Theft reported near College 
of Business 
A student reported that her locked bike was stolen between 
9:30 a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday from a northwest bike rack near the Mendoza College of Business. The case is pending and there are no suspects. 
complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student injured near Knott 
Hall . 
A student was treated by NDFD near Knott Hall for a injuries sus­tained during a fall early Wednesday morning. 
Locked bikes stolen near 
Lafortune 
A student reported that two locked bikes were stolen from the east side of Lafortune Student Center between 5:15 and 6:45 p.m. on Tuesday. The case is pending and there are no suspects. 
Student car has employee 
hangtag 
NDSP reported Tuesday that a student's car parked near Notre Dame Stadium displayed a University employee hangtag. The case is being referred for adminis­trative review. 
EmP.loy_ee injured near 
Lewis Hall 
A University employee was trans­ported to University Health Services early Wednesday morning for treat­ment of a knee injury sustained near 
Lewis Hall. 
Today Lunch: Texas chili, Budapest vegetable soup, meatless baked ziti, supreme pizza, smoked flank steak creole, roast poupon potatoes, corn, apple crisp, sweet and sour chicken, pasta primavera, oriental vegetables, cream of wheat, scrambled eggs, sausage links. apple pancakes, potatoes, philly steak sandwich, California rancho rice 
Today Dinner: Texas chili, Budapest vegetable soup, meatless baked ziti, supreme pizza, pork loin with apples, hot chunky applesauce, peas, apple crisp, can­tonese BBQ chicken, baked haddock jardiniere, lemon­mint couscous, noodles romanoff, baked sweet potato, spicy sea nuggets, chicken and cheese chimichanga 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY 
a:: 
UJ 
:z: 
~ 
== 
..I <
(,) 


.9 HIGH 73 HIGH 55 HIGH 75 LOW 50 LOW 48 LOW 53 
South Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: pasta Shells primavera, fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce, French bread pizza, collard greens, turkey turnovers, London broil with wine marinade, cheddar-baked pollack, pota­toes au grati.n, grilled turkey sandwich, crinkle fries. soft pretzel, chicken teri.yaki., fiesta chicken flatbread 
Today Dinner: chicken cacciatore, fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce, French bread pizza, roast top round, oven-fried chicken, grilled polish sausage. rotini with vegetables, Polish-style kluski noodles, cabbage, honey-mustard chicken, seasoned fries, onion rings, chicken and snow peas with soy dressing, flatbread beefpizza 
SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 77 HIGH 56 HIGH 57 LOW 53 LOW 36 LOW 44 
Atlanta 68 / 66 Boston 61 / 54 Chicago 73 / 54 Denver 79 / 46 Houston 83 I 66 Los Angeles 75 / 57 Minneapolis 65 / 56 New York 67 / 57 Philadelphia 69 / 58 Phoenix 96 / 70 Seattle 55 / 41 St. Louis 73 / 56 Tampa 88 I 72 Washington 68 / 62 
Thursday, October I 0, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Benefit gala salutes SMC service to city 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News Writer Saint Mary's hosted its first ben­. efit gala. "Down the Avenue," Wednesday at the LeMans Hall courtyard to recognize the College's volunteer services and partnerships with the South Bend community. Alumnae Kathy Malone Beeler '69, Mary Osmanski Ferlic '70, and College Tru.stee Carmi Murphy developed the event and served as organizers. A 30-mem­ber steering committee comprised of Saint Mary's alumnae and par­ents also played an important role in organizing the gala. The plan­ning committee has been working over the past year to secure sig­nificant corporate underwriting and individual benefactors. An additional dinner committee of 60 prominent community members helped to finalize planning for the benefit. About 400 Michiana leaders and local alumnae attended Down the Avenue to support Saint Mary's 

·. >mmmuminmi 
. SPfA.KERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL" INSTANT MESSENGER™ SBl'Yice nvo-w..w MESSAGING JAVA"' GAMES C. APPLICATIONS 
DIGITAL CELLULAR 
'i.'10c 
1eJ.<>1y tli-.e J.i'i~"'I w<>1l\c.ie+"'l~ie wo.,\c.s ove.., seve.,""I \.-.1.\,.,_J..,eJ. ..-.iles. A'II\J.. to\'\crrcw, 'll\<>11-iO'll\wiJ.e. 
NEXrEL: 

Yov. '>\evev 1M'iss O\\\yl-L-\i.\\Bi why st"'v+ \\ow? ~e:-;¼-el's &l.iBH•"'I wDll~ie+Dll~'ie .Pe;:11.hwe let-s you. e,et-vi.8ht-t-l,wo1Ae,h wi.t-h t-he pl4SV. 
o.P °" blAt+O\\. Th01.t-1Me01.\\S \\O 1Misse&l. c"'lls, lh\\chec\=.e&l. vaice ~n ov pko\\e t-01.8, 'C.,..v.se wl--.o h"'s ti1Me .Pov "'II tke1.t wl,,,e\\ yov. COl.\\1t eve\\ .-.A.eci.-.A.e whet1.t-t-o wet?1.v? Now yo11t.1ve veMy-Bvi\\e, It-. 
Now's .,.. ~ve.,..t t-i\'-\e t-o Bet t-te,ctel: 
"'ll No+v-e D°'""e st-1.\.:Ae\\½ eiet 
"'lo,:•tA.isco"\\i-0'1. "'"Y VOite pl"'" "'"'..i.$100"' ().p.p """Y rho\\e. 
"To ov.y: 

-8"' t-"' \.\e)'t-el.c"~vish-st-u.J.e\\t-. -c"'n t-cll-hee 1-877-s'0,-2~2.G. -cov.t-e,i.c+ JDM Co\,<,\1Mt,,\\ici,1.tio\.\S 
e,,.t s-74-24'3-'38' Ig 
commitment to the community. The evening included a Patron Party, cocktails, dinner, a perfor­mance by the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the inaugural Spirit of Service Awards ceremo­ny. The awards pay tribute to women who exemplify the College's mission and who have given outstanding service to the community with the purpose of improving lives of local citizens. 
Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred presented this year's award to community member Jane Warner and Saint Mary's junior Amanda Garno. Both women were nominated by faculty and staff and chosen based on a pre-determined set of criteria. 
Warner is well-known in the South Bend community for her lifetime of service to over 30 orga­nizations, including the Community Foundation of St. Joseph County, WNIT Public Television, the South Bend Firefly Festival and the Michiana Arts and Sciences Council. 
Garno volunteers as a tutor at 
South Bend's Washington High School and La Casa de Amistad and teaches religion classes at St. Pius X Parish. She also pays weekly visits to residents at Healthwin Nursing Home and volunteers more than 10 hours per week. 
"Saint Mary's was founded by the Sisters of the Holy Cross with service at the heart of everything," said Garno. "I am blessed to have been provided the opportuni­ty to come here and serve the community in the little things I do." 
Wednesday's event pro­ceeds will benefit the SURV Center, Saint Mary's volun­teer resource organization. 
"They will be used to enhance community based learning opportunities for students to integrate their academic experience with their volunteer service," said Kay Ball. director of develop­ment at Saint Mary's. 
The funds raised at the event will be used for pur­chasing a van to assist with transportation challenges, providing stipends for stu­dents so that they can remain in the community and provide summer volunteer service. and enhancing the after school tutoring program for elementary students, Ball said. 
As announced Wednesday night, the College will also use proceeds generated from the event to establish an endowed scholarship for in honor of Jane Warner. 
"The scholarship will annu­ally generate funds to assist in the financial support of a Saint Mary's student who is an active volunteer in the community," said Ball. 
In addition to funds donat­ed at the gala, the Lilly Endowment's Special Initiative to Strengthen Philanthropy for Indiana Higher Education Institutions will also match dollar-for­dollar all donations made to the event. The matching funds will then be used to 
enhance academic facilities 
•:v··.·:•'.•>::i::•::;::;:?\\~%{\)}}{f{?iiti~t{i\/(:::.\; ; '. ; : •t·-:.• on campus. 
iWliiie s~pplie~ last; Req~ires · aw · r 
tore jlurctiases 1eq nt savi~«s i~ orr 
s may ap 
WJ.11\l~.i.~g!i!L. Contact Anneliese Woolford at r~istered ifi t 
wool8338@saintmarys.edu

tahli.tll~Triail 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 10, 2002 
would be converted to female in five colleges. Carson. dorms and having to hire a Reflecting on her undergrad­At the end of the panel dis­
Panel 
gynecologist for health ser­uate years, Carson discussed c ussion, Bishop posed the continued from page 1 vices. how she encountered many question of the evening, "Is 
"All the research we did in new experiences, such as Notre Dame a place for changes indicated that the all the decisions we made being in a Catholic environ­women?" admission of women to Notre turned out to be absolutely ment and meeting people from All three panelists thought Dame could be beneficial dur­wrong," Blantz said, referring all over the countrv. She also for a moment and Lenz said, ing a time when women's col­to another issue about how remembered befog taken "There's always room for leges were declining at the many women to admit per aca­aback when asked, "So, what's improvement." national level. The University demic college. Administrators the female opinion?" She pointed out academic was originally planning to had assumed But some departments that have few merge with Saint Mary's, but that the things women professors and the when talks failed, Notre Dame majority of "Theres always room for n e v e r small number of professors of officials considered other w o m e n change, color. But Lenz praised the
improvement. " 

options. would apply Carson Mendoza College of Business 
"We were still convinced that to study in said, refer­and the Notre Dame Law coeducation was the best way the College of Sister Jean Lenz ring to the School, which both have to educate people," Blantz Arts and debate female deans. 
assistant vice president

said. Letters, caus­about the "When you look at the num­
for student affairs

Even so, Blantz said the ing the need appear-bers now, compared to what it University did have to come to to hire extra ances of was then, you get a sense of terms with the fact that coedu­professors. Notre Dame the growth," said Lenz. cation would mean making dif­However, women that 
ficult decisions. Some exam­they were proved wrong in has recently filled The ples included how to deal with that area, and in the early Observer opinion pages. resistance from alumni, decid­period of coeducation women "That debate's been going on Contact Helena Payne at ing which residence halls were at the top of their classes since I started here." said payne.30@nd.edu 

Security 
continued from page 1 
while burglaries are increas­ing. Johnson attributed the rise in burglaries to unlocked offices and dorm rooms. 
Bike theft is problematic for the department because there are several thousand bikes on campus and some­times students take other people's bikes for joy rides, said Johnson. 
In other Senate news: 
. Don Norton, assistant Student Union treasurer, said Tho Shirt charity fund accumulated $442,512.68. The charity fund is used to assist students with their financial needs, including medical aid. 
Contact Megha.une Downes a.t mdownesl@nd.edu 
Alka-whaty? 
Happy Un-birthday! 

WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 10, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
KUWAIT 
Al-Qaida suspected in Kuwait attack on marines 
Associated Press 
KUWAIT CITY As investigators looked for al­Qaida links to a deadly attack on 
U.S. Marines in Kuwait, American forces in that country were involved Wednesday in another violent incident, the second in two days. 
A U.S. Army soldier heading to a training area in northern Kuwait fired one shot at a civilian vehicle when one of two people inside the car pointed a gun at the soldiers' Humvee utility vehicle, said a U.S. military official at Camp Doha. an isolated U.S. Army base along the Gulf coast about 12 miles west of Kuwait City. 
He would not say if anyone was harmed in the incident at 7 p.m., only that U.S. and Kuwaiti author­ities were investigating. 
U.S. officials in Washington said the shot hit the hood of the civilian vehicle, which then veered off the road. The Americans continued driving to the training area, U.S. officials said. 
The Kuwaiti Interior Ministry, which oversees police, initially said it had no information on any such incident -an indication the civilian car may have driven away. 
The violence has startled many in Kuwait, a close U.S. ally where citizens generally consider the United States a friend that liberat­ed their country from Iraqi occu­pation in the 1991 Gulf war. Islamic fundamentalist<; are politi­cally strong, but militant violence involving some Kuwaitis largely has been carried out abroad, not at home. 
Further details also were emerging about the assailants in Tuesday's killing of a U.S. Marine and wounding of a second Marine. The two men, who were shot dead after firing on another group of Marines, were cousins who had fought in Afghanistan, a friend and a relative said Wednesday. 
They said the men were angry about Israeli killings of Palestinians and one had made a vague threat about "coming for" Americans. 
U.S. and Kuwaiti officials, who are investigating whether the men had links to Osama bin Laden's al­Qaida network. labeled Tuesday's attack an act of terrorism. U.S. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said it merited the label based on the "nature of the attack." 
Anas al-Kandari, 21, and his 26­y~ar-old cousin, Jassem al-Hajiri, pulled up to a site on Failaka island off the Kuwaiti mainland where U.S. Marines were carrying out urban assault training and opened fire. 
Lance Cpl. Antonio J. Sledd, 20, of Hillsbrough, Fla., died soon after. His body was expected to be on a flight home by midday Thursday. He was assigned to the 

AFP Photo 

Kuwait Deputy Premier and Defence Minister Sheikh Jaber Mubarak al-Sabah, right, visits Lance Cpl. George R. Simpson, 21, of Dayton, Ohio, the US Marine who was wounded by two Kuwaiti assailants armed with AK-47 assault rifles, at the military hospital. 
11th Marine Expeditionary Unit at tary medical facility in Germany Expeditionary Unit at Camp Camp Pendleton, California. Lance once stable enough to travel, said Pendleton, Calif. Cpl. George R. Simpson, 21, of Lt. Garret Kasper, a spokesman In Washington, White House Dayton, Ohio, was wounded. His for the Bahrain-based U.S. Navy spokesman Ari Fleischer said al­injuries were not life-threatening Fifth Fleet. Both men were Qaida links to the shooting haven't and he would be flown to a mill-assigned to the 11th Marine been ruled out. 
Shell casing, tarot card emerge as clues left by sniper 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

A tarot card depicting death with the taunting words "Dear policeman, I am God" emerged Wednesday as a potential clue in the hunt for the sniper terrorizing Washington's suburbs. 
The card was found near a shell casing outside a middle school in Bowie, where a 13-year-old boy was critically wounded by the gunman Monday, a source familiar with the investigation said on condition of anonymity. 
Authorities said the shell was .223-cal­iber, the same kind of bullet used to kill six people and wound another in Washington and its Maryland and Virginia suburbs in the last week. The casing is believed to be the first one recovered since the slayings began. 
Michael Bouchard, an agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, would not say whether authorities had linked the casing to the attacks. 
Montgomery County Police Chief Charles Moose also wouldn't comment when asked about the tarot card, and angrily suggest­ed unapproved information had been leaked. 
"I need to make sure I don't do anything to hinder our ability to bring thls person or these people into custody," Moose said. 
The message left on the tarot card called the Death card was first reported by WUSA-TV and then by The Washington Post. Police sources told the newspaper the items were found 150 yards from the school in a wooded area on matted grass, suggesting the gunman had lain in wait. 
Tarot cards, used mainly for for­tunetelling, are believed to have been introduced into western Europe by Gypsies in the 15th century. Many tarot enthusi­asts say the Death card usually does not connote physical death, but instead por­trays a symbolic change or transforma­tion. 
The motive for the seemingly random attacks remains unknown. Nearly 200 investigators are working their way through some 8,000 tips. One tip sent them on a fruitless search of woods behind a school in Prince George's County, but nothing was found. 
A Prince George's County school spokes­woman said students were being kept inside as county schools remained locked down. 
All the victims have been felled by a sin­gle bullet. Investigators say the sniper, or snipers, fired from a distance with a high­powered hunting or military-style rifle. 
The wounded boy, whom police have not identified, remained in critical but stable condition Wednesday. Ballistics tests found that the bullet that struck him was of the same caliber as those that killed some of the others and wounded a woman in Virginia. That woman was released from the hospital Tuesday. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Disputes threaten EU expansion efforts: 
The European Union's most ·ambitious expansion ever may fail unless EU governments sort out a nasty dispute over money and deliver popular support for expansion, officials said Wednesday. It also said Turkey , whose candidacy is supported by the United States. was not yet ready to open membership talks. The 15 EU leaders are expected to formally invite Malta. Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia to join in 2004. 
N. Ireland leaders may lose power: 
Moderate Catholic politicians said Wednesday they won't punish Sinn Fein over alleged IRA spying, mean­ing Northern Ireland's administration probably faces suspension by Britain next week. Suspending the administration's powers and putting Britain back in sole control of Northern Ireland would buy time for the parties to negotiate a new agreement. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Jury says death for Yosemite killer: 
A jury decided Wednesday that Cary Stayner should die for killing three Yosemite National Park tourists in 1999, rejecting defense pleas to spare a mentally ill man twisted by genetics and a traumatic childhood. Jurors took just six hours to return their recommendation to the judge, who has the option of sentencing the 41-year-old Stayner to life in prison. Sentencing was sched­uled for Dec. 12, and an appeal is automatic. 
III. man charged in al-Qaida funding: 
The leader of an Islamic charity was indicted Wednesday on charges of funneling donations to Osama bin Laden's terrorist network, with Attorney General John Ashcroft vowing, "We will find the sources of terrorist blood money." Enaam 
M. Arnaout, 40, head of the Benevolence International Foundation, has been in federal cus­tody since April. 
U.S. military secretly tested bioweapons: 
The Pentagon acknowledged Wednesday that some sol­diers engaged in chemical and biological weapons test­ing in the 1960s may not have been fully infonned about the secret experiments conducted at sea and in five states from Alaska to Florida. Some tests used the mili­lary's deadliest nerve agent, VX. Thousands of civilians in Hawaii and Alaska also probably were unaware they were sprayed with relatively mild bacteria meant to simulate germ weapons such as anthrax, the Defense Department's top health official said. 
Bush to sign $4 billion election bill: 
President Bush will sign a compromise bill to overhaul elections that is working its way through Congress, his spokesman said Wednesday. The House and Senate arc expected, by week's end. to give final approval to the deal negotiators struck last week to send nearly $4 bil­lion to states to upgrade the nation's voting systems over three years. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 10, 2002 
Graduate 
continued from page 1 
major was at Notre Dame," Davey said. "ltjust happened that way." 
Because of the unique circum­stances, Davey's plight caught the attention of Hesburgh and then­business school dean Vincent Raymond. 
"Dean Raymond said, 'Father Hesburgh and I will take care of you,"' said Davey. "It was because Dean Raymond and Father Hesburgh knew that I deserved it that they were willing to make that exception." 
Hesburgh and Raymond exer­cised their administrative clout in the matter, and after the University finalized the decision to become a co-educational institu­tion, it resolved to grant Davey the status of the first female to gradu­ate from the historically all-male institution. 
The news came in April. just weeks before commencement cer­emonies were slated to begin, and ended the state of limbo that Davey had found herself in since receiving the infamous letter from Saint Mary's. 
"I will never forget the kindness of Dean Raymond," she said. "[He] would just say, 'We'll get you a degree.' That is something that to my grave, I will carry with me, the kindness of everyone. I had confidence in Dean Raymond and Father Hesburgh." 
Many Saint Mary's seniors were not nearly as lucky. Those who had finished degree requirements at the University were unable to graduate with Notre Dame degrees, and most were instead granted a degree from the College within a major comparable to what they had worked toward at the University. 
Davey said she noticed a senti­ment of frustration on the Saint Mary's campus after her favor­able decision was rendered. 

"There wasn't animosity, but there was true disappointment on the part of a lot of Saint Mary's girls," she said. "It was nobody's fault -Ijust got caught smack dab in the middle.'' 
Graduation day arrived shortly after, bringing with it the instant celebrity that came with being the first woman to ever count herself among Notre Dame alumni. 
"I was thrilled to be getting a Notre Dame degree and thrilled to be graduating," Davey said. "I remember thinking, Tm quali­fied, I deserve to be here, but it's still amazing that someone from a town with no stoplight could be sitting here." 
Davey earned herself yet anoth­er distinction at the commence­ment ceremony itself, one that she could not have anticipated. "I was the first graduate Father Hesburgh ever kissed," she said. "You're nervous enough graduat­ing, then Father Hesburgh leans over and kisses me!" 
After leaving her job on Wall Street years ago to raise sons Paul, now 21, and Mark, 19, Davey continues to credit her Notre Dame education for the opportunities and background that have shaped her life. She has since involved herself with vari­ous volunteer projects, ranging from instructing high school stu• dents in manners and etiquette classes to working to raise breast cancer awareness. 
"What you get here doesn't stop here -it continues. I just can't stress enough what Notre Dame did for me," she said. "It gave me a wonderful career . . . and my experience at Notre Dame has helped me be a better mom. Notre Dame allowed me to do whatever I wanted to do -I could go anywhere in the world ... it just opened all sorts of doors. I know that Notre Dame gave me all the opportunities, but it still taught me the importance of giv­ing back. Part of this place is giv­ing back." 
(574) 288-7777 CHECKER CAB OF NORTHERN IN. 
The South Bend area has a new cab company, formed by the former drivers of Yellow Cab of Michiana. We are serving ND/St. Mary's and all of St. Joe County. 
Ask about our special student rates 
Reservations Accepted 

We Deliver 
7 days a 
week 
2.99 for Lunch 
7.49 for combos 
Asian Market will be coming soon! 
~ 

Happy Birthday Jennie! Drunk dial awayl 
Love, Your Lewis Girls 
Davey said that she continues to women have done here. I think see the role of women at the Notre Dame girls have energy, the University expand since her energy to go out and try things," groundbreaking graduation. she said. "And now there arc 
"It makes you so proud to be an some fabulous Notre Dame alumni when you see what women." 
Contact Meghan Martin and Jessica Dalsing at mmartin@nd.edu and jdals­ing@nd.edu 
A Heritage of Families 
at Not ;e~e
~)
~,• 

~~ 
40th .P;.n · versary 
of University Village 
Student Family Housing 


~ October 12, 2002 
Pitt Game Concession Stand Badin Hall Location 
2 Hot Turkey Ilogs and a Coke $5 
Party horn with every purchase! 
Also featuring the 40th Anniversary University Village International Cookbook available at the Concession Stand and at the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore. 

O
THE 
BusiNEss 
Thursday, October 10, 2002 COMPILED FROM TUE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
J\.1arket \Vatch October 9 

Dow Janes  
7.~86.27  .NtSn4Q  -215.22  
1,114.11  S:frP500  -15.10  
1· 776.76 -21.79 


AtWEX 
771.88 -16.85 
NYSE
• 
4~ 1.09 -13.13 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %:CH.ANGE $GAIN PRICI: 

9. 23 
20. 05 
2.67 13.46 
78.10 

IN BRIEF 
Americans win Nobel for economics 
A Princeton University psychology professor studying decision making and a George Mason University economics professor who examines alternate market designs won the Nobel prize in economics Wednesday. 
Daniel Kahneman, 68, a U.S. and Israeli citi­zen based at Princeton University in New Jersey, and Vernon L. Smith, 75, of George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., will share the $1 million prize. 
lt was the third year in a row that Americans have taken the prize. Of the 51 recipients over the years, 34 have been from the United States. 
W. ~dockworkers return to work 
West Coast dockworkers returned to their jobs under court order Wednesday and were greeted with a huge backlog of cargo that built up over 10 days ofa labor lockout. 
"rt's been very hard. We're just glad to be back at work," said Karen Korbich, a dockwork­er for the past nine years. "We expect it to be very congested." 
Dockworkers at the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach held a rally before returning to their jobs. They were joined by civil rights activist Jesse Jackson, who helped lead cheers of "We want to work!" 
The cargo backlog caused by the lockout could take more than two months to clear. 
California bond sale sets a record 
California set what it called a record Wednesday by borrowing $9 billion to help ease its record budget deficit, state Treasurer Phil Angelides said. 
Angelides said there was more demand than expected for the bonds -called revenue antici­pation notes -which are paid back from the state treasury when revenues later become available. Another $3.5 billion bond issue will be sold later this month. 
California suffered a $23.6 billion budget deficit this fiscal year and could experience multibillion-dollar shortfalls in coming years. 
Democrats mge Bush to fire Pitt 
• SEC chairman Pitt accused of softening policy 
Associated Press 
WASlllNGTON 

Democratic leaders on Wednesday asked President Bush to remove Harvey Pitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, whom they accuse of oppos­ing a tough candidate to head a new oversight board at the accounting industry's behest . 
The White House called t.hc accusations politically moti­vated. The call for Pitt's res­ignation came from Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle. D-S.D., and House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., at a news conference on Social Security in which they tried to switch the dominant political focus away from possible war with Iraq. 
Daschle and Gephardt told Bush in a letter that Pitt's "repeated insensitivity sug­gests an arrogant indiffer­ence to the appearance of conflicts of interest." 
Pitt is "giving the account­ing industry a veto over who will head the new board," Daschle told reporters. "This is exactly the kind of abuse the new board was created 
to prevent." Oxley, who has been identi­his resignation. acceptances from anyone 
White House spokesman fied as the key GOP lawmak­In response to the latest and indeed, has not yet fin­Ari Fleischer dismissed the er allied with the accounting criticism, Pitt is disputing ished interviewing potential charges. industry in opposing John recent newspaper reports candidates for the board," 
"It's an old, tired cry," Biggs to head the new board, that SEC officials had offered Pitt wrote. Fleischer said, citing what he said the Democrats "actively and then withdrawn support The new oversight board, said was the SEC's record promote the candidacy ofone for Biggs, who is an advocate to be independent of the number of enforcement individual." of aggressive oversight of the accounting industry, was cre­actions and its confiscation of Bush, who appointed Pitt in accounting industry. ated by far-reaching legisla­corrupt executives•· illicitly spring 2001 to head the mar­Biggs is the chairman of tion enacted this summer in earned money. "I think it's a ket watchdog agency, has TIM-CHEF, a teachers' pen­response to the wave of scan­political charge that has no stood by him. sion fund that is one of the dals that rocked public confi­merit and substance," he Pitt, who previously repre­nation's largest. SEC officials dence in the stock market said. sented Wall Street's big play­recently offered him the job, and the integrity of corporate 
Daschle and other ers and all Big Five auditing but opposition from the America. Democrats already had firms as a private securities industry and Republican law­On Tuesday, Reps. John called for Pitt to resign earli­lawyer, is back in the hot seat makers caused them to with­Dingell of Michigan and er this year, but so did a in a year of corporate draw the offer, according to Edward Markey of leading Republican, Sen. accounting scandals that newspaper reports. Massachusetts, senior John McCain of Arizona. started with the collapse of In a letter to Gephardt and Democrats on the House 
Rep. Michael Oxley, R­Enron Corp. other Democrats last week, Energy and Commerce Ohio, chairman of the House He was criticized last Pitt called the press reports Committee, urged Pitt in a Financial Services spring for meeting privately false and said they were letter "to resist the special Committee, was blunter, call­with the heads of companies intended to pressure the SEC pleadings of your former ing Daschle and Gephardt's under investigation by the to select Biggs. clients in the accounting pro­letter to Bush "amazingly SEC, and the watchdog group The SEC "has made no fession" and appoint Biggs as hypocritical." Common Cause demanded offers to anyone, received no head of the new board. 

Abbott Labs plan to cut 2,000 jobs 
Abbott said it is eliminating the Chicago.
Associated Press 
jobs, which amount to 3 percent of Abbott is taking a fourth-quarter 
CHJCAGO its worldwide work force of 70,000, after-tax charge of $100 million to 
Abbott Laboratories Inc. as part of a restructuring of its man­$125 million and anticipates annual announced plans Wednesday to cut ufacturing, international and diag­savings of $80 million to $100 mil­2,000 jobs, close 10 facilities and nostics divisions to improve efficien­lion. invest $450 million in expanding its cy and eliminate excess capacity. As part of the restructuring, the manufacturing operations over the About half the cuts will be in the health care products maker said it next several years as part of a United States, including 200 mostly will embark on the expansion of cur­restructuring. administrative positions at the com­rent manufacturing facilities and · The announcement came as Abbott pany's headquarters and adjacent build new ones to support anticipat­reported a 14 percent increase in operations in suburban Lake County, ed new products. third-quarter profit, boosted by spokeswoman Melissa Bratz said. "This restructuring will improve strong sales growth for AIDS drug The locations of the 10 manufac­our global competitiveness and Kaletra and prostate drug Flomax turing and distribution facilities enhance our ability to invest in which helped offset big declines for being closed were not released, promising technologies to advance diet drug Meridia and the Synthroid although Brotz said none are at patient care," said chairman and thyroid treatment. Abbott's base operations in North chief executive Miles D. White. 
r--1111111111--------~ 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 10, 2002 


Campus Ministry 

The Second Annual 
BLUE MASS 
This special Notre Dame liturgy is offered to honor 
firefighters, police officers and emergency medical technicians 
who serve Notre Dame, South Bend and St. Joseph County 
and 

to remember the heroic men and women who lost their lives in the line of duty in New York City on September 11, 2001. 
Police officers and firefighters from New York City who were on site at the World Trade Center on September 11 will be our special guests. They will be joined by colleagues from other cities. 
Thursday, October 10, 2002 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
5:15 PM 
Fr. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., presider & homilist. Music provided by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir. 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Freshman class council ideas promote unity and fun . 
In addition to the class T­shirt, the freshman council is working closely with the junior class to offer a gold stocking cap with the Notre Dame logo emblazoned on the front. Representatives said the cap would complement the green "Return to Glory" T-shirts when the home foot­ball game weather turns cold­er. 
Students said they were excited by the events planned and felt they would help to unify the first year students. 
"I love going to the council meetings, everyone is so moti­vated," said Anna Skoien. Lewis Hall representative. "We are hoping that [events like] the class Mass and the prayer which {are] unique to the Class of 2006 will help bring us together." 
The Class of 2006 council also made plans to hold the sophomore-freshman class dance on Oct. 31 in the LaFortune Ballroom. The 
dance will have a theme cho­sen by the council and is meant to connect the two classes. said representatives. representatives are also plan­ning a freshmen trip to Chicago, a class-wide candle­light vigil at the Grotto, fresh­man Masses and a class prayer, all meant to promote greater unity among the first­year class. 
"The ideas they have dis­cussed for events with a spir­itual focus will provide the Class of 2006 with some great opportunities for intro­spection as well as some sharing with others," Geist said. 
The class council will hold elections for the offices of president, vice president, sec­retary and treasurer Oct. 16. Each candidate will present a two-minute speech outlining his or her qualifications, after which the council will vote to decide the four posi­tions. 
Contact Joe T rombello at 
jtrombel@nd.edu 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Wricer 
The 27 newly elected fresh­man class council members met Wednesday to discuss their plans for events that will promote class unity and pro­vide fun activities for the first-year students. 
"The leadership is amaz­ing," said Amy Geist, fresh­man class council adviser. "They are all so different in their approach to the group 

but at the same time. they are focused on making things great for the rest of their class." 
The newly elected represen-· tatives spent a couple of hours last month in retreat at the Creek House just north of campus to get to know each other. According to Geist, the council members have formed a close bond in the short amount of time they have known each other. 
"I think that the council representatives have bonded 
really well. They are very social with each other and they are coming up with some great ideas. I think they are all excited to be working on the projects they've come up with," said Geist. 
Even though the Class of a couple of meetings," said Steve Canham, Knott Hall freshman representative. 
The Class of 2006 council currently has several propos­als under way. They are com­missioning designs for the 
2006 council 
"The ideas that they 

has only had 
have come up with are on
one month together, track for success . ., members say the council 
Amy Geist

has been 
working hard fre!hman class council adviser 
to propose ideas and plan social gather­ings and spiritual retreats. The council members will soon organize themselves into one of four committees: social, spiritual, fundraising, and publicity. 
"People have been working very hard -we are really try­ing to get on the ball even though we have only met for class T­shirt that will be sold to the freshman class to raise funds for various activities. The council plans to sell them beginning 

Nov. 23 for the Rutgers foot­ball game. 
"The ideas that they have come up with are on track for success," Geist said. "They are planning for some excit­ing things that I think the freshman will enjoy, especial­ly the apparel proposals and social activities." 


O
THE 
BSERVIER 

IEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, October 10, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andr.w Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Parne VLEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
AD\'ERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
Al> DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori lewalski 

CONTACT Us 
Omo: MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631-7471 FAX. .................................................... ........631-6927 ADVERTISING ..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 Bus!NE'SS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................ ········· ............................. ....631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......... ··························· .. ···" ............631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE....................•.•.••...............................631-4540 
observer.scene. J@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .....•.••........ 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q},ntiom regarding Observer polims should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
111c Obscrwr (USPS 599 240) U published Monday through Friday cxcq,r during cum and va:.arion periods. A su.bscription ID The Obsctvcr is SI00 for one iieadanic ycv; J.55 foronescmcncr. 
The ODK'rvtr ii pubfuhcJ. at POSTMASTER 024 Sou.di Dining H~II Send .Mklra1 mrra:ciwu co: N.ot~ Dunt. tN 465'i6 ThcOl>Rntcr Pcriookal rosnv pa.id ar Nom: Dame P.O.lloxQ ~~.dJn.aili"9,;,ffi~. Notne Dame, 1N 46556--0n9 
TI.c Obrrvcr lJ a manba of chc ~.lCd. l'>rc:u. All rq,rudu..tioa rij,hti an: tCKrYcJ. 
i J 
I 
I 
I

\./ 
I 
Treatment of gay and lesbian students tarnishes Notre Dame's class 
Tomorrow is my 21st birthday, and I am ridiculously excited about it. 
Tomorrow is also National Coming Out Day. I kind of like that it's on my birthday. Gay and lesbian issues are my biggest issues to get impassioned Marlayna about, and it's an Soenneker area in which I have about as 
Here We Go
much experience 
Again

as a straight woman can. 
I worked this summer at the Cascade AIDS Project (CAP) in Portland, Ore., through a Summer Service Learning Project. While AIDS is no longer a gay men's disease, it is still very prevalent among that population. 
Further, a lot of the people who work at helping those with AIDS are gays and lesbians who have lost loved ones to the disease, and some 40 per­cent of the employees of CAP are homosexual. Due to the preponder­ance of gay clients and the heavy rep­resentation of homosexual employees, the dominant sexuality ends up being homosexuality. 
One of the things I did early on was help out at the Gay Pride parade and festival. My mom, a lesbian, goes to it every year with her partner, and I thought it'd be fun to see what it was like. It was fascinating to actually feel straight where being straight was something out of the norm. It was also great to see the gay and lesbian com­munity be totally comfortable for one day. 
The delightful thing about most homosexuals is that after experiencing so much difficulty and pain in a straight world, they are the last people to be unaccepting of anyone. I'm sure everyone who saw me at Gay Pride knew that I was straight, but no one would even have given me a funny look, let alone avoided or harassed me. 
It made me ashamed of my own straight world, where being different isn't okay. The gay and lesbian com­munity welcomes anyone who wants in --straight, bi-sexual, transsexual, transgender. gay, lesbian or question­ing -and I wish that straight commu­nities would be so open. The homosex­ual community remembers that we are not defined by our sexuality, a truth the heterosexual community often seems to forget. 
For the last three years, I have watched Notre Dame reject petitions for club status from OutreachND, the student-run gay and lesbian group at Notre Dame. This year, I also watched them reject the club petition of Irish Friends of Lesbians and Gays (IFLAG). Apparently Notre Dame has moved beyond rejection of homosexuals into the realm of rejecting people because they care about homosexuals. 
I know pretty much every argument against homosexuality. I know the Church's moral position on the issue. I know what the University says its posi­tion is (it's unsure it can endorse everything OutreachND stands for). I just think they are all wrong. 
Homosexuality is not a choice. I don't for a single second believe that my mom got tired of living with us and decided the best way to chuck it all was to turn lesbian. I also don't believe that people would make that choice. Why would anyone choose to be shunned, harassed and constantly mis­understood? 
I think that differentiating between being homosexual and acting in homo­sexual ways is bull. Why would God create so many people capable of deep, committed, romantic love, and then tell them that love is a sin? Is there so much love in the world that we can afford to outlaw some kinds? 
People are not defined by their sexu­ality. When you list all the words that identify you or your friends, how far down the list do you have to get before you say "straight?" So why do we only see that label when we meet a person who happens, way down the list, to be gay or lesbian? 
I think Notre Dame is a classy insti­tution. I'm proud to be part of it on football weekends when we treat the opposition with respect. I'm proud that we strive for greatness. But I am ashamed of the way our administra­tion treats its gay and lesbian students. I am ashamed of the way we, fellow students, sometimes treat them. I am ashamed of the straight world that cannot seem to get past the label. 
Sunday is Solidarity Sunday, when we talk about this issue for the only time all year. Campus MiQis-try, to their credit, does its best to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students. But Campus Ministry can't do it on its own. We must support our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters, too. 
Maybe we can't change the adminis­tration. But we can at least show them that, even if they won't stand with our homosexual friends, we will. Grab that rainbow ribbon at the end of Mass. pin it on your bag and wear your openness and acceptance with pride. It's time the students of Notre Dame taught the administration a lesson in love. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a senior psy­chology major. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. Iler column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­saril.lJ those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Teresa Fralish Sheila Flynn Sarah Nestor 
Viewpoint 

Kristin Yernm Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 
Chris Naidus 
Sports 
Joe Hettler Rachael Protzman Charee Holloway Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Lab Tech 
Ryan Greene 

NDTODAV/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Are men and women treated equally at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The neighborhood he lives in; the school or col­lege he attends: the factory, farm or office where he works. Such are the places where every man, woman and child seeks equal justice, equal oppor­tunity, equal dignity without discrimination. " 
Eleanor Roosevelt former U.S. first lady 
~HE
VtlSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 10, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A tough road to teaching 
I wanted to thank Courtney Boyle for endless hours of planning. When my her Oct. 5 article, "Give education friends ask how my week looks and I majors respect." Many students here do respond that I have to write several les­not realize how difficult the program is, son plans, they often laugh, and others and I have actually been ridiculed for ask if they're going to see me out. They being an education major. Just because just don't understand that this is a very it is not offered at Notre Dame does not difficult and time-consuming task. give it less value. Lastly, second semester of senior year 
I am a junior biology and secondary is reserved for full-time student teach­education major, and many of my ing at a local high school. This means I friends do not understand how much will have to teach a class of high school work I actually do. Being a biology students while the teacher observes major is tough enough: I spend six me. Because this is an all-day affair, I hours a week in labs, and preparing for have to have all my classes done by exams is a week-long process of study­then. Basically it's like taking three and ing at least three to four hours a night. a half years of college. I have been tak­Let's not forget the ten page research ing 17 to 18 credits since freshman papers, lab reports and a year of year, including a few summer courses, organic chemistry (which has the accu­all so I can avoid the 5-year plan. rate reputation for being the most diflJ­Now don't get me wrong, I love cult course). everything about what I do. Both the 
As if all of that doesn't make me busy biology and education departments are enough, I haven't even mentioned any awesome, and I'm not putting them of my education requirements. Twice a down at all. Also, I am in no way saying week I have to drive a half-hour to that my majors are so much more diffi­observe and teach at a South Bend cult than anyone else's or that no one High School. This means when I am else has a lot of work to do. I am simply registering for classes, l have to reserve letting you all know that education two to three hours in my schedule dur­majors do not have it easy, and we ing the time when they have school, so I deserve your respect. After all, if this can get some actual teaching experi­was so easy, then why are there only a ence. handful of biology and secondary 
Also, just as Boyle said, we have to majors in the whole program? write lesson plans, which is no easy task at all. We pre-service teachers are Kristi Trogman not allowed to lecture, so coming up junior with creative and entertaining ways to Regina Hall teach the material effectively takes Oct. 9 
Don't believe Democrats' economic complaints 
In recent weeks Congressional the corporations that have donated to Democrats have criticized President campaigns for the upcoming elections Bush and the Republicans for the are currently being investigated by current economic situation. They the SEC for accounting improprieties. claim that Bush and the Republicans' One of these contributed to the supposed ties to "big business" are Republicans, while three contributed the cause of the numerous corporate to the Democrats. Draw your own scandals. They seem to forget that conclusions about the innocence of many of the improprieties of Enron, the Democrats concerning "big busi­Arthur Anderson and Adelphia ness." occurred under the watch of Bill Also, let's not forget that the stock Clinton -no stranger to lies, decep­market is still ahead of where it was· tion and greed, whose "no rules" phi­in early 1997. the middle of the eco­losophy carried over to the business nomic boom. The Democrats would world. No doubt these companies have yoµ believe that the stock mar­realized that if the President of the ket has crashed. They talk down the United States can lie to the American economy like it was 1930, yet they people and get away with it, why don't have any solutions -the shouldn't thev? Senate even failed to pass a budget 
The constant media blitz by liberals for the first time in 26 years. such as Tom Daschle attempting to Thank you, Mr. Daschle. I'll be the tie Bush and the Republicans to "big first to admit that the economy could business" is ridiculous when one real­be in better shape, but that is no izes the hypocrisy of the criticism. excuse for reverting to scare tactics Daschle's own wife lobbies on behalf by distorting economic data. They of such corporations as Boeing, hope to scare you into voting against United Technologies, American and President Bush and the Republicans 
Northwest Airlines and Loral Space by spreading the perception of an and Communications. A total of 18 economy reminiscent of that during companies gave her over $5.8 million the Hoover administration. Don't let from 1997 to 2001. Daschle must them. think corporations are only "evil" if they are not large federal contrac­Michael Derocher tors. sophomore 
NBC Nightly News reporter Lisa Saint Joe's Hall Myers recently reported that a few of Oct. 9 
Pornography is no laughing matter 
Joe Muto's Oct. 9 column, ing feeling when we see these images. "Centerfolds: apply here," was relatively and an automatic comparison with the amusing. I am responding not as much woman on the wall. to his statements as to the culture that These soft porn pictures (and the real clearly displays itself in his article. I'm porn that is often not so visible) commu­
· talking about a culture in which many nicate to us exactly what the guys in that college guys indulge themselves -the room are looking for. A thin but busty culture of pornography, where women model tells us that a guy is interested are objectified as mere sexual objects. only in the physical part of us, and so we 
The Catechism condemns pornography try to look like that. A poster of Britney because it "offends against chastity, does Spears means that you want a girl to be grave injury to the dignity of its partici­a "Slave for You." A rap song or even the pants since each one becomes an object "Thong Song" makes it clear how you of base pleasure and illicit profit for oth­want us to dance. ers,'' and "it immerses all who are Of course you never say anything out involved in the illusion of a fantasy loud, but the images invade all of our world." The reasons presented by the heads and influence everyone's behav­Church here are the moral reasons -ior. pornography harms marriages, pro­Will girls say anything? No. Most of us motes abuse and offends the dignity of don't see any reason to ask you to take all the people involved in it. down that poster, because we figure it's 
But I'm not here to preach about it in just what college boys do. But some­such abstract terms. Let's make this a thing, somewhere inside our heads little more realistic. reminds us that these are the men we 
Your dance date walks into your room might someday marry. Pornography is before an SYR. The first thing she sets proven to cause men to be less satisfied eyes on is a poster of Pamela Lee. The in their marriages and has a direct cor­next day, a friend from chemistry class relation with abuse. Most of these guys comes over to study, and as she sits will be fathers some day -is this the down at the desk she sees the Sports image we want passed on to our sons? Illustrated Swimsuit Edition there Ladies, let your guy friends know that among your books. You and a bunch of you don't like staring down Shakira's the guys are playing fantasy video games cleavage when you come to visit. Guys, I (complete with half-naked women) when just ask you to consider the impact that your girlfriend stops by for a surprise porn, whether hardcore or just in a visit. swimsuit, is having on you. Consider the 
Situations like these aren't that message it sends to your female friends. uncommon for female students here. We Consider the influence what you do now do manage to spend some of our time will have on your future wife and chil­studying, partying and hanging out in dren. I think you'll find that pornogra­the rooms of our guy friends. But in the phy is a not a subject to he taken lightly. vast majority of those rooms, our femi­ninity and modesty are assaulted by the HannahGornik posters, screensavers and video games sophomore we see all around us. Though we seldom Pasquerilla Wesr Hall say it, there's a sort of sadness and sink-Oct. 9 
Moms face tough choices 
In running Emily Streyer Carlisle's Oct. the public stage. 8 article, "End the 'mommy wars,"' you I'll go out on a limb here: It does take a are highlighting perhaps the most real village to raise a child, and it does take concern that the women ofNotre Dame the contribution ofwomen to make our and Saint Mary's will have to face in the civic, social and economic lives improve coming years. as a country and a world. 
At age 19, I thought that surely in the There is absolutely no reason that our next 10 years the social revolution would society should not contribute to child­happen and that my female compadres care and education, that men should not and I would be the first generation of carry their full share of the "domestic" women to be able to have full, fulfilling burden and that women and men should lives of career and family. But here we not be able to organize their jobs and are in 2002, when the only choices facing careers around family imperatives. a "mommy" are apparently the selfish, There are many public policy choices greedy route of career or the glorified but which could vastly improve the quality of self-sacrifial stay-at-home mom. life, especially for women and young chil­
What remains for today's young women dren. These include: free public pre­to hope for? Most of us want to have a school from three years of age (as in family, and most of us want to contribute France); subsidised in-home child care something more to this world than our (as in most of Europe); flexible paid fami­genetic material to a new generation. For ly leave for both parents (Sweden allows many ofus, our years at Notre Dame up to three years to be taken between the have inspired us to a greater service for two parents); and accessible life-long humanity than only having children, yet learning options to allow parents who the Church contributes to the social pres­take time out from the labor market to sure to be a "good" mother by being update their skills. exclusively a mother and homemaker. Why don't we just skip the war on Iraq 
I still believe that as citizens we must and do all that with the money instead? continue to keep the debate alive -Think about it, women. women, by their biology, cannot be con­tained in an archaic structure of worker Macy Ann Henn~sey or reproducer. We should take our cre­class of '90 ativity in our personal lives, which allows S1rasbourg, France us to "balance" the facets of our lives, to Oct. 9 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 Thursday, October I 0, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Dragon I lives up to 'Lambs' 
By BRIAN BIRCHER 
Seen~ Movie Cri.cic 
Sequels to horror and thriller movies are notoriously known for their corresponding decrease in quality with the increasing number of the sequel. By "Children of the Corn 12" or "Halloween 8," audiences tire of the same rehashed concepts in vaguely new wrappings. "Red Dragon" defies this convention and serves as a worthy addition to previous three Hannibal Lecter movies. 
"Red Dragon'' takes place before "The Silence of the Lambs" and is actually a remake; it 
catch the killer before he strikes again. 
During the course of his investigation, Graham realizes that he will not be able to solve the case on his own, but will need to do the unthinkable and turn to Lecter for help. 
If there is one reason this movie suc­ceeds as well as it does. it is the impressive cast. "Red Dragon" has one of the strongest ensemble casts of any movie this year. Norton gives yet another strong per­formance as Graham, a man torn between duty and family. Hopkins supremely inhab­its the role of Hannibal Lecter, a tempera­mental genius who exudes creepiness. 
Equally notable is 

appeared in the­Ralph Fiennes as
"Red Dragon"
aters in 1986 as the killer Francis "Manhunter." 
Dolarhyde.
"Manhunter" Dolarhyde is as lacked Anthony central to the 
Hopkins' perform­movie as Graham if 
Director: Brett Ratner

ance as Dr. not more so, and 
Writer: Ted Tally

Hannibal Lecter, the battle between 
however, and it Starring: Anthony Hopkins, Edward Norton 
his humanity and was only after the and Ralph Fiennes success of "The Silence of the Lambs" and "Hannibal" that the idea of remaking "Red Dragon" was possible. 
The movie focuses on FBI Agent Will Graham (Edward Norton), the agent who originally caught Lecter and retired there­after. A few years later, two families are murdered in disturbing fashion a month apart and Will's old FBI boss, Jack Crawford (Harvey Keitel), urges Graham to come out of retirement in order to help 
insanity is por­
trayed perfectly. 

In a performance that would have been easy to come off as over the top, Fiennes maintains a realism that is terrifying. Emily Watson plays Reba, a vulnerable co-worker ofDolarhyde's who falls for him and causes Dolarhyde's strug­gle with his need to kill to intensify. Phillip Seymour Hoffman continues to prove him­self as one of the strongest character actors in Hollywood today, leaving his mark in the role of an unscrupulous tabloid reporter. 
Surprisingly this movie comes from director Brett Ratner, previously known for rap videos and the "Rush Hour" movie franchise. In "Red Dragon," he shows that he is capable of more through creating the creepy atmosphere necessary to make it feel similar to "The Silence ofthe Lambs." 
"Red Dragon" even attempts to go beyond the usual thriller material and explore such themes as how much a per­son has to be like a killer in order to catch one. Although, the killer's belief that he is becoming the Red Dragon is intriguing, but never fully explored. 
While the movie could have done more with those themes and resorts to some typ­ical thriller movie theatrics in the final act, the audience is too scared to notice. Ratner has crafted an excellent and terrifying movie that will keep audiences feeling uneasy long after they leave tq~ thl;later.. a,. 
Contact Brian Bircher at bircher.l@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Porn n' Chicken' a deliciously good time 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
Why porn and chicken? 
"Fried chicken is delicious, and porn, well that's video of people having sex with each other." 
Well, you just can't argue with that nugget of logic from Comedy Central's first original movie "Porn n' Chicken." 
"Porn n' Chicken" is based on the story of Yale's secret society of the same name. The group garnered national media atten­tion in early 2001 when the media learned of the secret society's plan to film an Ivy League pornographic film. 
Yale has a number of secret societies, including the infamous Skulls that count both President Bushes as members. And like their clandestine counterparts. the his­tory and information on The Porn n' Chicken Oub is hazy at best. 
The group apparently formed in 1996 during a strike for better wages by Yale's Graduate Employees & Student Organizations. Strikers ordered Popeye's fried chicken, drank beer and watched porn during meetings to discuss the strike. When the strike was resolved, the group apparently continued the meeting activities 
without the meeting. 

The underground group resurfaced in 2000 when four undergrads were tapped to carry on the tradi­tion. The core group. none of whom knew each other, received anonymous e-mails from the shadowy group founders, the access code to a bank account with money for supplies and trash bags full of porn. The group meets once a month to eat fried chicken and watch porn. 
The movie, however, is more of a meeting between the real story and "Animal House." It follows the last three months in the college career of Josh Hutchinson (Ebon Moss-Bachrach), a self proclaimed anal-retentive tool. who is an obsequious Yalie with the sole motiva­tion of making it into Yale Law School. 
When his coveted law professor writes him a "shoe-in" recommendation, Hutch's life seems complete. That is until his girl­friend dumps him for being boring and a lousy lover. And, yes, she was faking it. In a complete down spiral, Hutch is rescued from self-destruction by his debonair parti­er roommate Quentin (Alex Burns) and cohorts Andy (Geoffrey Arend) "don't ask, don't tell" policy with the group. 
The acting is touching. but movie and television veteran Kurt Fuller steals the show as Dean Richard Widehead. Fuller, who has made a career of playing rich. white, uptight, intolerant authority figures (in short "The Man"), brings his schmen­drick act to a new level. 
Although the movie follows a fairly typi­
cal college antics 
versus stuffy 
and Lenny (Michael administration for­
"Porn n' Chicken"
Goldstrom). 
mula reminiscent Together the crew of "Animal House" kills their Ivy and "PCU." it League super ego exudes a charm by by starting the infa­not trivializing the 
Director: Lawrence Trilling
mous club. college experi­
Writer: Lawrence Trilling
Eventually, the ence. The charac­
Starring: Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Alex Burns,
now popular club ters aren't just flat 
Angela Goethals and Kurt Fuller
attracts the atten­partiers or nerds; 
tion of Polly (Angela Goethals), a feminist campus activist. Poly, who takes her name from polymorphous perversity, a condition in which the afflicted receive sexual pleas­ure from all parts of his or her body, becomes the club's biggest supporter and Hutch's love interest. She encourages the group to shoot a full-length porn called "The StaXXX," named after the fabled hook-up spot in the deserted Yale archives. Plan to shoot the movie is tipped when a savvy reporter from the mythical world of competitive college journalism documents one of the group's parties. Soon the group is, as in all college coming-of-age flicks, head to head with the oppressive adminis­tration. The oppressive administration is more of an invention of Comedy Central than fact. as the Yale brass practiced a 
they all have real motivations and experiences. 
Unlike the disgusting pop culture stereo­typing of college as four years of sex and drugs in movies like "American Pie," the members of the Porn n' Chicken Club actu­ally have to live on campus. "Porn n' Chicken" looks into why college students want to get laid instead of trivializing sexu­ality-the irony abounds. 
Comedy Central will air "Porn n' Chicken" Sunday at 10 p.m. with encore presentations of Sunday at 12 a.m. and Friday, Oct. 18 at 11 p.m., Saturday. Oct. 19 at 11:30 p.m. and Sunday, Oct. 27 at 2 a.m. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, October 10, 2002 page 13 
Why 'Four Feathers' is a pretty, shallow movie 
There is absolutely nothing wrong with a silly little film. There is, howev­er, something dreadfully wrong with a silly big film. Schekhar Kapur's "The Four Feathers" is categorically a big film and it is very. very silly. 
What this film boils down to is the old Victorian rot about honor, duty and sacrifice. Set in 1875 Sudan, this fifth film to be adapted from the 
A.E.W. Mason novel of the same name, has as Us hero. the British officer Harry Feversham (Heath Ledger). a descen­dant of a long line of military greats. 
Terrified by the responsibility and ordeals of battle, he resigns his post right before his regiment ships out to the Sudan to fight the forces that killed Gordon, the British military commander at Khartoum. Feeling the loss of their colleague's loyalty, three of Harry's closest friends send him a white feather, the Victorian symbol of cowardice. The fourth feather comes from his fiance, Ethne (Kate Hudson). who breaks off their engagement in embarrassment. Determined to redeem his honor and bride, Harry sets off for the Sudan, disguises him­self as an Arab and makes friends with a tribesman who helps him. Making his way to his former friends, he finds opportunities to prove his bravery to the men who before believed him to be a coward. 
Wes Bentley co-stars as Harry's best friend, Lieutenant Jack Durrance, and does the best job of any actor in the film. He and Hudson are Americans, Ledger is Australian and strangely no British actors appear in the lead roles. These young actors are able to carry off the British accents, but they don't have the grace or body language nec­essary to complete the package. Ledger and Hudson's manner of infor­mality also make their characters less believable and there is definitely a kind of casual demeanor that can only be the product of growing up in what was a former British colony, rather than the real thing. The result is that instead of playing British aris­tocracy, Hudson and Ledger seem to be playing dress-up. 


"Four Feathers" is what I would call a very pretty but shallow movie. While the whole plot is centered on Harry's decision not to fight, it focuses too much on the honor, duty and sacrifice theme. What's missing is any 
acknowledgment '"The Four Feathers" sion saves Harry that there are 
as he pursues his times when the redemption. As a more courageous native in the thing to do is not desert and a spir­fight. Director: Shekhar Kapur itual guide, this 
The actors are Writer: Michael Schiffer and Hussein Amimi character has not the only rea­Starring: Heath Ledger, Kate Hudson and one of the noblest movie also has a beautiful score remi­niscent of "The English Patient." mix­ing between western period music pieces and the ethereal traditional pieces sung in Arabic. 
One of the most troublesome things about the film is the treatment of Abou Fati, the tribesman who befriends and 
who on more 
than one occa­

son this film can Djimon Hounsou be deemed pretty but shallow.The cinematography is reminiscent of "Lawrence of Arabia" is excellent. It capitalizes on its use of creative cam­era angles and the film's vastness in scope. The great cinematographer Robert Richardson, of "JFK" fame, lights the battle scenes as if they were paintings. The whirling ballroom scene shot downward from the ceiling captures the women's twirling hoop dress as they sashay across the black and white checkerboard floor. The rolls in the story. 
Ile is portrayed, 

however, as hav­ing the intelligence and self-possession of a suburban golden retriever. He is treated more like a slave than a per­son and is used by the British charac­ters for the achievement of their own ends. There are also moments where Harry and Abou Fati exchange what are supposed to be meaning-filled glances, but their contents (were they spoken), would doubtlessly turn out to be empty. 
"The Four Feathers" takes itself too 

seriously for what it actually contains. The less you know about the British Empire and human nature, the more you will like it; but then, this can be said of many movies coming out today. 
This leads me to something I want to say about films in general. The American film industry is changing and has been for quite some time. The problem with a film like "Four Feathers" is that it demands nothing of its audience. It's true that many filmgoers say that they want films to be an escape and there is nothing wrong with this, but it is what the film demands from its audience that distin• guishes an average film from a great one. "Four Feathers" fails because it was empty of this demand. The pre­tense of its greatness, I believe. poses a danger to the future of film. 
Films today ask far too little of their viewers. Audiences are spoon-fed information about characters and plot and are never left to question. Films today do not take advantage of the opportunities they have to ask people to read between the lines or to draw from their own experiences to make the necessary inferences. Nothing is applied from the audience to the film. Nothing significant is learned. 
This trend of expecting nothing from an audience is what marks the past few years in filmmaking. It is what makes "Lawrence of Arabia" a good film and "The Four Feathers" not; what makes "Silence of the Lambs" a provocative film and "Red Dragon" only scary; it is what makes "The Thin Red Line" an important work and "Saving Private Ryan" patriotic propa­ganda and what distinguishes the ear­lier Star Wars films from Episodes I and II. 
The problem is not so much that these lesser films are being made, but rather that we may become too accus­tomed to them, too used to being lazy theater-goers and forget what good films are really like. We may even, by exposing ourselves so much to their shallow prettiness, become in a small but important way, silly ourselves. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Anne Hamilton is a junior philoso­
phy major a senior movie snob. She 
can be contacted at 
hamilton.56@nd.edu. 


Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
Ledger plays Harry in the disappointing and essentially empty "Four Feathers." The problems with the film are becoming an epidemic in American cinema. 
page 14 The Obsm,er . SPORTS Thursday, October I0, 2002 
NHL 

Messier scores twice as Rangers top Hurricanes 
Asio.;ia1ed Press 
New York Rangers fans call­ing for Mark Messier to retire better think again. 
The 41-year-old Messier scored twice in a three-minute span and Mike Richter moved within three wins of 300, giving Bryan Trottier a win in his first game as Rangers coach as New York beat the Carolina Hurricanes 4-1 Wednesday night. 
The captain of the Rangers missed 41 games last season with shoulder problems, scor· ing just seven goals, but Messier was strong at the start of his 24th NHL season, moving past Detroit's Steve Yzerman and into seventh place on the all-time goals list. 
"Mark played a very intelli­gent game," Trottier said. "He's got great poise. I don't know if there's a better leader in sports." 
Meanwhile, the 36-year-old Richter won No. 297 against the defending Eastern Conference champions, losing his shutout bid when Rod Brind'Amour scored with 3:41 left. 

"We're not really worried about what everyone is going to say or who is going to look an unbelievable pace." Stormy -brought the Prince "You'll never say no to a 5-when he was dragged down by at the score sheet and make Petr Nedved, moving from of Wales Trophy onto the ice on-3, but the last place you Vaclav Nedorost near the goal their judgment calls," center to the wing this sel!-son, and the scoreboard replayed want it is in the opening game in the first period. He did not Carolina's Erik Cole said of the scored New York's third goal of_ highlights of the team's playoff within the first five minutes," return and was to be reevalu­season-opening loss on the the period when his shot from run to the Stanley Cup finals. Maurice said. "You would like ated on Thursday. heels of a fantastic playoff run. the circle went off the stick of Owner Peter Karmanos, to get everybody's legs into it. The NHL's crackdown on ~Nobody really gave us any­Carolina defenseman Bret coach Paul Maurice, and play­It wasn't demoralizing, though. interference seemed to pro­thing to stir our pot last year Hedican and past a stunned ers Ron Francis, Brind'Amour It was too early in the game to duce more skating and more during the playoffs so we're Arturs Irbe. and Glen Wesley then helped have an affect." open ice. going to keep playing our same Nedved added his second raise the Southeast Division Dallas dominated early, game and try to bore every­with 14:18 left in the game to and Eastern Conference cham­Denver 1, Dallas 1 building a 12-0 edge in shots body to death out there." complete New York's convinc­pionship banners to the top of Colorado's Radim Vrbata before Colorado got its first 
Messier scored his 659th goal ing win. the HBC Center. scored the tying goal in the shot on goal 12 minutes into nine seconds after Carolina Defensemen Brian Leetch Carolina appeared to get a third period Wednesday night, the game. failed to score on one of its and Tom Poti, and Eric Lindros jump from all of the emotion, and the Avalanche and Dallas Fans celebrated an apparent nine unsuccessful power plays. each had two assists. going on a two-man advantage Stars skated to a 1-1 tie in Colorado goal at 17:32 when He added goal No. 660 three The Rangers used seven less than two minutes in as their NHL regular-season Mike Keane looked to have minutes later from the side of players added to the roster Messier took a holding penalty opener. poked the puck past a the net as the Rangers cashed since last season's finale, but and New York was called for Each team had a power-play sprawled Turco, but it was dis­in with the man advantage to were without injured star Pavel too many men on the ice. opportunity in the overtime. allowed because the whistle go up 2-0. Bure, who is still recovering But the Hurricanes didn't get Dallas' Niko Kapanen scored had blown. 
"We have a chance this year from arthroscopic knee a shot on goal during either at 4:20 of the first period -the Colorado got a power play to control our own destiny," surgery. power play. They had just first goal of the NHL season out of that threat, but Turco Messier said. "So, through "We got a great team effort three with seven minutes left in and the first of his career. withstood a flurry of scoring training camp we worked hard from Mike Richter on out," the period before Richter made Dallas goaltender Marty chances. The Avs outshot on detail. I think it showed Trottier said. a clutch save on Cole from the Turco had 40 saves, and Dallas 16-15 in the period. tonight. This was one of the The sellout crowd of 18,730 slot with the Rangers on the Colorado's Patrick Roy had 24. Kapanen, the Stars' leading best games we've played as a stood and cheered for 15 min­power play, then stopped a Dallas center Jason Arnott scorer in the preseason, took a team in a long time. For the utes before the drop of the blast by Sarni Kapanen as the had to be helped from the ice pass from Bill Guerin and beat first game of the year that was puck as the Carolina mascot -opening period neared a close. after injuring his right leg Roy from the left circle. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ac the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
-
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
CJs Pub See whats happening www cjspub.com 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&mea!s Party w/ MTV Hottest.Destinations Most Reliable www.sunsplash­tours.com 1-800-426-7710 
$250 a day potentiaVbartending 
Training provided 1·800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Lost: Kairos (waffle) cross. Believed lost near west entrance to library. Has burgandy piece of velvet lied around top and two pins, a celtic cross and a footprints pin. PRICE­LESS to owner. REWARD ottered PLEASE call Cristin at 
634-1057 
LOST & FOUND 

LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold initials JME, size 10 3/4; engraved within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14 Michigan game, stadium student section or on field. Jon Mack 309 Zahm, 634-1090. 
WANTED 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico. Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties&. Meats! 1-600·234­7007 endlesssummertours.com 

Make $320 Weeki Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. positions avail­able now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext. 123. WWW SUNCHASE.COM 
Earn extra money evenings sched­uling appointments and making customer calls for local State Farm agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, choose from Tuesday-Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must be enthusi• astic with great telephone pres­ence. Fax resume to 574-232·9984. 
Bartenders needed' Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 
FOR SALE 

LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd edu 
1991 Honda Civic Hatchback. 135k milesGoodcond. $2200. 574-277­3189. 
FOR RENT 

All size homes .available for 2003­2004 mmmrenlals@aol.com 
www.mmmrentals.com 

ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS, 
CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT ~EIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS­CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST· CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 · (574)674-2471 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 11126-5/12 Call Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607­723-7363 
LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from NO. Basement, garage, safe and private. $640/mo. Great location • 1122 Woodward Ave. Call 360· 2500 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame• Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 B&B-Pitts & Rutg. Best Area (574)­287-4545 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532·1896 
TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell Please check our prices. 273-3911. 
WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT• ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Need Home GA tix. Call 276-8507, alter 5 call 288-2677. 
NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) bringing family, friends & girlfriend to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmal• ley@global.t-bird.edu 
Wanted: 1 GA Pitt or BC ticket Jim 234-7228 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Senior Week version 2.0 begins today ... the race for 50 stales! 
kevin -:) 


--------·-­

Thursday, October l 0, 2002 
:...------..Ji!Zlil 

..::.:.;:==:;;;;..;:;..;.;;__,j 
In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mission. The mission was to provide a personal. caring, educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year institution of their choice. 
Holy Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fundamental mission. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame. Saint Mary's, Indiana University and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
Our mission is what has made us successful. So while many things change. our mission is one thing that will not. 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame. TN 46556-0308 • 574-239-8400 • FAX 574-233-7427 • www.hcc-nd.-edu 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Lewis doubtful for Sunday 
. Ravens' Pro­Bowl linebacker may be on sidelines for game against Colts 
Associated Press 

OWINGS MILLS, Md. Baltimore Ravens middle line­backer Ray Lewis missed prac­tice Wednesday with a sore shoulder and was listed as doubtful for Sunday's game against Indianapolis. 
Lewis partially dislocated his left shoulder Sunday night against the Cleveland Browns_ Playing without him in the 
fourth quarter. the Ravens blew most of a 23-0 lead but escaped with a 26-21 victory. 
The Ravens now face the prospect of playing an entire game without the five-time Pro Bowler, whose 69 tackles over four games is nearly twice that of any of his teammates. He also has two interceptions and 
a fumble recovery. 
"This is the next big chal­lenge for us," Ravens coach Brian Billick said. "If indeed Ray can't go, we're going to see how this team responds. How great would that be to step up on the road under these -cir­cumstances and come away with a win? That would be huge." 
After an 0-2 start, the Ravens defeated previously unbeaten Denver at home, then beat Cleveland on the road to even their record and take over first place in the NFC North. 
Now comes another daunting task: defeating the Colts. who are off to a 3-1 start behind new coach Tony Dungy and quarterback Peyton Manning. 
'Tm never prepared to play without Ray, but we have to. If Tony were any kind of sport, he'd put Peyton down. Fair is fair," Billick said with a grin. "But I don't 
think Tony medical treat­
"A guy like Ray goes
is going to ment for much
down, you 're always 
do that." of Wednesday W i t h going to miss something. afternoon and Lewis in the But I think our guys are did not talk to lineup, the media. He
up for the challenge.,, 
Baltimore would almost blanked the certainly play in Browns for Peter Boulware pain, but the three quar­Ravens are also
Baltimore outside linebacker 
ters and allowed 5.8 yards per play. Without him, the Ravens yielded three touch­downs and gave up 7.0 yards per play. 
Baltimore outside linebacker Peter Boulware, who played the past two seasons with a sore shoulder, expects Lewis to be in the lineup against the Colts. 
"Knowing Ray, I think he'll be out there. He's such a com­petitor," Boulware said. "We've talked about it. I told him he'll be able to work through it and be able to play." 
Under guidelines for the 
NFL's injury report, a player listed as doubtful has approxi­mately a 25 percent chance of playing. Although the Ravens will be better prepared to play without Lewis than they were last weekend, the defense clearly won't be the same with­out him. 
"A guy like Ray goes down, you're always going to miss something," Boulware said. "But I think our guys are up for the challenge." 
Lewis received 
worried about 
risking further injury to arguably the most important player on the team_ 
"We'd prefer to err on the side of caution," said Billick, who also planned to hold Lewis out of Thursday's practice. "If he's really feeling better by Friday, he could possibly go." 
Lewis has played in 63 straight games since Oct. 11, 1998, when he missed the sec­ond of two straight games with a dislocated elbow. Those were the only two games he's missed since the start of the 1997 sea­son, his second year in the NFL. 
Aperfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.tring 
N.D. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2 • 6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages 


"•• ·.
. ,,-:

6011 
''.·'.-.;,'. :-: .~.: ::.,••: :,!, ,•,· ~... ,:. ·'•' -· • .=·•-•,:.· ~ :-.y:,•, •. -,• .-. -. ' \ ...
Screen TV's 

'~'/' , (rj/
·.((Jtw (J)Jm
Fully Enclosed Tent 

631-2000 

next to the N.D. Bookstore. www.themorrisinn.com 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October I0, 2002 
©2002 Pr,cewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Pnc~wat~mouseCoopers refers to tne U.S. firm of Pncewater11ouseCoopers LLP and olller members of tile worldwide PncewaterllouseCoopers organi,at,on. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity E111ployer. 
[JRJcEWATfRHousE(roPERS I 
VOTED •1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

Help us llelp companies determine how import taxes, manufacturing costs and labor will affect their profits, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
look beyond the numbers. 
Thursday, October l 0, 2002 The Oburver . SPORTS page 17 
AUTO RACING 
Eric Martin killed in double-hit crash 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.C. 

A driver in the minor league ARCA series crashed into a wall Wednesday and seconds later was broad-sided by another car, killing him and injuring the other driver. 
Eric Martin radioed his team, "I'm all right" after he spun and rammed the wall backward coming out of the fourth turn during practice at Lowe's Motor Speedway. But the other car, driven by Deborah Renshaw, came 
Are you planning to buy a Kaplan course? Have you already bought a Kaplan course? 

~ucr1otJ 

Notre Dame Habitat is teaming up with Kaplan to offer you the chance to purchase a Kaplan voucher for below retail price. The voucher is good for any Kaplan course. Ifyou have already purchased a course and then win the auction, Kaplan will reimburse you for the difference. 
So bring your checkbook on 

Thursday, October the 10th at 6:00pm 

OCT 1 1 2001 

STUDENT ACTI ,,.Ti !E.:5 Ci-FICE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
around the turn going at least 160 mph and plowed into Martin's car on the driver's side. 
"The first hit, I guess he just kind of lost his breath," veter­an driver Ron Hornaday said. "The second one, a driver is never ready for that second impact and that's the one that got him. It's nobody's fault, it's just a brutal sport some­times." 
The 33-year-old Martin died instantly of massive internal injuries. 
Renshaw, 25, was taken to University Hospital in Charlotte, where she was in fair condition and being examined for possible ankle injuries. 
She has had a tumultuous racing year, beginning in July when fellow drivers plotted to ruin her Late Model Series title chances at Nashville's Fairgrounds Speedway. They pooled their money, had a dri­ver intentionally finish behind her during a race and paid for him to protest her finish. 
She was disqualified when her car failed inspection. But the protest led to a ton of attention and caught the eye of Rick Goodwin, who planned to put Renshaw in a Busch series car next season. 
Martin wrecked during practice for the EasyCare 150, the final race of the season for the Automobile Racing Club of America, a SO-year-old train­ing series for drivers hoping to move up to NASCAR. 
Qualifying was canceled and the field for Thursday night's race was set by season points. 
Martin's team tearfully cir· cled the back of their hauler, with crew members wiping their eyes as they talked on cell phones. Renshaw's truck was packed up, the back door pulled shut. 
A dozen drivers went to the track's media center and stood behind ARCA president Ron Drager as a show of sup­port. 
ARCA drivers are required to wear head and neck restraints. They usually drive old Winston Cup cars and the safety requirements are not as strict. 
At issue in this wreck is why Renshaw either didn't see Martin's disabled car or was unable to avoid him. 
Spotters are not required to climb onto the grandstand roof during practice to help a driver navigate the track. Instead, the spotters watch the race from the top of the haulers inside the infield, giv­ing them several blind spots. 
Car owner Bob Schacht, a three-time ARCA series cham­pion, was spotting for Renshaw on top of the team hauler, but Drager would not speculate if he saw Martin's car or not. 
Wayne Hixson, Martin's team owner. said he started working with the driver about four years ago. and they had run in all the ARCA races this year. 
"He was learning real good with the car and he either got in some oil or blew a right front" tire, Hixson said. "He hit the wall. He came on the radio and said, Tm all right.' And then the 75 (car) just came around and broad-sided him. 
"It was just a racing acci­dent, that's all.'' 
After the crash, the engine and a part of the wheel assembly sat on the track as the wreckage was lifted onto a tow truck and covered with a blue tarp. 
Martin was from Hixson, Tenn. He is survived by a wife and two children. His wife, Tammy, is a naval officer aboard the USS Gettysburg, which is in port in Jacksonville, Fla. 
Martin had 40 career starts and was 20th in the points standings in ARCA, which competes on many of the same tracks used for Winston Cup and Busch events. 
His death is the 15th at Lowe's, the eighth invoh'ing a stock car driver. Blaise Alexander was killed last October at an ARCA race in a wreck involving Kerry Earnhardt. 

The End Zone Ain'ttheOnly PlacetheIrish Will DanceSaturday. 


AThursday Tradition... 
LOTS -OF STUFF FOR ABUCK -NO COVER BEFORE 11PM ­
.-·.. ~,.,,.,.,--~*·'.&~..:,I".'liii~"'!~e~~'fili::~~~:::;.&,~~~:Z~!t.,~~~"'!rt\~::.._..~ 
.--= BRING YOUR COLLEGE ID -21• ONLY 
-
222 S. MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 574-234-5200 HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 10, 2002 
This 
Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
Learning•to Talk About Race Retreat for Student Leaders 
Retreat date Nov. 8-9 Sign-up dates October 7-16 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Freshman Retreat #43 
Retreat Date: November 8-9 Sign-up dates: Septemer 30-November 4 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #73 
Retreat Date: November 15-17 Sign-up dates: October ?-October 11 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
807 Mass 

8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

___urdav 
Ninth Annual Folk Choir Concert for the Holy Cross Missions 
7:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Contributions will be collected 
RCIA-Session •
10:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 

_. dav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #3 
7:00 -8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass 
Sign-up dates: October 7-October 11 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer

-
10:00-11:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 

-
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
C-M 
CampllS Mlni5try 

War on Iraq 
Pray for Peace with Justice for All People 
¦ by Richard V. Warner, Director of Campus Ministry & Counselor to the President 
As we watched television coverage of the attacks on September 11, 200 I, each of us realized that our way of life as citizens of the United States had changed, would change for the foreseeable future, and perhaps forever. In our grief and horror, we could only imagine what rhe implications of such changes might be. But one year from that memorable day when so many innocenc people died, we have come to realize how our society and culture have changed. 
Over the past several months, we have heard continuous and sometimes contradictory calls to wage a pre­emptive and technological war on Iraq, in order ro topple irs leader. Sectors of our government have called for what some people consider a "blank check" to wage war, with or without the backing of our allies and Middle Eastern nations, and at the margin of any United Nations' discussion and action. 
A complicating factor in all of this is the intractable and too often murderous struggle between Israelis and Palestinians; a situation in which we are not uninterested bystanders. Yet hundreds of innocent men, women 
and children have died on both sides, and our government, the 
current administration and its predecessors, is unable or unwill­
Campus Ministry's response to the 
ing to promote a process which might discover mutually ac­current situation will include a ceptable ways to resolve this issue. The absence ofa solution to the currently irreconcilable differences between these rwo peoples weekly Mass for Peace every who have legitimate claims based on history and justice further complicates the situation in the Middle East. 
Friday at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica 
As we look for an appropriate way to redress the evil ofter­rorism and to protect our country from further attacks, it is
of the Sacred Heart, as well as 
important for us to examine the root causes which led up to prayers for the welfare of the men September 11, 2001 and which have to be addressed. And as the debate continues about how to carry out an effective search and women who serve in our for weapons ofmass destruction in Iraq, how to form a stronger coalition ofnations to confront Saddam Hussein and what steps 
Armed Forces. 
might be taken short of a preemptive strike, it is important for 
us to step back and consider our responsibilities, our personal positions 
and our responses as believers. 

The Catholic bishops of our country urge us to step back from the brink where we find ourselves. In a letter to President Bush dated September 13, 2002, Bishop Wilton Gregory, president of the United Sates Conference ofCatholic Bishops, acknowledges that while "the use offorce against Afghanistan could be justified, Iraq is a different case." While acknowledging that there are no easy answers, the bishop questions whether or not there is a just cause which would permit an all out war on Iraq at this time. He questions whether or not there is a moral basis for the use of military force on a large scale, and whether there is a legitimate basis for using massive armed force in order to topple the Iraqi govern­ment, and perhaps occupy its territory. 
After an analysis of the situation, and using criteria based on the Just War ethic, our Catholic bishops, whose authority is under siege because of the scandal of infidelity on the part of some Catholic priests and bishops in our country, have declared that a pre-emptive attack on Iraq at this time is unjustifiable. This position is affirmed as well by the Holy See and by some leading ethicists in our country. 
So where do we stand as Catholics? First of all, we have to try to form a prudential judgement based on a conscience informed by the teachings of the Church and applied to the current situation we face. 
Secondly, within the guidelines provided for us by the Just War teaching, we acknowledge that our country and any country has not only the authority but also the obligation to protect its citizens with the use of appropriate armed force as a last resort in order to bring about a situation that will lead to peace. 
The Catholic Church is not a" peace Church" as such. Rather, it is a community ofbelievers which, as described in the 1983 pastoral letter of the Catholic bishops of the United States, holds to its long standing Just War tradition while acknowledging the legitimacy of the use of non-violent responses to situations such as the one we face, and other actions which promote peacemaking. 
In our seach for unity as a faith community as we pursue peace which is both a gift of God and the work of human hands, I suggest prayer to Jesus Christ as the Prince of Peace might be an important first step. Campus Ministry's response co the current situation will include a weekly Mass for Peace every Friday at 5: 15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, as well as prayers for the welfare ofthe men and women who serve in our Armed Forces. 
Beginning this Friday, and as long as the current situation lasts, we call our community to pray for peace, for peacemak­ers and for the countless victims of violence. We will also pray for the safety and well-being of the members of our community who serve our country in the Armed Forces, including current members ofour ROTC programs, alumni, and sons and daughters of families ofour faculty, staff and alumni. 
We can come together in prayer regardless of the positions our well-formed consciences lead us to adopt, because we are brothers and sisters of che same God we worship and praise. Let us pray for peace with justice for all God's people. 

¦ Basilica of the Sacred Hean ¦ Around Campus 
Saturday, October 12 Sunday, September 29 30 minutes after fhe game Spanish Mass 
Rev. Peter A. Jarret, c.s.c. 1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
Sunday, October 13 Law School Mass
8:00 a.m. 
5:00 p.m., Law School ChapelRev. Patrick H. Maloney, c.s.c. 
10:00 a.m. 
MBA Mass
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, c.s.c. 
7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge
11:45 a.m. Rev. John A. Steele, c.s.c. 
¦ SllndaV'SSCdPblelleadlNS 1•t Reading Is 25: 6-10a 2nd Reading Phil 4: 12-14 Gospel Mt 22: 1-14 
Thursday, October I 0, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
U.S. OPEN 
Janzen, Jones compete in extreme conditions 
2002-0il '.Vlaim;tage Sea,;un ~olre Dame, Film. Television, and Theatre presenh; 
THE 
ANDRAKE 
by Niccolo Machiavelli ~!!!!!!='!!!:!~!I Translated by Wallace Shawn 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday. October 9 7::10 p.m. Tinm1day. Octoh(>r 10 7:30 p.m. Friday, Ocloher 11 7:30 p.m. Saturday, October 12 7::iO p.m. Sunday, October 13 2:30 p.m. 
Rese1·ved Seats $10 Seniors $9 • AU Students $7 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at ihe LaFortune Student Center. 
Ma;..lerCard and Visa orders, call 6:31-8128. 
Plea,;e visil our Weh site at www.nd.edu/~fll 
nament, but also has more con­fidence in how he'll play them. 
"It's just a matter of getting the right attitude back on the course to win again. I think I'm headed back in that direction," Janzen said. 
Ironically, Janzen shot his low round of the year while trying to play conservatively on the TPC Summerlin course. 
"lt's easy to press because you think you have to shoot 63 every day," Janzen said. "I make more birdies now that I play more conservative if you can believe that. If I just stay from gambling on too many holes I do well." 
On a warm and windless day made for scoring, Janzen fin­ished off his round with a 5-foot­er for birdie on 18 to get to the top of a scoreboard crowded with red numbers. 
It might have been even better if not for a few missed short putts, including the 2-footer on 
9. Janzen promptly followed that with birdies on 10 and 11 to get his round going again. 
"I didn't want to let that ruin my round," Janzen said. 
Jones also had one hole he had to overcome. He had to make a 20-footer for par on 10, one of "10 or 11 one-putts" he had on the day. 
"That was a big momentum boost there," Jones said. 
Beem used the same 7 -wood he made eagle with to beat Tiger Woods in the PGA Championship for another eagle in his 64. 
-
Associated Press 
I.AS VEGAS 

Lee Janzen and Steve Jones won U.S. Opens by grinding their way through the toughest of conditions. Both showed Wednesday they can play a bit on easy courses, too. 
Janzen, trying to win for the first time since the 1998 U.S. Open, made 10 birdies on his way to a 9-under 63 in the first round of the Invensys Classic at Las Vegas. 
Jones, meanwhile, was also at 9-under after a bogeyless 62 on the par-71 TPC Canyons course. 
"If you're making pars_ out 
here you better go home." Jones said. 
Janzen shared more than just the lead and some U.S. Open history with Jones, who is also winless since 1998. Both now have some hope that their win­less droughts may be over. 
"In 1995 if someone had said you're going to win only once more over the next seven years I wouldn't have believed it," Janzen said. 
Encouraged by several months of ball-striking he believes is his best ever, Janzen shook off a missed 2-footer for birdie on No. 9 for a back-nine 30. 
He has four more rounds to go on the marathon 90-hole tour­
---
AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, October l 0, 2002 


MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Associated Press 
ST. WUIS 
Barry Bonds was smack in the middle of everything ­driving in runs, scoring them and even flashing his temper in the NL championship opener. 
Bonds delivered yet anoth­er big hit, lining a key triple and later getting embroiled in a skirmish that nearly turned into a real slugf est as the San Francisco Giants beat the St. Louis Cardinals 9-6 Wednesday night. 
In a postseason that is rapidly becoming all his own, Bonds went 1-for-2 with three walks. The four-time MVP, known in the past for his playoff failures, hit three home runs against Atlanta in the opening round. 

Benito Santiago, batting behind Bonds, homered and drove in four runs, and Kenny Lofton and David Bell also connected. It was 6-1 after three innings. It was the way Lofton admired his shot, however, that led to a high­and-tight pitch the next time around, emptying both benches and bullpens. 
Lofton had to be restrained by several teammates, a coach and an umpire after spinning away from reliever Mike Crudale's fastball in the fifth inning. 
Managers Tony La Russa and Dusty Baker, who a day earlier gushed about how much they liked each other, started screaming in a heated exchange that forced a pair of umpires to pull them apart. 
The big lead enabled the Giants to hold off a rally fueled by home runs from Albert Pujols, surprising Miguel Cairo and pinch-hitter 
J.D. Drew. Robb Nen pitched the ninth for a save. 
Busch Stadium, full of red and ready to erupt from the start, quickly grew silent as Lofton led off the game with a walk and, after an intentional walk to Bonds, scored on Santiago's two-out infield hit. 
Morris retired the first two batters in the second, then suddenly lost it. Lofton sin­gled, stole second and scored on Rich Aurilia's single. Kent followed with a single, and that brought up Bonds. 
Bond caught up with a 
hanging curve and lined a one-hop drive off the right­center field wall for a two-run triple, and an RBI single by Santiago made it 5-0. 
Lofton struck again with a solo homer in the third, standing near the plate to watch his drive sail over the right-field fence. The speed­ster casually flipped his bat aside before beginning his trot. 
Crudale's first pitch came close to Lofton -not at his head, but too close for Lofton. Lofton shouted at Crudale before starting to yell at catcher Mike Matheny. 
It took a few minutes to restore order, with Giants reserve Shawon Dunston, eventually settling down Lofton. 

around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL -Giants at Cardinals 7 p.m., 6 FOX 
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Blackhawks at Blue Jackets 
6 p.m., 22 FOXCH 
Maple Leafs at Penguins 
6:30 p.m., 39 ESPN2 
Red Wings at Sharks 
9:30 p.m., 39 ESPN2 
IN BRIEF 

Angels take game 2 in the ALCS 
So much for Minnesota's Metrodome dominance. Darin Erstad and Brad Fullmer homered off Rick Reed as Anaheim built a six-run lead, and the high-flying Angels beat the perky, pesky Twins 6-3 Wednesday night to head home with a split in the first two games ofthe AL Championship Series. "You have to get acclimated to the dome," Fullmer said. "We got accli­mated a little bit." 
A night after Joe Mays stymied Anaheim's high-octane offense in the Twins' 2-1 opening victory, the Angels got to Reed from the start. Erstad, the No. 2 batter, sent Reed's sixth pitch over the fence in right-center, where it landed 409 feet away-nestled in one ofthe stacked-up seats used for Vikings games 
"It's nice to get a lead. It's nice to jump out. That gave us a big lift," Angels manager Mike Scioscia said. Anaheim tacked on three more runs in the second, two of them unearned because of a costly error by catcher 
A.J. Pierzynski -who couldn't hold on to a throw home after Reed caught a runner off first. 
"The game should have been 2-0," Twins manager Ron Gardenhire said. 
When Fullmer chased Reed with a two-run homer in the sixth, it seemed over. But Minnesota battled right back, knocking Ramon Ortiz out in the sixth when Corey Koskie hit an RBI single and Doug Mientkiewicz, who had three hits, had a two-run single. 
Brendan Donnelly replaced Ortiz and got out of the inning, and 20-year-old rookie Francisco Rodriguez struck out two in a 1-2-3 seventh. 
After a two-out walk to Torii Hunter and a single by Mientkiewicz put run­ners at the corners in the eighth, Scioscia brought in Troy Percival, whom he had been reluctant to use in the eighth until after the New York Yankees rallied to win the division series opener. 
Tigers Hire Alan Trammell 
The Detroit Tigers hired Alan Trammell, one of their former stars, as manager Wednesday with the hopes he can turn around a franchise that has endured nine straight losing sea­sons. 
Trammell is the Tigers' fifth manag­er in seven years. 
Detroit was 55-106 last season ­tying Tampa Bay for the worst mark in the majors -and hasn't had a winning record since 1993, during the latter part of Trammell's stellar career as a shortstop in Detroit. 
"This is a day that I'm very proud of," Trammell said Wednesday. 
"I know that we can be better on quickly, that's my goal, that's my job," Trammell said. 

I 1 
' 
'I 
Thursday, October l 0, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 ­

PIZZA & STICKS -NO SALES TAX Large 1 Topping Pizza & Breadsticks 

Only $9.00! ! 
Delivered to your Door! We Pay the Tax! 
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER OFFERS. EXPIRES 10/27/02."NO SALES TAX" OFFER GOOD WITH ABOVE PROMOTION ONLY. VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. WE WATCH COMPETITOR'S COi.JPONS. 
(Next to Subway) 
271-1277 
• 

-
r 
~ 
0
• 

Wednesday Night at Alumni Senior Club 
(Last Call) 
Come see your friends and support Senior Bar's last semester on campus. Come out for Senior Bar lunch Friday 12-2.·30 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Teams prepare for final games 
By HEATHER VANHOEGAR­DEN and PAT LEONARD Sporn Writers 
Pasquerilla West (1-4) will play for pride in Thursday's game against the mighty Whirlwinds of Welsh Family (4-1). Pasquerilla West is com­ing off a tough 7-0 loss to Walsh that eliminated them from playoff contention. Meanwhile, Welsh Family is flying high, after bouncing back from their only loss to Breen Phillips earlier in the season. 
Quarterback Leslie Schmidt, running back/punter Abby Nerlinger and fullback Anna Kate Milburn lead the Purple Weasels. Senior wide receiver Beth Fruzynski is playing in her last game. She has scored one of the Weasels four touch­downs this season. 
"Even though we can't make the playoffs, we will still play hard and compete. We had a fun season, and now we just want to beat Welsh Family to play the role of the spoiler." Fruzynski said. 
On the other side of the field, multipurpose player Vanessa Lichon leads the Whirlwinds. The Whirlwinds run a spread out offense with numerous trick plays that fooled the Weasel defense in their 20-7 victory earlier in the season. However, the Whir',winds need a victory to keep their hopes of a fifth has momentum in the recent straight title alive, while the productive play of quarter­Weasels seem determined to back Carrie Campbell. spoil their season. "We have seen significant 
improvement in our offense that we were looking for earli­
Walsh vs. Badin 

er in the season," said Troy.
The Wild Women of Walsh Campbell has been throwing
remember what happened in 
to first-year players andWeek Two against the 
sophomores Katie Hesmond
Bullfrogs of Badin. Following and Amanda Borys. Freshman
the loss. the Walsh players Patty Roseknew they let 
h a s
the game slip 

"We really need to stepped up,
right through 

their fingers. improve our offense. and seniors have been
"We really Moving the ball up the need to improve leaders in
field is a big part ofthe 
our offense," the turn­
said Walsh cap­game that we are not around of tain Alison Troy doing." Walsh's following the season. loss. "Moving "I'm sure the ball up the Alison Troy Badin has field is a big Walsh captain gotten bet­
part of the game that we are not doing." 

Now, the Wild Women have rebounded from a 0-3 start and are on a two-game win­ning streak. They plan to increase that number to three in a rematch with the Bullfrogs Thursday at 9:00 
p.m. at Riehle fields. 
"We've improved significant­ly since then," said Troy. "Even though we lost we held [Breen Phillips] scoreless for the entire first half. We've won our last two games against Farley and Pasquerilla West." 
The Wild Women's offense 
ter as 
well," said Troy. "But we just want to come out and play strong defense and improve yardage on offense." 
Both teams have already secured playoff spots. The game Thursday is a positional match-up to decide seeding for the girls' gold league play­offs. Since the blue league has seven teams and Walsh's and Badin's gold league only has six, the gold teams make up the difference by playing these seeding games during the final week of the regular season. 
Badin captains could not be reached for comment. 
BASEBALL 

Gold beats Blue 9-1 in first intrasquad game 
Special to The Observer 

Sophomore righthander Chris Niesel Jogged five strong innings while his teammates broke open the game with six runs in the bot­tom of the sixth, as the Gold team beat the Blue, 9-1, in the first game of the Notre Dame baseball team's annual Blue-Gold intrasquad series. 
Niese! -who has won 23 of his last 24 decisions (13-0 as a senior at Aquinas HS, 4-0 with ND in 2002, 3-1 in the ­'02 Cape Cod League and 2-0 in the '01 and '02 BG Series) -scattered three hits and one run while pitching the maximum five innings, with his 56-pitch outing including seven strikeouts, three groundouts and no walks. Niesel now owns two Game-1 victories for the Gold, with his two-year BGS stats including a 1.80 ERA, 12 Ks, no walks and six hits allowed in 10 innings of work (110 pitches). 
His classmate John Axford (a 2001 winner for the Gold in the decisive third game) took Tuesday's loss for the Blue, after allowing three runs on four hits and five walks over five innings (5 Ks, 91 pitches). 
The Gold's 8-3 hit advan­tage included hits from eight of nine starters while the Blue was guilty of three errors, the last leading to four unearned runs in the sixth. 
The Blue actually opened the game with its only run, as junior Javier Sanchez (mak­ing his debut at catcher) parked a triple over the head of freshman centerfielder Brennan Grogan. Senior rightfielder Kris Billmaier then sent a fly ball to his defensive area, plating Sanchez. 
The Gold pushed across three runs in the third, thanks to sophomore right­fielder George Howard's lead­off single up the middle. a double down the leftfield line by freshman DH Matt Bransfield, a full-count walk by freshman third baseman Cody Ri.zzo and senior first baseman Mike Holba's two­run double down the leftfield lino. 
Sophomore lefthander Scott Bickford took the mound for the Blue in the sixth, with the Gold pushing across six runs on four hits, two walks, a passed ball and a costly error. Grogan, sophomore leftfielder Brent Weiss and sophomore catcher Jay Molina each had RBI hits in an inning that saw the Gold score four times with two outs. 
•
'f 
.... page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October I 0, 2002 
BASEBALL 

Irish w-in scrim.m.age 7-6 in extra innings 
Special to The Observer 
Junior second baseman Steve Sollmann's double down the rightfield line plated freshman centerfielder Brennan Grogan with the go­ahead run as the Gold team won a rare extra-inning game, 7-6, in Wednesday's second-round game of Notre Dame's annual Blue-Gold intrasquad baseball scrim­mage. 
The see-saw battle saw the Gold claim an early 2-0 lead and later forge a 3-3 tie in the top of the fourth before scor­ing three times in the sixth for another tie (6-6). The game then extended past the seventh inning, with senior righthander J.P. Gagne pick­ing up the win after holding the Blue scoreless in the sev­enth and eighth (he allowed three hits but erased two run­ners on pickoff moves). 
The Blue must win Thursday's finale by at least 10 runs to win the series. First pitch is set for 4:30 p.m., with sophomore righthander Tyler Jones the likely starter for the Blue while 7-foot-2 freshman righthander Ryan Doherty will look to complete the sweep for the Gold. 
Blue team freshman left­hander Tom Thornton was in line for the win, after allow­ing three runs on fou.r hits and one walk over five innings (with three strike­outs). Senior righthander Ryan Kalita logged four-plus innings for the Gold, allowing six runs (four earned) on eight hits and two walks (with five Ks). 

The winning run came cour­tesy of a two-out fielding error, with Grogan reaching base and then taking second on a failed pickoff attempt. Sollmann gave the Gold the decisive margin, sending an 0-1 pitch from junior left­hander Cody Wilkins into the rightfield corner. 
A pair of errors also hurt the Blue in the top of the sixth, with two hits, a hit bat­ter and a double steal com­pleting the three-run rally that ultimately forced the extra inning. Sophomore catcher Jay Molina and Grogan had hits in the inning while junior shortstop Tim Murray plated a run with a groundball to the left side. 
The Blue had claimed its 6­3 lead with a run in the fourth and two more in the fifth, sparked by doubles from sophomore shortstop Geoff Millsom and senior DH Mike Holba. 
Early highlights included Gold freshman catcher Cody Rizzo's RBI triple to the right­center gap (plating Sollmann in the first) and a two-run blast down the leftfield line by Blue freshman centerfielder Craig Cooper in the third. 

.GreatJapanese food
Mlk~A 
A JA~ AN E: ~.€ R ( IT AU~.'\ f\ r 

at great prices.
Larry Out and Dini': In 
CleV9land 

Come join us for our lunch specials! 
402 US 31 North 

South Bend, IN 46637 Early Bird Dinner (219) 272-2535 
Sl.50 off for Students 
-
--
Mon , Thurs 10:30 
am Fri & Sat 10:30 am, 10 pm 
CttICAGQ...STYLE PIZZA DELI SANDWICHES 
Join Us To Cheer On THE FIGHTING IRISH 
Buy one 16" Pizza and get a second for 1/2 price! 
Stop in and enjoy Michiana's favorite hot dog Voted # 1 in Michiana 
Delivery availahle through Dine-in 1733 South Bend Ave. (Located next to Turtle Creek -1/4 miie E. of campus) State Road 23 277-2527 
Must be 21 with valid ID to consume alcohol 

CABARET Xcen*trick 
iHULLABALOO BALL! 
ACAIARET PERFIRMANCE 
AN ART EXHIIITIIN 
ARICK SHIW 
featuring: 
ClARK 
and 
DON'T SHOOT l'M WITH GOD/']; 

"\ ~~
,, 
~~~ 

-~-) 
COSTUMES AND OUTLANDISH DRE Presented by the 
. M 



..
Thursday, October 10, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN 
HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri AmOld and Mike Arglrlon

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LEDER 
t J I 

Q!002 Tr'bune Media Salvic<lo, Inc. 
All Rights AoNrvod. 
HYDUC 

rJ I b 
WHE:N IT WAS
I 
NITTAC 
HIS TURN TO CLE:AN, TI-IE: ROOM­MATE L..E:FT THE 
Hous1::--­

tIBLUSTYI 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon . 

Print answer here: IN ( 
11) ( J I J) 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: ARMOR TEPID LOCALE BOLERO Answer: What the server ended up with when the bas­ketball players had dinner-A "TALL" ORDER 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SE:RlfS NO, 20 -To order, oend your name, addn,oa and $6.115 and 
make check payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL eo680-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Scoundrels' society?
1 Political group 34 Subway
it out 
relatives 10 God of the 
35 Get rid of 

Canaanites 36 China's Chiang 
14 Highlands -shek
-

hillside 39 Tool used in 
15 Tamarack tree 
royal gardens? 16 Planting unit 
43 Without delay 17 Telegraph, say 46 Common ID 
18 Less cordial 47 Item in a cheek pouch
19 Takes another direction 48 Korean War rifle 
20 Baseball All· 50 Bother Star Game incessantly playing field? 51 Shea Stadium's 23 Delphi figure locale? 55 Bit of seafloor 
25 She loved flora
Lancelot 56 Stir
26 "Enough!" in El Salvador 57 It's about a foot 
27 Player of "As 60 Litter leaver Time Goes By," 61 Spring sign in film 
62 An eternity, 30 Hold the floor seemingly 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
'="'..,...,...,.,...... 

H A Z E S S C A M M A J A E X E R T H U M E I R O N 
METER URAL SEWN 
s E A 
e 

M I S S M 1--1,-&.....,;... 
A D A M  M A  I  O  
ZOLA  UGLI  
E  L  A N  P E L  T  

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
i-,;;A4,,;.F+o.T+O;.,..,t.;N;;.a 
LETBE331Vband T R U S S 36 Has the skill 
63 Gets darker, in away 64 Slip 65 Wool sources 
DOWN 1 "The Jackie Gleason Show" shower 
2 Live and breathe 
3 Court order 
4 Calcutta conveyance 5 Lowlife 6 City by a lake of the same name 7 Land of literature 8 Did perfectly 
9 Paroxysm 10 Quarters for shopping 
11 Source of gum arabic 
12 Silvery white 
13 Renter 
21 "L~t·s not forget 
22 Baffin Bay hazard 
23 Storybook starter 
24 Pitch's partner 27 Path to poverty, with "the" 
28 Starting stakes 29 Georgia city 
32 Org. that may request a recall 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by WWlam Schaub 
37 Pearl Mosque 43 In shock 52 Roman meeting locale places
44 Spanish dish 38 Fails to be 53 Leno line 45 Whence 
39 Some iconic Catherine 54 Swiss army 
gems knives have 
49 Home of the 

several40 Shut (up) 
Blue Monster 41 Xanadu resident golf course 58 Lunchtime, perhaps
42 New Testament 50 Symbols of miracle cry silliness 59 Suffix with seer 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puule and more than 2,000 
past puules, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords tor young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
.... Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julia Sweeney, Ben Vereen, David Lee Roth, Tanya Tucker Happy Birthday: Your strength and courage will help you outmaneuver anyone who challenges you. Your goals should be set and you shouldn't deviate from them. Take the initiative to do what you feel is right. You will have the creative foresight to tum any bad situation you encounter into something positive and good. Your numbers are 3, 8, 13, 20, 31 ,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Financial limitations should not stand in the way of having fun. There are so many ine,.pensive activities, and walks in the park are free. You can create an entertaining and romantic atmosphere at 
home.***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20}: Passion should be on your mind, and a quiet evening for two should be your goal. Don't bring your work home with you. It will interfere with your personal life more than you think. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your energetic nature will help you reach your deadline. Just stay focused on what needs to be done and follow through. If someone at work or school is critical of your work, don't take it to heart. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your creative drive should help you finish some of the hobbies you've been working on for some time. Get out and meet new people. You will be praised for your ability to organize social events. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will find that someone at work may be disturbing you and creating a feeling of uneasiness in the work place. 
Deception and el\aggeration will be a problem. Try to avoid getting involved in gossip. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you believe in a cause strongly enough, 
consider taking a stand. The strength of your convictions will inspire others to join in. With others on board, fund-raising will not be as difficult as you first anticipated. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You can use your communication skills to influence those in higher positions to back you in your endeavors. Use your sophistication and charm to make your venture ·successful. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your emotional well-being will be dependent on how your mate treats you. Don't let your jealousy get out of hand. Be careful not to make any accusations. *** 
-
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your intuition will be strong. Your perceptions of those around you will be correct. Joint financial business deals look prosperous. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your honest and open communication can clear up misunderstandings that may have been causing emotional problems with parents. Be loving and diplomatic and your parental difficulties will dissolve. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel will lead to romantic encounters that could become quite serious very quickly. Depression may result due to the distance between you. Look into a transfer that will eliminate the problem. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will pick up information quickly today. Attend some lectures or do some research that will help you produce better work. You would be wise to look into courses that offer a variety of creative computer skills. ** Birthday Baby: You will be hard to keep up with and difficult to understand. You will not be afraid to use brute force when necessary and will never back down from an adverse situation. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
... 

PORTS 
Thursday, October 10, 2002 
WOMENS GOLF 
Irish fall short of goal 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports W ricer 
The Notre Dame womens golf team battled windy conditions on the wide-open Legends of Indiana Golf Course on Monday and Tuesday to finish just short of its goal. The team shot a 943 to finish in 13th place al Lhe Shootout at the Legends Tournament. 
The Irish were led by junior Rebecca Rogers who finished with a 234 (78-80-76} to place in a tie for 42nd. lt was easily her best tournament of the sea­son thus far. 
"Rebecca Rogers had a really great day the last round," said Irish coach Debby King. 'Tm real proud of her, she has improved so much in the past year." 
The Irish just missed their goals in terms of their team fin­ish. Their goal of 312 per round was met once, but just missed two other times (316-309-318). 
"We were hoping for a top-10 [finish]," said King. "This was a difficult field, but coming in 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
13th wasn't too far off from 
Junior Terri Taibl looks on as her teammate lines up a putt. The Irish fell short of the top 10 as they finished 13th in the Shootout 
that. We played just so-so. It 
at the Legends Tournament. 
was nothing great, but nothing too bad either." medalist for the Hoosiers with a 80 and 83 for a 237 total. son and posted a 242 (81-77-Marilyn Smith Sunflower 
Kent State won the tourna­212 (68-70-74). Freshman Katie Brophy edged 84). Lauren Gebauer shot a 244 Invitational on Oct. 14-15. ment with a team score of 888, Sophomore Karen Lotta had Lotta by shooting a 236 (77 -79-(84-80-80), and junior Shannon seven strokes better than the low round again for the 80). Byrne had a 247 (86-79-82) to 
Contact Andy Troeger at 

Missouri. Indiana finished third, Irish with a second-round 7.4. Senior captain Terri Taibl round out the Irish total. 
troeger.4@nd.edu

but Karen Dennison was She combined it with rounds of saw her first action of the sea-Next up for the Irish is the 
FOOTBALL 
Final decision rests with coaches, not with Holiday -
Holiday said he wasn't feeling main factors right now." bring without creating prob­has no personal connection to By KATIE McVOY pain anymore when he took lems for themselves. Notre Dame. Pitt has played Associate Sports Editor snaps and threw passes in "You're always disappointed opponents that have a com­
Not really frustrated 
practice. Although Holiday when you have penalties bined record of 11-20. 
On Saturday, the Irish tallied 
Carlyle Holiday is feeling admitted that his shoulder was because those are what I call in In addition, the Irish have two 
109 yards in penalties, not the 
ready to play. but the decision feeling much better than it did some cases unforced errors," games coming up against
kind of statistic a coach wants 
is out of his hands. last week, he was still unwilling Willingham said. "When you ranked opponents. They will
to look at. But for Irish coach 
On Wednesday, Holiday said to admit the specific nature of make unforced errors, you face undefeated Air Force in
Tyrone Willingham, that statis­
his shoulder was loosening up; the injury. don't have a lot of success. two weeks and Florida State
tic is not cause for frustration. 
he was feeling more comfort­"I don't really think I can There is disappointment in one week after that.
It is cause for disappointment,
able in practice. However, he reveal that," Holiday said. those any time." Despite those facts, the Irish
but most importantly, it's cause 
recognized that the final deci­"Really, right now, it's not even still say they're sticking with
for change. 
sion on the starter was up to necessary to reveal it. That's Willingham's "one game at a
"I'm always disappointed," Staying focused 
the coaches and it was a deci­just how we want to keep it so time" philosophy and focusing
Willingham said. "I think frus­The past several weeks, the 
sion those coaches had not yet let's keep it like that." on the task at hand.
tration doesn't enter in because Irish have had plenty of hype to 
reached. Coaches did not comment on "All I know is who we play
I believe if you're frustrated, keep them focused. There was
"The status for me is up to who the likely starter will be on this week and I couldn't be
then you can't change it." the opening home game,
the coaches," Holiday said. "l Saturday. The question of more serious than that right
Irish penalties have ended revenge against the ever-deadly 
can only control what I can Holiday's ability to withstand a there," defensive coordinator
plenty of scoring drives and Michigan State and Willingham
control, which is to go out there hit still remains. Kent Baer said. 
that. more than anything else. taking a trip down memory
and get ready for games and "That's the concern right is what has disappointed lane against Stanford. This 
prepare in practice. But every­now, taking a hit and trying to Willingham. His team has week, there's not much to hype. 
thing else is up to the coaches protect my body better," enough to worry about focusing The Irish are facing off Contact Katie McVoy at and the doctors." Holiday said. "That's one of the 
on what problems other teams against an unranked team that mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
-
WOMENS GOLF 
FOOTBALL 
INTERHALL 
Irish fall short 

Holiday feels ready 
Dorm teams prep for battle 
., Notre Dame battled harsh conditions to finish 
Although quarterback Carlyle Holiday feels 
Pasquerilla West gets ready to face the Welsh 
13th at the Shootout at the Legends Tournament. 
ready to play, he recognizes that the decision is not 
Whirlwinds while Walsh is looking for a win against 
The Irish had hoped to finish in the top 10. 
his. 
Badin. 
page 24 
page 24 

page 21 






