
37 _ HTTP://OBSERVER.N . 
Hispanic music pays Saint Mary's a visit 

BETH QUINN/The Observer 
Laura Fuentes y Callcanto performs Latin American music Tuesday at Saint Marys' Brown Bag Luncheon that helped close celebrations of Hispanic Heritage Month. 
By AMANDA MISNIK 
News Writer 
The band Laura Fuentes y Calicanto entertained students at the College-sponsored Brown Bag Luncheon Tuesday that helped to close celebrations of Hispanic Heritage Month at Saint Mary's. 
The trio played Latin American music that had African, European and pre­Columbian influences. 
"We're calling on these roots, music that was hidden for a long time," said Fuentes. "Latin American music is too big and varied to fall under 
,, 
music. 
T h e band's songs included sounds from countries such as Chile, Mexico and Venezuela. Laura Fuentes, Pedro Villagra and Tomas Gonzalez Jansana combined their own styles and expressions of music into their performance, creating a sound that brought together a diversity of cultures. 

Along with entertaining, Fuentes provided information about the history of the music and its origins. The performers also explained the roots of the instruments. 
"[foday's music] may be mod­ernized, but the roots are still there," Fuentes said. 
Laura Fuentes y Calicanto gave an interactive perfor­mance. Students participated with the artists, playing percus­sion instruments. 
Participants were able to see the combination of many cul­tures through songs and discus­sion. 
At the end of the performance, there was a question-and­answer session in which audi­ence members were able to express their thoughts about the event. 
"Multicultural events are a good way to experience other customs and styles of music," M e g a n Canzoneri said. 
one name. 

"Multicultural events are "Their visit 
Calicanto allowed stu­
a good way to experience 
helps to dents to bridge gaps other customs and styles become more between ofmusic.,, aware of cul­
varieties of tural differ­cultures ences. [Laura
Megan Canzoneri
through Fuentes yexpressive student Calicanto] 
shared their 
knowledge with 
us and made us experience other worlds." 
The members of the group currently reside in Chile, but they visit the United States twice a year. They are in the middle of their fall tour and will return to the United States in the spring. 
The Brown Bag Luncheon with Laura Fuentes y Calicanto was sponsored by the Office of MultiCultural Affairs, La Fuerza and the Spanish Club. 
Contact Amanda Misnik at misn5648@saintmarys.edu 

NEWS ANALYSIS 


Prospect of war looms 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 
Ever since Congress voted 
to give President Bush the 
power to declare war on 
Iraq, many people have wor­
ried about the prospect of a 
military conflict. 
Notre Dame political sci­ence professor Daniel Lindley, considered an expert on the military, sees Congress' decision as a step toward an inevitable war. 
"In some ways they had very little choice," he said, "If you are for the war, you vote for it. If you are borderline against the war, you still vote for it to give the United Nations a strong hand." Lindley sees this as essential to avoiding war altogether. "Ifyou want the U.N. process to work, give Bush the vote. The best hope to avoid war is through the U .N." 
The motivation behind the war would be neither eco­nomic nor political, Lindley said. 
"It's a combination of a sense of threat from weapons of mass destruction and after 9/11, the opportunity giving the right-wing hawks a lot 
see ANALYSIS/page 4 

Saint Mary's funds social change trip 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News Writer 
Taking advantage of the upcoming fall break, Saint Mary's Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership is spon­soring a six­day trip for faculty, staff, students and Michiana­area women leaders to visit three social change pro­jects in Ohio a n d Tennessee. 
The trip is phase two of the Catalyst Project, a yearlong experiment designed to link Saint Mary's women with women in the community. The first phase of the project took place Sept. 26 in a workshop Juanita Campos, who introduced the Participatory Learning in Action method of research, evaluation and plan-ning. Participants are supposed to apply principles of PLA on the trip. 


Thirty-three women from vari­ous backgrounds were chosen to participate on the outing from Saturday to Oct. 25. Of the 33, two are Saint Mary's faculty members, and seven are Saint Mary's students. 
For three days, CWIL partici­pants will be joined by Sister Linda Kors. director of Saint Mary's volunteer resource cen­ter, and nine students bound for a service project in Appalachia. 
"I think student participation is really critical." said Bonnie Bazata, CWIL director of com­munity connections. "Not only will they gain a lot from the trip by being in the company of strong community women lead­ers, but they also will have much to contribute." 
The first project destination is Grailville, a women's spiritual retreat center in Loveland, Ohio. Grailville prides itself on ofTering 
see CATALYST/page 3 

Taco Bell policy criticized 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Upset with the plight of migrant farm laborers, members of the Coalition of Immokalee Workers spoke at Notre Dame Tuesday, renewing their call for a boy­cott of Taco Bell restaurants. 
The group was organized in 1997 to advance the inter­ests of migrant tomato pick­ers in Florida and has grown to include students at college campuses across the coun­try. including an active group at Notre Dame. As farm laborers-turned­activists spoke, students handed out bumper stickers that read, "Yo no quiero Taco Bell." a reference to the company's popular advertising campaign. 
Lucas Benitez, speaking through a Spanish-language interpreter, recalled his expe­riences picking tomatoes in the fields of Florida. He had harsh words for the state of high-volume production. 
"The history of agriculture is a history of exploitation," Benitez said. 

He said pickers' wages have been stagnant for the past 20 years at, "40 to 45 cents per 32-pound bucket." Benitez expressed optimism that mar­ket pressure can force compa­nies such as Taco Bell to pay higher wages to their suppli­ers. 
"We should democratize these corporations ... it can be done," Benitez said. 
see TACO BELL/page 4 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
'Jam~s tJie 
Baker 

\i\lhether you live on campus, have an apartment or a house, you will inevitably want to decorate your crib to make you feel more at home in your new surround­ing. Everyone has his own sense of style 
~d_wants to feel Justin 
ongmal, so most stu-
Krivlckas
dents will lavi5hly decorate their rooms with posters, pic­Assistant tures and perhaps 
News Editor 
the occasional X­BOX to make them feel comfortable, but it's the more creative "fixtures" or adorn­ments that go the extra mile to help you 
_ adjust to life without Morn and your old room. Perhaps you will decide to garnish your entire ceiling with hundreds of cellophane flowers you meticulously make on Saturday nights, hang up an oversized map and check offeach state from where your previous hook ups claim to reside or just put an oversized concrete gargoyle on your roof. All of these ideas and thousands more are performed by college students everywhere because it allows them to make their residences uniquely theirs. To help make us unique in a dorm of 250 students, my T-wing has decided to take up blasphemy and keep a section idol. Apparently, someone was quite taken with his appearance at the Salvation Army shop in town, and after paying $1 for him; this object went from trash to divine status. Being the stereotypical Italian cook with a full moustache and chefs hat, the fig­urine looks like a washed-up Nintendo Mario trying to make a dent in the culinary field. By his outward appearance with spaghetti pouches and blue ascot, he looks like he may have found a new niche. He may be just a baker, or actually a ceramic foot-tall rendition of one, but in some respects, he has become the section's gold­en calf, allowing us to be original. Unfortunately, he is presently on hiatus somewhere in our common room, but when he isn't hiding from his worshippers, he prefers being in the glamour of the camera. His main purpose in life is to be a trophy that is photographed with friends and well-wishers in the section. We've actually created a collage of pic­tures of visiting alumni, friends from back home and other members ofthe section carrying the esteemed James like some sort of hunting trophy. There's only one rule when taking your picture with James, though: Once a pose has been taken, it cannot be used twice. Thinking of a new pose can be half the fun ofa section idol. Cradling, shaving and using him as a protective barrier in front of some guy's privies have been taken since Jan1es has arrived, and every week a handful of new poses are added to the list. Sooner or later the cream white wall in our section will be papered with a colorful assortment of humorous picture, and little James smiling away in each photograph. Having a section idol is only one of an endless assortment of ideas out there to allow you to make your home for the year unique. Originality and humor are key to keeping your sanity in college. And ifa ceil­ing covered in cellophane flowers makes you feel special, then by all means start buying that plastic wrap, but then again worshipping an idol is also acceptable. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

A lener to the editor that appeared in Tuesday's Observer was incorrectly attributed to Erin Fitzgerald. Erin Fitzpatrick wrote the letter. 
Christain Palmer wrote the article on Tuesday enti­tled "Father Joyce continues recovery" and not Matt Bramanti. The Observer regrets these errors. 
NEWS 
Bush opposes 
firearm 'fingerprinting' 
President Bush is unconvinced of the technology's accu­racy and is con­cerned about gun owner's privacy. 
page 8 

WORLD& NATION 
FBI terrorism 
analyst is latest sniper victim 
An FBI terrorism analyst was identi­fied Tuesday as the ninth person killed by Washington area sniper. 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
lmClone 

founder pleads guilty 
Samuel Waksal, founder of ImClone, pleaded guilty to bank and securities fraud. The ImClone scan­dal also threatens Martha Stewart. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS 
Counting
ND must Defending the Crows concert
respect Air Force reviewed
workers' triple option rights 
Sports analyzes

Paul Graham takes Scene checks out 
Air Forces' triple

a look at the work-the Counting 
option and how it

ers' rights situation Crowes South Bend will effect the Irish
on campus and concert. See if it on Saturday.
provides some was a flop or a insight into how "rocking" good they are treated. show. 
page 10 page 12 page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Flag stolen at post office 
A post office employee reported the theft a flag from the flag pole outside the post office on Oct. 11. There are no suspects. 
Visitor arrested 

A visitor was arrested by NDSP on two outstanding warrants near the Marie DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Site on Oct. 11. . 
Theft occurs in Hammes Bookstore 
A bookstore employee at the Hammes Bookstore reported the theft of checks from the receptionist's desk on the 2nd floor between 1:15 p.rn. and 1:30 p.rn. on Oct. 11. 
Car broken into while in D2 lot 
A student's vehicle was broken into while parked in the D2 lot between 11:30 p.rn. on Oct. 10 and 4 p.rn. on Oct. 11. There are no suspects. 
Liquor law citation issued 
NDSP issued three University citations for a minor in possession of alcohol near Main Circle on Oct. 11. The case is being referred for adrninistra tive review. 
NDFD treats allergic reaction 
A visitor was treated at the scene by' NDFD for an aller­gic reaction at the Morris Inn on Oct. 11. 
. 
Lecture: "Melancholy and \Vit: A Humorous Hclationship," 5 p.m. in the auditorium of the Ilesburgh Center 

. 
John Blacklow piano concert, 7:30 p.m. at the Snitc Museum of Art, contact the LaFortunc box office for ticket information 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Student Diversity Board Meeting, noon to 1 p.m. at the Haggar College Center Hoo1n 304, SCA Board Homn 

. 
Teacher Education Meeting 4 p.n1. to 5:30 p.m., IIaggar College Center in the \Vclsh Parlor 

. 
Executive Board Meeting 8 p.m. to 9 p.n1., Haggar College Center Homn 304. SGA Board Hoom 


Complied from NDSP crime blotter 
WHAT'S COOKING South Dining Hall 

Tc_>day Lunch: Neapolitan-Style Spaghetti. Basil-Pepper-Tomato, Mostaccioli, Itahan Sausage Marinara, Sausage Pizza, Cherry Turnover, Cheese & Rice Croquettes, Broiled, Tomato Halves, Chicken Jambalaya, Beef & Noodle Casserole, Rotisserie Chicken. Italian Rice Pilaf, Fried Cheese Ravioli, Spaghetti Sauce, Crinkle Fries, Soft Pretzel. Vegetable Lo Mein and Chicken Acapulco 
Today Dinner: Neapolitan Spaghetti, Basil-Pepper-Tomato Mostaccioli, Italian Sausage Marinara, 4-Cheese Pizza, Cherry Turnover, Broccoli Rice Casserole, Vegetables, Buffalo Chicken Wings. Marinated Beef, Pork Chops, Cheese Sticks, Crinkle Fries, Soft Pretzel, Sesame Chicken Breast and Pork Tamale · 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
II.I 
:c 
~ 
II.I 

~ 


.

* ~· 
_, 
•'* .

•'****
cC 
(.) 
*
** *
0 

...I HIGH 48 HIGH 44 HIGH 43 HIGH 45 LOW 45 LOW 33 LOW 30 LOW 27 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall and North Dining Hall menus not available today. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

••t••· 

HIGH 50 HIGH 53 LOW 38 LOW 30 


Atlanta 64 / 45 Boston 60 I 51 Chicago 48 / 29 Denver 55 / 30 Houston 74 / 47 Los Angeles 69/ 58 Minneapolis 42 / 28 New York 60 / 50 Philadelphia 62 / 48 Phoenix 88 / 63 Seattle 71 / 48 St. Louis 52 / 37 Tampa 80 / 61 Washington 65 / 50 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 

U-WIRE 
Students predict fashion trends 
By JUSTINE DACOSTA & 
SYLVIA LIM 
Sparran Daily 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

Sure. clothes are practical. They cover certain parts of the anatomy, but they expose something else too. 
Clothes give us the opportuni­ty to turn ourselves inside out. and to display our personality to the world. Fashion becomes us, and is a personal statement of who we are. 
As students at San Jose State University face the awkward climate transition from summer to fall, most of us are reaching in to the farthest terrain of our closets for items that carry on this form of self-expression fur­ther. 
Tank tops are 
and belts are making their annual come­backs this time of the year, with new looks and colors. 
Fashion is in the eye of the beholder. and there are as many styles on campus as there are students. 
The Spartan Daily looked to the various birds of different feathers on campus for fashion predictions. 
We managed to stop some bright peacocks and ruffie their 
feathers for fashion tips. Basically, this is what they see in the crystal ball. 
Accessories. the salt and pep­per of fashion. can add spice to an outfit by dressing it up or playing it down. Earrings and bracelets decorate the body while belts and glasses can be both practical and indulgently fashionable. It's the little things that make the difference, but some students predict next sea­son's accessories will be all about the big things. 
Liz Breen, a senior manage­ment information systems major who said she expects to see wider pants with slits in the side, said her favorite accessory is her belly-button ring. 
..I can leave home without 
anything 
else, but 

traded in for "Belts and earrings will not that, " 
she said. 

sleeves, shorts 
be getting bigger and 
"Belts

for pants and 
bigger.,.
flip flops for and ear­
rings will

close-toed shoes. 
be getting

Accessories such Ashley Harris 
bigger and 

as hatS, scarves San Jose State University student 
bigger," 
s a i d 
Ashley 

Harris, a junior illustration major...Pants will get wider." 
Harris said she expects to see students layering their clothes and wearing more scarves this fall season. 
Liz Herrera, a junior sports management major, said she also foresees the popularity of scarves, and said she thinks button-up collared shirts and pointy-toed boots will become fashionable. 
Herrera, whose favorite place 
to shop is clothing store 
Express. said she doesn't like 
spending a lot of money on 
clothes. 
'Tm a bargainer," she said. 
"My best buy was a suede jack­
et for $30." 
When it comes to fashion, fru­
gality is not only economically 
advantageous. Thrift stores and 
garage sales are a good way to 
find rare and unusual items. 
Holly Valencia, a music edu­cation major. said her favorite places to shop are thrift stores and vintage shops. 
"When I find something for 99 cents. that's the appeal." she said. 
Valencia said her favorite accessory is her chain wallet and that patches and buttons are a must. 
"I like chains. belts, jewelry. lunch pails, and I love having fun with makeup," she said. 
Vincent Calvetti, an unde­clared student, said he pur­chases the majority of his clothes at thrift stores for the novelty of it. 
Calvetti said his fashion sense is "uncoordinated, like a poor student's," and he said his favorite accessories are his jelly bracelets and his glasses. 
"I won't leave home without my glasses because I kind of need them," he said. 
Maybe peacocks grow more feathers in colder weather. Since we cannot really do that, a trip to the mall would suffice. 
Have that credit card ready to charge. 
Catalyst 
continued from page 1 
alternative education and lead­ership training for women as they adapt to a changing world. Its primarily focus is on women's empowerment, spiri­tuality and the environment. 
Following Grailville, partici­pants will travel south to Cincinnati and visit Women Developing Communities. WDC is an organization of women diverse in age. race, income and background dedicated to women's economic pants to share their personal journeys. A series of work­shops and conversation-set­tings will be held at each loca­tion, allowing leaders to aid participants with their plans for social change. Each partici­pant will also assume one of four leadership roles through­out the trip to evenly disperse responsibilities and the overall experience. 

'Tm not going to define what this trip will do for [or] to me because I want to embrace it for all it has to offer, but I will hope for this: to come back with a greater appreciation for everyone in the Saint Mary's 
indepen­community,"
"/ think student 
dence and said sopho­
participation is really 
s e l f -more Jennifer esteem. critical.,. Hernandez. The orga­"More impor­nization's tantly. to show
Bonnie Bazata
m a i n the Saint function is CWIL director of connections Mary's com­
to provide affordable housing for people with low incomes. Today, WDC has grown into three multi-million dollar inno­vative housing projects. 
The final destination is the Highlander Research and Education Center in New Market, Tenn. The center was founded in 1932 and has been a key training center for groups focused on social equal­ity and social justice issues. Among those trained at the Highlander Center were civil rights organizers Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks. 
Women from each of the pro­jects will meet with partici­
munity why 
they should 

have a greater appreciation for the communi­ty within and around them." 
Regardless of what partici­pants individually hope to gain from the experience, the Catalyst Project aims to ignite learning and recognition of community leaders working toward long-term solutions for prevalent social problems today. 
For more information regarding the locations to be visited or the Catalyst Project itself, contact CWIL's office at 284-4058. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu. 
'EEO II RIOE 
FREE SHUTTLE 
TO SOUTH BEND AIRPORT 
THIS FRIDAY  
,;o,1: .x;...~tt  ..  
~-:f}.  ~~­'...:  '):::·~;,:.,  ,.  

I 
t, 
~--..,_--;( 

As aservice to students traveling home for fall break, Notre Dame Express Shuttle will be running to the airport INSTEAD of providing its regular service. 
SHUTTLE SCHEDULE (Oct. 18th) 
r i ~. J-J _ 

·MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT RUNS 
1  2  3  4  5  
LIBRARY CIRCLE  NOON  1:15  2:30  3:45  5:00  
MAIN CIRCLE  12:15  1:30  2:45  4:00  5:15  
REGINA  12:25  1 :40  2:55  4:10  5:25  
MCCANDLESS  12:30  1:45  3:00  4:15  5:30  
MICHIANA AIRPORT  12:50  2:05  3:20  4:35  5:50  

Ad sponsored by Student Government 
t I \ t • .. • 


page4 The Obseroer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October I6, 2002 
Analysis 
continued from page I 
more ability to go against Iraq," he said. 

Lindley also believes the season would be a driving force behind the urgency for the potential war. 
"The war has to happen at winter time because it's too hot for our troops in sum­mer," he said. The United States would prefer to move sooner rather than later, he said. 
Lindley compared the war to a bet, saying, "It's a bet on a number of dimensions. Will the Iraqi army fight or not fight? If they fight, it will be bloody. If they don't, it will be easy." 
Yet, he said Iraq's threat was minimal when compared to Russia and Pakistan. 
"Why are we focusing on Iraq at the risk of hurting the campaign against terrorism and downplaying more pressing threats within Russia and Pakistan?" he said. Because Russia offers a bigger threat of holding nuclear weapons, Lindley said, the United States should be invading there instead of Iraq. 
"Strategy is the art of prior­itizing, of weighing costs and benefits." he said. "The threat from Iraq is out­weighed by other threats. and an Iraq war will hurt more important U.S. priori­ties." 
Lindley said Bush will choose to attack Iraq instead of the bigger threats because Iraqi President Saddam Hussien is tied to economic threats, including higher oil prices, and attempts to assassinate several foreign presidents. 
Economics student Edward Faustin agreed that Iraq is a hostile threat because of its military capabilities. "They're probably harboring weapons of nuclear destruction over there," said Faustin, a senior. 
Faustin, however. did not agree with Congress' deci­sion to give Bush power to declare war on Iraq. 
"War is not resolution," he said. "I feel like any decision for war is made with haste." 
Diplomacy and an attempt at reaching a peaceful out• come have not been fully considered, according to Faustin. 
"You'd assume that we've explored every avenue of diplomacy to come to some sort of peace, but it doesn't seem the case here," he said. 
Political science major Veronica Berger shared opin• ions similar to Faustin's and said she didn't see a clear reason for the United States to attack Iraq. 
"In order to declare war on Iraq, there needs to be a credible and immediate threat," she said. "If the U.N. is the organization that has a problem with Iraq, then the 
U.N. needs to act multilater• ally against Iraq, not the U.S. alone." 
U.S. involvement in the conflict would be a means to prevent Iraq from acquiring nuclear weapons and using them irrationally, Berger said. She said having nuclear weapons could cause Iraq to become "a hegemony in the Middle East." 
Contact Natasha Grant at grant.20@nd.edu. 
of individual menu items could ter from the audience. broader social movement. She rise by less than a penny, while Notre Dame junior Brigitte condemned the "privatization of
Taco Bell 
migrant workers would enjoy a Gynther encouraged students to industry as seen in the Free continued from page 1 significantly higher standard of participate in CIW actions, Trade Act of the Americas" as a living than they have now. including the group's weekly threat to social justice. CIW member Laura Germino "They don't even have to pass picket of a Taco Bell restaurant called on Taco Bell executives to the cost on to the customer; they in Mishawaka. 
Contact Matt Bramanti 
increase the price they pay for could cut executive pay," Gynther also asked students to 
at mbramant@nd.edu
tomatoes. She estimated the cost Germino said to scattered laugh• view such protests as part of a 
There's only one way to go. Up. 
As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that assures your suc­cess. At Ernst & Young, we give our recruits total access to the tools they need to gain knowledge and learn more about the marketplace. And 
because leadership skills are so important, we give them the opportunity to chal­lenge themselves by -working with leading companies in leading indus­tries. The result? An atmosphere 
that's stimulating, innovative and creative. Talk about a place where you can really take off. 
FORl~UNE. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TOWORKFORN 

FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.1M 

Wednesday, October I 6, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
FBI terrorism analyst is latest D.C. sniper victim 
Associated Press 
FALLS CHURCH, Va. 
An FBI terrorism analyst was 

identified Tuesday as the ninth 
person killed by the Washington­
area sniper. shot in the head in an 
attack investigators say has yield­
ed the most detailed clues yet. 
For the first time. witnesses were able to give information about license plates on vehicles seen fleeing the scene, including a light-colored Chevrolet Astro van with a burned-out rear taillight. 
A law enforcement official, speaking on condition of anonymi­ty, said another witness gave a description of a dark-skinned man. possibly Hispanic or Middle Eastern. in a white van. 
"There was some additional information that we were able to get from last night's case. and I am confident that that informa­tion is going to lead us to an arrest in the case," Fairfax County Police Chief Tom Manger said. 
Law enforcement sources said there was no indication the sniper targeted Linda Franklin because of her job. She worked for the FBI's Cyber-Crimes Division. cre­ated last year to focus on comput­er crimes as well as intellectual property cases. 
Montgomery County {Md.) Police Chief Charles Moose, the head of the investigation, empha­sized that Franklin was not work­ing on the sniper case. 
Franklin, a 47-year-old mother 

of two grown children, was killed 
Monday night as she and her hus­
band loaded packages into their 
car outside a Home Depot store. 
Ballistics evidence Tuesday con­
nected the slaying to the gunman 
who has killed eight other people 
and wounded two more since Oct. 
2. 
With the terrifying spree nearly two weeks old, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld agreed Tuesday evening to provide mili­tary surveillance aircraft in the hunt for the killer, a Pentagon spokesman said. Sources said fed­eral agents on the plane will relay any information they collect to authorities on the ground. 
The Army also has started searching its records for people with sniper training. 
Separately. Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge said investi­gators are hesitant to rule out the possibility that the slayings are the work of a terrorist because there is no hard evidence about motive. 
Friends who gathered at Franklin's Arlington home said she and her husband were plan­ning to move to a bigger home in the area and were at The Home Depot to buy supplies for the move and the new house. 
Franklin recently had a double mastectomy following breast can­cer and was still in physical thera­py at the time of her death, according to her friend Paul Hulseberg. He called her coura­geous. 
"Llnda was a dedicated employ-

AFP Photo 

Montgomery County Police officers Joyce Utter and Robert Moroney hand out to the media compos­ite graphics of a late model Chevy 'Astro' van and a Ford 'Econoline' van [pictured] being sought in the investigation of the sniper shootings that have killed nine people and wounded two. 
ee, and she will be missed," FBI heard a muffied gunshot and saw Director Robert Mueller said. "All a white van the night before. of us are deeply shocked and Young said as he backed his angry over this tragedy." truck out of his parking spot, a 
Robert Young, a Washington white Astro van with two men construction worker, returned to inside tried to turn into his lane. the shopping center Tuesday to He said the driver appeared very talk with police. He said he had agitated to find his way blocked and instead drove by a neighbor­ing Chinese restaurant and out of sight. 
Young described the driver as a short man of slight build who appeared to be Mideastern. He said, "I got a good look at the 
..

gu
y. 

IRAQ 
Iraqis vote for unopposed Saddam in referendum 
Associated Press 
TIKRIT 
Stuffing ballots into boxes by the fistful, citizens in Saddam Hussein's hometown of massive compounds and narrow lanes joined millions of other Iraqis on Tuesday for a vote choreographed as a show ofsup­port for their leader. 
"All Iraq is for Saddam. He is our leader and our father," said one voter, showing off a ballot stamped "yes" in a thumbprint of blood. 
Surface-to-air missile batteries and artillery outside Saddam's hometown, Tikrit, underscored the other message in 
Iraq's one-candidate presidential referen­dum: defiance of the United States in the face of possible war over Iraq's alleged weapons ofmass destruction. 
"I came to put my paper in the box and to say I don't want America to come here, and to say I hate Bush, because he wants to attack me," Dr. Ahmed Jawad, a para­sitologist, said in a village outside Tikrit. 
Iraq projected more than 11 million of Saddam's 22 million people would turn out for the referendum. The vote was a "yes" or "no" on Saddam's staying president for another seven years and on continuing the coup-installed, three-decade reign of his party. 
The White House dismissed the one-man race. "Obviously, it's not a very serious day, not a very serious vote and nobody places any credibility on it," press secretary Ari Fleischer said in Washington. 
At home, Iraqis have spoken of besting Saddam's 99.96 percent "yes" vote the last referendum, in 1995. In the capital, Baghdad, Saddam's Baath Party staged neighborhood drives to get out the vote ­with many projecting a 100 percent "yes" this time. 
Officials said results would be announced at a news conference Wednesday morning. In a vote run with little show of impartiality or doubt about the outcome, however, it was impossible to tell if announced turnout or results would have any relation to votes cast. 
Iraq limited reporters to state-escorted stops at polling places. There were no independent observers. 
The true turnout seemed likely lower than the official projection. Some in Baghdad said privately they had no plans to vote. 
Tikrit, 95 miles north of Baghdad, is a stronghold for Saddam, who comes from what were poor, settled Bedouin in the region. 
Saddam's actual birth village ofAl Aouja, outside Tikrit, is off-limits to foreigners. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
IRA disbandment sought in N. Ireland: 
Northern Ireland's Catholic-Protestant administration won't be revived unless the Irish Republican Army dis­bands, leading British and U.S. officials predicted Tuesday. IRA commanders remained silent about Britain's resumption of authority in Northern Ireland after nearly three years of local power sharing between two British Protestant parties and two Irish Catholic parties, including the IRA's Sinn Fein. Most politicians and commentators blamed the political breakdown on the IRA. 
Israel releases chief Muslim cleric: 
Jerusalem's chief Muslim cleric was questioned by Israeli police Tuesday about a newspaper interview in which he was quoted as endorsing suicide bombings. Ikrima Sabri, 63, was detained at his home and held for three hours at a police compound in Jerusalem before being released without charge. In an interview after­ward, Sabri said he was misquoted. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
m. to hold death row clemency hearings: 
Illinois opened a marathon series of clemency hear­ings Tuesday for nearly every prisoner on death row in what could be the most sweeping review of capital punishment in U.S. history. In all. more than 140 petitions for clemency will be heard by the end of the month. The hearings for all but a few of the state's 160 condemned inmates come after Gov. George Ryan said earlier this year that he intended to review every death penalty case before he leaves office in January. 
High court passes up rebel flag case: 
The Supreme Court refused Tuesday to settle a free-speech skirmish over the Confederate battle flag, which the federal government all but bans from national cemeteries out of worry that it is racially divisive. The court had been asked if a descendant of a Confederate soldier may fly the flag daily at a Maryland Civil War cemetery. 
Accused cell member pleads innocent: 
A man accused of conspiring to fight U.S. troops in Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 attacks pleaded inno­cent Tuesday. A federal indictment accuses Ahmed Bilal and five others, including his brother Muhammad Bilal, of conspiring to wage war against 
U.S. forces in Afghanistan and to provide material support to the Taliban and al-Qaida. The indictment says three of the suspects never made it to Afghanistan to carry out their plan; it does not say whether the others did. All had ties to Portland. 
Utah woman charged in polygamy case: 
For apparently the first time in more than 100 years, Utah prosecutors are going after a woman on polygamy-related charges. The woman, Suzie Stubbs Holm, 36, is part of a polygamous household in rural Utah. But she is not directly charged with polygamy. Instead, she is accused of getting her 16­year-old sister to marry into the household. 

page 6 Wednesday, October 16, 2002
The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS 

U-WIRE 

USC to meet deadline of INS 
ByJULIE KUO Daily Trojan 
LOS ANGELES Although USC officials previ­ously said they would have trou­ble meeting the Jan. 30, 2003, deadline set by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, they recently said the university was 
on track to meeting that 

date. "We are attempting to ... had said if By the dead­comply based on the schools 
line, USC must applied for
proposed regulations. 
enter informa­registration 
tion about and we are preparing to by the middle 
international respond and fully com­of November, students and the schools'
ply with regulations 
exchange visi­applications 
tors into a which have yet to be 
would be database to finalized.·· "acted upon" track their sta­by the Jan. 30 tus while they deadline,
Dixon Johnson
were in the Johnson said. United States. executive director of the USC USC had 
USC's inter­Office of International Services not registered 
national popu­lation totaled more than 5,200 for the fall 2002 semester, with the vast majority of them in the country on the F-1 student visa. 
Colleges across the United States scrambled to enter infor­mation on internationals into the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, known as SEVIS, as the deadline to regis­ter approached. 
SEVIS collects information on international students and other exchange visitors, such as their name, date of birth and country of origin, said Lawrence Gower, director of the Office of International Students and Scholars at UClA. 
SEVIS, implemented by INS, also wanted to know whether the student was achieving full­time student status. If not. INS wanted to know the reasons why. The program also required schools to update student infor­mation on whether their inter­national students planned on working and whether they moved from one residential area to another or changed visa sta­tus. 
Schools with international populations greater than 250 needed the batch-mode version of the program, said Dixon C. Johnson, executive director of the USC Office of International Services. 
The batch-mode version allowed for bulk entry of student information. 
INS had been continuously reissuing new batch-process regulations, however, and so far had yet to publish the final regu­lations, Johnson said. 

"We are attempting to prepare to comply based on the proposed regulations, and we are prepar­ing to respond and fully comply with regulations which have yet to be finalized," he said. 
This would make admission of international students much more complicated, said Wendy Yao, president of the International Students' 
Assembly. 
INS officials 
with SEVIS, 

however, but had requested the program and planned to register by the mid­dle of November. 
"If you apply for recertification of the program 7 5 days before the compliance day (of Jan. 30, 2003), (the government) will guarantee that you will have at least conditional approval," said Dianne Walker, systems manag­er at Services for International 
Students and  Scholars  at  
University  of  California­ 
Berkeley.  

The total international popula­tion, including undergraduate, graduate and exchange visitors, numbered approximately 4,700 for fall 2002. 
Loyola Marymount University, with more than 300 internation­al students, progressed toward the deadline, said Denise Folga, director of LMU's Office of International Students and Scholars. 
"We're doing everything that we can," said Folga, who also said INS conducted site visits to schools that have international students before the school could be recertified. 
LMU had begun working with their information technology department and also planned to host a conference by the National Association of Foreign Student Advisers on Dec. 6 for schools that had already gotten "precertified and using SEVIS," she said. 
In addition to the conference at LMU, schools were also prepar­ing for the deadline by attending a four-day NAFSA Region XII conference in San Jose, Calif., in two weeks for SEVIS training. 

; ~('J\~
·• •I.., , ....
«...< : ' . . . ·· ' •.,• :-;-. 
.t:-·--·:.·· 
Baylor U. teachers change formats 
By KRISTEN HARDGRAVE 
The Lariar 
WACO, Texas 

Learning is not limited to lectures and textbooks any­more. Several Baylor University professors have gone beyond the books to make classroom material more interesting. 
Professors are incorporating things from role-playing to rock 'n' roll. 
"I like to use a format that students can relate to," said Dr. John Thorburn, assistant professor of classics. 
In a freshman honors clas­sics class, called Law, Love and Laughter, Thorburn explores fifth-century Greek drama. Instead of taking notes from a play script, Thorburn summarizes his plays in a comical, musical way he refers to as "Weird Al Yankovic style." 
"I want to do anything I can to get students to remember the material and be able to repeat things," Thorburn said. 
When studying "The Medea," Thorburn related the play to the song, "The Funky Cold Medina," and in his Latin classes, Thorburn has students conjugate verbs to the tune of "The Good Ol' Baylor Line." 
"Songs get stuck in your head, so this is a way to get Latin and Greek stuck in your head too,'' Thorburn said. 
Dr. Julie Sweet, who teaches American history, makes the subject come alive for students through active role-playing. 
'Tm not a big fan of history, but she's always doing some­thing creative that really keeps me interested." Belinda Stewart, an Arlington senior, said. 
Sweet gives each student a character from a particular event in history which they act out without any additional out­side research. She selects a variety of characters of differ­ent races and genders to give students a diverse perspective on history. 
"I think it really helps stu­dents understand how history is relevant to their own lives," Sweet said. Sometimes the dis­cussions get intense with con• troversial topics like the rebels defending their cause in the Civil War, one of Sweet's favorite events to debate. 
Another teaching method, designed by Dr. Mark Morman, an assistant profes­sor of communication studies, allows students to learn about relationships through involve­ment with classmates. In his class, interpersonal communi~ cations, students are able to understand and diagnose ele­ments of relationships rather than just learn definitions from a textbook. "The project allows students to put theory into action," Morman said. 
One of the requirements for the class includes the dyad project. In this activity stu­dents set up an outside, infor­mal class meeting with one other person in the class. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Wednesday, October 16, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
ImClone founder pleads guilty 
Market Watch October 15 
Dow Jones 

• Samuel Waksal pleads guilty to 
8,255.68 * +378.28 
insider trading 
NASDAQ 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK
1,282.44 * +61.91 
* 
Samuel Waksal. the jet­setting scientist-entrepre­neur who founded ImClone
S&P500 

Systems, pleaded guilty Tuesday to bank and secu­rities fraud in a mushroom­
881.27 +39.83 
ing scandal that also threatens his friend and
AMFX 

investor Martha Stewart. Waksal, 55, became the second person to plead
810.56 
+7.70 
guilty in the federal probe of insider trading of the
NYSE 

biotech company's stock. Waksal did not implicate
472.19 +19.56 
Stewart in his plea, and the plea was not part of an agreement to cooperate 
* 
with authorities. 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
In fact, prosecutors did not agree to dismiss other
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
charges still pending CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +10.01+1.00 10.99 
against Waksal and indi­cated they were widening
~~~-~l~ill~lillllffl~~ijllil1;1lifliltli~ill!li/~llilfiilJ~;il 
their probe. In an unusual move,
INTEL CORP (INTC) +9.40+1.42 16.52 prosecutors said they are 
investigating previously undisclosed sales of $30
IIB1ilil®iiffl@lffliii!l!;!1!j!l!!lilll~lllll!~!11!l:l!j!ll!!l~li 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +9. 96 +0. 28 3. 09 
million worth of ImClone stock by an unidentified Waksal associate that may result in new insider trad­ing charges against him and others.
IN BRIEF 
"Dr. Waksal may have tipped others who sold 
Kmart Corp. tests a revamped logo 
stock," Assistant U.S. Kmart Corp. is testing a revamped logo, 
Attorney Michael replacing its trademark red and blue sign 
Schachter said in Manhattan federal court.
with gray and lime green in an updated style. 
He said the $30 million in
The new sign is on one of the bankrupt sales began just after a
retailer's stores north of Detroit, the interior 
phone conversation
of which also serves as a prototype -with 
between Waksal and the
changes that include brighter lighting, wider seller. 
aisles and a different floor plan. 
Schachter also said a Outside the store in Oakland County's White 
"close friend" of Waksal Lake Township is a Kmart sign with a large 
quickly dumped $600,000 gray and lime-green 'K,' with the word 'mart' 
worth ofstock. scrawled in white inside the upper diagonal of 
Waksal pleaded guilty Tuesday to six counts.
the 'K.' Kmart officials stress that the changes including securities fraud,are simply a test. 
bank fraud, conspiracy toWork on the store began in August, and it 
obstruct justice, and per­
has remained open. The prototype has been jury, in a scheme to tip off
in the planning stages since March, Kmart 
his daughter, Aliza, to 
spokesman Jack Ferry said Tuesday. 
unload lmClone stock Kmart is trying to lure customers back into 
before it plunged on bad stores, after suffering slumping sales since it 
news from the Food and filed for Chapter 11 protection in January. 
Drug Administration. ''I've made some terrible 
U.S.-Hong Kong airline talks resume 

AFP Photo Samuel Waksal, former President and CEO of lmClone Systems, reversed his plea from innocent to guilty. Waksal is accused of bank fraud and insider conspiracy. 
mistakes and I deeply charges of passing along regret what has hap­information that the Food 
pened,·• Waksal said out­side court. 
He remained free on bail until his sentencing in January. He could face a total of 65 years in prison and millions of dollars in fines, although his sentence will likely be far less. 
In outlining the accusa­tions against Waksal, Schachter issued a stinging attack on the disgraced ex­CEO, charging he had used his family members as "human shields" to try to save himself from prosecu­tion. The government has accused Waksal of tipping off his father as well, although he did not plead to that charge Tuesday. 
The former ImClone CEO was arrested in June on and Drug Administration would not review his com­pany's experimental cancer drug, Erbitux. 
"I am aware that my con­duct, while I was in posses­sion of material non-public information, was wrong," Waksal said in court. 
The bank fraud charge, which alone carries a pos­sible 30-year sentence, stemmed from Waksal forging the name of ImClone's top lawyer to a document securing a line of credit. 
"Rather than have the ImClone general counsel sign the letter, I signed the letter," he told the judge. 
ImClone prosecutors con­tinue to focus attention on Stewart and her stockbro­ker, Peter Bacanovic. The home decorating entrepre­neur and Bacanovic, a Merrill Lynch broker, have denied wrongdoing and have not been charged. 
The Justice Department is investigating whether Stewart knowingly lied to lawmakers about her stock sale. Stewart sold nearly 4,000 ImClone shares on Dec. 27 -one day before the FDA publicly announced its Erbitux deci­sion. She has maintained she had a standing order to sell the shares if the stock dropped below $60. 
Stewart spokeswoman Allyn Magrino issued a statement, attributed to Stewart's legal counsel, saying, "Sam Waksal's guilty plea has nothing to do with Martha Stewart." 

U.S. and Hong Kong aviation negotiators were Qpcning three days of talks on Wednesday to try once again to reach a deal liberalizing air ser­vices between them. 
CAW-Dannie 
slerdeadlinelooms 
Neither side would comment early Wednesday about the prospects of an agreement, which has proven elusive despite years of sporadic negotia­tions. 
"This is quite a sensitive issue," said Queenie Chan, a spokeswoman at Hong Kong's Economic Development Bureau. 
In previous sessions, the Americans had reportedly offered to let Hong Kong's largest car­rier, Cathay Pacific Airways, put its flight num­bers on some services offered in the United States by its alliance partner, American Airlines. The practice is known as "code-sharing." 
But in return, American negotiators wanted greater rights for U.S. carriers to fly into Hong Kong and onto points in other markets -which would pose a strong competitive threat to Cathay and Hong Kong's No. 2 airline, Dragon air. 
"' ,, .. .. .. . 
.. " -. -."' . . 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Talks on a new contract between DaimlerChrysler and the Canadian Auto Workers continued Tuesday into the final hours before a midnight strike deadline, with a union spokeswoman denying a report that a tentative agree­ment had been reached. 
The Canadian Press reported an agreement was struck Tuesday evening a few hours before the deadline. Union spokeswoman Jane Annstrong said the talks were continuing, focused on non­wage issues. 
The 1:\.vo sides planned to announce a deal an hour before the deadline, pend­ing final approval by the union's bar• gaining committee, Canadian Press reported, citing an unidentified source. 
Earlier, union president Basil "Buzz" Hargrove said the almost 13,000 DaimlerChrysler workers appeared headed for a strike despite progress made in talks through the afternoon. 
'There's a strong possibility the plants will go down at midnight," Basil "Buzz" Hargrove told a news conference. 
Hargrove said reduced demand has DaimlerChrysler planning to idle some plants for a week or two later this month, regardless of whether there is a strike. That makes the automaker will­ing to push for concessions at the cost of a strike, he said. 
''There's some slack time in the pro­
duction system," Hargrove said. 
"Someone has decided now is the time 
to try to take advantage of it." 
A strike would cease DaimlerChrysler's North American pro­duction ofIntrepid and Concorde sedans made at a Brampton, Ontario, plant, and also halt production of Dodge Caravans at a Windsor, Ontario, factory. Caravans also are made at a U.S. plant in St. Louis. 
Hargrove previously rejected a week­end offer from the company because it lacked a guaranteed plan to save 1,200 jobs at the Pillette Road factory in Windsor, which is scheduled to close in July. 

Bush opposes gun 'fingerprinting' 
Fla. gov. daughter's hearing opened 

criminal courts and subject to 
Associated Press 
the same openness. ORLANDO, Fla. Noelle Bush was placed in 
@4t 4tW~ 0 
Gov. Jeb Bush's daughter the drug court system after cannot have her drug court she was accused of trying to hearings closed to the public, use a forged prescription to 
tfo\ 1@ ~ 00 0°~@ 00 0@ l?
a judge ruled Tuesday. buy the anti-anxiety drug 
Circuit Judge Reginald Xanax at a pharmacy drive­Whitehead said that Florida's through window in January. drug courts are criminal pro­She has been undergoing ceedings and are open to the treatment at a rehab center public. in Orlando. 
He weighed the patient's Bush was sent to jail for two right to privacy against the days in July after center 
Our HUGE Annual
public's right to access to workers found her with pre­court proceedings. scription pills. "Drug court status hearings Last month, a caller told must be open to all partici­Orlando police that Bush had 
(]{JIJ/l!l@f!»Jflfl[iY)
pants so that all participants a piece of crack in her shoe, can observe each other's suc­but a judge later ruled that cesses and failures," the workers at the center cannot judge wrote. be forced to testify in court 
Whitehead scheduled a about Bush's case. 
Party!!hearing for Thursday to determine if 25-year-old Noelle Bush can stay in her 
Costume Contest, 
drug treatment program or WINTER & SPRIND whether she will be returned IREBK 
Door Prizes;
Panama City Beach• South Padre Island• Vail 
to the regular criminal justice 
Steamboat• Daytona Beach• Breckenridge
system. 
and Tons of 
Attorneys for Noelle Bush had asked the judge to close 
Free Giveaways
her drug court hearings, 
arguing that the governor's 
ALL NIGHT LONG. 
daughter had the right to expect privacy. But the Orlando Sentinel 
Par+v s-+ar+s a+ 9 and goes un+i( 2.
and the South Florida Sun­
Sentinel argued that drug 
Visit www.nd.edu/.:...asc for more info. Must be 21 with valid ID to enter. courts were no different from 
So aress up, bring your frienas, ana party like it's going out of style. 

.. 

page 8 
Illinois holds clemency hearings 
penalty itself is on trial in 
Associated Press 
Illinois. They argued that the clemency petitions
CHICAGO 

must be considered by the
Illinois opened a board on a case-by-case
marathon series of 
basis.
clemency hearings "This is not a referen­
Tuesday for nearly every dum on the death penalty,"prisoner on death row in David J. O'Connor, a Cook
what could be the most 
County prosecutor, told
sweeping review of capital 
one of four panels of the
punishment in U.S. history. 
review board.
In all, more than 140 
From the beginning
petitions for clemency will 
Tuesday, the battle lines
be heard by the end of the 
were clear. Prosecutors
month. 
highlighted evidence fromThe hearings for all but 
scores of Illinois' most
a few of the state's 160 
notorious and gruesome
condemned inmates come 
murders, while defense
after Gov. George Ryan 
lawyers pointed to weak­
said earlier this year that 
nesses and apparent cor­he intended to review 
ruption in individual cases
every death penalty case 
and in the criminal justice before he leaves office in system as a whole.
January. 
In Chicago, prosecutors"This is unpreceden.ted,,. 
passed out yellow ribbons
said Robert Dunne, a 
for the families of victims 
member of the Illinois 
to make visible the dozens
Prisoner Review Board. 
of relatives attending the"Normally we only hear hearings.
petitions for clemency Board member Victorfrom death row inmates 
Brooks opened one of thewhen their executions are 
first hearings with an
imminent." 
apology to the victims'
Ryan declared a morato­families for forcing them
rium on executions in 
to "revisit the unwarrant­2000, calling the state's 
ed carnage inflicted ondeath penalty system 
their lives."
"fraught with error" after 
At least 10 of the
13 inmates were found to 
inmates seeking clemency
have been wrongfully con­contend their confessionsvicted. 
were tortured out of them
The board will make by Chicago detectives
confidential recommenda­under the supervision of ations to the governor. But police lieutenant who is no
Ryan has suggested that 
longer on the force. Ahe may grant a blanket 
judge has appointed a spe­clemency to all. 
cial prosecutor to examineProsecutors disputed the those allegations.
notion that the death 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
The Observer .NATIONAL NEWS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush does not sup­port the recent days· push for firearms "fingerprinting" that has grown from the Washington-area sniper shoot­ings, a spokesman said Tuesday, saying Bush is uncon­vinced of the technology's accu­racy and is concerned about gun owners' privacy. 
Besides, added White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, when it comes to new gun con­trols generally, "how many laws can we really have to stop crime, if people are determined in their heart to violate them no matter how many there are or what they say?" 
But White House officials sen­sitive to Bush's image amid the local sniper crisis later called a meeting with officials at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and asked them to study technological and feasibil­ity issues that would be involved in a national fingerprinting sys­tem, as well as the experiences of the only two states -New York and Maryland -that cur­rently require such ballistics data to be kept on handguns sold in those states. 
A sniper has struck in the Washington area 11 times in the past 13 days, killing nine people and seriously wounding two others at random. The rifle attacks have revived interest in a national system of "finger­printing" for guns -requiring gun makers to file into a law­enforcement database the dis­tinct markings that each gun leaves on a test-fired shell cas­ing. Police could then possibly use the recorded etchings to trace crime-scene slugs to the weapon that fired them. 
"Ballistic fingerprinting increases the chance of you get­ting a lead that can take you one step closer," said Eric Gorovitz, who tracks gun laws for the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. 
Sen. Herb Kohl. D-Wis., and Rep. Robert Andrews, D-N.J., are among those in Congress trying to pass legislation to cre­ate a national system. The National Rifle Association and other gun-rights lobbyists oppose such a system, fearing it is one step down a path to a national database of gun own­ers. 
Bush, too, is resistant as long as he has questions, Fleischer said. 
"There are some issues that are raised with this that deal with the accuracy of the ballis­tic fingerprinting that need to be explored and reviewed before any final determination can be made," Fleischer said in response to three days of ques­tions from reporters. 
Federal and state law officers investigating the Washington­area sniper killings have used such markings to confirm the linkage among the 11 shootings. 
Bush also has concerns about privacy and liberty questions surrounding a national data­base, which Fleischer likened to the prospect of fingerprinting every American. 
"There is an issue about fin­gerprints of course as a very effective way to catch people who are engaged in robbery or theft,'.' Fleischer said. "Is that to say that every citizen in the United States should be finger­printed in order to catch rob­bers and thieves? And these same issues are raised here. The president does believe in the right of law-abiding citizens to own weapons." 
Maryland state Sen. Christopher Van Hollen, who pressed for passage the Maryland law and now is a Democratic candidate for Congress, countered that the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms itself testifies to the technology's usefulness. He blamed Bush's resistance on an alliance with the NRA. 
A July 2001 report by ATF found that even the limited computerized ballistic finger­prints currently available to fed­eral law enforcement officials had produced during the pre• ceding 15 months 8,800 match­es linking 17,600 crime scenes. 
Gary Mehalik. a spokesman for the Newtown, Conn.-based National Shooting Sports Foundation, elaborated on the gun lobby's accuracy concerns that Bush evidently shares. 
"Fingerprints and DNA don't change, but the interaction of firing a cartridge under terrific pressure with high tempera­tures and forcing one piece of metal through another changes the metal with each pull of the trigger," said Mehalik. "Every time you fire a gun you change the barrel." 
Gorovitz said such changes are inconsequential. and the value of ballistic imagery has been proved repeatedly in tri­als. 
As for the assailant terroriz­ing Washington and its suburbs, the president's spokesman said: "In the case of the sniper, the real issue is values. These are the acts of a depraved killer who has broken and will contin­ue to break laws and so the question is not new laws." 
Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle said he is open to hav­ing the Senate look at a national fingerprinting system. 
"I don't think there's any question that it's important for us to review all of those laws and find ways to ensure that law enforcement has every tool available to them," said Daschle, D~SJ). 


page 9 

Wednesday, October 16, 2002 The Observer . INTERNAl1 IONAL NEWS 
ISRAEL 
Israel releases chief Muslim cleric 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Jerusalem's chief Muslim 

cleric was questioned by 
Israeli police Tuesday about a 
newspaper interview in 
which he was quoted as 
endorsing suicide bombings. 
lkrima Sabri, 63, was detained at his home and held for three hours at a police compound in Jerusalem before being released without charge. 
In an interview afterward, Sabri said he was misquoted. 
'That newspaper published words that I never said. From the beginning of the uprising, I have been interviewed by more than 1,000 journalists ... and most of them asked about attacks in Israel. My response was that I had no position toward that." 
However, Sabri has often made comments that have outraged Israelis and prompt­ed police to detained him. Incitement to violence is a criminal offense in Israel. 
As mufti of Jerusalem, Sabri is influential, often preaching to thousands at the Al Aqsa Mosque, one of Islam's most important reli­gious sites. 
Police questioned Sabri about a June 1 interview in the Dubai-based newspaper Al Bayan. The Arabic news­paper quoted him as saying he "did not see any religious prohibition" against suicide bombings. 
"On the contrary, it is self­defense and one of the suc­cessful types of resistance," he was quoted as saying. 
Omar al-Omar, head of Al­Bayan's international section, said the paper accurately quoted Sabri, ascribing Sabri's denial to Israeli pres­sure. 
"What he said is expected, because he was arrested and forced to say that so he can be freed," al-Omar said. 
There is no consensus in the Islamic world about whether the religion sanc­tions suicide bombings. While some prominent clerics have endorsed them. others have rejected such tactics. 
Sabri's views are generally in line with the Palestinian Authority, which condemns suicide bombings in Israel, but is vague about attacks on Israeli civilians in the West Bank and Gaza. 
Israel argues that the Palestinian leadership bears ultimate responsibility for the attacks and has not made a serious effort to prevent them. 
Sabri, appointed to his post in 1994 by Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, was detained briefly by Israeli police in September 2001 and ques­
tioned about a sermon and a 
meeting with Lebanese guer­
rilla leaders. 
At the time Sabri described 
the Palestinian uprising 
against Israel as a "holy war" 
and said that suicide bombers 
and other Muslims killed in 
the conflict were "martyrs." 
"The issue is decided," Sabri said then. "Muslims believe in the Day of Judgment and that dying as a martyr has its reward ­going to heaven -and that a martyr is alive in the eyes of God." 
In other developments Tuesday, an 18-year-old Palestinian was killed in the West Bank town of Tulkarem when Israeli troops opened fire to enforce a curfew, Palestinians said. The Israeli military had no immediate comment. 
Also, Israeli Defense Minister Binyamin Ben­Eliezer said Israeli troops could pull out of the West Bank town of Hebron by the end of the week if the situa­tion there remains calm. 
"I hope that around the weekend this will happen, if the conditions are right." Ben-Eliezer told Army Radio. 
The United States has been pressing Israel to pull out of at least one of the six West Bank cities It still holds after taking over seven cities in June. It had already pulled out of Bethlehem, but main­tains a military presence and often tight curfews on the rest. 
Israeli troops blocked streets leading to a disputed holy site at the edge of Bethlehem on Tuesday, a step toward connecting the area to Jerusalem, witnesses said. 
The Israeli military said sol­diers blocked paths and roads Palestinians had used to sneak around a roadblock and enter Israel illegally. 
Israel decided Sept. 11 to include the West Bank site, where Jews believe the bibli­cal matriarch Rachel is buried, inside a security fence that is to surround Jerusalem. just 500 yards away. That would involve moving the main Israeli army checkpoint between Bethlehem and Jerusalem to the West Bank side of the tomb. A Muslim cemetery is next to the tomb, which was once the site of a mosque. Palestinians reject Israel's claim to the site, though free Jewish access is guaranteed by interim peace acc;ords. 
Also, Palestinian Planning Minister Nabil Shaath said Arafat would appoint a new Cabinet by the end of the week. Arafat's Cabinet resigned Sept. 11 as the par­liament was poised to vote no confidence in his government. 

GREAT \YALL. 
B7~0~~~ !~SJ~~~!~~n~~n:~ t:H~!~:J:h:o~~k Ii 
'------------------------­


INDONESIA 
Gov't officials probe Bali blast 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA 

Indonesian officials interro• gated a security guard and another man Tuesday about the deadly nightclub bombing in Bali and said traces of C-4 plastic explosives were found at the scene of the blast. 
With Indonesia under increasing international pres­sure to combat terrorism, a violent Muslim group with ties to Indonesia's military dis­banded -the first apparent sign the government was get­ting serious about moving against Islamic extremism. 
The announcement by the group, Laskar Jihad, came as the accused spiritual leader of another extremist network linked to the al-Qaida terror network said he would submit to police questioning. 
Most of the nearly 200 
victims of "You cannot pretend it members
Saturday's 
(terrorism) doesn't exist identified
blast were 
Jake Young.

foreign in your country.·· 
a former

tourists, and 
University

the grim toll 
Colin Powell of Nebraska
prompted 
football

U.S. Secretary of State
calls for 
Indonesia to crack down on al-Qaida terrorists and local allies blamed for the bombing. President Bush said Monday he planned to talk to Indonesian President Megawati Sukarnoputri about the need to stop terrorism. 
"You cannot pretend it [ter­rorism] doesn't exist in your country," Secretary of State Colin Powell said, adding he hoped the attack "reinforces Indonesia's determination to deal with this kind of threat." 
Police spokesman Maj. Gen. Saleh Saaf said police have questioned at least 47 people about the blast -and that a security guard and another man were being "intensively interrogated." He denied reports the two had been arrested. 
The second man was the brother of a man whose iden­tification card was found at the blast scene. intelligence officers said on condition of anonymity. 
Traces of the military explo­sive C-4 -a puttylike plastic explosive used in the attack two years ago on the USS Cole in Yemen -were found at the scene, National Police Chief Da'i Bachtiar said. Richard C. Reid, the alleged al-Qaida­trained shoe bomber thwarted on an American Airlines flight, packed explosive that appeared to be C-4 into his shoes. 
In past cases in Indonesia, whenever C-4 has been found in any bombing it has been traced to the military, raising speculation the explosive was bought or stolen from military stocks. 
Days after the explosion ripped through the jammed Sari Club, Bali was still strug­gling to cope with the corpses. 
At the island's main hospital -now largely used as a morgue -dozens of volun­teers cared for the bodies, icing them down or loading them into refrigerated con­tainers to slow decomposition in the tropical heat. Australia, which lost dozens in the attack, was arranging for the bodies of its citizens to be repatriated. 
Two American deaths have been confirmed: · Steven Brooks Webster of Huntington Beach, Calif.; and Deborah Snodgrass, who had been liv­ing in Bali. 
U.S. officials said four Americans were injured and between one and four were missing. 
No other names have been released but family 
player 
working in 
Hong Kong, 

as among the missing. 
Dozens of shoulder-high flower wreaths were left at the edge of the morgue, where hundreds of people waited, watched over by armed Indonesian soldiers. 
Indonesia's intelligence chief, Mohamad Abdul Hendropriyono, told reporters his organization was cooperat­ing with foreign agencies in the investigation. 
"This attack has been well planned and it required exper­tise in handling high-tech [bombs]," he said. "It is a very complicated task and is out­side the ability of local hands." 
Megawati's government is in a delicate position -looking for ways to prevent terrorism without sparking further attacks or unrest in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation. 
Laskar Jihad's dissolution is a relatively easy way for Jakarta to show its to extremist violence. 
In recent months, the activi­ties of the group, which has deep ties to Indonesia's mili· tary, have become an increas· ing embarrassment for authorities. 
As the Bush administration pushed to re-establish ties with the Indonesian military -cut in 1999 in the wake of abuses in East Timor -Laskar Jihad's military con­nection was cited by congres­sional critics as proof the mili­tary continued to represent the main threat to the coun­try's fragile democracy. 
Achmad Michdan, legal adviser to Laskar Jihad, which has waged sectarian warfare against Christians on the out­lying Maluku islands, told reporters in Jakarta the group was disbanding. 
Michdan insisted the deci­sion was not connected to the bombing and was rooted in theological issues. "It is an internal matter," he said. 
In Australia, Prime Minister John Howard said his nation 
would  seek the  listing  of  
Jemaah Islamiyah  -a shad­ 
owy  pan-Asian  network  

believed linked to al-Qaida and suspected of involvement in the nightclub bombing -as a terrorist organization. 
Australian officials "have received indications from other countries ... that that move will be supported," he said in Parliament. 
The suspected spiritual leader of Jemaah lslamiyah said he would voluntarily sub­mit to police questioning. Muslim cleric Abu Bakar Bashir planned to meet with police Wednesday in Jakarta, said his brother Umar Bashir. 
The meeting was in connec­tion with a libel case Abu Bakar Bashir has filed against Time magazine, which recent­ly published allegations that implicated him in other terror­ist activities, his brother said. Abu Bakar Bashir has denied involvement in Saturday's blast. 
Jemaah Islamiyah is believed to have four tons of ammonium nitrate, a chemical that has been used to make bombs, purchased by a sus­pected Malaysian member accused of allowing two of 
Djalil said: "We are sure al­Oaida is here."
.~·.·Cll~~Qjl/j 
i 
> ...... . 
N<:>RTHER:N.••·INPlANA;.<L,.;1...C 
(574) 288-7777 
SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST CAB COMPANY, SERVING ND/ST. MARY'S AND ALL OF MICHIANA. MAKE YOUR FALL BREAK RESERVATIONS NOW. 
S.B. AIRPORT/ AMTRAK-$10.00 -ONE PASS $6.00 EACH -TWO OR MORE PASS 
ASK ABOUT OUR LOW RATES TO CHICAGO/INDIANAPOLIS/DETROIT 
-


willingness the Sept. 11
"This attack has been 
to fight hijackers to 
terrorism, well planned and it use his apart­
and per­required expertise in ment in 2000. Indonesia
haps gain handling high-tech 
ground in previously
(bombs)"
its efforts insisted there to restart was no threat American of violent
Mohamad Abdul Hendropriyono
military extremism on
Indonesian intelligence chief
aid. its soil, despite 
T h e the discovery group is of an al-Qaida­not suspected in the Bali linke d terror network in bombings. but putting it out of neighboring Singapore and operation gives the govern­Malaysia. ment much-needed public The shift came Monday after relations points amid accusa­a Cabinet meeting, when tions it has turnr,d a blind flVe Defense Minister Matori Abdul 
-­

Oa5ERVER 


page 10 Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ft.D!-IINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.... ·········................. ··················· .........631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARV's............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc.l@nd.edu PH0T0...................:....................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisements, is not governed by policies of the ad.ministration ofeither inscirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qutstions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obtemr (USPS 599 240) i, publiabcd Monday through Friday =pr during cum ..d •a<ation period>. A,ubteripoon ,o The Ob,,.....,. i, SI 00 for oru, a,;ad<n,k y,ar: J55 for On< ""1<Sr<r. 
The~i, published tt POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addrc:H corra:tions to: 
Nom, Dame, IN 46556 The Ol,c,cn,,r 
P.O. BoxQ Periodical ponagc-paid at Norrc Dam~ Non< Dame. IN 46556-0779 ~nd addiitonal mailing office-,. 
1l\C Observer is a member of rhe-Ai-Mxfa.tN Pn:s1, A1J reproduction righu are racrvc:d. 

Around campus, the invisible army of campus workers is busy making this school one of the most beautiful places in the world. The bathrooms are spotless, rooms are clean and the food service staff has given us two 
Paul Graham
of the best din­ing halls on any college campus. 

Their work, Another unfortunately, Perspective goes unnoticed and unappreci­ated. Most stu­dents and faculty are unaware of dif­ficulties and problems that most staff people face. Through discussions with workers, I have heard repulsive sto­ries about what it is like to work for this University. 
Last spring, Notre Dame had a meeting with its entire maintenance staff, notifying them that the school will no longer replace maintenance employees who retire, quit or are fired. This creates more work for the remaining staff; not only do they still clean their original sections, but they also have to clean new sections. Maintenance workers are then expected to handle their old duties, which used to take the whole 8-hour day, and add in the new areas and duties from past employees without a raise in wages and the same high standards of quality. 
I spoke with two workers on the night shift in one of the larger build­ings on campus, and they went on for their entire break about how this pol­icy has made working seem like tor­ture. They have more than twice the area as they had before and are still expected to keep the building shiny. I talked to them again later, and they complained during another break about the lack of livable wages. One of them said that she would quit if there were other jobs available (but the unemployment rate was 5.2 per­cent in August and is still growing). 
Another worker from the library broke out into tears, sobbing for the entire length of her break about how she is unable to move to the day shift. She works nights, which puts a strain on her home life. She never sees her husband and her kids. and has had to pick up a second job to help support her family. She wants to start taking night classes, but Human Resources will not allow her to move to days. 
Workers in food service are similar. One worker told me that all she want­ed was to feel as if she was a part of the daily operations. She wanted to have more control over her station so that she could be more efficient and a part of the process. She didn't feel valued and appreciated. This employ­ee also told me that the Staff Advisory Council was just a token bone thrown to the workers. The SAC has the _ power to advise Human Resources, but no actual power for change. 
Our campus employees are paid less than livable wages for the work that they do each day. Most of the staff are paid at level 1, 2 or 3 out of 20 on the University's pay scale. This translates to an hourly wage from $6.29 to $10.78 an hour with many workers earning around $8 .10 to $9.65. At these pay rates, many workers are forced to work two or more jobs. 
These problems should not exist at a Catholic institution like Notre Dame. The Catholic Church has more than 100 years of social teaching that speak of the importance of work and unions. Starting in 1891, when Pope Leo XIII issued "Rerum Novarum," the Church has put a strong emphasis on the rights of labor, including the right to join unions. Work is not a commodity to be bought and sold. The Church teaches that people are more valuable than profits and capi• tal. Pope John XX:111.. in "Mater et 
Magistra." declared work as "the 
immediate expression of the human 
personality ... and must not be 
regarded as a mere commodity." 
Pope John Paul II stated in his 
encyclical, "Centesimus Annus," "the freedom to join trade unions and the effective action of unions ... are 
meant to deliver work from the mere condition of 'a commodity' and to guarantee its dignity." 
Workers on campus have attempted to organize in the past, but each drive stopped when workers were fired or the school gave the workers a sudden raise to quiet the voices. Two major occurrences were in 1977 with the grounds crew and in 1996 with the secretaries -in both cases the actions taken by Notre Dame were illegal according to federal law. Most of the workers that I have spoken with want a union, but are too afraid to fight for one. 
Workers on this campus deserve a good union. a voice in their work­place and a chance to have a good job where they are not forced to take on more employment elsewhere. Write a letter to Father Edward Malloy and Father Tim Scully asking for a state­ment of neutrality, which is a state­ment asserting that the school will not hire union busters or fire workers who try to organize. Please consider the workers on campus and write a letter to Malloy and Scully asking them to affirm Catholic social tradi­tion and to support workers' rights here at Notre Dame. 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major and a Catholic social tradition minor. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Justin Krivickas Joe Hettler Bill Puckett Katie McVoy John Fanning Mark Zavodnyik 
Viewpoint Scene 

Teresa Fralish Sarah Vabulas Graphics C. Spencer Beggs Mike Harkins Lab Tech Chris Orenchuk 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Was Notre Dame justified in suspending the Irish Guard from last Saturday's game? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Peace is not an absence ofwar. it is a virtue. a state of mind, a disposition for benevolence, confidence, justice. " 
Baruch Spinoza writer 
~VFR 


Wednesday, October 16, 2002 page 11 
The games people play 
It's amazing the games people play in relationships. 
Hather than an honest, candid approach to modern courtship, we spend our time trying to perplex the opposite sex into a haze of 
Jacqueline
dating frenzy. It's like one giant game Browder 
of kickball, except 
this time, every­

Happily
one's getting hit. Is 

Ever After
it nostalgia for our youth? Or are we merely filling the void left by afternoons of Twister and Chutes and Ladders with carefully calcu­lated maneuvers meant to confuse, deter and baffle the opposite sex? 
As much as we'd like to hit the jackpot and finrl true love, we spend so much of our time strategizing against the other team and trying to sink everyone else's battleship that it's surprising that any­one dates at all. 
\Ve seem to be caught in an endless power struggle. It has become more about our scoring record and our win­loss statistics than anything else. In all of our efforts of playing not to lose, dating has become less of a splendid notion than an odd game of wits and strategy. We're influenced by friends and spurred by the fear of rejection. We may be hold­ing four aces, but we are often so afraid of showing our hands to anyone else that we end up folding before we even get to show our cards. 
What's amazing is that, as much as we hate to admit it, we all play. We specu­late endlessly and make sure that we compete, but act like we don't put any effort into it. It's the eternal game of one-on-one, but does anyone really win in the end? 
The classic example is the phone call tug of war. We tend to keep tabs on the number of calls we've received or made to the object of our affection. Often, we wait a certain amount of days to return calls, and when we do, we feign unavail­ability, thus making the subtle point that, yes, we have a life, and no, they are not crucial to its existence. It's a back and forth effort that can be tedious, if not exhausting. 
And then, of course, there is the ulti­mate playing field -the Friday night social scene. Rather than immediately striking up a conversation with our intended, we take interest in any other person at the party, all the while keep­ing an eye on our prize. We wait and we watch and when we finally catch that person's attention {casually, of course) we act like we didn't know they were there. At this rate, we're all going to end up the weakest link. 
Even when we're in a relationship, we still play games. It's just round two. For example, when any "talk" in a relation­ship comes up, we often answer in the form of a question: 
"What do you want?" 
"I don't know, what do you think?" 
And it just goes on and on. Obviously, 
this is a technique that really should be 
left to Alex Trebec. 
Relationships have become a game of wits confusing enough to make anyone crazy. It's practically Darwinian. Do we play these games as a way to weed out the weak? Do only the strong survive? \Ve're so busy trying not to be voted off the island that we forget why we were there in the first place. Dating. in theory, isn't about winning. It's something that should be looked at as a team effort. There are only two people involved, both with the same goal. However, rather than joining forces with our intended, we put on our helmets and head out to the battle field. 
Dating should not be about who has the most points or the least whammies. After all, when we play our games and winning becomes our first priority, does it really make sense to want to date the loser? There's no fun in that. 
It can be so exhausting that we're not 
even sure if we want to find out what's 
behind door No. 3. We don't want to 
take that chance anymore. It's like a 
never ending game of Bingo. We may be 
a mere B-15 away from true love, but 
we're still waiting for our number to be 
called. Nevertheless, we keep on play­
ing. 

And luckily, sometimes the price is 
right. We find someone who ends up on 
our team after all. It's like we landed on 
Boardwalk with a hotel on Park Avenue. 
We let our guard down and finally get a 
teammate. It's not about winning or los­
ing anymore. We give up the power 
struggle, throw the Darwin factor out 
the window and forget about a final 
answer. 
We may have had to play the game to get there, sinking a few battleships and folding a few hands along the way. But in the end, it just may be worth it to roll the dice and take that chance. 
Let the games begin. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American studies major with a minor in journalism. Contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students defend free speech 
Activists contribute to democracy 
I'm writing in response to Erin Fitzpatrick you fill your tank, you feed terrorists. and Michael McCarthy's Oct. 15 letter, But the really disturbing thing is, unlike in "Revive patriotism on this too-liberal cam­World War II, the Bush administration has pus." Last time I checked, no one, except asked exactly nothing of me as a civilian, Fitzpatrick and McCarthy, would classify except to shop and "keep the economy Notre Dame as too-liberal. On the contrary. rolling." And now students are suggesting it's a school so conservative that my 14-year that my real patriotic duty lies only in not old brother can't come visit me and can't asking any pesky questions. Don't think sleep on my floor for the night, because that about it. Support your government unques­would violate parietals. It's a perverse line tioningly. Go about your life as usual. Buy a of logic. The school thinks, without their new car. Your government will take care of rules, I or someone else might sleep with your killing for you. him. Signs on campus, though I haven't seen 
Notre Dame is a school where I've heard many, saying "No War in Iraq" or "Pray for it frequently expressed among students that Peace" should not "degrade" patriotic feel­homosexuals and people who have consen­ings but increase them. This is what democ­sual pre-marital sex are "evil," and where racy is all about -the free exchange of several male students this year have written ideas. The 20 or 30 students who stood on letters to The Observer bemoaning the the Fieldhouse Mall last Thursday express­proven relationship between female intelli­ing their obviously unpopular opinions on gence and increased ugliness. After I wrote everything from just war theory to pacifism an article earlier this year suggesting stu­to the rights of prisoners and University dents pray and not parade on Sept. 11, I workers, should be applauded. They was told by 10 members of the Notre Dame weren't winning any friends that day. And family to go home. There's no room for "lib­they weren't "overrunning the traditional erals" like me in God Country. values of American society" either. 
But somewhere in Fitzpatrick and The First Amendment is a traditional McCarthy's over the top mud slinging, value of American society. We are a country among other things calling liberals "bedwet­founded on righteous dissent. Whatever you ting" commies -and that's a sensitive issue believe, it takes courage to speak your mind for liberals and commies alike as they're publicly especially when your opinions are working hard to decrease the bedwetting unpopular. Those students who attend polit­problem -Fitzpatrick and McCarthy have a ical events just to hear what is being said, point. There are things worth dying for. But who turn off the "Real World" for an hour what is worth dying for is a different ques­and step into it, fight apathy and a general tion than what is worth killing for. ignorance of the world beyond the United 
And let's not forget that killing and being States or the dorm. They engage in the con­killed is what we're talking about. versation and the life of the mind that uni­Fitzpatrick and McCarthy suggest that we versities and democracies are supposed to 
are being called upon as a nation of young be all about. They not only don't discard people and refusing to heed the call. Who on their freedom, they exercise it. Go ahead, the Notre Dame campus is being asked to reason all you want. sacrifice? I wish that my country would ask that I sacrifice for something greater than Anna Nussbawn myself. For example, we could be asked to freshman carpool and drive less. thereby decreasing Farley Hall our dependence on foreign oil. Every time Oct. 15 
U.S. must avoid foreign, wars 
The campus is too liberal? It's hanging going to hit us, but I didn't know they'd 
by a thread off the edge ofthe right wing, hit us that hard." He then jailed all politi­
and it's those "bedwetting liberals" cal opposition and put all "un­
McCarthy and Fitzpatrick despise who Americans" into concentration camps. 
have kept the rest ofthe campus from Much as Roosevelt used Pearl Harbor as 
intellectual oblivion. a pretext for imperialist adventures in the 
Once upon a time, I was in social stud­Pacific and a war on democratic rights at 
ies class in eighth grade, and our teacher home, Bush has used Sept. 11 to catapult 
proposed to us the questions, "How could the United States into an open-ended war 
the everyday German citizen allow with an ambiguous foe and to perpetrate 
Nazism to happen? What was he or she a political coup-de-grace on what sem­
thinking?" Today, I can finally answer blance of human rights remained at 
the questions. "Check out this letter in home. 
The Observer." Nazi propagandists would It is interesting that McCarthy and 
be very proud oftheir American pro­Fitzpatrick mention John Stuart Mill's oft­
teges. repeated line about the intellectually 
The United States is preparing for an cowardly nationalist. The way they have overtly colonial war with Iraq, and the it, the contemporary patriotic warmonger flag-waving, goose-stepping American is the one who has something for which population has barely lifted a finger to he is "willing to fight" and those of us object. Where it has objected it has done with the intellectual fortitude to throw a so on wimpy religious or reactionary fist in the air and resist are the "miser­grounds. Americans as a whole continue able creatures." I'll let the reader decide to fill their SUVs with the blood of Middle on this one. Eastern dead, drive around with their Communist revolutionary Leon Trotsky Wal-Mart-bought "God Bless America" once wrote, "Each man carries on his stickers and watch Fox News cheerfully shoulders a small particle of the fate of as the green blobs of incendiary muni­mankind." I urge the students of Notre tions rain down on the poorest country in Dame to consider carefully what they do the world. with their particles, and encourage them 
The civilian deaths abroad from the not to let people like McCarthy and "war on terrorism," I will remind Fitzpatrick coerce them into submission. McCarthy and Fitzpatrick, have far America has engaged in 11 wars in the exceeded the deaths ofSept. 11. Military past decade with a catastrophic toll on analysts have predicted that war with innocent human lives. Do we really want Iraq could produce a Sept. 11 many times a 12th? The first time the United States over in Baghdad alone. invaded Iraq, it imposed sanctions on the 
Regarding the reference to the battle of country which resulted in the deaths of Pearl Harbor, I \ivill rei:nind McCarthy and 200,000 innocent children alone. Do we Fitzpatrick that American history is much really want to let our government go in different from the movies. In 1941, again? Nazi and Imperial-Japanese lead­record numbers oflabor strikes were ers at Nuremberg were convicted for less. occuring across the country, and our president Franklin Roosevelt, to fight his Tom Seabaugh gro\\ing unpopularity, practically asked sophomore Japan to attack. After the battle, he was offcampus alleged to have said, "I knew they were Oct. 15 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
CONCERT REVIEW 
•

1ence 
s to 




By DANIEL McSWAIN and SARAH 
SCHNEIDER 
Scene Music Critics 

"I want to have a good time like everybody," seemed to be Adam Duritz's way of connecting with his audience of mainly exhausted, over­worked and midterm-frenzied students during The Counting Crows concert at the Morris Performing Arts Center Tuesday night. 
Although the Counting Crows have never worn the label of the grunge era that they grew out of, they're not exactly a good-timing band either. In the wake of Nirvana and the angst rock revolution of the early '90s, a hole was left open for a more cerebral yet equally emotionally charged style to move into the scene. Enter Counting Crows. A group whose roots were equal parts folk and rock, the Crows' style was unique, mixing morose, somber melodies with intensely personal yet welcoming lyrics. Their first album, August and Everything After, was a multi-platinum overnight success. 
With the help of an MTV hit single, August propelled the band into the forefront of a scene that seemed to eagerly accept their folky style of angst despite its departure from the norm at the time. With their sophomore album, Recovering the Satellites, Counting Crows moved in a pop-wardly direction, putting a lit­tle more glitter and shine into their songs than before. Although the album did not receive the same critical or public embrace as August, it was by no means a disappointment for the band, or for their quickly growing fan base. 
The band's third album, This Desert Life, showcased the band's finely honed talents as. musicians and songwriters. All the songs sprung from improvisational jams in the stu­dio, a feat that shows the truth and power of the emotions in their songs in a very honest way. 
Their latest album, Hard Candy, has been met with the most critical acclaim since their debut. Enlisting the help of veteran songwrit­ers, Ryan Adams and Matthew Sweet, the Crows put together a spotless amalgam of pop sensibilities and engaging lyrics. 
The seven-man band has grown to move seamlessly together, no small feat in an indus­try full of line up changes and ego clashes. The use of underrepresented instruments like the accordion, mandolin, banjo, and upright bass give the Counting Crows a musical depth that is rarely encountered in the form of a tradi­tional songwriting band. It is this, the band's multifaceted arrangement that makes the Counting Crows music complex yet accessible. 
Such was the Crows' performance, ranging from subdued and anticlimactic to emphatic and alive. Their stage setup was a perfect example of this dichotomous existence in which their music thrives. The band took their places before a backdrop of projected wild flowers, with sea of lavender light soaking the stage and setting the mood for their opening lullaby, "Goodnight Elizabeth." Although it is a perfect example of the Crows skillful songwrit­ing, it was an unexpected choice as an opener. But as Duritz soon explained in his first of sev­eral aside, the band had decided on a slightly unorthodox approach to the show that night. 
Perhaps feeling that on this, a Crows tour that concentrated mainly on college towns such as South Bend, a laid-back approach would be more fitting, the band prepared acoustic arrangements of songs that tradition­ally were more upbeat and musically complex. 
While this formula served the band's trade­mark songs like "Omaha" and "Mr. Jones" 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Counting Crows guitarists Dan Vickrey, at left, and David Bryson Jamming during the Counting 
The Counting Crows brought down the house at the Morris Center for
Crows' mostly acoustic set. 
group out for two encores. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, October 16, 2002 page 13 


• 
rows at t 
e 
orris 
well, it was not as flattering for other num­cated interpretations. Granted, they are his bers, which came out skewed and largely life­songs and he is free to take any and all ill­less. This could be attributed to Duritz' appar­advised approaches to his own work. But the ent memory loss of his own lyrics, which he patience of the audience was noticeably tried perused during the bridge of one number and during numbers like "Anna Begins" where openly admitted to having forgotten during Duritz preferred to act out and sing monoto­another. Regardless of the reason, the songs nously what are truly beautiful lyrics, turning lacked the emotion and fluidity that the album one of the band's best songs into a painful versions convey. exercise in self-expression. 
After reducing one of the band's most empa­The egregious lack of crowd favorites, such thetic songs, "Rain King," to a languid after­as "All My Friends", "Mrs. Potter's Lullaby" thought, Duritz and company redeemed them­and their masterpiece "Round Here" hurt the selves with a stellar rendition of their hit, band and kept fans waiting but ultimately "Long December." Returning to their more unsatisfied. familiar electric roots, the Crows seemed more The two encores offered more enjoyment for at ease with themselves and their surround­the jamming band onstage than for anyone in ings, which became evident in their perform­the audience save the most avid and die-hard ance. A background of glittery stars silhouet­Counting Crows fan, who may be satisfied with ted the band as Duritz, this time behind the more obscure selections from the band's cata­keyboard, led the song from its stuttering, log. Although "Holiday in Spain," the band's snail-paced introduction to a veritable star­closing number. was one of the most solid per­burst as he leapt from his seat, feet keeping formances of the evening, its place at the end the tempo to a song that the audience knew by of the set left the audience searching for some­heart but seemed to enjoy with a unique novel­thing more familiar and climactic, something ty. that everyone could sing along to. 
Similarly, "Daylight Fading" and the infec­Maybe the Crows are still feeling out their tious "Hangin' Around" soared with the emo­new material and fitting it in to their polished tion and purpose with which they were written repertoire of classic songs. Then again, maybe and meant to be performed. "Murder of One," they cherish live outings as a chance to rein­the song whose lyrics inspired the band's vent themselves, admittedly the right of any name, joined "Long December'' as the other musician, although not the smartest avenue to standout ofthe night. please fans. But the Crows continue to sell out 
The Crows' time on the road and time tours, and new fans keep their following grow­together was especially evident during songs ing. Regardless, everyone present, the band like these, with a surge of showmanship and included, left happy, if not altogether satisfied, rock and roll stage presence visibly rousing the and Duritz's "good time" was had by all. already standing crowd that at other points of the night seemed lulled. 
Although the set list did offer a number of Contact Daniel McSwain at hits, mere hit status was not enough to save mcswain.3@nd.edu and Sarah Schneider at some songs from Duritz' capricious and intoxi-schneider.39@nd.edu 



( 
I 
t 
i 
i 
i 
i 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 

LoClair flies high in Philadelphia victory 
MONTREAL Theodore -last season's NHL Carolina Hurricanes. down by one going into the third er. On Tuesday. he poked in a John LeClair's fans from MVP -has allowed 12 goals in Koivisto kept the puck in along period," Macinnis said. loose puck that was deflected off 
Vermont never regret making two home losses since opening the blue line on a pass from Alexander Khavanov scored at a shot by Jason Marshall to beat the hour-long drive to Montreal the season with a 4-1 win over Pavol Demita. He threw it on net 3:58 of the third period to tie it Roberto Luongo. to see their hometown hero play. the Rangers in New York last and it got through a bunch of for the Blues. The deflected puck "Just went to the net sniffing 
LeClair, a native of St. Albans, Friday. players in front for the goal. came to an open Khavanov, who around, the puck squirted out Vt., scored four goals and Mark "It seemed that tonight every Carolina goalie Kevin Weekes got his first goal of the season. and I just threw it in," Muckalt Recchi had a goal and two time I made a big save, they gave credit to Koivisto. Each team started new a said. assists to lead the Philadelphia came back and they scored right "That's a smart play by him, goalie. Rookie Reinhard Divis He didn't want to talk about Flyers to a 6-2 win over the away," Theodore said. "They especially with traffic converg­was in net for St. Louis, and last season's struggles. Montreal Canadiens on Tuesday caught me with one or two goals ing in front of the net," Weekes Weekes got the nod for the "It really doesn't matter," he night. I'd like to have back so I'm just said. "I said the other day those Hurricanes. said. "What's good is that the 
"There's no question there's a going to work twice as hard in are the toughest ones to stop." Divis made 23 saves. Weekes team is off to a good start, and I 
lot of friends and family that practices and watch some video Koivisto said he was just trying stopped 27 shots. feel I'm off to a good start." come up," LeClair said. just to make sure my game gets to make something happen. Divis was St. Louis' top goalie Antti Laaksonen and Brad "Anytime you play here, it's a back to where it should be." "The puck was bouncing a lit-in the minors last year and is the Bombardir also scored for 
big thrill." Le Clair tle bit and I first Austrian-born player to Minnesota, unbeaten after three LeClair, who began his career scored a saw Petr start an NHL game. It was Divis' games (2-0-1). Fernandez didn't with Montreal, ha.s 28 goals and power-play "Now we've got to go (Cajanek) go second career appearance -he allow a goal until 13:16 of the 43 points in 29 regular-season goal 11:47 into in front of played 25 minutes last season second period when he was
home and see what we 
games against the Canadiens the first to put the net and I against Coloract,"'· beaten by Niklas Hagman. 
since he was traded to the Philadelphia can do there . ., only tried to In his second start, Fernandez Flyers on Feb. 9, 1995. up 2-0 after shoot in front was again dominating, stopping 
Wild 4, Panthers 1 


It was his second career four­Recchi opened Ken Hitchcock of the net flurries of shots and bringing the 
Bill Muckalt finally broke out 
goal game. The other one also the scoring because I crowd to its feet on glove saves.
Flyers coach as a scorer and his reward could 
came against Montreal on Feb. with his fourth saw him go "It's tough to get him when
be a broken foot. 

6, 1997. of the season in front and he's on a roll like that," Florida
Muckalt, who failed to score a 
"I couldn't explain it before at 8:11. screen center Viktor Kozlov said.
goal last season with Ottawa,
and I probably can't explain it Perreault (Weekes)," On the other end, Luongo fin­
broke his 75-game drought with scored with 5:03 left in the first
now," LeClair said. "There's said Koivisto, who has two goals ished with 23 saves, including
two goals, and Manny
something about playing in a to draw Montreal to 2-1, and this season. "I don't think three impressive stops on break­
Fernandez made 30 saves as the 
city like Montreal. The hockey LeClair added his second of the (Weekes) saw the puck." aways. 13ut the 23-year-old goal­
Minnesota Wild beat the Florida 
tradition -I had a chance to game 3:54 into the second. The goal gave the Blues (1-1-tender's teammates couldn't
Panthers.
Koivu scored his first goal of

taste it. I won a Cup here. It's 1) their first win of the season. muster much offense against
Muckalt hadn't scored sincethe season at 7:17 to make it 3­
just one of those cities you get a "I didn't see the shot," April 2, 2001, when his New Fernandez. 
2, but LeClair restored the
big charge when you come Macinnis said. "The best thing I Florida coach Mike Keenan
York Islanders beat Pittsburgh. 
Flyers' two-goal lead with
into." saw was it going in. It was a benched right wing Valeri Bure
He gave the Wild a 1-0 lead atanother power-play goal to com­great shot. It was a big win for in the first period for failing to
Marty Murray also scored for 6:20 of the first period on a
plete his 11th career hat trick ­
Philadelphia, which completed us, believe me." rebound. But the goal was bit­clear the puck from his zone 
and first since Dec. 6, 2000,
its season-opening three-game The Blues have scored only six tersweet since he was slashed while the Panthers were short­
against Tampa Bay -with 3:37
road trip with five of a possible goals this season. St. Louis did on his right foot during the play. handed.
left in the second. 
six points. not score on six power-play "Valeri again just didn't want
"The X-rays don't look good,"
"Now we've got to go home opportunities against the a limping Muckalt said after the to do what the coaches asked and try to see what we can do Blues 2, Hurricanes 1 Hurricanes. him to do," Keenan said. But the 
game. He was scheduled to 
there, but to go undefeated the Once the St. Louis Blues got "This was a huge two points undergo more tests on coach wasn't only down on first games out of the blocks -into overtime, the plan was sim­for us," Blues center Doug Wednesday to determine if he Bure. especially against three pretty ple. Weight said. "Hopefully, we can has a possible fracture. "I can't think of one hockey good hockey clubs -this was a "When you get into overtime, build on it." Muckalt, who also scored an player tonight that played well. good start," Flyers coach Ken you try to win it," defenseman Carolina, which lost to Detroit empty-net goal with 2.8 seconds Not one," he said. Hitchcock said. Al Macinnis said. "That's what in the Stanley Cup finals last left, played in pain the rest of Laaksonen made it 2-0 on a 
Yanic Perreault scored his sec­we were trying to do." spring, has just one win in four the game. short-handed breakaway at 7:49 ond of the season and Saku And the Blues did. Rookie games. Jaroslav Svoboda scored After spending last season of the first period. Heading full Koivu had a goal and an assist defenseman Tom Koivisto in the first period for the with Ottawa, the Wild signed the speed at Luongo, Laaksonen for Montreal. scored at 3:49 of overtime to Hurricanes. fifth-year NHL player and hoped faked the and beat him on the 
Canadiens goalie Jose give St. Louis a victory over the "It's nice to win after being he could become a good check-glove side. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Digital camera lost DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST Mary, Nikon CoolPix n5 Befofe Pitt game LEASING FOR 2003-2004 PRICES 289-9280 Best wishes on a speedy rea:Nery NOTICES Lost near stacium SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN--The Observer Stall
FOR SALE
cal Destanie at 4-4283 T ANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­
PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED· ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR Lauren• $250 a day potential/bartending ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT SALE. You're going to pay for laughing like Training provided 1-800-293-3985 LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY !hat, even if it was on pape<. You v.on't ext. 556 FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. SYSTEM· MAINTENANCE STAFF AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 know wren and~ won't kmw where,
WANTED NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS • but someday I will get you (And your lit-Lost Kairos (waffle) cross. Believed ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-tie dog too!) lost near west entrance to library. $99,500.Williamson.1@nd.edu FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Has burgandy piece of velvet tied #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, [)) ;w like Hebrew Nationals? BIG around top and two pins, a celtic Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 -Hebrew Nationals? cross and a footprints pin. PRICE-Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. 1991 Honda Civic Hatchback. 135k (574)674-2471 NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) If so, can Spencer. LESS to owner. REWARD offered. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234-miles.Good cond. $2200. 574-277-bringing family, friends & girlfriend He's looking for someone wi1ti apulse. PLEASE call Cristin at 634-1057 7007 endlesssummertours.com 3189. to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck 4-3011 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmal-RecSports Basketball officials Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski has space available for football/par-ley@global.t-bird.edu Single, "nice guy'' sports editor seeking NEEDED Apply at Rolfs Sports Rec and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. PROFESSORS & STAFF • Live in ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, gjr Vvl"x:i drinks tike a fish and bears strik-Center Clinic: Wed. 11 /6 7PM, positions available now. Largest Lovely Wooded Estates in a home hot breakfast, $80-$115, rg reserrt>lance to J.K RCM'ling's RSRC Contact hadams@nd.edu commissions. with 40 years of ND History. Walk Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Hermione. 
or Bike to work -3 bedrooms 1 .5 Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. Cal ems if interested. ACT NOW! Guarantee lhe best sprirg Travel Free! 1-800-SUNCHASE baths with beautiful FLORIDA 
PERSONAL

break prices! South Paae, Cancun, ext. 123. ROOM and partially finished base• Ramon­Jarnaira,Baharnas,Acapulco,Fbooa ment on large comer lot. Call 234-HOUSES FOR RENT FOR Star Trek is about lhe human cordtion. ard Marcigras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps WWW.SUNCHASE.COM 8858 to see. 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896 One day Kendal wiD get ill 
needed, EARM $$$. GrOl.4) cisoounts Squeak fO" 6 +. 1888 THINK Slt,J Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 1995 Mazda MPV (milivan) $7,500 ooo. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do (1 888 844 6578 dept 2626) per day. No experience necessary. Excellent CXlfX:ition. 5 & 6 bdrm. houses. Close. Fall not go it alone. If you or someone Renee of away message tame ­www.sprio;jlreakdisrounts.eoo1 Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 1O'M'ler, all repair remrds 2003. Call Fronse 574-220-8403. you love needs confidential support ocaaaaaameee'NWWWWWWW 
272-3651 or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Mafkllllllllll Tutor to assist high school girl Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For w/homework especially English. more information, see our bi-weekly Hettler-
LOST AND FOUND 

Spanish helpful but not required. ad in THE OBSERVER. Here's 1o being the best ookn;l depart-Must have transportation to stu-FOR RENT TICKETS ment at The Obsever. That's 
dents home. 574-243-2623. SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS OBVIOUSLY wtry new \Miters are oom-
FOUND: Ladys bracelet in Joyce All size homes available for 2003-Americas #1 Student Tour Operator rg to work for us! Center on Oct. 5. Call Judy at 237-2004 mmmrentals@aol.com N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free 8312 to identify & claim. Looking for a playful, kind, and www.mmmrentals.com check our prices. 273-3911. Information/Reservations 1-800-Adam­
responsible person to watch my 2 648-4849 or www.ststraveLcom We may have gone oown orx::e, but a FOUND: Ladys bracelet in Joyce children (5 & 1 1/2 yr) in my home ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR will never happen agah Beware of Center on Oct. 5. Call Judy at 237-2·8 hr per week. Flexible Hours. RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST Are you down with one-oh-one-spor1s revenge'!
8312 to identify & claim. Call Jill at 288-7118 CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. PRICES PAID 251-1570 four? You wiU go oown. 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Wasted opportunity doesn't end Islanders 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

The New York Islanders wast­
ed a rare opportunity in over­
time -and won anyway. 
Adrian Aucoin scored just 3 
seconds after Brad Isbister was 
stopped on a penalty shot, cap­
ping a three~goal comeback as 
New York beat the Nashville 
Predators 4-3 in overtime 
Tuesday night for its first win of 
the season. 
Shawn Bates won a faceoff, 
and Aucoin moved from the 
right point to the center of the 
ice and let go a low slap shot 
that beat goalie Tomas Vokoun 
-who squeezed Isbister's 
penalty shot between his pads 
just seconds before. 
"Players get a mindset that 
something big is going to hap­
pen when you have one of those 
instances," Aucoin said. 
Vokoun was screened 
Aucoin's shot. 
"I couldn't see the shot, and I 
was moving to my right side," he 
said. "He just shot it left." 
Aucoin felt lucky to score. 
"It had eyes -its own eyes"' Aucoin said. "It didn't have my eyes because I missed the net about 15 times tonight." 
Isbister was awarded a penal­ty shot at 1:47 of overtime when he was cut down from behind on a breakaway. Isbister, Vokoun and the puck all crossed the goal line as the net came off its moorings on the play. 
"To tell you the truth, I thought that might have been a goal even before they called the penalty shot," Isbister said. "I honestly thought they were going to go upstairs and look at the tape." 
Instead, Isbister broke in unimpeded on Vokoun, who stood up and squeezed his pads to stop Isbister's five-hole attempt. 
"There was an opening there"' Isbister said. "I just didn't hit it." Vokoun's strategy was to stay patient. 
"Ninety percent of the time, if the shooter makes the first move, the goalie makes the save"' Vokoun said. "I just tried to stay patient and wait for him to do something first." 
Alexei Yashin tied it at 5:56 of the third period when he tipped Raffi Torres' cross-ice pass past Vokoun. 
"I didn't really see the puck coming," Yashin said. "Raffi made a nice play, he just threw it over." 
Dave Scatchard and Mark Parrish also scored for New York, which avoided losing three straight games to start the sea­son for the first time in its 31­year history. 
Chris Osgood had to make 
only 10 saves for the victory. 
Former Islander Andreas 
Johansson scored twice and 
Karlis Skrastins added a goal for 
the Predators, who also picked 
up their first point of the season 
in three games. Vokoun made 
26 saves. 
Johansson scored two power­
play goals to give the Predators 
a 2-0 lead. Scott Walker set up 
both goals. 
The Predators scored 3:01 in 
when Johansson took Scott 
Walker's pass and sent a one­
timer through Osgood's legs for 
a power-play goal. 
Johansson scored again while 
the Predators were up two men 
when Walker's cross-ice pass 
deflected off an Islanders player. 
The puck went right to 
Johansson at the left side, and 
his quick wrist shot beat Osgood 
at 6:16. 
The Islanders dominated the 
second half of the period, and 
had several chances, but 
Scatchard was the only one to 
beat Vokoun, as his rebound 
shot from a sharp angle found 
an open net at 12:56. 
Scatchard had two of the three 
goals the Islanders scored in 
their first seven periods this sea­
son. 

Nashville made it 3-1 on a 3­on-5 short-handed goal 21 sec­onds into the second period. Skrastins moved the puck up to the Islanders' blue line, and using defenseman Kenny Jonsson as a screen, wristed a shot that cleanly beat Osgood to the glove side. 
"I didn't see it," Osgood said. "It was still a bad goal. I didn't give myself a good chance to stop it." 
Parrish answered back with a power-play goal at 7:07. He tipped in Mattias Timander's slap shot. 
Rangers 5, Maple Leafs 4 
The New York Rangers were struggling to find some offense -until Pavel Bure hit the ice. 
Bure had two goals and an assist in his season debut, help­ing the Rangers break out of a two-game scoring slump with a 5-4 victory Tuesday night over the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
New York was outscored 10-1 in two losses following a 4-1 vic­tory over Carolina on opening night. The Rangers went 143 minutes, 28 seconds without a goal. dating to Friday, until Matthew Barnaby scored on a breakaway at 12:24 of the sec­ond period. 
Bure didn't play in New York's season opener last Wednesday at Carolina because of the flu. He then missed the Rangers' 
PIZZA & STICKS -NO SALES TAX Large 1 Topping Pizza & Breadsticks 

Only $9.00! I 
Delivered to your Door! We Pay the Taxi 
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER OFFERS. EXPIRES 10/27/02."NO SALES TAX• OFFER GOOD WITH ABOVE PROMOTION ONLY. VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. WE WATCH COMPETITOR'S COUPONS. 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD
! OflCAOO 
(Next to Subway)
\ PIZZA COl'IMrfr 
271-1277
plrzadonerfglltf 

Islanders Mark Parrish looks to make a pss during the Islanders 4-3 victory against the 
Nashville Predators Tuesday night. 

has three points this season. 
"It's a funny game," Bure said. "Sometimes you can score lots of goals and sometimes you can go without it. If you ask me what's the difference, I don't know. Sometimes you shoot and it goes in." 
The Maple Leafs dropped their third straight following a 6-0 victory over Pittsburgh to start the season. 
The Rangers scored all their goals after top center Eric Lindros was ejected for board­ing in the second period. 
Bure helped set up Tom Poti's first goal of the season with 2:20 left in the period. New York made it 3-1 at 18:21 when Bure took a perfect pass from Barnaby at the bottom of the right circle and swept a shot into the net. 
Bure made it 4-2 with another power-play goal at 6:49 in the third, when he took a pass from Brian Leetch and scored a near­ly identical goal -putting the puck in while dropping to his left knee. 
.. I didn't do anything," Bure said. "I just hit a couple of shots that went in." 
first home game on Friday and a game at Pittsburgh -both loss­es -due to strep throat. 
"I don't remember when I was sick so much in my life. It was really bad," Bure said. "I couldn't even talk, I couldn't swallow, I couldn't turn my head. And then I had a really big fever as well. It wasn't good." 
Even if he felt up to it, Bure couldn't watch his teammates play without him on television because he hasn't been able to get his apartment wired for cable. 
He took his first shift 49 sec­onds in and helped the Rangers snap a 1 · 1 tie in the second period with an assist. Then he made it 3•l with a goal 41 sec­onds later. 
Bure had 12 goals and eight assists in 12 games for the Rangers last season after he was traded from Florida and already 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
SOCCER 

Manchester Keane fined $234,000, suspended 
Associated Press 

BOLTON. England 
Manchester United captain Roy Keane was suspended for five games and fined a record $234,000 Tuesday after he was found to have deliberately tried to injure a player in a 
that have been put forward in Roy's defense we are disap­pointed with the verdict," club lawyer and director Maurice Watkins said in a statement. "After such a long day, now is not the time to make quick decisions so we will be review­ing the question of appeal over the next few 
days." 

Premier The 31­
"Clearly after the 
League y ear -old
arguments that have 
game two Keane con­seasons ago. been put forward in Roy ·s tended his 
T h e comments
defense we are 
Football were embell­
disappointed with the 
Association ished by his determined verdict.·· ghostwriter. the Irish The charges midfielder stemmed from 
Maurice Watkins 
was guilty of Keane's two­
bringing the Manchester lawyer footed, knee­
game into disrepute for saying in his autobiography that he deliberately set out to injure Manchester City's Alfie Inge Haaland. 
The three-member FA disci­plinary committee decided that the tackle had been "improper­ly motivated." Keane has 14 days to appeal the ruling. 
Keane and Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson did not comment after the hearing. 
"Clearly after the arguments high challenge 
on Haaland on April 21, 2001. Haaland hasn't started a match since. 
In the autobiography. ghost­written by Irish journalist Eamon Dunphy, Keane states that he wanted to get back at Haaland for accusing him of feigning an injury three years earlier. 
Keane was dismissed from Ireland's team before the start of the World Cup after a dis­pute with coach Mick McCarthy. 

NFL 

Brackens calls it quits and opts for surgery 
"He has shown patience the ailing knee, and saw no and he wound up missing the and undergo surgery so the
Associated Press 

and perseverance, he has light at the end of the tunnel, final seven games of the sea­knee can heal," Coughlin played with pain, and he has either. son because said. JACKSONVILLE, Fla. tried to be the productive "It's day-to-day," Brackens of it. Brackens Tony Brackens decided to player that we know he is," said. "I can't really look Knowing of led the team
"It·s day-to-day. I can·t
end the charade Tuesday, Jaguars coach Tom Coughlin toward the end of the tunnel Nickerson 's in sacks the calling it quits on a season in said. "But instead of gaining when I'm waking up in the f a t e , really look toward the last three which his confidence morning and I'm just glad if I Brackens end ofthe tunnel when seasons. He injured knee in the knee, can get up." made the made the
I'm waking up in the 
kept him "He has shown patience he has been Brackens wasn't immedi­decision to Pro Bowl in from prac­losing confi­ately available for comment deal with the morning and rm just 1999.
and perserverance. he
ticing regu­dence." Tuesday. clean-up glad I can get up.·· His season
has played with pain. 
larly or Brackens Last January, Brackens had operation in ended the playing up to and he has tried to be the practiced an operation to remove scar­January. day after 
his stan­Tony Brackens 
once a week ring from the knee. play with the the Jaguars
productive player that 
dards. The and played He told doctors not to work remaining Jaguars defensive end placed right
we know he is.·· 
Jacksonville in about half on any further damage that damage this offensive Jaguars the plays might exist, so that he season, and tackle placed their Tom Coughlin this season. wouldn't miss this season in look into Maurice all-time sack He finished rehab. surgery once this season was Williams on injured reserve
Jaguars coach 
j 
leader on the season In November 2000, over. with a broken leg, meaning injured with 16 Brackens' former teammate, Coughlin said an MRI done the Jaguars lost two of their reserve, tackles, one Hardy Nickerson, had been Monday revealed worn carti­best linemen for the season allowing him to have surgery sack and one fumble recov­in a similar situation. lage in the knee that could in a span of 48 hours. on the ailing left knee that ery in five games. Last week, Doctors did more extensive no longer be ignored. The Jaguars signed offen­made him a shell of his for­the seventh-year veteran said surgery on Nickerson's knee "At this point, the prudent sive lineman Leander Jordan 
mer Pro Bowl self. he saw no improvement in than Nickerson requested, move is for Tony to go ahead to take Brackens' roster spot. 
I 
I 

®WEDNESDAY NIGHT WINGS@ 
NOTRE DAME MEN VS. MICHIGAN ST. tittf.,,M ,;,__ T0~,~1IGHT • 7 . PM If__ M.,, Iitf FREE HOT WINGS COURTESY OF Wl~GS ETC. !! 
® ® ® ® ® ® ® ® @ @ @ @ ® @ 
I. 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Injuries keep Hornets down in Magic win 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

Mike Miller had 20 points and 
Grant Hill 15 as the Orlando 
Magic defeated the injury 
depleted New Orleans Hornets 
103-90 Tuesday night in an 
exhibition game. 
Miller scored 10 points in the 
fourth quarter, including con­
secutive 3-pointers that put 
Orlando ahead 88-75 with 9:00 
remaining. 
New Orleans cut Orlando's 
lead to 88-79 but never got 
closer. 
New Orleans played without 
Courtney Alexander (inflamed 
hip), P.J. Brown (inflamed 
ankle), Elden Campbell (sore 
knee) and Baron Davis (back 
spasms). 
The Hornets shot 40.8 per­
cent from the field and were led 
by Jamaal Magloire with 17 
points. Stacey Augmon had 13 
and Jamal Mashburn added 12. 
The Magic got 12 points from Tracy McGrady and 10 from Pat Burke. Miller was 7-of-11 from the field, hitting 4-of-6 3­pointers. 
Orlando took a 59-47 lead at 
the half after connecting on 
51.1 percent of its shots. Miller led the way with 10 points. Magloire had 11 for New Orleans. 
Rookie Ryan Humphrey hit a jump shot at 11 :47 in the sec­ond quarter that put Orlando in the lead for good at 33-32. 
Raptors 93, Cavaliers 76 
Vince Carter scored 19 points, and Jelani McCoy added 18 as the Toronto Raptors beat the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
Alvin Williams added 10 for the Raptors (1-3). who outscored the Cavs 32-12 in the third quarter to turn a two­point deficit into a 7 4-56 lead. 
Ricky Davis led Cleveland with 13 points and Darius Miles had 12 _ all in the first half. Zydrunas Ilgauskas also scored 12 for the Cavs (0-3), the only team without a victory in the preseason. 
Carter made three great plays -two of them passes -in a 12-0 run that put the Raptors ahead 68-54 with 4:15 remain­ing in the third. 
He started the surge by bank­
ing in a layup over Ilgauskas 
and Davis after switching the 
ball from his right to left hand. 
Carter then threw a two­
handed pass over his head to 
Antonio Davis for a dunk and 
an alley-oop to Morris Peterson. 
Toronto made 13-of-20 shots 
in the third quarter. A 14-of-39 
performance in the first half 
put the Raptors behind 44-42. 
Miles, acquired from the Los 
Angeles Clippers in a July for 
Andre Miller, played well for a 
half. He had two dunks, showed 
quick moves in the low post and 
made a nice shuffie pass in the 
paint to Carlos Boozer for a 
dunk. 
He didn't do much of any­
thing after halftime, and the 
Cavs quickly fell behind by dou­
ble figures and couldn't recov­
er. 

Pistons 106, Mavericks 102 
Rookie Mehmet Okur led a 
balanced attack with 14 points 
and 10 rebounds as the Detroit 
Pistons overcame a 37-point 
performance by Dirk Nowitzki 
and beat the Dallas Mavericks. 
The Pistons (3-0) had six players in double figures, including Chucky Atkins with 16 points and Richard Hamilton with 15. 
Nick Van Exel added 14 points for Dallas (2-2), which played without head coach Don Nelson, who didn't make the trip because of back spasms. The Mavericks were missing players Michael Finley (knee), Popeye Jones (ankle) and Tariq Abdul-Wahad (knee). Donnie Nelson coached the team in his father's absence. 
Detroit led 7 4-71 after three quarters, but Corliss Williamson had six points in a 9-3 run that made it 85-78 with seven minutes left. 
Nowitzki hit consecutive 3­pointers to make it a one-point game with 6:14 left, and Van Exel added Dallas' third 3 in a row to put the Mavericks ahead. 
The teams traded the lead until a putback by Okur and two free throws by Williamson gave Detroit a 94-90 lead with 
2: 10 to go. After a Dallas 

turnover, Okur scored on 
another offensive rebound. 
Two 3s by Nowitzki brought 
Dallas within 103-100 and then 
a missed free throw by Detroit 
gave the Mavericks the ball 
with 11 seconds left. 
This time, Nowitzki shot an 
airball and Atkins put the game 
away from the free throw line. 
Nets 104, Celtics 92 
Richard Jefferson and Jason 
Kidd helped New Jersey open a 
21-point lead early in the third 
quarter, and the Nets used an 
inside advantage to beat the 
Boston Celtics. 
Jefferson and Lucious Harris 
has 14 points apiece, and Kidd 
and Rodney Rogers added 12 
each as the Nets (3-0) beat the 
Celtics (2-1) in their first meet­
ing since New Jersey took 
Boston in six games in the 
Eastern Conference finals. 
Paul Pierce had 21 points and 
eight rebounds for the Celtics, 
who struggled inside handling 
Dikembe Mutombo. He had 11 
rebounds in leading a 55-40 
advantage on the boards for 
New Jersey. 
The rebounding edge helped 
New Jersey enjoy a 20-1 advan­
tage in fast break points. 
Pierce didn't have much help. Bruno Sundov had most of his 15 points in garbage time and Antoine Walker had most of his 14 points in the second after the Nets took a big lead. 
The Celtics also sustained a 
couple of injuries. Center Tony 
Battie bruised his knee and for­
ward Vin Baker sprained an 
ankle in the third quarter. 
Neither returned, although the 
team said the injuries were not 
considered serious. 
What was obvious was that the Nets looked like they had improved underneath since the last season and the Celtics seemed to be looking for answers at the point guard spot and help on the boards. 
Rogers, who helped the Nets open the preseason with two wins by scoring late in those games, had six of his 12 points in a 13-4 second-quarter spurt that led New Jersey to a 52-41 halftime lead. 
Jefferson and Kidd took over in the third quarter, combining for 13 points in a 16-6 spurt that gave the Nets a 68-47 lead. 
There were seven technicals fouls in the game, six against Celtics. 
Wizards 87, Nuggets 82 
Jerry Stackhouse scored 29 points and the Washington Wizards scored the last six points of the game for a victory over the Denver Nuggets. 
Forward Kwame Brown 
added 15 points and 10 
rebounds for the Wizards (3-0). 
Michael Jordan has yet to play 
for Washington in the presea­
son as he rests his right knee. 
James Posey led the Nuggets 
(1-2) with 20 points. 
Denver took an 82-81 lead on 
Vincent Yarborough's 3-pointer 
with 1:52 to play but didn't 
score again. 
The Nuggets turned the ball 
over on each of their last three 
possessions, and the Wizards 
took the lead for good on two 
free throws by Stackhouse with 
55 seconds remaining. 
Tyronn Lue and Etan Thomas 
each added 11 points each for 
Washington, which shot 50.8 
percent from the field. 
Juwan Howard scored 11 
points for Denver and Kenny 
Satterfield and Chris Andersen 
each added 10 for the Nuggets. 
who shot 42.9 percent. 
Brown and Brendan Haywood 
each blocked three shots for the 
Wizards, who also played with­
out veterans Charles Oakley 
and Byron Russell. 
The Nuggets rested their 
starters in the fourth quarter. 
Timberwolves 127, Bulls 101 
Kevin Garnett was once 
where Tyson Chandler and 
Eddy Curry are now, and on 
Tuesday night he gave the 
Chicago Bulls' young forwards 
a few lessons. 
Garnett scored 27 points as 
the Minnesota Timberwolves 
beat the Chicago Bulls. 
Garnett, entering his eighth season, was guarded primarily by second-year forwards Chandler and Curry, who like Garnett came to the NBA directly from high school as unpolished works in progress. 
He took control of the game early, scoring 15 points in the first 15 minutes and finishing 12-of-l 5 from the field with nine assists and eight rebounds in 29 minutes. 
"I approach a preseason game like a regular season game," Garnett said. "You want to play hard. I don't see any­thing different between these games and the regular season." 
The Wolves, who were play­ing without three starters, used 14 players. All of them scored. Seven Minnesota players scored in double figures, as the Wolves improved to 3-0 in the presea­son. 
Troy Hudson added 15 points for the Wolves. Hudson, signed in the off-season as a backup for Terrell Brandon, is likely to start the season at point guard as Brandon continues to recov­
er from surgery to repair carti­
lage damage in his left leg. 
Hudson had scored 19 points 
in the team's last preseason• 
game, a 90-85 win over Miami. 
Timberwalves coach Flip 
Saunders likes the energy he 
brings to a young, athletic 
team. 
"I like what I've seen of 
Hudson so far," Saunders said. 
"He gets the ball up the court, 
and can get us into our offense 
quickly. He moves the ball 
well." 
The Wolves also got strong 
games off the bench from 
guards Randy Livingston and 
Kendall Gill, both of whom 
were also acquired in the off­
season. Livingston scored 13 
points and Gill scored 12 points. 
Livingston scored 11 of his 
points in the fourth quarter 
after sitting for much of the 
first three. 
Minnesota, which beat the 
Bulls by a franchise record 53 
points last November, put this 
one away early as well. The 
Wolves led by as many as 16 
points in the first half and 63­
51 at halftime. They extended 
the lead to 29 points with a 28­
11 run to start the third quar­
ter. 
"Our defense was terrible, 
especially in transition," Curry 
said. "We were a step slow." 
Jamal Crawford led the Bulls 
(1-3) with 20 points and Jay 
Williams added 18. 
Rockets 96, Spurs 93 
Cuttino Mobley scored 18 of his 22 points in the second half to lead the Houston Rockets to a 96-93 victory over the San Antonio Spurs in a preseason game Tuesday night. 
Kenny Thomas had 13 points, Terence Morris 12 and Glen Rice and Maurice Taylor 10 each for the Rockets (2-0). 
San Antonio (2-2) was led by Tony Parker with 15 points, fol­lowed by Tim Duncan with 14 and Stephen Jackson with 13. 
Houston led 62-61 with 5:37 left in the third period. Mobley then scored nine of Houston's next 16 points to boost the Rockets to a 78-69 advantage at the end of the quarter. 
A 3-point shot by Jackson cut the Houston lead to 91-89 with 
1:40 left, but a 3-point shot by Taylor and a basket by Mobley gave Houston a 96-91 edge with 1 :03 left and secured the victory. 
Houston took a 20-14 lead with 5:05 left in the first period after outscoring the Spurs 13-2. The Rockets led 30-24 going into the second quarter. 
TMt NOTRr. DA."'iC: Dt.PART~T or MUSIC PRtsr.NTS NOTRE DA/'\t ASSISTANT PROrt.SSOR or MUSK 
J<?MN 5tACKL<?W PIAN<? 
WEDNESDAY. OCTODER 1(,, 2QQ2 7:7:>9 Pf'\, ANNENt>ER<i AUDIT<?RIU!'\ TICKETS ($7:>-19): LAi?RTUNE 5?X OFFICE 
(574) b)l-&12o 

CALL (574) (:,~1-(,291 FOR /'\0 RI:'. 1Nf'OR/'\ATl0 N 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Gibson returns to Tigers to lead in a different way 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
Kirk Gibson returned to the Detroit Tigers on Tuesday, joining manager Alan Trammell's staff as a bench coach on the team he led to a World Series title. 
Gibson, who also helped the Los Angeles Dodgers win the World Series, signed a three­year deal with the team. 
"I think by bringing Gibby a b o a r d shows we 

mean busi­"I'm going to be new at ness and this, too, so I'm going to 
that we're 

want to hear what every­
serious 

about turn­body on the staffthinks. ing this I'm comfortable with 
around," 

these guys because I 
Trammell 

s a i d know they're workers ... Tuesday while trav­
Alan Trammell 
eling to 

Tigers manager
Lakeland, 
Fla., for organiza­tional meet­ings. 

The Tigers also have hired former Detroit catcher Lance Parrish as bullpen coach and retained Juan Samuel as a third base coach. Both signed two-year contracts. 
Last week, Trammell -also a former Tigers star ­became Detroit's fifth manag­er since Sparky Anderson's 17-season tenure ended in 1995. 
"We're trying to create a structure, and I believe we've done that with a staff that includes Gibby, Lance Parrish, Juan Samuel and (hitting coach) Bruce Fields," said Trammell, who still has to hire a pitching 
on

"Gibby has seen this up 
coach. five games. "We're close. so he knows what He also going to 
it's going to take to get it was the NL 
have a MVP that
back."
unique staff season. because In 1984, we're going Gibson hit
Alan Trammell 
to interact two home
Tigers manager 


and share input more than most staffs. 

''I'm going to be new at this, too, so I'm going to want to hear what everybody on the staff thinks. I'm comfortable with these guys because I know they're workers. 
"The situation is not per­fect, but with baby steps, we're headed in the right direction. I'm so excited." 
With veterans that didn't 
perform as well as expected and prospects rushed to the major leagues, the Tigers tied Tampa Bay for the worst mark in the majors with a 55­106 record. It was Detroit's ninth straight losing season. 
"Gibby has seen this up close, so he knows what it's going to take to get it back," Trammell said. "And really, we all know what it's going to take: a lot of hard work." 
Gibson, who was not avail­
able for com­m e n t Tuesday, was an analyst on Fox Sports Net's broad­casts of Tigers games for the past five seasons and a host on 
WXYT's 
radio's "The L o c k e r Room" show. 
Gibson spent 12 of 17 seasons in the major 

leagues with the Tigers from 1979-87 and 93-95. He batted .268 with 255 homers and 870 RBIs. 
The outfielder provided some memorable moments in the World Series. 
In 1988, with two outs in the bottom of the ninth, Gibson hit a two-run, pinch homer off Dennis Eckersley to give Los Angeles a 5-4 victory over Oakland in Game 1 of the World Series. Gibson, who did not start because of a strained left knee, limped around the bases as the Dodgers won one of the most dramatic games in Series his­tory and went in 
runs to lead 
Detroit to an 

8-4 victory and the World Series in five games over the San Diego Padres. 
The Pontiac, Mich., native was drafted by both the Detroit Tigers and the NFL's St. Louis Cardinals after a standout career as an out­fielder and wide receiver at Michigan State. He was inducted into the Michigan Sports Hall of Fame in 1999. 
OSCEOLA SELF STORAGE 
Winter Specials 
Cars, Boats, Motor Homes & Other Goods
J 
1 j 
'f 
Best Rate in Area... Call for Quote 
10 X 10, 10 X 20, 10 X 30, 10 X 40 
1344 Third Street Osceola, IN Call: 674-0998 Day 630-0278 Evenings 
Stand:ard Mixed Drinks 
All Ngld Long 
This place tocks!~ 
100 N. Center St (The 100 Center) Misha:waka-(574)269-7522 
MUST BE 21 WITH VALID ID! 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
White Sox drastically cut Thomas' s 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

The Chicago White Sox invoked a contract clause that drastically reduces Frank Thomas' salary, clearing the way for the two-time MVP to become a free agent. 
The White Sox sent Thomas a letter on Oct. 6 telling him they were invok­ing a "diminished skills" clause in his contract, a lawyer with knowledge of the talks said Tuesday on condition of anonymity. That clause would reduce his base pay to $250,000, and defer most of his nearly $10 million salary. 
Thomas' contract says he had seven days following the notification to choose whether to become a free agent, although the sides have discussed extending that deadline, possibly to the end of this week. 
A r n Tellem 
and Frank "/ expect to be back next ing career Bumstead, year, fully.,. highs with Thomas' 43 homers agents, and 143 
were not Frank Thomas 
RBIs. He immedi­first baseman also led the 
ately avail­able for comment. White Sox general manager Kenny Williams could not be reached. 
Thomas said last month he intends to stay with the White Sox, with whom he's spent his entire career. 
"I expect to be back next year, fully," he said after the last game of the season at Comiskey Park. 
Thomas' contract calls for him to be paid $9,927,000 in each of the next four sea­sons, including $3,827,000 deferred with interest. But because he didn't make the All-Star team and isn't
You Can Have It All! 
Free Checking 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
going to finish among the top 10 in MVP voting or win a Silver Slugger this season, the White Sox can cut his salary. 
They would then have to pay him only $250,000 plus $10,125,000 deferred over 10 years without interest. 
Thomas can choose to ter­minate the contract and become a free agent. If he does, he would then have 45 days to explore the mar­ket or return to the White Sox contract. 
The Chicago Tribune reported Tuesday that the White Sox intended to invoke the "djminished skills" clause. 
Thomas signed the con­tract Sept. 30, 1997, after winning the AL batting title. He'd hit at least 20 home runs with a .300 average and 100 walks, 100 runs and 100 RBIs for seven straight seasons. 
He was runner-up for the AL MVP in 2000 after hit­
ting .328 
and reach­
White Sox 
to the AL 

Central title. 
But he missed most of last season after tearing a tri­ceps and was batting just .239 before the All-Star break, the lowest average of his career. 
He was also the center of controversy just before the All-Star break when, unhappy about being benched, he skipped a pregame stretching session. 
But he picked up his game in the final month, and fin­ished the season with a .252 average, 28 home runs and 92 RBIs. 



DID YOU FORGET YOUR GIRLFRIEND'S BIRTHDAY BUT REMEMBER THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST GAME CARLYLE HOLIDAY STARTED? 
WORK FOR OBSERVER SPORTS. 
CALL KATIE, CHRIS OR JOE 
1-4543 

lln~IF·II 
Independent ot the Univ8f'Sity 
r 

page 20 



\ 
I 
t ! 
! ' 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
NFL 


left tackle spot. Although season before injuries to wasn't enough.
Associated Press 

he hasn't played in more both shoulders put him "We were never going HOUSTON than a year Boselli insists out for the season. He to put Tony on the field Tony Boselli expects to his career isn't over. was placed on injured {unless) he was totally play football again, it just "I'm confident I'll be reserve by the Jaguars healthy and able to play won't be this season. back out there," Boselli last Oct. 22. at a winning football 
The Houston Texans said. "Obviously it's not Boselli had been making level," Casserly said. "We placed Boselli on injured the timetable I wanted. If progress since joining the were never going to com­reserve Tuesday, giving I thought there was no Texans but he wasn't promise him just to get up hope that the five-time chance I•d play again, gaining· strength fast him on the field." Pro Bowl offensive tackle we'd quit and go a differ­enough to allow him to Team physical Dr. could recover enough ent direction but I'm con­compete. Walter Lowe thinks from three shoulder surg­fident I can play football "Once we hit Boselli has plenty of foot­eries in the past year to still and that's the direc­September, we're on a ball left in him. help the expansion team tion we're going in. clock," Casserly said. "We "I wouldn't go there. I this season. "They want me out have 1 7 weeks to play 16 don't even want to have 
The Texans thought there and I want to be out games. If you're objective that talk today," Lowe Roselli would be a corner­there. We just have to is to have him play this said. "I don't think any of stone for the offensive wait a little longer." season, at some point you us think it's fourth and line this season, blocking Boselli played in three have to accelerate certain 20. "I think Tony believes for rookie No. 1 draft pick games for the processes.'' he'll play again. I believe David Carr, at the crucial Jacksonville Jaguars last Boselli's strength simply he'll play again." 
IN BRIEF 

Mariners' Piniella may bench boss. That comes with a high hit, and he lay on the field for about leave Seattle for New York price tag. five minutes before being helped off Lou Piniella may not be out of Piniella fits that profile, managing the field. work very long. Cincinnati to the World Series Kennedy was flagged for a per­
After releasing Piniella from the championship in 1990 and Seattle sonal foul and tried to apologize to final year of his contract because to a record 116 victories in 2001. Chambers as he walked off the he wants to work closer to home, He also has New York roots, with field, but he was pushed back by 
the Seattle Mariners on Tuesday two terms as manager of the Miami's Randy McMichael. fielded calls from other teams inter­Yankees, a team he played with for Sources told ESPN .com that ested in talking with their ex-man­11 seasons. Denver coach Mike Shanahan tried 
ager. hard to keep the league from sus­
If he really wants a short com­Broncos' Kennedy sus­pending Kennedy, including show­mute from his Florida home, the pended for dangerous hit ing an NFL official a Broncos video­Tampa Bay job is open. However, Broncos strong safety Kenoy tape from an angle not captured on it's unlikely the budget-conscious Kennedy was suspended by the NFL the television cameras Sunday Devil Rays would be able to pay him for one game without pay Tuesday night. enough or be able to adequately for his helmet-to-helmet hit on The view, Broncos officials con­compensate the Mariners for allow­Miami receiver Chris Chambers. tended, allegedly showed that 
ing him to manage elsewhere. He will miss Denver's game next Kennedy was pushed by Denver 
The New York Mets, however, are Sunday at Kansas City, but will not cornerback Denard Walker as he another story. be fined. approached Chambers. The 
Although the team owes ex-man­Chambers got a concussion when Broncos argued that Kennedy's ini­ager Bobby Valentine $2.7 million he went up high for a pass from Jay tial target point was Chambers' for the final year of his contract, Fiedler and was hit in the face by chest and that the accidental con­owner Fred Wilpon wants a high­Kennedy in the second quarter of tact with Walker lowered the safe­profile individual with a back­Miami's 24-22 victory Sunday night. ty's head, thus precipitating the ground as a winner as the next Chambers' head twisted after the helmet-to-helmet collision. 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Holiday no longer cause for concern 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
For the first time in three weeks, Notre Dame quarter­back Carlyle Holiday's shoul­der isn't the cause for too much concern. Neither is his status as the starter. 
After passing for 145 yards against Pittsburgh Saturday, the junior signal caller is back as the unquestioned Irish starter. And his health is fine. 
"My shoulder is really fine," he said. 
Holiday played a more ten­tative run game Saturday, running less risk of get­his hands a little bit more. 
High ball 
The Irish will be playing high Saturday, high altitude that is. Air Force, situated high above sea level in Colorado Springs, may offer Notre Dame some added diffi­culty as the team adjusts to the mountain air. But the Irish coaching staff believes that their team is prepared. 
"I think you're in good phys­ical condition," Diedrick said. "I think if you hydrate really well, I think most of it is more mental-mind kind of thing." 
Willing-
ham is 

ting hit. He planning
"It's kind oflike one of 
recorded on using
those choke collars ­
only three the same carries for -you start something and player 
three yards. it grabs you back. ,. rotation 
Despite limit­that he has ing Holiday's used all options, the Bill Diedrick season and 
shoulder offensive coordinator is not plan­
injury may offer Holiday an opportunity to practice patience in the pocket. 
"I think in some ways it really does kind of help him." said offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick. "It's kind of like one of those choke collars -you start to do something and it grabs you back. I think in a way it's made him be a little bit more, not only patient. but I think also get the ball out of 
ning on 
making 

any adjust­ments based on the altitude. 
"As long as both teams have to play at the same level, I am okay," Willingham said. " ... I think we have been rotating our guys pretty much at all of our key positions, those positions especially that we feel like we have the abili­ty to rotate, and we'll contin­ue that." 
Battling back 
Although coaches say he's still learning, Arna.z Battle is becoming a weapon for the Irish. In Saturday's game against Pittsburgh, Battle had 10 receptions for 101 yards, just one reception short of the 11-reception total he had for the entire rest of the season heading into the game. 
"I think Arnaz Battle has done a great job of slowly learning the position," Willingham said. " ... In my estimation he's really just starting to learn the position ... so, participating and play­ing every week is allowing him to grow and learn the position better." 
In addition to growing each game, Battle has ha,g some successes that have boosted his confidence. The game­winning touchdown reception against Michigan State was the first in a string of success­ful performances. 
"I hope that every small and every large success that he had just allows him to grow immeasurably so we can get, hopefully, the kind of offen­sive play that we think could come out of our offense." Willingham said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Option 
continued from page 24 
rival Brigham Young University. 
"They basically run the option to perfection," Irish safety Glenn Earl said. "If you want to watch a training tape on how to run the option, watch what they're doing." 
One thing that can make a triple option offense deadly is the quar­terback who runs it. He needs to be smart, quick and calm on the field to read opposing defenses and exploit missed assignments for the big plays. 
Air Force has one of the best in Chance Harridge. The junior aver­ages 102.5 yards per game on 
20.4 carries and leads the nation in scoring with 15 touchdowns ­just one fewer than Notre Dame's team total. 
"When you see option teams 
Interhall 
continued from page 24 
times on the drive before scoring on a five-yard run. 
Keenan 20, O'Neill O 
Keenan picked up its first win of the season in convincing fashion, pounding O'Neill 20-0 behind a solid all-around effort. 
The win keeps the Knights' playoff chances alive for at least one more week. 
The difference in this week's game was improvement in Keenan's tackling ability, said captain Brent Morlok. 
"The key this week was our 
have success, it's usually because there's an assignment break­down," Mattison said. "That's what makes the wishbone such a good offense with a quarterback like Air Force has, because every one of the 11 guys has to play their technique, or he's going to find a crease and break it off for big yardage." 
If the Irish are to stop the option Saturday, they are going to need to limit Harridge. • 
"Their leading ball carrier is the quarterback, and he seems to want to carry the ball more than pitch it," Baer said. "I don't think you can defend everything in this. You've got to get off blocks, get off the ground and get after the ball, and that's basically how we're approaching this." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
tackling," Morlok said. "We tack­led a lot better than last week against Dillon. [Dillion] broke a lot of tackles, but that didn't happen this week." 
Backup quarterback Josh Gentine started in place of injured starter Patrick Downsey and had a good performance. He threw for a touchdown and also ran one into the end zone. · 
"[Gentine] only had two prac­tices," Morlok said. "He did really well and kept his cool." 
With the loss, O'Neill ended its season at 0-4. 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams.317@nd.edu and Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Ca1npus Mi11is Internship l11Cor111adon Night .f1All-ti~e. i11. c~~p1A.s "'\i-11.i.str h&t~ds-0-11. r;:~~~1As1 RC:rA, "4~.s.s ~11.d ""ore. JrDe.ve.lop 7to1Ar le.~de.rship .sJ(ill.s JtG-row spiYit1A~lllJ Campus Ministry Find out iCthe Campus Ministry Inter11sbip is Cor you... b-1-p""' T~esd~ Oetober 291 330 L, le.,.,~-11.-Pv1orse For 01ore inf'or111adon contact Darrell Paulsen: 1-5827; Paulsen.1@nd.edu  


page 22 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
,. 
;; 
~ 
It 
>'l 
;·! 
)~ 
l)''I ) \ 
!'· 
i 
.._
l 
'.)
;t 
I Ll . 
l . 
,1:· 
r \ 
I 
'" 
J 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish host Spartans in rare home game 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame's mens soccer team won't be on the road for another Big East game today. 
Instead the Irish will be playing at home against a team they haven't faced since 1993. The Irish, who have played four· of their last six games on the road, host the Spartans of Michigan 
playing at home is always an advan­tage." 
After being ranked as high as No. 5 in polls this season, Notre Dame hit hard times on the road in Big East play. Despite playing very solid against St. John's and Rutgers, Notre Dame could manage only a loss and a tie dur­ing that weekend. The next setback came against Pittsburgh in overtime. But the team regrouped and has won 
its last two games, 
both 1-0 victories. 
State in a non•confer­The Akron game
"It'll be nice to be home, 
ence match at 7 p.m. really helped the
and playing at home is 
at Alumni Field. Irish get back on the 
The game could be always an advantage.·· winning track,important for Notre Radcliffe said. Dame when the 
Justin Radcliffe "The Akron game
NCAA tournament 
started us off, and..
midfielder
begins. If the Irish don't get an automat• ic bid, they could still receive a regional invitation to the tournament by doing well against regional foes, including Michigan State. 
"This game is just as big because it's a regional game," senior co-captain Justin Radcliffe said. "There are only so many spots for the NCAA tourna­ment and a win could help us." 
The Irish also have the luxury of playing at home for the first time in weeks. Not having to travel is a nice change of pace for the team, Radcliffe said. 
"We really haven't been home since the beginning of the season," Radcliffe said. "So it'll be nice to be home, and the Boston College 
game was even big­
ger," Radcliffe said. " We were playing well but not getting the results we wanted. Against Boston College we played well and we deserved that win." 
Radcliffe also said the team will not change its game plan against the Spartans or any opponent the rest of the season. 
"I think we're at the point where we go out and we try not to change any­thing for our opponents," Radcliffe said. "If we do that, we think that we'll get the results we want." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles look to avenge early4-2 loss athome 
one assist this season, also believes
ByI.AUREN CORISTIN 
Byline Tide 

The Saint Mary's soccer team will seek revenge against conference rival Albion College today, after los­ing 4-2 earlier this season. 
Captain Lynn Taylor said the team should be confident and ready to play in front of a home crowd. 
"It will help playing this team at home this time," Taylor said. "It's easier to get excited playing at home with our fans there." 
The home game gives the team, who has not won since Sept. 28, a chance to get back on the winning 

track. 

Goalkeeper Maureen MacDonald said she is looking for­ward to playing Albion again. 
..It's our second time playing them," MacDonald. "We've learned a lot of lessons this year, and I think we 
..I think we 

the team is on its way back to win­ning. 
"We all realized we had our down­time," MaCavitt said. "We're ready to step it up now that we're playing teams for the second time. Our defense has definitely picked up, so I think at this point we just need to follow our shots. We're just as good as these other teams." 
The Belles have been led by sopho­more forward Jen Concannon, who has six goals and four assists this season. Concannon is the fourth leading scorer in the MIAA with 16 points. Wendy Irvin also has four goals for the Belles, while midfielder Katie Noble is sec­ond on the team in have what it assists and has 
added a goal.

takes [to win]. We just 
After facing

need to work together. .. Albion, the Belles 
have three confer­
ence matchups dur­

Maureen MacDonald 
ing fall break
goalkeeper 
against Alma, Olivet 

have what it takes [to win]. We just 
need to work together." Taylor agreed with her teammate. "We need to keep playing as a 
team and continue to work together as hard as we can," Taylor said. Sophomore forward Molly McCavitt, who has three goals and 
and Kalamazoo before ending their season on the road 

against Calvin and Hope The game against Albion is at Saint Mary's soccer field at 4 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coristin at cori0333@saintmarys.edu 

Thinking of The London Program For Fall 2003 or Spring 2004? 
You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 5:00pm, Friday, October 18, 2002 
Applications will be accepted until 5:00pm on Monday, October 28, 2002 
.. 


Wednesday, October 16, 2002 page 23 
The Observer . TODAY 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­
Address City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TlllS DAY: Tim Robbins, Angela Lansbury, Bob Weir, Lirxla D-.urell 
Happy Birthday: The more interxtion you have with others. the more confia:oce you will have in yourself. You will be sympathetic to others' needs and well-liked in your circle offrierm Your concern with the welfare ofotws will k';;ci yoo into organizations that offer ~Ip to causes you believe in. Your giving nature will be what leads to your happiness and prosN1tty lhis, yef. YA~ P.>~JTibers are 8, 27, 31, 33, 39, 45
~nnnK .o OL ,., 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Oppoounities fer partnerships are present. however. you must get every detail in writing. Donl make asswnptions or jwnp to cooclusions. If it's urrlear. ask qu;:stioos. ....,...... TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will gain ootice ifyou've been pursuing your goals. You may be disgruntled by the way situations are being harxlled in your personal life. Talk to your emotional partner about what is bothering you. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's a go<XI time for you to take a trip. Yoo can a;:complish the most if you tr.ivel f<I busiress purposes. Your aality to comnumicate your ick!as will help you get your point across and give you valuable connections. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a little more enexgy than usual. Take advantage of this and put it to good use. This is a wonderful time to express yourselfor improve yoor appear.ioce. *1rlrk* LEO (July 2.'-Aug. 22): Tread softly where your emotions are cm:emed. You can make or break your personal relationship today. Dont show your temper when d:aling with the boss. Someone at work hasn't been trustworthy, so be careful. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22}: Your high erergy will enable you to enlist the help of those in a position to back you. Don't be shy. Ask for the support you need You can make IIlOO::Y ifyou put your mind to it ~ LIBRA (Sept. 2J-Oct. 22): Otanges regarding your career direction will pay off handsom:ly. Don't be afrnid to take a chaoce. Consia:r investing some of your earnings.
*ri 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may experience setbacks due to additional responsiljlities with loved ores. It's time to make some serious changes in your finaocial situation. Implemm a rew course ofaction **--ktt SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can discuss your findings with your boss behind clllied wars. Don't be air.lid to lay your cards on the table. A change in position will be better than you thought tt CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your added disciplire will help you complete the impossible at work. Your employer will be impressed and you will be offered opportunities for more responsibility and earning potential. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tr.ivel for busiress pwposes will bring the highest rerums. Don't be too eager to dismiss sorreone who works Wider you. Make sure you hear all sid::s ofthe situation befoce making any cixisions. *"** PISCF.S (Feb. 19-March 20): You can deal with large institutions or government ageocies successfully today. Get the red tape and unwanted paperwork out of the way. It wiU be clear sailing and you can make good imgress. ~ 
Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive, caring and very in ture with everyOR: around you. Yoo will take a very wiusual ;iwro.dl to the way you solve (Xllblems. Yoo will be gui<hi by your irtclligeoce and intuition. 
Oieck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS YT They're found in 62 Worked on veins Broadway
1 Frightful women 38 Self-image 63 "Cast Away" 
5 Push setting
9 Greases the 39 Biblical verb 64 Let fly
wheels for, say 40 Old master's 65 Compote fruit 
14 Drain part work 66 Dele undoer 
15 In the past 41 Short stop? 67 Like some
16 Diaper, in 45 How the St. 
restaurantBritain Lawrence flows ordersthrough
17 Kind of jack Montreal: Abbr. 
18 Nurses' 
DOWN
responsibility 46 "Blue Moon" lyricist 1 URL starter 
19 Wood nymph 47 Gentle stroke 2 Pavarotti
20 Short story? 
performance
23 Honey 48 Car made in Spring Hill, 3 1982 Robin
24 "Gunsmoke" Tenn. Williams title star role50 Potpourri28 Partner 
containers 4 Accelerations 31 Rackets 
5 Tom turkey 51 Short change? 
33 -Mere­6 2000 N.B.A. 
57 African treeEglise scoring leadersnake(Normandy for the Lakers invasion town) 60 Beat badly Puullt by Eric Ber11n

7 Adapter letters. 
34 Short bread? 
61 Leprechauns' 29 Brand name 39 Least forgiving 54 Nabisco snack 
8 Inkstand's site 
36 Tit for land accompanying a 41 Clothes, slangily 55 Be a rat9 Sign checkerboard 42 Go on and on 56 Passionate
logo

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Hitter known as 
aboutThe Hammer 43 Like a tanager

30 Brunch staple 44 Canvas cover 57 Glove11 Operative 31 Finger or toe 
49 Brownish ~~partment
12 Clean Air Act 
32 On-screen 

..;;.,&.~_. enforcer: Abbr. 
image so Physics unit 58 Big serve 
13 Barrett of early 35 Fast 52 Writer Kingsley 59 1959 Kingston Pink Floyd 
approaching 53 Schooner part ,. Trio hit .......,.....,........... 21 of Jericho _________. 22 Possible drive-
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone thru site phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. 25 Heir cushion? Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 -888-7-ACAOSS. 
26 Suspended Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000animation past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).
27 Melees 
................ Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, __,___._..a 28 Stirrers nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KARCC 
j 
1 
rr 
C:2002 Tri>une MedMI Services, Inc. All Rights Resel\led. 
ESING 
j 

TAFOHM 
rIJ 
www.jumble.com
tSMUGLY I
J rJ [ J 
Ans: A 

"[ I I I I I I I I ]"
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: COVEY ACRID AUTHOR BROOCH Answer: What the judge gave the online shopping ser­vice -A COURT "ORDER" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 11 • To order, sand your name, addr..• and $5.45 and maka check payabla lo Tribuna Madi ¦ Servicoo ¦, P.0. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 6068(M330. 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WOAD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

THE BIROS FL-OCKED TO THE: CHURCH BECAUSE: IT WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

.: . 
' 
'I 
,I : 

Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

Breaking down the option 
No. 15 Air Force leads the nation in rushing with the triple option 
. '. . 

..... >~/~= 
,

/:''.,' '·. ..·. ·:: \·--x···.. ,;!,. f~ tbvnar,.jbok~off 
.. . . 

,_, -:,·-·,.-·-:·•···· .:·:··:· <::":::::::-.:,.'·::-;:\··· 
I!~ ji;;; ::,ii lij; > l
~,.•.•r,•··=·•;)\;··•)""'I!-....;.;,, 



., •• ,.. ,..••. ,./. .•.... ..::;;1ndJ;iothlook:to: 
··················...·......,.........·>•·•·•··•···•····· ·.,'.,,, ••911~········•··········· :-?:::::::::::::::::·:=::rrr::_\\:(/\r/( ~~(}(:))-·:· :· ::·:·-:-· · 
KATIE McKENNA/The Observer KATIE McKENNA/The Observer 
The Falcons average 339 yards per game with the option. The quarterback has To defend the triple option each defensive player has a single assignment. If three major reads to make on the play. one misses his assignment, the quarterback can break for a big play. 

be run against the first defense [Air Force] will do it, even -and linebackers coach Bob and so does Coach Simmons, and 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

·in practice. though we'll do our best job of Simmons, who spent 13 years in we definitely hope to tap into 
Sports Editor 

As football has changed in trying to reproduce what they the Big 12 with Oklahoma State what they know." recent years -and most teams do. But there's no way you can and Colorado, are the only two The Falcons present a special
Every time Notre Dame plays a have scrapped the triple option probably get the speed and the assistants with significant coach­threat to Notre Dame. They don't service academy, the question offense -defending those few confidence that they bring to it in ing experience against the triple just run the option -they run it comes up again: How will the holdovers that do still run it can practice." option attack. to perfection. Irish stop the option? be a difficult situation for defen­Notre Dame's almost entirely "The last time we played an Air Force leads the nation in 
In the late '80s and early '90s, sive coaches. revamped coaching staff under option team like this was a while rushing this year, averaging this wasn't as much of an issue. "I think it's been well-noted Willingham is not one with great ago -about 10 years ago against 339.2 yards a game. The 15th­The Irish coaches consistently over time that this is a very diffi­option experience, coming out of Oregon State," Irish defensive ranked Falcons have scored 40.2 faced teams that ran the option cult offense to prepare for," Irish Stanford and the Pac-10 coordinator Kent Baer said. "It's points a game on their way to a and ran it well. Notre Dame itself head coach Tyrone Willingham Conference. a whole different ball game 6-0 record this season, including ran the option, and the scout said. "You don't get the opportu­Defensive line coach Greg going in this. You-really have to last week's 52-9 drubbing of team could present a good sem­nity to really simulate the block­Mattison -the lone holdover limit what you do. Gregblance of how the system was to ing schemes in the manner that from the Bob Davie coaching era [Mattison] knows a lot about it, 
see OPTION/page 21 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Zahm grabs playoff spot with 16-7 win 
... 

down pass by backup quarter­game with more than 100 yards pass-rush offense, and it was Steve Keppel said. "The defense, 
By JOE HETTLER and 

back Dan Burke. receiving. good that we were able to shut especially the guys up front and
TREY WILLIAMS 

Against Sorin, Burke looked "I went out there and I knew them down." the line, played great." 
Associate Sports Editor and Sports Writer 

more comfortable. He was work­that the offense had been strug­Keough captain Andy Hess ing with a much warmer arm gling a lot," Russell said. "I had acknowledged that his team
Alumni 8, Keough 0

Zahm achieved a double victo­and his accuracy was sharper. to make some big plays and struggled offensively. ry in its final regular-season "The offense actually got to Burke got me the ball. We just Alumni had only one success­"It was pretty close the whole game Sunday against Sorin. The work with [Burke] in practice wanted it more, and that game ful offensive drive Sunday game," Hess said. "Our offense
against Keough. 

16-7 win gave Zahm a spot in last week," said sophomore line­was a major turnaround for us." didn't get going until late. Our 
the playoffs. Fortunately for the Dawgs, it
backer Eric Tarnowski. "He felt In addition to Zahm's defense played well. Besides the 
The Zahmbies (3-1) were was all they needed to win.
a little bit more comfortable in revamped offense, the team had one touchdown, they shut them again without starting quarter• his position and was able to exe­the power of its stacked defense Tailback Alex Roodhouse led down." back Mitch Knapke, who was cute a lot more." to support it. Linemen Mitch Lles the Dawgs on a successful drive Roodhouse led the Alumni 
injured in the Oct. 6 game versus Practice made perfect as and Tarnowski limited the Sorin to a first quarter touchdown and offense on its lone touchdown St. Edward's. the Alumni defense did the rest,
Burke completed a number of offense to seven points. drive. The tailback broke off. 
Zahm was just able to squeak key passes, including two touch­"The defense had a new expe­as they beat the Kangaroos 8-0. runs of 10 and 15 yards several out a victory in that game, with down passes to wide receiver rience," said Tarnowski. "It was "Our defense played strong the the difference being a late touch-Mike Russell. Russell ended the our first time against a strong whole game," Alumni captain see INTERHALL/page 21 
MENS SOCCER 
Michigan State at Notre Dame 
Today, 7 p.m. 
The Irish will return to Alumni Field for a rare home game against non-conference rival Michigan State. 
SMC SOCCER Albion at Saint Mary's 
Today, 4 p.m. 
The Belles will be looking to avenge a close 4-2 loss earlier this season as they face off against the Bulldogs. 
page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Holiday no longer a concern 
Irish signal caller Carlyle Holiday is healthy and, for the the first time in three weeks, there are no questions about who will start for the Irish on Saturday. 
page 21 





