
VOL. XXXVII NO. 60 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
PSA makes headway on union neutrality statement 
December with Executive tive. By agreeing to the card­PSA shifted its focus from Ooverstcpping our bounds as
+Group will talk to 
Vice President Father check system, Notre Dame the University's de facto students."administration Timothy Scully to discuss the would effectively bypass the employees abroad to campus The PSA believes that and reassert its issue. regular employees. PSA co-President University employees are 
PSA mem­1 e g a I Brigette Gynther said the a fr a i d to s p e a k u p a bout
position on unions "What we're working for 
bers say unioniza­idea to advocate University wanting to unionize for fear they're is for the University to tion proce-employees' right to unionize of losing their jobs or being
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
demanding dure of came to the subjected to
agree not to fire them if
News Writer 
not only that having a group through intimidation
they decide to unionize."
t h e secret bal­students who tactics by
"For them to be treated 
When the Progressive University lot vote had interac­t h e
fairly. they have to be at
Student Alliance petitioned remain neu­a m o n g tion with University.
Kate Maleh 
the Notre Dame administra­tral if work­affected campus the bargaining table The PSA
PSA member
tion last year to issue a ers decide to employees employees in wan ts to
and as soon as the 
statement of neutrality on organize, but after a suf­their on-cam­facilitate
workers realize that for 
the issue or the right of also that it ficient pus jobs. the means University employees to voluntarily recognize a sys­interest is shown by employ­"It came to them to have a voice for campus unionize, the administration tem of card checks for col­ees who sign union autho­our attention and be heard. they have employees declined. saying it supported lective bargaining. rization cards. from workers. to unionize,
to organize. " 
tho right of If the sys-PSA has organized cam­Different peo­but not workers lo tem were paigns on a number of ple have had force union­organize. estab­issues, including adding sex­different jobs Paul Graham ization
"J don't think we're 
This year lished, ual orientation to du Lac's on campus itself.
PSA member
the PSA has overstepping our bounds once a non-discrimination clause, and gotten "It's really reasserted as students." majority of raising awareness about ideas from up to cam­its position University sweatshops and petitioning people they pus work­on the issue employees Notre Dame to join the worked with in the dining ers, not the PSA, not the 
and is Brigette Gynther 
signed Worker's Right Coalition. hall and other places ... [The University. What we're preparing PSA co-president u n i o n Most recently, the group has campus employees] didn't working for is for the for round authoriza-campaigned for a living explicitly come out and say, University to agree not to two with the tion cards, wage for migrant farm work­'Oh, we want to form a fire them if they do decide to administration in their cam­the University would recog­ers. union,' but they were just unionize ... We'd really like paign. The group is sched­nize the union as the exclu­After Notre Dame joined having problems," Gynther uled to meet in early sive bargaining representa-the WRC in March 2001, the said. "So I don't think we're see PSA/page 4 
Speaker links race -with environtnental and health risks 
and technology as ways of con­
. Claims that 
trolling nature. She also illus­minorities face trated how other pieces ideal­unequal public ized depictions of natural 
wildlife and indigenous people,
health treatment 
glorifying man's. power and 
control over nature. By JOE TROMBELLO "It is not too difficult to see News Wrircr how we got into a problem of 
environmental injustice; we Kristin Shrader-Frechette, idealize what humans do to 
O'Neill Family professor of phi­people on it [the land] and losophy and concurrent profes­[what we do] to the land itself," sor in biological sciences, spoke she said. 
Monday in the Snite Museum of After discussing examples of Art about the 
activists in ways in which L a t i n 
"The poor deserve equal America and
ethnic minori­ties face the opportunity regarding Africa who brunt of pub­were killed
financial treatment." 
for their attempts to 

lic health and 
environmen­tal risks Kristin Shrader-Frechette prevent 
because they philosophy professor large corpo­lack the 
rations such understand-
as Shell Oil ing or the from pollut­
resources necessary to fight ing their environments and against the threats. harming their citizens, "The poor deserve equal Shrader-Frechette discussed 
opportunity regarding financial how similar issues of environ­mental injustice exist within the
treatment; they also deserve equal opportunity In public United States. a poor black community in health and environmental risks Snite Museum, which uses the
"Many people know about
health treatment," Shrader­Louisiana to environmental and that ethnic minorities face. lecture series to advance the 
Frechette said. environmental injustice, but 
health hazards. "It is not idea that scholarly thinking can you don't [always] realize that
The author of more than 300 "You don't our charity take place outside the class­
articles and 14 books. Shrader­some of these threats happen in "It is not our charity to 
need to be bril­to stop room. Frechette said that more than the U.S.," she said. liant to see stop environmental injus­environ­Each Snite lecture takes place
She discussed some case
60 pc rce n t of blacks and 50 these problems mental in the art gallery most relevant
tice. It is our duty ... " 
percent of Ilispanics in America studies that she and her stu­(in environmen­injustice," to the lecture topic's time peri­live near at least one uncon­dents have worked on, analyz­tal impact state­she said. od. Shrader-Frechette spoke in
ing environmental impact state­
trolled toxic dump. She also ments], you just Kristin Shrader-Frechette "It is our the 20th century gallery and 
said that 80 percent of minori­ments published by companies need to care,'' philosophy professor d u t y included her analysis of paint­ties live in an area that is "fla­seeking to build hazardous sites she said. because ings from this and other time granlly hazardous" to their and pointing out faulty scientif­Shrader­we are periods.
ic reasoning and ethical con­
health. Frechette con-complicit 
Shrader-Frechette began her cerns. Shrader-Frechette and 
cluded the lecture by explain­in their [ethnic minorities'] 
talk by discussing a few works her students were successful in ing why every person, especial­harm." 
of art in the Snite whose artists preventing a large multination­ly non-minorities, should be Her lecture was the 11th Contact Joe Trombello at
al corporation from subjecting
falsely romanticized science concerned about the public annual talk presented in the jtrombel@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, November 19, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Forecast: Cloudy, cold 
In case you haven't been glued to the Weather Channel like I have recently, here's a little weather update for you: 
Forecast for today: Cloudy and cold. 
Forecast for 

tomorrow: Cloudy Bryan Kronk 
and cold. 
Forecast for the 
next day: Cloudy 

Senior Sports 
and cold. 

Writer
You get the idea. Freshmen, wel­come to "South Bend winter." 

It doesn't take much in the way of meteorological skill to predict the weather here in South Bend. 
One look outside your window, and you too can get a job at WNDU telling people that it will be cloudy and cold -with an occasional chance of rain, snow, sleet, freezing rain, locusts or a rational Notre Dame administration -from now until March. 
I figure I might as well get you used to the grayness that you've been noticing in the skies for the past few days. I think I should also get you all used to the two words that will domi­nate your winter vocabulary: lake effect. 
Yes, this is another meteorological trend that requires little meteorologi­cal assistance to predict. If it's cold and windy. you can bet about a foot of lake-effect snow is on its way. 
Recent winters have proven me wrong, but it's not exactly brain surgery to figure out that, sooner or later, it's going to snow. 
And snow or no snow, it's going to be cloudy and cold anyway. 
To my friends from the South: Welcome to the North. Hope you brought a parka. 
For those who haven't experienced it, the effect known as "South Bend winter" can be quite startling. 
Snow plows and salt trucks replace alarm clocks and video games as your biggest hurdles to attending class. 
One can literally spend entire months having not seen the sun. People actually pay $6 for a cup of coffee at Starbucks. The lakes on Notre Dame's campus deep-freeze in an icy shade of brown. The snow-covered campus still smells like ethanol. All of this will last for four months. At least. 
Did you ever notice all of the pro­motional material you got before you signed on to go to school here? Did you ever see any snow in any of those photos? 
I didn't think so. 

Snow is a South Bend phenomenon that is to be avoided at all costs. Sure, it might look good on a Currier & Ives cookie tin, but in reality (or at least along Lake Michigan). once it starts snowing it just does not stop. 
Underneath this neat little column of mine, our good friends at The Observer have attempted to bring you a fairly optimistic-looking weather forecast. 
Don't buy it. You know better. 
Just look out your window. 
Cloudy and cold, right? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer reg.mis itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact llli at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS 
NEWS 

Student group The Parietals Question addresses CLC 
Members of The Parietals Question speak to CLC about the group, its open discussion last week and its aims for the Notre Dame campus and dormi­
tory life. 

page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
Weapons inspectors call for Iraqi cooperation 
After arriving in Iraq Monday, the 
U.N. team of 30 inspectors called for the compliance of Saddam Hussein's govern­ment in the search for weapons of mass destruction. 
page 5 

WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Amatriciana mush­room marinara, sausage pineapple pizza, pretzel sticks, meatloaf, scal­loped corn casserole, petite carrots in honey-orange sauce, cherry cobbler, grilled tilapia, potatoes with spinach, broccoli spears, oatmeal, sausage pat­ties, fried potato triangles, home-style chicken sandwich, steakhouse fries, chicken fajita, lone star rice 
Today's Dinner: Sausage pineapple pizza, pretzel sticks, sauerbraten, zum zum potato salad, peas & pearl onions, cherry cobbler, baked lemon perch, ice valencienne, curried vegetables, grilled vegetable plate 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
I.LI 
:c 
ti 
I.LI 
3 
..J 
c( 
(.) 



0 

HIGH 51 HIGH
...J 

LOW 39 LOW 
51 39 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Kmart Corp. corrects report that more than 500 stores are closing 
CEO says the num­ber reported in the Atlanta Business Chronicle is "erro­neous" and the company will close as few stores as 
possible. 

page 7 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Spaghettini put­tanesca, southwestern pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine, Hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, cheese & vegetable pie, winter-blend vegetables, beef chop suey, cajun-baked pollack, roast top round, baked sweet potatoes, long grain & wild rice, ham & cheese on white, steakhouse fries, soft pretzel, chicken tempura, California Eldorado casserole 
Today's Dinner: Spaghettini put­tanesca, Southwestern pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine, Hawaiian pizza, potato pancakes, hot chunky apple­sauce, stuffed green peppers 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
SCENE SPORTS 
Scene reviews 
Final tune-up for Saturday's 
womens John Mayer 
basketball concert 
against OGBM 

A Scene reviewer The Irish prepare to reports on and ana­play in an exhibi­lyzes the prep-rock tion game between 
performance by 
womens basketballJohn Mayer, who and the Ohio Girls
performed Basketball
Saturday at the University of 
Magazine All-Stars. Illinois in Chicago. 
page 12-13 page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student taken to hospital 
for laceration 
A student was transported Friday by NDSP to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a laceration. 
Speeding citation issued 
NDSP issued a state citation Friday on Juniper Road for exceeding the posted speed limit. 
Police respond to two-car 
accident 
NDSP responded to a two-car accident Friday on State Road 
933. There were no injuries reported. 
Police stop individuals 
selling P,ictures without 
perm1ss10n 
NDSP apprehended two visitors Saturday selling framed pictures. They were identilied, issued non­contractual interest forms and released. 
Complied from the NDSP crime blotter. 
. Lecture with Jorge Bustamante, "What's Left of a Bilateral Agreement on Mexican Immigration One Year af'tor September 11 ?" 
12:30 p.m. at Boom C-103, llcsburgh Center 
. 
Storytimc, crafts and activities with kay Londergan, featuring "Epossmondas," by Colleen Salley. 1 p.m. in the children's section, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

. 
Lecture with Mark Siegler, M.D., "The Science and Politics of Cloning: What a DifTerence a Year Makes" 4 p.m. at the McKcnna Hall Auditorium 

. 
Lecture and book discussion with Ed Moloney. "Forum: The IRA and the Irish Peace Process." 


4:30 p.m. at the llesburgh Center Auditorium 
. 
"The Tin Drum" (Germany), International Film Series 7 and 9 p.m. in Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center 

. 
"Homero," Film Series, Looking In, Looking Out Film Theme: Latino and Latin American Perspectives. La Iglesia: Martyrs and Miracles 7 p.m. in Hesburgh Center Auditorium, followed by discussion 

. 
Lecture with Hob Frederick, "The Corporate Citizenship Efforts at Ford Motor Company." 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
VIEWPOINT 
Letter charges United States must preserve global morality 
Freshman Mike Koprowski pre­sents arguments supporting Bush's stance that the U.S. has a moral respon­sibility to conquer another "evil empire." 
page 10 

Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Seafood creole soup, cream of mushroom soup, beef & ched­dar loafer sandwich, cheese pizza, vegan grilled vegetable pizza, fried rice, hot open-faced turkey sandwich, country-style whipped fresh potatoes, grilled carrots, chickpea & walnut empanada, zesty bean burger. balsam­ic roasted vegetables, bow tie pasta, marinara sauce, caesar salad, zucchini pasta salad, sugar cookie, butterscotch brownies, orange sherbet gelatin, taco salad 
Today's Dinner: menu not available 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 39 HIGH LOW 34 LOW 

Atlanta 58 / 42 Boston 44 / 41 Chicago 53 / 40 Denver 55 I 36 Houston 69 / 44 Los Angeles 86 / 55 Minneapolis 46 / 33 New York 48 / 41 Philadelphia 51 / 38 Phoenix 80 / 57 Seattle 58 / 47 St. Louis 57 / 40 Tampa 75 / 59 Washington 53 / 40 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Alumna reflects on Chocola campaign 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
One of the biggest lessons Erin Casey learned from her cxporience with the Chris Chocola's congressional run, she said, is to keep your eye on the prize. 
"It always helps to have the national spotlight on your race, Lut I had to focus on the dis­trict, on the people my candi­date would be serving," said Casey, a 2002 Saint Mary's graduate and finance director of Chocola's winning campaign for Indiana's 2nd Congressional scat. 
"It was a very highly contest• cd race. It was very important to people all over the country, but I found that this made it important to see what the end goal was -to get Chris elected. In high-pressure situations, it is important to keep your eyes on the end goal," Casey said. 
Casey began working on the Republican congressman-elect's campaign in late February, 
minor in public relations. Casey began working with the finance committee, contacting current donors, looking for potential donors and organizing fund­raisers for Chocola's campaign. 
During her time as the finance manager, House Majority Leader Dick Armey, Speaker of the House Dennis Hasterl. Vice President Dick Cheney and President Bush have come to the area to lend their support to Chocola's cam­paign. Casey assisted with Cheney's visit and arranged all aspects of the dinner plans for 1200 guests during Bush's September visit to South Bend. 
"Having the vice president and president come were very large-scale events that took a lot of time to organize. There are so many things that have to be done for those types of vis­its," Casey said. 
Casey had worked on other campaigns prior to Chocola's, prior to graduation and has taking a semester off from continued her duties since the school in fall 2000 to work on Nov. 5 win. While finishing her Republican David McIntosh's degree in political science and unsuccessful bid for Indiana 
governor and working as a finance intern in 1998 for GOP candidate Sue Anne Gilroy's losing run for Indianapolis mayor. 
Casey said she finds cam­paigns thrilling and they keep her interested year after year. 
"There is always an excite­ment to campaigns. You believe that your candidate is going to help the people the most," she said. 
Casey will remain in South Bend throughout the next year or two to finish her work with the Chocola administration. She is originally from Indianapolis but she hopes to gain experi­ence outside the state. 
"Long term I see myself stay­ing political. working on differ­ent races around the country and moving onward and upward," Casey said. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill 407@saintmarys.edu 



CLC addresses The Parietals Question 
By MICHAEL CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
Two representatives from The Parietals Question spoke to the Campus Life Council Monday about last week's parietals discussion and the future goals of The Parietals Question. 
Andrea Barton, a sopho­more from Walsh Hall, and Maggie Novario, a sopho­more from Howard Hall, informed council members about the new group's aims and the results of Wednesday's parietals talk. 
Another open meeting about how The Parietals Question should move for• ward is planned for before the end of the semester, Barton and Novario said. The group also plans to con­duct a campus-wide survey on parietals. 

"Our ultimate goal is to have a coed option, which is what most Catholic uni­versities have," Novario said. 
Several members of the CLC warned the two sophomores not to fall into the trap of discussing the same worn issues of previ­ous parietals-questioning movements. Other mem­bers pointed out that pre• vention of pre-marital sex was falsely listed as a rea• son for parietals on the posters advertising last week's talk. 
"The purpose of pari­etals is to return tho com­munity to a community after certain hours, not to prevent pre-marital sex. If you get your premise right, you will have more support across the student body," said Heather Rakoczy, rector of Pangborn Hall. 
In other CLC news: 
The Communication Task Force unveiled a pre­liminary version of its new Web site. The Web site is being created so that stu­dents and administrators can post campus events in order to increase event attendance, reduce over­crowding on building walls and improve overall com­munication among stu­dents. 
Council members dis­cussed potential names for the Web site, as well as the possibility of a giant screen in LaFortunc Student Center displaying the calendar-formatted Web site. 
Contact Michael Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 

..~"' 
Sportswear
largest selectioµ at 
Sminute~.A 
from CUT'i=ICS'T Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
Ifyou are ready for something different... rbodos is waiting for you! 
Legendary beaches and 
fantastic nightlife makes 
Spring Break in Barbados 
unforgettablt 


>Mt1i.MiwJ1iWMal 'iov.. \\evev 1Miss ell\\y¼-hi\\Bi why ste,ivt \\ow? 
SPEAKERPHONE 
Ne,ctel's J-iBit.,..l w.,..l\:.ie+c,1.l\:.i.e .Pe"'tv..ve
WIRELESS WEB ACCESS 
AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER"' senrice lets yov.. ~e¼-viBht ¼-hvov..~h wH·h ¼-he pl.\st,,. TWO·WAY MESSAGING 
o.P "'-bv..H-o\\. Th"'t 1Me0\\\S \\O 1Mi.sseJ-CO\lls,
JAVA'" GAMES & APPLICATIONS 
v..\\ckec\c.eJ-vaice IA-\&'\il ov pka\\e r&'\j.
DIGITAL CELLULAR 
'Ct:11.l.\Se who he,is +i.1Me .Pov c,1,\l th.,..¼-whe\\ 
yo1>. Ce'\\\1t eve\\ J-eciJ-e wht:11.¼-¼-o wet:11.v? 
Now yo1A.1ve vet:11.J-y-Bvi\\B It. 
~ow's c,\ ,Yec:,1,t H\A'\e +-o Bet Ne,ct-el: 
""n Notve \)ti1.1Me st-.....J.e\\ts ,e+­""10¾*&\i.scot.\w\-0\\ 4'\\\Y V4'\t-e
l'10c 

pl"'-\\ ,i:l\\\d< $100.., c,.,P.P "'-\\Y pl-.o\\e. ,oJ..,,.y t\.\e J.iBit-.,,.1 w"'lkie+.,,.lkie 
10\:il.\y:
wo.-\::s ove... se.ve...,,.I hi,.\o\J..-e..A l'\tle.s. AM.J. 1-oll"IOYYOw, """Ho,..wlJ.e. # 8" to \\e;,c¼-el.coiM/ivisk-st1>.c\.e\\t. 
# C4'1.1l tol\-Pvee 1-8'77-S-OG-2.,z.,. 
• CO\\t4'1.ci-JDI--\ Co~l,A,\V..\\\Cei'\tiO\\S 
01.t s-74-2.4'3-,8' 18'





NEXTEL 
, :::;;::~:;::::;;;iii:/:;i:i::!:r; i:::::: 
............·< ·=•:r;~;;;;~;1f;1: 
{??\{ 
:!)~::;:i:!i! 

:s:a~ 


The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, November 19, 2002 
potential union organizers among campus employees.
PSA 

Graham said the PSA continued from page 1 would not give up on the ------------cause if turned down. He to get he workers to the said that the group would bargaining table; that's organize protests and con­our goal," PSA member tinue to push the issue as Kate Maich said. other workers' rights 
But the PSA said it hopes activist groups had on it won't be going into its other college campuses. Dec. 3 meeting alone. The "It doesn't have to be group is currently working inevitable -it's up to [the with Siegfried Senator workers]." Graham said. Rick Harris and "But for them to be treat­Cavanaugh Senator Katie ed fairly, they have to be Boyle to introduce a at the bargaining table Senate resolution urging and as soon as the work­the administration to ers realize that for them to accept the group's letter. have a voice and be heard, 
PSA member senior Paul they have to organize." Graham said the group would have the support of many of the University's employees themselves. He Contact C. Spencer Beggs at said the PSA had identified beggs.3@nd.edu 
Explosions rock US army base 
Associated Pre•• 
TOKYO 
Two explosions resounded late Monday outside the headquarters for the U.S. Army Japan, and a metal projectile and a crude mor­tar made from a metal pipe was found near the site, U.S. 
military  officials  and  
Japanese  police  said  
Tuesday.  

Police refused to comment on whether leftist extremists -who have used similar launchers in the past ­might have been responsible. 
No one was hurt by the blasts late Monday night, and there were no reports of damage. 
In Washington, Maj. Timothy Blair, a Pentagon spokesman, said an explo­sion had been reported about 800 feet from Camp Zama, the headquarters for the U.S. Army in Japan and the 9th Theater Support Command. 
Japanese police spokesman Narihito Sasaki said two explosions, believed to have been the sound of the mortar firing, were heard in a wood­ed area in the park just out­side the camp, which is just south of Tokyo. 
Sasaki said the launcher was found in the park and there were burn marks near­by. indicating it had been used. He said the pipe was pointed toward Camp Zama and was 21 inches in length and two inches in diameter. 
He refused to comment further. 
Police later found a round, metal projectile nearly a half mile away from the launcher on the balcony of a private home. A few roof tiles on the home were broken, but no one was injured, said anoth­er police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. He refused to say how close to the base the home was. 
No projectiles were found in the base. 
Japanese newspapers reported that the launcher was made of a single metal pipe held in place by sand­bags and propped up by three legs. 
Army spokesman Capt. Benjamin Kuykendall added that because the blast occurred off base, the inquiry was being handled by Japanese authorities. He said that it wasn't immediately clear that the attack was directed against the base. 

Japanese police spokesman Narihito Sasaki confirmed that two suspicious men had been seen near the blast site, but denied that they had been arrested and said he had no further details on them. 
Pentagon officials said the 
U.S. Pacific Command in Hawaii, which is responsible for U.S. forces in Japan, said there were no reports of injuries at Camp Zama. 
Leftist radicals in Japan are known for using similar projectile launchers in attacks on targets related to the U.S. military here. The attacks are usually more symbolic than dangerous, and injures or significant damage are rare. 
There are 2,000 U.S. troops stationed at the base, which is located about 25 miles southwest of Tokyo. About 50,000 American mili­tary personnel are stationed in Japan under a mutual security pact. 
Camp Zama public affairs officials said "appropriate force protection measures" were being taken. 

BOG stresses open relations between students and faculty 
By SHANNON NELLIGA_!'l 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred met Monday night with the Board of Governance to create an open line of communication between the administration and students. 
Eldred expressed concern about the importance of relations between the two factions. Open communication between students and administrators is essential to deciding policies that affect every­one on campus, she said. 
"The things I miss most that I do not receive with this job is regular contact with the studcnl.5," Eldred said. "I try my best to increase contacts between students and the administration. I encourage the resident advisers, in the beginning of the year, to invite me to hall events.'' 
Katie Best, off-campus commis­sioner, illustrated the need for a link between the students and administration when it comes to choosing new faculty. She said students desire professors who have a diverse background and encouraged Eldred to take this idea into consideration. 
"We need a diverse faculty that will be a permanent fixture on campus," Best said. 
Eldred agreed with this senti­ment and explained that we are competing with larger universities who are also pushing for greater diversity. These universities are often located in larger cities that provide a greater outlet for cre­ativity and activity. 
"We often have difficulty draw­ing the younger and more diverse professors to the College because they are more attracted to the large college and city setting," Eldred said. 
Kristen Matha, student trustee, inquired about the impact of the Center for Women's lntercultural Leadership [CWIL] on promoting diversity in faculty. 
She believes that this is an excellent resource for the college to tap into when attempting to draw diverse professors to cam­pus. 
Eldred said CWIL is responsible for the increased diversity among the faculty. It has brought in nine fellows that reflect various ethnic and national backgrounds. 
"It [CWIL] is a good presence on campus," Eldred said. "Beyond bringing new faculty fellows to campus, it has made bringing speakers like Mary Robinson to campus more affordable," she said. 
Although students do not regu­larly think of communicating and interacting with women outside the college community, Eldred said CWIL allows for an open rela­tionship between the students and dynamic women in the communi­ty. It is these types of programs that will fulfill the students' needs when it comes to diversifying their educations, she said. 
Eldred also said that the Lilly Endowment, the program that funds CWIL, has set up a donation matching program for the college. This fund-raiser will hopefully be finishing up at the end of this semester for the Board of Trustees, but she hopes that BOG will be able to help with this endeavor into the spring semester. 
"It demonstrates a strong com­mitment and belief in the college when students participate in their own fundraising," said Kim Jensen, student body president. "Every little bit helps," she said. 
In other BOG news: 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, stu­dent body vice-president announced a new proposal for the upcoming elections. She said most major elections will come under BOG. 
New procedures were proposed to evade confusion in the event that a tie occurs in an election. This new look at the constitution is a result of the tie that occured in the spring 2000 presidential elec­tions. 
Jablonski-Diehl said that in the event of a tic this year. the election will be decided by an appeals board composed of five seniors. This procedure allows for the stu­dent government to move towards a system that promotes a confi­dential judicial branch. 
"This is the best decision we could make when considering all the other options," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
After some debate and an expressed concern over the legiti­macy of this type of election sys­tem, BOG passed the new election procedure to go into effect for a trial basis for the next election. 
The executive board decided that BOG will no longer fund senior comprehensives. 
"It [funding for senior compre­hensives] does not fit into what the board considers to be co-sponsor­ship," Jensen said. 
According to Matha, this is merely a reinterpretation of the comprehensive funding policy by the new administration that will set a precedent for future funding of projects. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 


LAFAYETTE SQUARE
T O W N H O M E ~S 
We have what yon nredin off-campus living! I.otsofapartments available for 2003-04! 
·4 & 5 Private Bedroom Apts -SPLIT 
the rent! ·3 Floors Tall/Patio Area ·Central Air/Cable Hook-Up ·Stove, Fridge, Dishwasher 
•Washer/Dryer 
in EACH Unit 

•
6 Blocks from Campus ·ADT Security Systems ·24-Hour Maintenance 


CALL TODAY FOR APERSONAL WALK-THROUGH! 
574-234-9223 
TCLARK@CBRESB.COM 
"BEST VALUE PER STUDENT" -ONLY $281 PER STUDENT FOR A S BEDROOM PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. 


WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.N. inspectors call for cooperation in Baghdad 
Anociucd Press 
BAGIIDAD 
U.N. arms inspectors returned to Iraq after a four-year hiatus Monday, calling on President Saddam Hussein's government to cooperate with their search for woupons of mass destruction in the interest of peace. But Washington said it already sees likely violations. 
Chief U.N. inspector Ilans Blix and about 30 inspectors flew into the Iraqi capital aboard a white cargo plane emblazoned with the black letters "ll.N." as allied warplanes bombed Iraqi air defense svslems in the northern no-fly· zone. The U.S. military said the jel'i were fired on during routine patrols. 
!\t the White Ilouse, spokesman Scott McClellan said Monday the Iraqi anti-aircraft lire "appears to be a violation" of the U.N. resolution that sent the inspectors back to Iraq. 
It was unclear whether other countries on the Security Council would consider inci­dents in the no-lly zone serious enough to merit a response, because the council never explicitly authorized the patrols. Iraq considers such patrols a violation of ils sovereignty and frequently shoots at them. Defense Secretary Donald H. Humsfeld, traveling in Chile, said the United States is waiting for a paltcrn of Iraqi misdeeds before going back to the council. 
The return of the inspectors is widely seen as Saddam's last chance to avoid a devastating war with the United States. President Bush has warned Saddam that failure to cooper­ate with the inspectors will bring on an American attack and that Washington will pur­sue a policy of "zero tolerance" toward Iraqi infractions. 
Saddam's deputy, lzzat Ibrahim, told the official Iraqi News Agency that Iraq will work with inspectors to protect its people from America but will light "if war is imposed on us." 
Eventually more than 220 inspectors from 49 countries will be deployed, although how many al any one time would vary depending on what is required. At least 30 inspectors are American, the largest nationality represented, and at least live are women. At least six of the group are Arabs, and Mohamed ElBaradie, who over­sees the International Atomic Energy Agency, is Egyptian. 
E!Baradei and Blix, a Swede, sat down Monday night for a first official meeting with Gen. Hossam Mohammed Amin, who acted as an Iraqi liaison for past inspectors, and Iraqi presiden­tial adviser Amir al-Saadi. 
After the two-hour meeting, 

Chief UN weapons inspector Hans Blix (center), Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency Mohamed Elbaradei (left) and Iraqi official Hosam Mohammed Amin (right) arrive Monday in Baghdad. Their team has unprecedented authority to disarm Iraq as a result of a UN resolution. 
EIBaradei said the two sides he said. such as presidential palaces, had begun to discuss arrange­But the long history of con­mosques and military bases ­ments for the inspections and frontation between the Iraqis cast doubt on how smoothly the would continue Tuesday. "I and previous U.N. inspectors -two sides will be able to cooper­think we are making progress," especially over sensitive sites ate this time. 
Bin Laden tape promises new attacks, deemed authentic 
Associated l'rcss 
WASHINGTON 
The new audiotape of Osama bin Laden is an authentic, unedited and recent recording of the al-Qaida leader, U.S. intelligence officials said 
Monday after completing a  technical  
and linguistic analysis.  
The  CIA  and  National  Security  

Agency, which conducted the study, concluded the tape is what it seems: bin Laden himself, reading a statement that promises new terrorism against the United States. 
"It is clear that the tape was made in the Ia.st several weeks as well," said White House spokesman Scott McClellan. 
It was the first definitive evidence in almost a year that bin Laden survived . the U.S.-led war on his home of Afghanistan in the months after Sept. 11, 2001. 
While noting that "it cannot be stated with 100 percent certainty," McClellan told reporters that intelligence experts were sure that bin Laden had spoken. 
"It's a reminder that we need to con­tinue doing everything we can to go after these terrorist networks and their leaders wherever they are, and we will," McClellan said. 
The audio message gives little clue to bin Laden's location or his health, intelligence officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Some have wondered if he used audio, instead of video, to conceal injuries, sickness or a change in appearance. 
Officials believe he is probably hiding in a remote mountainous region along the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan. There have been rumors that bin Laden was wounded or suffered some kind of kidney ailment. 
Officials are unsure why bin Laden chose now to speak. Perhaps he has recovered from an injury, or at last feels secure enough in his location to put out a message to his followers. He also refers to the ongoing U.S.-Iraqi conflict, and may have spoken in antic­ipation of a coming war. 
Previous public statements from bin Laden have served as preludes to ter­rorist attacks he masterminded, offi­cials said, and the broadcast of the message was a determining factor in a spite of terror alerts in the United States and elsewhere last week. 

"It is time we get even. You will be killed just as you kill," bin Laden said, after accusing the United States and its allies of a litany of wrongs. 
Officials also worry the tape could inspire his followers to strike, even without orders from the al-Qaida hier­archy. 
In the message, bin Laden apparently refers to the killing of a U.S. diplomat in Amman, Jordan, on Oct. 28, which is the most recent event he noted. It is unknown if al-Qai.da orchestrated the killing. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Blasts reported near U.S. Japan base: 
Two explosions were reported late Monday outside a 
U.S. military base near Tokyo, and a projectile launcher was found near the site. U.S. military officials and Japanese police said Tuesday. Police suspected it was an attack and that leftist radicals may have been involved, according to Japan's Kyodo news service. No injuries or damage were reported, Kyodo said. 
Police end Spainish school hostage crises: 
A teenager with a knife took his sister and 19 other children hostage at his former school and held them for hours Monday until a plainclothes officer overpowered him while delivering a pizza, ollicials said. None of the students was hurt in the 3 1/2 -hour ordeal at the Casal de !'Angel school in this gritty, industrial town just south of Barcelona. All the hostagos were 11 or 12 years old. Interior Minister Angel Acebes, speaking in the central city of Guadalajara, confirmed the arrest and said the hostage-taker was a former student of the school who was expelled last year. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Court blocks Afgan detainee lawsuit: 
A federal appeals court Monday rejected a challenge to the detention of 600 or so Afghan war prisoners at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Ba5e, ruling that a group of clergy members and professors have no legal standing to intervene. The Coalition of Clergy., Lawyers and Professors sued on behalf of the prison­ers, many of whom have been held at the U.S. base in Cuba for about a year. The lawsuit alleged they have been denied access to lawyers and have been held without being charged, in violation of the Constitution. 
Ala. Judge loses Commandments case: 
A federal judge ruled Monday that a Ten Commandments monument installed in Alabama's judicial building by the state's chief justice must be removed because it violates the separation of church and state. U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson said he does not believe all Ten Commandment displays in government buildings are illegal, but this one crosses the line. 
Co-pilot's plunge apparently suicide: 
A man who plunged 9,000 feet from a small plane as it made a steep bank had apparently jumped, authorities said Monday. Russell Filler, 47, the plane's co-pilot. turned the controls of the single­engine Cessna 152 over to his flight instructor Sunday afternoon. then asked him to turn the plane sharply so he could get a better look at the ground. Waller County Sheriff Handy Smith said. Smith said Filler then opened the cockpit door and unfastened his seat belt as the plane flew over a rural area aboui 45 miles northwest of Houston. 
Poll: many think Iraq will not comply: 
Three-fourths in a new poll say they don't expect Iraq to cooperate with U.N. inspectors,. a develop­ment that would increase public support for U.S. military action. The ABC News poll out Monday said nearly two-thirds, 64 percent, would support U.S. forces taking military action to oust Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein. 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002
page6 The Observer . NEWS 

Listeria risk prompts Write for Observer News. meat plant scrutiny Call Helena at 1-5323 
"One can never be sure, but~------­
Associ:1.ted Pr= 
WASHINGTON 
The Agriculture Department.warned meat companies Monday that it will increase testing of plants for listeria unless they do it themselves and share the results with the government, 
The department told its food safety inspectors to start conduct­ing the tests 
Dec, 9 at "What inspectors will 
the directive
plants that 
do is this intensified is one step
have not done 
toward pre­
testing ­
such inspec­
venting lis•
tions, environmental testing 
teria from
Inspectors 
-in those plants that sickening
will target 
people.
do not do their own
plants that 
"It's good
process meats environmental testing 
that the
considered at 
or that don't share plants are
high or medi­
testing,"
their data with us."
um risk of 
s a i d
becoming poi­
Caroline
soned with 
Elsa Morano 
S m i t h
listeria, such 
undersecretary for DeWaal,
as deli meat 
food safety director of
and hot dogs, said Elsa Murano, the department's undersecretary for food safe­ty. 
Processors are required to test their products for the bacterium, but not their plants and equipment. Some plants do their own environ­mental tests, but they haven't had to show the results to the government. 
"What inspectors will do is thii:; intensified testing ­environmental testing -in those plants that do not do their own environmental testing or that don't share their data with us," Murano said, 
The directive was issued in response to an outbreak of listeriosis in the Northeast that sickened 52 people, 
·killing seven, The diseas·e can cause flu-like symptoms, including nausea and diar­rhea. It is especially danger­ous for pregnant women, young children, the elderly and people with weak immune systems. 
A month ago, investigators found identical strains of the listeria that caused the out­break in a floor drain 

"/ think consumers have taint meat in
at the 
plants before
Wampler paid a horrible price for 
Foods plant i n Franconia, Pa., and in a sample of deli meat from a J,L, Foods plant in New Jersey. 
The investigation prompted Wampler Foods to recall more than 27 million pounds of ready-to-eat chicken and turkey meat. and J.L. Foods recalled 200,000 pounds of 
it certainly would have helped us to have that infor­mation and be able to per­haps ascertain that maybe there's a potential problem there," Murano said, 
Murano said the depart­ment will continue to use results from listeria testing of plants and equipment to order recalls if they find con­taminated meat. 
Consumer 
groups said 
food safety 
for the Center for Science in the Public Interest. "But it's not enough if they don't share the results and take proper corrective action," 
Although the directive is meant to encourage proces­sors to start environmental testing programs, some com­panies may not find it worth­while because the depart­ment already conducts such tests, said Jenny Scott, senior director of food safety for the National Food Processors Association, 
"Some will say, 'I'll take my chances with the agency's testing,"' Scott said, 
Smith DeWaal said the Agriculture Department could require processors to test plant environments for listeria by finalizing a rule drafted during the Clinton administration. 
She said the agency has delayed the rule for too long. 
"I think consumers have paid a horrible price for the delay," Smith DeWaal said, 
Murano said the depart­ment must finish studying 
ways that lis­
teria can 
approving the
the delay." 
regulation. 
The study 
will be fin­
Caroline Smith DeWaal 
ished by
director of food safety 
December 
2003, she 
said. 
"It is taking so long to finish because the department wants a listeria testing rule that will be effec­tive, not one that amounts to window-dressing," Murano said. 
pou ltry me at. Both plan ts iiiiiiiiiii•--•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii• 
reopened last week after the government gave them clean bills of health. 
Had the directive been in place before the investiga­tion, the government might have traced the outbreak much sooner than it did, Murano said. 
Wampler Foods did not share the results of its envi­ronmental tests with inspec­tors, forcing them to rely on 
· product tests, 

An American Paradox: Justice and the Practice of the Death Penalty 
Thursday, November 21
Thursday, November 21 

7:00-9:30 pm. Carrol Auditorium, Universitv.of 
4:00 pm, Hesburgh Center 

Auditorium, Madeleva Notre Dame 
Hall, St. Mary's College ( first campus bid~. on right of 
(enter campus by main entrance, follow signs to
Notre dame· Ave., going nonh) 
Madclcva)
Lecture: Sheila Murphy, 

Lecture: Sheila Murphy,
Retired Presiding Judge of 

n American Paradox: 
the Sixth Municipal District 

ustice and the Death
Circuit Court of Cook 
Penalty Today
County An American Paradox: A First Hand 

Panel Discussion-8:00pm 
Moderaror: Mike Collins, New, Anchor, WSBT Televisi.on, Ch. 22 
ccount ofJustice on Death 
Row. 

Judge Jerome f.r«e, St. Jo«ph «>unty Superior 
Court 
.______________. 

Professor Paolo Carozza. Associate Professor, University of Notre Dame Law School Mr, Paolo Mancinelli, Sant' Egidio Community Ms. Charlotte D. Pfeifer, Director of Student and Community Relations, IUSB Mr. John Maciejczyk, Chief Deputy Prosecutor, St. Joseph County 

Friday; November 22 
12:00-1 :30pm, 
Center for Social Concerns, University of Notre Dame 
Open discussion: The death penalty and the work of the Sant'Egidio Community 
Sheila Murphy Paolo Mancinelli, Sant'Egidio Community Darrin Belousek, Assistant Professor, Goshen College 
Sponsored by the Sant' 
Egidio Community and the 
.loan It Kroc lnstituc for 
International IH'acc 
Studies 

Sheila Murphy is an avid and outspoken opponent of the death penalty. She is retired Presiding Judge of the Sixth Municipal District Clrcut Court of Cook County, and is now council to the Chicago law firm of Rothschild, Barry 8e Myers. As ajudge, she ordered crucial DNA testing for Verneal Jimerson, lea.d· ing to the exoneration of him and the other members of the "Ford Heights Four" from death row, and giving wide publicity to the problem of false convictions on death row in Illinoise. She ha.s also established children's rooms in courthouses, drug treatment courts, and a courthouse school for at risk defendants, 

Tuesday, November 19, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 18 
DowJones 
8,486.57 • -92.52 
NASDAQ 
l ,393.69 
-17.45 
S&P500 
900.36 -9.47
•
.M:1FX" 
820.95 
+2.55 
NYSE 
478.28 -4.06
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
y,,QRLDCOM INC (v.COEQ) +37.44 +0.07 0.2~ 
CCKAST ··c~~tSS!~~l::il~~!r.i:li1ll\i~illlilir1~[j;i!t
AT&T COMCAST-WI (COMCV) +0. 28 +0. 07 25. SC 
1
W\SDAQ-100 i~~ (~~l;1!!!~:1:~1ilii!l:!!:l;;il!1il!~!1!1
: 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1. 21 -0 .17 13. 9: 
IN BRIEF 
Delta changing retirement plans 
Delta Air Lines announced Monday a change in its employees' retirement plans as part of an effort to reduce rising pension costs. 
Delta said the change, which will affect all new employees after June 30, will reduce expenses by about $500 million over the next live years. 
If successful, the change would help the nation's third largest carrier at a time when its pensions are severely underfunded. In 2003, Della will have to spend up to $250 mil­lion in cash and take charges of up to $300 million to deal with the problem, according to Salomon Smith Barney airline analyst Brian Harris. 
The change, which will apply to all U.S. employees excluding pilots, will be from a tra­ditional defined benefit plan to a cash-balance plan. 
United stocks up on cost reductions 
Intensifying its push to avoid bankruptcy, United Airlines closed in Monday on a tenta­tive wage-cutting agreement with its 36,000 machinists -the key missing element in its plan to slash labor costs by $5.8 billion over 5 1/2 years. 
The carrier's pilots also contributed timely support for United's campaign for a federal loan guarantee, announcing they had ratified the recent agreement on their $2.2 billion portion of that austerity package. 
It confirmed their willingness to take 18 percent pay cuts lo try to revive the struggling airline. 
The flurry of new developments -most notably Sunday's restructuring plan envision­ing 9,000 more job cuts, 9 percent fewer flights and $2 billion less in capital spending -renewed investors' flagging hopes that United can dodge bankruptcy. 
Shares in parent UAL Corp. climbed 55 cents. or 19 percent, to close at $3.50 on the ~PW York o;;111r1-'. r.'yrh-,..,.,,.. 



Kmart CEO: Fewer stores closing 
. Report of over 500 closures 'erroneous' 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
Kmart Corp. may have to close more stores as part of its restructuring under bankruptcy pro­tection but the number will be nowhere near the 500-plus stores that were rumored to be on tho block, Kmart's chief executive said Monday. 
Kmart Chairman and CEO James B. Adamson called "erroneous" a recent report in the Atlanta Business Chronicle saying the dis­count retailer would close 567 stores. 
"We haven't deter­mined how many stores, where they're going to be located," Adamson said. " ... We're going to close as few stores as possible and we're going to give stores a chance to get fixed." 
"There may be store closings and they may be on that list and they may not be on that list," he said. But he said the list 
Getty Photo 

is "out of touch" with 
Kmart CEO James Adamson stands In front of a Kmart store June 25 in Detroit during 
reality. 
the launch of the new Joe Boxer line of merchandise. Adamson says that the number
Adamson said a deci­
of store closings will be much less than was recently reported. 
sion on store closings was expected in early January. of this holiday selling be difficult for retailers Adamson addressed 
Additional store clos­season in determining as a whole. the Detroit Economic ings need to be made Kmart's future viability. The Troy, Mich.-based Club on Monday, where while under bankruptcy But Adamson decried retailer is to report he discussed some of the protection because it negative reports that October sales and third changes Kmart is under­allows Kmart to get out Kmart won't be around quarter earnings later going as part of its effort of unprofitable leases, he in a year. saying there is this week. Kmart will to emerge from bank­said. a need for three large show a slight improve­ruptcy. 
Individual store perfor­discounters. Wal-Mart ment in October sales Adamson said Kmart is mance in November and Stores Inc. and Target over the past few giving local store man­December will factor Corp. are its main com­months. though it will be agers more control in into the decision, he petitors. a nearly 5 percent choosing merchandise as said. "It's going to be decline over last year, the chain tries to become 
Kmart closed 283 around in some way, Adamson said. more of a neighborhood stores earlier this year. some shape, some form," Kmart saw a decline of retailer, tailored to spe­It filed for Chapter 11 he said. 6.9 percent in September cific customer needs. bankruptcy protection He said the company same-store sales. In trading on the New Jan. 22, following a has a chance to be neu­"We're continuing to York Stock Exchange, stock dive and disap­tral to positive for show customers coming Kmart shares closed pointing holiday sales. December sales, even back, continuing to show Monday at 59 cents 
Retail analysts have though the holiday sell­improvement," Adamson each, unchanged from stressed the importance ing season is expected to said. Friday. 

Ice cream makers shrink 'brick' 
package in March. During the transi­ery trucks, made the switch in late 
Associated Pres.s 
tion, the new and old cartons can be 2001. 
EGG HARBOR TOWNSHIP. N.J. found side-by-side. Same shape and "When costs trend up, you have a 
The half-gallon ice cream container design -and price. But one has two choice to make: Do you raise the unit -I.he sweet standard of grocery store quarts, the other 1 3/4 quarts. price or do you reduce the unit?" said freezers for decades -is quietly start­Asked about the move. Drcyer's cites John Nabholz. spokesman for 
ing to shrink. a $30 million jump last year in the cost Schwan's Sales Enterprises, based in 
While manufacturers over the years of butter fat and other ingredients. Marshall, Minn. "You can't lose money reduced the package size of everything Dreyers is one of the biggest manufac­on a product and stay in business." from candy bars to dish detergent, the turers, with annual sales of $1.4 bil­Other major ice cream makers are traditional ice cream "brick" remained lion. sticking with the half gallon for now. 
what it was -the half-gallon. "We have over 100 flavors and many About three quarters of all ice cream is 
Now. pinched by rising costs of of them -because people are prefer­sold by the half gallon, according to the ingredients and afraid to raise prices ring indulgent, chunky flavors -cost International Ice Cream Association. already above $5, at least two ice more to produce than regular flavors Good Ilumor-Breyer's, which boost­cream makers arc silently phasing out like vanilla." said spokeswoman Dori ed its half-gallon price by 30 cents in 
the half-gallon and replacing it with a Bailey. mid-2001 because of rising cosl'i, has 1.75-quart carton. a half-pint smaller. "We'd like to keep the cost at a price no plans to shrink its packages. Others are considering doing the same. that's more affordable for folks," she "ff we can avoid passing it on to the 
Dreyer's, which is based in Oakland, said. consumer, that's what we'll do," said Calif.. and sells the Dreyer's and Edy's Schwan's, which sells retail primarily spokeswoman Lisa Piasecki. "So far. hr'ln,lc hn<11m intrnrlucim! the smaller via a 7,000-vehicle fleet of home deliv-we have." 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002

page8 The Observer . NEWS 
Judge orders removal of monum~nt 
ing such interesting logic." justice in 2000, he waged a battle 
Associated Prc.ss Moore installed the monument in state and federal court to keep 
after hours on a summer night in a homemade plaque of the Ten 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 2001 without telling other jus• Commandments posted in his 
A federal judge ruled Monday tices. He did tell a Florida televi-Gadsden courtroom. that a Ten Commandments monu­sion evangelist, who filmed the During the campaign, he adver­ment installed in Alabama's judi­installation and tised himself as cial building by the state's chief offers videotapes "Alabama's Ten 
ofit for $l9. "But religion should be in Commandments
justice must be removed because it violates the separation of The chief jus• the synagogue, the judge" and 
church and state. tice testified that temple, or the church and promised to 
U.S. District Judge Myron he installed the not in the lobby· ol'the bring the plaque
Thompson said he does not monument partly 'J with him to the believe all Ten Commandment because of con-state judicial building." Supreme Court displays in government buildings cern the country building in are illegal, but this one crosses has suffered a Montgomery. 
the line. moral decline 5tephen Glassroth Instead, the "Its sloping top and the reli­over the past 40 lawyer building ended gious air of the tablets unequivo­or 50 years as a up with a monu­cally call to mind an open Bible result of federal ment featuring resting on a podium," Thompson court rulings. including those the King James Bible version of said. against prayer in public schools. the Ten Commandments on top of 
The judge said Chief Justice Roy Critics said the monument pro-a granite block in the rotunda. Moore has 30 days to remove the rooted the judge's conservative One of the plaintiffs. lawyer 5.300-pound monument at his Christian views in violation of the Stephen Glassroth, said he knew own expense. Constitution. he was taking an unpqpular stand 
Moore had no immediate com­"Justice Moore was trying to when he sued over the monu­ment, but his attorney, Stephen force his religious beliefs on the ment. Melchior, said the chief justice people of Alabama. He turned the "In Alabama, a politician never would appeal the ruling and ask hall of justice into a religious goes wrong by cloaking himself' in that the monu-sanctuary where God. But religion should be in the ment remain people drop to synagogue, the temple, or the
"Its sloping top and the
while the court their knees and church and not in the lobby of the
religious air ofthe
battle is pend­pray," said Morris state judicial building," Glassroth ing. tablets unequivocally call Dees, co-founder said. "The judge of the Southern One of Moore's supporters,
to mind an open Bible 
uses the term Poverty Law Alabama Christian Coalition pres-religion 97 resting on a podium." Center. which ident John Giles, said Monday's times in the joined in a lawsuit ruling "seriously erodes our reli­opinion and the to remove the gious freedoms."
Myron Thompson
term religious monument. Dean Young, executive director
U.S. district judge
50 times. but Moore. a West of the Gadsden-based Christian goes on to talk Point graduate Family Association, called the about how it's and Vietnam vet-· ruling a case of "a liberal federal dangerous to define the term reli­eran, opposes abortion and judge standing up .and saying we gion," Melchior said. "I can't homosexuality as sins. can't acknowledge God in our imal"!inP. t.hP. a.nm~ll::it.P. r.rrnrt hnv-Beforn hP. won election as chiP.f r.011rtrnomc;; " 
SPAIN 


Spanish school standoff ends 
Associated Press 
IIOSPITALET DE LLOBREGAT. Spain 

A teenager with a knife took his sister and 19 other children hostage at his former school and held them for hours Monday until a plainclothes officer overpow­ered him while delivering a pizza, officials said. 
None of the students was hurt in the 3 1/2-hour ordeal at the Casal de l'Angel school in this gritty. industrial town just south of Barcelona. All the hostages were 11 or 12 years old. 
Interior Minister Angel Acebes, speaking in the cen­tral city of Guadalajara. confinned the arrest and said the host.age-taker was a former student of the school who was expelled last year. 
Government officials said he was 16 or 17 and had demanded a $1 million ransom. He said he acted because his family needed money, the officials said. 
The Interior Ministry, disputing initial accounts. said there were 20 hostages altogether and that 16 were released about two hours into the ordeal. It was not immediately known if the boy's sister was among the 16 hostages he had freed. 
While the youth held the last four. police a"ked if he was hungry. and he asked for pizza. the Interior Ministry said. A plainclothes policeman came back with a pizza and overpowered the youth when he opened the door, a ministry official said. 
As a car left the schoolyard. apparently taking the assailant to a police station, a crowd swarmed around it and many people screamed insults. 
One unidentified boy who was evacuated from the school before hostages were released said teachers rushed to his and other classrooms and took students out of the building through the cafeteria. 
"They told us some man had slipped into the school," the boy told Spanish national radio. 
A teacher who identified herself only as Nuria said the hostage-taker rang the doorbell at the school as if he were a parent there to pick up a student. 
"Go to Sleep!" 
Pay attention to this article! You have a chance to win an $80 gift certificate to an area sporting goods store or a trip to a spa for a day of p a mp er i n g c o u rt e s y of UBWe112@ND. 
Now that we have your attention, there is an important topic to discuss. 
It's 2am, and you are finally sitting down to study for a theology exam at 8:00 the same morning. You figure you have six quality hours. Armed with a bottle of Mountain Dew, three unread textbooks and the determination to pull an all-nighter, you head for the study lounge. But you are missing one crucial element. 
Sleep. 
The average college student lacks an adequate amount of sleep. Faced with papers, exams, deadlines, parties, and Must See TV, sleep is often sacrificed because students view it as unproductive. 
Nothing could be farther from the truth. As a main component of a healthy life-style, sleep drastically affects daytime performance -both the quantity and the quality of sleep. 
A sleeping person goes through 4 to 5 cycles of Rapid Eye Movement and non-REM sleep a night. 
Non-REM sleep physically restores the body. Metabolism drops as much as 20% in an effort to conserve the energy needed to repair daily wear and tear. Growth hormone secretion peaks cturmg later stages or NREM sleep. 
REM sleep restores the mental functions of attention span, mood maintenance, self-confidence, and emotional adaptations to new environments. During REM sleep, the mind permits the closure of incomplete perceptions and memories by incorporating them into dream-fragments. 
While the sleep processes are important, a large concern for the harried college student is what happens when the mind and body do not get adequate sleep. 
About 100 Americans, or roughly 40% of the country, do not get adequate amounts of sleep. More than 50,000 traffic accidents occur annually due to mental fatigue. Lack of sleep leads to decreased attention, concentration, motivation, and memory function. A sleep-deprived person may experience increased appetite or eating during the following day and a decrease in body temperature. 
After a few weeks in which a person averages less than five of sleep a night, motor and mental performances begin to erode. Without adequate sleep, the mind cannot process data efficiently. Men who sleep less than four hours per night have a mortality rate 2.8 times higher than men sleeping more regularly. 
Sleep is important; there is no getting around that fact. Paying attention to nutrition and exercise is only part of a healthy· regiment. Food and physical fitness are more effective in fueling and strengthening the body when it is adequately rested. When the body is fatigued, precious energy goes toward simple functions instead of higher mental and physical processes needed by the college student. 
Getting the average 6-8 hours of sleep per night is difficult for a student. If increased duration is not possible, focusing on the quality of sleep is helpful. 

For example, going to sleep hungry leads to periodic awakenings during the night. Upon awakening in the morning, fatigue-type feelings may still linger. 
Alcoho I in itial!y facilitates sleep. However, several hours later, as the process of withdrawal begins, fragmented and disruptive sleep again lead to lethargy in the morning. 
Caffeine alters both the initiation and continuity of sleep. Some individuals who drink large amounts of caffeine during the day need to drink caffeine before going to bed to avoid caffeine withdrawal affects during the night. A daily dose of 500 mg of caffeine has a predictable inhibitory effect on sleep independently of the time of ingestion, because caffeine stays in the body for 8-14 hours. 
Nicotine is a stimulant that 
affects the sleep cycle. The morning 
cough of a veteran smoker indicates 
that during the night, bronchial 
secretion has pooled in the throat 
during the night. Thus a reflex cough 
develops during the night. Not only is 
the fact alarming in terms of over-all 
health, but after a night of coughing, 
the quality of sleep is very poor. 
For other suggestions on improving sleep quality, check out our stall notes and other signs around campus throughout the coming weeks. 
Now, for those of you interesting in winning those prizes. This Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, UBWell2(a)ND will place questions about this article in The Observer. Answer the questions by email by midnight that day and you will be entered into a raffle to win prizes. 
Wednesday, six winners will take home a "Musical Massage" ed. Thursday, four winners will take home one of the following DVDs: Sleepless in Seattle, Sleeping Beauty, Nightmare on Elm Street, or While You Were Sleepin~. Friday, one lucky winner will win his or her choice of the gift certificate or the day at the spa. Email answers, suggestions or questions to UBWell2@ND.edu. 

L-,, ,11 
TL1e~Jay, No"'.ember 19, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

Center for Socia( Concerns 
SOCIAL 
00~.~~

CONCERNS 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
An American Paradox: Justice and the Practice of the Death Penalty 
Featured speaker: Ms. Sheila Murphy, Retired Presiding Judge of the Sixth Municipal District Circuit Court of Cook County. As a judge, she ordered crucial DNA testing for Verncal Jimerson, leading to the exoneration of him and the other members of the'4Ford Heights Four" from death row, and giving wide publicity to the problem of false convictions on death row in Illinois. 
Schedule of Events: 
Thurs. Nov 21, 7-9:30 PM, Carroll Auditorium. St. Mary's College Fri. Nov 22. 12:00 PM, at the CSC 
7:00 PM Lecture: Judge Sheila Murphy Open Discussion: Judge Sheila Murphy, Paolo Mancinelli, moderator "An American Paradox: Justice and the Death Penalty Today" 
Danin Belousek 

"The death penalty and the work of the Sant'Egidio Community" 
8:00 PM Pand Discussion: Diverse Perspectives on the Death *Light soup & salad lunch will be provided* 
Penalty 
Srmn.wrs: Sant' Edigio Commtmity and the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Many Co-sponsorsfrom campus and the local c01111111111it_v have also co11trib11ted to make this event possible. 
IN THE LINE OF FIRE: CHILDREN IN ISRAEL AND THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES 
In Commemoration of November 20th -Day of the Child 
A Lecture and Question & Answer Opportunity Professor Garth Meintjes -Center ofCivil and Human Rights Wed, Nov 20th-7PM -140 DBRT 
!JI October of 2002, Amnesty Intematio11al released a report entitled ''Killing the Future: Children in the Line of Fire" u,hich dommented the extensive 1111mber of child casualties in the Middle East. More that 250 Palestinian and 72 lsraeli CHILDREN hat'e been killed sina the beginning of the intifada in September of 2000. His lecture will ojferan enlightening oppo1t1111ity lo gain greater understanding of the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Authority and the effects it is having on the regions population. 
Presented by~,J11111esry l11tematio11al-ND, The Joa11 B. Kroc lmtitute, The Helen Kellogg Institute, The Program in Middle Eastern Studies, The Centerfor Social Concerns 
r-----------------------------7 
I To be or not to be a missionary in the twenty-first I Project Warmth_. ', century? The Presence of Holy Cross in Africa 1' ProjectWarmthisheatingupagain! Thisyear'sprojectrunsfrom
October 281h to December 6th and promises to be the most successful I Friday, November 22 I collection year ever! All coat donors will receive a 25% discount l I coupon for use in the Notre Dame Bookstore on any jacket of their I I choice in return for their donations. Social concerns commissioners 
I Rmmdtable Discussion: I 
for the dorms have the coupons for participating students. Please I I remember to donate any extra coat and show your Fighting Irish spirit I Sister Madeline Therese Wilhoit, CSC, Father David I and enerosit . GO IRISH! : Kashangaki, CSC, Father Tom McDermott, CSC : .=======ss;;;:I::N;;;:o;;;:v;;;:2;;;:1:;:st;;;:,C;;;:a;;;:n;;;:c;;;:e;;;:lle;;;:d;;;:!======~ 
I [ SSI Info Session for Thurs, Nov 2151 has been CANCELLED. I -Sponsored by the Africa Working Group-I Please COME to the Dec 91h Info Session, 6:30 p.m., at the CSC. 
L ______________________________ ..J -----------------------­
"Iraq: Hope Amidst the 
•
MEXICO SEMINAR 
Current Volunteer Needs 

Devastation"
APPLICATIONS 
• • • • Not all volunteer needs for this week are shown here; Visit the CSC's website for a complete listing. 
AVAILABLE! 
Speaker Kathy Kelly, Founder 
•
•Tutors Children
of Voices in the Wilderness 
!A tutor is needed for a male junior in A tutor is needed for a five-year old to
Seminar Dates: 
TUES, Nov. 19 •Algebra. He is available M-W after school or help him pass into first grade. The 
May 16 -June 1 
7:30 PM :in the evenings and he could come to Hesburgh mother has workbooks and all tools
in Oaxaca, Mexico 
Little Flower Catholic Church 
:Library. Contact: Elois White @ 233-5666. 
necessary. Mornings for an hour or 2 (54191 N. Ironwood, S. Bend) 
• 
would be best. He could come to!A tutor is needed for a high school junior in Hesburgh Library. Contact: Turell 

•Government 
and Algebra. He is most avail­Lewis @ 246-1720.


•
•able M-W from 4-5. It would be best if he !could be tutored at his house. Contact: Rose­
Special Needs The Northern Indiana Fooo Bank is experiencing a •mary Collin @ 291-7965. A woman with physical and learning 
•
great shortage in food. Please donate dry goods, • disabilities needs help typing and paper goods, canned goods, and toiletries. !A tutor is needed for a 7-year old boy. He editing her books. She would like to Questions? Contact: •could come to Hesburgh Library on Thursdays meet 2 times a week in the afternoons . Robin Fuller at 232-9986. ••at 5. Contact: Rachel Scrugs @ 287-6573 
Contact: Rose Anne @ 287-3891 :or 1-4682. 
• Tutoring Programs !A tutor is needed in the afternoons for a girl I Believe I Can is an after school 
Faculty Opportunities ... 
The Ccmcr offers resources to faculty members teaching community-:with cerebral palsy. It would need to be at her program that needs tutors from 3:30-5 on .house. Contact: Kim Cavinder@ 254-1352. Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays.
basc<l lcarning and research courses. If you are interested in some sup­
• The focus is on math and English. as well:
port for your work in this area, please contact l\lary Beckman, Ph.D., • ***Ifyou have any questions about Center Associate Director, Concurrent Associate Professor ofEconom-: as a tutor fluent in Spanish. •
these volunteer projects 
•

please email Contact Pierre Smith @ 288-1457 or.
ics, at bcckman.9@nd.edu or 1-4172. She can assist with course de-: 
cscvols@nd.edu .*** picrrcsmith@nctzcro.net • 
velopmcnt grants, workshops, reading materials, and more. • • 
O
THE 
BSERVER 







VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 19, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
Jot l,u/q,ffUUIII, D,JJy Newtp"PerStnrl11f NotrrDrnn,iUUISAlnt M.,,ry', 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason Mcfarlcy 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

N1,,ws EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR.I Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nesrnr 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROLLER; Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V!EWPOINT.................................................63 l-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 
observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAllv's ............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................63 l-8767 SVSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsm1cr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adminiscration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conccnc. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obmwrpo/ici,s should be direct­rd to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th" Observer (USPS 599 240) i, publiJhcJ Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam md vacation periods. A nib5eription to Th. Obicrver i, SI 00 for one academic year; S 5 5 for one scmotcr. 
The Observer is publid1cJ ai: l'O,l'MA5TER 024 Sourb Dining Hall ~d add,cu correction, to: 
Nouc Dmac. IN 4.6556 The Observer 
P.O.BoxQ Periodical post.age' ~d ar Not!'f' D.mc Notre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 utd addirinnal m:11iling offic.n, 
Thf; ObSU\'et ha 111en1bet af the As..oci:ucd Prnli, All reproduction righa ~e ,...,.,..t. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Sheila Flynn Tim Heine Maureen Reynolds 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemm 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Sports Joe Hettler Lauren Dasso Christine Armstrong Scene Julie Bender Lab Tech Chip Marks 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Life is not black and white 
Issues like chalking color on our sidewalks arise through Viewpoint articles. Laughter, offense, discussion and even silence result. How cool. 
Matt Sullivan says to be thankful for the right to protest. Beth Jeub says she is. Paul Graham says workers need rights. John Litle says the leftists are classists. 
I don't think the threats from/onto Iraq are justified enough to warrant a war. Conveniently, on a chilly Thursday afternoon, the president came to visit my hometown. So as an exercise of my wonderful First Amendment right to be there, I stood in the area allotted for protesters. A variety of opinionated people accompanied me. all on the same yellow­police-taped patch of grass, each with a different intent. I saw my morn and sister across the street, in line with their tickets to go see their beloved president. What's the moral of the story? 
Life's not black and white. We live in the middle-ground. 
I'm one big hypocritical gray middle. I am a member of the Progressive Student Allicance, but I completely agree that the extreme left is classist. I've written "Killing is not the answer to killing," on sidewalks, but I don't think unioniza­tion is necessarily a good thing. I cannot support Bush, but I melt when I think of how cute my Bush-loving mom is. I preach about how awareness is one of the most important things, but I rarely pick up multiple new sources in one day. 
What's this have to do with the Notre Dame community? 
Political beliefs are important, but there are some human things like family that will always be trump. Our political system bifurcates all issues into "right" or "left," and while it is beautiful to see that there are many causes which can bring people together, it limits arguments. The benefits of First Amendment are exceptional. 
So let's not hastily clump. Let's not get too heated by all this debate. It's wonderful that it's going on, but let's all just re·cognize the middle-ground. 
Liz Fallon junior Pasquerilla East Hall Nov. 12 
America must provide moral clarity in a dangerous world 
President George W. Bush recently stated, "The United States possesses unprecedented -and unequaled ­strength and influence in the world. Sustained by faith in the principles of lib­erty and the value of a free society, this position comes with unparalleled respon­sibilities, obligations and opportunity. The great strength of this nation must be used to promote a balance of power that favors freedom." 
I agree. 
The United States is the greatest nation in the history of humanity, and we have a responsibility to preserve freedom, lib­erty and equality around the globe. Time after time, the United States has proven itself to be a bastion of free thought, human rights, civil liberties and freedom -and it is essential to ensure that these ideals be extended to the oppressed and disenfranchised. 
Yes, I said it, but I said it because it is an absolute truth. The United States is the sole superpower in the world, and we must lead the world's people in their endless pursuit for liberty. 
The United States is a moral country ­a country whose ideals have led the world through a sea of darkness. The United States has inspired democratic movements around the world. Europe turned to the United States to help rid the world of the evil regimes in Germany, Italy and Japan. We succeeded. 
South Korea turned to the United States to contain the spread of commu­nism. We succeeded. Eastern Europe turned to the United States to catapult the collapse of the evil empire in the Soviet Union. Once again, we succeeded. This is our legacy -a legacy of strength and moral opposition to evil. 
It concerns me that a considerable por­tion of Americans, many of whom are in the academic arena, feel that it is unjust or improper to extend our morality to destitute and deprived nations. 
How can it be unjust to demand free­dom? How can some Americans, who enjoy such magnificent independence and prosperity, compromise with evil authoritarian regimes who slaughter their own civilians? How can America's most privileged citizens criticize the gov­ernment for extending the blessings of liberty? 
All too many people in this country take our freedom for granted. This type of behavior is irresponsible and hypocrit­ical. The ideals of human dignity and lib­erty are non-negotiable. It is not impolite or politically incorrect to demand these moral essentials; it is just and right. 
To ensure the continued existence of liberty in the United States and the world, we must maintain our military superiority. We must not be naive to the evil in this world -these threats are very real and must not endanger us any longer. As citizens of this great nation, we must recognize the evil before us and forcefully and responsibly rid the world of such terror. 
The United States cannot ignore anoth­er evil empire, such as the Soviet Union of the 1960s, to threaten free society. The aggressive regime of Nikita Krushchev brought civilization to the brink of nuclear destruction. Evil dicta­tors, with horrific intentions, were allowed to possess deadly weapons. This scenario is far too dangerous to ever let happen again. As President Bush said, "History will judge harshly those who saw this coming danger but failed to act. In the new world we have entered, the only path to peace and security is the path of' action." 
U.S. superiority is essential to the sta­bility, survival and peace of' this world. We must defend peace through strength. The last few decades, in which the United States has been the only superior strength, have been the most stable times in world history, and it is no coinci­dence -no coincidence because the United States exemplifies the level-head­edness to restrain and utilize power appropriately. Unlike other countries in history, we will not use our superior strength to destroy innocent lives or pur­sue imperialistic desires. Our strength will be guided by a moral compass. 
The United States is one of the few countries in the history of' mankind to send its own soldiers to die for the liber­ties of foreigners. We have built a repu­tation on defending the weak from tyran­ny and oppression, and now, more than ever, we must combine our moral and military strength to lead the world, once again, to freedom. Never before has such incredible might been harmonized with such moral principle. Ifwe remain com­mitted to our ideals, our service to the world will never be forgotten. 
I am confident that we will, once again, find the steadfastness and fortitude to remain committed to our ideals. We must take pride in our standards and not be ashamed to extend them to others. The United States has moral authority over oppressive dictatorships around the world -we always have, and we cannot negate our responsibilities now. 
Mike Koprowski freshman Knorr Hall Nov. 18 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame reconsider the number of University requirements necessary to graduate? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My dream is that as the years go by and the world knows more and more ofAmerica, it ... will turn to America for those moral inspira­tions that lie at the basis ofall freedom." 
Woodrow Wilson former U.S. president 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002 page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
PSA works to solve problems, not polarize people 
ll frustrales me that people are engaging in ridiculous behavior such as waking people up at 4 a.m. to bother them about political views. Serious. what on earth are you doing? Not only is it rudo, but I have only one thought: lf you really care about social justice, stop waking people at 4 
a.m. and instead use your time to actually address the issues that you like to spout about. 
I am in the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA), and that is not what I go there to do. Nor do the majority of PSA members I know. It maddens me that anybody would profess to care about social justice and then blatently disrespect someone. It goes against everything we believe in. 
Just an announcement to everyone: Personally, I don't run around having strange thoughts about chopping white people or business men up with a hacksaw or imposing some kind of weird socialist system that wouldn't work anyway. 
But ask me yourself, or talk to the people in your classes and dorms who are truly concerned about workers' rights. We won't eat you. 
It docs seem to me that there are many prob­lems stemming from corporate greed and policies that facilitate it, such as the lack of benefits and poverty-level wages that often subsidize enor­mous profits. 
Wal-Mart has been sued in 38 states for forcing workers to work off the clock so as to avoid over­time pay. Twenty-five percent or people who work in the United States earn poverty-level hourly wages, according to the Economic Policy Institute. 
Without even getting into the international gar­ment industry, the U.S. Department of Labor found that 100 percent of poultry plants and 50 
percent of restaurants in the United States to vio­late wage and hour laws. 
But this does not make me hate CEOs or think that all business is bad. Nor do I think rich peo­ple are evil. r am sorry if some people do. 
I think we need to work together to change problems, not polarize people. We need to hold businesses accountable for the way they treat our fellow humans. And we need to support their right to a voice at work, to get problems addressed without being afraid of losing their jobs and to negotiate for fair wages and condi­tions, which is often found through unions. 
What has come to my attention most recently is what is going on at Notre Dame, not the statistics of the rest of the world. For instance, many peo­ple here are feeling extremely overworked and simpl,Y don't know what to do because it seems that nobody is listening to them. Other workers have been made to feel afraid of ramifications if they talk about unions. 
Often unions can provide a voice and represen­tation on the job, a way to negotiate for fair wages and conditions and to ensure that troubles are addressed. I, along with many others, am simply asking the University to agree not to in behavior that hinders workers' attempts to unionize, but instead to voluntarily recognize a union if workers vote to join it. 
What do you think? I'm not going to hate you if you want to talk about it. 
Brigitte Gynther ·Ii junior Pasquerilla West Hall Nov. 15 

Comic insults Native Americans 
I feel obliged to question the editorial decision to run the comic "School Daze" in the Nov. 18 issue of The Observer. The third frame of this comic strip depicted an SYR gift obviously intended to be repossessed and used by the giver and not the recipient and contained a racial slur which should not have been permitted to run. 
Please be more careful in the future of using terms such as "Indian Giver." I assume, and sincerely hope, that it was mere thoughtlessness and not deliberate racism that led you to make the decision to publish a comic strip which used that ugly figure of speech. 
Did you know that we just finished celebrating Native American Heritage Week? This past Friday, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's hosted the well-known Native American actress Elaine Miles to speak to students about achieving their goals and dreams. 
I am relieved that your strip didn't run on Friday for her to see and ashamed that such a thing was published at all. I implore all members of the Notre Dame family to banish the phrase "Indian Giver" from their vocabu­laries and to reflect on the history of the indigenous people of this continent. In treaty after broken treaty, which party consistently took away what they had given and unfailingly reneged on their earlier pledges? 
Shame on The Observer for publishing this comic strip. 
Kelly C. Kingsbury 

visiting assistant professional specialist Department of Romance Languages and Literature Nov. 18 
Dance policy change challenges dorm 
finances 
This past weekend, the men of Keenan Hall pre-partied, boarded buses and bowled the night away to the sounds of the Bee-Gees at our Disco Bowl dance. This dance was the second annual Disco Bowl, a tradition we look to continue. Both dances were great successes, but the costs for this year were significantly higher. Ticket prices increased more than $5 per couple from last year, yet we couldn't even afford to get a gift for the dance. 
The point I'm trying to make is that the $1,000 one-time subsidy is fairly useless. Vendors such as Beacon Bowl and bus companies now realize that they have no competition from in-hall dances and have subsequently raised prices. We paid $1,400 for buses alone. While the subsidy may help smaller dorms more, with Keenan's population of over 300, this "gift" amounts to about $3 a person, hardly enough to purchase a coffee mug or other small gift for the dance. I can see no reason why vendors would drop prices in the near future, leaving halls to take financial hit that comes from having an off-campus dance. 
Attendance at this semester's on-campus dances has been somewhat poor, with even some cancellations. This would lead me to believe that off-campus dances are more successful, however the aid simply isn't there to defray any of the costs. Before, wo could have an in-hall SYR where we could provide a good time for little cost. That option is now gone. I can see no reason why a school with as much financial stability as this cannoL find more money to help residence halls deal with the costs of their own policy changes. 
The administration has essentially left the halls out in the cold next year to either increase ticket prices dramaticaUy or forgo off-campus dances altogether. While this may keep the "fun" on campus, it may leave us disappointed as we sip from our coffee cups the next morn­ing. 
Andrew Warner 
junior Co-president, Keenan Hall Nov. 18 
Question arbitrary rules and punishments 
At Notre Dame, nobody has sex. Nobody does drugs, either. Nobody has fake IDs. 
On campus, it seems that people tend to avoid topics in order to safeguard them­selves from ResLife -this judicial system with arbitrary powers. 
In philosophy, we learn to discuss the meaning of justice, but somehow once outside the classroom walls, we are faced with promulgated yet unjust campus rules. People avoid saying they have sex because that's against Du Lac. People avoid saying they smoke marijuana because that's also against Du Lac -yet it's fine to say that freshmen, sophomores and juniors drink regularly. 
Under-age drinking is just as illegal as smoking marijuana, yet Notre Dame tol­erates under-age drinking. So while it's still illegal under state laws. it's tolerated to a certain extent on campus. The administration looked at the state Jaw and judged for itself what applied and did not apply for its students. 
In case of conflicts with these state laws, Notre Dame has a team of lawyers. If students decide to pick and chose what campus rules apply to them, they will simply be at the mercy of ResLife, whose decisions, at times, seem arbitrary. 
If you start thinking, is having sex real­ly worse than having a drinking problem? Have alcoholics had to write a letter of apology to The Observer? Somehow, at Notre Dame, we should publicly apologize for sex. Hello, scarlet letter. 
In a sense, I believe that stringent rules and the arbitrary decision-making power of ResLife leads many of us at Notre Dame to live in "bad faith" -to lead a public image that molds to Du Lac and ResLife's rules and to thus avoid aspects of ourselves that do not conform to Catholic or Notre Dame teachings-with­out questioning whether or not these punishments are just or unjust. 
Should we be afraid to discuss certain issues in the paper just because there exists this certain Big Brother with arbi­trary power? If we are to be a communi­ty, the laws cannot simply be the will of the administration. If we do live in a democratic community here at Notre Dame, we should have influence over the rules that govern our environment. We should not be at the whimsical mercy of ResLife. 
And this campus should ultimately be a place where students discuss "real issues" without having an impending fear of being unfairly judged or expelled. Aquinas argues that we, as rational crea­tures, have a natural inclination to live together in conversation. 
So perhaps together. we should ques­tion the existing rules and the punish­ments that follow defiance. Then we could analyze what kind of political com­munity governs us at Notre Dame -and whether we've got to tame it. 
Maribel Morey 
senior 
off-campus Nov. 17 

THE 
OBSERVER 

page 12 Tuesday, November 19, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Nirvana releases a hit and miss 
By DAVID HARTWIG Scene Music Critic 
The recently released self-titled album by one of the '90s greatest bands has its high points, but leaves one feeling empty and unsatisfied. The first track, "You Know You're Right," is the only new material on the 14-track album, and it truly is a stroke of genius. It was the only song recorded during an ill-fated session in January of 1994. 
In the lhroes of his battle with heroin addiction, former lead singer Kurt Cobain missed the first few days of the session. All was not lost. though, as drummer Dave Grohl and bassist Krist Novoselic used the time to record and experiment with some of Grohl's songs. Several of these tunes would later appear in the repertoire of Grohl's post-Nirvana band the Foo Fighters. When Cobain finally showed up, the band recorded "You Know You're Right" in one take, with Cobain laying down only a few additional vocal and gui­tar tracks later that day. 
Perhaps this song is even more poignant as it is the last known studio recording of the brilliant-but-tortured singer/song­writer. Cobain committed suicide just four months after the song was recorded. for this reason alone, this disc is a must-have for all Nirvana fans and dedicated follow­ers of what would unfortunately become known as the Grunge movement. The rest 
of the 

album, however, 
leaves something to be desired. 
Nirvana 
Nirvana 
Rather than a
Universal t r u l y 
great col­lection of songs, this short CD is just a compi­lation of "radio Nirvana." The new disc has four tracks drawn from Nevermind, their breakthrough and most radio-friendly album. This makes the album seem more of a tribute to the industry powers that drove Cobain into depression and addiction than to the band that cap­tured a generation and became the catalyst to a pop culture movement. 

Surrounded by rumors of battles and legal settlements between Cobain's widow Courtney Love and Geffen Records, between Geffen and Novoselic and Groh! and between Novoselic and Groh! and Love, this release is embroiled in legalese and million-dollar deals . 
Compound this with the coming release of Journals, a book of Cobain's personal writings and diaries, and it becomes apparent that Nirvana's 
message did not sink in. It is rumored that Cobain's estate received at least $4 million for the rights to the book. Though it may give us more insight into Cobain's tortured mind and incredibly powerful music, it is sure to tell us that this kind of invasion of privacy is precisely the reason for Cobain's depression. 
Nevertheless, listening to this CD brings back memories of Airwalks. skateboards; long hair, baggy jeans and ugly plaid flan­nel shirts. For that reason alone, it may be 

Photo courtesy of allnirvanaphotos.host Amidst a sea of legal battles, Nirvana has released an album of both old and new. 
worth buying. Nirvana is likely the most important band in modern music and with the perversion of capitalism aside, the band should be remembered as such. Critics, both musical and cultural, will like­ly debate this and the effect of Cobain's sui­cide on music and pop culture for years to come, but this reviewer can only say go buy the album, crank it up and remember the old days. 
Contact David Hartwig at hartwig.4@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 


U2 proves their worth 
By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
U2 is an ageless. timeless band. Despite some hard times, they have managed to remain one of the most enduring and influential bands of modern music. Their music has ranged from the political to the bal­lad, to solid rock and roll. In addition, they have staged some of the most popular and financially lucrative tours and have made some of the best albums of the past decade. 
Their newest compilation of greatest hits, a sequel to the earlier collection Greatest Hits 1980-1990 showcases the music from this turbulent and phoenix-like era of U2's music. From the pounding and grinding "Even Better Than the Real Thing" to the final, soothing sounds of "The First Time," U2 has put together a collec­tion of songs that plays like a great mix tape. There is variety and scope, and no stone of the era is left unturned. Songs from Achtung Baby, Zooropa, Pop, All That You Can't Leave Behind and even the Passengers Soundtrack arc included. The listener is left with an excellent testament of U2's songwriting achievements over the past 10 years. 
Perhaps one of the best parts of this collection is that even if someone already owns all of U2's albums, this 
collection is still a must­have. There are two new songs, "Electrical Storm" and "The Hands that Built America," the theme song for Martin Scorsese's new film "Gangs of New York." Both songs are excel­lent exam­ples of how U2 has still maintained the creative energy that was so deci­sive and brilliant 10 years ago. "Electrical 
Storm" is a production of grace remi­
niscent of songs from Achtung Baby. 
The slow, wandering ode to immi­
grants, "The Hands that Built 
America," is a truly beautiful song. The songs included from Zooropa and Pop are all given new mixes, with 

the excep­tion of "Stay (Faraway So Close!)." 
Although it would be hard for a casual listen­er to tell the difference between the album ver­sions and the new mixes, one thing is for certain: The songs recorded for these albums are some of the most underrated work that U2 has done. "Stay" has one of the most intense and haunting guitar lines and choruses 

ever, and "Staring at the Sun" gets 
better with every listen. Placing the song recorded from the Passengers sessions, "Miss Sarajevo" on this collection was a fantastic idea, with the song only being available elsewhere on CD single or a lackluster 
album. A moving tribute to the victims of the Sarajevo conflict, Luciano Pavarotti's part on the song is chilling and can give even the most jaded lis­tener goosebumps. 
There are, unfortunately, some drawbacks to the collection. All U2 fans will have their own personal arguments for or against the songs included. It is disappointing that "If God Will Send His Angels" is only available as a B Side. The song "The Ground Beneath Her Feet" should be made front and center. 
The second disc of B Sides is also disappointing for most hardcore U2 fans. There are few new songs includ­ed besides "North and South of the River" which is a great addition. If it didn't have "Slow Dancing," "Two Shots of Happy One Shot of Sad," or their version of Elvis Presley's "I Can'dt Help Falling in Love With You,'' the B Side disc would be more of a rehashing of older material than a further exploration of U2's career. 
The bonus DVD included with the CDs has some good extras such as live performances, interviews, outtakes and song clips. It is amazing that with so many omissions and the hefty price tag, this collection is still a necessity for any CD collection. 
Contact Liam Farrell at farrell.SO@nd.edu 
THE 
OBSERVER 

Tuesday, November 19, 2002 page 13 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Mayer am_azes Chicago fans 
SingerI songwriter John Mayer has more than good looks when live 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scene Music Critic 
Numerous Notre Dame students 
made the trek to Chicago's UJC Pavilion Saturday night to sec singer and songwriter John Mayer in con­cert. 
Mayer was greeted by Lhou~ands of screaming fans when he stepped into the spotlight, opening his set with a solo acoustic version of "Love Soon," an energetic song from his recently re-released EP Inside Wants Out. Without hesitation, Mayer segued into "Why Georgia," the solitary spotlight replaced by lights illuminating the whole stage, revealing Mayer's band­mates already in position to jam. 
Following "Why Georgia" was the popular radio hit "No Such Thing," which seemed to be for many audi­ence members the sole motivation for coming to the show. 
The majority of Mayer's so-called fans sat down whenever he played a lengthy guitar solo or an unfamiliar song, missing some of the most bril­liant musical moments or the show simply because they had not heard them previously on the radio. 
Mayer. however. did not disappoint the loyal members of the audience. He not only played all but two or the songs from his major label debut Hoom for Squares. but also played the unreleased songs "Covered in Rain" and "Something's Missing," a tune which Mayer knowingly dubbed a "pee break song" due to its unfamil­iarity. 
"83," the obvious crowd favorite, 
was prefaced with a free-form intro that included the "My Buddy" commercial jin­gle and lyrics about Michael Jackson and Star Wars. staples from Mayer·s youth in the 1980s. The song itself energized the audience, most notably when Mayer digressed into partial covers of "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" and "Let's Hear it for the Boy." 
He closed the set with "Neon," a song that explores his jazz influ­ences and never fails to show off his talent as a guitarist. After only a brief pause to tease the audience.Mayer returned to the stage. playing a solo acoustic rendition of "Comfortable." a per­petual crowd favorite from his humble begin­nings in Atlanta that remains a favorite to this day. His band then joined him for the remaining songs of the encore, "Love Song for No One" and "St. Patrick's Day," both from Room for Squares. 
Having released only about 20 songs in his short career, Mayer does not have a large amount of material to draw from. Luckily for concert goers. absolutely everything that he has 


John Mayer Is a relatively new artist, but his skills on guitar show years of experience with Influences In jazz, rock and soft acoustic melodles. 
released is worthy of inclusion in a live performance. There was not a single clunker among the 15 songs in the set. despite the boredom of some "fans" during the gaps between well known songs like "No Such Thing" and "Your Body is a Wonderland." 
Obviously targeting the show at his most loyal fans, instead of those who only know him through his recent suc­cess, Mayer was unabashed about his talent on stage. He utilized every opportunity to include guitar solos and improv jamming, showing the extent of his abilities with live per­formance. 
"Playing onstage is that truth that no one else can touch, which I really love. The reason I can enjoy the ups and downs, and the uncertainties, and the insecurities of the TV. radio. record career is because I know that every night I get on stage I'm going to be rooted in this really incredible truth, musically... being on the road really kind of is the alkaline to the pH balance of [my life]." Mayer described the concert experience. 
With his quick wit and boyish good looks, Mayer seems to be a more obvi­ous candidate to host MTV's THL than a legitimate musician. 
Critics, however, must keep in mind that this young star writes his own songs and is also proficient at playing the guitar, things that the majority of today's pop stars cannot claim. Mayer's musical talent stands alone. His marketable sex <ippeal is just an added benefit. 
With sweetly sensitive lyrics like "I loved you / gray sweatpants / no makeup / so perfect" no doubt assist­ing him in his efforts to get into the sweatpants of the ladies. Mayer's identity as the cJuelessly sexy boy­next-door cannot be denied. What girl wouldn't want to be wooed by such an understanding and honest male who so clearly places women on a pedestal? 
"I really don't want to be a hunk," he said. "I don't want to be Sensitive Hunk Guy. That's just a little fear of mine. But I think women can relate to the lyric side more. I know the guys are waiting for all the sappy songs too, but they have a front. which is the guitar playing." 
Despite the abundance of middle school girls in the audience shrieking about how hot he is. Mayer's heart­throb status has not interfered with his credibility as an artist. 
"Everyone kind of has their agenda. I certainly have no self-imposed limit. 1 wouldn't mind selling six million records. I would like to think though that you can sell six million and make every person who owns it feel like it's a personal experience. I may be ­wrong. I think that there's a way to be mainstream in terms of accessibility, but musically remain true in whatever it is you want to do," Mayer said. 
With no intention of selling out any­time soon. John Mayer is a breath of fresh air in the world of' c.lancing boy bands and wannabe divas. Time will only tell if he can avoid paying too much attention to the hype and con­tinue to play quality music for his true fans. From the sounds ol' Saturday's concert, he's headed in the right direction. 
Contact Emily Tum brink at tumbrink. l@nd.edu 
page 14 Tuesday, November 19, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 
.._ 
NBA 

Sprewell, Houston light up struggling Nuggets 
Associated Pres• 
NEW YORK 
Latrell Sprewell returned to the starting lineup and scored 23 points, helping the New York Knicks defeat the Detroit Pistons 94-91 Monday night despite nearly blowing a 32­point lead. 
Allan Houston also scored 23 for the Knicks, who won for the second time this season ­but just barely. 
Detroit trailed by 22 when the fourth quarter began but pulled within one with 9.6 sec­onds left. Sprewell hit a pair of free throws with 4.7 seconds to go, and Ben Wallace threw away the ensuing inbounds pass to deprive Detroit a chance to tie. 
Wallace grabbed 19 of his 21 rebounds in the second half, thriving on the boards as the Knicks suddenly found them­selves unable to make a shot. New York was just 2-for-18 from the field in the fourth, with Sprewell going O-for-4. 
Improving to 2-8, the Knicks avoided having the worst record after 10 games in fran­chise history. 
Richard Hamilton scored 31, Cliff Robinson 19 and Chucky Atkins 14 for the Pistons, who lost starting point guard Chauncey Billups to an ankle injury. 
New York made 14 of its first 18 shots, a spree that ended with Howard Eisley's 3-pointer for a 34-18 lead. New York shot 76 percent in the quarter despite getting very little from Sprewell -three points and two assists in 8 minutes. 
Coach Don Chaney said he decided early in the morning to move Sprewell into the starting lineup in place of Shandon Anderson. 
"I just felt we need a win real bad. With him starting, we should get out to a jump start -which we need. I'd rather do it now than later," Chaney said. 
Billups went down late in the 
... _ first quarter when he collided with Eisley, and did not return. Atkins played the remainder of the game for Detroit, logging a season-high 41 minutes. There was no immediate word on the severity of Billups' injury. The Knicks exploited their matchups with the 5-foot-11 Atkins in the second quarter, 
posting him up with taller players to create easy baskets, Eisley assisted on three straight baskets in a 10-0 run that made it 48-22, and the lead reached 32 on a 3-pointer by Sprewell with 1 :35 left before halftime. 
Detroit made its charge in the fourth with a 16-2 run that ended with Hamilton catching an inbounds pass and going in from the foul line for an uncontested dunk with 24 sec­onds left, making it 91-89. Detroit then appeared to force 
the Knicks into an  8-second  
violation,  but  no  call  was  
made.  

Nets 99, Nuggets 78 
The New Jersey Nets embar­rassed the Denver Nuggets with more than just the score. 
Jason Kidd hit five straight shots and scored 13 of his 24 points in the first quarter to lead New Jersey to a victory over the woeful Nuggets on Monday night. The Nets might have gone a little too far in try­ing to put on a third-period dunk show. 
"That's us," New Jersey for­ward Kenyon Martin said. "It wasn't because the game was out of reach. We do that every game." 
With the Nets ahead by 28 late in the 
and we tried it. lt won't be the first or last time we try to do something out of the ordinary." 
Rookie Nuggets coach Jeff Bzdelik got off the bench quickly after Jefferson was fouled and started to move to the Nets' end of the floor. He just as quickly turned and walked back to the bench. 
Bzdelik insisted he was angry with his team rather than the 
Nets. 
"The way my team played annoyed me. This is the NBA, it's a man's league," Bzdelik said. "Nobody feels sorry for you. That didn't concern me. We allowed that to happen." 
Nuggets guard James Posey was more aggravated. 
"Like I said, you just never forget," Posey said. "They felt they could do it. It was the right thing to do, so they tried it. They just tried to get high­lights. You just keep it in the back of your mind." 
Hawks 117, Raptors 92 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim scored 27 points and the Atlanta Hawks routed the Toronto Raptors Monday night after building a 29-point lead at halftime. 
The Hawks began to pull away with a 10-0 run to close the first quarter, then ran cir­
cles around 
third and the starters still  "We're all professional  the h a  n  short­d e d  
on the floor, New Jersey tried to cre­ here, we're not trying to embarrass anyone."  Raptors to push the margin to 66­ 
ate  a  high­ 37  at  the  
light reel.  Jason Kidd  break.  
During one sequence,  New Jersey guard  Abdur-Rahim scored  
Kidd  set up  15 points in  
Martin for an  the opening  
alley-oop  quarter and  

dunk, Martin stole a pass and watched the final period from scored on a big breakaway the bench as the Hawks got dunk and Richard Jefferson some lesser-used players on scored on a reverse alley-oop the court. He has averaged 28 dunk on another pass from points over the past four Kidd. games, the last three being 
With the Nets doing whatev­Atlanta victories. er they wanted, Kerry Kittles The Hawks scored 15 bas­passed up a breakaway layup kets off dunks, layups and tips and threw a pass off the back­in the first half, leading to an board for Kidd . astonishing 38-8 edge on 
Kidd flubbed the shot and it points in the lane. The Hawks bounced off the backboard to a also outrebounded the Raptors trailing Jefferson, who got the 29-11 and scored 25 points off ball and was fouled going up turnovers. for a shot. Toronto's helplessness was 
"We're all professionals here, epitomized when Hawks back­we're not trying to embarrass up center Amal McCaskill, who anyone," Kidd said. "We're out had not scored all season, got playing, a play presented itself several tips at a missed shot before the ball finally dropped through. The Raptors looked like a bunch of schoolchildren trying futilely to get the ball away from the tallest kid in class. 
To make matters worse, the Raptors even returned for the third quarter to find they had two fewer 
69-58 cushion after 36 min­utes. 
Duncan sat out the fourth quarter, but Jackson helped the Spurs outscore the Cavs, 35-20, in the period. 
"Tim took a finger in the eye. He looks pretty good right now," Spurs coach Gregg 
Popovich 

points when  than they  "They gave him  said. bench  "The was  
went to the locker room. The officials used instant  opportunity after opportunity and he played with a lot of  terrific. I was pleased with our aggres­siveness and  
replay to take away a bas­ energy.  tenacity. We took  
ket A I  v  from i n  John Lucas  care ball  of the better.  
Williams, rul­ Cleveland coach  we shot bet­ 
ing  that  he  ter than we  
got off a  dri­ had and  we  

ving shot after the buzzer. made our free throws." 
The Raptors needed an Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 25 injury exemption from the NBA points for the Cavs, who just to be able to dress nine dropped their seventh straight players. game. 
Atlanta, meanwhile, got to "They went through Tim clear its bench when the game Duncan again and again," got out of hand. Chris Cavaliers coach John Lucas Crawford played for the first said. "They gave him opportu­time since Nov. 10, 2001 -a nity after opportunity and he span of 84 games -after tear­played with a lot of energy." ing a ligament in his left knee. The Spurs swept their home­
Also, first-round draft pick and -home series with the Dan Dickau went much of the Cavaliers and defeated them in fourth quarter after playing San Antonio for the 13th only 1 minute in the previous straight time. five games. On Saturday, the Spurs 
Atlanta got scoring from all dumped the Cavs at Gund 12 players, including 14 apiece Arena, 90-77. by Alan Henderson and Dion Though Duncan was in foul Glover. trouble and finished with just 
Williams, Morris Peterson six points, Bruce Bowen had and Vashon Lenard each 14 and Tony Parker chipped in scored 17 points to lead the 13 in the victory. Raptors. "They just made the shots 
they missed in Cleveland," Spurs 104, Cavaliers 78 Ilgauskas said. "Right now, 
After being smacked in the they are just a better team face, Tim Duncan led the San than us." Antonio Spurs' thumping of the The Spurs are 28-3 all time struggling Cleveland Cavaliers. in San Antonio against the 
Duncan scored 25 points and Cavaliers. Stephen Jackson came off the They have won every home bench to add 16 of his 18 in meeting since a 104-95 set­the fourth quarter as the Spurs back on December 8, 1988, at pulled away for a rout of the the old HemisFair Arena -the Cavaliers. season before center David 
The reigning league MVP, Robinson's rookie campaign. Duncan left the game with 3:04 Duncan sank a pair of free to go in the first quarter after throws and put home a layup being poked in the eye by during the final minute of the Cavaliers guard Ricky Davis. first half to open a 48-37 cush­
"It was the initial hit of it ion. that kinda scared me. The eye The four-time All-Star then is fine," Duncan said. scored nine points in the third, 
The superstar power forward converting a pair of free returned with 9:44 left in the throws with just over two min­opening half, scored 19 points utes to go in the period to and helped San Antonio open a make it 65-53. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ac rhe Notre Dame office, 024 Souch Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces, The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
- 
NOTICES  #1 Spring Break VacationslMexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1 ·800-234· 7007 endlesssummertours.com  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD· ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500.Wi11iamson_1@nd.edu  3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.It. house. Close to ND. All appli• ances,big yard,garage,C/A. Beautiful. Must see. $1000/rno. 243-9901.  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE_ AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www_ststravet.com  
••At Last Spring Break·• Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash• tours.com 18004267710  Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187.  FOR RENT  3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.ft. house. Close to ND. All appli­ances,big yard,garage,C/A. Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 NEED 2 TIX FOR RUTGERS.  I need a piece NUMBER 11!!11  
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, JOA­DAN LOVE, MOM & DAD  WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296,  All size homes available for 2003·  243-9901.  PLEASE CALL 674-6593.  Only in Madden would a 99 team be controlled by someone who would start out 0-4 and need coach­ 
2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com  TICKETS  PERSONAL  ing help to squeak out a win.  
~  Buy/Sell N D Football Tickets.Student discount avail­able.289-8048 WANTED  TAX PREPARERS needed by local tax firm -full & part time for the upcoming tax season. Experience a plus. Call Mrs_ Johnson 234-4564. FOR SALE  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses. 288-9673_ Avail now.  N.D_ tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911 . WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude. CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  249 was one busy room tonight Congratulations to 4B Knott Hall on dominating the section football championships. 7-0, baby! Now gve us our bamer  

-
Tuesday, Novemeber 19, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Selig approves blockbuster Hampton deal 
Associated P rcss 
ATLANTA 
Left-hander Mike Hampton's trade to the Atlanta Braves was approved Monday by commis­sioner Bud Selig. 
The Braves called an after­noon news conference to dis­cuss the deal, which casts doubt on whether the team will re­sign starters Tom Gtavine and Greg Maddux, both free agents. 
Hampton was shipped to Atlanta al'ter a brier stopover with the Florida Marlins. They acquired the pitcher and out­!'icldcr Juan Pierre from the Colorado Hockics in exchange for catcher Charles Johnson, outlielder Preston Wilson, left­handed reliever Vic Darensbourg and second base prospect Pablo Ozuna. 
The Braves sent the Marlins reliever Tim Spooneybarger and a minor leaguer who has not been identilicd. 
Atlanta is responsible for just $5.5 million of Hampton's salary over the next three years, which could increase payroll llexibility. 
As part of the deals, Colorado pays Florida $6.5 million over the next three years, and the Marlins pay Atlanta $30 million over the next three seasons. 
In addition, the Rockies remain responsible for the $19 million Hampton is owed from his $21 million signing bonus 
This Weel< in 
and for a $6 million buyout of his. 2009 option, which was declined just before the trade. 
Hampton was a bust in Denver's thin air. After a 9-2 start in 2001, he went 12-26 with a 6.62 ERA for the Rockies. The 30-vcar-old left-hander was 7-15 this year with a 6.15 EM, the highest in the major leagues among qualifying pitchers. 
The Braves made an offer l.o Glavine, a two-time Cy Young Award winner who has spent his entire 16-ycar career in Atlanta. But the left-hander could get a more lucrative deal from the New York Mets, who last week offered a three-year contract worth about $31 mil­lion. 
Maddux, a four-time Cy Young Award winner, has been with the Braves for 10 seasons but seems even less likely to return than Glavine. His agent, Scott Boras, isn't expected to begin serious talks with prospective teams until next month. 
Two years ago, Colorado gave Hampton a $121 million, eight­year contract, a record for a pitcher, and the Rockies will wind up paying $49 million of the deal: the $21 million signing bonus, a $6 million salary in 2001, $8.5 million in 2002, the $6 million buyout of his 2009 option, a $1 million payment to the Hampton Foundation, plus payments to Florida of $2 mil­lion in 2003, $2 million in 2004 

Pitcher Mike Hampton fires a pitch during a game with the Colorado Rockies last season. 
and $2.5 million in 2005. 
Commissoner Bud Selig approved a trade Monday to send Hampton to the Atlanta Braves. 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 



B.__d_a,------­

RCIA Session 
10:00-11 :30 a.m. campus Bible Study Coleman-Morse Lounge 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m.Weekly Spanish Mass Zahm Hall Chapel 
10:30 p.m. 
St. Edward's Hall Tour of the Basilica International Students & Scholars 
2:00 p.m. Followed by a reception at 103 Coleman-Morse 
Law School Mass
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
5:00 p.m.
8:00 p.m. 
Law School ChapelWilson Commons 
MBA Mass
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
7:00 p.m.
10:00-11:00 p.m. 
Mendoza College of Business ChapelMorrissey H all Chapel 
Retreats 

sign 

1 
Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Freshman Retreat #44 Retreat Date: December 6-7 
Sign-up dates: November 11-December 2 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
page 16 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 19, 2002 

ti 
C 
"' 
c 
:, 0 
u 
u 
< 
'-' 
:;;
,, 
i:,_ 
.., 
0, 
\:: 
e 
<..,)"' 
0 
-
a Cl> -~ 
C: 
C 
... 
·;;:"' 
0) 
e 
<
.. 
-s 
>­
.... 
-c:, 
~ 
0 
"'
.. 
0 
Q. 
"' 
Start here. Go places. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you leam m business ­strategic and analytical thinking, communication. and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
Start going places with a Summer Dream Internship. Register online today and complete your application by 2/01/03 to compete for one of two $5,000 paid internships. Eight other students will receive cash value awards of up to $1,000~ 

Is sub1ect to the complete Contest Oflicial Rules Entries may be submined on the Sta1111ereGoP!accs'LOm Web site located at www.StartflereGoPlacas com or on the CollegeClub.com Weh s•te lo<:.ite.d at wwwCollegeClub com All e11l11es hecome the properly of Sponsor. as defined in 1he complete Contes1 Cfhcia! Rules Employees-and f.1mily rne,nbers ol Sponsor not eligible to particIpa:e. Sponsor 1s no! responsible lo, rechnical or other malfuncrions. losr r~ unnwlilable network connections. Of Jailerl electronic communications that may occur mlheproce,srog ol lhe gntrres The authors ol thetwol2) Grnnd Prize wmn1ng essays will each receive their chrnce of one of tM ·sumll'er Dream lnte,nsh1ps.. P,(Nided hy Sponsor. which mciudes hve 1ho,,sand dollars IS5.000l to he r,11~ over the crn.se of the 1ntemsllip The G•antl l'lize 1s not tmnsfetahle. except b-j Sponsor who may subst1t11te p111e with a p<1ze of equal "'lue m oµpo1t,imty No cash or pure sit!Jst1tution 1s allaW<?d and other restr.ctions apply The ,111thors of lhe_thr~e 131 winnmg Runners-Up ess..1ys will 1eceive one lhousand dollar_ (S1.000) g h checks. fhe aulhors of the five (5) w•ming Honorable Mention esS<1ys will recr.ive f1vP. hundred dollar iS500) g1h checks. Void where Jllllhibited Winners will be responsible for any aod all laxes Sponso< The American lnstitule ol Certified Public Accountants. 1211 Ave11ue of the Arnonc.1s. New York. NY 10036-8775. Co!legeClub com. a d1v1sion ol Student Ad-,a11tage, Inc. 2'.l35 Corte Del NO(J,1I, Srnle JOO, Cad,11.11I. CA 92009. 
-
Tuesday, November 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Tar Heels blow out Nittany Lions at home 85-55 
give them anything to cheer Brandon Watkins said. "We
As,o~ia1ed Prcss 
about." didn't have a Band-Aid big 
CHAPEL HILL. N.C. North Carolina advanced to the enough to cover it." 
Matt Doherty had reason to be second round and will play host McCants, who sat out last nervous after an 8-20 season. to Rutgers, which beat Columbia week's exhibition game with a North Carolina's freshmen 60-36. on Wednesday night. sore shoulder, was hot from the weren't the least bit jittery The Tar Heels, with just two start, getting two slams and con­Monday night. seniors and no juniors on their secutive 3-pointers 29 seconds 
Hashad McCants scored 28 roster, made 10 of their first 12 apart in the first 3:06 that helped points to set the freshman scor­shots and scored on 12 of their bury a Penn State team that was ing mark for an opening game as first 15 possessions to go up by 7-21 a season ago. the Tar Heels rolled over Penn 20 points eight minutes in. "It's beyond my wildest dreams State 85-55 in the first round of The Tar Heels started three just to play in this uniform," the Prcseason NIT. freshmen -McCants, Sean May McCants said when asked about 
"It's been a long offseason and and Raymond Felton -for the starring in his first game. "Just to my insides were bursting," first time in school history. The be out there and hear the crowd Doherty said. "I had no idea how three former prep stars didn't was great." we would do. I had no idea how disappoint Doherty. At one point in the first half Penn State would do. I probably They all laughed when told Mccants had 17 points -so did need to go run a marathon that Doherty was more nervous Penn State, which missed 25 of before games so I can calm down than them. its first 33 attempts and finished a little bit." "We had nothing to be nervous shooting 30 percent. 
It didn't take North Carolina about," May said. "It's a basket­"We did a good job of shutting long to win over its fans after the ball game. We went out there out some passes and keeping school's first 20-loss season, and played hard. There were no them from running their offense going on a 20-6 run to open the jitters for us." and they had to go one-on-one," game against a Penn State team The 6-foot-4 McCants was 11-Doherty said. "I was real proud that was ovormatched in the of-14 from the field to best ofour defensive energy." quickness department. Joseph Forte's freshman record Watkins led the Nittany Lions 
The game was a far cry from of 24 points to open the 1999-with a career-high 24 points. His last year's opener in the Smith 2000 season against Southern previous best was 21 last season Center when North Carolina lost California. May added 17 points against Purdue. 77-69 to Hampton, beginning a and 10 rebounds. while Felton The Tar Heels went up by 31 frustrating year that would be had nine points and 1Dassists. less than three minutes into the the worst in school history. McCants had a perfect first second half to improve to 11-2 
"It's been a long time since our half. making all seven of his shots all-time in the Preseason NIT. fans have been on their feet con­for 20 points. May and Felton Penn State closed to 71-53 with sistently like that," senior Will also were factors as the three an 18-3 run with 6:47 left, but Johnson said. "I was happy for first-year players combined for McCants scored on his own our fans that we could go out 40 of North Carolina's points in missed shot, Jackie Manuel there and give them something to taking a 54-29 halftime lead. added a driving layup and May cheer about because they stuck "The wound kept getting big­dunked to force a timeout by with us last year when we didn't ger and bigger," Penn State's Nittany Lions coach Jerry Dunn. 

NOTRE DAME GOES COLD TURKEY 
Join the Notre Dame Community on Thursday, November 21, 2002 for 
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 
Turn in your tobacco products and receive Coupons for a FREE turkey sandwich may be redeemed at these locations:
acoupon for aFREE turkey sandwich. 
Reckers 
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following 

Greenfields
locations and times: 
-
HuddleMart 311 LaFortune 9am -noon, 1pm -4pm Decio Commons Cafe Poche (Bond Hall)
Huddle llam-lpm 
Irish Cafe (Law School)
North Dining Hall llam-lpm 
Waddlcks (O'Shaughnessy) South Dining Hall llam-lpm Common Stock Sandwich Co. Cafe de Grasta
Cafe de Grasta llam-lpm 
This program is sponsored by: IRISHealth, American Cancer Society, Notre Dame Food Services, PILLARS, and Alcohol and Drug Education. 
-
• 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 19, 2002 
NHL 
Overtime goal lifts Canadiens 
. Audette nets game-winning goal late in overtime 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Donald Audette scored 1:12 into overtime for the Montreal Canadiens, who got a career• best three goals from Saku Koivu in a 5.4 victory Monday night over the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Audette. who ended a 23· game goal-scoring drought in his previous game, beat Pittsburgh goalie Johan Hedberg for the winner. None of the nine goals in the game came while the teams were skating 5-on-5. 
Koivu scored twice on the power play and got the Canadiens' first short-handed goal of the season. All eight goals in regulation-Were scored on special teams. 
Mario Lemieux had two assists and scored his 10th goal with 8:49 left in the third period for the Penguins' fourth power• play goal to tie it at 4-4. 
Lemieux, who has 10 goals and 24 assists in 17 games, leads the NHL with 34 points. 
Dick Tarnstrom, Alexsey Morozov and Jan Hrdina also scored with the man advantage for Pittsburgh, which lost its second in a row and remained winless in six (0-3-1-2). 
The Penguins went 4-for-7 on the power-play. Montreal went 3-for-8. 
Koivu scored on the power­play goal early in the first peri­od and added a short•handed goal early in the second. He completed his first three•goal game in 348 regular•season appearances with another power-play score midway through the second. 
Koivu, who also assisted on 
-
.. 
Campus s ors 
Cold Weather EJCperts 
Calf259-1oao for maie details 
Patrice Brisebois' power•play goal, which put Montreal up 4•2 with 3:35 left in the second period, tied a career high with four points. It was his fourth four-point game, and first since he had two goals and two ·assists against Pittsburgh on 
Feb. 28, 2001. 
Hrdina scored his fifth goal of 
the season 2:22 into the third to 
draw the Penguins within 4-3. 
Pittsburgh tied it at 11: 11 as a 
loose puck went in off 
Lemieux's right skate. A video 
review confirmed the goal. 
Koivu opened the scoring 
1:42 in, taking Audette's pass from behind the net at the edge of the crease and beating Johan Hedberg for his sixth of the sea­son. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Wyoming fires head coach 
Associated Press 
LARAMIE, Wyo. 
Wyoming coach Vic Koenning was fired Monday. with his team struggling at 2­9 and one game left on the schedule. 
Koenning compiled a 5-28 record at the school in three years, including a 1-19 mark in Mountain West Conference play. He had two years left on his contract, with a base salary of $105,204 a year. 
"We believe that it is in the best interest of our program that we make a change at this time," athletic director Lee Moon said. "No one would ever question Vic's dedica­tion, and his work ethic. Unfortunately, sometimes those attributes do not neces" 
"The Cowboys had just one quality win [Air Force] in three seasons," Moon said. 
"The success of any program, ultimately, is measured by wins and losses." 
The school hopes to hire a new coach as soon as possible "and bring Cowboy football back to where we all expect it to be," Moon said. 
Koenning. 42, became Wyoming's 29th head football coach in December 1999. 
He said the team made "tremendous strides" -in the classroom and on the field -during his three years. 

"Unfortunately, we couldn't get enough wins on the field to demonstrate that progress," Koenning said. "This program will be suc­cessful with the character and courage that we feel like we've helped to instill in these young men." 
Koenning said he was at peace with the decision, but made no comment about his future. 

"My only regret is not get­ting to see the fruits of our labors," he said. "I very much appreciate the support of the great fans and followers of Cowboy football. After six years here, being a Cowboy is in my blood." 
Koenning broke the news to players Monday afternoon, Moon said. 
"Just like anybody else, when they sec change I'm sure they're concerned," Moon said, "but they're resilient and they've still got one more game to play and they have to go out and play." 
Fifth-year linebacker Herman White, a team cap­tain, said many players had grown close to Koenning, who was Wyoming's defensive coordinator and inside line­backers coach for three sea­sons before being named head coach. 
2002-2003 Mainstagc Season 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre PRESENTS 
WRITTEN BY paula vogel • DIRECTED BY wendy arons 
Washington Hall WED, NOVEMBER 20, 7:30 P.M. THU, NOVEMBER 2 l, 7:30 P.M. FRI. NOVEMBER 22, 7:30 P.M. SAT, NOVEMBER 23, 7:30 P.M. SUN, NOVEMBER 24, 2:30 P.M. 
Tickets RESERVED SEATS $10 SENIOR C!TIZENS $9 ALL STUDENTS $7 Available ac the Lafortune Student Center ticket office. Mastercard and Visa orders call 574-631-8128. 
This production is supported by the Institute for Scholarship in che Liberal Arrs. 





urritos & sombre 

zoo Free Burritos 
{from Boracho Burrito) 
Tuesday, November 19th 
10:00 pm -12:00 am Notre Dame Room 
{2nd Floor of LaFor1:une) 
Come by to hear a sample of Matt Nathanson! 
Class hats will be on sale for $15. 
Sponsored by: Junior Class Council For n1ore lnlormation visit: www.nd.ec1u/•elasso4 


Fathers Bill Miscamble, C.S.C. and Pat Neary, C.S.C. at Moreau Seminary. 
...Providing leadership to the Next Generation. 

www.~d.edu/~vocation 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL W 

page 19 

NFL 
Maddox expected to return Monday 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Quarterback Tommy Maddox has no structural damage in his injured spine and was walking in his hospital room in Tennessee on Monday, but the Steelers weren't ready to say when he can play again. 
"We're quite happy with his progress," team doctor Anthony Yates said at a news conference Monday morning. 
Maddox was hurt on the final play of the third quarter of the Steelers' 31-23 loss at the Tennessee Titans and spent Sunday night in the hospital with a concussion. 
He was expected to return to Pittsburgh on Monday night and be hospitalized in the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center for further tests. But all indications were that his injury is not career-threatening. 
Maddox underwent X-rays, a CT scan and MRI exams Monday morning and no structural dam­age was detected. Yates said. Maddox was initially diagnosed with a spinal cord contusion -a bruising and swelling that includes hemorrhaging -but instead he has an interruption in the normal electrical activity in the spine. · 
For at least the next several weeks and perhaps longer, for­mer starter Kordell Stewart, whom Maddox replaced during the third game of the season, will be the quarterback. The Steelers (5-4-1) are at home Sunday against Cincinnati (1-9). 
At least 15 minutes passed Sunday at The Coliseum while Maddox was turned onto his back and strapped to a back­board after trainers cut off his face mask. Players for both teams knelt and prayed. 
Maddox was unconscious for about five minutes but never stopped breathing. 
Maddox was hurt while flip­ping the ball to Antwaan Randle El for a 2-yard gain. As Maddox fell forward. Titans linebacker Keith Bulluck put his forearm into Maddox's shoulder. Maddox's head rolled under­neath him slightly as he hit the ground, and he did not move. 
McNabb out for 6 weeks 
Donovan McNabb probably will miss the rest of the regular season and could be out for the playoffs because of his broken right ankle. 
'Tm looking at it like we don't have Donovan this season and we move on," Philadelphia Eagles coach Andy Reid said Monday. 
McNabb was injured on the third play of Sunday's game against Arizona, but he stayed in and threw a career-best four 
enormous 
FLEECE 
Selection 
~minutes 
ii,!.

t!.. 0m OUTPOST 
Campus s ors 
Cold Weat1'er Experts 

touchdown passes to lead the Eagles past the Cardinals 38-14. 
The Eagles (7-3) have six games left. and hold a one-game lead over the New York Giants in the NFC East. The two-time Pro Bowl quarterback could possibly return for the playoffs, but Reid said it's too early to set a definite timetable. 
"It's somewhere in the six-to­eight week area, but that has to be determined," Heid said. 
McNabb, his family and the Eagles' medical staff are consid­ering options that include surgery or having his ankle placed in a cast. Reid expects a decision to be made in the next day or so. 
McNabb, who has never had a serious injury, had insisted he'd try to play against San Francisco next Monday night. He has made 53 straight starts, including playoffs. 
"In my mind, I'll be out there," McNabb said. 
But Reid ruled that out Monday. Koy Detmer will start in McNabb's place. A.J. Feeley takes Delmer's spot as the back­up. 
McNabb went down after he was sacked by Adrian Wilson and LeVar Woods on third-and-4 on the opening possession. lie clutched his right leg and stayed on the turf after losing the ball. but returned on Philadelphia's next series. 
X-rays after the game showed the break in his fibula. 
Unable to scramble because of his injury -which was original­ly thought to be a sprain -McNabb stayed in the pocket and threw TD passes of 2 yards to James Thrash, 3 to Dorsey Levens. 27 to Todd Pinkston and 9 to Duce Staley in the first half. 
Though he limped noticeably the entire game, McNabb didn't miss a play until coming out with 
4:49 left. He finished 20-ol'-25 for 255 yards and one intercep­tion, but he had no rushing attempts for the first time in his career. 
Griese possibly out 3 weeks 
Brian Griese's sprained left knee will keep him out of Denver's lineup against Indianapolis next weekend and could sideline him for three weeks. 
Broncos coach Mike Shanahan said his quarterback will not practice this week after being injured in a 31-9 victory over Seattle on Sunday. Griese was hurt late in the third quarter when Seattle defensive tackle Rocky Bernard rolled into his knee. 
An MRI exam Monday showed that Griese has a second-degree sprain of the medial collateral ligament. 
Shanahan said the good news was that Griese didn't have much swelling or a dramatic loss of motion that typically comes with such an injury. 
Steve Beuerlein, who threw two four-quarter touchdown passes in relief of Griese, will start against the Colts on Sunday night. 
It will be the 37-year-old Beuerlein's first start since the final game of the 2000 season, when he played for Carolina. I le missed last season with an elbow injury. 
--------,-------------------------------------------~ 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, November 19, 2002 



... around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Louisiana Tech at Florida 7 p.m., ESPN Holy Cross at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA BASKETBALL 
Chicago at Sacramento 1 O p.m., FOX 
NFL 

It wasn't easy, even Warner, who missed Lamar Gordon, Faulk's Associated Press against the battered five games with a broken replacement. caughi a 22­Bears (2-8), who trailed pinkie and is scheduled to yard touchdown pass late 
ST. LOUIS 
by a point into the fourth return next week in in the first half. but St. 
Marc Bulger carried the 
quarter and cut it to 21-Washington, made his Louis was limited to just
St. Louis Rams closer in 
16 on Paul Edinger's 50-first appearance since 62 yards on the ground by
their improbable run 
yard field goal with 3:42 Sept. 29 in the second Brian Urlacher and the 
toward the playoffs 
left. But Bulger completed quarter, when Bulger was Chicago defense. 
although Kurt Warner 
a clutch 10-yard pass on taken to the locker room The Rams scored on the 
made a cameo appear­
third-and-9 to Torry Holt for X-rays on an injured first and last drives of the 
ance a week earlier than 
with 2:30 remaining that index finger on his throw­first half to take a 14-6 
scheduled. 
forced the Bears to use ing hand. halftime lead. 
Bulger threw for 34 7 
their last timeouts. Warner was sacked by The Bears had a final 
yards and two touch­
Isaac Bruce had six Keith Traylor and was 1-chance when they got the 
downs Monday night as 
receptions for 141 yards for-2 for 13 yards. Bulger, ball at their own 25 with 
the Rams beat the 
and Adam Archuleta led a now 5-0 as a starter, 1 :07 left and no timeouts. 
Chicago Bears 21-16 to 
Rams defense that sacked returned after X-rays But Chandler was sacked 
win their fifth straight 
Chris Chandler seven were negative. by Damione Lewis and 
after opening the season 
times. Chandler was play­With Marshall Faulk out Chandler's desperation
with five losses. That 
ing with a sore neck in with ankle and foot fourth-down pass was 
pulls them to within two 
place of Jim Miller, who injuries, the Rams had tipped away by Tommy 
games of San Francisco in 
had a sore elbow. almost no running game. Polley.
the NFC West. 
IN BRIEF 
NFL warns teams Ohio State drops in BCS after "The BCS really hasn't entered my The NFL has sent all 32 teams a mind," Miami coach Larry Coker said. 
narrow escape 
memo warning that they are subject to Miami finally moved atop the Bowl "I don't think it's entered the minds of 
fines if they supply players -know­Championship Series standings -by our players much." ingly or not -with banned supple­the slimmest of margins. ments. The defending national champion ClosinJ{ arguments wrap up 
The memo mentioned that a team Hurricanes squeaked past Ohio State, in HR tiall case already has been disciplined, without which needed overtime to beat Illinois Closing arguments wrapped up 
saying which team. Monday in the trial over who gets to
23-16 Saturday. in the latest standings 
ESPN's Chris Mortensen reports that released Monday. They edged the keep Barry Bonds' historic 73rd home run ball, and a judge said he'll rule in
sources have told him the team was Buckeyes by 0.01 points, and the topthe Oakland Raiders, and the disci­two BCS teams have never been clos­mid-December. pline came in the form of an undis­er. The ball. perhaps worth $1 million closed fine. The Raiders declined to Miami, No. 1 in the AP media and because it set baseball's single-season 
make a comment. home run record, landed in Alex
coaches' polls, has 3.69 points to top
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello con­Popov's glove for an instant. In the
the standings for the first time this firmed that the memo had been sent, season, while Ohio State has 3.70 ensuing pileup, however, the ball popped out and Patrick Hayashi ended 
but he would not comment on which points. Washington State is third with team already was disciplined. 9.11 points. up pocketing it. Last spring, the NFL became the The tight margin will be meaning­That was Oct. 7, 2001, in the right­
first U.S. sports league to ban less if Ohio State {12-0) and Miami (9-field bleachers of the San Francisco ephedrine, a substance that also often 0) -the only unbeaten teams remain­Giants' Pacific Hell Park. Popov sued. is found in strength-building food sup­ing -win the rest of their games. The and the two men have been in court plements and can cause seizures, top two teams in the final BCS stand­for two weeks of trial.Judge Kevin M. 
strokes or even death. It was done ings released Dec. 8 will play in the McCarthy, who is hearing the case with the backing of the NFL Players national title game at the Fiesta Bowl without a jury, said he will issue his 
Association. ruling Dec. 18.
in Tempe, Ariz., on Jan. 3. 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
CLUB SPORTS front. After failing to record a double-double during his
Irish 
three years at Maryland, 
Irish capture Invitational 
. Water polo starts season off right despite graduation losses 
Special co the Observer 
lleports or a sudden demise were proven false this week­cnd, as coach Brian Coughlin's womens water polo club opened the season by capturing the Virginia Tech Invitational. 
Graduation took a heavy toll on a. club that reached the final four each of the past two years, reaching national rankings of 2 and 3 at the end of the last two seasons. 
Although expectations were lower, the club displayed a balanced attack as different players stepped up in each game. Allison Gienko's three goals paced the club in the opener. a 7-3 victory over Emory. 
The club hammered James Madison 11-4 in the second round, leading to the semifi­nal with the host Gobblers. 
Freshman Kristy Bohling found the back of the net three times as the Irish pum­meled Virginia Tech, 14-3. 
The Sunday finals found the Irish paired against Ivy League power Penn. Again, the Irish youth led the way as sophomore Kimmy Moore fired in four goals as the Irish emerged victorious, 9-4. 
With goalie Brigette Alge anchoring the defense, the Irish look poised to again challenge for national recog­nition. The club will return to the water next Sunday at Purdue. 
Ultimate 
Horrible weather this weekend in Knoxville made for an extremely cold, wet, and muddy David Baldwin Memorial Invitational at Tennessee. The Notre Dame Ultimate club made its sixth consecutive appearance in the 16-team field and opened with a 13-9 win over East Carolina. 
The Irish dropped the sec­ond game to Michigan, 13-7, on a swamped field as condi­tions worsened by the hour. 
Splitting  their  next  two  
games,  a  13-6  win  over  
Knoxville and  an  11-10 loss  

to Tulane, the Irish then made short work of ECU in a rematch, 13-8, placing the Irish in Sunday's quarterfi­nals. 
Rob Bruggner's Irish grew stronger each round as they posted a 13-11 win over a fine Virginia Tech squad, and then defeated highly regard­ed Clemson, 11-7, in the semifinals. However, at this point, tournament officials were forced to cancel the finals due to terrible field conditions. The Irish were awarded second place, due to the losses on Saturday. 
Sailing 
Beautiful clear skies and temperatures in the high 70s and low 80s were the norm at Lake Cachuma as the Notre Dame sailing club placed 12th in the twenty team North -South Intersectional at Cal Santa Barbara this weekend. Captain Jack Gaither's squad 
had the best showing of' any Midwest school, finishing one spot ahead of favored Michigan. 
In the Flying Junior class, Gaither paired with Saint Mary's Katie Roney in one boat, while Meghann Finerty and Matt Cassady crewed the second boat. 
Andrew Lappin and Commodore Mike Stephens soloed a pair of Lasers to complete the line-up. 
USC earned first place hon­
. ors, followed by Hawaii, Stanford, Cal-Irving, Cal­Santa Barbara and Texas. The Irish finished ahead of several well established sail­ing programs, including Santa Clara, Orange Coast, Portland State, Cal-Poly SLO, and UCLA. 
Mens volleyball 
The mens volleyball club hosted Northwestern and Club Nowak in action at Rolfs Sports Hecreation Center this Saturday. 
The Irish fielded two teams as ND1 finished undefeated. NDl 's front line of Andrew Mascarenhas, Tom Bradbeer, and Brad Weldon swept the Wildcats in straight games. 
After a rough start against Club Nowak, NDl bounced back to win 13-25, 25-23, 15­
12. The Irish placed some top players on ND2 as well, resulting in a second win over Northwestern, 25-22, 25-18. 
ND2 dropped their opener to Club Nowak 25-14, 25-20. Fielding two squads enabled the Irish to develop depth and spread game experience among the entire squad. 

In Commemoration of 
November 20th • Day of the child 

more than 250 Palestinian and 72 Israeli children have been murdered in the last two years 
In The Line of Fire: children in Israel and the Occupied Territories 
A Lecture and Question & Answer Opportunity Professor Garth Meintjes • Center of Civil and Human Rights Nov. 20 • 7PM DeBartolo • Room 140 
Presented by • Amnesty lntern.1tional-ND • The Joan B. Kroc Institute • The Helen Kellogg Institute • • The Program in Middle Eastern Studies• The Center for Social Concerns • 
continued from page 24 
The exclamation point came with a SportsCenter-worthy highlight with 8:40 left in the game. Carroll led a fast break down tho court and sent a behind-the-back pass to Dan Miller, who emphatically slammed a dunk home and drew a foul. 
After the game, Brey called the play "Showtime," Miller said he wished it was nation­ally televised and Carroll just grinned and hummed the SportsConter theme. 
That was just one of several fancy passes the Irish made all night. Led by Thomas' 11 assists, the Irish finished with 25 assists compared to 11 turnovers. 
While Notre Dame's offense impressed the 10,255 fans at the Joyce Center, their defense impressed their coach. The Irish frustrated IUPUI shooters all night, and would have set a team record for blocks in a game with 13 had they not broken the,same record Sunday night. 
"It's the first time since I've been here where we really have a defensive identity." Irish coach Mike Brey said. " ... Last year, we were a little bit of the smoke and mirrors because we couldn't stay with you for 40 minutes. I think this team is enjoying guarding ... and now I think we have some pride in that, and that's good to see especially in November." 
Once again, Jordan Cornette continued his spectacular defensive play. Fresh off rejecting a record-setting 11 shots Sunday, Cornette fin­ished with eight blocks against the Jaguars. 
But Cornette wasn't the only player anchoring the Irish up Miller now has two in two games with the Irish after fin­ishing with 17 points and 11 rebounds. 
Torin Francis also had a big night. After struggling in his college debut Sunday. Francis responded with 16 points and 10 rebounds. 
"I was so pissed Sunday after the first half, I know I stepped it up the second half'. but still," Francis said. "The whole team came out fired up and ready to play before tip• off tonight, and that's what we needed to do." 
With the win Monday, the Irish improved to 2-0 on the season and advanced to the championship round of the Guardians Classic on Nov. 25 and 26. 
Notes: 
. Monday's game was a fami­ly reunion for Jere Macura, who squared off against his brother Pctar, a freshman at IUPUI. 
Petar only took one shot, a long 3-pointer that sailed wide of the basket, and his brother made sure to kid him about the miss after the game. 
"It's the first time I've seen him in three months," said Macura, whose mother trav­eled from Croatia to watch her sons play. 
. Irish center Tom Timmermans dressed but did not play for Monday's game, the second straight game he missed. 
But Brey said Timmermans, held out with back spasms, could have played if he was absolutely needed, and the coach expected Timmermans to be ready to play Friday. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Ratay nominated for Senior award 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame senior guard Alicia Ratay has been selected as one of 30 candidates for the second annual Senior Class Award, which is pre­sented annually to the nation's senior Player of the Year by the Senior Class Organizing Committee. Ratay is one of three Big East Conference student-athletes on the list of Senior Class Award "Players to Watch," joining Villanova's Trish Juhline and Brianne Stepherson of Boston College . Connecticut guard Sue Bird
,-·---------·-·-.. 
Sportswear
largest selectiog at 
Sminute~.A.. from CU-ri=ICS'T 
Campus 
Cold Weather E"Xpert11 


Call 259-1000 for more details 
received the inaugural award last year. 
Ratay is a two-time Associated Press honorable mention All-American and was a first-team all-Big East selection last season. She ranks ninth in school history with 1,375 points and is among the top perimeter shooters in the country. con­necting at a school-record .480 clip l'rom behind the three-point line in her career. She also has made a school­record 86.7 percent of her free throws at Notre Dame, and both her free throw and three-point percentages cur­rently stand among the top 10 in NCAA history. 
Ratay also is an exemplary student, owning a 3.46 cumu­lative grade-point average while pursuing a double major in psychology and edu­cation. She has been named to the Big East Academic J\11­Star Team each of the last three years, and she has gar­nered Dean's List honors three times . 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 19, 2002 
SENDWICH INDEX 
Irish continue to move up in poll 
For the first time in three weeks. all of the unbeaten col• lege football teams remained unbeaten. 
Of course, "all" now includes only Miami and Ohio State. The Hurricanes had a week off, while the Buckeyes got all they could han· die from a 

Eric
meager Illinois Chanowich squad. After 
Sports
multiple 
Columnist
second half lead changes, Illinois kicker John Cockman sent the game into overtime with a 48-yard field goal as regulation time expired. Maurice Hall, half of the tan• dem filling in for injured fresh­man halfback Maurice Clarett, scored on an 8-yard scamper to give the Buckeyes a 23-16 lead in the first overtime. 
It took two questionable pos­session-related calls on end zone passes to keep the lllini from tying the game on their ensuing possession. Despite their perfect record, poor per­formances of late and a weak strength-of-schedule leaves the Buckeyes at No. 4 in this week's Sendwich Index. The Illini dropped only two spots to No. 62. 
Ohio State may face their stiffest challenge of the season against archrival Michigan next Saturday. Fortunately for the Buckeyes. they should have Clarett and his 6.0 yards per carry back in the lineup. 
Additionally, the game is being played in Columbus, where the Buckeyes are a much better team. Ohio State's average margin of victory at home is 26 points, despite playing opponents with an average winning percentage of .600, and the Buckeyes have won by an average of only six points on the road this year, though those opponents have an average winning percentage ofjust .420. 
The Red Raider Invader 
There was an aerial assault in Lubbock, Texas on Saturday but the only casualty was the Texas Longhorns' national championship hopes. 
Texas Tech's Kliff Kingsbury completed 38 of 60 passes for an incredible 473 yards and six touchdowns, while throwing zero interceptions in an upset victory over Texas. 
The Longhorns' Chris Simms kept the game close with 345 yards and four touchdowns of his own, but it was Kingsbury who struck last with 5:44 remaining, to give the Red Raiders a 42-38 win in a see­saw contest. With the win, the Red Raiders jumped 14 places to round out the top 25 this week, while Texas slipped three spots to No. 13. 
Kingsbury, who hasn't thrown for fewer than 268 yards in a game all year, clear­ly got the best of a fifth-ranked Texas defense that came into the game allowing an average of only 125 passing yards per game. 
So we can't help but wonder 
why 

Kingsbury isn't con­
sidered a 
frontrun­
ner, or 
even a con­
tender, in 
the 
Hcisman 
race?
Eric 
Miami 
Sendelbach 
quarter­back Ken Dorsey
Sports 
leads
Columnist 
ESPN.com's 
mock 
Heisman voting, whHe Kingsbury is nowhere to be found in the list of candidates. 
On the year, Dorsey has com­pleted 152 of 279 passes for 2,265 yards, 18 touchdowns. and eight interceptions, good for a quarterback rating of 
141.8. Meanwhile, Kingsbury has completed 432 of 634 for 4,455 yards, 41 touchdowns, and only ten interceptions, giv­ing him a quarterback rating 145.4. 
Of course, Kingsbury has thrown the ball over twice as many times as Dorsey, but the Red Raider invader still has a better completion percentage, quarterback rating, and touch­down to interception ratio. Furthermore, opposing defens­es know that Kingsbury is throwing the ball nearly every down but they still can't stop him, whereas Dorsey has No. 2 Heisman contender Willis McGahee lining up in his back­field. 
Safe to say, if we had a Heisman ballot, Kingsbury would be No. 1 on it. 
Texas Tech concludes its reg­ular season against No. 3 Oklahoma in Norman this Saturday. Should the Red Raiders somehow defeat the Sooners. Texas Tech will win the Big XVII South division and face Colorado, who has already clinched the North Division, in the conference championship with an automatic BCS bid at stake. 
Sendwich Corruption? 
Despite recent suggestions that the Sendwich Index is more corrupt than Richard Nixon and Enron combined, we assure you that Notre Dame is indeed earning its No. 2 rank­ing in our computerized rank­ing system. 
The Irish, who have faced one of the toughest schedules in the country and emerged with only one loss, were able to move up one spot this w~_ek, as they slipped by former No. 2 Oklahoma when the Sooners took a major hit to their strength-of-schedule from the Texas loss. 
The opinions expressed in this article are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact 
Eric Chanowich at echanowic@nd.edu and Bric 
Sendelbach at esendelba@nd.edu. 

/\~{y
~ Announces the following lolr-offen of... 
.. ------· ·------· ·------· ·------· ·------· 
I I I I I I I I
$59 

I I I I I $69 I
$15 I I $26 I $68 
I I I I Color, Cut & I I I I I
Highlights,

Mens Cut I I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style I I I
Cut & Style

.. ______ ..I I.. ______ ..I I One Process I I I I.. ______ .z 
·------· ·------~ 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-. 
Mus be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Melissa-Connie-Serge'-Kristin-Jennifer-Elaine -Michele -Elena -Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 2

ATRIA SALON 
Notdidforspiralpcnru. Longorrimulhairadd$IO. Noa!hcrdisamnu,pply. Opc,1,omc=nini;s. ATRIA Martin's Shopping Center 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Salon reserves the righcto rehJ5.cSL-r.iccto any diem who~ hair condition is uncn:atahlc. Next to Sprint Comer of Edison 
271-8804 289-5080 
OFFER EXPIRES 11-30-02 Less than I mile from campus 

•
Studyin the nation's capitol 

•
Workin aninternship 

•
Fulfillphilosophy, theology,and fine arts requirements 


•Study public affairs 
•live in an exciting city 
John Eriksen, Director 338 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 
0
• ~>. ', l / 1J, ,
, 

. · www.nd.edu/~se1nester :__.''~,:.r. ·. 
\~ ' ~ 

•
Applications for Fall 2003 & Spring 20Q4 are now being accepted online 

•Open 
to Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors from all colleges 


,. 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002 The Observer . TODAY CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 


YrJJ. 
f!JASE. HE.LP 
YDLH~5"fi:L.f10 I:. eAkE-~ lT£t4. 
. 
UNFORruNATELY FOR !'OCR ~£D, TrlE D!NINEJ 1-\AlLLADY 'R'EALLY DI~ k'NCW fl'E·k'x N-'C'(). 
JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
he longitudinal vortices are Using the velocity fie d just how would you.
• • ·t 
an measurement techniq u gest I make Fluid f, Lee and Lee (2001) c llf.mi~IDP... re~.···,
..this conject ...w. · . , ~.J,J. 
..:.: ;-cwp. 
ft 
r
, 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRlON 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
~ill 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
I ROUCS 
I 
C2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc, All Rights Reserved 
AKDEB 
I I I
tVIDDIE 


WHAT SHE FELT 
LIKE WHEN HER


IJ I HAIi< WAS C.UT .,. TOO SHORT. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

"( I I J· ( I I I I I l J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: ADMIT GAUZE CHISEL QUAVER Answer: What he got when he ate lunch with a com­puter geek -A "SQUARE" MEAL 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 25 • To order, oend your nome, oddreu and $5.95 and 
make chock payable lo Tribune Media Service,, P.0. Box 4330, Chlc1go, IL 00680--4330. 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jodie Foster, Meg Ryan, Larry King, Dick Caveu 
Happy Birthday: Your altitude will be what makes a difference this year. As long as you plan your actions with great care and you are intent on not taking on too much, you will reach the success that you are looking For. Love and romance will be heightened this year and you can expect 10 hear from long-losl friends. Your numbers are IO, 14, 23, 35, 41, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will be a little explosive with your panner. Control your emotions and your words, Gather all the facts before you take action.*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make your plans carefully and be sure to include the one you love. You may have been neglectful lately. Take advantage of trnvel for business and make the occasion extra special for you and your mate. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This is an excellent day to join new groups and expand your circle of friends. Do not overspend or donate too much cash. Give of your time and talents rnther than your wallet. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't allow your emotional panncr to play with your heart. Make your choices and follow through. You must be willing to lei go of the past so you're open lo what the future has in store. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don'! gel involved intimalely with colleagues or employers. Gossip is evidenl and the chances of damaging your reputation could cause a definite setback. Keep your personal life 10 yourself. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Children may be trying today. Don'! hesitate to get out and do things for yourself. You can make career moves or earn exlra cash if you pul your mind to ii.***** LIBRA {Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Be very careful with regard 10 negotia1ing or signing contracts or agreements. Use your discipline to accomplish personal goals or lo break bad habits. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pleasure trips will lead to romantic connections. You can mix business with pleasure if you plan your schedule carefully. Remain calm and keep your emotions to yourself. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Communicate with those who can shed some light on your present position. Friends or relatives may be demanding. Be sure that you don't take on too much. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your effons into gelling ahead. Your personal life may be experiencing difficulties. Accept the changes that you are facing and focus your energy on your career. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your efforts will be wasted if you allow depression or negativity 10 cloud your objectives, Keep your emotions in check and you can learn a lot. Educational pursuits will be to your advantage. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Greater involvement in cultural groups will enable you to meet allies and s1imula1e ideas you can apply to projec1s in progress. Take care of overdue bills or correspondence. * * * * 
Birthday Baby: You will have strong beliefs and a very strong will throughout your life. You will always want to be in charge and in control. You will take the initiative and do what you say you will do. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice,com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Hardly high-class 
6 Tiny tribesman 11 Medicine givers, for short 
14 Stan's partner in comedy 15 Ham's need 16 Feed bag tidbit 
17 Callisto and Europa, to Jupiter 
18 Borneo critter 
19 Alcott of women's golf 
20 "What's up, Doc?" speaker 22 The Dow, e.g. 24 Remote button 25 Building beam 
26 Take turns 29 Tweak 33 "Laugh-In" 
actress 
34 Plants 
35 Cambodia's Lon 
36 Mamie's man 
37 Less ornate 39 Brokaw's 
network 40 Born, in bios 41 Bizarre 42 Sandwich shop 43 Completely 
accurate 45 lied fast 47 Shoots the 
breeze 48 Return for a 
buck? 49 Cornered 51 "Sufterin' 
succotash!" speaker 56 Phi follower 57 Fly-catching bird 59 Oarlock 60 Cigarette ingredient 61 Brain waves 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
_ {modem vehicle) 
23 _ King Cole 
26 African charger 27 Like some oId buckets 
B.:,.+:+;;-f'!!!'l-::-1-:<-laiiil.,,=+=-t-::---• 28 "I tawt I taw a puddy tat!" speaker 

-::-t-,-,+=+:=r.::-1 29 Bat one's eyelashes, say 

62 Sent flowers to, say 63 Norm: Abbr. 64 20 Questions turn 65 Held the deed to 
DOWN 
1 Egyptian pyramid, e.g. 2 Moises of baseball 3 Drano target 4 Father or brother 5 "Agreed. ,, However ... 6 Lying facedown 7 Tall tale 8 Aussie greeting 9 Degree div. 
10 "I'm smarter than the average .. ." speaker 
11 "Beep, beep!" speaker 
12 With 50· and 53-Down, apt title for this puzzle 
13 Charon's river 

Puzzle by Sherry 0. Blackard 
30 Actress Skye 42 Where a boxer 
might be 31 High-minded 
champion 
32 Heston epic 44 Directions-giving org. 34 Lot in life 
45 Dallas hoopster, 37 "Th-th-th-that's 
briefly all, folks!" 46 Pug's combo speaker 
48 Grace word 38 Schleps 49 Play makers? 
WILLSHORTZ 
50 See 12-Down 51 Popeye's 
_'pea 52 Those for 53 See 12-Down 54 Robt. 55 Funny Foxx 58 College Web 
site suffix 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address 
-----------------------------..,,
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Tuesday, November 19, 2002 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Formula works again 
. Carroll ignites Irish, scores 26 
.... 
points in victory 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sport> Writer 
Seconds after drawing an offensive foul two-thirds of the way through the first half Monday, Matt Carroll hopped to his feet, clapped his hands and yelled, "C'mon, let's go" so loud veins started bulging at his neck. 
The Irish listened. 
Trailing IUPUI 18-17 when Carroll drew the foul, the Irish reeled off a 15-5 spurt to pull ahead of the Jaguars for good and cruised to an 89-45 victory. 
Carroll, who struggled to find the basket in Notre Dame's two exhibition games and Sunday against Belmont, finished with a game-high 26 points and earned MVP honors for the Notre Dame regional of the Guardians Classic. 
"Being a shooter, you have to be confident," he said. "Some nights you're going to be off, but you just have to hang in there and you'll get that good game." 
Notre Dame beat IUPUI the same way they beat Belmont Sunday -with tough defense and sudden offensive explo­sions. The Irish limited the 
Jaguars to just 17 second-half points, the second straight night the Irish held their opponent under 50. 
For the second straight night, the Irish offense struggled to find the basket early. In fact, lUPUI led most of the first half thanks to a stingy defense that kept Notre Dame's perimeter game in check and with a physi­cal offense that resembled a Rig East style of play. 
Carroll jump-started a stag­nant Irish offense with five quick points right before the momentum-shifting charging call. Nowhere was the explosion of Irish offense more apparent when Torin Francis made a basket, got fouled, missed the free throw and watched a Jaguar accidentally tip the ball in, putting the Irish up 24-20. 
"The ref said to me, 'Why does it take you guys 15 min­utes to start playing?"' Chris Thomas said after the game. "Maybe that's a good thing, maybe that's a bad thing. Hopefully we can play like that over 40 minutes." 
In the second half, the Irish looked anything but a team that struggled to find an offensive rhythm in the first half. The Irish scored 14 points on fast breaks, and wowed the crowd with a series of flashy passes. 
see IRISH/page 21 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Injuries hamper Irish heading into exhibition 
. Notre Dame faces OGBM All­Stars tonight 
By JOE HETTLER Associate Spores Editor 
It may only be the second exhi­bition game of the preseason for the Notre Dame womens basket­ball team, but coach Muffet McGraw is already concerned about injuries. 
Sophomores Kelsey Wicks and Katy Flecky, along with junior guard La 'Tania Severe are banged up as the Irish head into their matchup against the Ohio Girls Basketball Magazine All­Stars Tuesday night at the Joyce Center. 
"They're talented. It's really just a chance to play against women, the guys have been killing us," McGraw said. "It's just a chance to run our offense against [a women's team] and see what we can do ... it's more for us, really." 
Notre Dame may not play all of their players, although McGraw said every one will dress. Wicks has a foot sprain while Flecky is just all-around banged up. Severe has a sore wrist but is expected to start along side Alicia Ratay, Flecky, Jacqueline Batteast and Teresa Borton. If Flecky can't go, McGraw said one of the two freshman, Courtney Lavere or Meghan Duffy will get the start. 
I don't know if I'd go with Megan or Courtney, but definitely one of the freshmen," McGraw said. "It would depend on the match-ups." 
It's been two weeks since Notre both ends," McGraw said. 'We Dame last played and McGraw have more installed, so it wants her team treat the game as shouldn't be so boring.' ifit were the regular season. In their last exhibition game, 
"What we've been working on Notre Dame won 87-50 over the 
lately is better McGraw said. 'I think we want to look sharp. We want to look like we're ready for a game. We haven't maybe scrimmaged enough at practice." 
McGraw 
execution," Houston Jaguars Nov. 4. The Irish were led by Borton's 20 
"What we've been points and 
produced

working on lately is bet­
offensively

ter execution. I think we despite poor want to look sharp." shooting from 
Ratay. She fin­ished the 

Muffet McGraw 
game with 

Irish coach only one point. Batteast added 11 
also added that she wanted to see points, seven assists and three the team improve its all-around blocks. game and that they have more McGraw isn't sure what the All­plays to run. Star team will play like because 
"I want to see improvement on their first two games have been very different. They beat Cleveland State before losing to Xaiver. 
"It depends who they bring because they change their roster every night," McGraw said. 'That's probably why they get beat because they don't find a rhythm.'' 
McGraw added that playing in exhibition game against a team from the United States is more helpful for the Irish than facing a foe from another country. "It's better than playing a foreign team because their offense is more like the ones we'll see." 
After this game, Notre Dame will open their regular season against Cleveland State at home Nov. 26. The Irish then travel to 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.ec1u 

t. 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Alicia Ratay is one of three Big East players to be nominated for the second Annual Senior Class Award. 
page 21 
CLUB SPORTS  SENDWICH INDEX  
Despite losing many players to graduation last  The Irish continue to climb toward the top of the  
year, the womens water polo club managed to cap­ Sendwich Index.  Miami continues to be ranked No.  
ture the Virginia Tech Invitational this weekend.  1 in the poll.  
page 21.  page 22  





