Raising the value of education
SNOW 

Friday 

University officials anticipate an increase in tuition for the 2002-2003 
FEBRUARY 1,
HIGH 34° 

school year because of high costc; and a down economy. 

--.:o.!£. 
,.,.r· .,l ~ 
News . page 4

:.1£ 
.._*·*1 LOW18°

~-IT'• ­
2002




"I'-* * 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 78 HTTP://OBSERVER.NO.EDU 


Winter weather causes county power outage 
. Notre Dame students living off­campus lose power 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 
The overnight ice storm that paralyzed much of South Bend Thursday caused power outages at off-campus resi­dences and crippled trans­portation to Notre Dame for students, faculty and staff. 
At 9:30 p.m. Thursday, each of the apartment com­plexes that house major num­bers of off-campus students was experiencing at least a partial blackout. Campus View, Castle Point, College Park and Turtle Creek com­plexes lost power Thursday. 
Senior Mike de la Rosa dis­covered the power failure at his Castle Point apartment about 4 a.m. Thursday. As of 9 p.m., electricity had been restored to his neighbors' apartments, but his residence remained without power, he said. 
"I thought the power would be on by now, so I went gro­cery shopping," de la Rosa said. 
He and his roommates were storing food in a small refrig­erator on the balcony of their second-floor apartment while the power was out. They were using candles for light­ing and heat. 
"We're definitely keeping the windows closed and try­ing to keep warm," he said. 
Lora Redford, also of Castle Point, shared de la Rosa's concern about staying warm. 


Ice storm stops Observer presses 
Observer Staff Report 
Power outages across Indiana forced The Observer to cancel publishing for the first time in 24 years. 
The ice storm that struck Indiana Wednesday night knocked out power at The Papers Inc., the company that prints The Observer, early Thursday morn­ing. The printing company did not expect power to return for many hours and sent its employees home. Without any other printing options, Observer editors were forced to cancel the print edition of Thursday's paper. Power was restored to The Papers shortly after 12:15 p.m. -too late for The Observer to be printed and driven to the campuses at a rea­sonable hour. Thursday's paper was available online. however, at observer.nd.edu. 
The break in publishing is the first for The Observer since Jan. 27 and 30, 1978 when a snow storm closed Notre Dame and Saint Mary's from Thursday, Jan. 26to Monday.Jan. 30, 1978. The Observer resumed publishing on Jan. 31, 1978 when school reopened. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have canceled classes only two other times in recent memory. On Jan. 28, 1977, the schools were closed due to cold temperatures and high winds which produced a wind chill factor of -70 degrees. The Observer still published despite the school closing. 
On Dec. 12, 2000 final exams were canceled for one day because of a snow storm. Although The Observer had ceased normal publication for the exam period, a special-edition Fiesta Bowl Irish Insider was delivered to campus. 
Although the roads were declared off.limits except for emergencies, Observer driver Jack Radican braved the elements and brought the issue to campus. 
American Electric Power reported in a release that at 9 
p.m. Thursday about 39,000 South Bend homes were with­out power. The company reported more than 65,000 outages in the northern 
see BLACKOUT/page 6 
. College calls fire department during ice, snow storm 
By MYRA McGRIFF Saint Mary's Editor 
Along with the rest of St. Joseph county, Saint Mary's campus sustained damage due to Wednesday night's ·ice and snow storm. 
Inundated with calls Thursday mornings, security sent facilities out to get power back on line for the buildings affected by the storm. 
"Power was out campus wide and we had reports of power out in LeMans. The fire department was called to the Power House over a boiler," said security officer Belinda Rathert. · 
The fire department was called to the power plant at 
5:16 a.m. as a result of the loss of electrical power and the build up of smoke in the boiler room. After the call, the plant switched boilers and made final checks around the plant. 
"Electric power was lost on and off but there was no sig­nificant damage to the plant or workers," said director of public relations Melanie 
see STORM/page 8 

One of the senior's two room­mates recommended that the group stay in a hotel until the power came back on. 
"It was pretty cold when I left earlier," she said. "We'll probably go back to the apartment, all sleep in one room and share blankets." 
ND holds 'Monologue' tryouts 
By KATE NAGENGAST Associate News Editor 
Thirty-five women from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's arrived at LaFortune Wednesday to audition for roles in an upcoming perfor­mance of Eve Ensler's contro­versial play, "The Vagina Monologues.'' 
Despite Saint Mary's deci­sion to ban the Monologues from their campus last year, Notre Dame's Program in Gender Studies and the Film, Television and Theatre Department chose to sponsor two performances of the show as part of a nationwide initia­tive also developed by Ensler called, "V-Day: Until the Violence Stops." 
"I think it challenges women to examine their atti­tudes and feelings about their bodies. It's very controversial and thought provoking. The strength in it is how it chal­lenges women to think about and look about their bodies, so I find it a useful experience for people to have," said Catherine Pittman, faculty advisor for the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) at Saint Mary's -the organization that attempted a production of the Monologues last February. 
"CARE will not be involved {in the production1. Every year the students who are in CARE decide which projects they want to do. This year the students I'm working with are focusing on different things and I support what the stu­dents want," Pittman said. 
"While we were certainly aware of the Saint Mary's controversy, the situation here seems so much different because the play is part of V­D a y and because we were considering it as an academic and cultural event," said Glenn Hendler, acting direc­tor of Gender Studies at Notre Dame. "The comparison didn't seem at all relevant. .. 
V-Day is a nonprofit project that "proclaims Valentine's Day as V-Day until ... all women live in safety, no longer fearing violence or the threat of violence, then V-Day will be known as Victory Over Violence Day," according to the V-Day mission statement at the movement's web site, www.vday.org. 
To raise awareness about violence against women, Ensler permits colleges worldwide to perform the Monologues during V-Day season without charging roy­alties -over 550 colleges nationwide and 700 world­wide currently participate, said Kerry Walsh, Notre Dame's campus contact for the V-Day campaign. 
"I had heard about the Monologues my sophomore year when a few of my friends went to see it, but I had no idea what it was at the time," said Walsh. "Last year I was abroad and heard about the controversy at Saint Mary's through The Observer online, 
see PLAY/page 8 
Friday, February 1, 2002

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Muire na 
nGael 
Can you believe that it is already the first of February? Tomorrow is Groundhog Day, when we all get to see how much longer out belated winter will last and how much longer these icy storms will pummel us. As memo­ries of winter break fade 
more and more quickly into our past. and JPW and Spring Break are coming fast around the corner. we can easily get distracted in the quick pace of college life. We're too busy pounding out essays on our keyboards, 

cramming for examina-Angela Campostions and doing a little bit more for the organizations Lab Tech in which we participate. But in this week and a half before the Lenten season starts, before we allow ourselves to be sucked into the decadence of activities, we need to look at where we are and what we are doing here. We need to stop and examine ourselves, look­ing at how we live and what we do for our­selves and others. Today is the feast day of Saint Brigid, the Patroness of Ireland, Muire na nGael (Mary of the Gaels). She looked within herself and found that to truly fulfill herself she needed to become a nun. She founded a convent, which then became the foundation for the Cathedral city of Cill-Dara (Kildare). She cared for the sick and gave money to the poor. I am not trying to say that, in preparing for Lent and Easter, we must aspire to become a part of the clergy, but rather saying that we must look at that which we have and do our best to use our resources to help others. It is how we look at others, how we see them with our own eyes, that will determine how we interact with them. At my parish back home, named after Saint Brigid, they have an internationar food fair on the Saturday closest to her feast day. Not only does it bring the community together, it lets the old and young learn things about people and cultures that they did not previously know. It shows the children how we are all the same on the inside, the basic principle that we are all human, no matter what clothes he wears or what food she eats. This is how my community. my parish, back home celebrates this feast of a giving, loving saint. It gives its children memories to cherish and knowledge that is not biased in anger or hate, but tempered with understanding. How can we, in the coming weeks before Mardi Gras and during the season of Lent, open ourselves to the understanding of other people? How can we reach out to those who need us? You don't necessarily have to give money or donate things, though those are always appreciated. Sometimes all you need to do is give your time -one of the most pre­cious things you have to give. Listen to some­one who's having troubles, play a game of chess with an elderly man, read a book to a little girl who can't yet read. Things done with love and patience help us understand and connect with other people. They help us understand the love that Saint Brigid had for her people and why she gave so much for them. 
Contact Angela Campos at acampos@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obseiver is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Blizzard forces schools to shut down Thursday, Jan. 26 -Monday, Jan. 30, 1978 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's canceled classes for three days after a blizzard dumped 20 inches of snow on South Bend. Both schools decided not to require students to make up missed classes. South Bend received a total of 85 inches of snow in January, 1978. 
Lozano donates $1M to help Hispanic students \Vednesday.Jan. 30, 1991 Ignacio Lozano, Jr., donated $1 million to Notre Dame in order to endow a scholarship fund f~r Hispanic stu­dents. At the time, Lozano was an executive at the nation's largest Spanish-language newspaper. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Committee works to eliminate SATs in UC admissions 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
aptitude-based SAT I. Long held as 
A top University of California aca­a "gold standard" of admissions demic committee proposed the tests, the SAT I's reputation for development of new achievement­predicting student potential is based admissions tests Wednesday, "largely a phantom," the panel's moving the university closer to ful­report concluded. filling UC President Richard Although aptitude tests have Atkinson's call to eliminate the SAT value in predicting freshman GPAs, 
I. the committee found the SAT II 
A three-hour core achievement appears to be a better indicator of exam and two one-hour subject future performance than the SAT I. exams were recommended by the requirements such as history and The best predictor, however. is Board of Admissions and Relations laboratory science.· high school GPA. with Schools, which is responsible Current tests required for UC Achievement tests like the one for undergraduate admissions poli­admission are the SAT I or ACT and proposed are better predictors of cies, to replace present admissions the three-test SAT II composite. student potential than aptitude tests. Seventy-three percent of UC appli­tests, committee Chairwoman 
The core exam would be com­cants take the SAT, 25 percent take Dorothy Perry said. posed of a mathematics section and both the SAT and ACT and 2 per­Supporters of the SAT, however, a language section with a writing cent take the ACT alone. said they believe the exam tests sample. The subject exams would The call for an achievement­essential abilities. 
test students on UC admission based test departs from the current Daily Californian 
OHIO STATE 
Police identify body of missing student 
COLUMBUS 
Police have identified a body found in Delaware County on Wednesday as missing Ohio State University student Chris "Gersh" Gerspacher. Gerspacher was found in a ravine 15 feet from North Old State Road in Brown Township at approximately 
1:20 p.m. Tuesday. Gerspacher's parents live in the city of Delaware, Ohio. Delaware County Coroner Dr. Daniel Traetow said the cause of death was a gun­shot wound to the back of his head. "[That] was the fatal wound, but we are not saying how many times he was shot," Traetow said. Traetow said evidence points toward foul play. "It's not a suicide," he said. Traetow said evidence at the scene indicates Gerspacher was killed elsewhere, and he does not know how long Gerspacher has been dead. "Until we find out who killed him, we'll probably never know," he said. 
The lantern 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Officials restrict protestors 
NEW YORK 

New York University officials announced Wednesday major restrictions on dormitory guest policies this week­end in an effort to keep protesters at the controversial 2002 Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum out of NYU housing. From Thursday through Monday, stu­dents will only be allowed to sign in one guest who is not an NYU student at a time, and no guest passes will be issued, according to a University wide e-mail. The policy for guests who are NYU students -a limit of three guests signed in at one time -will remain the same dur­ing the forum, according to the e-mail. University officials didn't want protesters from out of town staying with stu­dents in University housing. NYU's Director of Student Services and Administration Beth Morningstar said. "It is the practice of many of these anti-globalization groups to contact students in residence halls in whatever city they happen to be protesting in and ask the students if they would be willing to put up protesters," Morningstar said. 
Washington Square News 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 1. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
30s 

C> 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COI.D WARM STATIONARY

Prff.J1n: 
. 
. 
.

® © D' D LJ D D 


High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow ice Sunny PL Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 59 34 Las Vegas 50 34 Portland 45 39 Baltimore 70 32 Memphis 42 28 Sacramento 52 35 Boston 50 28 Milwaukee 31 16 St. LOUIS 36 24 Chicago 33 17 New York 64 32 Tampa 80 63 Houston 53 42 Philadelphia 69 32 Washington, DC 72 35 


Friday, February I, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Week promotes service as a blessing to others 
"There was a need for a week Blessing Unto Others projectBy ERIN IARUFFA to focus on issues outside the coordinator. Associate News Editor Notre Dame bubble." One of the week's goals, 
Once he returned to campus according to Barrett, is to 
While spending a semester for his junior year, Gawrych raise awareness among Notre living and working at an developed the ideas he formed Dame students about how orphanage in Chile, then­in Chile into Blessing Unto blessed they are. sophomore Drew Gawrych Others, a week-long series of "The point of the week is to decided to find a way to raise events sponsored by the office realize how blessed we are, awareness among his fellow of the student body president. and that as Notre Dame stu­Notre Dame students about Last year, the first annual dents, we are called to pass problems in other parts of the Blessing Unto Others raised those blessings unto others," world. $6. 900, primarily for two said Barrett. 
"I was thinking to myself orphanages in Chile. This year, The week has two other that there was a lot more Gawrych, who co-chairs the main goals: to promote service Notre Dame students could do office of the president's spiri­and to raise money, Barrett to be aware of global needs," tual division, is running the added. recalls Gawrych, now a senior. week with Dennis Barrett, the Seventy-five percent of the 
College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
The College of Arts and Letters Invites Student Nominations for Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching A wards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by no1ninating one of your outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Greg DovVd, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, February 11, 2002 

money raised during Blessing 
Unto Others week will go to 
Lake View Secondary school in 
Jinja, Uganda, where several 
Notre Dame students have 
done service work. The other 
25 percent will go to fund the 
office of the president's 
Greatness Grant, which pro­
vides money for student-initi­
ated service projects. 
In addition to developing a 
Web site 
w w w.n d. edu/~ bothers 
Gawrych and Barrett have 
planned several free lectures 
for the week, as well as 
fundraisers. 
To begin the week, former 
Notre Dame and Chicago Bears 
player Chris Zorich will deliver 
the keynote address on Sunday 
at 1:30 p.m. in the Coleman 
Morse Lounge. 
Zorich will encourage "stu­
dents to reflect on how blessed 
they are here at Notre Dame, 
and how God calls us to share 
these blessings with others," 
Gawrych said. 
According to Barrett, Zorich 
is the perfect keynote speaker 
because he has used his bless­
ings of fame and money, which 
came from a professional foot­
ball career, to set up programs 
to help those less fortunate. 
"He's really used the many gifts he's been given to give back to people," said Barrett. "He embodies the ideals of what this week is all about." 
On Monday evening, there will be a meeting and dinner of student leaders from clubs and residence halls. During the dinner, vice president for pub­lic affairs and communication Lou Nanni and his wife, Carmen who is the assistant director of International Study Programs, will speak about the effect community service has had on their family life. 
Tuesday's event is a speech entitled, "Student Talk: Real Survivors: Student Reflections on Service in Africa," planned for 7 p.m. in Montgomery Theater. Seniors Nicole Burkette and Tanesha Dixon will speak on their experience participating in a Summer Service Project at Lake View Secondary School in Jinj a, Uganda. 
"It really changed their lives. Any Notre Dame student has 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
that opportunity and the talent 
to do service in Africa," said 
Barrett. "Hopefully, people will 
go and realize there are ser­
vice opportunities they can 
take advantage of right now." 
Blessing Unto Others week 
also includes a Mass and 
eucharistic adoration on 
Wednesday at 11 p.m. in 
Morrisey Hall's chapel. The 
mass will "allow students from 
across campus to gather 
together in prayer and wor­
ship as we reflect on our bless­
ings," according to Gawrych. 
On Thursday, senior 
Demetra Smith will speak on 
"The extraORDINARY Life of 
Service" at 7 p.m. in 
Montgomery Theater. 
"Demetra is going to talk 
about how the life of service is 
really a fairly ordinary life that 
is built through small, simple 
actions," Gawrych said. 
"We're trying to show people that service is not an impossi­ble task," said Barrett. "You're not being asked to do these amazing, extraordinary things, to be Mother Theresa -but just to do your part." 
The main Blessing Unto Others fundraisers come at the end of the week. A benefit music concert is planned for both Feb. 8, and Feb. 9. Senior vocalist Danielle Rose will headline both concerts. Friday's concert will also include The Undertones and Sydell Incorporated, while Saturday's concert will feature senior Mike Makens as well as sophomores Gino Signoracci and Joe Schmidlin. Both con­certs begin at 7 p.m. Tickets cost $5 and are available at the door. 
Blessing Unto Others closes with a campus-wide ·collection Feb. 10. Money from dorm col­lections will be donated to Blessing Unto Others. 
"I think it's really important that the collection be campus­wide because it unifies the stu­dent body in giving," Gawrych said. Father Richard Warner has also agreed to donate Basilica collections from Feb. 10 to the cause. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at la.ruffa. l@nd.edu. 
-


Never Down Sized or Laid Off Again 
Seeking Referral agents. earn $13,600+ per month starting the first month, can 
I 
work at home call : 888-407 -0077 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories ofBooks -25,000 Hardback and Paperback hooks in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six 
~
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


FILE TAX RETURN ONLINE 
Refund in about 14 days with direct deposit 1040EZ-$9.95 1040A-$14.95 Log onto www.l040.com/ctslax. 


page 4 Friday, February 1, 2002
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
University raises tuition due to illflation, costs 
By I.AUREN BECK 
News Writer 
As in the past, Notre Dame students can expect a tuition increase for the 2002-2003 aca­demic year, due to growing expenses and a slowing econo­my, University officials said. 
The Board of Trustees will meet Feb. 7 and 8 to review the budget, which is in its final stages of completion. 
Officials could not comment on the exact amount of the increase before the Board of Trustees approved the budget, but Scott Malpass, vice presi­dent for finance and chief investment officer, said he did expect to achieve Notre Dame's goal to keep the annual increase below 5 percent. 
When contemplating a tuition raise, officials must consider several factors, said Father Timothy Scully, executive vice president and a member of the Officers' Budget Committee, which works closely with the Board of Trustees in recom­mending a budget. "Most impor­tant is the net effect that tuition will have at Notre Dame," he said. 
A subset of the committee establishes basic parameters for the budget, recommends them to the Officers' Budget Committee and then to the finance and investment commit­tee. After review by the budget subcommittee of the Board of Trustees, the budget meets the entire Board for final approval. 
"The Officers· Budget Committee meets frequently throughout the year to analyze data relative to the cost of living, salary increases and faculty benefits, financial aid, tuition increase -a whole range of cost drivers -and the need of campus, and potential rev­enues," said Malpass. 
Overall, the Budget Committee considers the operating costs of the University and determines how much money is needed to finance them. 
"Tuition doesn't come close to paying for a Notre Dame educa­tion. What you pay is about half of the actual cost. We have to consider how these costs will increase." said Dennis Moore, director of public relations and information. 
According to Malpass, tuition and fee revenue make up about 55 percent of the total budget. so in effect students pay 55 per­cent of the actual cost. Revenues from the bookstore and athletic programs as well as earnings from the endowment make up for the difference. 
Notre Dame's endowment, which is among the 18 largest educational endowments in. the nation, is valued at approxi­mately $3 billion. Most of this money is donated for a specific purpose and cannot be used to defray tuition costs. Only about 10 percent of the endowment is comprised of unrestricted funds that may be used freely. 
Earnings on the unrestricted endowment flow to the University's operating budget, where some contribute to finan­cial aid, said Malpass. 
The committee also takes into account the pricing policy estab­lished by peer institutions with which the University competes for students and faculty, said Scully. 
"We try to keep our tuition, room and board very competi­tive with top institutions, and we seek to be more affordable. We're looking to be less and we're succeeding considerably," he said. 
Scully described the budget process as a balancing act. "We're tuition-driven and tuition-dependent because we get so much of our revenue from tuition. We're competing for faculty and students. As a result we have to be careful about tuition because if we fall behind, then salaries fall behind and we ultimately affect our ability to recruit talent," he said. 
The slowing economy present­ed an added challenge to the budget this year. "We're operat­ing in a different economic envi­ronment now, and this may affect the endowment and the budget. Nobody is certain what will happen in the next few months, so we have to account for that," Moore said. 
In the good markets of recent years, said Malpass, the University earned a great deal of money on its investments. "That money flowed into the budget and allowed us to rely less on tuition. But that was an unusual market ... Now we are not making as much on our investments, so we have to rely more on tuition for revenues," he said. 
Malpass said that despite the present economy, the University would continue in its commit­ment to modest tuition increas­es. 
The recent contract buyouts of former head football coaches Bob Davie and George O'Leary will not impact tuition, said Moore. "That is a separate ele­ment of the overall picture of our budget. It's really a drop in the bucket when dealing with a budget our size.'' he said. 
While increasing tuition, the University strove to maintain its dedication to financial aid for its students. Officials lauded the recent improvements in finan­cial aid. 
The average financial aid package has increased from $2-;500 to $14,000 over the last decade, said Malpass. "We are meeting the full need of stu­dents, and our increases in financial aid exceed the increas­es in inflation and tuition." 
In the past decade, the infla­tion rate has been in the 2 to 3 percent range, while tuition has increased in the 5 to 6 percent range, said Malpass. Students often raised this eriticism, but Moore called it an inaccurate comparison. 
"Inflation takes into account the normal cost of living and maintaining a household ... We have to consider a typical expenses like salaries, new equipment, books, technology, competing for the best profes­sors, and facilities which are built through alumni donations but whose operating expenses are not covered by the gifts and then become part of the bud­get," said Moore. 
Officials touted last year's 4.9 percent increase as the lowest percent increase in more than 40 years. This $1.430 increase raised tuition, room and board to $30,530 and met with some criticism from students and par­ents. 
But Moore justified recent tuition increases, "based on the quality of education we are pro~ viding and .our aspirations to be_ better." 
Malpass said many critics did not understand the financial structure of the University. "We're offering the best educa­tion, providing quality, recruit­ing the best students and profes­sors, expanding technology ­these are all very expensive ... At the end of the day, we're pro­viding a great experience. I think you can judge that by what the value of a Notre Dame degree is," he said. 
Officials said they expected the Board of Trustees to contin­ue to approve annual increases in tuition. 
"We're not content to rest on our laurels as an institution," said Moore. "We have a lot of aspirations to become better, and those cost money." 
Contact Lauren Beck at 
Beck.l3@nd.edu. 


Thursday, Jan. 31 
5:00 
p.m. -8:00 p.m. Winter Career and Internship Fair, Joyce Center (career fair begins at 4:00 p.m.) 

5:00 
p.m. ND Women's Swimming vs. Northwestern, Rolfs Aquatic Center 


5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 p.m. Film, Best In Show, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Theatre, Saint Mary's College (tickets required) 
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
9:00 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, LaFortune Student Center 

9:00 
p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 


10:00 p.m. Movies: Moulin Rouge and Trainspotting, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
Friday, Feb. I 
5:00 
p.m. ND Men's Tennis vs. Ohio State, Eck Tennis Pavilion (matches begin at 3:30 p.m.) 

5:00 
p.m. Down Hill Ski Trip, buses leave Hesburgh Library Circle at 5:00 p.m. * 


5: 15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
6:00 p.m. ND Men's and Women's Track Meyo Invitational, Loftus Sports Center 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
7:05 p.m. ND Men's Ice Hockey vs. Alaska Fairbanks, Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
7:30 
p.m. Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Theatre, Saint Mary's College {tickets required) 

7:30 
p.m. Sporting Event: The Harlem Globetrotters, Joyce Center Arena* 

7:30 
p.m. Movies: Moulin Rouge and Trainspotting, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

7:30 
p.m. Play: Rumors, Washington Hall* 


8:00 
p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 

8:00 
p.m. Piano Concert: Tamari Gurevich, Snite Museum of Art, Annenberg Auditorium 


8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 
p.m. Loft Show featuring The ~lpha Bet and Neil Carmichael's Band, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 

9:00 
p.m. Crafting Corner: Mardi Gras Masks, LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 


10:00 
p.m. Movies: Moulin Rouge and Trainspotting, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

10:00 
p.m. -1 :30 a.m. Tournament Fridays: Scrabble Tournament, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 


10:00p.m. -1 :00a.m. Card Night, Welsh Family H II 24 h L • 
Saturday, Feb. 2 
5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
6:00 p.m. ND Men's and Women's Track Meyo Invitational, Loftus Sports Center 
7:05 p.m. ND Men's Ice Hockey vs. Alaska Fairbanks, Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
7:30 
p.m. Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Theatre, Saint Mary's College (tickets required) 

7:30 
p.m. Movies: Moulin Rouge and Trainspotting, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

7:30 
p.m. Play: Rumors, Washington Hall* 


8:00 p.m. Third Annual Multicultural Comedy Show featuring JoKoy, Drew Lacapa and 8 Phlat, Reckers 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
9:30 p.m. Murder Mystery Theatre, Lewis Hall* 
10:00 
p.m. -1:00 a.m. Concert: Oblates of Blue, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 

10:00 
p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Open Karaoke, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: Moulin Rouge and Trainspotting, De Bartolo .101 and 155* 


This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. All programs are free to Notre Dame students unless 
marked by an asterisk(*). 
FOR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOM, VISIT: www.nd.edu/4¥sao/ 

ATION 
Friday, February 1, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Angolans withdraw from Congo: 
Angola has withdrawn its last troops from Congo after supporting the government in three years of civil war, a senior Congolese military official said Thursday. Deputy Army Chief of Staff Dieudonne Kayembe made the announcement at the international airport in Kinshasa. 
Colombian newspaper editor shot: 
A gunman shot the deputy editor of a daily newspaper in western Colombia, leaving him in critical condition, a colleague said. The alleged gunman was later arrested. Orlando Sierra was shot Wednesday as he walked to the offices of La Patria newspaper in Manizales after having lunch, said Alvaro Segura, another editor. Sierra, 41, was hit several times, including in the head. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
FDA clears anthrax vaccine: The government cleared the nation's sole maker of the anthrax vaccine to begin shipping the shots Thursday after four years of factory vio­lations that have stalled efforts to protect the military from the bioterrorisrn bacteria.Thursday, the Food and Drug Administration said BioPort's factory had met all federal requirements to resume production and shipments of anthrax vaccine to the Defense Department, which owns all of the shots the Lansing, Mich., company makes. 
Red cross plans for Sept 11 aid: The American Red Cross expects to collect $850 million in its terrorist attack relief fund and plans to disburse 90 percent of the money by Sept. 11, 2002. charity officials said Thursday. The Red Cross said it already had distributed $490 million to victims' families and people who lost their home or job because of the terrorist attacks. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
National Guard recruitor may be suspended: A military panel recom­mended Wednesday that an Indiana Army National Guard recruiter should lose his rank, $1,000 in pay and spend seven days in confinement for his role in an enlistment scandal. The five-member panel on Tuesday convicted Master Sgt. Robert E. Wyse Jr. on charges of forgery and violat­ing an order. Wyse, 44, was accused of coordinating a conspiracy to use forged physicals to enlist more than 100 people into the Guard. 
Market Watch January 31 
Dow Jones  9,920.00  +157.14  

 Same: 236  Composite Volume: 1,530,699,347  
AMEX:  842.41  +7.44  

NASDAQ: 1,934.07 +20.63 NYSE: 578.50 +7.96 S&P 500: 1,130.20 +16.97 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX +0.63 +0.24 38.51 WORLOCOM INC-WO +2.03 +0.20 10.05 TYCO INTL LTD +0.86 +0.30 35.15 CISCO SYSTEMS +2.38 +0.46 19.80 INTEL CORP +3.48 +1.18 35.04 

PHILIPPINES 
Associated Press 

ZAMBOANGA 
U.S. troops on Thursday began training Filipino soldiers in the fight against Muslim extremists in the face of large protests, a mission that an American diplomat said would help eliminate "terrorist parasites." 
A group of 36 American and 100 Filipino troops held a ceremony opening the missing on a parade square in the southern city of Zarnboanga, where more than 100 U.S. sol­Americans, including spe­cial forces, are to arrive in corning weeks for the six-month mission to train Filipinos soldiers fighting the Abu Sayyaf, which has been linked to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network and currently holds an American missionary cou­ple hostage. 
diers  are  already  
deployed.  
Some  500  more  

Filipino officers said the 
U.S. soldiers will mainly train the local troops on helicopter night flyfng and in other tactics involving sophisticated equipment. 
But some special forces will be authorized to shoot in self-defense as they accompany Filipino soldiers into combat zones on the islands near Zamboanga where Abu Sayyaf operates. Opposition politicians say the mission violates a constitutional clause which restricts foreign combat troops on sover­eign soil. 
Robert Fitts, the U.S. charge d'affaires in the Philippines, told the troops at the Zamboanga ceremony that the mis­sion will "help eliminate the terrorist parasites who threaten Filipinos as well as the United States." 
Fitts countered the impression by some politi­cians and opposition groups that President Bush's State of the Union Address issued a veiled 
threat  to  intervene  
aggressively  in  the  
Philippines'  war  on  

Muslim extremists. 
In his address, Bush said that if countries do not deal with terrorist activities on their soil, "America will." 
Rep. Saturnina Ocampo, a former spokesman for Marxist rebels, said Bush's statement "exactly portrays the arrogant stance of the U.S. to justi­fy its unilateral action and intervention in other countries in the name of fighting terrorism." 

Powell won't negotiate for reporter 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Secretary of State Colin Powell on Thursday ruled out negotiations to gain the release of a Wall Street Journal reporter abducted in Pakistan. 
Powell said "we are doing every­thing we can" to gain the release of reporter Daniel Pearl. Powell said he had talked about Pearl's plight with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and that he, too, would do his best. 
"We need to be concerned about his safety,"Powell said. 
But, he said, "the demands of the kidnappers are not demands we can meet or deal with or negotiate on." 
The kidnappers' demands include better treatment for terror suspects held by the United States at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and the return of prisoners held by Pakistan. 
Meanwhile, a top Treasury Department official plans to urge Pakistan's president to take all steps possible to bring about Pearl's release. 
Deputy Treasury Secretary Kenneth Dam, who will go to Pakistan and India next week, will "encourage the 
· government of Pakistan to do every­
thing it can to hasten the speedy 
release from captivity"of Pearl, said 
Treasury spokesman Robert Nichols. 
Dam plans to meet Monday with 
Musharraf and other Pakistani offi­
cials, Nichols said. 
Powell conferred by telephone with 
Musharraf on Monday, the State 
Department said. 
An e-mail sent Thursday purport­
edly by the kidnappers of Pearl 
extended the deadline for killing him 
by one day. The unsigned e-mail was 
received by Pakistani and Western 
media. 

page 6 


THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 

NEW YORK CHAMBER SOLOISTS 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2002 
2:00 PM, ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM, SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
TICKETS REQUIRED ($3-10): (574) 631·8128 
l'OR MORE INFORMATION. PLEASE CALL (574) 631-6201, E·MAIL CONGOERS@ND.EOU OR VISIT www.ND.EOU/-CONGOERS 
The Observer . NEWS 
Blackout 
continued from page 1 
Indiana and southwestern Michigan areas that comprise Michiana. 
At its height, the blackout affected more than 86,000 AEP customers. 
Around Notre Dame's cam­pus, the ice storm downed tree limbs, disrupted traffic lights and prevented off-campus stu­dents, faculty and staff from traveling to the school. 
The University officially remained opened, but ice-cov­ered tree limbs fell from trees throughout the day and pro­fessors hampered from travel­ing to campus cancelled class­es. 
Bikes and benches outside campus buildings were framed in ice Thursday. And sections of University grounds, includ­ing areas near Walsh Hall, were cordoned off with police 
. tape to protect passersby from falling branches. 
The Landscape Services Department headed efforts to clean up the debris, according to Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security/Police. 
Johnson, whose own home lost power Thursday, said his office received no reports of damaged buildings or other property as a result of the storm. 
Friday, February I, 2002 

One official reported to stu­dents a leak in the roof of the Law School library's main reading room. In a Thursday e-mail, Roger Jacobs, associ­ate dean for Library and Information Services, said water soaked about a dozen books on the library's south wall. 
Jacobs said a maintenance crew was repairing the roof and that a Hesburgh Library preservation staff was drying the books. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Cleveland and Ironwood Road~ 180/ I Cleveland Rood South Bend, lndwna .J6637/(1 /9)172-8/ /0 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester *Within minutes ofcampus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes n1embership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


y@ur @wn 
WITH THE ·CRAFTING C@RNER 
Frid@y., feb. 1 in the D@@ley R@@m @f L@,F@rtune atudent Center 
Sp@ns@red by Student Activities. 
f@r m@re inf@ c@dl 1-1~@8 
• 



Friday, February 1, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Moscona, Oxley apologize for campaign e-mail 
. Judicial Council issues 'minor' sanction to ticket 
By ERIN LARUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
On Monday, the Judicial Council required Brian Moscona and Keri Oxley. can­didates for student body presi­dent and vice president, to apologize to their opponents following "a minor infraction," according to John McCarthy, Judicial Council vice president in charge of elections. 
The infraction involved a statement in an internal e­mail to Moscona and Oxley's campaign staff. In the e-mail, Moscona and Oxley encour­
aged their staff to discuss with them any questions that might arise about the feasibility of other candidates' platforms. 
A staff 
member f r o m another ticket's campaign found out about the statement, a n d 


brought it Moscona to McCar­
thy's attention. After investi­gating the matter, McCarthy and Judicial Council presi­dent, Tim Jarotkiewicz, decid­ed that a sanction was neces­sary. According to this deci­sion, Moscona and Oxley retracted the statement "to 
-1 I 11 
. 

PROPERTIES 
Well maintained houses near campus 
• Washers and dryers provided 
• 
24-hour maintenance staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, 4-, 5-, 6-& S:.bedroom houses 


Only 7 left for tbe 2002-2003 scbool yeat 
Call today, houses are 
goingfast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571 
clear up that they weren't avoid discussing other candi­attacking their [opponents'] dates in a negative way, feasibility," according to according to campaign man­McCarthy. ager Tai Romero. 
Under the bylaws governing Also under election bylaws, 
the student body election, 
"It was minor ... It doesn't 
candidates are prohibited from "insult­ing or defam­ing" other candidates, s a i d Jarotkiewicz. 
"It was minor," 
McCarthy said. "It doesn't have to be blown out of pro­portion." 
Despite the message that they sent in their email. Moscona and Oxley had previ­ously encouraged their staff to 
[I][E]CT][I][E)[fil[[)([)[fil 
nter~acia 
+=ami y

Creating an 
( ,-<; -·· 
f 
I'; 
f-. 
r 

i ' . 
.. \-·.. ·,& 
l •

': .1\-f.,i ....--~· 
.. ' ·,'/
-~ 
71,.?
' ;pr ,• 

N~vem~:r10~1'1ebruary 2002 Raising Black & Biracial Children ~ 
Wednesday, February 6th 5:30 pn1 Center for Social Concerns 
Please RSVP ~; 1-6841 
There will be a panel discussion. as well as Soul Food served. All are welcome. 
have to be blown out ofproportion ... 
John McCarthy Judicial Council vice president in charge of elections 
according to Jarotkiewicz. However, that committee, which the Student Senate approved Wednesday night, had not yet formed when Moscona and Oxley committed the violation. Therefore, 
the decision to sanction candidates should be made by a six-member executive committee of the Judicial Council's election com­mittee, 

McCarthy and J arotkiewicz had to investigate the issue and decide on sanctions. 
Although the Judicial Council waited until after elec­tion campaign began to form the executive committee, the council was following the timeline established last year. according to McCarthy. The fact that he and Jarotkiewicz made the decision in no way affected the severity of the sanct_ion. according to McCarthy. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at laruffa. l@nd.edu. 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 
t
.\ 
f 
1 
·, 
i 
1 
.t 
I 
i 
r 
' 
I 


Friday, February 1, 2002 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
"' READY FOR THE FUTURE 

Storm 
continued from page 1 
Engler. However, Engler would not con­firm if the power plant power out­-age was weather related. 
Grounds crew was called in early to shovel snow and clear trees from side walks in preparation for classes. 
"We came in at 6 a.m., an hour early to clear the trees. We took 
Play 

continued from page 1 
so I decided I needed to read it when I got back from France last year. I read the play over the summer, and that same night went to vday.org to read about the college campaign. After I looked at the web site and consid­ered the Saint Mary's fias­co, I didn't want it to just die like that." 
"Students initiated the V-Day event in a very responsible way," said Hendler. "The play is well­respected and widely per­formed; universities across the country are staging performances as part of V­D a y observances. Thus it seemed to me unquestion­able that it would be appropriate as ... part of the kind of thoughtful and practical engagement with social concerns ... that a gender studies program at 
a Catholic university should be encouraging." "I can't make any com­
the big tree down in front of 
ments about what's goingLeMans, so now we have mostly 
on with [the Saint Mary's]
branches to clear," said grounds 
production, but I met with 
crew member John Stephenson. 
a girl from IUSB and a girl
The grounds crew expects to con­from Saint Mary's before tinue clean-up today. 
this even got started to col•
"We've got a long way to go," 
laborate," said Walsh. "It's
said Lance Towne. "Ice is worse 
been very much a support­
than snow and it's going to be ive group effort. I have
ugly." 
never done this before so I have definitely gotten a lot of help and advice from the girls at IUSB and Saint
Contact Myra McGriff at 
Mary's -it's been very
mcgrO l 8 l@saintmarys.edu. 
inclusive from the start. 
There will be girls. from 
Saint Mary's involved in 
the production as well." 

"As with every talk, film or performance we spon­sor, our sponsorship car­ries no implication that we necessarily support every statement made in this play," said Hendler. "Sponsorship means that 
.we believe the play deals with important issues that are worth discussing." 
To promote such discus­sion, the week of the per­formance will include addi­tional events such as an art show and poetry reading, and potentially a panel dis­cussion and a campus­wide service project involv­ing the YWCA ·women's Shelter, said Walsh. 
"My main goal right now is for this to be an all­inclusive project," said Walsh. "For a long time now I've felt like I'm the only feminist on this cam­pus.... I want to make my convictions as a feminist more universal ... men can be feminists and women shouldn't be afraid to be feminists. A secondary goal is to make people aware that violence against women does happen around the world and at Notre Dame and to raise money for that cause." 
Mary Beth Asmussen, a junior theater major and gender studies minor audi­tioned for the Monologues and agreed with that cause too. 
"I had never seen [the Monologues] but I heard a lot and remembered the big shake at Saint Mary's last year, so I thought this would be a great opportu• nity. This is a really neat project, a unique group of people and a unique opportunity, especially for this school," Asmussen said. 
"I auditioned reading 'The Woman Who Loved to Make Vaginas Happy' because I like the idea of doing things that are eccentric, but I've heard there are a lot of great [monologues] so there are lots I'd like to be involved in. I also think it's great that this project is tied to the women's shelter," she said. 
All proceeds from the Monologues performances in 101 DeBartolo on Feb. 25 and 26 will be donated to St. Joseph Count Sex Offence Services, the YWCA Women's Shelter and a small portion returns to the V-DAY orga­nization to aid Afghani women, said Walsh. 
Walsh also said Ava Preacher. assistant dean in the College of Arts and Letters, had been instru­mental in organizing the Monologues. 
"I just·signed up as cam­pus coordinator ... and now I've become default director of the show," Walsh said. "I've just kind of become 'The Vagina Girl.' It's gotten to be so inuch bigger than I expect­ed it to be." 
Contact Kate Nagengast at 
knagenga@nd.edu. 

• 
II neil carmichael paul kellner tim bradley alan maginn jon fanning chris corr jesse fa add NCSUSINFO to your IM buddy list check out our new website WWW. NC. ECU/---$  

Friday, February 1, 2002 page 9 
The Observer . NEWS 

Malloy recalls experiences 
By V. VAN BUREN GILES 
News Writer 
As University President Father Edward Malloy was growing up in Washington, D.C., he never thought that he would someday become the president of 
the most high­ly recognized Catholic uni­versity in the country. 
Then, Malloy received an athletic schol­arship to play 


basketball at Malloy Notre Dame. 
"Based on the significant cost of Notre Dame at the time, the only way I could come here was on scholarship," said Malloy. "I was a shooting guard at Archbishop Carroll High School in Washington, 
D.C. -our team once held the record for the most continuous wins-55." 
Even now that he is president of Notre Dame, in his office there is still a picture of him as a high school student holding up a cham­pionship plaque -with one time Georgetown Hoyas head coach John Thompson in the background. 
But a professional basketball career was not in Malloy's future. "I knew that by my junior year of college I wanted to teach," he said. 
He also decided to enter the sem­inary. His career as a teacher and priest eventually led him to univer­sity administration. In 1987, Malloy succeeded famed Notre Dame pres­ident and human rights advocate Father Theodore Hesburgh. He is currently in his third five-year term as president. 
"The average term for a University president is only three years. I have been very happy fill­ing this post for as long as I have," said Malloy. 
There have been many bright moments in Malloy's career. 
"Notre Dame is a great place with a diversified faculty and student body. I am happy to have seen our financial aid program flourish while strengthening the religious aspects that are in keeping with the ideals of Notre Dame," he said. "Becoming involved in the prepara­tion and implementation of the fundraising campaign has exceed­ed a many of my own goals." 
Malloy has also traveled to many different countries as a representa­tive of Notre Dame. "The most dra­matic places I have been are in India and China. I have traveled to Potala, which is the Dalai Lama's headquarters in Lhasa, Tibet," he said. Malloy admits that one of his favorite destinations is Machu Picchu in Peru, which is known as the lost city of the Inca nation. 
In addition, the new theology building, attached to the Decio fac­ulty building, garnishes his name at the benefactor's request. This structure stands as a tribute to Malloy's years of service to the Notre Dame community. 
Of course, every Notre Dame president faces bumps on the road during his tenure in office. Malloy remembers some of the darker moments the school has dealt with, including the NCAA violations that shamed the University during the 2000 holiday season. 
Filling the head football coach position this past year was also a trying time for the administration. 
"Bob Davie worked very hard, but he did not succeed in the goals we set out for him. After his dis­missal, we gathered information on every possible candidate that would best suit the position," said Malloy. 
Malloy hand selected and presided over the committee that scoured the nation looking for the perfect person to fill one of the most coveted positions in collegiate athletics. 
"We found that George O' Leary came highly recommended and was eminently regarded, but there were inadequacies on his resume that we felt prevented him from continuing as the head football coach here at Notre Dame," said Malloy. 
"There are going to be crisis that must be handled. I can look back and easily say that the good moments I have experienced at Notre Dame definitely outweigh the bad ones," said Malloy. "I think of the women's basketball champi­onship as one of the greatest moments for the school in recent history." 
Malloy believes that athletics is an integral part of Notre Dame, but he also feels that the University's primary mission is to church and society. 
When he retires, Monk hopes to continue teaching. He also has two books in the works. One is a collec­tion of stories involving the Notre Dame community, and the other chronicles his travel experiences.• 
Contact V. Van Buren Giles at giles.6@nd.edu. 
Poverty, terror concern forum 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Guarded by phalanxes of police, the World Economic Forum opened Thursday with an upbeat 
view of See Also 
the U.S. 

"Officials restrict
econo­

my but protesters" recog­
page2
nition t h a t the world faces long­term battles against poverty and terrorism. 
Against a backdrop of generally peaceful demonstrations and scattered vandalism tar• geting symbols of corpo­rate America, about 3,000 international busi­ness, political, academic and religious figures dis­cussed key problems facing the world. 
Some 4,000 police were assigned to forum security, with so many concentrated around the conference site at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel that it reminded some New Yorkers of the intense security after the Sept. 11 terror attacks. 
"We are gathered here to exercise, more than ever, leadership in frag­
ile times and to develop a vision for a shared future," Klaus Schwab, the founder of the forum. said at the offi­cial opening ceremony. 
Earlier, a top official 
of a private industry 
group predicted the U.S. 
economy will grow 1.5 
percent in 2002. 
"My view is that the 
U.S. recession is over, that November will be viewed as the trough," said Gail Fosler, chief economist at the Conference Board, a business-financed group that issues influential monthly economic reports. 
Europe's recovery will probably take hold in the third and fourth quarters but the pace could be slower than in the United States, said Klaus Zimmerman, pres­ident of the German Institute for Economic Research. 
"We're struggling with the sins of the past in terms of government spending," he said. 
The outlook for Japan remains bleak, said Jacob Frenkel. former head of Israel's central bank who is president of Merrill Lynch & Co. 's international division. 


Imaees, sounds and Music of Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Belote 
THIS MULTIMEDIA SLIDE PRESENTATION, WITH PHOTOGRAPHY BY AWARD WINNER 
KEN MADSEN AND MUSIC BY MATTHEW LIEN AND WILDLANDS, TELLS THE STORY OF A 100 DAY, 1000 MILE JOUR.. NEY THROUGH THE ARCTIC HOME OF THE 


PORCUPINE CARIBOU HERD TO THE GWICH'IN VILLAGE OF OLD CROW. 
Friday February 1, 2002 4:00 p.m. 
129 DeBartolo 
For more information, contact Professor Kristin Shrader-Frechette at 1-7523 
page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 1, 2002 
College hosts Peace Corps 
into any work situation. You 
By SARAH NESTOR 
find out what your goals are 
News Writer 
and what is important to you," Jumawan said. 
Saint Mary's held a post­The Peace Corps has three graduate serv-ice panel goals, which include creating Wednesday with representa­skilled volunteers. to impart tives from the Peace Corps, on others who Americans Americorps and Holy Cross are, and to get the people Associates. The panel dis­who are taught to teach the cussed issues and answered Americans about their own questions about service culture. opportunities Sarah that are becom­Chaudoir
"You have to have 
l 
ing popular and David 
a passion to serve . .,
options for col­Wilkeson lege graduates. s p o k e 
i. The Peace a b o u t
1 ,. David Wilkeson 
Corps is a two­t h e i r
Americorp volunteer 
year program, three months of training in needed skills and knowledge of a country's culture and customs. Assignments can be in education, business, envi­ronment, agriculture, health and community development. Although volunteers can sug­gest which country they want to work in, the decisions are made by the Peace Corps. 
Sylvia Jumawan worked in Niger as a health volunteer. She chose the Peace Corps because she wanted to work overseas and for the protec­
tion it offers in  a  foreign  
environment as a  govern­ 
ment organization.  

"The skills you learn in the field you are able to bring 
experi­
e n c e s 

w h i I e working through Americorps, another volunteer program. 
"The real value is that you are out there learning and you do receive monetary compensation for room and board," Chaudoir said. 
Americorps works to help children read make safer neighborhoods, building affordable homes and help­ing with natural disasters. It is a one-year program that can be renewed every year. 
..The biggest challenge is becoming emotionally drained but as I continued to serve my passion grew. You have to have a passion to serve," Wilkeson said. 
Anne Moriarity spoke about opportunities availed with Holy Cross Associates. The Holy Cross Associates is a program that offers partici­pants an opportunity to inte­grate their Christian faith through service, community living, prayer and simple lifestyle. There are several sites across America, which ask for one year of service and then a two-year program in Chile. Volunteer place­ments include homeless ser­vices, education, neglected children and many others. 
"A volunteer needs to be open minded. It's good to have expectations but know what you get is probably going to be different from what you expected," Moriarity said. 
The panel also stressed that it is important to find the volunteer opportunity that is best for you. Doing research into different pro­grams and a complete under­standing of what a year or two as a volunteer you gain and lose. 
The Peace Corps will be at Notre Dame conducting on­campus interviews Feb. 20. Interviews can be scheduled through the Notre Dame Career Center. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

This FRIDAY NIGHT The Alumni-Senior Club presents • • • 

FUN TUNES FROM A NOTRE DAME BAND. 
Doors open at 9. $10 Lifetime Membership Special extended through weekend. Alcohol will be served, so you must be 21 with valid ID to enter. Check out www.nd.edu/-ascfor more info. 

MBA students seek jobs in recession 
land at your feet," Reeves
By HELENA PAYNE said. 
Assistant News Editor 

Reeves said he and other 
MBA students predict a 
Even with one degree change in the market by May 
already under their belts, -just in time for graduation. 
graduate students in search of "I think everyone's hope is 
jobs have been affected by the that the recovery is going to 
economic recession. But the come in the second half of the 
job outlook for them is not so year," Reeves said. 
gloomy according to Lee Like Reeves, Junkans said 
Junkans, senior director of many MBA students have 
Career Development for the remained optimistic about the 
Notre Dame Master of down economy due to the 
Business Administration pro­ability of other students to 
gram. obtain employment. 
"There are good jobs out "As their classmates get 
there. It's just going to take jobs, that's a positive note to 
more effort this year to find them, just another reminder 
them," that there are 
s a i d good jobs out 
Junkans. "Wherever there's a group of there," 
"Less jobs Junkans said.
students that are interested 
are going "The MBAs
in that particular field, 
to come [are] using to the stu­we'll work with them their net-dent. The 
to help develop a works and 
student we're work­
career interest group . .,
has to be ing with m o r e them," proactive Lee Junkans Junkans said. this year 
senior director, Career Development This month,
than in 
previous 
years." 
Although businesses such as manufacturing services. financial services and some consulting firms have visited campus this year, Junkans said Career Development has had to offer newer services in order to prepare graduate students to be competitive in a tight job market. 
"[The students] pick up and read the papers every day," said Junkans. "Most of them have a good sense that it's going to take a good effort." 
Chris Reeves, an MBA stu­dent in his second year, said he is networking with old con­tacts in order to-secure a job. 
A 1995 Notre Dame gradu­ate who majored in econom­ics, Reeves worked in corpo­rate finance for Worldcom and WebMD between his years as an undergraduate and now. He said he hopes to continue working in either corporate finance or consult­ing after he graduates in May. 
"It's a little tougher than in years past," said Reeves. "On­campus recruiting is down here as it has been at busi­ness schools all over the country." 
He added that although there has been a demand for MBAs, he and his classmates have been very realistic about the job search. 
"Nothing is ever going to land in your lap. I don't think anybody came to business school expecting jobs to just 


Beth, 
"We're not gonna lie... " 
we hoye you have 
agreat 21st! 
Love, Kristy, Ja.cs, Jax, Elaine, Julia and Becky 
Career 
Development began to form career interest groups in order to help stu­dents. Through these groups, MBA students can share con­tacts and resources with fel­low students who are looking for jobs in the same industry or city . 

"They will use each other as a resource in addition to the famous Notre Dame alumni network," said J unkans adding that, with more spe­cialized groups, students can usually have one contact _from the Notre Dame alumni for each industry in a particular city instead of having multiple contacts. 
"vVherever there's a group of students that are interested in that particular field, we'll work \Vith them to help devel­op a career interest group," Junkans said. 
Along with the career groups, Junkans said the Mendoza College of Business has continued to invite speak­ers to talk about networking. The College also participates in several consortium-type recruiting events throughout the year. 
"We need to be doing some­thing in a tougher economy to help students ideptify oppor­tunities," said Junkans. 
Contact Helena Payne at pavne.30@nd.edu. 

Friday, February 1, 2002 
This 
Week in 
campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
Retreats 
sion
~...UPS 

Freshman Retreat #40 
Retreat dates: February 22-23 
Applications available: 
January 28 through February 18 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
fflnav 

San Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Crypt 
Liturgical & Social Concerns Commissioners Appreciation Dinnner 
5:30 p.m. Hospitality Room, South Dining Hall Vespers follows at Dillon Hall Chapel 

dav 

Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
NDE Retreat #69 Retreat 
Fatima Retreat Center 
Sophomore Class Retreat 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat 
Lindenwood 
Dia De La Candelaria Mass 
Log Chapel 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
Karaolfe @ the CoMo 
9:30 p.m. to Midnight Hammes Studet Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

........., urdav 

"Fan the Flame" Retreat 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 

av 

Blessing Unto Others 
104 Coleman-Morse Center · Sponsored by Campus Miinistry and Student Government 

1
............ av 

The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday-Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
Right to Drink 
¦ by Fr. Gary Chamberland c.s.c., Rector, Keenan Hall and Assistant Director of the RCIA program 
At 3:46 AM, the phone rings in the night. Instantly awake, any lingering residue ofsleep disap­pears with the double ring ofan off-campus call. With trepidation, I pick up the receiver. This is Tim at Security/Police. An officer is at your back door with one of your boys. We found him intoxi­cated...." 
Just another drunk brought home on a Wednesday morning by Security. Sadly, this is a frequent reality on our campus. Many other students are hospitalized because their intoxication is so severe that their condition constitutes a medical emergency. Countless others avoid detection and wander back to their rooms to pass out and "sleep it off." . 
My time at Keenan Hall has been eventful. One resident was found knocking on doors in the neighborhood near Lafayette Apartments looking for his room. Another young man had an unstop­pable nosebleed because of blood thinned by alcohol. A third passed out on the lawn of the Credit Union at 3:00 AM. The fellow found hiding in the bushes after running through Farley Hall in the wee hours was also very intoxicated. Multiple, late night incidents at Reeker's all share alcohol as a 
common denominator. Four times, D Uis have been given 
to young men of my acquaintance. Each time, the phone
We have endured vomit in rang late in the night and I walked to the door to collect 
my youthful charge. 
toilet stalls, shower stalls 
In hall, we have.had guys pass out in the showers while drunk. We have endured vomit in toilet stalls, shower stalls 
and the elevator. Desk 
and the elevator. Desk drawers and closets have been used drawers and closets have as toilets and an expensive laptop computer was used as a urinal. Falls from lofts have resulted in bruises and shout­
been used as toilets and an 
ing, arguing, laughing and slamming doors in the middle expensive laptop computer of the night have awakened countless people. All are di­rectly related to drunkenness. Men and women have left 
was used as a urinal. 
Keenan Hall strapped to stretchers with blood alcohol lev­
els so high that they could not be awakened for six hours. One resident retched so violently that he tore his stomach. Sadly, this reality is not particularly bad by campus standards. 
We have an alcohol problem at Notre Dame. Many students abuse a dangerous drug and consider it com­monplace, while some proclaim it as a right. Students regularly get drunk, abuse their bodies, vandalize campus, destroy personal property (examine the bent-rimmed bicycles around campus), and pick fights with friends and passers-by. And this is not even taking into account the deep effects this behavior has on their spiritual and psychological selves. 
"I don't get it," they spit out angrily, "I have a right to drink!" In fact, they don't. States may limit certain behaviors for the common good and our nation has decided that one must be 21 years ofage to drink alcohol. Most undergraduates have not attained that age. The university may also limit the consumption ofalcohol on its premises. While this university may provide some level oftolerance for alcohol, we enforce Indiana State Law when attention is drawn to a situation. There is no right to drink alcohol at Notre Dame. 
Even if21, there is no right to get drunk, especially in a public place. The sweeps oftailgaters last fall raised quite a stink, especially among graduate students. "How can they cite me," was the cry. "I'm over twenty-one.» These folks should check their citations. "Public Intoxication" is illegal at any age. 
Alcohol is a key issue on this campus. The effects ofalcohol abuse are obvious and plentiful, impacting both individuals and communities. Li':es are disrupted and destroyed by it. If any other drug or issue impacted the life ofthis community so strongly, we would address it head on. But not alcohol, because beer is a part ofcollege. 
Let us remember that getting drunk is immoral. The choice to get drunk is not simply a personal matter. It is an abuse ofthe gift ofone's body and a means by which one rends the Body ofChrist. Its immoderation is a violation of the virtue of temperance. God's gifts are abused through excess and the reality of our lives is blan­keted by the wreckage wrought in our drunken stupor. Our ability to relate is impaired and relationships are damaged, sometimes irreparably, by actions taken while under the influence. While drunkenness may be a sad and tragic explanation, it is no excuse. , 
There is no right to drink or get drunk. Drinking might be a choice, but getting drunk is immoral. Though always willing to forgive us our failings, the Church's forgiveness presumes contrition. Contrition implies a willingness to change. Drunkenness as sinful calls for sorrow. True sorrow desires a transformation oflife. Grace abounds to complete that transformation. 
We have issues to face on this campus ~egarding alcohol. These issues are not primarily about legality and liability. Rather they are issues of morality and spiritual growth. Are we up to the challenge? 
Fourth  ¦ Around Campus  ¦ Sundays  
Sunday of Ordinary Time Ma~~......schedule  Sunday, February 3 Spanish Mass 1 :30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel Law School Mass  Scripture Readings 1st Reading Zep 2:3; 3:12-13 2nd Reading 1 Cor 1 :26-31  
¦ Basilica ot Iha Sacred Hean  5:00  p.m., Law School Chapel  Gospel  Mt 5:1-12a  
Saturday, February 2 ·Mass 5:00p.m.  MBA Mass 7:00 p.rn., Mendoza COB Chapel  
Rev. Robert J. Dowd, c.s.c  Rejoice! African American  
Sunday, February 3 Mass  Catholic Mass  

10:00 a.m. 10:00 p.m .• Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. Our Lady of Notre Dame Chapel 
C-M

11:45 a.m. Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Ministry 

Rev. John E. Conley, c.s.c. · 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Friday, February 1, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee 

SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter SCF.NE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNT MAR.v's EDITOR: Myra McGriff 
PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNTROllER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING Eo1ToRIAssr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCF.NE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARV's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB Af>MINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obmver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the UniversicyofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, AMistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expres.sion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. • 
Quntions regarding Observer policies should bt dirm­td to FAitor in ChiefMiltt Connolly. 
Judicial Council sanctions free debate 
This week, Brian Moscona and Keri Oxley·s campaign for goals of other candidates might not be feasible, then why-both­student body president and vice president was sanctioned by er campaigning? Campaigning is mostly about convincing 0th­the Judicial Council for making comments deemed "insulting or ers that your platform goals are strong while your opponents· defaming" toward other candidates. goals are weak. 
The comments, which brought about the sanction, were In its ruling against the Moscona/Oxley ticket, the Judicial issued in an internal campaign staff e-mail. The Council told the ticket that comments about other statement in question read: "If you have any Ql5~erver pla~forms s~o~ld be res~rved for the debate .. questions about the platform ideas of other tick-Edi •a1 While restrictmg a crucial element of campa1gn­ets please contact one of the people at the bot-ing to solely the debates was the incorrect deci­
t-:on 
tom of this e-mail [Moscona and Oxley] ... most l! sion, Moscona/Oxley's actions can hardly even be 
of the ideas are not feasible!" 
For this action, Judicial Board forced Moscona/Oxley to retract the previous statement and apologize to the other tick­ets. 
Even though the Judicial Council declared the violation minor and gave Moscona/Oxley only a slap-on-the-wrist apology requirement, its actions were still too great given the violation. 
When handing down this punishment, the Judicial Council failed to recognize the difference between "insulting and defaming" comments against an individual and "insulting and defaming" comments against a platform. Name-calling and petty personal attacks against other candidates have no place in an election. Criticism of an opponent's platform, however, should not be considered detrimental but is in fact crucial to campaigning. 
If candidates cannot even acknowledge that some platform 
considered campaigning. The statements in the private e-mail did not encourage campaign workers to make public statements against other candidates. Moscona and Oxley asked their campaign staff to feel free to ask them about any of the goals of opponents platforms. 
These weren't public campaign statements. If candidates cannot even discuss among their staffs the strengths and weak­nesses of other candidates, how can they be expected to pre­pare for the debates? 
The intent of the rule against "insulting and defaming" com­ments is to keep candidates focused on issues and not let the campaign degenerate into a battle of personal attacks. This interpretation of the rule however, has undermined candidates ability to discuss the issues. The absence of open discussion and debate about issues is truly "insulting and defaming" not some harmless instructions in a private e-mail. 
Be aware of awareness weeks 
In case you hadn't noticed, May 7-11, 2001 was designated "National Drinking Water Week." Those who drove by the old pump station off U.S. 31 would have seen it adorned with a large white banner Christine Niles displaying, among other things, a smil­ing creature with a dewdrop for a head. As I See It ... 
After AIDS. cancer and heart disease awareness weeks, did Congress (or the administrative agency they assigned to do the job) just run out of ideas? Were there leftover weeks lonely for national significance? I suppose we ought to remember those in countries still without clean drinking ' water, suffering from dysentery and filar­ial worms (more likely to befall hapless tourists in third world countries clueless enough to drink unfiltered tap water). Since such illnesses arise from lack of sanitation in general, wouldn't it make more sense to designate it, "National Sanitation Awareness Week," or, more to the point, "National Don't-Defecate-in­the-Same-Water-You-Use-for-Cooking­and-Bathing Week"? 
In case Congress is still looking for ideas, some friends and I. tired of the same old topics, thought we would do our share and provide a list of equally impor­tant issues deserving at least a week's worth of national recognition: 
1. 
National Aware-of-Awareness Week. It is always a good thing to be aware, generally, that one ought to be aware. Suggested ribbon color: aqua-blue. 

2. 
National Bubonic Plague Awareness Week. It wiped out one third of the European population, and who's ever apologized for that? Suggested ribbon color: eggplant. 

3. 
National Cigarette Lighter/ Bucket Death Awareness Week. Did you know more children die from playing with ciga­


rette lighters than from guns? It's true ­but how many of us ever hear about it? And buckets contribute to at least eight children's deaths per year. Suggested rib­bon color: teal. 
4. 
National Parietals Awareness Week. At least one week ought to be devoted to the many dedicated students of Notre Dame willing to fight ... for the right ... to party -at least for that extra hour. Other students take up the cause of international human rights violations, economic or religious freedoms. or any number of causes for the oppressed. Notre Dame students, I take it, count themselves among "the oppressed." The poor things. Suggested ribbon color: lemon. . 

5. 
National Garrett Hardin Awareness Week. He writes about maintaining popu­lation control by restricting our "freedom to breed" (i.e., have children}. Not only do his articles contain more platitudes than insight. he's creepy. We need an apology. Suggested ribbon color: brick. 

6. 
National Federalist Society Awareness Week: According to the media, this Society is a cult of black­hooded subversives who plot the over­throw of the government, the takeover of the federal judiciary -and skin babies alive. The nation must be on its guard. Suggested ribbon color: cornflower. 

7. 
National Common Nucleus of Operative Fact (CNOF) Awareness Week. This rule has served as the gateway to more crowded federal court dockets, to the delight of many otherwise restricted litigants. We'll let the non-lawyers figure this one out for themselves. Suggested ribbon color: taupe. 

8. 
National Conformal Mapping Awareness Week. It has nothing to do with maps. It's math. Nevermind. Suggested ribbon color: mustard. 

9. 
National Stellar Sea Lion Awareness Week. What would we do without those overzealous environmentalists to spread 


misinformation and wreak havoc to fish­ing communities? After getting a law passed restricting fishermen from mining the sea of Pollock fish (sea lions' main food source), new findings show that the decline in sea lions has more to do with an increase in the number of Orea whales, which love snacking on those tasty stellars. Suggested ribbon color: rainbow. 
10. National Mayonnaise Awareness Week. If the fat tax doesn't work, then a week's exposure to the wonders of this cholesterol-enhancing staple is sure to enlighten. Suggested ribbon color: flesh. 
We hope Congress seriously considers our proposals. We've anticipated some potential problems; for example, all the weeks for next year may already be taken up with other topics. This problem can be resolved by replacing those issues that have had their fair share of national attention with some of ours. For instance, Gun Awareness can be bumped to the year after next, and National Cigarette Lighter/Bucket Death Awareness Week can take its place. Perhaps it would spark a debate on safety locks for cigarette lighters? The Second Amendment doesn't speak on the issue, so anti-lighter lobby­ists would fare pretty well. AIDS Awareness, always politicized by the "in crowd," could be replaced with National CNOF Week -let's give the "out crowd" a hearing. Then there is always National Multiculturalism Awareness Week, which could be replaced with Federalist Society Week. After all, if a cult of cloaked baby­eating revolutionaries is not worth national attention, then I really do not know what is. 
Christine Niles is a law school student. She can be reached at viewpoint. l@nd.edu. Her column 'J\s I See It ... " normally appears every other Thursday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Helena Payne Amanda Greco Erin LaRuffa C. Spencer Beggs Katie Rand Graphics Sports Jimmy Atkinson Noah Amstadter Lab Tech Viewpoint Dorothy Carder Kurt Bogaard 
ND TODAY/OBSERVER POLL RESULTS 
How interested are you in the upcoming Student Body President 
hat

elections at Notre Dame? 
1% 
*Poll courtesy of NDToday.com and based on 324 votes 
Andy Devoto/The OBSERVER 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Patriotism varies, from a noble devotion to a moral lunacy.,, 
William Inge theologian 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, February 1, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Readers respond to abortion debate claims 
Arguments must stimulate further thought 
I think that Mr. Butland would agree that debate is ultimately pointless if no conclusions are reached. That is why I find his letter yesterday entitled, "Clearing up misconceptions on life," so curious. His recommendation of publicly agreeing to disagree makes the funda­mental error of confusing an armistice with a peace. By demeaning both Mr. Allegra's and Mr. Hudnall's views as "involving blind emotion, casual asser­tion or perhaps both," Mr. Butland argues from the high ground of reason. 
However, he then recommends an end to the public debate because of the impossibility of reconciliation. This is exactly a capitulation to "blind emotion, casual assertion or both." When one invokes reason in debate, he must expect his listeners to consider that reasoning. Almost all people have the ability to rea­son (and surely all at this University have this capacity), and therefore a reason­able argument is universal. One never has the right to be irrational. 
I am sure that particular pieces of the abortion debate can be argued in an edi­torial format and that pure reason can shorten the distance between the two opposing camps. And while it is frustrat• ing when the latter fact is ignored by zealots on either side, we cannot let rational discourse yield to histrionics if we hope to resolve the abortion debate at some point in the future. And as I said before, there is no point to arguing if we do not expect some resolution. In addi­tion, when an aspect of the debate is log­ically apparent, we as rational beings have a duty to make this aspect publicly known. 
Beyond these methodological objec­tions, I present a final wrinkle: There are definitely some things we cannot discern through reflection, such as the exact moment of "quickening." Given that we control no other recourse to knowledge, perhaps we are not able to know such things? And if we are not able to know the moment of quickening, or when so many physical life processes actually constitute life, how can we make a posi­tive decision on when life begins? I real­ize I may have come to the same conclu­sion as Mr. Butland, but I do not advo­cate silence. My recommendation: Err on the side of caution. 
Jack Cosgrove freshman St. Edward's Hall Jan. 29, 2002 

Appeal to Aquinas is not 
infallible 
Only at Notre Dame can we find someone using Aquinas, of all people, to defend abortion, or at least suggest it may not be wrong. vVhile it is nice to see a freshman citing Aquinas, and even according him some respect, we need to remember that Aquinas was not infallible. For instance, he ques­tioned the doctrine of the immaculate conception (which had not yet been formally defined, so he was entitled to doubt it). He was not the Pope, just a theologian, and to them our Lord granted no special graces of authority (that is news to some of them, for sure). The Church has since spoken, and proclaims that life begins at con­ception; I am sure Aquinas would accept this teaching, as he would the freedom of Mary from original sin. 
I am sorry to see Brodie Butland scandalized by someone pointing out a parallel between abortion and the Nazis. Are we who believe abortion is wide-scale infanticide somehow sup­posed to sugar-coat it, so people like Brodie do not get offended and call us "doomsayers?" Far from "obfuscat­ing" the issue, seeing connections between abortion and other crimes against mankind puts it in clearer terms and shows its severity. 
Abortion is as complicated as you want to make it, Brodie. You can see it for what it is, or you can come up with sophisticated cases to defend it. You know, even many feminists, faced with increasingly troublesome arguments and facts showing that unborn children are truly alive, have changed their tack in supporting abortion. Many of them have given up the old strategy of claiming that unborn children are just lifeless blobs, and now say they are para­sites, unwelcome life-forms draining the resources from "host" women ­like tapeworms or fungus. Mean old Ayn Rand would be delighted to hear babies likened to parasites. 
You have three years yet to get a clue, Brodie. For now, it was nice of you to condescend to write a few "weak paragraphs" -instead of the treatise you would like -and help "pollute" the editorial page. How nice it must be to be able to say both sides are wrong. 
Eric Glass · class of'00 Jan. 29, 2002 

Savoring the semester 
Last semester, prior to Notre Dame's awareness will open your senses to bet-years after our show. Moonlight." They are as vivid today as final home football game, Observer ter appreciate and substantiate others My surprise February birthday party the nights we danced, conducted our Editor•in-Chief Mike Connolly throughout your lifetime. featured a keg of beer (yeah folks, sorties or crammed for a mid-term test. described how he would awaken early, I last saw my father two weeks before these times were back in the day). We Many of my classmates cannot recall relish every second of the pre-game his passing, yet I can replay an entire used the entire third floor of Lyons Hall these moments. They seem to have lost activities and the game, then remain in weekend in my mind. On Friday we where the keg and food resided on the their collegiate memories when they the stadium until attended the unearthing of a time archway side of the floor while moved on to another stage of their the gates were Gary Caruso capsule he buried twenty-five the music and dancing lives. Some are not as much fun any­locked. For all we years prior. We took the extended throughout more. They cannot separate from their know, he may still dogs to a nursery where / the remainder of the personal, professional and family be sitting in the we bought flowers ~ hallways. Unlike responsibilities without a martini or
Capitol

stands savoring his and planted them many of my f el-pill. Yet despite their changes, I have 
Comments

final moments as a around the house ~~ low hall resi-locked them forever into my mind as
? 

student spectator. on Saturday. I ~~r dents, I they once were when we shared our 
For most seniors took his picture , ~ remember the youth. this semester draws to a close the late that after-~ entire We have, on a daily basis, opportuni­unique experience that is Notre Dame. noon with my evening ties to change our lives. Beginning I learned how to better appreciate and new digital cam-because of today, each one of us can expand our stretch each moment during my last era, the last my effort to appreciation of our surroundings and
1 

semester on campus. Decades later, my photograph ever savor that of those with whom we live. While it conscience efforts to remember my snapped of him, ~ event. Most takes concentration, dedication and final semester have given me a more on our front of the others, effort, it is never too soon to burn our fulfilling life full of awareness ... both porch. We because of experiences onto the CD of our minds.
f;
at Notre Dame as well as after gradua­attended mass on our unique That comprehension can construct a tion. Sunday and then thriftiness in fulfilling existence. 
Concentration can extend a minute visited a funeral preparing for the Mike Connolly had the right idea beyond sixty seconds. Seize a moment home to pay our ~ Lt.LA party, only about savoring his last home football to look long and hard at your surround­respects to an old fami-_ ,LV" / remember how the game. He can forever re-live that day ings and into the faces of your teach­ly friend. As I waved J:o,-dining hall con-with excitement and fond memories. If ers. classmates, dining hall personnel. good-bye from the road on d"__ tributed ten-pounds of he concentrates as much on other campus police, roommates. Make a that Mother's Day Sunday, he ------JC.--cheese, balogna, salami, sev-events and persons throughout his life, mental note of appreciation for a waved back from the porch. It was the eral loafs of bread, boxes of crackers he will savor many nation?,l champi­friend's quirkiness, savvy or unique­last time I saw him alive. and a couple industrial sized boxes of onship moments. ness. Drink in the cool spring breezes While time may have fuzzied my feel-potato chips and peanuts. on campus or a colorful sunset on the ings of doubt and frustration over leav-When a fifty-some degree spring Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73, horizon. Stop to scrutinize the habits of ing the country club atmosphere of col-breeze blows through my Washington, served in President Clinton ·s adminis­a campus squirrel. lege, I have forever burned into my D.C. window, I feel a Notre Dame tration as a Congressional and Public 
Decades from now you will not need mind many memories of funny inci• breeze that reminds me of our fire• Affairs Director. His column appears to flip through old photographs that dents and mischief. My Imus-like pro-cracker commando raids against the St. every other Friday. and his Internet vaguely remind you of your college grams on WVFI radio were cutting Mary's shuttle bus. I re-live an all-address is Hottline@aol.com. years. Rather, you can enrich your edge for the time and got me canceled nighter just before Easter and a spring being by recalling many wonderful in mid-semester. I can still see and dance at St. Mary's College. Those The views expressed in this column remembrances, along with an occasion­hear my sidekick, a freshman named moments will never leave me. They are are those of the author and not neces• al heartbreaking recollection. Your new Kevin Walsh, who passed away eight rekindled when I hear "Dancing in the sarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 14 Friday, February 1, 2002 

26 years i 
Scene Editor 

Nothing is constant except for change. That may be true everywhere -everywhere except for Notre Dame. When the "2002 Keenan Revue" opened last night with Green Day's "Basketcase," the words may have been from a different time and place, but the meaning was the same. 
The "Keenan Revue" was born in the cold November nights of 1976. The brainchild of Tom Lenz and Rick Thomas, class of '77, the Revue was begun for a number of reasons. 
Notre Dame in 1976 elicited many of the same complaints as it does today: a social scene that revolves around alcohol, poor relationships between the sexes and an oppressive administration. The campus was in the clutches of the then-Dean of Students James 
bad ... I had friends that went to big state universities that were so much more open and free. Notre Dame seemed so tight and buttoned-down," Lenz said. 
Lenz and Thomas, both Keenan Hall resident assistants at the time, began to brainstorm ways to lighten up the campus. They wanted to produce an event that did not necessarily involve getting extremely drunk and would relieve the student body's frustration. 
The "Revue" was to have meaning in another way: Lenz and Thomas wanted to commemorate the death of a Keenan Hall student, Jim Gallagher, who had been killed the year before while hitchhiking home from Niles, Mich., after a night of drinking under Michigan's 18 year-old drinking age. Notre Dame had reversed a decision to allow any on-cam­pus drinking and students often made the eight-mile trek to Michigan to imbibe. 
Lenz and Thomas, with the support of their rector, sought the support of the Keenan Hall president and vice-president, Rich "Bear" Hebert and Jim Sullivan. 
Hebert and Sullivan, who had run on a platform of increasing the social life of the hall, finally con­vinced the hall council to allot their entire fall bud­get, about $300, to produce the event. 
"We didn't know what would come of it; it was an act of faith,"Sullivan said. 
What would come of it would be one of the most anticipated events on either campus: The first Revue on Nov. 6, 1976 would found 
a tradition that has endured for 26 
Roemer (a '70's Bill Kirk), who "/ often tell the story of 
years. A bunch of self-described 
enforced administration rules with the "Keenan Revue" as a 
cut-ups wanting to express their 
an iron fist; something had to sort ofparable about the frustration and commemorate a break; the rebellion was about to 
friend ended up creating some­
begin. hidden talents people 
thing beautiful. 

"This was 1976, about five years have.,, The "New Keenan Revue," as it after co-education [was intro­
was then known, was organized as duced], there was a lot of griping a talent show, but neither Lenz nor
Tom Lenz, '77

about coeducation and the lack of 
Thomas knew the kind of talent 
girls ... The social situation was co-founder of "Keenan Revue" 
that Keenan Hall would produce. 
The first show ran the Vaudeville 
gambit of acts with a pianist, a jug­gler, a barbershop quartet, a violinist, a few skits and a mock news update. 
The would-be small talent show produced in the decrepit Washington Hall -where bats would swoop at the audience from the dark ceiling ­attracted a crowd that flooded the seating, the floor, the lobby and snaked around the sides of the build­ing. The audience went so wild for the meager show, the group gave an encore performance the next weekend. 
"The thing that was really astonishing about it 

c. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 
Russ Giancola and Blake Kirkman disturb the course of their history In "Russ and Blake's Great Adventure." Pants are not required for time travel. 
was that we had envisioned a hall talent show, and there was so much talent ... It real­ly took on a life of its own," Lenz said. 
Lenz is proud of helping to found the "Revue;" he even uses the story in his profes­sional work as a community organizer. 
"It's a tremendous person­al satisfaction [to have helped found the "Keenan Revue."] I often tell the story of the "Keenan Revue" as a sort of parable about the hidden talents people have ... The enduring lesson it taught me was that there's a lot of hidden talent in people that never sees the light of day," Lenz said. 
This year's "Keenan Revue," dubbed "The 2002 Palindrome Revue," follows the precedents set 26 years ago. "Revue" producer junior Dave Cantos still sees the show as representing some­thing productive at Notre Dame. 
"(The "Keenan Revue" isJ a good way to see what goes 
dent. It's also a good way to have a little faith in college students these days ... [it shows that] there is a lot of talent here "2002 Kee11 and when parents send their kids to school they just don't sit around their dorm rooms and drink," Cantos said. . Saint Mary's 
Cantos, like most of the men in the 
. O'Laughlin Audi
show, has been involved in the produc­tion since his freshman year. Four years . Fri.& Sat. 7:30 I ago, Cantos· RA was the head writer of the "Revue" and encouraged Cantos to tryout for the show. Cantos was cast in Tickets were previi 
the opening skit that year and has and all shows are l increased his involvement each year; the "2002 Keenan Revue" features three of Cantos' skits. 
The "Revue" is presented to the student body free of charge, even though the show costs about $11,000 to put on. Although the "Revue" is tradi­tionally produced in only one week, the organization of the show begins as soon as students return from summer break in August. 
As producer, Cantos is in charge of raising funds, mostly from alumni donations, T-shirt sales and advertising in the program. But, the bulk of Cantos' responsibilities were completed about a week before the show. It was then that senior Kevin Carney took the helm to direct the show. 
The "Keenan Revue" is traditionally rehearsed for only one week. Last Friday, Cantos and Carney began their day-and-a-half audition process for acts in the show. About 95 acts were presented for con-

The men of Keenan Hall llp-sync to the Japanese boy band an expression means "I did It." Regardless of what they 1119; 
r'\l,HE
vnSERVER 


Friday, February 1, 2002 page 15 


of the same old song 
1an Revue" sideration, but Cantos and Carney could only accommodate about 25 for the show. The pair felt that the selection process was difficult because they had to cut acts that were worthy of being in the
itorium 
show. 

p.m. Carney looked for a special quality
mThe Revue· shows there is 
acts that would be Keenan Hall or its residents. The more progressive than a lot oftalent here and success of the "Keenan Revue,"

ously distributed 
in previous years; he when parents send their he believes, comes from the idea sold out. wanted new jokes and of the show itself as an activity to
kids to school they just
new ideas (although promote creativity and entertain­
many running jokes don't sit around their dorm ment. remained unchanged). "I think maybe it's the show
rooms and drink" 
"While I'll laugh at the dirtier itself that brings out the funny and raunchier stuff, I wanted to parts of people who don't think 
Dave Cantos 

make sure the show wasn't all they're funny," Cantos said. about that. I think that we did a producer Funny. is of course the simplest video games and drinks beer on the weekend with your friends ... we're just a bunch of guys who are trying to give something fun to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses," Carney said. 
In fact, Cantos doesn't think that success of the "Keenan Revue" has anything to do with of 
pretty good job of keeping the pretty derogatory and across the line stuff out of the show," Carney said. 
Neither Carney nor Cantos has had any previous theatre experience, except for Carney's 12-line role as Butch, the schoolyard bully, in his elementary school's production of "Little Red Schoolhouse." They see the show as it has always been: a night of entertainment and leisure, not a full-scale theatrical production. 
"You kind of have to sit back sometimes and remember that you're just a student that plays way to classify the antics on 

stage at the "Keenan Revue." 
Following in the steps of its founders, the "2002 Keenan Revue" begins with a musical cover. The high-energy introduction is, of course, topped off by the cast of the show removing their shirts and per­forming a marching band-esque dance culminating with the mass removal of their quick-release pants -perhaps a more modern addition to the show. 
The "Revue" leaves almost no issue on campus unscorched -from an ROTC-style physical training session for Pax Christi, to a parody of teaching assistants that cannot speak English. 
Although this year's "Revue" roasts campus groups for particular characteristics, Carney and Cantos cut down on some of the more offensive material from previous years. 
But "Revue" fans will certainly still see their favorite stereotypes on the O'Laughlin stage: Breen­Phillips Hall girls are fat, Farley Hall girls smoke, McGlinn Hall girls have head lice and Pasquerilla Hall West girls are hairy (or "giant, weightlifting pandas" as the case may be). 
Absent are some of the stereotypes that fueled the controversy last year for which the Saint Mary's Board of Governance considered a ballot initiative to prohibit the "Revue" from happening on its cam­pus. Carney and Cantos wanted to stress the func­tion of the Revue as a coming together of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. 
"It ties the two campuses together," Cantos said. 
The Revue still takes its fair share of shots at campus institutions with skits that revolve around a George O'Leary Career Center, a halftime show in which the marching band salutes hip-hop, a review of the year's most famous typos and debacles in The Observer and, of course, the ubiquitous Jesus jokes. 
Most of the skits are original material. From a dead-on reenactment of the classic Nintendo game "Mike Tyson's Punch-out" to the standup comedy styling of Ryan Cunningham, the acts in the "2002 Keenan Revue" show a remarkable creativity and vibrancy. 
While some skits were fairly traditional such as the "Saved by the Bell" skit, others bordered on the bizarre. Skits like "Dwarf Invasion 2," in which German punk rocker dwarves play a rowdy piece about their impending invasion, and "Yatta!," where six cast members lip-sync the lyrics to the scantily clad Japanese boy band group of the same name, offer an odd look into the minds of the men of Keenan Hall. 
In the end, all those involved in the show or those that have been involved in the show feel that all their hard work has been worth it. 
"If I helped get one guy a date at Notre Dame, I 
would think my time was well-spent," Sullivan said. 
"Yatta!" In Japanese, "yatta" means "did It," but used as 
ian, the men get the audience laughing. Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3nd.edu. 
C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 

Above: The apostles try to give the heimlich maneuver to "big, fat Jesus." Below: Big Leroy learns how to get the ladies ( and a few men) with his Barry White-like singing voice. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles ready for Knights 


I 
i ' 
I I Ii 
l 
i 
-
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Nasty winter weather caused the cancellation of Saint Mary's much anticipated opportunity for revenge against Alma College on Wednesday night. The Belles will now play two home games this weekend. The Calvin Knights come to the Angela Athletic Facility for the Belles' Parents' Day on Saturday. and the Alma game will be made up on Sunday. 
"Our coach e-mailed us at 2 
a.m. [Wednesday] to tell us the game was cancelled," said freshman Emily Creachbaum. 
Because the Belles were so intently looking forward to the re-match against Alma, which beat them 66-52 Jan. 5, they were not thrilled to have the game cancelled. 
"I was disappointed because I was ready to play. We really want to play Alma," said fresh­man Katie Miller. "Now we just have to have the mentality to beat both teams instead of just one." 

"But we're out to beat Alma even more [than Calvin]." she added. "I think we have to shift our focus. We really want to play Alma bad, but we have to focus on Calvin. "Hopefully we'll be on a motivation streak [after the Calvin game], whether we win or play pretty well, and hopefully that will carry into Alma," Creachbaum said. 
The Belles lost to the Knights 75-52 Jan. 9 and are expecting two tough contests this week­end. By the end of the first half of the game at Calvin, Saint Mary's was down by 14 points. In order to win both Saturday and Sunday. it is imperative for the Belles that their offense starts off strong without allow­ing their opponents to run up the score early on. 
"We need to get our offense going," said Creachbaum, who knows that their offense has been relatively weak. "Our defense is more natural than our offense," she said. 
The Belles must also be more aggressive when they go after rebounds. They were out­rebounded 48-33 against Calvin and 47-31 against Alma. 
Coach Suzanne Smith gave the Belles Wednesday night off, so they believe they will be rested for the busy basketball weekend ahead. Additionally, their confidence will be given a boost by the presence of many of their parents at the game on Saturday. 
The Calvin game will be Saint Mary's first home game in two weeks, and they are hoping to have a large fan base to sup­port them as they return to play in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
"We need our fans there and we them need to be rowdy," Miller said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
Friday, February 1, 2002 
SUPER BOWL XXXVI 

Young on Brady: I think he's hurting 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
Tom Brady's ankle might not 
be as healthy as the New 
England Patriots claim. 
Two-time Super Bowl MVP 
Steve Young, who saw tape of 
the Patriots working out, said 
Thursday that Brady was "defi­
nitely hurting" while practicing. 
"I just saw him drop back," 
Young said. "I think he's hurt­
ing." 
Super Bowl practices are 
closed to the media except for a 
pool reporter and photographer. 
Pool reports Wednesday and 
Thursday said Brady appeared 
to have no problems with the 
ankle he sprained in the AFC 
championship game. In his 
capacity as an ESPN analyst, 
Young saw pool video provided 
by NFL Films. 
"I don't think the ankle will be 
an issue," Patriots coach Bill 
Belichick said, according to 
Thursday's pool report, which 
said Brady rolled out "without 
any sign of a limp" and stayed 
after practice for five minutes 
with No. 3 quarterback Damon 
Huard. 
Belichick was not available to 
respond to Young's comments, 
and Patriots spokesman Stacey 
James declined to do so. Brady 
said before practice that he 
expected to wear a brace to sta­
bilize his left ankle. 
"From where it was Sunday, it 
feels a ton better than it did," he 
said. "It's sore, it's a little tender, 
but I think there's a lot of body 
parts of mine that are sore." 
Appearing at a youth center 
the NFL is helping to renovate, 
Young endorsed Belichick's deci­
sion to start Brady over Drew 
Bledsoe. The Patriots have won 
eight consecutive games with 
Brady as the starter and have 
gone 13-3 since he took over for 
Bledsoe, who this summer 
signed the richest contract in 
NFL history. 
Fellow Super Bowl MVPs Joe 
Namath ('69) and Joe Montana 
('82, '85, '90) also agreed with 
Belichick's choice of Brady. 
"I liked him from the first day I saw him," Namath said. "He's tough and his teammates love him and he's got a great future. I . think it's a great luxury to have Bledsoe, too. I know the team 
has confidence in both of those 
guys." 
Young, who developed a frosty relationship with Montana while waiting to succeed the future Hall of Farner with the San Francisco 49ers, said he also thought the Patriots should keep both quarterbacks. 
"I worked through it for five years. It's a tough situation, but you've got to work through it," Young said. ''Those are their two biggest assets. There aren't 32 NFL-quality quarterbacks in the league. If you have the luxury of having two, make sw·e you can keep both of them. 
"They've already needed both of them." 
Bledsoe was the starter for 
eight years, breaking virtually 
every one of the team's passing 
records. But after he was injured 
in Week 2, Brady replaced him, 
held the starting job when 
Bledsoe recovered and led New 
England to the AFC East title. 
Brady starred in a 16-13 over­time victory over the Oakland Raiders in the Patriots' first play­off game, but he was hurt in the second quarter of the conference championship. This time it was Bledsoe coming off the bench to rescue the team. 
That forced Belichick to pick one to start in the Super Bowl against the St. Louis Rams, and he chose Brady. 
"I don't think there really was any (controversy)." Montana said at a separate news confer­ence earlier Thursday. "If he was healthy, he would start." 
Namath, the architect of one of the greatest Super Bowl upsets when the Jets beat the Colts 16­7, said he wouldn't count out the Patriots, who are 14-point underdogs. That's one of the biggest spreads since the Jets entered the 1969 game getting 18 points. 
"They can do it and I hope they do," Namath said. "It's not just because they're underdogs. But I enjoy seeing underdogs win. Maybe people around the country see that and think they can win, too." 
Of course, Rams quarterback Kurt Warner doesn't share that view -even though he consid• ers Brady a kindred spirit. 
'Tm hoping his Cinderella story stops one game short," he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cencs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Website help needed to revamp SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! Do you have editing skills? existing site. FrontPage. Good Pay. Book your trip with StudentCity.com Want to help lead the most exciting NOTICES IHRD 273-8857 8-5 M-F. FOR RENT PERSONAL and save up to $100 per person to newsroom on campus? Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm-Spring Break with STS, Americas or Florida Most popular student Apply to be Managing Editor or 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. FOR SALE rentals@aol.com #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote hotels including the Oasis and the Assistant Managing Editor at The 
BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOW-trips on-campus earn cash and free Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! Observer. EST prices! WWW.breaker-Why rent when you can own a qual-HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9-trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-Prices start at $399! Sale ends Applications should be submitted to stravel.com (800) 985-6789. ity 3 bdrm, 2 ba villa, less than 2 mi bedroom houses. 4849 www.ststravel.com soon! CALL NOW! 1-800-293-1443 Jason McFarley. 
from campus. Fireplace. Bsmt. Low Call Bill at or go to StudentCity.com! Applications for Managing Editor $400 CCTour&Travel Florida $85/mo fee. 1948 Creeksedge. 532-1896 Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it due by 5 p.m. Feb. 5. SpringBreak pkg. Call 258-0718 $138,000. Call Rachel 235-3906. alone. If you or someone you love Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE Applications for Assistant Managing 
Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03 needs confidential support or assis-MTV audience ticket to select Editor due 7 p.m. Feb 7. YR.FURN. lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise shows when you book your Spring WANTED Dodge 93 Intrepid, 3.3L clean, 128K 272-6306 Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more Break through StudentCity.com! Go Tell your sweetheart how you feel in 
mi. $2000 282-1162 after 5pm. information, see our weekly ad in to MTV.com or call StudentCity.com a special Observer Valentine classi-Looking for Eagle Scout or anyone 5 mins from NDl4-6 student house THE OBSERVER. at 1-800-293-1443 for details! Tours lied. Get tree spot red on your type interested to volunteer as Asst. 70s retro mauve couch & chair. w/large common areas-prkg lot, and tickets are limited! For just 3 cents per character, you Leader with Boy Scout Troop 453. Great cond. $185 obo. 292-1175 or appl. Fall 2002 Dave #1 Spring Break Vacations! can let the world know how you feel Meet at Clay United Methodist 236-7846 page. 291-2209 Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Know Business? about your special friend. 
Church, on cleveland Rd., north of Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Apply to be The Observer's Ironwood. Monday nights 7-8:30 1998 Saturn Great Winter Car, Excellent house 3-4 students. Best Prices! Space is Limitedl!l 1-Business Manager or Operations Want to tell your friend happy pm. Call Chuck Trundle 277-5194 Sweet Stereo, 40mpg $8,600/offer, Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291-800-234-7007 www.endlesssum-Manager. For more information call birthday with a funny picture? Call evenings. 283-0901 2209 rnertours.com Jason at 1 -5323 Observer Ads at 1-6900. 
Friday, February 1, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Jordan hits 'The Shot', Wizards top Cavs 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Only Michael Jordan. and only in Cleveland. 
Jordan did it to the Cavaliers and their fans again, hitting an 18-foot jumper at the buzzer Thursday night to give the Washington Wizards a 93-92 win. 

Jordan victimized Cleveland throughout his career with the Chicago Bulls, and although he's now wearing a Washington jersey, No. 23 still has the Cavs' number. 
·"Everybody in the place 
knew where the ball was going," Jordan said. ''I've had some big shots in Cleveland, and they keep going in." 
With 1. 6 seconds left and Washington down 92-91, Jordan got free on a defensive switch and calmly drained his jumper for the Wizards, who 
Mevo Invitational 
Todav (1-8:30pmJTomorrow (12:30 -4pmJ 
Mevo Mile (Tomorrow -1:45pmJ 
Other teams that will be represented....... Alabama •Butler •Cent. Michigan •Drake •Iowa •Marvland • Michigan State •Missouri • Western Michigan • 
trailed by 12 points in the fourth quarter. 
Jordan's game-winner was almost identical to the shot he hit in Game 5 over Craig Ehlo at Richfield Coliseum in 1989 to beat the Cavs and eliminate Cleveland from the playoffs. 
"There was no doubt. I wasn't worried," Jordan said. "There's only two things can happen, you make it or you miss it. I wanted a good look and I got one." 
Jordan finished with 26 points and Chris Whitney had 20 for the Wizards, who trailed 85-73 with 7:43 remaining. 
Wesley Person had 21 points and Andre Miller had 15 points and 12 assists for the Cavs, who took a 92-91 lead with 1.6 seconds left on Chris Mihm's putback. 
All 20,562 fans inside Gund Arena knew exactly what the Wizards would try on their final possession. 
Popeye Jones patiently wait­ed for someone to get open and it was Jordan. who broke free on a slash toward the foul line and got open on a mix-up by Cavs forwards Jumaine Jones and Bryant Stith. 
Jordan got a wide-open look, and after knocking his jumper down, he pumped his fist and was mobbed by his teammates N just like he was 13 years ago. 
Wizards coach Doug Collins, who was Jordan's coach in Chicago when he made "The Shot" in '89, just laughed and ran on the floor to high-five Jordan as the pair re-lived a special memory. 
"No way," Collins said when asked if he jumped as high cel­ebrating as he did in '89. "I got a bad hip. 
"It wasn't exactly the same play, but it was the same result. I liked the way the horn sounded both times." 
Jordan, who scored his career-high of 69 against Cleveland, · has had a running feud with the Cavs all season. 
SAY... 


COFFEE, BAKERY&: CONFECTIONS Proudly Serve 
Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee & The Republic ofTea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate: from San Francisco 
Mon,Fri 7am,10pm/Sat l0arn,I0pm 213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend 
233,a.Ji 
Cie~i ,.t,t &-«A.i I 
j(e,w--V,4'J~j,.l.,l'.e • 4 ,.lje.,p.4 
\) 
Friday on Michiana's we 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February I, 2002 
FENCING 

Undefeated men not overlooking Cardinal 
MIKE CONNOLLY/The Observer Junior Anna Carnick thrusts at an opponent in the 2001 NCAA Championships. 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 

After a successful meet at New 
York University last weekend, the 
Notre Dame fencing team looks 
to maintain its focus at this week• 
end's Air Force Dual meet in 
Colorado Springs. 

The No. 2•ranked men's team 
went unbeaten at NYU, bringing 
home wins against host NYU, No. 
5 Columbia, No.7 Yale and No.1 
St. John's. 

According to senior sabre cap• tain Andre Compton, the team has not peaked too early. 
"We didn't fence to our poten­tial last weekend," he said. "We do need to keep the same intensi­ty this weekend." 
Leading the Irish at NYU was freshman Michal Sobieraj. His 12-0 record was capped off by a thrilling 3-2 overtime victory over Arpad Horvath of St. John's to give the Irish the 14-13 victory over the Red Storm. 
At Air Force, the competition ·should not be as difficult for the Irish. Their main challenge should come from No. 4 Stanford, and possibly host Air Force, which is ranked No. 10. However, Compton does not see this meet as one to overlook. 
"This weekend is another chal­lenge for us," Compton said. "Stanford has a really good team and we can't take them lightly." 
Once again, Compton knows the short-term goal for the squad is to win this weekend. However, the long-term goal has not left his mind one bit. 
"We are always looking to improve," said the senior captain who went 9-2 at NYU. "We need to stay more focused [in the upcoming meets]. We want to win this weekend and at 
NCAA's." . 
Meanwhile, the women's fenc­ing team did not get off to as good of start as the men. After victo­ries over No. 8 Yale, No. 9 Columbia and NYU, the Irish dropped a tough match to No.1 St. John's by the score of 15·12. 
"Since the loss was by such a small amount, I still have full con­fidence in this team," said sopho­more epeeist Kerry Walton. "I don't think we will have any problem against them in the NCAA's" 
Two freshmen made impres­

sive debuts for the women's team at NYU. Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament each had 10 wins for the foil squad. 
"Alicja just blows everybody away and Andrea is a wonderful asset to the team," said Walton. "Even though they are just fresh­man, they stay focused and get the job done." 
No. 4 Stanford and No. 6 Northwestern will be the biggest challenges for the women's squad that looks to stay focused on this weekend's event and not look toward the future. 
"We will stay with our normal routine, go through the team warm-up, and [try not to] space out," Walton said. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 


This FRIDAY 
.'\'.¼~t-~~ ;.. ,;

9:30p1n-Midnight 
:.. , .. ,f' t .
• 
'{t? 
...~}~'-; 
·.. 

@theCoMo 
.r. L------.----------------------------------------------------,-----­

. :.:,~<.ii;. 

Food & Drinks Harn11,es Student Lounge, Cole1nan-Morse Center 

... 


Friday, February 1, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 .... 

THE 
is currently accepting~ applications for the the 2002-03 term for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR . BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ass1~ MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Any sophomore or junior business major interested in Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic gaining valuable work experience is encouraged to and management skills. An in-depth understanding of apply for Business Manager or Operations Manager. nev1spaper production, including skills in Microsoft Ar,plicants should be comfortable in a managen1ent Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. position, demonstrate strong organizational skills and Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. . possess a solid understanding of accounting principles. 
Applications for any of the above positions should be a statement of five or more pages explaining applicants' qualifications and what they want to accomplish during their term. 
Managing Editor and Business Manager applications are due by 5 p.m. Monday, Feb. 4. Assistant Managing Editor and Operations Manager applications are due by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 6. 
Submit all applications to Jason McFarley in the Obseiver office in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Swimming 
continued from page 24 
Northwestern couldn't sneak in many top finishes at all, managing to catch first-place finishes in the 200-yard freestyle, and the 100-yard and 200-yard breastroke. 
Even when the Wildcats did manage a win, Notre Dame answered. Freshman Sarah Alwen, junior Hedi Hendrick and senior Maureen Hillenmeyer placed second, third and fourth in the 200­freestyle behind Northwestern, and sophomore Laurie Musgrave and senior Alison Lloyd teamed for second and third place finishes in the 100­yard breastroke. 
Other top performances included Labosky's wins in the 500-yard freestyle and 200­yard individual medley; a 1-2­3 sweep of the 100-yard back­stroke by Hecking, freshman 
CONVERSATION SCH -·oL 
is seeking university graduates for aone year leaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benefits and travel opportunities. 
RECNUITIN6 DATES: February 13 lr JI/., 2002 at Career anti Placement Services. JIJ/PIJf;(E$/I &IJ!iYJrfil](JIJrfi(I $/K!/(l/J.$ /kJ(f}l{ /lt/.f{fl](J!f/lt/I/Pa Open to all mttiors. S/6N UPS NOW OPEN 
Kristen Peterson and sopho­more Danielle Hulick; a 200­yard butterfly win by Lisa D'Olier and a sweep of the 50­yard freestyle with senior Carrie Nixon in first, freshman Hannah Pawlewicz in second, and Hulick in third. 
Irish swimmers also took the top three places in the 200­yard backstroke, with Peterson in first, Hecking in second and .Hulick in third. Nixon won the 100-yard freestyle, and senior diver Heather Mattingly won both the 1-meter and 3-meter div­ing events. 
"They showed the mental focus to do what they needed to," Weathers said. "They got the job done right away." 
The team heads to Ann Arbor, Mich. Saturday to com­pete in their final dual meet against the University of Michigan. The Wolverines, who are ranked No. 17 in the country, will compete against Northwestern tonight -and 
the Irish will be looking for the 
results. 
Michigan heads into the dual with a battle-injured squad, with four key swimmers side­lined. With only 19 swimmers competing. the Wolverines' biggest disadvantage will be the loss of sophomore Samantha Arsenault, a 2000 gold medal winner at the Syndey Olympics in the 800­meter freestyle relay. Arsenault was benched with a shoulder injury in November. 
Still, while the Northwestern win gives the Irish confidence, the team needs to be careful heading into Saturday. Weathers said. 
"They don't back down," Weathers said. "They expected us to swim well against Northwestern, and come back and swim well against them. The struggle will be for us not to overlook the situation." 
The meet begins Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Notes: 
. Nixon finished the 50-yard freestyle in a pool record of 
22.94. Her 100-yard freestyle finish of 50.17 was also a sea­son-best time. 
. The senior class was also recognized at the meet. The class, which includes Hillenmeyer, Nixon, Hecking, Lloyd, Brooke Davey and Tara Riggs, has been a part of three Big East Championship teams and has notched a dual meet record of 42-5 during their time at Notre Dame. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill084.3@saintmarys.edu. 
Please direct questions about the positions or the application procedure to Jason McFarley at 631-5323, Editor in Chief Mike Connolly at 631-4542 or Business Manager Bob Woods and Operations Manager Pat Peters at 631-5313. 



page 20 Friday, February 1, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 


Women 
continued from page 28 
Syracuse on Tuesday, but now they have to have the under­standing that they cannot take any team for granted. 
"[Syracuse] is good enough to beat us if we don't shoot well and that's what we have to guard against," McGraw said. "You know, just being overcon­fident." 
For the freshmen players, this is the first time they will take on a team that they defeated handily earlier this season and there's a lesson to be learned there. While this Irish team has grown, they expect some change from the Pirates they will face off against as well. 
"We have to know that we both have improved a little bit and so we can't expect the exact same team from them and from us," said freshman center Teresa Borton. "You have to look at the game a little bit differently and remember the strengths we had and work that into the game plan." 
In addition to working its strengths into her team's game plan, McGraw is hoping for some leadership from her junior and senior players. She will be looking to them to keep the young team focused on playing their game, regardless of what the Pirates throw at them. 
"It's up to the captains, Ericka [Haney] and Mandy [Barksdale] and Jeneka [Joyce] and Alicia [Ratay], they really have to make sure they've got everybody focused," McGraw said. 
Fortunately, the team seemed to be getting focused already in Thursday afternoon's practice. And that made her think her team is already showing more signs of maturity than it did when it opened play in November. 
"I thought we had a good practice," McGraw said. "I think we're loose but we're still working hard. That's a maturi­ty thing -that you can come out, work hard but be loose and have a good time." 
The Irish (12-7, 6-2 Big East) are looking for that maturity to manifest itself in good bench play. All season, Notre Dame has been able to rely on good bench play to back up its start­ing line-up. 
"I think [growth] is seen just from the bench," Borton said. "Especially less mistakes, turnovers and overall more team ball." 
Saturday's game marks the ninth Big East match-up the Irish will have this season. As Notre Dame looks for a bye in the first round of the Big East tournament this game will be an important one. 
"Every game is critical right now for us," McGraw said. "For us to get that bye in the first round we have to win seven out of the next eight." 
Tip-off is at 2 p.m. on Saturday at Walsh Gymnasium in South Orange, NJ 
Notes: 
. Junior guard Jeneka Joyce is still questionable for play on Saturday due to a strained left Achilles'. She did not play in the last two Irish games. 

Blues Coffeehouse 
Sponsored by Student Activities. Call 1-7308 for info. 
I , 
Friday, February l, 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
Men 
continued from page 28 
against Pittsburgh, Notre Dame improved to 4-3 in the Big East and currently sits in third place, trailing division­leading Syracuse by a game and a half. Pittsburgh is in sec­ond place, a full game ahead of the Irish. 
But Georgetown, Rutgers and Seton Hall all have 4-4 conference records and are tied for fourth. With Notre Dame's next four games against those three teams, the Irish can either pull closer to Syracuse or fall to the bottom of the division. 
"It looks like anybody in the West Division can get on a run," Brey said. "Let's take Seton Hall, prepare for them, gain some momentum and put enough in the bank so where you can go into the Big East tournament and make it tough on the selection committee." 
The Irish look to sweep the season series against Seton Hall Sunday. In last Saturday's 60-51 win, the Irish held the Pirates to just 29 percent shooting overall and limited Andre Barrett, the Pirates' leading scorer, to just five points. 
If Notre Dame shoots any­thing like the way they shot in the first half against Pittsburgh, however, the Irish will be tough to beat. The Notre Dame first-half domina­tion was so complete that Pittsburgh, a team that only allowed a Big East-low aver­age of 57 points per game before Wednesday, had given up 49 points by halftime. 
"That had to be our best half of the year," he said. "We were due." 
Pittsburgh led 4-3 early in the first half before the Irish offense exploded with a 17-0 run that spanned six minutes. 
,I

Notre Dame added a 14-3 spurt towards the end of the first half, putting the Irish up 41-16. By the time Chris Thomas hit a buzzer-beater to end the first half, the Irish led by 28. 
"It's just one of those games," Matt Carroll said. "Things were clicking. We haven't had too many games where all five guys were shoot­ing the ball pretty well and moving the ball on offense." 
All eight Irish players who entered the game scored, and four Notre Dame players fin­ished in double digits scoring. Thomas and David Graves led the Irish with 19 points. Ryan Humphrey chipped in 17 and Carroll had 15. 
"Anytime a team shoots 67 percent, it's going to be tough to beat them," Pittsburgh guard Brandin Knight said. "We dug ourselves a hole early and didn't make it up." 
While the Irish easily domi­nated the first half, Pittsburgh managed to scored 55 points in the second half. although they would never draw closer than 13 points. Knight scored 20 points -with 17 coming in 
the second half ­ to lead the  
Panther charge.  
" I d o n · t  have  a  h alft i me  

speech when you're up 28," Brey said. "I almost expected the second half to be like that, but I'm happy with the win." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

'Nothing to Wear? 
Join us for our S~'lv1.'1-'A'N'N'll'AL S'AL~ of 40-75% off'Des0,ner Cfothin,q and§ijts 'Now thru ~eh.15th 
WHERE: Yn6pire rf!ef CORNER OF COLFAX AND HILL DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
HERE'S OUR PHONE NUMBER: 
232-1822 
( BRING FRIENDS OR COME AND MAKE NEW ONES) 
YOUR FRIENDS AT INSPIRED & FIRED AND INSPIRE ME! 
"Farmworker Poverty, Profits, and You" 
''

' !. ..~.:_ . .... ,!4~t. tJ ~li:~~~
..,,, • "" ·-. --t-• ~ .r,rf""ai 
~.--.-. '·•. ••.,,i..:'~~:~i i I , • • f.'.!'-t-:... f.n·.-. 
. • > ' •::4.;,;.,;. .,,,••,. ';;.,• 
> ti <r-· ~-•,,;...C..,:,·: . 1~.; 
,, t • ... • ' ~-.~.-:~) -..-.~­
.. ;,v:-,-~ .-c,;r: 
~' .... 
. /
, 

r· ~· 
. ll!.ill~­

--~'sr~ 
Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW) 
Romeo Ramirez 
21 year old farmworker frotn Guatetnala 
4 p.m. Friday, February 1 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by the: Progressive Student A lliancc Mendoza College of Business Dept. of Catholic Social Tradition Dept. of Government Center for Social Concerns Higgins 
Labor Research Institute Student Government Hispanic La\v Students Association Special thanks also go to: Moreau Seminary Institute for Latino Studies Campus rvtinistry Department of Americm1 Studies Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Dixon leads Maryland comeback 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

Juan Dixon said the impetus for No. 3 Maryland's stunning 91-87 comeback victory against Virginia came at the least likely time ­when the Cavaliers {No. 5 ESPN/USA Today, No. 8 AP) thought they had the game won. 
Maryland center Chris Wilcox tosses up two of his eight points to go with eight rebounds. 
Just over six minutes remained, and ,vith Virginia having taken a 74-70 lead, Maryland coach Gary Williams called a timeout, the crowd was in a frenzy as the Cavaliers triumphantly headed for the bench. 
But Keith Jenifer and Travis Watson of Virginia stopped on their way to say something to Williams, leaving him incensed and his team determined. 
"They thought they had the win," Dixon said of Jenifer and \,Vatson, "so I guess they wanted 
Fast-Food 
to show off a little bit. We wanted 
to protect our coach and we 
allowed that to motivate us and 
took it from there." 
The Terrapins fell even further behind, trailing 83-74 with 3:22 left, but scored 13 of the last 15 points, finally taking the lead on Dixon's running one-hander with 31 seconds left, and holding on from there. 
The game marked only the sec­ond time in 156 meetings that both teams came into the game ranked in the top 10, and both played like it. 
Virginia took its big lead by scoring seven straight points, but Drew Nicholas hit his only two field goals of the game, both 3­pointers, and the Terrapins went 4-for-5 from the line at the end to clinch it. 
Maryland finished 25-for-26 from the line, the only miss com­ing in the final seconds, while Virginia had seven costly misses in 19 tries from the line in the sec­
ond half, repeatedly failing to 
build its lead. 
"It was a game we had an opportunity to win," coach Pete Gillen said after Virginia's second straight loss. "We just didn't close the deal." 
Neither team led by more than seven points in the second half until Virginia took its big lead, but Nicholas' two huge shots gave them life and the veteran Dixon took over with the outcome still to be decided. 
"We easily could have let that game go, just gave up," said Nicholas, whose second 3 was from about 25 feet and pulled the Terrapins to 87-86 with 1:20 left. "The shot presented itself and I knocked it down." 
Byron Mouton led Maryland (17-3, 7-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) with 21 points, Dixon had 16 and Lonny Baxter added 14 points and 10 rebounds. Steve Blake and Tahj Holden each scored 10 points for the Terrapins. 

HOCKEY 
Irish hope to heat up on honte ice 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With just eight games left to go in the regular season, the Notre Dame hockey team needs to get on a roll, beginning tonight when they take on Alaska-Fairbanks in the Joyce Center. 
"[We need] to get hot," Irish cap­tain Evan Nielsen said. "These last eight games we need to string a few wins together." 
Currently the Irish are tied for the seventh spot in the CCHA with last weekend's foe, Miami of Ohio. Just two points ahead of Notre Dame stands Ohio State in sixth place. That spot is significant because it would offer the Irish a chance to host a round in the upcoming conference playoffs. The Irish need to be leery, however, of falling out of the top 10 in the conference, thus eliminating them from post-season play. 
II 
. ' 
l ' 
"We need to come out here and get two wins this weekend and roll from there," Nielsen said. "No more split 
) ll' 
I I
'r 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
\I 
,, I 
,' 
Don't go it alone. 
"I
!.\\ 
'! 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or
l-L 
inforn1ation, please call. 
{ 
Confidential Support & Assistance 
'''r
iii 
1I;i · ! 
Available at-Notre Dame: 
,I' 
:{ 
. Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 
. Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 \1 
~ 
. Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163
jt 
. John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163
)'. 1/ 
. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336
,I 
I , 
. Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 
I 
l I 
j 
South Bend Community Resources: 
J 
. Women's Care Center: 234-0363
t! 
. Catholic Charities: 234-3111 
{
{; l 
11 
t Attention First-Year MBA's 
~ j
/.( 
Would you like to earn a FULL TUITION fellowship for your second year? 
The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA program a grant that covers full tuition for the second year for two MBA students! Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the 
MBA program. -Must currently have at least 3.0 GPA -Must submit a 500-1000 word essay on the contribu­tions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman of MCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommunications field in particular. 
-Must submit one letter of recommendation from a faculty 
member. -Must exhibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, lead­ership qualities, character, and community involvement. 
All First-Year MBA's are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving a full tuition fellowship. 
Deadline: Applications are due in the MBA Office by Friday, February 15, 2002. 
Winners will be announced in the spring. Contact: Julie.E.Rogers.21@nd.edu 
Friday, February 1, 2002
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
spawn from there." 

That Irish defense will face an Alaska-Fairbanks squad that has been much of a surprise this year to its opponents. At the beginning of the season, the Nanooks were selected to finish last in the CCHA. Instead, they currently boast a 10-10-2 conference record, while standing four points ahead of the Irish in fourth place in the conference. 
The Nanooks are led in scoring by a pair of sophomore forwards, Ryan Campbell and Cam Keith, with 24 and 23 points on the season, respec­tively. 
"Our offense will take care of itself," Chin commented. "As long as we can be strong on defense, which it seems we've kind of gotten away from in the past few games, we will have a very successful weekend and a successful rest of the year." 
The Irish and the Nanooks face off at 7:05 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

WANT TO MAKE ADIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
weekends." 
The team is, indeed, coming off one of those split weekends against Miami last week. The Irish showed some poise· in the first of the two games, stealing a 4-3 overtime victo­ry from the RedHawks. The Irish defense faltered a little in the second night, though, giving up seven goals in a 7-3 defeat. 
"We had a bad game," Nielsen stat­ed. "I don't think it hurt our confi­dence any. but games like that, they're not enjoyable, and they're definitely tough to be a part of. You just come back and get back to work the next week to get another shot this weekend." 
The Irish will work tonight on tight­ening up that defense that ceded as many goals as it had all year. 
"Our first point of emphasis should be defense," said Irish forward Michael Chin, who is coming off of one of the best weekends of his career in notching three goals and an assist against Miami. "We need to focus on defense and be great on defense, and I think our offense will 

INTERVIEWS: 
Notre Dame Job Fair Thursday, January 31st 
Flanner Hall Friday, February 1st 
9:00 am to 5:00 pm 

COMEFORAJOBINTERVIEWTOWORKAT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
a residential sports camp in North Texas tar children who have diabetes 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
Third Anriual Multicultural Co~edy 
Shovv 

Saturday, February 2, 2002 at 8:00pm in Reeker's 
Featuring: 


B Phlat 
na"e been 

orned\ans Jam, the 
,nese C oef cornedj "/ \_eno, see~ on sno"" v.,\'th a roan"/,on19ht . '\J\ew and 
e,E.\ coro\C 
more. Drevv Lacapa 
Sponsored by MSPS, BCAC, Student Government and Student Union Board 


Friday, February I, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles take on conference foes 
test for the Belles against con­
By NATALIE BAILEY 
ference opponents as both 
Sports Writer 
Albion and Hope are members of the MIM. The swimmers are 
The Saint Mary's swimming looking forward to the MIAA 
and diving team hosts Hope 
Conference Championships
and Albion Colleges at the Rolfs which will Hope College hosts 
Aquatic Center Saturday at 
in Holland, Mich. on Feb. 21, 
3:30 p.m.. The meet includes 
22 and 23. 
the men from Hope and Albion as well. 
As the swim sea­son draws to a close, the Belles are hoping to show their hard work and 
drop their times. Personal records instead of overall points seem to be the buzz of this meet. 
"The team is not really con­cerned with placement as much as getting good times and fin­ishing the season strong," said junior captain Lauren Smith. 
The meet provides an early 
"The team is not really concerned with place­ment as much as getting good times andfinishing the season strong . .. 
Lauren Smith Junior captain 

and Albion are conference teams so it is a big meet for us," sophomore Amy Kleinfehn said."I think we are ready to step up in the conference." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail1407@saintmarys.edu. 
"We're con­cerned about conference and need to build our confidence for it in this meet," Smith said. 
Saturday's meet should be a good opportunity to build that con­fidence. 
"Both Hope 

Irish search for go-to guy 
For the Notre Dame men's basketball team. everything clicked Wednesday night in its 89-76 victory against the 21st­ranked Pittsburgh Panthers. 
Matt 
Carroll nailed sev­eral out­side jumpers; 
Ryan Humphrey dominated in the 

paint. 
Colin Boylan

Harold 
Swanagan 
grabbed 
Boylan's

some key 
Banter

rebounds; and Chris Thomas and David Graves both broke out of recent slumps to lead the Irish in scoring at 19 points each. Even fan-favorite Tom Timmermans got in on the action, showcasing some smooth moves and delivering bone-crushing fouls. 
In other words, everything went exactly like it was sup­posed to. 
If only it were always that simple. 
As recent games against Syracuse, Kentucky and Seton Hall have shown, when the Irish don't play as a cohesive unit, the results can be pretty ugly. 
There's no doubt that this year's team has enough talent to compete with anyone in the nation. In fact, all three of the 
aforementioned games were 
perfectly winnable. It's just 
that when the Irish starters 
don't bring their A-games to 
the court, there's no big, goofy 
guy with a No. 3 on his jersey 
to bail them out. 
It's true that when Troy 
Murphy left Notre Dame for 
the NBA last season, it was 
supposed to signal the end of 
the team's brief run as a elite 
basketball school. 
It's equally true that by jumping out to an 11-1 start to open the season, the Irish quickly dispelled that notion and proved beyond a doubt that they still have quality tal­ent throughout their roster. 
That's all well and good, but only one problem remains. The team doesn't have anyone that can truly be called a "go­to-guy." Last year, when the game was on the line, you could count on Murphy to do one of two things. He would either take the ball in his 6-10 paws and try to will himself another score, or he would draw enough attention from opposing teams to allow one of his teammates to get a good shot. It didn't hurt that the guy was a monster on the low post and a syrupy-sweet shooter to boot. 
Perhaps this could be con­sidered the understatement of the year, but there's no one on this year's squad who really fits that bill. 
Imagine a scenario where Notre Dame is trailing by 2 with 1 :00 left against Villanova in the Big East Final. 
Who do you want shooting 
that ball? 
Graves or Carroll, off a 
screen perhaps? 
lt might work, but that's 
hardly a go-to play. Playmaker 
Chris Thomas might qualify in 
a year or so, but his recent 
turnover problems have been 
known to cause fans ulcers in 
regular season play, let alone 
pressure-packed tournaments. 
And outside of 10 feet, 
Humphrey becomes pretty 
much hit or miss. 
Of course, when everything 
goes right, the team jumps out 
to a 20-4 lead over Pittsburgh 
and never looks back. 
Make no mistake about it: The Irish do have that kind of talent. 
But without anyone to take the game onto his shoulders and key a magnificent scoring run, it becomes extremely dif­ficult to overcome second half deficits against quality oppo­nents. Against Kentucky, the team always seemed to be waiting for that clutch 3-point­er that just never came. 
The potential for the Irish to gain a second consecutive NCAA berth is in the palm of their hands. They just need to display the firepower they did against Pittsburgh to make it happen. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Saint Mary's 
College Program 
in Dance presents 

2002 
Dance Spectrum 
Friday & Saturday, Feb.15 & 16 at 7 PM Sunday, Feb. 17 at 2:30 PM $_, O'L.aughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 

IAig"ffii1iiJ
c~ THE ARTS
284-4626 

~NOTRE DAME, IN 
'Re{axation rainin8 
Learn menta[ 8r_physica[strateaies to induce ca[ m andre(axation. 

Ski{(s can 6e used 
*to he{j, yreyare £or stress *as an aCternative to aCcofio{, irues 
&' 
overeatin8 *to imyrove concentration a6i{ities *durin8 stress-yrovotin8 situations *to fief,, reduce anxiety after-tfie-Jact 
'Dr. WendtJ Settfe ~'Dr.Len 'Hickman 'Fridays, 4:00-5:00, 'Rolfs S_ports 'Rec Center 'Fe6ruary 8, 15, 22 $10 'Registration 6egins 'Fe6ruary 1, 8am, 'RS'RC 
R~7..... -.&T= 
The Observer did not print on Thursday due to the power outage. Check out the archives online at www.nd.edu/ ~observer. 
IT'S NOT THE SIZE 
OF YOUR BRAIN THAT COUNTS-.. 
IT'S HOW YOU USE IT! 
You've been showing offyour vocabulary since the SAT... Nowput your money where your MOUTHis! 
Prizes to top ® winners! 
© 

W@D@0(Y) 
0

woo@. (D®CTJ ® 
~ ®@@

@@mCRW @01:MJ® @i:MJ. 
Tournament!! 
11 :00pm -1 :30am 
... up to the challenge? 
Sponsored by Student Activities For more information call 1-7308 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Road doesn't get easier after victory 
-----------~-------------------------------------------... 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 1, 2002 
-

By COLIN BOYLAN 
Sports Writer 
As far as polls are concerned, the 69th-ranked Michigan Wolverines should have been no match for the 13th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team. But don't try to tell the Irish that. 
"Michigan's very good," said head coach Jay Louderback. "By the end of the year, they'll prob­ably be ranked about 20 or 30 spots higher than they are now." 
That being said, the team's 5­2 victory over the Wolverines last Wednesday looks even more impressive than it might origi­nally appear. 
Aided by solid doubles play and clutch singles victories by Becky Varnum and Katie Cunha, the Irish were able to grind out a win against a quality oppo­nent. 
Things looked very good from the start, when the Irish nabbed the doubles point with three consecutive wins. Alicia Salas then gave the team some breathing room with a quick 6­3, 6-2 win at No. 5 singles. 
But when Michigan closed the gap with two singles wins, things started to get tense. 
Fortunately, Varnum was able to top Kavitha Tipirneni at No. 1 singles and Cunha clinched the victory with a close two-set win. 
"We were very happy to walk away with a win," said Louderback. 
Things don't get any easier from this point on, however. Indeed, this weekend the Irish will play host to Kentucky and Indiana on Saturday and Sunday respectively, at the Eck tennis center. Both matches will serve as a benchmark for the Irish progress so far this season. 

"Kentucky is a very good team who almost beat [third ranked] Duke last weekend and its always a battle when we play Indiana," said Louderback. 
The Wildcats enter the match as a top-25 team looking to avenge their loss to the highly ranked Blue Devils. Louderback is approaching the match with a mixture of confidence and cau­tion. 
"I think our doubles teams have played outstanding so far this season, but Kentucky has three very good doubles teams. That is definitely their strength," he said. 
Indiana may not be as highly ranked. but their experience against the Irish certainly makes them a dangerous opponent. The most recent meeting between the two came at the Eck Classic in November. 
"Indiana has a much younger team than Kentucky, but they sti!l have a lot of talent," said Louderback. 
The Saturday match against Kentucky begins at noon on while the team plays Indiana at 11 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 

HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, ANDREA DEIS. 
we love you.!! 
'Dad and1v1.om 
Know an interesting story about a non-varsity athlete here at Notre Dame? 
Call Noah 1-4543 

, I ' 'I 
I l 
Friday, February 1, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Records could fall at Meyo Invitational 
By DAVE COOK 
Spores Writer 
There are many titles that Luke Watson has earned during his tenure at Notre Dame. He has been named an All­American several times over, 3,000-meter steeplechase champion in the Big East. All­Big East team and more. 
But there is one title that takes a little something extra, even more than what Watson has accomplished so far: team leader. 
Now in his senior year, Watson has established himself as a true team leader. 
This -past weekend, he led the Notre Dame men's distance medley team to a third-pace finish in the adidas Boston Indoor Games, qualifying them for a spot in the NCAA indoor championships in March. 
The Irish were in sixth place going into the final leg of the relay, but Watson's blistering 1600-meter relay time of 
3:58.74 moved them up into third place and one second under the. NCAA automatic qualifying time. 
"When he got the stick he was in maybe sixth, and we ended up third," said head coach Joe Piane. "He did a brilliant job." 
The relay team consisted of sophomore Kevin Somok run­ning the 1,200, classmate James Bracken running the 400, freshman Eric Morrison running the 800, and Watson anchoring with the 1,600. 
"They ran okay. I think we can run significantly better," said Piane. "I think Somok can run several seconds better, Bracken ran well and he might be able to run a little bit faster. And certainly Eric Morrison can run faster." 
Arkansas won the distance medley, with Connecticut fin­ishing in second place. The Notre Dame distance medley team is presently ranked third in the country. 
This weekend marks the beginning of the heart of the indoor track season. the highly competitive Meyo Invitational. Although it is not a team scored meet, upwards of 14 teams and elite independent runners from around the nation will be at Notre Dame to compete. 
In last year's invitational. two school records were set, not surprisingly by sprints special­ist Liz Grow and distance run­ner Ryan Shay. 
Grow broke her own record in the 400-meter with a time of 53.30, and Shay broke the school record in the 5,000­meter with a time of 13:52.66. 
A total of 38 NCAA considera­tion times were posted in the Meyo Invitational last year. including nine just in the 5 ,000­meter run. Of those nine, five runners had automatic qualify­ing times. 
The Irish look to qualify many athletes for both the Big East championships and the NCAA championships in the coming weeks. 
Of the women's distance run­ners, Jennifer Handley, Lauren King and Megan Johnson hope to run qualifying times this weekend. 
"They're working v-ery very hard. Jen Handley had a really good outdoor track season, and carried that over into cross­country this year, and just kept it going," said women's dis­tance coach Tim Connelly. "In Megan [Johnson's] race last week [1,600-meter run] she was in control the whole way, so hopefully we can get her into some competition that will help her to run fast." 
"We're trying to get our kids ready for the Big East champi­onships," said Connelly. "I think both Jen [Handley] and Lauren [King] are ready to run NCAA qualifying times, as well as Megan Johnson in the mile." 
The men's and women's field teams have had a strong season so far, and field events coach Scott Winsor hopes the team displays their improvements this weekend in the invitational. 
Quill Redwine, who has been having problems with his legs so far this season, is trying to get back in top physical shape. 
"Its very difficult for him to go all out in practice. Right now we're just trying to get him back out around his PR[person­al record] in the high jump and triple jump," said Winsor. "He's capable of doing a lot more than he's done so far this year, but its early." 
Jamie Volkmer, who has struggled in the last two meets in the pole vault, has had con­siderable success in the triple jump. She hopes to do well in both events this weekend. 
"Jamie is a very good com­petitor. She's one of the best competitors on the team. I look to her to have a pretty good meet this week," said Winsor. 

Events of the Meyo Invitational begin at 6 p.m. on Friday night and continue at 10 
a.m. on Saturday Morning on Meyo Field. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 1, 2002 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Weekend serves up Buckeyes, Wildcats 
the Buckeyes in their last 13 The Irish are not concerned
By RACHEL BIBER 
meetings, dating all the way back about the added hype surround­
Sports Writer 
to 1988. However, Ohio State has ing the match against raced to a 3-0 start this season, Northwestern, but are cautious,{ I With two matches ahead of beating each team 7-0 without knowing that the Wildcats will 
I 
them this weekend, the Irish dropping a set. come out strong. 
t 
) I 
men's players are shooting for Irish head coach Bob Bayliss is "Northwestern will be a very \. nothing less than two more wins. wary, and knows Ohio State is competitive team," Taborga said. 
Following a huge win over underrated. "Last year we played well and it!~ Duke on Tuesday to improve to 4-"We're ready for the kind of was still a close match. Now, we I 1, Notre Dame will host 24th­challenge they're going to give have to go there and play in a
11 ..
ranked Ohio State on u s ' brand new facility and they have l; Friday before heading Bayliss nothing to lose." to Northwestern for a nNorthwestern will be a s aid . Notre Dame defeated theIi battle against the "They're Wildcats when they met last year,
very competitive team. 
46th-ranked Wildcats v e r y and the Irish have won six of the 
on Sunday. Last year we played well 
j, good. last seven meetings againstThe 10th-ranked and it was still a close They're Northwestern. The all-time Irish, who fell three ranked series between the schools is tied
match.,.
t spots in the newly 24th, at 34-34. released
i b u t No matter what team Notre Intercollegiate Tennis Javier Taborga they're Dame plays, there are areas in 
I 
Association rankings, Irish better which they need to improve in I know the goal of
I t h a n order to become a mainstay in escaping their next that , the top 10. One major part of the two matches unscathed will be
I and I think everyone knows that. team's game that needs attention ,'\ i .. tough. We'll just prepare and get ready is doubles. 
TIM KACMARtrhe Observer 
"They are both good teams," for another one." "As far as practice goes. we 
Irish sophomore Luis Haddock-Morales returns a serve during a
Irish player Javier Taborga said. Northwestern has also started definitely need to improve our 
recent match. The Irish have two dual matches this weekend. 

"Ohio State is going to be a big the season with an unblemished doubles and we will work on challenge for us. They have an record, standing 3-0 on the sea­them over the week," Taborgaexperienced team and last year son. With a strong early season said. "We also need to keep get­we had a tough victory at Ohio start combined with a brand new ting better at the top of the line­State. Northwestern is danger­tennis facility, the Wildcats will up. To get to a higher level and ous. Although they are weaker have an added home-field advan­be a solid top ten team, we need than Ohio State, they have the tage against the Irish. Big crowds to win 80 percent of the doubles 

home court advantage and it is a are expected for the weekend matches and learn to play under great chance for them to play encounter, as the Wildcats will pressure. We need to be able to r against a top ten team. I am sure dedicate the new facility during take the challenge and play tough 
\ they will be ready for us." the match against the Irish with when the matches get tight." If history repeats itself, then the big tennis names, such as Irish have nothing to worry about Northwestern alum and tennis 

Contact Rachel Biber at
when they match up against Ohio star Todd Martin, making an 
rbibcr@nd.edu.

State, as Notre Dame has swept appearance. 

/'' 
i ' 


I' 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
Notre Dame instructor 

Tamari Gurevich 
.
piano 

Friday, February 1, 2002 
8:00 PM, Annenberg Auditorium 
Snite Museum of Art Free and open to the public 
Call (574) 631-6201 for more information 



omewotc 
Watch the game on the big screen TV's in Lafortune, starting at 6pm 



www.nd.edu/~ub AIM: ndSUBinfo Gt1b 




Friday, February l, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
RYAN

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
AW, &'X.#$. THE POWER  NOW I'VE GOT TO TAKE  AND THERE'S NO LI&HT  
IS OUT  A COLD SHOWER IN  TO KEEP PEOPLE FROM  
COMPLETE DARKNESS  WALKINS IN ON ME  


CUNNIGNHAM 

YEAH, TEW. ME ABOUT IT 

CROSSWORD 
59 Golden, in a Rimsky­Korsakov title 
60 _ Day, former Canadian celebration 
62 Pacific, e.g. 
64 Skip 
65 It's not the real 
world 66 Light biscuits 67 Auto buyer's 
option 
DOWN 
1 Cut strips 2 Small gate 3 Introspective 
query 4 James Fenimore Cooper's"_ Myers" 5 John Irving character 
T. S. 6 Start 
Puzzle by Rlc:h No,ri1 

7 Pipe 
24 Drudge8 Film with the 
26 Cap attachment 

song "Papa, Can You Hear 28 Dolly user Me?" 
30 Cal. page 9 "The Horse's 
33 Having no loose Mouth" novelist 

ends Joyce_ 
34 Inclined

1OInseparable 35 Kind of jam
11 Brush material 37 Source of
12 Took part boredom
13 Not working 38 Financial
14 Served 46 Antenna housing 54 Revise a plot 47 "Isn't it_?" 57 Follows 48 Bolt stripped? 58" Dinah" 
50 Wedding (Frankie Avalon hit)
52 Bother a lot 61 Sorrow
53 Noted soap vixen 63 Finish overseas 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285·5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
ACROSS 
1 Includes on one's route 9 Swindle 15 Joker 16 See 21-Down 17 Environmental hazard 18 Hot dog stand offering 19 Show need: Abbr. 20 Quite 22 Not had by 23 Hesitations 25 Ellery contemporary 
26 When Dfa de Reyes is celebrated 
27 Channel 
29 Intelligence grp. established by Truman 
31 A.L. East, e.g.: Abbr. 32 Orthodon~c need 36 White House nickname 37 Ascetic 41 Big heart? 42 Some metallophones 43 Kiwi cousin 44 Stir 45 Achilles' killer 49 Turn out 51 Look 55 Track racer 
56 It may be subject to modification 
57 Adjusted 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


~ISH HOCICEJ, 
fr~~: 

2 {aA14rWILL WIN $ 2 5 0 ~~ ~ fro-m; 
~ 
ST IOSEPH 

(:APITAL A d4 
BANK 

vs. Alaska Fairbanks 
Friday, February 1 @7:05pm Saturday, February 2@ 7:05pm 
Sat-u,r-d:a,:y ~: Shcu:.e,,~Joyce,, P<M"t II 
M~Jw;J1rto--1~ 1,000 ~1 ~to--y01.tt'" f L«if {-or e,ve;ry NV ~ cwu1, ~lt" to--~~­Pr~to--~the, N&Y'the,,yn; 
I~f o-o-d,, '8~­
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lisa Marie Presley, Jessica Savitch, Princess Stephanie, Terry Jones 
Happy Birthday: You'll be interested in financial securityand the comfort that it can buy you this year. Be energetic in your professional pursuits as well as a positive and progressive worker and you will get the results you're looking for. You must be considerate if you wish to be 
treated with respect this year. Your numbers are 3, 8, 14, 24, 33, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Avoid being frivolous. Guard against undue extravagance. Someone you care about may take advantage of your financial situtition. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be confident and do things your way. Your cautious and practical approach will bring praise from those you work for. You have a good handle on future prospects.
000 
GEMINI (May 21•June 20): You'll become bored if you aren't already considering a change. You can pursue new avenues of learning that will lead you down interesting new paths. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It 
is best to lay low and focus on set­ting your house in order. Some family members may be less than pleased with your decisions, how­ever you must do what is necessary in order to satisfy yourself. 00 
LEO (July 23•Aug. 22): Com­municating with friends should bring about some interesting developments. Do a little extra research so that you feel confi­
dent about your choices. 0000 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23•Sept. 22): 

Put your heart and soul into your career. Don't let anyone lead you in the wrong direction. Focus on ­yourself and your personal needs. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Look out for your own interests and don't let anyone push you into something that you don't believe in. Put yourself in a set­ting that will calm you down and soothe your nenres. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Some things may not be too clear today. Don't act in haste or settle for something that you know is incomplete. If you are upfront and honest with others it will be hard for misunderstandings to 
occur. 000 SAGTITARlUS (N<N 22-Dec. Z1): 
This is the time to make decisions regarding partners. If you aren't quite sure what you want to do, ask a trusted friend for his or her point of view. It's time to get off the fence and make a decision once and for all regarding your 
personal life. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are trying too hard. Step back and let things settle down. Once you catch your breath you will have a much better under­standing of what's expected of 
you. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make headway today if you put your mind to it. Once the work is done, treat yourself to something special. You will have intuitive insight today. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a look at investment oppor­tunities today. You'll be surprised how well you can do financially. 
000 

Birthday Baby: You love to debate social and philosophical issues. You also love to read and have the potential to be a great scholar. You -­are fond of travel and this will lead you to many parts of the world. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Q:> 2002 Univ~ Press Syndicate 

... 
-



. No. 13 Notre Dame topples No. 16 Northwestern 201-99 to remain undefeated 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Sports Writer 
For Notre Dame's face-off against Northwestern, the plan was simple: break up the Wildcats' first place finishes, and earn enough seconds and thirds to sneak ahead in the point spread. 
But Thursday night at Rolfs Aquatics Center, the 
competition didn't exactly go according to plan. It went better. "I think we were expecting this to be a little bit 
closer," said sophomore Lisa D'Olier after Notre I Dame's 201-99 win against Northwestern.
t 
The meet was another stepping stone to a poten­tially undefeated season for the Irish. The meet, which pitted No. 16 Northwestern against the
,I i a'"­
h-. 13th-ranked Irish, was expected to be a tightly 
,\ 
,, contested dual. The Irish defeated Northwestern 
'I 
t 
by only eight points last year -and anticipated a similar match up this year. That wasn't the case, as the Irish took control of
\1· 

\), the meet from the start. Notre Dame left the 
\• 
I 
Wildcats in their wake after securing both first and second place in the 400-yard medley relay. 
"The key for us all season has been to get con­trol or the meet," said head coach BaileyJll, Weathers. ''That's a best-case scenario -it's 
< about as good as you can start a meet." 
It got worse for Northwestern in the next event when freshman Kelly Barton teamed with sopho­more Marie Labosky for a 1-2 finish in the 1,650­yard freestyle. 
The two events set the tone that the Irish weren't just going to break up Northwestern's top finishes -they weren't even going to let them get there. 
"That helped a lot," said senior Kelly Hecking. "Last year we lost the first relay and we struggled to catch up the whole time." 
j 
see SWIMMING/page 21 
---------------------------------------------, 
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's Tennis, p. 26 
. Hockey, p. 22 
. 
Track and Field, p. 25 . Fencing, p. 18 

. 
SMC Swimming, p. 23 . SMC Basketball, p. 16 

. 
Column: Boylan, p. 23 



Friday, February 1, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Drowning the 
ildcats 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Irish sophomore Danielle Hulick swims the 100-yard backstroke In Thursday's dual meet win against Northwestern. Hulick finished third In the race, helping the Irish to a 201-99 victory. 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish head east to pillage the Hall 
ByKATIEMcVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 

The type of Big East oppo­nent the Irish face on Saturday was a common one last sea~on -an unranked team that Notre Dame topped by a large margin earlier in the season. But for this year's Irish team, this is the first time the situa­tion has presented itself 
So, as Notre Dame takes on Seton Hall, a team it defeated by 34 points in the last meet­ing, it will be a measuring stick of how mature this young team has become. 
"Maturity wise, I think this is a game we won here at Notre Dame and I'm anxious to see their focus and their intensity," said head coach Muffet McGraw. "This is a really important lesson for us to learn, that you can't take any­one lightly." 
Not taking teams lightly is a lesson the Irish have taught some of their opponents this season. Notre Dame took home a solid victory against Virginia Tech on Saturday and crushed 
see WOMEN/page# 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Shooting for the tourney 
. Notre Dame hopeful heading into Seton Hall 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
A firm believer in the law of averages, Mike Brey figured the Irish were long overdue to break out of their seven­game shooting slump. With the way the Irish had practic­ing recently, the Notre Dame head coach figured Notre Dame would shoot well against No. 21 Pittsburgh. 
But even Brey didn't expect the Irish to make 68 percent of their shots against the Big East's stingiest defense. In a tightly officiated game, the Irish jumped out to a huge first-half lead and never looked back as they rolled over the Panthers 89-76 Wednesday night. 
Now, Brey and the Irish hope to the law of averages continues to swing in their favor as they prepare to play Seton Hall for the second time in nine days. 
"We gotta take it back on the road where we really like to play," Brey said after Wednesday's game. " ... We don't talk about it, but we do have a little bit of a road presence." 
The Irish have won nine of 11 games away from the Joyce Center, with the only losses coming to Alabama and Syracuse. And with nine games left in the season, the 14-6 Irish need to win as many games as possible to stay in the contention for an at-large bid in the NCAA Tournament. 
"If we win, things will fall into place," Chris Thomas said. "We were talking about it in the locker room, we have the ability to control our own destiny. There's a lot of games left in the Big East." 
With Wednesday's win 
see MEN/page# 
. Track Meyo Invitational, Today-Saturday 
OBSERVER 

. Men's Tennis vs. Ohio State, Friday, 3:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
ontlne 

. Hockey vs. Alaska Fairbanks, Friday, 7 p.m.' 
' 

I '· 
AT AGLANCE . SMC Basketball vs. Calvin, Saturday, 3 p.m. http:/\\'W\V.nd.edu/~observer 







