
VOL. XXXVII NO. 48 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Bush tackles terrorism, endorses Chocola at rally 
port for Republican congression­

By JASON McFARLEY 
al candidate Chris Chocola. The 
News Writer 
president is on a nationwide 
campaign swing this week to tip
President Bush reaffirmed close gubernatorial and congres­Thursday his willingness to pur­sional contests in time for sue a U.S.-led war to disarm Tuesday's general election. Iraqi President Saddam Hussein Chocola is in a dead-heat race and to "hunt down and bring to with Democrat Jill Longjustice" others he called "cold­Thompson for Indiana's 2nd blooded killers." 
District seat. The president said Hussein Thursday was Bush's second was a threat to the United States campaign stop for Chocola at the and for 11 years has "deceived airport in two months. At the and denied the world" while Sept. 5 rally, Bush delivered a using weapons of mass destruc­nonpartisan speech that focused 
tion against his own people and on boosting the economy, com­countries that neighbor Iraq. bating terrorism and finding new 
"If the United Nations won't energy sources. 
act, if they won't fulfill their 
The president's 25-minute 
responsibilities ... if Saddam speech Thursday evoked similar won't disarm, the United States 
themes of the war on terror but 
of America, in the name of free­was decidedly more political.dom and in the name of peace, Rush told the 5,000 peoplewill lead a coalition and disarm 
inside the cold airplane hangar

Saddam Hussein," Bush said at a that they had an obligation to rally at South Bend Regional vote next week and that theyAirport. should support GOP candidates. September speech, Bush explicit­D.C." healthcare, including revamped
"We will hunt killers down one He said the country needs legis­ly asked Chocola advocates and Bush also called for "no child prescription drug plans for at a time and bring them to jus­lators who will create jobs, relax undecided voters to send the to be left behind" in Indiana seniors. tice," he said. taxes on small businesses and candidate to Congress, saying schools, and the president But homeland security
Bush's Halloween visit here fight for local control of schools. "the president wants him stand­renewed Republican commit­was to provide last-minute sup-In a move different from his ing by his side in Washington, ment to social security and 
see BUSH/page 6 




Endowment falls $200M 
approximately two percent. 
By HELENA PAYNE 
Despite the dip in the endowment's vol­News Editor 
ume, Malpass said the University will still make some increases but with more caution. 
After tremendow; growth in the 1990s, the "The increases aren't going to be as lucra-University of Notre Dame's endowment con­tive," Malpass said. · tinues to rank in the top 20 of the nation's 
Stock market & ND
universities, but the downturn in the U.S. 
In the 1990s, Notre Dame's fiscal base 
economy has financial heads of the 
grew as the economy expanded, aided by anUniversity strictly monitoring the school's explosive technology market and the emer­dollars and cents. 
gence of Internet companies. The Nasdaq"There hasn't been an [economic) environ­stock exchange, traditionally heavy with tech ment like this since the 30s," said vice presi­stocks, and the New York stock exchange dent for finance Scott Malpass, who manages rose during this period, keeping investors the University's $2.6 billion endowment. 
busy.

The endowment is down from the previous The three-year Generations Campaign that year's $2.85 billion. 
ended in 2000 raised over $1 billion for theThis $0.2 billion drop in school has not put University, surpassing its original goal of just the University in a financial crisis, but over $0. 76 billion. 
Malpass said Notre Dame will have to les.5en 
During that period, the University spent that amount of increased spending. In the $600 million in construction, $80 million on
last 10 years, the University had been 
the annual operating budget and anotherincreasing expenditures by 12 percent each $35 million on scholarships. Money from the 
year, a "pretty aggres.5ive" rate according to Malpass, considering the inflation rate of see MONEY/page 8 
I 4 
t 

Hesburgh speaks about difficult coed decision 
merger with Saint Mary's and were
• Despite various 
going out of their way to make it aproblems, coeduction success," Blantz said. "The vast change made smoothly majority were very happy to admit 
women." 
Blantz was responsible for 
By LAUREN BECK speaking with some of the alumni 
News Writer about the University's decision. 
While he encountered some oppo­
In an era mired in protests, sition from them, he viewed it as a Notre Dame's decision to admit positive sign. "The fact that they women met with surprisingly little didn't want Notre Dame to change 
opposition from students and shows they valued their education alumni. here. If they would have gone 
In fact, the progressive tone of along with us easily, we would the 1960s and '70s may have have had the suspicion they were helped ease the transition, said not happy with the education they Father Theodore Hesburgh, received here. It was up to us to University president at the time. convince them we could do the 
"Everything was turning on its same things ... with women here," head in those days ... Old customs, he said. practices and traditions were set Once Notre Dame administrators 
on end," said Hesburgh. explained their reasoning behind 
Hesburgh acknowledged that, the decision, most alumni and stu­while he never could have made d en ts went along easily, said the decision to turn coeducational Blantz. when he first assumed the office of ''I'm sure many had come here in president in 1952, 20 years later part knowing it was all-male and the moment was ripe for change. liked that, but in general, the deci­
"With everything changing and sion was well-received," he said. being in flux, it was time to go But some of the optimism died coed," he said. And coeducation when administrators killed the seemed to be an acceptable trend, merger between the University and with schools like Princeton, Yale the College. 
and Harvard accepting women Saint Mary's students who had around the same time. been enrolled in Notre Dame class­Hesburgh originally announced es through a co-exchange program 
in 1971 a plan to merge with Saint were upset they would no longer Mary's for the 1972-73 academic receive Notre Dame degrees. More year. Notre Dame would admit 325 than 600 planned to withhold the women that year: 200 transfer and next semester's tuition from the 125 first-year students. College in protest. Others applied 
Father Tom Blantz, then vice for transfers to other schools. And president for Student Affairs, said the general sentiment on Saint students generally welcomed the Mary's campus was one of anger decision. and fear that the College had com­
"Students were in favor of the 
see COED/page 4 
Friday, November 1, 2002

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Onward to 
victory 
The buzz around campus this week, upon most students' return to campus from fall break, was 'The Game... 
Of course, most ofyou realize that last Saturday's victory over Florida State stands as the biggest victory to 
Bryan Kronk 
date for the Notre 
Dame football team 
this season. 

Assistant
I would like to 

Sports Editor 
propose to you that this Saturday's game (and subse­quent Irish victory) against Boston College is even bigger. at least for me. 
Here's why: As a native ofthe great Commonwealth ofMassachusetts -and as a citizen ofthe Boston suburbs -I grew up watching two football teams on 1V: Notre Dame and Boston College. 
I won't delve much into the history between the two schools, because it's all been said before. 
You all know the tradition that has evolved in this football rivalry between this Midwestern Catholic institution and its Jesuit cousin on the East Coast. 
You all know the infamous field goal by David Gordon in 1993 which cost the Irish a National Championship -which, coin­cidentally, also occurred during an other­wise undefeated Irish season, and also coincidentally occurred after a victory over Florida State -and the furor that followed in the press over who should have won the National Championship that 
year. 

You all (especially this year's senior class) know about that dreadful game in November of 1999. when the student sec­tion's fans ofa lackluster Irish squad cheered on a squirrel that ran for a touch­down in the north end zone in the waning (and dismally chilly) minutes ofthat sea­son's renewal ofthe rivalry. 
This rivalry has meant bragging rights for me: win and brag to my BC friends, or lose and fear the torment ofthe taunting of those same so-called friends when I return home. 
You see, a victory for the Eagles over the Irish is like anyone else winning a national championship. Istill remember members of the 1999 Eagles squad taking home pieces ofthe turffrom Notre Dame Stadiwn back to Chestnut Hill with them -and then the Irish mocking that act one year later. 
I'm not exactly sure what it is that makes this rivalry so intense for the Eagles. 
Many Notre Dame students would say it is based largely on jealousy, that BC was their "Backup College" (as I've seen print­ed on t-shirts for this weekend's game). 
I'm not so sure that's true, but there is definitely still blood pumping through the veins of this 27-year-old rivalry. 
So far in my college career, this rivalry has not fared well for the Irish: only a win over the Eagles in 2000 has kept the Irish in the win colwnn in the past three years. 
Boston College fans will have you believe that history (read as 1993) is doomed to repeat itselfthis year. 
I will have Boston College fans know that history is only doomed to repeat itself for those who fail to learn from it. 
This year, it will be the Eagles doing the learning, and the Irish doing the teaching. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, rccogniz.c that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con race us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Democrat 
Earthquake in Marcy Kaptur 
Italy results in urges U.S. 
death of 10 independence 
children from oil 
Nursery school teachers and chil­

Representative 
dren were trapped

Kaptur of Ohio 
by the school's col­delivered the 25th 

lapsed roof after aA n n u a I 

5.4-magnitude

Steelworkers Lloyd 
quake rocked

McBride Lecture south-central Italy Thursday night. 
Thursday. 
page 5page 8 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Football Pep Hally 6 p.m. at Joyce Center Arena 

. 
llihernian Lecture by ,Kevin Kenny, Boston College: "New Perspectives on the American II·1·sh• ," 7 p.m. at lles'burgh Center Auditorium 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
OMA Movie "\Vindtalkcrs" 7 p.m. at Carroll Auditorium 

. 
Junior Class Tailgate 8 a.m. Saturday at \Vclcome Center Parking Lot 


WHAT'S COOKING 

North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Cheese/Mushroom Spinach Tortellini, Vegetable Pizza, Mexican Beef Pizza, Pretzel Sticks, Minestrone Soup, Potato & Cheese Pierogi, Grilled Tuna w/ Lemon. Asparagus, Scrambled Eggs, Canadian Bacon, Battered Waffies, Fried Potato Patties, Sloppy Joes, Pepper Tangerine Chicken, Arroz con Pollo 
Today Dinner: Sauteed Herb Mushrooms, Green Bean Casserole, Spinach Quiche, Orzo Portobello & Cream, Cajun Chicken Breast Sandwich, Kung Pao Chicken, California Rancho Rice, Broccoli Quesadillas, Mexican Beef Pizza 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Former Enron executive indicted on 78 accounts 
Former  chief  
financial  officer  
Andrew  Fastow  

indicted by grand jury in Houston on counts charging inflation schemes. 
page 7 

VIEWPOINT 
Notre Dame is obligated to support rights of workers 
Members of the Progressive Student Alliance charge that the University, as a Catholic Institution, must be committed to social justice. 
page 14 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Employee ta.ken to hospital 
NDSP transported a University employee to St. Joseph Medical Center Oct. 31 for treatment of a shoulder injury. 

Wallet stolen from locker 
A student reported the theft of her wallet from an unlocked locker in the Band Building on Oct. 30. There are no suspects. 

Two alcohol citations issued 
NDSP cited two University students for minor possession of alcohol Oct. 30 on Juniper Rd. The case is being referredfor administrative review. 

Kontrol Kard reported lost 
A University employee reported los­ing her Kontrol Kard at an unknown location Oct. 30. 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Beef Ravioli, Spinach Fettuccine, Apple Turnover, BBQ Beef Sandwich, Shrimp Spaghetti, Rotisserie Chicken, Corn Dogs, Fishwich, Stir­Fry Beef & Peppers, Chicken Fajita, Roasted Rosemary Potatoes, Red Beans & Rice 
Today Dinner: Buffalo Chicken Lasagna, Spinach Fettuccine, Capri­Blend Vegetables, Baked Turbot Jardiniere, Beef Bourguignon, Bourbon-Baked Ham, Pancakes, Scrambled Eggs, Sausage Links, Tater Tots, Soft Pretzel, Sweet & Sour Chicken Tenders 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0: 
LI.I
:c 
ti 
LI.I 
3: 
-I 
ct CJ 0 



...I HIGH 40 HIGH HIGH HIGH 45 LOW 29 LOW LOW LOW 35 


SCENE 

Student man­agers keep ND athletics running smoothly 
Scene examines the dedicated work of student man­agers for the Notre Dame athletic teams and sports departments. 
page 16 
SPORTS 
Cross coun­try runners prepare for championship in Boston 
Sports previews the upcoming tournament in which the men are looking to defend their title. 
page 32 


Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Heartland Vegetable Soup, Clam Chowder, Cheese & Bacon Soup, Chicken Noodle Soup, Louisiana Bayou Rolls, Rueben Loafer, Sausage & Mushroom Pizza, Buffalo Chicken Breast, Criss Cut French Fries, Broccoli & Cauliflower, Sweet Corn Tamale Pie, Roasted Pepper & Gouda Quesadilla, Baked Mexican Pizza, Seasame Chicken with Broccoli 
Today Dinner: New England Clam Chowder, Cheese Pizza, Sausage & Mushroom Pizza, Chicken Pot Pie Pasta Bar, Roast Beef, Rosemary Red Potatoes, 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


42 HIGH 32 LOW 

Atlanta 60 / 39 Boston 50 / 30 Chicago 42 / 32 Denver 33 / 29 Houston 66 / 57 Los Angeles 67 / 54 Minneapolis 37 / 24 New York 52 / 34 Philadelphia 53 / 33 Phoenix 79 / 61 Seattle 53 / 34 St. Louis 45 / 31 Tampa 80 / 60 Washington 54 / 34 
Friday, November 1, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Blak Images demand notice 
By NATASHA GRANT News Writer 
"Stop....Think About It." As the theme suggests, this year's Blak Images, spon­sored by the Black Cultural Arts Council, demands notice. 
Scheduled for Saturday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, the talent show fea­tures several acts from var­ious on-campus groups and individuals. BCAC President Veronica Berger asks everyone to come out and prepare for a night of dance acts, original poetry and soulful singing. 
"It's gonna be hype," she said. 
While the show has been in the planning stage since the beginning of the semes­ter, production began only a month ago and, thus far, has run smoothly, Berger said. 
"It just kind of came together," Berger said. "The show is really special because it celebrates the African Diaspora -the acts are diversified and range from mostly white dance groups to poetic expression." 
She said that the focus in choosing the acts was a combination of diversity and talent. "We want everyone to be talented, but we also want this to be a show of diversity". she said. 
Although BCAC didn't have a set criteria for the different acts, Berger said that they wanted a balance and not an overwhelming number of acts featuring one particular artistic expression. 
"The show will be suc­
cessful if everyone comes 
out to have a good time, 
that meaning the talents 
and the audience," Berger 
said. 
A number of factors will determine the success of the show, and one of the most important jobs lies with the deejays, Shawtina Ferguson and Demetrius Hall, who will be responsi­ble for keeping the audi­ence entertained between acts. Ferguson and Hall came up with theme for the show. inspired by a movie they saw over the summer. 
"When we were thinking about what we wanted to bring to the stage, we thought some people need­ed to remove themselves from situations, and stop and think about things," Ferguson said. 
The two deejays, who hosted the show last year, were approached by the BCAC president and urged to audition because of the chemistry that they have with one another. 
"We're who we are on stage", said Ferguson. "We work well together. You may see us arguing, but that's how we really are. It's not a put-on." 
"We're having fun on stage," Hall said. "It's like therapy for us because we get to talk about things that bother us." Both promised something fun and different for this year's production. 
Christopher Adams, a freshman, brings new tal­ent to the stage in poetic form. He sees his perfor­mance as both a challenge and a risk, he said. 
"I don't think it's some­thing that you'd expect any man to say, especially if it's not about something specif­ic," Adams said. He said that his piece, about pursu­ing a girl and asking for an opportunity to be seen and heard, was born out of frustration and his need to express his feelings on paper. 

Adams said that he is somewhat uncomfortable about reading his poem because he does not know how the audience will react to him afterwards, but he is willing to take the chance. 
"This is a hobby, just one way to get involved," he said. "I thought it'd be good to broaden my horizon and be a better person." 
Brooke Wilkins continues on in the former president's footstep and leads Troop ND with creative dances that, although not new, still promise to be exciting. The group was asked to per­form by BCAC secretary and current Troop member Candace King. 
"It's tradition," King said of her reasons for approaching Wilkins. "Ever since Troop got started, they've been a part of BCAC talent show and basi­cally, as they've matured as a group, they've become the headliners of the show." 
While King will not be performing with Troop, she makes up one-fourth of a female singing group and will dance with Shades of Ebony. 
Other well-known per­formers include Voices of Faith gospel choir and Darrell Campbell. 
Contact Natasha Grant at grant.2@nd.edu 
The Asian Indian Classical Music Society 
Sunday, November 3, 2002, 6:30 pm
523 18 Tally Ho Drive 




enormous 

South Bend. IN 46635 
.:'::t(i... ~~ / 
---·· 
Sponsored b\': Office of International Student Services and Activities, India Association or Notre Dame, Student Union Board, Asian Indian Classical Music Society 
Contact: Amitava Dutt (273­0928) or Umesh Garg (272-2957) 
Security department at Saint Mary's changing 
ByJAMIE BELCHER 
News Writer 
The security department at Saint Mary's has set a major goal for itself this year: to be more visible. 
"I want the students to know we are going to be working harder at putting ourselves out there, being more visible, being in places that they don't usually see us at times that we're not usually seen," said Rosemarie Harris, interim director of security. 
Two new security escort drivers were recently hired, but the cam­pus will see many more changes in the security department. 
"Our officers are going to be 
ing. 
Dispatchers are also undergoing numerous types of training in the coming months. They are learning how to prioritize incoming calls so people are not left waiting very long while placing a call or calling for assistance. The dispatchers are also being trained to handle calls in a professional manner and how to deal with the public. The security office is also expecting to install another phone line. 
"Hopefully. we'll be getting some new equipment in the dispatch area that will expedite the whole process, like record-keeping dis­patch logs, that kind of thing that they would normally have to do that would take a little more time," 
more visible in 
..I want to hear from Harris said. 
buildings," Plans are also
students, faculty and
Harris said. underway to "Right now. for staff." increase crime the most part prevention at Saint they are mobile. Mary's, Harris
Rosemarie Harris
You see them said. She hopes to 
riding around Interim director of security implement a 
but you don't often see them walking through a build­ing. They are going to be more visible in that way," said Harris. 
Students can also expect to see officers in the dining hall, the bookstore, outside of classrooms and even in the tunnels. 
''I'm thinking how cold I get just walking from building to building and I keep forgetting that the tun­nels are there. Someone had said to me that the students don't use it a lot because they are kind of fearful," Harris said. 
Plans include officers perform­ing routine walkthroughs for secu­rity, Harris said. Officers will also undergo diversity training, first responder, CPR and report writ-
process called 
crime prevention 

by environmental design is being on campus. 
"Basically, we're looking at the way things are laid out on cam­pus, if there is an area that needs more lighting or if there is an area where bushes may need to be cut back or a sign to be placed," Harris said. She plans to bring experts from the Indiana University Bloomington campus to assist in this process in early December. 
Harris said that her biggest pri­ority, however, is to have the knowledge that the changes are working. 
"I want feedback," Harris said. "I want to hear from students, fac­ulty and staff. That helps me to 
at Washington Hall University of Notre Dame 


FLEECE 

Selection. 

·t~~4/.<:··~·~ 
5minutes:::.iiiiiiiiiS.A
;l-!t~~ical dance: Kathak 
from 0UTP0ST 
' 
Campus s ors 

Cold Weather Experts 

iAgashe 
Admission: FREE 

know what changes I need to make. They will tell us the good things; they will tell us the not-so-good things. We need to know what we can do to be bet­ter." 
.ContactJamie Belcher at 



Friday, November 1, 2002
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

iaf 




''Thy Will Be Done'' 
space for the new arrivals 
was another issue for Notre

Coed 
Dame men. Blantz said when he select­
continued from page I 
ed Badin and Walsh as the 
first two residence halls for
mitted institutional suicide 
women, he ignited displea­
and would become an alter­
sure in current residents of
native for Notre Dame's 
those halls. By that time, thecast-offs. 
present residential system
Notre Dame men called for 
was in place, so students had
administrators to re-evalu­the option of living in theate the decision as well, 
same dorm for four years.
organizing a "sleep-in" of 
"They were not happy toabout 100 students. 
be forced out and to leave
The merger debate contin­their friends, and they knew
ued, but the two schools 
they would not be able to
could not come to an agree• 
move to another dorm
ment. 
together as a large group,""I said to 
said Blantz.
the sisters, 
' Students
'You know. 
"It was one ofthe best living in
sisters, 
we're using things we ever did. It Badin and 
Walsh took
all the completed the school. ·• 
the decision
metaphors 
especially
of mar­
riage, and I Father Hesburgh hard. One 
group of
get the University president emeritus 
residents
impression 
issued ayou're in 
statement in
favor of the 
T h e
marriage, 
Observer stating their evic­but two things are missing. 
tion was unfair and
No. 1, you don't want to take destroyed their hall commu­
our name, and No. 2, you 
nity.
don't want to live with us. 
But in the end. most stu­
That's not marriage,"' 
dents accepted the move as .
Hesburgh said. 
their sacrifice for the good ofSo he chose to follow a dif­
the school. and the
ferent route and go coeduca­University generally lookedtional independently of Saint 
forward to the presence of
Mary's by admitting women women on campus.
directly to Notre Dame. 
"It was one of the best
While students on both 
things we ever did. It com­
campuses were disappointed 
pleted the school." saidwhen the merger was not Hesburgh. "I never get a
completed, Notre Dame men gripe about it."
were eager to receive women and welcomed Hesburgh's final decision. Contact Lawen Beck at 
But sacrificing their living lbeck@nd.edu 





· Be an ACE teacher. 
November 7 th 7:00 LaFortune Ballroom 
ACE Information Night 
We invite you to join us in a wee~end retreat experience hosted by the renowned Fr~nciscan orator Fr. James McCurry, O.F.M. This retreat will be a wonderful time to contemplate the will of Cod in your life. It will especially focus on the example given to us in the Blessed Virgin Mary and her 'fiatt or 'yes, to Cod. The Fiat Retreat will be a time of spiritual nourishment as well as a time for relaxation and fellowship with friends, old and new. Sign up today and join us in this wonderful experience! 
Date: November 8-10th 
We will depart from the ND main circle at 3:00 
pm and return on Sunday around 5:00pm. Presenter: Fr. James Mccurry, O.F.M. Cost: $20 
This cost includes food, transportation, and lodg­ing at the retreat center. Please bring this money to the retreat with you. 
Location: Mother of the Redeemer Farm in Bloomington, IN Contact and Registration: by email 
Please email nowa9294@saintmarys.edu or send an instant message to thebeliever279 with your name, email address, and telephone number to register. 
Sponsored by Children ofMary and Knights ofthe Immaculata 

Friday, November 1, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 




Sniper rifle traced to Louisiana shooting 
Columbia that left 10 people
Associated Press 

dead and three others 
wounded in October.
BATON ROUGE, La. 

In Washington, AttorneyBallistics tests have 
General John Ashcroft saidmatched the rifle used in the 
the investigation was contin­
Washington-area sniper 

uing into the possibility that
killings with the fatal shoot­other people may be involved
ing of a Baton Rouge beauty 

or that the two suspects in
shop worker, police said Thursday. custody in Maryland have committed more crimes.
Police Chief Pat Englade 

said first-degree murder "We will proceed delibera­tively, cautiously and not
warrants had been issued for 

jump to any conclusions,"'
John Allen Muhammad and 

Ashcroft said. "The facts that
John Lee Malvo in the Sept. 

the evidence will determine
23 killing of Hong Im the final

Ballenger, 45. 

outcome
Authorities were also ··we will proceed and we 
intend to
investigating deliberately. cautiously 
follow the
other cases. 

and not jump to any facts wher­
The Bureau of Alcohol, conclusions. The facts ever they 
may lead."
Tobacco and that the evidence will 
The rifle
Firearms had 

determine the final has now
linked the 

outcome and we intend been tied
Bushmaster 

to shoot­
.223-caliber to follow the facts 
ings in four
rifle in the 

wherever they may lead ... states and In the Baton Rouge slaying, serial killings of three Baton which the two were found
sniper attacks the District the victim was shot once in Rouge women in the past sleeping; that car had a holeto the killing 

0 f the head by a gunman wit­year is working to obtain in the trunk that could allow
here, officials John Ashcroft 
Columbia. nesses described as a young DNA evidence from someone to fire shots unde­
said. title 

Earlier black man who fled into a Muhammad and Malvo. tected.
Muhammad, 

Thursday, park. However, the two have not Ashcroft is considering
41, and Alabama Muhammad, formerly been linked to those killings, whether the federal govern­

Malvo, 17, 

authorities known as John Allen Englade said. ment will take the lead in 
are in custody in Maryland. 

said the weapon was linked Williams, grew up in Baton Muhammad and Malvo prosecuting the two or have
They already face multiple 

to the September killing: Rouge and still has relatives have been in custody since the first trials in Maryland,
state and federal charges for 

police are also looking into and friends there, including their Oct. 24 arrest at a Virginia or elsewhere. 
a fatal shooting in Alabama cases in Washington state, one of his ex-wives. He visit­Maryland rest stop. Muhammad and possibly 

on Sept. 21 and the sniper 

Oregon, California, Arizona, ed the area this summer, Authorities recovered the Malvo could face the death
shootings in Maryland, Michigan, Tennessee and friends said. Bushmaster rifle from the penalty if convicted on the 

Virginia and the District of Connecticut. A task force working on the 1990 Chevrolet Caprice in charges filed so far. 



ITALY 

Southern Italy earthquake kills 10 nursery school kids 
Associated Press 

SAN GIULIANO DI PUGLIA 
An earthquake jolted south-central Italy on Thursday, sending a nursery school roof crashing ~own on a class of preschoolers during a lunchtime Halloween party. At least six children in the school and two women in nearby homes were .killed. 
Driven on by faint voices coming from the rubble, frantic rescuers worked into the night to save more than a dozen children who remained trapped after the 5.4 magnitude rquake struck the Molise region, shaking the town of 
Campobasso and surrounding villages northeast of Naples. 
San Giuliano Di Puglia, a village of 1,195 people, was the hardest hit. Anguished parents kept a vigil outside the yellow schoolhouse, where 56 chil­dren had been celebrating Halloween when the quake struck. Workers guid­ed by flashlights and floodlights carried six dust-covered children from the rub­ble after night fell. 
So far, 26 children and two teachers were rescued. Some children might have escaped the collapse. 
Applause burst from the tense crowd after one difficult rescue late Thursday. 
Residents cried, "Giovanni! Giovanni!" when the little boy was brought out on a stretcher. 
"As soon as he came out he called me 'Papi' like he always does," the boy's father told RAI state television, which did not give the man's name. 
"I immediately saw he was in good condition. He told me there are many other children still alive. a little shocked but still alive, so the hope is still there that they can save more." 
"I thank God for this gift he has given me," he said. Rescuers used cranes, blowtorches and their bare hands to claw at the 
debris Thursday night, removing roof tiles and slabs of concrete while listen­ing for the faint sounds of children trapped inside. 
"That's what we're basing the search on. We're still hearing voices," Police Col. Antonio Ianuzzi said late Thursday. 
Paramedic Antonio Licursi, covered in dust as he emerged from the pit, said he believed at least another dozen chil­dren were still trapped. 
Tearful parents stood nearby, blocked from the site by a police barrier, some­times calling out the names of their children. Others waited at nearby hos­pitals. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

3 nations oppose U.S. demand on Iraq: 
The U.S. demand for speedy U.N. action on Iraq has run into strong opposition from Russia France and China, who want Washington to change a draft resolution and eliminate any license for the United States to attack Baghdad on its own. 
Chechens decry moscow probes: 
Chechens in Moscow say they've been subject­ed to unannounced police visits, document checks and harassment in the days since last week's hostage drama, which ended Saturday when Russian troops stormed the theater. At least 119 hostages were killed, all but two from an opiate gas used in the rescue effort to incapci­tate the Chechen rebels. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

FBI: Terror group members in U.S.: 
The FBI believes extremist groups continue to have mem­bers in the United States who could be called upon for ter­rorist attacks. the Justice Department has told the Senate Intelligence Committee. At least one group, Hezbollah, may be more interested in using its U.S. members to raise money than to undertake attacks, the department said. 
War in Iraq will lead to high civilian casualities: 
Better weapons and training will help Americans if they are drawn into an urban war against Saddam Hussein. but averting civilian casualties among Iraqis will be hard, Army Secretary Thomas E. White said Thursday. The Iraqi president has promised to take any war with the United States into his cities, and U.S. military and intelli­gence officials acknowledge that combat in Baghdad's neighborhoods may be Saddam's best advantage. 
Minn. court orders new ballots: 
In a partial victory for the Democrats, Minnesota's Supreme Court ordered local election officials Thursday to send out new absentee ballots to people who ask to change their Senate vote in the wake of Sen. Paul Wellstone's death. The ruling fell well short of what the Democrats wanted: throwing out all absentee votes already cast and mailing new bal­lots to everyone, whether they asked for a new one or not. 
Nontraditional healer arrested in Calif.: A man seeking help for a persistent rash died after a nontraditional healer injected him with an unknown substance, police said. The healer and her assistant were charged with manslaughter. Police said Chavarria's assistant Margarita Montes gave the injec­tion to Caceres. He died Monday. 
Friday, November 1, 2002
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Bush 
continued from page 1 
remains the nation's primary concern, he said. 
"Our No. 1 priority is to pro­tect you," Bush said. "There's an enemy out there who hates what we stand for, but we're not changing what we stand for. 
"We love freedom," he said, prompting a short burst of applause and chant of "USA!" 
Since Bush's September visit here, Congress had granted him authority to use military force to disarm Iraq. Bush said the United States was slowly dis­mantling terrorist networks, making steady progress against



r------~--------~­
1 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

"cold-blooded killers who hide in caves and the dark corners of the world." 
"It doesn't matter how long it takes, it doesn't matter how much it costs, we will defend the freedom of the United States ofAmerica," he said. 
The president, flanked onstage by war veterans from Indiana and state and local GOP candidates, spoke to relatives of military men and women: "We are confident in their abilities, proud of their service and we're going to use them to win the war on terror." 
His mid-afternoon visit here followed an appearance earlier Thursday in South Dakota. He was on board Air Force One by late afternoon, headed for a campaign stop in West Virginia. 
It was Bush's third visit here in two years. He attended an airport rally in October 2000, when he was campaigning for president and when Chocola was in a tight congressional race against incumbent Democrat Tim Roemer. 
The president delivered the University's commencement speech in May 2001. 
He made lighthearted refer­ence Thursday to the Notre Dame football team. 
"Last time I was here, the Fighting Irish were 1-0. This time they're 8-0," he said. "Seems like they ought to keep bringing me back." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 

"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
We carry American Crew & Bed Head 1oo/o off both ~2.00 off Shampoo & Cut 
1811 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 574-271-7674 
Expires 11/18/02 
·----------------­

THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR TI-IE STUDY OF 


-, 
presents 
The Annual Hibernian Lecture "New Perspectives on the American Irish" 
Kevin Kenny 
Boston College 
Friday, November 1, 2002 4:00p.m. 
Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
The Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
Graduate Student 

Danielle Svonavec, soprano 
Brenda Weade, piano Darlene Catello, harpsichord 
Sunday, November 3, 2002 
SMC honors Native American heritage 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
There will be a spotlight on the rich Native American cul­ture present in the Mishawaka area this November on Saint Mary's campus. Since 1990, November has been National Native American Heritage Month. 
I 
"We want to challenge the stereotypes through our planned activities," said Marie Willis, member of the Pokagon Band of 1Pottawatomie Indians and assis­1tan t director of the Office ofI Multicultural Affairs. "So many think of Native Americans as having existed and not existing. It is a culture that is alive and I 
present." I 
I 
In the beginning of its exis­tence, OMA planned a week ofI activities to celebrate each of the heritage months. This year OMA has planned activities that span the month of November in recognition of Native American culture. I 
Willis recognizes the value ofI having a month· to celebrate Native American heritage to build a sense of identity among Native American students and 
I 
I I I I I 
.. 

understanding among the rest. "People are not images. One of 

DUTPCST 
Campus ~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-iooo for more details 
the challenges of having Native American Heritage Month in November is that people already associate Native Americans with Thanksgiving, but Native Americans are Native American all year round," Willis said. 
Tonight's showing of "Windtalkers" in Carroll Auditorium, a movie which por­trays the role of Navajo code­talkers in World War II. kicks off the five main events sponsored by OMA. 
OMA is taking a road trip to Eiteljorg Museum and to a pow­wow on the Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis campus Nov. 9. The museum will present an exhibit on the woodland tribes from the Mishawaka area, and the pow­wow will allow students to learn etiquette and rituals of some Native American tribes. Space was limited for this trip, but stu­dents can add their names to a waiting list. 
On Nov. 19, there will be a Brown Bag Discussion titled 
"The  History  of  Indian  
Education  - Why  Does  It  
Matter Now?"  

Events scheduled for Nov. 20 include Pottawatomie Language Animal Bingo and other Native games, including moccasin games. 
Linda Topash Yazel will wrap up the month on Nov. 25 with her beading workshop. Yazel has come to Saint Mary's for the past four years and is consid­ered one of the most recognized Native American headers. Students are asked to sign up for this activity. All events are free. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail l 407@saintmarys.edu 



2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
'-·-FRl~D~--~-;'-:r-NOVEMBER 3-:~.·.; 8PM
Free and open to the public 


JOYCE CENTER
Call 631-6211 for more information 
Tickets available at the Joyce Center box office and ticketmaster at (574)272-7979 ticketmasler.com and all Ticketmaster Ticket Centers including select Marsh Supermarkets. Dates. acts and times subject to change without notice. A service charge is added lo the price of each tick11t. A Clear Channel Entertainment Event. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, November 1, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch October 31 
Dowjones  -­ 
8,397.03  - -30.38  
N4SDAQ  
1,329.75  ~  +3.02  
S&P500  
885.76  - -4.95  
AMFX  
819.00  ~  +7.09  
NYSE  
4 72.90  ...,_  -2.55  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDX (QQQ) +2.68+0.64 10.60 
1

ilill:!1~11111il~1!~li!ililllliililliiill1IIJll~i!li111il11 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.60+0.59 16.40 
11::11!l1llill!ll~!li!!i~l~!!iltl:i:Jl!l!~iilill1!1i 
LUCENT TECH (LU) +18.47+0.47 2.47 
IN BRIEF 

Economy rebounds in growth rate: 
The U.S. economy, powered by strong auto sales, rebounded to a 3.1 percent annual growth rate in the summer as business invest­ment, which had been the major no-show in the current recovery, turned up for the first time in two years. The third quarter increase in the gross domestic product, the broadest measure of economic activity, was hailed by a campaign­ing President Bush as a sign of better days ahead for an economy that has been battered by a recession, terrorist attacks, corporate accounting scandals and a plunging stock market. 
U.S. sues to block satellite merger: 
The proposed merger of Echostar Communications Corp. and Hughes Electronics Corp., creating the nation's largest subscriber television company, could untangle in a messy and expensive breakup following the government's suit Thursday to scuttle the deal. The companies issued statements that they were considering their options to salvage the $22.6 billion deal. The government said the deal would eliminate competition between the two largest satellite television companies and hurt consumers. Only last week EchoStar offered to give rival Cablevision Systems Corp. a satellite frequen• cy that would allow the company to compete nationwide, and also ease monopoly con­cerns. Charles James, assistant attorney gen­eral of the department's antitrust division, said the department was not convinced Cablevision could be a legitimate competitor within the next two years. 
The government said the merger would create a monopoly In millions of rural homes where cable television is not available and reduce choices in tens of millions more. Twenty-three states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico joined in the lawsuit. 
Former Enron CFO indicted 
. Fastow was indicted on 78 federal counts 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Former Enron Corp. chief 
financial officer Andrew 
Fastow was indicted 
Thursday on 78 federal 
counts alleging he master­
minded schemes to artifi­
cially inflate the energy 
company's profits and skim 
millions of dollars at share­
holders' expense. 
The indictment, returned 
by a grand jury in Houston, 
is essentially a formal 
restatement of a criminal 
complaint filed Oct. 2. 
But the indictment is 
notable for the sheer num• 
her of charges, which 
include multiple counts of 
fraud, money laundering 
and conspiracy. One count 
of obstruction of justice 
was not included in the 
original complaint. If con­
victed, Fastow faces hun­
dreds of years in jail and 
millions of dollars in fines. 
Fastow, 40, is free on $5 million bond and faces a Nov. 6 arraignment on the charges. He is the most prominent Enron official to be charged in the federal probe. 
"These charges are full of sound and fury, but the truth about Enron has yet to be told," Fastow's attor­ney, John W. Keker, said in a statement. "When that truth is told, to a jury of 12 honest Americans, Andy Fastow will be set free." 
Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson, head of the Bush administration's corporate fraud task force, said the indictment does not end the investigation into Fastow. He also said federal officials "will use every appropriate measure to recover the ill-gotten gains of these corporate schemers." 
Enron, No. 7 on the Fortune 500 list two years ago, filed for bankruptcy Dec. 2 after revealing a $618 million loss and elimi­nating $1.2 billion of share­holder equity. 

The indictment alleged Fastow and others created schemes to defraud Enron and its shareholders through transactions with off-the-books partnerships that made the company look more profitable than it was. 
Prosecutors also allege Fastow gained an estimat­ed $30 million from kick­backs funneled through Michael Kopper, his former aide, and investors or fami­lymembers. Investigators say Fasto also siphoned off income from the partner­ships. 
Maximum penalties are 20 years for money laun­dering, 10 years for wire fraud and five years for conspiracy in addition to fines. 
Prosecutors are expected to pressure Fastow to learn what he might say about the actions of his col­leagues. including former Enron chairman Kenneth Lay and former chief exec­utive Jeffrey Skilling. 
Asked if the indictment could induce Fastow to cooperate with prosecutors, Assistant U.S. AttorneyAndrew Weissmann said, "These are significant charges that carry significant jail time." 
Fastow's attorneys have said top Enron executives approved his work and that Fastow did not believe he committed any crimes. 
The indictment alleged that the schemes' goals included: 
. Falsification of Enron's reported financial results to make the company appear more financially sound than it was to \Vall Street, credit rating agencies and investors. 
. 
Artificial manipulation of Enron share prices. 

. 
Illusion of business skill from Fastow and other Enron senior managers. 

. 
Personal enrichment at the expense of sharehold­ers "to whom they owed a duty of honest services." 

. 
Use of complex "special purpose entities" that kept poorly performing assets off Enron's balance sheets and falsely manufactured earnings. 


Enron's collapse was the first in a series of corporate scandals that have rocked the business world and roiled the stock market. Investors lost huge amounts of money and for­mer Enron employees lost most of their retirement savings. 

BRAZIL 
Inflation haunts new Brazil leader 
Associated Press 
RIO DE JANEIRO 
His inauguration is two months away, but President-elect Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva already is wrestling with an old problem: inflation. 
The steady decline of the Brazilian real in recent months pushed inflation to an eight-year high in October and could hinder Silva's ambitious plan to eradi­cate hunger in his first year in office. 
Inflation jumped 3.87 percent in October, according to the IGP-M index of the independent Getulio Vargas Foundation. The index measures mostly wholesale prices and is widely used to adjust government-regulated prices such as telephone and energy rates. 
This year, the IGP-M already has risen 
14.8 percent, the highest since Brazil adopted an anti-inflation plan in 1994. While many retailers have balked at passing on higher prices to customers, the Central Bank says more increases are on the way. 
The bank's Monetary Policy Committee said Wednesday that gaso­line prices will likely rise 9 percent by December, levering up a broad range of prices in a country where most freight moves by truck. Cooking gas could cost 
16.6 percent more this year and electric rates could rise 3.8 percent, the commit­tee said. 
The real has lost about 40 percent of its value this year, in part because mar­kets were afraid Silva would win the election and lead Brazil to an Argentine­style default on its huge foreigndebt. Although he has pledged to honor Brazil's commitments, investors shied away, and the demand for ever­scarcer dollars sent Brazil's currency tumbling. 
Friday, November 1, 2002
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Money 
continued from page I 
1.000 staff and faculty, as well as funding programs and endowed chairs. 
Now, the University is halting many construction projects and focusing on what Malpass called the "core needs" such as financial aid and other expenses with high priorities. 
"We're not going to violate our investment philosophy just because we're in a bear market," Malpass said. 
He stressed the fact that the University is a long-term investor that expects the market to turn around even if it does not have the high numbers from the last 10 years. 
"Even when it rebounds, it's not going to be like the 90s," Malpass said. 
New strategies 
The drop in the market has made the University look at alter­native investments in the stock market. Gaining popularity with institutions are hedge funds. 
Instead of relying on the ups and downs of the stock market, hedge funds pull money from various investors like a stock mutual fund. However. hedge funds also dip into stocks, bonds, commodities, foreign exchange currencies and other sources. 
"A lot of their returns just don't correlate highly with the stock market," said finance professor Carl Ackermann, an expert on hedge funds. "That's why hedge funds have been appealing recently." 
In the last 10 years, Ackermann said hedge funds have been "growing by leaps and bounds" as institutions look for new ways to get money in a volatile market. Fifteen percent of the endowment is currently invested in hedge funds and Malpass said the number could rise as high as 25 percent in the next few years. 
These funds have been around since 1949, when investors chose to put half of their money in stocks and use the other half to bet against the market. That way, at least half of their investments would be "hedged" or protected against changes in the stock mar­ket. 

"If the stocks go down, maybe you still have a hedge fund that goes up.'' Ackermann said. "You sort of reduce the overall risk." 
However, there is a catch. 
Unlike the stock exchanges, mutual funds and most financial institutions, hedge funds are cur­rently unrestricted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also, these funds can use techniques for higher returns that mutual funds cannot use. 
"Managers can really lie about the returns and just take off with the money." Ackermann said, adding that hedge funds have an incentive fee for managers. 
..There have been some cases where the investors have lost everything and that is not the case for mutual funds." Malpass also acknowledged the risk of hedge funds. 
"There's a lot of stuff out there you wouldn't touch," he said. 
Just two years ago, Malpass said he had a conference with former chief financial officer Andrew Fastow of Enron, an energy company whose reputa­tion has been blasted by scandals. Fastow was trying to convince the University to invest in a hedge fund, but Malpass said it rejected it because of an "obvious conflict of interest." 
Every year, the finance depart­ment meets with roughly 200 hedge funds to hire only four or five. 
''The fact that they are unregu­lated ... means we're very care­ful." Malpass said. 
Future 
As for now, Malpass said hedge funds are doing better than the stock markets have done. Until the market returns to stable lev­els, Malpass said the University is going to continue with its current investment approach. 
"We're a long-term investor. We're here to protect Notre Dame's financial foundation for the long term," Malpass said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mission. The mission was to provide a personal, caring, educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year institution of their choice. 
Holy Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fundamental mission. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
Our mission is what has made us successful. So while many things change, our mission is one thing that will not. 
PO. BO>< 306 • Notre Dame. IN 46556-0308, 574--239-8400 • FAX 574-233-7427 • wwwh<c-nd.edu 
Oil dependence worries Kaptur 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Toledo, Ohio, Congress­woman Marcy Kaptur, the senior Democratic woman in the U.S. House, described Thursday how the decisions of large corporations, America's dependence on oil and the out-of-control spend­ing on presidential and con­gressional election campaigns have stripped America of its economic and political inde­pendence. 
"I c~me here tonight to have you consider that America needs to write a new declaration of independence for economic and political independence -indepen­dence from the giant multina­tional corporations ... that are exploiting our workers abroad -independence from foreign oil cartels that have a stranglehold on our econo­my," Kaptur said. 
An advocate of workers' rights, Kaptur is in her 10th term in Congress. She serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is one of only 75 women in the 535-member 107th Congress. Her presen­tation, delivered as the 25th Annual Steelworkers Lloyd McBride Lecture and titled 
"Renewing  America's  
Declaration  of  
Independence," drew  the  

audience of faculty, students and union workers' attention to the ways in which America and its citizens have been economically exploited. 
"Real homeland security .. . means cutting America's umbilical cord to oil in the repressive regimes. Real homeland security means preserving the programs that Democrats have fought for, like Social Security. Real homeland security means being strongest at home," Kaptur said. 
Kaptur criticized America's dependence on oil and the ways in which oil-producing nations have exploited this dependence in the form of high gasoline prices. She explained how 8 cents of every dollar purchased in oil goes directly to Iraq and illustrated how Americans have slowly been "gouged" with respect to oil and gaso­line prices. 
"We have become so addict­ed [to oil] that we don't real­ize it is happening," she said. 
Kaptur also drew attention to the increasing practice of cashing out American jobs to foreign countries, where wages and benefits are severely reduced simply so that large corporations can make a profit. She cited sta­tistics on the number of jobs moved from America's heart­land to foreign countries like Mexico to illustrate the local impact that these profit­minded corporations have had. 
"The American Dream today really is being threat­ened. It is amazing what has happened in the last quarter­century with the hollowing out of the wealth-producing sectors of this country," she said. "We are trading away our nation's economy for a mess of potage and our mid­dle class." 
Kaptur also commented on the massive amounts of money demanded by congres­sional and presidential elec­tions. She illustrated how candidates must raise amounts of money that far surpass the salaries for their coveted positions and how this money could be better used to fund education and 
healthcare. Kaptur proposed spending limits, free air time and more debates to shift elections away from adver­tisements and onto the issues and voiced her strong support for the McCain-Feingold bill that caps the amount of soft money that can be con­tributed. 
"Money politics have gotten such a grip on our [political] system that it is dangerous. Politics will become more dependent on money and less dependent on people like me and you," Kaptur said. "The system is out of control ... I can tell you it won't heal itself until the American peo­ple wrestle it to the mat." 
She challenged the students in attendance to question the future society in which they will live and to make their voices heard. 
"What kind of a society are you building. what kind of community will you live in?" she said. "Is America going to become a place where the ultra-wealthy live in their gated communities while everyone else scrambles for the crumbs?" 
Kaptur's talk, followed by questions from the audience, was sponsored by the United Steelworkers of America in conjunction with the Department of Economics and the George Higgins Labor Research Center. The McBride lecture series is the only series at an American university endowed by the United Steelworkers Association. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu. 

We 1>0 MondafS Like No 1Place Else! 

Enjoy a double order of faji±as (enoush for two) for jusf t111 
Your choice of sriIIed chicken, steak or both served with warm ±ortillas, suacamoie, pico de eaIIo, cheese 
and sour cream. 




Mishawaka 4810 Gr'ape Road 574-271-1330 
Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. ½o dose. 

-
Friday, November 1, 2002 page 9 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Feds say terror groups in U.S. 
• Groups could possibly commit terrorist attacks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The FBI believes extremist groups continue to have members in the United States who could be called upon for terrorist attacks, the Justice Department has told the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
At least one group, Hezbollah, may be more interested in using its U.S. members to raise money than to undertake attacks, the department said. 
The comments, in a docu­ment released Thursday, were part of the depart­ment's written responses submitted on July 26 to questions from the commit­tee in February. 
Responding to a question about the involvement of Hezbollah. Hamas and other terrorist groups in the United States, the depart­ment said FBI investigations "indicate the continued presence of suspected extremists of various groups who could be called upon to attack in the United States." 

It said Hezbollah, in par­ticular, appears to have the ability to strike in the United States. Some Hezbollah members may have been instructed to evaluate potential targets. But that may have only been a test to prove their loyalty to Hezbollah and 
Iran.  which  backs  the  
group.  
The  department  noted  

Hezbollah has never con­ducted a terrorist strike in the United States. Hezbollah is blamed, though, for the 1983 bombing of a Marine Corps barracks in Beirut, Lebanon, that killed 241 American servicemen. 
Hezbollah members are used mostly to raise money for the group's overseas operations, the report said. Hezbollah fighters in south­ern Lebanon frequently attack Israel. 
"To date, it is believed that this extensive fund­raising activity itself acts as a disincentive for opera­tional terrorist activity in the United States," accord­ing to the document. 
It did not say if this was also true of other groups, such as Hamas, the militant Palestinian organization. The State Department has classified both Hezbollah and Barnas as terrorist groups. 
The document also warned that the potential for terrorist attacks in the United States continues. CIA Director George Tenet and homeland security director Tom Ridge have issued sim­ilar warnings in recent weeks. 
But the document also reports advances in the campaign against Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida net­work, partly as a result of strong cooperation with for­eign law enforcement and intelligence agencies. 
Army Sec. says troops ready for war 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Better weapons and training will help Americans if they are drawn into an urban war against Saddam Hussein, but averting civilian casualties among Iraqis will be hard, Army Secretary Thomas E. White said Thursday. 
"You can look back through history to see that civilian casu­alties are very difficult to avoid, just because of the proximity of the combat activity to where people are living in these urban areas," he said. 
Urban warfare may be neces­sary to meet President Bush's goal of removing Saddam from power. The Iraqi president has promised to take any war with the United States into his cities, and U.S. military and intelli­gence officials acknowledge that combat in Baghdad's neighborhoods may be Saddam's best chance to 
You Are Invited! 
MetJeff Immelt, 
Chairman and CEO of the Most Admired Company in America and hear him talk about the New GE. 
Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business, featuring the introduction by Dean Carolyn Woo. 
GAME DAY ATTIRE 
• We bring good things to life. 
counter some of America's mil­itary advantages. 
In a meeting with reporters Thursday, White declined to talk specifically about U.S. war plans for Iraq. 
"1'11 just say the Army's ready," White said. "That's our job, to be ready, and the Army's ready." 
Fighting in cities is costly to both armies and civilians. A defending force can chose from a host of hiding place -build­ings, rooftops, cellars. Artillery bombardment and precision airstrikes -key to American military superiority -carry the potential for heavy civilian casualties and damage. 
White noted the difference in training for such warfare today compared with a decade ago, saying said the Defense Department now has excellent facilities for training troops in urban fighting on a number of bases -not just at its major training centers. 
·'They're really big league facilities," he said. 
New technology also gives the soldier better intelligence and night-vision weapons to use in urban fighting. 
"There are all sorts of things coming along in the munitions area that will help us operate in urban terrain as well," White said. "So there's a great deal of technology that's being applied to make the individual soldier more effective in what is a very complicated and dan­gerous environment." 


1111 hats
1toves 
largest selection 
onlyat ~ C 
Sminutes...........llli~ 
f!.om OUTPOST 
s ors
Campus 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
-····-···-·----------------------------------------~----111111!!1 page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 1, 2002 
U.S. prepares to revise Iraq draft 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The United States is prepar­ing to revise its proposed U.N. resolution on Iraqi weapons inspections in a move certain to delay Security Council action past the midterm elec­tions. 
A senior U.S. official told The Associated Press on Thursday the changes would reflect the views of Russia and France without altering the tough approach demand­ed by the United States and Britain. Russia and France object to threatening Iraq with "serious consequences" if it fails to disarm. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell discussed the U.S. 
strategy  by  telephone  
Thursday  with  Foreign  
Ministers  Igor  Ivanov  of  

Russia and Dominique de Villepin of France. 
Revising the resolution could take a day or two after which diplomats who have been negotiating at the United Nations for seven weeks would consult their capitals, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
That means consideration of a resolution would spill over into next week with a vote probably not until mid-week or even later. 

The political effect would be that President Bush will be able to hold back on announc­ing whether he intends to go to war with Iraq -a poten­tially explosive issue -until after Tuesday's elections. 
Russia's deputy ambassador to the United Nations, Gennady Gatilov, said Wednesday his government still had "quite a lot of prob­lems" with the U.S.-British draft. 
On the campaign trail Thursday, Bush said it was the United Nations' job to force Iraq to disarm and if it refuses to act, "we will lead a coalition of nations and dis­arm Saddam Hussein." 
"You need to do your job," Bush said while stumping for Republican candidates in South Dakota. 
His lecture paralleled his earlier suggestions that the 191-nation world organiza­tion would risk irrelevance if the Security Council did not take a strong stand on Iraq. 
"If you won't act, and if Saddam Hussein won't dis­arm, for the sake of peace, for the sake of a future for our children, we will lead a coalition of nations and dis­arm Saddam Hussein," Bush said. 
In urging the council to act, Bush said he wanted the United Nations to succeed and its resolutions carried out. 

~nq

Make a, Pair oC Mittens 

Once winter weather hits we will all need some mittens. We will provide rleece. supplies and instruc­tions to sew mittens. You can sew the mittens f'or yourself' or your can make a pair to donate charity. No sewing experience necessary. 
-Friday~ November 2002
...... 

9:00pm 11:00pm Ill-the 
LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 

Friday, November 1, .%-~2 
Lafortune Ballroom A~/£1;,;t:.. ._ Show starts at 8 pm 
,~·--.. ,
Free 
, .

' ... : ~ : -. , : 
-' .. ~ * . . 
~ 
, . . , 
. . ... . ', 
~ • • , * " -~ , ' • 

·t•'/~
.... :;i:. ' ' • • . 
. '. · ... -':~~:_:_·. 
' .... -. . 
-. . . . 
Friday, November 1, 2002 page 11
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
Coup fails in C. African Republic 
Associated Press 
BANGUI 
The Central African Republic claimed Thursday to have put down a coup attempt by rebels backing an ousted army chief of staff. 
In a statement broadcast on national radio, government spokesman Gabriel Koyambounou said soldiers from the central African nation's small, poorly equipped army had quelled the uprising that began Friday. 
"Calm has really and truly returned to Bangui since the Central African armed forces have retaken all the areas held by the aggressors," the statement said. 
Earlier reports from Bangui residents indicated it had been chiefly Libyan troops and rebel fighters from neighbor­ing Congo who battled the rebel forces of former Gen. Francois Bozize. 
On Wednesday, Koyambounou said President Ange-Felix Patasse, in power since 1993, had remained at his official residence in the capital throughout the fight­ing. Other reports indicated he may have sought refuge in a foreign diplomatic mission. 
In \\lashington, the Pentagon said it had sent a small mili­tary assessment team from Germany to the Central African Republic. The team was dispatched to assess the security situation "in the event that we may need to take any action to evacuate or protect 

U.S. 
citizens," said Army Maj. Bill Bigelow, spokesman for the U.S. European Command in Stuttgart. Fewer than 150 

U.S. 
citizens live in the Central African Republic, defense offi­cials said. 


The State Department renewed its warning to Americans not to travel to the African country and ordered 
U.S. government personnel to depart. 
The U.S. Embassy in the capital city of Bangui was not closed but its operations will be suspended, the department said in a statement. 
The international airport is closed while the department advised Americans who live in the country to leave "as the security situation permits," defense officials said. 
The airport was the site of heavy exchanges of gunfire between rebels and defenders. Telephone communications with the diamond-rich but impoverished country in the heart of Africa remained spot­ty Thursday. 
Bozize, who had defended the president against previous rebellions, was accused of mounting a coup himself last November. He fled to Chad, then moved to France this month at the insistence of African regional leaders trying to defuse the situation. 
Bozize met with several lieu­tenants in Chad over the weekend, then returned to Paris on Tuesday. Chad has denied involved in the upris­ing. 
Members of the medical aid group Medecins Sans Frontieres found few injured people in Bangui on Thursday, a spokesman said. 
"We think most of those who have been injured are staying in their houses because they're afraid to venture out," said Montserrat Battlo, a rep­resentative for the group in Barcelona, Spain. 
The coup attempt was the ninth since 1960 when the Central African Republic gained independence from France, which had leased the colony to a dozen French com­panies which exploited its mineral and timber resources. 
During the 1970s and '80s, France and Libya competed for influence in the Central African Republic. In the past decade the influence of Moammar Gadhafi has grown, and in May 2001, the Libyan leader sent troops to Bangui to prop up Patasse against rising discontent in the army. 
The withdrawal in 1997 of 1,500 French troops from the Central African Republic, where they had been stationed under a bilateral military pro­tection treaty since 1966, weakened government control over the army and set off a series of mutinies over pay. A 
U.N. force that moved in to replace the French was with­drawn two years later after financing ran out. 
INDONESIA 

Progress in search for Bali terrorists 
. Authorities say they are closing in on a suspect 
Associated Press 

JAKARTA 
Indonesian police said they were making headway Thursday in their hunt for one of three suspects in the deadly bomb blast in Bali while a lawyer for the alleged leader of a Southeast Asian terror net­work said he will not answer police questions. 
Deputy Police Spokesman Edward Aritonang said investi­gators were checking the name and address of one suspect, refusing to release other details. 
Despite a fitful start, the international probe into the Oct. 12 bombing that killed nearly 200 people appears to be moving more quickly. Police on Wednesday released sketch­es of three Indonesian suspects, said they were looking for 10 others and expected to release further details on Friday. 
But they are having less luck persuading Muslim cleric Abu Bakar Bashir to cooperate. 
Bashir is believed to be the spiritual leader of Jemaah Islamiyah, a group recently placed on the U .N. list of terror­ist organizations. The organiza­tion is believed to be behind the Bali blast. 
Bashir is being held at a police hospital in eastern Jakarta, recovering from what he said was a respiratory ail­ment. He was arrested Oct. 18 and is wanted for questioning in a series of Christmas bomb­ings in 2000 that killed 19 peo­ple and an assassination plot against President Megawati Sukarnoputri. 
Since his arrest. police have delayed questioning him because of his alleged health problems. On Thursday, he said he was ready to be questioned, but one of his lawyers, Zainudin Taru, said he would need a few more days to recov­er. 
Another lawyer. Ahmad Taufik. said Bashir would not answer any police questions. 
"Bashir is getting better, and he is ready for questioning," said his attorney, Ahmad Taufik. "But the police won't get anything from him because he will keep silent." 
In a brief interview Thursday on Jakarta's Metro TV station, Bashir challenged Indonesian officials to declare they had not been pressured by foreign gov­ernments to arrest him in con­nection with the Bali bombing. 
Bashir denied involvment and claimed that he was being made a scapegoat. 
"My detention is illegal. I ·will not accept it," Bashir said. 

REGISTRATION DEADLINE 
TODAY 
Friday, November 1st 10:00 p.m. 
This 1-credit serrrinar enables you to witness the conditions of poverty, homelessness and racism in our cities through the lens of Catholic Social Teaching. The ,.:Plunge'.>, is a 48-hour urban immersion over Winter break at one of 30+ sites across the United States. To participate, a registration form must be completed through the Center for Social Concerns. All Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students are eligible. 
page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 1, 2002 

::)i:;.~:.:-;,•.,--·:-·-: ~: ~-'•.;·.·:•• _ 
0 <!•~:ci,.'i:JHtVitlli!\f: .· ...·. .. ... .. .. .... .. -. ·. .· . •.• •. ... .. 
•.-• -:~ ::r::-:. ·; /-) :r:·_:. .L:-: ,. . -­·:·· ·.:; .,, .-,.~i:·,·:_·,_:_. _·-,).f -~~ t//:-<.: 

···Au··th··o· .,.. -E,.r.en···t··s·· • · :::•::'\.. '::·,•;;
i' . . . .a.•,' ,T' . •. .--. C\.};?.·"·/t;" 
·.·.. iliii> , 
· , . . .·... · / i~ . . . > · }1ftt1:;~~1}/~~ ';'.:i;~Jj/ 
> TomiPagna, Former Football AssisJ~nt Coach under Afa•Parseghia!).will:9_¢1,;::itffy;W~ 
.. . . . : . ., . ,' . . . ' ' ..· ·_ -::·:..::~-·-. : : ' .. ,' ':;: . . _-__ . ·_ .' .::::.-:., -::~}-::·:·\t'~i-:·~,'-:__ :~:":,_::_·:·.:.:· . 
. sign_ing copies-o£Petalsfrom a Rose~on Friday. Novembeflstfroml:Op P:m;i}\ i'.:h\}{}L .. to 3:00 p.m.;. · · ·· · .;J> •· ..'.t!f ··· 
... . .. ·_ -. ... . . .· .. ·.·. . . . . . •.·•· <-~:·. '.i Ai~l~!·if~1:I{. 
Jay P. Dolan,> Professor Emeritus of History at ND, wiII:P~,-~ignfng'.:{opi_ 
~-. ·, :: ',., ' ·.: ' .· ' '. . ··· ... ·_/t~t·· .:...:· ' ··:_-::-.t:: :<_::·.::;;;:._:-··,,:~:i; 
In Searcf ofan America Gatholicisrn, on Friday, Novempei 1st at"3:,0,Q Pi;· ,<>,,,i{ 
.Ted Mandell;;ND pr~fessorofFilm, Television, & ~fhe;rre~ wllll)~:l~i,'Hlfi!;:r " 
. . ' ' . ' : . , ' ' ·___ >.'~:-' . . \ . ·.. ; . . ' . ~--· <'._; .. -:• '. '•;·· : :: . :..=, .:_.\'.\<· =;'''}!i':;-\/J{i.;~(}\ 
· copies ofHeart Stoppers and Hai/Marys, on Football ff~d~)r.'t!c>me\Giht !' from 4:oo p.m.t<> 6:oo p.m. •. .... • fI;;'~;'.;;~::~r!~: ·;; 
Paul Ho~nung wilLbe signing copies of the. Magnifi/f1!:;,§~1JerBI/h. · 
•Championship that. Builf/he fpm_bardi Dynasty on Sa.tl1rday, Ji6~e · from 9:00 a--~~ to 11:0():·~t.th. . :ir.'.:::.,,.g, 5:.. . 
. .. . ' ._' ' .·. ~ :: ·:· ...·. :~-. ::' .: .. . ::''.~< -~'iif:-.i:'.>Ji~j}i\:./'.:~?­
John Heisl~r, _NI) 8i~ector,of Sports Information/wiH:RSi~!gfil:~~ Quotable Rockne, on Satµrday, November 2th from'. 9:00 irrt:e,lo~II 
. -. .·.. ,•·. .·-.· ... . ··._ -·._ , . .•· •·•· ·-·•·· . : .: .,i.-\~:;~fo,~;:~ :i'!:l~rfr 
RudyRuettiger wHl pesiglling copies of Rudy & Frier/dlo~ ;Sa.t\i( Novembe{2nd from 10:00·a.m.. to. Noon.. . ·' 
C ••••• ,,.,_,, .,,_ 

Junior League ofSou _.··· ·-, d will be offering a tastingJr9m·th~i 
·:·. \" ... •. . -· .-· _.,-, :~:}~:-;~if;:~•>_~'._ -~·-·~-k 
collection of Gre )g;, Grilnd Finales on Saturd.ay, N"~rvtl'''. ftom 10;., 
-,::• : _(t . -<.,> 
i<~\t,f~1MfJ .. .. ~tsigning copies of The (iQ/i. 
,711Lrf~~,,..Av~1if~~t.h f;.;.~!l:00 a.m..to Nooi~' 
;,;'Sar~h Kirwan BJ~k, will l:,'e1signing copies of An l,~tsc ight Before . · C:hristmtJS,_oq,,SalJra1r, !'Jqyemh~i 2nd from 11 :OOa.rn.:~6-:i:OO p;Ji~nr;·
--.. . ,._ .. -:r· ._.,. ; .·· \i~1f ~/. -~"' . . . .. : . . ... -;: .,_ ·--:­
.FatherlJ'{ichqlast:'. will be signing copies o($tgns ofG . .. . .Medttait.o +·.· .. e Campus, on Saturday, Ngvem .....· ·•· 
l::•.•~.:_i···.~·t>··.••·••:'_-•.t

J_i_&_••.:.~.~•. .. t...:.·.t . .· . . . -•· ki. ~t,. ,. -:~s . ",: ; l{f:,!~i:I'. i~cussing and sigriing:¢p· ·~l t'7 p.m. in the Vi~i'tt;r 
f . 

.: .;i :/. 
'.-'/1;
',:.:i,fi_-"'" 
'j
:··f_:·::,'·1~·

t aca.ppclla group owing the game. 
.. : ';).~

ES . 
l ,j • ( , 

THE ECK CENTER 
phone:(574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

Friday, November 1, 2002 page 13
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
RUSSIA 

Chechens decry Moscow searches and detentions 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
The day after terrorists seized a Moscow theater, tak­ing hundreds of people hostage, police armed with automatic rifles came to Elita Usrnanova's apartment and took away her two teenage sons for questioning. 
Chechens in Moscow say they've been subjected to unannounced police visits, document checks and harass­ment in the days since last week's hostage drama, which ended Saturday when Russian troops stormed the theater. At least 119 hostages were killed, all but two from an opiate gas used in the rescue effort to incapcitate the Chechen rebels. 
Russian Interior Minister Boris Gryzlov has said dozens of people have been detained on suspicion of aiding the hostage-takers, but many Chechens and other dark­skinned people from the Caucasus region with no con­nection to the case have been caught up in the police drag­net, human rights workers say. 
Usmanova said her experi­ence with the police was chilling. 
After checking documents and searching the one-room apartment Usmanova shares with two other Chechen fami­
1r~~24-Pack ~12-0unce Cans Assorted Varieties 
2{,2~6-PacksW 1/2-Llter Bottles Assorted Varieties 
5•2-Liters 
Assorted Varieties 
Kroge :~ Cooked Cocktail Shrimp 
16-0unce Package USDC Inspected ~--.. 

lies, the police demanded that to work as a saleswoman at a The tension is just the latest Chechnya. her two sons, ages 14 and 16, Moscow kiosk and her land­byproduct of a bloody conflict Khamzayev, who represents come to the police station, lords called on Wednesday, that began after Chechnya the family of a murdered where they were pho­saying she, her husband and declared independence and Chechen girl in the high-pro­tographed, fingerprinted and son had two days to vacate Russia responded by sending file trial of the Russian officer questioned their apart­in troops in accused of for three ment. 1 9 9 4 killing 
h o u r s "They sim-Thousands of "Two policemen showed her, said
"Friends called and said
before ply say, people have up at my door ... •· he took a 
b e i n g it's better (o stay home. 'You're a been killed on confronta­released. The police are stopping Chechen,' and both sides. tion a I 
Abdulla Khamzayev 
N o w that's it," said S o m e tone with
women and children. ·· 
Usmanova, Milana, who Chechens said Chechen the police 33, says declined to the increased and they she is Elita Usmanova give her last police checks eventually afraid to Chechen name. She reminded l e f t . let her said police them of the Others children had also atmosphere in haven't go outside stopped her 1999, after a series of apart­been so lucky. for fear they will be detained on the street and, learning ment house explosions left When police visited again or attacked on the that she was a Chechen, took more than 300 people dead -Chechen businessman Islam street. her to the local station for attacks the authorities Gadayev at his home, 
"Friends called and said it's hours of questioning. blamed on Chechen rebels. Gadayev agreed to go the better to stay home. The Milana's case -like that of This time, however, police local police station to give a police are stopping women many other Chechens in are checking Chechens in statement, said Zelimkhan and children," she said, her Moscow -is complicated by their homes, not just on the Bashayev, an aide to Chechen eyes brimming with tears. the fact that she does not street, many say. lawmaker Aslanbek 
Like Usmanova, some have a document that shows "Two policemen showed up Aslakhanov. Chechens have sought help at she 1s at my door. I There, police said they dis­Civil Assistance, a Moscow­regis­asked them what covered a small amount of
''They simply say, 'You ·re
based humanitarian group tered to they were doing, heroin in the Gadayev's coat that provides legal advice to live in a Chechen,· and that·s and they told me pocket and opened a criminal refugees. The organization, the city. 't •• they had instruc-case against him. Gadayev, housed in the dark, stuffy Without l . tions to check all 26, is being held in a jail cell basement of a Moscow office t h a t Chechens and pending legal proceedings. building, is crowded with piece of Milana Dagestanis" in "Why would he drive him­people with nowhere else to paper, Chechen Moscow, said self to the police station if he turn. troubles Abdulla had drugs on him?" Bashayev 
Milana, 39, a proud-looking w i t h Khamzayev, 65, asked, implying the whole Chechen woman in a fur­police an ethnic thing was a setup. He added trimmed coat, said she lost become Chechen lawyer that relatives who retrieved her job and was in danger of vastly more complicated, who has lived in Moscow for Gadayev's wallet said $64 losing her home. Her employ­often entailing large bribes to 40 years. Dagestan is a most• was missing from it. er told her not to come back sort things out, Chechens say. ly Muslim region that borders 
•The 
Card IS absolulelv FREE! 

•Sian-up takes about One Minute! 


•Get 
Your Card lmmedlatelvl 


& IWB8Pllllkesl 
• Values 11 other local businesses around townl 
Kroger Charbroiled
Chicken 
Beef Burgers
Drummettes 
Or 

In The Deli 
Original Or Hot & Spicy Cheeseburgers Sold In 20-Count •.,.,. Package $5.00 . ·. 24-0unce Package 
Frozen 

Cactus Jack'slff II,IET•

Kroger
All-Beef iii24-Pack 
Summer Bratwurst 
Original Or
Tortilla Chips FREEi

Busch 
Sausage Links Con Queso
Beer 
"Tasty Tailgate Item" Or Nacho 12-0unce Cans Cheese Sauce Identical Item 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Friday, November 1, 2002 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF,SS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKcnna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz. 
An DFStGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROLLER: Lori Lcwalski 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 63I-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. M.E....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAllYS.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l @nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ....... ..........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obsm,er.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstiom regarding Observtrpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chit/Jason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th, 01,s,n,tt (USPS 599 240) i, puhwhal Monday dtrough Friday nap• during aam and vacation pmod,. AsliOKription ID ThrObserva-P SIOO foronc-acadcmk: 
year: Sn for 011< """"'""· 
Tu Ob.crvcr is publid~J ai: l'OSTMASTER OH Soud, Dining Hall :S.cnJ Mfdrc::n ccrttetions to: No,,. Dame. IN . 6SS6 Th,Obocrva 
· r.o. Bo,Q P..-iodi<:al J><>..•ge poid •• No1tt Dame Norn: Ihm<, IN 46556-07?9 ~d wJ.jcional mailing offic.a. 

Th< Obtcrva-i, • manb<r of the h»ociaml Press. All rq,tu<lvaion rigb11 .,. ....,.,J. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Sheila Flynn Bill Puckett Himanshu Klthari 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 
Jimmy Atkinson 

Sports 
Matt Lozar Chris Federico 
Scene 

Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Allison Nichols 
SMC Security needs long-term direction 
Students should applaud new safety replaces four-door passenger cars for measures that Saint Mary's Security has transporting students and allows drivers implemented on campus. And they to pick up more students at one time and should applaud now since there's no to make their rounds more quickly. This telling if the security officials in place has the potential effect of eliminating today will be the same ones long waits for rides in in office a month or even a OJhe cold weather and week from now. userver should help solve the 
That's because while the problem of students, fed College has taken positive up with slow service,
Editorial

action to boost campus safety, administrative posts in the security department haven't seemed safe at all. Saint Mary's has had three security chiefs since April. That revolving-door job situation threatens to undo the good that College officials are obviously trying to do. 
Security initiatives announced this week speak to efforts by the College to safeguard its students. 
Campus Security has begun using a van to pick up students at parking lots and many other designated places around campus late at night. The van walking alone at night. 
Even better than the new van is who the College has hired to drive it: a pair of off-duty South Bend firefighters. The addition of trained res­cue workers to the security staff pro­motes campus safety and feasibly will improve response in cases of emergency. 
Both the van and the firefighters are certainly welcome changes that should go a long way in protecting students. In addition, officials have also announced plans to provide better training for secu­rity workers and to increase officers' presence around campus. 
The all-too-frequent changes in securi­ty personnel this year, however. are troubling. 
The reputation of Saint Mary's security already was damaged by a Department of Education investigation last year into alleged inaccuracies in the College's crime statistics. Now three changes in leadership in less than seven months are also caution for worry. And the current security head, Rosemarie Harris, has been designated only an interim direc­tor. 
The College plans to launch a nation­wide search for a permanent director next spring. 
It's reassuring to see the immediate positive effects that new security mea­sures have brought to campus. But Saint Mary's deserves a top security official who will not only bring such highly visi­ble changes to the department but who will provide consistent leadership to look out for students' best interests for years to come. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame should voluntarily recognize workers' right to organize 
As a Catholic institution of' higher learning, the ported by a majority of campus workers through signed University of Notre Dame has a unique obligation to membership cards. The University would also pledge to uphold Church teaching on matters of social justice both refrain from hiring union busters and from otherwise hin­through instruction and operation. Notre Dame's dering any organizing efforts campus employees might commitment to Catholic social tradition -------undertake. Employees would thus be empowered must be evident not only in the class-to exercise their right to form unions should room, but also in the University's they so desire. relationships with all members With the importance of workers of the campus community. rights in the Catholic social tradi-Given the deplorable labor tion firmly in mind, the practices currently being Progressive Student Alliance revealed at other uni-will in the coming days launch versities nationwide, it a campaign aimed at con-is particularly impor-vincing the University to tant that Notre Dame issue a formal statement of demonstrate a com-voluntary recognition. mitment to those After requesting a meeting workers' rights rec-with University officials to ognized as funda-discuss the matter, the mental by Catholic Progressive Student social teaching. Alliance intends to solicit 
In the Pastoral support for voluntary Constitution on the recognition among Notre Church in the Dame students, faculty and Modern World Pope, alumni. Copies of a letter Paul VI proclaims, ~ addressed to Father Malloy "Among the basic rights and Father Scully calling for a
W:1' 
of the human person is to formal statement will be circu­be numbered the right of lated and all are encouraged to freely founding unions for demonstrate support for Notre Dame working people." It is incumbent workers by signing. For additional upon the University to create an information please contact the Progressive environment in which this right of Student Alliance via cmcnamar@nd.edu. unionization can be voluntarily exercised. To this end, Notre Dame must assert itself as a moral leader Progressive Student Alliance in higher education by issuing a formal statement of volun­Brigitte Gynther, president tary recognition as regards potential campus labor union Chris McNamara, member formation. In issuing such a statement, the University Oct. 31 would agree to voluntarily recognize any labor union sup-
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What bowl game will the football team play in? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is ba'ied on 439 responses. 

Graphic by Patnck M<;EJwe,, 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The test ofa first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposing ideas in the mind at the same time. and still retain the ability to function ... 
F. Scott Fitzgerald writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, November I, 2002 

page 15 
Remembering JFK during campaign visit 
Forty years ago, my father took me to see President John F. Kennedy cam­paign during the mid-term election for candidates in Pennsylvania. Kennedy first spoke in Pittsburgh and then trav­eled to our county seat which was eight miles from our home. It was a time in our nation's histo­ry when we, as Catholics, personally felt a commitment to support our presi­dent who overcame a long-standing religious political prejudice by win­ning the presidency in 1960. 
As an eleven­year-old, I could not imagine what to expect in a presidential motorcade. During that mid-October Saturday morning in 1962, we were among our fellow Americans who had no idea that we would face the brink of nuclear war with the Soviet Union over Cuba in the upcoming weeks. 
I was amazed that the sidewalks were crowded six deep to view the president. I remember not being able to see the street but seeing a porch with a wooden cross-latched covering behind me. My mind wandered as I imagined how a sniper could hide with a rifle under the porch and shoot at the president. Of course, I did not have the maturity to realize that for the assassin an escape was virtually impossible. 

Kennedy's motorcade included more motorcycles than I had ever seen in one place. They roared when they passed, and sireris screamed as the president sat on the top of the rear seat of a con­vertible. His richly colored auburn hair flew in the wind, and he waved while he flashed that familiar smile I had seen so often on television. 

The large crowd prevented us from 
going within a block of the stage situat­
ed on our county courthouse steps. As 
each speaker spoke on the loud, tinny 
sound system, we tried to recognize 
Kennedy's voice. Eventually, Kennedy's 
New England accent betrayed his 
anonymity, and we listened intently to 
his support of the Democrats running 
for senator and governor. 
Following the speech, the president attended a luncheon at the George Washington Hotel. My father took us through an alley to the rear entrance of the hotel. We, as well as most of the crowd along the motorcade route, wait­ed for more than an hour for the presi­dent to parade back to Pittsburgh. 
My father leaned on a fence near the president's convertible in the hotel dri­veway while my cousin and I stood at the end of the fence where the drive­way met the alley. As Kennedy past my father, no more than three feet away, my father greeted the president by say­ing, "Hi Jack!" The president nodded back. 
When the car turned onto the alley my cousin and I shouted in unison, "Hi JFK," but we were drowned out by the roar of the crowd. Little did anyone know that Kennedy was monitoring the Cuban missile crisis at the time. 
Three weeks later. Kennedy's han­dling of the crisis allowed the Democrats to maintain control of Congress by breaking even in the House of Representatives. More aston­ishingly, Democrats rewrote history by winning seats in the U.S. Senate. Today, many compare that election cycle to next week's mid-term election. 
If history repeats itself, the current election cycle is showing some political similarities, but features many differ­ences as well. Naturally our president does not travel in an open automobile. Our political parties are more sophisti­cated in fundraising and campaigning. Our media cycles are on an hourly basis with cable and satellite communi­cations. 
President Bush has campaigned to closed venues of friendly "invita­
tion only" crowds for media 
consumption. He has just 
recently added domestic 
and economic topics 
to his stump speech 
since polling sug­
gests that the electorate consid­
ers those higher 
priorities than 
security and 
foreign issues. 
He has shown 
his f undraising 
prowess by 
out-raising any 
of President 
Clinton's 
efforts while in office. 

How will it play with the electorate in next Tuesday's strug­gle to control con­gress? As in Bush's own campaign in 2000, it is too close to call. Bread and butter issues in each district and in each state will ultimately determine the upcoming election. In 1960, both Democratic candidates Kennedy supported lost their bids in Pennsylvania. 
Today the risks for Bush are greater than for Kennedy. Bush's extensive campaigning can create a perception among independents that he is more of a political figure for his party than the guardian of our government. Before his inclusion of economic issues last week, many thought he was merely cam­paigning for support for his war with Iraq. 
In politics, the final two weeks of a campaign usually show the trend towards the outcome. Bush may have 
inoculated Republicans enough 
on domestic issues to prevent a Democratic sweep on Capitol Hill. On election night, look at Iowa for an answer in the House of Representatives. If one or two senior 
incumbent Republican con­gressmen lose. 
the Democrats will have their sweep. 
Both parties will positively spin any gains they make regardless of 

whether or not they change control of the legislature. Unless one party sweeps both houses of Congress, the elec­tion will be a tie. Expect the status quo to prevail despite a state of war against terrorism and an obsession with the "Axis of Evil" around the world. JFK never had it so good. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and public affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at Hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces• sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Student body president will attend race retreat 
We are happy to let the Notre Dame community know that since our last letter written on Oct. 28, which explained our student government's general apathy toward the Learning to Talk About Race retreat, we have received word from Libby Bishop that she will be attend­ing. Being involved in student government involves a commitment and fiduciary duty to the student body. Our student body president has taken a step toward building a diverse community at Our Lady's University. 
Now, we must ask, where are the other student leaders who have been elected or appointed to represent their fellow classmates on this campus? Student Government, Hall President's Council, Student Union Board, Student Senate, Office of the President, Club Coordination Council and other campus club leaders -we are waiting for your response to our invitation to join us on the upcoming Learning to Talk About Race Leadership retreat. 
Jen Guintu Son Nguyen Shamus Rohn Penny Wolf 

L TR retreat team members Oct. 31 
Marching with class 
The student section has had an incredible presence and impact at every football game this year. Whether it is in Notre Dame Stadium or at an away game, the students have energized every Irish fan with their commitment to cheer for Notre Dame from when the Irish Guard first takes the field through the singing of the Alma Mater at the end of the game. 
We truly appreciate your support for the band each and every Saturday. We put in countless hours each week to perfect what we do. It would positively reflect on the characte1 of Notre Dame if all performers could leave our stadium feeling a high level of appreciation. Please show some courtesy to your classmates and friends by not throwing objects during our halftime routine. Be attentive and respectful towards both our halftime performance and those of visiting bands. Cheer in recognition of the hard work and dedication you see on the field. It's time to set a higher standard for crowd participation in our stadium. 
The student section has made a difference at every home game this year and the game against Boston College will be no exception. Thank you for your efforts and the band appreciates your con­tinued support. Go Irish! Beat Eagles! 
Ken Dye director of bands Student Leaders Band of the Fighting Irish Oct. 31 

Make yoHr nt ark in print! Viewpoint iA acceptins applicationA for editi119 and ill11Afratins poAitioHA• 
E-mail La11re11 atviewpoint.t@11d.ed11 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 16 Friday, November 1, 2002 


By MARIA SMITH 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It's the Thursday night before a foot­ball Saturday, and the lights are already on inside the Stadium gates. Sitting in groups talking, laughing and roasting s'mores over space heaters, the mem­bers of the Students Managers Organization work on buffing the scratches out of the famous gold Notre Dame football helmets. It's a chilly job in late October, but they're glad to do it. Their work will be seen in two days by 

Above, student managers in the stadium. To the right, sophomore Kathy Zeidler is hard at work. Below, sophomore Samantha Salazar displays her Halloween spirit. 
. 
Photos by 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 
fans and alumni across the world and around the nation. Not only football but basketball, soccer, 
baseball and other var­" ... it's an experience lots 
receives a Jetter invit­
sity sports provide an 
ofpeople around the -ing him or her to the
endless source of 
first meeting. About
world would love to
enjoyment and pride 
150 freshmen start 
for Notre Dame stu-have.,, 
out the program
dents and fans. Notre 
every year, starting
Dame is as famous for 
John Moore out after Spring
its athletics as any top 
Break. Freshmen
Student Manager
school. While the focus 
at any game may be where the action is, there's a lot more going on than just the competition. Many of the people ·behind the scenes put in as much work as the athletes to make the games happen. At Notre Dame a unique program allows students who love sports to get involved and help make the program run. 
Coaches and athletes from every sport rely on the help of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Student Managers Organization to help practices and games run smoothly. While the athletes play and practice, student managers help run the drills, pull the nets, fill the 
water bottles, set up the facilities and a host of other jobs. The students do many of the tasks without which a game could never happen. 
While some of these jobs may seem thankless, the student man­agers get a chance people around the nation and the world would envy. Managers are on the fields, in the locker rooms, and in the coaches' boxes, interacting with the coaches and teams as an important part of Notre Dame athletics. The program also offers book assistance, free football tickets, basketball tickets and Notre Dame gear for managers of all grade lev­els. Seniors receive scholar­ships amounting to at least 65% of tuition, are considered part of the monogram club and receive monogram jack­ets. The student managers are considered an important part of all Notre Dame athletics. 
Though student managers are most often noticed pulling nets for the football team, the managers help out with all the University's major sports. All 26 men's and women's varsity sports have a senior manager devoted solely to his or her team. Senior managers travel to all the teams' away meets as well as helping out at practices. 
The Student Managers Organization operates with very little supervision from university personnel. Though the Notre Dame equipment staff has a hand in some of the group's more important decisions, the senior managers are responsible for the bulk of the organiza­tion. The students themselves choose which managers will continue in the organization until senior year, and who will ultimately manage which sport. 
Student Managers begin recruiting 
new members every 
spring semester, 
when every freshman 
work only one or two 
afternoons per week. 
During the summer they are asked to confirm by letter whether they will return. 
While a lot of students begin the man­agers program, few continue until sen­ior year. Despite the many benefits and opportunities the program offers, it isn't a job for everyone. Being a manager is a huge time commitment. Senior man­agers especially put in a lot of time, and even the 15 or so hours the sophomores put in can drain a lot away from school­work and friends. The program takes more time the longer students continue, and many students find they simply wouldn't have time to be a junior or sen­ior manager. 
Even among those students willing to make the time commitment, not every-


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, November 1, 2002 

page 17 


one gets the chance to continue as a manager. The sophomores choose only 21 of their peers to be managers for junior year. Some students are always disappointed not to have the chance to stay and finish the program. 
A lot of students drop the program voluntarily before or during sophomore year as they begin to have to pick their priorities. This year's group of sopho­mores has already dropped to 90, and more may decide to leave as the year progresses. But for some students, it's a labor of love. A lot of students find it's worth the sacrifice to learn about the different sports, be part of Notre Dame athletics, and hang out with other sports fans. 
"It's great just to be 

of Notre Dame athlet­"It's great just to be part sports. The poll also ics," said sophomore determines the extent
ofNotre Dame athletics. " 
manager of seniors, scholar-
Caitlin Early. "It's an ships. All senior man­aspect of the school Caitlin Early agers receive at least a we wouldn't be Student Manager 65% scholarship for 
involved in other­wise." 

"The other kids are fun -they,re all way into sports," said sophomore manager Laurie Privatera. "They're all as nuts as me." 
In addition to working various prac­tices and working on the field at football games, sophomore managers are also responsible for putting the signature gold on the Notre Dame football hel­mets. Sophomores spend the Thursday and Friday nights before games wrap­ping, taping, buffing and painting the helmets. This is one of the organiza­tion's most famous duties. 
"There's a little nostalgia for Hudy," said Early. "In the movie they paint the helmets, and it's us doing that." 
At the end of the year the sophomores fill out ballots to rank the performance of their peers. By the beginning of jun­ior year, the group has been narrowed to its select 21 members. Junior man­agers work exclusively with the football team, as well as overseeing the younger managers. The hours for junior man­agers increase dramatically. 
"This year I come here every day after classes," said junior manager John Moore. "Anything that's worth doing takes sacrifice, but if it's what you like to do it's worthwhile." 
By senior year each manager devotes his or her time exclusively to one sport. The top three students in another poll taken at the end of junior year become 
the new football man­
agers, while the lower 
ranked students pro­
gressively choose their 

the coaches and players appreci­ate the work the students put in. Those seniors who continue to the end find it to be one of the most rewarding experiences of their Notre Dame careers. 
"We're dealing with the coaches, we're going on road trips with the team," said senior football person­nel manager Andrew Moody. "Being there up close and person­al is really exciting." 
"Sometimes my friends joke that I'm an errand boy for the football team," said Moore. "But it's an experience lots of people around the world would love to have. I wouldn't trade it for anything." 
Contact Maria Smith at smith.525@nd.edu 
the year, with 100% 
scholarships for the 
top ranked boy and 
girl. 
For juniors and especially for seni<'rs, managing is equivalent to a full time job. Senior managers might put in 50 or 60 hours in a given week. By this point student managing is often a form of career training. Many senior managers are actually working towards careers in sports management. Many Notre Dame athletic employees, including Head Equipment Manager Henry Scroope and Assistant Equipment Manager Chris Bacsik, are former student athletic man­agers. 
The Student Managers Organization is not a casual commitment at any level. Students have to truly love and excel as what they do to succeed. However, for true Notre Dame and sports fans, being such a significant part of the pro­gram is worth every minute. All 
Above, student managers on the field. To the right, Equipment Manager Henry Scroope grabs a quick bite. Below, sophomore managers Richard Raley and Eva Garon joke around while they work. 
. 

Photos by 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 


Friday, November 1, 2002
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 

Sakic' s 2 goals lead Avalanche over Canucks 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia 
Joe Sakic scored twice as the Colorado Avalanche beat the Vancouver Canucks 5-1. 
Dan Hinote. Adam Foote and Rob Blake also scored for the Avalanche, which won for just the second time in six games, but has points in all but one game this year. Patrick Roy stopped 23 shots. 
Rookie defenseman Bryan Allen scored for the Canucks, who only have one win in the last nine games and seven games on home ice all season. 
Sakic opened the scoring with a perfect wrist shot just 32 sec­onds into the game. After drop­ping the puck and crisscrossing with Milan Hejduk just inside the blueline, Sakic took a return feed at the top of the left circle and snapped a shot over Dan Cloutier's glove, just inside the post and under the cross­bar. 
Sakic added the game's final goal. his seventh of the season, 
3:41 into the third. 
Hinote made it 2-0 late in the first when he picked up a rebound in the high slot and slid a slow shot along the ice through the pads of a screened Cloutier. 
The Avalanche, which came in with the league's 29th­ranked power play after scoring just once in the last 16 chances, were held without a shot on their first two opportunities. But Foote scored just one sec­ond after the third Avalanche power play, ending Cloutier's night early. 
Peter Skudra replaced Cloutier 6:11 into the second, but Blake ended Colorado's slump on the power play with his first goal of the season. 
Colorado finished 1-for-7 on the power play. Allen ended Roy's shutout bid with 3:21 left in the second, 

backhanding a low shot from the high slot through a crowd. 
The Canucks, who came in with just two goals in their last 38 man-advantage opportuni­ties, had chances to close the gap on the power play. But they finished 0-for-6 with the extra attacker, including a 5-on-3 for 
1:16 late in the third. 
Skudra finished with eight saves in relief. 
Anaheim 4, Boston 1 
Paul Kariya broke out just when the Anaheim Mighty Ducks needed him. 
Kariya scored three goals and set up the other as the Mighty Ducks beat Boston, halting the Bruins' eight-game unbeaten streak in front of their smallest FleetCenter crowd ever. 
Anaheim posted just its third win in 11 games and spoiled Boston's attempt to equal its best start in club history. 
Kariya, held without a shot in the first period, scored on both of his shots on goal in the sec­ond and his only attempt in the third. He had just four goals and three assists in his prior 10 games. 
He certainly had plenty of highlights. 
He helped break a 1-all tie by setting up Matt Cullen in front after stealing the puck from goaltender Steve Shields behind the net. Just under three min­utes later, he slipped a pretty backhand shot just inside the near post under the crossbar to make it 3-1. 
The Bruins were attempting to capture 16 points in their first 10 games for only the fifth time in club history. 
Boston was 6-0-2 during its unbeaten string. 
He announced attendance was 9,491, the fewest on a non­snowstorm night since Oct. 14, 1982. The Bruins had two crowds under 8,000; one in 1987 and the other 1984. But both were played on what the team called "blizzard" days. 
The Ducks took a 1-0 lead on Kariya's power-play goal 6:05 into the opening period when he pushed a shot past Shields from a scramble in front. 
Boston tied it just 23 seconds later when Jozef Stumpel bat­ted a backhand shot that car­omed in off goalie Giguere 's back from the side of the net. 
Kariya stole the puck from Shields behind the net and fed in front to Cullen, who fired it into the unoccupied goal to give Anaheim a 2-1 edge 12:27 into the second period. 
Three minutes after that, Kariya cut down the right wing and lifted a backhand shot just under the crossbar, making it 3-1 at 15:24. He completed his eighth career hat trick on a power play with 2.3 seconds left. 
Giguere stopped 26 shots. Shields made 19 saves despite suffering his first loss after opening 3-0-2. 
Boston, coming off an impres­sive 7-2 win at Washington on Wednesday. was 0-for-7 on the power play. 
Philadelphia 6, Phoenix 2 
Robert Esche earned his bragging rights. 
Michal Handzus and Kim Johnsson scored 2:05 apart in the second period, and Esche made 18 saves against his for­mer team to lead the Philadelphia Flyers over the Phoenix Coyotes. 
The Flyers are off to a 7-1-2 start under new coach Ken Hitchcock, and extended their unbeaten streak at home to five games (4-0-1). Phoenix has lost four of five. 
Eric Desjardins, Mark Recchi, Dennis Seidenberg and Jeremy Roenick also scored for Philadelphia. Branko Radivojevic and Shane Doan had the Coyotes' goals. 
Boucher, also playing against his former team for the first time, was shaky. allowing six goals on 35 shots. Fans taunted Boucher with chants of .. Booosh" after a few of the goals. 
Trailing 2-1 midway through the second period, the Flyers tied it when Johnsson lifted a shot over Boucher's shoulder. Handzus made it 3-2 with a shot through Boucher's pads. 
Philadelphia put the game away with two goals in the first 
1:12 of the third period. 
Recchi's shot from just out­side the right circle bounced off the skate of Coyotes defense­man Paul Mara and past Boucher, giving the Flyers a 4-2 lead 23 seconds into the third. 
Just 49 seconds later, Seidenberg took a pass from Paul Ranheim and slapped it past Boucher for his first NHL goal. 
The Flyers dominated the first period, but led just 1-0 because they were 1-for-5 on the power play. During one of their two two-man advantages in the period, Justin Williams hit the post. 
Coyotes coach Bob Francis wasn't too pleased with the penalty calls the entire game. Phoenix left wing Darcy Hordichuk was ejected in the second period after bumping into referee Mark Faucette fol­lowing Handzus' goal. 
Phoenix scored two goals in a span of 1:51 to take a 2-1 lead early in the second period. 
Radivojevic's first goal of the season tied it at 1, and Doan scor~d on the power play to make it 2-1. Deron Quint set up the go-ahead goal with a shot from just inside the blue line. Flyers defenseman Chris Therien caught the puck and put it down near Doan, who wristed it into the top corner. 
Desjardins gave the Flyers a 1-0 lead during -a two-man advantage just 2:10 into the game. His slap shot nearly hit Flyers center Keith Primeau on its way past Boucher. 
Roenick capped the scoring with his fifth goal late in the third. 
Atlanta 3, Toronto 3 

The Atlanta Thrashers might be ready to win their first game of the season. 
Backup goalie Pasi Nurminen made 32 saves as the winless Thrashers avoided their 10th straight loss with a tie against the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
Patrik Stefan scored the tying goal at 15:26 of the third peri­od for Thrashers (0-8-1-1), who are in the throes of a 19­game winless streak dating back to March 23 -more than seven months. 
To shake things up, Atlanta coach Curt Fraser benched star winger Ilya Kovalchuk because of poor defensive play and started Nurminen instead of a struggling Milan Hnilicka. 
Nurminen made a spectacu­lar save with 34 seconds left in regulation. Alyn McCauley's shot looked to be going in, but a sprawled _Nurminen kicked his back leg up and kept the puck from crossing the goal line. 
Tie Domi, Mats Sundin and Travis Green scored power­play goals for the Maple Leafs, who have won just three of their 11 games. 
The Maple Leafs were booed off the ice. 
Domi gave Toronto a 3-2 lead with an unassisted goal after Atlanta defenseman Yannick Tremblay's clearing attempt hit Domi in the chest. Domi then grabbed the puck and skated in on a breakaway, scoring on a backhanded deke. 
Stefan scored an easy goal after Toronto goalie Ed Belfour skated too far in front of his crease. Belfour expected a shot from the point from defense­man Frantisek Kaberle, but Kaberle passed to Stefan. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
NOTICES 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
..At last Spring Break** Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. 
sunsplashtours.com 18004267710 
SPRING BREAK INSANITY! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013. GUARAN­TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! OUR SEVENTEENTH YEAR! REPS WANTED! 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800·234-7007 
endlesssummertours.com 

Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. 
Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 
INVESTORS NEEDED. WILL PAY 10% INTEREST $100,000 INCRE­MENTS. 100% SECURED WITH REAL ESTATE. 
CALL 574-675-0960 OR email at investors@surfbest.net 
Need layout person for projects in PageMaker, Photoshop, etc. 
Good pay. Call 273-8857 (M-F 8-5) 
COACH: Need Jr.High boys basket• ball coach: responsible and dependable student or grad student to coach 7•8th grade reserve bas­ketball team, Nov 5-Feb. 20, for south side private elementary school located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. 
Must be available for practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-3: 15. 
Game schedule varies with 9-1 O games beginning after school at 4 or 5 pm. Paid position. 
Call 291-4200 to apply 
FOR SALE 
Just listed Woodbridge condo close' to ND. Great location. NE corner­end unit-new kitchen-furnace & water heater-windows. Over 900 sq.ft. $85,000. OPEN HOUSE Sun. 11/3 1pm-3pm, See at reedburrer.com or call 
Reed 574-235-3659. 
Futons! Great selection and ser­vice. Minutes from campus. 
Call Mary @ Futon Factory, Grape Rd, 
273-2660. 
2 GA BC Tix. Best otter, yar! cell: 661-714-6174 email: sanders2@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 
www.mmmrentals.com 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 • 269-469-0245 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896 
DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-4-5-8-9 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM ­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL • WASHER/DRYERS· CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST -CON­TACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 • (574)674-2471 
Nice 3-bdrm home in East Race near Corbys avail. now. W/D inct 679-2010. 
Large updated duplex avail. now. Unit 1 • 2-bdrms Unit 2 -3-4 bdrms Or rent both units for large group. Close to campus. Call 679-2010. 
3-Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, alarm system, A/C. Avail.immed., $650/mo. 
Call 220-0499. 

LODGING FOR RUTGERS GAME! Bed & Breakfast lodging w/ alumni family. Nice/close to campus. 574­243-2628. 
TICKETS 
N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please 
check our prices. 273-3911. WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST 
PRICES 289-9280 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­
ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) bringing family, friends & girlfriend to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck at 877 654.8472 or email at 
jbmalley@global. t-bird. edu NEED BC TIX 312-925-8961 John Mellencamp tickets(2) • Call 4-1814 
BUYING/SELLING N. D. FOOT­BALL TICKETS & PARKING PASS­ES 289-8048 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1·800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Thanks for the present tonight Katie and Lauren. You're my two favorite Sports women -besides Andrew's mom. 
Just wait til we hit them with the costumes tomorrow. It will only add to our dominance. 
I had your mom, I had your mom, I had your mom... 
Hey Eve, Did you get that gangsta lovin? 


Friday, November 1, 2002 COMPILED PROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 19 



around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL MICHIGAN STATE AT MICHIGAN, NOON, ESPN 
GEORGIA AT FLORIDA, 7:45 P.M., ESPN 
NBA 

Artest, Bender sign extensions 
Associated Press  closed. Without the extensions,  Both players said that ongoing contract discus­ Pacers were the fifth team in NBA history to  
INDIANAPOLIS The Indiana Pacers signed guard Ron Artest and forward Jonathan Bender to contract exten­sions on Thursday, just beating an NBA deadline. A league source told ESPN.com's Chad Ford  which needed to be sions were not a distrac­signed by Thursday tion. evening to meet the "The contract isn't a big league's deadline, Artest issue,"Artest said. "I'm and Bender would have here for this year. My become restricted free main focus is a champi­agents onship." a ft er Artest,"The contract isn ,t a bigt h i s 22, said he s e a -issue. rm here for this wasn't con­ reach the playoffs with an average age of 25. "In the case of Jonathan Bender, we have a lot of faith in the player that he will become and has started to become,"Pacers President Donnie Walsh said. "And in the case of Ron Artest, he has the  
that Artest's deal is worth $42 million over six years. Artest can opt out of the contract after year  son. H a d offers come  year. My main focus is a championship. ··  e e r n e d about the monetary value of his  opportunity to be a truly terrific all-around play­er." Artest has career aver­ 
five. According to Artest's agent Mark Bartelstein, Artest wanted to get something locked up now, so that he could focus for the season. "I never been around anyone who loves more basketball than he does," Bartlestein told ESPN.com. "I think it would have been a real distraction if we didn't get this done." Terms of the Bender's  i n Ron Artest contract. from "I'd playIndiana guardother basketball teams, for free," t h e he said. Pacers would have Bender, 21, laughed retained a right of first when he was told of refusal. Artest's comment. Artest was acquired in a "I've got to live on trade last year with something,"Bender said. Chicago and was the 16th "This is where I want to ..overall pick in the 1999 be. draft. Bender was drafted The signings are the lat­No. 5 overall by Toronto est step toward keeping the same year and was the nucleus of one of the traded to Indiana for NBA's youngest teams  ages of 12.3 points, 4.3 rebounds and 2.03 steals in 203 games. He scored 20 points in Indiana's season-opening win Wednesday over Houston. Bender has averaged 5.2 points and 2.1 rebounds in 161 games. He set a career high last year by playing in 78 games. The Pacers also signed Jeff Foster, their other fourth-year eligible play­er, to an extension on  
agreement were not dis- Antonio Davis.  together. Last year. the  Tuesday.  

MLB 

Gamboa's attacker regrets incident 
of mind, this would ever A grand jury indicted went into a tailspin after his 
Aisociated Press 
have occurred," he said. "I Ligue on Oct. 11 on three infant daughter died in 
am so sorry for Mr. counts of aggravated bat­May. 
CHICAGO Gamboa. I disgraced tery and one count of mob ..I was going through so 
The man who joined his Chicago and myself. I apolo­action. He is being held on much stress," Llgue told the teen-age son in attacking gize with my heart." $200,000 bond and is newspaper. "I see on the Kansas City Royals coach Ligue has been jailed scheduled to be in court videotape [that] I was out of Tom Gamboa during a since he and his 15-year­Friday for an arraignment. my mind. I had to let anger game in September apolo­old son were arrested Sept. His son has pleaded.guilty out and it came out that gized in a phone call from 19 after running onto the in juvenile court to one way." jail to a Chicago-area news­field at Comiskey Park and charge of aggravated bat­Ligue also said he wants paper. attacking Royals first-base tery and two counts of mob treatment for drug addic­
"I regret what happened," coach Tom Gamboa during action for striking Gamboa tion. 35-year-old William Ligue the ninth inning of a game and an off-duty state troop­"I have a terrible drug Jr. said in Thursday's edi­against the White Sox. The er, who was working secu­problem I cannot control," tions of the Daily father and son said Gamboa rity at the game. The teen is he said. "I need help." Southtown. He added that had made an obscene ges­scheduled to be sentenced He called the Sept. 19 he doesn't remember much ture toward them, but the Nov. 7. incident, "God's way to from the bizarre episode. coach denied provoking Ligue's sister, Kimberly straighten me out by 
"If I was in my right state them. Richardson, has said he putting me here." 
IN BRIEF 
Peete could make return WSU players out after fight Matsui to join Majorfor Nov. 10 A locker room fight may have put a League
Rodney Peete could be back at serious hit on No. 8 Washington Let the bidding begin. quarterback when the Carolina State's quest for the Pacific-10 Two days after winning the JapanPanthers face the New Orleans Conference championship. Series, Yomiuri Giants slugger Hideki Saints in Charlotte on Nov. 10. The altercation -between line­Matsui said Friday that he wants to 
The former Philadelphia Eagles backer Ira Davis and cornerback go to the North American majorquarterback has missed the last two Jason David -sidelined David for leagues. games following arthroscopic six to eight weeks with a broken 
"It was painful to tell my coaches, surgery to repair a torn meniscus in cheekbone and led to Davis' indefi­
but my personal desire to go over 
his right knee. nite suspension. 
there and play didn't go a way,"
He didn't practice with the team The loss of David, in particular, is a Matsui said at a morning news con­Wednesday, but did some light blow to the Cougars (7-1), who will ference. 
throwing and lateral movement drills face one of the nation's top offensive 
The 28-year-old outfielder, who 
on the side with strength coach Jerry teams in 16th-ranked Arizona State became eligible for free agency after Simmons. (7-2) Saturday in Martin Stadium. 
the 2002 season, is rumored to be on Peete left the game against Dallas Both teams are 4-0 in conference. 
the wish list of New York Yankees 
in Week Six with a concussion. Since The winner will become the Pac-10 owner George Steinbrenner. 
he probably wouldn't have been able Conference leader and front-runner 
Matsui just missed winning the 
to play the following week, and with for the Rose Bowl. 
triple crown this season. 
a bye coming up, the team decided to Cougars coach Mike Price said the Along with a Central League-lead­
get the knee worked on. altercation "saddens me very, very ing 50 homers and 107 RBIs, the Chris Weinke and Randy Fasani much," but said coaches are "going left-handed hitting Matsui posted a have both started a game in Peete's to do everything we can to get our .334 batting average, second only to 
absence, but neither has looked par­team focused on our opponent this Kosuke Fukudome of the Chunichi ticularly good. weekend." Dragons, who had a .343 average. 
Friday, November I, 2002 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
Woods 6 behind at Tour Championship 
PGA 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Vijay Singh wasn't sure his 5­wood could reach the green on the par-3 18th hole at East Lake Golf Chm. His goal was to hit it straight, hit it hard and hope. 
.. It went dead straight, hard and stuck," Singh said T. 
The ball finished 8 inches from the cup for a rare birdie on the 232-yard closing hole, a 5.-under 65 and a share of the lead with Steve Lowery in the Tour Championship. 
He could have used that kind of result four years ago. 
When the Tour Championship first came to East Lake in 1998, the tournament was his to win. Instead, Singh's 3-iron on the final hole bounced over the brick-hard green and into the rough, leading to a bogey. He lost to Hal Sutton on the first playoff hole. 
Even after one round in cold and swirling winds, Singh already was looking ahead to 
redemption  in  the  Tour  
Championship  - and at East  
Lake.  

"It owed me one in 1998," Singh said. "It took me a while to get over that one, especially the shot I hit on 18. I would like to win this event, and on this golf course, because I've had two good finishes. We'll see on Sunday what happens." 
Thursday was entertaining enough. 
Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson, Nos. 1 and 2 in the world and on the PGA Tour money. played together for the first time this year. and what was believed to be the first time since the final round of the 2001 Masters, when Woods won his fourth straight Masters. 
Neither of their memories were very good, although Woods won't forget the par-3 sixth hole any time soon. The wind laid down after he hit a soft 7 -iron, and his ball bounded over the green and into the water for a double bogey. 
"I got fooled," Woods said. 
That ended his streak of 328 holes with nothing worse than a bogey, dating to the first hole of the third round in the Buick Open, which he went on to win. 
The rest of the day didn't get much better. His 3-iron into the 18th came up 80 feet short, and he missed a 6-footer for par. That gave him a 71, the first time in 21 rounds he failed to shoot par or better. dating to his 81 in the third round of the British Open. 

s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion 
(574) 674-0022 Fax(574)674-0033 
ND themed baskets our specialty! 

"The wind was baffiing to all of us," Woods said. "You had to be as patient as possible." 
Mickelson lost his patience only once, and that was before he even hit his first shot. 
The starter was reading off Woods' five victories this year ­Bay Hill, Masters, U.S. Open, Buick Open, American Express Championship when Mickelson playfully cut her off. 
"All right, all right," he said, acting as though he had heard enough. 
Mickelson had four birdies and four bogeys in an even-par 70. 
Charles Howell III had the only other birdie on No. 18 and had a 66 in his Tour Championship debut. He is one of 10 players who have never played in what amounts to the PGA Tour's All­Star game, a season-ending event for the top 30 on the money list. 
NFL 
Cochran unhappy with policy 
Upshaw said it wouldn't. 
Associated Press 
"People would simply go out and interview African­NEW YORK Americans and hire a white The NFL insists it is commit­coach and get an extra draft ted to hiring more minorities, pick," said Upshaw, who is but it doesn't support a plan to black and has been helping the 
use draft picks as an incentive for teams to consider black coaches. 
"It's ridiculous. It would be a sham," Gene Upshaw, execu­tive director of the NFL Players Association, said after a discus­sion at Wednesday's league meetings about the plan, pro­posed by attorneys Cyrus Mehri and Johnnie Cochran Jr. 
Mehri's and Cochran's plan would reward teams that inter­view minority candidates for front-office and head coaching positions with extra draft choic­es and take picks away from teams that don't. Teams that hired minorities as coaches would be rewarded more hand­somely. 
The union must agree to any plan that adds draft picks, and league identify potential minor­ity candidates for coaching jobs. "Everyone in the NFL knows what's going on. They have to keep widening the available pool of candidates." 
Mehri said that while he was pleased with the tone of the meeting, he still believed in his plan. 
"Draft choices are the cur­rency of the NFL," he said. "That's the way to improve the situation. Our plan will get the job done. Their plan has not gotten the job done. You need a creative solution to solve this problem." 
There are currently two black head coaches in the NFL: Tony Dungy of Indianapolis and Herman Edwards of the New York Jets. Three is the most in any single season since Art Shell of the Raiders became the first black coach of the modern 
era. That could change next sea­son. 
Dennis Green, who coached the Minnesota Vikings from 1992 until he was fired after last season, is probably at the top of the list of prospective new coaches. So is Marvin Lewis, the defensive coordina­tor of the Washington Redskins, who was almost hired last February by Tampa Bay. 
The league has been trying since Paul Tagliabue became commissioner in 1989 to pro­mote minority hiring. It says its plan is working slowly. 
In 1980, there were 14 black assistants in the NFL, none of them coordinators. By 1997. there were 103 black assis­tants. Now, 154 of the 547 assistants (28 percent) are black. Twelve of those are coor­dinators, compared with five coordinators in 1997. 

>l!!tai!!lttlfilif;jtffill] l!Hillll 
SPEAkERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL' INSTANT MESSENGER'" service TWO·WAV MESSAGING JA\IA'" GAMES 6 APPLICATIONS 
DIGITAL cntuLAR 
-rc.J."'y t-\,\e J.i,,t"'I wAl\:.ie+"'l\:.ie wo"\:.s ove" seve""'' hLo."J."eJ. '""i\es. A\\J. to\oo\C'l'ICW, ""'"c"wi.J.e. 
NEXTEL: 
They've c,\n COl>.\\ti\\~ 0\\ yov.. Whi.ch ls why 
yov. \\eeeA l-,\e,ctel's eAiBit"'-1 """"l\:.ie+""l\:.ie .Pe""tv.ve. lt lets yol.\ -'et vi.,ht thvov.~h wit\.\ the pv.sh ~ 4'\ ov.H-O\\. The'\t ~et:'\\\S \\O ~isseeA c""lls, voice \Mt'\il ov-pho"e t""-'· -st""y i"' co"t""ct with evevyo'rl.e -Pv-o~ the Ao""t Co~~l++ee to the Alv.~\\i co~~i++ee, wH·hov.t ~iSSl\\" "" eAete'\l\. l-,\ow yov.'v-e vee'\Ay-Bvl"-' It. 
Now's "' -,v-e"'t H~e to -,et Ne>Ctel: .,._n Nohe t)""~e stv.eAe\\ts ,et­"' \0¾'"~lSCOl.\\\tr O\\ "'"Y v-"'t-e r'"'" "'"eA $loo·o.P.P "'"Y pho\\e. 
-re b~y; 

• ~o to \\e)Cte1.colM/lYish-stl.\J.e\\t. 
• Ct:'\\l toll-Pv-ee 1-111-s-o,-212,. 
# CO\\tt:'\ct JDt-i\ COIM\Ml,\\\lCel\T'\O\\S "'t S74-24'3-'3f Ig 
Friday, November I , 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Welsh Family starts march toward 4th straight crown 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Lyons Hall (3-2-1) looks to dethrone Welsh Family Hall {5-1) from their reign as inter­hall champions on Sunday. The Lions have had a great season, and they look to con­tinue their success in the play­offs. They have momentum going into the playoffs, beating 

Pangborn 20-0 before fall break. 
Welsh Family comes off a big win as well, as they defeated the Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla West 35-6. 
Against PW, Welsh Family had four different players score touchdowns. The Whirlwinds run a well-bal­anced attack on offense led by Vanessa Lichon and Alex Callan. The Whirlwinds know they are the team to beat going into the playoffs, and they readily accept the chal­lenge. 
"We are back to playing Welsh Fam football," Callan said." We are just having fun." 
However, on the other side of the field, Lyons is not just going to hand the game over. They are led by an offense that came on strong to end the regular season. Led by quar­terback Sara Jenkins, the Lions' passing attack is hard to stop. Wide receivers Holly Law and Micelle Celli lead a unit that has played a big role in the Lions' successes. 
Against Pangborn, Jenkins cited the play of her receivers in the victory. If the Lions receivers can continue to play well and make the catches they need to make, they could wreak havoc for the Whirlwind defense. 
Meanwhile, the Lyons defense has been superb this season. shutting teams out multiple times. They are led by defensive back Becky 
Wynne, who has helped the offense with her defensive scores. 
On Sunday at 4 p.m. on the McGlinn fields, the "Welsh Fam tradition" will be tested by a determined up and com­ing Lyons team. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hhoedarn@nd.edu 

Bullfrog passing game is key to upsetting Pyros 
Pyro quarterback Abbey Coons have the talent of versatile and Stephanie Yahn, who each know we can depend on to
By TREY WILLIAMS 

said. "I think if we stick to our captain Lindsey Terifay who had an average of two inter­pull us out of tight spot,"
Sports Writer 

same game plan, played ceptions per game. Zachry said. "But for the most there will be plenty on the Despite PE 's impressive part we just play as a team
"We're just going to do
If the rankings prove to he 

of room for an defen­arsenal, the Bullfrogs (4-2) and win" 
reliable, womens interhall overall upset. what we've been doing sive and aren't breaking a sweat. Whether you talk to the fans will find a pretty evenly That's just the way all season. We 're going to offen­Badin also has their share of Pyros or the Bullfrogs, there's matched battle as No. 4 things work in s i V e key players including former a certain sense of confidence
run effective plays, block
Pasquerilla East takes on No. 

women's interhall." l i n e s varsity soccer player Jen shared between the players.
5 Badin in the first round of and have fun msot of
Coons and the a n d Carter who leads the team in "We're just going to do what playoffs this Sunday at Pyros may just have all." e v e n touchdowns. Carter, a wide we've been doing all season,"McGlinn fields. what it takes for an saw her receiver, was part of a one­Badin captain Courtney Giel 
The players, however, are a upset as they come share of two punch including quarter­said. "We're going to run
Courtney Giel
little more confident in their into the playoffs touch­back Erin Zachry whose total effective plays, block and have teams' chances at victory not donning an impres-Badin captain downs passing yards is close to PE's fun most of all." 
only this week but perhaps in 

sive 4-1 record. in the Coons'. the championship game as Coons, who aver-regular The Bullfrogs. keeping their 
well. 

aged well over 120 passing season. cool, aren't too concerned 
"From our second game on 

yards per game, is only a On the defensive end, the with their individual perfor­we've been playing pretty solid minor cog keeping the PE Pyros will be aided by the mances. Contact Trey Williams at on both offense and defense," machine rolling. They also sticky hands of Kelli Krimmel "We have a few players we Williams.3l7@nd.edu 
~ I . . I ~ 

Close to campus! t and ~ir 
tra\ \\ea
(Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) cen 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way 
(574)272-1441 


Friday, November 1, 2002
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS INTERHALL 

Dillon, Stanford ready for playoff rematch 
squad. "Last year. we did a lot more The Green Wave have been the their defense for the duration of By PAT LEONARD, JUSTIN "We're coming into this game running," Fisher captain Tom epitome of a balanced offence the season, holding Knott to 
SHUVER and ERIK POWERS 

like we came into the game the Gorman said. "This year we're a this year, with just as many three points and shutting out 
Sports Writers 

first time we played them," cap­lot more balanced." touchdowns on the ground as in both St. Edward's and Carroll. tain and center Pat Esper said. Each team also has the oppor­the air, as well as boasting three But while Sorin has excelled at Dillon and Stanford are ready. 
"We beat them once already, but tunity to make amends for play­offensive starters each with the shutting down opposing offenses, The two teams squared off in the they finished the season strong off exits last year. Zahm lost in same number of touchdowns. Alumni has succeeded in drain­second week of the regular sea­by beating some good teams. the first round to eventual cham­"The great thing about our ing defensive energy through a son. The Big Red came out on What we have to do is run the pion Dillon. while Siegfried beat team is that one guy will have an smash mouth running game.
top, 20-8. 

ball like we did in our last game Fisher in the semifinals. awesome game one day, and Something will have to give, and Now. with fall break over and against Stanford, and we need a Despite the extra emphasis on then someone else will have one Sorin vows that it will not be its practice resumed, the two teams 
strong defensive performance the importance of playoff games, the next," Gorman said. defense. 
prepare for a Sunday afternoon like you saw in the game against neither team is straying far from "Basically, I think that it comes 

battle at 2 p.m. on Riehle fields. Sorin vs. Alumni
Keough." its usual pre-game preparation. down to our front four," Sorin's 
Stanford ended the season . After the previous game, ·•we're just running through It is November. The time has Mike Draz said. "If they can strong after starting 1-1. They arrived for falling leaves, frigid
Oyster said the Griffins "didn't all the plays again," Gorman stuff the run, then we're going to
beat O'Neill in week three. In temperatures and football play­
play [their] best football." Now, said. "We're preparing for all win."
their fourth game, a game offs. But on Sunday, one team's
they have their chance to play aspects of the game. We really The Otters' success will also
important for playoff seeding, time will run out. At 2:00 on
their best football against the haven't made any changes. We depend upon whether they can
Stanford knocked off Morrissey. Riehle fields, Alumni plays Sorin
only team that has beaten them. just want to come out and play build offensive momentum.
Although finishing the season in a first-round struggle for the
"I think our offense needs to our game." Tailback Ryan Rodgers has been 
strong and earning the third right to pursue a trip to the
keep doing the things they've "We're doing what we've done a steadying force for Sorin, but
seed behind undefeated Stadium.
been doing," Oyster said. ·'I'm all season [in practice]." captain Greg Carney returns to
Siegfried, Stanford must take on expecting a really big game out Passafiume said. "We're going to Alumni enters the game with a quarterback on Sunday after a Big Red team that ran the ball 3-1 record. The Dawgs defeated
of the linebackers and defensive come out and play smash mouth missing two games due to injury.
at will on them in week two. last year's champion, Dillon, in a
linemen, as plan to stop the football. We know we have a Counting fall break, it has been 
"We lost but that's behind us great team." shutout for their first win. But
run." almost a month since Carney has 
now," Stanford captain Adam The Zahmbies point to starting while the victory in the dorms' taken a snap in a game. His suc­Oyster said. "This game is a new Zahm vs. Fisher quarterback Mitch Knapke's annual rivalry remains the high cess over the aggressive Alumniopportunity for us. Dillon likes to Playoffs are the time when injury in the third game of the point for the season thus far, defense could determine the fate run the ball a lot so we'll be anything can happen. For Zahm season as a crucial point in the Alumni has its sights on one goal of the Otters, yet his teammateslooking to slow down the run­and Fisher, the time to make regular season. Senior Dan -the interhall championship. 
are not worried. 

ning game." something happen is now. Burke replaced Knapke at quar­The Dawgs have had success "The great one has returned,"Dillon is pleased with the The Green Wave and the terback after an injury against relying on a relentless defense said Draz, referring to Carney.return of running back Kevin Zahmbies meet in the first round St. Edward's. this fall. But consistently keeping 
"Basically, I think that our West
McCarthy. McCarthy was part of of the playoffs Sunday at 1 p.m. "We definitely think we have a its opponents out of the endzone Coast offense is going to takethe rushing attack that tore Both teams have identical regu• good team and we're ready to has not been 'the only reason for away the blitz and spread thethrough the Stanford defense in lar season records of 3-1, and come out and play," Passafiume Alumni's success -the Dawgs 
D."

their previous match-up, rushing both have similar offensive ten­said. ··we're going to take this have run down the clock and for 100 yards. including a 73-dencies. one game at a time, starting with worn down defenses by commit­yard touchdown. "We mix the run and pass Fisher. We're a young team but ting themselves to the run. Contact Pat Leonard at 
Still, the Big Red takes no con­pretty well depending on what we have a lot of talent and a lot Sorin enters the game with a pleonard@nd.edu, Justin solation in that they have the defense gives us," Zahm cap• of guys who want to win a cham­3-1 record as well. The Otters Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu and already defeated this Stanford tain Nick Passafiume said. pionship." have relied on the strength of Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 


*Come for the match and keep your seats for the pep rally!! 
~ o/1@ rr Q@ WlQ) @ aQ-4:00pm ND vs. Providence 
~@ fftl [) ® ~@ ~ (S@ [r-7:30pm #11 ND vs. Virginia Tech 
*Trading cards to the first 250 fans!! 

00 @ © lk@ w-7:00pm ND vs. Boston College 
*GREEN Rally towels to the first 2,000 fans!! 
~@ [ru [) ® 00@ ® lk@U LQ}@ UU-9:00pm ND vs. Ill. All-Stars 
Sunday, 11/3 
o/1@ aG@W LQ)@ aa-1:OOpm ND vs. Boston College 
*Trading cards to the first 500 fans!! 
~@ [fu [) ® ~ © ~ ~@ [r-2:00pm ND vs. Loyola-Chicago 
*SUNDAY BRUNCH! Brunch and coffee mugs to the first 250 fans!! 


Friday, November l, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
Thinking About Home Improvements? WeCanHelpl 
.901 
.15i 


lntroductorvRate lowRauularRate 
Check Out Our PRIMEauilV line-of-CreditLoan 
0 

NOTRE DAME  
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  
574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611  
www.ndfcu.org  
~  
'Annual Percentage Rate. Property insurance ls required. Nol valid with any olheroffer. Rates suqect to cl1ange. Consulta tax advi60f regarding the_deductibility ofinterest A balloon paymeotwill resuttatmaturity.Alter the six-month introduCIOfy perkx,i,lhuatawillrevertto , the h1ghestpnme leod1ngrateofthe pt'8','IOUSquarter. Mlnimumamountis$5,000. Maximum amountis$100,000. lndef)endentof1he Unlversity.  ---·-·­9J..::.rj . NCUA !(OUU 110U$ING -LENDER  

You can be 
President of 'The Shin" 2003 
APPiications are available NOW and DUE November 8 
Get vour application outside the Student Activities Office 314 La Fonune 
questions? Contact Schuster.13@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Air Force continues to struggle, loses again 
1961.

Associated Press 
Colorado State quarterback Bradlee Van Pelt said the Rams

AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. 
sideline erupted when BabcockCoaches asked Jeff Babcock to scored -with laughter. 

kick the opening kickoff of the But Van Pelt said Babcock's
second half through the end 
score came at a critical time. 

zone. 
Falcons coach Fisher DeBerry'Tm glad I didn't," Babcock 

said he felt good about his

said. 
team's chances at halftime. Then Air Force's Bryan Blew took came Babcock's score. "I don'tBabcock's kick at the goalline 

know of a worse way in the

and returned it to near the 30, world to start the second half."
where he fumbled. 
he said. 

Babcock recovered the fumble and returned it 29 yards for a Babcock tacked on a 27-yard 
rare touchdown by a placekicker field goal on the first play of the as No. 24 Colorado State beat fourth quarter. Air Force 31-12, the Falcons' After Babcock's touchdown, 
third straight loss. Air Force drove to the Colorado Cecil Sapp ran for 132 yards State 46, where quarterback 
and two touchdowns as the Chance Harridge was stopped Rams (8-2, 4-0 Mountain West) for no gain on fourth-and-1 by posted their fourth straight vic­linebacker Adam Wade. 
tory. Babcock missed a subsequent Air Force (6-3, 3-2) lost any field goal try, and Air Force chance of getting back into the again marched to the CSU 46. game by failing on two fourth­On fourth-and-1, Harridge was down plays in the third quarter, hit by linebacker Eric Pauly and both in Colorado State territory. fumbled at the line of scrim­On the opening kickoff of the mage. Air Force's Darnell second half, Blew fumbled when Stephens ran 15 yards with the hit by David Foley. Babcock fumble recovery, but the Falcons scooped up the loose ball and relinquished the ball because a ran it back for a 28-12 lead. fourth:down fumble can be 
It was the first touchdown by a recovered only by the player Colorado State kicker since who fumbled. 

No Coupon Necessary Plus Tax 
FREE DELIVERY. S7 00 M1mmum 
For Oeliveiy Not Valid With Any 
Oth~r Oller Va11d Only At L1st,d 
Marco·s Pizza LocahOns Expires
12-15-02 
~:m:rd 
ACCEPTED HERE

Large Pizza Must p,u,Me cre111 rard ,nto,mahon 
1'11,Jn Oiiltri!'ll lOr def~m

Cheese & 1Topping 
CHECH OUT OUR DRILY SPECIRLS lOOl
.,---....---.. '-='---I,;;.,...= 


• 
52750 IN 633 .......574-243•1122 ----Ill 
Now Open Until 3:00am Friday & Saturday! 
326 N. lronwood ...574-243-1111 
Corner of Ironwood & Mckinley 
0 
N:,~:t!me
&St. Mary's 
Serving Bethel College 

Friday, November 1, 2002
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMENS SWIMMING 
Irish and Boilermakers dual meet ends in rare deadlock 
..... By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 

The old cliche says tying in sports is like kissing your sister. If that stands true, the Notre Dame womens swim­ming team better pucker up. 
The No. 14 Irish women won seven events en route to tying Big Ten foe Purdue \Vednesday night. The tie gives the team a 1-0-1 record for the season. 
''I've never heard of a tie in all my years of swimming," junior Laurie Musgrave said. ''I've just never heard of it happening. [The race] comes down to one race and the difference between a coming in fifth or sixth." 
Musgrave said the team was disap­pointed with not winning, but that the Boilermakers swam an excellent meet. 
"I definitely think that we were a little upset with the tie," Musgrave said. "We went into the meet with the full intent of winning. They swam really well." 
Musgrave won the 200 breastroke, while teammates Marie Labosky won the 4,000 individual medley and Kelli Barton captured the 1,000 freestyle. 
Notre Dame led Purdue 146-137 heading into the 400 freestyle relay. However, the Boilermakers took first and third in the event, which gave them a 13-4 advantage and tied the meet. 
Purdue also took first, second and fourth in the three-meter diving event. Irish diver Meghan Perry­Eaton recorded a no dive and zero points in the first round of the event. Purdue's Carrie Mccambridge took advantage by taking first with 
311.92. Fellow Boilermaker Heather Bachman came in second with 297.67 points. Notre Dame's Chrissy Habeeb got the Irish a third-place finish with 
296.40 points, but Purdue's Carrie Dougherty claimed fourth with 
272.02 points compared to Perry­Eaton who made a late run to finish with 271.05 points. 
The Irish are in action against Indiana today at 4 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

• Chinese -American Restaurant · and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and
.. 

Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
J 'i
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
l 30 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson} 
BROADWAY fm:ATRE LEAGUE
• 

Of SOUTH BEND, INC.
MUST END SUNDAYI 

-


Friday, November 1, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles have nothing to lose and no expectations 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
There are no expectations, but there are plenty of motivators. 
As Saint Mary's heads into its first dual meet of the season, the Belles have no expectations. They are facing one of the league's best in the Hope Flying Dutch. With competition like that, the Belles aren't quite sure what to expect. 
"Hope is such a strong team, I'm not certain where they're going to put some of their swim­mers," BeHes coach Greg Petcoff said. "And with this being our first dual meet, my not knowing what [my swimmers] will be up against, I have to admit that this weekend I'm not going in with certain expecta­tions in certain events." 
But that won't stop Saint Mary's from staying focused. Last season, the Flying Dutch 
finished in a close second place in the league championship meet, falling only to nationally ranked Calvin. They had first­place finishers in 10 events. 
The Belles finished last season with a different ending. They showed improvement from the 2000-2001 season, finishing higher than last for the first time in team history and placing sev­eral swimmers in the top three in events. But they won't claim to have the same kind of team that Hope does. 
"As a team, we're still not at the Hope level," Petcoff said. "Hopefully that's a compliment to them." 
But that underdog status has been key to the Belles' success in years past. Their first meet this season was more of a suc­cess than they had dreamed of. They raced against seven Division I schools at the Notre Dame relays and managed to eke out a couple of top finishes 

Saturdav Scooter Sen~ 
FnJI .2002 


/1, difhMtmt game pli1J1 
lrcm the· Cdlege ot M9 and Lelters 

~::~LHl "The Israeli-Palestinian 
. ;:ti 1 Conflict'' with Alan Dowty 
1

· Professor of Political Science Fellow, Joan B. Kroc Institute for 
· International Peace Studies 11 a.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Join us for the final Saturday Scholar presentation: 
Nov. 23, 1o· a.m. -"Art and the Religious Imagination" with Meredith Gill, Assistant Professor of Art, Art History and Design and a historian of the Italian Renaissance. 
Further information on Saturday Scholars is at http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
-including a second place in the free-style relay. Couple the underdog status with the first conference meet of the season and there's enough to keep Saint Mary's focused on the task at hand. 
''With it being a conference opponent, that's the first thing that excites them," Petcoff said. "Absolutely they'll be geared up to swim.... We will show Hope a lot of respect, but we' 11 go after them in every event. (The swimmers] want a challenge." 
But Hope's line-up is still not set in stone. So Petcoff and the rest of his coaching staff are not sure what their team will be fac­ing on Saturday. He has plans to try to match up his best swim­mers with Hope's best swim­mers, but definite ideas of how his team will do will not arise until the final swimmer leaves the blocks. 
Action gets under way Saturday at Hope at 1 p.m. 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
> //···•·.... 
7 

.-:.;::::>::, · . .:: ·_ :_· : .-. . . -: 
•·.•.·· ..•·...·....·s·.·.•.· .. .•.•..•... .. ··•· ..
·.... •..•·•..·..•..•.·.•.•·•····•.• ...•.•.·.· ..·.·.•·..·.•·..··.·•·.··.·.·.•.·•.·.·.·.·.·.•·.···.•.p••.•. ).•·.·..•••.··.··••·.•·.•·.••··o?......·..·•r>··•t·.········.s··.····. 
.····••1·/·.·.. ', ··•·3··. .
-. ··4··•.·.···.·...·5·····.··4·•···· · 

..... . ' .
>/ 
.,_, -·.·.· .:. / . .. ?. V.. ••·•· ···. ··•. ·.... 


CeltJbrating the food, drink, music, i dance ofthe Seven CelticNalionj 
Full-service menu &bar for lunch & dinner Live entertainment Friday & Saturday nights Friday, November 1,,, Purest Green & Kennedy's Kitchen Saturday, November Z... Kat & the Fiddle 
tZlNorth Main Street (US Bus 31) • South Bend, Indiana 46601 (574) 232-2853 

'l>tudent, f atul-11# .'filaff and fami\1 
• 'T~nni& l-\ini, 
Tuesday, November 12 
5:30 PM -7:00 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Z?-3/~Stroke Analysis & Playing Situations 
Presented By: Men's &Women's Varsity Tennis Teams 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet ennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed pen to All Notre Dame Students, Faculty, Staff 
and their families. 
Fi~~leu•s Heaufb 
A puopen fomffN-frdenblN Public Hoose In 'the bean't Of bor.on~nSouth Benl> 


page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 1, 2002 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

There's no place like home for the Irish 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Everybody talks about the advantage a home team has in football. basketball and even hockey. But here at Notre Dame, the team with the biggest home advantage might surprise a few people -the Irish volleyball team. 
In its final home games of the season, Big East leader Notre Dame (18-5, 8-0 in the Big East) hosts Providence (2-23, 0-7) today and Boston College (12-13, 2-5) Sunday looking to extend its impressive home winning streaks. 
Since joining the Big East in 1995, Notre Dame has never lost a home conference match, a span of 47 matches. Overall at home, the Irish are currently on a school record 33-match win­ning streak. 
Attribute the streaks to good home cooking. 
"I think there is a lot to do with [the home streaks]," Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown said. "We are in a familiar environ­ment, have a pretty good routine and are more comfortable. We sleep better in our own beds and have no fatigue from traveling." 
While Notre Dame doesn't average the 7,000 screaming fans recent opponent Hawaii draws every night, just playing in front of the home crowd is enough for the players. 
"I don't know if there is a dif­ference in comfort, but it is nice to have home matches, having the fans and cheerleaders sup­port you," middle blocker Lauren Kelbley said. 

"We don't have an intimidat­ing atmosphere here, so I don't think non-Big East teams are intimidated," Brown said. 
While Big East teams experi­ence the dominance of the Irish in conference play every year, non-conference opponents don't know about the Irish rarely los­ing at home, until they experi­ence it first hand. 
"I don't know if that is com­mon knowledge when they (our opponents) come in," Brown said. "For Big East teams, they probably realize it a little bit, and they would definitely prefer to play at their place than here. Teams out of conference, it real­



ly doesn't matter." With the current 33-game home winning streak, highlight­?>.... 
.,.,~i:t:7t

ed by a win over No. 10 
'!,. ~' 

Pepperdine in September, the \., ~... ·.!""/ Irish must be on the top of their ,! game every time they step on the court. 
"They (opponents) have to play 
Mixed-Race Health Issues
their best game of the year and usually come in really pumped," Kelbley said. "We know that 
Date: November 6th
every team that comes is going to be pumped and ready to play 
Time: 5:30 p.m.
Notre Dame." The Irish also have two 
Place: CSC Classroom 
impressive streaks in conference action. Including regular season 
R.S.V.P. 1-6841 by November 4th and postseason matches, the 
Irish haven't lost since the 1999 Big East Tournament Championship ·-a stretch of 33 matches. Counting only regular season matches, the Irish have won 40 straight. 
To extend all of their streaks this weekend against the Friars and Golden Eagles, the Irish have to worry about not beating themselves. 
"I think with both of these games, we have to concentrate on our side of the net," Brown said. "We just have to execute the basics and not worry about our opponent. In order for either of our opponents to win, they realize we have to have an off night." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Sportswear
largest selectiog at 
Sminute~~ 
fr_01n CUTPCJST 
Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
CARDINAL CHARTERS 
· IF QUALITY COUNTS... eame 6le ~1 
Interrace 
November's Topic: 

MAYBE YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT US. 
USDA "Prime" Steaks 
Dry Aged & Cut to Order. 
Exquisite Fresh Fish and Seafood. Wine Spectator Awars ofExcellence. Live Entertainment. Reservations too! 
We're Eastern Pacific Grille and Bar. Featuring the Fusion Cuisine ofChefSean Garrett and his staff. 
Private Dining Rooms Available. 
... 

FRIDAY: uLIJTLE FRANK AND THE IMPERIALS" -Friday Night SATURDAY: "E2 ED \VRIGHT" -Saturday Night. 

EASTERN PACIRC CBIW DD BAB-501 NORTH NILES AVENUE -SOUTH BEND, IN 46&n-574-233-1300 
•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competnive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 


DIAL TOLL FREE 
1·800-348•7487 
www.cardinalbuses.com 

-

page 27

Friday, November 1, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
shut down a Boston College team. offense that has scored 5.2 goals With a victory against the
Ice 
a game in its five victories this Eagles, the up-and-coming Irish continued from page 32 year. The Eagles are led offen­would prove themselves a con­
sively by freshman Patrick tender in the collegiate hockey Dame in recent years, the Irish Eaves, who has six goals and world. may have one of their best five assists on the season. Just ''At seven o'clock tomorrow chances this season to grab a behind him with 10 points on night, there's no more ques­victory. The Irish returned 12 of the year, including eight assists, tions, they just drop the puck their top 13 scorers from a is sophomore Ryan Shannon. and play," Poulin said. 2000-2001 squad that won Notre Dame is led offensively Face-off will be tonight at 7 in 
seven of its last nine games and by junior right wing Rob Globke, the Joyce Center. advanced to the CCHA Super who has six goals and three Six. assists in the team's six games. 
If the Irish are to be success­The Irish are averaging 3. 7 Contact Chris Federico at ful, however. they will need to goals a game this season as a cfederic@nd.edu 
".·-::_.:'Wt!.,:::',·.--.-,: , . 
t!
.~a;; _.,_:~ 
~'­
ij' . . 
/A\o • 

UJ. When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 8, 2002. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2003) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information contact Mrs. Lisa Tranberg {_631-6676). 
Explore the role of quality teaching and the future of higher education 
with 

Lee Shulman 
President Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching 
7:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 7 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Shulman's address is open to the campus community. 
Sponsored by The Provost's Office, First Year of Studies, the Kaneb Center, the Graduate School, University Libraries, the Institute for Educational Initiatives and the colleges and schools of the University. 

CHIP MARKS/fhe Observer 

Irish right wing Michael Chin moves for the puck In a game earlier this year. The Irish host No. 3 Boston College tonight. 

1

11i:t,,....... 
. . ·•'.•:•:-. 
. . ·... ..zawondtjj t~ tl.Jice.ns~Q..ma{itei.·?must. . . ·..J/ ... · :Her' e.xxper.dsti ~cludes._irlimgefcats~. :..... ,){F 
::f~~~~~::~l~llj!!!(l~lilitI1i:oij!!~~m$::::: ::ii?J:;:::i:::it 
TEST YOUR WJTS111 University of notre D&me's 
COLLfGf BOWL 
Compelilion lnforma•ion College Bowl ls l question ud Answer game behveen 2 tums of 4. The questions. cover aJI subjecb (simllu to lrlri,IPursul/J. 
First Round: Mondays, nov. 116 18 6pm-12mid noire Dame lloom, 2nd floor Lafortune 
R.eC3lsha.llon Deadline, Thursday, november 7, 5:00pm Cost: fR.ff!I fR.ffH FR.ff!! fR.ffH 
Prizes: W1nnlr.9 Tn111 Will coa,pete lCJllnsl other schools lro1n llllnols a lndlu, ,t the Region I fr,1&! held Infebruuy here on cuipus. Winning Teut Q bnner Up Tn11r nu,es placed on l perHnent plaque displ,,rd In Lafortune Studenl Center. 
lte9isler a.t lhe La.forlune l1for111a.iion Desk, Ma.in Lounge, L~forlune. 
for 11ore delalls.. call 631-8128 or e11all fulcher.4@nd.edu. Spons.ored b1 the Slud,rnt Ad1v1l1es Office. Space Is limited, so slqn up as soon as possible! 
-----------------------------------------. 
Friday, November 1, 2002
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Carroll savors senior season leadership role 
• Irish open season tonight in exhibition matchup with the Illinois All-Stars 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Matt Carroll has been look­ing forward to this season for a long time. 
He's a senior, and will be counted on to lead a relatively young Irish basketball squad. He's a sharpshooter, and wants teams to build their defenses around shutting him down. And with Notre Dame's big men being relatively inex­perienced, he knows that he's going to be called on to shoot the ball quite a bit. 
"And I don't mind that at all," Carroll laughed. 
Carroll's season begins tonight, as the Irish face the Illinois All-Stars in the first of two exhibition games tonight at 9 p.m. And it's going to be a good change, Carroll said, to finally be playing basketball against someone other than his teammates. 
"You're playing against the same guys all summer and all preseason, and we're ready to take on a new opponent," Carroll said. "You get tired of beating up each other in the summer." 

Ironically, Carroll was the one organizing the summer beat-up sessions, more com­monly known as unofficial team scrimmages. NCM rules prohibit coaching staffs from actively working with their players during summer work­outs. 
So the responsibility fell on Carroll's shoulders to rally his teammates to head over to the gym. day after day. 
"Matt Carroll did a great job with the guys this summer," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "Usually it's a tough time for a coach, because you have to leave your team to go recruit­ing, and you don't know what's going on. But Matt did a great job getting the guys together." 
It's a leadership role Carroll is anxious to step into. He noticed how upperclassmen like Jimmy Dillon, Martin Ingelsby and Troy Murphy helped him when he was adjusting to the college game, and helped Ryan Humphrey, Harold Swanagan and David Graves lead the Irish last sea­son. 
It seemed like a no-brainer for Brey to name Carroll a cap­tain this year -fell ow seniors Dan Miller and Jere Macura are the other two captains ­yet the title doesn't mean as much to Carroll as the respect he gets from his teammates. 
"You look at Troy Murphy (now in the NBA}, and he was the type of guy that would stay back in the gym and stay and shoot for an hour every single night. I've tried to come back and shoot every single night too," Carroll said. "If the team sees you working hard, it sets the tone for the team." 
When the Irish begin regu­lar-season play, Carroll knows he has a target on his back. In the past, Notre Dame's perime­ter shooters played a support­ing role while the focus was getting the ball to the Irish big men. But the inexperience along the Irish front line means Carroll will have to help shoot the Irish to victory. 
Opponent will notice, too, especially since Carroll fin­ished last year averaging 14 points a game and shooting 46 percent from the field. He ended last season one of the hottest players in the country, averaging 20 points a game in four Big East and NCAA Tournament games. 
..There was nobody playing better on our basketball team," Brey said. "When it came to tourney play, he was on a roll. But the one thing I talked to him about is picking it up." 
In Carroll, Brey has a captain he loves and a shooter who makes him cringe. Throughout the summer, Carroll worked on passing the ball inside to get the inexperi­enced Irish big men comfort­able playing with the veteran perimeter players. Brey, on the 

Former Irish forward Ryan Humphrey goes up for the ball as senior Matt Carroll looks on against Army last season. 
other hand, would rather see he's going to do. Carroll pull up and launch 'Tm sure I'll make the best from downtown. decision· in the game," he 
"I wanted to instill some con­laughs. fidence, I know when I got He didn't say what that deci­here it was tough," Carroll sion would be, but he didn't said. "You feel pressure, and I have to. wanted to give them the ball Carroll can't wait to come and show its not as big a jump out shooting. He's waited a [from high school to college] as long time. they think it is." 
But when the season begins, Contact Andrew Soukup at Carroll knows exactly what asoukup@nd.edu 


Friday, November 1, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
MENS SOCCER 
Irish battle Hokies for home field 
By BRYAN KRONK Assiscant Sports Editor 
The formula doesn't get much easier for the No. 16 Notre Dame mens soccer team head­ing into the postseason. 
A win tonight against Virginia Tech, in the Big East regular season finale for the Irish, clinches a home game in the quarterfinal round of the Big East tournament, slated to begin next weekend. 
A loss eliminates the possibil­ity of a home game in the first round, before the tournament moves to the semifinal rounds in New Jersey on Nov. 15. 
The Irish (5-3-1 in the Big East) currently stand in fourth in the conference with 16 points, one ahead of Virginia Tech, who stands at 5-4 in the Big East with one conference game remaining. 
The Irish enter tonight's match with a 9-4-3 overall record, having won five of their last six games, but are coming off a heartbreaking 3-2 loss at Georgetown Saturday. The three goals allowed by the Irish 

Irish Football, Basketball & other Sports news, information & licensed merchandise 
Register for a free email address at notredamesports.com; your name@notredamesports.com. 
Win Coach Ty's sideline hat by playing our weekly contest. Check the site for details. Good luck and Go Irish! 
This organization is not affiliated with the University. 
. ID 
IOI 
. ID 
were the most allowed in any game this season. 
The Hokies enter tonight's game coming off a 2-0 loss at Connecticut Wednesday. Like the Irish, the Hokies had won five consecutive matches before their last loss. The Hokies stand at 10-6-1 overall. 
Ken Jonmaire and Bobby O'Brien lead the Hokies with 22 points and 16 points respec­tively. Jonmaire's 22 points are second in the· Big East, while O'Brien's 16 are good enough for a tie for seventh. 
Offensively for the Irish, mid­fielder Chad Riley (four goals, nine assists} and forward Erich Braun (seven goals, three assists) each have 17 points on the season, good for fifth in the Big East in points. 
After tonight's crucial match, the Irish return to Alumni Field Sunday for a non-conference regular season finale against hard-luck Loyola-Chicago. After winning their first three games of the season, the Ramblers have lost their last 13 games, including eight one-goal losses. 
That game kicks off at 2 p.m. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
PataQonia
excltisively
at . • 
Sminute~.A 
from DUTPOIIT Camnus s ors 
r Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
The Center for Etltics and Religious Values in Business and The Institute/or Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series Ms. Kay Wigton Director of Shared Values for Baxter International 

"Baxter's Story-Taking Corporate Culture from Concept to Reality" 
Tuesday, November 5, 2002 
7:00 p.m. 

Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles looking for one last chance 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles will have one final 
chance to show the MlAA that 
they can compete. 
Saint Mary's will be running in the MIAA Championship Saturday with the hopes of improving on their finish in the MIAA Jamboree earlier this season. 
"We missed out on sixth 
place by a point [at the 
Jamboree]." coach Dave 
Barstis said. "If everyone runs 
like I know they can, I think 
fifth place is possible." 
The Belles finished in last place at the MIAA Jamboree, which they hosted on Sept. 28. They finished with 176 points, one point behind Adrian, but didn't have any top-25 finish­ers. 
On Saturday. the Belles will be looking forward to good fin­ishes from junior captain Jackie Bauters and Laura Ficker. 
During the Jamboree meet, the Belles were plagued with some injuries that affected the team score. But on Saturday, they will be running with a healthy team and looking for improvement. 
"Everyone is healthy this time around so I'm expecting a lot more," Barstis said. 
. 
Adrian is certainly within Saint Mary's reach, but Barstis is also looking ahead to some stiffer competition. According to the Belles head coach, Saint Mary's may be able to catch Alma, who finished 60 points ahead of Saint Mary's. 
Alma will be hosting the meet and, although the entire Saint Mary's team has not run the course before, a majority of the team has. 
"We've run this course before, although not the cur­rent team," Barstis said. "It is relatively flat so the times should be fast." 
But if Saint Mary's has better times, so will its competition. The Belles will also be facing some new weather conditions. 
When they began the season, the Belles racing in very hot weather, on Saturday the tem­perature could be in the 40s. However, Barstis does not expect that to drastically affect his team's performance. 
"The weather will be cold but it won't affect us any more than the other teams," Barsits said. "Everyone has to deal with it. 
Action gets under way at 11 
a.m. at Alma. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 


"·~ ·-.--~~V-~IE~ 
-' 
page 30 
Womens 
continued from page 32 
The Irish will have to pry the championship from the grips of defending champion Georgetown, who is currently ranked fifth nationally. Additionally, Notre Dame has to keep its eye out for No. 14 Providence. No. 22 

Villanova "Now we have a chance if and No. 30 we go in and compete as 
Boston 

well as we can. We,re
College. 

Connelly is going to be in the hunt... confident in his runners 
Tim Connelly
despite a 

Irish coach
race-prohibi­
tive injury to one of the team's key assets, sophomore Megan Johnson. 
"Things look pretty good," Connelly said. "We have more talented kids, and the kids that we have, have improved year after year. We've gotten a little bit better every year." 
This season's performances, 
Mens 
continued from page 32 
on Notre Dame squad is hope­ful about today's race, in which they will contend with some of the nation's best tal­ent, including No. 13 Georgetown, No. 16 Villanova and No. 17 Providence. The Hoyas are coming off a strong second place showing at the competitive Great American Cross Country Festival in North Carolina, while the Wildcats have a strong lineup that has been ranked nation­ally every week this season. 
"There's always four really good [teams}. one or two that are okay, and then it falls off pretty quick, so we never want to be outside of the top four," Mobley said. "We're hoping that if everyone runs well, we'll be able to click off one of the top three teams." 
While this race will not be crucial in the team's quest for the NCAAs, it could potentially play a role in helping elevate them to the nation's champi­onship meet. 
"[The Big East Championships] could be 

including a fourth place finish at the Pre-Nationals two weeks ago, have given the Irish the experience and mental attitude they need to take their compe­tition to the next level -the level of championship racing. 
"We've been a team that's been good, but hasn't been in the position that we have a realistic shot at winning it," Connelly said. "Now we have a 
chance if we go in and com­pete as well as we can. We're going to be in the hunt." 
The Big East title race will be run as a 6 kilometer for the second consecutive year. instead 
of the normal 5K length that is common for collegiate womens cross country. The Irish ran their first 6K of the season two weeks ago, and according to Connelly, they were somewhat reserved in their strategy in an effort not to over-extend them­selves. Today he expects his 
important," Mobley said. "If we pick off one of those top teams, it will increase our chances of getting an at-large bid." 
Besides the Big East, the Irish have other concerns on their minds. 
"The main focus right now is for the district meet two weeks a way," Mobley said. "Anything we get out of this week is more or less a bonus. We just really have to focus for the district meet and really put it together on that day." 
Last season at the Big East Championship, the then-fifth ranked Irish also had some injury trouble, but were led by then-senior and current Notre Dame graduate student I.:uke Watson, the Irish were able to edge out Villanova by three points for the victory at Van Cortland Park. 
Senior All-American Ryan Shay was beleaguered by a sore Achilles tendon, but still was able to help keep Notre Dame's score low. Additionally. Irish coach Joe Piane was named Big East Coach of the Year. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

The Observer . SPORTS 
runners to be a little less con­shot." s e rvative during the early While it is important for the stages of the race. Irish to score points towards 
"There is not a whole lot of an at-large bid for the national margin for error. We have to championships, which will be go in and compete and com• held in Terre Haute, Ind., pete better than we've compet­being able to win a Big East ed all year," Connelly said. "If title would signify the improve­we can do that, we've got a ments that are occurring in the 

Dollars for Innovative and Creative 
Entertainment 
Attentions Student Leaders! Appl}' to receive up to $2000.00 for campus events on Thursday, Friday or Saturday nights through the DICE Program. 
• 
The DICE program offers funding for student groups to plan late night and weekend programs for the entire campus. 

• 
Groups can receive up to $2000.00 for each approved event. 

• 
Events are limited only by your imagination. 

• 
Applications and DICE guidelines are available online at www.ndedu/'"sao/dice and outside the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. 


Applications are due November L 2002 
If you have any questions please contact Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631·7308. 


525 N. Eddy Street 
South Bend. IN . 6617 
(574) 251-9960 CARRY OUT ONLY!! 

Mastercard & Visa Accepted Store Hours: Sunday 2:30 p.m-7:30 p.m. tvtonday -Thur\da) 11 :00 a.m. -8:30 p.m • Friday & Saturday 11 :00 a.m.-12:30 a.m. 
BarbeCue Chicken Fish 
Mini Tip......................S7.95 
Hot Win~s 
BuU:alo
Tip Dinner ..................... S9.95 
1.:lpcs...............................S.5.50 3p,·~Snack-S4.50
l/2 Slab Rib....... ............. S9.50 
24 pi:s............................. SI 1.00 5pi:~Dinner-S6.75
Full Slab Rib ................... S19.50 
36 pcs. . .... ......... . ........... S16.50 Per lb. Cooked-S3.50 !4-5 pc~.]
l/4 Pan Tips .................... S30.00 
Raw-S:2.50
1/2 Pan Tips ...................... S60.00 
Ree. Wi~
Full Pan Tips ................ $90.00 5pcs. Snack ................. ...S5.15 Catfish 7 pcs. Dinner ................... $6.75 3pc-Snack-S5.50 Perlb.cooked ...S-l.50 (8-!0pcs.] 5pc-Dinner-S7.75 Per lb. Cooked-S-U0 (4-:'i p.:,.j Raw-S3.50
Dinners 


COD
31xs. T-Loin Dinner .......... S7.75 
Bluegill 3pi:-Snack-S6.75
3 pc\. Chicken Dinner .....S6.50 
5pc-Dinner-S8.75
Ipc-Snad,-56.50
2 p,·,. Pork Chop Dinner ..S6.50 
Per lb Cooked~S6.00 [4-5 pc,.] 
.~p,·-Dinner-S8.75
2 p,s. Sau~age Dinner ........ S5.50 
Raw-55.00
Per lb. Cooh·d-S6.50 [.:-3pcs.] Raw-S5.50 
Super Size Orders $4.50 • Reg. Orders-$2.25 Corn on the Cob• Fries• Greens• Jalapeno Poppers Macaroni & Cheese • Mushrooms • Okra Slaw • Spaghetti and Yams 
Drinks-$1.25 • 2pc-Fish Sandwich $3.00 Fish Per Piece Cooked 
Bluegill 9p,·-SI1.75 I2p,-S 16.50  Buffalo 9pc-S8.00 I2pc-S I 0.00  Catfish, Whiting 9pc-9.00 l 2pc-S l 1.00  Perch 9pc-SJO.00 l:!pc-11.00  
$1  

Offer Good Sunday -Wednesdav OnJv 
"' w
OFF 


Friday, >lovember 1, 2002 
program. 

"It's very important," Connelly said. "It's a confer­ence championship. It's a pride thing." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
J11mbo Shrimp 

16 pcs .Shrimp & Fnes-S I n.50 8 pcs. Shrimp & Fries~S8.50 I ix·. Shrimp on a Stick-S 1.:iO 
Lake Perch 
Jpc-Snack-S8.25 5pc-Dinner-S I O ..::i P~r lb. Cooked-S7.7:i Rm,,-S6.75 
Ocean Perch 

Jp.:-Snai:k-S6.50 :'ipc:-Dinner-S8.75 Per lb Cooked-S5.50 -l-'i pcs. Raw-S-U0 
Smelt 
1/2 lb.-Snack-S:i.50 I ll1.~Dinner~S7.7:'I Per It>. Cooki:ll-S:'-50 Raw-S,U0 
H,alJeye 
3pr-Snad,-S9 75 :'ipc-Dinner~SI 1.50 Per It>. Cu..)ko:d-59 . .:'i Ra\l -Sii.25 
Whiting 

Jp,·-Snad..-S5.50 :'ip,-Dinncr-S7.75 Po:r It>. Cooked-S4 50 -l•:'i pi:,. Raw-S3.50 
$1 OFF 



Friday, November 1, 2002 page 31
The Observer . TODAY ­
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 
MY MOlt\€.R JUST CALLEDt ~ 1t\ATONL'f q\\JES 
MV WfiOLE fAMllY I S 1WE:NT)' 
COMIN~ FOR THE. ORS'TIU­
."­
p ,_ 
~ ~­
(... 
,­

HAPPY TOWN 



HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
TESED 

j 
C2002 Tri>une Media Setvicee. Inc. Al Righ1a Reserved. 
YUINT 
j
I r~x~L.........J' 
IRAMMOT 


WHEN IT CAME TO MARRIAGE, THf: -­
(IJ 
BAC.HE:LOR WAS 
www.jumble.oom 
THIS.
t
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' I Jumbles: BASSO HONOR SPEEDY CAUCUS s Answer: The comedians turned the poker parlor into this -A HOUSE OF "CARDS" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To order, send your name, addreH and $5.flS and make check pay ¦ bl¦ lo Tribune Medi¦ Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Marcia Wallace, Lyle Lovett, James J. Kilpatrick 
Happy Birthday: You may be channing but your aggressive behavior will lead to problems. This will be a year of change and one that will require diplomacy. Stick with individuals who share the same beliefs and lifestyle that you do. The less complicated you make your life, the better. This can be a progressive year if you don t cloud issues unnecessarily. Your numbers are 5, 19, 26, 32, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): u will be able to work well with colleagues today. Don't let someone take full credit for a group effort. Everyone should receive appreciation for their participation. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): is is a great day to start a new health regimen. You can make personal changes that will enhance your appearance and bring about greater social activities. It's time to create a new you. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can do well where property investments are concerned, however, someone you live with may not be thrilled with your decisions. Follow your intuition. Don't worry about others' opinions. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Visit friends or relatives if at all possible. You can make special plans for a quiet evening with the one you love. Passion is strong and you need the attention badly. Your relationship will benefit. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make all the right moves when it comes to work-related matters. Don't let jealous co-workers lead you astray or twist your 
words. Keep to yourself and concentrate on the matters at hand. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be emotional regarding an issue that you strongly believe in. Don't say things you'll regret later. Try to be diplomatic. You must not be too critical of those you love. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): ): Emotional upset due to secret activities will be most disconcerting. Try not to $el too emotionally overwrought. It's important to be detached so that you can thmk clearly.***SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will get sincere opinions from those who appreciate your talents. It is time to make suggestions to groups you are involved with. Your ideas are perfectly in sync with the goals of the 
organization. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have to take care of pressing matters at home. This is no time to be a hero. Don't hesitate to ask for professional help. Additional assistance will allow you to deal with the 
important issues. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your perception is keen and you could be 
......
instrumental in turning things around. You may find that help will be offered without asking. Secret talks will bring favorable results. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Chronic health problems may cause you to miss something important. This is a hint for you to take better care of yourself. You have to relax more in order to recuperate properly. Don't be afraid to 
take chances. *** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Partnerships with creative people will lead to financial gains. You can offer your mate a commitment or promise that will help stabilize your personal life. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be determined, loving and willing to go the extra mile. You will always take advantage of any opportunity that comes your way. You will have great insight into what you should do, and your penguin will live forever. Welcome back, MPG. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 "The 56 16-Across Arraignment of offerers
1 Chain founded Paris" dramatist 
by the Raffel 59 Using a fake ID, Brothers (hence 32 Army negative perhaps the name) 
34 "Aha!" 60 Doctrine 6 Web surfers' developer
36 No ritzyannoyances 61 Transmittedneighborhoods14 Bordeaux 62 Comparatively37 Stripped and product quickstained, maybe 

15 Done, to a cinematographer 39 Hardly hale-looking DOWN 
16 87, say 40 Stage org. 1 Coeurd'_
18 Carousing 2 Indian melodies 41 Augustine's "De 19 Ibsen's Gabler 
civitate " 3 Trattoria 20 PC key 
appetizer42 Way to go:21 Cutworm, 
Abbr. 4 Pound sound eventually 43 Market index, 5 Big name 
24 Electronic briefly 6 Easy marks 
narcotic in Shatner novels 44 account 7 Actress Munson of "Gone With 
25 Cry to a plow 46 Early 70's White the Wind" 
horse House name 8 Sports stat. 
28 PAC whose 49 Screened members pack? letters? 9 Goof follower 
Puule by Kevin Hagen 
29 Something 52 1999 "Star 1 O Edson Arant es 30 They're 38 "Out of Africa" 53 Dylan's "_ that's spun Wars" release do Nascimento, extraordinary author Lonesome familiarly Hobo" 31 Like 1990's 45 Go with, with
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Pucker producer 
NATO "for" 54 Market order 12 Bitter salad expansion 
47 Like lots 55 Final ending, in
base 33 Digs in a tree England
48 Kind of horn 
13 They're often heard during 34 Changes for the 50 Lithographer of 57 No gentleman hoops games better Americana 
58 It may get a 

14 _-Magnan 
35 Romeo or Juliet 51 Old money boost 17 Sleep clinic study 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 22 It has several phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. functions 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 23 "Very funny" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
26 Further 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 27 Nut 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, 29 Direct nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


-----------------------~-------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


Chasing down the title 
The Irish compete in the Big East Championships in Boston today 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 

Throughout the past decade, the Notre Dame mens cross country team has had a lot of success when it comes to the Big East Championship, but the womens squad has yet to earn a title or finish as the runner-up. 
That status could change today as the No. 8 Notre Dame womens cross country team travels to Franklin Park in Boston to vie for its first Big East title. 
The Irish have been running strong throughout this season, aided by talented freshman Molly Huddle and led by veter­ans such as All-American Lauren King. 
Part of the difficulty for the Irish in years past has been a result of the number of nation­al cross country powers in the Big East. The positive side of this high competition level, for the teams that perform well, is they can earn points towards winning at-large bids to the national championships. 
"If you look year after year at the Big East mens and wom­ens cross country, it's one of the best conferences in the country," Irish coach Tim Connelly said. "Last year, we had five teams in the top 25 out of the Big East, so [today's race] is important." 
see WOMENS/page 30 



By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Over the past six years, the Notre Dame mens cross coun­try team has come away with the team title in three Big East Championships. 
All three of those victories have come in the Bronx, N.Y., at Van Cortland Park. 
The three losses mingled with these victories have been in years when the race is held at Franklin Park in Boston. 
Today, the Big East Championships will be held at that same Franklin Park, and the unranked Irish are aspir­ing to finish in the top four. They know an odds-defying win will not come easily, par­ticularly because Todd Mobley, the team's captain, top runner and an All­American, will not be running due to a stress fracture. 
Because of this hole in their lineup, the Irish will need every member of their top seven squad to step up against the higher level of competition. 
"We can't afford for anyone to have an off day," Mobley said. 
The Irish are corning off an 11th-place finish at the Pre­National meet in Terre Haute, Ind., -a showing with which they were not pleased. 
Still, the defending champi­
see MENS/page 30 
HOCKEY 

Irish looking to ground high-flying Eagles 
played," Irish coach Dave Poulin USAToday/American Hockey teams are members of the Big last 12 matchups against theBy CHRIS FEDERICO 
said. "It's a huge event when it's Magazine Poll. East for most varsity sports, but Irish. 
Spores Editor 

at B.C., and it's a huge event "We're No. 17 in the country the conference does not sponsor "There's so much energy and when it's at Notre Dame. in the hockey -the so much passion between these This weekend. the upstart, There's tremendous excite­USAToday two teams have two schools," Poulin said. "I underdog Irish have a chance to ment." poll, and "Jt,s a great mark for us. managed in lived in Boston for four years
knock off the undefeated, third­

The Eagles enter tonight's they are There is no question this recent years to when I played for the Bruins ranked Boston College Eagles. matchup undefeated and ranked ranked No. build a solid and lived a mile and a half from 
is a great challenge.,, 
No, it's right. Keep reading. in the top five in the three major 3, so you rivalry, compet­Chestnut Hill, so I know the 
The Notre Dame hockey team, collegiate hockey polls. Notre have two top ing on the same school well enough. We're in a off to a solid start at 3-2-1 and Dame, meanwhile has had a 20 teams Dave Poulin weekend the lot of the same recruiting bat­in the national rankings for the more modest, but still solid start playing," school's football tles. We cross paths many times 
Irish coach
first time since the 1998-99 sea­

to its season. The Irish began Poulin said. teams play each -the players do, the coaches son at 17th, hosts 5-0-0 Boston play 3-0-1, including a pair of "It's a great other. do. It's a wonderful, wonderful 
College tonight in the Joyce 

conference victories over west­mark for us. There is no ques­Overall, the Eagles hold a 14-rivalry."
Center. 

ern Michigan before dropping tion this is a great challenge." 7-1 advantage in the series,. but While the Eagles have seen 
"Every time we play them it 

two CCHA games to Ferris State Even though Boston CoJlege the results have tilted to their the most success against Notre always precedes the football last weekend. The Irish are cur­and Notre Dame do not compete favor in recent years as Boston game in whatever city it's being rently ranked 17th in the in the same conference -both College has gone 10-1-1 in the see ICE/page 27 
en 
MENS SOCCER 
SMC X-COUNTRY 
MENS BASKETBALL 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
SMC SWIMMING 
FOOTBALL 
II.I 
MIAA 

Illinois All-Stars 
Providence at 
Saint Mary's at 
Boston College at
1-u Virf.inia Tech at 
No re Dame 

Championships 
at Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
Hope 
Notre Dame 
a:! 

Today, 9 p.m.
Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, 11 a.m. 
Saturday, 2:30 p.m.
Today, 4 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
The Irish begin their
The Irish and Hokies 
Runners hope to end 
The Irish try to stay
The Irish hope to clinch 
The Belles compete in 
0: 

the season with a strong 
season with this first of
battle for home field in 
undefeated by knocking 
a spot in the Big East 
their first dual meet 
finish. 

two exhibitions. 
the Big East playoffs. 
off the Eagles. 

Tourney this weekend. 
with Hope College.
a. !;

en 
page 29 
page 29 
page 28 

Irish Insider
page 26 
page 24 




f
,I 
.... ,\ jf!?} 
'" ,_~-..~_...... • .. ,t •~"'. ,Jr...,,.;JJ 
... ·:_ j 

v~;--~:~;r;. ~;. ~---"~~-,"·-;;~~ 
. ..,. . . "" ---­
. I ' 
• J ' , J ' I 
I • • 
I ' i ' 9 
' ' ' ' 

' ' 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 1, 2002 
Distractions abound this week 
Twenty-three questions. 
That's how long it took for some brave soul to bring up the topic of Boston College at Tyrone Willing-ham's weekly press conference. 
Before some­one asked Willing-ham to describe Boston College's strengths, the Irish coach had to answer questions about the BCS, about his defensive coaches, about his association with Bill Walsh and about coaching at Rice. 
Heck, someone even asked Willingham what his routine was for watching game tape, and whether the coaches watched the tape in slow motion or off the television feed. 
That's right. Rice and video­tapes came up before Boston College. 


how quickly Notre Dame could win the national championship. Even now, players from that 1993 squad vividly remember what happened. 
Lou Holtz yelled at his players, telling them to stay attentive. Players yelled at themselves, telling each other to stay focused. 
But when game time rolled around, the emotion from the victory over Florida State still hadn't worn off, and the Irish lost 
on a last-second Ifthere ·s one thing the had to watch field goal. Eagle players
Irish don't want to do, it's 
Current Irish wave pieces of
follow in the footsteps of
players some­grass from Notre times compare the 1993 team. Dame Stadium in 
their team to their 1993 prec.wr. cessors. In fact, before last Saturday's victory against Florida State, the play­ers watched the 1993 version of the Notre Dame-Florida State clash. 
And if there's one thing the Irish don't want to do, it's follow in the footsteps of the 1993 team. No place was that more 
apparent than when Irish players walked 
For as much That's right. Rice and back into the talking as the Irish locker room at
videotapes canie up
do about staying Doak Campbell
before Boston College. 
focused on Stadium 
Saturday's game each week, this week, nobody seems to want to talk too much about the game. Distractions abound. 
The last time the Irish played Boston College with an undefeat­ed record on the line, all every­one wanted to talk about was Saturday and 

saw "Beat Boston College" scribbled on the chalkboard. 
But there's a danger -a very real danger -of looking past Notre Dame's next three games. The Irish are heavy favorites against the Eagles, will be heavy favorites against Navy and Rutgers, and have to listen to everybody start talking about the BCS standings. 
Against Boston College, losing focus tends to have a way of coming back and biting the Irish. 
It happened in 1993, when David Gordon shocked the world by nailing a game-winning field goal. 
It happened in 1999, when the 
Irish lost at home 
by two points and 
the air. 

It happened in 
2001, when ques­tions about the future of Bob Davie and a big game against Tennessee loomed over a team that got run over by a future NFL running back. 
Boston College fans love to paint this game as an intense rivalry between the nation's only two Catholic colleges with Division I-A football teams. Notre Dame fans tend to shrug it off by treating this game with indifference, comparing Boston College to a little brother who always thought he was better than he really was. 
Saturday's game is a game the Irish should easily win. So was the 1993 game. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
game hype 

'"We look at [Boston College] as another Florida State. ,, 
"Guys know we have a shot at it, going in and winning a national championship.,, 

Arnaz Battle Irish wide receiver 

"It will be more than just a little challenge playing this football team. ,, 
"Every game is a dogfight. ,, 

Glenn Earl Irish safety 


"May the BlessedMother bless this  "This CD reaches out to ND friends,  "You have much to be proud r?lin this  
work and all who enjoy it."  family, and.fans oj'all ages."  111usical endeavor."  
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C.  Jim O'Connor  Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C.  
Notre Dame President E1neritus  Manager, Ham1nes ND Bookstore  Vice President for Student Affairs  
A NOTRE DAME  
"I am an NIJ parent and have just  
"This one should be a big hit  returnedfron1 seeing my two sons  
with the ND crowd during the  get settled/hr another year. I  
upcon1ingfootball season!"  believe that you have truly cap­ 
tured the Spirit <~f'()ur Lady's  
Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C.  University. Thanks!"  
Executive Vice President  -The H uebners  
Emeritus  
Winston-Salem, NC  
ND Parents  

Exclusively available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Titn & Ryan O'Neill (ND '94 & '97) have sold over 700,000 copies oftheir relaxing piano music. Their music has been featured on HBO's, Sex & the City, and they recently perfonned for George Bush. 
To find out 1nore about their 15 CD's available and future perfonnances, visit: 
www.pianobrothers.com 
I

-------------------------------------------------------------.J 
.. 


' ' 
I ' 

'f ~,
............... 
page 3 
Friday, November 1, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Toughing life out 
Battle has overcome plenty ofadversity in his career, but nothing compared to losing his brother 
started scrambling and got
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

drilled by a Cornhusker defender, 
Sports Writer 

landing on his left wrist. The next day, fans started scrambling for Tough for Arnaz Battle has anatomy books to find out what a nothing to do with a football field. 
navicular was, because that's the Tough isn't starting your col­bone Battle broke. 
lege career working as a backup At first, the coaches couldn't and when you finally start that wait to get Battle back. When for­

first game, play arguably the 

mer Irish head coach Bob Davie 
worst game of your life. 

asked how the Irish reacted to 
Tough isn't entering your 

Battle's injury, Davie responded,
junior season as the starting 

"You mean after we stopped cry­quarterback, only to break your . ?"
mg.
wrist and miss the rest of the sea­But attitudes started to change son and lose your job. 

in a hurry. Battle sat the season Tough isn't trying to switch to out to preserve a year of eligibili­wide receiver, and then breaking ty and watched freshman Matt your leg, leaving you wondering Lovecchio lead the Irish to seven 
whether you made the right 

straight wins and a BCS berth. 
choice and ifyou're ever going to At some point in the season,reach the NFL. 

coaches approached him with the Battle didn't learn about tough­prospect of a position change. 
ness on a football field. He The reason? According to Battle,learned over a decade ago, when 

the coaches told him that 
he was 9 years old and found his Lovecchio would enter the spring three-year-old brother floating as the starter, and if Battle want­face-first, dead, in his grand­ed to find playing time, it would mother's pool. 

probably come at wide receiver. 
"Things could be worse, that's 

So Battle transplanted from 
the way I look at it," said Battle. 

quarterback to receiver, a posi­"The death of somebody so close tion hadn't played since his fresh­to you reminds you that football man year of high school, and had isn't everything." 
to earn playing time behind future NFL draft picks David Football struggles Givens and Javin Hunter. 
The fifth-year senior is used to The playmaking potential seeing headline writers play off coaches raved about never mate­his last name. ''A New Battle rialized. Battle broke his leg mid­Plan", "The Battle Back", way through the season and 
"Battling Back" -Battle's seen missed four games. He only them all, and dozens more. caught five passes all season and 
But he knows the catchy phras­didn't score a touchdown. es aptly describe a football career Throw in a coaching change in teeming with adversity. the winter, a new offense and a 
When he arrived at Notre whole lot of uncertainty, and Dame in 1998, coaches saw him Battle started to think about life as the crown jewel of the recruit­after football. ing class and a player that would "There's a lot of people out emerge as the next great Irish there who have the talent to 
quarterback. make it to the next level, but I 
Yet he was stuck playing think you have to be in certain behind Jarious Jackson and bare­situations," Battle said. "I never ly made it onto the field his fresh­doubted my ability, but I doubted 
man year. The one game he did my opportunity. I didn't know if start, the season finale at USC, he I'd get an opportunity to show estimated he knew only 70 per­what I had." cent of the offense, mostly run­
ning plays, and dismally finished 

Family first 
7-for-19 for only 94 yards pass­If Battle needed inspiration, he ing with two interceptions. 

looked to three places -God, his 
That game haunted him his 

family and his left bicep. 
entire sopho-After his more season, 
b r o t h e r
"/ say things happen for 
a5 he stood on drowned -an 

the sidelines a reason. and the things event too and watched 
that happened to me just painful for 
Jackson inch Battle to
made me a stronger per-
closer and describe in 
closer to son. . . . The good things detail -Battle breaking all 
that happen to me. I've carried around 
kinds of Notre a picture of his
learned to appreciate
Dame passing brother in his 
records even them, because I know wallet. But as the Irish things can be a lot after he kept 
tumbled to a 5-losing his wal­
worse. •• 

6 record. let and the pic­
But Jackson ture, someone graduated, and Arnaz Battle suggested he Battle began get a tattoo.
Irish wide receiver 
his junior year So before he as the undis-came to Notre puted starting quarterback. Dame, Battle had his brother's Finallv, Battle remembered face engraved on his arm -a thinking, he had a chance to constant reminder of how bad show people what he could do. things can get, as Battle is fond of 
On the first play from scrim­saying. mage during Notre Dame's sec­'Tm going through so many ond game of the season, against tough times, and I'm able to top-ranked Nebraska, Battle appreciate my blessings," he said. 
"I can appreciate that things could be worse, and so I'm enjoy­ing this moment. You can be high one time and low the next time, but you just have to appreciate it and live everything to the fullest." 
Much like the family pulled together when Battle's brother drowned, they rallied around Battle as his football career spi­raled out of control. Nearly every day, he talked with either his mother or grandmother. They told him everything would be fine, that things happen for a rea­son. 
What that reason was, Battle still doesn't know. He's grateful to his family for their support, and part of his motivation for reaching the NFL is getting money to give to his family. Apd he knows he's a stronger person because of everything he's endured. 
"The Lord, He tests you to see how strong you'll be, and I believe I've been through a strong test," Battle said. "Things are going to work out for me." 
Breaking out 
Battle admits he felt some trep­idation before the first official team meeting with Tyrone Willingham. He was worried the coach would try to move him around to a different position or worse, not even play him. 
But Willingham and offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick never considered a change. Diedrick didn't want to take the most experienced receiver out of an already-depleted wideout corps and Willingham wanted to give Battle the chance to flourish as a receiver. 

"That was very reassuring. I needed to find a home, and I think I found it," Battle said. "Jumping back and forth was very hard to make that transition, and then having people say you should go back to quarterback, it was tough. But I finally found a home." 
The coaches' confidence in Battle was relatively high, consid­ering the receiver only caught five passes in his career and had never caught a touchdown pass. Yet they called him the team's playmaker, the go-to guy when the Irish needed a clutch recep­tion. 
"He had speed, strength and athletic ability," said Diedrick, reflecting on his pre-season pre­diction. "What else do you want?" 
"If he was able to transfer those skills and that mentality to his position, he would be a young man we could count on," Willingham added. "He has really started to live up to that role." 
It took time, but Battle grew increasingly confident as a receiver. Finally, everything seemed to come full circle when he caught a 60-yard game-win­ning touchdown pass with less than two minutes remaining against Michigan. 
That catch was just the begin­ning. Two weeks later against Pittsburgh, Battle seemingly took over Notre Dame's only extended drive of the day, making a pair of tough catches before hauling in a tough catch in the end zone. He fmished with 10 catches for over 100 yards. 
Then came a 112-yard receiv­ing performance against Air Force and a stunning 65-yard touchdown on Notre Dame's first play from scrimmage against Florida State. 
Go-to guy, indeed. 

"I would have thought I would have been in this situation early in my career, but obviously things didn't work out," Battle said. "I say things happen for a reason, and the things that happened to me just made me a stronger per­son. It helped me realize to not take my blessings for granted. The good things that happen to me, I've learned to appreciate them, because I know things can be a lot worse and go the oppo­site way." 
Then Battle stopped for a sec­ond and paused. 
Even though he had on a long sleeve shirt, he momentarily glanced toward his left arm, at his brother. The message was clear. 
His football career has been tough. But not that tough. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


' 
I , 

( £ ,•-! 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 1, 2002 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 8-0 


EAD T~ 
AP: No. 4 Coaches: No. 6 

Tyrone Willingham 
NOTRE DAME
first season at 
OFFENSE
Notre Dame career record: 


LEFflAGKLE CORNERBACK 
7Hlack &-Lester
85-52-1 

73-leVoir 4-Wllliams 
at Notre Dame: 

LEFT GUARD
!:\ ­

79-Mallan 4•Grant 
67-GilNs 
8-0 

11-Wilson •
Willingham against Boston College: ~:/t;~:BACK__ ,_
43•Powers·Neat 
9-Dillinghan! ·_·
head coach 1-0 

36-lopieMki 

Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. 1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine !LB 6-3 2 Dan Novakov QB 6-1 3 Amaz Battle WR 6-1 4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 6 Carlos Campbell WR 5-11 7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 8 Matt Krueger QB 5-10 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 9 Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 11 Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 12 Chris Olsen QB 6-4 13 NickSetta K/P 5-11 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 15 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 16 Stan Revelle QB 5-11 17 Joey Hildbold 5-10
p 18 Ronnie Rodamer WR 6-4 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick KIP 6-1 20 Gerome Sapp 55 6-0 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-3 23 Chris Yura FB 6-0 25 Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 26 Garron Bible FS 5-10 26 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 27 Lionel Bolen ss 6-0 27 Mike Profeta TB 5-11 28 Cole Laux FB 5-10 29 Quentin Burrell CB 6-0 30 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 31 Jake Camey DB 6-0 

I I 
32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 33 Courtney Walson ILB 6-1 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 35 David Miller K 5-11 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 37 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 38 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 39 Brandon Hoyte !LB 6-0 39 David Brnwnderfer S5 5-11 40 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 41 Mike Gtxilsby LB 6-3 42 Shan,' Walton CB 5-11 43 Rashon Powers-Neal TB 6-2 44 Justin Tuck DE 6-5 46 Corc•y Mays !LB 6-1 47 MikeMcNair FB 6-0 48 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 49 Derek Curry !LB 6-3 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 51 Jamie Ryan OT 6-5 52 Jeff Faine C 6-3 53 John Crowther C 6-2 54 Jason Halverson DL 6-1 55 Zachary Giles C 6-3 56 Pat Ryan !LB 6-3 57 Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 58 Chad DeBolt ILB 6-0 60 Darrell Campb(,11 OT 6-4 61 Charles Hedman LB 6-1 62 Scott Raridon OT 6-7 63 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 64 Casey Dunn OT/OG 6-4 65 Scan Milligan 0G 6-4 66 Derek Landri NG 6-2 67 Ryan Gillis 0G 6-3 68 Ed O'Connell LB 6-3 69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 71 David Kowalski 0G 6-2 71 James Bonelli OG/OT 6-6 72 Ryan Scarola C/OG 6-5 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 74 Dan Stevenson 0G 6-5 75 ChrisFrome DE 6-5 76 Bob Morton C 6-4 77 Greg Pauly OT 6-6 78 Jordan Black OT 6-6 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-3 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 82 Bernard Akatu WR 5-10 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 83 Matt Root TE 6-6 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 86 Brendan Hart TE 6-2 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 87 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6--4 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 91 Jeff Thompson NG/DT 6-4 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 93 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 94 Brian Mattes DE 6-6 95 Ryan RolJ<,rts DE 6-2 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 


Irish experts 

Andrew Soukup assistant managing editor 
NOTRE DAME 2002 Schedule  
Aug. 31 Maryland -W Sept. 7 PURDUE -W Sept. 14 MICHIGAN -W Sept. 21 atMSU -W Oct.5 STANFORD-W ·tij Oct. 12 PITTSBURGH -W Oct. 19 at Air Force -w Oct. 26 at Florida State -W Nov. 2 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 9 at Navy Nov. 23 RUTGERS  

47-McNair 
Wt. YR 

_ MIDDLE228 JR 
~ LINEBACKER 

245 SR 

-j: 40-Ciurtiu 218 SR 
,' 3-Henderson 
213 SR 

RIGHT TACKLE 
63-Curlln
211 so 

70-Molinaro
190 FR 194 so 214 JR 180 JR 188 SR 209 so 199 so 
c__ )
220 FR 177 SR 

OUTSIDE 
LINEBACKER 
36•Ff0f9S 
259 SR 
176 JR 

10-Kiley
182 so 
DEFENSIVE E_ ­
58-Rofff
191 SR 
94-Kiwanuka
206 JR 

Boston College -9-·
·_ 
205 SR 

DEFENSE · 
192 so 
I _--· 
218 SR 205 FR 220 SR 220 FR 197 JR 207 so 195 so 208 so 236 JR 178 so 180 FR 180 FR 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
195 FR 232 SR 194 JR 210 SR 172 SR 245 SR 
179 so 
176 so 
LLI 
226 so 
< ~ 
195 JR 160 FR 243 JR 

Q 185 SR 224 so 
LLI 
a::
238 so 
l­
235 so 

o230 SR 
256 JR 
z
233 JR 290 SR 285 FR 298 SR 239 SR 246 SR 281 so 
LLI 
c.,
231 SR 
243 SR 
LLI 
..J
202 SR 
..J
288 SR 215 SR 
0 
285 FR 

(.) 305 SR 255 so 
z 
300 SR 
0 
275 FR 
1­
305 SR 
U) 
212 JR 
0 
280 so 
m
297 SR 249 JR 285 FR 310 SR 309 so 292 so 240 FR 305 FR 280 JR 305 SR 285 SR 204 so 193 SR 172 so 258 so 251 JR 240 JR 240 FR 246 so 237 FR 269 so 273 so 269 JR 250 FR 250 FR 258 SR 250 FR 249 JR 


The Notre Dame coaching staff continues to find a way to get it done. They have coached their team to wins in hostile territory and as the underdogs. Willingham has experience agairn,t Bost.on College and Boston College's offensive coordinator used to work with Willingham.  Since returning from his injury, Holiday showed nothing but improve­ment. He picked up 185 passing yards last week, including two touch­downs and no intercep­tions. I le continues to be dangerous running the ball and is a real leader on the field.  Grant has become a con­sistent offensive weapon for the Irish. He picked up nearly 100 yards in his last two games. With a strong Irish offensive line opening holes against opponents, the lrish can be dangerous when they keep the ball on the ground.  The Irish passing game has also shown improve­ment in recent weeks. Battle has stepped up as the go-to receiver, catching short passes on the run and then picking up yardage. Jenkins and Stovall can be counted on to get their hands on some long passes.  
O'Brien has been with the Eagles six years but has a less than impres­sive record, just over .500. However, his Eagles have gone to bowl games the past three seasons and recorded two victories against the Irish.  St. Pierre~ is second in the Big East in passing yards, averaging 233.7 per game. He is a veter­an quarterback with experience against the Irish. Ile has a 53.6 completion percentage and picks up a few rushing yards every game.  The Boston College run defense has not been its strong suit this season. The Eagles are allowing an average of 184 yards per game. They have forced an average of two fumbles a game and recovered a total of nine this season.  The Eagles pass defense has been more successful than their run defense. They've held opponents to an average of 157 yards per game and have a total of five interceptions on the season, none returned for touchdowns. Their secondary is a solid, vet­eran group of players.  
Willingham and Co. have the edge here. They have managed to lead their team to victory no ma.ttnr what the odds and they have experienfe \VithJhe Boston College offensive coordinator. Jn addition, this ,coaching\~taff is keeping its mind 'focused on the game.  St. Pierre is the more pro­ductiv~ ., 4}1.~erback. Holidctf na,-shown improv.~ent~vei;,,,the last severaflga.tll~~ ."';he has yetto corisisl,e lead the Irish on l~;~ ives that result in··.· duehdowns. Holiday i.c, imprriving, but St. Pierre is the more con­sistent signal caller.  The Irish running game has shown that it can move tht:} baH, ,even against .a physical defense Ukt~ Flof'ida State. The Eagle rush defense has not,. been ve_ry soli~ this~ ~~r and will hnv~ troublf" con­taining Grant.  Notre Dame has shown significant improvement in its passing game in i}leJ~t few ...wooks, bqtt~'~td ,,~t:1i~~=Ci\i~fbflfs fOf N6ttt:f' l)amb. Holiday and his corps of receivers will find an enemy of equal strength in Boston College.  

-------------· --------­
--·-· 


The Irish face another tough running back in Knight this week, but unlike 2001, won't watch an Eagle back run all over the Irish defense. Notre Dame wiJI keep Bost.on College's offense under con­trol and the offense will put up enough points to make sure 1993 doesn't happen again in 2002. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 Boston College 10 
Chris Federico sports editor 
Even if the Irish had a chance to overlook Boston College this year as they did in 1993, Willingham and his staff will be sure his team remains focused. Look for another strong per­formance from the defense as the Irish win without much of a throat from the Eagles. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Boston College 10 
: ' . ' \ .. 

(£.~·,) 
Friday, November 1, 2002 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Boston College 
Eagles

0 EAD 
Record: 4-3 


BOSTON COLLEGE
Boston College A.,
OFFENSE ""-JS' 

2002 Schedule 

CORNERBACK
lEFTTACKLE 
42-Walion
1t-8Ell 

37-Etliok
72-Trulitl 
FULLBACK 
18·Toal 
43-Comella 
20-Knlght ~. 
''"''"' ~ 

FREE 
SAFETY 19-Eart 
29-Surrell
INSIDE 

LINEBACKER 
33-Watson 39-Hoyte 
RIGHT TACKLE 
73-Parentea 
71-Sell 
TIGHT END . 
89-Ryan 

STRONG
87-i r, 

SAFETY
86­

20-Sapp < .' l . 26-Bible

c_J 
OUTSIDE 
UNEBACKER 
49-Curry
57-Tnomas 
LEFTEND <;.J CORNERBACK <-'.'_: 
92-Budlnscak 34-0uff c, 
90-Beidatsch 
1 S·Jackson · 


Aug. 31 Sept. 7 Sep. 21 Sept. 28 Oct. 10 Oct. 19 Oct. 26 Nov.2 Nov.9 Nov. 16 Nov. 23 Nov. 30 

CONNECTICUT -W 
STANFORD-W 
atMiani-L CENI MICHIGAN -W 
,:~.--..::~:­
NAVY-W 

atPittsburgh -L atNotre Dame atWesfVirginia 

SYRACUSE 
atTemple 
Rlfl'GERS 

EAGLE RUSHING EAGLE PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
The Irish run defense has been very effective. They have managed to take almost every team they face out of its run game, making the oppo• nent one dimensional. However, they will have to keep focused to shut down the very physical Boston College game.  The Notre Dame pass defense has continued to make big plays for the Irish, forcing fumbles and causing intercep· tions. Earl has made some big hits and Walton continues to be a threat to any receiver that he is covering.  Setta looked more com· fortable against Florida State, connecting on both field goals he attempted. Hildbold has been consis· tent punting and, despite a fumble against Air Force, Duff has been looking to make key kick· off and punt returns for the Irish.  Notre Dame has the home field advantage and an 8· 0 record, their best start since 1993. They will be looking to stop a repeat of Boston College's 1993 victory that cut short a championship season. They may also be looking to avenge last year's loss to the Eagles.  
The Eagles rushing  The Eagles probably run  Sciortino is only 13·20  Boston College is looking  
attack has been solid  the most vertical routes  kicking, connecting on  to be the spoiler. The  
this season. Knight is  Notre Dame has seen  jusl 65 percent of his  Eagcls, who view  
averaging over 100  this season. Boston  attempts. McMyler is  Saturday's game as a big  
yards each game and  College tends to throw  solid punting, averaging  rivalry between the only  
will pose problems for  the deep ball ­a threat  38 yards a kick. There is  two Division I-A Catholic  
the Irish with his size  the Irish have been pre­ the threat of a punt  coJleges, are hyped up for  
and his power. Brokaw,  pared for all season.  return or a kickoff  a repeat of the 1993 upset  
Dodd and St. Pierre also  Burke and Hemmings  return for a touchdown  of the Irish. They don't  
occassionally get carries  are both averaging more  -but a slim one by  like the Irish and would  
for the Eagles.  than 50 yards a game.  Burke.  love a win.  
Although Boston College  St. Pierre is a veteran  Notre Dame gets the  The Eagles will be out  
has a dangerous weapon  quarterback.,. but the  edge here. Although  for blood on Saturday.  
in Knight, he may  Irish secondary is a vet•  Setta has ~t,ruggl~d. so  They really want to upset  
become the next victim of the Irish run defense. Notre Dame has man­aged to consistenly shut  eran crew looking to be the best in the nation. Eart has madm the). big hits and Walton, Duff  has Sciortino. With Hildbold punting. Notre Dame con control the Eagles with good field  f~;~::.•il:~l~I j~~~tt,(ei~~;1~~,  
down its · opponents  and Sapp haw~ mad~· the  position. Duff would;1ike  crowd. The sea of green  
rushing attack and hold  big interceptions. St.  to s~e tnothex punt  will be back and support·  
them to just 8l'yards  Pierre and crew should  return or kickoff return  ing the Irish after two  
per game.  be controllable.  for a touchdown.  solid road wins.  

:z 
0 
-I 
:a 
'" 
C 
l> 
3: 
'" 
m 
0 
en 
-I 0 z 
n 
0 
r­
r-
C) 
'" 
'" 



Notre Dame is focused on avoiding the let­down. The Irish will be ready for Boston College. The Irish defense will shut down Knight and St. Pierre while the offcnse continues to settle into the new scheme and pick up some offensive points. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31Katie McVoy 
Boston College 17 associate sports editor 

Willingaham won't let his team have a letdown against a solid Boston College squad. The Eagles 
have trouble hanging on to the football so look for 
Notre Dame to force several turnovers and probably 
score on defense. The Notre Dame offense should be 
adequate as the Irish will bust open a close first half 
game and win easily to go 9·0. 
Joe Hettler FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Boston College 6 
assistant sports editor 
AP: unranked 

Coaches: unranked 
Tom O'Brien sixth season at Boston College career record: 
35-30 

at Boston College 
35-30 


O'Brien

against Notre 
head coach

Dame: 2-3 
No. Name 1 Will Blackmon 2 Brian St. Pierre 3 Ray Henderson 
Roster 

Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
CB 6-0 175 FR QB 6-4 217 SR LB 6-3 225 LB 

4 Jazzmen Williams CB 5-8 178 FR 5 Grant Adams WR 6-0 189 so 6 Larry Lester CB 5-7 169 FR 7 Nathanael Hasselbeck CB 5-11 179 FR 8 Eric Boatwright QB 6-3 237 so 9 Larry Anam ss 6-1 180 FR 
10 Dan Berglund QB 6-3 215 FR 11 Kevin Kiley LB 6-3 225 JR 12 Mike Fassel K 5-11 162 so 13 Taylor Sele WR 6-0 190 FR 14 Karim El Nokali QB 6-4 205 FR 15 Quinton Porter QB 6-4 215 so 16 Greg Toal FB 5-11 225 JR 17 Joel Hawrd WR 5.9 184 so 18 Doug Bessette ss 5-11 203 SR 19 Peter Shean CB 5-9 177 so 20 Derrick Knight RB 5-9 205 JR 21 Trevor White CB 5-8 184 SR 23 Everett Lee RB 5-11 213 so 23 T.J. Stancil FS 6-1 202 so 24 Ralph Parent FS 6-2 206 SR 25 Kevin Dykes RB 5-10 190 SR 26 Toni Gonzalez WR 6-1 180 FR 27 Pau Cook FS 5-11 201 JR 28 Horace Dodd RB 6-1 207 JR 29 Chris Barnes WR 6-0 201 JR 30 Brandon Brokaw RB 6-2 241 so 32 DuJuan Daniels WR 5--11 182 SR 33 Sandro Sciortino K 5-10 201 JR 34 Patrick McShane LB 6-0 199 FR 35 Kevin Sanz DB 6-1 197 so 36 Brian Flores LB 5-11 212 JR 37 Ryan Mattison DB 5-8 173 JR 38 Jeff Ross ss 6-0 190 FR 39 Charlie Jones FB 5-10 226 SR 40 Vinny Ciurciu LB 5-11 240 SR 41 Emmerson Phillips CB 6-0 199 SR 41 Derek Webley WR 6-3 180 JR 42 Jon Misiewicz LB 6-2 210 FR 43 J.P. Comella FB 6-0 240 JR 44 J.D. Schmidt LB 6-3 240 JR 45 Josh Ott LB 6-2 225 JR 46 Haven Perkins FB 5-11 219 so 47 Kevin McMyler P/K 6-1 194 SR 48 Jonathon Yudt K 5-10 159 JR 49 Sydney Baskins LB 5-11 224 so 50 Paddy Lynch LB 6-2 240 FR 52 Jeff I'arros LB 6-5 221 FR 53 Jeff Bums LB 6-3 210 l'R 55 Ricky Brown LB 6-2 230 FR 56 Alvin Washington DT 6-0 297 FR 57 Nick Boyd DL 6-1 230 FR 58 Derric Rossy DE 6-3 253 SR 59 Ken Dudnick K/I' 6-4 203 JR 60 Jerem6tSimpson OT 6-7 305 FR 62 Lak.-to!ini DE 6-3 230 FR 63 Shadu Moore OT 6-4 305 FR 64 Keith Leavitt OT 6-6 345 JR 65 Chris Hathy OT 6-4 282 FR 66 Pat Ross C 6-4 280 FR 67 Rudy Dipietro OT 6-4 315 JR 69 Frank Wilpert OT 6-5 308 JR 70 James Marten OT 6-8 285 FR 71 Len Bell OT 6-8 306 JR 72 Jerem~ Trueblood OT 6-9 295 FR 
73 Marc 'arenteau 0G 6-5 308 SR 74 Jim Connor OG 6-5 285 JR 75 Josh Beekman 0G 6-3 320 FR 76 Chris Snee 0G 6-2 305 so 77 Dan Koppen C 6-3 293 SR 78 Augie Hoffman 0G 6-2 305 JR 79 Anthony Crosson DT 6-3 280 so 80 Rob Leuffen p 6-5 232 JR 81 Francois Brochu LS/TE 6-5 237 so 82 Jason Lll!y WR 6-2 200 FR 83 Shaun Toof WR 5-11 164 SR 84 Jamal Burke WR 6-1 207 SR 85 Garay Antonio DE 6-4 290 SR 86 David Kashetta TE 6-3 248 so 87 Frank Misurelli TE 6-4 255 SR 88 Chris Miller TE 6-5 251 FR 89 Sean Ryan TF 6-5 259 JR 90 Tom Martin DT 6-4 282 JR 91 Robert Ziminski DE 6-3 220 FR 92 Myran Hunter DE 6-2 223 so 93 Phillip Mettling DE 6-2 257 so 94 Mathias Kiwanuka DE 6-6 248 FR 95 Justin Hinds DT 6-3 284 JR % Tim Bulman DT 6-3 280 so 97 Leonard Bennett DE 6-0 237 JR 98 Douglas Goodwin DT 6-1 285 JR 99 Jim Unis DE 6-4 225 FR 


'' ' r ' • 
. , .' ~ ' ' . •.. 
, • !

t \ : l " i : . 
(E ,L/) 

Friday, November 1, 2002
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and the Eagles 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE BOSTON COLLEGE OFFENSE 
vs vs 
AVERAGE PER GAME 

BOSTON COLLEGE DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

; . . .
total yards gained 

386 
total yards allowed 

NOTRE DAME 293.6 
rushing yards gained 


149.1 
rushing yards allowed 


passing yards gained NOTRE DAME passing yards allowed BOSTON COLLE(ii 
¦ 
kick return yards gained lliiallllll 23.4 kick return yards allowed BOSTON COLLEGE 18.5 

KEY MATCHUP NOTRE DAME ITS PAST 

Notre Dame's biggest opponent this week is itself. The Eagles haunt the Irish. But not the 
-. Eagles of today, the Eagles of yesterday. The question of the week is: can the Irish defeat their past? This time, when they take the field against Boston College after defeating a highly ranked Florida State team, will Notre Dame be the victor? This year, will the return to glory be com­plete? 
by the numbers 
length of field goal David Gordon kicked to 
41 
defeat the Irish in 1993 105 ~ushing y~rds Eagles tailback Derrick Knight 1s averaging each week number of Irish coaches who have started the season 
3 
8-0 -Jesse Harper, Ara Parseghian and Tyrone Willingham 
. 1" 
punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored points allowed 

llil~III 10.3 

BOSTON;;QOl.lfEG.E: @:;It:11 S ·133.5 NOTRE DAME 0 
1.5 
BOSTON COLLEGE I2 


50.8 I OPPONENTS 58.5 
71.6 

NOTRE DAME 13.5 




TIie ¦ oat •POPULAR" 9 o¦ Campus•••271-117711 Voted "Best Dellvered• Pizza AGAIN la 200211 
Call your PAPA for-these great specials (no coupon necess r-----------------r-----------------r-----------------,------------------·
I . I I 
: ~Rl§M laee~al :Tb• 1-Q Special , 1cs $pecial , Return to Glor¥ 
: 1 Large 1 topping, 1 1 Large 1 topping, • 1 Large 1 topping, 1 1 Large 1 topping, 1 Breadsticks, and I Chees~sticks, and : Chickenstrips, and : Dessertsticks, and : 2-liter Coca-Cola : 2-liter Coca-Cola 1 2-liter Coca-Cola 1 2-liter Coca-Cola 
i $11.99* : $13.99* : $13.99* : $13.99* 
.----------------~-----------------~----------------~----------------­
i Pa1pa'1s Cltoiice : The Williingham :The Leprechaun: Gir•ne Day Sgeclal; ; X-Large with 1 3 Large 1 topping, : 1O" Small : 2 Large 1 topping : 2 toppings : pizzas, 2 Breadsticks, 1 1 topping and I pizzas : 1 1 and 2-liter Coca-Cola I Breadsticks 1 1
I _$10.99* : $28.99* : $7.50* : $14.99* !
·-----------------~----------------J----------------~------------------·
*Original or Thin Crust Where Available. Coupon expires 12/31/02. Not valide with any other offer. Valid at participating locations. Customer pays all applicable taxes. 

NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S 
271-1177 271-PAPA 

' I ' 
I ' i f

' . .' . 
I • • 
' ' . " . \ \ . . • I t
.' 
Friday, November 1, 2002 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Irish defense looking to clip Eagles' wings 
connecting on 65 percent of hisBy KATIE McVOY passes.
Associate Spons Editor 

"They have a good quarter­back," Earl said. "They're
They may be 4-3, but the 

going to come in here and try
record doesn't tell the entire 

to play the spoiler."
story. Or so the Notre Dame But that's not the position

defense would have you the Irish are the most con­

believe. 

cerned about. Despite the fact
Heading into last week's 

that Notre Dame has been able 
game against Florida State, it 

to shut down most of their 
was pretty clear that the Irish opponents' run games, forcingwould have their hands full. 

opposing teams to a one­
This week it may not be as 

dimensional offense, the Irish
clear to the rest of the world, are about
concerned the
but it's pretty clear to the Irish 

Eagle's effectiveness on the
that Boston College is going to ground.

be tough. 

"They have a big, physical
"We look at 

running
them like back," said

another 

"They have a good defensive
Florida 

coordinator
State," safety quarterback. They 're 
Kent Baer.
Gerome Sapp going to come in here 
"They're
said. 

and try to play the offensive
"Every 

spoiler.,, line is pow­
game is a 
erful."
dogfight," 

Eagles
Glenn Earl 

Glenn Earl running
added. 

Irish safety back Derrick
The dogfight 

Knight may 
on Saturday rate up

will take place on the ground 

there with some of the best 
and far downfield. Those are 

running backs the Irish have 
the Eagles' two strengths. 

seen this season. He's averag­They put their claws in the ball 
ing more than 100 rushing
and run or they take to the air yards per game, getting .more 

and go long. 

offensive yards than every
"They probably run some of Eagle's player except for St. 

the most vertical routes we'll 

Pierre. 
see all year," Sapp said. "They 

"They work at it," Irish 
like the long ball." 

coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
Brian St. Pierre, the Eagle's 

"lThere is] good skill in their veteran quarterback, has been running backs and their toes when you play this team." College has to offer, on the Baer said. "We'll want to do 
a consistently dangerous scheme is designed to be a So when the kickoff comes ground and in the air. that again." __.
weapon for Boston College. He combination of run and pass Saturday, the Irish will be "Whenever you can take throws for an average of more and play action so that you looking to do what they do best away a team's run game, you Contact Katie McVoy at than 230 yards a game and is have to keep yourself on your -take away what Boston make them one dimensional," mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Budinscak hitting stride at right time for Irish 
long way a way, but I have confi­By JOE HETTLER 
dence that I can one day get
Associate Sports Editor 

there." The Irish need Budinscak to 
After four games this season, continue his strong play, especially Notre Dame defensive end Kyle this week against Boston College Budinscak thought he had hit a because starting nose tackle low point in his football career. Cedric Hilliard is not expected to 
After eight games this season, play. he's feeling much better. Luckily for Notre Dame, 
"Sometimes it's real hard," Budinscak is capable of playing Budinscak said. "Sometimes you virtually every position on the have to tell yourself, when you're defensive line. .. at your lowest moment and you "Kyle is one of those guys that think every-can go inside thing is caving and outside," in, just go, just Irish head 
. t d "Sometimes you have to 
go, Jus. go an , coach Tyrone 
eventually, just tell yourself, when you ·re Willingham 
don't quit, at your lowest moment said. "fie don't quit and plays very
and you think everything 
forget your strong, very 
past." is caving in, just go. just physical at the Budinscak go. just go . ., point and definitely has that's impor­what it takes -tant for either
Kyle Budinscak
it just took him the outside a little longer to defensive lineman play or the find out. inside play. So 
After record-he gives us a ing only two tackles, one for a loss nice combination there and allows during the first half of the season, us some flexibility in this case Budinscak has come on strong, when Cedric went down." -· making 10 tackles, three for losses Budinscak said he will feel com­in Notre Dame's last four contesl'i. fortable wherever the coaches put He al.'io has sacks against Stanford him Saturday. 
and Pittsburgh. "I like playing anywhere on the 
"I got down myself at times this defensive line," Budinscak said. year and thought maybe I'm not "In the end its all the same, your going to turn out to be the player I hands, your feet, your technique, 
wanted, but I stopped worrying no matter where you are its foot­about that," Budinscak said. "I ball. Football is football whether started just really concentrating you're playing defensive end or "We had great leadership with Now that Budinscak is a veteran "Get to a point where they can on what I really needed to do to tackle." guys like Weaver and Grant Irons on the defense, he hopes to pro­respect what you're doing and so get better every week. I wa<; focus­Budinscak attributes the entire and other guys and it's just the vide leadership through his strong you can start to helping them out, ing on b(~coming a better football defensive lines success. partly to fact that they worked so hard and play for the younger guys on the jw,t like Anthony did." player. I think, slowly, it has start­the leadership of last year's so good and were great leaders," team. ed to happen a little bit this year. defense. The play and attitude of Budinscak said. "We always "I hope that I can pick up my 
Contact Joe Hettler at 

Now I know really what it's going guys like Anthony Weaver set the appreciated that, especialJy the play to the point where I start 
jhettler@nd.edu

to take to be that good. I'm still a tone for this year's squad. younger guys." helping out guys," Budinscak said. 
..' 




-------:;=--._ uw,-,,,,.-·?{""f·---------------­4W w ; WWW£.• 
I J I • (~,.._.'I \ • t • • l J f J • • ' } • f t f J • t I f f • ~ • ,;, I• 1 t \ • • , : t '. , • " . ; • I · , · • • t " 1 \ • ' , ~ ·' ~ ; ? • ' • 'I ' ., J ).< f' · 
<E. ' g ) . . " .. " 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 1, 2002 
'
I I 
j 
I ; 
t 
i 
I 
i , . I 



I 
I 
l
' 


j 
i 
:1 ~ 
,; 1: 1) 
1 '! ,\ . J ~-· 

Campus Ministry 

" 
I) 
,. 'I 
I, 
I, 
iIJ ,. 
• • • 1 
' I • • il • • 
I , • "., t. , · • , • , · 

Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Boston College Football Weekend November 2-3, 2002 · 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica -8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:30, s:oo, 9:30 & 11:00 am 










