
Thursday, September 19, 2002


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 18 
STUDENT SENATE 

Members pass attendance change 

Following last week's Senate meet­ings before the Ethics CommitteeBy MEGHANNE DOWNES ing, several senators expressed con­gives a warning.
Assistant News Editor 
cern about the wording of the amend­When five absences are accrued at ment and that it was too complex. either one of the meetings the Ethics 
At Wednesday's Student Senate 
The latest version of the amend­Committee will hold a hearing.meeting, senators unanimously ment put forth at Wednesday's meet­This amendment, pending approval passed an attendance policy amend­ing simplifies the procedure for keep­by Libby Bishop, student body presi­ment to their constitution. ing track of absences and tardies at dent, could cause conflicts with sena­
"It will give a clear idea of what both Senate meetings and Senate tors who have a late class, ROTC senate attendance should be. It's real­committee meetings. said Cornwell. obligations or sports practices. 
ly important to have a clear idea of Senate committee chairs and the who will be here. The good thing Student Union Secretary will now be 
In other Senate news:
about it is that it provides room for a able to use their discretion when tak­. Lance Johnson, an executive pro­
lot of interpretation," said Joanna ing attendance and senators are 
ducer for NDTV, spoke to senators
Cornwell, Senate Ethics Committee allowed four absences at either chair and senator from Breen-Phillips. Senate meetings or committee meet-see SENATE/page 6 


Faine plays through 
•
pain page 28 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Sophomore trip to hit the road Friday 
. Campus Ministy retreat takes off next 2 weekends for unknown destination 
By TERESA FRALISH 
News Writer 
Starting this Friday, a group of sopho­mores will depart for an unknown destina­tion as part of Campus Ministry's new Sophomore Road Trip retreat. The road trip, which will also be offered on the weekend of Sept. 27-29, begins Friday afternoon and returns to campus on Sunday afternoon. 
While the road trip will contain many of the elements of a normal retreat, Campus Ministry said that the sophomore trip would be very different from 
"It ·s all about being 

events like the 
in a group ofyour

Freshman Retreat and peers and being Notre Dame 
in a common 

Encounter. 
experience. ,,

"The road trip is different because it's 
Frank Santoni not your tradi-director of Ecumenical tional retreat," Activities and Peer Ministry
said Frank Santoni, direc­tor of Ecumenical Activities and Peer Ministry. 
Santoni said the retreat would center on the participants developing relationships with each other and will contain few talks by campus ministers or special speakers. 
"It's completely experience-based," Santoni said. "It's all about being in a group of your peers and being in a com­mon experience." Though student interac­tion will be a key aspect of the weekend, some junior students and a few campus ministers will help to lead the retreat, said Santoni. 
The road trip will focus on actually trav­eling to the unknown location as well as the specific activities that are planned at the final stop, said Santoni. 
"One of our themes is that life is as much 
see TRIP/page 6 


PE 'prowls' for new signature dance event 
"Pyro" is the mascot of PE, Knott Hall. so the name of the "Also," said Morphew, "We The scavenger hunt will be a ByJUSTIN KRIVICKAS so a party encompassing fire dance is "Hot or Knott." will be hanging up 'Most hunt around campus for a 
Assistant News Editor 

was decided to be included in "The reasoning behind this Wanted' signs in all the guys' roommates date. One girl will the signature name is that dorms with a list of the guys hide the date she has chosen Pasquerilla East has created event. we are the from that specific dorm that for her roommate on the night a new signature event this "This event "This event will include Pyros [hot] are invited to the 'PE Prowl' of the dance and then give her 
year called the "PE Prowl." will include and obvi­at the beginning of next roommate a list of clues to
toasted S'mores over the

The dorm commissioners toasted ously they week." help her find him. 
have plans to make this event S'mores over grill and other types of are Knott," On the night of the dance The roommate uses the 
a dorm tradition that will join the grill and food with all the PE girls said PE co­the ":PE Prowl" will begin as a clues to go on a scavenger the ranks of the Fisher other types of President scavenger hunt that will cul­hunt for her date.
dressed in red. " 

Regatta and the Alumni Wake. food with all Shaina minate into a dance. The After the date has been 
"We don't have a signature the PE girls Morphew. Dance Commissioners wanted found they will then proceed event," said hall dance com­dressed in Janelle Beadle Morphew to retain the "SYR" system of to the dance. missioner Janelle Beadle, "so red." said said that the past years by asking room­The dance will take place on
dance commissioner 

this is a big deal for us. and Beadle. "Also, d a n c e mates to setup each other the knoll near Knott in a tent, everyone is excited about it." there will be includes a without telling them whom and other spirit events will be 
On the eve of the dance the tikki torches scavenger they are going to the dance sponsored through the dorm dorm will host an event and red streamers strewn hunt. with clues like "You're with. The males invited to the during the week of the dance. dubbed "Pyro Party on the about the area to add to the getting warmer, warmer, your dance will have their names Patio" to get the dorm resi­cookout atmosphere." hot!" or "No, you're cold -or on a banner that will be hung Contact Justin K.rivickas at dents excited about the dance. The dance is co-hosted with 'Knott hot'." in the dorm. jkrivick@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, September 19, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Frisbee ------anyone? 
"If horse racing is a sport for kings ... then [Frisbee] must be a good sport as well." Homer Simpson's quote (slightly modified) speaks the truth about Frisbee. 
It's not the No. 1 activity most people think of when look-Justin 
ing for a good time nor is it something Krlvlckas that has to be played frequently. Assistant Frisbee is just an 
News Editor 
activity you should do to unwind with your friends: no more, no less. 
When you're out on the quad throwing a disc to your friends, all of your worries fade. The sport requires just enough concentration for you to forget about what you have scheduled and focus on the disc rambling between you and your friends. 
Playing is relatively safe. As long as you avoid all obstacles on the quad such as water pipes, benches, trees and peo­ple, it's virtually impossible to get bruised. Also, if you use your common sense and scope out the area you are playing in beforehand, you can save yourself the hassle of explaining to Notre Dame Security/Policy why you dove into a group of sunbathing girls. 
Frisbee has less to do with physique and more to do with technique. You can be the best football player on campus, but play Frisbee with someone who's a 100 times better at it who has about VB of his muscle mass. The simplicity ofthe game allows anyone to have the oppor­tunity to be good, and only with practice can you get better. 
Frisbee is not a professional sport, so playing ability is rarely critiqued. Sure, there are people who dress in fatigues and have hair well-suited for a bad 1980s movie who revolve their lives around the sport, but you don't have to be a committed player to be good. Unlike basketball, you can pick up a Frisbee five years after the last time you threw one and get the disc, with possibly a few wobbles, to someone your playing with. 
For those of you reading this article who think that you're hot stuff with a disc should check out the game called Ultimate Frisbee. This sport combines elements of football, soccer, basketball and Frisbee handling. There's actually an Ultimate Frisbee club on campus you can join. 
Perhaps there better things to do with your time. T.V. still remains a popular outlet for entertainment for over 50 years, and how can a plastic disc com­pete with a box filled with all those col­ors? 
I'm not trying to make everyone go out and play Frisbee out on the quad. By all means don't. I already have enough objects to dodge on the way to class. AU I'm saying is give Frisbee a chance. It never hurts to break the daily routine with a new activity. 
Enjoy the sun while you can with a lit• tie exercise out on the quad and forget about that paper that's due next Tuesday. Every time you play, you can learn something new, and after all of that hard work you'll be ready for the professional circuit out on the quad, so stock up on camouflage pants and grow that hair out before it snows. 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The article that ran on Wednesday entitled "ND theology professor to be honored.n was written by Lauran Williamson, not Lauren Wilcox. She can be contacted at lwillia3@nd.edu. 
WHAT'S INSIDE CAAA ,,... .. -' 
WORLD& BUSINESS
~•L& \)~ 

VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Jeff Faine to
OPEC to 
Waking up the History of

Bush
Writing work­administration play in nextmaintain echoes an moviesshop opens for pushes for game?

ocean away
production
Hispanic action against
Heritage Iraq
month 
Scene takes a 
Center Jeff Faine
In honor of 
The Bush admin­
OPEC does not 
Students study­

look at the movies injured his ankle inHispanic Heritage 
istration does not 
ing abroad in
plan to change pro­

that shaped 
the Michigan game
Month, Richard 
believe Iraq's inten­
duction levels in 
London were given 

American culture last Saturday, butYanez, hosted a tions to let the near future, the opportunity to and are seen as 
claims to be back in 
writing workshop 
weapons inspectors 
watch last
giving consumers a 

classics to many good health. He
entitled, "Across 
back into the coun­sigh of relief that Saturday's football critics. 

expects to play onthe Lines." 
try and wants other 
oil prices will not 
game on a Web 
Saturday.
countries to sup­
rise. 
broadcast screen. port a coalition against Iraq. 
page 28page 3 page 5 page 7 page 12 page 14 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. O'Grady Latin American Literature Lecture 
4:30 p.m. at the Ilcsburgh Center 
. /low Should 1/istorians 111ink About Nature? Hound table Featuring Christopher Ilamlin, Thomas Slaughter and Julia Thomas, 7 p.m. at the Hcsburgh Center 
. Lecture "The Doctrine of Thomas Aquinas" 
7:30 p.m. at the llesburgh Center 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Catholic Identity Symposium with speaker Monika I lcllwig, 3:00 p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium 

. 
Christianity & Native Cultures International Conference, all day event at the Carroll Auditorium. Ilaggar College Center \Velsh Parlor, Stapleton Lounge and the Dining 


Ilall North \Vedge Hoom 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Texas Chili, Budapest Veggie Soup. Penne with Gorgonzola, Cheese/Pepperoni French Bread, Fresh Corned Beef, Boiled Cabbage, Peas and Carrots. Apple Crisp, Macadamia Chicken, Cheese Strata, Scrambled Eggs, Sausage Patties, Cinnamon French Toast, Potato Triangles, Home Style Chicken and Taco Stix 
Today Dinner: Texa Chili, Budapest Veggie Soup, Cheese/Pepperoni French Bread, Southern Fried Chicken, Collard Greens with Ham Hocks, Corn, Apple Crisp. Rotini with Spring Veggies, Lorraine Quiche, Beef Chop Suey, Herb Zucchini, Baked Sweet Potato, Yellow Rice with Raisins and Stir Fried Kale 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
I.IJ 
::z:: 
ti 
I.IJ 
3: 

HIGH 85 HIGH 80 


LOW 75 LOW 68 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Spaghettini, Shells, Mostaccioli, Tri Color Rotini, Pizza, Whipped Potatoes, Turkey Gravy, Baked Potato, Broccoli Cuts, Cut Corn, Sliced Carrots, Roasted Veggies, Herbed Noodles, Chicken Breast, Haddock with Herbs, Roasted Turkey Breast, Curried Veggies Rice Pilaf, Sloppy Joe and Japn Ginger Chicken Tender 
Today Dinner: Spaghettini, Shells, Mostaccioli, Tri Color Rotini, Pizza, Cherry Turnover, Whipped Potatoes, Cut Corn, Peas and Pearl Onions, Chicken Gravy, Veggie Rice Casserole, Baked Potato, Broccoli Cuts, Sliced Carrots, Grilled Redfish, Chicken Fried Steak and Rotisserie Chicken 
FRlDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 68 HIGH 65 LOW 52 LOW 46 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Pedestrian hit by car 
NDSP responded to a report of a pedestrian being hit by a vehicle Tuesday. The victim was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment. 

Video camera stolen 
Someone reported a video camera being taken from the open truck of his vehicle while parked in the Blue Field North parking lot last Saturday. 

Wheelchair lost 
A victim reported losing a wheelchair in the C01 parking lot on Tuesday. 

Phone me~e investigated 
NDSP is investigating an anonymous voice mail message received in the Main Building on Tuesday. 

Student hurt during exercise 
On Tuesday, a student was transported by NDSP to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat­ment of a sports injury on Stepan Field. 
Infonnation complied from NDSP Crime Blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta, Marinara Sauce, Harvest Rice, Seven Vegatables on Sprout Bread with Hummus, Beef Teriyaki with Steamed Rice, Grilled Turkey Melt, Open Faced Tuna Melt, Chicken Breast, French Fries, Cajun Pork Loin, Dijon Potatoes, Chef's Vegatables, Biscuits, Grilled Portobella, Pizza and Deli Bar with Chicken Salad 
Today Dinner: Cantonese Stir Fry, Savory Rice, Kidney Beans, Baked Sweet Potato, Egg Plant Moussaka, Omlets Cooked to Order with Country Hash Browns, Chicken Wings, Vegetarian Bat Wings, Curly French Fries, Zucchini Sticks, Carved Meatloaf, Whipped Potatoes with Gravy and Pizza 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 67 HIGH 68 LOW 48 LOW 55 


Atlanta 85 / 69 Boston 75 / 63 Chicago 78 / 60 Denver 68 / 46 Houston 90 / 69 Los Angeles 84 / 64 Minneapolis 68 / 49 New York 78 / 66 Philadelphia 80 / 64 Phoenix 94 / 72 Seattle 70 / 52 St. Louis 82 / 62 Tampa 91 / 76 Washington 81 / 69 
Thursday, September 19, 2002 page 3 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Prof hosts workshop for Hispanic Heritage Month 

By MEIANIE BECKER News Writer 

In honor of Hispanic Heritage Month. from Sept. 15 to Oct. 15, Richard Yanez, Saint Mary's English professor and second­year Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership fellow, hosted a writing workshop enti­tled, "Across the Lines" Wednesday in Haggar Parlor. 
Hispanic dishes were served and Hispanic cultural items 
were used for writing inspira­tion. 
Born in El Paso, Texas, Yanez holds degrees from New Mexico State and Arizona University. Yanez teaches fiction writing and special topic literature courses mainly pertaining to Latino studies. In February, the University of Nevada Press will publish 

"Part ofthe reason that M a r y • s I came was to Community and bring out writ­
experience other 
ing abilities

cultures. and I feel that 
from all writing is the best majors. His ses­
sions focus on

means in doing so. I 
participants

think that a very finding their 
comfortable space was inner voice through writing 
created to open up in 
Y a fi e z 

our own writing and 
explained. 

personal beliefs. " Several stu­dents who have taken a course
Jodie Badgley 
or are current-Saint Mary's junior 1 y taking a 
Yaiiez's book, "El Paso del Norte: Stories on the Border ... 
Last year Yanez ran several workshops at Greene Elementary in conjunction with the South Bend Community School System. With such a posi­tive response from the South Bend community. Yaiiez wanted to reach out to the Saint Mary's community and begin a series of writing workshops sponsored by CWIL. 
"I feel that writing is one of our most fundamental means of communicating," Yaiiez said. "To sit for an hour and write creatively is a luxury that many don't account for in their busy lives. 
"My hope," he continued, "is to share some basic techniques for using writing as a personal tool. Whether it be writing a poem for pleasure or a journal entry as part of a healing process, the written word is instrumental in all of our lives." 
Eight students, representing a variety of majors. attended the workshop. Yanez used the theme of a 'cuarto,' or room, as the inspiration for each partici­pant to use to create a short piece of writing. Each partici­pant shared her story at the end of the hour with the rest of the group. 
The goal of the workshop was 
to reach out to 
the Saint 
course with Yafiez attended the workshop. 
"Part of the reason that I came was to experience other cul­tures, and I feel that writing is the best means in doing so. I think that a very comfortable space was created to open up in our own writing and personal beliefs," Saint Mary's junior Jodie Badgley said. 
Yaiiez hopes that word of mouth will bring more partici­pants to future workshops and other members of CWIL will want to hold their own sessions several times a semester. 
"I love to write and I don't do it regularly enough," said Adriana Garces. "This is a good setting to do it. It was formatted so that there was freedom to create." 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck093l@saintmarys.edu 


.. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 19, 2002 
l'M A CATHOLIC BECAUSE ••• 

'Much Ado' opens tonight at University 
Special to The Observer 
Actors From The London Stage. an international touring theater troupe based at Notre Dame, will present William Shakespeare's enduring come­dy "Much Ado About Nothing" in three performances today through Saturday at 7 :30 p.m. in Washington Hall on the Notre Dame campus. 
Admission is $16 for the general public, $14 for senior citizens and $12 for students. Tickets are available in advance at the LaFortune Student Center or by calling 631-8128. 
"Much Ado About Nothing" weaves a fanciful web of love, lies and laughter with the sto­ries of the young count Claudio and the governor's daughter, Hero, who fall in love on the heels of Claudio's victorious return from war, and con­firmed bachelor Benedick and Hero's cousin, Beatrice, who are tricked into believing they love each other. A chain of unpredictable events follows, with spying and eavesdropping making key contributions to the fun and entertainment of this Shakespearean classic. 
All roles will be played by five veterans of classical the­ater -Eunice Roberts, Paul McCleary, Jax Williams, Jamie Newell and Jason Baughan. Drawing upon their experi­ence in groups such as the Royal Shakespeare Company and other leading London the­aters, the actors will use sub• tle gestures, body movements and voice modulation, rather than elaborate costumes or sets, to convey the action and shifts of character with ease and believability. 
Actors From The London Stage has called Notre Dame its American home since 2000, when it relocated from the University of North Carolina. The troupe's residency is sponsored by the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. 

SMC hosts world conference 
. Missionaries, to incorporate the native peo­ple's cultures into the Christian
Christian scholars 

faith tradition. This can hap­open event today pen by praying in the native 
language and converting famil­
iar symbols and local customs By NATALIE BAILEY into a form of Christian wor­News Writer ship. "Adding native rituals to 
Scholars and missionaries Christian practices more and from around the world will more makes people feel more converge on Saint Mary's cam­and more inclined to become 
pus today through Sunday for Christian," said professor of 
an international conference history Cyriac Pullapilly. entitled "Christianity and Pullapilly proposed the idea Native Cultures." of an international conference 
Scholars and missionaries of a few years ago. He and the various disciplines and denom­History Department have been inations, representing univer­planning the event ever since, 
sities and insti­ and  the  
tutions from all  committee  
corners of the world will offer presentations addressing how Christianity pen­ "We are hoping all the scholars, missionaries and people ofthe world get together and learn  invited thousands of schol­ars from all over  
etrates other cultures. A total of 26 sessions will attempt to  from each other ... ,, Cyriac Pullapilly  the world to partici­pate. T o  
answer this question through histori- Saint Mary's history professor  schedule speakers, the com­ 

cal and modern lenses. mittee sent announcements 
The conference aims to pro­around the world asking schol­mote acceptance of other cul­ars to submit papers and pro­tures. The theme of the confer­posals. Submissions of perti­ence arose from the Christian nent interest became part of historical practice of going into the conference. other cultures and expecting Sessions begin Friday at 9 the natives to readily adapt to a.m. and end Sunday in Carroll unfamiliar practices. Auditorium, Stapleton Lounge, 
The sessions in this confer­the Dining Hall North Wedge ence are planned to promote Room and Holy Cross College people introducing Christianity Welsh Parlor. to other cultures while trying Topics include "Eastern and Western Philosophies: Ethics. World View and Religious Practice" with papers written and read by Jack Hill of Texas Christian University. and Yong Hong Pang of Chongqing University, Chongqing, China; and "Immersion, Image Making: Positive and Negative Impacts of Western and Native American Interactions" with papers written and read by Emma Anderson of Harvard University, Marge Kloos and John Trokan of College of Mount Saint Joseph and Mike Casey of Graceland University. 
Almost 100 people are regis­tered to attend the event; a vast majority of those regis­tered teach about ministry and penetrating different cultures. While space is limited, stu­dents and faculty are welcome to attend any session of inter­est; others are required to reg­ister and pay a fee. 
The committee holds high expectations for this unprece­dented conference. 
"We are hoping all the schol­ars, missionaries and people of the world get together and learn from each other and then when they go home they will encourage enculturation. Promoting. enculturation pro­motes a blending of Christianity and other cultures. Thus we can enrich the church by incorporating different cul­tures into Christianity," Pullapilly said. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bai11407@saintmarys.edu 





The Office of Students with Disabilities 
is looking for students interested in being a 
personal care attendant 
for a female student with physical challenges. Attendants will assist the student with dressing, grooming, and other daily activities. Evening, morning, and weekend hours are available. The position pays $7.25 an hour. If you are interested, please contact Scott Howland at 631-7141 orshowland@nd.edu. 



Thursday, September 19, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

COLOMBIA 

Colombian rebels threaten to harm hostages 

Bush a 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration pressed Congress to take the lead against Iraq as it prepared to send lawmakers a resolution Thursday authorizing the use of military force. 
The White House talked tough Wednesday as the U.S. campaign for a strong new U.N. resolution was undercut by Saddam Hussein's offer on inspections. At the same time, United Nations weapons inspectors began plan­ning their return to Baghdad. 
"It serves no U.S. or U.N. pur­pose to give Saddam Hussein excuses for further delay," Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld asserted. 
Iraq's announcement that it would accept the return of inter­national weapons inspectors nearly four years after they left divided the Security Council. The United States and Britain pur­sued a resolution to force Iraq to disarm. But Russia and France were opposed, as were Arab nations. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell on Wednesday brought President Bush a progress report on U.S. efforts at the United Nations. He was due back at the White House Thursday morning for more strategy-plotting on the adminis­tration's next moves with wary allies, a senior White House offi­cial said. 
Rumsfeld. in testimony to the 

• · stration pushes Congress to act on Iraq 
House Armed Services 
Committee, and Bush, in a White 
House meeting with top congres­
sional leaders, dismissed the 
Iraqi leader's 11th-hour overture 
as a stalling tactic. 
"He's not going to fool any­body," Bush said. 
Rumsfeld suggested that Iraq had concealed evidence of its weapons programs in a labyrinth of tunnels and other elaborate hiding places, certain to compli­cate and prolong any new inspection effort. 
While United Nations officials in New York prepared for the inspectors return, the United States and Britain began work­ing on a new resolution aimed at authorizing use of force should Baghdad fail to comply with U.N. Security Council resolutions. 
Western diplomats said the U.S.-British draft would likely include new instructions for weapons ·inspectors and a timetable for disarmament that would be tighter than one laid out in an existing resolution passed in December 1999. 
U.S. officials said they did not intend to let Iraq's maneuver blunt their efforts for such a res­olution. "I see nothing to suggest that the timing has changed for what the United Nations Security Council is considering," said Bush press secretary Ari Fleischer. 
Still, Iraq's invitation to give absence divided the Security
international inspectors unfet­Council and prompted the White tered access to suspected House to step up its pressure on weapons sites after a four-year both allies and Congress. 

"Only certainty of U.S. and 
U.N. purposefulness can have even the prospect of affecting the Iraqi regime," Rumsfeld said. "It is important that Congress send that message as soon as possible before the U.N. Security Council votes." 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
In a chilling message, a Colombian rebel commander said in a video broadcast Friday that dozens of hostages are in dan­ger because the government refuses to exchange them for imprisoned rebels. 
The Colombian government's "attitude of total indifference" could affect "the physi­cal integrity of the hostages," rebel Alfonso Cano said in the video. The thickly bearded Cano, a leader of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. said whatev­er happened to the hostages would be the government's responsibility. 
The videotaped message, which was turned over to relatives of kidnapped police and soldiers in the southern city of Neiva on Thursday, could be considered a threat against the hostages, who include a state governor, a former presidential candidate and a former defense minister. 
The video, portions of which were broad­cast Friday on Colombia's two main net­works, was immediately denounced by authorities. Gen. Jorge Enrique Mora, com­mander of the armed forces. called the rebels "kidnapping bandits." 
Vice President Francisco Santos, who was held hostage eight months by drug traffickers in 1990, said the safety of the hostages lay in the hands of the rebels. 
"The one who put the lives of the hostages in danger is the F ARC, by kidnap• ping them," Santos snapped. 
The video is a montage of images and is apparently several months old, according to Hector Rodriguez. head of an association of relatives of the soldiers and police being held hostage. The video had not been seen before. 
The government of President Alvaro Uribe, inaugurated in August, has refused to consider a prisoner exchange, instead insisting on the immediate release of all hostages as a prerequisite for renewed peace talks. 

The video is the latest attempt by the FARC to pressure the government to exchange jailed rebels for 4 7 soldiers and police officers and some 20 politicians being held hostage. 
The FARC has previously released videos of hostages, including one of former presi­dential candidate Ingrid Betancourt, look­ing tired and asking the government to negotiate with the rebels. Betancourt was taken hostage in February when she drove into a former rebel safe haven ahead of army troops who were retaking control of the area. Colombia has the highest kidnap­ping rate in the world, with more than 3,000 abductions last year. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli cop killed by suicide bomber: 
Palestinians ended a six-week lull in attacks on Israelis Wednesday when a policeman died after challenging a suicide bomber and Palestinian mili­tants killed a motorist and a settler in the West Bank. Two Palestinians also died Wednesday one killed by Israeli troops and the other apparently by Palestinians who suspected him of being a collabo­rator. 
Mexico's Fox plans to perserve water: 
In a move that could help Mexico pay its water debts to the United States, President Vicente Fox on Tuesday launched a series of measures designed to help preserve shrinking water supplies. Fox said he would invest $2.2 billion annually in new infrastruc­ture and other measures, especially for the border region, where Mexico's failure to pay promised vol­umes of water into the Rio Grande River sparked a dispute earlier this year with U.S. farmers. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Six terror suspects denied bail: 
Six suspected members of an al-Qaida-trained terror cell in western New York are a danger to the commu­nity and should be held without bail, a prosecutor argued Wednesday. At their arraignments, U.S. Magistrate H. Kenneth Schroeder entered innocent pleas for Sahim Alwan, 29, Faysal Galab, 26, Shafal Mosed, 24, Yasein Taber, 24, Yahya Goba, 25, and Mukhtar al-Bakri, 22. The six men sat quietly next to their lawyers Wednesday. 
Alleged abuse victims reach settlement 
Alleged sexual abuse victims of defrocked priest John Geoghan have tentatively agreed to a $10 million settle­ment from the Boston Archdiocese to drop their law­suits, their attorney said Wednesday. The money will be divided among 86 plaintiffs, with the bulk of the set­tlement $9.3 million going to those who say they were molested by Geoghan. Another 20 people who say Geoghan exposed himselfto them will split $540,000. 

Alleged militant sentenced for fraud: 
A Lebanese immigrant who allegedly told police he had been trained by Palestinian guerrillas was sentenced Wednesday to 2 112 years in prison for firearms, fraud and immigration charges. Ali Khaled Steitiye, 39, was arrested last fall by federal authorities who raided his apartment and confiscated weapons, computers equip­ment, documents and other materials, including $20,000 in cash and a plaque bearing the word "Hamas." the name of a militant group that has carried out suicide bombings in Israel. 
Clintons and Lewinsky seek legal fees: 
Monica Lewinsky, Vernon Jordan and others ensnared in various White House independent counsel investiga• tions have joined former President Clinton and Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton in seeking taxpayer reimburse­ment for their legal bills. The bills could total up to $7.8 million, according to a report in Wednesday's editions of the New York Post. 
~­
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 19, 2002 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
about the new television show that has been developed and geared toward students. 
The show will include the fol­lowing five divisions: entertain­ment, interview, interest news, spotlight on campus groups and a random segment consisting of a variety of things on campus, Johnson said. 
Johnson, along with his other executive producers, is working with Student Activities to orga­nize the show into a broadcast­ing club. 
The show will air every other Thursday, beginning Oct. 31. at 5 p.m. and reruns will be shown the following Tuesday at 11 
p.m. on local access cable Channel 3. 
Johnson said that cable is the only option now because of the lack of funds and Internet broadcasting would not be ben­eficial to the show due to cost and lack of server space. 
"It is unfortunate that cable is not in the dorms, but every stu­dent will have access to cable in their halls and at LaFortune. A nice feature will be that it is resignation to Bishop. The available to the greater South Senate unanimously approved Bend area to allow a greater Emily Chin, a freshman, as his number of people to have replacement. access to it," said Johnson. 

. Student Union Secretary Erik Contact Meghannc Downes at Smith submitted his letter of mdowncsl@nd.edu 
Trip 

continued from page 1 
about getting there as about what happens along the way," he said. 
Campus Ministry created the Sophomore Road Trip this year to better respond to specific needs of students in their sophomore year. 
"The idea behind the road trip is that we think in a lot of ways sophomores fall through the cracks," said Santoni. While 
Campus 

..rm excited. It's
Ministry and retreat. 
Notre Dame in going to be inter­"It's a fun general offered esting to find out way for us to 
many events for do something
where they ·re 

freshmen, together out­juniors and taking us.·· side of regular seniors, cam­dorm activi­pus ministers ties," she said. 
Mike McCormack 
felt that unique Sophomore
sophomore M i k e
experiences for 
sophomores were lacking. 

Santoni said the retreat would try to address the specific issues and concerns in the college journey that sophomores are experienc­ing. 
"[Sophomore year] is the first year you really own your place at Notre Dame," he said. "The trip is designed to tap into that energy." 
Sophomores attending the upcoming road trip had mixed feelings about what to expect during the road trip. 
"It's kind of exciting, but I'm a little apprehensive about what we'll be doing," said sophomore Sarah Bates. 
Bates, who attended a freshman retreat, said she hoped the road trip would allow her to develop new relationships with other stu­dents. 
"I thought it would be a great way to meet other kids in my class," she said. 
In addition to meeting other sophomores, Bates said that the trip would give her a chance to send time with her roommate, who will also attend the 
McCormack 
said he decid­ed to attend the road trip after a friend attended a similar retreat at another college. 
"I'm excited," said McCormack. "It's going to be interesting to find out where they're taking us." McCormack, who is a trans­fer student from the U.S. Air Force Academy, is attending the retreat with friends, but said he also hopes to develop new relationships and ties to the sophomore class. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

ATTENTION GUYS: There isa small number of seats left on the bus for this Friday's Sophomore Road Trip. The women's spots, on the other hand, have been filled for more than a week. Looks like the women of Notre Dame are more adventurous than the men.... 
SOPHOMORE 







Guys, There's still time to sign up for a weekend of adventure. Go to Room 111 of the CoMo by midnight on Thursday, bring some friends, fill out an application, pay 25 bucks and you're in. If you're wondering what exactly we'll be doing on the SRT, just think "Outdoors Adventure." This is not a retreat ... if it were, we'd have called it the Sophomore Retreat ... it's the Sophomore Road Trip.... don't miss it. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, September 19, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 18 
Dow Jones 
8,172.45 
' -35.10 
NASDAQ 
-7.81
1,252.13 ' 
S&P500 
869.46 
-4.06 
AMEJ( 
855.61 -1.04 
NYSE 
' 
471.69 -2.22 
TOP 5. VOLUME ' LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -7.86-0.71 8.32 
®:jii~:!~~l~ffl~:1i:1~i~ll~:l:l1:11::i::!:i:i:~i1!~l:!li!~i:i~J:l:i1iiii~~:~1~i 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -6.00-0.06 0.94 
l~¦t!lllii!l~llliil:::~Bl~iilil!ltlll;!lilliii!!;i:~!!l!l!lil!llii~lli 
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)-1.32-0.04 3.00 
IN BRIEF 
2 top Merrill Lynch execs fired 
Two top Merrill Lynch & Co. executives 
have been fired for declining to testify in fed­
eral investigations into financial transactions 
the nation's largest brokerage conducted 
with Enron Corp. in 1999. 
Thomas W. Davis, Merrill Lynch's vice chairman, and Schuyler Tilney, an invest­ment banking managing director who direct­ly oversaw corporate finance matters related to Enron, both declined to testify for investi­gations being conducted by the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission, Merrill Lynch said in a state­ment Wednesday. 
Merrill Lynch said it uncovered no evi­dence of wrongdoing by Davis and Tilney. but fired them in keeping with its policy "requiring employees to fully cooperate with regulatory and law enforcement investiga­tions." 
Hershey Trust nixes plans to sell 
No longer for sale, Hershey Foods Corp. saw its stock price drop sharply on Wednesday as speculation turned to how the charitable trust that controls the candy com­pany might now try to diversify its assets. 
"We will continue to explore alternatives," Robert Vowler, the trust's chairman and chief executive, said Wednesday, less than 12 hours after boardmembers voted 10-7 against selling Hershey Foods. 
Analysts said the Hershey Trust Co. could sell a chunk of its 43 million Hershey Foods shares to the company or place them on the open market. Whatever path the trust takes, Legg Mason analyst George Askew cautioned investors that shares of Hershey Foods could still be affected since more than half of the trust's $5. 9 billion fund is invested in Hershey Foods stock. 
While the trust's decision not to sell was cheered by Hershey residents who feared job losses and other negative economic conse­quences, Wall Street reacted unkindly. 

OPEC: We won't cut production 
. World leaders reach consensus in Japan 
Associated Press 
OSAKA, Japan 
Pushing aside worries in 
the West about high oil 
prices, several petroleum 
ministers said Wednesday 
that OPEC was lined up to 
keep its production of crude 
steady for now, and blamed 
the recent price pinch on 
talk of war in Iraq rather 
than imbalanced supply. 
Consuming nations 
including the United States 
want more oil in the market 
especially with demand for 
winter heating fuel ramping 
up. But as ministers of the 
oil exporting cartel met for 
informal talks ahead of 
Thursday's official output 
meeting, many indicated 
the group won't act now. 
OPEC's key player, Saudi Arabia, has not publicly dis­closed its stance for Thursday's meeting. But Kuwait's acting minister said Wednesday that Saudi oil minister Ali Naimi has already agreed with the majority that favors keeping OPEC's stated output capped at 21. 7 million bar­rels a day. 

"Everybody is willing to keep the current OPEC ceil­ing," Sheikh Ahmed Al Fahd Al Ahmed Al Sabah said after an evening meet­offered to readmit U.N. cents at $29.55. "There's enough crude on ing with Naimi. Saudi weapons inspectors. Oil Analysts believe quota­the market now." Arabia has the most oil, and prices fell immediately on busting by many OPEC Indonesian oil minister its decisions often sway the the news. members has boosted the Purnomo Yusgiantoro said group. But Washington calls cartel's real total output by earlier. 
OPEC ministers have said Iraq's statement a ploy to as much as 2 million bar­Oil importers including the market is well supplied avoid serious trouble with rels a day, and most minis­the United States, the at present, and many blame the U.N. Security Council ters have said supply seems world's biggest, have prices which bumped and analysts say the war adequate for now. pushed producers to pump against $30 a barrel near premium could stay in Emerging from a more as the peak demand 19-month highs on a so­place for the foreseeable Wednesday session with season approaches and called "war premium" future. As it became appar­ministers from Nigeria and worries about a U.S. attack whipped up by worries U.S. ent Wednesday that OPEC Venezuela, as well as the on Iraq have lifted prices by President George W. Bush would likely keep official OPEC secretary-general, $2 to $4 per barrel. will attack Iraq to try top­production unchanged, Qatari minister Abdullah The International Energy pling President Saddam prices were already creep­bin Hamad al-Attiyah said Agency, a Paris-based Hussein. ing higher. all were opposed to boost­industry watchdog group, 
Such a conflict could On the London futures ing output. warned earlier this month interrupt oil supplies from market, Brent crude to be Ministers from the Gulf that more volatile oil prices the Middle East and drive delivered in November was states of Saudi Arabia, will loom this winter if up prices. up 35 cents at $28.32 per Qatar, Kuwait and the OPEC refuses to boost crude 
The urgency for OPEC to barrel. On the New York United Arab Emirates met production as major temper prices now with an Mercantile Exchange, a in the evening and the importing countries head output increase was under­similar grade of crude for Kuwaiti came out with a into the peak heating oil cut Tuesday when Iraq October delivery was up 47 similar message. season. 

Energy companies dispute report 
ly darkened traffic signals, homes Operator, which manages much of 
Associated Press 

and businesses. the state's power grid. 
SAN FRANCISCO The PUC said Duke Energy, Dynegy Duke spokesman Patrick Mullen 
Duke Energy and other power pro­Power Marketing Inc., Mirant said Wednesday the PUC report con­ducers are disputing the results of an Americas Energy Marketing, Reliant tained "blatantly false and mislead­investigation by California regulators Power Generation and AES ing statements" and that the North that found most rolling blackouts Corporation/Williams Energy Carolina-based company made all 
could have been avoided if genera­Marketing and frading Company did electricity available to the state when tors had not withheld electricity at not offer the state all available elec­its power plants were not down for crucial times. tricity from their power plants maintenance or to avoid breaking air 
The report, released Tuesday by despite emergency requests from pollution standards, statements the state Public Utilities Commission, power grid operators. echoed by representatives of the analyzed sales data, documents and Industry representatives, however, other companies. electronic records of the five largest say the numbers do not tell the In a statement, Mullen points to the non-utility power generators whole story. Instead, they maintain PUC's assertion that Duke had power between November 2000 and May the companies bumped output up or available on May 8, 9 and 10 of 2001. That's when an energy crisis down based on orders from the 2001, which could have been used to forced prices skyward and repeated-California Independent System prevent blackouts. 

Thursday, September 19, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
FRANCE 

Nazi wartime collaborator leaves prison 
like Papon, who now have the believe it," lawyer Jean-Marc form ofremorse," he said. they are suffering from a fatal ill­
. Judges rule 

right to rest in their old age." Varaut told reporters outside the Papon argued during his 1998 ness, or that their long-termconvicted felon too Papon's lawyers hailed his prison. "I told him he was free. trial that he was just a middle­health is jeopardized by impris­old to serve release as "a great victory." He said: 'How did it happen?"' man and should not be held onment. 
Papon had triple coronary Lawyers said Papon didn't lis­accountable. He testified he was A court rejected the request bypass surgery several years ago ten to the radio Wednesday not actively aiding the Nazis, but July 24, but Papon's lawyers
Associated Press 

and has a pacemaker. His morning, so convinced was he was merely a functionary relay­appealed. 
imprisonment set off a debate that this appeal would fail like all ing orders from superiors. The three-judge panel that
PARIS 

about the ethics of jailing the those before. He gathered his During the Nazi occupation, freed Papon on Wednesday said 
Frail but now a free man. 

elderly. prison belongings in stunned Papan was second in command several doctors decided his
wartime collaborator Maurice 

Jewish silence, includ­of Bordeaux police and signed health was "incompatible with
Papon walked out of prison 

groups ing framed orders that led to the deportation his remaining in detention." 
Wednesday and into a storm of "My father, my mother 

a c c u s e d photos of his of 1,690 Jews from 1942-1944. French President Jacquespublic outrage after judges ruled France of and my uncle were killed dead wife and Most were sent to Auschwitz. Chirac had previously turnedhim too old and sick to finish his turning its at Auschwitz because of Gen. Charles de After the war, Papan became down three requests to pardon
10-year sentence for helping 

back on Gaulle. Varaut Paris police chief in 1958. a post Papon. Though Chirac did not
send Jews to Nazi death camps. people like Papon." 

Holocaust vic­said. he held until 1967. In 1968 he comment Wednesday, his cen­To victims of France's wartime 
tiins. Papon, wear• was elected to parliament, and ter-right government expressed regime and their families, the "We had Colette Guttman ing a quilted in 1979 became budget minister its disapproval of Papon'sdecision by appeals court judges 
fought so hard bystander jacket despite under President Valery Giscard release.
to release the 92-year-old Papan 

so he would the warm d'Estaing. "We believed that his
after serving less than three 

stay in weather, Papon's continued
years of his sentence erased the 

prison," said Serge Klarsfeld. a emerged from the prison four wartime imprisonment
huge moral victory they won 

"A man who committed
Nazi hunter and historian who hours after the ruling. A few pro• record was was necessary,with his 1998 conviction. 
helped produce much of the evi­testers shouted "Papon, assas­revealed in such grave crimes taking into
After the longest trial in 

dence used at Papon's 1998 trial. sin." Anti-riot police kept them 1981, but his account the
French history, Papon was con­against the Jewish 
His release, he said, "gives a and journalists at a distance as trial did not seriousness ofvicted for complicity in crimes 
people and humanity
feeling ofinjustice." Papon was quickly driven off by start until the chargesagainst humanity for his role in 
"What I hope is that this sick lawyers to his family's villa in the 1997. Like ought to end his days in against him."
deporting 1,690 Jews to 

man doesn't turn out to be town of Gretz-Armainvilliers, other senior said Justice
Germany as second-in-command jail."
healthy," Klarsfeld said. east ofParis. Vichy officials Ministerof Bordeaux area police. Most 
The U.S.-based Simon Papon's six-month trial and who evaded Dominique
were sent to Auschwitz death Wiesenthal Center called the conviction was seen as France's justice, Papon Michael Melchior Perben.

camp and only a few survived. 

Papon fled to Switzerland after release "a bad case of misplaced coming to terms with its painful was shielded Deputy foreign minister of Israel Lawyers said sympathy." collaboration with Nazi at the highest Papon will not
his conviction, but was arrested 

Israel's Foreign Ministry also Germany. He was the most levels. In be subjected toand began serving his sentence 
expressed regret. senior official from the pro-Nazi 1994, then-President Francois any surveillance but will have toin October 1999. 
..A man who committed such Vichy regime tried for crimes Mitterrand admitted in a televi­inform a judge when he leaves"I can't believe this is happen­
grave crimes against the Jewish against humanity. sion interview he intervened to his residence, an elegant buting," said Colette Guttman, as 
people and humanity ought to Papon has said he feels no stall the case. decaying mansion outside ofshe watched Papon shuffle out of 
end his days in jail," said Israel's regret for his wartime acts. His His lawyers filed a release Paris.
Paris' La Sante prison into a 

deputy foreign minister, Rabbi lawyer, Varaut, said Wednesday request this summer, based on a The Paris prosecutor's office
waiting car. "My father, my 

Michael Melchior. he did not expect Papon to new provision in French law that said it will not appeal the court's mother and my uncle were killed 
Papon himself was said to have change his mind. "It would be allows prisoners to be freed if decision to free him, judicial offi­at Auschwitz because of people been incredulous. "He didn't unthinkable for him to express a two independent doctors agree cials said. 
I careerf~ir



participating~
thursday C::,3
Abbott Laboratories Kraft Abercrombie & Fitch Lutron Electronics Co.
septe¦'lnber ,g 

ABN AMRO/LaSalle Bank Midwest Family Accenture Broadcast Group
6:00 pm -S:30 pm C $
A.G. Edwards Morgan Stanley Morningstar, Inc. 
n,
Undergraduate seniors, second-year MBAs, American Express 

Financial Advisors National City Corporation
MS in Accountancy students 

American Management Newell Rubbermaid 
(attire is business formal) 

Systems (AMS) News America Marketing 
Aon Corporation Northwestern Mutual rD'-
Bain & Company Financial Network -
Hoopis Financial
friday 

Bank One Corporation Oak Brook Bank
BDO Seidman 
Pfizer

septe1-...ber 20 ~ 
Bibb and Associates, Inc. PNC Financial Services Group
bp
'10:00 am -2:00 pm 

PricewaterhouseCoopers
California Franchise Tax Board Procter & Gamble -Finance
All students regardless of degree, CAREMARK 

and Accounting
major, college, or year Carson Pirie Scott & Co. 

Procter & Gamble ­(attire is business casual) Central Intelligence Agency Marketing/Brand Chicago Consulting Actuaries Managernent Chicago Mercantile Exchange Protlvlti
joyce center north dome 

CIGNA Quad/Graphics
(hockey rink side), enter gate 3 

Citigroup/Salomon Robert VV. Baird & Co. Smith Barney 

SBC Ameritech Corporation Cochran, Caronia & Co. 
SCORE Small Business Crowe, Chizek and Company Development Center
~ 
___.....~~ Sloan

Davis Conder Enderle & SEt Investments Deloitte & Touche Smart and Associates Deloitte Consulting (soon to Social Security Administration 
become Braxton) 

State Farm Driehaus Capital 
fi ndOL_Jt¦-nore! 

Strong Financial CorporationFor more information about Management, Inc. 
Stryker Instruments the participating companies, E & J Gallo VVinery 
Susquehanna International 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car

job descriptions, and contacts, Group Ernst & Young
access The Career Center website: Target Corporation FactSet Research Systems, Inc. 
Teach For America
• Go to "careercenter.nd.edu" 
Federal Bureau of 

The Boston Beer Company
Investigation

• Click on the "Undergraduates"title bar, then The Boston Consulting GroupFiserv
click on the "Go IRISH" title bar and enter The Gallup Organization
General Electric 

username and password The St. Paul Companies
General Mills, Inc. 

Towers Perrin 
• Click on "Jobs & Internships" Gibson & Associates, Inc. 

Travelers 
Headstrong

• Type in "BCF" (include the quotation marks) Tucker Alan Inc. 
H-E-B Grocery Company
in the "keywords" textbox and then click Uline 
Hewlett Packard 

U.S. Army Healthcare
on "Search" 
Honeywell 

U.S. Navy -Click on either "Job Title" or "Employer" Houlihan Lokey Howard 
U.S. Securities and Exchange
& Zukin

title bar for an alphabetical list ofjobs or Commission, Midwest 
Huron Consulting Group Regional Office

companies attending the Fair 
IBM 

UnumProvident lndalex 
Vanguard Indiana Department Visteon Corporation
of Transportation

THE 
VVachovia 
lnteCap

CAREER \/Valgreens
Johnson & Johnson

Urd'VC"r9lty or Not:J::-c D~ \/Veils Fargo
CENTER :M:-.d<»-College 0/f ~-Jones Lang LaSalle William Blair & Company
KPMG 

VVorld Business Chicago 

Thursday, September 19, 2002 

The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS page 9 
Web site shows Bush has royal family ties 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush, Princess Diana and Winston Churchill are distant relatives whose ancestry can be traced back to a 15th cen­t u r y English squire, genealo­gists say. 
R e 
searchers for the U.S.-based company MyFam­ily.com, which has a license to publish British census records from 1841 to 1901 on the Internet, found that the trio's roots can be traced to Henry Spencer· of Badby. Northamptonshire, who lived between 1420-1478 and was married to Isabella Lincoln. 
According to a family tree published on the company's Web site, one of their two sons, William, founded the line that would produce Winston Churchill and Diana, Princess of Wales, whose maiden name was Spencer. Churchill's middle names were Leonard Spencer. 
The daughter of the other son, John, married Sir William Cope and the descendants of this line settled in the New World. 

They included Anne Marbury, who moved from Lincolnshire, England to Massachusetts dur­ing the 1600s. A direct descen­dent, Harriet Fay, married James Bush, the great-great grandfather of the current president, the company said. 
Bush is an admirer of Churchill and keeps in the Oval Office a bronze bust of the British leader -a loan from Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
When he received the bust in July 2001, Bush joked that he hoped to develop a personal relationship with the late wartime premier. 
"I look forward to visiting with him," Bush said. "Sometimes he'll talk back and sometimes he won't, depending on the stresses of the moment." 
A spokeswoman for MyFamily.com said the discov­ery was made only recently, and further research was ongo­ing to find out more about Henry Spencer. 
Bush's apparent royal con­nections have been revealed before. 
According to Gary Boyd Roberts, a genealogist at the New England Historic Genealogical Society in Boston, Bush is descended from British royalty going as far back as 12th century King Henry I, the son of William the Conqueror. 

Arrests made in Web drug sales 
• Officials search for 'date rape' drug transactions on 'Net 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a clamp down on Internet drug dealers, federal. state and local authorities said Wednesday they have made arrests and conducted search­es in dozens of U.S. cities where traffickers have used computers to sell the "date rape" drug GHB. 
Investigators conducted more than 150 searches and made a number of arrests in a law enforcement sweep in more than 70 U.S. cities, marking the first-ever probe of its kind involving the Internet and GHB, said a federal law enforcement official. 

The official said about 2 5 dealers were considered pri­mary targets in the investiga­tion, which began two years ago. 
The traffickers operated their own Web sites where customers could log on and put in their orders for GHB and similar drugs, which would then be delivered via the mail. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft and Drug Enforcement Administration Director Asa Hutchinson planned to detail the operation at a news conference Thursday. 
The U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the Customs Service and the FBI also participated in the probe. 
GHB is a mixture of common industrial chemicals that Congress outlawed several years ago. The drug and its derivatives, GBL and 1,4 BD, act as central nervous system depressants and cause drowsi­ness, dizziness. nausea and loss of inhibition. 
Education efforts by law enforcement agencies and the government have been aimed at warning women about predators who could spike their drinks with the drug. 
People who use it refer to GHB as "G" and "Liquid X." 
The DEA has documented 72 deaths from GHB and the drug's derivatives. 

Web security plan changes little 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A national report on securing computer net­works that will be submitted to President Bush avoids calls for new federal mandates and encourages businesses to use security improve­ments to reassure worried consumers. 
The Bush administration's senior adviser on cyber security, Richard Clarke, said the propos­al's emphasis on voluntary improvements was based on a recognition that, "government can't do it all by itself." 
"Government regulation and government's heavy hand is really not the solution here," Clarke said Tuesday, the eve of the proposal's release at an event in Silicon Valley. 

The National Strategy to Secure Cyberspace includes nearly 60 suggestions for improving computer security for home users, small busi­nesses, universities, large corporations and government agencies. 
It encourages software engineers to be more careful with products they design, and compa­nies to test their internal cyber security regu­larly. It also recommends a code of conduct for Internet providers to follow when an attack is underway. 
One leaked copy of the final plan was pub­lished on the Internet late Tuesday. 
\The llanley Leclu:re Series on PohHes anJ Public Pohcy \ 
.... -­
E 
• • 
Washington Post Columnist andAuthor Senior Fellow, The Brookings Institution 
will deliver a public lecture 

"Will Enron or Saddam Dominate This Year's Election?" 
Tuesday, September 24 
4:15 p.m. 
Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Sponsored by: The Washington Program 



page 10 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS Thursday, September 19, 2002 
U-WIRE 
Texas executes former A&M student 
By PATRICK TIMMONS 
Daily Texan 
LMNGSTON, Texas 
The state ofTexas is scheduled to exe­cute former Texas A&M University stu­dent Ron Shamburger at 6 p.m. Wednesday at the Walls Unit in Huntsville, Texas for the 1994 murder of Lori Ann Baker. 
the exercise yard, and there was a day room to play board games or watch TV. Inmates worked in the garment factory making orange safety vests and guards' uniforms. 
..Now all that's gone," Shamburger said. As a response to the escape, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice moved death row from Ellis to the newer, high-security Polunsky Unit near 
Lake Livingston, 
Shamburger spoke to ~7 don't see death as an about 40 miles east 
The Daily Texan from of Huntsville. At
end. In some ways, its a
death row at the Polunsky, inmates Polunsky Unit in beginning. Because of are placed in solitary Livingston, Texas. my faith and what I confinement for 23 
Shamburger has lived on hours a day with one
believe in -eternity ­
death row for almost hour of out-of-cell seven-and-a-half years, death is in some ways a time, Shamburgerthe average length of said.
benefit. it's a plus. •• 
time it takes most Reading and lis­inmates to exhaust feder­tening to the radio
Ron Shamburger
al and state appeals. Two occupies most of weeks before his execu­convicted murderer Shamburger's time 
tion date, Shamburger spoke of studying at A&M, life on death row and his understanding of capital punishment. 
"I went to A&M. I remember being in college and roaming around, and then getting confined. I've always tried to adapt to what I'm given, to enjoy what I have. There are some advantages to being alone. I have time to think and write people. And you get to know peo­ple in a different way than when there's something constantly going on," Sham­burger said. 
Life on death row changed after a high-profile prison escape in 1999 from the Ellis Unit in Huntsville, Shamburger said. At Ellis, Shamburger had a cell­mate, and inmates used to occupy their time with exercise, games and work. Small groups could play basketball in 
at Polunsky. He doesn't speak through his cell door with other inmates very much and only sometimes writes letters, because there is not that much to say. Life on death row is routine, he said. 
"You can say the same thing, over and over. I woke up. I had breakfast. Got my hour outside. There's not a whole lot of day-to-day activity. At least not where I've been. There are some areas that are more active, guys beating and banging and carrying on," Shamburger said.Time spent alone has given Shamburger the opportunity to reflect on capital punishment. Shamburger said before he committed his crime, he supported the death penalty without so much as a second thought. 
Born in Amarillo, Texas. Shamburger then lived in the Houston area and final­ly moved to the East Texas town of Longview when he was 10. 
Shamburger said he now thinks differ­ently about the death penalty. Life in prison might be harder than death, he 
said . 
"If you were to ask me today, 'Do you support the death penalty?', it's a hard question. I look at myself, and I view myself. What do I deserve? What have I done? What is a legitimate punishment for my crime? And I can't say that the death penalty is the only punishment. 
"There's a loss of life in a life sen­tence, doing a minimum of 40 years. You would have to meet such standards to ever receive a parole -I guess the system can change. you never know what is going to happen -but the odds of me ever entering the free world again are nothing. Is that a legitimate punish­ment? It's a real punishment. In some ways, it's a harder punishment," Shamburger said. 
Shamburger entered death row a Christian and says his faith has matured. If he receives a stay or not, Shamburger said he "gives that decision to the Lord," adding that he is ready to die. 
"I don't see death as an end. In some ways, it's a beginning," Shamburger said. "Because of my faith and what I believe in -eternity -death is in some ways a benefit, it's a plus. I'm moving from a state which is corrupted with sin, with pain, with suffering, and I'm mov­ing to the presence of God, where there is no more sin, there is no more taint of evil. ... Death is in some ways an easier punishment for me. I'm not saying I want to die, but I'm prepared to die, I'm ready to die. Death gives me true life, where now I am just a shadow of life," Shamburger said. 

Officials rule coed's death an accident 
By JUSTIN YOUNG 
Daily Orange 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 

Officials from the Onondaga County Sheriff's Office confirmed Tuesday that the death of Syracuse University student Nicholas Delpozo at Pratt's Falls p~rk was an accident. 
Sgt. John D'Eredita of the sheriffs department said results from the autopsy as well as further investiga­tion ruled out both foul play and sui­cide. 
He added that Delpozo, a senior television-radio-film major, called a friend and said he was going "creek walking" before he left. 
On Sunday, Delpozo's body was found at the base of Pratt's Falls after a maintenance worker discov­ered his locked vehicle in the parking lot and called the sheriff's depart­ment to find the owner. 
Pratt's Falls is more than 130-feet tall, but it is unknown from which point he fell. · 
D'Eredita said that after Delpozo suffered injuries from his fall, he eventually drowned underneath the waterfall. 
On campus, many continued to mourn. Dennis Padula, a junior music industry major, said he compares the loss of Delpozo to the loss of a family member, because he was so close with him. 

Thursday, September 19, 2002 

The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 11 
Court date set in Ryder case 

Associated Press 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. 
Negotiations for a plea bargain 
in Winona Ryder's shoplifting 
case have fallen apart, so a judge 
on Wednesday set a trial date. 
Deputy District Attorney Ann 
Rundle didn't describe the offer 
made to the actress or say why it 
was withdrawn. 
Superior Court Judge Elden 
Fox then set Oct. 7 for a trial. 
Ryder, 30, is charged with sec­ond-degree burglary, grand theft, vandalism and possession of a controlled substance. She could face three years in prison if convicted. 
Ryder, star of "Girl, Interrupted," didn't appear in court. 
Shepard Kopp, one of Ryder's attorneys, wouldn't entirely rule out the possibility of further negotiations. 
"You never say never," said Kopp, adding: "Winona is look­ing forward to the chance to prove herself innocent of the charges." 
Sandi Gibbons, a spokes­woman for the district attorney's office, said a settlement can even be reached in mid-trial. but that it was unlikely. 
"I fully expect there will be a trial," she said. 
Ryder was arrested Dec. 12 at the Saks Fifth Avenue in Beverly Hills for allegedly stealing nearly $6,000 worth of designer mer­chandise and illegally possessing painkillers. 

Daughters sue James Brown 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

James Brown's daugh­
ters have filed a federal 
lawsuit against the 
Godfather of Soul, seek-
i n g 
more 
than 
$ 1 
mil­
lion 
i n 
back 
roy­
alties 


Brown

and dam­ages for 25 songs they say they co-wrote. 
Deanna Brown Thomas, who works at a South Carolina radio sta­tion, and Dr. Yamma Brown Lumar, a Texas physician, say Brown has withheld royalties because of a family grudge. 
Even though they were children when the songs were written -3 and 6 when "Get Up Offa That Thing" was a hit in 1976 -Brown's daughters helped write them, said their attorney, Gregory Reed. 
"This is a sad sce­
nario," Reed said. "They 
didn't want to handle it 
this way." 
Brown, 69, could not 
be reached for comment 
Tuesday. 
The singer has held a grudge against his daughters since at least 1998, when Thomas had her father committed to a psychiatric hospital to be treated for addiction to painkillers, according to the lawsuit. 
The civil action alleges breach of contract, negli­gence and racketeering, court records show. 
After his release, Brown "vowed to the media that his daughters will never get a dime from him," the lawsuit said. "James Brown has kept his word." 
Brown grew up in Augusta and lives across the Savannah River in Beech Island, S.C. 
In a letter to Reed almost a year ago, The Atlanta Journal­Constitution reported, Brown's lawyer Leon Friedman agreed that some money was owed to Brown's daughters ­about $66,000. 

THE WASHINGTON PROG~UM 
APPLICATIONMEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Wednesday, September 25 7.·00 P.M. 136 DeBartolo 
FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 Thursday, September 19, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
1H ~D,.;/y N_,,,,,.,, s.r.;,,t Notn ~,,,.,/ S.U•t M.ry•, 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER 
Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7 471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................................................ ..........631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................63 I-4 543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................63 l-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARf's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB A.DMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://oburver.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstioru regarding Observer policies should bt direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obocr,,;, {USPS 599 2•4000) i, published Mond.y through Friday uapt during cum and vacation ptriodt. A s1.1:btcript:ion to The Ohkrva ii SIOO for one acadcm.ic }'t'1; $55 for one"""""'· 
The Obattvcr ii published at: POSTMASTER OH Souch Dining Hall Send aJd.ra1 Gorm:tion, co: 
Noa,: D.mc, IN 465S6-0n9 The Oboe,...., 
Periodical po,ugc p...J ., Nouc Dame P.O. BoxQ and additional m~ling off&«s. 02< Souch Dining Hall 
NoU< Dame. IN 46SS6-0779 
Tbc Obicrvcr is a member of cbc Ailocia.tcd rress. All reproduction rtghu arc r~d. 


Who knew that that Notre Dame could "wake up the echoes cheering her name" across the oceans? 
Last Saturday, 150 anxious London students gathered in our classroom Andrew gallery to watch 
DeBarry
what we had only been able to see 
ND Going 
through stats the weeks before: a Global Notre Dame foot­ball game. During the Irish Kick-off Classic, we had stayed up past two in the morning to call any­one near a telephone that could pass on details of the game: friends, strangers down the hall, sophomores living in our old rooms, even the Notre Dame opera­tor. 
The one person we reached was watching a movie, missing the first sea­son's game. The 10 people huddled in our room around the phone groaned into the receiver before looking for some alternative to get out that Irish spirit. Singing the Fight Song late Saturday night in an eighth floor room overlooking the London skyline has never been better. 
After working out some NBC copy­right rules, the sign was posted: "Notre Dame football game broadcast on Saturday." The news spread through the program like wildfire, and at 7:30 
p.m. London time before a projected web broadcast screen, fingers of stu­dents, Notre Dame alumni and English staff were making circles in the air as ball was kicked off. 
We did our best to bring the game here. The Irish spirit was brought to life by a mix of people -whether they were a cheerleader, folk choir singer or Old College guy. and few seconds passed where we weren't chanting, "We are ND," doing the wave, yelling from seeing the leprechaun and the cheerleaders or watching America's best band and its drum line display the Irish spirit. 
When the team swatted the two-point conversion and made the final intercep­tion, everyone was on their chairs. and we watched the Irish green surge into the field. As some of you ran through the campus Peace Memorial. some of us ran through the nearby Trafalgar Square fountains. Though abroad, the game will be one of the best we will have ever seen. Thanks to the football and also to the soccer and volleyball teams for making us loud and proud to be Irish. 
The spirit is alive and well in London. 
When we first arrived, our eyes were glazed over from looking at the city buildings with stone architecture from centuries past and red double-stacked buses meandering through the street. The first days were like Freshman Orientation, asking new people the classic "Where you from?" and "What's your major?" 
Freshmen. plan ahead now. One­third of you will leave the country dur­ing your studies at Notre Dame. You can turn in your art credit to wander through architectural greats in Rome or your foreign language requirement to study German in Austria. With 37 percent of students going abroad, Notre Dame ranks virtually at the top in the nation for the strength of its abroad programs. 
The Irish spirit has been carried here with the support of enthusiastic and experienced staff on campus and abroad. The rector and rectress wel­comed us with open arms, and last Sunday they organized a social for us, complete with a live band and lessons on English folk dancing. Next week is our first of two weeklong breaks, and Notre Dame will he dispersing from this city to cover every edge of Europe. 
Because the pace is more relaxed, we're able to draw together in commu­nity away from campus. We get a weekly stipend for food, and we gather in the evenings to try our luck cooking flat dinners. Program leaders are wise to encourage us to join up and take advantage of the opportunities in Europe. The mission statement refined by administrators and CSC leaders on campus is brought to life. For good rea­son does the University "pride itself on being an environment of teaching and learning that fosters the development in its students of those disciplined habits of mind, body and spirit that characterize educated. skilled and free human beings." 
Adjusting to life in another country doesn't come without its humor. If see­ing one disoriented American won't make the English laugh, maybe 10 will. At least the crosswalk arrows point the direction to look before crossing to keep that big red bus from knocking us out. 

Having new flat-mates is also a come­dy. With pairs randomly put together, our seven-man room always has some production going on. The best were the first homemade dinners: "What's this with the beans, sugar and cornstarch?" "Oh, I call it glop." Yum! With a girl across the hall telling about how a Frenchman proposed to her, the doc­tor-hopeful going nuts over English fut­bol and the ROTC Russian major telling stories about bears in Moscow. each minute is full of surprises. 
Four weeks into the program, we are finally getting acculturated. Between passing the word on food deals at Safeway and finding time to play futbol in Hyde Park, our tourist colors are shedding. "Glop" has been transformed into a fine chicken dinner, and some know better now than to walk through the park late at night. 
Being abroad is also about connect­ing with the local culture. With prayer services and "Mass of the week" orga­nized by the students, we're able to stand together in faith with people here. Thanks to Campus Ministry's ded­icated work, efforts towards a pilgrim­age and service opportunities will help us engage the local community in tutor­ing English children in their homes or feeling the cares of the city's poor. 
These immersion opportunities are the most special part of this abroad program. Whether it's playing with dis­abled children for a psychology class or learning about the economics causing Mexican farmers to go hungry, Notre Dame gives us the opportunity to take our skills into another culture and apply them in our work and play to help people better than ourselves. Through its abroad programs and its relentless heart, Notre Dame is taking its power for servant-leadership and is going global. 
Andrew DeBerry is a senior studying aerospace engineering and with the Hesburgh Program ofPublic Service who is spending this semester in London. He welcomes e-mails at ade­berry@nd.edu. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports 
Justin Krivickas Lauren Dassl Jason McFarley Katie McVoy 
Has the new alcohol policy prompted you to 

"We make war that we might live in peace. " 
Sarah Nestor Matt Lozar 
tailgate off campus? 
Viewpoint Scene 
Aristotle
Kristin Yemm C. Spencer 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 

Greek philosopher
Graphics Beggs Chris Naidus Lab Tech Sofia Ballon 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, September 19, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Saint Mary's ranks first in hearts ofalumnae 
I am writing in response to Courtney Boyle's Inside Column published on Sept. 13, entitled "Is SMC No. 1 or lacking?" 
I agree with Boyle that Saint Mary's is not for everyone. No college or university, however great, is perfect for every student. Saint Mary's is "the nation's premier Catholic women's college" focused on liberally educating its students, and for this, Saint Mary's has been ranked No. 1 in its category the past eight out of nine years in "U.S. News and World Report." However, it is not solely the educational experience that makes me believe that ranking is justified. 
I also agree with Boyle that Saint Mary's was not as "glorified as promised in the brochure" because my experience was far more enrich­ing than could ever be described in a simple brochure. Saint Mary's proved to be the school I needed to provide the intellectual, emotional and spiritual stimulation I now possess and need in the world I face today. 
I am frequently in contact with the many administration, faculty and staff members that I came to know and care for through various organi­zations on campus. I always knew that Saint Mary's was a special place but never fully appreciated its uniqueness until after I left. I can now see what I was fortunate enough to have experienced. I pity those whose col­lege experiences were not as fruitful as mine. 
Most importantly, Saint Mary's is a Catholic institution. This fact is dif­ficult to miss when researching Saint Mary's. It promotes open-minded­ness, social awareness and compassion for others, yet it is a Catholic col­lege and continues to cultivate its Catholic heritage. More than just growing intellectually through the education I have received. I have developed into a morally and religiously grounded woman with a sense of duty to give back what I have so fortunately received. 
I challenge Boyle, a year from now, to re-evaluate her experience at Saint Mary's. I wonder if she will feel as thankful and as blessed as I and many other alumnae, to be a graduate of Saint Mary's College. 
Kathryn Goolsby 
class of'OO Sept. 17 

Administration should not force doctrine on student body 
In response to recent letters to the edi• tor about the Notre Dame sex policy, I want to bring up an issue that needs to be discussed. While I do not feel that freely giving out contraceptives on cam­pus should be encouraged, I do feel that Notre Dame's sex policy needs to be changed. 
Notre Dame encourages non-Catholics to attend this school. The administration tells its students that it's OK not to be Catholic and that as a non-Catholic, you are not pressured or forced to accept the Catholic doctrine. Here is where Notre Dame becomes hypocritical in not only its sex policy, but in other aspects of campus life as well. 
As a non-Catholic, why should I be forced to adhere to the no-sex policy laid down by the administration on the basis of Catholic teaching? As a non-Catholic, why should I be forced not to eat meat in the dining halls during Lent? Shouldn't these decisions reside with the person making them, not only for a non-Catholic but for a Catholic themselves? These are actions that require moral resolve; not to engage in them just because the policy of Notre Dame won't allow it does not make you any more righteous than me. 

A retort that I often hear when I bring up these issues is that I didn't have to come to Notre Dame and that I knew the rules before I got here. But aren't we saying that Notre Dame's policies are built upon Catholic doctrine in the first place, a doctrine that I don't think any of us fully understand? In addition. it's hard to realize the full extent of the rules before you experience them. I mean, how many of us thought that parietals wouldn't be so bad before we got here? 
As I understand it, the current sex poli• cy states that a student can be kicked off campus or even expelled if they are caught having pre-marital sex. I realize that as a Catholic university, Notre Dame has a responsibility to uphold Catholic doctrine and encourage Catholic morals. However, forcing its students to abide by the rules of Catholicism is simply unfair and unacceptable. Morality should be expressed by a person's actions and not forced upon us by an institution. 
Ramin Saghafi 
sophomore St. Edward's Hall Sept. 18 

We must go to war now to remove Saddam's government 
I have been particularly amazed at the 
bias shown in The Observer over the 
possible war with Iraq. Article after arti­
cle is blatantly critical of the United 
States government and its policies. I 
welcome the opinions of all people; how­
ever, in order to have a healthy, well­
balanced debate on this subject, the 
opposing viewpoint must be heard as 
well. 
The "loud minority .. in this country, 
over the past few months, has been 
clamoring about the "war mongers" in 
the Bush administration. According to 
these folks, we have neither the evi­
dence nor the justification to go to war 
with Iraq. I would urge them to consider 
the following evidence. 
Iraq is clearly a state-sponsor ofter­
rorism. Financial transactions prove this 
-Hussein compensates the families of . suicide bombers as a reward for the destruction of innocent lives. Hussein has used chemical and biolog­ical warfare on his own people. 
Hussein has invaded and brutally 
attacked two countries, without provo­
cation, out of imperialist desires. 
Hussein has violated 16 U.N. resolu­
tions which were passed after the Gulf 
War. 
Hussein is the most brutal and repres­sive ruler of our time, as he continues to violate human rights in an unimaginable way. 
He is clearly pursuing weapons of mass destruction, and although he may not have a nuclear bomb as of now, it won't be long until he does. Evidence of his present capabilities suggests that he is incredibly close to developing such a weapon. Such an event would be cata­strophic. Do we need any more evidence to act? 
Haven't we learned anything from Sept. 11? The United States govern­ment, for the better part of a decade, ignored the activities of al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden. Each day of inaction, the threat of terror attacks grew, and on Sept. 11, 3,000 Americans paid the ulti­mate price for the government's obliv­ion. Foreign policy changed on Sept. 11. The best way to stop terrorism is to pre­vent attacks before they happen. This country has an opportunity and respon­sibility to prevent such deadly attacks. 
Imagine the consequences of turning a blind eye to Hussein's aggressive and lethal campaign: Historically speaking, Hussein shows no signs that he will hes­itate to use weapons of mass destruction against blameless civilians. He has used chemical and biological warfare on his own people, and he will surely do it again if given the chance. 
Many critics say that Hussein is too concerned about preserving his own power and therefore would never attack the United States. However, I'm sure Hussein would be glad to hand over a nuclear weapon to al-Qaeda or Hamas -that way, the blood is not on his hands. The magnitude and devastation of such an event is too horrific to con­template. The man does not value human life, and you cannot negotiate with such a man. Is this country going to stand idle while the world's worst leader creates the world's worst weapon? 
On Monday, the Iraqi government released a letter inviting the U.N. weapons inspectors to Baghdad -the inspectors would be allowed to search "without conditions." Further investiga­tion reveals that Hussein failed to men­
tion that he was only referring to the 
inspections of military bases. This way, 
the weapons hid under schools and 
hospitals cannot be found 
because Hussein simply 
won't allow inspections 
in those areas. This 
game of cat-and­
mouse will continue 
indefinitely with 
Hussein. He can­
not be trusted. 
For years, the United Nations has revealed its complacency and apathy for the situation in Iraq. One would think that a world organization founded on peace and human rights would have addressed the tyrannical actions of Hussein by now. Amazingly, however, the United Nations continues to ignore this brutal regime. The United Nations must enforce its own resolutions. This is the last stage of diplomacy. 
There is a blatant contradiction among many of the Bush administra­tion's critics. In 1991, under President George H.W. Bush, the critics vehement­ly opposed action in Iraq. In 1998, these same critics praised the actions of the Clinton Administration. And now, in 2002, these same critics vehemently 

oppose action under the command of President George W. Bush. It appears that some people may be putting poli­tics ahead of the safety and security of the world's peo­ple. I would hope and trust that even they would agree that if Hussein does not comply with the 
U.N. resolutions this time, it is 
time for the United States and the world to take definitive 
action. Face the fact: George W. Bush is an incredibly 
strong and uni• fying leader, and the proof is in the pudding. We are winning the war on terror with unprecedented 
resolve and compas­sion. Saddam Hussein tap­
danced around the Clinton 

administration and the United Nations for years. And although Hussein might continue to play hide-and-seek with the United Nations, he is not going to fool the American people. We cannot wait around for another Sept. 11 -Wl' must act now before it is too late. 
Mike Koprowski fre,hm.in Kno11 HJJI S,·pr. 18 
O
THE
BSERVER 

Thursday, September 19, 2002
page 14 


By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Editor 
Movies have become an essential part of modern artistic expression. Films like "Gone With the Wind" and "Casablanca" are not just good movies, but a reflection of the way we live. Today, movies have gone leaps and bounds past the grainy reproductions. But to understand where cinema is going, it's important to understand where it came from. The first half of movie history, from the late 1800s to the early 1950s depicts the rise and stumble of one of the most important mediums of artistic expression of mod­ern culture. 
The first movie, a reenactment of a man sneezing, was recorded 1893 by The Edison Company. In 1894, the company developed the Kinetoscope, a one-person peep show machine, to present early recordings to the general public. The Edison Company built the first movie studio, the Black Maria, at Edison's Laboratories in New Jersey. 
But the earliest films did not remote­ly resemble what was to come. In the late 1800s, commercial movie parlors opened in America and Europe. They played movies that lasted 30 to 60 sec­onds, mostly depicting events such as approaching trains, parades or people on the street. The style was categori­cally one of documentary. 
Two Frenchmen, the Lumiere broth­ers, opened the Salon Indien in Paris in 1895, officially the world's first pro­jected movie theatre. Edison followed suit a year later using a much bigger 

The birth c 
The birth of the modern movie fr< 
projector. By 1902, a 200-seat theater opened in Los Angeles to accommodate the demand. 
It wasn't until the early 20th century that the modern movie was born. George Melies. A former professional stage magician, Melies combined dra­matic staging and film for the first time. Melies most famous film was "A Trip to the Moon," which depicted the famous image of a rocket ship gouging the eye of the Man in the Moon. Melies was the first to introduce special effects, narrative stories and dramatic characters into cinema. 
Edwin Porter produced the first blockbuster and arguably the first modern movie in 1903 -"The Great Train Robbery." The film was based off of a real train robbery and introduced the concept of parallel action. At a whopping 10 minutes, Porter had to develop a technique to splice scenes together and by doing invented film editing. 
By the end of the 1900s, films could run up to 30 minutes. D. W. Griffith, often regarded as the father of film, emerged as an industry leader. His films helped define the way that movies would develop for the next century. 
In the age of the robber barons, major film studios began to emerge. 


Though virtually crushing the inde­pendent film business, the newly formed monopolies served to distribute after losing an anti-trust suit filed by films worldwide. The fresh capital the U.S. government. Hollywood turned movie making into an insti~u­became the world center of cinema. tion. But the earliest movies didn't have 
When most of the major east coast the same culture surrounding them. movie distribution companies merged Film actors were unknowns; in fact, to form the Motion Pictures Patent most early movies didn't reveal the Company, talent moved West to escape names of their actors because film act­the oppressive regulations of the east ing was seen as a low profession. Most coast conglomerate. And Hollywood film actors made very little. But when was born. studios began to advertise actresses on Eventually, the MPPC was disbanded their movie posters, the movie star was 

(rifsERVER 


Thursday, September 19, 2002 page 15 
,f cinema-
r.Jm the first fifty years offilm 

born. 
In an era when movies were silent and produced in serial installments, the country and the world couldn't get enough of the movie star. Soon studios began producing concept stars. The temperamental prima donnas of the silver screen may have been tedious (and expensive) for studios to work with, but they had captivated the world's imagination. Hollywood even began creating animated stars to sell to the public. 
After World War II, the major film studios duked it out until there were essentially only five remaining -an aristocracy that held up for over fifty years. The lack of competition brought film lengths up and directors were freer to produce longer epic works instead of needing to publish as many movies each year to make ends meet. 
The golden age of the film industry rolled though with the roaring '20s. Directors began to experiment with more controversial themes and the public watched with bated breath to see what Hollywood would do next. Fewer regulations on imports mixed introduced European styles to American cinema spawning. Classic movies such as Max Schreck's "Nosferatu, a Symphony of Night" and Fritz Lang distopian commentary on modern society "Metropolis" were introduced to the American public in this manner. 
In 1927. the film industry suddenly took a new course when Warner Brothers Studios introduced the first talkie, movies with a synchronized soundtrack. Of course, silent movies were never really silent. Often, movie theaters had piano plays, organ, orchestras and even live actors to fill in the soundtrack. But the talkie revolu­tionized the film industry. A wealth of new styles and options became avail­able to directors, the ultimate of which was the musical. 
By the end of the '20s, a new tecr.­nology had developed: Technicolor. Although some of Edison's first films were hand-colored and a number of films experimented with different col­oring techniques, Technicolor used three layers of color reproduction giv­ing a whole new depth to film making. 
During World War II, Hollywood became a propaganda machine pump­ing out movies that supported the war effort. Many of the standards were developed in this time. The movies pro­vided an escape from the harsh reali­ties of a war torn world. By the end of the war, movies had become an essen­tial facet of American culture. 
But the war years had made direc­tors more daring. A darker style, film noir, was born, perhaps reflecting a not so inno­cent view of the world. Gangster and horror movies became smash successes at the box office. 
But suspicious eyes in Washington enforced standing regulations on film content. The once mouthpiece for the gov­ernment was now being attack by it. Worse. impending economic troubles pulled audi­ences away from the­aters, especially with increasing competition from television. Hollywood stood as much ground as it could, but in the end yielded to the authorities. The big studios could no longer sustain the type of high market production they had been using to sell movies. Some went under, but others changed their approach to movies. 
By the end on the '50s, the movie industry was in trouble. Struggling to stay creative, it would be mired in B-movies and cheesy gimmicks for almost fifteen years. But from the unstable state of movies half way through the 20th century, the seeds of innovation were born. 

Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 


,..~---------------------------­
\ 
\ 
Thursday, September 19, 2002
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 

Cleveland capitalizes on Boston errors to win 
homer, a solo shot, in the against Baltimore this season, ners with two outs, but Jay ropes and what to expect in the
Associated Press 

Indians ninth to make it 6-4. and 9-1 overall on the road. Gibbons struck out. big leagues," Guardado said. 
The Cleveland hitters weren't It was still 4-0 in the seventh The right-hander, who's 6-2 It would be a hint of things to "Everyday Eddie" saved the having much success until the when Coco Crisp came up with with a 2.66 ERA lifetime come, as Baltimore ended up victory for Joe Mays who Boston defense started helping two out and one on and hit a against the Orioles, attributes stranding 11. allowed three hits in six out. grounder off first baseman his success to familiarity with "That's the sign of a great innings. 
Pinch-hitter Earl Snyder Brian Daubach's leg. Omar their lineup. pitcher. Every time it seemed "I've been with Eddie for a reached on one error and Vizquel singled to make it 4-1 "I feel like I know a lot of the they got baserunners, Roy got long time," said Minnesota scored on another to break an and chase Fossum. guys over there pretty well," he tougher," Toronto coach Carlos manager Ron Gardenhire, a eighth-inning tie as the Indians Ellis Burks hit an RBI double said. "I played with Marty Tosca said. coach for the team from 1991 scored three unearned runs to off Wayne Gomes before Cordova and Tony Batista, Halladay would prefer a 1-2-3 until last season. "I saw him beat the Boston Red Sox 6-4. Embree came on and walked played with (Jerry) Hairston inning anytime, but he also when he first came up as a kid. 
"This team is definitely a Jim Thome to load the bases. and (Chris) Singleton. I feel like enjoys working out of a jam. I liked his attitude. I liked the bunch of battlers," said out­Embree then got Milton Bradley I have a better idea of what I "It's a challenge. I felt like in way he has no fear. Just, 'Give fielder Ellis Burks, who went 3-on a called third strike; he was want to do against them." those situations, it's the best me the ball."' for-5 with an RBI double. ejected when he threw his hel­Cliff Politte worked the time to go after them," he said. Mays (4-7), a native of nearby 
Johnny Damon singled and met arguing about the call. eighth, allowing an RBI double "I felt like I was aggressive in Flint. struck out two and scored Boston's first run, then Travis Fryman and Josh Bard to Cordova, and Kelvim Escobar those situations; tried to get walked one as he continued his homered in the fifth to make it singled to lead off the eighth, got three outs for his 35th save ahead of them for the most dominance of the team from his 4-0. But Cleveland, which mus­and Brandon Phillips moved up in 43 chances. part." home state. tered just four hits in the first the runners with a sacrifice Carlos Delgado's 28th homer, Douglass faced the minimum The righthander is now 9-3 six innings against Casey bunt. Snyder hit a grounder which gave Toronto a 2-0 lead 12 batters through the first four against the Tigers with a 2.24 Fossum, took advantage of four through ·third baseman Shea in the seventh, proved to be the innings, getting a double play ERA. He's also 7-0 in his last Red Sox errors to score twice in Hillenbrand for his second decisive run. after Chris Woodward singled nine starts against Detroit. the seventh and three times in error of the game, scoring Baltimore's Mike Bordick in the third. But things went Mays missed three months the eighth to take the lead. Fryman to make it 4•3. extended his run of errorless awry for the rookie in the fifth. because of inflammation in his 
"It hurt us and we couldn't Pinch-hitter Victor Martinez games to 100, one short of Rey Josh Phelps hit a one-out right elbow. come back," said Red Sox singled to drive in another run Ordonez's major league record double, took third on a wild In his first start after coming shortstop Nomar Garciaparra, and tie it. Rolando Arrojo got for shortstops. Bordick, whose pitch and scored when Jose off the disabled list on July 20, who threw the ball into the Vizquel to hit into what could only error this season came on Cruz singled through a drawn­he beat Detroit 14-4. dugout to allow the go-ahead be an inning-ending double April 10, extended his record up infield. Cruz made it to third "He's one of those pitchers run to score. "I should have play, but Garciaparra's relay run of errorless chances at on a wild pitch and a ground• who knows how to pitch," held onto it. I knew that it was went into the dugout to give shortstop to an even 500. out, but Douglass averted fur­Detroit first baseman Carlos a tough play. You've got to be Cleveland the lead. Sean Douglass (0-4) allowed ther damage by retiring Pena said. "He uses his stuff to perfect. You try to make a Joe That deprived Fossum of the two runs and seven hits in Orlando Hudson on a foul his advantage and he makes Montana pass and if it isn't per­win despite a career-high 10 seven innings. popup. the right pitch." fect. that's the result." strikeouts in his best start of 9He extended to seven his Steve Sparks (8-16} allowed 
l 
\ Boston's loss cut the New the year. He allowed two streak of starts without a victo­Minnesota 2, Detroit 0 two runs on eight hits in eight York Yankees' magic number to unearned runs on six hits and ry, yet it was an encouraging When Eddie Guardado first innings. two for clinching the AL East. two walks in 6 2-3 innings to performance for the 23-year­joined the Minnesota Twins in Minnesota scored in the first The Yankees won 7-1 at Tampa equal the longest outing of his old rookie. 1993, Rick Aguilera was one of inning on Matthew LeCroy's Bay, and they could clinch at career. "Sean Douglass was outstand­the first players to help RBI single and on Luis Rivas' 
least a tie with a victory over ing tonight. Halladay was just a Guardado adjust to life in the RBI double in the eighth.
·' 
the Devil Rays on Thursday, Toronto 2, Baltimore 1 little bit better, "Orioles manag­big leagues. The Tigers' best chance to when the Red Sox are idle. It was an ideal scenario for er Mike Hargrove said. Guardado is fitting in fine score came when Pena walked 
David Riske (2-2) pitched one the Toronto Blue Jays: Roy "Halladay broke a lot of bats now. He set a Twins record and Robert Fick singled to lead inning for the victory. Alan Halladay pitching on the road tonight with that nasty sinker of with his 43rd save, preserving off the seventh, but Hiram Embree (0-2) took the loss after against the Baltimore Orioles. his. He's a good pitcher who Minnesota's victory over the Bocachica fouled out to first giving up three runs, two of Form held true. looks like he's coming into his Detroit Tigers. attempting to bunt and Eric them earned, on three hits and Halladay earned his 17th win, own." Guardado tied the record set Munson and Chris Truby both a walk while getting just two throwing seven shutout innings After scoring 10 runs one by Jeff Reardon (1988) and Rick struck out. outs. to lead Toronto to a victory. night earlier, the Orioles got off Aguilera (1991} the previous Detroit loaded the bases with 
Danny Baez pitched the ninth Halladay (17-7) gave up seven to a promising start in the first night. two outs in the eighth, but Fick for his fourth save. hits and two walks, striking out inning. Singles by Hairston and "Aggie was right there with ended the inning by popping to Karim Garcia hit his 14th four. He's 3-0 with an 0.82 ERA Batista put runners on the cor-me and he showed me the short. 
I li I ! I ' i ! I  CLASSIFIEDS NOTICES LOST & FOUND  Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Free! 1-800­SUNCHASE ext 123.  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. TICKETS PERSONAL DOMUS PROPERTIES· NOW  
LOST: SIGNET RING AT MICHi-CJs Pub See whats happening GAN GAME ON 9/14. PLEASEwww.cjspub.com CALL JOHN AT 634-1090.  WWWSUNCHASECOM  LEASING FOR 2003-2004 N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN-check our prices. 273-3911. not go it alone. If you or someone T ANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­you love needs confidential support  
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Found: Womans gold watch onParty w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Saturday, September 14th in TheMost Reliable www.sunsplash-Huddle. Call 245-3508 to identifytours.com 1-800-426-771 O  FOR SALE Drafting tables -$25-30 Student desks $25 631-4969  PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME or assistance, please call Sr. Mary ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593. Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY more information, see our bi-weekly SYSTEM· MAINTENANCE STAFF ad in THE OBSERVER. ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS· Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING 8048 or astrog999@aol.com Give adoption a chance ... we are  
f  l/  Available Game Weekends: COUN• WANTED TRY ESTATE Three Bedroom Home, Country Setting on $250 a day potential/bartending. Operating Horse Farm, 20 min from Training provided 1-800-293-3985 campus. Contact Mitch Magari-Ya ext. 556Stables and Equestrian Center 574-299-1607 or magariyasta-RIDING INSTRUCTORS; ENGLISH bles@aol.com I WESTERN PART-TIME POSI­TIONS TO WORK AROUND CLASSES 20 MIN FROM CAM-www.workforstudents.com PUS. Contact Mitch Nihart Magari• 574-282-2357 Ya Stables and Equestrian Center 574-299-1607  99 Jeep Wrangler. Maroon w/tan top. Good cond.,CD,hitch,rack. 43K b/o. 315-4176 Completely remodeled 2 bdrm. home in Oakmont Park near University of ND. Must see to appreciate. Call 243-7434. LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE ONE MILE TO ND.  FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER happily married and need your help (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 • in starting a family. Will provide a (574)674-2471 WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST lifetime of love, laughter and end-PRICES PAID 251-1570 less opportunities. Call our attorney HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003: toll free at 866-215-2229. We have a variety of houses includ­ing two of the best undergrad hous­ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST ND grad with Ph.D. doing child es you can rent Call Bill at PRICES 289-9280 care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home 532-1896 near campus. 234-8004 That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS has space available tor footbalVpar­SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Americas #1 Student Tour Operator ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free hot breakfast, $80-$115, Information/Reservations 1-800­Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  
I  ) ~ . f  ....  PART-TIME WORK $14.05 base• Australia? Do you feel you might appt. Flex. around classes. We have a calling to become a dioce­train. All majors. Cust service & san priest Down Under? (All sales. No door-to-door telemarket­expenses are convered throughout ing Build resume. Internships. cond. the seminary/university formation.) apply.www.workforstudents.comIf interested, please contact Rev Dr 574-282-2357Armando I Carandang, Vocation Director of the Archdiocese of #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Perth, Western Australia, now inter-Jamaica, Bahamas. Florida, Texas! viewing in the US, Sept 15-29. Tel: Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. 617 786 9661 (late evenings) Free Parties & Meals! 1 ·800-234­Email: prvocation@hotmail.com 7007 endlesssummertours.com  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500.Williamson.1@nd.edu FOR RENT All size homes available for 2003· 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com  Hi, TamL I have returned!!! ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT· WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM· ALL NOTRE DAME vs MICHIGAN The dynasty is back PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES STATE FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL: SALE AT 517-351-1992 OR LOG I'm tired of being here ... leopei@hotmail.com ONTO: www.Jamestheticketman.com Comfy, 5bdr home, 30 min.from Amy, we need to talk about your N.D. On Indian lake, Dowagiac, Ml. flair... Next to golf course. $1300-Thurs Need 8 tix for Pittsburgh game. Call thru Mon. $1,000 sec dep. Call Ron Jeff, 610-574-2939. E-mail: Whoa!!! Geez, Candi.. 312-907-9708 email: jro22@comcast.net ron@gsec9.com Hey, Chris: your mom!  
~  
'  

Thursday, September 19, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Expos reach .500 mark with 11th inning win 
"It's tough luck for our starting so at times, and at times it's runs.

Associated Press 
pitcher not to get the win," said been really good," Philadelphia "Obviously, I control that with Robinson. "Ohka was dominating manager Larry Bowa said. "Kind my pitching, but I'm not out
Once again, the Montreal 
tonight." oflike our team." there thinking if I have a goodExpos took their time beating the Joey Eischen (5-1) entered the Jose Mesa worked the ninth start I make the postseason ros­Florida Marlins. 

game in the bottom of the ninth for his 41 st save in 50 chances. ter," Marquis said. 
Vladimir Guerrero singled and pitched 1 1/3 innings for the He gave up Chipper Jones' RBI As the No. 5 starter, Marquishome the go-ahead run in the win. double with one out. has been passed over in the rota­11th inning and the Expos Tim Drew pitched the 11th for The NL East champion Braves tion several times, and he alsodefeated Florida 4-2. 

his first career save. fell to 3-5 in their past eight was on the 15-day disabled listOn Tuesday night, the Expos "Losing in extra innings is get­games. earlier in the season with ten­won 8-5 in 14 innings. 

ting old," said Florida manager Giambi's homer -the second dinitis in his shoulder. 
"I feel like we've only played Jeff Torborg. of his career as a pinch-hitter -"I did take away something

three or four innings," said 
came off Kerry Ligtenberg (3-4) positive," he said. "I felt like myExpos manager Frank Robinson. 

Philadelphia 6, Atlanta 5 and put the Phillies ahead 5-4 in old self out there." 

"Early in the year, these games 
Jeremy Giambi hasn't had the fifth. Before that, he was 2­

got away from us." 
much success as a pinch-hitter, for-17 in that role this season. Pittsburgh 3, Cincinnati 2 The win pulled the Expos (76­and he's had even less lately. "In pinch-hitting, it's important With a team-leading 11376) to .500 for the first time this Maybe this will do the trick. to hit the first couple of pitches," strikeouts, Rob Mackowiak maylate in the season since 1996, Giambi snapped a O-for-15 Giambi said. "The first swing I not have seemed like the idealwhich was the last time the skid with a three-run homer and take is usually a hit. When you hitter to bat with an 0-2 countExpos finished above that mark. 

the Philadelphia Phillies held off go deeper in the count, the pitch­and the game on the line for the "It's nice to be there. but peo­the Atlanta Braves. er has you at his mercy." Pittsburgh Pirates. 

ple only remember where you Carlos Silva (5-0) worked two Atlanta starter Jason Marquis But Mackowiak delivered awind up," said Robinson. 
innings in relief of starter Brett probably ruined any chance he two-run pinch hit single, capping Pitcher Torno Ohka shut out Myers, helping the Phillies win had of making the pitching staff Pittsburgh's three-run rally in

Florida on six hits for eight 
for the fifth time in seven games. for the divisional series, lasting the eighth as the Pirates beat the innings and left with a 2-0 lead. 

They trail second-place Montreal only 3 2/3 innings for the second Cincinnati Reds.

He got Juan Encarnacion to 
by one game. straight start. He walked five "That was an outstanding at­

ground out with the bases 
"Our bullpen's been kind of so-and gave up six hits and two bat," manager Lloyd Mcclendonloaded to end the eighth. 


Do you see a vvindy day or a 11Vay to generate po1Ner for 1000 horr,es? 
Single wind turbines that can light entire communities. We're developing them right now at GE If you're like us and see the world as full ofpossibilities, then you belong here. From advanced medical technology to jet engines, from financial services to power generation, the diverse businesses ofGE will give you unlimited opportunities to make our world a better place. All you have to do is bring energy, ideas and passion to work every day. Visit us at gecareers.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Business Career Forum JACC -North Dome 
September 19th from 6:00 PM -8:30 PM September 20th from 10:00 AM -2:00 PM 
Please stop by the GE booth to learn more 

about GE's career opportunities We bring good things to life. 
said. "That was a pretty darn good pitcher who threw a split that ran away from him. He went down and got it." 
The hit came off Scott Williamson, who was within a strike of escaping the jam. 
"I threw a good pitch and he hit it," Williamson said. "You tip your hat to him for that." 
The Pirates overcame homers by Ken Griffey Jr. and Jose Guillen. 
John Riedling {2-3) opened the eighth by hitting Jason Kendall. Brian Giles singled and, after Aramis Ramirez struck out, Kevin Young walked to load the bases. 
Williamson came in and walked Craig Wilson on a 3-2 pitch to force in a run. Adrian Brown grounded to second and forced Giles at the plate on a play that injured Reds catcher Jason LaRue. Giles' left leg slammed into LaRue's lower right leg on the slide and LaRue left the game. 
"I just made some stupid pitch­es," Riedling said. 
Mackowiak lined to center to give the Pirates the lead and make him 7-for-23 as a pinch hitter. 
The aggressiveness that has caused him to pile up strikeouts may help him as a pinch hitter. 
"When you come off the bench, you're facing closers who are going to come right after you," McClendon said. "That plays into his hands in a lot of situations." 
Mike Lincoln (2-4) pitched the eighth and Mike Williams worked the ninth for his 43rd save in 46 chances. 
Griffey started for the first time in three weeks and hit a 442-foot solo home run for the Reds. 
NY Mets 2, Chicago Cubs 1 
With nothing to play for in October, the New York Mets are looking to finish the season with a strong September. 
Mike Piazza hit a two-run homer to back Steve Trachsel's solid pitching and the Mets beat the Chicago Cubs. 
After beginning the season with postseason expectations, the biggest goal left for the Mets is to finish in second place. New York trails Montreal by 31/2 games. 
"Obviously everyone wants to go into the ofTseason with a posi­tive feeling," Piazza said. "We've all been frustrated at times this season. But guys still have pride and want to do well and finish strong." 
The Mets won their fifth straight game at Shea Stadium since snapping an NL record 15­game home losing streak and took a 318-317 lead in the all­time series against Chicago. 

"We had a lousy month and now we're having a good month." Mets manager Bobby Valentine said. "We're playing good baseball. It's important. These are major league games and people are paying major league prices to see it." 
Todd Hundley hit his 200th career homer and Kerry Wood (11-10) reached 200 strikeouts for the second straight season for the Cubs, who lost for the eighth time in 12 games. 
Chicago slugger Sammy Sosa went O-for-4 with two strikeouts and remained three homers shy of 50 this season and 500 in his career. 
\\ 
n 
\ I 
H 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 19, 2002 
\ \ 
\ 
-

\ 
\ 
l i NFL 
\ 
~ 
McNair and George questionable for Sunday 
..... 

1 I 
I until Friday," Fisher said. 
Associated Press

~ 
Fisher said the problem is

\ 
~ NASHVILLE, Tenn. swelling in the muscle on the 
I Tennessee Titans quarter­bottom of George's foot, which 
back Steve McNair and running is irritating a nerve. George t back Eddie George missed apparently has had this prob­\ practice because of injuries. lem a couple times before, but
{ 
McNair watched practice with Fisher said the discomfort had ~ a towel around his sore neck eased quickly until now. The 
\ 
\ and shoulders. George, who Titans believe the problem will; met team doctors at a local end once the swelling eases. i emergency room Sunday night "Once we get the swelling out ) ) with pain in his left foot, didn't of it, it'll be over, a done issue," I even come outside. Fisher said. "It's not somethingI "The swelling is causing the that has the potential to hurt 
discomfort," head coach Jeff farther or lose playing time 
Fisher said. "It down the 
doesn't make line."

\ "Once we get the swelling 
any sense to The injury

l out ofit. it·u be over. a
have him on could endan­

\ .. the field done issue . ., ger George's standing. We streak of con-kept him secutive
I 
inside with the starts, which foot elevated, Jeff Fisher reached 98 1\ and we treat­Titans coach games last 
ed him weekend and!l through prac-is the best for tice." Neither McNair nor a running back ever from theil George were available to com­start of a career. Only Walter \' ment after practice. George's Payton (170) and Ricky Watters 
.,
ii foot is so sore that he has been (114) rank ahead of George for All Sport Photos : most consecutive starts. 
'.,\ 'i wearing a walking boot and Steve McNair missed practice on wednesday because of neck and shoulder injuries. Eddie 
using crutches. Fisher could not The Titans also have end 

) r George is on crutches because of pain and swelling In his left foot. 
comment on when George will Jevon Kearse (broken foot) and

I; 
I practice this week, and the running back Robert Holcombe i Titans (1-1) listed the running (broken hip) out for at least the 
l
! 
.\ back as questionable for next four weeks. Watching 
'\ Sunday's game in Nashville drills Wednesday were starting
'\ '.\ with the Cleveland Browns (1-linebacker Randall Godfrey 1). (ankle), reserve tight ends "He's still having some diffi. Erron Kinney (ankle) and Shad culty walking today. If he can Meier (dislocated shoulder) and walk and run tomorrow [he'll starting cornerback Andre practice]. If he can't, we'll wait Dyson (strained hamstring). 




MdtH~~ 

Toas _Irish Victory this weekend with us.•• And kick-off the weekend early TONIGHT. 
AThu sdav Tradition... 
'· 

LOTS OF STUFF FOR ABUCK -NO COVER BEFORE 11PM 


222 S. MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 574-234-5200 HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Thursday, September 19, 2002 page 19 
The Observer . SPORTS 

NFL 
Harrington ready to start as quarterback 
Associated Press 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. 

Joey Harrington, the third overall pick in last April's NFL draft, will start at quarterback against the Green Bay Packers in the regular season debut of Ford Field on Sunday. 
.. I feel like I'm ready," Harrington said after his first practice as the No. 1 QB. 'Tm so excited to play a whole game again." 
Harrington played behind 
second-year quarterback Mike McMahon in the first two games, both blowout losses for the Lions, who are 2-16 over the past two seasons. 
"This is a little earlier than we wanted this to happen, but we think he is ready," Detroit head coach Marty Mornhinweg said. "He threw a ton of balls in the preseason, and he's had two regular-season games to learn from." 
Harrington has completed 7­of-18 passes for 52 yards and has a dismal quarterback rat­ing of 23.8. McMahon, a fifth­round pick last year, is 22-of-44 for 275 yards with one touch­down and two interceptions. 
"These first two weeks have been great for me to see how the tempo of the game and the intensity picks up," Harrington said. 
McMahon, who makes about $300,000 a year, knew it was only a matter of time before he was benched in favor of Harrington, who has a six-year contract worth about $36.5 mil­lion. 
STUDY IN BRAZIL 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
THURS. SEPT. 5, 2002 6:00-7: 15 PM 
& 
THUR. SEPT. 19, 2002 5:00-6:15 PM 
ROOM 129 HAYES-HEALY Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
Now offering 2 bed, 2 bath, 1000 sq. ft. apartmeritsfor 
Only $500/month!!! 

Close to Campus , Social Event Friendly Dishwasher, Disposal, Stove, Refridgerator, Carpeting, Central Heat & Air 
Student Atmosphere 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way (574) 272-1441 
*Call office for details 
"It was expected," McMahon said. "This is the NFL. It's a business. If things aren't going well with your team, it's almost like you have to do it." 
When the Lions chose Harrington instead of a player to fill an immediate need at another position, such as cor­nerback, McMahon knew he would not be the starting quar­terback for long. 
"It's almost like, if we're win­ning, everything will be fine." McMahon said. "If not, there's going to come a time when they're going to replace me. That day has come and you got to deal with it." 
"This is a brutal business." Mornhinweg said. "This isn't fair to Mike, but it was a move we felt we needed to make. I think highly of Mike and like him very much. He has handled this amazingly well. 
"He told me that he will be ready whenever we need him. But he is at a point in his career where he is going to be up-and­down, up-and-down, and we need more consistency from the quarterback spot. 
Mornhinweg said he thought the quarterback switch would happen before the fifth game of the season, after a bye week, but now believes Harrington has progressed enough to pro­vide more stability. 
Harrington, a 6-foot-4, 215­pounder, was 24-4 as a starter at Oregon and led 10 fourth­quarter comebacks. Last sea­son, he threw 23 TDs with just five interceptions and finished fourth in the Heisman Trophy balloting. 

The Lions haven't had a quar­terback play in the Pro Bowl since Greg Landry in 1971 and have not had long-term stability at the position since Bobby Layne started from 1951 until Detroit won the NFL title in 1957. 
Since then. the Lions have used more than 20 starting quarterbacks -and have won only one playoff game. 
Shoulder fracture benches Woodson 
be out 3-to-6 weeks. 
Associated Press 

"He will be missed," Callahan said. "It's a blow, because he's a
ALAMEDA, Calif. 

four-time Pro Bowl player. When Oakland Raiders cornerback 
you have a quality corner of
Charles Woodson will miss up to Charles' caliber, who's played atsix weeks with a fractured right an all-star level, that's hard toshoulder. 

replace. It's
Woodson 
something wewas injured in 

"IfI know Charles he'll be have to over-
the Raiders' 

back sooner than later. " come."
30-17 win at 
Callahan,
Pittsburgh on whose 2-0Sunday, but 
team has akept playing. 

Rich Gannon bye Sunday,
He underwent said he wasn't 

a magnetic Raiders quarterback 
resonance imaging test Tuesday, revealing the fracture. 
Head coach Bill Callahan said Wednesdav that Woodson will 

made aware 
of the injury 
until late in 

the game. It happened midway 
through the second quarter 
when Woodson was called for 
pass interference while defend­
ing Steelers receiver Plaxico 
Burress. 
"If I know Charles, he'll be 

back sooner than later," quar­
terback Rich Gannon said. "Not 
many guys would play through 
the pain he did the other night." 
Callahan plans to name a 

replacement late next week. 
Rookie Phillip Buchanon and 
veteran Terrance Shaw are 
competing for the spot. 
Buchanon is the team's top draft pick this year out of nation­al champion Miami. Shaw signed as a free agent in March after playing last season for the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots. 
Woodson is a four-time Pro Bowl selection and was the Raiders' first-round draft pick in 1998 after winning the Heisman Trophy at Michigan. He attended a team meeting Wednesday but was not available to comment. 
This is the first thing that hasn't gone the Raiders' way so far this season. 
"Shaw and Buchanon have to step up," receiver Jerry Rice said. "We hope to get him back soon. I feel bad for him. He was having such a great season. That's part of it, though, and we have to help him get through it." 


page 20 
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
Retreats 
sign 
1 
Latino Freshman Retreat 
(September 20-21) Sign up September 12-19 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Sophomore Road Trip #1 
(September 20-22) Sign up by midnight tonight 111 Coleman-Morse Center 
Sophomore Road Trip #2 
(September 27-28) 
... 
Sign up by midnight Thursday, Sept. 26th 111 Coleman-Morse Center 
Freshman Retreat #42 
(September 27-28) Sign up August 27-September 23 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

dav 
Asian/Asian American 
Students Retreat Friday through Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Latino Freshman Retreat 
Friday through Saturday 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Sophomore Road Trip #1 
Friday through Sunday 
Buses leave 4:00 p.m. 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
6:00-9:00 p.m., Friday through Saturday 
Fatima Retreat Center 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 
Coleman-Morse Lounge 

Emmaus Kick-Off 
6:00-7:00 p.m. 
Coleman-Morse Center 

dav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

1 nesdav 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00-11:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
& 
I . 
Thursday, September 19, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Be as holy as you can be 
¦ Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. & Fr. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C., 
Holy Cross Vocation Office 

"When you walk by the seminary, the old and the new, remember that God calls you in baptism to holiness and that the University ofNotre Dame has been for thousands ofyoung men andyoung women a "seminary" where they learned something about how the Christian life might be lived in prayer, in community, and in living service ofthose in need within and beyond this campus." Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., Signs of Grace 
T he former army slogan had it mostly right. "Be all that you can be" is good advice, but even better is, "Be as holy as you can be," since holiness is every Christian's vocation. A vocation is a call from God that is more than a career or a lifestyle choice. It is God's personal invitation to pursue the life path that makes it most possible for us to be Christ for others. 
Many people quickly detect something special about Notre Dame, even if they have only spent a few hours on campus. Fr. Ayo's reflections about walking past St. Joe Hall and Moreau Seminary 
An education that is complete is (the old and the new above) offer one explanation. Notre Dame is a "seminary" because it is sacred 
one in which the hands and 

ground where many students have discovered their heart are engaged as much as vocations as priests, religious, or lay people. The founder ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross, 
the mind. We 'want to let our 

Rev. Basil Moreau, C.S.C., put it this way: 
students try their learning in the 

'.tin education that is complete is one in which the 
world and so make prayers of 

hands and heart are engaged as much as the mind. their educations. We want to let our students try their learning in the world and so make prayers oftheir educations. " 
Rev. Basil Moreau, C.S.C. 
Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross 

The opportunity to make a prayer ofone's educa­tion may not be a decisive factor for n1ost high school seniors choosing a college. Nevertheless, it becomes an important aspect of the Notre Dame experience for many who leave here making critically different vocational choices as a result oflearning that how to live matters even more than how much one knows. 
Those life-changing decisions are best made from the heart as well as the head, dictated by instinct and not just logic. Our lives are a constant yearning for God, and often we know intuitively within our hearts what our minds cannot explain. Ransack your brain, and you will churn up an endless list of questions; honestly search the depths of your heart, and you will find the few answers which truly matter. 
Good discernment focuses on resolving the biggest issue fir~t. Many people, however, make life choices backwards, getting tied up in knots over smaller questions. They page through the Bulletin of Information trying to bundle three "usefut» majors with a year in Angers, hoping that it eventually leads to something productive rather than choosing to be holy first. Decide what kind ofperson you want to be, and whether to major in physics or go to law school will follow more easily. 
While very few are called to enter a seminary, monastery, or convent, more do so here precisely because, in the shadow of the Dome, we swim in an environment of faith, prayer, and vocational discernment that encourages people to follow their hearts and pursue holiness in their search for God. Ir is an atmosphere that has been deliberately cultivated since Fr. Sorin left his first footprint in the snow outside the Log Chapel. For some of us, tending it is our life's purpose. 
On Tuesday, September 24 at 9:00 pm, we are sponsoring an informal prayer, social, and Q&A session at Corby Hall for anyone considering a vocation as priest or brother. We hope a lot of people come. It is important for the future of the University and the Church that some answer this particular call. However, everyone has a vocation, and our primary hope is that all of you use your time at this "seminary" called Notre Dame to make prayers of your educations and so discover how you are being called to be holy, to be Christ for one another. 
Twenty-fifth 

¦ Basilica olthe Sacred Heart ¦ Around campus
Sunday of Ordinary Time Saturday, September 21 Sunday, September 22 
5:15 p.m. Spanish Mass
Mass Schedule Most Rev. Edward K. Braxton 1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel Bishop of Lake Charles, LA 
Sunday, September 22 Law School Mass 
10:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel Rev. James K. Foster, c.s.c. 
11:45 a..m. MBA Mass
C-M Rev. Edward A. Malloy, c.s.c. 7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Chapel 
Campus Ministry 

¦ Sunday's Scripture Readings 1 st Rdgls 55:6-9 2 nd RdgPhil 1 :20c-24, 27a Gospel Mt 20:1-16a 
Thursday, September 19, 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Perry comes to rescue of ailing Terp offense 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Bruce Perry is ready to do his part to rescue Maryland's struggling offense. 
Perry, who has been side­lined with a torn left groin, is expected to make his season debut Saturday night when the Terrapins {1-2) face Eastern Michigan at Byrd Stadium. 
"I think he's going to play," Maryland coach Ralph Friedgen said. "Bruce wants to play, and obviously I want to play him." 

Perry was named Atlantic Coast Conference offensive player of the year in 2001 after running for 1,242 yards, catching 40 passes for 359 yards and scoring 12 touch­downs. 
Friedgen expects to use the junior sparingly at first. 
"I don't want him to get hurt again," the coach said. "We need to have him where he's making plays for us." 
Even if he sees limited action, Perry will almost cer­tainly enhance an offense that was blanked in the season­opener against Notre Dame and managed only one touch­down in a 37-10 loss to Florida State last week. 
Friedgen is pleased with the play of Perry's backup, Chris Downs, who's averaging 4.5 yards a carry. But Downs lacks the explosiveness of Perry, who had a 5.7 average a year ago. 
"Bruce is a good back, and he can make a guy miss," Friedgen said. "He's a play­maker. That will help us. Having another playmaker will definitely help us, but it's not going to be a cure-all until we get these other things right." 
One of the main problems has been at quarterback. Scott McBrien was excelled in Game 2 against Akron, but was 9­for-23 for 84 yards and Notre Dame and threw two intercep­tions against Florida State. 

: University Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, & : 
•
• 
Bisexual Students : 
• THE STANDING 
·~--­
• COM11141TTEE ON 
• GAY AND LESBIAN 
• STUDENT Nl!ED5 
• 

: The Standing Committee on Gay and : : Lesbian Student Needs : 
: (Confidential information, education, and resources) : • Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC. 1-5550, or student • • members (r,ee web site.for student contact info.) • 
: Office of Campus Ministry : 
: (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students : : and their friends; pertinent library resources in : : 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) : : Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC. at Steele.3 l@nd.edu : 
: University Counseling Center : 
• (Individual counseling) • : Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen : : Laffer(v at Lafferty.3@nd.edu : 
• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' • 

Backup Chris Kelley has thrown three interceptions in 24 passes, but in his defense, he was used only in the latter part of blowouts. 
Friedgen will likely stick with McBrien, but he wasn't tipping his hand Tuesday. 
"We'll see who practices the best, and that guy's going to play," Friedgen said. "What we need to do in practice is give them both the same amount of (plays) with the same amount of competition, alternate them with the first 
and second team, and  see  
where it is at the end."  
Unfortunately  for  the  

Terrapins, Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb, who threw for two scores and ran for another Monday night, is not an option. 
"I watched a couple series last night and I wondered if McNabb wanted to transfer," Friedgen said with a grin. 
Regardless of who is at quarterback for the Terps, he can't go wrong by handing the ball off to Perry, who ran for 13 3 yards on 16 carries against Eastern Michigan last year. 


ICON Sports Photo After missing his team's first three games, Maryland running back Bruce Perry looks to return this week . 
LPGA 

Golfers criticize Augusta 
Associated Press 
EDINA, Minn. 
Even though they'll almost surely never play a profession­al round there, a handful of LPGA Tour players believe it's time for Augusta National to open its membership to women. 
"I can't believe we're still fighting this stuff -racism, gender equality or whatever," 
U.S. Open champion Juli Inkster said Wednesday from the Solheim Cup. "But that's life, I guess. It's not going to change overnight, but hopeful­ly, in the coming years, it will change." 
The National Council of Women's Organizations has been pressuring Augusta National, the private club that runs the Masters, to admit a woman into its membership. 
Augusta National chairman Hootie Johnson said he will not be pressured, and last month dropped the tournament's three corporate sponsors so they would not be subject to pressure from the women's group. The Masters will be televised without commercials in 2003. 
"Hootie Johnson has four daughters and surely he would 
LUUl".-Uj :)eason 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

. {t"
.... , 
'• . ~
..
.. ,......,___ 
·;,~ 
At,l()l"S f1 1"()Jll rr'll(~ l_i)Jl(1(Hl Slc1g·e 

~,.,, Much Ado About Nothing 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 19 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, September 20 ... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, September 21 ... 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $1 4 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
like to see them having the same opportunity as boys," Inkster told Reuters. 
NCWO chairwoman Martha Burk's next target is CBS, which has said it will televise the 2003 tournament. Last month, the PGA Tour said it would continue to treat the Masters as one of its official tournaments. 
Several players at this week's Solheim Cup said they have played as guests at Augusta National -"I was 10 over after six holes, do we need to go on?" Patty Sheehan quipped ­and been treated well. Still, they think the club needs to go a step further and admit a woman member. 
"I played earlier this year, I had a great time," Kelly Robbins said...Obviously. things have progressed quite a bit since then, as far as what's taking place. I think it's a shame. I do." 
Meg Mallon says she has no problems with private clubs, like the famous Pine Valley Golf Club in New Jersey, excluding women from membership. But she thinks Augusta National is different because it plays host to such a high-profile event. 

"Augusta made itself a public facility," Mallon said. "They are no longer a private facility. although they like to use that as their cover. My question is: Why is it OK for a black man to bully his way into Augusta and it's not OK for a black woman to bully her way into Augusta? That's just the way I feel about it." 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion 
(574) 674-0022 Fax(574)674-0033 
NP themed basets our specialty! 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 19, 2002 
MLB 
Giants 
defeat 
Dodgers 
Associated Press 
,.; LOS ANGELES Pitcher Russ Ortiz hit a tiebreaking home run and the San Francisco Giants beat Los Angeles 7-4 to open a two-game lead over the Dodgers in the NL wild-card race. The old rivals each have 10 games left, including the finale of a four-game series Thursday night at Dodger Stadium. Down 7-3, the Dodgers ral­lied for a run in the ninth inning on Brian Jordan's RBI single off reliever Robb Nen's glove with two outs. But Nen struck out Eric Karros with two runners on to end it. Ortiz hit his second homer of the season and the fourth of his career leading off the sixth for a 4-3 lead. He con­nected against Robert Ellis (0-1). appearing in just his third game this season. Ortiz became the first visit­ing pitcher to hit two homers at Dodger Stadium in one year, having connected against Terry Mulholland on April 3. Batting .262, Ortiz also drove in the Giants' second run with a sacrifice fly, giv­ing him nine RBIs this year. Ortiz (13-10) won his fifth straight start. The victory was the 21st in 30 games for the Gian1s while the Dodgers lost for the ninth time in 12 games. Ortiz allowed seven hits and three runs while walking two and striking out seven. Felix Rodriguez relieved to start the seventh. Rich Aurilia's two-out sin­gle off Paul Shuey in the eighth drove in Kenny Lofton, who singled and stole second, to give the Giants a two-run lead. David Bell and pinch-hitter Shawon Dunston hit RBI sin­gles with two outs in the Giants ninth. San Francisco took a 2-0 lead off rookie Kevin Beirne in tl).e second on an RBI dou­ble by J.T. Snow and Ortiz's sacrifice fly. The Dodgers tied it in their half on solo homers by Adrian Beltre, his 21st, and Alex Cora. his fourth. Jeff Kent hit an 0-2 pitch for his 36th homer to open the third, putting the Giants back on top, but Karros' run­scoring single in the fifth tied the game again. San Francisco's Barry Bonds went 1-for-2 with three walks, one intentional. He struck out swinging against Shuey leading off the seventh and singled off Paul Quantrill to start the ninth. Beirne, making his third major league start, was lifted for a pinch-hitter after allow­ing five hits and three runs in four innings while walking six and striking out five. 
NFL 

Bears' Washington to have surgery 
Washington, the anchor of the ment. Last season the Bears had 
Associated Press 

Bears' defensive line, sustained "Losing Ted's a big blow," just one defensive starter miss LAKE FOREST, Ill. both injuries on the same play Bears defensive end Bryan one game because of injury. 
One of the biggest players in in last Sunday's win over Robinson said. With Washington and fell ow the NFL, Ted Washington has Atlanta. He will be replaced by Washington started 88 350-pounder Keith Traylor also been one of the most Alfonso Boone. straight games before he came manhandling blockers in the durable. But now his second "Face it, Ted's a giant, not off the bench last season for middle of the field, the Bears season with the Chicago Bears only a giant in stature, but he one game against San have been able to let lineback­could be over after just two plays like one, too," Jauron Francisco. The four-time Pro ers Brian Urlacher, Warrick games. said...We'll Bowl selection Holdman and Rosevelt Colvin 
Washington, who hasn't miss Ted." started all 16 roam free and make tackles. missed a game since 1994, will Jauron "Face it. Ted's a giant, games in each of Boone, acquired as a waived be out at least 10 to 11 weeks hinted that his last five free agent in 2000 after being a
not only in stature, but

with a ruptured ligament in his Washington years with seventh-round pick of Detroit, left foot and a broken bone in could go on he plays like one, too ... Buffalo from is 6-4, 325. But he is quicker his left ankle. IR. 1996-2000. He than Washington, who has sur­Washington will have surgery "We'd love last missed a prisingly agility for his size ­
Dick Jauron 

on the ligament injury to be able to game in 1994 listed as 6-5, 365 in the team's 
Bears coach

Thursday. He could end up on keep a spot while with media guide. injured reserve, meaning he for him, but Denver. "They are different players. could be out for the season. we all know Washington is What we lose in power and 
Head coach Dick Jauron said how the Chicago's third bulk, we will pick up in quick­the ligament injury is the more business goes," Jauron said. defensive starter injured this ness and speed," defensive serious of the two because it "Ted understands also how the season. Defensive end Phillip coordinator Greg Blache said. affects Washington's toes. That business goes. We'll just see Daniels and defensive back "It's huge. Ted did such a injury requires 10 to 11 weeks how this thing plays itself out R.W. McQuarters were injured great job. We've still got Keith to heal. Washington also has a down the line." in the opener against in there and Boone is a big man small ankle fracture that needs Washington limped into the Minnesota and are expected out and strong," Urlacher said. four to six weeks to heal. Bears locker room on crutches until at least the Green Bay "He won't be Ted, but he will 
The 350-pound-plus Wednesday but refused to com-game on Oct. 8. be close." 
Megan McManus Guides ensure the success of unthinkable achievements and the opening of new frontiers Manager-Recruiting and Training and ideas. This is our culture. We work with our analysts and associates to make them 

U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray the best guide for our clients' success. 
800 Nicollet Mall Minneapolis, MN 55402 mmcmanus@pjc.com

We are accepting resumes from the Undergraduate Class of 2003 interested in full-time www.piperjaffray.com/ecmcareers
Investment Banking Analyst positions and from the MBA Class of 2003 interested in full-time Investment Banking Associate positions. For further details regarding these opportunities Guides for the journey.~ 
and to submit your resume no later than September 25th, please visit Go IRISH. 
[:!Ijbancorp 
Securities prod11crs and services are offered through U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc., membl!'T 5/PC and NYSE, Inc.• and a mbsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. 
Piper Jaffray .. 


For more information please contact: 

MINNEAPOLIS SAN FRANCISCO NEW YORK LONDON CHICAGO MENLO PARK LOS ANGELES SEATTLE 
Why 
?
• 

5 Billion Customers in 160 Countries, 300 Brands, 100,000 Employees, $40 Billion in Annual Sales, Offices in 80 Countries, 12 Billion Dollar Brands, 1 Company 
Stop by our booth at the Notre Dame Business Career Fair September 19 and 20 to learn about full-time and internship opportunities with one of the world's most prestigious companies. Apply online for full-time positions on Go IRISH! AND at www.pg.com/careers 
Procter & Gamble -Make Every Day Better 
.. 


Thursday, September 19, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 23 


around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Royals at White Sox 7 p.m., FOX Sports Phillies at Braves 6:30 p.m.,TBS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Auburn at Mississppi State 6:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
OAKI.AND, Calif. 
Barry Zito got his league­leading 22nd victory and Ray Durham hit a tiebreaking, three-run homer as the Oakland Athletics moved into a tie for the AL West lead with Anaheim, defeating the Angels 7-4 on Wednesday night. 
The Angels' David Eckstein avoids the tag t.o score in the first inning. 
Eric Chavez and Jermaine Dye hit back-to-back homers to nearly the same spot in cen­ter field off Mickey Callaway (1-1) in Oakland's six-run fourth. Durham hit his shot t.o left-center off reliever Dennis Cook later in the inning. 
Mark Ellis added a solo homer in the second and scored twice for the A's, who lost 1-0 in 10 innings Tuesday. 
The Angels had won seven of eight and 17 of 19. The teams play Thursday after­noon in the finale of this four­game series. 
Billy Koch pitched the ninth for his 40th save in 46 oppor­tunities a night after giving up a game-winning homer to Tim Salmon in the 10th. 
Zito (22-5) was tested in all but one of his 5 1/3 innings, one start after pitching a near no-hitter. He faced five batters in the first inning, four in the second, six in the third and seven in the fourth before get­ting a 1-2-3 fifth. 

Zito allowed four runs and seven hits, striking out four and walking four. 
The left-hander had pitched a one-hit shutout in his last outing, a 5-0 win Friday over the Seattle Mariners in which he did not give up a hit until the eighth. 
Anaheim's Darin Erstad had four hits, an RBI and a run scored. Benji Gil, filling in for regular second baseman Adam Kennedy, went 3-for-3 with two doubles, a run scored and an RBI. Kennedy came in to pinch-hit in the eighth and stayed in the game. 
Zito fell behind 1-0 in the first after allowing a leadoff walk to David Eckstein, a sin­gle to Erstad and a sacrifice fly by Salmon. 
The A's then saved a run in the second. With Scott Spiezio aboard on a walk, Gil hit a double that rolled to the wall in right. 
Dye, playing in right field, relayed to Ellis at second, whose throw home was just in time for catcher Greg Myers to tag a sliding Spiezio. 
Ellis tied the game at 1 with his homer in the second. The Angels scored a single run in the third and two more in the fourth. Callaway has not been effective against Oakland. He faced the A's for the first time last Thursday, a 7-6 Oakland win in which he left trailing 5-3. 
IN BRIEF 

wants to make somebody look alleging she attacked her husband, St. 
Comments anger Vick 

bad, "Blache said. "Unbelievable." Louis Cardinals pitcher Chuck Finley. 
Atlanta Falcons quarterback 

The Bears were penalized three Under the deal, Kitaen did not
Michael Vick said Wednesday that a 

times for roughing the quarterback admit guilt but agreed to enter a
Chicago coach screamed .. take his 

in their 14-13 victory Sunday. Vick spousal battery counseling program.
knees out" during a loss to the Bears 

led the Falcons (0-2) in rushing for If she completes the program and
last weekend. 

the second week in a row, gaining 56 other conditions of the deal, the case
Vick made the allegations, which 

yards on 10 carries. could eventually be dropped.
were backed up by teammate Willie 

Vick also was sacked four times The bargain also requires Kitaen,
Jackson, against Bears defensive 

and lost a critical fumble at the 40, to avoid contact with her hus­
coordinator Greg Blache. 

Chicago 21 early in the third quarter. band, stay away from their Newport
"They were coming up to hit me," 

Blache said he told his players, Beach home and return to court in
Vick said. "I heard one of their 

"Don't dance with him, cut him." The December for a progress report. 
coaches scream, 'Take his knees 

coach added, "The dude wants to "She's not admitting any guilt,"said
out!' That was their goal, to knock 

run and he wants people to dance Kitaen's attorney, Blair Berk. 
me out of the game." 

with him. It's unbelievable." Orange County Superior Court
Blache denied that he wanted to 

"We teach tough, clean football," Judge Pamela Iles made the agree­
injure Vick, the best running quar­

he said. "We understand the rules of ment with Kitaen over the objection
terback in the NFL. The coordinator 

the pocket. We try to stay off peo­of Deputy District Attorney Debbie
did say he told his players that the 

ple's knees and try to stay off their Johnson.Iles also ordered Kitaen to
best way to tackle Vick was by taking 

heads in the pocket." make a $500 donation to a battered­
his legs out from under him. 

women's shelter, pay $400 in court
"Sure, if he's going to run, what 

Kitaen. agrees to costs, see only one doctor and not to 
are you going to do?" Blache said. "If 

counsel1ng change doctors without approval and
he's going to run, why not?" The 

Actress Tawny Kitaen agreed take only medications prescribed. a
coach was clearly perturbed by 

Wednesday to a plea bargain on doctor.Finley and Kitaen were mar­
Vick's allegations. 

spousal abuse and battery charges ried in November 1997. 
"He got his butt beat and now he 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 19, 2002 


WOMENS INTERHALL 
Babes to face Weasels 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER_ Sports Wrirer 
The upcoming battle between Breen-Phillips and Pasquerilla West could be called a matchup of young and old. 
The Purple Weasels have only two returning seniors while the Babes' main strength is their core of experienced players on both sides of the ball. 
BP has an additional advan­tage over PW, having already played a game this season ­an 18-0 shutout of Badin on Sunday. 
"In the first game we had a limited offense," said Babes co­captain Kelly Winters. "We're looking to be a little more diverse in our second game." 
The Babes were ranked first going into the playoffs last year, but lost in the first round to Walsh in a 6-0 overtime heart-breaker. There is extra incentive to perform well this season according Babes co­captain Tricia Keppel. 
"This is our coaches' last year and we have a lot of seniors this year," she said. "I still think our defense is strong like last year, but our offense has picked it up this year as well." 
First-year senior quarterback Atasha Porter, who was abroad last semester, leads the Babes' offense this year. 
PW is also looking to improve upon their first-round exit from the playoffs last year to Welsh Family. 
Their two seniors, safety Jill Houghton and wide receiver Beth Fruzynski will lead the Purple Weasels' on both sides of the ball. 
"We're looking for [Houghton] to show leadership on defense," said Purple Weasels captain Leslie Schmidt. "We're going to be looking for [Fruzynski] to make big plays on offense because she has experience ... 
Schmidt also said the team was expecting big things from sophomore fullback Anna Kate Milburn and junior Nikki Bonk at outside linebacker, in addi­tion to its new players. 
"We're a very young team,.. she said. "We're really excited about a lot of our young fresh­men. We want to run a really tight defense. run a really aggressive offense. score a lot of points and have fun." 
The Babes meet the Purple Weasels tonight at Riehle Fields at 8:00. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

MENS TENNIS 

Irish host only home tournament 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame will hold its only home mens tennis tournament of the fall season when it plays host to the 16th annual Tom Fallon Invitational, which begins today and runs through Sunday at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
The Irish will welcome 10 other schools to this year's event: Ball State, Brown, Harvard, Indiana State, Maryland, Michigan, Northwestern, Purdue, William & Mary and Wisconsin. Of the 11 schools which make up the this year's Fallon Invitational field, seven were ranked in the top 50 in the nation at the end of last season, and eight went on to compete in the 2002 NCM Championships, led by Notre Dame's first trip to the round of 16 since 1994. 
"This is a very strong group of teams we have coming in for 
i10c 
this tournament," 16th-year Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "We expect to face some tough competition, which we hope will prepare us for what lies ahead during the spring sea­son." 
The Fallon Invitational is named in honor of former Notre Dame coach Tom Fallon, who compiled a sparkling 511­200 (. 719) record during his 31-year tenure from 1957-87. He also guided the Irish to a pair of undefeated seasons in 1959 and 1966 and the 1959 national championship. 
The teams at this year's Fallon Invitational will compete head-to-head in singles and doubles action during the four­day event, although no official team scores will be kept. Notre Dame will open tournament play today at 3:30 against William & Mary, a team the Irish faced last weekend at the Homewood Suites Fall Tribe Classic in Williamsburg, Va. 



9 p.m. Saturday night. Your plans have changed three times in the last half hour. 
> 
DIGITAL WALKIE-TALKIE 
SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER'" service TWO-WAY MESSAGING JAVA"' GAMES 6 APPLICATIONS 
DIGITAL CELLULAR 

'(ov. \\evev !Miss c,i.\\ytki"8i wky stc,i.v+ \\ow? Ne,ctel's J.i~iit"'-1 w"'-1\:.ie+""l\:.ie .Pe""tv..ve lets yov.. 8et vi~kt H-\vov..8k with tke pt>.sk 
o.P "" bt>.t+o\\. -rk""t ""'e"'-\\S \\O iMisseJ. c""lls, v.\\ckec\:.eJ. voice """"-U ov pko\\e t"'-8· 'C"'-1>.Se wko \.\c,,.s tiiMe .Pov c,i.\l H,""t wke\\ yov. C"'-\\1t eve\\ J.eciJ.e wk4'1.t to we""v? Now yov..'ve ve4'1.J.y-Bvh,8 It. 
l',tow's e,1. -'vee,1.t-H""'e to ~et-l',te,ct-e1: e,1.'1 "'tot-ve t)e,1.""'e stl.\J..e\\t-s t,et 
A 

10%'*~lSCOL\\\t o\\ "'"Y v"'te 
pl"'" <'\\\J.. $Ioo· o.P.P A\\Y pl.\c\\e. 
-roJ.""y H-.e J.i-'i h,,l w""l\:.ie+""l\:.ie wov\:.s eve.-seve"c,,.l hlA.\\.A.-eJ. ""'iles. -ro ""'Y: A"'J. ¼-o~oYYow, "'""Ho\\wi.Ae. • ~o to \\e,c+-el.co!M/ivisk-stv...:-A.e\.\t. 
• c"'n t-oU-Pvee 1-877-S'0,-212,. 
# t-o .Pi\\.:-A. °' Ne;,c:t-el-Ow\\e~ Ret"'-i1NEXTEL: CStove \\et::'\v yol..\, c"'-l1 l-8'00-82.S'"-S'Z3S'". 
Thursday, September 19, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MENS SOCCER 

Irish offense faces defensive test at Bradley 
. Bradley won crown the champion of the Martin each have two goals. tournament. On the other side of the ball,
Berticelli 
In addition, the Braves will Bradley red shirt freshmanTournament but be looking to exact some goalie Chris Dunsheath won revenge against the Irish, who the MVP award at the
didn't face Irish 
defeated Bradley in last year's Berticelli Tournament, allow­meeting, 3-1, also in Peoria. ing no goals in Bradley's
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer The rivalry between the two games against Furman and teams has been a perennially Cornell. popular one, as last year's "They are such a hardwork­
The Notre Dame mens soccer 
match drew the highest regu­ing team," Clark said. "They'reteam looks to continue its sea­lar-season crowd ever -1,346 really unlike Furman and

son-opening winning streak 
-for a Bradley home soccer teams like that who have a lottonight as it faces Bradley at game. Barring a tie, tonight's of national players. [Bradley]McClallen Park at 7:00 p.m. 
match will give one of these will be a totally different expe­The Braves won't exactly be 
teams its first loss of the sea­rience."
an unfamiliar foe for the Irish, son. Both teams are undefeat­However. the Irish seem toas Bradley took part in -and 
ed with two ties, the Irish be carrying momentum into

won, via tiebreakers -the 
entering with a 3-0-2 record tonight's match, as Notre

Mike Berticelli Memorial 
and Bradley has a 4-0-2 Dame has not lost a game ­Tournament held last weekend record. preseason. exhibition or other­at Notre Dame's Alumni Field. 

This year's match should be wise -since last November's ..I love Bradley," Irish head 
competitive, as a high-pow­NCAA Tournament first roundcoach Bobby Clark said. 

ered Irish offense matches up match against Maryland. The

"They're a different kind of 
well with Bradley's strong Irish are off to their best startteam." 

defense and goalie. Irish for­since 1996, when they started
And since the two teams 
ward Erich Braun leads the the season with a 4-0-1

never faced each other in the 
Irish with four goals on the record.

Berticelli Tournament and fin­season, and teammates Rafael Notre Dame is also entering
ished with the same record, 
Garcia, Justin Detter and Greg the match with a No. 5 nation­tonight's match will essentially 


DaytonContemporary Dance Company 
Friday September 20 
8:00 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
574/284-4626 

.,._...,......... . Ill~-, ••..,._ f; l 

............. -....... , ..,-i ••1111, ... q•••·,uu 
al ranking in the NSCAA/adi· das Coaches Poll. Bradley is 1­3 against teams ranked in the top five nationally. 
Toe Obseiver 
Contact Bryan Kronk at 

Senior forward Erich Braun leads the Irish offensive attack with
bkronk@nd.edu 
four goals on the season. 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish learn from the best 


By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
For Notre Dame mens golf coach John Jasinski, this is all part of a process. The second year coach knew when he entered his young squad in the prestigious Inverness Intercollegiate Invitational they might be in a bit over their heads. 
"I wasn't sure if it was the right move," Jasinski said. "But given the ways the guys responded and the level of golf we saw at such a great venue, it was absolutely the right move." 
In finishing 14th out of 18 teams in what is arguably the nation's best collegiate tourna­ment, the Irish got a feel for what it takes to reach the summit of college golf. 
After two solid Monday rounds of 305, it looked as though the Irish might have been able to sneak into the top 10 with a solid finish. But a disappointing Tuesday round of 314 saw the Irish limp in with a total of 924 -46 shots behind the first-place Florida Gators. 
The event was contested at the famed Inverness Country Club and headlined by Fresno State's 

..-·· 
Thursday, September 19th 
"Reality and Fiction: Santa Evita and Other Stories" (presented in English) Tomas Eloy Martinez, Rutgers University 4:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
5:30 p.m. Reception in Hesburgh Center Great Hall to follow 
Author, journalist, and literary scholar, Tomas Eloy Martinez, Rutgers University, recently won the important Alfaguara Prize for the novel El vuelo de la reina (novel 2002). He has also published among others El suefio argentino ( essays, 1999); Lugar comun la muerte (short stories, 1998); Santa Evita (novel, 1995), which was translated to more than 30 languages); La mano del amo (novel,1991); The Peron Novel (novel, 1985), translated to 12 languages). 
Co-sponsored by the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures and the Hesburgh Libraries with support from the Kellogg Institute of International Studies, the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, and the College ofArts and Letters" 
Nick Watney and Florida's Camillo Villegas. Watney edged Villegas for individual medalist honors, while Villegas' Gators won the team competition firing a three-round total of 878. 
Notre Dame approached the event hoping it would serve as a barometer for where they stood compared to national power­houses. Jasinski saw positives and negatives from his seven­member team that features three freshmen. 
"I think we got a look at what it takes to be successful," he said. "We have to improve. We cer­tainly can't have the notion that 
we can rest on our laurels because we have none." 

Most top programs recruit the top-level junior players while the Irish have been recruiting play­ers around the fringe of the elite junior circles. Continued develop­ment is the key to becoming a top golf program. 
"It's a matter of improving skills, confidence and poise," he said. "We have to get better at a lot of things, but the growing part is the best part. It's a blast. Once you get to the top you can only go back down." 
Though it's too early in the sea­son to say who will lead Notre Dame's ascension to the higher levels of college golf, freshman Eric Deutsch seems a good a can­didate after his 22nd place finish at Inverness. 
Despite a 14th place finish, the coach took many positives from the season's first event. 
"We played on one of the best courses, in one of the best tour­neys, against some of the best golfers," Jasinski said. "I couldn't sleep after the final round." 

Contact Kevin Berchou at kberchou@nd.edu 
Thursday, September 19, 2002 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS 
.. 


FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame secondary looks to contain Rogers 
and stayed close to the likes of "I will take his assessment as
By KATIE McVOY 
John Standeford and he says he's a long way, but 
Associate Sports Writer 
Michigan's Braylon Edwards. he's just got to grown," However, they have not seen Willingham said. "And I sayThe image of Charles Rogers the likes of Rogers this year. that but I mean grow in the may call up nightmarish mem­Not to mention, Rogers game. Until you play it, there's 
ories for the Irish secondary. already has the Irish 's num­so much that you don't under­Last year, the then sopho­ber. He burned them last year stand about it." more receiver made the game for a game-winning touchdown 
winning 4 7 -yard reception that and he could burn them again 
Going for four
burned both Irish cornerbacks this year. 
Not only have the Irish not
Vontez Duff and Shane Walton. "I don't know if there's any 
defeated Michigan State in five
He finished last season with amount of experience that can 
years, they haven't gone 4-0 in
1,470 yards, averaged 22 go against the quality of 
nine.
yards a reception and scored receiver that this guys is," 
If the Irish win this Saturday, 
14 touchdowns for the Willingham said. " ... So there's 
it will be the first time Notre
Spartans. no question our guys will be

i I Dame has begun a season 4-0 
·, Rogers is trouble. challenged to even stay close 
·' since 1993. That year, the
"He had a significant year to to him." 
Irish went 11-1 under the


his belt, a significant year," 
leadership of Lou Holtz,
Irish head coach Tyrone 
Tuck and roll defeated eventual national
Willingham said. "That adds a 
Sophomore defensive end champion Florida State and
great deal to one's physical 
Justin Tuck has begun to step almost won a national champi­
abilities when you can add the 
up for the Irish and knock onship themselves. 
mental confidence of having a 
down their opponents. "It would be very nice,"
great year." 
Tuck made three unassisted Willingham said. "I mean, how
But that mental confidence 
tackles against Michigan last do you describe it? That's
isn't all that Rogers has going 

weekend and is starting to what you want. That's what Sporting News Photos
for him. In practice, Maurice 

attract attention. we're working for, is to win Michigan State wide receiver Charles Rogers haunted the
Stovall is the closest the Irish 

"I think he's continuing to the next ballgame, but so are Notre Dame secondary the past two seasons.
can come to representing what 
get better," Willingham said. Coach Williams and Michigan
they will face in Rogers. And 
"He's doing an excellent job. I State. It's the next step and
really. all Stovall has is his 
think that's been indicated." hopefully we'll be bale to
size. The 6-foot-4 Michigan 
But he feels like he's far achieve it."
native can catch and he can 
from reaching his potential 

Absolutely AbQott.
run and he is quarterback Jeff 
,_,._.,_._,
and he still has a lot of work to
Smoker's favorite target. 
do to be the kind of player who Contact Katie McVoy at 
"There is no question he is 
can always make the play. mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

· You're brilliant. You care about the world and
one of the best, if not the best, 

-


in the country." Willingham said. "And he's got that real quality everyone is looking for in the country -that's great size. So when you've got great size, great speed, great hands, great leaping ability. gosh, it really stretches the ability of defensive backs." 
But the Irish defensive backs have been preparing. They've already intercepted five passes 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
just have to go out there and play through it and do whatever I can for the team. I mean we're on a role right now. I don't want to step out and cause any mess­ups." 
Not to mention, Faine is a leader, the kind of leader Notre Dame is looking for. 
"A guy that gets x-rays and comes out and finds a way to play, that's the kind of leader­ship he shows," Willingham said. 
Scarola, however, has seen limited playing time on offense. He played in all 11 games last season, all on special teams. 
"Jeffs been practicing, he's out there everyday, but I'm ready to go," Scarola said. " ... I think I'm well prepared. I've been playing center and guard. I'm not nervous or anything." 
Regardless of who starts, both 
players are ready and both are 
confident in the abilities of the 
other. Despite his limited reps on 
the practice field and in game 
time, Faine is confident in 
Scarola's ability to take over if 
the need arises. 
"We have some quality guys 
backing me up," Faine said. 
"They haven't seen much game 
action but they've got the best 
reps they can outside the game. 
If the situation ever arises ... I'll 
be confident in their ability to 
get the job done." 


making a difference in it. And although you're driven to excel, you want a healthy work/life integration too. You are absolutely Abbott. 

Unplanned Pregnancy? 

Advancing quality medicines from 
development to market relies upon the
Don't go it alone. 

·contributions of inventive talent and 
dedicated individuals in every profession 
imaginable. So it follows we'll make you feel
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7 I 63 


www.abbott.com
. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 






An EOE, we are committed to employee d~rsity. 
. Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 
South Bend Community Resources: 



. Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

BREAKING THE CYCLE OF VIOLENCE: 
. Catholic Charities: 234-3111 

LIVING AFTER GENOCIDE 

A lecture by We Deliver 
Martha Minow
7 days a 

Professor, Harvard Law School
week 
2.99 for Lunch 
7.49 for combos 

Thursday, September 19 -8:00 pm
Asian Market will be coming soon! 

CCE Auditorium, McKenna Hall 
Sponsored by the 
~-.·-~ 

The Notre Dame Holocaust Project
Great Japanese food
MIl<Atll:t=~ 
A J AP A /1 ( ,.€ RC \ i AU 2At'! T 
at great prices. 

in co-operation with the 
carry Out and DinP-In 


Nanovic Institute
Cleveland 

Come join us for our Center for Ethics and Culture
lunch specials! 
402 US 31 North 
South Bend, IN 46637 
Early Bird Dinner 

Center for Civil and Human Rights
(219) 272-2535 
S1.50 off for Students 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 



Thursday, September 19, 2002 page 27 
The Observer . TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

N9·~nu /;!l:J!i!j!:!l:~t~:!i[::!i:li(;!~::~~i!/~: 
"'lb' 
JACK MONAHAN


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DARNB 
t 

I I IIJ 
02002 Tribune Media Service&, Inc. NA Righi& Raeerved. 
IXOCT 

I 
I I 
GELIGG 
I I I 



www.jumble.com

tNAVIED Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

IJ I I I 
HEA
nswer: WAS 

"[ I I I I I I I J~' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: YOKEL ADULT DECADE PUZZLE Answer: When they attended the cruise ship dance they were -ALL "DECKED" OUT 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES N0.30 • To order, Nnd your name, llddreu and SS.45 and make check payable to Tribune Madia ServlcM, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Pop singer Lisa 5 Yak 9 When repeated, 
1954 Eddie Fisher hit 14 Grayish yellow 15 Guitar 
forerunner 16 Vietnam site in 1969 news 
17 Child's toy 19 Distasteful solution? 20 Cara and Castle 21 Shuttle cargoes 23 Octave followers 25 Driving spots 26 Straight ones = 
2.0 
28 Half a mountaineering expedition 
32 Sermon 
recipients 65 Article in Berlin 
____________ 12 South African gold discovery 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE site, with "the" 

evasions 
B E A S T -i+i+.:-r::+::1 A G 13 Not just 
18 Parasite 22 Legislator's cry 24 Ooze 27 Disrespectful 
ones 
29 Axis of 30 Dudley Do­Aight's beloved 31 It doesn't take I R .,,,,+,,+,-+,.,.+-,-0 T 
much EL .......,,.....,......,....,.. OWNE 
32 Some tourney SY -'-"-'_,__...__._ YNCS 
draws 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WlLLSHORTZ 

PUUla by Palricll Merrell 
33 Way up or down 46 "The Wizard of 55 Cosmetician 
Oz" setting Norman 34 Director Kazan 
47 Broadway sign 56 Overcook 35 Once popular 
50 Terrif 57 Son of Jacob 
player 52 Have farm 58 Philosopher
39 Entre _ young Hoffer 
40 Broke 53 Pathfinder? 59 Cream, of 1960's rock 
44 The Thief of 54 It's held during Bad Gags Oktoberfest 63_par 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1 ·900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ----------------------------­
......

Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
I 
1 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Trisha Yearwood, Joan Lunden, Jeremy Irons, Paul Williams Happy Birthday: This is a good year to deal with personal issues quickly. Control your tendency to blow situations out of proportion by getting involved in creative projects. This can be a prosperous year for you if you are conscientious, observant and take advantage of the offers being made. Your numbers are 11, 15, 21, 29, 33, 40 ARIES (Man:h 21-April 19): Don't push your luck when it comes to dealing with authority figures. You have to play by the book if you want to win. Be fair in your dealings and you'll have no regrets. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do your best to help others today. Don't let changes going on around you cause worry or upset. Your consistent nature will help you maintain your position. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your charm and sheer knowledge will tum heads. You will be able to get your point across and get others to realize the potential. Believe in yourself. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on your home, family and investments today. You will accomplish little if you are too busy complaining or nagging. Look to the positive and help those around you feel confident that you know what you are doing. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It may be time to do a little backtracking, especially if you have been taking someone for granted. If you try to talk your way out o1 a situation, you are likely to find yourself digging a deeper hole. Take heed of a friend's valuable advice. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Job opportunities are apparent, and if you act fas, you will end up in the exact position you've been dreaming about. Don't let a personal responsibility hold you back. You can handle more than you realize. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Shopping for special items will tum into an adventure filled with all sorts of interesting sw-prises. You are likely to run into someone you haven't seen for a long time. This is a feel-good day, so take advantage of it ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Added responsibilities are likely to develop. Try to satisfy everyone but not at the expense of ruining your health or your personal relationship. It may be time to think about yourself and act accordingly. ** SAGI'ITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't wait for everyone to come to you. New romantic opportunities will surface through social gatherings with friends. If you are already in a relationship, you can take it to the next level.**** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your ambitious mood will lead to moneymaking deals. Do your own research and don't leave anything to 
chance. Someone may give you false information. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may feel a little uncertain about your future. Take advantage of any opportunity offered and believe in your heart that you can do whatever is required. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Problems at home can be expected, especially -­if you are dealing with an older relative. Financial investments appear to be lucrative. You can sign contracts and make agreements that will be solid and 
lasting. *** Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive toward others and forever trying to do the right thing. You will have a humanitarian outlook, determined to take care of those who are not capable of doing so themselves. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, 
astromate.com. 

rnPvutnJ.l'T' ')(){\') 111\JJ\IJ;U<;!A T PUJ;<;!I;: l;:Vl'IJnlrATJ; 
36 Transmission ender 37 Korean border river 
38 What 17-Across, 62-Across. 10-Down or 35-Down does 
41 Tidy sum 42 Mideast title 43 Overeater's 
problem 45 Hits the end? 48 "Why not!" 49 Blackens 51 Some cracks 
are full of it 56 Purge 60 River across 
Nebraska 61 Rosemary and 
others 62 Thrust producer 64 St. Teresa's 
birthplace 
66 Resort east of Glenwood Springs 
67 Prepares potatoes, in a way 
68 Jam site 69 Hireling, in history 
DOWN 
1 Partner in exploring 2 Yellowish 3 Eastern Indians 4 Like ashes 5 Sore spots 6 Galoot 
7 Not having one's feet flat on the ground 
8 Produced 
9 Moseys 
10 Rocket part 
11 Pelvic bones 
·­



Thursday September 19, 2002 



FOOTBALL 

Center of attention 
. Faine says nothing will keep him out against the Spartans 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
On Saturday, Ryan Scarola was ready to strap up. The 6­foot-5 senior knew that he might have to go in, he might have to snap the ball and step up in the middle of a very tight football game. 
Starting center Jeff Faine had taken a hit and left the field. "As soon as he went down I had to strap up," Scarola said. 
During Notre Dame's second drive of the game on third-and­12, Faine took a hit to the right ankle and went out with an ankle sprain. 
"A guy got blocked into me and it's a high ankle sprain on the right foot," Faine said. 
Faine left to go to the locker room to get the ankle looked at and have it taped up before he entered the game again. For a moment, Scarola had to take his place. 
Scarola may have the opportu­nity to play some football this Saturday as well. Faine started both Tuesday and Wednesday's practice on the exercise bike instead of working out with the team. He is still questionable to play on Saturday. 
"It's probably day to day," offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "We'll wait and see and hope. It's better than it was yesterday and better yester­day than it was the day before." 
Although Diedrick has labeled Faine day to day, Faine has other plans for himself. He's ready to play and unless there is a team of wild horses to keep him off the field, he says he will be starting against Michigan State. 
"The recent history of this game, it's been pretty bad for us," Faine said. "This is a big game for me, a big game for these seniors, a big game for the fifth years and nothing is going to keep me out of this game." 
Head coach Tyrone Willingham trusts his center's judgment. If Faine says he's ready to play on Saturday, Willingham isn't going to second­guess that. 
"I'll let Jeff speak about that," Willingham said. "If he said nothing's going to keep him out that sounds fine to me." 
Losing Faine would be a big hit to the Irish offensive line. Faine, the 6-foot-3 Florida native, has been the starting center for the Irish the past three seasons. He was an honorable mention All­American last season, playing over 300 minutes of football. 
But most importantly, he has the drive to be on the field for every drive. Just what would it take to keep him off the field? 
"I don't really want to talk about that," Faine said. "It would have to be pretty severe, almost a broken neck. Nothing's going to really keep me off the field. I 
see IRISH/page 26 


VOLLEYBALL 
i 
I I Irish blow two game lead, upset by Purdue 

ByMATTLOZAR 
Sport~ Writer 
Apparently, the Irish didn't learn their lesson. 
After jumping on Purdue (9-3) and winning the first two games last night, Notre Dame (8-3) dropped the next three and lost the match, 18-30, 29-31, 30-27, 30-26, 15-6, snapping its five­game winning streak. 
Notre Dame dominated Purdue in game one. The Irish commit­ted only four total errors and compiled a .400 hitting percent­age. Purdue bounced back from an early 9-2 deficit and pulled within three at 13-10. 
Using two Loomis kills and two Jessica Kinder aces, the Irish went ahead 26-17 and cruised to the game one win. 
In game two, Purdue and Notre Dame switched roles. The Irish committed four block errors and six attack errors and allowed the Boilermakers to build an early 9-3 lead. Notre Dame fought back to tie the game at 12. 
The teams were tied at 20 when Purdue used two kills and an ace to take a 25-22 lead. Kinder led the Irish back and gave them game point at 30-29. Using a one-handed dig from Kim Fletcher, Loomis put away the kill and gave the Irish anoth­er game. 
Using that momentum from game two, the Boilermakers had enough confidence to seize con­trol of game three and the match. For the second straight game, Purdue took an early lead, this time 10-4. 
Freshmen Lauren Kelbley and Brewster combined for five kills to pull the Irish within one at 14­13. Using Purdue's errors to build a 24-20 lead, Notre Dame forced the host Boilermakers to call a timeout. 

The timeout proved to be effective as the Irish could not close the game and were forced to call their own timeout with the game tied at 27. But a pair of quick Boilermaker aces and a kill gave Purdue the game three victory. 
Game four was similar to game three as Purdue controlled early and Notre Dame controlled the middle. Three kills and a block turned a 20• 17 Irish lead into a 21-20 Purdue advantage. Behind three aces and five kills, Purdue forced a deciding game with a four-point, game four win. 
As much as Notre Dame domi­nated game one, Purdue domi­nated the deciding fifth game. The Irish hit a terrible -.167 and never had a chance. 9 kills and a .400 hitting percentage gave the Boilermakers the game and completed the comP fr Jill behind victory. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL 
Michigan State wide recEiver Charles Rogers looks to continue his success this weekend against Notre Dame. Meanwhile, the Irish secondary wants to contain him. 
page 26 
MENS SOCCER 
Bradley beat out Notre Dame on tiebreakers last weekend to win the Berticelli Memorial Tournament, even though the pair did.1't play each other. Tonight, the two face each ot1'er in Peoria. 
page 25 
MENS TENNIS 

Notre Dame hosts 11 other teams this weekend in the Tom Fallon Invitational. This tournament honor­ing the former Irish coach is the only home tourna­ment for the team this season. 
page 24 






