

Mmm mmm good
SNOW 

Monday

Scene shares a taste of local delicacies in a review of various South Bend cuisines. 
MARCH 25, 

HIGH 29° 
Scene . page 1 O 

LOW24° 
2002 


THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 110 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




Senate opposes ban on in-hall dances 
Hair dryer sparks Welsh Hall fire 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
A fire forced residents of Welsh Family Hall to evacuate their dorm minutes before 9 
a.m. Friday but caused no serious injuries. 
The fire, caused by a spark­ing hair dryer in Room 303 of the women's residence hall, was quickly contained after sprinklers turned on and fire­fighters arrived, oflicials said. 
One of the roommates fin­ished using her hair dryer Friday morning, placed it on a high shelf of a plastic storage unit and left the room shortly before the second roommate walked in to find sparks and smoke coming from the dryer, according to Hex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police. Rakow said campus police soon received a call from the second room­mate, who thought the fire had been put out, but when police and firefighters arrived, the firo was still burning. 
Notre Dame and South Bend fire onicials responded to the blaze. 
"There was a lot of smoke and not much damage," said 
see FIRE/page 4 



SMC junior dies in car accident 
By SHEILA EGTS Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's junior and South Bend resident Misty Sloman. 29, died in a one-car traffic accident early Saturday morning on Ridgedale Road, police said. 
The car was traveling south on Ridgedale when Sloman failed to negotiate a turn in the road. The car veered off the roadway and struck a tree, police said. 
Sloman was wearing a seat belt, and the car's air bag also deployed, police said. She was pinned in the car and pro• nounced dead at the scene from internal injuries. Sloman was the sole occupant of the vehicle. 
Tho South Bend .Police Department is still investigat­ing the fatal crash. Sloman, of the 900 block of East Fairview Avenue, died about 4:30 a.m. near her home on the city's south side. 
see SLOMAN/page 4 

. Resolution unanimously passes and will go before CLC today 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
News Writer 
Claiming re~idence life would be damaged if dances were forced out of the hall, the Senate unanimously passed a resolution Sunday opposing the proposed ban on in-hall dances and criticizing the decision-making process used bv the Office of Student Affairs in revising the alcohol policy. 
The resolution will now be presented at today's Campus Life Council meeting, the same meeting where Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, is expected to formally announce the pro­posed changes to the University's alcohol policy. 
While the resolution said in­hall dances, commonly called SYRs, should be allowed to continue, it did not directly address the Office of Student Affairs' proposed ban on "hard" alcohol in undergradu­ate dorms or the revisions to the tailgating policy. 
"The other two were brought up, but right now our biggest concern is SYRs," said Dillon Hall Senator Jim Ryan, who helped draft and r<wiso the resolution along with Lewis Hall Senator Jennie Flannery and Student Body Vice President-elect Trip Foley. 
According to the resolution, the proposed alcohol policy "threatens to negatively alter or eliminate memorable cam­pus traditions" by forcing dances to be moved out of the residence hall. Senators listed 14 campus traditions. such as Alumni Hall's Wake, the Fisher Regatta and the Lewis Crush, that would be affected by the changes. 
The resolution also said the University recognizes the tra­dition of in-hall dances through an appeal for dona­tions sent by the Annual Fund to alumni. The advertisement asks for money to "ensure that the next generation of stu­dents has the opportunity to 
see SENATE/page 6 


. Leaders hope for student support at CLC meeting 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Student government officials plan to mount a public offen­sive today against proposed changes to the alcohol policy as University administrators formally introduce the changes to the Campus Life Council. 
The push follows an emer­gency Student Senate meeting Sunday where members rushed passage of a resolution contesting the recommended ban of in-hall dances. Brooke Norton. student body presi­dent and chair of the CLC, said the council will consider the resolution today at its 3:30 
p.m. meeting in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
Norton. who last week orga­nized a student rally protest­ing the announced changes, also has arranged for CLC 
see CLC/page 4 


. Lecture: Stephanie Bothwell,  . Lecture: "Attention  . Event: "Conversation on  
senior director, Downtown D.C.  Deficit'Hyperactivity Disorder,"  Vocations for Women," 7:30 p.m.,  
Business improvement District,  Mini-Medschool Series, speaker  114 Coleman-Morse Center  
4:30 p.m., Bond Hall, Room 104  William Kronenberger, 7 to 9 p.m.,  . Lecture: "Ward-Phillips  
. Performance: ''Women's Choir  DeBartolo Hall, Room 102  Lecture," sponsored by the  
Homecoming," 7:30 p.m .. Little  . Lecture: Alexander Hann. 7 to  Department of English, all day,  
Theater, Saint Mary's  9 p.m., Keough Hall  McKenna Hall, Rooms 210-214  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

USC combines student cell phones with credit cards 
LOS ANGELES 
program. 
University of Southern California But Mike Watson, senior vice presi­researchers are set to begin market dent of Zoop International, said he tests on a system in August that may was more optimistic. use Nokia phones to order things in "Everywhere in the world you go, place of credit cards. there is slightly different payment cul­
By summer's end, students selected ture," he said. "One of the purposes of in the pilot study, which will distribute this trial is just finding out the human 500 to 1,000 phones to a random needs in the application process in the sampling of incoming freshmen, U.S." should be able to purchase items from the software. Pereira's fears may initially be USC's dining venues and possibly the But while the infrared payment sys­found true, however. Nearly 60 per­bookstore. tem developed by Harex has been cent of 40 students surveyed said they 
A full-scale study involving more wildly popular in South Korea, would not be interested in the new students will begin after the pilot researchers working on the three­technology. ends. The study is the first of its kind year project in the United States are "Everything's about efficiency now, in the United States. skeptical about the possibility of dupli­and you want to carry less. but I can 
USC was asked for permission to cating that success. still stick my credit card in my back conduct the study by South Korea's Such success could not be replicated pocket," said Tania Ziadeh, a junior Harex Infotech, which v\ill finance the because of social and cultural differ~ majoring in business administration. research through subsidiary Zoop ences in the United States, said "That's easier than having it in a cell­International, the company developing Francis Pereira, the director of the phone." 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Snowballs 
Before I came to college, I hadn't owned a scar or gloves for ten years. My family moved to Arizona when I was 12. It was then that I lost the snow and everything that came with it. 
Not to say that we don't 
have snow in Arizona, we get it every once in a while in the mountains. Snow in Arizona is always a beauti­ful thing, and even more beautiful because it is always gone by noon. It is picture-perfect, never black and never yellow. I 

remember in junior high  Kelly Hager  
when we had a snow day,  
but by afternoon, the snow was gone and we were  Copy Editor  
back outside riding bikes. I  
love the cacti, the sunshine  

and the dry heat. I love wearing sandals every­day of the year and never having to pack away winter sweaters. I love Arizona in its entire splendor, but my love for sun doesn't stop me from having fond memories of snow from my childhood. 
I grew up in Arlington. Va. Each winter, I remember piling on clothes so I could go out­side and remain unaffected by the cold. I remember playing in the snow with my little brother when we were younger. I was always the one who would initiate the snowball fights. I was the one who would shove handfuls of snow down his pants. I was the one who ended up laughing. I always had fond memories of the snow -until this year. Things have changed. Ten years later, I am back in the snow. And, now, my little brother is here with me. 
And we're back in the snow together. with one problem: Justin's a little wiser. a lot bigger -and seeking revenge. 
So far, I have experienced this revenge over a dozen times. Seems like Justin just loves to sneak up on his poor defenseless sister. Unlike childhood, when we would dress up and pre­pare to go outside and play in the snow, these attacks come without warning. I cannot pre­pare. I cannot escape. I am always on my toes. 
If you happen to see me running, followed closely by a large man with a handful of snow, don't laugh it off as simple sibling rivalry. There's enough snow in South Bend to supply his revenge for years. I mean. a handful of snowstorms as children is nothing compared to two more years of walking in constant fear. 
It can't be as bad as she makes it out to be. __ / you say. And, yes, I do have a ten,dency to over exaggerate. Like our snowball fights, it is in Christian love. I really love my brother. Trust me, I do. But, late at night, when my hands and back and face and legs and arms are frozen from being tackled into a huge drift of snow for the hundredth time, I sometimes ask myself how I could ever forgive him. 
So, I ask. Calling all people who have felt the wrath of a sibling during a snowball war. Calling all people who ever tripped and fell on ice and know how cold and wet your butt feels when it's been held down and saturated with freezing liquid. Calling all people with good aim and a desire to aid your fellow man -pick up a snowball and help a sister out. 
Right now there's a little brother who has no idea what is coming. Perhaps this will teach him an important life lesson: No matter how big you are or how strong you are, your older sister will always love you. But more importantly, your older sister will always love to see you get clobbered with a much-deserved snowball. 
Justin, I love you -but the war begins now. 
Contact Kelly Hager at khager@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error, 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam :i.n.d vacacion periods. The Observer j:, a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, March 25, 2002 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA 
Prof alleges conspiracy in FBI raid 
TAMPA. Fla. 
Two women were handcuffed and kept at gunpoint on Wednesday while FBI agents raided the home of Islam's most respected cleric in America, according to controversial University professor Sarni Al-Arian. Al-Arian, who now finds his name on the same FBI search warrant that seeks information concerning Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda, met with the two women at a National Coalition for Political Freedom meeting in Washington, D.C., Thursday. FBI agents raided 14 homes and offices on Wednesday in an effort to obtain information relating to terrorism. Earlier this month, the U.S. Department of Justice issued a rare statement saying the FBI had an open and ongoing investigation in Al-Arian's case and filed a civil suit in state court alleging Al-Arian has conspired against the United States with the Saudi government and funneled money into terrorist groups under the guise of charity. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 

Grad students endorse unionization 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
The Graduate Student Organization Senate approved a motion Thursday night supporting efforts to unionize graduate assistants at Syracuse University. adding to growing tensions between graduate assistants and administrators about the issue. The motion, which endorses the concept of unionization without specifi­cally advocating a particular union, comes less than two weeks after Chancellor Kenneth Shaw sent a letter to graduate assistants advising against unionization. Though it was approved, the endorsement did not receive the unanimous support of all GSO members present. Several major universities have recently experienced pressure from graduate employees for unionization, including a successful union bid at New York University earlier this school year. GA's at Syracuse argue that unionization is the only way to address issues regarding insufficient health insurance and office space, and excessively arduous workloads that interfere with scholastic work. 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Monday, March 25. 
FRONTS: 


.a...&. .......... C 2002 AccuWealher, Inc. GOLD WARM STATIONARY Pre1111re: 
..--T" 


. Q.i, rfil~)
® © . CTa 

High Low Show•r• Rain T~atorm• Flurrl•• Snow le ¦ Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via AssQc,ared PrfJSS 
Atlanta 75 46 Las Vegas 73 39 Penland 53 28 Baltimore 54 32 Memphis 48 21 Sacramento 69 39 Boston 41 25 Milwaukee 27 14 St. Louis 32 17 Chicago 28 15 New York 45 21 Tampa 73 50 Houston 76 61 Philadelphia 54 26 Washington 65 41 
Monday, March 25, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Speaker advocates peace 
MIDNIGHT MADNESS 

CHRISTINA REITANO/The Obseiver 

Saint Mary's juniors hold their hands behind their backs and 
shove their faces into bowls in a frantic attempt to win the 
orange Jello-eating contest at Midnight Madness Friday night. 
Write for Observer News. Call 631-5323. 


By KIFLIN TURNER 
Associa[e News Editor 
Achieving peace through vio­lence Ls not the solution, but it is an unfortunate reality, said Colman McCarthy, founder and director of the Center for Teaching Peace in Washington D.C., and journalist for the Washingl.on Post. 
As the keynote speaker of the Notre Dame Undergraduate Peace Conference last Friday night, McCarthy questioned the conventional methods of attain­ing peace and how to best become an effective peacemak­er. 
"Peace is a result of love," said McCarthy, who pointed to prayer, service and non-violence as the path to a peaceful future. 
The peace advocate said that prayer and spirituality, regard­less of the faith, is necessary in practicing the essential tenets of peace through forgiveness and non-violence. 
Decreasing someone's pain and increasing someone's peace through a small act, McCarthy said, is of real importance. 
McCarthy, calling the area between the White House and the Capitol the "homeless belt of America," cited that Washington had the highest dropout rate. He said there isn't a significant push to remedy these problems in the inner city. 
"Eighty percent of the lawyers work for 20 percent. of the peo­ple," said McCarthy. "Very few of us arc called on to do great things, but all of us are called to do small things." 
~cCarthy asked the audience if it were possible to teach peace in an institutional setting. At an inner-city high school in Washington D.C., McCarthy organized and implemented a volunteer course on radical non­violence but noted that very few programs in the cmmtry exist in peace studies, saying people graduate "peace illiterate." 

"(Peace is] nothing abstract we're talking about, it's some­thing we're living with," said McCarthy. "We live in a violent society." 
McCarthy said every day the 
U.S. Congress gives the Department of the Sl.ate, referred to as the "Department of Killing" by McCarthy, $800 million a day for tlrn military budget that is four times the budget of the Peace Corps. He said this is amount is also three times the budget for Teach for America (a program that encourages college graduates to teach in public schools) annually allotted to both programs. 
McCarthy named the United . States as the largest seller of weapons in the world that ini­tially provides the means for vio­lent conflict among nations that occur in third world countries 
"That is all wars are -the poor killing the poor." said McCarLhy. The word "war", said McCarthy, has become so desen­sationalized that it is no longer an adequate expression to denote the level of true suffering. 
"We use it so much, it doesn't have any impact," he said. "I call it slaughter." 
This legal violence, according to McCarthy, is injustice in its purest form. Unnecessary vio­lence does not end there, he said. It also exists in the present policies regarding animal rights. 
"That's where the peace movement is weak," he said. "We've ignored the enormous suffering of the animals in this country." 
Violence that is not seen does 
• 2002 Arts & Letters 
¦ ¦ 


¦ Departmental Follow-up •¦ Sessions 
•¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ As a follow-up to the Majors & 
¦ Program Fair, the departments ••¦ listed below are holding• ¦ informational meetings for 
• prospective majors . 
•
•
•
• •¦ CAPP~ ••¦ Monday, March 25 at 6:00 p.m . 
• in room 207 DeBartolo . 
•
• Sociology:
•
• Sociology Majors' pizza party is 
•• ¦ 
scheduled for April 2, from 5:00 -6:30, in 824 Flanner Hall. 

AlorllJDB 500-DtJS11111 •lllnnauoas.•laruling, t:onstJttanrs Senilnllf: I 
Learn The Methods Of AProfessional BusinesirMan's Priceless Achievemenrs·.: .. 
I 

An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win .. ·AoneDa,Seminar,• Baat ata1111 11111 YIJlll'S OtJnvalualllBlxPtJritJnce:,l· 
This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts.,, you must have in business to move fo,ward in high Jelle/ business. ·~·· The class is taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
,V.P. sar,s will, "change the course ofan entfre industry.• 
--...: '.ABE Forclass dates, private classes & ·
~ ~ 
~OSOAB more informatfon, go to our web
~,.,,_,..,.,,,,_eJlaM site, or cafl Mr. Adams at 277-8104 .WWW.USBStantl.t:am E-mafJ • lnventor@usastand.com 
not dispel it from being violence nonetheless. McCarthy identi­fied two types of violence that exist, hot and cold. 
"International violence in the World Trade Center. You saw it, you felt it, it was visceral," said McCarthy. 
Contributing to cold violence are factors that are largely avoidable and at once inexcus­able. 
"There are two types of pre­ventable disease ~ poverty and aflluence." said McCarthy. 
After Sept. 11, McCarthy cited four possible options in reaction to the events -military, politi­cal. legal and moral. Out of them aU, the United States has chosen the military option as a solution, and unfortunately so, according to McCarthy. 
"That's our foreign policy, you got a problem, go bomb some­body," said McCarthy. "Here we are, the wealthiest nation bomb­ing the poorest." 
Approaching conflicts from a moral perspective is ideally the most favorable solution, but McCarthy said it is hardly the angle that our country chooses to take. 
"We don't believe in forgive­ness, or otherwise we would have," said McCarthy. "It'll be a long time when we have a demo­cratic government that respects human rights." 
McCarthy urged students to take advantage of the peace studies program at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's because of its rare presence in higher educa­tion. 
"Question the answers," encouraged McCarthy. "The answers that say it ends with violence." 
Contact Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 

Personalized 
Notre Dame Graduation 

University


Announcements 
of Notre Dame 

Phone, mail or fax orders: 
Jostens 1401 Union Street 
Shelbyville, TN 37160 1-800-353-5299 

fax: l-931-685-6473 Place orders in person on: Tuesday and Wednesday, March 26 and 27 Lafortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 25, 2002 
The administrator, a former approve this summer and 
for Student Affairs Linda 
Dillon Hall rector, also expect­enact in the fall: 
Timm in a Sunday e-mail to


Slo01an
CLC 

ed to address feedback he has . the ban of in-hall dances 
the student body. 

received in the past week . the outlaw of "hard" 
continued from page 1 Classmates and depart­
continued from page 1 

about the proposed changes. liquor in undergraduate resi­
ment heads met Sunday 
members to speak against the policies and hoped for large student turnout to the meet­ing. 
The biweekly meetings are open to the public. 
"We want a strong showing from students," Norton said. "We hope to pack the meeting and let administrators see that this is an important issue to students." 
More than 600 students attended Wednesday's rally, eventually marching to Main Building, where Father Mark Poorman's office is housed. 
Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, will officially present the policy changes he announced to students a week ago. The changes -the first to the University alcohol policy in 14 years -require revi­sions to the student handbook, du Lac. Ordinarily, Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life, proposes du Lac revisions to the CLC. 
"I thought the alcohol changes were so important that I wanted to do them myself," Poorman said. 


Fire 
continued from page 1 
Rakow. 
Officials weren't releasing an estimate of how much the dam­ages cost, but second-floor rooms beneath the site of the fire also suffered some water dam­age. 
Many of the residents' belong­ings were cleared out immedi­ately after the fire so that it could dry. It had been wetted by over­head sprinklers in the room. 
The two sophomores who occupied the one-room double were treated at the scene for smoke inhalation along with one University maintenance employ­ee. No one was hospitalized. 
"It has been absolutely amaz­ing how these girls have come together," said resident assistant 
Elizabeth Cryan, who lives in the section where the fire start­ed. Cryan left the hall Friday around 8:30 a.m. to work on a thesis and came back to the dorm around 11 a.m., after the fire had been extinguished. The 

He said his comments would echo information he announced in a March 18 e­mail to students. 
Kirk will introduce other planned changes to du Lac, Poorman said. 
'Tm curious to hear Father Poorman's input," said Sol Galmarini, said Badin Hall senator and CLC member. 
Norton expected to allow three students to direct ques­tions to Poorman. She said other other students could submit questions to CLC mem­bers, who, in turn, would question the administrator. 
In anticipation of a capacity crowd in the Notre Dame Room, Norton said she also reserved space for the meeting in the Lafortune Ballroom. 
Ironically. council approval of the Senate-drafted resolu­tion would forward the mea­sure to Poorman's desk for consideration in the Office of Student Affairs. 
Poorman last week announced three changes to the alcohol policy that University officers are likely to 
RA said she found dorm resi­dents as well as outsiders help­ing to clean up the room. 
Student Body President-elect Libby Bishop was one of the stu­dents that volunteered to help tidy the room. 
"Everything was soaked," said Bishop, who lives on the dorm's fourth floor. "You realize how much stuff you actually have in your room when you're going through it by hand." 
Cryan said her primary con­cern Friday was to make sure everyone affected by the fire was safe. 
"Right now, we're all just so thankful for everyone to be safe," said Cryan. 
Both residents moved to a dif­ferent room in Welsh after the fire. 
"They're doing well," said Cryan. ''They're definitely really leaning on their friends [andJ family." 
The residents of the Welsh room were unavailable for com­ment. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
Early Sign Ups!!! 
When: Tuesday, Marcbl9th • 27°' 12-2 p.m. and :,.7p.m. Where: I"' Floor LaFortnne What You Need: creative team name, name and phone# ofcaptain and $17 
This year's tournament p.-oceeds 1:o be donated to ND Club of.Jamica .Jumpball Programme 
Questions? Email us at bkstr.l@nd.edu 
Visit our sponsor






a~·• 
dence halls 

. and the loosening of tail­gating rules to allow 21-year­old students to host parties 
before  the  home  football  
games  
Notre  Dame  adopted  an  

alcohol policy in 1984. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfa.rley.l@nd.edu. 

Sloman, the mother of two small children, was a social work major at Saint Mary's and transferred from Holy Cross College in 2001 with honors. 
"She had just confirmed her field placement for next year and was excited that she was going to be able to indeed finish her require­ments," said Vice President night with Director of Counseling and Career Development Mary Depauw to discuss the death and decide on a possible prayer service or tribute for Sloman later this week. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 


Intro Flights $49.00 Private Pilot Instruction Introductory Flights Available 
Eric Hull: 219 363-5187 Call for details. 

, Congregation of Holy Cross 
p 





lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

ATION 
Monday, March 25, 2002 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Koreas to reopen dialogue: South and North Korea have agreed to resume dia­logue and exchange special envoys moving to case tensions in one of the world's most mili­tarized regions. The agreemenl. was reached after a series of sNTPt talks between the two governments at the North's Diamond Mountain resort and third countries, officials said. The mountain is a tourist attraction that has been open to South Koreans since 1998. 
Serbs rally against NATO: Supporters of Slobodan Milosevic marked the third anniversary of NATO's air war on Yugoslavia Sunday. Carrying Serbian flags and chanting "NATO are murderers," some 7,000 Milosevic supporters rallied in Belgrade to condemn the 1999 bombing and to protest the former leader's war crimes trial in The Hague. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ridge will not testify in Congress: 
Homeland Security Director Torn Ridge stood rirm Sunday in his refusal to testify before Congress about the White House's anti-terror­ism budget, saying his appearance would vio­late the constitution's separation of powers. Ridge said he will continue to meet informally with lawmakers, but he has no intention of testifying because he is an adviser to the pres­ident. not a Cabinet member obliged to appear on Capitol Hill. 
States continue to fight Microsoft: 
The nine states suing Microsoft for antitrust violations still think they can persuade the court to impose far-reaching penalties on the software company. The states want Microsoft to create a stripped-down version of its flag­ship Windows software that could incorporate competitors' features. The states also want Microsoft to divulge the blueprints for its Internet Explorer browser. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Official apologizes for comments: 
A county official has apologized for using the words "trailer trash" in an e-mail about tax changes affecting mobile homes. The memo from Diane Hawkins, director of Tippecanoe County's Management Information Technology Services, was distributed to some county employees and mentioned a change to taxes on mobile homes. Hawkins said her words have been taken out of context. She said she used the word "trash" as a pun to refer to a difficult, time-consuming software program the department was using. 
Market \Vatch March 22 

Dow 
10,427.67 -52.17 

Jones 

Composite
Same: 

Volume:
190 
1,245,779,200 

·•··•••:AMl~t);::;11w1it;iiiir,1~11;;11111~\¥J:i.l2.!:J{{l.
NASDAQ: 1,851.39 -17.44 
·•·••• NYSEt}tlt'.Jti.ttitf:!11:itll0'6'.W.lfi9tJ:Itii:t:J:::(t}ftt,iM[ti
S&P 500: 1,148.52 -5.06 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 


OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
:\/ELERS PP1Y (TAP/A) +5. 73 +1.06 19.5 UCENT TECH INC (LU) -4 .18 -0. 20 4. 5 ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0. 4 9 +0.08 16.5 UN MICROSYSTEM (SUt-lw) +0. 34 +0.03 8.8 
CVIQ-100 INDEX (QOO) -0.92 -0. 34 36. 63 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
EL SALVADOR 


The sessions closed out a wants to get Congress we'll take those messages
Associated Press 

four-day tour of Latin energized behind the back, as we structure our 
SAN SALVADOR America in which Bush regional trade proposal he overall trade policy," 
President Bush on pushed open markets, submitted in January, even Powell said. Sunday held out the anti-terrorism efforts and though the matter, for Bush noted that millions promise of expanded trade more foreign aid money now, is "at the working of Salvadorans living in the to Central American for developing nations that level," said White House United States are propping nations, saying countries flush out corruption. spokesman Sean up El Salvador's economy once racked by civil war Bush also pledged McCormack. by sending nearly $2 bil­now deserve jobs as a Sunday to pursue a trade Secretary of State Colin lion a year back to their reward for the way they agreement for all the Powell acknowledged families. He suggested that have "changed old ways Americas, and promote Sunday that no Central more trade would give and have found new immigration policies that American trade deal is these workers the option wealth and new freedom." would establish temporary likely soon. The adminis­of finding employment in 
Bush paid a six-hour protective status for some tration has a number of their native land that pays visit here -his first ever, immigrants whose visas trade agreements lined up enough to sustain a high he said -to discuss the have expired.. and is trying to craft them quality of life. possibilities of a Central Over lunch with the lead­into one trade policy "Trade means jobs," American trade pact with ers of El Salvador, Belize, before getting into trade Bush said. "Trade means Salvadoran President Guatemala, Nicaragua, talks, he said. people who want to work Francisco Flores and other Costa Rica, Honduras and "He'll want to hear from are more likely to find jobs leaders from the region. Panama, Bush said he the leaders ... and then in both countries." 
AFGHANISTAN 

Gunmen attack Afghan security chief 
Associated Press 
KABUL 

The governor of an Afghan province demanded U.S. Special Forces hand over several rival Afghan allies who allegedly opened tire Sunday on the region's security chief. killing a bodyguard and wounding two others before report­edly fleeing into an American com­pound. 
Afghan authorities said the assailants were believed to have been allies of the United States and took refuge in the Americans' forti­fled airport compound. There was no confirmation from U.S. forces. 
The security chief of Khost province, Sur Gul, escaped injury in the attack, the latest in a series of incidents in the area involving rival groups, according to Hazratuddin, intelligence chief of Khost. 
Hazratuddin said the assailants opened fire on Gui because he had tried to disarm them a day earlier in the Khost public market. 
"We will talk again tomorrow with the Americans and I am sure they will hand them over," Khost Gov. Mohammed Ibrahim said. "I was busy today with the funeral, but I don't think they will refuse." 
Most of Khost is under the control of U.S.-backed warlord Bacha Khan Zardran. but within Zardran's group there are rival factions. 
Many Afghans in Khost blame the rising tension here on the United States for having recruited warlords as allies in the fight against the Taliban and al-Qaida. The warlords are paid for their services -some­thing that has triggered clashes among Afghan groups eager to win support and patronage from the Americans. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 25, 2002 
SOB, RHA leaders elected 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students elected l-1riday the 2002-2003 new lead­ers for Student Diversity Board and Residence Hall Association. 
A record number of students participated in the SOB election. Sarah Mahoney and Nila Ahmad ticket won. the race with 83.7 percent of the vote over the Cyd Apellido and Jessica Domingo ticket. 
Current sophomores, Mahoney and Ahmad are excited to imple­ment their new ideas. 
"Now I have a really good chance to make all of my ideas a realitv," Ahmad said. 
The pair wants to continue much of the current program­ming such as Oisabilities Awareness Weck and Hunger Awareness Week. They also want to plan a Rape Awareness Day and an intercultural/inter­religious prayer service. 
Running unopposed, Jillian Kamaski and Katherine Furman won the RHA election for the positions of president and vice president. They plan on continu­ing current programming such as Little Sibs Weekend and the all-campus formal. They also want to increase hall pride as well as give the RHA a more vis­ib1e presence on campus. 
Senate 
continued from page I 

experience the novelty of an SYR firsthand." 
"Getting rid of SYRs seriously impacts the community at school," Ryan said. "Some of the biggest events each dorm has arc in the dorm." 
Senators also disapproved of the process through which the policy was implemented. They said the proposal will go before the University's key officers without the approval of the CLC's Task Force on Alcohol Policy. Several sena­groups matched up with the numbers," he said. "It turns out they did." 
Most of the half-hour debate revolved around making sure the resolution was factually correct. Senators eliminated a clause saying more student attend in-hall dances than out­of-h all dances and argued about what figure should be used to represent the number of students involved in focus groups before settling on say­ing "less than 80 students" were involved. 
"[The CLCI is going to look to pick it apart," Sorin Senator Pat Hallahan said. "We need to 
make sure 
it's tight." 
T h e
tors claimed "{The administration] less than 80 
Senate res­
was looking to see ifthe 
olution will focus groups matched up be present­
students were 

involved in ed for CLC
the focus with the numbers. It groups 
approval at
turns out they did. " 
this after-
Poorman said were consult­

noon's 
ed prior to his Jesse Flores meeting. If' recommend­adopted by
Carroll Hall senator 
ing the changes. 

"I think most students are upset students weren't involved in the writing of the policy," said Carroll Hall Senator Jesse Flores, who is also a member of the CLC Task Force on Alcohol Policy. 
During the decision-making process, Flores said the data from the 28 focus groups, which he said were composed of a broad spectrum of people, was compared with data from a study on college binge drink­ing conducted by the Harvard School of Public Health. 
"[The administration] was looking to see if the focus 
the CLC, the 
resolution will be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. Although the office is not obligated to comply with the resolution, it typically incorporates CLC res­olutions into its decision-mak­ing process. 
"This is not the only step," Ryan said of the Senate reso!iJ • tion. "It is not the end-all soh1­tion." 
In other Senate news: 

Senators tabled a resolutir;ri to increase the percentage \/ funding allocated to the Club Coordination Council. 
The CCC sought to increa1>ti the perce!!ta.ge ::if money they received from the Financial Management Board from about 37 percent to 40 percent. With the extra money, they hoped to implement a collaboration fund to streamline events sponsored by clubs. 
"This would reduce redun­dancies and create more effi­ciency between clubs," said Brian Clemency, CCC Academic Division chairman. "Rather than having two clubs sponsor two small events, we could 
Tuesday -Thursday 


5:00 to 9:00 ~'riday & Saturday 5:00 to 10:00  Corner of Logan & Lincolnway (574) 256-1444 Francesco was Chefat  
Notre Dame for 25 years!  

Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Make your reservations now for graduation' 
Free Bruschetta with this ad ( except for graduation weekend). I Francesco's needs servers! IWe specialize in special events and banquets. With private rooms seating 20 
or i20, we custom tailor each event according to the customer's expectations. We also welcome luncheons and events on Sundays. Be it a business retreat, Board Meeting, Birthday, or a Holiday Party, we wish to serve you. Please stop in or cal! for additional details and a quote. 
FULL BAR AVAILABLE 
(must be 21 or older to purchase or consume alcohol) 
have one big event." 

But senators expressed con­cern at simply giving more money to the CCC because they were unsure how exactly it would be distributed. 
''I'm not sure it's really pro­ductive to funnel money if we don't know where we're going to funnel it," Flores said. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Mishawaka 
'--r--Y 

he Observer is now accepting · applications for the positions of ~-'-'------=-==--.=:-.:=="-7'1 
2002-2003 
and Panel Cartoonist 
•'•' _~ ·-1' 

---~c:::'"~~1.,,,__,.._jj" .I 
Drop off 5 samples at the Observer office by April 5th to apply. 

Monday, March 25, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Library adds rare letters to collections 
ATTENTION JUNIOR FINANCE, ECONOMICS, OR ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
A National Economic/Financial Consulting Finn Is Looking For YOU! 
Information Session: 
When: Tuesday March 26 @7:00 PM 

Where: The Mendoza College of Business Room 162 
-The information session will discuss what INTECAP does & the opportunities available. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Finance Club 


By lAUREN BECK 
News Wricer 
Notre Dame alumnus Robert O'Grady and his wife Beverly presented Friday a rare collec­tion of Latin American liberator Jose de San Martin's letters to the Hesburgh Library. 
San Martin wrote the 45 let­ters during his military cam­paigns in Latin America from 1814 to 1821. The letters docu­ment his liberation of Chile, Argentina and Peru. Most of the correspondence ls to Chllean G e n Bernardo 
"San Martin left a
O'Higgins, benefit from reporting on beautiful legacy. He was the donation. military "The lelters
a man oftrue integrity, a 
progress, are important
leader who refused to
coordinating for teaching troops and shed unnecessary blood." because they 
requesting show the tex­-supplies. ture of history 
Jennifer Younger
O'Grady, an and give us Argentine director of University Libraries the clements 
in Latin America accomplished." he said. 
The letters, which will reside in the library's Department of Rare Books and Special Collections, are invaluable pri­mary resources, said Jennifer Younger, director of University Libraries. 
"One of the greatest needs of scholars is to have access to pri­mary resources. This cash of let­ters represents a unique addi­tion to the collection, and one we will be privileged to make avail­able to other scholars," she said. 
Jaksic said faculty members 
and students 
alike would 

native and 1963 Notre Dame graduate, said the letters 
were an important reflection of San Martin's character. 
"San Martin is enormously inspirational. He was an individ­ual at a level of the very best, up there with George Washington and the other Founding Fathers," he said. 
History professor Ivan Jaksic considered San Martin an heroic leader in a time of confusion and civil war. 
"San Martin left a beautiful legacy. He was a man of true integrity, a leader who refused to shed unnecessary blood. He is an example for us and for gen­erations to come of what people 
we need to convey histo­ry," he said. Students may consult the let­ters for research. 
Beverly O'Grady said she hoped the letters would interest students of all disciplines. "They provide a wide base for people whose interests are anywhere in this field -politics, literature, economics," she said. 
The San Martin letters added to the O'Grady Collection, which features other rare Latin American books, poetry and let­ters that the couple has acquired from book dealers. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu. 


.£l 
C 
"' 
c 
::, 
0 0 0 
<( 
.2 
:0 
::, 
CL -0 
:£ 
'i: 
Cl> 
0 
0 
Cl> 
] 

As CFO OF A PRO BASEBALL TEAM YOU COULD! PAY YOUR #1 STARTER $23,162.33 (PER OUT) GIVE AWAY 15,000 BOBBLE HEAD DOLLS 
(3 TIMES/SEASON) 

RAKE IN $13.9 MILLION 
IN NATIONAL TV REVENUE (PER YEAR} 
H .W DO YOU GET A .JOB LIKE THIS? 
~ 
C 

www.5TARTHEREG . PLACES.C . M/B1Z7
C 

·c "'0 Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
Cl) 
E 
<( 

START HERE. Ga PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in pro sports. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, March 25, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No,re Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason Mcfarlcy 
MAKAG!NG EDITOR  8USlNESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
SAJJ1,,-MARYS EDITOR: Sheila Egcs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAl'HICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menu 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Scan Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING.................................... 63 i-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGINGEDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS.................................................... ....631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT....................................... ..........631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spores.!@nd.edu SCENE........................................................ 631-4540 observer.scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
rnovieslmusic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudenc reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afcer 
rn meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Lettets to the Editor must be sig,ml and must include concacc information. 
Qumiom regarding Obrerverpo/icier should be direct­edto Editor in Chiefja,on McFttr/,ey. 


In the last month, three programs ran that have pushed the boundaries for what we can watch. There was the CBS documentary "9/11," an uncen­sored look at one fire house's response to the terrorist attacks; 
Mike Marchand 
ESPN's "A Season On The 
Brink," which 

Undistinguished
ran on the same night. but was Alumnus much more bor­ing since it was basically a vehicle for Brian Dennehy to swear a Hoosier-red streak in near­ly every sentence; and FX's new cop­drama "The Shield," which is so raunchy that it makes "NYPD Blue" look like "CHiPs." 
What do these have in common with the new alcohol policy? It's called the law of unintended consequences. Those three TV programs would never have made air 10, five or even three years ago. The only reason we can watch them now is because the networks that broadcast them clearly put the TV-MA label on them, warn­ing of mature content. So in an enter­taining irony. the labels that were slapped on shows to make television safer for children resulted in more adult content than ever before. 
Last week, the Office of Student Affairs handed down its holy decree that henceforth, students shalt not possesseth hard liquor in dorm rooms and there shalt be no enjoyment of the Screweth-Thou-Roommate festi­vals on hallowed University ground. Ostensibly, this seems like a pretty straightforward decision -underage drinking and binge drinking are both problems at Notre Dame and getting worse. Therefore, ban the booze and events where excessive consumption takes place. Problem solved, right? 
No. It's not that easy, because it's never that easy. Drinking doesn't just take place in dorms and before dances. It happens at off-campus resi­dences and bars, where the long arm of the University law doesn't have jurisdiction. That leaves a massive loophole where all the people who would ordinarily be getting wasted in dorms will flee through in a mass exo­dus. It solves nothing, and in fact makes the problem worse. But the new policy is blind to such unforeseen outcomes. 
A student who lives on campus has friends, resident assistants and rec­tors who can deal with a hazardous situation. There are no such safe­guards outside the Notre Dame bub­ble. Who will help when a student that no one knows passes out at an off-campus bash? Who will take the keys from a plastered partier when he or she decides to drive home? Who will make sure that person gets back safe? Instead of assuming control of the situation, the University decided to wash its hands and hope that strangers, the South Bend Police Department. cab drivers or God knows who else takes care of it for them. Some "in loco parentis." 
Furthermore, even in dorms, if someone engages in abusive drinking, the problem could go unreported and unassisted. Theories have been pro­posed, with some logic to them, that the University's negative attitude toward sexual relations contributes to an aura of silence about rape. Victims arc reluctant to come forward because they don't want to admit that they had sex, or became intoxicated to the point where they were taken advantage of. 
If, under these new alcohol rules, a student hosts a party where someone gets hammered to the point where they need assistance, will they tell their RA? Or their rector? Even if the host is 21 and only beer was served, the stigma of the new rules cot:1ld impair the judgment of even someone who hasn't drunk a drop. 
Listen, if you want to stop a prob­lem, you have to identify what it is first and take only those measures to stop it. If underage drinking is the problem, increase the fines for minors who are caught drinking, and start punishing harder those of legal age who either supply them the booze or fake IDs to buy it. If binge drinking is the problem, punish the binge drinkers. Perhaps ResLife could set up "alcohol probation" for repeated offenders. 
In sum, the new alcohol policy is flawed because it won't force the heavy or underage drinkers to stop, and those students who do drink legally and responsibly suffer, because they can't have their choice of drinks they can keep in their living space. Once more, the University has put the "loco" back in "in loco paren­tis" by deciding on a new policy that's the equivalent of using a nuclear weapon to flatten an anthill, being blind to both the fallout and the col­lateral damage it causes. There are ways to fix problem drinking without stepping all over the toes of responsi­ble students. Start there first. 
Mike Marchand, a 2001 graduate, analyst for RealClearPolitics and con­tributor to The Politix Group, used to be a responsible underage drinker. Now he's a responsible legal drinker. Though he prefers rum-and-Coke or a good Long Island Iced Tea, e-mail him with any great drink recipes at Marchand.3@nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Sheila Egts Amanda Greco Kelly Hager Graphics 
Joe Ackerman Katie Malmquist 
Sports Production 
Noah Amstadter Rachael Viewpoint Protzman Kristin Yemm Lab Tech Nellie Williams 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
To what extent do student protests affect administrators' decisions? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"They be blind leaders ofthe blind. And ifthe blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch." 
Matthew 15:14 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Monday, March 25, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Letters question administration's intent 
Changes in alcohol policy focus on improving campus life 

Would it surprise you to learn that for the last 10 years your peers at Duke University have been fighting a losing, rear guard action against comprehensive plans to improve the quality of their campus life by limit• ing on-campus abuse of alcohol and invigorating other dimen­sions of campus life? 
The last two Duke University administrations have made massive and positive alterations in campus housing policy, changed the status of fraternities and started a variety of new programs to enhance the integra­
tion of academic and campus life. /
With faculty cooperation. they have made efforts to bring faculty back to campus in the evening and on 
the weekends and increase the number of faculty and faculty fam­ilies resident on campus. 
The tired refrain, "We work hard, therefore we play hard," uttered in a context where everyone knows that "hard play" actually interferes with good work, is just a fast start on a lifetime pattern of self­defeating behavior. If your next jobs, or the next level of your educations, actually involve easier work, Notre Dame has failed you. 
I'm not sure it's the handwriting on the wall, but for a glimpse of a possible better campus life for a "new Notre Dame," check the following: · 
httpJ/www.dukenews.duke.edu/Daily00-01/willimon.htm, http://www.studentaffairs.duke.edu/about/reports/1994/asc-intro.html. 
Ed Manier 
class of '53 professor of philosophy March 25, 2002 
Administrators' actions more immature than students' 
For those of you who don't know or who didn't attend, the party on March 23 at Lafayette was overrun with police handing out tickets for underage consumption. I was one of the unlucky ones who happened to get stopped and caught. l did not have a drink in my hand, and I was not acting drunk or out of it in any way, shape or form. I had just had a couple of drinks with my friends like we do on weekends. 
The ticket itself isn't a big deal to me. The part that really bothers me is the conver­sation that I had with the police officer that was writing my ticket. He first told me that he had heard on the news about the new policy that the administration is trying to implement. Then, the shocker: he pro• ceeded to tell me that the reason the cops were writing drink­ing tickets was because someone from the administration had called the police, tipped them off about the party and requested that "names of people drinking be taken." Now, l will speak my mind to the administration. Your strong-arm tactics will not work. Many of my 
fellow students and I are sick to our stomachs because of the events of this last week. First, you try to take away our SYRs, which include some of the best and most well-known student traditions. Then, with the intention of scaring students and getting them into trouble, you tip the police about a 
party? I thought we, the students, were the immature ones who can't handle hard alcohol or dances in our dorms. Well, you are the ones who need to grow up. 
Ratting out your own students? Trying to reduce drink­ing by scaring us? There might be a small number of students who abuse 
drinking, but the vast majority of us do not. Notre Dame has always taken pride in the fact that it is a unique place. Now, you, the administration, are single handedly trying to ruin that. Notre Dame 
prides itself on the quality, intelligence and character of its students. So I ask you, why won't you let us have a voice? Why do you treat us like we are incompetent, irresponsible kids? 
Matthew Scheidler freshman Alumni Hall March 25, 2002 

Opportunistic Federalist Society ignores Catholic social justice 
In her March 21 column, Christine Niles related the purported "highlight" of the latest unholy con­clave of the Federalist Society. Contrary to her claims, Gary Lawson's inane doggerel seems quite credible evidence that discussions were neither witty nor respectful. Questions of taste aside, this brand of humor is indicative of the nuttiness that holds sway among this set. How many fair-minded people really chuckle at the notion that Justice Brennan equates to Lenin, while Bork is an alterna­tive to be celebrated? Even taken in jest, this cer­tainly doesn't seem ve·ry "heterodox" to me, and that is exactly the point. Lawson's "humor" by design appeals to a very small group of people who already agree with him. 
Say Niles is right when she says that around 10 percent of those who study law professionally sub­scribe to the Federalist ideology. One might imag­ine, therefore, that there's a lot of useful diversity of opinion available outside this narrow mindset. Not according to the highest court in the land. Though she neglected to mention it, Niles has a pretty good idea about how many of the Supreme Court clerks for Justices Thomas and Scalia come from outside the ranks of the Federalist Society. For those of you keeping track at home, the correct answer is, not many. Niles is disingenuous; for those who actually put these suspect ideas into practice, it's not at all about seeking out other points ofview. 
Now we're getting to the practical way that this system works. While I don't wish to impugn her personally, Niles is no doubt aware that her organi­zation isn't exactly hurting her career prospects. And for those less disinterested and less scrupulous lawyers out there, the Federalist rolodex is the fast lane of careerism. It just so happens that this "phi­losophy" inordinately benefits those with the most money (and least interest in real democracy) in America today. Unfortunately, judging by the growth of the Society, the many inconsistencies within its platform seem less compelling than the convenience of the meal-ticket dimension. Just so long as selling your soul and selling out your coun• try (not any lawyers, of course) aren't big problems, it must be a tempting choice. 
Who should care? At least those of us who think that America should allow its judges to practice Catholicism, perhaps. Incredibly, Scalia (a nominal Catholic) has proffered a trans-Atlantic revisiting of the Test Acts (by which Britain once excluded Catholics from holding political office, etc.). He recently suggested publicly that Catholic judges who follow Church teaching on the death penalty aren't fit to practice: "any Catholic jurist [with such concerns] ... would have to resign." 
Not surprisingly, he hasn't spent much time denouncing pro-life judges despite their comparable conundrum; in agreeing with Scalia they seem to meet the true test of the "law." How long before the 39 Articles of the Federalist Society become a pre­requisite for sitting on any American bench? 
In the same moment, this confident justice moved beyond his usual, bizarre interpretations of the U.S. Constitution to mediate God's will to the Church. After "serious thought," claims Scalia, "No authori­ty that I know of denies the 2,000-year-old tradition of the Church approving capital punishment. ... I don't see why there's been a change." Of course, Scalia neglects several traditions within the Catholic Church over the last 2,000 years that have spoken against the death penalty. But this is a rather typical instance of the sloppy "historical" practice that rationalizes his Federalist ideology ­the mantra better known as "the framer's intent." 
Similarly. there is less interest in the recovery of intent than in mining for selective "evidence" to support preconceived positions that coincidentally benefit society's most fortunate. This "reinterpreta• tion" frequently comes at the expense, for one, of Catholic principles of social justice such as the pref­erential option for the poor. In so many ways, enough never seems to be enough for some people. Despite Niles's reassurances, we should all be con­cerned. 
Tim Campbell 
class of '00 March 24, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page IO Monday, March 25, 2002 









The Vine offers fine foods at a fine price 
By AMANDA GRECO 
A.<sociate Scene Editor 
Opened in November of 1998, The Vine is an attempt at mimicing swank wineries such as Webster's in Chicago. The attempt is rather suc­cessful. 
Boasting a wine list larger than its dinner menu, a bar, a cigar lounge and an outside patio, The Vine appeals to anyone looking for a high class dining experience within a reasonable budget. 
The average cost for an appetizer is approximate­ly $6, entrees range from $6.50 for the gourmet sal­ads to $12. 50 for the creamy Cajun shrimp pasta and wine averages $5.50 a glass or $20 for a bottle. 
The sheer length of the wine menu can be rather daunting for those accustomed to drinking their wine from boxes. Servers are very knowledgeable for guests seeking recommendations regarding the wines available. 
The Vine encourages customers to have a free­taste of wines before selecting a glass or bottle to accompany a meal. Flights of wine are available for purchase, providing an aesthetic display of several wines within a given type: white or red, dry or sweet, etc. The wine menu at The Vine is frequently added to and updated. 
Next to the extensive wine menu, the appetizers offer perhaps the most varied selection, and none are disappointing. 
The simplest appetizer, the cheese flight, is ideal­ly accompanied by a glass of wine. The cheese flight offers an assortment of fresh cheeses and crackers with grapes. 
The baked Brie appetizer brings cheese one step closer to gourmet. In the center of a baked pastry lies the Brie, melted for spreading on the small, del­icate loaf of white bread served alongside. 
Also on the appetizer menu are a variety of equal­ly delicious dips: crab served with garlic bread, spinach with focaccia bread triangles and arti­choke, also served with focaccia bread. The dips are all fresh and creamy, with no large chunks of meat or vegetable to wrestle onto the bread. The crab dip reigns high as the restaurant's most popular appe­tizer. 

Any of the appetizers would be well suited by a light, sweet white wine, such as the Menage a trois. If red wine is pre­ferred. try the Bogel zinfandel, which has a deep, earthy aftertaste. 
The dinner menu offers entrees in sev­eral categories: pasta, specialty pizzas, gourmet salads and sandwiches. A side soup and/or salad may be ordered at an additional price. While the menu cate­gories may be basic, the portions are large and the entrees are each a detailed combination of flavors and ingredients. 
Various preparations for the pasta include the bowtie pasta, which comes served in a white wine sauce, garnished with sun-dried tomatoes, tomato basil chicken breast and asiago and parmesan cheeses. 
Also appearing on the list of pastas is ravioli. This isn't Chef Boyardee ravioli, however. Each. pasta is filled with porta­bella mushrooms, served in an alfredo sauce with green onions and sliced mushrooms. The creamy Cajun shrimp is available served over a choice of pastas. The jumbo shrimp are sauteed in The Vine's special Cajun butter with mush­rooms, red and yellow peppers, and are then served with a splash of cream and parmesan cheese. 
The Vine's pizzas are each a master­piece of sorts. Pizzas offered range from the traditional Italian favorite, La Margherita, to a Meatza Peatza, stacked high with bacon, pepperoni and Italian sausage, to a few newer creations from 
The Vine's kitchen. The Tuscany pizza features a 


The Vine as an extensive wine menu. The staff is highly knowledgeable, so ask which wine would best complement your meal. 
creamy alfredo sauce on a garlic butter crust, 
topped with fresh spinach, sliced mushrooms, 
spices and two cheeses. 
For those seeking a lighter fare, try one of the six 
gourmet salads. But beware -these salads are 
large meals! Most salads are available with or 
without an accompanying meat, either chicken, 
shrimp or bacon. The dressings for each salad are 
"homemade" at the restaurant, along with the 
freshly baked croutons. Each salad is served with 
fresh garlic bread. 
The last stop on the food menu is the sandwich 
section, where diners can select a sandwich made 
to order. In the vegetarian arena, the portabella 
mushroom sandwich offers a filling alternative to 
meat alternatives. The large mushroom is baked 
and served on focaccia bread with cheese and an 
olive oil/onion relish topping. 
Other sandwiches include the grilled chicken 
breast served on French bread, the turkey breast 
served with asparagus, bacon and cheddar and the 
roast beef and cheddar croissant. 
While guests with a sweet tooth generally venture 
next door to the South Bend Chocolate Factory for 
dessert, The Vine does offer several cheesecakes 
and coffee to finish your meal. 
The Vine is a cozy, small restaurant that offers good food and a great atmosphere for its guests. The staff is courteous and knowledgeable, and their lack of a uniform adds to the comfort of the dining experience. The Vine is a successful recre­ation of a big city feel, tucked away in downtown South Bend. 
The Vine is located at 122 S. Michigan St. Call The Vine at 234-WINE for reservations (though not required) and carryout, or to find out about wine tasting events and prize giveaways. 
Contact Amanda Greco at amanda_k_greco@hotinail.com. 

NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, March 25, 2002 BSERVER 2002 NCAA Fencing Championship 
Foiled again 
Notre Dames best point-total in history not enough to win championship 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
MADISON. N.J. The dissatisfied looks on the their faces said it all. 
The wet eyes of both sm1ior sabre captains knew they blew a golden opportunity to win the national title in their final meet. 
At the NCAA Fencing Championships this weekend. Notre Dame finished third with 186 points. Penn State won their sixth title in seven years, finish­ing with 195 points. Defending cham­pion St. John's took second with 192. 
"The team had the talent to win it this year, but talent is not everything, 90 percent of it is 
work," said junior on Friday. The
"This team had the

foil captain Ozren pair won the Debic. "I don't think talent to win it this year, but maximum 45 
we prepared well for talent is not everything, 90 bouts and faced it." each other in the
percent of it is work. I don't 

After the women's foil finals. 
competition was think we prepared Kryczalo won the completed Friday, well for it." final 15-6. the Irish stood in Kryczalo defeated second with 97 Ohio State's
0zren Debic

points. The Red H a n n a h Storm was in first men's foil captain Thompson 15-5 in 
with 100 and the Nittany Lions were three behind the Irish with 94. 
"The girls did really well. Before this, everyone was like 'If the girls do well we're set."' said freshman Derek Snyder. "So I think [Saturday] we went in kind of cocky. We dropped a lot of bouts we shouldn't have. If we had fenced strong, we definitely would have won. We have a better team than most of the people here. We definitely had a shot." 
The confidence quickly left the Notre Dame after the second round of Saturday's competition. In men's foil and sabre, the Irish went a combined 1-7, giving the Nittany Lions 12 points, a lead they would not relinquish the rest of the weekend. 
"I kind of hoped that we were going to fence them later," said Snyder. "It was tough. It was intense. We had the whole Penn State team there cheering. Notre Dame was there as well. I don't think Dz [Debic] and I fenced nearly as well as we could have." 
Combining its poor performance against Penn State with other subpar records in the other rounds, Notre Dame fell to third place with 148 points. Penn State was in first with 155. 
However, the team felt it could make up that difference with a better show­ing on Sunday. At a team meeting Saturday night, Debic thought Auriol killed any hopes of a comeback. 
"He basically told us that we're not going to win and that we screwed up the first day," Debic said. 
"I think that had a huge impact on 
our team. We didn't fence well the first day, but we were still down by seven bouts. We could of pulled it off. Ile really killed our momentum." . 
In the first two rounds on Sunday, the Irish continued their inconsistent performance from wins on Saturday and combined with senior captain Andre Crompton to give the Irish 27 points in men sabre. 
Sobieraj, after earning a 26-1 regu­lar season record and the Midwest Regional Championship, started horri­bly with six wins on Saturday. He regrouped on Sunday and finished with 12 wins. He earned third team All-America with his 10th-place finish. The freshmen foil team of Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament continued their dominance 
one semifinal 
while Ament defeated St. John's Irina Khouade 15­13 in the other semifinal. 
Sophomore Kerry Walton won the women's epee title in her first NCAA Championships. She defeated defend­ing champion Emese Takacs 15-12 in the semifinal and Penn State's Stephanie Eim 15-12 to claim the title. 
Debic finished fourth in men's foil to give the Irish four first-team All­Americans, the most in Irish history. 
Since women's sabre was added in 2000, Notre Dame's point total of 186 would have won the competition in 2000 or 2001. Last year, the Irish fin­ished third with 153 points. 
Next year, St. John's, who only qual­ified 11 of the maximum 12 fencers this year, and Penn State look to improve further and push the point totals higher. The Irish need to make many improvements if they hope to contend for the national title. 
"We need to get a lot, more than we're going to get," said junior epee captain Jan Viviani. 
"When you look at some of the other teams we are going up against they have pretty amazing guys. All the guys on [Penn State] are practically from other countries, national teams. There's Olympians on other teams. 
"We're gonna have to do some work." 
Notre Dame returns 10 of its 12 qualifiers next year. The Irish only lose sabre fencers Crompton and McCullough. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 


fencer of the meet  quote of the meet  stat of the meet  
Alicja Kryczalo The freshman foilist was perfect in her NCAA  "Mentally, some ofthe guys on this team weren't ready to compete. "  1-7 against Penn State Saturday The Irish men's foil and sabre teams  
debut. She won every bout en route to the individual foil national title. She was an incredible +100 in indicators meaning she scored 100 more touches than she yielded.  Yves Auriol Irish head coach  won just one bout during round two of the men's competition against Penn State. The Irish never made up this I 2­point deficit and lost by nine points.  

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, March 25, 2002 
Walton one-ups her family with epee win 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
MADISON. N.J. 
Irish sophomore Kerry Walton's family tradition is very rich in fencing. 
John, her father, fenced until knee surgery made him stop. 
Her mom, Yvonne, recently won the veterans' division at the North American World Cup and also made the Veterans' World Team, mak­ing the mother-daughter combo the first duo to concur­rently be members of world team squads. 
Kerry's cousins, Scott and Kevin, fence at Columbia and Penn, respectively. Her broth­er Forest is on the Notre Dame men's foil team but spent this season abroad. He finished 10th at the 2001 NCAAs and was a third-team All-American. 
In this stable of fencing thoroughbreds. however. Kerry Walton stands above them all after winning the 2002 NCAA women's epee individual championship. But you'd never know from her stoic reaction that she is the best collegiate women's epeeist in the country. 
"I am always like this. I never really care," she said. 
"It's just another tournament. It's important for the team and everything. It's just another step". 
In team competition, Kerry finished third with an 18-5 record. Her most dramatic victory came again-st Arlene Stevens of St. John's, when Kerry scored the winning touch with four seconds remaining in overtime. 
Kerry's semifinal match was against Emese Tackas of St. John's, the defending women's epee champion. With the score 9-8, Kerry won four straight points to take control of the match. She defeated Tackas 15-12 and moved to the final. 
In the final, Kerry found Stephanie Ehn of Penn State, who finished pool play with a perfect 23-0 record. However, Kerry came ready to win the title. 
Kerry led by two after the first and second periods. In the third, Kerrv never let Eim pull even and she won the title 15-12. Kerry was very satis­fied with her victory over Eim. 
"I hadn't fenced her in awhile. I lost to her earlier actually, 5-4 in the pool," Kerry said, "So I was a little nervous. She is probably the· best fencer here in my opinion and she always does excellent in all the tournaments she's at. I was a little nervous com­studying architecture, Forest ing in but I had some good sent his team some support in advice from [head coach) Yves their quest for the national [Auriol) and [assistant coach] title. Janusz [Bednarski] as well." "He e-mailed the whole 


Even though he is in Europe team," said Kerry. "He said he's so sorry he can't be there for [us]. Kick butt for me." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 

Auriol remains the same to the end 
MADISON, N.J. Thursday, Auriol had no prob­
Even in his last weekend as lem telling the media he Notre Dame fencing coach. thought they fenced "lousy." Yves Auriol remained a stark After expected championship­realist. contender Michal Sobieraj won 
With his team trailing Penn just 12 bouts, Auriol called him State by out for underachieving and said seven he should have won "10 more." points Nobody was immune from heading Auriol's blunt words -not into the even second-team All-American final day Jan Viviani. whom Auriol of compe­expected to place in the top tition, four for the third consecutive Auriol year. didn't For some fencers, Auriol's deliver a direct assessments of their per­rousing formance were a negative, but win-one­for others, it only drove them to for-the­fence harder. Gipper-"If you don't like to hear it, esque ora-then it can be tough," Stephane tion or hype his team up with a Auriol said. "But sometimes, rousing pep talk. Instead he sat you need to hear how it really his six men fencers down and is." told them exactly what he Sabre captain Andre thought. Crompton said Auriol's blunt 
"I didn't have the numbers so assessment of their chances I said it could be difficult to pull Saturday night helped them it off," Auriol said about Notre regroup for a better Sunday Dame's chances for a comeback performance. on Sunday. "When they gave "That's just the personality of me the numbers, then I said it Coach Auriol," Crompton said. could be done but it would still "I think after we had our meet­be tough." ing, we realized we were only 
His team would have been down seven bouts and a lot fools if' they expected anything could happen [but] we didn't different. pick it up [Sunday]." 
Throughout his 13 years at Auriol's brutal honesty came Notre Dame -the last six as hand in hand with his refusal to head coach for both the men's make excuses. Through and women's squad -Auriol injuries, illness, transfers and has always called it like he saw academic casualties, Auriol it. He never sugarcoated his never rationalized failure or words and pulled any punches. tried to give reasons for losing. 

"He's not gonna change. He's He was intensely driven to suc­always gonna tell it out it is, ceed, to win, and to bring home thing is unaccomplished." want. recognize the shortcomings and whether you are doing well or a championship. There's a championship miss­Don't make excuses, rational­win. whether you are doing bad," And leaving without one cuts ing from Auriol's impressive ize his shortcomings or gloss said his son Stephane, who him right to the marrow. coaching resume. A dark over his shortcomings. Contact Mike Connolly at con­fenced for Notre Dame from "I have been finishing so close splotch on an otherwise shining There is only one way to nolly.2 B@nd.edu. The views 1996-99. for so many years it would have career. honor Auriol's 13 years as Irish expressed in this column are 
When his women's sabre been nice to win this time." But don't feel sorry for him. head coach. those ofthe author and not nec­team won only 13 bouts on Auriol said. "I feel like some-That's the last thing he would Understand the successes, essarily those ofThe Observer. 

Mike Connolly 
Outside Looking In 


Monday, March 25, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Untouchable 
Kryczalo adjusts to life in America, dominates on the fencing strip 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Senior Staff Writer 
MAflISON, N.J. 

In the dining hall after fencing practice ihis fall, freshman Alicja Kryczalo felt out of' place. The Polish fencer who had never spent a significant amount of time in the United States before August was lost amid the quick tongues and slang that characterize a college dinner conversation. 
"After practice when we went to dinner. l didn't understand any­thing. I was sitting and felt so bad," Kryczalo said. "Sometimes even now, I don't understand what people are talking about." 
But as lost as she felt in American culture, she was right at home on the fencing strip as she finished her freshman vear with an undefeated NCAA· champi­onship and the individual foil title. 
"I was sure I could do it, but I knew that it was very hard to do it," Kryczalo said. "I can't say I'm surprised, but I'm really glad because it wasn't easy." 
Kryczalo said her championship wasn't easy, but out on the strip, she made it look easy. She never had a bout closer than 5-3 and finished the tournament +100 in indicators, meaning she scored 100 more touches than she received. Her opponents only landed 15 touches -less that one per bout. 
"It was a miracle," men's foil captain Ozren Debic said about Kryczalo's performance. "I don't think that will ever happen again." 
Kryczalo's undefeated streak included two wins that avenged her only losses of the season -St. John's Irina Khouade and Stanford's Irish Zimmermann. 
Her win against Zimmermann, the defending NCAA champion, was especially dominating. She ripped through Stanford's best 5­
1. 
"I knew that she wasn't in the best shape," Kryczalo said. "I didn't lose to her [at World Cup events] in Poland. When I came here, l lost two matches. So I just had to regain my confidence." 
Kryczalo is gaining confidence off the strip as well. Joining in mealtime conversations wasn't the biggest hurdle Kryczalo had to conquer linguistically. She also had to pass First Year Composition ... in a second lan­guage. 
"I knew English but it was very hard to take the classes. FYC was very difficult at first," she said. 
Her first paper took her hours to write but at the end of the semes­ter, her English had improved and so did her grades. She got an A­for her final grade. 
On .top of learning a new lan­guage, she was also away from home for the first time. With her parents thousands of miles away and struggling to express herself with her American friends, she turned to assistant coach Janusz Bednarski and freshman epeeist Michal Sobieraj -both natives of Poland. 
"Michal and I speak in Polish," she said. "We joke about the lan­guage barrier." 
Meanwhile, Bendnarski acts like a surrogate parent. When Kryczalo got sick, Bednarski called everyday to check on her. 
"I brought her into a challenging academic situation like Notre Dame and she is doing very well," he said. "Her parents obligated me to take care of her." 
Every day, however, Kryczalo gets a little more comfortable in American culture. Pretty soon she will be just as smooth off the strip as she is on it. 
Already she is fitting in better into conversations. As she learns more conversational English, she also taught her teammates a cou­ple of key Polish phrases ­including the Polish words for "Go Baby" which he teammates made into a sign to cheer her on. 
"That was so nice of them," Kryczalo said blushing at the extra attention. 
Conversational English is still tough for her but with her easy going demeanor and desire to learn, don't be surprised if Kryczalo is soon leading those post-practice dining hall chats. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. 

Final Team Standings  
team  Total  MS  MF  ME  ws  WF  WE  
1  Penn State  195  37  35  29  29  26  39  
2  St. John's  190  38  17  35  35  31  34  
3  NOTRE DAME  186  27  33  29  2D  45  32  
4  Ohio State  140  33  10  18  28  36  15  
5  Columbia/Barnard  96  26  20  11  24  15  
6T  Stanford  92  10  33  16  16  17  
6T  Yale  92  17  5  5  34  21  10  
8  Princeton  81  8  6  28  9  30  
9  Penn  68  4  24  17  6  10  7  
10  Rutgers  60  8  12  15  12  13  
11  NYU  58  25  24  9  
12T  Northwestern  56  15  24  17  
12T  Wayne State  56  19  B  18  11  
14  Temple  45  25  1D  10  
15  Air Force  39  10  18  3  8  
16  Brown  29  12  14  3  
17  MIT  28  8  4  16  
18  Brandeis  25  3  9  8  5  
19  UC-San Diego  23  3  3  17  
20  Duke  22  16  6  
21  Johns Hopkins  18  5  5  8  
22  Harvard  14  5  3  6  
23  Cal State-Fullerton  13  11  2  
24T  Cteveland State  8  8  
241  Drew  8  8  
261  Boston College  7  7  
26T  North Carolina  7  7  


Alicja Kryczalo won the 

first women's foil title for Notre Dame in 11 years. Above, she is congratulated by Wayne State fencer Anna Vinnikov after Kryczalo defeated Irish teammate Andrea Ament 15-13 for the title. Right, Kryzcalo scores a touch against Ohio State's Hannah Thompson in Kryczalo's 15-5 semifinal win. Kryczalo did not lose a single bout in her NCAA debut. 

Individual Notre Dame Results 
First Team All-Americans 
Rank  Name  w  L  Pct.  
1  Kryczalo  23  0  1.000  
1  Walton  18  5  .783  
2  Ament  22  1  .957  
4  Deblc  18  5  .783  

Second Team All-Americans 
Rank Name w L Pct. 5 Crompton 18 5 .783 5 Viviani 17 6 .739 7 Snyder 15 8 .652 
Third Team All-Americans 
Rank Name w L Pct. 10 Carnick 14 9 .609 10 Sobieraj 12 11 .522 12 McCullough 12 11 .522 
Other Finishers 
Rank Name w L Pct. 
14 Fabrlcant g 14 .391 18 MIio 8 15 .348 
; ··~ 
TS TR Ind Notes 115 15 +100 defeated Ament 15-6 for title 103 63 +40 defeated Eim 15-12 for title 113 37 +76 lost only bout to Krycza lo 103 63 +40 lost both Final Four bouts 
TS TR Ind Notes 
106 60 +46 lost tie for 4th by Indicators 105 70 +35 missed top four by one bout 100 75 +25 won seven of last nine bouts 
TS TR Ind Notes 
84 75 +9 third All-American finish 90 85 +5 Auriol expected top four finish 85 87 -2 first All-American finish 
TS  TR  Ind  Notes  
73  88  -15  won last four bouts  
76  93  -17  had same record In 2001  

O
THE 2002 NCAA Fencing Championships BSERVER Monday, March 25, 2002 
Although four Notre Dame fencers earned first-team All­American honors, the most in Irish history, it wasn't enough 
to bring home a team title. 
Eleven Irish fencers earned 
All-American honors -either first, second or third team ­also an Irish record but it still was not good enough to top either champion Penn State or runner-u'p St. John's. All three teams surpassed the previous high-point totals for six weapons at this year's championship. Several Notre Dame fencers said the 2002 Irish team was the best in years -they were right. But the bar was set a little higher this year and the Irish couldn't measure up. 
INDIVIDUAL TRIUMPHS NOT ENOUGH 

I 
I 
f 
t 
I 
I 
I I 



---~ ----------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, March 25, 2002 

page 11 
, 

ene reviews area 
LaSalle Grill falls short ofhigh expectations 
By AMANDA GRECO Associate Scene EdilOr 
To review a restaurant that has won as many awards as LaSalle Grill has is nearly superfluous; but someone needs to keep the restaurant on its culinary toes. 
For the past 11 years. LaSalle Grill has been pleasing South Bend's fine dining connoisseurs and consistently winning recognition in various publications as the best restaurant in all of Indiana. 
From the moment a guest enters the restaurant, the dining room's atmosphere is apparent and pleasant. Lining the walls are works by various artists, both locally and nationally acclaimed. The kitchen is open to the restaurant, allowing guests the opportunity to watch each process in the preparation of their meal. The table is set with fresh silverware at each course of the meal. The restaurant's staff is courteous without snobbery, an attitude almost expected in so heralded an establish­ment. 
Expect to pay a little more for your meal at LaSalle Grill. The average price of appetizers is $8.50, salads average $4.50, entrees generally run around $22 and desserts are $5.50. Expect also to spend a long time enjoying your meal. Servers take a bit of time asking for orders and delivering food; a dinner for two on a Friday night, complete with dessert and coffee, can last at least three hours. 
First-time diners will be served a special slice of LaSalle's elegant menu, such as lobster bisque with mas­carpone and chives, compliments of the chef. A basket of warm breads and dipping oil is also brought to the table. 
The featured menu at LaSalle Grill changes frequently; 
PETER RICHARDSON/The Observer 

the menu at a given meal will be dated for that visit. 
The kitchen in the LaSalle Grill is open, allowing dining room guests to view the entire meal preparation
Menu items include first courses (appetizers). salads, 
process. The LaSalle Grill has a variety of certified chefs on staff.
soup, main courses and hardwood grilled steaks. First courses served represent an eclectic mix of ethnic 
delicacies. Choose from gorgonzola and Portobello freshly made wasabi, contain firm, fresh tuna. Compared The hardwood grilled filet mignon is a tender cut of mushroom gratin, spanakopita, crab and prosciutto free to rice served at restaurants specializing in sushi, beef; having never been frozen, the meat's texture and form lasagne, woodland mushroom and chicken liver LaSalle's rice is a little low on taste. It lacks the rice flavor is well-preserved. Served on a bed of new potatoes pate, escargot and ahi sushi rolls. vinegar flavor generally noted in sticky rice. LaSalle with tobacco onions and a Jim Beam bourbon­
The sushi rolls, served with a strong soy sauce and The escargot is served in a garlic butter compound pecan butter, this ·entree brings together a myriad of fla­with herbed bread crumbs. The menu indicates vors, topped with the smoky overtone from the fire. they are served with fresh lemon juice; however, The much-hailed kitchen at LaSalle Grill with its certi­the salty zing of lemon that brings out the flavor fied chefs is not infallible; steaks are not always served in escargot is nearly undetectable. as ordered. For the high price paid (each steak on the 
LaSalle Grill features five different salads as a menu is over $25) guests are advised to send improper prelude to the main course. The Caesar salad is orders back. While waiting for an order to be prepared topped with shaved grana padano cheese, but again, guests will be provided a complimentary bowl of the dressing served on the romaine is scant. The soup to occupy them while others at the table continue to individual pieces of lettuce within the salad are eat. It is with much regret and profuse apologies that the too large to consider as bite-sized, which makes chef personally brings the now-free order back to the eating the salad an effort-requiring endeavor. table. No one can accuse LaSalle Grill of having a poor 
The LaSalle house salad is a fresh bed of sense of customer service. mixed spring greens, drizzled with a ginger­Finally, LaSalle Grill features a large dessert and after­mustard vinaigrette. The vinegar taste expected dinner drink menu, complete with homemade ice dream, in a vinaigrette is minimal. however. Other sal­a cheese course, various cakes and an assortment of cof­ads served include the classic wedge, served fees and cappuccinos, served with or without alcohol. with creamy bacon and bleu cheese dressing, a When in doubt while ordering at LaSalle, it is recom­baby spinach and radicchio salad with a mended that servers be asked for suggestions. The wait mignonette vinaigrette and the pickled beets and staff knows the menu better than most, and can direct a frisee salad served with cottage cheese. guest towards a meal complete through all courses, 
Several interesting soups arc available on the accompanied by the proper beverages and topped off menu, including a caramelized onion and sweet with the most appropriate desserts. pepper stew with chopped scallion and a LaSalle Grill continues to provide an enjoyable dining Peruvian lima bean and pancetta potato chow­experience with a menu challenging to undertake and der served with cheddar cheese croutons. The adventurous in its scope. It is advised, however, that the soups are a strong complement to the main restaurant not rest on the laurels of its past success and course entrees. persist in attempting to deliver the finest dining experi­
Main courses offered feature a variety of ence in South Bend. meats, including pork tenderloin, rack of lamb, LaSalle Grill is located at 115 W. Colfax in downtown chicken. duckling and several varieties of fish, South Bend. The restaurant also has a banquet hall on such as salmon, walleyed pike, tilapia and sea the second floor and a club on the third floor that fea­bass. tures live performers throughout the week. The restau­
The salmon is served lightly broiled, accompa­rant is open for dinner Monday through Thursday. 5 nied by a small serving of calico rice pilaf and a p.m. to 10 p.m. and on Friday and Saturday from 5 p.m. sweet side of dried papaya and currant chutney. to 11 p.m. Call 288-1155 for more information. or visit The meat _is tender, juicy and flakes nicely, and the restaurant's Web site at www.LaSalleGrill.com. the papaya and chutney complement the fish very well. Green beans arc also served, tender 
Contact Amanda Greco at 
and fresh with a light buttering and a salty sea­
amanda_k_greco@hotmail.com
comes from area artists. 
soning. 




O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Monday, March 25, 2002 
N-........... 2 battles it out 
The 14th annual NAZZ contest took place this weekend on campus 
By MIKE SCHMUHL 
Assistant Scene Edi tor 
Evolving from the late '70's on-cam­pus music scene, Notre Dame's battle of the bands, or "NAZZ," gives student groups the chance to showcase their talent amongst peers and fellow music lovers. 
Every year, the Student Union Board-sponsored event promises a good show for the students, and this year was no exception. 
On Friday, the 14th annual NAZZ competition took the Alumni-Senior Club by storm. 
Thirteen bands and six solo acts were included in this year's battle, while celebrity host Jason Mewes or "Jay" ("Mallrats," "Clerks," "Dogma" and "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back"} directed traffic and introduced each band. Poking fun at people in the packed crowd, band members and Notre Dame's party scene, Jay's humor gave the night a relaxed feel­ing. 
At 8 p.m., the first band, Updog, took the stage. Performing unique ren­ditions of Alice DJ's "Better Off Alone" and the Cure's "Boys Don't Cry," the apologetic band closed with an insane medley of pop covers. 
With hits like "Bootylicious," "I am #1," "World's Greatest" and finally 'N Sync's "Pop," Updog was a definite crowd pleasers. 
Different Folk was next on the line up. The quartet of skilled musicians, with obvious influences from the Grateful Dead and Phish, filled their extended jams with hard and soft interludes. A funky beat and a smooth, jazzy sound best describe this band, which was quick to get the crowd moving. 
The Begin Again, an emo band with heavy guitar riffs and powerful vocals. led the way for Station One with their explosive mix of reggae, ska and funk. Consisting of Peter Miller on drums, David Miller on guitars, Mike Maimone on keys, Zee Elsey on bass and Lawrence Santiago with lead vocals, the group opened the set with Sublime's "54-46." 
With amazing range and freestyling skills, Santiago sang over the funk-laced beats created by the band. Singing their three originals, ''Everybody Get Down," "Breaker-Breaker" and "G!}rshwin." and closing with a great version of Sublime's "Santeria," it was clear it would take a lot to defeat this band. 
Clark gave the most ener­getic performance of the evening. Bassist Pat Bayliss and guitarist Mike Beaton jumped and leaped around the stage while merging heavy basslines and wailing guitar riffs. Drummer Ryan Partridge provided a hammering beat as Bayliss and Beaton shared screaming vocals. 
The powerful performance from Clark gave way to the Joneses with a laid back vibe of more classical pop rock. Mostly performing covers like John Mayer's "My Stupid Mouth," The Doobie Brothers' "Long Train Running" and Denver's "Country Roads," the group gave a solid showing. 
The Skammunists, last year's win­ners, took the stage next. An unusual line up that combines a sax, trumpets. trombone, drums, guitar and bass, the Skammunists are true masters of their genre. With a volatile version of Catch 22's "12341234," the crowd was so involved that a mosh pit formed and a lone crowd surfer was elevated. 
Broken up by security, the event was threatened as the microphones were taken away. After a short delay, the band concluded their set and NAZZ continued. 
Other acts included Lester's pop rock and punk, No Redeeming 

Qualities' (NRQ) spirited showing of more classical, hard rock and The Alpha Bet's vocal harmonies and hand clapping. 
NIHM took the stage around mid­night and the talented guitarist Neil Carmichael led the group through a bluesy jam of Steppenwolf's "Magic Carpet Ride" and Phish's "Slave to the Traffic Light." With a clear electric sound and a great vocal jam, NIHM (as in "the rats of") finished on a high note. 
Like The Skammunists, Wild Bill's Bluegrass Brigade brought some untraditional college music to NAZZ. A bluegrass quintet with a guitar. banjo, bass, mandolin and fiddle, WBBB's unique blend of folk, country and blues worked well as they performed "I Am a Man of Constant Sorrow." They closed with a distinct adaptation of the Beatles' "Hard Day's Night." 
A few minutes before 1 a.m., Jay walked on stage to announce the win­ners. Judges were asked to grade the musicians by three factors; musical skill, musical performance and crowd appeal. Using these guidelines, third place was given to The Skammunists, second to NIHM, and the first place prize to Station One. 
Contact Mike Schmuhl at mschrnuhl@nd.edu. 


Monday, March 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Blake sends Maryland to Ftnal Four with late score 
points from the 14-minute Carolina State in the Atlantic 
Associated Press 
mark until the final 36 sec­Coast Conference tournament onds. semifinals.
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Baxter, the regional's Most

On a night when Maryland's Outstanding Player, was 7-for-Kansas 104, Oregon 86senior stars led the way, strug­
12 from the field, 15-for-18 The Jayhawks met a team
gling junior Steve Blake hit the from the free throw line and that wanted to run with them.
shot that sealed a second grabbed nine rebounds. He They jumped all over the
straight trip to the Final Four. 
had 24 points and 10 rebounds Ducks instead.
The No. 1-seeded Terrapins 
in the teams' first meeting this Drew Goo.den and Nick
beat second-seeded 
season, a 77 -65 Maryland vic­Collison each had double-dou­Connecticut 90-82 Sunday in tory on Dec. 3. bles by early in the second halfan East Regional final where "I just st~pped up to the line Sunday, and top-seededthe lead swung back and forth and tried to make every free Kansas never trailed in a 104­for most of the final 13 min­throw I took," Baxter said. 86 rout of Oregon that put theutes. 
The Huskies, who had won Jayhawks in the Final Four. 
Lonny Baxter had a season­
12 games in a row, kept this Kansas controlled the fast,
high 29 points, and fellow 
one as close as a game can be. end-to-end action in thesenior Juan Dixon scored 27 
Butler, who had a career­Midwest Regional final and
for Marvland, which reached high 34 points in last Sunday's dominated the boards, outre­
the 30-victory mark for the 
second-round victory over boun ding second-seeded
first time in school history. 
North Carolina State, only Oregon 61-31. Indeed, Gooden
"We have tough guys. We 
played 13 minutes in the first and Collison outrebounded thedidn't think we would lose this half because of foul trouble. · Ducks all by themselves -35game," Maryland coach Gary Hr, hit his first three 3-point to 31 -and the JayhawksWilliams said. "We're going 
attempts in the second ha.If, grabbed 24 offensiveback. We want to du some­the last of which gave the rebounds, leading to 31 sec­
thing this year." 
Huskies a 54-53 lead with ond-chance points. 
The frantic finish included 
13:11 left and set up the wild "We knew the way to beatseven lead changes and eight ending. them was to beat them on theties in the last dozen minutes. 
Rut as the shot clock wound Baxter gave Maryland the boards and get extra shots," lead for good with a hook shot Gooden said. "I think it was
down in the final minute of the tight game, Blake sank a 3-that made it 81-79 with 2:08 contagious. We were relentless left. out there on the backboards."
pointer -his first points of the evening -to make it 86-Connecticut was within 83-Gooden had 18 points and 20 
80. 80 when Blake became the rebounds, and Collison added The Terrapins weren't chal­hero. 25 points and 15 rebounds, lenged again. The point guard had a poor putting the Jayhawks (33-3) in "That shot was the biggest game to that point, missing his their first national semifinal one I could hit for this team," only two shots and pulled from since 1993 and third under 
said Blake, who had been ban­the court by Williams with coach Roy Williams. ished to the bench by coach about 5 minutes left because But this is the first time in 
Gary Williams just minutes of some shoddy defense. five tries that Williams has and outhustled the beefier 10 points, four by Collison. to before his key bucket. Marvland took a timeout taken a top-seeded team to the Ducks on the glass. fueling end the Ducks' dreams of with 34 seconds left on the Final four. His other appear­their up-tempo game. reaching the Final Four for the
Maryland (30-4) wiH play 
"I liked it because it was up first time since they won theanother No. 1 seed, Kansas, on game clock and 14 on the shot ances came as a No. 3 in 1991, 
Saturday in Atlanta. The clock. Blake wound up with and a No. 2 in 1993. and down, even though we first NCAA championship in Jayhawks beat Oregon 104-86 the ball and his 3-pointer went Kansas faces Maryland in were beating each other for 1939. in the Midwest Regional final. through the net with 25 sec­Atlanta next Saturday. The layups," Gooden said. "You "I told Nick and Drew to get Just as there was no wild onds remaining in the game. Terrapins beat Connecticut 90-probably can't see my feet on the backboard." Williams 
celebration after their regional After a Connecticut miss, 82 in the East Regional final. right now. I've got my shoes said. "I got on them a little bit semifinal win over Kentucky, Blake added two free throws Two other Jayhawks nearly off. My dogs are hurting." in the first half and at halftime the Terrapins were again mat­for an 88-80 lead. joined forwards Gooden and Kansas led 48-42 at halftime because I felt they were trying ter-of-fact after beating Chris Wilcox added 13 points Collison with double-doubles. and stretched its lead to 73-59 to be perimeter players. I told Connecticut (27-7) in one of for Maryland, which shot 50.9 Freshman reserve Keith on a runner by Hinrich with them, 'We're going to win this the best games of the NCAA percent (27-for-53) from the Langford had 20 points and 9:50 left. basketball game inside. We're Tournament. field and was 31-for-35 on free eight rebounds, and Kirk Anthony Lever hit back-to­going to win this game on the 
Maryland scored the final throws. Hinrich scored 14 points and back 3-pointers to spark a 10-backboards. I don't need you eight points of the first half to Tony Robertson ha~ 15 gr 2 Oregon run that made it 75-guys to be perimeter players.' take a 44-37 lead -UConn's points, and Taliek Brown 12 "They crash the boards all 69 with 8:30 remaining. "Drew took all that as con­biggest deficit of the tourney to for Connecticut. tho time, every single play," Lever's third 3-pointer made it structive criticism. Twenty that juncture -but sopho­The Terrapins lost to eventu­said Frederick Jones, who led 77-72 seconds later. rebounds, what more can you more forward Caron Butler al champion Duke in the the Ducks with 32 points. "I thought we were going to say? Nick Collison battled his 
brought the Huskies back. national semifinals last season "Their guards came in and got blow it out several times. But rear end off." 
He had 26 of his 32 points in -when they made the first some. too. It was an all-around they're a hard-fighting team, a It appeared as though the the second half, most in a bas­Final Four trip in school histo­effort." great team, and they didn't Jayhawks were going to run ket-for-basket run with the ry. Now Maryland heads back The Jayhawks, the nation's give in," Jayhawks point guard away with it early when Terrapins which saw neither having won 17 of 18 games, highest-scoring team with a Aaron Miles said. Hinrich's layup gave Kansas a 
team lead by more than three 
the only loss coming to North 91-point average, outmuscled But Kansas scored the next 40-28 lead. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid, 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 
1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2+5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left tor 2002-2003 
Also leasing for 2003-2004 
Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274·9955 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 3NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND NORTH 3-6 STUDENTS 
2773097 
WANTED 
Camp Counselor for children w/ dis­abilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $7­$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 6 sites in Summit County. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Call 800-CYO-CAMP for an appli­cation. 
ln•home NANNY needed to care for 1-year•old infant, mornings and/or afternoons, all summer (mid-May to mid-August). Experience with infants, references, and transportation required. Contact Dr. Knoedler: 
631 -4264 or aknoedle@nd.edu 

YOUTH MINISTER. 2 suburban parishes, Chicago-OHare area, seek an innovative, dynamic, faith-filled person to coor­dinate a comprehensive youth min­istry program. Full time position, requires flexible hours, some evenings, weekends. 
Compassion, enthusiasm, motiva­tion, organizatioo skills, dedication to teens. Tasks: coordinating faith/formation program; supervising adult volun­teers; preparing liturgies, yearly retreat, fostering social justice out· reach; guide fund raising program Preferred candidate Catholic with bachelor deg. in ministry/theology, some experience. Start date: July 1, 2002. Submit resume, reflection on youth ministry, 3 references to: Youth Min. Search Comm., 920 W. Granville, Park Ridge, IL 60068. Fax 847-825-3484 by April 6. 
FOR SALE 

2000 VW Jetta GLS, immaculate, automatic, loaded (CD, monsoon sound, cruise, moonroof), 
14,500 miles, white w/ black leather interior. 
Only $16,500. 
Contact 289-7194 

FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 

272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com MMMRentals.com 
Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air -conditioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M, 1F) Safe neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1/2 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/month + 1/4 utilties, call Michelle 202/829·3725, or krup78@hotmail.com 
4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available after 6/1. 3 block from campus. Call (773)-486-8862. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )large (6-9) people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call Bill al 532· 1896. 
2 Great Homes: 4 & 5 Bedrooms. Well Kept! Great Location! ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255­8403. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking Nice 3-4 bedroomhouse­air.sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cot­tage..cute.. DAVE 291-2209 
3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM­PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 272­6306,292-6717 
PERSONAL 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential suppon or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
BEST RESTROOMS? Has anyone seen the ones in the basement of the South Dining Hall? They would be No. 1 on the "Worst" list. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 25, 2002 
MEN'S TENNIS 
No. 7 Irish overcome losses, top Hoosiers 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Despite losses by its top sin­gles player and doubles team, the seventh-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team decisively held off Indiana 6-1 at Bloomington on Saturday after­noon. 
The match started off with seniors Javier Taborga and Casev Smith, ranked fifth nationally in doubles, losing to Indiana's Zach Held and Ryan Recht by a score of 8-3. Fortunately for the Irish, they were able to quell the momen­tum the Hoosiers gained by that upset victory and Notre Dame secured the doubles point before going on to win five of six singles matches. 
After Taborga and Smith lost, senior Aaron Talarico and freshman Brent D'Amico gave the Irish their first victory of the day, as they defeated the Hoosier duo of Milan Rakvica and Ari Widlansky, 9-7. Then, seniors James Malhame and Ashok Raju clinched the dou­bles point as they won 9-7. 
"Doubles was going to dictate what was going to happen in the match," Taborga said. "And it did." 
"Indiana was winning and we thought we were going to lose the doubles point. Then we came from behind and won it, so we kind of broke their spir­it," he added, referring to the victories of Talarico-D'Amica and Malhame-Raju. 
"Doubles gives you a lot of momentum," Taborga said. "If you win the doubles point, you know that you only have to win three singles now, instead of four, and that's a big advan­tage." 
The other duos had to deal with a big mental burden after Smith and Taborga's loss. 
"It's always a little disheart• ening when your best duo loses [to a non-ranked teamJ," said Talarico, who said having Taborga and Smith lose was a little nerve-wracking. He credit­ed the team's mental tenacity with its ability to not let that initial loss prevent them from winning more matches. 
"I was pleased more with the mental performance. Pretty much we had to win, and we did," said Talarico, who also defeated Zach Held in singles, 6-4, 1-6, 6-2. "The doubles point is only one out of seven, but it's probably the most important. It is usually the deciding point in a lot of match­es." 
Taborga and Smith have not been pleased with their doubles play lately. 
"I thought that they came out a little bit stronger than we thought they would [but] we really played bad doubles," Taborga said. "[Casey and I) are not doing things right. It's been the third match we've played like that. 
"We have to work hard on [our play] this coming week so we are strong for Kentucky and SMU who are the top doubles teams." 
One of the duo's weaknesses, Smith believes, is the trouble they in coming from behind. 
"I think that's a problem Javier and I have had over the last five or so matches. Whenever we get a lead, we play really well, but it's really tough to play catch up," Smith said. "That's something [Irish coach Bob Bayliss] talked to us about. We need to come out and assert ourselves right off of the first point." 

"[Held and Hecht] arc a good team, but we've played teams that are ten times better. We are really not converting our opportunities. We are not find­ing ways of winning the close games and that's what's costing us right now," said Taborga, who also gave up Notre Dame's only singles loss when he was upset by Hakvica, ranked 109th nationally, in straights sets, 6-4. 6-4. Taborga is currently ranked 11th, and this loss ended his 11-match singles winning streak. 
"I think we dominated in every court [of singles] except for my match. It wasn't a good day for me. I wasn't playing that well," he said. "In the past I found ways of winning, but this time I just didn't have the chances. Ijust couldn't turn the match around, but I'm confi­dent that this is going to help me realize that I still have a lot of weaknesses." 
Taborga's doubles partner fared well in singles though. 
Smith upset No. 63 Jakub Praibis, 6-4, 6-2, breaking Praibis' nine-match winning streak as well as achieving his fifth win over a ranked oppo­nent this spring. 
"That was probably the best two sets I've played this year," Smith said. ''I've struggled a lit­tle bit being aggressive. I don't know if it's expectations I place on myself or what. That was the first time that for two straight sets I was really aggressive." 
In other singles play, Matt Scott, ranked 64th nationally and playing at No. 5, defeated Ryan Recht by scores of 6-3, 6­4, improving to 26-3 for the season. Luis Haddock-Morales improved to 14-4 as he defeat­ed Tommy Bagnato 6-2, 5-7, 6­
4. Andrew Laflin, who has now won 29 of his last 32 matches handed a loss to Ari Widlansky, 7-6, 6-1. 
Taborga believes that although Indiana was not ranked, this match was a tougher situation than playing a ranked opponent. 
"These are the kind of match­es that you have to get up for. It's really easy to play Illinois or Duke or those matches where they are ranked high and you can gain a lot from winning," he said. 

"Indiana who is not ranked, really doesn't have that much to offer us as far as the ranking goes. It's hard because you are in a situation where you can only lose. For the team to get [pumped up]. it's harder than normal." 
Notre Dame will next play No. 40 Michigan at Ann Arbor on Wednesday. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 

Class of 2003 JUNIORS 
YOU'VE GOT THAT GREATSPRING BREAK TAN­SMILE AND SHOW IT OFF! 
Sign up now for your Class of2003 Dome yearbook portrait. [t's not too ear]y. In fact, now is the best time to get your Senior portrait taken. Portrait sittings taken in the Spring are discounted by $5.00. P]us, in the unlikely event you are unhapppy with your proofs, only students who get photographed in the Spring will have an opportunity to have their photo­graph retaken. Retake sessions wi11 be in September. 
VISIT 

WWW.LA URENSTUDIOS.COM 
TO SIGN UP FOR YOUR PORTRAIT SESSION. 
DO IT NOW!!!!!! 
Monday, March 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 


"I was really happy with the way our defense played in the second 
half," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "Our defenders did a great job of keeping two­
Sign up for LI -Ill 
LI-Ill -Mondays, March 25-April 29 (excluding April 1) 8:30 pm -9:30pm Who: Students who have been elected officers of their student groups for the following academic year. All-school officers are strongly encouraged to attend. 
What? Interactive sessions which focus on organizational management and personal development, including: 
* 
Conflict Resolution * Etiquette/Personal Development 

* 
Ethical Leadership * Constitutions/Byfaws 

* 
Collaboration * Retreat Planning * Diversity 


Why? LI-Ill will give you a head start on preparing to lead your organization to new heights. Don't wait until it's too late to make a difference. Get the leadership skills you need now! 
How? Visit the Student Activities website below and fill out the registration form! 
WHY PARTICIPATE? 

There are many great reasons why you should participate in Leadership Institute. Some of these include: 
* 
Opportunity to develop your leadership skills. 

* 
Learn more about your leadership style. 

* 
Meet other student leaders. 


* 
Have practical experience you can take with you into the "real world." 

* 
Receive individualized attention to your leadership development. 

* 
Learn how you can make a difference in student life at Notre Dame! 



Soccer 
continued from page 20 
the second half. waiting patiently for the prime sporing chance. Notre Dame made some key defensive adjust­ments at halftime and came back on the field much more aggressive. Irish freshmen defenders Gudrun Gunnars­
tlottir and Candace Chapman kept the s p e e d y Dominguez away from the ball in the second half. 
"I'm really pleased with 
Leonardo the way we played Cucilar was 
tonight. Our young extremely 
impressed
defenders played great 
with the Irish. 

tonight and our offense "They arc a really passed the ball very good 
team. They
well tonight.,, 
had the best opportunities Randy Waldrum to score," said Cuellar. "It
Irish head coach 
world class forwards away from the goal. You won't find two forwards as fast as Dominguez and Mora in the cotlege game." 
The Irish defenders held off an offensive onslaught from the Mexicans in the final 20 minutes of the game. Mexico's best scoring chance in the second half came in the final minute of the game when Mexico's Iris Mora missed a one-on-one opportunity against Irish sophomore goalie Lauren Kent. Kent forced Mora to alter her shot just wide right of the goal to preserve the victory for Notre Dame. 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
singles wins with a victory against Madura, 6-3, 6-0. 
Following the win, the Belles are looking ahead to another successful MIAA season. 
"It was our first conference match of the season. and obvi­ously there's a little bit of pressure being conference 
'IP 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us fo be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
574/239-6611 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 
Whether your next step is buying a new home or refinancing the one you have, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union offers some of the lowest interest rates around. There's never been a better time to see us for a fixed-rate mortgage. Plus, we offer first mortgages nationwide. Clearly, when it comes to home financing, nobody puts out the welcome mat like Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
!Bl www.ndfcu.org (7) 
Independent ofthe University LENDER 
'Tm really pleased with the way we played tonight," Waldrum said. "Our young defenders played great tonight, and our offense really passed the ball well tonight. What we hope to gain from these spring games is to gain some valuable experience heading into next season. It was a great opportunity for us tonight to play against the Mexican National Team." 
Mexican 
National Coach 
was a very 
physical game. [t will help both programs in the future." 
Friday night's game marked the first of seven spring exhi­bition games for the Irish. Notre Dame will next travel to Marquette on April 6 for a showdown against the Golden Eagles. On April 14, Notre Dame will travel to Lincoln, Neb., to take on Nebraska and Southern California. 
The Irish will then host two games on April 20 against Evansville and Illinois. Notre Dame will finish out the exhi­bition season the following Saturday with a home match against Missouri. 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu. 

champions, so we want to con­tinue to do well," Annie Knish said. "Albion is one of the stronger teams in our confer­ence, and we had to go in and give it our all." 
Spriggle said, "It was a great way, especially the score being as it is. It helps our con­fidence as we move forward in the season." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Write for Observer Sports. 
Call 
1-4543. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 25, 2002 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish drop to 1-5 after 15-5 loss to Hofstra 

By JOE LICANDRO 
Spores Writer 
Saturday was not a day to remember for the l\'otrn Dame men's lacrosse team. The Irish suffered their worst defeat of the sea­son -a 15-5 romp at the hands of visiting No. 12 Hofstra. 
After losing their previous two games to No. 3 Loyola and No. 4 Virginia by only one goal in each contest, the Irish never had a chance against the Pride. Hofstra held the ball for nearly the entire game, while Notre Dame's offense failed to create prime scor­ing opportunities. Behind a balanced scor­ing attack in which six players scored at least two goals, the aggressive Hofstra offense confused the Irish defense through­out tho contest. 
"We showed a lot of hustle out there today," said Hofstra coach John Danowski. "Our goal is to be unselfish on offense. Evmyone on our team needs to be a threat on offense for us to be successful." 
llofstra jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead only 35 seconds into the game on a goal by Scott Doolev, who led the Pride with three goals and one assist. 
Notre Dame tied the game early at 1-1 on a goal by freshman Chris Richez, but then the Pride took over the game for good. 
Hofstra scored five unanswered goals to take a commanding 6-1 lead midway through the second quarter. Notre Dame sophomore attackman Dan Berger finally responded with his team-leading eleventh goal of the season. 
Both the Pride and the Irish would each tack on two more goals by the end of the first half, making the score 8-4 in favor of Hofstra heading into halftime. 
The third quarter was a defensive battle. 
Scott Dooley scored tho lone goal of the quarter for the Pride just past the nine­minute mark. 
The fourth quarter was a nightmare for the Irish. The Pride offense completely dominated the final stanza, scoring six straight goals to take a 15-4 lead. 
"We've underachieved up until this point," said Danowski. "We showed a lot of hustle out there today. We seemed to scoop up all t~e loose balls and that made the dif­ference 
Notre Dame's senior captain Devin Ryan added a late goal with 31 seconds remain­ing for his ninth goal of the season. Fellow senior John Plandina had two assists in the contest for his team-leading eight assists on the season. 
With the win. Hofstra improved its season record to 4-3. The loss dropped Notre Dame's record to 1-5. This marks Notre Dame's first three-garri.e losing streak since 1999. 
The Irish can take solace in the fact that their losing record will not prevent them from qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. Their record within the Great Western Lacrosse League will determine their post­season chances. 
Notre Dame begins league play on Saturday when they visit the University of Denver. That game will mark the first of four straight road games for the Irish. They do not return home again until April 21, when they take on Fairfield. 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu. 

Monday, March 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 


LibQUAL 
Tell Us -we are listening! Answer the Library Survey 
Coming March 25, 2002 
UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 


Offering: 

• 
A transfer-intent curriculum 


• 
The shared resources of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 

• 
A residence life program 



Call {574) 239-8400 or visit www.hcc-nd.edu for more information. 
02002 Holy Croe& Colleg• 


SwiIDIDing 
continued from page 20 
Austin. Auburn defeated defend­ing champion Georgia for the NCAA crown with 474 points. 
While tallying an undefeated record during the dual-meet-sea­son and adding the sixth Big East title to its list of achievements in February, the Notre Dame squad spent much of the season aiming for a top-10 finish at the national meet. 
But failing to qualify the top freestyle relays for the meet handicapped that goal. 
"Going in, it's going to be pret­ty hard to be in the top without having that freestyle relay quali­fy," Weathers said. "The reality of the thing was that it was a super-fast meet. By far, it's the fastest NCAAs in the history of college athletics." 
Two Irish athletes came out of the meet with individual All­American honors. Senior diver Heather Mattingly became the first Notre Dame diver to earn All-America honors in diving with an eighth-place finish on the 3-meter board Saturday. Mattingly finished the event with 
517.90 total points. 
Senior sprinter Carrie Nixon wrapped up her swimming career with an All-America fin­ish in the 50-yard freestyle 
(22.53 seconds) Thursday. Nixon's 100-yard freestyle 
Friday in 49.47 earned her a 10th-place finish and honorable mention All-America status. 
Senior backstroker Kelly Hecking, competing in her fourth national meet, earned the high­est finish of her NCAA career in the 200-yard backstroke. Hecking placed 12th in the event, finishing in 1:57.90 and breaking the Notre Dame school record in the process. Hecking also finished 28th in the 100­yard backstroke (55.93). 
Sophomore butterflier Lisa Garcia broke the Notre Dame school record in the 200-yard butterfly, finishing in 1 :59 .28 and 17th overall in the event in her first NCAA Championships. 
Also competing in their first NCAA Championships, freshmen Kristen Peterson and Kelli Barton added strong perfor­mances for the Irish. 
Peterson finished 41st in the 100-yard backstroke in 57.19, and 37th in the 200-yard back­stroke in 2:02.34. Barton earned a 29th-place finish in the 1,650­yard freestyle in 16:48.91, and 56th in the 500-yard freestyle in 4:59.61. 
Sophomore Marie Labosky was 25th in the 400-yard individual medley, after an 11th-place fin­ish in 2001. Senior Allison Lloyd was 41st in the 100-yard breas­troke in 1 :05.05. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

LARGE ONE TOPPING WITH 2 LITER OF POP $9.99! 
PIZZA COMPA~ 
plzzadoneright 


NOW OPEN THURSDAY-SATURDAY till 2 am! 
-

Not good with other offer. Expires 4.10/02 SR 23 at Ironwood (next to SUBWAY)
J Please Recycle The Observer. I 
271-1277 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, March 25, 2002 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish reach high marks in Arizona 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports W ri rer 
The Notre Dame track and field team wasted no time this weekend in setting the bar high for itself to begin its outdoor season. 
With most of the team resting in South Bend, 18 short-distance and field event members of the Trish team traveled to the Baldy Castillo Invitational in Tempe, Ariz., and set 20 Big East qualifying times and several NCAA provisional times. 
Senior Derek Dyer set the tone for the weekend, throwing a per­sonal best 53 feet, 11 inches in the shot-put en route to a fifth-place finish. Dyer, who holds the Notre Dame school record in the shot put, also took sixth place in the discus with a throw of 156 feet, 10 inches. 
Joining Dyer with impressive showings in the field events were Tom Gilbert and Mike Madigan. Both Gilbert and Madigan quali­fied for the Big East Outdoor Championships, with Gilbert jumping 7.09 meters in the long jump (sixth place), and Madigan throwing the javelin 56.25 meters (12th place). 
In the field events for the· women, the Irish were represent­ed by pole vaulters Jamie Volkmer and Jill Van Weelden. Both women tied for fifth with vaults of 10-11. Volkmer also took third in the triple jump with a jump of 39­
-
2. 
hurdles, was able to pull out a good time in the 100 hurdles. I was sick this weekend, so to run 
14.1 [seconds] was pretty good. I used this race to familiarize myself with the 100 hurdles again." 
Also having an impressive weekend were the core ofthe Irish women's sprinting corps. Three of the four girls who make up the nationally-ranked mile relay team of Liz Grow, Kymia Love, Ayesha Boyd and Kristen Dodd took four top-five finishes in five races. 
Leading the way was Boyd, who took third in the 100-meter dash in 11.76 seconds and second in the 200-meter in 24.45. Boyd, who ran the 200 at nationals two weeks ago, set a 100-meter per­sonal best on an outdoor track with her effort this weekend. 
Dodd took fourth place in the 200 meters with a time of 24.45, and All-American Liz Grow took second in the 400 \\ith a time of 53.61. 
The four women are coming off a ninth-place finish at the NG\A Indoor Championships, and Boyd thinks a strong showing at this weekend's invite provides a good boost for them to start the outdoor season. 
"The whole purpose of this past weekend was to see where we were as far as training and what we need to work on," Boyd said. "And from this past meet, I think everyone did pretty well, and now we know our strengths and weak­nesses, and so we know what we need to work on." 

Of Notre Dame's 14 top-five fin. Love did not compete this week­ishes, four were attained by the end because of a last-minute sick­Irish hurdle contingent, led this ness, but she expects to race next weekend by freshmen Selim week at the Florida Relays. Nurudeen and Tiffany Gunn. Completing the Irish squad this Nurudeen took fourth in the 110-weekend were Pat Conway, Kevin meter hurdles and fifth in the 400-Somok and Eric Morrison, who meter hurdles, while Gunn fin­were the only distance runners to ished eighth in the 100 hurdles travel to Arizona. All three run­
I and fifth in the 400 hurdles. ners only competed in the 1500­Junior Tameisha King, who meter run, where senior Conway 
I competed in the long jump at the led the way with a fifth-place time 
I t NG\A Indoor Championships two of 3:51.11. Somok was seventh in 
I weekends ago, joined Gunn in the 3:51.90 and Morrison finished
I 100 hurdles, taking third with a 16th in 3:56.39. 
I I 
time of14.15 seconds. "We did really well," King said. 
I "Selim ran a great time. Tiffany, Contact Dave Cook at 
t after a day before running the 400 dcook2@nd.edu, 
l Notre Dame September 11th Memorial 
Design Competition 
Organized by the School of Architecture 

As a memorial to the victims of the September 11th attacks ­especially the four Notre Dame alumni who died -the University is considering redesigning the South Quad's flagpole. The School of Architecture is organizing a design competition for ideas. All Notre Dame students are invited to participate. 
The choice of materials and the character of the monument are up to the designer, but keep in mind that the University is looking for ideas that could be completed by September 11, 2002. Team efforts are encouraged. 
-
The submission must be on a single 20" X '30" sheet in any medium. There must be.,no identification of the author on the sheet. To the back of the sheet affix a plain sealed envelope containing your name(s) and phone number(s). All submissions are due in the Architecture Office, 110 Bond Hall by 4 pm on Wednesday, April 3. The entries will be judged at 3:30 pm in Room 104, Bond Hall on Friday, April 5 by a design jury including: Former South Bend Mayor, Lt. Governor Joseph Kernan; Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C,S.C.; Margaret Derwent Ketchman, Architect; Charles R. Loving, Director, Snite Museum; Diana Lefever Creech, University Architect; Rev. Richard S. Bullene, C.S.C., Assistant Professor, School of Architecture. 
The winning entry will be made available to the media, published in School ofArchitecture publications and will be considered for actual construction on the South Quad. 
If you were a Notre Dame professor, what would you say in your ... 
Last Lecture? 
Alexander Hahn 
Department of Mathematics Director, AUSC Honors Program 
Tuesday, March 26 
7pm 

Welsh Family Hall Lounge 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED!!! 
SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT, WELSH FAMILY HALL, AND KEOUGH HALL 

S.B.C.M.E. presents the 8th annual 
Mini-Medical School Lecture Series 
Join us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors, professionals and university/medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free of charge and open to the general public. 
Session I, l'ucsday, March 19. 2002 Allergy and Asthma, James Harris, !',ID 
Session 2, Tuesday, March 26. 2002 A.DIID: Attention Dejicitlllyperactivity Disorder, William Kronenherger, PhD, HSPP 
Session 3, Tuesday, April 2, 2002 Cholesterol and Ynu -Wlzal to Do?, Paul Howard, MD, FACC 
Session 4, Tuesday, April 9, 2002 Che~, Pain in the ER • I/ow and W/Jy We Decide to Admit Patients, Mark Walsh, MD 
Session S. Tuesday, April 16. 2002 Sleep Disorder.f, Brian .Foresma11, DO, FCCP, FACSM 
Session 6, Tuesday. April 23, 2002 Impact a/Sports Medicine on E,•eryday Life, Doug McKeag, MD 
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. Place: 102 Del3artolo Hall (west ofstadium) Univer~ity of Notre Dame 
To register or for more information, call Stephanie al 631-7908 

Monday, March 25, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 34 Jawaharlal of 56 See 17 -Across 
MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2002 1 _, beta, CELEBRITIES BORN ON aiminating. 000
India 61 Apple or maple gamma ... 35 Fourth-down 62 Cry like a THIS DAY: Elton John, Aretha VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 6 Like skyscrapers option banshee Franklin, Sarah Jessica Parker, You may have some health con­36 Middle Brady 63 Kind of question Hoyt Axton cerns but keep in mind that wor­
10 Not fully closed 
Bunch girl Happy Birthday: Leadership is rying could be at the root of your 
64 & 65 Miscellany,

14 Lulu 
something that you may become problem. Take time out to relax a 15 Creme-filled quite familiar with this year. You little and to determine what it is 
37 See 17-Across when separated 
41 Superlative by "and" 

cookie will take an active role in social that is constantly nagging away at suffix 66 Obsolete and sports events that can provide your psyche. 000
16 Stubborn beast 
42 Is sick anesthetic you with the competition you LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl. 22):
17 With 37-and 
43 Parish priest require. You'll be determined to Don't overreact to things going on 
56-Across, 
do your own thing and you'll at work. Put yourself in a position 
44_ DOWN

where "God 
excel along the way. Your num­that is valuable and you won't
Speed wagon 1 Be adjacent toSave the 

bers are 4, 15, 17, 19, 23, 41 have to worry about your future.
45 Almanac datum ­
Queen" is the 2 l,.etterman rival ARIES (March 21-April 19): 0000 
national anthem 46 Torment a 3 Celebrate This is a great day for love and SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 20 Heavy weight stand-up 4 Simple shelter romance. Be quick to make your Take it nice and slow today and comedian move and to tell someone special don't let life's little hazards hold 
21 Dancer Charisse 5 Gobbled up
47 Egg beater exactly how you feel. The partner you back or send you off on a tan­
22 Hoodwinks 6 1964 Olympics 
of your choice will be very accom­gent. Stick to what you know and 
49 Abstract artist 
host

23 No-no modating if you are affectionate. dobest.00
Albers 

7 Dry 00000 SAGilTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
26 Arcade game 50 Forearm bones 
name 8 Football great TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Put on your best duds and pre­52 It's bottled in Dawson Don't let your emotions stand in pare to face the world. Let your
28 Improvement 
Cannes the way of your judgment. Being worldly outlook lead the way and 
9 Nautical journal 

30 Wharf 53 "7 Faces of Dr. stubborn will only hold you back. you'll be sure to discover all sorts
10 Love affair

31 76ers' org. _" (1964 llick) If you refuse to see the big~er pic­of intriguing people. 00000 
11 Rolling Stones ture you will probably fall snort of CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): hit of 1968 your expectations. 00 If something has gone awry in ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Lotion ingredient GEMINI (May 21-June 20): your financial picture you'd better 
Call upon friends and relatives to start going over your investments 
B U G J U I C E M A R I S T 13 They keep track ....P_uzzle_._b_t__.Pe_ter_,_G_or_don 
help you make the changes that with a fine-tooth comb. You can
of pins 

50 Golden rule 55 Stink you feel are necessary. Something save yourself some cash and some
S P E A K S U P A T O N C E 18 Pesticide brand 33 Wrestling's _ 
the Giant worth reading will come via snail disappointment if you make a
C S G O T C H A word 57 Emitter of 
R E A E 19 W.W. 11 turning mail or e-mail. 0000 
couple of changes now. 000 

point 35 Puncture 51 • of the 38-Down 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 38 Sheepish Flies" 58 Competed in a You may feel as if the whole Make sure that you've made world is against you but that just arrangements to spend time with 
glow sounds 52 Novelist Bagnold 10K 
isn't true. Open your eyes to all someone you care about or
25 Very dry, as 39 Currier's partner 54 Game show 59 Needle part 
the opportunities around you and engage in events that will intro­Champagne 40 Heading on host Robinson 60 Tennis call take the positive road that leads to duce you to a number of possible 26 Some wedding Santa's list your own personal success. 000 partners. 000 guests LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): PISCES (FEB. 19-MARCH 20):
E .,;,+...+...-1 27 "Toodle-oo!" 45 Ichthyologist's Answers to any clues in this puzzle are Romantic development is in the 
This is your day to achieve. Set D ,_,._...,--4-_. 28 Felix of "The study available by touch·tone phone: stars. Your vibrant presence and out early and get the day off to a D I R A Odd Couple" 46 Daylight savings 1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 par minu1e). entertaining manner will make good start. Your astute way of 
you very appealing. You are now doing things will certainly help 
U N R I p E T R U B L E S 29 Intrinsically saving 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
sitting in a position that will allow you grab the attention of your col­
S T A L E R A R T C L A S S 30 Colorful cover 48 Despises best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
you to pick and choose so be dis-leagues. 000 
T O W E R S B Y T H E W A Y 32 Hackneyed 49 Puts behind bars years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You are optimistic, ambitious and outgoing. You are friendly, interested, and love to interact with others. Freedom is impor­tant to you. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Unive.isal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
TOM-KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
YOU'VE GIVEN ME 98.7% ON HIS HOMEWOQK ASSISNME 
BUT I FER I'VE CLEARLY MERITB> AT LEAST A 98.8% 
MEET INTERESTING ENJOY YOUR OWN PEOPLE PRIVATE OFFICE SPACE 
I SAVE UVES \ 

BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 
ON A WORIC PEM8Rool<'S To SLEEP T~oUGH THE Nl~HT? SCHEDULED ONE To ASIC ENl'IRE THREE HOURS. WHATEVER oF HIS LITTLE GooD foR? ,oMPANY•WIDE QUESTIONS? \~ / 
AND I WANTED TO SE FULLY PREPARED. 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
J::..., ~ ja.J +hre:, e.. .:A-e.,.'t,v,~ ; " L1 hir+.," e.. }Jew I C4.r-?'--'L r;tc.ulovs p..-ic.e,l to(" be.low c..v~y eof+ee.. 

I.Jt~ ~c.~~ ta ivc.(t o.l\ the.-wc.1 C.( n~~ Cr.."-i"-'~­
CUNNIGNHAM 
YeJ., ""'~ "°...., ~,_,, -Z :oo ~t o" w&k""'M 1o.>€ w~n·J ~ve t, J° c;.s +t..r ~ .Q~ c. rlc.ee ~ ?'Ice [)I\ . -1-1-.e. +I,,,,,.. I 



Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Track and Field, p. 18 
. NCAA Basketball, p. 13 
. 
Men's Lacrosse, p. 16 

. 
Men's Tennis, p. 14 



PORTS 
Monday, March 25, 2002 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Mattingly, Nixon earn All-America honors 
• Irish finish 19th at fastest women's championship meet ever 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sports Writer 
In a-meet in which 11 American records fell, the Irish women's swimming and diving team managed a 19th-place fin­ish at the NCAA Division I Swimming and Diving Championships this weekend. 
The National Championship meet, which posted more record-breaking performances than the 2000 Olympic Trials, was the fastest NCAA women's swimming meet in history. 
"I don't think anybody could have predicted that," said Irish head coach Bailey Weathers. "Olympic Trials only come around once every four years, and I don't think we've had as many records fall in the last two Olympic Trials. It's pretty unusual just how fast that meet was." 
-
The Irish qualified eight swim­mers and one diver for the meet, 
held at the University of Texas 
see SWIMMING/page17 


WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Belles start title defense with victory 
By KATIE McVOY Associace Sports Editor 
The Belles let everyone know that they were not going to easily give up last season's MIAA title as they kicked off the conference season this weekend with a strong victory against the Albion Britons. 
Saint Mary's, who took a 7-2 victory, fought for every point in the match but made sure those fights left them on top. 
"[The Britons] are just com­petitive players, and they're pretty consistent," said senior Annie Knish. "They get a lot of balls back. All the points we get we have to work for." 
The Britons took quite a few points and forced the Belles into tiebreakers twice. But except for No. 1 singles and No. 1 doubles, the Belles proved to be the more patient team just waiting for the right time to send home the winning stroke. 
..... "They all have pretty strong inside strokes," said sopho­more Kris Spriggle. "We had to be the more consistent play­er and the more patient play­er." 
Spriggle took home wins in both of her matches, posting a 6-4, 7-5 win against Emily Dumas in at No. 4 singles and a 6-4, 6-3 victory against Emily Radner and Corey Madura with partner Angie Sandner at No. 3 doubles. 
"My singles match was pret­ty difficult," Spriggle said. "They ha,d a lot of hard strokes. I had to step up my game and try to make a break." 
Knish dropped both of her matches in close sets against Albion's Aimee Greene. Gree·ne forced a close first match in No. 1 singles, defeat­ing Knish in the tiebreaker before taking the second set 6­2 to post the win. Knish paired with younger sister Jeannie to face Greene and Karen Dumas in No. 1 doubles and suffered the same fate. After taking the second set 6-4 to tie the match at one win apiece, the Knishes fell 6-2 in the third set, for a two-sets-to-one loss. 

"[Greene's] a senior and she was a good player," Annie Knish said. "She moved me all around the court ... I lost the first set in a tie-breaker." 
The rest of the Saint Mary's team cleaned up the court to bring in the final five points. Jeannie Knish won at No. 2 singles, defeating Karen Dumas 6-2, 6-3. Kaitlin Cutler took home wins in both of her matches winning No. 3 singles 7-5, 2-6, 6-1 and pairing with junior Elisa Ryan to defeat Emily Arend and Emily Dumas in three sets. Cutler and Ryan took the first set 7-6, winning the tiebreaker 8-6. They dropped the second set 6-2, before capturing the third set by the same margin. 
Ryan won her No. 5 singles match, defeating Radner 6-0, 7-5. Sandner wrapped up the 
see TENNIS/page 15 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish earn 3-2 win in first exhibition gaIDe 
By JOE LICANORO Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team started off its spring exhibition season on the right foot with a 3-2 vic­tory over the visiting Mexican National Team in a frigid Friday night contest. 
With just under 20 minutes left in the game and the scored tied 2-2, Irish for­ward Amanda Guertin crossed the ball over to teammate Melissa Tancredi, who sped past the Mexican defense and shot the ball in the lower far right corner of the net for the game-winning goal. 
"Amanda made a great pass. She crossed the ball all the way from the other side of the field," said Tancredi. "I was running down the left sideline, and l brought the ball down with my right foot. I took a few dribbles and just shot it to the right corner of the net." 
The game was a fast-paced affair with both teams push­ing the ball up the field for numerous scoring opportuni­ties. Mexico's world-class forward Maribel Dominguez struck first with a goal in the 14th minute. Notre Dame then answered with a goal by sophomore midfielder Kim Carpenter in the 22nd minute. 
Guertin, last season's lead­ing goal scorer, follow.e<l Carpenter's effort with a goal of her own in the 28th minute. Dominguez would then strike again for Mexico with her second goal of the game in the 31st minute. 
The Irish offense held pos­session of the ball for most of 
see SOCCER/page 15 
. ND Softball at Western Michigan, Tuesday, 2 p.rn. 
OBSERVER 

. SMC Softball vs. Goshen, Tuesday, 3 p.m.
SO TS 
on!!ne 

. Women's Lacrosse vs. Delaware, Tuesday, 4 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Tennis vs. Illinois, Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 




