
VOL. XXXVII NO. 3 HTTP://OBS.ERVER.ND.EDU 
Notre Dame enhances fine arts programs 
. John Haynes first director of arts center slated to open in 2004 
By SHEIIA FLYNN 
News Writer 
While Notre Dame is most recognized for academic and athletic prowess, the University is investing time and money to further develop­ment of another aspect of its identity -the fine arts. 
As construction progresses on the 123,000-square-foot, $50 million Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, the University is enlisting high-profile arts figures to promote the arts on campus. 
The arts center is scheduled to open in 2004. 
The first executive director of the Center, John Haynes, took over the job Aug. 1. The former chief executive officer of the California Center for the Arts, Haynes came to Notre Dame with previous perform­ing arts experience. He previ­ously directed The Children's Theatre Company and School in Minneapolis and served on the board of governors and the executive committee of 

Minnesota Citizens for the Arts. 
In May 2002. Haynes also accepted an invitation from the Chinese government to speak at a cultural forum in Nanjing and to advise Beijing officials on plans for a new performing-arts center and school. 
"Most of these are collabora­tive, as opposed to competi­tive, enterprises," Haynes said of his previous positions, "and develop a set of management skills that I think is especially valuable in a University set­ting." 
At Notre Dame, Haynes will be responsible for managing the daily operations of the Center. which will house the University's Department of Film, Television and Theatre in addition to five performance centers: the 900-seat Leighton Concert Hall. underwritten by South Bend civic leader and philanthropist Judd Leighton and his late wife, Mary Lou; the 350-seat Patricia George Decio Drama Theatre, under­written by Notre Dame Trustee Arthur J. Decio in honor of his wife; the 100-seat Regis Philbin Studio Theatre, underwritten by the famed morning-show host and 1953 Notre Dame graduate; a 200­seat cinema theatre; and a 

100-seat organ and chorale University in general. hall. Notre Dame has also estab­
Haynes 's duties will also lished an Advisory Council for include serving as liaison with the Performing Arts. The new other academic departments, council includes well-known local and national arts com­directors Sydney Pollack and munities, managing all non­Martin Scorsese and talk-show academic arts programming hosts Phil Donahue and and promoting the arts at the Philbin. The board will guide the University's future artistic endeavors. 
"What they all bring to Notre Dame is a willingness to help -to offer advice and perspec­tive informed by many years of remarkable success," Haynes 
see ARTS/page 4 

Credit Union replaces Key Bank in Lafortune 

By lAUREN BECK 
News Writer 
A branch of Notre 
Dame Federal Credit 
Union in LaFortune 
Student Center will bet­
ter serve students' needs 
than the Key Bank office 
it replaced, University 
officials said. 
The move happened in early August, but plans for the change began in April. With Key Bank's lease expiring in late July, Notre Dame put the student center base­ment space up for bid and allowed banks to submit proposals. 
The University con­troller's office also dis­tributed a survey via campus e-mail to gauge students' banking needs, said Nancy Majerik, the office's cash manager. 
Officials used the sur­vey to establish selection criteria. 
"It told us the different things students wanted: low fees, good hours, face-to-face banking and ATMs and other services banks offer to con­stituents," said Brian Coughlin. director of Student Activities. 
After evaluating the 
bids, a lease board 
chose NDFCU as the best 
candidate. 
"NDFCU made the best 
offer -they charged no 
fees, had live tellers, 
could staff a full service 
branch and were more 
willing to be open more 
hours than a regular 
bank," Coughlin said. 
The bank's main 
branch is located just 
north of campus at 
19033 Douglas Road. 
Senior Cristina Ceballos said creating an on-campus branch was practical for students. 
"I'm excited because it's more convenient than walking all the way to Douglas," she said. 
Key Bank, however. was disappointed with the change, said spokesman Ken Baierl. 
"We have always pro­vided good service to Notre Dame students, and we thought that because of our long rela­tionship that we would continue to operate in Lafortune," he said. 
Key Bank sent letters to its customers who used the Lafortune office, informing them of the change and inviting 
them to use the bank's 
University Park Mall 
branch. 
Baierl said it was too 
early to tell if students 
would close their 
accounts with Key Bank. 
but some students say 
maintaining their 
accounts with the bank 
would be too inconve­
nient. 
Junior Dave Barrett, a Key Bank member, said he has opened an account with NDFCU and will allow his Key Bank account to lie dor­mant during the school year. 
"I have always main­tained my Key Bank account at school because I can use it at home also," said Barrett, who is from Maine. "I feel cheated because I came hack expecting my bank to be in LaFortune, and now it isn't." 
The new NDFCU office will operate Monday through Wednesday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Thursday and Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu 
Thursday, August 29, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Be a Part ofthe Paper 
The Observer is up and running again and the staff is prepared to tackle the school year. Cranking out a paper five days a week is demanding work and the only way this is pos.sible is with tips, leads, and story ideas 
submitted by stu­dents and staff  . Justan Krlvlckas  
members.  We  
need you.  
The student body  Assistant  
and the University  News Editor  
share a  mutually  
beneficial relation­ 
ship. Students are  

dependent on The Observer for campus news and events. Every day at the dining halls, tables are littered with copies of the paper and everyone on the stafflooks at this seemingly messy and disordered array and smiles, because their work is being appreci­ated. 
Students spend leisure time discussing the key issues they read in the newspaper. The paper's articles help to spawn educated arguments among students and also the fac­ulty. helping to enlighten the entire campus. 
We are glad that most students regularly read the paper. Most of the staff get paid for the jobs we perform and work profesfilonally to give you the best paper we can layout. You don't have to be on The Observer staff to help the paper out. Tips are always more than welcome and we even have a box in our office dedicated to this all-important part of the paper. Without story ideas. 'The Observer would not be the paper it is today. 
You are the sponge and we're here to keep you soaked 
In order for us to keep giving you the material that we, painstakingly it seems sometimes, put together for you every day, we have to ask for something in return. We need everyone to keep their eyes wide open and pay attention to what is happening around them. 
Please don't hesitate to contact The Observer if you have something juicy you can't swallow and need someone to tell. Think of us as a big sister or brother that you have to keep informed. We're attentive listeners and are eager for any help out there to make The Observer the best college newspaper around. 
It isn't that The Observer runs out of material to print. But a broader array of story ideas will help the paper consistently serve the reader filet mignon, a type of story one only finds once every few months. 
Share with the entire campus something the campus normally would never know of. Ifsomething seems Observer-worthy, please e-mail orcall us. You know where to find us, if not in the office, then you probably know one of the staffin a class. 
We toil five days a week in the basement of South Dining Hall and like trolls we work deep into the night. Give the trolls a break and share a charm or two or we'll have to go back to eating people when they pass into our lair. 
We're here working for you, and we can be more than swamped sometimes and overlook an interesting event on campus. So please do your part and help your newspa­per bring insightful and thought provoking articles to you every day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and mives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Coinless technology reaches SMC  Palestinian family killed by Israeli tank  WorldCom execs plead guilty  Challenge yourself by avoiding  Summer blockbuster movie reviews  Bustamante leaves womens  
laundry room  shells  shortcuts  basketball  
team  
Learn about  the  Middle Eastern ten­ Three WorldCom  Remember to keep  See  how  your  Sophomore guard  
new  technology  sions continue to  executives  will  education as your  favorite  summer  Allison Bustamante  
that is being installed in Saint Mary's laundry rooms, making the dirty work a little easier to deal with.  simmer into a boil as the Israeli mili­tary uses tanks to fire shells in a Bedouin settle­ plead guilty and cooperate with investigators, allowing investiga­tors gain insight  number one focus as you move through college and to avoid those shortcuts which  movies faired by Scene's critics.  decides to transfer from Notre Dame for undisclosed reasons.  
ment, killing six.  into the company's  can  pop  up  to  
collapse  tempt you.  
page4  page 5  page 7  page 11  page 12  page 24  

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Graduate Student Picnic, 5:30 
p.m. -7:30 p.m. FOG Parking Lot. 
Solicitors cautioned Decal taken and recovered 
NDSP apprehended two individuals On Aug. 27, a report of a University 
selling magazine subscriptions. They parking decal being taken was 
were identified, issued non-contrac­closed. The decal was recovered by 
tual interest forms, and released. NDSP on Aug. 26. The case was 
being referred for administrative
. Latino Fn~shman Open House, 

Car stereo stolen review.
7 p. m . -9 p. m . 1 0 2 Col,~ m an ­
A vehicle was broken in to and a
Morse C<~ t1tl'r. 
car stereo was taken. This incident 
occurred sometime last weekend, 
and there are no suspects. 
Hit-and-nm occurs near library 
On Aug. 27. there was a report of a hit-and-run accident in the Hesbugh 
Library parking lot. No injuries were



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
reported. 
. EC:DC Menting 8:00 pm-12:00 
Car vandalism reported 
pm, 18 llavican. 
A victim reported vandalism to her vehicle while parked outside the Hesburgh Center last weekend. and there are no suspects. 
. New Faculty Hcccption 3:30 


Cars towed for violations 
pm, Stapleton Lounge. 
On Aug. 27. numerous vehicles were towed from inter-campus to outer­cam pus parking lots because of parking violations. 

WHAT'S COOKING 

North Dining Hall 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Dinner: Cream of Broccoli Soup, French Onion Soup, 
Today's Dinner: Boiled Thin Spaghetti, Boiled Shells, Cheese French Bread, Fried Cheese Ravioli, Sherry Chicken 
Boiled Mostaccioli, Boiled Tri-Color Rotini, Boiled Thighs, Chicken and Pea Pods Stir Fry, Broccoli Spears, Long 
Linguine, Pastaria Meat Sauce, Alfredo Sauce, Chicken Grain and Wild Rice, Grilled Redfish, Vegetable Couscous, 
Vesuvio, Cacciatore Sauce, Pepperoni Pizza, Chese Capri Blend Vegetable, Baked Sweet Potato, French Dip 
Pizza, Vegetable Pizza, Brown-N-Serve Breadsticks, Sandwich, Long Star Rice, Completa Moderno Feijoada 
Chicken Fajita Pizza, Veal Parmigiana, Spinach, Rice with Olives, Beef Stew, Roasted Pork Loin, Roasted Tomorrow's Lunch: Chicken and Dumplings, Hawaiian 
Poupon Potatoes, Chinese Noodles, Begetable Eggrolls, Pizza, Buffalo Chicken Wings, Chinese Noodles with Snowpeas, 
Chinese Steamed Rice, Fried Rice, Oriental Vegetables, Grilled Turkey on Kaiser, Elderado Casserole, Hash Bwns. 
Mongolin Beef, Chicken Taco, Taco Meat, Spanish Rice Scrambled Eggs, Bacon Slices, Oatmeal, Corn, Cherry Crisp, 
and Chili Frito. Champagne Rice Pilaf, Buffalo Chicken Lasagna, Meatballs with Sauce, Tomato Soup, Roast 
Tomorrow's Lunch: Manicotti, Cacciatore Sauce, Pizza, Meatloaf Mixture, Mississippi Fried Catfish, Baked Ham, Baked Redskin, Grilled Cheese, Gyros, Sweet & Sour Pork, Chicken Taco and Taco Meat. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 
a: 
LLI
:c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
C( 
CJ 


0 
HIGH 80 HIGH 78 HIGH 80 HIGH 80 HIGH 80 HIGH 80
...I LOW 62 LOW 62 LOW 64 LOW 63 LOW 64 LOW 63 
Atlanta 85 / 70 Boston 68 I 73 Chicago 83 / 65 Denver 82 / 58 Houston 91 / 74 Los Angeles 86 / 60 Minneapolis 81 / 66 New York 84 / 71 Philadelphia 86 I 68 Phoenix 111 / 80 Seattle 84 I 59 St. Louis 75 / 57 Tampa 84 / 74 Washington 76 / 68 

-. 
Thursday, August 29, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Alumni scholarship foundation receives funding 
ByCHAREE HOLLOWAY 
Nc:ws Writer 
The Frazier Thompson Scholarship Fund benefited rrom two major contributions during the summer totaling $350,000. 
The fund received a $300,000 grant from the L.G. Balfour Foundation via Fleet National Bank and a $50,000 pledge from Dr. Carl Anderson, a Notre Dame graduate and member of the Black Alumni Association. 

In order to receive the grant from Fleet. the fund must raise an additional $100,000 on its own from other donors by next March, said Mel Tardy. chair­man of the scholarship's com­mittee. 
"Education that works for working adults" Accelerated Bachelor's Degree Co1npletion Progran1 
*Organizational Management Program 

*Management Information Systems (OMP and MIS available as stand alone certificate programs) 
*Hachelor of Science in Nursing for RNs *General Education Electives 
Classes once a week 
6:00 p.rn. until I 0:00p.m. 

4 to 6 weeks per class 18 to 20 months for the complete program 
Classes hegin September 23, 2002 

Goshen College Division of Adult and External Studies ( 800) 390-3490 www.goshen.edu 
Tardy added that the scholar­ship is needed because students have been known to transfer in their last years of college when they feel overwhelmed by the costs of a Notre Dame educa­tion. 
"Money should never be a reason for someone to leave school," he said. "Right now the scholarships are reserved for students in their final year because that's when they have the most debt." 
The scholarship began in the early 1990s by the Black Alumni Association of Notre Dame to honor Notre Dame's first African-American gradu­ate, Frazier Thompson of the class of 1947. 
The scholarship fund has grown over the years and bene­fits African-American seniors at 



rffii':>BEER FACTOR:IffiJ:> 
,.,_. rs -, 
C, COMING TO ~ 
~ ,-,; BENCHWARMER/ e­
~ EVERY $ 2 THURSDAY ..,. ..._:,•1' ~~ . 
~ 
fllOZE., T-St-<IRT CON TE.5T '1lllS.0 T...S,E l"E~T KIIJOY POOL FRO'>I HEU '-·"'-f H•li) 6£fR CHlJ(; 
~HOT4-S.HO-:" 
BLENDER Of FFAR 8EfR 
~  
S2 \'01,-CAll•ll 52 Wfll DRINK~ S2 2.&0Z BEER $2 IMPORT5  "fl"  
$2 BURGERS SZ ~Pl'IO,LS M,O MIJCH MORE  

Miduara·s only Rl!<llity Contest • It's a College Stsdents N,gi,~i,are 
WIN PR!Zl:S • DOOR PRIZE'S· PRIZES nillT CAN SIIVE YOUR UVF 
',\ WW.( Lrf'ATIQNi'•JIJ.CQ!;j !...C~c;i,. o...-.~ td;;. we~ stt! fo.,,. •~~r, ~~o CJ~ t.~ 11.'!' f...~ ?.t-~i.t .,...;,-., ~~...-.-~-:: o~.!i....-..e. MU ree.e~-.. ! t2 iyi.,.;:ti 
Wed. Nights Rump Shaker Contest $1.00 Draft Beer Must be 21 with valid ID to purchase or consume alcohol. 
.. 


sit~¾\:. Coht'--~ 
Notre Dame. In the past, the fund could only give one or two scholaships a year. Since the fund began to give out scholar­ships in 1998, eight Notre Dame graduates have received scholarships. This year's recip­ients were seniors Daly Barnes, Kyla Davis, Ogochukwu Okoye and Jason Williams. The schol­arships are awarded according to need and academic achieve­ment. 
Although the Frazier scholar­ship remains limited to seniors, Tardy said the fund could grow. 
"Hopefully in the future, through the donations of alum­ni who remember what it was like to struggle financially. we can expand the fund to benefit all years," Tardy said. ..The committee is also looking into ways to use the money to impact recruitment." 
Contact Charee Holloway at chollowa@nd.edu. 
'\fflpllh 1111!~~// 
.-•, . .... 


Thursday, August 29, 2002 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Coinless technology reaches SMC laundry room 

CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer Saint Mary's student Brandyn Long uses her new charge­ab le ID at the vending machines in LeMans Hall. 

Arts 
continued from page 1 
said of the Advisory Council. "We're not just building a building. We're founding a comprehensive performing arts program at Notre Dame that will ultimately have vital connections to every college and to almost every aspect of student and faculty life." 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn@nd.edu 

By KATHERINE ROWLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students no longer need quarters to do their laundry. 
Students this fall can begin using their school IDs to pay for the laundry. 
The College formed a com­mittee last spring to look into the issue. The committee included Student Body President Kim Jensen and Vice President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, who found that most students preferred an ID pay system to the coin­operated one. 
..Ever since I was a student at Saint Mary's, this system seemed like a great idea," said Christine Arzt, McCandless Hall director. 
The Coinmach system requires that the student IDs be encoded at the Information Technology office in the basement in LeMans Hall. First-year stu­dents received cards already encoded with the Coinmach feature. 
This summer all four resi­dence halls were equipped machinery for the coinless sys tern. To use the new 

equipment, students must the revamped system. "It only on their cards, but officials transfer money onto their ID took about five seconds." recommend no more $20. If cards by using "cash•to-card" Senior Hailey Verduin said, students lose their IDs, any machines found in dorm "Obviously it's convenient, Coinmach money on the laundry rooms or vending but on the downside, girls cards won't be refunded. areas. may put too much money on 
"It wasn't as difficult as their card and then lose setting up the computers or them." 
Contact Katherine Rowley at
voicemail," freshman There is no limit on how 
rowl288 l@saintmarys.edu 
Maryann Senesac said about much money students can put 
I I 





·------------------------------------· 
: I Have you thought about : I : I teaching Religion and : I 
I I 
: I becoming a Catechist? : I I I I I 
= -~ = 
I (3MPUS I I tv11NISTRY I 
I I 
I *Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? ¦ I ¦ * Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week? I ¦ ¦ * Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? ¦ I * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? · ¦I * Would you like to work towards catechist certification? = 
I I 
I I 
I I
I If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, I I come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. I I I I I I I I I
I Important Informational Meeting: : : Thursday, September 5 : : 5:00-6:00 P.M. : : Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center : 
I I 
I I 
I I 
II Call .John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 II 
I I 
I 


·------------------------------------~ 





.... 

Thursday, August 29, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
GAZA STRIP 

Palestinian family killed by Israeli tank shells 
Men charged with plotting to assist bin Laden's jihad 
on the public and firebombing vehicles. attacks on sites in Turkey and Jordan groups.
Associated Press 

Ujaama has repeatedly denied any ties and possessed a videotape that U.S. officials said Wednesday they 
to terrorism. appeared to case U.S. expected several more such indictments 
WASHINGTON Separately, four men landmarks such as in coming months as the FBI, Customs
"The object ofthe con­

Federal grand juries charged six men who had been in the Disneyland in · Service and other federal agencies with conspiring to support Osama bin United States since at spiracy was, among other California and the attempt to block money and operational Laden's al-Qaida network Wednesday as least 2000 were charged MGM Hotel and support from the United States from
things, to cause economic

the government escalated its efforts to in Detroit with operating Casino in Las Vegas. reaching terror groups overseas.
harm to US. businesses...

stifle the flow of money and assistance a "covert underground "The object of the "The evidence that is being developed from U.S. soil to overseas terrorist support unit" and a conspiracy was. suggests that America has been a piggy groups. "sleeper operational com­among other things, bank for certain terror organizations to
U.S. indictment of six men 

In Seattle, American citizen and bat cell" for a radical to cause economic the tune of tens of millions of dollars,"

charged with supporting al­

Muslim activist James Ujaama was Islamic movement allied harm to U.S. busi­said a senior law enforcement official 

Qaida

accused in a two-count indictment of with al-Qaida. A fifth nesses," the indict-directly involved in the investigation. trying to set up a "jihad (holy war} train­man whose full name ment charged. The indictment charged the men with ing camp" on the West Coast and provid­isn't known by the gov-Both indictments conspiracy to provide material support 
ing support and resources to al-Qaida. ernment was also named in the indict­used a law barring people living in the or resources to terrorists and conspiracy 
The indictment accused him of leading ment. United States from providing "material to engage in fraud and misuse of visas discussions about creating poison to use Their indictment said the men plotted support and resources" to terrorist and identification documents. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

U.N. works to improve ocean life: The contentious rich vs. poor fight over globalization plagued the U.N. summit Wednesday even as nego­tiators hailed their first breakthrough: a deal to pro­tect the world's oceans and marine life. Delegates at the World Summit for Sustainable Development are working on a plan of action to reduce poverty and save the planet's resources that all 191 nations pre­sent can agree to. 
Explosion surprises Nepal shoppers: A 
powerful explosion shook a shopping mall in the Nepalese capital \Vednesday, damaging more than a dozen stores but causing no injuries, police said. No one claimed responsibility for the explosion, which came hours before the government ended a state of emergency declared in November to battle Maoist insurgents. Police blamed the rebels, who have been fighting to establish communist rule in Nepal since 1996. 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY 
A Palestinian woman, her two sons and a cousin were killed early Thursday when Israeli tank shells exploded in a Bedouin encampment near an Israeli settlement, residents and doctors said. 
Four others were wounded, including the woman's 4-year­old son, said doctors at Shifa Hospital in Gaza City. The act­ing director of the hospital, Dr. Nafez Shalach, claimed that Israeli forces prevented ambu­lances from reaching the wounded for more than 40 minutes. 
Israeli military sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said suspicious fig­ures approached an army out­post, and tanks fired at them, hitting them. 
The sources said this was late at night in an area forbidden for Palestinian movement, not in a built-up area. 
The shelling came after Palestinian security forces set up checkpoints in the Gaza Strip Wednesday to show they can maintain order as part of a new security agreement. 
It wasn't immediately clear how the deaths would affect the agreement, but Israel had postponed a meeting earlier Wednesday to implement the pact because of fresh violence. Two Palestinians were killed in separate clashes. 

Arriving at the hospital after the shelling Thursday, a rela­tive, Fares Hajien, 30, saw the bodies and broke into tears. "It's a brutal crime," he said. "This is the Israeli step to implement the so-called Gaza plan." 
Israeli tanks moved into Palestinian territory near the settlement of Netzarim, cutting a main road, residents said, as five Israeli gunboats patrolled the shore, where a day earlier, Israeli forces fired at objects in the water, suspected to be packets of smuggled arms. 
The dead were identified as Rawaida Hajien, 50, two of her sons, Ashraf, 23, and Mehad, 
17. and a cousin, Mohammed Hajien, 20. 
The Bedouin are among the Arabs living in Gaza for gener­ations, who were joined by hundreds of thousands of refugees who fled or were dri­ven out of the newly-created state of Israel during a war in 1948-49. All are considered Palestinians. 

~ '\ 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Senate to hold discussions about Iraq: 
The top Republican on the Senate Armed Services committee said Wednesday he wants Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld to appear before the panel to discuss how prepared U.S. forces are for a war against Iraq. Sen. John Warner of Virginia is the latest GOP lawmaker to insist that Congress be heard in the debate on whether to invade Iraq even as the Bush administration says that congressional autho­rization isn't legally required. "Congress, as a coequal branch of government, is, in my opinion, not going to sit on the sidelines." Warner said in a letter to com• mittee chairman Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich. The letter was dated Tuesday and released Wednesday. Warner said the time has come for the committee to hold hearings on Iraq after the congressional recess ends next week. He said the first witnesses should be administration officials -preferably Rumsfeld and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Richard Myers. 
Nine year old boy kidnapped: Two gunmen forced their way into a home Wednesday, kidnapped a 9-year-old boy who was the subject of a bitter cus­tody dispute and attacked the boy's father, authorities said. Nicholas Farber was taken just after 2 a.m. in this suburb of Palm Springs, about 120 miles east of Los Angeles, according to sheriff's officials. Investigators were trying to locate the boy's mother, Debra Rose, 38, of Colorado Springs, Colo. She is not a suspect at this time, Riverside County sheriff-elect Bob Doyle said. 
Sunk submarine found at Pearl Harbor: 
Researchers said Wednesday they found a Japanese midget submarine sunk nearly two hours before the aerial attack on Pearl Harbor. The two man subma­rine was discovered in several hundred feet of water near the mouth of Pearl Harbor, surrounded by mili­tary debris. The sub sank Dec. 7, 1941. 
APonline 
Maryam Paraka, center, mourns at the funeral of her slain nephew who was killed in a recent bombing. Middle East violence has prevented the agreement Israeli forces from pulling out of the West Bank. 

The agreement to use Gaza Palestinians charge the Israelis and the West Bank town of are stalling the Gaza handover. Bethlehem as test cases, Israel counters that the announced Aug. 18, led to Palestinians are not stopping withdrawal of Israeli forces terror attacks and on from Bethlehem two days later. Wednesday called off a meeting between Israeli Defense Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer and Palestinian Interior Minister Abdel Razak Yehiyeh after overnight incidents in Gaza. 
In a statement, the Israeli Defense Ministry said the meet­ing had been postponed indefi­nitely, but added that Ben­Eliezer was still committed to implementing the accord. 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 29, 2002 


Looking 

at Latin cultures 
By MARJA SMITH 
News Writer 
"Looking In, Looking Out," a film series presented by the Institute for Latino Studies and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, will give students an opportunity to compare and contrast Latino and Latin American perspec­tives. 
The series of films, shown every other week through the next two years starting Sept. 3, will compare Latin American films with films about Latinos who are of Latin American descent but live in the United States, said series organizer Guillermo del Castillo. an engineering gradu­ate student. 
"There are lots of cultural activities on campus, and many students are just not interested," del Castillo said. "I hope people come not just because of classes. There is a lot of cultural insight here you would never get at this univer­sity unless you travel." 
Del Castillo, who is from Mexico City, said he and oth­ers at the Institute worry that trying to address the Latin American perspective on many issues may be naive. While the cultural spectrum of Latin America may be too broad to include in a single film festival, del Castillo said he has tried to include a diverse selection of films from Mexico, Columbia, Cuba. and many other nations. 
"We have tried to cover many cultures," del Castillo said. 
Through comparing films created by Latin Americans and U.S. Latinos, the Institute hopes to provide insight on some important issues from both points of view. The films will address topics such as life in the metropolis, migration and exile and church and reli­gion. 
In addition to the films, del Castillo said each viewing would include a short session to discuss the issue, with spe· cialists on the various topics to lead the discussions. 
Movie topics will range from "Romero" to Disney's .. The Three Caballeros." 
While the films address Latin American and Latino topics, del Castillo said the fes­tival is intended not just for people of Latin American descent, but anyone who takes an interest in foreign cultures or film. Viewers will not need special knowledge of Spanish or of Latin American cultures to appreciate the themes. For many students. this may be a unique opportunity to gain new perspectives and see many acclaimed American and foreign films. he said. 
The first film, "'Novia que te vea," will be shown next Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Hesburgh Center for International Studies auditorium. The film tells the story of two Jewish girls growing up in Mexico City. Admission is free. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


LOOKING TO BE PART OF A GROUP? 

• 

-:)::{as 
-, 
• )f!;: 2 



AIR FORCE ROTC Make your decisionl Contact: 1Lt. Alan Acree@ 631-467 or acree.1@nd.edu 
.,,,. 
\· 
' 
\.' 
.. 
' 
Welcome to Notre Dame. Your life just went from O to 90. 

) DIGITAL WALklE-TALKIE 
) SPEAKERPHONE ) WIRELESS WEB ACCESS
Uil ' I 
) AOL~ INSTANT MESSENGER'., service 
WelcomtTo 
) TWO·WAV MESSAGING
NEXfS. 
) JA\IA'~ GAMES le APPLICATIONS ) DIGITAL CELLULAR 
1 o.• • 
,, ' :­
-:~1.-:: 

iiiii
•Offer is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002. While supplies last Requires new activation, one year Service Agreement and 
• "'I .•~ • ' 
oredit approval. $200 early termination fee applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. In-store purchases require at least 2 forms of valid identification. Account ~ 
·.. ":'.r ·~ 
Set-up fee of $35 per phone; maximum $70 per account. Fees may vary by market $100 instant savings is ott the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point gof sale. 10% off monthly rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this offer. Other restrictions may apply. Rate plans are subject to taxes, fees and other 
·~~~~ s
charges. Current prices are subject to change. Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 Nextel Commumcations. Inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Nextel ali<D logo are registered trademarks of Nextel Communications, lrn:. Motorola and the Stylized M logo are reg1Stered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and
~~1; ~ 
all other Java-based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. AOL, AIM. Buddy List and the Triangle design are registered trademarks of America 
·~ ~ .. ' 
Online, Inc. Instant Messenger is atrademark of America Online, Inc. 
,. .:~-/;.;..J,~,,. 
Wh<"-tevev twists <"-~.:A ½-1.A.v~s coHe_.,e thvows "'-t yolA. -yo!.\ CO\\\ J.eO\l. A\\J. Ne><te\ CO\\\ help. We've ~ot the \\ewest pho~es, coolest .Peoo.tl.\ves "'-"'~ Sweetest v°"te pl<"-\\S yolA. \\eeJ. .Pov +-he viJ.e o.f! yolA.v \i.f!e. Yo1.A.1ve veoo.~y-Bvi\\-" It. 
Now's "" ~veoo.t H~e to ~et 1-,{e><+-el: "'11 ~otve l)oo.w.e Sti.\d.e\\t"S c::i1.\\J. pc::i1.ve"its 
~e+-"'  O\\  "'"Y voo.te  
ploo."i oo.\\c:A  ""-YiY pl-\o~e.  
\0 \::>v.y:  

-80 to \\e,cteLco~v,sli\-st~J.e\\t. -c"'-\1 toll-~v-ee \ -'677-s-0,-2,2,. -visit JDt-'I Co~~lA.\\ic"'-tio\\S "'-t: 
I c:3Cf lv-o\\woo~ Dv-ive, So~tli\ Be\\~ S74-24'3-'3'6 I8' 
'i;J 
~ . . 
1;~;~_/?::~/ 
~:_·. ,'.\ •.. ·. 
:~--:t.: . ' 1;....-t½~­
'·.· '. 
-


.X 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


USI 


Thursday, August 29, 2002 page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch August 28 
DowJones 

8,694.09  •  -130.32  
NASDAQ  
1,314.38  •S&P5fXJ  -33.40  
917.87  •AMEX  -16.95  
860.11  •NYSE  -8.88  
495.86  •  -8.30  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ)-3.65 -0.89 23.48 
:~til!:iillli~ilil!lll!i!i/i:it!:::Ii~!i~i!l!ll:11:ft!111ll!l!fiill1~li!
CISCO SYSTEMS(CSCO) -2.14 -0.30 13.72 

~iiii~llii1i~it~~-liiiii~Iliiili:fJl~~1i::i:~:1:1:i~::1~ 
HEALTHSOUTH COR(HRC)-24.74 -1.66 5.05 
IN BRIEF 
Market faces lows for second day 
A hodgepodge of bad news on Wall Street prompted investors to collect profits again Wednesday, sending prices sharply lower for a second straight day. 
Analysts said the news ranging from job cuts at Nortel Networks to a downbeat bro­kerage report on Sun Microsystems con­tributed to the sell off that has followed gains for the last five weeks. Light pre-holiday trad­ing exacerbated the price swings. 
"More or less you're looking at a situation where stocks are in for a pause and investors are responding to a more negative tint on the tape,"said Jack Caffrey. vice president and equity strategist for JP Morgan Private Bank. 
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 130.32, or 1.5 percent, at 8,694.09, after dropping 1.1 percent Tuesday. 
The broader market also finished lower. The Nasdaq composite index declined 33.40, or 2.5 percent, to 1,314.38, having fallen 3.2 percent Tuesday, the worst one-day drop in three weeks. 

Napster in search of buyer 
Bankrupt Napster Inc. on Thursday plans to seek a Delaware court's approval of its pro­posed sale to Bertelsmann AG, which hopes to revive the silenced Internet music-sharing ser­vice. 
No other bidders emerged for Redwood City­based Napster after German-based Bertelsmann forced the company into bank­ruptcy in June. Bertelsmann values its bid for Napster at about $100 million, including debts that will be waived as part ofthe deal. 
Bertelsmann's bid still faces a potential obsta­cle. The Music Publishers Association and the Recording Industry Association of America ­two powerful trade groups that have fought Napster for years -have objected to the sale. Before federal courts ruled Napster's online file-swapping service violated copyright laws. the service had attracted 60 million users and revolutionized the way people obtained music. 






WorldCom execs plead guilty 
• Authorities put pressure on for information 
As5odated Press 
NEW YORK 
Prosecutors indicted 
two WorldCom Inc. execu­
tives Wednesday and sig­
naled three others would 
plead guilty and cooperate 
with investigators, giving 
momentum to the criminal 
probe of the nation's 
largest accounting scan­
dal. 
A seven count indict­
ment filed in federal court 
in Manhattan charges 
Scott Sullivan, 40, the 
firm's former chief finan­
cial officer, oversaw a long 
running conspiracy to hide 
operating expenses in 
order to boost earnings 
reports. 
The charges against Sullivan were filed after an apparent breakdown in plea negotiations between his lawyer and prosecu­tors. 
But in court papers, prosecutors indicated three of Sullivan's subordi­nates are prepared to plead guilty and provide information about their former bosses. 
Their expected coopera­tion increases the pressure on Sullivan to strike a deal Controller David Myers, agreement with authori­instructed the executives with investigators and tell who was charged in an ties. to hide WorldCom 's what he knows about his earlier criminal complaint, The indictment also increasing expenses by boss, former CEO Bernard but not in Wednesday's names a new defendant, improperly shifting costs Ebbers. Lawyers for indictment; and former Buford Yates Jr., from operating to capital Ebbers. who was not men­accounting executives WorldCom's former direc­accounts. tioned in the indictment, Betty Vinson and Troy tor of general accounting, The moves allowed have said he had no Normand, who were in the alleged scheme to WorldCom to claim to knowledge of the account­named unindicted co-con­artificially boost the investors that their line ing decisions in question. spirators. telecommunications costs were roughly 40 per­
"We will prosecute the Marvin Smilon, a giant's bottom line. cent of their revenue CFOs and controllers who spokesman for the U.S. "Sullivan, Yates, and their between 1999 and 2000 ­give the orders from the attorney, declined to say co-conspirators were able when the true figure was top to commit white collar whether the three are to assure that WorldCom's roughly 50 percent. The crimes," U.S. Attorney cooperating with prosecu­reported earnings exceed­indictment charges the James Corney said in a tors. ed its actual earnings for conspirators illegally statement. "But we will But newly filed docu­the period from October manipulated credits and 
also prosecute corporate ments show Myers, Vinson 2000 through April 2002 debits entries in officials at all levels who and Normand are prepar­by approximately $5 bil­WorldCom's ledgers. knowingly carry out crimi­ing to waive their right to lion," the indictment said. "Neither Sullivan nor nal schemes which be indicted by a grand jury Sullivan's attorney, Irv Myers provided Yates, defraud the investing pub­and instead come to court Nathan, has said his client Vinson, or Normand with lic." to answer a criminal infor­was a victim of "a rush to any supporting documen­
Prosecutors signaled mation. judgment." Calls to other tation or any proper busi­that three executives may A criminal information is defense attorneys were not ness rationale for the prove important in the used by suspects who immediately returned. entries," the indictment investigation: former plead guilty under an Sullivan allegedly charges. 



Baseball advertisers step away 
Associated Press 
Baseball's biggest corporate advertisers should be able to take a strike this fall without worrying about falling behind in the count financially, thanks to special pro­tection clauses in their contracts. 
But a lengthy work stoppage by major-league players especially one that wipes out the World Series could prompt many companies to do their pitching elsewhere in future seasons, marketing experts say. 
Goodbye, national pastime. Hello, golf, NASCAR and extreme sports. "Let's face it, the sports market 
has a lot of choices besides base­ball," says Paul Swangard, manag­ing director of the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University of Oregon. 
"There's concern among adver­tisers that fans are growing increasingly bitter about the possi­bility of sitting through a ninth one of these things since the early 1970s." Swangard said. "And that baseball seems to be the one sport that can't get it right." 
Major League Baseball itself would be the big loser if marketers are le ft without ballgames for hawking their snacks, beer and anti-impotence drugs. 
Strike clauses written into the contracts of its corporate partners baseball's biggest advertisers, who collectively are paying it $170 mil­lion this year could cost the league tens of millions of dollars in repay­ments for lost games and market­ing opportunities. 
But that's only the opening inning, financially. American icon or no, experts say companies will look more harshly at spending marketing money on baseball if the sport becomes a no-no of the busi­ness world: a tarnished brand. 
Baseball already has lost ground to auto racing, wrestling and other sports since the last strike in 1994. 
Thursday, August 29, 2002 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


if you're a freshman back from studying abroad 
if you transferred here back from a rejuvenating summer back from an exhausting summer if you're a first year Grad student , 

if you are a new member of the faculty or staff if you're Ty Willingham back from the brink if you're still reading this 
IDVI e OU O••• 


go on a retreat this year join an Emmaus faith-sharing group get involved in your residence hall mass sing in a choir be a sponsor for someone who is being confirmed or becoming Catholic eat some fresh popcorn and free drinks at the Coleman-Morse Center go with some friends on the Sophomore Road Trip -Destination:Unknown teach religion to young children in parishes around South Bend serve in the Basilica as a lector, eucharistic minister, altar server or usher play bells in the Notre Dame Handbell Choir explore culture and ethnicity on a Learning to Talk abour Race retreat pray with us at Interfaith Christian Night Prayer, Wednesdays at 1Opm in Morrissey Chapel take a one-credit Know your Catholic Faith course 
come to our .Campus Ministry Open House on Sept. 4th from 5:30-7:30 
eat some food get some info sign-up for stuff meet the staff @ the CoMo 
Thursday, August 29, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
College debuts phone system 


Welcome back studentsl The Multicultural Student Programs and Services staff would like to invite everyone to our annual Welcome Back Picnic. This year brings about new and exciting changes. The entertainment this year will be provided by several of our student groups as well as WVFI providing musical hits. So come out and join the fun. 
Free food, entertainment, and prizes.  
Date:  Friday, August 30th  
Time:  4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.  
Where:  Field house Mall (rain site Lafortune Ballroom)  

By NATALIE JONES News Writer 
Saint Mary's has created a phone system with improved security and other conve­niences for students. 
The new system gives stu­dents the option of using caller ID and call waiting. The caller ID service will only be accessible for students with the function built into their phones. 
School officials scrapped the old system in favor of the modern technologies. but stu­dents say some of the features are hard to set up or use. 
.--------..--...... 
Future stock broker 
Future 
'«,,::.:_
chemist teacher 
"Last year's phone system was pretty easy to set up, and this year it isn't, even though my roommates and I followed the directions," said sopho­more Elaine Lee. "There just don't seem to be too many benefits yet." 
Senior Haley Verduin was optimistic about the new sys­tem. 
"It has improved dramati­cally. There is a lot of confu­sion because it is new, but once all the kinks are worked, out it will benefit everyone." 
ContactNatalie Jones at jonel350@saintmarys.edu 
~i;l'1: .Future v.p. 
of -. . . rketing tifi•. 
Future · nudea;;:t4'i>
._-......,...­
hyslclst4,,
f:~ , .","{{{::_:-~: ·, 


Pages in Time has absolutely everything you need for your college scrapbook! Make memories last...forever! 

. 
. 

··• Congregation of Holy Cross 
"The footsteps ofthose men who called us to wal!( in their company left deep prints, as of men carrying heavy burdens, but they did not trudge; they strode. For they had the hope." 
(Constitutions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross, VIIl.122) 

Tom Eckert, C-8.C. Sam Peters, C.S.C. 
Diaconate/Priesthood Ordination at the Basilica on Sunday, September 1, 2002 at 2:00 p.m. 
www.nd.edu/,-Jvocation 
ANSWER :-d-": 
fflECALL ~ 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, August 29, 2002
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
n., 1...,.nulnu. ~ N-,.pa s.nm., N,m 0-U-,/s.,;,,, M"'1'• 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 F.-.x.. ............................................................631-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnToRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4 540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricyof the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
~tions regarding Obsm;erpolicies shou/.d be direct­ed to Editor in ChefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
llK Ob.cm:, (USPS S99 2-4000) ii publuhcd Monday through Frid.y cxapr during exam and va:aoon period<. A subo.:ription u, The Ob.cmct i, S!OO fur one acadcmi< ,..., SSS fur one oanuta. 
The Ob1enn ;. pub~,hcd at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send .dd.rcu c:or~tiona ro: Nam, o....,, IN 46556-0779 The Obw-cr 
Periodical ponag. paid at Nom: Dam. P.0.So.Q md additional mai~ng o/6.;n. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nou. o..,.., IN 46SS6--0779 
The Obs.:m:r;. a member ofti>< A.sociaial Praa. All r.proclucrion righa an: 
,acrwd. 


I have a good friend from Wyoming, and our friends always teased her about her state's sparse population and lack of diversions. I always felt bad for her, and in truth, I felt a certain softness toward Wyoming. It seemed like such a nice state. 
Until I actually went there. I drove Marlayna out to school this year from my home­
Soenneker 
town of St. Helens, Ore. My friend Matt and I drove for six days and 2,800 miles. One of our stops was Here We Go Yellowstone National Park, the reason Again for our stay in Wyoming. Yellowstone was gorgeous, despite the lack of excitement exhibited by visiting 8-year-olds. 
We saw Old Faithful do the geyser thing, which was gen­erally spectacular. In the midst of all the oohs and ahhs following the seismic wonder's performance, we clearly heard a small child whine, "Is that it?" We heard this refrain once again when we visited the lower falls of the Grand Canyon of Yellowstone. What, we wondered, do these kids want? Free marshmallows? Fireworks? Japanese anime characters? 
Anyway, while Yellowstone was all we ever dreamed (not being 8-year-olds), the rest of the state of Wyoming was a barren wasteland. To be fair to the state, we didn't see much of it, just the northwest corner -which I think was probably enough to convince both of us never to visit again. 
We didn't leave Yellowstone until nine at night, wanting to milk every second of daylight out of the place. We were staying in Powell, Wyoming that night, which is northeast of Cody, Powell's better-known and more expensive neigh­bor. 
Our first problem came about 30 miles outside Cody, when I looked at the map and realized that there are two Highway 14s in Wyo., both of which go through Cody. One of these highways goes to Powell. The other does not. While Matt and I were definitely on a Highway 14, we were not on the correct Highway 14. 
What I want to know is what kind of state has two Highway 14s? Why not choose another number? It's hardly like there are so many highways running through Wyoming that they used up all the numbers. Are they unaware that numbers go on infinitely? 
We had identified the problem at this point, but there wasn't a whole lot of opportunity to do something about it. Most roads have an exit every one or two or even five miles. Not in Wyoming. By the time we figured out we were on the wrong road, we had gone 15 miles past the last exit, and we had about 20 more to go before we could find another exit. 
In the meantime, our detour cost a squirrel his little life. In our defense, the squirrel was suicidal, drunk or perhaps both. Matt was driving and did his best to swerve around the squirrel, but the squirrel was just too quick for him. Our furry friend corrected for Matt's swerve and sacrificed his life on the altar of Goodyear. 
We also had an encounter of the flattening kind with a field mouse later on, when we got onto the road that actu­ally took us to the correct 14. As we saw no one during the entire 20-mile drive on this road, we concluded that the reason we had problems with wildlife so determined to become roadkill was that they had never seen a car at night before .. Or perhaps they had never seen a car at all before. 
We finally arrived at Powell at midnight. We rolled into our motel in this 3,000-person metropolis and inquired as to whether there were any food establishments open this late. We were informed that there was in fact a 24-hour Thriftway just down the street. Thriftway is not really my favorite food restaurant as it reminds me strongly of a gro­cery store, but you make do when you are hungry. 
Upon our arrival at the Thriftway some two minutes later, we realized that not only was Thriftway the local 24­hour joint, it was also the local hot spot for the happening youth of Powell. 
Having grown up in a small rural town ourselves, Matt and I recognized that the flock of teenagers standing around the parking lot were not going anywhere else. Nor were they there to buy anything. We knew that they were actually there to be in the parking lot of Thiftway. Thriftway, in Powell, is an end in and of itself, and an actu­al goal and destination for night life. 
We bought ourselves some fried chicken that, as Matt said, tasted as though it had been basted in sweat. The next morning we left Wyoming as fast as we possibly could, which, because we were going over the Bighorn mountains in my Saturn, was about 40 mph if I floored it in third gear. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a senior psychology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports 
Justin Krivickas Joe Hettler 

"/ believe there are more instances ofthe Meghan Martin Katie McVoy 
To what extent do you understand the new 
abridgement ofthe freedom ofthe people by 
Sarah Nestor Scene 
alcohol policy? 
gradual and silent encroachments ofthose in 
Viewpoint C. Spence Beggs 
power than by violent and sudden 
Kristin Yemm Lab Tech 
usurpations. "
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
Graphics Lisa Velte Katie McKenna 
James Madison Founding father 


Among college controversies this sum­mer, it seems required reading assign­ments have been all the rage. 
First, incoming freshmen at the Univerisity of North Carolina-Chapel Hill were assigned a commentary on the Koran which presented Islam in a very favorable light. Now, everyone should agree that it is very worthwhile to gain a better understanding of that ancient and venerable faith, especially today. 
Critics argued, however, that such sym­pathetic presentation of Catholicism (for instance) would never be offered, much less required, at any similar public insti­tution. They claimed that this assignment violated the principle of the separation of church and state. They are probably right on the first claim, but I am not sure about· the latter. 
Next, it appears students at the University of Maryland are being forced to read a play about the life and death (and strange, politicized afterlife) of Matthew Shephard, the gay Wyoming stu­dent who may have made a pass at some straight men and was then taken out into the country and beaten to death. What they did to him, of course, was awful, but the moral of the play is not "avoid making passes at straight guys." Rather, it is that the lack of hate-crime laws, along with shameful religious bigotry, was somehow responsible for his death. Thus, an aggressive effort to criminalize the kinds of beliefs that motivated his murderers will prevent future instances of violence against gay men who try to pick up het­erosexuals -or so the theory goes. 

This is not to say that the case of Matthew Shephard is not instructive in any way. It is instructive in showing the biases of our own media. The same week­end that Matthew Shephard died, a young boy was kidnapped in Arkansas by two gay men and over the course of that weekend was tortured and almost contin­uously sodomized, then finally strangled to death after a few days of pure, unimaginable hell. I did not even hear of this crime until just last year, and even then it was just a passing allusion in some commentary about violence against chil­dren. I do not know the name of that boy, which is perhaps just as well. 
HBO will never screen a movie about him, neither will enlightened universities ever make their students learn about what happened to him. Getting sodom­ized and then killed is no big deal; not getting sodomized and getting killed makes one a hero and a martyr. 
A survey some years back showed that over 90 percent of major media profes­sionals voted for Bill Clinton in the 1996 election. A much more recent survey of a representative sample of middle to upper level American colleges showed that a similar percentage of professors in humanities and social science depart­ments describe themselves as politically liberal. To believe even for an instant that these numbers do not make their way into the news we see and hear and the instruction students receive would be beyond foolish. 
To believe Notre Dame is very much different would likewise be foolish. I per­sonally believe the Faculty Senate would gladly vote to replace the Basilica with a Buddhist pagoda and replace Mary atop the Dome with Gloria Steinam. Many of you will graduate with a long list of instances of professors pushing their moral and political agendas in class. But cheer up, it could be worse. 
You could be at Maryland. 
Anthony Carbone 
class of2000 New York, N.Y. Aug. 28 

GUEST COLUMNS Challenge yourself by avoiding shortcuts 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
We are all in college to get educated, yet many of us tend to forget that. Some of you believe that college is a means to an end. It's all Wayne Ma about get­ting a piece of The Daily paper cer­Illini tifying that you're qualified to earn big bucks. Some of you are here because it's just the natural order of things. You're expected to go to college once you graduate high school. 
However, I'm sure many of you returning are hell. Last year, after my first midterm, I decided I could skip my astronomy lectures and just read the textbook. Since my history class gave detailed study guides, I didn't need to do any of the assigned readings as long as I crammed for the exams a few nights before. No one collected my chemistry homework, so what was the point of doing it? And who needs to keep up with the weekly reading in political sci­ence when the only two term papers due all semester don't require any references? 

Once again. I compromised myself and my education. After high school I said, "Now I can 
finally just relax and learn to keep a B, then why study? 
And if your essay was complete 
bull but you got an A, who 
cares? 
How many of us are diligent enough to take the other route? To always sacrifice our points and our free time to actually do some solid learning? Sadly, today it's not what you know but what you can show. 
What company or university will take the time to interview each applicant when it can just screen them by qualifications and scores? It's not about who's the most qualified as much as who has achieved what and where it was achieved. 
With pressure coming from all sides and a competitive job market, it's not easy to disre­gard grades and be a total ide­alist. The goal is to strike a deli­cate balance. The system is the way it is and you can't help but play by its rules if you want to win. Still, you are the master of your education, and the more you put into it, the more you will get out. Many of us tend to stop when we've reached the boundaries and standards that have been set for us. We never wish to know more than we need to. 
All of us want success, but many of us have lost sight of the fact that the process is more important than the end result. Although it's not easy to stay away from academic shortcuts, education must be a challenge. 
This column first appeared in the Aug. 27 edition ofThe Daily Illini, the campus newspaper of the University ofIllinois. It is reprinted here courtesy ofU­WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Judiciary· checks reckless administration 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
It is a testament to the strength ofour judicial process that an appeals court has stepped up to check the overzealous actions of the executive branch. • 
In a ruling immediately chastised by the U.S. Justice Department, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals determined earlier this week the 
Bush administration violated the Constitution  
by holding secret immigration hearings about  Staff Editorial  
suspects with possible connections to the Sept.  
11 attacks.  
We commend the court's fortitude and chal­lenge our government, and in particular the  The Lantern  
attorney general. to desist in its appeals and  
begin acting in accordance with the tenants of a  

more democratic society. In the last year the United States govern­
ment has embarked on a path of secrecy unprecedented in recent 
years. The atmosphere of terror induced public officials to abandon 
this country's culture of openness and opt for secrecy as a way of 
ensuring safety and security. 
Thus far, however, no one has demonstrated that an ignorant soci­ety is a safe society. While some information logically should be with­held because it could pose a direct threat to American ground forces or tip off a terrorist that he is under surveillance, citizens are better able to protect themselves and take action when they know the dan­gers they are facing. 
In this case, the government's argument -that Attorney General John Ashcroft may declare certain cases to be "special interest" ones that can be conducted in secret -is problematic on several levels. 
Foremost. it is the beginning of a slippery slope in which the gov­ernment could argue any number of cases (including criminal pro­ceedings) be held in secret without adhering to any established guidelines or procedures. 
It is essential in times of conflict and crisis that we hold tightly to the fundamental features that have helped our country endure for these last 200 years. 
In this instance fair. honest and open trials for American sus­pects must be held in most cases. These recent attempts to use secrecy and subversion undermine our government's legitimacy in conducting itself in accordance with the principles of this republic. 
Perhaps the best justification can be found in the court's ruling, "A government operating in the shadows of secrecy stands in com­plete opposition to the society envisioned by the framers of the Constitution." 
This editorial first appeared in the Aug. 27 edition ofThe Lantern. the campus newspaper ofthe Ohio Sate University. It is reprinted here courtesy ofU-W/RE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
get to class five min­utes ahead of schedule. I sit down in lecture and take detailed notes. I make sure to have the reading done ahead of time. I organize and carefully label my notebooks and folders, sharpen a few pencils, clean my desk and maybe add a potted plant to help create an optimal study area (OK, maybe I don't go that far). 
But by mid-semester. every­thing usually goes straight to 

demic laziness. I did what all good over-achievers do ­the bare minimum to get an A. 
You learn to play the system. You do what you need to do and nothing more. If you're not going to be checked up on your English reading, you do the math homework you know for sure will be collected tomor­row. 
If all the lecture notes are posted online, why even go? If all you need is a 60 on the final 

Thursday, August 29, 2002 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Bias lurks in media, academic circles 
eager to begin classes and to see what's in good transcript for store for graduate school. I another had to get high year. marks to stay 
How competitive quickly with my class­does it mates and take for us friends. I also to stray needed to from good make my par­intentions? ents happy During the with their deci­first couple sion to finance of weeks of my schooling. school, I usual-Once again, educa­ly wake up early tion took a back seat for breakfast and 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Thursday, August 29, 2002 
By MARIO BIRD 
Scene Movie Critic 

For those who happened to spend most of the summer in the Alaskan wilderness, serving their country in Afghanistan, or hibernating: George 
Lucas' "Star Wars Episode 11: Attack of the Clones" hit theatres in mid-May. 
Set ten years after "Episode I," "Clones" features the multiple plotlines that are characteristic of all the "Star Wars" films. The bold and beautiful Queen Padme Amidala (Natalie Portman) is now a Republican Senator in the crosshairs of a mysterious bounty hunter (Temuera Morrison). Sent in to guard her safety are Jedi 
By MAIT KOHLEY Scene Movie Critic 
With the release of his third supernatural thriller, "Signs," director M. Night Shyamalan has once again led audiences into a world of unfamiliarity, suspense and things 
upon sparks, whether they be from lightsaber fights in the rain or amorous liaisons, begin to fly. 
Though "Clones" could be criticized as having pedestrian dialogue and acting at best, and primi­tive at worst, the catalyst of the "Star Wars" films has always been imagination, brought to life by spe­cial effects and storyline. 

"Star Wars Episode 11: Attack of the Clones" 

Director: George Lucas Starring: Ewan McGregort Natalie , Portman, Hayden Christensen 
Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor) and his Jedi-in-training. the very adolescent Anakin Skywalker (Hayden Christensen). 
The web of intrigue surrounding the assassination attempts on Amidala prompts Master Jedi Yoda (Frank Oz) and Jedi-not-surviving-Episode III Mace Windu to dispatch the trusty Kenobi in pursuit of the bounty hunter while giving Anakin his first real Jedi assignment as bodyguard of Amidala, where-
that go bump "Signs" his two chil­in the night. 

dren, Hess 
Unfortunately, 
must confront 
unlike 
both the alien 
Shyamalan's creatures and 
first success-Director: M. Night Shyamalan 
his own inner­

impact of the crop circles and invasion on a Pennsylvania farmer and his family. At the heart of the story is Graham Hess (Mel Gibson). a devoted father and ex-minister who has lost his faith after the gruesome death of his wife. Together with his broth­er (Joaquin Phoenix) and 
"The Sixth Starring: Mel Gibson Sense," his newest cre­ative vision lacks the originality and intensity of his earlier films. Reminiscent of a 1950's sci-fi classic, "Signs" depicts a hostile invasion of alien life forms from a distant planet after the emer­gence of mysterious crop circles throughout the world. Instead of focusing on the international implications of a world invasion, Shyamalan chooses to explore the 
demons as he 
struggles to 

regain his faith. 
The strength of "Signs" clearly lies its performances. Mel Gibson provides the perfect mix of confu­sion, fear, self-loathing, frustra­tion and fatherly endearment. Both Rory Culkin and Abigail Breslin, who play Gibson's two children, perhaps give the best performances of the movie. 
In every other aspect, however, 
The best of Lucas' films have staked their claim for greatness on those grounds and "Clones" is no exception. What sets this movie apart is the further reve­lation of Lucas' epic series as a sober social commentary, never more pertinent than in this pre­sent time and place, when larg­er government, human cloning and an expanding military empire are met with the approval of not just moviegoers. 
but with American society. Accompanied by the usual breathtaking visual effects, heart-stopping sound design and frenetic, if sometimes implausible. pace, "Clones" is a worthy film not just in the "Star Wars" series, but in its own right. 
Contact Mario Bird at bird.S@nd.edu 
"Signs" falls drastically short. barely achieving mediocrity. During the first half of "Signs" Shyamalan creates a tense, sus­penseful atmosphere. Similar to an Alfred Hitchcock film, Shyamalan keeps the audience on the edges of their seats not by what he shows, but by· what he chooses not to show. By the end of the film, however, Shyamalan reveals entirely too much and ruins the suspense that he builds so wonderfully throughout the story. 
Moreover, the ending of ··signs" feels hollow, superficial and uno• riginal. The conflicts developed throughout the film resolve much too neatly. As a whole the film leaves the audience feeling very unsatisfied and slightly cheated. If you're itching for a great, sus­penseful film, do yourself a favor and rent "The Sixth Sense" instead. 
Contact Matt Kohley at kohley. I@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of www.imdb.com 

M. Night Shyamalan's latest feature "Signs" focuses on one rural family in the midsts of an invasion by hos­tile aliens. 
Summer Block] 
Scene reviews six of 
anticipate( 

Richard Gere and Diane Lane turn in notable perform; layer. The film is set to an equally beautiful soundtrack, 
By MARIO BIRD Scene Movie Critic 
During the eclectic summer of 2002 that featured everything from "Road to Perdition" to "XXX" to "The Powerpuff Girls Movie," "Insomnia" may have been the pick of the lit­ter. The story focuses on Detective Will Dormer (Al Pacino) and his partner Hap 
Eckhart (Martin Donovan). two high-profile LAPD homicide detectives that fly to a remote Alaskan fishing village to investigate the murder of a teenage. Meeting them at the float plane dock is Detective Ellie Burr (Hilary Swank). a small-town cop who has stud­ied and idolized Dormer's work. 
As the plot unfolds, Dormer 

"lnsom 
., *t.. ' •~i!f~ 
•''AW 

~.,._.,]11

-~.p Jv~ 
Director: Christopher N Starring: Al Pacino, Roi Hillary Swank 
and Eckhart are revealed to have been under the bright lights of the Los Angeles media juggernaut before escaping to Alaska and the reason for their publicity becomes a catalyst in the murder investigation, especially when this knowledge filters through to the prime suspect, Walter Finch (Robin Williams). Directed by Christopher Nolan, who amazed and intrigued audiences with "Memento" in 2000, "Insomnia" might have been tagged a thriller or crime drama, but is a rich enough film to defy any genre stereotyping. Nikolai 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Thursday, August 29, 2002 
page 13 

Ouster Review 
the summer's most 1 movies 

Photo courtesy of Twentieth Century Fox 

ances in "Unfaithful," a sex thriller with a deeper 
Frobenius and Erik Skjoldbjaerg, the Norwegian duo who wrote and directed the 1997 European original. give Nolan a wealth of background, both with the northern loca­tion and with character development, to work with. Accordingly, Nolan fashions a remark­able mise-en-scene throughout the film to emphasize the relationship between truth and obscurity. light and darkness, particular­ly with Dormer. As for the cast, there's not 
1nia" 

lolan bin Williams and 
too much to complain about with names like Pacino, Swank, and Williams. Pacino's portray­al of Dormer is reminicent of his previous work in "Heat" at times, but is more despondent and introspective. 
Swank plays a precocious Burr who grows and matures over a 118-minute running time, no small feat. to be sure. But Williams steals the show as 

the cynical yet sympathetic Finch, mesmeriz­ing and repulsing audiences in his first entirely non-comedic role. With great writ­ing, good directing and solid acting, "Insomnia" has ample claim as best movie of the summer. 
Contact Contact Mario Bird at bird.5@nd.edu 
By ANNE HAMILTON 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Unfaithful" is an elegant film that has a lot going on beneath the surface. Constance (Diane lane) and Edward Swnner (Richard Gere), have what appears to be the per­fect stable home. The director, 
Adrian Lyne ("Flash Dance," "Fatal 
"Unfaithful"
Attraction") takes us within the con­
fines of a Martha Stewart-esque 
house to witness the Sumner's morn­
ing routine. As Connie clears the 

breakfast dishes and Edward playful-Director: Adrian Lyne 
ly chides her about a missed stock Starring: Diane Lane and Richard Gere 
option, we sense the security in the family -and the boredom. 
While shopping for her son's birth­day celebration, Connie is caught in a foreboding wind. After scraping her knees and desperately trying to keep her skirt from flying up in a Marilyn Monroe-like fashion. she literally falls into the hands of a dark foreign book dealer who offers her the "shelter" of his apartment. Before leav­ing she accepts from him a book of love poetry containing 
By MATI KOHLEY 
Scene Movie Critic 
In Sam Mendes' "The Road to Perdition" Tom Hanks leads the cast as Michael Sullivan, a hit man for crime boss and father-figure John Rooney (Paul Newman) in 
Depression-era Chicago. When . "The Road to Perdition" its cinematography and general young Michael Sullivan Jr. hides 
staging. During the final few in his father's car and witnesses moments of the film, cinematog­a murder committed by his rapher Conrad L. Hall creates a father and the crime boss' son, scene that is as strikingly beau­Connor, he finally discovers the Director: Sam Mendes 
tiful as it is hauntingly tragic.truth about his father's profes-Starring: Tom Hanks and Paul Newman Don't be fooled by "The Road 
sion. 
From that moment both the lives of Michael Sullivan and his son change forever. Discovering that Sullivan Jr. was a witness to the murder, Connor slaughters both Sullivan Jr.'s moth­er and younger brother. Michael Sullivan and his son flee for their lives and embark on a dangerous journey of growth and self-discovery. 
At the crux of "The Road to Perdition" is a story of 
By ANNE HAMIL TON 
Scene Movie Critic 
"The Bourne Identity" is an action-packed thriller that delivers more potential 
the man's phone number. An affair quickly ensues. 
Lane delivers an outstanding performance and Gere's limited range in this film turns out to be his strength. The screenplay is well written with symbolism throughout the film and an unexpected twist half way through. 
"Unfaithful," however. is most memorable for its audile and visual beauty. The scenes are chosen and filmed delib­
erately, capturing the indentations on drinking glasses or an escaped lock of hair. The original score, com­posed by Jan Kaczmareks, creates a subtle background. Two wonderful musical additions to the film are "Ai Du," a bluesy piece off the award­winning album Talking Timbuktu, and "Dedicace Outo" and "Devorzhum" by Dead Can Dance that adds an ethereal feel to scenes. 
The original score is mostly instrumental and captures the film's mood, but check out the others if you want some­thing you can dance naked to. 
Contact Anne Hamilton at hamilton.56@nd.edu 
fatherly love, loyalty and morality. Tom Hanks pro­vides a superb performance, delicately balancing Sullivan's strong loyalty to his crime-boss father and deep love for his son. Newman masterfully presents the character of John Rooney, a man torn between affection for his son and the protection of his enter­prise. The true artistry of the film, however, is best found in 
to Perdition's" weak box-office 
success. Sam Mendes' original tragedy is perhaps one of the best films to emerge this past summer and is definitely worth seeing before it leaves the big screen. 
Contact Matt Kohley at kohley. l@nd.edu 
spoils what could have been and interesting story by relying too much on action scenes and leaving out character and plot development. 
Audiences will find themselves wondering why these characters are doing what they are doing and 
than performance. Based 
"The Bourne Identity"
very loosely on Robert Ludlum's 1988 novel. "Identity" begins in the middle of the night on a storm-tossed fishing boat somewhere in the Mediterranean Sea as a fisher-

Director: Doug Liman 
man pulls a half-drown amne­siac man from the water. Starring: Matt Damon, Franka Potente 
With two slugs lodged in his 
back, the number of a Swiss bank account sewn into 
and places that doesn't care about plot or character 
his hip and a mysterious passport that identifies him development.
only as Jason Bourne (Matt Damon), goes on a mini Odyssey throughout Europe, picking up the free­Contact Anne Hamilton at hamilton.56@nd.edu 
not caring much about what hap­pened to them. Damon and Potente do what they can with the mediocre script, but even these two talented young actors do not have the ability to save the sunken ship that is "Identity." 
"Identity" fits the bill for an audience looking for a summer thriller with good-looking people 
spirited Marie St. Jacques 
(Franka Potente), along the way as evades assassins long enough to discover his true identity. 
Although the European setting is pleasing and there are a few very exciting chase scenes, this film doesn't have much going for it. Director Doug Liman does not capital­ize on the talent of his actors and 

Photo courtesy of ww.imdb.com 
Matt Damon plays the amnesiac Jason Bourne In "The Bourne Identity." 

Thursday, August 29, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 

Ohka strikes out 11, gains 12th win 
Fryman, who announced
• Wilkerson hits before the game that he will retire at the end of the season,
18th home run to 

was 0-for-3.
lead N.L. rookies Indians fans gave Fryman a standing ovation in the top of Associated Press the seventh following a video presentation. The five-time PHILADELPHIA All-Star tipped his cap and Torno Ohka struck out a Thome, John McDonald and career-high 11 and Brad Omar Vizquel ran over from Wilkerson drove in three runs their positions in the infield to 
as the Montreal Expos beat embrace him. Philadelphia 6-3 Wednesday It may have been Fryman's night, snapping the Phillies' last game with the players' six-game winning streak. association set to strike Friday 
The game was delayed 2 unless it has an agreement for hours, 1 minute at the start a labor contract. because of rain. Play began in It also may have been the a heavy drizzle that got pro­last game for retiring Tigers gressively worse as the night broadcaster Ernie Harwell. wore on. The Indians and 
The poor Tigers are both 
conditions '"The business ofbaseball off Thursday. didn't seem stinks, but the game of Fryman said 
to affect he was opti­
baseball is always fun." 
Ohka (12-mistic that the 6), who labor situation went six Travis Fryman would be 
innings to resolved and
Indians third baseman

win his that his career fourth wouldn't be straight decision. He allowed over just yet. one run and three hits, walk­"The business of baseball ing one. stinks, but the game of base­
Ohka struck out five straight ball is still awfully fun," batters to start the game and Fryman said. four more in a row in the third and fourth innings. Twins 4, Mariners 2 
Five pitchers held the The Minnesota Twins under­Phillies to five hits, three by stand the Seattle Mariners' my years as a manager, as a streak is the A's longest since was in 1994, this might have Placido Polanco. recent struggles -they've player, as a coach, as a gener­they won 17 in a row from been the last of his 321 career 
Wilkerson went 3-for-4 with been there, too. al manager and whatever else May 5-25, 1931. starts for the Braves. a home run and two doubles. Torii Hunter hit a two-run I've done in this game," an uThat's our situation as After Philadelphia pulled to 4-homer to help Johan Santana exasperated Lou Piniella said. Oakland, but we have to put Yankees 7, Red Sox 0 
2 in the seventh, he put the outduel Joel Pineiro and that aside right now," Zito Fans booed the Boston Red game away with a two-run Minnesota beat slumping Athletics 7, Royals 1 said. "If we had lost 15 in a Sox, and it didn't have any­homer off reliever Dan Plesac Seattle 2-1 Wednesday night. Barry Zito would have an row, we'd feel the same way thing to do with a possible in the eighth. After losing eight of nine to excuse if he seemed distract­[about the strike]." strike. 
It was Wilkerson's 18th the Mariners, the Twins are 4-ed. When reliever Jason Mike Mussina pitched a homer of the season, which 2 against them this year. Instead, the Oakland Grimsley -the Royals' player three-hitter and Bernie leads all NL rookies. "I'm pretty surprised," Athletics' player representa­representative -entered the Williams hit a three-run 
Hunter said. "They've got a lot tive took a perfect game into game in the top of the eighth, homer to help the New York Indians 2, Tigers 1 of experienced hitters over the sixth inning as the the crowd booed him loudly. Yankees beat Pedro Martinez 
It may have been the final there. But everybody goes Athletics won their 15th and Boston 7-0 Wednesday game for Cleveland third base­through it. You have some straight, 7-1 over the Kansas Pirates 1, Braves 0 night. man Travis Fryman and bumps in the road, and I guess City Royals on Wednesday If it was Greg· Maddux's last New York shut out the Red Detroit broadcaster Ernie now is their time." night. start with the Atlanta Braves, Sox for the second straight Harwell, but it was Jim Thome Bret Boone homered for the "Going out there in every at least it was a vintage one. game. who stole the show. third~place Mariners, who start, there's always going to Except for the final score. "There's no question it's 
Thome's two home runs have lost four of five, 13 of 22 be stuff in your personal life Brian Giles' one-out single going to take a big chunk of gave the fans something to and are now 4 behind streak­and your life on the field that off reliever Mike Remlinger their heart away from them," cheer despite a potential play­ing Oakland. Seattle, 13-38 you have to block out," Zito broke up a scoreless tie in the Yankees manager Joe Torre ers' strike looming over major when scoring three runs or said. "I felt like I did that 10th and the Pittsburgh said after Boston lost its final league baseball. fewer, would be out of the tonight. Pirates. shut out by Maddux game before the strike dead­
The homers were enough for playoffs for the first time since The streak is the longest in for nine innings, beat the line. 
C.C. Sabathia, who pitched 1999 if a strike were to end the major leagues since Braves 1-0 Wednesday night. 'Tm sure a lot of people, seven solid innings to help the the regular season Friday. Seattle won 15 straight last Maddux is unsigned past this when they left the ballpark, Indians beat the Tigers 2-1 "This is the worst hitting season. Oakland completed its year and. should the season be were wondering if there's Wednesday night. roadtrip I've ever seen in all first 10-0 road trip, and the ended by a players' strike as it going to be baseball." 

API Photo Phillies catcher Mike Lieberthal waits for the throw as the Expos' Orlando Cabrera slides safely Into home in the second Inning of their game. The Phillies won 6-3. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

N.D. Tickets Buy and Sell. Seeking BABYSITTER for 3 small Kitchen Table w/ 2 chairs. 1 year Available Immediately -All size homesavailable Please check our prices • children in Granger • various old Fall semester only • for 2003-2004 PERSONAL 273-3911 hours/days. Perfect condition. $75 259-0108 2 BR cottage five min mmmrentals.@aol.com Refs. & car rqrd! Call Laura: 243-from campus ­
ND tickets -highest prices paid Benchwarrner's Sports Lounge Dave 243-5353 Mike Lane is the wind beneath my 251-1570 236 So. Michigan wings. needs bartenders, DJ B&B LODGING w/alumni family for 
FOR SALE

ND tickets for sale & promotional people ROOM IN HOME FOR RENT ND/DMC events, Lowest prices 289-9280 232-0022 $400 UTILITIES INCL football weekends, JPW & gradua­8 MIN, TO CAMPUS tion. 574-243-2628 orTICKETS ND football tickets for sale Large one-bedroom condo for sale. STARVING/THIRSTY STUDENT? FURN OR UNFURN garyb@mvillage.com. Am: 232-2378 PM:288-2726 One mile to N.D. Non-rental. SELL YOUR TICKET! JACUZZI 
Newly remodeled. Fully equipped. CLASS OF'98 GRADS WANTING CALL 255-4737 If you'd like to make money for and Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets ND football tickets wanted $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd.edu TO RENT OUT TURTLE DONNA be a part of overall fun times, call 289-8048 or astrog999@aol.com. AM: 232-2378 PM: 288-2726 CREEK APARTMENT ST. NIGHT, The Observer's sports department 
Land Rover Discovery Series II '99 SEPT 14 (MICHIGAN 3 Bedroom Home 1 mile and we'll hook you up with a job. Needed: large quantity of Stanford I need 3 tickets to the BC football Original owner, 45K, excellent con-WEEKEND). WILL COMPENSATE from ND. Garage, tickets for reunion, please help. game. 563-241-1082 (Travis) dition, loaded. W.CASH OR PREFERRED BEV-alarm system, A/C. Call 1-4543. 289-8048 $26,500. (574-233-2104). ERAGE. CALL ANDREW (949) Avail. immed., %650/mo. 
433-5087. GO !RISH! call 574-220-0499 Like taking pictures? All Notre Dame vs. Michigan State Single football tic. for Purdue and Room for Rent: $350/mo, incl pri-Football tickets for sale WANTED Ml. vate bath, garage space, Call photo at 1-8767 At 517·351-1992 or Go to: Call 233-3618 after 6. FOR RENT ale, washer & dryer, 
www.JamestheTicketman.com. After school care for two children, private bath, kitchen privileges, Working late nights is tun, you 
3-5:30 pm. Good pay! '91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal, Room available for no smoking, 2-3 miles should try it. Need2GA's Please call Lisa at 631-9947 or clean, owner. very good condition Purdue Weekend from campus, for any home game. 277-8564. $4200. St. Mary's Inn Phone: 574-272-4880, Call 1-4543 for more information. Can Jack 674-6593 277-0189 Call Jackie 273-1973 ask for Marcia 
Thursday, August 29, 2002 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 
U.S. OPEN 

Haas outlasts opponent, advances to next round 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Third-seeded Tommy Haas survived a five-set marathon at the U.S. Open on Wednesday, overcoming a controversy over his shirt and an aching right arm to wear down unseeded David Sanchez 7-6 (1), 3-6, 3-6. 6-4, 7­5. 

The match stretched 3 hours, 23 minutes, and Haas had to overcome a sudden rash of dou­ble faults at the end to prevail. 
Earlier, former champion Pete Sampras had an easy victory while Wimbledon finalist David Nalbandian was an upset loser. 
Haas seemed headed for the exit, struggling mightily against Sanchez. Haas won a first-set tiebreak but dropped the next two before he came back for the victory. Even at the end, it was not easy. He double-faulted on two match points after having just five double faults in the 

The CSC No Longer Owns Vehicles 
_ 
a a 

~---i7 D 

IMPORTANT NOTICE For Anyone Interested In Using A University Vehicle For Transportation for Service And Social Action Programming 
As the result of the creation of a new service at the University called the Transportation Services Depart­ment www.nd.edu/~undtransm, requests for group, residence hall department and acadetnic NON-SERVICE activities will be processed throui:h the Transpo~tation Services Department 
Important Policy Change 

The Center for Social Concerns ,will schedule and rent Transportation Services Vehicles ONLY for uscfor service and social acti':n programn1ing transportation. Groups or departments with budget s upport may be asked to contribute to the Center~s cost of renting from the Transportation Services 
Department. 
Training 

For additiona! i_nformat_ion o~ how to request a vehicle that the Center will rent from the Transportation Services Department, attend one of the t~ammg sesswns listed b_elow..~II driv":rs_ of vehicles scheduled through the Center for Social Concerns must complete a Transportation Department Defensive Dnvmg Trammg Course as well a brief presentation on CSC policies and procedures which 
follows. 
Sunday, September 1 Sunday, September 8 Sunday, September 15 Sunday, September 22 Sunday, September 29 6:45 p.m., Room 102 DeBartolo 
match. There was one more dou­ble before Haas finished off Sanchez. 
It was a long and difficult match for Haas, already strug­gling with tendinitis in his right arm and shoulder. When he showed up for the match wear­ing a sleeveless shirt, he was ordered to change into more tra­ditional tennis garb. 
Sampras, a four-time winner of this event but seeded at No. 17 and still seeking his first tourna­ment championship in 25 months, posted a 6-1, 6-4, 6-4 victory over Albert Portas. 
Sampras, who has not won a tournament since taking his record 13th Grand Slam at Wimbledon 2000, boomed serves at up to 131 mph and was never troubled by the Spanish clay­court specialist in his first match of this year's Open. 
It was a promising start for Sampras, runner-up at this tour­nament each of the last two years and convinced that he still has at least one more major vic­tory left in him. 
"It felt really good," Sampras said. "I felt like I played really well. I have no complaints with the way it went. It's been a struggle this year. I've lost some confidence. But this is the U.S. Open." 
Paradorn Srichaphan won 6-1, 6-3, 6-0 over Prakash Amritraj. 
Nalbandian, seeded No. 16, was defeated by unseeded Sargis Sargsian 6-1. 6-4, 6-4. No. 33 Greg Rusedski got started with a 6-1, 4-6, 7-6 (1), 6-3 victory over Alex Kim that included 19 aces. 

' STUDE AUDTIONS for the PURDUE & MICHIGAN FOOTBALL PEP RALLIES Come ready on Thursday, August 29th at 6:30pm In the Notre Dame Room, 2nd floor LaFortune Questions? Can't make it? Contact: Donohue.8@nd.edu  






: Thursday, August 29, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

r ===========================================================================================;;;;.,....;;.....•.•.;;;•.•......•.·.;;·····;;;;;~;;;;
.......;;;.......; ........;;; ·. 

spring ball and fall camp," said really are won't be clear until we go out Saturday night and Diedrick. "I think most of the Saturday night. compete against Maryland and
·, Football 
maturity and development has "I don't think I can say right come back Sunday and see the probably come over the sum­now [how far along we are)." tape, we can tell where we are
continued from page 24 

mer with a great deal of work Battle said. "We haven't played as far as our offense." with the quarterback and a team yet. We haven't gone out Miles and myself are pleased through fall camp." and competed against another 
Contact Katie McVoy at

with their development through But how ready these receivers Division I team, so I think once 


Friday, 4:00-10:00 p.m. & Saturday, 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Coleman-Morse Center, Room 103 Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 
For further information, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-7811. Syllabi for the courses can be obtaiJZed at the Theology Dept., 130 Malloy Hall. Register through DART or go to the Registrar's office. 
I•• 
' 
~ 
ey~ 
i!ii\ f_ 

One-Credit Courses · 
offered by the Department of Theology 
in cooperatjon with the Office of Campus Ministry 

God 
Theo. 340M. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Brian Daley, S.J. 
Weekend: September 27-28, 



We all learn from one another. The RCIA givei you a· chance to walk with someone ai you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join mon thii adventure offaith. 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 308 Coleman­

L ·. 
Morse Center 
C-M 
RCIA INFO 
SESSIONS 

Find out more about: 
• The Sacraments of Initiation BAPTISM, EUCHARIST & CONFIRMATION: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become amember of the Catholic Church. 
• FULL COMMUNION: 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
Sunday, Sept. 1 st Sunday, Sept. 8th 
Candidates & Sponsors 1 :00pm -2:00pm Candidates 11:00am -12:00pm 2:00pm -3:00pm Sponsors 330 Coleman-Morse Center 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Original Sin 
Theo. 340J. 
1 credit. S/U 
Instructor: 
J. Matthew Ashley 
Wednesdays September 4, 11, 18, 25, & Oct. 2, 9 Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:05 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center, Room 331 
Faith 
Theo. 340K. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
Mondays September 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, and Oct. 7 Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m., Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 
Prayer 
Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Sundays, September 15, 22, 29, Oct. 6, 13 
1v•·:••••••••••...•.•••••••••••...•,••W••••••••••...•...•....•••••••••••••w••.-.-...•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••,.-••••••••--•·•·••--••••••••••••••••••••••••••W...'H,•,••••••••••••••••w.•.•,•.w.•.'•W••••••••...•.•,•.W•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••11: 
I
·~ : I
. ·~-::·:,,,.;: 
4210 Lincolnway West• South Bend. IN 46628 • (574) 234-4167 
Co-llege Nig.ht 2 !~(,/ 

lnclud~ Glow BowlinfJ~}~~ 4/l I 
'.~.-:•O•O.,• .,•:••./.,•, ., .! ' ! : •n, 0;.; • I', H• ', '• •. • • • !4.o". .,.,.... ..;,">;•:.:•••:•:.:.,•:•:•:•:•:•••••:•:•;-: .:•:.;,•,:,;,;,;,•,;; ·• •:•:•:•• ' .:•:•:•:•:•:•:•: • • '.U '-:J' V '•.•' •:: • 0 H. '•'• •0. y,•,-. ••.:••••••,-•, ,•'•'. .••••••••._.•,:: 




r' 

\ .. J 
; 
training/orientation session sponsored by transportation services! 
Ifyou are going to operate rental vehicles from the new motor pool or drive a depart­mental vehicle, you must attend one ofthe training/orientation sessions! 
Students who have not attended a session as of October 1, 2002 will not be eligible to drive university vehicles!!! 
Students only need to attend the training/ orientation session once during their four years at Notre Dame. 
Training/orientation sessions are required for any type ofvehicle being operated (sedans, mini-vans etc.) 
~ 
Sessions 'Will be held in DeBartolo Hall, room 102, each Sunday evening in September (1st, 8th, 15th, 22nd, 29th). 
Sessions 'Will start at 6:45 pm and last no longer than one hour! 
Please bring a pen and your driver's license! 
J 
.J 


Thursday, August 29, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
page 19 

Need a job this fall? 
The Development Phone Center is hiringl 
15 PAIC> STUDE_NT CALLE_R POSITIONS ARE CURRENTLY 7.,yAILABLE 
:··· ;..~ ­
..,..,. ·--.;_;. ·,. :•-: -· .,·_, , ·,:-·· .. 
_,._· <~/~-'-•. ,:_.-·.~-:-!...''.~. ·•-:~~-:-_.·. I 
·Call alumni on behalf of Notre Dames 
Annual Fund. 
• PAID TRAINING _", ..... ·· ·· 
~ 
_ ! .. , GREAT ENVIRONMENT 
• 
EVENING HOURS·•."' .,, · ·•.· 

• NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 


When: 
Where: Why:. 

Today, Thurs., Aug: 29 " . · 10:00 am to 4:bo:·pm··. 
Third Floor, Grace Hair-: 
~. "' ' .... ·..:,. :.. . ..~--·..:-.:.: ,:-:. ·;.----. 
For informatio~ and· · 
applications--". 


Questions? Call Jill Donnelly or Annie Geary at 631-8426. 


Make money, win prizes, and build your resume. Apply Today! 
Impacting students Enabling futures 
au;~, 

¦otFII l¦ i PO?IS 1-4543 


OLYMPICS 
Lasorda ouraged at IOC proposal 
. Committe wants to rid Olympics of baseball, softball 
Associated Press 
I.AUSANNE, Switzerland 
As major league baseball play­ers and owners worked to pre­vent a strike, the sport endured a setback on the international stage Wednesday, as an IOC panel recommended dropping baseball from the Summer Olympics. 
The panel also proposed get­ting rid of softball, another game the United States excels at, while 
adding golf and "/ think its unlike rugby for the 2008 
preposterous. I don't o t h e r 
Beijing Games. sports
know what the reasoning 
"I think it's pre­w hi Ch posterous," said would be for this." h a v e former Los 
attracted Angeles Dodgers t h e
Tommy Lasorda
Manager Tom world's 
Lasorda, who Olympic baseball coach top profes­
coached the U.S. 
baseball team to 
the gold medal at the 2000 
Sydney Olympics. "I don't know 
what the reasoning would be for 
this. The baseball park was full 
for all the games we played in 
Sydney. 
"Also, the softball I saw at the 
Olympics was an awesome com­
petition and the crowds were 
great. It's just a tremendous mis­
take if they drop these sports." 
The U.S. softball team also 
won in Sydney, defending the 
gold medal it won in Atlanta. 
The International Olympic Committee's program commis­sion made the recommendations in a report delivered to the IOC executive board, according to Olympic officials familiar with the docwnent. 
The executive board is expect­ed to finish reviewing the recom­mendations on Thursday. If the board accepts the proposals, they would go to the full IOC assembly. A two-thirds majority is required for approval, which could come at the next IOC ses­
•
•
•
• 
sion in Mexico City in November. 
Modem pentathlon and Greco­
Roman wrestling also are up for 
exclusion as the program com­
mission studies ways to modern­
ize the Olympics, which now 
consist of 28 summer sports and 
300 events. 
Meanwhile, for the Winter Games, the IOC said figure skat­ing will definitely remain on the program, dispelling speculation the sport could be dropped fol­lowing the judging and fixing scandals in Salt Lake City. 
Baseball, a former demonstra­tion sport, became a full medal event at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics. However, 
sionals, 
Olympic baseball has failed to include top major league players, since the season overlaps with the games. 
Softball was added to the Olympics in Atlanta, but its long­term status has always been in doubt. The international softball federation is headed by an American, Don Porter. 
Ralph Raymond, coach of the 1996 and 2000 U.S. Olympic softball teams, said the sport is still gaining popularity world­wide. 
"I think that it would be a cry­ing shame at this point, since it's been in now for two Olympics and has proven to be a crowd pleaser," Raymond said. 
Golf and rugby have been among more than two dozen sports lobbying to become Olympic sports. 
Golf, which was in the Olympics in 1900 and 1904, was proposed for inclusion in the Atlanta Games but was blocked because of controversy over the membership policy of the Augusta National club, which has no women members. 
The addition of golf would raise the prospect of Tiger Woods playing for a gold medal in 2008 in China. 
• 




page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, August 29, 2002 


r' 

around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Mariners at Twins 12 p.m., ESPN Cubs at Brewers 1 p.m., WGN 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 6 p.m., USA 
NFL 
Bears at Dolphins 6 p.m., WSBT 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

NEW YORK 
One day before the union's strike deadline, baseball players and own­ers were still trying to work out their differences and get on with the rest of the season. 
After five bargaining ses­sions Wednesday, the sides remained apart on levels for a luxury tax and rev­enue sharing, leaving the sport on track for its ninth work stoppage since 1972. Many players. however, expressed hope for a deal. 
"The same issues are unresolved,., said commis­sioner Bud Selig, who arrived in New York on Wednesday evening. "It's been very constructive. Both sides are reaching out, but I can't tell you we're any closer. Only time will tell." 
Selig, who presided over the 1994-95 strike that led to the first cancellation of the World Series in 90 years, did not participate in the negotiating sessions, which mostly were brief. The last talks ended just past midnight and were to resume Thursday. 
"The length of the meet­ing doesn't always indicate whether it was a good meeting or not," said union lawyer Steve Fehr, the brother of union head Donald Fehr. 
Selig appeared briefly at the fourth meeting, only to say hello, union lawyer Michael Weiner said. 
"I still think we're going to get something done," said Atlanta pitcher Tom Glavine, the NL player rep­resentative. "I just think we're all too close on too much of this to let it fall apart." 
Owners want to slow spending by high-payroll teams with a luxury tax and in their last formal proposal wanted to increase the amount of locally generated revenue that teams share from 20 percent to 36 per­cent. Players were at 33.3 percent and want to phase in the increase. 
While negotiators didn't disclose details, manage­ment increased its proposed threshold for the luxury tax by $5 million to $112 mil­lion and the union dropped by $5 million to $120 mil­lion, Boston player repre­sentative Johnny Damon said. The sides were still discussing all the proposed rates and thresholds, and the union didn't want a tax in the final year. 
The sides also discussed contract language that dealt with the owners' desire to fold two franchises, one general manager said on condition of anonymity. The union opposes contraction. 
IN BRIEF 
Yankees scratch Pettitte didn't want to take any chances Longtime sponsor Kelly Tires was from schedule that a small problem becomes absorbed by parent company 
The New York Yankees scratched something bigger. Goodyear Tires and did not renew Andy Pettitte from his scheduled We don't anticipate any problem," its sponsorship after the 2000 start on Friday with stiffness in his Torre said. "But there's no reason game, lower back and replaced him with to do it. We're too close to the post­Last year, Jones made up some of Jeff Weaver. season to take any chances.' the difference by lining up 10 sec­
"He came out of his last start with ondary sponsors. stiffness," manager Joe Torre said But he said the terrorist attacks of Pettitte on Wednesday. "He did­Blue-Gray Classic a no-go caused several potential title spon­n't throw (Tuesday) when he nor­The Blue-Gray Classic, a sors to back off from the annual mally throws. It was better today, Christmas Day tradition for 24 expense. but still a little stiff. So we decided years, won't be played this year "We've been close," Jones said. 
to wait." because organizers could not line "Back in August, before Sept. 11, 
Pettitte is 8-5 with a 3.61 ERA up a corporate sponsor. we felt pretty comfortable in our this season. He has had left elbow Charles "Fats" Jones, the game's negotiations with two or three peo­tendinitis since the start of spring executive director, said that after ple." training and missed seven weeks receiving a couple of extensions he The 64-year-old game has been earlier in the season. couldn't meet a Wednesday dead­played on Christmas since 1978. 
The latest injury came Sunday in line imposed by ABC, which televis­The Montgomery Lions Club has a 6-2 loss to the Texas Rangers. es the game, to find a sponsor. run the game for 55 years, raising 
The Yankees beat Boston 7-0 It takes about $800,000 to do this more than $4.3 million for charity, Wednesday to take a nine-game game and have a charitable contri­Jones said. lead in the AL East. bution, and we don't have that in The game often struggled to fill 
With that much of a cushion, they reserve," Jones said Wednesday. 24,500-seat Cramton Bowl. 


ti SMC Sports Roundup ti 
Thursday, August 29, 2002 page 21 
SOCCER 


By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
As another season begins for the Belles, a team that has undergone innumerable coaching and playing changes will have to begin all over one more time. For the third time in the past four years, Saint Mary's will be under the direction of a new coach. this time Chris Pfau. 
For the Belles, it's back to basics. 
"I want to continue to build a foundation at Saint Mary's College with the young talent and concen­trate more on teaching the individual how to play the game," Pfau told the Saint Mary's athletic department earlier this year. "My goal is to make each player better in their four years at Saint Mary's." 
Pfau inherits a team that made major improvements last season under the direc­tion of former coach Bobby Johnston. Halfway through the season, a team that had won only three games the previous year captured its first win, which sent it on a three game win streak ­it's longest in years. 
But a full-time Division II coaching position lured Johnston away from the Belles. Saturday, as they face off against Hartwick College in New York, Pfau will be at the helm. 
The trip to New York marks a major milestone for the Belles -an overnight road trip for non-conference play. During their spring training, the Belles spent almost as much time fundraising for the trip as they did improving their soccer skills. They leave today. 
Returning to the field is lone senior Lynn Taylor, one of last year's junior captains and the only Belles player with three years of game experience. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
IN BRIEF 
Golf finished third at the final MIAA 
The Belles will be starting the tournament under new MIAA rules. season under the leadership of which allowed a single tournament coach Mark Hamilton. Last season, to determine the season winner. the Belles had their best season However, they took home their first ever under the direction of fourth first place win. year coach Theresa Pekarek. They The Belles return two of their 
Aperfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday DJring 
ND. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2 -6p.m. 
.,_ ~l._--•:-t:•.•
t~: )
Grilled Bur!ers,Brats, and Other pecialties l: 
; ' 
Cold Beverages & Spirits f.~-5': 60" Screen TV's 
-·If
Fully Enclosed Tent ~:QJttf!!if~ 
631-2000 
next to the N.D. Bookstore. www.themorrisinn.com 
strongest golfers in senior Molly Lee, junior Liz Hanlon, sophomores Stefanie Simmerman. and Jullia Adams. 
The four women comprise four of the five top golfers from last year's team. 
The Belles will suffer with the loss of senior Megan Keleher, but have enough depth to replace her. 
Volleyball 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek returns for her seventh season as the Belles' coach. The Belles will be looking to recover from a tough 2001 season where they earned only three wins. 
Saint Mary's doesn't return any players with more than two years of playing experience and they have only one senior. Elizabeth Albert. The Belles will feel the loss of Angela Myers, who was sidelined by an injury halfway through last sea­son and graduated last spring. They will also miss Jolie LeBeau, who graduated last spring. 
The Belles open play this week­end at the Alma Tournament. Alma finished the season in first place in the MIAA with 11 conference victo­ries and only three losses. It's a dis­tinct difference from a Belles team that only won one conference game and lost 13 games. 



,.
/. 

t '.
I ,
\ , 

page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 29, 2002 
• 0 0 • • • • •:
• • • • I '\
0 0 0

• • • • ' "· 
'.:., 

• • • • • • ~--<
omers:0 • • • • • •
• 
• 0
• 

• 
0• 0 
• • • I 
• 

0 •
I •
• • • 0 0 • 0 • •
• •
•

• • 0 ,. • •
0 
I
0 
0 
• 

• Wednesda_y., August 28., 2002 • • 
•
• 

• • • • Boy Bands vs Teen Diva Dance • • • 
9:00 pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
• ND Crafting Corner-ID Holder • • 
• • • • 9:00 pm to 11:00pm in the Notre Dame Room in Lafortune Student Center. Spon­• • • sored by the Student Activities Office. 
• • 1,hursda_y., August 29., 2002 • • • 
Rick Kelly Coffeehouse 
10:00 pm in the Huddle. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
• • ~1rida_y., Augsut 30., 2002 • • • 
The Show featuring Green Room, Beffer than Ezra, George Clinton and P Funk 
•

6:30 pm in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Visit www.nd.edu/-theshow for more in-· •
• 
• 

• • • formation. • • • •• • • ND Crafting Corner-Paper Making • • 
9:00 pm to 11:00pm in the Notre Dame Room in Lafortune Student Center. Spon­• •
•

• • sored by the Student Activities Office. •
•
• 

Saturday., August 31., 2002 
• Football Game Watch 
• 7:00 pm on North Quad. Sponsored by the Student Union Board. .,.i,,,-·-•--·--·-·... · ~-,
•

Karaoke •
•

• 10:00 pm to 1:00 am in the Huddle in Lafortune Student Center. Sponsored by the • • •
• • 

Student Activities Office. • •
Late Night Grill • 
11:00 pm on Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by the Class of 2005 and ·DICE. •
• • • • Sunday., September I., 2002 • 
• The Rookie •• • • 8:00 pm in Montgomery Theatre of Lafortune Student Center. Sponsored by the • • •
•

• Student Activiies Office. • • 
• • • Monda,y., Septemher 2., 2002 • • • • • Ferris Buel/er and 16 Candles • 
8:00 pm inMontgomery Theatrein LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by the Stu­
•

dent Activities Office • 1,uesday., Septemher 3., 2002 Activities Night •
• • • 7:00 pm to 9:00om in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. • • 
• • Wednesda..v., September 4., 2002 • • 
•
•

• • Rudy on the Quad• 9:30 pm on North Quad. Sponsored by the Student Union Board. • • The Ultimate Trivia Contest •
• 

• • 10:00 pm in the Ballroom of Lafortune Student Center. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
• 
• Questions?? Contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 or visit •
• • . • 
www.nd.edu/~sao for more information.
--·------,------------­

.. 
ACROSS  45 Clear  4 "Make  
1 Tex-Mex treat  49 Being  double"­ 
7 "Once more ... " 14 Flatter, in a way  50 _Fyne, Scotland  5 Go for the bronze?  
16 "Let's go elsewhere" 17C 19 Mr. abroad 20 City liberated by Bolivar, 1819  53 Architect Saarinen 54 Gulf war allies 56 Wild West 57 C  6 Get from (make progress) 7 Celebrating 8 Itinerary info 9 View from  
21 Bite 23 Single 24 Attention-getter 28 Like the fox, among all  63 Agreeing, after "of' 64 Popular tenor 65 Writes between the lines?  Catania 10 What a candidate might go for 11 Suffix with profit  
animals  66 Three-time  12 "You  "  
31 Seminole War leader  Wimbledon winner  (Lionel Richie hit)  
33 More tense  13 Poet Hughes  
36 Broadcasting 37 C  DOWN 1 Ones tor the  15 Hydroxyl compound  
41 "You ?!" 42 Oscar-nominated  record books 2 Lacking in scruples  18 Cause of a power trip 22 Smarten up  
composer 3_PeakDanny (Massachusetts 43 Informant ski resort) ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  24 What some sinners do 25 Fly high 26 Faux pas 27 Hands at sea  Puzzle by Kevin MeCann 40 Texas Mustangs, for short 44 Mother of Sir  48 Doesn't shut up 51 The year Innocent I became pope  58 Rescuer of · Odysseus, in myth 59 Holiday in Asia  
......____,  29 Peter, Paul orMary  Galahad  52 Posterior  60 Org. with a  
30 King in 1922 headlines 32 "Over There" composer 34 What rumors  46 Three-time Tour de France winner 47 County in California  54 Struck, once 55 Word with car or machine 57 Name part meaning "from"  widely read journal 61 Brit. record label 62 .001 inch  
make  
--+-:+:+:::-1 37 Actress 




Thursday, August 29, 2002 ....
The Observer . TODAY page 23 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
rm sorry dear, but Grab 'N Go only 

We're charged what, eight dollars And somehow you think you're the allows four entrees. and you've got 
for this crap? And for eight dollars· t to realize this? Come back five here. 
worth rm not allowed an extra n · ·nal thought. Mr. Upper frigging yogurt? iddle Class. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SINBO 
± 
I I r IJ 
CZ002 Tri>une Media Se!vic:ea, Inc. All Rights Reae,ved 
NUMIS 
I 
I I I REBUPSI j 
WWW.jumble.com
tHAIDAL j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
IJ r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:[ I I I I ]AND( I I I I I] 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: TRYST PROXY FOURTH GUilTY Answer: Where the cops ended up after directing traf­fic in freezing rain -1N "HOr' PURSUIT 
JUMBLE ClASSIC SERIES NO. 30 • To order, Nnd your name, addreu and $5.45 and make check payable lo Tribune Media Senrlce•, P.O. Bow: 4330, Chicago, IL tolll0-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone35 Photo lab order: phone: 1-900-420-5656. $1.20 per minute. 

Abbr. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
Jackson Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
--+-+-+-_,_-1 38 Sponsorship: 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions {$19.95 a year).
Var. 

Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, .....a.....i.__,__._.,J 39 Doesn't shut up nyt1mes.com/leaming/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michael Jackson, Rebecca De Momay, Robin Leach. Elliot Gould Happy Birthday: You will be overly sensitive. This can lead 10 trouble if you let it affect your work or your productivity. Put things in perspective and don't let other people influence your decisions. It's been a long time since you've followed your heart and your own desires. Make this year a turning point in your life and you'll have no regrets. Your numbers are 5, 13, 27. 33, 
39, 46 ~..b.-. t,., . Qr. a,,
ARIES (March 21~ JPlr>.1ci!()nlO,libe,?W to do things today that will enhance your populanty or your looks. D011·1 take anyone too seriously. Keep things light and be entertaining. ** TAURUS (April 20,May 20): Stop yourself if you complain or get whiny today. The moon is passing through your sign and it isn't likely you'll be thinking clearly. Take a couple of days 10 reassess your situation. ** GEMI!'oi1 (May 21-June 20): Making changes to your home will make you feel better. An older relative may be a bit of a burden today. Be caring and take the time 10 help.***CANCER (June 21,July 22): Don't rely on anyone but yourself today and you won't be disappointed. The work you do for a cause you believe in will be 
appreciated. Don't expect praise right now, but eventually your efforts will be 
recognized **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Personal matters may affect what you arc trying to 
accomplish today. If you take on too much. you'll find yourself falling behind 
and having to answer to someone who could make your life miserable. Don't 
promise to do the impossible. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have greater opportunity 
to converse with people who can ofter you valuable infonnation. A change of lifestyle is in order. It's time you started doing things you enjoy. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will have added discipline today and some tenific ideas that should catch on quickly. You may want to make some financial adjustments. Poor infonnation could lead to a bad deal. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Emotional matters will surface if you are jealous or overbearing. Don't let any personal issues affect your productivity. Problems with your home can arise if you hire contractors. Avoid sensitive topics. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can benefit from the changes 
occurring at work. Be professional and in time you will get the recognition and 
the advancement you deserve. Your attitude will be the determining factor 
today.****
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make positive changes with very 
little effort today; all you will need is the desire. This is a great 
day to look at all your options regarding work and money. You can make 
changes that will be more to your liking. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be bombarded with complaints 
today, but that's only because everyone knows you are excellent when it comes 
to finding solutions. Don't let emotioual matters stress you out. ** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): New friendships or love relationships will 
develop if you get involved in groups fighting for II worthy cause. Your creative 
way of thinki1ig will attr11ct interesting people. **** 
Birthday Baby: You will be tough, a little stubborn and a grand master at 
getting your own way. You will take care of any responsibilities you face, and 
you're willing to help the people you care about most. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com. .... 
asiromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

Thursday, August 29, 2002 


FOOTBALL 
Time to get tested 
. Receivers hope to overcome 1nexper1ence against Maryland 
By KATIE McVOY 

' 
' 
Associate Sports Editor 
The talk about the new pro-style offense has been endless. Ever since Tyrone Willingham was hired in January, the discussions about how effective an Irish passing game will be, who will be taking the snaps and which receivers will be handling the ball have raged. 
But on Saturday, it's go time. 
At the beginning of spring practice, receivers coach Trent Miles focused on introducing his receivers to the new sys­tem. The idea was to get them used to the new offense and make them feel comfortable with their new role on the Irish team. 
Now, the goal is much simpler. 
"Win," Miles said. " ... Win every play, one play at a time and then win the first game. [Those] are our objectives right now. And then we go to win the next game, one play at a time, one game at a time." 
But the question remains: Can the wide receivers do what their coach expects? 

Coming from a run-heavy offense, the Irish had enough hurdles to overcome. But. in addition, the Irish lost last year's leading receivers Javin Hunter and David Givens to graduation. Meanwhile, Arnaz Battle, Carlos Campbell and Omar Jenkins, slated to be the top Irish receivers this year, have only two career touchdowns and 13 career receptions between them. Those are unconvincing lot for the receivers to learn. Spring said. "After working [the system], going will determine how far along these men numbers for three players who should practice and fall camp just isn't enough. through the spring with the offense and have really come. play a key role in the Irish offense. "It will take a year or two," Miles said. then coming out this summer and work­Fall camp leaves the coaching staff 
In addition to having limited game "It takes years sometimes to learn the ing very hard, two-a-days, I think guys with a certain level of confidence in its experience, they've had limited experi­system." have finally grasped it and we're ready players, said Bill Diedrick, Notre Dame's ence with a complicated offense. The Years they have not had. But if you ask to go out and execute." offensive coordinator. new offense will put the ball in several the receivers, they're ready to play. All of the receivers have seen plenty of "They've come to a level where Coach different players' hands, and there is a "(We're] very comfortable," Battle passes at practice, but Saturday's game 
see FOOTBALL/page! 7 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 

Bustamante leaves womens basketball team 
. player to leave the team in the next three years." Bustamante averaged 11.7 three players with point guard nine months. Along with Monique minutes per game and started experi'ence on their roster ­
Sophomore yet to 

Bustamante, who averaged Hernandez and Amanda twice. She recorded a career­junior Le'Tania Severe, sopho­
decide where she 4.6 points in 24 games during Barksdale, the six-foot high 21 points and five more Jill Krause and highly her freshman campaign, Bustamante is the third player rebounds during a game touted freshman Megan Duffy. planned to return to her home to leave Notre Dame since the against Syracuse, where she Bustamante could not be
By ANDREW SOUKUP 

in Miami and did not know Irish won the national champi­connected on 4-of-5 3-pointers reached for comment.
Sports Writer 

where she was going to trans­onship a year ago. Hernandez during a five-minute span. "We believe it is important fer. quit the team last December, Used primarily to back up for her to go home," McGraw 
Sophomore guard Allison "We're disappointed to see and Barksdale left the team in Irish sharpshooter Alicia said, "and we wish her the Bustamante has decided to her go," Irish coach Muffet mid-April before transferring Ratay, Bustamante's departure best." transfer from Notre Dame for McGraw said in a statement. to the University of Houston. leaves Jeneka Joyce as the undisclosed reasons, becoming "We believe she be A 44.7 percent 3-point shoot­lone shooting guard coming off 
can an Contact Andrew Soukup at 

the third womens basketball important part of the team for er with a quick release, the bench. The Irish still have 
asoukup@nd.edu 




FOOTBALL 
SAINT MARY'S SPORTS
WOMENS BASKETBALL

en1--c.:, LL1 Notre Dame vs. Maryland at The Meadowlands, 
Soccer at Hartwick 
Notre Dame loses its third 
Volleyball at Alma
Saturday, 8 p.m. 
womens basketball player in 
Both Belles teams will be opening their sea­
a: =5 
sons with young teams. The soccer team will
the last few months as

Notre Dame's receiving corps feel prepared for their first game against 
be under the direction of its third coach in four 
Allison Bustamante decides 

Maryland on Saturday. Just how far the group has come since fall camp will be 
c:, = 
to transfer. 
years.

seen when they face another team for the first time. The receivers only have two 
a. ti 

touchdowns and 13 catches as a group. 
page 21

en page 24 
page 24 







