
V . XX VH NO. 67 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Student launches poster project 
. Graduate student attempts to confront stereotypes 
By STEPHANIE SELLINGER 
New, Writer 
Fat. Gay. KKK ...Snob. Honest, Black ... Smoker. Muslim, Virgin. 
These are just a few of the messages printed on posters hanging around cam­pus to increase awareness of stereotypes. 
The posters are the brainchild of Hobert Mason, a fourth-year graduate student in graphic design. The white posters. each stamped with three stereo­typical adjectives or nouns in black. are the first stage of a project he is conduct­ing as part of his master's degree. 
"My project is based on the power of the written word and the premise that our society is only really free if we respect the rights of our least popular minorities or those who do not conform or have unpopular or unorthodox view­points," Mason said. "By pairing the three words, words that are not normally associated together. the viewer is asked whether their personal biases impact the rights of the individuals represented by the three words." 
Posters were hung in DeBartolo Hall, O'Shaughnessy Hall. Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering and Mendoza College of Business in an attempt to challenge passers-by to think about the way they view stereotypical groups or minorities. 
Mason expanded the project to include postcards he plans to send to faculty. He is also considering buttons, T-shirts and an online version of the project, as well as using the local newspaper and TV sta­tions to increase awareness of his pro­ject. 
Mason was surprised by the relative lack of response to the project, since the posters were hung mid-November. Another set of posters will appear this week, and Mason welcomed responses via e-mail at why3words@yahoo.com. 
In light of increasing intolerance he observed in the nation, Mason ultimately hopes that the project will encourage dis­cussion and challenge students and facul­ty to confront their biases regarding race, ethnicity, physical appearance, attitude, religion, personality, values and beliefs. 

"I would like to challenge societal bias­es, stereotypes, profiling and precon­ceived ideas that influence our treatment of others. I do not believe in or condone many of the ideas represented by the words used, but just because they do not fit in with my personal belief or value system does not mean that rights should be infringed," said Mason. "We need to 
The project is sponsored by NDesign, a student industrial and draft design group for graphic design students. 
"The strength of the project lies in the way it confronts biases," art professor Robert Sedlack said. "Robert is trying to bring to light what we feel and verbalize things we sometimes aren't willing to talk about. In that way, I think it is a very successful project and will only have more success as it continues to confront and touch more people." 
take the responsibility to respect the Contact Stephanie Sellinger at rights of our fellow citizens." sselling@ndedu 
Coach ushers sea of blue 
• Willinghamspeaks at SMC rally 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
N=s Writer 
Tyrone Willingham flood­ed Angela Athletic Facility with a sea of blue for the Lilly Challenge Rally Tuesday. 
"My being here is all a part of helping and lending something to the cause and improving the community,"· the Irish football coach said. "That is what life is all about." 
The senior leadership committee chose Willingham as the key speaker for the rally to draw students, alumna, faculty, staff and members of the 
community  to  the  Lilly  
Challenge kickoff.  
"He  brought  a  team  

together and turned them around," said Katie Zigler, co-chair of the senior lead­ership campaign "They are not only winning but they are working together as a team and that is what Saint Mary's needs right now." 
He drew from his 25 years of football coaching experi­ence, particularly this sea­son's success, for words of motivation. 
"Please take the three C's with you into your Lilly Challenge: communication, commitment and cohesive­ness," he said. "It is very important to the program 
see WILLINGHAM/page 4 

Anti-apartheid proponent speaks to Sociology Club 
organization advocates policies written by the White House, "Today Saddam is the most in."
• The lecture 
in favor of the peoples of which he denounced as send­beautiful enemy one can The danger of the new doc­focused on current Africa, the Caribbean and ing three basic messages to the desire. He serves the third trine. which deals with 
U.S. foreign poli­Latin America. rest of the piece of our national security Saddam, is that it sets a dan­The lecture world: "First strategy because periodically gerous precedent for interna­
cies and the war 'Today Saddam is the 
was organized that this the U.S. has to demonstrate its tional cooperation, Fletcher 
on terrorism by Annise most beautiful enemy planet will capacity to bring about mas­said. Macguire, pres­once can desire . ., be capitalist, sive levels of destruction," said The positive side to the cur­ident of the second that Fletcher. rent state of foreign policy is
By MELISSA LOU 
Sociology Club, the only He said that the top percent­the growing skepticism among
News Writer 
BIii Fletcher 

and focused on form of capi­age of the population, which Americans and people around current U.S. president of TransAfricaforum tal ism that controls most of the wealth of the world about the rationale Bill Fletcher. current presi­
foreign policies will exists is the world, is using the current used by the U.S. government
dent of and chief executive 
and the war on the one [the situation as a way of control­and the growing anti-warofficer for TransAfricaForum, terrorism. U.S.] wants, ling the growing dissent sur­effort throughout the country. 
the principle organization 
According to Fletcher, U.S. and third that if you don't like rounding the polarization of The event was co-sponsored · 
behind the anti-apartheid 
actions with regard to Iraq it, you will get whacked." global wealth and globaliza­by the Hesburgh Program,movement of the 1980s, deliv­
demonstrated "the objective of Fiechter said, the document tion. Sociology Department, Kelloggered a speech Tuesday for the 
the administration is to move allowed the U.S. to have the "The U.S. created its own Institute, MSPS, Higgins LaborNotre Dame Sociology Club. 
its strategy of regime change right of unilateral action monster [in Saddam, and Research Center, Anthropology Fletcher, the former director to oust Saddam Hussein there­against any enemy. throughout the world] which is Department and African of Education l'or the AFL-CIO. 
by setting an example for the He said Saddam was former­now out of' control," Fletcher Working Group. 
was inspired to work as an 
rest of the world." ly considered an ally by the said. "[The monsters] were 
activist at the age of 13 after 
Pletcher based this conclu­Reagan and first Bush admin­actively supported as a means 
reading his parents' copy of a 
sion on the recent national istrations when Iraq was for attacking the secular left Contact Melissa Lou at 
book on Malcolm X. Today his 
security strategy doctrine, involved in a war against Iran. wing of the countries they live mlou@nd.edu 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Breaking out of the bubble 
You can leave Notre Dame, but Notre Dame will never leave you. 
Each semester, hundreds ofstudents study abroad, which is great and I think everyone should live in another country for awhile. While 
they are gone, their school sneaks up on them in the strangest places. At breaks, the stu­dents go home, they travel, and they go to work. And out of the cor­

ner oftheir eye, 
Katie McKenna 
they catch a glimpse of the Golden Dome. 
Graphics
I escape the 
Editor
Notre Dame bub­ble during breaks like everyone else. But even crossing borders and oceans, I can't seem to leave it behind. 
I spent a summer in Rome -a truly magical city, a place everyone should experience. But then, I'm a little biased. Anyway, over the course of the sum­mer, I did all the usual tourist things. It wasn't long before an awfully scary thought came to me. 
The most famous Roman landmarks are familiar to us all. The dome of St. Peter's Basilica watches over the city. The Coliseum continues to stand proud­ly at the edge ofthe forum, an ancient thoroughfare that reminds visitors of what Rome once was. It was walking along the forum that I had my epiphany. 
Rome is just like a certain college campus in South Bend, Ind. A basilica ­we have one of those. Not far away is a pretty famous dome. Before the Vatican recycled it, the Pantheon's round roof was gilded as well. The Coliseum is really just a big stadium. And the Roman forum, well, the Roman forum is just like South Quad. 
My next thought was this: How sad and pathetic am I? There I was. in the eternal city, equating it with school. 
I tried to rationalize this realization with theories about what would be going on at Notre Dame 2,000 years from now. Perhaps people will one day pick their way through the ruins of South Quad, pondering the legendary battles fought and won in our Stadium. Pangborn and Fisher will still be stand­ing: it'll take more than a couple thou­sand years to get rid of them. Keep pon­dering it, it makes you wonder what people will think about our little world. 
However much I tried to cover it up with not very profound musings ofthe distant future of the University, the fact remains that I bring a piece ofNotre Dame with me wherever I go. It got under my skin. At one time I found it a little scary, maybe even a little sad. Now, as a senior with very limited time left here, I find it reassuring. I may move on and leave this place, but I will always catch a glimpse ofcampus, of home, out of the corner ofmy eye. 
And at least I drew the line at equat­ing Stonehenge and the Trevi Fountain. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katie McKenna at 
Katie. M. McKenna.29@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Tuesday's story, "ND grad commands space 5hurde," the article incorrectly stared that the Endeavour space shutde landed Monday. The space shutde docked out of the International Space Station Monday and was scheduled m land on Earth roday. In Tuesday's story, "Virus infects 200 Notre Dame students," Marr Storin was incorrectly identified as the vice president for Communications ac Nocre Dame. He is che associate vice president for News and Information. 
Wednesday, December 4, 2002
The Observer . WHAT'S UP 


WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
Racism letter End of year 
ND hockey a hot topic 
GSU debates U.N. searches AOL provides stress busters falls to AlaskaIraqi palace news services sparks debate 
The Notre Dame exchanged their 
Members of GSU 
AOL will begin 
Readers respond Scene highlights
U.N. conducted a 
hockey team lost to opinions on fund­
to a Viewpoint let­activities designed
surprise weapon 
to offer special con­
ter about racism 
to help students 
Alaska 5-4 and 4-3. ing student organi­
inspection of the 
tent such as music, 
and provide their 
reduce stress dur­zations. 
Iraqi palace. 
video and shop­ing the finals and 
Christmas shuffle. 
ping services. 
own definitions. 
page 11
page3 
page 7
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Student Senate: Update on Sexual Assault Policy, Election of Faculty Senate Heprnsnntative, and SS0203-11: Hesolution Hngarding First Year of' Studies Advising, l\otre Dame Hoom LaFortune, 6 p.m. 

. 
Lccturn: ''Polilics, Power. and O1·ganizing: The Strugglo for Economic Justice," Center for Social Concerns, 3 p.m. 

. 
Information Session: Campus Ministry Internship Program, 316 Coleman 


Morse Center. 6 to 7 p.m. 
. I land,~l's Messiah. Washington Ila!!, 8 p.m. 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Clinical Protocol Program. Haggar 303, 12 p.m. 
' 
. 
Student Diversity Board Meeting, IICC/#304 SGA Board Boom. 12 to 1 p.m. 

. 
Student Teacher Dinner, Lower Level Dining llall, 6:30 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 

North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Buffalo chicken lasagna, meatball with sauce, Hawaiian pizza, roast top round, champagne rice pilaf, cherry crisp, baked cajun pollock, oatmeal, bacon, scrambled eggs, sausage gravy and biscuits, grilled turkey on kaiser, crinkle fries, snow peas and noodles with soy dressing, California eldorado casserole 
Today's Dinner: Roasted turkey breast, bread stuffing, peas, cherry crisp, tuna casserole, potato pancakes, hot chunky applesauce, steamed veg­etable plate, fresh spinach, BBQ rib sandwich, crinkle fries, broccoli garlic tofu, Oriental vegetables 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Meatball with sauce, baked cheese ravioli, pesto sauce, Mexican beef pizza, pretzel sticks, macaroni and cheese, cauliflower, BBQ chicken, grilled tuna with lemon, turkey breast, bread stuffing, long grain and wild rice, grilled chicken, reuben sandwich, seasoned fries, onion rings, BBQ Cantonese pork 
Today's Dinner: Meatball with sauce, baked cheese ravioli, pesto sauce, spinach pie, green bean casserole, turkey noodle casserole, fried perch, roast top round, Cajun chicken breast sandwich, seasoned fries, onion rings, chicken Kung Pao, taco baskets 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
w 
::c 

!ii: 
3 w 
..I 
<C 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 26 HIGH 24 HIGH 27 HIGH 28
..J LOW 20 LOW 19 LOW 16 LOW 20 
page 24
page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Employee contracts ill­
ness 
An employee at the Ave Maria Press was taken to Memorial Hospital for an ill­ness Monday. 
Several cited for lack 

of seat belts 
NDSP issued several citations on Juniper and Edison Roads Monday for seat belt viola­tions. 

Driver failed to yield 
NDSP issued a citation to a driver who failed to yield on Notre Dame Avenue Monday. 
Employee discovers 

car towed 
An employee, who left his car outside of O'Shaughnessy Hall, discovered that NDSP towed the car Monday. 
Compiledfrom NDSP crime blotter. 



Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Farmer's market soup, taco tomato chowder, cool ranch loafer, breakfast pizza, mediterranean bar. grilled chicken breast, grecian pocket sandwich, chicken nuggets, macaroni and cheese, cauliflower, veg­etable crepes bar, couscous and tomato salad, pesto bites, tortellini salad 
Today's Dinner: Swedish meatballs with brown gravy, calzone, pierogies procedure, roasted chicken, baked potato, mixed vegetables, brown rice, .ginger snow peas, linguine, marinara 
sauce, basic omelet, salad bar 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 36 HIGH 31 LOW 22 LOW 18 

Atlanta 38 / 31 Boston 24 / 19 Chicago 28 / 17 Denver 40 / 20 Houston 52 / 32 Los Angeles 71 / 52 Minneapolis 19 / 13 New York 36 / 29 Philadelphia 32 / 25 Phoenix 69 / 46 Seattle 47 / 40 St. Louis 30 / 20 Tampa 79 / 66 Washington 35 / 30 
Wednesday, Oecembe;:r 4, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 




GSU debates department organizations 
+ Debate heats up over sponsorship of graduate student organizations 
By ANDREW THAGARD N~w, Writer 
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) continued to grapple with the idea of sponsoring departmental graduate student organizations during their meeting on 
Tuesday. 
T h e establish­ment of runded, legitimate graduate student organiza­


tions with- Dale  
in  each  
department  is  one  of GSU  

President Tim Dale's major l!Oals. On Tuesday, Dale pro­
of such groups, Dale said, would facilitate communi­cation between graduate stu­dents and the departments, as evident in departments that already have such organiza­tions. 
"Graduate students would have more say in what happens and be better positioned to respond," he said. 
According to Dale, many departmental representatives and graduate students in gen-
posed that GSU make $200 era! support the concept. Some available for the formation of GSU members, however, voiced each organization, with the dissension at Tuesday's meet-
hope that the  ing.  
Graduate School would  ''The main support I hear  Library Committee  
double GSU's  for this is from students  chairman  
contribution. There are approximately 20 doctoral  who have this going on already. Let them ge.t their own money. "  Wesley Calvert rejected GSU funding of such organizations  
programs  on  the  basis  
within the University. The creation  Wesley Calvert Library Committee chair  that it would only help departments  

with pre-estab­
lished bodies. 
"The main support I hear for this is from students who have this going on already," he said. "Let them get their own money." 
Other students expressed concern that funding could go entirely toward social activities instead of furthering communi­cation and graduate student concerns within the depart­ment. 
Dale, however, disagreed. 

"We trust the graduate stu­dents to spend the money," he said. 
Funding for the proposal, according to Dale, would come from the surplus in the GSU's budget and the proposal would be set up as a trial basis for this year. 
The proposal passed with two members dissenting. "There doesn't seem like there's too 
stipends. The National Coalition of Graduate Students For An Affordable and Accessible Education is spon­soring a fall lobby day in Washington. D.C. to spotlight the issue. 
"Wouldn't it be nice if the government wouldn't take out a chunk of change from the meager pittance we are given from the University," 
Schieberle said. 

much room "I think it
"Graduate students 
for failure in would behoove this," Dale would have more say in us to get 
said. what happens and be involved and let the legislators
better positioned to 
of Indiana

In other GSU 
respond." know we are 

news: 
for this." 
. GSU passed

Tim Dale
. Co-Vice 
a resolution 

President GSU president 
providing a M i s t y $500 donation 
Schieberle encouraged gradu­ate students to get involved in lobbying legislators to enact a Federal Income Tax exemption status for graduate student to "Common Sense," an inde­pendent campus publication. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 

Special to The Observer 

Two University of Notre Dame summer programs for high school students are highlighted in a new book listing high quality pre-col­lege programs. 
The Career Discovery in Architecture and the Summer Experience programs are profiled in "Early College Programs: Summer College Programs for High School Students." The book, edited by Robert Hydrisko and published by Nautilus Press, is the first written on early college pro­grams. Over 250 programs at 190 colleges are profiled, highlighting pre-college programs for more than 80 careers. The guide also includes a special section for underrepresented and learning disabled youth. 
The School of Architecture's Career Discovery program is 
Summer high school prograins recognized 
geared toward high school juniors, seniors and recent gradu­ates who are considering, or who have begun, an architecture pro­gram. 
Participants learn about archi­tectural history and the skills and responsibilities required in con­temporary architecture practice. The program is led by Notre Dame architecture professors and advanced students. Participants also have an opportunity to expe­rience student life through athlet­ic and social activities. 
The Summer Experience pro­gram is designed for academically gifted seniors-to-be. Participants are in residence at Notre Dame for three weeks in July, taking part in one ofseven fields of study -life sciences, business/entre­preneurship, literature, psycholo­gy, theology, computer science and geoscience. 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, December 4, 2002 


Willingham 
continued from page 1 

that you act as one family so the whole group can have success." 
Willingham also called stu­dents to value the opportunity of being at such an institution. 
"When you get to my age, you understand that every day is a precious, precious gift," he said. 
In addition to hearing Willingham speak, students used the rally as a way of learning about the Lllly Challenge. 
"I want to learn more about the Lilly grant because I know little about it," senior Colleen Miles said in anticipation of the rally. "I think the presence of Coach Willingham is a big draw too." 
Lyndsey Brubaker and Zigler. co-chairs of the senior leader­ship campaign. explained that the Lilly Foundation has promised to match every dollar donated to the College through­out this year. The foundation has challenged students to give $250,000, faculty and staff to give $250,000 and alumna to give $3 million in donations. 
If all the goals are met, the College will have a total of $7 million. 
"This will bring about great change for the present and the future students of Saint Mary's," Zigler said. 
The rally also kicked off of the Quarters Campaign that starts this year. 
"The goal of this program is to get underclassmen started in raising money for their senior donation to the college," Brubaker said. "All money that they donate will go into a fund for their senior gift and Lilly ¼ill match the sum." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill 407@saintmarys.edu 

Cruise ship avoids illness 
Associated Press 

The cruise ship Fascination steamed toward Key West and Mexico on Tuesday, with pas­sengers taking precautions to avoid catching the disease that sickened nearly 200 people on the ship's last voyage. 
Marek Biela, 36, of Marlboro, Mass., said he was washing his hands frequently, one of the recommendations that Carnival Cruise Lines gave to passengers when they boarded Monday at Miami. But Biela was thinking more about what he would do dur­ing a day trip at Key West. 
"The worst case is you can get sick for a day or two," he said. "If this was a life-threat­ening disease, l wouldn't get on the boat." 
The ship left Miami late Monday on a three-day cruise that also stops in Cozumel. Mexico. 
Ship officials gave passen­gers details about the pre­sumed "Norwalk-like" virus that plagued the Fascination's weekend trip to the Bahamas. But there was little informa­tion about specific actions the company took to avoid similar problems this time, said David Martinez. 22. a first-time cruise patron from Santa Barbara, Calif. 
There were no reports of ill­nesses on the latest voyage as of Tuesday afternoon, Carnival Corp. spokeswoman Jennifer de la Cruz said. 
When the Fascination returned from its three-day 
trip early Monday, 189 of its passengers and 13 crew mem­bers had been suffering from vomiting and diarrhea, offi­cials said. Experts have not yet confirmed whether they had a Norwalk-like virus. 
The Norwalk virus, named for an outbreak 30 years ago in Norwalk. Ohio, and a group of Norwalk-like viruses are among several common micro-organisms that can cause diarrhea, stomach pain and vomiting for 24 to 48 hours. according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. They are spread through food and water and close contact with infected people or things they have touched. The incubation period is about two to three days. 


Tie between American Indians, SIDS, focus of study 
Wednesday's Journal of the nant -may increase the risk of The researchers did not con­The Indian Health Service has 
~ociated Pre.. 

American Medical Association, her child dying of the syn­clude what it was about the run SIDS information cam­
evaluated data from infants drome. However, the risk of nurses' visits that helped paigns for at least 10 years and 
WASHINGTON who died of SIDS within the SIDS fell 80 percent in homes reduce the risk. but those visits health workers try to visit each 
American Indian mothers Indian Health Service region where a public health nurse typically involve information pregnant woman at least once who drank alcohol while preg­covering North Dakota, South visited, compared with homes about SIDS, including advice on Standing Rock, Dailey said. nant increased the risk their Dakota, Nebraska and Iowa. that did not have visits, the that putting infants to bed on "It's pretty rare for someone babies would die of sudden American Indians in that area study said. their backs is the best way to to go through a pregnancy infant death syndrome, but that had the highest SIDS rate in the Researchers say the findings reduce the risk of death from without a visit," Dailey said. risk declined when the mothers health service's 12 regions, at suggest that strengthening pub­the syndrome, said Dan Dailey, Overall, the risk of SIDS were visited by public health 3.5 deaths for every 1,000 live lic health programs and work­community health director on among American Indians is 1.5 nurses before or after giving births from 1996 to 1998. ing to reduce alcohol use the Standing Rock Indian deaths per 1,000 live births, birth. Researchers found that a among women of childbearing Reservation, which straddles more than double the rate of 
A National Institutes of mother's alcohol use -even age on Indian reservations the North Dakota-South Dakota 0. 7 deaths for every 1,000 live Health study, published in before she knows she is preg-could cut SIDS deaths. border. births among whites. 
~ ~ppreciat,· ~e,-0'-­Zo4 ~ Thursday, Deceniber 5 2002 c,_, Show your Student ID and Receive 20% off ffi Notre Dame Clothing Notre Dame Gift Items* General Books At these locations: HAMMES Notre Dame NOTRE DAI.VIE Varsity Shops Located in the Joyce CenterBOOKSTORE IN THE ECK CENTER 631-8560 631-6316 631-5683w-ww.ndcatalog.com 9:00am ­5:00pm8:30am ­10:00pm **Student ID Required-Notre Dame, Holy Cross and ST. Mary's Students. *Discount does not include the following items: Non-Notre Dame logo merchandise. TcxtBooks, CD"s, tapes, school and office supplies, computer supplies, art supplies, Health & Beauty, Electronic Items and Class Rings.  



WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 

U.N. weapons inspectors search Saddam's palace 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

International weapons hunters went straight to the heart of Saddam Hussein's regime on Tuesday, searching the rooms of' an opulent presi­dential palace in a show of U.N. power, just when Washington was openly questioning their ability to do the job. 
A senior Iraqi orticial, mean­while, said Baghdad will rcaf­!irrn in a crucial upcoming U.N. declaration that it has no weapons of mass destruction dcspitr U.S. and British claims to the contrary. 
Melissa Fleming of the U.N. nuclear control agency in Vienna, Austria, said the Iraqis were expected to submit their report to the U.N. office in Baghdad on Saturday -one day before the deadline man­dated by the Security Council. 
The unannounced visit to the Al-Sajoud palace was the biggest test yet of the arms monitors' authority under a new U.N. resolution, which led to resumption of inspections here last week after a four­year break. 
Seven minutes after the inspectors rolled up to the palace entrance, the towering front gates swung open. allow­ing them access to the palm-
Associated Press 
ANKARA 

Turkey's foreign minister said Tuesday that his country would allow the United States to use military bases in the country for a strike against Iraq, but his ministry later said that his com­ments were not a firm commitment by Turkey. 
Foreign Minister Yasar Yakis' state­ment ca.me as U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz was in the country lobbying for Turkey's support of an operation against its neighbor, Iraq. 
lined compound. Inside, they found a sprawl of ostentation and luxury, but there was no word they found anything else. 
"Our inspectors were able to inspect every corner of the presidential palace," said their spokesman, Hiro Ueki. The chief' Iraqi liaison, Gen. Hossam Mohammed Amin, said the Iraqis were cooperative and "the inspectors were happy." 
Video from inside the palace, obtained by Associated Press Television News, showed inspectors, clipboards in hand, quickly moving through dark­ened rooms with flashlights, stopping occasionally to peruse, for example, a utility room or a refrigerator. "Marmalade," one announced after looking over ajar. 
The visit by 17 U.N. inspec­tors lasted just 1 1/2 hours, hardly enough for an exhaus­tive search of scores of rooms and the vast grounds. 
But it bore a symbolic mes­sage: that this time, unlike in the 1990s, the U.N. teams have a free run of Iraq, under a Security Council mandate requiring Baghdad to shut down any chemical, biological or nuclear weapons programs. 
President Bush alleges the Iraqis have retained some chemical and biological weapons -missed during pre-


WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.N. approves 6 resolutions on Israel: 
Over U.S. and Israeli objections, the U.N. General Assembly overwhelmingly approved six resolutions Tuesday criticizing Israeli policies and calling for new efforts tu bring peace to the Middle East. In an annual ritual. the 191-member world body ended a three-day Mideast debate with lopsided votes demanding a speedy resumption of the peace process, a final settlement between the Israelis and Palestinians, and an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights. 
Venezuela nat'I guard disperses protest: 
The national guard broke up an opposition protest with tear gas and rubber bullets and chased away dissident Venezuelan generals Tuesday during an escalating strike to oust President Hugo Chavez. In his first public comment since the strike began Monday, Chavez called the action "a desperate effort" to oust him by an oppo­sition bent on "destabilization and violence." 
vious inspections -and will "cooperate willingly and haven't abandoned their comply completely" in the nuclear weapons program. In a inspection process. speech Monday, Bush contend­The inspectors, however, ed that so far "the signs are not report the Iraqis have fully encouraging" that the Iraqis cooperated thus far. In New York, U .N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan underlined that point. "There is a good indica­tion that the Iraqis are cooper­ating, but this is only the begin­ning," he said Tuesday. 
TURKEY 

Turkey-won't commit to allowing U.S. military access 
Yakis' comments were the firmest yet by Turkey on whether it would allow the use of its bases. But several hours after he spoke, the Foreign Ministry issued a clarification that he was speak­ing of "possibilities," not promises. 
The apparent backtracking reflects the sensitivity of the Iraq issue here: The Turkish public is widely opposed to military action against Baghdad, but leaders feel they have little choice but to support a war if their close ally the United States pushes ahead with one. 
"The fact that he has referred to these possibilities does not mean a com­mitment on the part of Turkey, because these possibilities have not been the subject of discussion with any country," the ministry said in a statement. 
Turkish officials have previously refused to publicly commit as to whether they would allow the United States to use bases in a strike against Iraq. 
Yakis said Turkey would allow the bases' use -but only if the United Nations approved military action. 
"There should not be left any stone unturned before resorting to a military solution," Yakis told reporters. "But if it comes to that, then of course, we will cooperate with the United States 
because it's a big ally and we have excellent relations with the United States." 
When asked by a reporter to define cooperation, Yakis said, "the opening of air space, first of all, and the utilization of facilities in Turkey." 
"The military authorities of the two countries are consulting on the assump­tion that such a cooperation may be necessary one day," Yakis added. 
Yakis' original comments were widely broadcast on Turkish media. The Foreign Ministry later issued its state­ment "in order to bring clarity to this news." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Priests accused of drug, sexual abuse: 
Priests sexually abused teenage girls, used cocaine and other drugs, and one had an affair with a female parishioner, according to allega­tions contained in personnel files maintained by the Boston Archdiocese. The 3,000 pages of files on eight priests were released Tuesday by lawyers representing people who claim they were sexually abused by clergy. The attorneys are seeking to show that Cardinal Bernard Law routinely trans­ferred priests to other parishes even after accusa­tions of child abuse or other wrongdoing. 
Post office said to put billions at risk: 
U.S. Postal Service deposits totaling $65 billion a year are vulnerable to theft, robbery and mishan­dling because of inadequate security and failure to follow procedures, according to a report to Congress Tuesday. About $6.3 million was at least temporarily lost in the 2001 fiscal year. 
U.S. targets American al-Qaida agents: 
American citizens working for al-Qaida overseas can legally be targeted and killed by the CIA under President Bush's rules for the war on terrorism, 
U.S. officials say. The authority to kill U.S. citizens is granted under a secret finding signed by the presi­dent after the Sept. 11 attacks that directs the CIA to covertly attack al-Qaida anywhere in the world. The authority makes no exception for Americans, so permission to strike them is understood rather than specifically described, officials said. 
L.A. chief to seek Fed help with gangs: 
Police Chief William Bratton said Tuesday he will ask federal prosecutors for help in combating the city's street gangs, which he likened to the Mafia. Bratton, who took over the Los Angeles Police Department a month ago, said he plans to ask U.S. Attorney Debra Yang to use racketeering and tax evasion laws against gang members. 


Retired general shares experiences 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's New• Editor 
Retired Major General Tiiu Kera, who gave a lecture Tuesday at Saint Mary's, said she always looks forward to sharing her experiences as a high-rank­ing woman in the United States Air Force, particularly about the time she spent in Lithuania. 
Kera served as the first U.S. Defense Attache resident in the Baltics from 1993 to 1995 in Lithuania, which she described as her most memorable assign­ment. 
Throughout 
the 20th centu­"ft is good to do this so ums, filled ry, Lithuanians with statues
we can make sure this 
grappled with the Soviets
never happens again. " 
trying to regain erected control of their throughout country. Tiiu Kera the country Occupied by the to regain the
retired U.S. Air Force general
Soviets for most of the century, there was a short period of time when the country was over­run by Nazi Germany. It was not until March 11, 1990 that the Republic of Lithuania was estab­lished and in Sep. 1991 it was admitted to the United Nations. 
"Part of what Lithuania was trying to do at the time was to regain their history after Soviet control," Kera said. "It wasn't until after they regained their independence they could give their soldiers proper burials." 
Kera described Lithuanians as downtrodden people who were afraid to gain attention because "it was deadly to attract atten­tion." 
The Soviets tried to assimilate the Lithuanian people by build­ing Russian Orthodox churches in city squares and emphasizing their rule over the people. This failed, she said, because Lithuanians mainly practice Catholicism. Many of the aban­doned Russian churches are now Catholic churches. 
"Soviets would come and knock down crosses and the next day they would be back up, so they [Soviets] finally gave up," Kera said. "These people [Lithuanians] did what they could." 
Lithuanians were persecuted for many years, many of which were sent to prison camps in Serbia and Lithuania. Kera said that many of the Soviet's former prison camps are now used as military bases because they used the prisoners to build the bases. 
Some of the prison camps have 
been turned 
into muse­
history of the 
Lithuanian 
people and 
soldiers. 
"It is good to do this so we can make sure this never happens again," Kera said. 
As the first U.S. defense attache to Lithuania, the general represented U.S. defense leader­ship to the Lithuanian ministry of defense and armed forces, served as the defense adviser to the U.S. ambassador and man­aged U.S. security assistance programs. The general was born in Germany and was commis­sioned in 1973 as a distinguished graduate of Officer Training School. 
Kera retired in February 2002 but currently serves as an adjunct senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@~ntmarys.edu 

fRIDJJ, DECEMBER G 8:30PM ND EXPtiEss 
u..o11m wa Of 4.fmmra.i 
-R~U> L!Mlnl> 1'0 f~ " ~ -Tl~ ,A&;f Bl f 6W 9f 61Rt. -Of'flt PP~C.Tla Bu.IMS 8PM -NO ENTRY ffE 
St6H f}p HO¥/ A1 HD EftESS! 
~oav Stot>EHr k.fMII~ 
Give your car aChristmas present 
Store your automobile indoors during vacation. Avoid theft, vandalism, and weather damage. 
To reserve call Abe,"The Dorm Storage Man" 
574-239-1310 or email storage@sbwd.com. Free ride from storage facility to campus or airport! 

Wednesday, December 4, 2002
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Study shows contraceptive may be a risk for some women 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Women with certain gene mutations have more than a 60 percent lifetime risk of developing breast cancer. Now a new study suggests the risk is even greater for these women if they used oral con­traceptives at an early age or before 1975. 
The study, in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, found that among women with the BRCA1 gene muta­tion, taking the pill years ago increased the chances of developing breast cancer by 33 to 42 percent when com­pared to mutation carriers who did not take it. 
Dr. Steven A. Narod, chair­man of breast cancer research at the Centre for Research on Women's Health at the University of Toronto, said the study does not mean that modern birth control pills are dangerous for women with the breast can­cer gene, but it does add a note of caution about how they should use the pill. 
"In this data, the only women who had an increased risk started taking the pill before 1975. Also, they had to take it when they were young, under the age of 25," said Narod. He said the increased risk for the gene mutation carriers is "mostly women who took the pill when they were young a long time ago." 
Modern birth control pills have only a fraction of the hormones that were present 
.. ·. ;, ~11 ,em·· . .·. ·. llSBI·· B:A·· _.,· ..,g,,.. -:
-;S 

> > •• :::::~· ••• • ::: 
>
\t ;';;, .. J:;~,. : .· ':; r,,/ ::'.'>;;:;;:: 
.,,.,,__ ., .... ._ ...... 11,..1?,.ae. llna,s1lle111 _... 

·.ww
, ·'•• 1;:11~111111:11,:~:/:~111:1~1~~::1 :::::::;,:;];i!!l ::1!!!;):!:!ii;;;ii 1: !11:~111:i::I;;;;i;:;m::i:::::::llrn::@::' 
Come to an informational meeting Thursday December 5th at 7pm in the Montgomery Theater. Information will be given out regarding elections, and we will be able to answer your Questions. 
Ifyou are unable to attend, but are interested in running, please email Judicial Council President Danielle Ledesma at dledesma@nd.edu. 
in birth control pills routinely used before 1975, he said. 
Narod said the study also showed the risk increased if women started the pills before the age of 25 or if they took the oral contraceptives for longer than five years. 
The study is based on an analysis of the health histo­ries of more than 2,600 women in 11 countries. all of whom have mutations of the BRCAl or BRCA2 genes. Half of the women studied had taken birth control pills and half did not. The study com­pared the breast cancer histo­ries of the two groups and found there was an increased risk for the pill takers. 
Earlier studies have shown that mutations of the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes increase the lifetime risk of breast cancer by about 60 percent, and even higher in some cases. The mutations are relatively rare, occurring in one of 250 women in the general popula­tion, and account for less than 10 percent of all breast cancer cases. 
Narod said the new study shows that early birth con ­trol pill use increases the lifetime breast cancer risk up to about 85 percent for women with the BRCA 1 mutation when compared to women without the muta­tion. Oral contraceptive use was not found to increase the risk among BRCA2 muta­tion carriers, however, said Narod. Why there is a differ­ence in risk between the two mutations, he said, is not known. 
:.:,:.:.:~::.=:..•:::,:,-,;,:.w.=.=,•x.:.,,,,::·:,::•.:.=.w..-x 
'" 


Debbie Saslow, director of breast and gynecological can­cer control for the American Cancer Society, said the study suggests that women with the BRCA mutations should approach oral contraceptive use with caution, but that the research need to be verified by other studies before the findings can be generally applied. 
"We don't make broad poli­cy decisions based on just one paper," she said. 
Saslow said decisions about oral contraceptive use among mutation carriers is complex because the pill is protective, to some degree, against ovar­ian cancer, a much more dif­ficult to detect type of deadly cancer. 
"I think women who have this BRCA1 mutations need to talk to their doctors because there is a trade-off," she said. 
Narod said researchers are gathering data to determine if mutation carriers were placed at even greater risk of breast cancer after menopause if they took hor­mone replacement therapy. 
Call 259-iooo for more details 
.··•:~. ::::::••jf='.•'.•)::::::•~=·=•:\:;::;:;::::;::::::::::::~::::::::::::::;;;::::::: 
::;jfj:j:j:j:j~:j:\)[/:itfi::;}\:)\f{\}\(:: 



Wednesday, December 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch December 3 
DowJones 
8,742.93 -119.64 

N4SDAQ
• 
1,448.96 -35.82
•


S&P500 
920.75 -13.78
•
Al'dEX 



812.64 -0.36 
NYSE 
488.44 -6.15 
TOPS VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -2.96-0.83 27.17 


~·yc·E uf':!!!i,s:j;i!il;~ii:!!l!l:llllillli!Blill;~ll1!11lili!!II 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)-3.59-0.5414.52 
1




su~•····Hla}~l~Ill)[(llliilll1!lll1!1111:f'm= :l!liljll1 
NORTEL NETWORKS (NT)_2.61-0.06 2.24 
IN BRIEF 
5 Wall Street firms fined over e-mail 
Securities regulators said Tuesday they fined five Wall Street firms a total of $8.25 million for not keeping e-mails related to ol1icc matters for the required period of time. 
The live -Goldman Sachs, Salomon Smith Barney, Morgan Stanley. Deutsche Bank Securities and U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray ­agreed to pay $1.65 million each and to review their record-keeping procedures, reg­ulators said. None admitted or denied the allegations. 
The fines will go to the U.S. Treasury, New York Stock Exchange and the National Association of Securities Dealers. 

Mercantile Exchange to go public 
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange plans to go public this week, becoming the first U.S. financial market to sell stock in itself. 
The CME is expected to launch its initial public offering of stock after the close of trad­ing Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange, with the shares making their trad­ing debut Friday. 
The exchange hopes to raise $147 million to $162 million through the sale of 4.751 million shares. priced at between $31 to $34, sources familiar with the offering said Tuesday. The offoring is being led by Morgan Stanley and UBS Warburg. 
United to lay off 352 more pilots 
United Airlines announced plans Tuesday to lay off another 352 pilots over the next two months as part of its plan to decrease its fly­ing schedule next year. 
The company said it will cut 220 pilots' jobs on Jan. 6 and another 132 on Feb. 7, reduc­ing its current iotal of 8,600 pilots by an addi­tional 4 percent. 
The actions will increase the number of pilots laid olT to 1,196 from cost-saving mea­sures the carrier announced last month, and 9,000 employees in all. United currently has about 83,000 employees. 








AOL offers exclusive content 
. New music, info, video, shopping plans 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
America Online laid out a two-pronged blueprint for recovery to a skeptical Wall Street on Tuesday, promising a one-of-a-kind package of music, infor• mation, video and shop­ping services along with an expansion of high-speed Internet access. 
The plan was unveiled at the AOL Time Warner divi­sion's first major meeting with analysts following months of problems rang­ing from accounting scan­dals to declining profitabil­ity. But a new, disappoint­ing financial outlook ­including a 40 percent to 50 percent drop in adver­tising and commerce rev­enues next year -over­shadowed the news, and sent the company's stock down sharply. 
Although some drop-off had been expected as lucrative, one-time busi­ness contracts expired, the decline was steeper than many had thought. The company's shares closed down $2.36, or 14.2 per­cent, at $14.21 on the New York Stock Exchange, and off longer term. better job of publicizing its Internet users. rather than its value is less than half "AOL has suffered from $14.95 monthly program being restricted to what it was when AOL and the perception of being that allows broadband America Online sub­Time Warner merged in long on ambition but short customers who aren't scribers. 2001. on accountability and using an AOL connection Although analysts were 
Still, America Online sometimes follow­access to its other services. skeptical that America tried to reassure investors through," he said. "That That offering, he said, Online's broadband efforts about its prospects. ends now." combined with deals would succeed, they were 
The division's chief exec­He said the company had announced Tuesday to pleased with the overall utive, Jon Miller, in his fallen behind in attracting provide exclusive content tone and direction of the first presentation to Wall high-speed Internet from AOL Time Warner's meeting. Street since joining the access, or broadband, cus­other publishing, maga­In particular, they liked company four months ago, tomers. The bulk of zine and programming the fact that most of acknowledged the compa­America Online's members divisions, should help con­America Online's leader­ny had made numerous access the Internet via vince consumers that ship team was either from mistakes. But he said he dial-up connections, but America Online is worth Time Warner, or hired by believed the worst would the growth prospects for paying for. The deals, Time Warner. Miller was be over by the end of that market is slowing as which were widely report­hired by AOL Time Warner 2003. Internet users switch to ed last week, include pro­chief executive Richard 
He said America Online much speedier options. gramming from CNN, Parsons who was part of would make top-quality America Online offers music from Warner Music Time Warner before the service and content a No. 1 broadband, but its product Group and articles from merger. The Time Warner priority again, and would is pricier than others, and publications such as divisions have generally look to build the kinds of Wall Street has been skep­People and Entertainment performed well in recent relationships with adver­tical it can be competitive. Weekly magazines. quarters, and their man­tisers and the business Miller said Tuesday that Currently. much of that agement is well respected community that would pay the company would do a content is available to all on Wall Street. 

Sun, Microsoft in court over Java 
because Microsoft continues to ship Microsoft attorney David Tulchin 
Associated Press 

Windows without the latest version accused Sun of trying to "engineer 
BALTIMORE of Java, software that runs small the marketplace" by seeking an 
Sun Microsystems tried to per­applications and designed to be com­injunction that would force Microsoft suade a federal judge on Tuesday patible with all manner of operating to distribute Java as part of Windows that Microsoft Corp. should be com­system, said Sun attorney Lloyd R. XP and the Internet Explorer brows­pelled to include its platform-inde­"Rusty" Day. er. 
pendent Java programming language U.S. District Judge J. Frederick "Sun Microsystems can get distrib­in all shipments of the Windows Motz, who is hearing the civil suit. ution on PCs by spending a little bit operating system. said the injunction sought by Sun of money. Instead, they want the 
The Santa Clara, Calil'.-based com­could be an "attractive remedy." court to enter an injunction of the pany says antitrust violations by "It's so much nicer than trying to sort that has never been entered Microsoft, which it accuses of inten­have economists come back after the before," Tulchin said. tionally creating incompatibilities fact and try to figure out what would Motz interrupted attorneys for both with competitors' products, forced have been," Motz said, indicating he sides to ask questions, including other companies to distribute or use might be seriously considering tough what would be the effect of the products incompatible with Java. action against the world's leading injunction as computing moves off 
"The harm is happening now," software house. desktop PCs to wireless devices. 
Wednesday, December 4, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS 



Online sales see post-Thanksgiving surge 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Online holiday sales, which started picking up in mid­November, kicked into high gear over the Thanksgiving weekend. blazing past year-ago figures. 
Consumers spent $453.4 mil­lion online over the three-day weekend, excluding travel. fol­lowing Thanksgiving. That's a 67 percent gain over the three days following Thanksgiving a year ago, according to a report Tuesday by comScore Networks Inc.. which captures buying activity from a cross section of 
1.5 million Internet users. 
E-commerce sales continued to gather momentum Monday, when sales totaled $231.5 mil­lion, up 37 percent from the Monday after Thanksgiving a year ago, comScore reported. 
While the day after Thanksgiving is traditionally seen as the start of the holiday shopping season for brick-and­mortar merchants, the follow­ing Monday is now being recog­nized by some as the kickoff point for e-tailers; comScore has dubbed it "Black Monday," refering to the expectation sales wiH push retailers out of the red and into the black. 
Monday marks the return to work, where many shoppers prefer to do their online shop­ping. 
"The majority of Americans still depend on the work PC for the convenience of high-speed connection," said Dan Hess, a spokesman for comScore. 
Because of the compressed holiday shopping season this year -the holiday season is six days fewer than a year ago ­shoppers began early. 
Online shopping was brisk 

FINLAND 
Nokia forecasts cell phone growth in 2003 
Associated Press 
ESPOO 

Nokia Corp. said Tuesday it expects growth in cellular phone sales to pick up in 2003, sending another signal that the consumer side of the wireless­equipment market may be sta­bilizing. 
Even so, Nokia shares and other wireless stocks fell in afternoon trading on Wall Street. 
The world's largest maker of mobile phones expects indus­try-wide shipments to grow " percent or slightly more" in 2003 from the 400 million expected this year. If so, it would be the first year of dou­ble-digit growth since 2000, when handset sales reached 405 million. 
Some Nokia executives, including CEO Jonna Ollila, had said growth of up to 15 percent was possible. At a meeting with analysts Tuesday in Dallas, Ollila denied backing away from more robust predictions, saying earlier predictions of 10 percent to 15 percent were for an average through 2005. 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
"As we look at the uncertain global economy. with the possi­bility of war in Iraq ... it is only prudent to see 10 percent or slightly more as the base ­particularly when the year has­n't even begun," he said. "Personally, I feel better about 2003 than I did in August." 
Industry sales have stagnated since 2000. when consumers started waiting longer before upgrading their handsets. But Nokia said it expects the replacement cycle to stabilize next year. 
Nokia's new forecast. unveiled during the year-end strategy session with analysts in Dallas, follows positive remarks from smaller competitors such as Sony Ericsson, and a stronger-than-expected third quarter for the industry, when sales topped 100 million for only the second time ever, according to research firm Gartner Dataquest Inc. 

from Nov. 1 to Dec. 1, with sales increasing 36 percent, from $4.3 billion in 2001 to $5.9 billion in 2002, according to BizRate.com, a shopping comparison site that also tracks consumer spending across 2,000 Web sites. 
BizRate.com reported that sales for the three days follow­ing Thanksgiving were $679.3 million. up 55 percent com­pared with a year ago. 
Despite the fast start, e-taH­ers, like brick-and-mortar stores. could see sales limited by the sluggish economic envi­ronment. 
"Consumers arc definitely reaching in their wallets to shop online. However, it is unclear whether they will be reaching deeper this year than last year," said Chris Merritt, principal at Kurt Salmon Associates, a retail consulting firm. 
In fact, the compressed sea­son could squeeze e-tailers, as it gives them less time to keep up with stocking hot items. 
More online sites are using free shipping as a way to rope in customers. This past Thanksgiving weekend, 140 online companies offered free shipping deals, up 20 percent a year ago, according to BizRate.com. 
More sites also have promised their customers they can fulfill orders as late as Dec. 22 or Dec. 23 in time for Christmas Day, a day or two later than a year ago, a bit of a risk, Merritt said. 
"They could shine or they could disappoint their cus­tomers," he said. 
ComScore expects online sales to peak around Dec. 12 or Dec. 13, and drop off on Dec. 19 or Dec. 20, in line with what happened a year ago. 

Many e-tailers said they've prepared themselves for this year's challenges. 
Ken Seiff, president and CEO of Bluefly.com, which sells dis­counted designer apparel and accessories, said that the com­pany added more computers this season to be able to handle about twice as much traffic. 
Bluefly .com also refined its search engine and added a size finder to filter out clothes that are not available in the cus­tomer's desired sizes. The c­tailer started seeing an uptick in sales on Nov. 13, a few days earlier than a year ago, and experienced more than a 40 percent growth on the three­day weekend following Thanksgiving. The company had more than a 35 percent increase in business on Monday, compared with the year-ago period, ScifT said. 
FRANCE 
Vivendi to take control of Cegetel 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

Debt-burdened Vivendi Universal said Tuesday it will buy a majority stake in Cegetel. thwarting a bid by Britain's Vodafone PLC for control of France's second largest telecommunications company. 
Vivendi's ability to pay for more Cegetel shares signals a remarkable turnaround in Vivendi's fortunes since last month. when Vodafone put its bid on the table. 
Vivendi said it planned to buy out fellow shareholder BT Group PLC's 26 percent stake for 4 billion euros ($4 billion) -giving it 70 percent of Cegetel, a controlling stake. Vivendi already owns 44 per­cent of Cegetel. 
Over the past two months Vivendi has sold its U.S. pub­lishing operations, secured fresh lines of bank credit and raised sufficient cash to enable it to maintain its strong pres­ence in the media industry. 
Vivendi has for weeks been feuding with Vodafone for con­trol of Cegetel, which is covet­ed for its cash generating mobile-phone unit SFR. 
At a news conference, chair­man Jean-Rene Fourtou acknowledged that "the deci­sion might seem to be para­doxical for a company which, this summer ... came close to financial collapse." 
The purchase comes at a time when Vivendi has embarked on a major sale of assets to trim its debt of 18.5 billion euros ($18.4 billion). 
"A majority in Cegetel and SFR is a sure way to create value for our shareholders in the coming years," Fourtou said. "Financially, we are in a position to do it without com­promising our program" of selling assets, he added. 
Fourtou said the buyout would not affect plans to 

reduce Vivendi's debt to 8 bil­lion euros ($7.96 billion) and sell off 16 billion euros ($15.9 billion) worth of assets by the end of 2004. 
"We remain extremely indebted," he conceded. 
The Vivendi chairman reiter­ated that his focus remains the entertainment business, but that all options remain open, including the possibility of floating some of Vivendi's U.S. entertainment divisions sepa­rately. The units include Universal Studios and Universal Music Group. He did not provide details. 
"If other solutions arise that will create value for sharehold­ers present themselves, we will study them," Fourtou said. 
He also said the group would "re-examine" an offer by U.S. billionaire oilman Marvin Davis for all of Vivendi Universal Entertainment, but did not elaborate. Vivendi ini­tially said the assets were not for sale. 

It's "Last Call 1' for the Alumni Senlor Club, so join in the fun tonight and come say goodbye to an old friend. *Normal Wednesday night specials Going ouf..-but going out t'n style like only ND can. 
Thursday nite comedy night. 

Wednesday, December 4, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Jackson testifies in court case 
Associat~d Pres, 
SANTA MARIA, Calif. 

Michael Jackson, hobbling into court without a shoe because of a spider bite that made his foot swell, testified Tuesday in a $21 million breach-of-contract case that he could not recall details about his canceled millenni­um concerts. 
"That's administrative work. That's not what I do. I'm the entertainer," the 44­year-old pop star said. 
Later. Jackson was asked if he suffered from memory problems. 
"Not that I can recall," Jackson responded. 
Promoter Marcel Avram is suing Jackson for backing out of performances in Sydney, Australia, and Honolulu on Dec. 31, 1999. 
The singer maintains that it was Avram who canceled over concerns the shows would not be profitable. 
Before beginning his testi­mony Tuesday, Jackson sat down in the witness chair and hooted and squeaked, "Eeeow!'' several times into the microphone and made comical faces at courtroom observers. 
His arrival earlier in a van led to shrieks of delight from fans outside the Santa Barbara County courthouse. 
He emerged wearing only one shoe and immediately protested a television cam­eraman's full shot of him. 
Jackson demanded assur­ances that his feet. one of them clad in a sock, did not show. He put his hand over the camera lens. 
"You're too close," Jackson said. The cameraman assured him it was OK, and Jackson responded, "Promise? Promise" 
He later explained he had a spider bite on his foot and it was swollen. 
"I love tarantulas, but not the little kind" of spiders, the 

shoeless Jackson said. 
Jackson arrived wearing a matching white satin vest and tie. Inside, he put on a black tuxedo coat but not the surgi­cal mask he usually wears. 
llis return to the witness stand followed a two-week absence from the trial, during which he visited Germany and stunned observers by dangling his infant son from a fourth-floor hotel balcony to a crowd below. 
As reporters outside the courthouse shouted questions about the incident, an annoyed-looking Jackson said: "It's my child. I love my children." 
As he left court for the day, he greeted fans in the park­ing lot through the window of his van. 
During breaks in testimony, he would leave the courtroom to sign autographs and talk with fans. 
Jackson was expected to return to the witness stand Wednesday. 
Eminem's former home for sale 
Associated Press 
STEHLING HEIGHTS, Mich. 

Will a serious bidder for Eminem 's former home please stand up? 
The 5,000-square-foot colo­nial with a swimming pool and Jacuzzi went on the Internet auction site eBay last month and drew an initial bid of $600,000. 
Someone bid $99.9 million but backed out or the deal, and tho next-highest bidder probably will pull out, too, The Detroit News reported Tuesday. 
The first suitor told current owner Darren Martens that the bidding got out of hand. "He said he talked to his bank and they wouldn't let him borrow that much," Martens said. 
Eminem lived in the house from 1998-2000, but sold it for $475,000 when kids start­ed stealing his mailbox and leaving M&M candy wrappers on his lawn. 

Martens said he never took the $99.9 million bid serious­ly. He said he's also writing off the next-highest bid of $20 million. "We think we have some real bona fide offers at $2 million," Martens said. 
Martens said he put the house up for auction "more or less for a joke" after he heard about another Eminem home in Warren that went up for bid on eBay. That house has drawn bids as high as $11 million. 

Get a fu/11% cash back on purchases with a Visa® Platinum Card from Notre Dame Federal Credit Union~ 
For information, or to apply for your Visa'· Platinum Card, call, stop in, or visit our web site. 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • 800/567-6328 www.ndfcu.org 

•Your annual cash bonus of a full 1% is paid out annually 1n January, and is based on your annual purchases. Cash bonus information will appear on each monthly statement. Not applicable to cash advances and balance transfers. Not applicable to account if delinquent or over limit. Credit limits start at $5,000. Full disclosure available by calling 800/522-6611. Independent of the University. 
Prosecutor says Ryder needs counseling aid 
Associated Press 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. 
Winona Ryder should do com­munity service, get drug counsel­ing and pay $26,000 in fines and restitution for stealing from a Saks Fifth Avenue, a prosecutor recommended in a legal memo filed in advance of the actress' sentencing. 
In the memorandum. Deputy District Attorney Ann Rundle also revealed that Ryder pos­sessed eight different painkilling prescription drugs when she was arrested at the Beverly Hills department store last year. 
The presence of drugs was raised in support of the prosecu­tor's recommendation that Hyder receive drug and psychiatric counseling. 
The Oscar-nominated actress was convicted Nov. 6 of grand theft and vandalism for shoplift­ing more than $5,500 worth of merchandise from Saks. Ryder, star of "Little Women" and "Girl. Interrupted," is scheduled to be sentenced Friday. 
Rundle said at the time of the conviction that she would not seek a prison sentence. 

According to Rundle's memo. filed Monday and released Tuesday by the district attorney's office, police were able to con­firm that Ryder had prescrip­tions for seven of the drugs. A drug charge against Hyder was dismissed when a doctor subse­quently confirmed that he pre­scribed the eighth drug, Endocet. 
Other narcotics in her posses­sion, according to the memo. were liquid Demerol. liquid Diazopam. Vicoprofcn, Vicoden, Percodan, Valium and morphine sulfate. 
Ryder's attorney, Mark Geragos, said Tuesday that he had not seen the memo had no immediate comment. 
Ryder faced up to three years in prison. The prosecutor sug­gested three years' probation instead, with tho day of her booking being counted as one day in custody so that in the future the Saks theft would count as a prior conviction. 
Rundle also recommended 480 hours of community service, and urged that Ryder be ordered to pay Saks restitution of $6,335.40 for stolen merchandise. She also recommended fines totaling $20,000. 
Houston acknowledges history of drug abuse 
"All?" Sawyer asks.
Associated Press 

"At times," Houston says. "Uh-hm." NEW YORK The 39-year-old concedes Whitney Houston admits she's "addicted to a few she's abused drugs in the things." 
past, but says she's gotten beyond that time through prayer. 
The Grammy-winning singer also discusses the pressures of stardom and her decade-long marriage to Bobby Brown in an interview with Diane Sawyer on "Primetime," scheduled to air at 9 p.m. EST Wednesday on ABC. 
When Sawyer asks her, "Is it alcohol? Is it marijuana? Is it cocaine? Is it pills?" Houston responds, "It has been at times." 

Brown also appears in the interview, and says he's fre­quently used marijuana because he's been diagnosed as bipolar. The 33-year-old was arrested last month in Atlanta on drug and traffic charges. 
"Me and drugs. We're not friends. We're not friends at all," Brown says. 
Houston says she's done partying now, and has found strength through daily prayer. Her new album, "Just Whitney," comes out Dec. 10. 


THE 
OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, December 4, 2002 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kt!Vin Ryan  
AsIT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Wood.  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Matt Llltz 
An DESIGN MANAGER: M~ghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROLUR, Lori Lewabki 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .. ,.......631-7471 
FAX...................... , ......,, ..............................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME.................... 631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-4324 observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTIMsiWEB ADMINISTRATORS ............... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobseroer.nd.«lu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies oftbe administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofal! opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Edi tor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpo/icier should be direct­ed to F.ditor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 240) l5 puhli,hed Monday through Friday cxcc-pr durini cum and vacation periods. A 111bi.cription ro The OhKl'VC'I' is S100 for 011c academic ytv: S,5 for one kmolc:r. 
The ObK',va i1 p11l:iH1hcd u: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Said. wdta, co1nxtiur11 rn: Nottt Dlffll'. IN 465)6 lbc Oh.server 
P.O. llo~Q Pcrio,fo.:.J. l'°'!;tgc ~J a\ Nom: Dame Natrc Dunc, IN 46556-0779 ~d adJitiomJ m~iling offig:.< 
~ Otucrvcr ti & mcmbff of the ~i2tal Pim. All rrproductKJl'T rights :ue ,_,,..i. 
Heroes are closer than they seem 
The sun is creeping up over the horizon and the morning mist is starting to burn off as I walk down the beach of some unknown small Atlantic Coastal village. The wide beach is accen­tuated by dead tree trunks, and Adam Cahill I find a relative­ly large one to rest my legs A Domer's and watch the Perspective sunrise. Watching the sunrise, I can't help but let my mind wander all over the place. All traces of the storm that passed through last night have vanished and every­thing seems right. 
The bright colors highlight the sky with different shades of red, yellow and pink, almost as if to signify the start of something new. The morn­ing mist has burned off now, and the sky is so blue it hurts my eyes to look at it. I quickly conclude that the greatest thing about watching a sun­rise is witnessing the daily rebirth of the world. I decide it's going to be a good day. 
Morning is nature's daily restora­tion -all that has come before it is gone now, leaving an opportunity for something better. Within a cou­ple of minutes, my mind wanders from the marvels of earth to my own beginnings as a person and my dreams, successes and failures. I realize that besides a car accident during the summer before freshman year at Notre Dame, I have lived a charmed life. I know that. There isn't much that I've wanted and not gotten. Still, I find regret present and would like to change things past but not forgotten. 
We can't erase that which has come before us. It's impossible. But still we dwell on it as if we can change it. In reality, we can only choose to dwell on the past some more or move on. The colors still bright in the sky, I understand we can't reinvent ourselves overnight and begin anew like Mother Nature seemingly does each day. It just isn't possible. Or is it? 
Are there people in this world who can take the negative things that life has given to them and begin anew? Not only accept themselves as indi­viduals but make a difference as well? Certainly not. Only a hero could do such a thing. Impossible. But wait, there is. I form a smile and a face that's always smiling and cheerful pops into my head. 
Adam Sargent is a hero. 
I'm sure if you ask him, he would be the last to acknowledge himself as a hero, but he is. Adam, once a varsity lacrosse player at Notre Dame and now an academic advisor for student-athletes, has probably seen more tears in his office than he would like to admit. But if those tears hadn't turned into smiles by the time the student left his office, it would be the first I've heard of it. 
You see, Adam has a way about him that makes you smile. Whatever your problems in life are, he helps you see the better side of it within minutes and has you laughing about it by the time you've left his office. 
He makes a difference in so many lives. Yes, I repeat to myself as a wave crashes onto the beach, he is a hero. 
But he isn't the type of hero that most people would expect to see in some obscure media guide. He is a testament to an idea of heroism that until Sept. 11, 2001 had become mute in a world full of sports, music and movie superstardom. 

Heroism shouldn't and can't be won on some athletic field like the World Series or Sears Trophy can. It is not a popularity contest or a prize for doing something well. It's so much more than that. A hero is the person inside. A hero 'caii'shbw 
r.,-­

someone the sunrise in the darkest moments of his or her life or offer a new beginning to an otherwise hopeless and dark situation. 
You may ask how he is able to do it. How can Adam see the sunrise in everything? But, there's something about Adam that you don't know ­he had to see the sunrise for himself before he could tell others to open up their eyes. A car accident landed Adam in a wheelchair, unable to walk. 
He understands that the hardest part to living every day is convincing yourself that it will be a good one. His perspective on life, despite his handicap, is second to none and his love of life is intoxicating to those around him. He lifts up those around him with a laugh and a smile. 
And maybe Adam will never admit that he is, in fact, a hero. But maybe a hero is the last person to know about it. In his case, there is no doubt in my mind. 
Adam Cahill is a junior double major in history and American stud­ies. This article is one of two arti­cles that address unheralded per­sons. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at acahill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed by this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports 
Meghanne Bryan Kronk Downes Chris Federico 

Should University employees be allowed to 
"Genius is one percent inspiration and 99
Laura Coristin Mark Zavodnyik 
unionize? John Fanning Scene 
percent perspiration." 
Viewpoint Sarah Vabulas 

Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Teresa Fralish Lab Tech 
Thomas Edison 
Graphics Nellie Williams 

American Inventor 
Mike Harkins Illustrator Patrick Quill 

O
THE 
VIEWPROINT 
Correcting the definition of racism 
Wednesday, December 4, 2002 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Make cigarettes more available on campus 
The policies of this University are biased, period. We feel it is necessary to inform the student body of the administration's wanton neglect of tobacco users' convenience on this campus. Why is it that we can walk into the Huddle Mart at LaFortune and 
age of arteriosclerosis­Winston Churchill, Fidel inducing treats. which Castro and Groucho will eventually lead to Marx required a nico­untimely death? tine fix in order to 
!low many times achieve the zeniths have tobacco users of their creative in the midst of prowess. their studies been Therefore, it is reduced to cold imperative that sweats and the Huddle no tremors due to a longer ignores the lack of available plight of this mar­nicotine on this ginalized nine per­campus, while cent. We dream of alcohol and caffeine the day when we aficionados experi­can stroll through encing similar palpita­LaFortune and behold tions need only to amble rack upon rack of unfil­to Senior Bar or Starbucks tered Lucky Strikes and to satiate their urge? Why tins of Copenhagen. 
smoke. This may be true, however it would appear that this anti-nicotine "Hig Brother" wishes us to discount the remaining nine percent. George Orwell. a prominent writer and habitual smok­er, would be appalled. 
Many great leaders and intellectuals 
does this administration support the propagation of caffeine and alcohol, while nicotine falls by the wayside? 
Walking around campus, we cannot ignore the ubiquitous anti-nicotine pro­paganda plastered upon countless walls. The thought control machine states that 91 percent of Domers do not 
Racism does not imply power, economic status or religion 

I find it hard to fathom how anyone could attend Notre Dame for over three years and still have such a blatant lack of educa­tion as Ken Seifert, but obviously it can happen. He and author Beverly Tatum are free to create their own little world of word definitions, but the fact still remains that we use the dictionary to define words. 
While it may be politically correct to redefine words and his­tory, facts are facts. The definition of a word has to be a stan­dard. If it is not. we have no way to communicate. Racism is defined in the dictionary, and before spouting off, some people should look it up. Yes, Mr. Seifert, minorities can be racist. 
Perhaps Mr. Seifert should create his own word and define it as racism by the majority, or majority bigotry, but stop misus­ing the language. How ironic that in all his diatribe he can not see he is the one misusing the word. 
Please, Mr. Seifert. go to the bookstore and purchase a dictio­nary and look up the word. It has a meaning and in neither one of my dictionaries does it mention minority, majority or any Indication that racism is exclusively the realm of those in the majority. Neither does it imply that power {other than the feel­ing of superiority). sexual orientation, economic status or reli­gion has anything to do with racism. 
We have computers that have spell checking and grammar checking, but some people need one that has thought checking. 
Barry Baumbaugh 
professional specialist Physics Department Dec. 3 

Brendan Prendergast Adam Shanko Cole Bennett Lance Gallop juniors Keough Hall Dec. 3 
Personal belief, not society, cause 
•
racism 

Mr. Seifert's Dec. 3 letter on racism epitomizes the type of nonsense that seems to cloud the mind of most liberal, academic snobs. In response, I submit an alternative and more intuitive 

ety's culture can support a racist position, each member of that society is personally responsible for accepting or denying that position. Moreover, in the United States. our culture is determined by a mingling of implicitly coupled sub­cultures. 
Is it not possible that these subcultures embrace racist views? It absolutely is, as long as you don't adopt an absurd defini­tion of racism. 
page 11 

TCE responses should 
benefit students 
Once again, the time of year has come upon us to fill out Teacher and Course Evaluations. And once again, we will submit them, pro­fessors will see our handwritten responses and we will have no idea of the results. 
At my undergraduate university we had a similar evalution, called Course and Professor Evaluations. CAPEs were administered by students, collected and then used for the same purposes as TCEs at Notre Dame, as well as much more. 
The tabulated results of CAPEs were published annually and list­ed all courses, which professors taught them and the like. This was an incredibly useful tool for students when enrolling in courses. You could look up whether or not a certain class was liked by all the students who took it, those who took it for their major and so forth. 
Also, you could select between professors for the same course whom you otherwise knew nothing about, based on whether or not students approved of a certain professor's teaching methods. Entries included information written in on the forms and the num­ber of people who concurred. Examples of useful comments includ­ed "the exams were brutal (4), but students found that the material was drawn equally from the texts and the lectures (6)." 
Last year I wrote a letter to those who administer the TCEs at Notre Dame addressing the possibility of the results being released in a published. They replied that while they had considered it, they would not do so. Once again, secrecy reigns at Notre Dame. 
It strikes me as strange that a University that prides itself on teaching and does an excellent job of developing teachers refuses to allow students to see the results of TC Es. Why should we be expect­ed to give our professors feedback when we ourselves cannot bene­fit from these TCEs? It is time that the secrecy of the TCEs be bro­ken and for students to have access to this useful resource for course selection and planning. 
Andrew Casad 
theology graduate student Dec. 3 

I ask you, why would someone adopt the view that only a society can be racist? It conveniently clouds the culpability of such a position. You are not accountable 
for racism -society is. 
wherever we can identify it. Each individual must make that commitment, for we cannot legislate people·s attitude toward one another. We can only legis­late an environment which supports one race over another. Right or wrong, that is exactly what ''affirmative action" is. 
Andrew Henrick 
graduate student Dec. 3 

THE 
OBSERVER 

page 12 

By K.C. KENNEY 
Scene Writer 
The return from Thanksgiving is always a bittersweet one. You had a nice break, but you come back io dive head first into finals. The holiday season has begun. but that also means that the South Bend weather is going to be biting cold with every terribly slow step across campus. One of the great things about Notre Dame is its efforts to make these final, endless weeks before winter break bearable by decorating the campus, turning the heat up (for the most part) in classrooms and lecture halls and pro­viding some fun activities that let you take a break from your books. 
They say that the holiday season gets longer and longer every year, and this became evident when O'Shaugnessy had a Christmas tree up and the dining halls were tuned to stations with 24-hour Christmas music before Thanksgiving break even started. But now that every­one is back, it's time to get into the swing of things. Sure this means in the classroom and with your studies. But more importantly, it means being in the know about the hot happenings on this cold campus. 
For your social edification, take a look at all the great things on campus for the month of December, holiday and other­wise. 
Howard Hall starts the season of cele­bration on Thursday with the Howard Marshmallow Roast. This event was pulled out of mothballs last year with great success. and they hope to have an even greater attendance this year. This is considered one of Howard's signature events and so they'll be going all out. There will be grills for marshmallow roasting and s'mores, hot chocolate, other treats and awesome Christmas music. It's a great way to get into the Christmas spirit. They'll be set up right out side of Howard. facing South Dining Hall. so feel free to stop by for some free dessert after dinner. The fires start at 6:30 p.m. 
Also on Thursday night Notre Dame students will be performing Stand-up Comedy at the Alumni Senior Bar. The show, hosted by Peter Wicks, a philoso­phy graduate student known for his stand-up work at Princeton, the New York Comedy Club and universities all over England. will also feature Mike Bradt, a first-year Law student who performs regularly in the Chicago area. 
At the request of the Alumni-Senior Club, entry to the show will be limited to those over 21, so it's a great way for older students to get a good laugh at someone else's expense. But don't worry, younger people, venues are being worked on now to bring their comedic stylings to you, too. Check out Acousticafe that night, where there will be some special holiday performances by your fellow musically inclined stu­dents. 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company's production of "Hamlet" opens Thursday for its weekend run. The show, starring third-year law stu­dent and double-Domer Matt Holmes as the title character, will be performed in 101 DeBartolo Hall. The show begins at 
7:30 p.m. Thursday through Saturday. There will be a 2:30 p.m. matinee on Sunday. Tickets are available at the door or in advance from the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. Call (574) 631-8128. 
It's never too early to start shopping for your loved ones, close friends or that cute Grab-and-Go lady that gives you an extra cookie. Have no fear! Flipside is 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 
here! They are sponsoring a Trip to Meijer on Friday from 9:30 p.m. to 1 
a.m. for all those that want to get a jump on their shopping. Once study days and exams start, it's going to be hard. Might as well get it out of the way while you can. 
Also on Friday is A Carroll Christmas, one of Carroll Hall's signature events focused on the lighting of their beautiful 30-foot Christmas tree. Starting around 6 p.m., the event features festive music by members of the Glee Club, seasonal refreshments, children from the Center for the Homeless, and a holiday bless­
ing for all. 
Don't forget to take part in the 
breathtaking performance of Handel's 
Messiah by the Notre Dame Chorale. It 
is to be performed Wednesday, 
Thursday and Friday at Washington 
Hall at 8 p.m. Tickets are available at 
the LaFortune Box Office, or at the 
door. Be sure to purchase early as they 
are sure to sell out. It is a beautiful 
musical work sure to be worth the tick­
et price. 
On Saturday, Siegfried will show their 
generosity by offering Free Buracho 
Burritos at midnight outside the Dooley 
Room in LaFortune. This is an event 
sponsored by the DICE program, and 
you are warned to be there early 
because they're sure to go fast. 
Don't forget the special holiday SUB movie, "How the Grinch Stole Christmas," starring Jim Carrey in this amazing live action remake, showing Thursday night at 10 p.m. and then again on Friday and Saturday at 7 :30 and 10 p.m. in DeBartolo. Sure, it's not the cartoon you all grow up with, but ous "Zoolander," starring Ben Stiller as a clueless, washed-up runway model as he goes through the troubling life of Orange Mocha Frappuchino's, freak gasoline fight accidents, and being real­ly, really, really good looking. 

Also this week, there is a Gingerbread Building Contest at North Dining Hall. It's a fun way to do some arts and crafts for the holidays, with prizes awarded for the best gingerbread houses and men. Work by yourself or in teams of as many as you'd like during lunch and dinner. The decorated displays will be displayed in December all over North. Besides. who can resist snacking on a Twizzler shingle while you work? 
On Sunday, Keenan Hall has its annual Reindeer Roast. They'll be plugging in their lights, lighting up the grill. and cooking up some reindeer burgers. There will probably be regular burgers too, so don't worry. Come by at 5 p.m. for some great food and fun Knight times. 
Have a burger, then head over to the Basilica for the 12th Annual Advent Lessons and Carols at 7:15 p.m. It is meant to be a service of Advent reflec­tions and readings, featuring music by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, Women's Liturgical Choir. Handbell Choir, Folk Choir and Basilica Schola. This hour-long devotional service is a great way to reflect on the season of Advent and to participate in congrega­tional hymn singing. 
Have any extra coats lying around? Want to make a difference in someone's life who is less fortunate than you? The Class Councils are sponsoring a Coat Drive from Dec. 9 to Dec. 11 outside 
Senior Jeff Eyerman, Polonlus, with Junior Meg Ryan, Ophella, rehearse for the its incredible to see the way they DeBartolo. And just to show their appre­Not-So-Royal Shakespeare's Company's production of "Hamlet." updated it. Also showing is the hilari-ciation and offer a fun winter treat, 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 

esslah which wlll be held on Dec. 4-6 In 
they'll be giving away hot chocolate. 
Then we're into finals. Hell week. The time to do nothing but focus. Study. Cram three months of lax learning into four days. (Or if you go to Chicago, three days.) But when your vision is blurred, your mind is fried and you just can't learn anymore, get out of the dorm, or the Library, or wherever. and take a break. On Dec. 12, Flipside will have Ice Skating at the JACC from 9:30 until 
THE OBSERVER 
10:30 p.m. Get there early so you can rent some skates. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert will be held at 5:30 p.m. and 
9:00 p.m. on Dec. 14 at O'Laughlin Auditorium on campus at the Saint Mary's College. Tickets will be $3, and all proceeds go to benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. It's a great way to combine holiday entertainment with helping out the needy during the season of giving. Pieces range from traditional Christmas music, to calypso, African, even barbershop numbers, and a few arrangements, like Jingle Bells, that were arranged specifically for the University of Notre Dame Glee Club. 
This year's concert will feature many traditional pieces like Winter Wonderland, White Christmas, and the title track from their most recent Christmas CD, In Dulci Jubilo. SUB is sponsoring Fina.Is Stress_Relievers on Dec. 15 in the Lafortune Ballroom with a masseuse, arts and crafts and other ways to prevent you from going insane. Look for more details during study days. 
As exams get closer and closer, it's going to be hard to get your nose out of the books. But remember, this is a time that comes once a year, so get out and appreciate it. See your friends, take a walk in the snow, enjoy the lights or lis­ten to a concert or two. But a word to the wise. If you're in the neighborhood of LaFortune come the Sunday before finals, be sure to enjoy some of the night life, but watch out for some crazy odd-balls taking part in some of their favorite holi­day traditions. Have a happy holiday! 
Contact K.C. Kenney at kkenney@nd.edu 


us 

Wednesday, December 4, 2002 page 13 

Thursda Dec. 5­
Howard Hall Marshmallow Roast at 6 p.m. Stand-up Comedy at Senior Bar Holiday Acousticafe Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company opens "Hamlet" at 7:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall 
Notre Dame Chorale presents Handel's Messiah at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall 
Frida Dec. 6­
Flipside sponsors trip to Meijer from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. A Carroll Christmas at 6 p.m. Notre Dame Chorale presents Handel's Messiah at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall 
Saturda Dec. 7­
Free Buracho Burritos sponsored by Siegfried a midnight out­side the Dooley Room in LaFortune SUB Movie "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" or "Zoolander" showing at 7:30 and 1 O p.m. in DeBartolo 
Sunda Dec. 8­
Keenan Hall's Reindeer Roast at 5 p.m. ­12th Annual Advent Lessons and Carols at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica 
Thursda Dec. 12­
Flipside sponsors ice skating at the JACC from 9:30 p.m. until 
10:30 p.m. 

Saturda Dec. 14­
Glee Club Christmas Concert at 5:30 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College 
Sunda Dec. 15­
Final Stress Relievers in the LaFortune Ballroom 
Photo counesy of Google.com Jim Carrey as The Grinch In Dr. Suess' "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" will be the featured holiday SUB movie. 
Wednesday, December 4, 2002
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Jordan, Russell score 27 straight for victory 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Trading spaces worked for Michael Jordan and Bryon Russell, who together ran off 27 consecutive points to help end tho Washington Wizards' six-game losing streak. 
Jordan scored 25 points in his second game as a starter, and the man he replaced in the lineup, Russell. matched his season-high with 16 points in a 103-78 rout of the Milwaukee Bucks on Tuesday night. 
"We've been stinking it up," Russell said. "But I think we're going to have a good month. I told the team, 'I feel like we're only going to lose three or four games this month.' " 
Etan Thomas matched a career-high with 14 points and had seven rebounds for the Wizards as coach Doug Collins relied on veterans early but used his bench extensively. Jordan played 30 minutes ln the one-sided game and sat down for good early in the fourth quarter. 
"It's just one of those games where we really needed a win," Jordan said. "Milwaukee was not healthy, so we've got to attack, attack, attack. I tried to carry that mentality." 
Tim Thomas scored a season­high 17 points for the Bucks, who played without Ray Allen and Toni Kukoc. Milwaukee, one of the best shooting teams in the league, shot just 37 per­cent. Michael Redd was 6-for­16 from the field, Sam Cassell was 3-for-12, Anthony Mason was 2-for-7, and Jason Caffey was 1-for-8. 
"I had a bad game," Cassell said. "With us being short­handed, teams definitely are playing me differently. They're not going to allow me to have open looks like I'm used to get­ting. A lot of my things I've got to create for myself." 
Last week, Russell asked to be removed from the starting lineup because his minutes were getting squeezed by Jordan's early entry off the bench. With their roles reversed, both looked more comfortable -and they teamed up for the run that gave the Wizards the lesi-d for good. 
Jordan and Russell scored 27 consecutive Wizards points from the final minute of the first quarter through the first seven minutes of the second quarter. including all the points in a 16-5 run that put Washington ahead 42-29. Jordan scored 15 points in the second quarter, and Russell went 4-for-4 with nine points. 
"It's a change," Russell said. "Tonight was a night we need­ed someone to step up other 'than our starters. For us to win, we've got to have more than our starters scoring. I just came out being aggressive." 
By halftime, the score was 56-39. The Bucks never got closer than 12 in the second half. 
New Orleans 115, Chicago 90 
Finally able to stretch their legs and run, the New Orleans Hornets found a cure for their road woes against the Chicago Bulls. 
David Wesley scored a sea­son-high 25 points and Jamal Mashburn added 21 Tuesday night as the Hornets opened up their offense in a 115-90 victo­ry over the Bulls. 
"We just wanted to get out and run the ball," Mashburn said. "We got into our transi­tion game out there all night. We had a lot of energy." 
So much energy they didn't even miss Baron Davis, who sat out his second consecutive game with back spasms. It was only the third road victory this season for the Hornets, who are 9-0 at home but just 3-6 away from New Orleans. 
"When you're running, you can get into a nice rhythm," Hornets coach Paul Silas said. "You saw that as Mash was fantastic and Elden (Campbell) also had his shot there. When we get Baron back, we can be a really good team." 
The Bulls, meanwhile, are nearing the desperation point. Hoping to snap a six-game los­ing streak with their first game in the United Center since Nov. 

16, the Bulls instead got off to a slow start and were careless with the ball all night. 
Chicago shot 46 percent from the floor, had four players in double figures and outrebound­ed New Orleans·40-37. But the Bulls also had 20 turnovers, giving up a whopping 31 points on the miscues. 
New Orleans had just nine turnovers despite playing with­out their primary ballhandler. 
"I don't really have much to say other than I'm disappoint­ed," Bulls coach Bill Cartwright said. 'Tm disappointed with how we started, I'm disappoint­ed with our effort." 
And he's not the only one. 
"I think I feel worse than I did last year," said Eddie Robinson, who had just six points in 25 minutes. "Because I know we're talented enough not to go out this way.'' 
Despite their turnovers. the Bulls still were in the game midway through the third. They'd outrebounded the Hornets in the first half, had more points in the paint and mor.e second-chance points. But they got sloppy late in the third, and the Hornets needed only three minutes to put the game away. 
With 3:33 left in the third, Jay Williams made a layup to pull Chicago to 69-65. But Mashburn, who was hot from outside all night, hit a 17-footer to spark a 14-0 run. 
"We just kind of felt it was time to make our move," Wesley said. 
Houston 89, San Antonio 75 
Yao Ming got all the motiva­tion he needed just from read­ing the starting lineups. 
Matched against David Robinson and Tim Duncan, Yao scored 27 points, grabbed a season-high 18 rebounds and added a crowd-pleasing slam in the closing minutes to lead the Rockets to an 89-75 victory Tuesday night." 
It might have been because I knew I was going up against two great centers," Yao said, explaining his performance. "When I first got to the NBA I had a lot to think about. To get this victory, it's like being able to take a deep breath." 
After leading much of the game. the Rockets trailed 64­61 going into the fourth quar­ter. But they quickly regained the lead and won going away as the Spurs went scoreless over the final 2:43. 
Yao rebounded a miss by Steve Francis with 3:04 to go and slammed it home, one of several highlight shots in the game. Francis added 18 points and six assists and Moochie Norris had 16 points. 
"He played great. He was all over the boards," Robinson said of Yao. "He shot the ball well and he moved the ball around with his passing. He was a handful. He was the dif­ference in the game." 
Duncan had 25 points and 12 rebounds for the Spurs, while former Rocket Kevin Willis added 12 points. 
"He was impressive tonight," Duncan said of Yao. "He's got a great touch and he's bigger in person than you think he is. He shot the ball better than I thought he could. We had a hand in his face and it didn't matter. He played great tonight." 
Houston built a 49-39 half­time lead on the first-half shooting of Yao and Norris, but that 10-point edge faded in a 16-4 run by San Antonio to start the third quarter. Duncan scored eight consecu­tive Spurs points, and his two free throws gave the Spurs a 55-53 lead with 5:35 to go in the quarter. 
Yao put on an entertaining show in the first half against David Robinson and Duncan. 
Yao sank a jumper over Robinson and Duncan for his second basket of the game and drew a foul on Robinson in the process. 
In the second quarter, Yao took a pass from Norris and then passed it back to him in the lane for an easy layup. Moments later Francis slipped a pass back to Yao under the basket for a slam. 
Yao had 17 points at the half and Norris scored 12 second-quarter points to help the Rockets to their 10-point half­time lead. 

Los Angeles 101, Memphis 91 
Kobe Bryant had 24 points. 11 assists and 10 rebounds for his fourth triple-double of the season Tuesday night as the Los Angeles Lakers struggled to a 101-91 victory over the Memphis Grizzlies. 
Shaquille O'Neal added 28 points, nine rebounds and seven blocks for the Lake rs (7 ­12), who now have a 4-3 record since O'Neal returned to action _ including an over­time victory over the Grizzlies in Memphis last Friday night. 
The Grizzlies (2-16) had won two of their previous four games after losing their first 
13. They're 2-8 since Hubie Brown replaced Sidney Lowe as coach. 
Bryant had his seventh career triple-double. and Rick Fox added 14 points. 
The Lakers won by only 10 points despite shooting 40-of­79 (50.6 percent), including 10-of-15 from 3-point range. 
The Grizzlies shot 34-of-91 
(37.4 percent) including 7-of­19 from beyond -the arc. 
The Lakers committed 20 turnovers to 12 for the Grizzlies and shot 11-of-20 on free throws while Memphis was 16-of-20 from the foul line. 
Lorenzen Wright led the Grizzlies with 17 points and eight rebounds. Wesley Person added 13 points and ,~~~n~, Battier, Drew Gooden and f>au Gasol had 11 points each. 
The Memphis starters scored 42 points and the reserves had 49. 
A three-point play by Bryant and two free throws by O'Neal extended the Lakers' lead to 80-71 early in the fourth quar­ter. 
Person's 3-pointer with 6:59 to play capped a 9-2 run, drawing the Grizzlies within two points, but Derek Fisher's 3-pointer, a short jumper by Bryant and Fox's layup off a pass from Bryant put the Lakers ahead 91-82 with 3:15 left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadlin¢ for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
-
NOTICES 
"At Last Spring Break" Book now, Free meals, Parties, drinks, 2 free trips, Lowest prices. 
Sunsplashtours. com 
1-800-426-7710 
ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI­TOURS·SPRING BREAK! The only company exclusive to Acapulco! That's why we're the BEST. "Go Loco in Acapulco• with the #1 Spring Break Company in Acapulco for 16 years! Call 800-875-4525 Today. www.bianchi:rossi.com. 
Be a rep, travel FREE -ask howl 
SPRING BREAK INSANITY! WWWINTER-CAMPUS .COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! 17 YEARS EXP.I REPS WANTED! 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Anlan Properties, LL.C. 
532-1896 Call Bill. 
WANTED 
Bartenders needed! Earn up to $300 Per day. 
No expefience necessary. 
Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummertours.com 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
Males roommate tor Spring semes­ter, Turtle Creek Town Horne 
Call Leonard 272-8582. 
FOR RENT 
Turtle Creek Townhouse available at discounted rate for Spring 2003. Maximum 3 people, 2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, AC, dishwasher. 
Call 2n-0900 for details. 
All sizes homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
2 & 4-bdrm houses for 2003. Close to ND. 616-699-5841. 
FOR SALE 
Juday lake 3 bdrm ranch on lake. Walk/bike to campus. Broker owned. 272-6306, 329-0241. 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Witliamson.1@nd.edu 
TICKETS 

BCS COWL TICKETS FOR SALE (ALL LOCATIONS) Local (574)654­0168. TOLL FREE(800)272-8553 
PERSONAL 

Powerful prayer to the Holy Spirit. You who solve all my problems, who lights all roads so that I can obtain my goals. You who give me the Divine gift to forgive and forget all evil against me and in all instances of my live, You are with me. I want in this short prayer to thank you for alt things and to con­firm that I never want to be separat­ed from you, even in spite of all material illusions. I wish to be with you in etemal glory. Thank you for your mercy toward me and mine. 
E.J.P. 
UNPLANNED PREGANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information. see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1 ·800­648-4849 or www.ststravet.com 
Nam, What was more pleasure­able? -"Definately the pizza!" 
Thaddeus, don't be so abrasive. 
How was that trip back tor LA, Hettler? 
The Ritz was nlce ... the game, not so nice. 

~,~­
---~ 

page 15 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 4, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cubs, Sox have busy trade day 
• Grudzielanek, Karros go to North side, Koch to Sox 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Billy Koch's reward for being the AL's top closer is a moving van. 
The Oakland Athletics shipped Koch to the Chicago White Sox in a six-player trade Tuesday. dumping yet another big salary with an eye toward future payrolls. 
"My initial reaction was, 'What's a guy got to do to stay with the team?'" said Koch, who was traded to Oakland by Toronto last December. "It's sort of frustrating, but then you turn around and look at it as a new start. I look at it as a chal­lenge." 
In exchange for Koch and two minor leaguers, the Athletics get White Sox closer Keith Foulke, catcher Mark Johnson, minor league right­hander Joe Valentine and cash. 
The deal is a financial wash this year because of the cash from Chicago. But it allows Oakland to free up 
$150,000 in 
ptirformance 
bonuses. 
Eligible for salary arbitration 
for the next three seasons, his 
salary is likely to double this 
winter and go up even more in 
future years. 
Foulke is due $6 million next season, but then becomes eligi­ble for free agency. 
"If you look at our payroll after this year and the forecast for where Billy's salary is going to go, it's unrealistic to believe we could have held onto him," Oakland general manager Billy Beane said. "This is going to give us a little more flexibility going forward from a payroll standpoint." 
Though the A's considered signing Koch to a long-term deal last season, it just wasn't possible economically. The small-market team had a $42 million payroll last season, and Beane said it will rise next year. 
"Obviously, performance is always a consideration. Economics, in our situation, is always a factor in trades, (so is) the future," he said. "There's a little bit of all three in this trade for us." 
But it wasn't an easy deal to make. Koch, who turns 28 on Opening Day, has emerged as one of the AL's top closers, becoming tho first ever to start his career with four consecu­tive 30-save seasons. 
He won AL reliever of the year honors this season, going l 1-4 with 44 saves. His 11 vic­tories were tops among major league relievers. and he led the AL with 84 appearances. Only Minnesota's Eddie Guardado had more saves in the AL, with 45. 
In four seasons, Koch is 22­17 with 144 saves and a 3.48 
ERA 
"I've been after Billy Koch for a couple of years now," White Sox general manager Kenny Williams said. "We felt good about our bullpen for 2003 (before the trade). Now we feel good about it for 2003, 2004 and 2005." , 
Williams said he would like to sign Koch to an extension and avoid arbitration if possi­ble. That sounds pretty good to Koch, too. 
"Yeah, it'd be nice to get set­tled at least for a few years," he said. "But it's all about win­ning. getting in there and knowing the guys and having some fun." 
Foulke saved a career-high 42 games in 2001 and ranks third on the White Sox saves list. But he struggled last sea­son and lost his closer role in early June. He went from June 27 to Sept. 17 without a save, and finished with only 11. He was 2-4 with a 2.90 ERA. 
Dodgers get Hundley 
The Los Angeles Dodgers reached a tentative agreement with the Cubs on Tuesday to trade first baseman Eric Karros and second baseman M a r k Grudzielanek 
"My initial reaction was to Chicago for 

money in the 
catcher Todd

future. 'What's a guy got to do to 
Hundley.

Koch had a 
stay with the team?"' The Cubs,

$2.35 million 
retooling their

base salary 
roster under
BIiiy Koch

this season 
new manager

and made White Sox closer 
Dusty Baker, 
and Dodgers 
were given 72 
hours to final­ize the deal. To make it hap­pen, Hundley and Grudzielanek must agree to have their con­tracts restructured. 
"We're working on it,"' said agent Sam Levinson. who rep­resents Hundley and Grudzielanek. 
Earlier in the day, the Cubs and free agent reliever Mike Remlinger finalized a $10.65 million, three-year deal. He was 7-3 with a 1.99 ERA last year for Atlanta and made the All-Star team. 
All three players are still owed big money. As part of the deal, the Dodgers would send cash to the Cubs. 
The Cubs are trying to reverse their recent struggles. which included a 67-95 finish last season. The Dodgers went 92-70 and were in contention for the NL wild-card spot until the final week. 
Karros is owed $8 million next year and his contract includes a 2004 club option for $ 9 million with a $1 million buyout. If he reaches 500 plate appearances next season, his 2004 salary would be guaran­teed. 
Hundley will get $6 million next year and $6.5 million in 2004. He'll get an extra $500,000 for 2004 if he makes 100 starts next season. 
Grudzielanek has a $5.5 mil­lion salary for next season. There's a club option for $6 million in 2004 with a $500,000 buyout. 
"At this point, there is noth­ing to announce from the Dodgers' end," Los Angeles spokesman John Olguin said. 
Both Hundley and Karras are coming off disappointing sea­sons. 

Rite of Welcome 
This Sunday at the 11 :45 am Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart we will recognize those members of the Notre Dame community who are seeking to become fully initiated into the Catholic faith community in the Rite of Welcome. These women and men have met together .over the past several months to explore their faith and the Catholic Church more deeply through the RCIA process. Catechumens seek full initiation through the sacraments of Baptism, Eucharist, and Confirmation; Candidates are already baptized and seek to be received into Full Communion with the Catholic Church through the sacraments of the Eucharist and Confirmation. The Rite of Welcome ~ves all of us an opportunity to encourage these men and women as they continue their journey of initiation in the months ahead. 
CATECHUMENS and their sponsors: Cindi Berger Rick Clawson Louise Case Anne Hainley Amie Grosshans Courtney Eshbach Crystal Heitman Kathy Malpass Erle Kasik George Piggford,csc Keith Kronoveter Mary Moulton Karieena Langenfeld Catherine Bateson Maggie Langenfeld Karen Bulkowski James Mangrum Joseph Kirkconnel Kim Rollings Lorraine Santana Nelson Ropke Charlie McCoy Chrts Stinson Joe Reimer Eric Wagner Francie Schmul 
CANDIDATES and their sponsors: Matthew Barr Elizabeth Sawyer Steven Bishko Katie Garza Julie Davis Kaitlin Dudley Lauren Fowler Peter Godlewski William Kurtz Mary Blazewicz Leslie Lockett Carrie Mieske Diane Meyers Megan Dalsaso David Mosley Angela Kim Susan Schaab Jason Sullivan Megan Thomas Kelly Rich Kelley VanBuskirk Neil Dhingra 
CM 
Campus Minimy 


(J.J,,U Chifar.en ~­Christmas PartJ 


~riaa3, 1Jecemher G, 2.002. 
7:oo-8.30P1Yf 

Universi[!j Viffa3e Center 
Chiklren J' aames, Christmas SOYJ_JJ-/&:., stories, &:., a visitfrom 0anfa Cfaus. 


A
cC;JZ ;tlff3raclstutlents q'. families are invited. 
. Sponsorecf0J, 9..§..,~" e . 
~~h 
-


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 4, 2002 
NHL 

Brathwaite saves 33 in Blues win over Bruins 
. Boguniecki scores 11th goal of season goal 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Fred Brathwaite continued his mastery of the Boston Bruins. 
Brathwaite made 33 saves for his second shutout of the season as the St. Louis Blues snapped the Bruins' five-game winning streak with a 4-0 victory. 
It was the 15th career shutout for Brathwaite, who registered a season high in saves and improved to 4-0-0 lifetime against Boston. 
The Blues became only the second visiting team to win at the FleetCenter this season, joining the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, who posted a 4-1 vic­tory here on October 31. 
Boston, which was blanked for the second time this season, dropped to 9-2-1 at home and lost for only the second in its last 12 games (9-1-2). 
Rookie Eric Boguniecki scored his 11th goal 5:27 into the first period to give Brathwaite all the support he needed. 
The Bruins pressed in the sec­ond, outshooting the Blues, 14­
9. But St. Louis got the only goals of the period as Scott Mellanby tallied at 8 :41 and Doug Weight scored just over three minutes later. 
Keith Tkachuk capped the scoring with 4:33 remaining in the third. 

\ 
Steve Shields turned aside 19 1shots for the Bruins. . Joe Thornton and Glen 
Murray had five-game point streaks snapped for Boston. 
Mighty Ducks 2, Red Wings 1 
The Mighty Ducks of Anaheim are off to the best start in team history. But they still have been unable to solve the Detroit Red Wings. 
Curtis Joseph continued to thrive at Joe Louis Arena and Brett Hull remained red-hot as the Red Wings held on for a vic­tory over the Ducks. 
Despite the loss, Anaheim has matched the best 26-game start in its 10-year history. But the Ducks lost all three meetings with Detroit this season, the last two by one goal. 
Joseph protected a one-goal lead with just under two min­utes to play when he stopped Steve Rucchin from the low slot and got his left shoulder on Petr Sykora's shot moments later. Joseph has won his last five home starts and is 7 -0-2 at Joe Louis Arena since losing his home debut on October 17. 
Hull scored the eventual game-winner 2:19 into the sec­ond period. Off a scramble in front. he got the puck on the left side and beat goaltender Jean­Sebastien Giguere from a tight angle for his 10th goal of the season. Hull has seven goals and five assists during a 10­
-....... -.. .. . . ... . . . . . ........... 
game points streak. 
Sean Avery scored the other goal for Detroit, which has won three of four following a three­game winless streak. 
Paul Kariya produced the lone goal for the Ducks, who had a four-game unbeaten streak stopped and fell to 2-15-3 all­time in Detroit. 
Capitals 4, Penguins 1 
Pittsburgh Penguins' fans had been applauding the efforts of Jaromir Jagr and Robert Lang for years. But the pair of Czechs gave them nothing to cheer about in this contest. 
Jagr and Lang both scored against their former team and Olaf Kolzig came within three minutes of his first shutout of the season as the Washington Capitals skated to a 4-1 triumph over Pittsburgh. 
Acquired from the Penguins in July 2001, Jagr gave the Capitals a 2-0 lead at 13:10 of the first period with his 13th goal of the season. Lang, who was reunited with his former linemate when he signed with Washington as a free agent last July, increased the cushion to 3­0 by scoring the only goal of the second. 
With his teammates holding the Penguins to few scoring chances, Kolzig stopped 16 shots to earn the win, allowing Mario Lemieux's tally with 2:53 remaining to spoil his shutout bid. 
Johan Hedberg made 28 saves for Pittsburgh, which dropped its second straight decision and had a four-game unbeaten streak against Washington come to an end. 
Hurricanes 2, Predators 1 
The Nashville Predators could not get a break from referee Paul Stewart. 
Just over three minutes after Stewart waved off Scott Hartnell's potential go-ahead goal, Erik Cole scored with 8:33 remaining to give the Carolina Hurricanes a victory over the Predators. 
Mired in last place in the Western Conference, the Predators already have used a league-leading 33 players and have 11 one-goal losses. ln this one, they appeared to take the lead when Hartnell fought through a scramble in the crease and backhanded the puck past goaltender Arturs 


s or 'S 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes fom Campus 
Coll 259-1000 for more details 

Irbe. led to linemate Rod Lindros buried a rebound with But Stewart blew his whistle, Brind'Amour's first-period goal 9:13 remaining. Less than 7 1/2 believing Irbe covered the puck, on a two-man advantage. minutes later, Petr Nedved and disallowed the goal. picked up a clearing attempt by 
Less than 3 1/2 minutes later, defenseman Vladimir Malakhov
Rangers 5, Blue Jackets 3 

up the left wing and sent it
Cole netted his third game-win­
Pavel Bure recorded his 21st 

across to Bure, who went topner of the season when he put a 
career hat trick and added an 

shelf with a one-timer to com­
rebound through traffic and 
assist, leading the New York plete his first hat trick sincepast goalie Mike Dunham. 
Rangers to a 5-3 victory over March 2 against Philadelphia. 
Cole's ninth goal came after the Columbus Blue Jackets. Nedved had three assists andNashville rookie Vern Fiddler After New York squandered a Daniel Blackburn stopped 28forged a 1-1 tie 2:03 into the 
two-goal lead, Bure fought off shots for New York. which hasthird. an icing call and carried to the won six of its last seven home 
Cole also drew a penalty that front of the net, where Eric games. 
Hey Graduate... Moving to Chicago? 
• TWO MONTHS FREE RENT on selected units
Hot 
• NO SECURllY DEPOSIT 
Apartments • 3,000 Great Apartments 
• Hottest Locations in Town
In The 
• Apartments for Every Price Range
Windy City. 
• Short-Tenn leases Available 

Accepting Applications for Controller for Observer 
Sophomore Accounting Majors Need to contact Business Office 

or email: 
I..As You Wish" 'Q/_ -WALLET ~ •PURSEStmnor s ­u, =~;'.~~iiKSI / I · CHANGE PURSES LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY, SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! Guatt:mala -Bolivia -Peru -Mexico • Thailand -India Lafortune Room 108 Dec. 2-7 (Sat.) 10-5pm Proceed,; from sales of Jewelry guarantee the loving hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average salary, a" well as fund,; for their education .  



... 
.. ... . ... . . .. 
-
-

Wednesdll.y, December 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MENS COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Indiana gets revenge against Maryland in OT 
ksociatcd Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Tom Coverdale gained a mea­sure of revenge for Indiana in the ACC-Big Ten Challenge. 
Coverdale matched a career high with 30 points as the 11th­ranked Hoosiers survived a wild finish in regulation and posted an 80-7 4 overtime victory over No. 8 Maryland in a rematch of last season's national champi­onship. 
Indiana (5-0J misfired on 20 of its first 23 shots and trailed by as many as 14 points but battled back and had a chance to win on the final possession of regu­lation. Coverdale launched a long 3-pointer that missed badly and Maryland point guard Steve Blake picked up the loose ball. 
Blake, the Terrapins' lone returning starter from last sea­son's team, fired up a despera­tion shot from beyond halfcourt that swished through as Maryland's bench exploded. But the olftcials correctly ruled that Blake released his shot late and the game went to overtime. 
Sean Kline scored off a feed from freshman Bracey Wright to give the Hoosiers the lead for good at 75-74 with 1:51 remain­ing. Freshman Marshall Strickland added a jumper 34 seconds later for a three-point edge. 
Blake missed a tying 3-point attempt and Kline made 1-of-2 at the line \\ith 17 seconds left. The Terrapins turned the ball over and Coverdale capped his big night wiLh two free throws for the final margin. 
llllnols 92, North Carolina 65 
Illinois seniors Brian Cook and Sean Harrington were too much for North Carolina's talented freshmen. 
Cook scored 22 points and Harrington had a career-high 20 as the 25th-ranked Illini ran past No. 12 North Carolina in the final eight minutes Tuesday night and beat the Tar Heels in the ACC/Big Ten Challenge. 
Illinois (4-0) led 64-57 with 



GRE·AT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese • American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 lor Children under 10 
(574) 272-7376 -222 Dlxlew¦ y South 
(U.S. 3i In l'loseland) South Bend, IN 

7:42 left and then took off. outscoring the Tar Heels 28-8, while sending Carolina (5-1) to its first loss. North Carolina was coming off a championship in the Preseason NIT. 
In a game featuring talented first-year players -North Carolina started three freshman and Illinois two -the Illini's experience made the difference. 
Harrington was 7-of-9 from the field, including 6-of-8 from the 3-point line, to give the Illini the boost they needed. Cook was 8-of-12 from the field and had eight rebounds and five assists. 
Freshman Sean May led North Carolina with 21 points, Jaward Williams had 15 and freshman Rashad McCants 13. 
Harrington sparked an 11-2 second-half run. making a steal and driving layup and 1.hen hil­ting a 3-pointer as Illinois ran off to a 57-45 lead with just under 13 minutes left. 
What started out as a reward for a freshman degenerated into a nightmare for Florida coach Billy ponovan. 

,Ca(l 259-1.000.for more detpil$. 
Johannes Herber, one of three freshmen in the West Virginia starting lineup, drained the go­ahead 3-pointer with 52 seconds left and the Mountaineers held on for a 68-66 victory over the ninth-ranked Gators. 
After the Mountaineers (3-1) closed within a point for the third time in the final 10 min­utes at 64-63, Herber sank a 3­pointer from the left wing to put West Virginia on top to stay. 
Herber, a 6-6 guard from Darmstadt, Germany, finished with 11 points. Drew Schifino led the Mountaineers with 18. 
Down 68-66, the Gators (4-2) had a chance to tie or go ahead in the final seconds, but Brett Nelson shot an airball from 3­point range and Justin Hamilton missed the follow shot as time expired. 
Ironically, Donovan scheduled the game in Charleston as a homecoming for Nelson, who grew up 15 minutes from where the game was played. Nelson had just nine points on 3-of-14 shooting. 
Duke 91, Ohio State 76 
Freshman J.J. Redick helped stave off Brent Darby and Ohio State. 
Redick pumped in all 20 of his points in the second half to withstand a huge effort from Darby as No. 3 Duke remained unbeaten with a victory over Ohio State in the ACC-Big Ten Challenge. 
Duke (4-0) never trailed in the second half, although Darby's career-high 35 points almost brought back the Buckeyes from a 26-point deficit. But Ohio State saw a pair of players foul out, thwarting its comeback. 

Duke held a 75-57 lead before 
Darby scored 10 straight points 
to cut the deficit to eight. That 
merely set the stage for Redick. 
The shooting guard drained a contested jumper to restore a 10-point lead and added anoth­er long 3-pointer for an 82-70 advantage with 2 1/2 minutes left. Redick nailed five 3-point­ers in Saturday's win over UCLA. 
Pittsburgh 96, Norfolk State 51 
Julius Page scored 16 points and Chevon Troutman added 14 as No. 4 Pittsburgh continued to scythe its way through inferior competition, handing Norfolk State a defeat. 
The Panthers (4-0) led by 20 points midway through the first half and took a 54-15 lead into halftime. Page and Donatas Zavackas each scored 10 points in the opening period. 
Zavackas and Ontario Lett finished with 13 points apiece for Pittsburgh, which shot 10­of-19 from three-point range and 61 percent (38-of-62) over­all. 
The victory was Pitt's 10th straight at home and 20th in a row at home against non-con­ference foes. a streak dating back to December 23, 1999. 
The Panthers' three previous victories this season have come against Duquesne, St. Francis of Pennsylvania and Arkansas­Pine Bluff. 
LAFAYETTE SQUARET O W N H O M E S We have what you nmlinoff-campus living! 
Lots ofapartmmts avai]able for 2003-041 
·4 & 5 Private Bedroom Apts
SPLIT the rent! 

·3 Floors Tall/Patio Area 
·Central Air/Cable Hook-Up
·Stove, Fridge, Dishwasher 
•Washer/Dryer in EACH Unit 
·6 Blocks from Campus
·ADT Security Systems
•24-Hour Maintenance 
CALL TODAY FOR A PERSONAL WALK-THROUGH! 
S74-234-9923 
TCLARK@CBRESB.COM 
"BEST VALUE PER STUDENT" -ONLY $281 PER STUDENT FOR A S BEDROOM PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. 

Page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, December 4, 2002 
-


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Georgia Tech at Minnesota 7 p.m., ESPN Northwestern at North Carolina St. 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA BASKETBALL 
Bulls at Cavaliers 7 p.m., FOXCH 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

would plead Kansas State's sell a minimum of 25,000, Cyclones and Cornhuskers 
Associated Press 
case in person to bowl offi­based on how well we've were the most lopsided cials on Tuesday in Miami. traveled in the past," ever in series that go backKansas State will guar­"Our main intentions are Weiser said. "But that's decades.
antee the sale of at least 
to go there and share with going to be secondary to "This is a team that's
25,000 tickets to the 
them specific information the competitiveness of our playing its best football of
Orange Bowl if the 
on how well the Kansas team." the year late," Weiser said. 
Wildcats are awarded an State football team is play­Kansas State's two losses Even if Snyder, Weiserat-large bid to the game in 
ing right now," Weiser have come by a total of and Wefald manage toMiami, athletic director 
said. "We'll also talk about seven points and both impress Orange Bowl offi­Tim Weiser said Monday the fan support that we were against ranked cials, their point would benight. 
enjoy and what we antici­teams: 35-31 at No. 12 moot if No. 9 WashingtonThe Wildcats are 10-2 pate we would have travel­Colorado on Oct. 5, and State wins at UCLA onand ranked No. 6 but still ing with us." 17-14 to No. 9 Texas on Saturday. Win, and theconsidered long shots for a The Orange Bowl, set for Oct. 19. Cougars are guaranteed a
first-ever Bowl 
Jan. 2, 2003, is no longer Since losing to the BCS bowl as Pac-10 cham­Championship Series bid. 
played at its namesake sta­Longhorns, the Wildcats pions.
Kansas State is No. 8 in the dium but at Pro Player have beaten Baylor 44-10, "We recognize our
latest BCS standings 
Stadium, which seats Kansas 64-0, Iowa State chances are tied directly toreleased Monday. 
75,540. 58-7, Nebraska 49-13 and the outcome of theWeiser said he, coach "We're pretty confident Missouri 38-0. Their wins Washington State-UCLABill Snyder and university that we would be able to over the Jayhawks, game," Weiser said. 
president Jon Wefald 
IN BRIEF 
Peppers suspended for the Pro Bowl if selected. resignation in stride and said it rest of the season "Obviously when you lose a player would not change the club's position 
Star rookie defensive end Julius of his caliber and it is disappoint­that it will decide when to admit Peppers of the Carolina Panthers ing," Panthers general manager women members on its own and was suspended Tuesday for the final Marty Hurney said. "But we've that there will be none by the four games of the season for violat­known this was a possibility for a Masters tournament in April. ing the NFL's substance-abuse poli• few weeks. So we're not surprised "We are disappointed that Mr. 
cy. by it." Wyman has chosen to publicize a Peppers' agent, Marvin Demoff, private matter," club spokesman told the league Tuesday morning Former CBS chief resigns Glenn Greenspan said. "While we 
that he was withdrawing an appeal from Augusta Natioinal respect the fact that there are dif­of the suspension. Demoff said last Augusta National Golf Club f'ercnccs of opinion on this issue, we month that the league told him showed no signs Tuesday of bowing intend to stand firm behind our Peppers tested positive for a banned to pressure to allow women to join, right to make what arc both appro­substance in a dietary supplement. even after a former television exec­priate and private memlrership 
"It's disappointing for me, the utive became the first member to choices." ~ Panthers and the fans and every­defect from the club over the issue. Wyman, who could not be reached body," Peppers said in a conference Former CBS chief executive Tuesday despite repeated attempts, call Tuesday afternoon. "I wish I Thomas H. Wyman leveled a parting submitted his resignation in a Nov. could finish the season. I'm just shot while resigning from the club 27 letter to club chairman Hootie going to get over it and come back where he has been a member for 25 Johnson in which he said he hoped 
next year and be even stronger." years, calling Augusta National's other members would also speak The 22-year-old defensive lineman stand on female members "pighead­out. ranks third in the NFL with 12 sacks ed" and saying up to a quarter of The resignation was first reported 
but will end his season short of the club's 300 members feel the by The New York Times, which also Jevon Kearse's rookie record of 14 same way he does. interviewed Wyman, the former 1/2 . He will be eligible to play in the Augusta National officials took the chief executive of CBS, onJ1onday. 
Wednesday, December 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Jaguars cut another kicker 
Associated Pre,s 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

The Jacksonville Jaguars added yet another chapter to their comedy of kickers Tuesday, cutting Richie Cunningham after one game to make way for the team's fourth kicker of the season. 
Cunningham made both his extra-point attempts and a 23­yard field goal Sunday in a 25­23 loss to Pittsburgh. But he 
LOFT 
didn't execute an onside kick correctly, and he often strug­gled with the depth of his kick­offs. 
Adding insult to the whole situation was that Steelers rookie Jeff Reed went 6-for-6 on neld goals and the Jaguars had given Reed a tryout in October when they cut their first kicker, rookie Hayden Epstein. 
Coughlin said Monday he wasn't impressed with Reed's consistency during the tryout and felt he couldn't replace one rookie with another. 

"That was a big part of our decision.'' Coughlin said. 
So the Jaguars went with Tim Seder, who had been cut by the Cowboys in the presea­son. He lasted five games, then Coughlin cut him to make way for Cunningham, who had been out of football for about two years, and lasted less than a week in Jacksonville. 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
SHOW CONCERT 
-
PGA 

First woman to play in PGA Tour event 
Organizations is fighting with
Associated Press 

the Augusta National Golf Club. home of the Masters, over the club's refusal to allow women as members. 
Whaley said she's had noth­ing but support from the PGA Tour. 
"Suzy has notified the tour of her intentions to play," PGA Tour spokesman Bob Combs said. "As we've said all along, if she chose to play we'd be delighted to welcome her as a contestant, and we look for­ward to having her in the field at next year's event." 
The LPGA voiced its approval. 
"Suzy continues to add firsts to her resume and makes the LPGA proud to have her in our organization," LPGA Commissioner Ty Votaw said. 
When she earned the invita­tion, several PGA players also expressed their support. 
"It's great for her. It's going to be quite an experience," Tiger Woods said Tuesday. "It's pretty obvious it's going to get a lot of media attention. I don't think the Hartford tournament is going to be against that. 
"There's going to be a lot of people following her. I truly hope she goes out there and plays well. 1 know she's going to enjoy her time. As a com­petitor, she wants to play well." 
Asked if he planned to play Hartford or duck Whaley, _ Woods smiled and said, "We'll see." 
But some are questioning her ability to succeed in what will undoubtedly be a bright media spotlight. 
"Unfortunately, I think it might be looked upon by the media as a sideshow," said PGA champion Rich Beem. "I wish her well. But I also feel sorry for her because there's going to be so much scrutiny around her." 
Whaley will work with sports psychologist Hichard Coop to prepare for the tour­nament. Coop, who has worked with several PGA
Call 2s9-1000 for more details 

Tour golfers and other profes­sional athletes. has known Whaley since the late 1980s when she played for the 

Friday Dec. 6 

LaFartune Ballroom Free 9 pm 
illiams 
Ifyou areready for · 
something different.. arbados is waiting for you/ 
Legendary beaches and 
fantasri, nightlife makes Spring Break in Barbados ·· ,_ ... un/orgettab


...,. 
singersongwriterstoryteller 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 4, 2002 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Quinn adds speed to already quick lineup 
ByANDREW SOUKUP 
Spores Writer 

Less than five minutes into Notre Dame's thrashing of Marquette Monday night, Mike Brey glanced down his bench, ready to make his first substi­tution. Instead of going for one of Notre Dame's big men, Brey pointed to Chris Quinn. 
The 6-foot-2 freshman entered the game for 6-foot-11 behemoth Tom Timmermans, joining Torin Francis, Matt Carroll, Dan Miller and Chris Thomas on the floor. That line­up stayed on the floor most of the night, and Marquette couldn't match Notre Dame's four potent perimeter shooters. 
"That's probably been our best group," Brey said. "When Miller is our second big guy and we can spread it out a lit­tle more. All four of those guys can shoot it, so you have to get out on us, and then it gives us some driving areas." 
Brey felt that entering Monday's game the Irish \-vould have significant success if they went small because their line­up would cause problems for Marquette's bigger, slower for­wards. 
It did. Combined, the Miller­Carroll-Thomas-Quinn quartet accounted for all but four of Notre Dame's 33 field goals and scored 78 of the Irish 92 points. 
The success of Notre Dame's "small" lineup begins with Miller. The 6-foot-8 forward is big enough to defend a post player, but creates match-up problems on the other end of the court by moving around the perimeter. Conversely, if an opponent puts a guard on Miller, the Irish forward can easily operate down ·in the post. 
"That lineup allows Dan Miller to get matched up against a. '4' man," Thomas said. "He's too big for a '3' and too quick for a '4', and it gives everybody an open look and an opportunity to do well." 
Few doubted the impact Carroll, Miller and Thomas would have this season. But few expected the solid contri­butions by Quinn. Before the Irish had even played an exhi­bition game. Brey anticipated watching a Quinn-Thomas backcourt in action. However, the two rarely stepped on the court together in the early games. 
Beginning with the Creighton game, however, Quinn has slowly earned more playing time. His teammates praise his poise on the court, many say­ing he plays like an experi­enced upperclassmen. 
The highlight of Quinn's young career came Monday against the Golden Eagles, when he played 26 minutes and scored 12 points. 
'Tm just looking to go in there and do what I can to help the team, it's not whether I get five minutes or a lot," he said. 'Tm looking to go in there and do whatever I can to help the team win." 
Part of the reason the Irish were successful going small lies in Brey's belief that Notre Dame's experienced perimeter can take some of the pressure off the developing Irish post players. Freshman Torin Francis has been inconsistent early this season. At times. he is a dominating rebounder. Other times, he looks and plays like the inexperienced fresh­man he is. 

One only needs to look at last week to understand Francis' struggles. Against Creighton, Francis played a meager six minutes and didn't score a point. He bounced back against Albany and Marquette. howev­er, recording his fourth dou­ble-double of the season by grabbing 13 rebounds and scoring 11 points against the Golden Eagles. 
"You don't have to hunt your shot, just play off that perime­ter," Brey told Francis after the Creighton game. "He was fabulous, a good night for him." 
But with Francis, Jordan Cornette and Timmermans still works in progress, Brey has turned to his perimeter players to help carry the Irish in the early part of the season. With the Irish draining long 3-point shots, solid perimeter play makes things significantly easi­er for the big men. 
For now, the Irish are con­tent to rely on their veteran perimeter players even as Brey tries to figure out the best pos­sible floor combination for his team 
"I'm still learning about our group," Brey said with a smile. "We have a lot of new parts to play different ways. I'm trying to learn as fast as possible to take advantage of all that." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
-
The Year of the Euro A Conference of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
The Year of the Euro will explore nmnberous ramifications of the introduction of the European Union's new single currency in twelve participating countries in January 2002. This unprecedented project of currency change emerged from a series of political and economic aspirations for transformation and convergence. With the introduction of the Euro as a circulating currency, this large proiect finally entered the fabric of daily life for milions of Europeans. 
December 6-8, 2002 McKenna Hall, CCE, University of Notre Dame 
For information or to register: contact the N anovic Institute for European Studies 574.631.5253 www.nd.edu/ ~nanovic 
Co-sponsored by the European Union, the Graduate School's Office of Research, the Henkels Lecture Series, the Kellogg Institute, the Keough Institute, and the Departments of Political Science and Sociology. 


conjunction

Come join the Sophomore Literary Festival in with Acousticafe for a night of : 
~ 


Student songwriters performing their music! Student writers peforming poetry and prose! 
Coffeehouse fun! \3 Huddle 


_I 

Wednesday, December 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SENDWICH INDEX 
Trojans sail to No. 2, Huskers continue slide 
On Oct. 5, a frustrated Pete Carroll could only scratch his head as his USC football team dropped its second game in its last three contests, a heartbreak­ing 3-point loss in over­time al Washington 
State. 
Questions abounded fur Carroll and the Trojans after their 
surprisingly 
lackluster 
3-.2 start to 
the season. 
Nearly three months and seven consecutive victories later, Pete Carroll is all smiles as his team is virtually guaranteed a RCS bowl bid after finishing the regular season with a 10-2 record against what most believe to be the toughest schedule in the nation. 
USC is hotter than Hansel right now. {If you missed that refer­ence you should probably check out the movie "Zoolander.") 
If a door was unlocked to allow USC's mid-season turnaround, then the Trojan offense holds the key. It is a juggernaut that has scored 427 points on the season, but the scary part is they may just now be finding their groove. The Trojans have scored an average of 44 points per game in their last six contests. including victories of 30-plus points over No. 7 Notre Dame and cross­town rival No. 22 UCI.A. 
So what could 10 measly points possibly mean to such a prolific o!Tense? The answer is an invitation to play for the national championship, USC's two losses have come by a grand total of 10 points, including a 7­

point defeat 

at Kansas State and the afore­mentioned 3-point overtime loss at Washington State. 
Because of 
Eric Sendelbach an incredi­bly diflicult schedule,
Sports 
recent domi­
Columnist 
nation of 
opponents, 
and the fact that their losses came early in the season, USC cashed in their regular-season chips with a No. 2 ranking in the Sendwich Index. 
Notre Dame fell from No. 4 to No. 7 with their embarrassing loss at USC. The Trojans also leaped No. 3 Ohio State and for­mer No. 2 Oklahoma. The Sooners dropped to No. 4 after being dominated by in-state rival No. 40 Oklahoma State. 
Miami remained No. 1 with a 49-7 win at Syracuse. No. 5 Iowa rounds out the Sendwich Index top 5 this week. 
Huskers continue to struggle 
Colorado hadn't won at Nebraska since 1990, but this hasn't exactly been your average 10 or 11-win season in Lincoln. 
Without injured standout tail­back Chris Brown, the Buffaloes used three different ball carriers to gain 253 rushing yards on route to a 28-13 victory over the Huskers. When Colorado's sec­ond-string tailback Bobby Purify wont out in the second quarter with a sore knee, fourth string 

tailback Brandon Calhoun stepped up nicely carrying 20 
times for 137 yards. 
Colorado improved seven spots to No. 14 in the Sendwich Index. The Buffaloes face Oklahoma this weekend in the Big XII Championship. Nebraska lost four of its last six games and dropped to No. 66. 
In a year Husker fans would rather forget, Nebraska finished its regular season with a 7-6 record, its worst since a 3-6-1 performance in 1961. The Cornhuskers are also assured of failing to win nine games for the first time in 33 years. With a 3-4 mark in Big XII games. it was the Huskers first season with a losing conference record since 1968. 
Despite the horrid season by Husker standards, Nebraska is still assured an invitation to a bowl game, likely the MainStay Independence Bowl in Shreveport, La., on Dec. 27 against an SEC opponent. Should they stumble in the bowl game, Nebr'aska will add to the nega­tive accolades with its first sea­son without a winning record since 1961. 
Perhaps it wasn't surprising when Nebraska head coach Frank Solich fired three of his assistants Monday. He also vowed to step down from his double-duty as offensive coordi­nator next season to concentrate on his head coaching position. 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Eric Chanowich at echanowi@nd.edu and Eric Sendelbach at esendelb@nd.edu. 

Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame bowling club placed a disappointing 51st at the National Collegiate Team Match Championships over the weekend. 
In one of the premier events of the season, the Irish were paired through the luck of the draw with several of the top varsity programs in the coun­try. Jason Raver led the Irish with a tournament scratch average of 180, with Phillip Nagel, Daniel Gonzalez, Gabe Torres and Jason Pawalk com­pleting the line-up as each competed in nine games. 


With a scoring format that awarded 50 points for a win, and 25 for a tie, the Irish earned 200 points for four vic­tories. 
The Irish entered the final game in 48th place and clos­ing in on several other teams. However, the squad faltered and dropped three more spots in the rankings. 
The club will be back in action this weekend at the Leatherneck Classic in Moline, Ill., and again over semester break at the Las Vegas Invitational. 

...... 
-

lal~!if!&l~~'"~"'-"="~ :····''. 
FlipSide
I. 

I MEIJER~ 
, 
. 


, _:___ lJ!I_~ 
FUN! GAMES! SHOPPING! 
Supermarket Sweep Scavenger Hunts Eating Contests Oreo 
w••.\'c/(l',.;',::,t.V,J,.\'•.\\\'<V-XJ,,t,,t,_isC.. ti=t,~J:s:..i,:,il,:9:1,,Y,\,:,Wt,lt,,·,,<t,!,Jt,l,:1,;<,W<\';i 
~ Friday, December i 
f 6th 

I 
Bus Pickups: LeMans Circle@ 9: 15pm 
ND SMC HCC Srudents ONLY! 

You MUST ride the bus with Flipside to participate in the events Questions? Call Jeff4-2174 Visit our website at www.nd.edu/~flipside or on AIM--our screen name is FlipsideEvents 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 4, 2002 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Matchup with Valpo unlikely to be a crusade 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has yet to lose a game to Valparasio in 15 meetings, and it doesn't want to do anything to reverse that trend Wednesday night. 
The No. 9 Irish {2-0) face the Crusaders (2-3) at the Athletics-Recreation Center and look to pick up their third win of the season and second straight road victory. Notre Dame outlasted USC 69-57 in Los Angeles Nov. 29. Last sea­son Notre Dame didn't get a road win until Jan. 2 
"This is a big deal for us," Teresa Borton said after the USC game. 'Tm so excited to win on the road and [USC] is a good team. It feels really good to come out here .... They played a good game and we did too, so it's exciting to win." 
The Irish want to take that momentum into their game against Valparasio. Notre Dame is in the midst of a four­game road trip that has them playing Arizona State and DePaul before heading back to the Joyce Center for three straight home games. 
The Crusaders enter this game after a 91-48 victory over Concordia Nov. 30. The 91-points were the most by a Valparasio team since they beat Qunniplac 96-68 Dec. 29, 2000. Valparasio also had five players set career-nighs against Concordia, led by Kathryn Knoester's 20 points. 
The Irish also had success in their last game as Alicia Ratay led Notre Dame with 17 points and Jacqueline Batteast added 14 points and 11 rebounds. 
The Irish trailed the Trojans at halftime 37-33 but used a strong second half to pull away from use. 
Valparasio has used strong performances from several freshmen, especially Jamie Gutowski who has scored in double figures twice this sea­son. She had a career-high 24 points against Fresno State. 
The Irish faced the Crusaders to open up last sea­son with Notre Dame winning an ugly game, 42-35. Borton led the team with 14 points in that contest. 
The Irish have distributed their scoring thus far this sea­son, with five players averag­ing double figures in points, led by sophomore Katy Flecky's 17 .5 points per game. Batteast averages 16.5 points and 9.5 rebounds, while Borton has added 14 a game. 
The game tips off at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Catnpus Ministry Internship InCormadon Night 
,rWorJ( ,f,ull-ti~e. I-ti. t0t~p1As "'li-11.istrcr k&e.f IA.0t-11.ds-0-11. e.xpe.rie.-11.c.e. p10t-11.-11.i-11.~ re.tre.0tts1 
~~~t\1AS1 Rtr.A, Mtl.s.s C\11.d ~ore. 
itDe.ve.1op 7to1Ar 1e.£tde.rship sl(ilis itG-row spi~it1At\11'~ C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Find out ifthe Crunpus Ministry htternship is Cor you... 
-

For tnore lnCormadon contact Darrell Paulsen: 1-5827; Paulsen.t@nd.edu 

Wednesday, December 4, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

SCHOOL DAZE 
Hmo CLA'i5, AND wi;:u:oME::: lb 
M~ICAN f;ALLROOM. Plf:At;E:. 
lv\W00,\1!1.."f UN~ UP 6'1 $'-)I I\NO DANCf. WllH lH~ f'ARTNER Of'f0-i ~,if: 'IOU. 
HAPPY TOWN 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
JACK MONAHAN 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRJON 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
-
to form four ordinary words. 
GLARN 
j
I rx 
02002 Tribune Media Services, Inc 
All'Righta Reaarved, 
TINEW 

SIDURA 
_.., 
WWW.jumble.com
t

LAPEAT 

Answer: INTHE "( 1 I I J' [ I J 1 ) 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: BEGOT EJECT HIDING VENDOR Answer: Where the high-rise riveter preferred working -ON THE EDGE 

HOW THEY DROY!: TO THE=IR SCHOOL. !<!!::UNION. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, .as suggested by the above cartoon 
Stumped? Call 1-900-77&-6718199 cents a minute) 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Slender woman 1 Balance of 36 Fam. member October 
37 Rhein feeder 6 Not ashore 
38 Vigoda of 10 Pal in Sydney "Barney Miller-' 14 Arm of the sea 40 Legal conclusion?
1S Pooh, for one 41 Gloomy, in
16 Yoked beasts 
poetry 17 Hendrix 
43 •_, Our Help biography •­in Ages PasrMe While 1Kiss {hymn)

the Sky" 44 Twaddle
18 2002 Literature Nobelist Kertesz 45 Definition, part 3 
19 Decent, so to 48 Philosophical speak subjects 
20 Start of a 49 "Me too• definition of 
50 "Oh, brother!" 

"microsecond" 52 End of the 
23 A, in Acapulco 
definition 24 Suffix with xeno­
58 "Awright!" 25 Padlock piece 
59 Janis's husband 28 Definition, part 2 in the funnies 33 Like 60 Runs like a deer 34 "See ya!" 61 Facility 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 
62 Creditor's claim 1 
63 What's happening 64 "Darn it!" 65 Choice word 66 "Touched By an Ange!" co-star 
DOWN 
1 _price 2 Make a small move 
3 Off-color 
4 What to do before a big race, maybe 

5 Had a home-cooked meal 6 Rose lover? 7 Like some athletes 8 Coarse 9 Playground retort 10 Derision 53 Right on the map
11 Rod in a hot rod 34 He debuted at 46 Steamed dish 54 Off-white shade 
12 Parts of a the Met in 1903 47 TV chef Victorian social Lagasse 55 Blunted blade
schedule 38 Ten-percenter: 

13 Wrap up Abbr. 48 Smitten 56 Gymnastic coups
39 Prosperous 51 One who hears 
21 Secret society 

periods "You've got 57 53-Down, in 
22 Treated badly 

mail" Italia 
42 Army
25 Capital of 

helicopters 52 Sweetheart 58 Kyoto currency 
Colombia? 
26 Car similar to a Grand Am 27 Oregon's capital 29 Crew tool 
30 Pirates and Padres, informally 
31 Kind of salts 

Puzzle by Nancy Salamon and Nancy T. Shack 
32 Puts an edge on 43 Baltimore birds 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100·for one academic year · D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jeff Bridges. Marisa Tomei, Wink Martindale, Tyra Banks 
Happy Birthday: It's your tum to have some fun. If you lel anyone stand in your way, you will only have yourself lo blame. You will find yourself moving through a period of lransition lhis year, so allow things lo unfold naturally. Be confidenl and make a bold move 1oward the freedom and independence you desire. Your numbers are 9, 17, 23, 35, 41, 48 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): Don'! be loo eager to agree with someone who pushes his opinion on you. Give yourself some time alone lo get inlrospective and to see what your needs and aspirations really are. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Guard against your stubborn nalure. Think before you dig in your heels. Don't limit yourself al work or your boss may question your importance. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Business and pleasure won't click. You can damage your reputation and cause heartache al home if you flirl with colleagues. Try to maintain a balance between work and home. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your lemper has been hard lo conlrol. Consider the source of your anger and rid yourself of the cause. Lei go of the pas1. 
*** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's lime to be realislic aboul whal you wanl for yourself and those you deal with. An unprediclable co-worker may nol hold up his end of a deal. Be sure to prolecl your repulalion. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Try lo work out of your home loday. You can achieve a great deal if you are lefl alone. A linle physical aclivity will give you a break and also energize you, helping you 10 be more produc1ive. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Limilations due to children or poor financial dealings may stand in your way today. Conlrol your anxiety by channeling your energy into productive creative endeavors. You can make favorable head ay on projecls. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel may in facl be your besl bet Emolional problems will conlinue to mounl. Creale some time and space for yourself in order lo regain perspective on your life. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get involved in a worthwhile cause. Others will appreciate your efforts and your talenls. Romantic possibilities arc present. Don't keep your feelings hidden. *** CAPRICORN (Dee. 22-Jan. 19): Partners may cos1 you more 1han you bargained for. You may make promises lhal are hard lo live up lo. Your tendency lo overextend yourself in all areas of your life should be curbed. 
*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Educational pursuils will result in a higher position. You may have a problem with a relative if you allow him or her to interfere in your personal life. You have 10 make your own decisions.**** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Problems with institutions will be infuriating, so give yourself plenly of lime to sort things oul. Try 10 gel some rest and relaxation. Lowered vitality may resull in minor health problems. ** 
Birthday Baby: You will be an observer and a wanderer. You will base your own decisions on what you have experienced. You will be able 10 help others because of your innate ability lo see things with clear vision. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasl.com. 
aslromate.com. 

COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
.--------------------------------------------­
PORTS 
Wednesday, December 4, 2002 


.... 
HOCKEY 
As cold as ice 
. Irish drop pair of conference games on road at Alaska­Fairbanks 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Edicor 
There wasn't much for the Irish to be thankful for over the holiday weekend as Notre Dame dropped a pair of one­goal games to CCHA rival Alaska-Fairbanks, 4-3 and 5-4 on the road. 
"It was very disappointing," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We didn't play very well on Friday night. We came back from being down 3-0 and tied it up at 3-3. And then gave up a goal late in the game after missing several chances to go ahead. And then Saturday night we played very well, but we got victimized by four power play goals." 
Once again this season, spe­Gial teams victimized the Irish in the second game Saturday. Notre Dame was unable to convert four power play opportunities, while the Nanooks scored on four of six to make up a 4-2 deficit and take a 5-4 victory. 
It was the first time since a 6-1 loss to Michigan in 1997 the Irish allowed four power play goals in a game. 
"I don't know that our power play has ever been as good as it is right now," Poulin said. "We just haven't scored. So many components go into it.... We have more chances than we've ever had, more shots than we've ever had. We're just not finishing." 
With the game tied at 4-4 in the third period, Alaska­Fairbanks' forward Ryan Campbell scored a goal at even strength with 11 :51 left to play for the game winner. The goal was the only one of the match that the Nanooks scored without having a power play advantage. 
Junior wing Rob Globke had two goats and an assist for the Irish and centers Yan Stastny and Aaron Gill also had goals for Notre Dame in the losing effort. 
ln the opener Friday, the Irish came from three goals behind, only to yield the even­tual game-winning goal to Nanook sophomore Aaron Voros at 8:58 of the final peri­od. The game was Voros' first back on the ice since Nov. 2. 
The Irish scored three times in just 7 :51 on goals from Globke and centers Matt Amado and Cory McLean. The difference in the game came as Alaska-Fairbanks outshot Notre Dame 39-20, and Irish goaltender Morgan Cey was only able to stop 35 of those Nanook shots. 
The losses drop the Irish to 5-6-2 on the season and 4-6-0 in the CCHA as they slip below .500 for the first time this year. 
The challenge for the Irish will be to bounce back from a pair of conference losses that the team had hoped to win. 
"You just have to go right back to it," Poulin said. "The best thing is we play Saturday. I wish it would have been tonight, but we just have to wait until Saturday." 
The Irish will have that 


opportunity against 3-8-1 Bowling Green. The Falcons are only 1-7-1 in conference play. But Poulin doesn't want to look past the Falcons as the Irish try to climb back up the conference standings. 
"We know Bowling Green is a good team," Poulin said. 
"They're going to work hard. They have a good goaltender. We will have to go out there and win a hockey game on Saturday and go from there." 
Note: 
. With his three goals in the 

series, Irish wing Rob Globke surpassed his total of 11 from last season. The junior now has 12 goals and seven assists as he leads the team in scor­ing. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
ND SWIMMING 
Swimmers get endowments for scholarships 
programs. Dame graduate and served as assistant professor of physical wonderful mentor to so many
ByJETAUN DAVIS 
"I think that these two the first head coach for both education at Notre Dame. generations of Irish athletes 
Sports Wrircr 
endowments will allow our the mens and womens swim­William A. Carson II and Dr. and hope these endowments swim teams to be more com­ming and diving teams. Under Kathleen L. Latino, the con­will grow in coming years." 
Two endowments in the petitive and compete at a Stark's leadership, the mens tributors to these endowments. Carson graduated in 1969 name of former Notre Dame greater level," said Courtney team held a record of 166-137 are both graduates of Notre and is now a member of the mens and womens swimming Campbell, a freshman on the from 1958 to 1985 and the Dame and also served on Notre law firm Burch, Porter, & coach Dennis J. Stark have womens swim team. "Now the womens team's record was 31-Dame swim teams. Johnson in Memphis. Latino been established. University will be able to 14 between 1981 and 1985. "This endowment honors one graduated in 1982 and serves 
These endowments will aid attract those swimmers that Along with these records, he of Notre Dame's greatest as a physician with Rockland in Notre Dame's initiative to really need a scholarship as was named the North Star coaches," said Kevin White, Urology Associates in Pomona, linancially assist as many ath­opposed to the swimmers Conference womens coach of director of athletics. "We N.Y. letes as allowed by the NCAA going other places because the year in 1984. Stark, who appreciate the generous way in each of Notre Dame's 26 they can't afford to pay." recently retired as director of in which Bill Carson and Kathy ContactJetaun Davis at men's and women's varsity Slark was a 1947 Noire Rolfs Aquatic Center, is now an Latino have recognized such a jdavis7@nd.edu 

MENS BASKETBALLNU WOMENS BASKETBALL 
SENDWICH INDEX 
In Notre Dame's 92-71 victory over No. 10 Sendwkh Index, and USC moved all the way up 
Miami remained in the top spot of the
Notre Dame at Valparaiso 

Marquette Monday, Irish coach Mike Brey opted to 
use a lineup of guards Chris Quinn, Chris Thomas The Irish try to keep up their winning ways 
to No. 2 with its 44-13 victory over Notre Dame. 
Wednesday, 7 p.m. 

and Matt Carroll and forward Danny Miller to against the Crusaders. Notre Dame is 2-0 on the 
Nebraska fell even further in the Index with its 
28-13 loss to Colorado. The Buffaloes, mean­
move the ball around the court and spread the season, and the Irish have yet to lose a game to 
Marquette defense. The move worked as the quar­tet scored 78 of the team's 92 points. 
while, moved up seven spots from 21 to 14. 
Valparaiso in their 15 meetings. 
page 20page 22 page 21 





