
Winter Flicks
SUNNY 

Thursday 

Observer critics check out Hollywood's latest offerings from mediocre 
"Birthday Girl" to the avoidable "Slackers." 
FEBRUARY 7,
HIGH 40° 
Scene . pages 12 and 13
LOW28° 
2002 


T'he Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Danie and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 82 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Candidates avoid confrontation in debate 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
In an ele_ction debate free of debate Wednesday, the four tickets for Notre Dame student body president ·and vice president communicat­ed little about their plat­forms, read from campaign posters and discussed issues brought to light only by the press. 
The Judicial Council-spon­sored event proved more an opportunity to meet the eight candidates than to hear them dispute campus issues. The council designed the annual forum with civili­ty in mind. setting up a three-part event where can­didates introduce them­selves; answer questions from campus media reporters and give final statements. 
"It's the way the debate has run in the past," Judicial Council Vice President of Elections John McCarthy said. He wouldn't comment on whether the non-con­frontational nature of the debate stifled competition between tickets. 
It certainly stifled enthusi­asm of the sparse crowd of 50 students who turned out for the event. The audience, which included many people from candidates· campaign staffs. remained unengaged and seemingly unimpressed, politely applauding tickets as they rose to speak and sat down. 
There were a few high­lights, however. 
The Nikki McCord-Nick Williams ticket continued its "student next door" strategy. A boisterous McCord intro­duced her platform wi~h a hearty "Wuzzup, y'all?'' The junior presidential candidate made more of a priority of plugging her participation and success in the school's figure skating club than of presenting herself as a sec­ond-term student senator. 
Williams, the vice presi­dential candidate, drew laughs explaining why he was pursuing elected office. 
"I am running because I've tailgated at every home foot­ball," the sophomore said. "I am running because I have to leave girls' dorms at mid­night." 
Asked by Scholastic Editor Mike Griffin about the tick­et's lighthearted campaign strategy, Williams said, "It doesn't have to be complete­ly serious. We're students. We're all going to leave here and go watch a funny movie tonight." 
Brian Moscona and Keri Oxley brought a more seri­ous tone to the event. The two explored their platform, quoting Webster's definition of the word "vision" and reading from their campaign media guide. 
"The main reason that we're running is because we love Notre Dame and have this vision," said junior presidential candidate Moscona, the current stu-


BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 

Candidates Scott Palko, P.J. Mercanti, Libby Bishop and Trip Foley (left to right) look into the -audience during the election debate held Wednesday night at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
dent body vice president. Observer reporter Erin the Office of the President "[Current sophomore class LaRuffa questioned Moscona should do less programming. president] Keri and I want to and Oxley's plan to sponsor They addressed the issue work to make this place bet-more carnival-type events indirectly and said the office ter than it was when we got next year in light of the here." statements by the pair that 
see DEBATE/page 6 

Nagengast, Ryan named to top posts 
By JEFF BALTRUZAK London Correspondent 
Kate Nagengast and Kevin Ryan will oversee The Observer's editorial and busi­ness operations, respectively, 
in 2002-03, incoming Editor in Chief Jason McFarley announced Wednesday. 
Nagengast will serve as 


M a 11 aging Nangengast
Editor. Ryan has been named Business l\1anager. 
Their appointments are 
effective March 18. 
As Managing Editor, Nagengast is responsible for staff recruitment and hiring and developing the mission of The Observer's seven editorial departments. 
"My experience at The Observer thus far has been great, so I hope that in this new leadership position I can contin­ue and e v e n improve upon the paper's past suc­cess," Nagengast said. 

see OBSERVER/page 4 

Board report focuses on Frosh 0 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Brooke Norton and chief of staff Jonathan Jorissen will present student govern­ment's suggestions on Freshman Orientation to the Student Affairs Committee today at the Board of Trustee's meeting in Palm Springs, Calif. 
"We really think that there are a lot of things we could do to make it [Freshman Orientation] a better pro­gram," Norton said. 
Norton and Jorissen are recommending centralizing the leadership of Freshman Orientation and increasing the budget and scope of events for the weekend event to the Board. 
As the situation stands, no one person oversees all 

aspects of freshman orienta­tion. Because dorms, First Year of Studies and various campus organizations have events scheduled over the extended weekend, the potential for schedule con­flicts exists, according to Jorissen and Norton. 
"There's no one person that it all goes through," Jorissen said. "If one person was in charge, it would smooth things out quite a bit." 
The two are recommending the creation of such a posi­t ion through Student Activities. The full-time, pait'l position would allow some­one to oversee all aspects of freshman orientation and would report to Student Activities, Residence Life and The First Year of Studies. 
The commissioner would also be advised by students and work with a University 
Freshman Orientation com­mittee -something that stu­dent government is also rec­ommending the Board cre­ate. 
In addition to having a cen­tral commissioner: student government is advising the Board to make Freshman Orientation commissioner­training courses a one-credit class. Separate classes, taught by the Freshman Orientation leader and stu­dents who have been previ­ously involved, for dorm and campus-wide commissioners would be offered. Norton and Jorissen also want to incor­porate diversity training into the course. 
"It would make it a little more attractive to be a com­missioner if you're getting a one credit course out of the deal," Jorissen said. 
see BOARD/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, February 7, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Questioning the norm 
How often do you try something new? How often have you jumped off the edge, both feet first, into the ice-cold, raging river? How many times do you watch other people do things, but say "that's not for me?" 
How many times have you taken a chance, a risk that you might get hurt -phys­ically. mentally, emotional­ly? How often do you speak your mind, letting those around you know how you feel? Do you act on those emotions and thoughts? 

Before this starts to sound like some sort of Angela Campos diatribe on how to live 
your life, let me assure you that it's not. Before I (or Lab Tech anyone for that matter) 
could start to tell you how to live your life, my own life would have to he one of absolute perfec­tion. 
What's your idea of perfection? Is it some sort of place where nothing goes wrong and you are never riddled with negative emotions? Or is it a state of being, where you can go to relax and be at peace in a chaotic world? My idea of perfection is change. I am not saying that once something is good that it has to be changed, but rather that when something is good, don't let it get old or boring. 
That might sound superficial to some people, but take this example. Say you're in a relation­ship and things have fallen into a comfortable routine. Great! You know where things stand with each other, and you can practically read each other's thoughts. Everything is perfect ... or so you think. How do you deal with some­thing different in that relationship? A differ­ence of opinion or likes and dislikes? Does one person change the way he or she is to make the routine work? 
Or here's another example. You come home from school everyday, you pick up your basket­ball, go to the courts at Rolfs and shoot hoops for an hour. You've done this every day since you came here Frosh-O weekend. After a while, the friends you'd shoot hoops with get tired ofit ... you're all juniors now, and they're sick of tagging along with your ideas. Do you keep shooting hoops everyday or stop so you can hang out with your friends? 
In both instances, what appeared to be "per­fection" was really just boredom and lazy com­placence. What would it be like to go to a nearby city and dance in the plazas and streets as you walked around at night? What would it be like to cry with people you only just met? What would it be like to meet people who accepted you for who you are, not expecting you to be anything else but yourself-and wanting you to be happy? 
I think that would be wonderful ... It makes living exciting, to share who you really are with the people you meet, work and live. That is why I say that questioning the norm. fighting the urge to be complacent, is how to get to per­fection. 
Living such a life would be awesome. It would be real. It would be the truth. It would be perfect. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
In Wednesday's "Damn Yankeeit preview story, the wrong ticket price was listed. Tickets are $8 for general admission and $6 for students, not $5 as reported Wednesday. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. Ifwe: have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
The ObS<tvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and "."•cation periods. The Observer is a memb,r of the Associated Pres.. All reproduction rights arc rcscr\'cd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Thursday  Friday  
. Theater: "Damn  . Event: Brazilian  
Yankees," opening night,  Carnival, all ages, open to  
Wahington Hall. 7 :30 p.m.  the public. Alumni Senior  
. Lecture:  "Did Aristotle  Club, 8 p.m. to midnight.  
Do Biology?" James Lennox,  
DeBartolo Hall, 4:15 p.m.  

Saturday 
. Poetry: Craig "muMs" Grant, slam poet, Ballroom LaFortune Student Center. 8 p.m. 
.. 
Sunday 
. Concert: "Saints and Sinners," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, 2 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Indiana U. urged to make Knight records public 
BLOCTMINGTON, Ind. 
A resolution that was introduced Tuesday at the Bloomington Faculty Council meeting urged President Myles Brand and the Indiana University administration to stop fighting the lawsuits brought against the University by The Indianapolis Star. 
The proposal specifically endorses open access to public records and the insurance that "no further University funds arc expended in support of efforts to prevent the release of public documents." 
Victor Viola, the sponsor of the res­olution, said the faculty needs to send a stern message to the administration. 
"I feel strongly that this incident has damaged the University, and the sooner we get it behind us, the bet­ter," he said. "It would be in the facul­ty's best interest to pass this." 


In a lawsuit brought by The Indianapolis Star, the Star contends that IU violated Public Records laws by refusing to release documents related to the firing of Bob Knight. IU has already spent $210,000 to defend itself in the resulting litigation. 
"The principle defended by the University of not releasing documents and going to an extent to not release these documents gives th~ impression of a coverup and makes everything worse," Viola said. 
The proposal was not voted on at the meeting. Most of the members of the Faculty Committee said they would need more detailed information on the proposal's legal ramifications before they could take an official stance. The uncertainties of the pro­posal. members said, rest on the Public Records Access Act and the effect the ultimate outcome would have on third parties, such as ·stu­dents. 
Indiana Daily Student 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Students plead not guilty to larceny 
Harvard University students, Randy J. Gomes and Suzanne M. Pomey ~ere arraigned Tuesday morning on charges of felony larceny in Middlesex Superior Court. Both plead not guilty to charges of stealing close to $100,000 from the Hasty Pudding Theatricals during a period of more than a year. According to a source close to the investigations, prosecutors allege Gomes and Pomey used the Pudding's credit card machine to credit their own cards with money begin­ning in March 2000. The scheme continued until at least June 2001, by which time the two were allegedly stealing thousands of dollars a week. During the time in question, Pomey served as the Pudding's producer -one of the Theatricals' highest positions and the one with greatest control over finances. Gomes served as assistant director of the group's popular Man and Woman of the Year ceremonies. 
Harvard Crimson 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Firms troubled by bonfire risks 
Harsh business and legal realities stemming from the 1999 Texas A&M University Bonfire collapse that killed 12 Aggies and injured 27 others may have doomed Bonfire 2002 before planning ever began. A&M President Ray M. Bowen announced Monday Bonfire will not burn this fall because the safety firm for the project had withdrawn and because revised cost estimates put the price tag for Bonfire 2002 at $2.5 million, about $1 million more than originally esti­mated. Bryan Cole, the coordinator of the Bonfire 2002 Steering Committee, said legal liability and the high-risk nature of the project drove away most insur­ance companies from underwriting the project. Turner Construction, the New York-based firm contracted as safety consultants for Bonfire 2002. pulled out of the project Wednesday after it was unable to obtain liabili­ty insurance. Cole said the insurance firms Turner had worked with in the past dismissed the project without considering it. 
The Battalion 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Thursday, Feb. 7. 

® © D E3J . . !ill D · 
High Low Shaw•ra R¦ ln T•atarm• Flul'fM¦ Snow loe Sunny Pl. Cloudy Ckludy VII Assocjafed Pre!ia 
Atlanta 47 34 Las Vegas 63 41 Portland 47 41 Baltimore 46 31 Memphis 49 34 Sacramento 57 42 Boston 41 32 Milwaukee 40 27 St. Louis 45 32 Chicago 42 27 New York 44 31 Tampa 72 50 Houston 57 42 Philadelphia 45 32 Washington, DC 46 34 
Thursday, February 7, 2002 The Ob:;erver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Peer advocates resign 
. Wong, Nicholeen sight strained relationship with Reslife 
By ERJN LaRUFFA Associate News Editor 
Susan Wong and Nicholeen DePersis announced thejr resig­nation Wednesday night from their positions as co-vice presi­dents of Peer Advocacy, part of the Judicial Council. 
"Due to events that occurred over the course of the Fall Semester of 2001, we now ques­tion the strength of our relation­ship with the staff of Residence Life, thereby causing us to ques­tion our ability to continue to properly serve the student body," Wong and DePersis said in a letter they submitted to the senate. 
As vice presidents of Peer Advocacy, Wong and DePersis helped students deal with disci­plinary cases involving the Office of Residence Life. In their letter, Wong and DePersis said they relationship -with that office was once "strong" but has become "strained." 
Following their resignation, Judicial Council president Tim Jarotkiewicz nominated Kathryn Anderson and Ricky Sadowski to replace Wong and DePersis. The senate unanimously confirmed the nominations. 
The senate also considered a resolution submitted by Audra Hagan to increase the annual student activities fee that stu­dents pay. The fee would initial• ly increase by $10 to $75 for the 2002-2003 school year, and would increase by $5 a year thereafter. 
Hagan told senators that the increase was necessary to keep up with inflation. Otherwise, stu­dent organizations such as the Student Union Board would have to cut its programming. 
"If we had extra money, we'd at least be able to maintain the same level of funding for clubs and activities," Hagan said. 
However, some senators ques­tioned whether students were really willing to pay the extra money. One of those senators, Nikki McCord, said she dis­cussed the proposal at her dorm's hall council meeting last night. 
"The ladies at hall council in LPasquerilla East] last night told me that they didn't want me to vote for this," McCord said. 
The senate voted to table the resolution to allow all senators the opportunity to discuss it with their hall councils. 
Another resolution. which called for the Oflice of Student Affairs to post in each dorm the steps a person should take if sexually assaulted, unanimously passed the senate Wednesday night. 
According to Breen-Phillips senator Anne McCarley, the cur­rent brochure the University 
publishes is too confusing. ''It's very difficult for students to use as a resource," she said. 
"I've looked at the brochure and it's ridiculous. ff you're in an emergency situation, you're going to be really confused," said off-campus senator Matt Smith. For that reason, he said, it was important for students to have access to a simpler version like the one proposed in the sen­ate resolution. 
In other senate news: 
. Academic committee chair Pat Hallahan encouraged sena­tors to read Wednesday's Observer article about Tuesday's Faculty Senate meet­ing. At the meeting, the Faculty Senate called for more faculty representation on the University's Academic Council. 
"They voted to dissolve them­selves last year in a very child­like way," said Hallahan of the Faculty Senate, He added that if a group that acted in such a way deserves more representation on the Academic Council, stu­dents also deserve more, Currently. there are three stu­dents on the council out of 40 members. 
"The Student Senate has been very patient with the adminis­tration," said Hallahan. "We don't have the representation we deserve." 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at · elaruffa@nd.edu. 

TAKING THE CAMPUS TOUR 


NDA ER FIVE 
Thursday, Feb. 7 
5:15 p.m.  Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred  
Heart  
7:00 p.m.  Film:  The Circie, Hesburgh Library  

Carey Auditorium 
7:00 
p.m. Blessing Unto Others: Demetra Smith lecture, LaFortune Student Center Montgomery Theatre 

7:00 
p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival: Jean and Robert Hollander reading, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 

7:00 
p.m. "Looking for Inspiration", lecture by Graphic Designer, Michael Gericke, Snite Museum of Art Annenberg Theatre 


7:30 p.m. Play: Damn Yankees, Washington Hall* 
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
9:00 
p.m. ~ Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, LaFortune Student Center Basement 

9:00 
p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 


10:00 p.m. Movies: K-Pax and Close Encounters, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

Friday, Feb. 8 

5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 
p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 

7:00 
p.m. Blessing Unto Others Benefit Concert, Carey Auditorium* 


7:30 
p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival: Maura Stanton, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 

7:30 
p.m. Damn Yankees, Washington Hall* 


7:30 
p.m. Movies: K-Pax and -Close Encounters, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


8:00 
p.m. Winter Olympics Opening Ceremony Watch, LaFortune Student Center Main Lounge 

8:00 
p.m. Carnival with Brazilian music by the Chicago Samba School, Alumni Senior Club 

8:00 
p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 


8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center Basement 
9:00 
p.m. With Love From ND: Casablanca and making valentines for children in local hospitals, LaFortune Student Center Montgomery Theatre & Sorin Room 

9:00 
p.m. Crafting Corner: Valentine's Day Cookie Decorating, LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room 

9:00 
p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Student Open Skate, Joyce Center Fieldhouse* 

9:00 
p.m. Meijer Extravaganza!! Buses leave Hesburgh Library Circle at 8:30 & 9:30 p.m. 


10:00 
p.m. Movies: K-Pax and Close Encounters, De Bartolo 101 and 155* 

10:00 
p.m. -1:30 a.m. Tournament Fridays: Chess, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 


Saturday, Feb. 9 
5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
7:00 p.m. Blessing Unto Others Benefit Concert, Carey Auditorium* ' 
7:30 
p.m. Movies: K-Pax and Close Encounters, De Bartolo 101 and 155* 

7:30 
p.m. Play: Damn Yankees, Washington Hall* 


8:00 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival: muMs performing Slam Poetry, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
8:30 
p.m. Game Show: Pangborn's First Date, Reckers* 

8:30 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center Basement 


9:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Formal Dance at the Sacred Heart Parish Center (St. Joesph Hall) (transportation from Main & Hesburgh Library Circles beginning at 9: 15 p. m. )* 
9:30 p.m. -11:30 p.m. Ice Skating Party, Joyce Center Ice Rink* 
10:00 
p.m. -1:00 a.m. Open Karaoke, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: K-Pax and Close Encounters, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


This ad is published by the Student Activities Office as a service to the campus community. Programs are subject to change without notice. All programs are free to Notre Dame students unless marked by an asterisk (*). 
F"OR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOM, VISIT: www.nd.edu/~sao/ 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 7, 2002 
Sexuality series lecture addresses sexual abuse 
By JILL MAX.BAUER N"'"' Writer 
One in four females v<.ill be sexu­ally abused by the time they are 
18. This startling fact is what prompted the decision to plan the "A Criminal Choice: Sexual Abuse," for the Understanding and Embracing Our Sexuality Series. 
"Personal choice has been an on-going theme throughout this series. Tonight is different because it is about a criminal's choice," said Sister Lydia Kors. 
"\tVhen I was in college, I had no idea how pervasive child sexual abuse is -I see it as a women's issue because it is so pervasive. This is real and it's nevc1· your fault," said Mary DePauw, director of the Counseling and Career Development Center as well as a licensed psychologist. 
The planning team used a sexu­al choices and decision making manual in order to prepare the lecture. The model was adapted for the college population and to help make this topic a reality. The 
Observer 
continued from page 1 
"Although I know this job will take immense amounts of time and responsibility, I feel ready to contribute more to the paper's editorial process." 
As Business Manager, Ryan holds authority over non-edi­torial departments and is responsible for implementing a comprehensive financial plan for the paper. 
'Tm honored to have been selected as Business Manager for The Observer," Ryan said. "I look forward to advancing this publication's business interests into the future." 
Nagengast, a junior American studies major with 
a  concentration  in  the  
Journalism,  Ethics  and  
Democracy program, is  cur­ 

rently Associate News Editor. 
model for the forum included per­sonal stories, small group work and a flowing discussion by both the students and the planning team. 
"It helps to make it real by shar­ing -to share the many ways in which abuse realities exist. There are so many different kinds of abuse that men and women are victimized by. The common thread is violence -someone chooses to hurt someone else," said DePauw. "One of the things wo need to do as a culture is to say 'this is not acceptable."' 
"Power and control are the cen­ter points of sexual abuse, and rarely do you have only one form of abuse. Emotional and physical abuse usually plays a role," said Anne Marie Mayhay, one of the student planners. 
The question ofhealing was pro­posed to the planning team. DePauw explained the processes a victim goes through in order to heal. 
"Most victims don't seek imme­diate help because they are suffer­ing from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, where they will avoid 
She began work at The Observer in fall 1999 as a news writer and has been Wire Editor, Copy Editor and Assistant News Editor. 
Nagengast, of Grand Rapids, Mich., studied abroad last semester in the London Program. She lives in Walsh Hall. 
Ryan, a sophomore finance and economics major, is cur­rently Controller of The Observer. He began his career at the paper last spring when he was hired to the position. 
Ryan is from Eden Prairie, Minn., and lives in Morrissey Manor. He is a fund manager for Notre Dame's Investment Club and a project leader for the Student International Business Council. 
Contact Jeff Baltruzak at jbaltrul@nd.edu. 

anything that makes them think about the incident. The first thing that needs to be done is to provide a safe place for students to come and talk and use, whether it be the counseling center, staying with friends, or going home to find that safety," said DePanw. 
The steps DePauw outlined include reestablishing safety, remembrance and mourning and reconnecting to normal life. 
"It [sexual abuse] doesn't have to traumatically effect every rela­tionshlp for the rest of her life. A sign of getting over the trawna is being able to talk about it," she said. "Jt's an interesting culture that does not make healthy, respectful relating a priority -so what are you going to choose to do? rthink that's the challenge for the members of this community." 
The planning team urges any­one who has been a victim of sex­ual abuse, whether from child abuse to date rape, to seek help. 
Contact Jill Maxhauer at ma:xb3l23@saintmarys.edu 


·.:t/-' 
. a' , ' 
• ' 

It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. 
The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful seivices, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and setvices designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
(574) 654--2250 
31869 Chicago Trai I 
~ 
New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836 
~

HAMILTON 
Website: http://www.hamiltoncomm.org 
COMMUNITIES 
~'­
fj..,t 
2

,,~·1,;:.;;:::z~:;·;::1~~~:z1:;:i;:-,;:1:1 ~""" 
;;;;;:~· '~ ~······~ •,,~~ 

Hamilton Communities, 31869 Chicago Trail, New Carlisle, IN 46552 
Name:------------------------i . Address: _____________________ : l'•t 
City: _________State: _____Zip: ___ 
/Q ~~ 

! Telephone: ( ----+-------------O/F : l;;I -~ 
,... ... ~.r:··-~....~.:'~11-~~~~m~~;~ J4 
., i" ~ -· ~/I .,\., ~
W-.;A&~, ~----· -~• 



ATION 
Thursday, February 7, 2002 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Powell addresses Congress over Iraq: Secretary of State Colin Powell told Congress Wednesday that President Bush is considering "a full range of options" for removing Saddam Hussein as Iraq's president. Powell said Iraq is working on developing nuclear weapons, and its refusal to admit intern.ational arms inspec­tors prompted Bush to consider "the most seri­ous set of options that one might imagine." 
Columbia rebels condemn U.S. aid: The Bush administration's plan to help Colombia protect an oil pipeline from guer­rilla attacks proves that Washington wants to intervene militarily in this country's civil war, a rebel leader said Wednesday. Bush administration officials announced plans Tuesday to train and arm Colombian troops to protect a key oil pipeline that has been a frequent target of guerrilla attacks. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Lindh coerced after capture: 
Lawyers for John Walker Lindh, the American captured with anti-American forces in Afghanistan, said today that Lindh had been treated harshly in "highly coercive con­ditions" by his American captors after being abused by forces friendly to the United States. As a federal grand jury indicted Llndh on 10 criminal charges today. his lawyers filed an unusual statement with the court that offered Lindh's harrowing account of his treatment after he was captured. 
Mother held in death of 3: A woman has been charged with killing three of her children more than 30 years ago. The woman, Gloria Greenfield, pleaded not guilty on Monday to three counts of murder and two counts of assault with intent to kill. Prosecutors said the arrest was based on accusations by Ms. Greenfield's 29-year-old daughter. The three deaths from 1969 to 1971 were originally attributed to SIDS. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Hazardous waste settlement: State regulators said Tuesday they reached a $36,200 settlement with Cincinnati Machine to resolve the company's violations of haz­ardous waste regulations. The machine tool manufacturer failed to train personnel in proper handling of hazardous wastes, didn't perform or record inspections of emergency equipment and areas where hazardous wastes were kept and failed to put lids on some containers of hazardous wastes. The wastes involved sludge that contained acids or chromium, as well as paint solvents, Ohio EPA inspectors said. 
Market \Vatch February 6 

Dow 9,653.39 -32.04 
/~ Same: Composite
Down 
Volume:
~ 232 
I ,670,653,440 

A.MEX: 827.02 -4.73 NASDAQ: 1,812.71 -25.81 NYSE: 557.81 -2.79 S&P 500: 1,083.51 -6.51 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -4.02 -0.28 6.69 TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) +12.21 +2.82 25.92 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.59 +0.11 18. 61 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0.69 -0.25 36.06 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -5.62 -0. 57 9. 58 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Friday. The Federal "It's a very heavy blow. systems in place at Allfirst
Associated Press 

Bureau of Investigation but it is a blow that we will and at Allied Irish. 
DUBLIN interviewed his wife over recover from," said Allied Mr. Buckley said today 
A trader for the the weekend, and the bank Irish's chief executive, that he only learned of the Baltimore-based treasury believes he is still in the Michael Buckley, at a $750 million fraud when arm of Allfirst, an Baltimore area. hastily assembled news he received a phone call in American retail subsidiary The suspected theft conference here. The loss Dublin at 9:30 p.m. local of Allied Irish Banks, would be the largest represents less than 10 time on Monday night, defrauded Ireland's largest international fraud case percent of the bank's capi­even though the investiga­financial institution of since 1995, when Nick tal base, he said. tion began several weeks $750 million over the last Leeson gambled $1.17 bil­John Rusnak worked earlier, and that Rusnak year through bogus foreign lion on foreign exchange within the treasury divi­had been suspended from exchange trading, and he trades in Singapore and sion of Allfirst, which con­trading. Allfirst informed has since disappeared, the set off the collapse of tributed less than $10 mil­the F .B.I. once Rusnak bank said today. England's historic Barings lion to Allfirst's revenues. failed to appear at the 
The 40-year-old trader, Bank. Allied Irish is Mr. Buckley said. office on Monday. Buckley John Rusnak. failed to unlikely to suffer the same That one middle-ranking denied that he should show up for work on fate; instead the bank will foreign exchange trader have heard the news Monday morning and has see profits after taxes for who made $85,000 a year sooner. and said Allfirst not been seen since he was 2001 shrink to 401 million could strike such a devas­only became aware of a interviewed about the mat­euros from 997 million tating blow has raised significant material loss ter at Allfirst's offices on euros in the previous year. questions about the control last weekend. 
U.S. frees 27 Afghan detainees 
He said an investigation is continuing forces said an anti-Taliban comman­
Associated Press 

to determine whether or not 15 of the der and 17 of his men died in the 
WASHINGTON 21 people killed in the raid had attack. 
Twenty-seven detainees were freed Taliban or Al Qaeda ties. After initial Pentagon statements by American forces in Afghanistan "That raid is still under investigation that the United States had acted on today after it was determined that to determine what went right or wrong reliable intelligence reports. Defense they were not Taliban forces and did there," Major Mills said from the com­Secretary Donald Rumsfeld later not have any links to Osama bin mand center in Tampa, Fla. conceded that American troops may Laden's Al Qaeda terror network. The detainees were released today to have killed "friendly" Afghan forces 
They were part of a group picked Afghan Interin1 Authority officials in the in the raid. up in a raid on two suspected Al southern Afghan town of Tarin Kowt, Last week Gen. Tommy Franks, who Qaeda compounds in a village north north of Kandahar. Major Mills said. is running United States operations in of Kandahar on Jan. 23, said Maj. Immediately after the raid, the Afghanistan, ordered an investigation in Ralph Mills of the Marine Corps, a Pentagon said its elite Special Forces response to Afghan government officials' spokesman for the United States had killed Taliban fighters and cap­statements that anti-Taliban personnel Central Command. tured 27 others, but Afghan security were among those killed or wounded. 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 7, 2002 
Board 
continued from page 1 
Based on student focus groups and meetings with Student Activities, Residence Life and Eileen Kolman, dean of the First Year of Studies, student govern• ment is recom­mending changes in Freshman Norton Orient­ations activities. Student advisors Paul Cruickshank, Claire Reisinger and Tomas Raaf were also influential advisors in the process, according to Norton. 

Norton and Jorissen are suggesting that the weekend include cultural and commu­nity service components. The group wants to add an event that celebrates cultur­al diversity and another that promotes service in the South Bend area. They rec­ommend adding a service project Sunday afternoon after the orientation Mass. 
"It's really important to our University and Catholic social tradition to do some­thing for the community," Norton said. 
In order to accommodate 
the additional activities, 
Norton wants to allow all 
freshman to move into their 
dorms on Thursday -a day 
earlier than currently 
allowed -and use that day 
for dorm orientation. 
In addition to the weekend 
service project, Norton and 
Jorissen would like to offer 
incoming freshman the 
opportunity to do communi­
ty service in their home­
towns through Notre Dame 
alumni clubs in an Urban 
Plunge-style program. 
"We do have alumni net­works and we hope to utilize these networks for freshmen students," Norton said. 
To accommodate the changes in orientation, stu­dent government is asking the board for an increase in the budget. Specifically, the report calls for raising the per student dorm allowance for orientation from $5.25 to $10 to $15. The current allowance of $5.25 for the weekend of events is small compared to the $6.25 allot­ted for the Junior Parent's Weekend luncheon, accord­ing to Jorissen. 
"A lot of dorms overspent [last year] and are in a bad financial situation as a result," Garrison said. "This should alleviate the prob­lem." 

Although it is not officially a part of Freshman Orientation, student govern­ment is requesting $100,000 in funding for the concert held the second weekend of school. Last year's concert, featuring Nine Days and SR71 among other bands, cost in excess of $100,000 and was funded by various campus organizations. The $100,000 request would be in addition to the money these organizations provide. 
"We think since it's the second weekend of school that it has a lot to do with first impressions of Notre Datne," Norton said. "We want to talk not only about Freshman Orientation but also the whole experience." 
Norton and Jorissen have made some adjusLments to the presentation as a result of their October report to the board on off-campus life concerns that was met with indifference from the trustees. For this report, the pair is making a more per­sonalized presentation with­out power point and is allot­ting more time for questions. 
"This time we've put more effort into the presentation," Jorissen said. "Hopefully the Board will be receptive." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 


Debate 
continued from page 1 

serves better as a coordinat­ing body that facilitates other groups' programming efforts. 
The Libby Bishop-Trip Foley and Scott Palko-P.J. Merca.nti tickets said their platforms were based on students' wants and needs. 
Juniors Palko and Mercanti have run on the slogan that "Leadership is Action, not Position." Talking about 
their idea to 

"I am running because pus 
dents vote
add a concert 

I've tailgated at every in their
and barbecue residence

to the football home football game. I am 
halls,
ticket distribu­

running because I have 
according
tion event each 

to leave girls' dorms at to the
fall, vice presi­dential candi­midnight.,, dorms' 
schedules.
date Mercanti 
Off-cam­
said, "We want 

Nick Williams pus stu­
to be the ones setting up the Vice-presidential candidate dents vote 
stage and 
cooking the 
hamburgers." 

The pair waffled on ques­
tions from reporters Griffin and LaRuffa that platform goals such as air condition­ing in residence halls and ·unused meals being convert­ed into Flex Points were 
unfeasible. 

"We wouldn't defeat them 
before we started them," 
said Palko, the president of 
Web site NDToday.com. "We 
believe it's possible." 

Juniors Bishop and Foley 
explained their slogan of 
"More Student, Less 
Government" as meaning 
decreased overlap among current student government projects and better commu­nication of the programs to students. 
"Our ideas don't take a task force," presidential candidate Bishop said. "Some of them only take a phone call." 
Running mate Foley said, "Our ideas are simple. Most can be put in to place by next school year." 
The debate put the tickets on public display together for the only time before Monday's primary election. 
On-cam• 
stu­
i n 
DeBartolo 
Hall, with times to be announced by the Judicial Council. 
To win election Monday, a ticket must earn more than 50 percent of votes. If no ticket earns the simple majority, a run-off election will occur Feb. 14 between the two tickets that receive the most votes Monday. 
If necessary, a run-off debate is scheduled for Tuesday. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 


"<Tfie on[y gift is aportion oftliyse{f. " 
CENTER FOR 

-(J(a[pli WaUo P,merson
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

Congratulations and thanks to the over 255 participants of the 
~4(/j!J~, 

*'Ur6an Pfu.f'tJe *23orier 'lsSU£S Seminar * 
~£-_mf~ 

*Phoenix Seminar* CfiicQfJO City ef'Hoye Seminar *Urban Plunge Sarah Alter Regina Andalora Lindsey Anderson who represented The University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, 
Ladawan Arunyingmongkhol Kathryn Ball 

and Holy Cross College during Winter Break in service 
Laura Bastedo Sarah Bates 

and experiential learning at 4 7 sites across the nation. 
Elizabeth Bax  
Brittany Becker  
Christina Belmonte  Meghan Davis  Paul Gibson  Kendra Kennedy  Leah McKelvey  Paul Ricketts  Erin Weldon  Phoenix Seminar  
Katherine Best  Sheila Dawes  Brian Gibson  Elizabeth Kilcline  Michelle McLaughlin  Katie Rocchio  Tiffany Whittaker  James Breslin  
Sarah Blake  Chantal DeAlcuaz  Allison Gienko  Anne Klinkhammer  Alissa Mendoza  Meghan Roe  Heidi Wilberschied  Theresa Ferry  
Rachel Blauvelt  Catherine DeCarlo  Brandon Glenn  Julie Koepke  Katie Metzinger  Stephen Sabrio  Maura Woznica  Amy Heckel  
Jane Bleeg  Lynne DeFilippo  Emily Godlewski  PhiIi p Koesterer  Laura Mike  Mary Savage  Jennifer Wyatt  Michael Makens  
Todd Boruff  Leslie Devereaux  Emma Govea  Jessica Kosco  Regina Mulcahy  April Schmitz  Alessandra Zielinski  Michael Wolz  
Mary Brennan  Joe Dickman  Meghan Gowan  Jennifer Kuehn  Tiffany Natelborg  DeMark Schulze  
Chris Broughton  Anne Didier  Miranda Graham  Rachel Kutzley  Shawna Nelson  Cynthia Shea  
Lyndsey Brubaker Jonathan Buechler Erin Burns '"'•'·"~.. A~J.l~Andrew Callan Katie Carloss Maura Cenedella Amber Cerveny Anthony Chacon Erin ClaylOn Jennifer Coffin Meghan Colgan Margaret Connolly  Elizabeth Didier Dennis OiDonna Jessica Domingo M.:gan Dominick Travis Douville Katharine Dow Elizabeth Doyle Jeff Drocco Bailey Ertel Marureen Fitzpatrick David Fleming Briana Foley Brian Foy  Lesley Gregoricha Joseph Guintu Gabriela Guset Jennifer Gushurst Patrick Hallahan Megan Harney Joe Healy Christopher Henschen Molly Herbe Allie Higgins Kathryn Hoover Joshua Hunn Katherine Hurley  Jamie Lamers Jason LandaaI Katie Laskasky Stephanie Lee Elaine Lee Elii.abeth Lenn Lindsay Lichtenberg Becky Lindemann Korina Lopez-Murphy Robyn Lord Joseph Lordi Maria Lucca Katherine Lutkus  Jackie Nesson Daniel O'Brien Caitlin Oberst Keri Oxley Mary Paladino Patricia Parker Daniel Parziale Amy Peckins Diana Percival Erin Phillips Christine Phillips Stephanie Piehl Jennifer Pilholski  Katelyn Shea Sarah Sheehan Michael Shiel Satumilla Siggins Mary Sisti Patrick Sluka Kelly Smith Sarah Smith Elizabeth Stedman Mary Kate Stickel Nicole Straub Brenton Sullivan Aubrey Szany  ~)··'~'. .:::: J!~~=r ~ ,. ... Border Issues Seminar Ometeotl Acosta Nicole Bernal William Boyd Laura Chacon Maria Duque Jennifer Gaisser-Sadler Melody Gonzalez Jacob Groshek  Chicaeo City of Hope Seminar Jen Betz Nick Fonte Joshua Fulcher Paul Graham Brigitte Gynther Maura Kelly Lisa Lackey Joshua Rich Shamos Rohn Megan Sheehan Rachel Soltis  
Angela Cordel  Rebecca Frigy  Jennifer Huyvaert  Lindsay Lutz  Michael Poffenberger  Ann Tawadros  Emily Haranin  
Erin Cox  Lauren Gale  Nicole, Jelovic  Andrew Lynch  Catherine Poholek  Adam Thimons  Ryan Hernandez  
John Cronin  Patrick Gallagher  Amy Jensby  Thomas Lynch  Michelle Powell  Lindsay Till  Christina Loya  
Colleen Cummings  Brittany Gambrall  Anita Jose  Sara Mahoney  Margaret Priest  Kara Tirimacco  Brian Moscona  
Molly Cummings  Colleen Gannon  Kristine Kaai  Lucy Marinangeli  Kristen Quigley  Carey Tri  Francisco Rodriguez  
Cynthia Cvengros  Nicole Garcia  Mike Kackos  Tiffany Mayerhofer  Jessica Reddinger  Kimberly Turnipseed  Amy Stoelb  
Tara Dane  Amanda Garno  Alice Keating  Joy McCarthy  Matthew Reisenauer  Brad Untiedt  
Lisa Danzig  Eva Garon  Suzanne Kellman  Katie McDermott  Terry Restivo  Lauren Wagner  
Elizabeth Davis  Katherine Garvey  Michael Kelly  Amy McFarlanc  Allison Ricci  Erica Walter  
Lindsay Davis  Laura Geldermann  Ellen Kennedy  Karen McGrath  Daniel Richter  Colleen Weigel  


Thursday, February 7, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
ACE applications hit record 310 OIT undergoes 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 


NEW INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
BRAZIL -Spring 2003 
RIO DE JANEIRO SAO PAULO 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
TUESI)AY, ~FEBRLLA.RY 12TH 5:30-6:30 
125 1-layes-Healy 
THt!RSDAY, FEBRUARY 21ST 5:30-6:30 125 Haves-Healv .,.
.., 

, SUPER SAVINGS! 
Call: 271-1277 

(not good with other discounts or offers) Add 6 Breadsticks at Sauce $1.49! 
We'll match any Papa John's,Dornino's or Marco's Coupon We take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 3/3/02 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 
The Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) administration reported a record high of 310 applications this year for approximately 80 teaching posi­tions in parochial schools throughout the United States. The first round of interviews will finish Feb. 10 and applicants can expect to hear back by March 18. 
Similar programs such as Jesuit Volunteer Corps (JVC). Teach for America, and the Portland ACE (PACE) have all increased in popularity as well; however, ACE remains the most popular among Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"To start, ACE is more attrac­tive because it is a ND program. For a lot of students, idealism isn't enough. the faith dimension is very appealing as well as the community aspect," said John Staud, ACE Administrative Director. 
"It's comforting to know that you'll be with other ND grads, especially if you 're not ready to go it alone." said applicant Beth Willkom. 
The bonding experience begins immediately in the summer with the participants working as a team together with their commu­nity members. Students are typi­cally placed in a house with four to six other participants. 
"We offer the students retreats, prayer guides, and encourage 'house nights' or attending liturgy together," said Sister Sue Bruno, an interviewer. 
Another incentive for appli­cants is receiving a Masters in Education after completing the two year training and teaching service. Teach for America is a similar teaching program but does not offer a Master's degree. Many ACE graduates continue to stay on for a third year or teach abroad. Last year 91 percent of the ACE grads continued to teach past their two-year commitment. ACE grads now have the oppor­tunity to teach in Santiago, Chile or Dublin, Ireland. 
The interviewing process is divided among 11 teams of three interviewers made up of ACE staff, campus ministry, Reslife and faculty. 
"During the interview the team is looking for a passion for teaching and a love of children in the applicants," said Staud. 
The interview focuses on the general pillars of ACE such as how God is cultivated in his life or why teaching is an important aspect of is life. The interview team also spends time getting to know the individual applicant's experiences and motivations. 
"We want to make sure that they know what they're getting into, that this program gives a lot but also takes a lot and for that the students need stamina," said Bruno. 
One concern this year has been the effect of the job market. Both students and administrators are distressed that some students may be applying because they could not find a job. 
"Teaching isn't something that you can just take lightly. You're put in charge of not only the educational development. but also the emotional. moral, social, and spiritual development of young, impressionable individu­als," said applicant Amy Heckel. 
Administrators carefully review each applicant's essays, recommendations, and inter­view. Christian Dallavis, an alum of the ACE program and now an associate director, said, "Some applicants have said that they always have had teaching in the back of their mind and it became an immediate desire after the events of Sept. 11. realizing the impact that a teacher could have on a child." 

Staud expressed his excitement over this year's applicants and the generosity and goodness that they express. 
After completing the interview, the team must reach a unani­mous decision on a student. If there is any doubt or if the team wants to get a better feel for the applicant there is a second inter­view scheduled with a different team. Once a decision has been reached, the team then recom­mends the student to the ACE office for certain positions. 
In the time between interview­ing and acceptance notices in mid-March, the ACE office must assess the need of the schools as well as the students' abilities. An applicant may not get a place due to the lack of need for a teaching position in a certain subject at a certain level. There is a waiting list and it is not uncommon for an applicant to get a call as late as the first week of the summer session to join. 
"It doesn't mean that you were a 'bad' applicant if you're not accepted," said Willkom. "It just means that there are a lot of very qualified, motivated people. With this good group of people you can't lose." 
Staud explains that although there is an increasing number of applicants every year, ACE has reached its optimal size and that they are working on expanding with other programs and institu­tions. 
Contact Liz Kahling·at ekahling@nd.edu 

restructuring 
By JOHN FANNING 
News Writer 

On Jan: 15, the Office of Information Technologies implemented a new struc­ture to more clearly orga­nize the various services that it offers. The change was made in response to various complaints by users who felt that the former system was not easy to use. and was not effectively dealing with their needs. 
Essentially, OTT reorga­nized its existing services in a more coherent and user-friendly manner. 
"We felt that the previ­ous OIT structure was too confusing," said Michael Ball, manager of Instructional Computing and Media Services for OIT. 
Under the old organiza­tion, services for class­room computing, such as tape to disk services, lec­ture and conference sup­port and cluster facilita­tion were all listed sepa­rately. while under the new organization all of the amenities dealing with classroom instruc­tion are dealt with by one department under one phone number. These new numbers will be pub­lished in the upcoming weeks, while the new structure can be viewed on OIT's Web site, www.nd.edu/-ndoiV. 
This reorganization 
applies to all of OIT's ser­vices. The change has been in effect for several weeks and each depart­ment is still working out the kinks. Ball maintains that everyone involved is very positive about the changes, and the limited customer feedback that they have received has also been positive. 
In addition to the restructuring, improve­ments are also being made in the campus com­puter labs, which Ball acknowledges as the problem area that most affects the students. Many of the clusters have been re-staffed and have come under new management. 
"The stability and relia­bility of the computer labs will improve as well as the level of customer ser­vice in the clusters," said Ball. 
While Ball feels very optimistic about the changes being made in OIT, he realizes that if services "are not what people need, then they are missing their mark." Once the changes have become more solidified, OIT will continue to look for opportunities to con­sult with costumers and better understand their needs in order to main­tain the highest and most effective level of service possible. 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu 

€A)f0F CHICAGO Pl:ZZA COMPANY® 
$2 off any Medium or $3 off any Large 


page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 7, 2002 
Forum president 
•
speaks on terrorism 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
The President of the Fourth 
Freedom Forum shared his 
interpretation of .the response 
the U.S. and the U.N. have 
taken to combat terrorism in an 
informal discussion 
Wednesday. 
"Everything has changed, 
especially in the U.N.," said 
David Cortright. who leads the 
group that explores non-violent 
resolutions to international 
conflicts. 
Cortright went on to explore 
"the good, the bad and the 
ugly" in relation to the 
response governments have 
shown towards the War on 
Terrorism. 

Positive trends included the U.N.'s action to assume respon­sibility for international crimi­nal prosecution and Resolution 1373. This important mandate obligates every state in the -world to freeze terrorist assets and take other actions to stop 
terrorists. 
The UN has also established a 
Counter Terrorism Committee 
in which governments around 
the world are asked to report to 
with records oftheir antitcrror­
ist actions. One-hundred-thirty­
five nations have already 
replied. Cortright believes this 
shows an "unprecedented 
degree of international concern 
and efforts to freeze terrorism." 
Negative trends were credit­
ed mostly to the Bush 
Administration. Cortright 
repeatedly expressed frustra­
tion i.n what he called the "uni­
lateralist attitude" of the U.S. in 
dealing with our problems. 
"International terrorism is an 
international problem," said 
Cortright. 
This attitude is seen in the decision to wage war without first consulting the Security Council and the practice thus far to deal with international criminals in secretive military courts instead of establishing an international criminal court system. 
"This is unworthy of us as a nation and a barrier to interna­tional relations," Cortright said. 
He spoke of a "grave and growing danger in the use of biological materials by terror­ists." 
Cortright said the U.S. has yet to make a move in the direction of control of such weapons. 
The ultimate goal in the War against Terrorism is to bring the terrorists responsible for the attacks on Sept. 11 to jus­tice and to prevent future attacks. Cortright believes even the peacemakers must accept the military actions as good. Without military force we would not have seen such rapid improvement. 
"It is a burden for pacifists to realize government corruption and the need for improvement," he said. 
Besides military action, Cortright encourages listeners to examine what the U.S. has done to instigate such attacks and to improve upon this as a part of the long-range plan against terrorism. 
He also said that the United States must take responsibility for its role as a powerful nation. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill407@saintmarys.edu. 

SMC alumna discusses book 
By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 

Last evening, Saint Mary's professor Max Westler, led the discussion of his former student's. first novel "Big Stone Gap." Saint Mary's alumna and author Adriana Tirgiani answered questions via the telephone. 
Trigiani's family moved to Big Stone Gap, Va. when she 
was a girl. The popu­lation of Big Slone Gap holds steady at a b o u t 5,000 peo­
p l e Trigiani told the story of being in fourth grade with It was

"Mentors are really 
not a goal
important and guidance 
0 f 
counselors have a lot of Trigiani 's to become
impact in the 
a novelist.
community. " 
She wrote the screen­Adriana Tirgianl play of "Big Stone Gap"
author 
first and then a friend told 
16-year olds and that in sev­enth grade there was an 18­year-old boy in her class that drove to school. Despite the difficult academic situation, Trigiani thrived thanks to adults who helped mentor her. 
"Mentors are really impor­tant and guidance counselors have a lot of impact in the community," Trigiani said. 
From this guidance Trigiani was able to go to college at Saint Mary's when only about 4 percent of graduating seniors go o·n to college in Big Stone Gap. 
"Sa1nt Mary's opened everything to me. I had a lot of guts but that was it. What I got there was amazing," 
AGenuine Peace for Israel... AGenuine Peace for the World 

There will never be agenuine or lasting Peace for Israel and the Palestin~ans unles_s and until the media actively supports the Truthful resolution ofthe theological conflicts between Judaism, Christianity and Islam, see: 
http://www.deadseanaghammadiresearch.com 

-And, as long as this Truth is censored and suppressed, the~e will be an ~ve~-incre~ing threat offull-scale warfare throughout the Middle East--ultunately drawmg mthe super powers'--and between Israel and her Arab/Muslim neighbors. 
For the sake ofthose in the Middle East and the future ofhuman civilization itself... 
PLEASE contact the Editor ofthe South Bend Tribune at 235-6241 or 

Trigiani said. 
Trigiani based many of her characters on people she remembers from her child­hood. The character of Iva Lou is based on a woman who worked with her mother and exuded sex appeal. She then made the character the town's bookmobile librarian. 
"How fun and restorative to the souls of librarians to have a character that loves books and sex the same amount." 
Trigiani 
said. 

her it was good enough to be a novel. 
"It was not my dream to write a novel. I came to New York to get a show on Broadway. It was an accident but I just worked hard and stayed open," Trigiani said. 
Trigiani is currently work­ing on the movie "Big Stone Gap" for which she is the director, producer and writer. She is also finishing the third 
· book in this series. Trigiani will be speaking at the Sophomore Literary Week on Monday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
1-800-SURFS-UP
www.studentexpress.com 
GSU 
Reps. discuss health 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assi,ram News Editor 
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) reviewed counseling ser• vices available to graduate stu­dents and continued plans to draft a graduate student hand­book in their first meeting of the year Tuesday night. 
A representative from the physics department expressed concern about the availability of mental health assistance. Some students have complained about excessive waits to receive aid at the University counseling center. 
Adrienne Minerick, healthcare committee chairperson, met with Dr. Patrick Utz at the start of last semester and was assured that there was no problem. She plans, however, to have the healthcare committee take up the issue and collect student testimonials. 
Jennifer Anthony, social com­mittee co-chair, presented the results of the meeting she and Tracy Correa-Kijewsl<l had with members of Residence Life regarding the design of a sepa­rate duLac student handbook for graduate students. 
''They [Residence Life] are completely willing to make a grad student duLac,'' Anthony said. 
The GSU plans to assist in writ­ing the separate handbook and a preliminary edition should be available in August. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
FILE TAX RETURN ONLINE 
Refund in about 14 days with direct deposit 1040EZ -$9.95 1040A -$14.95 Log onto www.I040.com/ctstax 

.k:~ GREAT WALL
1,,..,-"l;_~:i 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years ma Row ~;:: .,, ·· ••••.,.., Szechuan . Hunan -Cantonese -Amencan 
•'\i; ,. ;: ,. · Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
•~ Lunch Special $4.75 • Mon · Fri 11 :30 · 3:00 PM 
.• ·· ,. Dinner Starting at $6.45
sbtnews@sbtinfo.com to express your concern about the censorship and suppression of 
, · .' , ) Sunday. Thursday 11 :30 AM • 10:00 PM 
~ 1-: . 

Friday -Saturday 11 :30 AM -11 :00 PM
the Truth. 

. cpy:;::;~:~;:';~;,::~~:•Buffel 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 

Thursday, February 7, 2002 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 9 
Court considers Nike lawsuit 
gal cigarette sales to minors.

Associated Press 
R.J. Reynolds denied the alle­gation but dropped the adsSACRAMENTO.Calif. 
and settled the suit.

The battle over conditions at Consumer attorneys seekingNike Inc.'s overseas factories 
reinstatement of the case

moved to the California 
against Nike argued that theSupreme Court on Wednesday, Beaverton, Ore.-based compa­with the justices considering a ny defended itself against alawsuit accusing the apparel huge public backlash in a waymaker of a consumer white­that promoted its products. 

wash violating California's 
"When the critics said youfalse advertising laws. 

are running sweat shops andThe ·case balances a corpo­you should not buy Nike shoes, ration's right to defend itself Nike said, 'No, no, no, theseagainst bad publicity with the charges are false,"' arguedright of California consumers attorney Paul R. Hoerber. "In

to be free from deceptive 
that context, the meaning con­advertising. • 

nected to those statements:The suit, which was dis­

' Y O U

missed by a trial 
should

court and a state 
"The Constitution does b u y

appeals court, 
not give blanket shoes."'

claims Nike's 
B u t

1996-1997 cam­protection to false and 
some of

paign in defense 
misleading statements ... t h e

of its wages. 
court's

treatment of 
justices

workers and Joyce Kennard 
were con­health and safety 

California Justice 
cerned

conditions at 
that it

Asian plants run 
would be

by contractors was a mislead­impossible for a company toing business practice. 
defend its actions -truthfullyDuring an hour of oral argu­

or falsely -without there

ments here, the justices 
being some type of financial

teetered back and forth on 
motive.

whether Nike's defense was 
"You are reading into what­"political speech" protected by 

ever they do as economic

the First Amendment or c'om­
motivation," Justice Janicemercial speech subject to a 

Rogers Brown said. 

California consumer protec­Not all the justices seemed
tion law that is one of the 
sympathetic to Nike's plight. 

nation's least friendly to busi­Justice Joyce Kennard said:nesses. 
"The Constitution doesn't giveThe same law was invoked blanket protection to false andin a suit against the Joe Camel misleading statements." 

advertising campaign on the And Chief Justice Ronald M.
grounds that it promoted ille­
/RISH BASEBALL /RISH BASEBALL 
"OTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH BAIEBAL( •OPENING NIGHT DINNER• 
featuring: 
lj~

f,:,,a.....·Jl~t# $¥ 
JA.. . 
t•. ­

Monday, February 18, 2002 Doors Open 6 p. m. & Dinner Served at 7 p. m. Joyce Center Concourse -Casual Attire 
For ticket information call: 631-6366 

..-··························-··---··································· .. 
. .
. .
. .
. .
. . 

• •
.
•
MEIJER 
. . . . 
• 
• 
•
.
• 

... . Extravaganza!! .. • . . .
. .
. 
•

: WHAT: Oreo-stacking contests. ur Debbie Pie ea.ting contests. Mini-: : scavenger hunts. Pizza demos. Supermarket Sweep. Shopping and : : More!!! : : WHEN: Friday. February 8 th from 9 to 12 pm : : ADMISSION: ABSOLUfELY FREE.!!! : : TRANSPORTATION: You MUST ride on the bus in order to participate : : In acttvities! Arst-come. first-seIVe basis, so get there early! Buspick-: : ups at Library Circle at 8:30 pm and 9:30 pm and at Le.Mans Clrde at : : 8;15 pm. : : PRIZES: $1 O. $50. and $100 Meljer gift certificates! : : SPONSORED BY FLIPSIDE :
1 (BJ (f.5) j
-There /SSoRN,tl,ingTo Do-
George said Nike's image cam­paign was based on selling shoes. 
"Wasn't the ultimate goal to sell more of the company's products by making these statements?" George asked. • 
"I do not think that is exact­ly correct," replied Nike attor­ney David Brown. He said the company engaged in "classic political debate" protected by the First Amendment and added that "maybe the state­ments were true, maybe they were false." 
A state appeals court found that Nike's image campaign was not regulated by California false-advertising laws but was protected First Amendment speech in defense of its corporate reputation. 
The company issued press releases denying abuses and cited a favorable report it had commissioned by Andrew Young, former U.S. ambas­sador to the United Nations. 
The suit said Nike has false­ly stated that it guarantees a "living wage" to all workers, that its workers in Southeast Asia make twice the local min­imum wage and are protected from corporal punishment, and that it complies with gov-. ernment rules on wages, hours and health and safety conditions. 
Those claims are refuted by studies by labor and human rights groups, news media investigations and -most damaging of all -a January 1997 audit by the firm of Ernst & Young, commissioned by Nike, the suit said. 

Enron partnerships profited insiders 
. Executives who created and ran shell investment organizations profited most. 
Associated Press 
. WASHINGTON 

Enron use of partnerships not only hid the company's losses and huge debts, it made a few company insiders very rich, very fast -with almost no financial risk. 
The biggest hauls, investiga­tors say, were by those who created and ran the complex web of shell investment enti­ties that were largely financed by Enron and concealed the company's shaky balance sheet. 
Two of those men ­Andrew Fastow, who created the partnerships, and Michael Kopper -were expected to appear Thursday at a House Energy and Commerce sub­committee hearing. 
They were considered likely to decline to answer ques­tions, citing the 5th Amendment protection against self incrimination. 
Over a two-month period, a family foundation run by Fastow turned $25,000 into $4.5 million. 
Kopper saw an investment of $125,000 become $10.5 million in less than three years. Lesser players, brought into the network of transac­tions by Fastow and Kopper, earned $500,000 to $1 million from investments of less than $3,000 to $5,800. 
"Is that even legal," Rep. Bart Stupak D-Mich., asked at a hearing into Enron's col­lapse. 
"Not without taking a tremendous amount of risk," replied William C. Powers, the University of Texas Jaw school dean and Enron investigator. In these cases, he added. the investors "took very little risk" and often were wheeling and dealing among them­selves. 
The source of their wintlfall was a system of investment entities with names like Jedi and Chewco, Raptor and Rhythms, and Big Doe, appar­ently a play on words. 
One partnership, called Southampton Place, also the name of the uppercrust Houston neighborhood where Fastow lived, proved to be especially lucrative. 
Fastow, through a family­owned foundation, cashed in on $4.5 million from his $25,000 investment in Southampton Place after hold­ing it only two months. 
Other investors in the part­ners hip were Benjamin Glisan, former Enron treasur­er who also was involved in setting up several of the part­nerships; Kristin Mordaunt, an attorney and later general counsel of Enron Communications, and several employees of Fastow's finance department, one of whom said she was told that her ability to invest was viewed as a ''bonus" for good work. 
Both Glisan and Mordaunt invested $5,800 and collected about $1 million, according to investigators. 
The other employees invest­ed Jess than $3,000 and are believed to have earned returns of about $500,000 each, according to the inter­nal Enron investigation. 
Like Fastow, Kopper invest­ed $25,000 in Southampton Place, but did it through a related entity called Big Doe. How much he gained is not yet determined, said Powers. 
Kopper did extremely well on another front. 
Fastow had recruited him in late 1997 to manage Chewco Investments, one of the key partnerships. Over three years Kopper earned $2 mil­lion in management fees although the Powers report concluded that it could not be determined "what, if any­thing, Kopper did to justify the payments." 
In mid-2000, it was decided Enron should purchase Chewco, in which Kopper was the principal investor. 
According to congressional and Enron investigators, Jeffrey McMahon, at the time Enron 's treasurer, told Fastow the buyout should pay Kopper about $1 million. His investment had been $125,000. 
According to McMahon, Fastow handled the negotia­tions with Kopper and came back with a buyout proposal tens times that, or $10.5 mil­lion. The buyout was complet­ed in March 2001, and the higher pri c e preva i I e d , according to the Enron report. 
As for Fas tow, investigators have determined that received about $30 million while work­ing in a dual role as Enron's chief financial officer and as head of one of the partner­ships he created. 
The Enron board of direc­tors did not question that arrangement, nor ever inquire about how much money Fastow was getting from the partnership, Powers said. 
CONVERSATION SCH ·.. L 
is seeking university graduates for aone year leaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benelils and !ravel opporlunilies. 
REC/lll/TJN6 DATES: February 13 Ei 14, 2002 at Career and Placement Services. -j/1J!PIJ&1!f$!f l#J!J,1JfG(JIJIJrG!f $!Jtll!.!.!!.$ il.fl)JL1&!!rl2ffla"ll1t!P. Open to all m{{jors. S/6N UPS NOW OPEN 
··-. ----~·····••J••···································~~-----······· 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, February 7, 2002 
Observer endorses Bishop/Foley 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nor~ Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANACING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley V&WP0INT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spmcor Beggs SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CoNfROUER, Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIGF.NERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX.. ............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.........................................63 l-4S42 MANAGING EDIT0R/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................63I-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. i@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINlSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ohsmxr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­and rates of prim ads 
cial camptJS coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Obserrer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the UniversityofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of che administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofche Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present che views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include c.omact information. 
Qut<lions r,garding ObstrVl'1' policies should b, direct­d to Editor in ChiefMike Co11n0Uy. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Candidates, students deserve respect 
This is in response to the Viewpoint column that Look. We are a university composed of some of the most appeared Tuesday entitled, "Student Government elections competitive people our society has to offer -people who are a farce." Just how can someone be so negative toward are aspiring to be doctors, teachers, engineers, lawyers Notre Dame's student government? Look. Life is too short and, overall, the best people they can possibly be. And you to be bitter and negative. have the audacity to liken us to ~beep? Right. The stu­
How about, instead of tearing down class­dent body at Notre Dame is not quiet like mates who run for office, we just keep sheep. In fact, we roar like lions. Care to the hurtful opinions out of the paper. join? It's incredibly disheartening to In less than a week, the student invest hours of work just to have body is going to have the oppor­them belittled (emphasis on the tunity to vote in two people as Litle) by someone who chooses their president and vice presi­to one day sit down and throw dent. Acknowledge the hard 
•a poorly thought-out essay on work and effort that the candi­paper. dates have put forth over the 
Another thing that really got past week, consider the issues me fired up was how the author and make the decision that is jumped to this conclusion: right for you. It's as simple as that. "Candidates seek student government Don't let cynicism leak its way into the office, not to benefit us students, but rather way we view student government. Notre to pad their own resumes." Since when can this Dame did not achieve greatness with negativity; it guy read into the candidates' hearts? He can't. And for all did so with positive inspiration. he knows, there could be some really great leaders in the election who are ready to work diligently and get things Editor's note: Brian Gibson is the acting manager of the done for the student body. Padding a resume? No, my Scott Palko I P.J. Mercanti campaign for student body friend, what you are witnessing is something much greater president and vice-president. than some bulleted dot on a piece of paper. 
As if knocking the candidates wasn't enough, the author Briari Gibson then endeavored to slam the student body as a whole. I do· junior believe that he referred to the students as "sheep" and as Keough Hall incapable of having a voice towards the administration. reb. 6, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Andrew Thagard  Matt Nania  
Meghannc  Graphics  
Downes  Jake Weiler  
Justin Krivickas  Production  
Sports  Chris Federico·  
Bryan Kronk  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Angela Campos  
Sheila Flynn  


Libby Bishop and Trip Foley under­mote and use dorm-sponsored activi­stand what students want. ties. 
They aren't promising more festival­But that doesn't mean that the like events that will only waste money Bishop/Foley ticket lacks initiative and and not generate much student inter­new ideas. Most of their ideas, howev­est. They aren't promis­er, are not grandiose ing unfeasible ideas like O Th plans to change student
nserver

air conditioning for government but instead dorms that are more simple plans to improve than 80 years old. student life. Bishop and 
Editorial 
What they are promis­ing is a practical plat­form dedicated to cutting down pro­gram overlap and helping students understand what resources are already available. They are the ticket that best balances ambition with expe­rience and arc the best choice for stu­dent body president and vice president in 2002-03. 
For two years, student government has set about producing new activities and creating new resources. Often these programs overlapped and some­times even competed with other University departments and branches of student government. Bishop/Foley wants to end that overlap. 
Rather than creating more multicul­tural activities through the office of the president, Bishop/Foley plan to make students aware of programs that already exist through groups like Multicultural Student Programs and Services. Instead of creating more gen­der relations studies or programs, Bishop/Foley will more effectively pro­
Foley's print sharing sys­

tem will be a simple way for Notre Dame students who don't use the computer labs to share their allot­ment of pages with those who do. This is a simple way to improve student life without inconveniencing anyone. , Bishop and Foley will go beyond just the simple ways of improving student life as well. Ilather than c;aving to administration pressure to end tailgat­ing, they want to work to clarify the tailgating policies so that students know exactly what they can and can­not do. They also plan to take a tough stance against unreasonable demands from the administration like banning 21-year-old students from drinking when non-Notre Dame students may drink freely. Administrators want to eliminate unsafe drinking and obnox­ious behavior; students want to pre­serve their fun; Bishop/Foley recog­nizes the importance of both parties' concerns and will create an effective compromise. 
By clarifying the rules of tailgating 
for students to stop destructive behav­ior and taking a strong stance against administrators who confuse destruc­tive drinking with social drinking, Bishop and Foley might be the only ticket who can preserve the Notre Dame student tailgate tradition. 
Bishop/Foley's platform has far from a monopoly on good ideas, however. If they are elected they should take a good look at other platforms and adopt the other candidates best ideas into their own administration. Scott Palko and P.J. Mercanti's plan to combine lottery number distribution with foot­ball ticket application distribution is the perfect solution to football ticket distribution problems of the past. A graduation requirement checklist on irishLink, as proposed by the Moscona/Oxley ticket, is an easy way to keep students organized academ­ically. 
Most importantly, however, Bishop/Foley needs to stay connected to the students. Its platform is built on the ideas and desires of everyday stu­dents. Once Bishop and Foley take office, however, they can't squirrel themselves away on the second floor of Lafortune. They must remain respon­sive to student needs. The Observer believes this ticket has the best chance to remain connected to the student body and encourages you to vote for Libby Bishop and Trip Foley on Monday. 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
For which ticket do you plan on voting in the upcoming student government elections? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Rock 'n' roll is trying to convince girls to pay money to be near you." 
Richard Hell rock musician 


O
THE 

VIEWPROINT 
Thursday, February 7, 2002 page 11 
a I White's character is clean 

The fallout over athletic director Kevin White's failure to check the veracity of George O'Leary's resume serves as a reminder that, as a whole, sportswriters are not known for the depth of their insight into character. 
Nearly all of the com­ments excoriated White for not catching O'Leary's misrepresenta­tions. as if it was a char­acter flaw on White's part to miss O'Leary's lies. There is a different read of White's actions, however, and that is that, in the technical sense of the word, they exemplified virtuous behavior. 
John Courtney Murray, the Jesuit who is most responsible for making the case that being Catholic and being American is not oxymoronic, argued that civil society requires a virtuous people. Murray was not a romantic. He did not have a hyper­pious understanding of civic virtue. The virtue of civility, for Murray, primarily meant that a person entered public discussion hon­estly and. barring reasons for thinking other­wise, assumed that others were entering the public sphere honestly as well. Civil society simply cannot hold up if our assumptions are built on cynicism. 
White did not have reason to doubt the basic facts of O'Leary's resume. White checked into how O'Leary performed, for instance, at Georgia Tech, but, at least at first, had no evidence to suggest false report­ing on O'Leary's part. Given what has since happened, it may be considered prudent to check into the factual basis of every detail, however old, of every resume, but to start with that practice would have been the act of a cynic. 
Critics might reply that O'Leary made a fool of White. Jay Leno referred to the former Georgia Tech coach as "O'Rcally?" But that is the risk that even reasonable trust takes: that someone will misuse that trust and make one look foolish. The alternative, however, is for everyone to give up on even reasonable trust. The result is a society that replaces any sem­blance of community with such things as prenuptial contracts and surveillance cam­eras as first rather than last resorts. Precisely when to trust and when to rely on external checks is a matter of prudential judgment. But the assumption that distrust ought to be the primary mode of operation and trust the rare exception is a sign of a sick society, not of wisdom. 

Two other actions on White's part are also worth mentioning. First. in an earlier column I took him to task for saying during a press conference that football was the "heart and soul" of the University. 1am sure that I am not the only one who pointed out the problem with such a view. To his credit, White said in a later press conference, while still honoring football, "One has to understand that the heart of the University is its academic excel­lence and the soul is its Catholic identity." 
Such public self-correction is evidence of humility. It is precisely the kind of humility that was lacking in O'Leary when, after the news was out and apparently on the advice of his lawyer, he tried to recast his conversa­tions with Notre Dame in order, it seems, to make the case that Notre Dame fired him. If he resigned, as he said at first, then Notre Dame would not have to buy out his contract. 
The final action worth mentioning is the hiring of Tyrone Willingham. White and oth­ers in the University have stated repeatedly that Willingham's being African-American had nothing to do with his being hired, and there is no reason to doubt this. Still, hiring him is a departure both for Notre Dame and big-time Division I football generally. White acknowledged that much of the attraction to O'Leary was the latter's Irish heritage. It made O'Leary, ironically, seem known already as one of the Notre Dame family. It raised comfort levels. If Willingham's being African-American had nothing to do with his being hired, then neither should have O'Leary's being Irish. But the latter did. 
What this means, though, is that to hire Willingham the University had to move at least somewhat out of its comfort zone. That the University hired him simply on the basis of his ability does not expunge the fact that in hiring an African-American head football coach it did what it is not used to doing. 
It is said of some of the medieval monastic orders that they formed to do good, and as a result of their discipline and parsimony did well. In Notre Dame's case, perhaps it can be said that in its ambition it hired Willingham because it wanted the team to do well, but in superceding previous, even unspoken, assumptions about the "Notre Dame family," did good. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate pro­fessor oftheology and the director ofthe pro­gram in Catholic social tradition. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at whitmore.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 

Braving the study abroad abyss 
I am an idiot. Some people have hobbies, and I have that. A year and a half ago, I decided to apply to go abroad to Ireland. I filled out my application, sent it in and awaited word of my fate. 
Now, you're probably wondering why this makes me an idiot. Study abroad is a great experience, you say. It broadens your hori­
zons. makes you a better person and directly saves seals and other marine life threatened by oil spills. Small, starving children in parts of India will be immeasurably helped by your deci­sion to go abroad. 
If you don't go abroad, your life will be unful­filled and unfulfilling as you search desperately for the rest of your time on this planet for something that will complete you the way study 
abroad would have. Your soul mate is somehow related to this expe­rience, and if you don't go, you'll be forced into lifelong celibacy. You will be in a car crash or fed to lions if you stay in the States. So how can the decision to go abroad make you an idiot? 
Allow me to continue my story. I was accepted in February, as one might expect with my stellar record and recommendations (which were definitely not created by my roommate and me late at night with stolen letterhead), and I'm cruising along fine. I'm going to Ireland next year. It sounds nice. 
Fast-forward 11 months. It's last December now, and for the first time I begin to get a whiff of just how idiotic I really am. I look at my nice life at Notre Dame. which I love, and my friends, whom 1 also love. I have no desire whatsoever to go to a foreign country for the next five months. 
"This will be a great new experience," everyone says. However, 1 hate new experiences. I get upset when I'm forced to eat at North when I was planning to go to South. I never really got over it when they switched the actress playing Aunt Vivian on "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air." 
"You'll meet new people," everyone says. 1don't want to meet new people. I like the people I know -hence the reason that I am friends with them. If these "new" people are so great, then why am I not friends with them already? 
The question must be asked: What kind of person decides to go to a foreign country for five months when she knows that she hates new places and new experiences? Obviously I. being that person, am an idiot. It seems clear. 
The moment of leaving creeps closer. It's one day before depar­ture and I am freaked out. I do not want to go to Ireland, particular­ly not tomorrow. 
My best friend Matt gives me the best advice I've received all year. "Get on the plane," he whispers as he hugs me goodbye. "Get on the plane," he whispers as he closes the door. 
I think about it. "Get on the plane." 
All I have to do is get on the plane. 1 don't have to go to Ireland. I don't have to spend five months away from everything and everyone I know and love. I just have to get on two planes and that's it. So I do it. 
I've been in Ireland now for five weeks. Yes, indeed, I did under­take that great adventure known as study abroad, or, if you are a junior, the abyss into which half the class disappears each semester. And, in all honesty, I don't think it was an idiotic decision. 
I think if I had thought about going abroad as a real, I'm-actually­going-to-do-this decision a year and a half ago, I wouldn't have appl~ed due to my loathing of all things new._But they say God has special angels assigned to look after the idiots of this world (well. maybe "they" don't say that, but I do), and I definitely count myself am~ng those idiots. I think my angel managed to work around my stationary nature and delivered me into this Irish adventure. 
So far the adventure has mostly consisted of "a," getting lost ap average of once a day and "b," taking a lot of philosophy classes involving questions such as, "If I make a mistake in a piece of music, is it still a performance of that piece or is it a new piece of music?" and, "Do words have meaning? Does anything have mean­ing?" 
The problem with these questions is that I don't care about them. I~ no way do their answers or lack thereof influence how I live my hfe. I spend at least half my time in these classes attempting to get beyond the fact that I would rather be eaten by crocodiles than study this stuff. 
There are so many more interesting things to ponder, like where exactly I was when I got lost the second day and wandered so far away from my intended destination that the people I finally asked for directions hadn't ever heard of it. Or how to tell where north is when the sun never comes out. 
Or whether or not I should be writing to the starving children in India who are somehow directly benefiting from my being here. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a junior psychology and theology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Marlayna Soenneker 
Here We Go Again: Letters 
From Exile 


MOVIE REVIEW 

Avoid 'Slackers' at all costs 
By ADAM WELTLER 
Learning sanskrit. shaving a cat, making a rnodPl of' the pyramids out ol' chc11sc n1bl,s; TlwsP an· all bPltl'r and mon' pro­ductive wavs to sp1md 90 minutes rnthPr than watl'hing "Slackers." Unoriginal. unfunny, and disgustingly unrlna.n. "SlackPrs" takPs toi1'!t humor to a ll<'W and unnec:rssary l<m. 
Ever since "Thf'rn's Sonwthing About 1\lary," films lwvn r:hallr•ngl'd tlwmsnlVl's lo out-gross each ot.lH'r, sometimes with humorous results, llowcvcr: they shtiuld never loavP tlrn audiPnni wanting to show­Pr away tlw nrnmory of having s<inn such blue humor, 
The plot. of ··sJackl'rs" rnvolv1•s around a group or tlm,n c<>llcgc, ron mnn who have made a lifestyle uut of cheating. Tlrny pull PlaboratP sdwnws on<' ai'tcff anothPr to cheat their way thrnugh collcgl\. But their 

Photo courtesy ot Screen Gems 
Jason Schwartzman follows up his acclaimed performance in "Rushmore" with "Slackers." 
plans and thPir futures· arc in jnllpardy wlwn onP of' thnm. Dav<\ (D<\von Sawal. falls in lovo with Angela tJanrns King). ThP problem is that tlrn sick and psychotic Ethan 
( .I a s o n Schwartzman of' "Hushmorc") is obsessed with Angda ,rnd has the proof' that could get llw group of cheaters <ixpelled. !IP blackmails all of them to help him · woo Angela and they arn forced to use tlwir skills to 

savP tlrnrnsPIVPs. Tim plot thickPns whPn 01w-dinwnsional. i\ngPla is dc>nsn and i\ngnla starts to l'all in loVf\ with Da.vo, unbelinvablr.. Of' the slacknrs, Sawa's char­much to Ethan's dismay. acter is thr. most dPVPl01wd. but hn can't 
The story itsdf is tirnd and haC'ktrnyPd. do much to hPlp this l'ilm from its llow<WPr, tlw sccnns ol' the slal'.knrs at innvitabln der.Pnt into tlw tenth lnvcl or work arP enjoyab!P. Onr has hdl. to ,idmin' the µJanning and "Slackers" In this world, nothing is prl'rision I.hat must have romplP!rly bad. and 
zero shomrocks 
gone into 1'ar·h of thnir "Slackers" has a few sdwmns. but tho disgusting rnonHmts that rnakn tlrn audi­
Director: Dewey Nicks 
humor that !'ills thr rnst of m1<·n rhuckle instnad of
Starring: Devon Sawa,
Lhr. lilm morP thun <listracls groan. And sonw of' liw dia-
James King and Jason
the viewnr from any int1mist 1og u r draws a smil<'. The 
in tlrn i:Jrnating subplot. Schwartzman 
Masturbation. naked brnasls of' oldnr womnn (ovnn if' it is Mamin Van Dornn; !'or the lovn of' God. slw's 70). a man singing to a sock pupp,\l on his penis, urinating in the shownr: it snems as though Llw studios arn trying Lo tr.st tlw limiL-; ol' what can and cannot bP in lilms todav. This rnvicwPr is !'or Lhl' first amendnrnnt ·100 perc1•11t, but whnn a film can't 1wn11 find a way to makf' flatulnnw humor funny, sonwthing is terribly wrong. 
Jason Schwartzman. hilarious in "Hushmore," doPs his bnst to bring a likP­ablt\ sidr to Hthan, but the script rnak1\s him just too cnwpy. i:than's antics caus1' tlw vimver to litnrally cringe and wontlPr if' such pnoplP actually nxist. ~nd if' thny do, why aren't thny locked away to bl' stud­i<\d'? Ill' worships a doll mad<· out of' Ang<•la's hair that he has collect1~d off Llw back of' her s<•at in class. Sadlv, that is on(' of Lim least olfonsivn things he" dol's. 
Tlw rest of the <·.harnr:tnrs are inr.rt>dibly 
actors dnlivnr tlrnir lines W<'ll. 

and tlwv dnsPrVP <TPdit for saying moronic dialo0guc• with such prPci­sion. But orw also has to think that tlw monny put into this film rnuld haw bP!'n bntter sp<•nt on, w<'II. anything ds1·. 
So don·1 PVl'n wait for this film to r.onw to vidPo. Sp<•ncl your tinrn doing sonwthing l'!st\, <WPn physics ii' you hav!' to. Sonw of' you might bP drawn into wanting to sec it bncausP of' how horriblP it is. like whPn you gawk at a car crash on tlw side of' tlw road. Don't. Lili• is too short. 
To paraphrasP "Billy Madison," Pvnry­onn in the audi<1t1<'<' is now dumbPr for having snnn this film. I award it no sham­rnrks. and may Cod hav.P nwrcy on your souls. 
Contact Adam Welder at aweltler@nd.edu. 
MOVIE REVIEW 

French 'Brotherhood' is made for America 
By MATT NANIA 
Sct'ne Mo,·ie Edirnr 
Wht>n onr thinks of French rirwma. it's easy to imaginP films oc1·upiP<l with stuffy characters and unexciting, artsy narrativl's. Sun~. thpre art\ crossover hits likP "Amelie" and, to a lesser extent. "With a FriPnd Like\ llarrv," but thosP wern enjoyed by AmPrica1~ audi­p nc Ps d<>spitn their unmistakable '"French-ness." 
(hristophP Gans' "Brotherhood ol' tlw Wolf' (LP Pacte dPs Loups). on the otlwr hand. s«'Pms tailor-mad!' !'or tlw local multiplnxPs. ThP rPlativ<'ly incxp<'l'i­cn,·ed din·nor clearly does not l'ollow in lirw with his nativn pn\d<•rpssors. Mon' akin to SpinlbPrg ,tnd MrTiurnan than Tru!Taut. Gans' "Brothi•rhood" is as Amcriran as a Fn·nrh film \'an gPl. 
Tlw story is based upon r.d to hr.Ip lrack down and kill llrn beast. Arrompanying Fronsac is his friend Mani (Mark Dacascos). a mystical A1m~rican Indian martial artist (f'igure that one ouU, whosn first scnne is a slow motion. rain-drenched kung-l'u fracas with some unsav1i'ry locals. This sequence. in all of its over-the-top action glory, givns you a good indication of whore "Brotherhood of' the Woll"' is headed. 
The script by Stephane Cabe! and 
Gans serializes the storv into a more 
than two hour-long gem:c mish-mash, 
rombining horror. adventurP, martial 
arts action, mr.lodrama and fantasy, 
with a dash of' political intrigun. Gans 
rould havn Pasily madn a sirnpln 
thrillff. but instead lw infusns tlw nar­
rntivP with tlrn al'oriimnntiorrnd 1dP­
mc•nts and nvPrything rrom bordr.llos to 
. Fn,nrli history. ls tlrn story of' tlw B1iast a pro<'ursor to tlw Fn·nch 
u<"tual ('vrnts surrounding Hcvolution'? Probably not,
"Brotherhood 
tlw B<'ast or Gevaudan. a but it ddinit<1ly makes crnatur(' that killed of the Wolf" things morn intPrr.sting. doZl'llS ol' women and 
Like any l'ornign film, cbildrPll in a remote> the subtil!es arn an unf'or­French town in the mid out ufliue shcmirocb tu 1rnll' distradion f'rorn 
18th l'f'.tllUl'y. From 1764 LhP adion on Sl'rnm1, and
Director: Christophe Gans
to 17(17. llw beast pn•yed it's c'spncially a shamP in
Starring: Samuel Le Bihan
on th1\ villag,: until an "\Volf"s" cas11 bncausB of in!'rcdihlv largP wolf was and Mark Dacascos its l'ast-µar.Pd ar.tion and 
killrd b\' hirr.d hunters and put Zrn display to show that it's lt'r­ror had l'inallv <·ome to an <rnd. Thn attarks. ol' cou"rsl'. co11tinu<><l. but they Wf'rc hushPd up. supposPdly by King Louis XV. 
That's what tlw history books say. but l'iction tak<'s ovc'r with tlw arrival or Fronsar lSamuPI LP Bihan). a handsonw adv«>nturcr and naturalist who is Pnlist­
beautif'ul cin<'matography. Tim gritty, rich imagPs havn nriarly tlw same look as thos1, in '"Tbe Fellowship ol' the Hing." This and itw 11lm's othnr u,,·hnical asports ct'l'tainly makn th,, movie visually entnrtaining, made nvnn morP so by tlw libnrth1s <;ans takns with oLhcr lilm styles. As surprising as it may sound. tlrn monster movie-martial arts­p<•riod C'pic combination actually works. 


Whil«' t.h1• f'ilm al.so rnntains 1Tcdibk p<'ri'ormanrns ( Dacascos dc:li\'crs a quict but int<'ns«' turn as Mani) and an omi­nously intriguing atmosplrnrP, it sPnrns Gans' team has (1Vidnntly sp<1nt too mud, time nndnarcd towards Michal'! Bay. Thu film is ovcr-producr\d and full of dwap cinPmatic arlil'ic1\ -such as absurdly dramatic slow motion and overbearing sound nffocts. It's a shame, bPrausP with a morP assurnd lrwhniqu<', some ol' the action could'vo approached the stirring vision of' "Crouching Tiger, 
lliddcn Dragon.'' 
In thn crnd. "Wolf," like a lot ol' !lollywood blockbusters, is little morn than a B movi<' with A rnoviP produ<'tion valtws. The plot introclur,·s lanw rhar­artnrs without motivPs. lwconws ron­trivPd. dirnax1\s in a humdrum stagPd dun! to the dnath, and flnallv oVPrstavs its wclconw trying to tidy Pvc.rything uµ 
Ess!'ntially a big AmPrican moviP fil­tnrnd through thn artistic Inns of its Frr nch o ri gins. ··Broth nrh oocl of' th" Wolf"s" limitnd r1'1oas<1 bPlies its rom­rnrrcial and markrtnbl<' aspirations. Gans has ,t promising rar«>Pr in Ilollywood it' Im wants 0111•. 
Contact Matt Nania at mnania@nd.edu. 
Observer Endorsement 
Look in Viewpoint to see why The Observer's 
ELECTION 2002 
Editorial Board believes Libby Bishop and Trip Foley are the best choice to lead Notre Dame's A look inside the issues and candidates in this year·s campaign 2002-2003 student government. 
Thursday, February 7, 2002 


CAN THEY KEEP THEIR PROMISES? 
would be difficult and expensive to to be so low that you're encouraging they've added two stops," said
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
install in older dorms. people to skip meals or cook in their Coughlin. . 
Associate News Editor 
"To be perfectly honest, a lot of these dorm rooms," said Durski. Another weakness of some platform 
buildings are not constructed for air Improving Grab 'n' Go is another pro­issues is the fact that they seem outside 
As the campaign for student body conditioning," said Murray. posal that has come up. the realm of student government. president heats up, many students may Additionally, Tesi questioned propos:. "Somebody told me· that the ticket For example, two platforms have pro­be wondering whether the candidates als to change meal. plans. Dining hall with the best Grab 'n' Go scheme would posed something similar to a dating will actually be able to follow through officials, he said, have already win. Give me a break," said Tesi. He service. In the platform of Brian with certain campaign promises. explained to senators why meal plans explained that adding more food choic­Moscona and Keri Oxley, the proposal 
In fact. while many platform ideas are are structured the way they are. es to Grab 'n' Go might cause logistical takes the form of "Out-4-Lunch," while feasible, there are some campaign "They're doing the best they can. It's problems. McCord and Williams promises that candidates will probably not like the school is trying to screw the "It's not impossible, call their plan "It's never be able to fulfill. students," said Tesi. but space in each of "To be perfectly honest, a Just Lunch." 
Some of the ideas are ones that the Nevertheless, candidates do have the Grab 'n' Go loca­lot ofthese buildings are Tesi questioned Student Senate has already looked into, meal plan changes in their platform. tions is an issue," he whether such pro­
not constructed for air 
according to senator Aldo Tesi, but Palko and Mercanti want students to said. grams are "office of administrators have told them those receive flex points for unused meals at Another ticket, that conditioning.,. the president type ideas will not work. the end of the week. of Nikki McCord and stuff." 
"We've looked into [many of] them. Tina Durski, card services manager in Nick Williams, promis­Moscona and Oxley's
Debbie Murray 

They're not necessarily unfeasible, but the food services department, does not es to restart SafeRide, platform also offers a
maintenance manager
it seems their ideas believe it is possible to a program that previ­variety of carnivals ­weren't looked into," rollover meals into flex ous administrations IRISHFEST, tradition
"We've looked into [many 

said Tesi. who is a co­points with the current have tried and failed night, Hey Day, NO chair of the senate's of] them. They're not card services system. to implement. Irish Feis. While the feasibility of plan-residence life commit­"Technically, I don't In addition, Bishop and Foley propose ning these carnivals may not be prob­
necessarily unfeasible, 

tee. "The likelihood of know how we would expanding the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's lematic, student attendance has tradi­
but it seems their ideas 

some of them happen­do that," she said. She shuttle service to new locations, such as tionally been an issue with similar ing seems really low to weren 't looked into. ,. added that while bud­the University Park Mall. events, like Founder's Day. me." geting is outside the However, according to Student "It depends on what time of year it 
For example, candi­realm of her job, Activities director Brian Coughlin, it is is," said Abe Pinon, a junior. "If it's at
Aldo Tesl 

dates Scott Palko and based on her experi­unlikely that the shuttle service will the beginning of the semester yes, [I
P.J. Mercanti want to senator ence she believes the expand to go to the mall, but Transpo would go]. But after that I probablyinitiate research into overall cost of me al Bus Service already runs from campus wouldn't go because I will have home­the possibility of plans would have to go to the mall. Moreover, the University work to do." installing air condi-up if students were just renewed its contract with United Jacob Rodenbiker, also a junior said, tioning in all dorms, something that receiving extra flex points. Limo, and so adding more stops would "I wouldn't attend because I am already senators have already researched. "Anything you do to increase the have to wait a few years until that con­involved in many other organizations
"The residence life committee looked average amount of meals a student eats tract came up for renewal. that have attractions of their own. I into air conditioning. It might be possi­increases the price of the meal plan," Expanded shuttle service is not don't really find programming of stu­ble but it would cost a ton. There's Tesi said. impossible, however, Coughlin said, dent government to be more attractive other things the University has to spend Increase meal plan options -some­especially if the stop is at a location than the activities that I am alreadymoney on," Tesi said. thing proposed by the ticket of Libby where students volunteer. The service involved with people I know, rather 
In fact, while adding air conditioning Bishop and Trip Foley -is somewhat has recently been expanded to include than random people." 
is something that could be looked into, more reasonable, according to Durski, the Robinson Community Learningaccording to Debbie Murray, a manager as long as the plan is within reason. Center and the Legal Aid Clinic. Contact Erin LaRuffa at in the maintenance department, it "You don't want the number of meals "There is precedent for it now that elaruffa@nd.edu. 
PAGE 2 PAGE3 PAGE4 
LIBBY BISHOP/TRIP FOLEY BRIAN M0SC0NA/KERI OXLEY OBSERVER EVALUATION OF 
NIKKI McC0Ro/N1cK WILLIAMS SCOTT PALKO/PJ MERCANTI CANDIDATES ON ISSUES: CHEERS, JEERS AND POLITE APPLAUSE 
page 2 The Observer• ELECTION 2002 Thursday, February 7, 2002 
LIBBY BISHOP  TRIP FOLEY  
PRESIDENT  VICE PRESIDENT  
More Student Less Government  

Who are They 
Both Bishop and Foley are Juniors. Bishop is a psychology and economics dou­ble-major from Welsh Family, and Foley is majoring in economics and Spanish living in Sorin. 
In Their Words 
. 
Top Priority: Like most of the tickets this year, Bishop and Fol~y recognize students' frustration with the current Flex system. The two would like to see a Flex 10 plan introduced. offering less meals but more Flex Points. 

. 
First Priority: In an effort to boost student morale and spirit, Bishop and Foley plan on a ..Welcome Willingham Tour" before the year ends. Held in conjunction with the Blue and Gold game, the tour would give students a chance to meet Tyrone Willingham in the dorms. 


In Our Words 
. 
Best Idea: Their Printer Allotment Sharing System (PASS) system introduces a printer welfare system for students who exceed the $100 limit. A simple phone call or e-mail to OrT can send unneeded funds from one student's printing account to a needy student's account. · 

. 
Worst Idea: Although communication between the administration and the student body needs to be improved, their idea of a weekly Q & A with a chosen administrator is overly optimistic. The student government-funded advertise­ment in The Observer would require sufficient funds and a regular person in charge of the weekly.process. They should try addressing any issues in Senate, not an advertisement. 

. 
Most Feasible Idea: In an effort to enhance communication between student government and the student body, Bishop and Foley plan on creating and regu­larly maintaining a student government Web site. In addition to providing infor­mation on weekly meetings and happenings on campus, the site will also serve as a place for student feedback and polling. 

. 
Least Feasible Idea: Their campus-wide book swap in Lafortune sounds nice, but it isn't realistic. Informal swapping goes on among friends in the dorms. but it would be hard to get the University to go up against the bookstore by setting up the swap in a central campus location. · 

. 
Fun fact: Both Bishop and Foley are earning majors in Economics. 

. 
Notable Quote: "It's sometimes hard to get out of the second-floor of LaFortune if you're always there," said Foley. 




The Bottom Line 
Bishop and Foley have the experience inside and outside the Dome to effectively manage the office of student body president. They have heavily researched most items on their platform, making their promises potential realities. Their ticket would be stronger, however, if they focused less on seeking opinions and input and more on what they are going to do. While Foley is a dynamic personality. Bishop needs to be more assertive in her leadership role. 
NIKKI McCORD NICK WILLIAMS 
PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT 
We 're Serious ... Seriously 
Who They Are 
McCord is a junior who lives in Pasquerilla East. She majors in government and 
minors in Latin. Williams is a sophomore who lives in Fisher. He is a government 
and Spanish major. 
In Their Words 
. Top Priority: McCord and Williams want to capitalize on the success of big­name events such as Bengal Bouts and Bookstore Basketball by adding a barbe­cue. The cookout, according to the ticket, would draw larger turnout and keep

r students entertained throughout the main event. I . First Priority: Publicity, publicity. If elected, McCord and Williams' first act ! would be to run in The Observer a full-page ad stating their goals. 
In Our Words 
. 
Most Feasible Idea: The ticket plans an all-school Mass this year on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Given the huge turnout to the South Quad Mass last fall -and the global interest that will surround the .tragedy's one­year anniversary -if McCord and Williams don't organize a Mass here, some­body will. 

. 
Least Feasible Idea: Officials shut down SafeRide leaving intoxicated students stranded off campus for a reas~m -mainly because it wasn't serving anybody. In the past the program has been allotted adequate funding, but has operated unsuccessfully because of inadequate staffing and relatively little need. If McCord and Williams want to restart the program, they better be willing to promote it well and to devise a number easily memorable for drunken students ... maybe 631-BEER? . 

. 
Best Idea: The ticket's idea to allow students to charge purchases at the Copy Shop is a small goal that affects campus life -and wallets -in a big way. And McCord and Williams have done their homework, claiming that the infrastructure already is in place in the store to provide this service. 

. 
Worst Idea: Cookouts are nice, but not with hundreds or thousands of people. McCord and Williams big barbecue has all the makings of being a big bust. . Fun Fact: According to campaign posters touting McCord and William's aver• age-student image, she likes figure skating and basketball star Kobe Bryant and he likes cuddling and the John Stamos character "Uncle Jesse" from 1980s sitcom "Full House." 

. 
Notable Quote: "[Our platformJ is nothing grandiose or nothing that's going to change the world," McCord said. "We're running on simplicity, feasibility and things that support community." 




Bottom Line 
Since running a losing campaign last year with Ryan Becker, McCord has undergone a big change in image and goals. With Williams, McCord's attempt to come across as the everyday student doesn't ring true. Last year she ran as an experienced insider, this year she is just another student. The ticket claims to be running on a platform based on simple student needs, but the pair needs to get a little more serious ... seri­ously. 
Thursday, February 7, 2002 The Observer• ELECTION 2002 page 3 
BRIAN MOSCONA KERI OXLEY 
PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT 
Envision the Possibilities 
Who They Are 

Moscona is a junior and Oxley is a sophomore. Moscona lives in Stanford and majors in marketing with the Hesburgh Public Service and Policy concentration. Oxley lives in Badin and majors in ALPP philosophy. 
In Their Words 

. Top priority: Addressing a problem that Moscona has seen as student body vice president, he and Oxley rank enhanced communication with the student body as their most important goal. Their proposed KOO-HAM Committee (the name is based on their initials) would establish a system by which students could bring their ques­tions or ideas to student government via e-mail, phone or suggestion box. The com­mittee would guarantee some sort of response in seven days. Other communication ideas include a Web site and student government stall notes in all dorms. . First Priority: Moscona and Oxley believe they can begin implementing the com• munication aspects of their platform right away. In particular, they will start by establishing the KOO·BAM committee arid its accompanying hotline and e-mail address. 
In Our Words 

. 
Best Idea: Moscona and Oxley want to work with student activists to bring social concerns to the administration and to make sure more on-campus protests and demonstrations are approved. This platform idea is a clear sign that Moscona and Oxley want to make student government more than just a programming body. 

. 
Worst Idea: To get more students to go to pep rallies, Moscona and Oxley want to include rally attendance as a factor in the dorm of the year award. It's hard to imagine the award could motivate uninterested students to give up a few hours of their Friday afternoon. 

. 
Most Feasible Idea: Stall notes are an easy and effective way to get student gov­ernment updates into all the dorms, in a spot where lots of people will read them. 

. 
Least Feasible Idea: Moscona and Oxley intend Dinner in the Dome to increase communication between students and administrators. However, only a small per­centage of students would be able to attend the meetings -not enough to have much of an effect on the communication gap between the student body and powers that be. 

. 
Fun Fact: Contrary to what some postings on NDToday.com say, Moscona and Oxley are not currently dating. 

. 
Notable Quote: "The office of the president should not be one more program­ming body competing with other offices, but a facilitating body," said Moscona. 



The Bottom Line 
Clearly one of the most experienced tickets, Moscona and Oxley have put a lot of hard work into assembling a comprehensive platform. Many of their ideas address important aspects of student life in a meaningful way. The big question, however, is communication. Their ideas to increase communication between student government and students do seem more likely to work than those Moscona proposed when he ran for student body vice president last year. • 
SCOTT PALKO  PJ MERCANTI  
____...........................................-...........-.............................................................................................  
PRESIDENT  VICE PRESIDENT  

"Leadership is Action, Not Position" 
Who They Are 

Palko and Mercanti are both juniors who live in Keough. Palko is a management and theology major. Mercanti is a finance major. 
In Their Words 

. 
Top Priority: Based upon student support gathered door-to•door, Palko and Mercanti set a new meal plan system to allow unused meals to roll-over into Flex points as their top priority. Although they also know this will be their most difficult initiative and accept that a "scaled back" version of their idea may be the only feasi­ble option, Palko sees it as the best way to "give back to the students." 

. 
First Priority: Palko and Mercanti would immediately create a "Wall of Clubs" in a central location to provide students with a convenient way to see what clubs and organizations exist, who to contact about joining and when they meet. Palko said this would continue the spirit of Activities Night all year. 


In Our Words 

. 
Best Idea: Palko and Mercanti's idea for fool.ball ticket distribution makes one wonder: why hasn't anyone thought of this sooner? They suggest that students receive their lottery numbers with their ticket applications, eliminating the need to obtain a lottery numbers at a later date. 

. 
Worst Idea: Although everyone celebrated the day cereal came to Grab 'n' Go, it's hard to take Palko and Mercanti's proposal to let students "fill their bags to a certain level" seriously. The impossibility of equating the cost to size ratio of food -do 10 bananas really have the same value as 12 Rice Krispie Treats or four yogurts? ­would be only one of many issues related to this suggestion that barely even alters the existing system. 

. 
Most Feasible: Palko and Mercanti cite Student Affairs willingness to permit freshmen to bring cars to campus first semester. It's doubtful that this would cause any severe overcrowding and it's a somewhat silly restriction anyway -especially when much of the student body lives out of state and has cause to travel home for breaks. Just one question: Who's going to vote for that. high school seniors'? 

. 
Least Feasible: Bringing air conditioning to every dorm on campus -including many South Quad buildings that hover around 100 years old -is not only unlikely to occur, but it is far from the best way to spend University money. Think about it: would you rather have a window unit air conditioner or your satellite dish? 

. 
Fun Fact: Both Palko and Mercanti are from Ontario, Canada. 

. 
Notable Quote: "As student body president I don't think it's my place to defy the school's founding principles," said Palko. "I think, as president, it's rriy job to lead them to those principles." 



Thursday, February 7, 2002 

page 4 The Observer• ELECTION 2002 
The Observ4:!r's evaluation of candidates on issues: Cheers, Jeers & Polite Applause  On Student Activism ·  On Campus Life Council  On Student Senate  On Tailgating  On Feasibility of Platform  
Bishop Foley  Pledged to chal­lenge administra­tion on important student issues  Recognize the shortcomings of the council, but lack specific plans  Suggest putting non-senators on committees  Vowed to take hardline with administrators on unclear policies  Platform is well-researched: ideas are easily implemented  
McCord Williams  Claims willing­ness to defend students, but without precedent  Would limit the council's scope to two issues per year  Wants to move issues through quickly, but no definite plan  Will support 21-year-olds' pre­game drinking  This ticket's pur­pose is to address simple, daily stu­dent isssues  
Moscona Oxley  Believe working with admininstra­tion is most effec­tive for students  Senate experi­ence makes Moscona ready for the CLC  Wants senate -reserach more accessible to stu­dents on the Web  Will push for pol­icy clari.lication, but other pre-game ideas won't fly  Events might not draw crowds, but the planning can be done  
Palko Mercanti  Will follow duLac to the let­ter, forget liberal interpretation  Plan to meet only as needed, which violates University rules  Database of previous issues will eliminate redundancy  Won't fight for student tailgating  Don't under­stand the cost associated with their platform  

Candidates discuss thoughts on administration 
By KIFLIN TURNER Assistant News Ed.itor 
• 
Strengthening the ties of communication between the students and the administra­tion ranks at, or near the top of a list of pri­orities formulated by student government tickets running for office in nest week's election. 
Finding a face to address the concerns of tbe students is essential in making the first step towards taking active initiatives according to presidential candidate Libby Bishop. 
"We really want to be proactive and we want to have students feel like student gov­ernment cares about what they have to say and we want to do that by coming towards the students instead of just letting the stu­dents come to us," said Bishop. 
Creating a student government web site with polls, keeping a suggestion box. and being available after dorm masses are some of the ways the BishoplPoley ticket plan to reach out to the student community in increasing communication and harnessing ideas. 
"After getting a wide range of student opinion we'll know what students want," Bishop said. "Once we have better commu­nication with-the students, I think we will he so much better equipped to communicate with the administration." 
Presidential candidate Scott Palko and running mate, P.J. Mercanti cited their stu­dent-based philosophy as the foothold of their platform. 
"Being a ticket we believe is based on stu­dent life and the students wants, needs and concerns -we're trying to have the stu­dents tell us what it is they want," said Palko. 
To initiate student dialogue and involve­ment Palko advocated enabling an e-mail address where the students could post con­
cerns. "One of the very first things we plan on doing when we get into office is having an e-mail address set up," said Palko. He fur­ther stated that they would personally read and sort each message and then group them accordingly to comprehensively address similar issues. 
"We have accountability to get those things done and students can look towards us trying to accomplish those things -they know what it is we"re going to he working for in the next year," said Palko. 
The ticket also plans on writing a weekly or bi-weekly column in The Observer to inform students of any developments in stu­dent government and the stance of the administration on various issues. 
"We're a firm believer in using the means of communic_ation-that already exist as far as Scholastic and The Observer are con­cerned," said Palko. 
Presidential candidate Nikki McCord and vice presidential candidate, Nick Williams both plan to continue to talk to student groups around campus in the coming days to gain additional feedback. 
McCord said that it is imperative to estab­lish an active voice and role in communicat­ing the needs of the student. 
"They want well-educated people who are going to firmly state the needs of the students who are not so much going to overturn their authority, but work with them to express the desires of the student body," said McCord. "We plan to work with the administration in the areas that stu­dents bring to us in the changing climate on campus." 
Brian Moscona, current student body vice president and presidential candidate, and his runningmate, Keri Oxley have declared communication with students and adminis­tration as their top priority. From a new web site to a new committee called KOOBAM (an acronym for the candidates initials), much of their platform is about communication. 
"[Many campaign promises] are happen­ing in student government now and stu­

dents just don't know," said Moscona. "That's why communication is one of our biggest goals." 
As a member of the current administra­tion, Moscona said he has already estab­lished a relationship with many administra­tors, but understands the need for students to be aware of administration's motivations. 
The Bishop/Foley ticket also believed that their collective student government experi­ence granted them the ability to act as qual­ified representatives to the administration. 
"We feel like we have a more accurate perception and perspective because of our extensive involvement in student govern­ment," Bishop said. 
Provided that they take a proactive approach by speaking with administrators on a personal basis, Foley stated that open and personal dialogue would enable them to work on their ideas and ensure imple­mentation. 
"We've gotten great responses from the administrators we've talked to on each of the issues," said Foley. "We've been both happily surprised at when we were researching our platform at how open the administration was to our ideas and wanti­ng to discuss them with us. I think that that is a great way to start it off because they already know what we want and we made sure that what we'd like to work on is feasi­ble." 
McCord also emphasized tho feasibility of their own platform and the likelihood of gaining administrative approval to imple­ment them. 
"The best thing to remember is that our platform is simple. We don't have any grandiose id0p5 that aren't going to work," McCord. "We're working on a platform that is simplistic and beneficial to the student." 
Creating a platform that is feasible, realis­tic, and in demand is the most efficient way to go about getting goals accomplished according to some tickets, 
McCord stated that the idea of having a free movie shuttle providing transportation to students would necessitate the financial support of the administration. 
''[It's] definitely going to require the help of the administration because we are going to need funding," said McCord. In addition. McCord also plans to resurrect SafeRide and has already begun discussion with Father Mark Poorman vice president of stu­dent affairs, and assistant vice president of' student affairs, Bill Kirk. 
"They think that Safe Ride is an excellent idea," said McCord. 
One of the issues on Palko's campaign ticket that would require extensive adminis­trative review is the consideration of imple­menting air conditioning into the dorms. 
"We plan on initiating the process," said Palko. "It's our goal to start the process for air conditioning not so much as have air conditioning in every dorm in one year." 
The changing policy on tailgating is a recent issue of concern in assessing the quality of communication between adminis­trators and students. After tbe fact. it later came to light that the student population was largely unaware of the revised policy. 
McCord reported that Kirk was willing to listen to the concerns of the students. Foley also stated that they had previously spoken with Kirk on the issue. 
Foley also said that in light of the mass student confusion and the revision of the tailgating policy, their platform supports the idea of taking out an advertisement in The Observer to have Poorman or Kirk write a letter explaining the policy and the reasons for the revision. 
According to the Bishop/Foley ticket informed and continuous dialogue between both student and administrator depends on how well student government acts as a mediator in relaying the position of the administration as well as conveying the concerns of the students on issues. 
Contact Killin Turner at kturncr@nd.edu. 
.----------------~-------------------------------------­0BSFRVER 

Thursday, February 7, 2002 
page 13 

ONE ON ONE MOVIE REVIEW 
Critics attend Kidman's 'Birthday' 
Slaff members .'vl<'!is.rn Rauch (.",,Ill} and Paul r:cunarata (/'CJ reoiew Jez !htllertt•orlh'.,• "Hirlhcfoy Girf" in Cl concr>rscllio11C1f style rmril'aled since the clays r~f Vauclerille and t1'lw's rm hrs!. b1joy l Jw sluJ/l'. 
PC: So. i'Jkoll' Kidman. f\.fr. you. and ,di ol' that dm,vy pain skin meet agui11. Oh baby 
MR: Isn't sh(' a littln tall l'or you. Paul'? Anyway, in "l~irthday Girl," Kidman stars as a Hussian mail or<lnr brid1· nanwd Nadia who's full of surprisPs. As in h('r r<'('('llt f'ilms "\1oulin llougp" and "Tlw Otlwrs." she drwt>lops anoth­Pr uniquP diaracll'r to df~rnonstratc IH'r r,lll~l'. t.his Linw by dunning a Hussian a<'c('.nl and Wf'aring morf' mas('ara than Tammy Favn Bak<~r. 
Fi,r thP past ffiw y(iars. ·shn's sP1~m•id dPLPr-mi1wd to prov<' to l'Vf'ryone that slw was nHm' than just Mrs. Tom CruisP. With all th(' cu1T('I1t buzz sur­rounding lwr 1wrsonal and profession­al Jiff'. Kidman raisf's Buttr.rworth's l'ilm from obscurity. llr.r fine pnfor­mann' lwlps llw audir.ncr. ov<'rlook thl' ludicrous plot and makes this mid­dlP of tlw road film sonwwhat. entic­ing. 
PC: "Birthday" opPns with lonely bank cil'rk John Buckingham (Bnn Chaplin] posing for a WPbcam whilc-sParching f'or a girl to c:all his own. and from LlwrP n'volvPs around tlw ronsli­quPnrPs of both his choices and his lusl. \Vlwn John l'l'f'cts -woops -! mean PIPcts to ignor<' tlw age-old adagi•. "'BPwarP Huskies bf'aring bum." he is burnt by Lhi' heat of' pas­sion. 
\Vlwn tl-w !'orlorn Nadia cntf'rs tlw Sl't'llP. John quirkly realiz•1s slw is not tlw babushka lw rhosn. DespitP his usual dl'l'Prcnc<' to ru!Ps and tlw sta­tus quo. lw dP(·id•'s against corrP<·ting th1! c·1-ror aftPr cliscovl'ring just how saucy. and willing. Nadia can b(' in night rloth(!S. 
Tlw real hijinks b(,gin wlwn lwr long lost buddiPs. bilingual Yuri and thug­gish .-\IPX<~i. a.rrivP on tlw scPiw pour­ing Stoli and smoking plPnly or Marb rPds. 
I\IR: Kudos to two Fn·nchman. VincPnl CassPI and Malhi•'u Kassovitz. !'or pur­Lraying Hussians so wdl. 



PC: Also for Kidman. a native Aussie. who smoothly sheds her down under and borrowed American accents in order Lo sound likl' a native Hussian. 
MR: I agree that Kidman 's Russian dialect is spol on. but then again, what do I know about Russians? Boris. Natasha, Yakov Smirnoff. With these as my only refnrr.nl:es. I can be as easily dupl~d as John. 
PC: No. I've ser.n "The llunt for Red October" enough times to know fake i\toscowesc when I hear it. And la l'r.mmc NiKidman passes the bill. 
!\IR: Yr.s, hf\r pr.rformanc:e is so con­vincing it almost lets the audience forget how ludi­crous the plot is. Almosl. Luckily. Chaplin's doltish character is there to wake cvt~rvonc up from this tem­porary insanity. Ilis naive, per­vertl'd. and irra­tional behavior is 
unrnalistic and 
annoying. And while the script mav call f'or John to play Uw thank­lrss role nf the dupe. the rharac­tnr gr.ts no help from Chaplin's shallow perfor­manw. lie has this blank stare stuck on his face no matter what nmotion he's try­ing to express. 

PC: Chaplin may br, a nobody opposite Kidman, but Butterworth still succeeds in striking a pleasant balance between her and the rest of the cast. 
Butterworth also chooses wisely in creating a sound­track that opts away from obtrusive bar,k­ground noise. meld­ing music and silence with fewer seams than the word "Eurasian." He even 
resists the temptation to wedge in the old musical standards "Happy Birthday!" or the Beatles' "Birthday" into the action. 
Butterworth has ample opportunity. to overstuff his frames with images of speedy sex and violence. but takes a minimalist approach to these moments so that the plot is slowly inllatecl with tension rather than deto­nating with the impulse of a cartoon Acme plunger. 
MR: The background silence. a bumpy hand-held camera and numerous long takes do help add a layer of realism. but there are still too many plot holes to make the story plausible. This real­

ly is a simple romantic comedy trying to wear the dress of a racv, sus­pf'nse thriller. · 
PC: So Butterworth's no auteur. 
MH: Not yet anyway. The Broth<'rs lluttc>rworth. co-writers Jez and Tom. try to shake up the romantic comedy genre with :tn unusual prPrnisA. some interest­
"Birthday Girl" classic capf'r tale or a genuine love-suspense
Melissa ·s rating 
story. Its short running time is indicative of a lack of depth. but "Girl." 
Paul's rating 

with the help of a typical­~).1 J~';J ~i1 ly svelte Kidman, will rapture enough attention
out offive shamrocks 
to hold its own in this

Director: Jez Butterworth 
frigid period of cinema Starring: Nicole Kidman sweeps until the next del­and Ben Chaplin ugn of blockbuslPr rolcas­
ing Hussians and a little f'lasby camera movemr.nts, but the story is just too silly to work. The style is all for slrn...,· to disguise the lack of subslancn. The supposedly kinky sex is barely shown. the violence lies entirely in threats instead of action. and the ending is too predictable to be suspenseful. 
Still. if you can suspend your disbe­liof' for a little whilr., you can !mjoy the movi11 on a superl'icial level. That·s why the f'ilm n~peats the mantra "Trust and let go." One might think the statement rnl'Ms to John. but it's really a warning to the viewers that to enj<>y the next 93 minutes they should leave common sense behind and just go with the 11ow. 
PC: You say. For me. the pattern that emerges from all of the film's objects and images reveals that it is built to resemble a poor man's 007 flick. Chaplin is a bumbling boyish Brit who. if you can imagine. is equal parts James Bond. and Mr. Bean. lie drives a tiny sports coupe, but is awkward around women; he races valiantly to the rescue, but stumbling all the way. That John finds Nadia on an Internet service called "From Russia With Love." is only the most obvious tribute from Team Butterworth to the 1963 installment of the formula spy series. The one Bondian motif that "Girl" lacks is some stupid theme song over the opening credits, until -voila! ­the closing r,redits roll and there's a song entitled. that's right, "Something Stupid." 
MR: "Stupid" being the operative word. Sum, the classic Bond !'ilm relies more on style than substance, but it thrives on the witty camp and charm that "Birthday Girl" fails to 
achieve. 
PC: Butterworth adds original materi­al to all the Bond allusions, but admit­tedly still ends with an ambivalent 
script that never fullv 
commits to being r.itlwr a 
c>s in the spring. 

MR: Sorry. despite Kidman·s lalPnts. it's not worth your time. 
By the time they finished collaborat­ing 011 this reciew, Melissa and !'au! were wishing they had nePer heard the name !Ju.tterworth. And they were eating panr:akes at the time. Contact them at mrauch@nd.edu and pcama­rat@nd.edu. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 7, 2002 
WINTER OLYMPICS 

WTC flac to be used in opening ceremonies 
Associated Press 
SALT L<\.KE CITY 

The tattPred American flag recovered from the rubble al ground zero will b1-1 carried at the Winter Olympics· opening ceremony Friday night in a r.om­promise of patriotism and proto­wl. 
A group of u.S. athletes. New York City firefighters and Port Authority polir,e will be allowed to takP the flag into the ceremo­ny in a "solemn. dignified entrance," the International Olympic Committee said Wednesday. reversing an earlier derision.· 
Barring bad weather. the deli­cate banner will thfrn be raisRd beside the Olympic flame at Rice-Eccles Stadium while "The Star-Spangled Banner" is played. . 
The t1ag will not be part of the main parade of athletes during the opening ceremony and instead will bP. carrif'd in after all teams have entered the stadium. 
Still, it will be the official U.S. flag of the Winter Games. at the center of an event with an esti­mated 3 billion people watching worldwi.de. 
"We had a great deal of discus­sion as to how to honor the flag as a symbol of the heroes of Sept. 11." said Mitt Romney, president of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, who criti­cized the IOC's original decision. 
"This is a way to honor the t1ag and honor the Olympians as a world event. We feel v11ry con­nected with the athletes of the world." 
Thi' IntHrnationa.l Olympic Committee originally said American athletes would not be allowed to curry the CTag, but that it could be raised as the ofli­dal U.S. flag at the opening cere­mony. The IOC said the plan pro­posed by the U.S. Olympic Committee violated rules barring political acts during the ceremo­ny. 
The decision brought quick r,riticism. Talk shows nationwide were filled with the topic. The USOC received 75-100 e-mails and dozPns of telephone calls at its Colorado Springs, Colo., head­quarters. And l{omney issued a statement that he "respectfully disagreed" with the IOC's deci­sion. 
That's when the IOC relented. 
Before a single chant of "USA. USA" rang out through the Wasatch Mountains, internation­al Olympic officials seemed to botch their first attempt to quash what seems inevitable -that these will be America's Games. 
"There is always a question, what is the best wav?" said Bob Ctvrtlik, a former Olympic volley­ball player from the united States and now an IOC member. "I think the U.S. athletes will be verv satisfied." 
The athletes who will carry the !lag will be pickt>d after discussions with Port Authority police officers who are bringing the flag to Salt Lake Cily, Romney said. The f1ag was due to arrive Wednesday night. 
The announcement of the new plan, made by IOC director gent>ral Prnncois Carrard, underscored the emo­tion attached to the !lag and the difficulties of managing a sports event that also is one of the world's largest political stages. 
The compromise was reached just before midnight, after a two­hour meeting of IOC, USOC and SLOC of1icials and their advisers. 
"Thi' ground zero 11ag will enter solemnly dur­ing the opening ceremo­ny," Carrard said. "It will be carried by an honor guard of American athletes and other heroes, police­men. firemen. This will be a solemn. dignified entrance." 

The 12-foot-by-8-foot !lag was the only American flag flying at the World Trade Center the morning of Sept. 11. 
It was buried in rubble for three days and was torn in two places. Rescuers turned il over to a National Guard colonel for a ceremonial destruction. The colonel gave the 11ag to the Port Authority Police Department. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersfly owned the trade center. 

The flag flew over a World Series game at Yankee Stadium last fall and was included in cnr­emonies at the Super Bowl. 
WINTER OLYMPICS 

Two Americans among those elected to IOC 
32. Easton's new position some Olympic leaders. meets our objer,tives." Aziz. Kikis Lazai-ides of
Associated Press 

returns a U.S. member to the IOC officials said Easton's Also elected to the board Cyprus, Park Yong-sung of IOC's powerful executive election was based on both his were two members who ran South Korea, PatrickSALT LAKE CITY 
board. personal qualities and the unopposed -Toni Khoury of Chamunda of Zambia, SheikhIn a major boost for U.S. 
Sandra Baldwin, the presi­desire to have an American Lebanon and Tommy Sithole of Tamin Bin Hamad bin Khalifapower in international sports, 
dent of the U.S. Olympic voice on the board. Zimbabwe. A-Thani of Qatar. Kai Holm of
a Los Angeles business leader Committee, was chosen as a "He is very competent. very The United States has four· Denmark. Francois Narrnon of

was elected vice president or 

member of the IOC 69-25, with loyal. He has been there when lOC members -Easton, Belgium, Youssoupha Ndiaya
the IOC on Wednesday and 

three abstentions. we needed him." IOC director Baldwin, former vice president of Senegal and MatthewAmerica's top Olympic ~fficial Baldwin takes the seat for­general Francois Carrard said. Anita DeFrantz and athlete Pinsent of Britain.
was chos-en as a committee 

merly held by Bill Hybl, her "We are very happy the United representative Bob Ctvrtlik. Pinsent, a three-time gold
member. 

predecessor as USOC presi­States is again represented on Besides Baldwin. the IOC medalist in rowing. was elect­
James Easton. \vhose com­

dent. the executive board. We have accepted nine other new mem­ed to fill an athlete's member­
pany makes aluminum base­

Hybl's continuation on the always felt than an important bers to raise its roster to 131. ship vacated by Polish javelin
ball bats and arrows, easily JOC after his domestic term country like the United States Elected were Saudi Arabian thrower Jan Zelezny, who

won the vice presidency over 

expired had been criticized by should be on the board. It Prince Nawaf Fahd Abdul resigned.
Canada's Paul Henderson, 52­

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU-Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE DENTS alone. If you or someone you love MTV audience ticket to select NOTICES,. FOR SALE FOR RENT CLOSE TO ND GREAT AREA needs confidential support or assis-shows when you book your Spring lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Break through StudentCity.com! 2773097 Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. Go to MTV.com or call 
StudentCity.com at 1-800-293-1443 

$400 CCTour&Travel  1998 Saturn  MMMRentals.com  SUPER HOME GREAT AREA  For more inforrnation, see our  for details!  
Great Winter Car. Sweet Stereo.  272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com  CLOSE TO NO  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
Florida SpringBreak pkg.  40mpg  FOR 3-4 STUDENTS  Tours and tickets are limited!  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9­ 2773097  
Call 258-0716  $8,600/offer,  bedroom houses.  SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE1  #1 Spring Break Vacations!  
283-0901  MMMRentals.com  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas &  
Call Bill at 532-1896  Book your trip with StudentCity.com  Florida!  
and save up to $100 per person to  Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best  
WANTED  3 bdrm, 1-1/2 bath. 2-story home  HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03  Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre  Prices! Space is Limited!!!  
w/2-car garage.  YR.FURN.  PERSONAL  or Florida.  
272-6306  Most popular student hotels includ­ 1-800-234-7007  

Finished basement w/pool table,  Ing the Oasis and the Nassau  
washer/dryer and freezer.  mins from ND!4-6 student house  Marriott Crystal Palace!  www.endlesssummertours.com  
Website help needed to revamp  All drapes, appliances & carpeting  w/large common areas-prkg lot,  . Spring Break with STS. Americas  
existing site.  included.  appl Fall 2002  #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote  Prices start at $3991 Sale ends  Like to watch sports?  
FrontPage. Good Pay.  Dave 291-2209  trips on-campus earn cash and free  soon! CALL NOW!  Like to write?  
IHRD  Close to Holy Cross church, shop- trips.  Call Noah at 1-4543 to write sports  
ping, & restaurants.  Excellent house 3-4 students.  1-800-293-1443  for The Observer.  
273-8857  Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291­ Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849  
8-5 M-F.  Call Patricia at 57 4-234-9782.  2209  www.ststravel.com  or go to StudentCity.coml  Please recycle The Observer.  

Thursday, February 7, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
========================================================================================================--_-_ -_ -_ -_ 
This 
Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 


.....~UPS Freshman Retreat #40 
Retreat dates: February 22-23 Applications available: 
January 28 through February J8, 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
San Egidio Community
•

6:00 p.m, Sacred Heart Crypt 


Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Faith and Revelation Class Retreat . Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat 
Lindenwood Retreat Center 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
Morrissey Chapel (this week only) 
RCIA: Catechumenate
•

10:00-11 :30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 


The Way Catholic Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. 
Fisher Hall Chapel 


campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. " 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 


Ash Wednesday 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer. 
10:00 p.m. 
Morrissey Chapel 
CIIMPUS MINISTRY 
-• ~ 
Only 100 days left ­
¦ by Fr. John Herman c.s.c. ­Rector, O'Neill Hall and Director of Retreats 
-

One hundred days. Only 100 days stand between today and that great day, May 19th, when 
.... 

family and friends will gather in the Joyce Center to celebrate the graduation of their daughters and sons, their brothers and sisters and their friends. Only 100 days remain until a very significant chapter of life, four years at Notre Dame, comes to a close. The Class of 2002 will then join the 
-
....

ranks ofthis great university's alumni/alumnae, and will move on to the next chapter oflife, wher­
ever that may be. It's not yet time for our seniors to head to the Grotto for that last visit, but it's 
approaching all too rapidly, isn't it? 

It's not my intention to get you seniors into a countdown mode. My hope is simply that you will ­realize just how precious the time is that you have left here at Notre Dame. Despite the sometimes a.a less than ideal weather, to be here at Notre Dame is a gift from God. It is a gift that so many people throughout the country and world would love to have but a privilege that relatively few will ever 1111111 
enjoy. Time is such a precious commodity, especially 
..... 

here. What will you do with the time that you have left 
Go to lunch with that 

here? How will you make the most ofit all? inspiring professor. Get a The challenges and pressures that seniors might be 
-

feeling at this time are, in all likelihood, greater for this 
group together to do 

class than they have been for seniors in recent years. 
-

Christmas in April. That question that seniors typically dread may be loom­ing even larger than usual this year. "What are you go­
Reconcile with that friend -..
ing to do after graduation?" Even those fortunate se­
..

you lost during your niors with an answer to that question can be weighed down by other questions about the shape their lives will ..
sophomore year. The 

take beyond the friendly confines of Notre Dame and 
possibilities are endless. away from their friends. The danger in the focusing on 
these questions is the possibility oflosing a sizable chunk 
of the present, here under the Dome, to che future. We may be 
walking through today while our minds are half-way into September. We may lose at least part ofthe great gift 
that today can be for us here at Notre Daine to our questions about the future. 
Living in the present is a challenge not just for seniors anticipating life beyond Notre Dame but for everyone . 
We can easily lose the present moment because we're either bound up by the past or riveted on the future. It 
sounds obvious, but the present is where life is, where our friends are, where God is found. The present is all we 
have. Why can't we embrace the present and be fully engaged by it while still learning from the past and 
preparing for the future? It's not easy! There is surely something more for us to do, to discover and to learn 
right here, right now. It's not over yet. Not nearly. 
How will we make the most of the time that we have left at Notre Dame? What are some things that we 
might do to take advantage of the meaningful opportunities that still lie before us here? There are so many 
possibilities. Go to lunch with that inspiring professor. Get a group together to do Christmas in April. Recon­
cile with chat friend you lost during your sophomore year. Spend some quiet time with God in the Basilica, at 
the Grotto or in one ofthe many chapels on campus. Gee up early one morning and walk or run the lakes with 
your friends. Take time to give thanks to Go'"d and to the people who have cared so much and given so much of 
themselves to you. The possibilities are endless. 
There are also two other special opportunities for seniors. Campus Ministry offers two great chances for 
seniors to get together for prayer and for reflection on their time here at Notre Dame and on the way that God 
has been a part ofthis experience and is calling them to live their lives and their faith beyond graduation. Senior 
Retreats #7 (Fri.-Sat., Apr. 5-6) and #8 (Fri.-Sat., Apr.19-20) are opportunities for seniors to step away from 
the pressures of this final semester to focus on what has been and what will be that they might find more 
meaning and peace in the time left here at Notre Dame. Mark your calendars now! 
As Ferris Bueller said, "Life moves pretty fast. Ifyou don't stop and look around once in awhile, you could 
miss it." Life is moving pretty fast, isn't it, seniors? Stop and look around. Every day of our life is a gift from 
God. Don't just countdown the days that remain until graduation. Make those days count. 

, • Around Campus 
¦ Mark vour Calendar· 

Sunday, February 10 
Saturday, February 23

Spanish Mass 
... 1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
Coleman-Morse Center 

Law School Mass 
No Ginre-a+e-r-L--ove­

5;00 p.m., Law School Chapel
¦ Basilfoaallha sacred lleart··. 
A day-long retreat 

Saturday, February 9 Mass MBA Mass 
focused on prayer,

5:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m'., t-Jlend~a ~OB Chapel 
music and renewal.
Rev. PeterD. Rocca, c.s.c 

¦ sundars
Sunday,February ·10 Mass 
Call 1-3250, for more info

· Scrlntore Readings
10:00a.m. 

Rev. Wilson D. Miscamble, c.s.c. ·• 1.st Reading Is 58:7-10 
11:45a.m. 

2nd Reading 1 Cor2:1-5 Rev. Edward A. Malloy, o.s.c. 
C-M

Gospel Mt 5: 13-16 
Campus Ministry 

page 16 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 7, 2002 
BOXING 
ABC recommends states to ban Tyson 
Associa ced Press 
NEW YORK 
The Associatio_n of Boxing 

Commissions is reromm<'nding 
that other states follow Nevada 
by denying Mike Tyson a box­
ing lirnnsc1. 
The ABC's suggestion isn't 

binding. though. because while 
state commissions uphold other 
states' lir.ense revocations or 
suspensions of boxers. they are 
not bound Lo honor a license 
denial. 
Shelly Finkel. Tyson's advis­er. said seven states have expressed interest in a Tyson challenge to WBC-IBF heavy­weight champion Lennox Lewis. 
General manager Eddie Gossage of the Texas Motor Speedway at f(Jrt Worth, said he spoke with FinkPl and \fain Events. Lewis' American pro­moter. 
Oickie Colr_ boxing roordina­tor of Texas. has said Tyson could get a lic.ense there. He has not applied in Texas. but he is supposed to apply for a license in California in about two weeks. 
There also is a political rea­son behind the ABC's action. 
The ABC is against having a Federal Boxing Commiss-ion, and the group's president. Tim Lueckenhoff. said that for that 
reason, "I think it's important 
that we as an association stick 
together." 
The l\ievada State Athletic 
Commission voted 4-l on Jan. 
29 not to issue a license to 
Tyson so he could fight Lewis 
on April 6 in tho MG!\! Grand at 
Las Vegas. 
"All we did was deny him a 
license within the borders of 
NP-vada." said Marr Ratnnr. 
executive director of the 
Nevada commission. 
"We understand that each state and Indian reservation has its own criteria for rnach­in g a license." Luecknnhoff said. 
He said he had the unani­mous support of the ABC's 13­m8mber boftrd of directors in making the recommendation to follow Nevada's lead. 
Thr ARC has 49 stat<'s and Indian reservations, including Nevada. as members. arcording to Lueckenhoff. 
Lewis has said his WBC mandatory defense against Tyscn won't happen on April 6 and that he might fight another opponent. Lewis. however, remains under contract for a Tyson fight. 
The WBC has let it be known that it expects Lewis to fight the top-ranked Tyson before he fights anyone else. 

I SMC BAsKEraAtL 
1 

Belles give Dutch a scare 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Byline Tirk 

Saint Mary's expected Hope 
to be a tough opponent 
Wednesday night. Ilope proba­
bly didn't expect the same o[ 
Saint Mary's. 

But if the Flying nutrh did 
not expect much from the 
Belll1s before the\ game, they 
soon realized just how badly 
the Bdles wanted an upset vic:­
Lory during the llrst few min­
utes of the contest at Hope 
College's Dow Center. 

Hope 121-1, 10-1 MIA.A) con­
tinued to distance itself from 
the rest of the ronforence as 
tlrn Flying Dutch beat the 
Belles i 4-64. 

Considering llope's prowess in the confernnc1~ Non average they only allow their oppo­nents 54.2 points while scoring 
70.2 themselves -Saint tvlary's had a successful night. even with injured star Anne Blair only playing 14 minutes. 
"I thought the team really camA out f'rorn tho start ready to go. ! was very. very impressed and proud of them, of the way they stepped on thn court to play." s-aid Belles' roach Suzanne Smith. 
"It was amazing to look in our players' eyes the tirsl 10 minutes and see the in tensitv in their eyes," she added. " 
"Our whole team [is pleased]. We improved and 
played i;o much better since 
the last time we played them. 
ll is de!'initely encouraging," 
said senior guard Jamie 
Dineen. 

The Belles i;tarted off strong. 
and stay,~d with the Flying 
Dutch throughout the first half. 
At the buzzer, Dineen sunk a 3 
to put Saint Mary's within live, 
31-26. 

Because Blair had injun•d 
her th u m b i n p r a c tic ti 
Tuesday, she was only able to 
contribute two boards and an 
assist to the Belles' cause. but 
sophomorn forward Katie 
Miller stepped up, scoring 22 
points, including going 4-9 
from beyond the arc. 

Freshman Emily Creachbaum aud Oinnen helped th(l BP!lns rack up points with their totals ol' 12 and 15, rnspcctively. 
Despite Miller's shooting accurary though, 1lopP ·s offensr was able to· takA more shots and make more shots. and the def'ensn was able to force turnovers and confuse Saint Mary's at times. 
"!lope really put a lot ol' pressure on us, trying to force a Jot of turnovers. gave us dif­ferent defensive looks." Smith said. "They reached into their bag of trir.ks and threw out a couple of defonsivc looks that we weren't expecting." 
Katie Boyce was aggressive at the boards. pulling down six. but Hope was able to out-
rebound tlrn BP!lcs :n-2u. 
thanks to ef'forts by Laura 
Poppema, Amy Brower. and 
Amy Baltnrnnis. 
Although Saint Mary's start­
ed the game with much focus 
and assrrtiveness. its intnnsity 
started to fizzle during the sec­
ond hair. 
The Belles shot 60 p1'.rccnt from the lloor in the first half. but Jost accuracy as they attempted more shots in the sPcond. wlwn they WPnt 15-:W f'rom the field. The Belles only went to the line five times and made three of those shots, while the rlying Dutch were 6­11 in free throws_ 
Aided by Miller's four 3­pointers, the Relics' shot 50 · percent from beyond the arc, whilt the Flying Dutch -typi­cally not a :1-point shooting team -shot jui;t :n.3 percent in six attempts. 
OvPrall; Saint Mary's is pleased to have finished within 10 points of the top-ranknd tnam in lhP conf'nr<'ncp, but. as they look forward to playing at Olivet on Saturday. tlrnrc is still some disappointmPnt. 
"They rnally expected Lo win tonight," said Smith. 
The Belles 17-15. 3-8 MIA,\) are currently ranked spcond to last in the conl'er<'n<:1' stand­ings. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 


• I 
222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BENO:: 219.234.5200 :: HEARTLANOSOUTHBEND.COM 
CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 219-251-2568 
-------·--· 
Thursday, February 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Divac's triple double leads Kings over Celtics 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

P<'ja Stojakovic scored 24 points and Vlade Divac had his sPVt~nth earner triple-double to kad th(' Sacramento Kings lo a I02-85 victorv ovr1r the Boston Cl'ltirs on vWdnP.sday night. 
Divac had 1 S points. 14 · rebounds and 10 assists !'or thP Kings, who entered the All-Star brPak ·with an NBA-best record nf'37-11. 
Antoinn Walker scored 26 points for the Celtics, ,vho lost for the f"our·th limn in six garnPS and rinsed out their first half' with a n'r·ord of 28-21. 
Thi, Kings, \\ho were without Chris Wehbn (stoma<'h f'lul. swept the season series against th,\ Celtics ror the ::;e('ontl straight season and for only tlw f'o urth ti m<' si nc1' the seri PS began ill thn 1 'J4o-4'J season. 
Sacramento opcnPd the sec­ond half v, ith a 10-0 run. ,ixtPnding its !Pad to 70-50. Walker madP a layup al 7:!i5 of' tlw pPriod to bait the run. 
IIPdo Turkoglu maclP a 3­pointer from the corner to give llw Kings their largest !Pad or the ganw at 90-62. Sarranwnto shot 13-fo r-19 from th<' licld in tllP third quarter. 
Trailing 42-34 with 5:20 rPnmining in the SC('ond quar­tf' r. Sacramento broke the ganw opPn with a 21-3 run. Bobby Jackson and Turkoglu combined for 14 points and the Kings led 60-50 at the break. 
Stojakovic had 13 points and Divac addr,d fivr assists in the first quarter. 
Cavaliers 111, Rockets 109 
Andre Miller sr.ored 31 points. and Lamond Murray scond the go-ahead basket with 21 seconds remaining and blorked a shot with 9 seconds left to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers to a victory over the Houston Huckets. 
Steve Fran<'is took Ilouston's last shot. The ball bounced around the rim and fell through the basket. but thP ref­erees ruled the shot came after time had expired. 
Fram.is knrlt at midr.ourt in disbeliPl' and llouslon coach Hudy Tomjanovich went to the scorer's table to protest the call. A television replay appeared to show the call was correct. 
Milll'r finished with 13 rebounds, and Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored all 12 of his points in the fourth quarter as the Cavaliers snapped a three­game losing streak. Cleveland had lost 15 of its last 16 games. 
Cuttino Mobley scored 29 points, and Francis added 25 for I louston. 
Miller snapped a 106-all tie with a turnaround jumper from along tlw baseline with 55 sec­onds left. giving Cleveland a 108-10(1 lead 
Nine seconds later, Francis 
drove the lane for an easy bas­
ket, was fouled, and completed 
the three-point play to give 
Houston a 109-108 lead. 
Murray scored his first points 
of the second half with 21 sec­
onds left to give Cleveland a 
110-109 lead. 
Aftf'r rranr:is missed a layup, 
Eddie Grif'fin grabbed the 
rebound and had his shot swat­
ted away by Murray. 
Miller made onf' frpe throw 
with 6.8 seconds left for the 
final margin. 
Wesley Person madf' 10 of his 
first 11 shots from the field and 
helped the Cavaliers build a 
72-62 lead with 3:S2 kft in the 
third quarter. Person finished ·with 23 points. 
l\-lobley, limited to two points 
on 1-for-2 shooting in the lirst 
half, scored nine straight points 
in the third quarter to rally the 
Hockrt.s. 
Miller and Person each had 
12 first-half points as the Cavs 
built a 50-46 lead by the break. 
Mavericks 112, Nets 100 
Tim Hardaway hit a go­
ahead 3-pointer ttJ ignite a 
game-ending 16-2 run that led 
the Dallas Mavericks to a victo­
ry over the New Jersey Nets. 
Hardaway had seven of his 
11 points in the run that led 
Dallas .to a team record-tying 
seventh straight road win and 
ended the Nets' eight-game 
home winning streak. 

Dallas. which shot 27-for-27 from the line and was coming off a 141-140 double-overtime victory over Indiana on Tuesday night, has won 23 of its last 28 games. 
Dirk Nowitzki had 22 points and Steve Nash added 18 points and 12 assists for the Mavcricks. who played without Juwan Howard, who was sit­ting out a one-game suspen­sion. 
Wang Zhizhi had a career­high 15 points in the game that matched the coaches in this weekend's All-Star game. 
Don Nelson of the Mavericks will coach the We:;t, while Bvron Scott of the Nets will coach the East. 
Kenyon Martin had 26 points, Keith Van !lorn added 21 and Jason Kidd had 14 points and 12 assists for the Nets, who were shut out in the final 4:25. 
New Jersey, which trailed by 12 at the half, outscored Dallas 34-20 in the third quarter to take an 86-84 lead. 
Kidd gave the Nets leads of 95-94 and 98-96 with a drive across the lane and a 3-point­er, respectively. 
Right after the 3-pointer, Hardaway made a high-arcing 3-pointer from the left corner for a 99-98 lead. 
Arter a couple of misses by each team, Wang hit a set shot to make it 101-98 with 4:39 to go. 
Martin scored on an ally-oop dunk from Kidd with 4:25 to go but Dallas scored the final 11 points with Hardaway adding the finishing touches with a jumper and two free throws. Nash hit a big 3-pointer and Nowitzki added a jumper to put the game out of reach. 
The game between the lead­ers of the Eastern Conferencc and the third-best team in the West was an event. 
Mavericks owner Mark Cuban sat behind the Dallas bench and across from basket­ball great Magic Johnson, the close friend of Nflts' coach Byron Scott. 
They were treated to an uptempo game that featured great passes by two of the best point guards in the game, spec­tacular dunks and an exciting contest. 
The Mavericks shot nearly 56 percent in the first half and got the help of 15 points from Nash, 10 apiece from Nowitzki and Michael Finley and a sur­prising nine from Wang in a two-minute first quarter blitz that helped to build a 64-52 halftime lead. 
However, the Nets dominated the third quarter just like they did on Monday night in hand­ing Sacramento -the best in the West -its worst loss of the season. 
Martin had eight points and Kittles, Van Horn and rookie Jason Collins each added seven. 
NHL 
Hull's sliding tip-in clinches victory for Senators 
A.'isociated J>ress 
COLUMBUS. Ol llO 

.Jody I lull st·orPd on a tip-in whilP falling down with 2:40 n•maining as thP Ottawa SP1rntors bPal thP Columbus BluP .Jackets 6-4 Wednnsday night. 
Mikn Fish1'r. dug thP puck out of' tlw coriwr and firnd at the nnl rrom rlosP to the goal line. !lull. sliding to th1! ire. stuck out his stick and del1ected thP puck past Columbus goaltender Bon Tugnult. 
l'atrirk LalirnP stopped 28 shots l'or tlw victory. 
ThP S(\nators am unbcaten in six gam<'s (:~-0-3-0) while Columbus has lost five in a row. 
Shawn McEaclwrn, Hull and Fislwr Pach had a goal and an assist !"or Oltawa. Todd Whit<' and Sarni Salo nttch had two assists. 
Bay \VhitnPy had a goal and an assist for the Blm1 .la<'kets. 
Columbus. which was humili­atPd 8-0 by Boston un Monday night. lurnPd !hn tablf~s hy scor­ing two qukk goals against the Senators. 
Whitney"s slap shot from the blun line across open ice slipp(\d past Lalime at 1 :19 of the first. giving Whitney his 14th goal of the season. Grant Marshall jamnwd in his 13th after Tyler Wright's shot bounc(1d off of Lalirne's chest at the 5:09 mark. 
Ottawa came back lo make it 2-1 with Chris Neil picking up his sixth goal. 
Thl~ Senators then scored twice in 19 seconds. The qukk­er. faster Senators made the most of a 4-on-4 situation in each case. 
Hadek Bonk scored the first. taking advantage when Ricard Persson's bullet from the wing glann,d off both posts and rir,o­c h P te d back into the crease betwnen Tugnutt's legs. Bonk's 16th goal was in tlw net before Tugnutt knew whr1re the puck was. 
McEachPrn sliced a crmtering pass from the left boards that bounced off the skate of Columbus dcfenseman Deron Quint for his ninth goal of the yPar. 
Columbus wuntr.rcd with t\.rn 
(\J 
~ 
more goals at the outset of the second period. Espen Knutsen scoring his ninth on the power play through traffic at the 2:54 mark and Lyle Odelein picking up his second of the season ­and first since Nov. 1 -on a long slap shot that eluded Lalime on the glove side. 
Daniel Alfredsson·s 27th of the year -and 150th of his career -came at the 11 :58 mark on the power play to tie it again at 4-4. 
Capitals 2, Wild 1 
Ulf Dahlen had a goal and as assist as the Washington Capitals snapped a four-game losing streak with a victory over the Minnesota Wild. 
The win was Washington's first sinr,e a 3-0 shutout of Atlanta on Jan. 22. The Capitals also had lost four conserutive home games. 
The loss was Minnesota's fourth straight and the Wild slipped to 1-7-3-2 in their last 13 games. 
Goalie Olaf Kolzig made 29 saves. including a diving stop of Lubomir Sekeras with 2:07 left to help preserve the victory. The Capitals also killed all five Minnesota power-plays, includ­ing one over the game's final 1:26. 

Dahlen gave the Capitals a 1­Q lead with 5:09 left in the first period on an impressive indi­vidual play. He swung behind the goal and came out to fire a shot past goalie Dwayne Roloson. 
Peter Bondra made it 2-0 with a second-period power­play goal with 6:28 left in the period. 
The Wild cut the lead in half when Richard Park scored a short-handed goal at 3:07 of the third. Park converted a pass from Wes Walz and beat Kolzig inside the right post for the Wild's ninth short-handed goal this season. 
Lightning 3, Panthers 2 
Kevin Weekes made 37 saves and Stan Neckar had two assists as the Tampa Bay Lightning held off the florida Panthers. 


What did trees:;eyer qp.toyqu? Pl:ease· tecycI~:irrne•··:Q.t,:s·e.tvet 
Weekes won just his third game in 10 starts as the Lightning won for the second time in seven games. 
In the final two periods, he faced 29 shots and made 27 saves. 
Nikita Alexeev scored his first NHL goal with 15:26 left in the third period, giving Tampa Bay a 3-1 lead. From the point. Neckar fed Alexeev. who slid a backhand shot by Panther goalie Trevor Kidd. 
Neckar had gone 22 games without a point before setting up Tampa Bay's final two goals of the night. 
Pavel Bure had a goal and an assist for Florida, which has not won in six games. 
With 15.5 seconds left in reg­ulation, Weekes stopped Pavel Burc's slap shot from the point. 
Robert Svehla helped Florida close to within one goal by beating Weekes with a wrist shot with 7:47 left in regulation. Bure assisted. 
Ben Clymer gave Tampa Bay a 2-1 lead, pushing in a short wrist-shot at 16:05 of the sec­ond period for his 11th goal. The puck sprung to Clymer after deflecting off the skate of Brad Richards. 
Bure's power-play goal at 
12:35 of the second period tied the game at 1. Bure. who has 18 goals, batted out of the air a n~bound after Sandis Ozolinsh's slap shot from the point was saved by Weekes. 
Marcus Nilson worked the puck free from behind the Tampa Bay net to Bure, who pushed a pass to Ozolinsh. 
402 us 31 North (\J
lunch specials!

M 
(/) 
"' 
<1!
1('South Bend, IN 46637 $1.00 offforlunch <ll 

::J 
-~ 
<1!
(219) 272-2535 $2.oooffforclinner 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 7, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Davie laid the foundation 
• Much of the Irish class of 2006 recruited by Bob Davie 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associar, Sporrs E,!imr 
In the middle of December, wide receiver Maurice Stovall had a better chance of walk­ing on Mars than attending N o t r e 
Dame.  
W  h  o  
C  O  U  I  d  
b I  a  m  c  

him? In jusL two s h o r t weeks. N o t r e 

Dame fired Davie 
Bob Davi~. and George O'Leary resigned in disgrace, leaving the Irish football offire in shambles. Stovall dropped Notre Dame to fifth on his list of five schools. 
Then Tyrone Willingham arrived. And everything changed. 
Willingham's straightfor­wa rd personality and his commitment to a pro-style offense were enough to con­vince the Pennsylvania high school standout to cause him to reconsider and eventually declare his intent to play fot Notre Dame. 
"It was hard for me to believe they got him. espe­cially with everything that was going on with their coaching situation." recruit­ing analyst Max Emfinger said. "He's a big, big commit­ment." 
But while Willingham was able to secure late commit­ments from blue-chip recruits like Stovall. Davie established the foundation of this recruit­ing class. 
In fact. it's hard to say how Willingham affected Notre Dame's recruiting, and it's even harder to describe his recruiting style. Most of his time spent in the month since he was named head coach revolved around him trying to convince players who com­mitted to Davie that they would still be able to play under Willingham. 
"MosL of the class is Davie's because Davie was recruiting for months," rerruiting ana­lyst Allen Wallace said. "Ty Willingham hasn't had very murh time to come in. Ty was able to switch over to a lot of recruits that he couldn't go aftC'r at Stanford. It's been a big rhange of pace for him." 
While Willingham's coach­ing staff can be credited with securing the commitments of several top recruits like Stovall and Travis Leitko, Davie's staff laid most of the groundwork for the current class of recruits. 
Before the 2001 season even began, Notre Dame already had an unprecedent­ed 12 commitmPnts. By com­parison, in 2000. Notre Dame only had three commitments before the season began. 
It appeared as if the Irish were well on their way to landing a top-ranked recruit­ing class. 
But when Davie was fired Dec. 2, the recruiting was put on hold until Willingham was hired Jan. 1. During that time, many of the assistant coaches and administrators remained in contact with recruits to maintain stability. 
"I think it was extremely important to have that group of already committed young men in place," Willingham said. "But I think it also made it very difficult because you had a group of young men 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, J-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 



associated with one personal­ity and one group of coaches. and now you were kind of breaking those ties. I think to kind of rnunitc or rebound that gro~p was an important element. 
Willingham wasn't able to keep every player. Linebacker Jeremy Van AlsLyne switched from Notre Dame to Michigan when he reportedly wasn't contacted by Willingham. And wide receiver Josh Hannum dropped Notre Dame in favor of Penn State because he said he felt more comfortable with the Nittany Lions' players. 
But the fact that Willingham couldn't keep all of Davie's commitments nor land top prospect Lorenzo Booker isn't necessarily a bad thing. In fact, most recruiting analysts believe Willingham's ability to recruit at Notrfl Dame can only be evaluated next year. not this year. 
"(The new staff] is going to have bring in an aggressive style of recruiting," recruiting analyst Tom Lemming said. "A hard working style, but we won't know until next year how well it works." 
"I think he did a marvelous job recruiting at Stanford," Emfinger said. "I think he got a lot of players at Stanford who were good academic players who weren't as good on the field. I think he's an excellent coach, and I think at Notre Dame he will do a great job." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Men's 
continued from page 24 

eight points, but was a force under the net with 14 rebounds. 
Despite the 17-point win, the Irish struggled to put the Scarlet Knights away early. 
Carroll hit two 3s and the 

"We really got some good
Irish srored on at 22, on a their first five looks tonight. When we Thomas possessions for fast-break
move it and swing it, 
a quirk 12-4 dunk with
we're going to do well."
lead, but the six minutes Scarlet Knights remaining whittled away in the
Mike Brey 
at the deficit game.
Irish coach
steadily. bring­ing the score to within two on a Eugene Dabney jumper five minutes into the game. Rutgers held on to tie it up at 19 and 21 midway through the half, but the Scarlet Knights were never ablfl to gain the lead. The Irish, who pulled away to a 48-40 halftime lead. shot close to 50 percent before heading into the locker room, and three Irish players broke into double figures before the break. 
The Irish picked up some more offensive steam in the second half', finally pulling ahead with a double-digit lead midway through the second 
half. . Graves came up with a key steal and drew an intentional foul at the basket, and Thomas drained a 3 from five feet beyond the arc six min­utes into the half to give the Irish their nrst double-digit lead and bring Irish fans to their feet six minutes into the second half. Swanagan gave the squad its next spark a few minutes later when he nailed two free throws and came up with a steal to spur another Irish 3­
pointer, pushing the lead to 74-53 at the ninP-minutP mark. 
"I've been on !Swanagan] the last couple days in prac­tice and I was on him at half­time in tho locker room tonight," Brey said. "He's feel­ing better. I think he's getting close to 100 percent." 
The Irish pulled to their 
largest lead 
of the night, 
"We real­
ly got some 
good looks tonight," Brey said. "When we move it and swing iL. we're going to do well." 
The Irish win marks the team's fourth-consecutive Big East win. 
The Scarlet Knights also canrn into th11 game riding a three-game conference win, streak. 
But key players had trouble finding their shots. 
Forward Ricky ShiPlds and guard Jerome Coleman led the Scarlet Knights with 15. but it was not enough as Notre Dame out-rebounded Hutgers. not allowing them to capitalize offensively. 
With the loss. tho Scarlet Knights fall to 14-8 on the season and 5-5 in conference play. 
At 16-6 and 6-3 in the Big East, the Irish will nPxt suit up Saturday when they travel to Georgetown to try to avflngc an 83-73 home loss earlier this season. 
Contact Kerry Smith at smith.387@nd.edu. 

Registration for: 
An outdoor, campus-wide "Battle of the Bands" will take place on Saturday,Aprif 6th 
Register y band during Acousticafe Thursda: February 7th 9pm 11pm 
Lafortune, b the elevators 
• .........  J  • •.  • • ••  C  1  
;?·'.:tz··.  .. ;:;.:_,t,i,?:~  
?  
. .  -~  
. ·­• .,;. ---~..:............:;..."  ....!,,; ,;~ ........,1-•·__ ......~,a.""--·--·•······.. .. ~---·····­...~  ................-J  

Thursday, February 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
and North Carolina State seri­James Bonelli. who was a "[Fasano is] a great tight to evaluate how good the class ously after former head coach member of the all-Californian end. a big guy that runs real is," said Willingham. "My eval­
Recruits 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Graves shows guts in performance off the bench 
The way David Graves played against Rutgers it wac; impossi­ble to tell he woke up Wednesday morning and couldn't move. 
He scorf'd 
18 points on All that mattered was that the 6-of-11 confident, almost cocky, shooter shooting. couldn't control the spasms in Not too his back. shabbv for a Graves left practice right away. guy C(;!­His teammates didn't know if [apsed with he'd be able to play. Heck, excruciating Graves didn't even know if he'd pain in his be able to play. lower back He spent most of Tuesday that left him night in the infirmary while Dr. wondering Jim Moriarity tried everything he how in the knew to fix his back. world he'd And Dor succeeded -for the 


bP able to move. let alone play 28 minuws of' b,Lsketball. 
"I was in the worst pain of my life." he said arter hobbling to his seat in the interview room after the game. "I felt like I had no hope." 
Tuesday al'ternoon. Graves threw a pass to a streaking Matt Carroll, very similar to a pair he threw down the court against Rutgers. It's unclear whether or not Graves crumpled to the floor before the pass reached Carroll. 
night. 
The next morning, Graves could barely get out of bed. It took him 25 minutes just to go to the bathroom. Playing was the least of his worries. He was too busy working on walking. 
"I was very concerned," Mike Brey said. "At 3 p.m .. I didn't think he would play." 
But something inside Graves took over. Inner will, painkillers -it's tough to say what exactly it was that got the senior tri-cap­tain ready for a big game against a big opponent. 
It could have been the nothing­can-keep-me-down attitude that Gravf's shrouded himself in dur­ing a miserable five-game shoot­ing slump where the probability of Mike Tyson taking anger­management sessions was greater than Graves' chances of making a 3-pointer. 
Or it could have been the silent strength that Graves grabbed onto when he spent the night after getting benched against Georgetown tossing and turning, unable to sleep. 
Then again, Graves' aching back might have caused him to latch onto the team-first attitude that he adopted when he was unwillingly relegated to a sixth­man role for the first time in his career. Although Graves would rather be starting, he's been on fire when he comes off the bench. 

Maybe he looked at the impli­cations a loss would have on Notre Dame's postseason hopes and willed the pain to go away, kind oflike he's done all season. 
So an hour or so before the game, while most of the campus was wondering about the future of a high school football stand­out, Graves was worried about the future of his college career. His back had never hurt so badly in his life. 
But he ran up and down the court in pre-game warm-ups, and things began to loosen up. He took a few shots. and things got better. Maybe, I'll be able to play, he thought. 
After the starting lineups were announced, Graves walked behind the Notre Dame bench. In fact, whenever he wasn't in the game, he was standing behind the bench stretching his back. 
"I was afraid if I sat down, my back would tighten up," he said. 
A few weeks ago, Graves was about as low as a player could be. His shots weren't falling. he was losing confidence, and he played shoddy defense. 
Then. last night, Graves turned in one of the gutsiest perfor­mances of the season. 
Every time Graves fired a shot, he felt a twinge in his back. Whenever one of 3-point shots found the bottom of the net. he raised his arms and skipped down the court even though it felt like hell to celebrate. And don't even ask him how bad it hurt when he was fouled hard on a breakaway lay-up. 

And yet no matter how bad the pain got, he seemed happy. 
Graves certainly has gone through more than his share of struggles this season. But he never seems to give up. And when his shot is on, like it was Wednesday night, he forgets that he didn't start and that he can't sit down. 
"When the jumpers are falling, it kills a lot of pain." Matt Carroll told his friend after the game. "Best medicine there is." 
After the game, Graves joked about how he'd be popping pills and becoming best friends with his pillow in order to be ready for Notre Dame's rematch against Georgetown. And when he hobbled down out of the interview room, it was easy to assume that he sat on the bench the entire game wearing a suit. 
"He was hurting," Brey said. "He was one tough sucker tonight." 
It's tough to count out a guy who's gone through a lot in his career. And when the back start­ed hurting, Graves did what he does best. 
He sucked it up and played ball. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
continued from page 24 
Morton joined Leitko as a second team USA Today All­American pick, and is one of the top 100 players in the country, according to The Sporting News. 
"[He's the] best center in the country." said Emfinger. "I've seen them all, and he's the best." 
One of the recruits that gave a late verbal commitment was Olsen. who considen,d Towa George O'Leary resigned. Willingham feels that Olsen is a great lit for the nevv offense that Notre Dame plans to implement next season. 
"What we have is a young man that seems to fit verv well into the needs of our system," said Willingham. "You look for a man that has a live arm and excellent mental capacity to be able to handle the adjustments and changes we will place on his shoulders. and I think Chris has that ability." 
The Irish also inked lineman 
Interscholastic Federation Southern Section Team as a senior, and the lead blocker for Booker. 
Notre Dame also got the Gatorade Player-of-the-Year from Iowa, offensive lineman Scott Raridon. 
A pair of tight ends will join Notre Dame next season as well. Anthony Fasano is rated as the 12th best end in the country, and Marcus Freeman is considered by many experts to be the fastest tight end in the nation. 

Inforinational Meeting Thursday, February 7 7-8: 15 p.Ill. @ the CSC 
$2500 tuition scfio(arslip 3 'Theo(o3y cred-its (S/'ll.) 

"The National Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice is a network ofpeople of faith that calls upon our religious values in order to educate, organize and mobilize the religious community in the United States on issues and campaigns that will improve wages, benefits and working conditions for workers, especially low wage workers." 
More Info available at: http://www.nationalinterfaith.org/ 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

well," said Emfinger. "I think he'll be a real good player for them. [Freeman} had a phe­nomenal year [and] he had a lot of catches. He's a diamond in the rough, [and] might be the fastest tight end in the country." 
Many experts have com­mented on how well Notre Dame did with this class. Willingham, though, has his own evaluation to still com­plete. And that may not hap­pen for a few years. 
"I will leave it to the experts uation usually takes place about two years or three years down the road -or maybe even as many as four years down the road -when you determine how many champi­onships you've won and how many bowl games you've been to, and that usually deter­mines whether the class was a goo~ class or not good one or not. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 

Recruiting the 

CLASS OF 2006 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 7, 2002 

James Bonelli 
Offensive lineman 6-6,285 Ventura, Calif. 
"He's as good an offensive lineman as there is in the country.,, 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 
Notes: Top blocker for Lorenzo Booker ... named to Ventury County Star all-California Southern Section team ... helped team to 14-0 record in 2001 


Jake Carney 
Defensive back 
6-0, 180 
Lexington, Ken. 
''.A sleeper-type guy that has made a lot of big plays. He's not very big right now, but he's 
a playmaker. " 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 
Notes: Named to Kentucky AP all-state squad ... played offense and defense in high school ... had 35 tackles and three interceptions in 2001 

Anthony Fasano 
Tight end 6-4, 237 Verona, N.J. 
"A great tight end. He runs real well, and l think he'll be a good player for them. " 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 

Notes: First-team New Jersey all-state pick by Newark Star-Ledger ... helped team to New Jersey state title ... caught 23 touchdowns passes. 
Derek Landri 
Defensive lineman 6-2, 275 
Concord, Calif. 
"Landri's my defensive player ofthe year. He's totally unbelievable. rue never seen a player play high school ball like him. " 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 
Notes: First team USA Today All-American ... played on prep team that was the consensus national champion 


Scott Raridon 
Offensive lineman 6-7, 285 
Mason City, Iowa 
''A super offensive lineman. one ofthe top offensive linemen in 
Iowa." 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 
Notes: Gatorade Player of the Year for Iowa ... first-team all-state selection by Des Moines Register ... led team to first playoff berth in 16 years 


Travis Leitko 
Defensive lineman 
6-6, 250 
The Woodlands, Texas 
''A great defensive end. He was double teamed all year long and still 
made big plays. " 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 
Notes: USA Today second-team All-American ... Ranked No. 22 prep player by Chicago Sun-Times ... Comes from same high school as Grant Irons 
Mike Richardson 


Defensive back 
6-1, 180 
Warner Robins, Ga. 
"He could be an aggressive young man that has speed and 
athletic ability." 
Tyrone Willingham Notre Dame head coach 
Notes: Caught.15 passes for 180 yards as senior ... rushed 70 times for 361 yards and nine touch­downs ... will switch to defense in college 
Brian Mattes 

Defensive lineman 
6-6, 250 
Larksville, Penn. 
''A two way player. He got some stats at tight end, but I really like d him on defense. " 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 

Notes: First-team Pennsylvania all-state pick as a junior ... Made 70 tackles, including 13 sacks, and blocked two kicks in 2001 
Jamie Ryan 
Offensive lineman 
6-5, 285 
Tamaqua, Penn. 
"A great offensive line­man who's capable of playing both ways. " 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 


Notes: Played only four games in 2001 due to blood clot in neck ... made 110 tackles and 11 sacks as a junior 


Recruiting the 

CLASS OF 2006 
Thursday, February 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Marcus Freeman 
Tight end 6-4, 240 St. Paul, Minn. 
«Had a phenomonal year. He's a diamond in the rough and may be the Jastest tight end in the country." 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 

Notes: Caught 20 passes for 300 yards and three touchdowns in 2001 ... helped team reach Class 5A quarterfinals 

Rhema McKnight 
Wide receiver 
6-2, 188 
La Palma, Calif. 
"He's a very good wide receiver prospect and he's ranked as the ninth-best receiver in 
the nation." 
Allen Wallace recruiting analyst 

Notes: As of 10 p.m. Wednesday, Notre Dame had yet to receive a fax making him an official member of the class of 2006. 

Dan Santucci 
Defensive lineman 
6-5, 250 
Chicago, Ill. 
"He gives us a young man that potentially at some point in his career can be a force. " 
Tyrone WIiiingham Notre Dame head coach 

Notes: Rated one of top 100 players in Chicago area by Chicago Sun-Times ... had 50 tackles and nine sacks as senior 


Chris Frome 
Defensive lineman 6-5, 240 
Saugus, Calif. 
"/don't think he's as good as these other guys, but he could turn it on and become a very good player. " 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 
Notes: First team California all-state selection by Los Angeles Times ... made 62 tackles and five sacks in 2001 


Bob Morton 
Offensive lineman 
6-4, 305 
McKinney, Texas 
"Best center in the country. I've seen them all, and he's the best. " 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 
Notes: USA Today second-team All-American .. . No. 98 player according to Chicago Sun-Times ... did not permit a sack in 2001 


Nate Schiccatano 
Running back 6-3, 220 
Coal Township, Penn. 
"He's a big version ofthe halfback with hi,s size and speed. Hopefully, he'll add some dimensions there." 
Tyrone Willingham Notre Dame head coach 
Notes: Helped team reach Pennsylvania state finals in 2000 and 2001 ... rushed for over 1,000 yards and 21 touchdowns as a senior 

Jeff Jenkins 
Running back 
6-0, 195 
Ann Arbor, Mich. 
"He will be an asset to filling not only depth questions but in terms 
offilling skill level." 
Tyrone Willingham Notre Dame head coach 

Notes: Rushed for 1, 427 yards and 21 touch­downs in 2001 ... captain of Detroit Free Press Division I honor team 
Chris Olsen 
Quarterback 6-4, 220 Wayne, N.J. 
"Had no business being committed to Notre Dame with an option offense. Now, he's pe,fect in Willingham's offense." 
Max Emfinger recruiting analyst 

Notes: First-team New Jersey selection ... led team to state title game ... threw for 1, 900 and 24 touchdowns with only five interceptions 
Maurice Stovall 
Wide receiver 6-5, 205 
Philadelphia, Penn. 
"He's a young man thta has range, speed and hopefully has the maturity to really come in and help us." 
Tyrone Willingham Notre Dame head coach 

j
Notes: USA Today first team All-American ... No. 32 prep player according to Chicago Sun-Times ... 
l
Returned four punts and five interceptions for TDs 



Saturday, February 9  
Mike Makens Gino Signoracci and Joe. Schmidlin Danielle Rose  
Come enjoy the music of these wonderful campus acts.  For more information on concerts and acts, go to www.nd.edu/IVbothers  

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 7, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish seek revenge against first round foe 
·Tve been struggling a litlle bit,

By COLIN BOYLAN 
but the shots will start to fall even­

Sports Writer 
tuallv." said Varnum. However, she was quick to add 

After a pair of' tough matches that any individual goals were sec­against Kentucky and Indiana last ondary to the goals of the entire weekend, the competition-doesn't team. 
get any easier this week for the "It's definitely not about individ­
Notre Oame women's tennis team. ual redemption. Our ultimate goal as it heads to Madison, Wisc.. to is to win everv match as a tr.am," take part in the four-day USTNITA she said. · National Team Indoor 
To ar.hieve that. Louderback Championship. knows that the Irish will have to 
The tournament will showcase 16 exhibit better for.us than they have top teams from across the nation in recently. The coach blamed a lar.k a four-dav. dual match format that 
of concentration !'or last weekPnd's begins today. surprisr loss to Indiana and hopes
The Irish will have to be on top of thttt the same problem won· L resur­their game to even make it to the face this wrPk. second round, however. as they "Our mechanics are solid and 
draw the tough USC Trojans as a everyone has the strokes. but we first round opponent. During tho need to work on our men ta.Ii ty a lit­preseason, USC beat the Irish in a tle more. Staying positive and dose. but convincing 5-2 victory. focused will be very important," he Head coach Jav Louderback is 
said. 

ex cited a.ho u t th.e pros ptfc t of a If talk is any indication. then the rematch. team is definitely thinking positive­''It's going to be a lut uf fun play­ly about the upcoming competition.ing SC in the tirst round," he said. According to Varnum, the general "They've got a great group ol' kids, mood around the team is veryaPd it's always competitive when upbeat, and any disappointment w play them." over last weekend's performance
ln their first meeting against hasn't lingered.Southern Cal. Notre Dame's top "We're all looking forward to the 
singles player. Becky Varnum, tournament. and I think we all scored a. big 6-1. 6-3 upset against have a very positive mentality," she USC's highly-ranked Jewel said. "We know we can do well 
Peterson. 
there." Currently mired in a minor slump, Varnum hopfls she can use this tournament as a springboard 
Contact Colin Boylan at Irish sophomore Alicia Salas returns a shot in a match earlier in the year. The Irish
to getting her game back on the right track. cboy1an@nd.edu. hope to rebound this week in the USTA/ITA National Team Indoor Championships. 

t 
I 
I 
Blessing Unto Others Benefit Musi( Concert 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 7 p.m·.-9:30 p.m. $5.00 per person at door Proceeds wi 11 go to 
Lake View Seconday School in Jinja , Uganda 




Thur;day, February 7, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST .

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
ACROSS 1 It puts people out  27 Billiards surface 29 Person with a ball  52 Longtime Kenyan leader 53 Brewed drink  TIIURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2002 CELEBRITIES BORN ON TiflS DAY: Garth Brooks, Miguel Ferrer, Charles Dickens, Chris  you crazy today. Try to be patient and tolerant but don't put up with abuse. Do your own chores and  
6 Dry, to 30 Buy-one-get­oenologists one-free item? 9 Wedding wear 31 McDonald's equipment14 Informed 33 Hunting dogs 15 Monopoly space: Abbr. 35 Proposal killers 37 Rusk in J.F.K.'s 16 Puccini's love cabinet17 Turned back, 38 like Internetsay news sites18 Buy-one-get­41 Latch pieces one-free item? 45 Buy-one-get­20 Collected one-free item? 21 From within: Lat. 46 Diplomatic woe 23 Org. with tags 48 Grammy winner 24 25-round Cohn magazine gun 49 Acquisition from 25 Buy-one-get­a deal one-free item? 50 Buy-one-get­26 Snowman prop one-free item? ~N:~E0A TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE A H I E  54 Nightshade family plant 55 Straphanger's ride 56 Buy-one-get­one-free item? 58 Gather 60 Modem memos 61 Umbrage 62 Isuzu model 63 Throw off 64 Mortgage nos. 65 Singer Kay DOWN 1 Buy-one-get­one-free item? 2 Buy-one-get­one-free item? 3 Without thinking 4 Prior to : ~;:~~~i;~~= border river 7 Makes clear  !e-Puzz1e~.,.by-,P!-e,1r1,_,.c1c.,..,,_e._ITY._ 28 Looked after 30 Attempt  43 Buy-one-get­50 Big_ one-free item? 51 Becomes frayed  Rock Happy Birthday: You have an interest in money, investments, property and the personal affairs of others this year. You will take pride in your home and do what­ever is necessary to raise its value. Don't shy away from doing the work yourself at this time. You'll instinctively know what will work and what won't this year. Your numbers are 16, 23, 25, 33, 38, 47 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your ability to absorb everything that is going on around you will contribute to the decisions you make. Share your findings with others. 00000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Put your time and effort into maintaining and fixing up your home. Money spent on property and domestic products will be well worth your while. 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be emotional about your relationship. If someone you care about is being difficult, give him or her space today. Make plans to do something interesting with a close friend. 00 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take time out to do something  leave the rest. 00 LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct 22): You will want to travel today. The more you get to see and experi­ence the better. Oose friends will add to your fun. Look out for something special in the mail. 0000 · SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will get sound financial advice if you ask someone with experience about investments and moneymaking opportunities. Don't lend money or possessions to friends. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Zll: If you are in a partnership, expect to have some disagreements today. Take time to consider what is important to you in a partner. You are better off by yourself than with someone who doesn't com­plement you. 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't push your luck with author­ity figures. Keep a low profile and refrain from getting into debates with co-workers. You may find yourseU losing ground if you try to change. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your contribution to a worthwhile cause will enhance your reputa­ 
N E  8 Well-balanced 9 ExplorerCabeza de 10 Big bird 11 Grunt 12 "The Virginian• role 13 Waitress, e.g. 19 Famous Bruin  32 Big laugh 34 German 36 "The Three Princes of (fairy tale) 38 Poe poem 39 Fir exudation 40 Mouthless comic  44 Buy-one-get­54 Fiery place one-free item? 45 Science fiction 57 Order from piece? Domino's 47 Warning lights 59 Pithy comment Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute).  nice for someone you work with who is going through tough times. Your kindness will be repaid when you need help in return. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get out and do things that will be uplift­ing today. Your friends will praise your insightful opinions. Creative projects will help you feel good aboutyourself.00000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):  tion and introduce you to promi­nent individuals. You have a lot to offer and if you let your imagina­tion take over you'll even surprise yourselftodar0000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone you thought you could trust is probably talking behind your back. Older relatives may be a burden today. Do what you can to help but not at the expense of neglecting your own responsibili­ :..  
f-i:-t-:+*-~:-1 22 Jacqueline of  strip character  Annual subscriptions are available for the  Someone at home is likely to drive  ties. 00  
N T E S T Y  MBullitt" 26 Wonder, slangily  42 1989-90 dance craze from Brazil  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  Birthday Baby: You can be impulsive, independent, sensitive and inventive. You are forever jumping from one thing to another. You have  
aunique approach to life that will always have an element of surprise. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,  

eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
10 2002 Universal PIOSS Syndicate 

----------------------------------~--------------------------------------­
FOURTH AND INCHES 

THINGS YOU NEVER WANT TO HEAR WHEN YOU'RE SLEEPING ON THE BOTTOM BUNK 

FOXTROT 
l Dol'l'T <:,ET 1T. '!'OU  
8ACICFLIP So wELL WITH YoUR  I THll~k I'LL J'UST  
\llDEo GAME SNOW8oARD.  LIE HEl?E A WHILE  
To KEEi' THE  
SWELLING DOWN.  


TOM KEELEY 
ID YOU EVER HAVE TO 
use THE BATHROOM 

REAU.Y BAD BUT t>IDN'T WANT TO LEAVE YOUR 
SEO BECAUSE IT WAS TOO 
COLD? WEU. GOObNIGHTI 
BILL AMEND 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


..,,. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

National Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. NBA,p. 17 
. ND Women's Tennis, p. 22 
. 
NHL, p. 17 . Recruiting, p. 18, 20, 21 

. 
Boxing, p. 16 . Men's Basketball, p. 19 

. 
Olympics, p. 14 . SMC Basketball, p. 16


PORTS 
Thursday, February 7, 2002 

FOOTBALL 
Irish ink 18 for class of 2006 
sign Hhema McKnight. the prep All-1\mcrican selection, being unable to sign Booker. Parade All-American first By JOE HETTLER 
third best rPceivc!' in the to create perhaps the best "We are very exrited about team. and was rated as the 5porrs Wrirer 
country. As of 1 0 p. m. wide receiver core signed in the young men we will intro­Defensive Player-of-the~Year Wednesday night, however, the country this year. duce into our program and by recruiting analyst Max 
Signing Day ended with a Notre Dame had yet to receive Stovall brings the Irish a big, hopefully they will be strong. Emfinger. bittersweet taste for Notre a fax ·from McKnight confirm­fast receiver that should fit strong elements to our su1> "Landri's my defensive play­Dame on Wednesday when ing his commitment. The into their new offense scheme cess," said Willingham. "l er of' the year," said Emfinger. Lorenzo Booker chose Florida sports inCor-verv well. think it was extremely impor­"That's about the biggest State University rather than m at ion "When you look at Maurice. tant to have that group of acr,olade you can get. lie USC, Washington and Notre department See Also first of all you sec a trend in committed young men in hasn't b11cn blocked in high Dame. said they "Da11ie laid the modern day football toward place." school. llc's totally unbeliev­
Acrording to ESPN. the should big explosive rcr,eivors," said Overall. Notre Dame signed able. J'vn newer seen a player
foundation"

National-Player-of-the-Year receive some Notre Dame bead coach five defensive linemen, four that's played high school ball had initially picked Notre type of con­page 18 . Tyrone Willingham. "Ile fits offensive linemen, two tight like him." Dame before changing his firmation that bill. He's a young man ends, two running backs, one Travis Leitko, a member of mind about an hour before his from McKnight today saying that has that kind of range, quarterback and two the USA Today prep All­press conference. whether or not he will play for has that kind of speed. and, receivers. Beside McKnight America second team, was 
The Irish also lost Diedrick the Irish next season. hopefully, has the maturity to and Stovall, Notre Dame inked called "a great defensive end" Harrington earlier in the day lf McKnight signs with Notre come in and help us in the a few other big names, such as by Emfinger, and has the when the linebacker signed Dame, he will join Maurice program as fast as possible."' linemen Derek Landri, Travis chance to see considnrable with Missouri. However, Stovall. rated as the second Stovall leads an Irish class of Letiko and Bob Morton and playing time next season. according to Blue & Gold best receiver in the country 2006 that should still be one of' quarterback Chris Olsen. Illustrated, Notre Dame did and a first team USA Today the best in the nation, despite Landri is a member of the 
see RECRUITS/page l 9 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas' hot hand guides Irish past Rutgers 
• Freshman pointguard hits 7 3-pointers in 32-point effort 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Irish point guard Chris Thomas shot his way out of a midseason slump Wednesday, racking up 32 points in Notre Dame's 89-72 conference win against Hutgers at the Joyce Center. 
"You just 
got to let See Also 
good players "Graues shows 
play," Irish 
guts in
head coach Mike Brey· performance off 
... 
said. "It was 
the bench." 
a fabulous effort by him pa.ge 19 tonight." 
Thomas shot 10-14 and an impressive 7 -9 from behind the arc. 
"That's what I call breaking out of a 1-for-50 slump," joked Thomas. 
Thomas' deadly 3-pointers left the Hutgers defense scrambling all night. 
"That boy hit a lot of' 3s today. That just doesn't hap­pen," Rutgers head coach Gary Waters said. 
The freshman point guard led the Irish in 3s, but his sup­porting cast behind the arc chipped in with solid perfor-mances, as the team hit 14 shots from downtown. 

"You can't shoot bettPr than they did today," Waters said. "When thev shoot the ball well, they a~e as good as any tfmm in the league. We didn't take (Irish shots] away tonight and they beat us to death with it." 
Thomas was not the only Irish player who turned a key performance in the Irish win. 
Forward David Graves pro­vided a hug spark off the bench with 18 points, despite suffering through a painful low back strain injury. 
Graves hurt his back in a Tuesday practice and spent the night in the infirmary. 
"I was very concerned about David yesterday. fie just crumbled to the noor with no one around," Brny said. 'Tm really proud of him. He was hurting out there, 111. was a tough sucker tonight." 
Graves' status was question­able until the start of the game. 
"It was the worst pain of my life," Graves said. "I felt like I had no hope," 
Also making waves for the Irish was junior guard Matt Carroll, who became the 42nd player in Notre Dame history to top the 1,000 point mark with his 14-point perfor­mance. 
Byan Humphrey finished the night with an uncharacteristic 
see MEN'S/page 18 


. Hockey at Michigan State, Friday, 7 p.m. 

OBSERVER
. Men's Basketball at Georgetown, Saturday, 12 noon 
on line 

. ND Women's Basketball vs. Boston College,AT AGLANCE Sunday, 1 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 





