

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 8 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2003 
Sorin College loses three RAs 
KENNNThe Observer Doug Pope, a former Sorln RA, moved to Turtle Creek after he was fired as an RA for missing training sessions. 
Judge limits gam.e parking 
By ANDREW THAGARD k<istant News Ediwr 
The St. Joseph Circuit Court issued an injunction Tuesday against eight residents of Wooded Estates, prohibiting them from charging fans to park vehicles on their property during Notre Dame home foot­ball games. 
According to the injunction, such behavior qualifies as com­mercial activity on residential property, violating Section 21-8 of the city code. along with sec­lion 21-99 that mandates sur­facing requirements for parked cars. The decision to park vehi­cles, according to some resi­dents of Wooded Estates, also constituted a safety issue. 
"We focused on this neigh­borhood in particular because Ithe residents] thought the quality of life and property val­ues were decreasing," said Ann-Carol Nash, assistant city attorney. "They were also con­cerned about safety." 
According to Nash. the city began an aggressive campaign two years ago to educate resi­dents that it was against the law to charge fans to park on their lawns. Neighbors of some 
see PARKING/page 4 
Michigan lottery irks students 

"This year due to the irreg­fraud as individuals who By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
ularities and illegality of past were not students and SUB News Editor years, and the fact that staff members obtained tick-
under state 
Over 1,500 students waited 

law a lot­
outside Reekers Wednesday tery is con­afternoon to obtain a ticket 

sidered 
for the Michigan football 

gambling,
ticket lottery; however, only 

we had to 
700 students left with lottery 

operate
tickets. 

under dif­
Citing Indiana state law ferent and 

and NCAA regulations, 

stricter reg­
Charlie Ebersol, Student 

ulations,"
Union Board President. said 

Ebersol the SUB sponsored event was said. forced to shut down at 6 p.m. In previ­Indiana state law prevented ous years, SUB from holding the lottery the ticket 
for more than three hours. lotteries were plagued with see LOTTERY/page 6 
Training schedule conflicts result in termination 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Edicor 
During resident assistant orientation, Sorin Hall lost half its HA staff due to conflicts the HAs had with their training schedule. 
Doug Pope and BJ Craig both had academic-related commitments which would have forced them to miss part of their multiple-day orientation. Craig and Pope both said they had signed contracts that stat­ed they were committed to attending all of the train­ing sessions. 
The University's policy on RA training is not flexi­ble and requires RAs to attend the entire orienta­tion, said Bill Kirk. associ­ate vice president for Student Affairs, and can­not be rescheduled for a previously scheduled event. 
Craig said was scheduled to attend both Notre 
"/ take responsibility for the errors that occurred, but we movedforward from last year with accommodating more people." 
Charlie Ebersol SUB president 
Dame's RA orientation and the engineering-MBA pro­gram orientation. Craig was released as an HA when it became apparent that his conflict between the orientations could not be resolved and he opted to attend the MBA orienta­tion. Notre Dame's engi­neering-MBA program allows select students to receive a bachelor's and master's degree in five years. 
Pope said he learned of his conflict with RA orien­tation over the summer and tried repeatedly to convince officials in the Office of Student Affairs to allow him to make up the three sessions he would miss to attend a scholar­ship interview. 
Pope's interview was for a $25,000 scholarship to attend graduate school in either Great Britain or Ireland and was scheduled 
see RA/ page 6 
ets. Ebersol con­tributed this partly to the method of using phone books to track individuals who obtained lottery tickets. 
The system used Wednesday involved swiping ID cards through a read­er and then manually imput-

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

University prioritizes diversity 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame, often criticized for its mostly-white student body, is a vocal supporter of affirmative action and would like to reach an ethnic minority population of' 25 percent within the next few years, said assistant provost for admissions Dan Saracino. 
"Our ollicial stance is wc'rn 100 percent supportive of' aflirmative action," Saracino said. 
The University has been extremely vocal about its support for affirmative action within the last year. during which the University of Michigan's admis­sions process was challenged in court for adding a significant number of points in the admis­sions process to students solely because they were ethnic minori­ties. Notre Dame signed a friend­of-the-court brief with about 37 other universities in support of Michigan's policies. 
"Even if there wasn't, however. affrrmative action as an executive order that was established in 1964, we would still be totally committed to affirmative action, whatever you would call it," Saracino said. 
"We are 100 percent in favor of diversity in the broad sense. whether it's ethnic. socioeconom­ic, geographic -all of those types of diversity. 
"Our commitment is to try to bring to this campus the brightest and the most diverse student body that we can." 
Saracino said the University does not compromise admissions standards for percentages and diversity. He said about 80 per­cent of applicants are fully equipped to handle Notre Dame academically, and the admitted students-ethnic minorities. ath­letes. legacies included -arc chosen from that qualified per­centage. 
"Look at the figures this year," he said. "We have the most diverse class in our history; at the same time, we have the most academically talented class in our history." 
He said, however. that Notre Dame undeniably gives special consideration to specific groups of applicants, and the University does not apologize for it. 
The children of alumni, for example, comprise 23 percent of' Notre Dame's student body. Saracino said admissions coun­selors give legacy applicants an extra "nudge" in the admissions process, but only if they are equally qualified with the other applicants. Such a family tradi­tion, he said, ensures the continu­ation of the Notre Dame family atmosphere. and also keeps the University's tinances stable. 
Notre Dame enjoys the highest rate of alumni giving in the 
see DIVERSITY/page 4 
Thursday, September 4, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Deja vu 
Just when you didn't think it could get any worse, it did. 
I'm referring, of course, to the lot­tery for Michigan football tickets that took place Wednesday at Recker's. 
Some of you may remember I tried in vain to acquire tickets to the Florida State game through the University last year. For those who don't, I 


rounded up And Th rd 
friends' ID cards rew aga and collected as many lottery tick­Assistant ets as possible for News Editor the chance to see the Irish play in Tallahassee, Fla. Unfortunately, I was among the 
several thousand Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students who entered the lottery for the 150 tick­ets and didn't win. I also pulled an all-nighter in the basement of LaFortune in a vain attempt to get my hands on two of the half dozen unclaimed tickets several days later. 
I made it inside Florida State's Doak Campbell Stadium to see the Irish defeat the 'Noles last year, but I got in on a Florida State student ticket. 
I was annoyed last year by the small number of tickets available to students. Notre Dame receives sev­eral thousand tickets to football away games. The fact that they offer a measly 150 to students, the heart and soul of the Irish's fan base, just didn't seem right. 
This year, I'm still upset at the number of tickets that the University provides for students. What makes me even madder, however, is the system used for distributing this grossly inadequate amount. 
I waited for over an hour in a line that stretched outside of Recker's and wrapped around to Dillon Hall to move 15 feet. Shortly before 5 p.m., a representative came by to announce that Indiana State gam­bling laws mandated that the lottery end exactly three hours after it started. My friend and I checked out our position in line and realized we didn't have a prayer. 
Our fellow line mates told us that the Student Union Board-sponsored lottery was staffed by three people and was capable of processing one request at a time. As a newspaper reporter, I'd like to have verified this but the mob scene inside the Hospitality Room precluded me from getting close. I'll have to take their word for it. 
To have only three people staffing a line made up of hundreds of stu­dents, desperate to see one of the most hyped games of the season, is ridiculous. I can accept students' access to tickets being limited; I realize alumni and friends of the University are entitled to see a Notre Dame football game too. 
But please, don't waste our time with an inefficient lottery distribu­tion system. If the University can't guarantee those interested a ticket, they should at least give them a chance in the lottery. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, 
please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

~ 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU THINK NORTH DINING HALL COMPARES TO SOUTH? 



Bill Hessert John Mesler Michael French 
Senior Freshman Freshman Off-campus Knott Hall Knott Hall 
"!would "! think it is a "What was the venture to say lot better than old set-up North Dining last year." line?" 
Hall has surpassed South Dining Hall." 





Emmett Kearney  Newman Kepner  
Sophomore  Sophomore  
O'Neill Hall  O'Neill Hall  
"Other than the  "It sucks."  
make your own  
pizza thing they  
got nothing. "  


OFFBEAT 
Dutch find Baboon noses 

AMSTERDAM -Around 2,000 baboon noses were found packed in an aban­doned suitcase at Amsterdam airport when they started to stink, offi­cials said Wednesday. 
Dutch customs police made the gruesome discov­ery last week and turned the case over to the Agriculture Ministry's Inspection Service. 
Baboons are protected under international law. 
"We assume these ani­mals were killed, and we have to prevent something like this from happening again," spokesman Louis Steens said. He said the noses had been destroyed. 
The noses -around 66 pounds worth -were en route from Lagos, Nigeria, to the United States and are believed to have been meant to be eaten or used in tradi­tional medicine by immi­grants. Sportscar doubles as boat 
LONDON -Britain's newest sports car took a test drive Wednesday, zooming back and forth across the waters of the Thames River in pure James Bond style. 

The Aquada can hit speeds of 100 miles an hour on land -and once it hits water, the wheels retract into the wheel arch, jets kick in, and the car is sud­denly a boat. 
Once waterborne it can reach speeds of 30 miles per hour, according to Gibbs Technologies, the British firm that designed it. 
With a sticker price of about $235,000, the con­vertible has no doors in order to avoid leaks. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

0::: 
LLI 
:c !;: 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
<
(.) 
_,0 .HIGH 67 HIGH 68 HIGH 73 HIGH 78 LOW 58 LOW 60 LOW 48 LOW 55 
~ 

~
~ 
IN BRIEF 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude, a service club that raises money for the St. Jude Children's Hospital in Memphis, Tenn .. will sponsor a Krispy Kreme donut sale on Friday, Sept. 5. The sale begins at 8:15a.m. outside of DeBartolo Hall. 
Elvira Kurt, a comedian who has performed on Comedy Central, will perform at 7 p.m. today at Carroll Auditorium on Saint Mary's campus. The event is sponsored by the Student Activities Board. 
The Notre Dame Right to Life club will sponsor free food and music today at the Fieldhouse Mall. Festivities start at 4 p.m. 
Dillon Hall will host their annual football pep rally today. The rally starts at 7 p.m. on South Quad in front of Dillon. 
Acoustic Cafe will take place tonight at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Enjoy popular music and dancing Thursday night at Legends of Notre Dame. The music starts at midnight and continues until 4 a.m. 
Moreau Galleries will pres­ent the SISTAR Grant Project by Sandi Ginter and Lisa Ritter during their regular hours today and through Saturday. 
Cheer on the Irish during the first football pep rally of the season. The rally begins at 6 
p.m. Friday in the JACC. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


• 


HIGH 80 HIGH 
80 

LOW 62 LOW 
55 

Atlanta 84 I 67 Boston 79 I 62 Chicago 70 I 52 Denver 82 I 57 Houston 90 I 70 Los Angeles 95 I 68 Minneapolis 74 1 52 New York 80 I 65 Philadelphia 82 I 66 Phoenix 104 I 81 Seattle 82 I 58 St. Louis 75 I 57 Tampa 87 I 76 Washington 82 164 
Thursday, September 4, 2003 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Bookmakers Pub gears up for evening debut 

ANOY KENNA/I he Observer 

Bookmakers Pub, formerly Coach's Sports Bar and Grill, will feature 12 beers on tap, as well as a variety of others. The bar will feature a sports book theme and Is decorated with autographed jerseys, photographs of athletes and other sports memorabilia. 
with a new theme, a new chef reasons for his interest in zas and deli sandwiches, as cast a two-hour radio show 
By KEVIN ALLEN 
and extensive renovations. opening Bookmakers. well as some more exotic from Bookmakers during the 
News Writer 
Bookmakers is set up like a "I thought it was a good loca­items, such as fish tacos and games. Las Vegas sports book, with tion and a good idea," said crab and lobster quesadillas. Since closing the bar on JulyA mere five days after stu­the betting lines for games McGraw. "Our theme is unique Prices range from $3.50 for a 27 for the $200,000 renovation
dents swarmed Legends to 
running across a ticker tape on and our food is going to be ter­cup of soup to $10.25 for a project, McGraw has hired
experience the grand re-open­BBQ Pork Pizza. The bar
one wall and posted on a white rific." over 20 new employees. some
ing and metamorphosis of the boasts 12 beers on tap and a
board on another wall. The of whom are Notre Dame stu­
McGraw has ensured a reli­

tradition-rich Alumni-Senior large variety of bottled beers.
rest of the wall space is cov­dents, and McGraw said he is
able dining experience at

Club. they will be treated to McGraw hopes Bookmakers
ered with autographed jerseys, still in the process of hiring
another grand re-opening of a Bookmaker's by hiring Kip 
will be a staple of Notre Dame

photographs of athletes, and more staff.
popular student night spot. Peters. head chef at South 
other sports collectibles -all social life, just as Coach's was. Unlike Coach's, patrons of all 
Tonight the former Coach's Bend Country Club for the past He said he plans to cater to the
of which are for sale -and ages are welcome at
Sports Bar and Grill, located at 15 years, to captain the 
three extra large big-screen Notre Dame crowd with spe­Bookmakers. However. due to
2046 South Bend Ave., will kitchen. 
cial deals for students on Indiana state Jaw, only thoseTVs. The bar will have 15 tele­
open under new management "Coach's was never known 
visions in all. A new patio area Tuesday and Thursday nights over 21 years of age will be 
as Bookmakers Pub. for its food," said McGraw. 
permitted to enter the building
is another addition from the and by showing every Notre
Pat McGraw, a South Bend "And now we hope to be after 9 p.m. 
renovations. Dame football game on the
resident and Notre Dame grad­known for the food." uate. and business partner McGraw, who also built the The menu at Bookmakers big-screens. Also, Budweiser Missy Bornheimer have set out Jamison Inn and Oak Hill features traditional sports-bar has agreed to sponsor the Contact Kevin Allen at to revitalize the watering hole Condominiums, has simple fare like burgers, steaks, piz-radio station WAOR to broad-kallen@nd.edu 
SENATE 


Members jump start new year 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate met at its first meeting of the year Wednesday to discuss the primary issues they will be dealing with this year. 
Student body pr.esident Pat Hallahan spoke briefly to the Senate. outlining a few important issues. 
Hallahan told senators about the joint examination of the Student Union that will be taking place with the Executive Cabinet. He said that three separate commit­tees composed of members from both bodies will be looking into the Student Student Government and the student body as to how the University handled the rape allegations against the four former football players. 
"We do need to look at this and address it," Hallahan said. 
Speaking of the intent of the Student Government to make the Student Union a better-run organization, Hallahan continued, "It is only fair that if we're going to be bettering ourselves. that [the University] better [itself]." 
Kaitlyn Redfield, Pangborn senator and chair of the Senate Committee on Gender Issues. said that her com­
mittee would
"/ want to make

Union's budget like to help
process, consti­sure that the 
Hallahan intution and the 

University is up-to­examining the

collaboration 
matter.
date on issues of

between its dif­"There's a Jot
ferent groups. rape. 
of interest in

These commit­how the 
tees. Hallahan 
Kaltlyn Redfield University han­

said. will be dles these
senator

reviewing these issues. I want areas and possi­to make surebly making sug­
that the University is up-to­

gestions as to how to date on issues of rape,"
improve them to more effi­Hedfield said.
ciently and effectively serve 
Dave Brenner, president ofthe student body. 

"The Shirt" committee, also

Hallahan said he would spoke at yesterday's meet­
like to begin an investigation 
ing. He updated the Senate

into the University's discipli­nary process. citing a recent on sales of The Shirt, as well Observer editorial calling for as the committee's plans to changes. lie commented that get shirts to students who there is concern within still do not have them before Saturday's game. 
Brenner said that so far, 50,000 shirts have been sold. and 40,000 additional shirts have been ordered. Twenty thousand will be received before this week­end's game, and 10,000 of those will be available exclu­sively to students on Thursday. 
"We're off to an incredible start," Brenner said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
Donald Norton, Student Union Treasurer, nominated Kiran Pillai for the position of assistant student union treasurer. Senators approved Pillai unanimously, and his term will last from September 3 to March 1. 

+ 
The Senate unanimously approved Tai Romero as the director of programming for the Student Union Board. Romero served as head of this year's committee organ­izing "The Show," and has served on several other stu­dent government boards. 

+ 
Megan Smith was unani­mously approved for the position of Student Union Secretary. Nominated by Emily Chin, Student Body Chief of Staff. Smith had worked in the Office of the Student Body President before taking on the position of Student Union Secretary. 


Contact Mauren Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
SMC launches new e-mail interface 
By NATALE KACHUREK 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's will utilize a new e-mail interface called Aegis this fall. The switch will be made to better accommodate the level of e-mail traffic at the college and will offer many new and useful features to help facilitate com­munication and organization for the Saint Mary's community, according to an announcement made Tuesday. 
Most first-year students were introduced to Aegis last week in the mandatory Information Technology workshops and are already using the new system. 
Many returning students, how­ever, have doubts about making the switch. Already comfortable with the current interface and frustrated at the need to transfer address books, many say they do not see the need for change. 
Despite these doubts, Keith Fowlkes, director of Information Technology, claims that the tran­sition will be easy and the bene­fits will be worthwhile. 
"I promised the students last year that we would have a better e-mail interface," Fowlkes said. "That's why we upgraded the IMP interface. I wanted to keep my promise to the students." 
The Aegis interface will be faster, more intuitive and will have a more attractive look, Fowlkes said. It will offer advanced junk mail blocking capabilities for both students and faculty and the ability to easily share e-mail folders between users. 
There are also new corporate and personal address book interfaces. new "vacation mes­sage" options and the ability to easily change passwords. Fowlkes said. Aegis is fully com­patible with Netscape Mail, Outlook and Eudora email sys­tems. 
According to Fowlkes, one of the most innovative features of Aegis is its calendaring function. Users can create multiple calen­dars that can be integrated with e-mail to send reminders of upcoming events. Users will also have the option to share calen­dars for group organization or to keep them private for personal use. Information stored in Aegis calendars syncs seamlessly with Palm and Windows CE PDA's using free software available online. 
"I think they are going to love it," Fowlkes said. "The features and speed of this system are going to bring a whole new world of community to our cam­pus. It is our new 'e-community' and it will help us integrate. communicate and collaborate. I'm very excited about it." 
The deadline for students to switch to Aegis is Nov. 30. All address books and saved mail must also be transferred over by this date. 
Contact Natalie Kachurek at nkachuO I @saintmarys.cdu 

Thursday, September 4, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Parking 
continued from page 1 
of the residents had previously complained to authorities that the parking created a distur­bance, luring intoxicated foot­ball fans into the area, some of whom dumped hot coals onto lawns. Residents also reported that an ambulance was unable to quickly reach a cardiac patient due to parked cars and was forced to take an alternate route, Nash said. 
Last year, South Bend police heightened action against resi­dents who disobeyed the law, issuing fines to many. When some homeowners continued the practice in spite of multiple fines, the city filed suit. 
The case between the city and 10 residents went to court on Friday and the verdict was reached Tuesday. All the resi­dents represented themselves in court and two of the ten con­tacted the city attorney's office and reached an agreed injunc­tion in advance. Defendants in Nash, however, said that peo­


the case had all received at least two fines from the city prior to the suite. 
Neighbors who were charged in the case expressed shock at the verdict. 
"I thought it was a 
"People have been parking here for I 5 or 20 years. [The city] singles out certain people to come to court. They didn't get everyone. 
Charley Hetterson defendant 
joke," said Charley Hetterson, one of the defendants. "People have been parking here for 15 or 20 years. [The city] singles out certain people to come to court. They didn't get everyone. My next door neighbor parked 26 cars and they didn't get him." 
ple were not sin­gled out and that city rules will be enforced in all neighborhoods surrounding the campus on game days. 
"Some of the neighbors got the impression that others were off the hook," Nash said. "That's not the case." 
The defendants 
have the opportunity to appeal the injunction within the next 30 days, and some of the neigh­bors have contacted an attor­ney, according to Hetterson. Residents also have the option of paving over their lawn to legally accommodate parked vehicles. Hetterson, however, 



Saint Mary's College reconstructs CWIL 
By ALISON NICKERSON 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership announced that it has recon­structed their program in hopes of moving toward a more unified model of women's leadership. 
1\vo of the major changes that took place were the reorganiza­tion of responsibilities among four different officers and the establishment of a coordinator to deal with the numerous pro­grams and activities that the group takes part in. 
The center, established in 2001 as a result of a five-year, $12 million grant from the Lilly Foundation, made the changes to provide for a long-term model that will be more efficient and effective for the campus group. 

said that he would not consider "[The changes] provide for asuch a move. 
more focused approach to the"Why should I have to pave center's three main components: my front yard?" he asked. "No way. If I want to park cars in scholarship and research; lead­ership and change; and teaching and learning," said Patrick White, vice president and dean of faculty. 

Former CWIL director Meredith Reid Sarkees now han­dles research, teaching and spe­cial projects. Elaine Meyer Lee holds the new office of coordina­tor, who also serves as director of international and intercultur­al learning. 
Fellow directors Sister Marianne Farina, Bonnie Bazata and Tracy Robison handle schol­arship, community connections and intercultural living pro­grams, respectively. 
By revamping the Center, the college hopes to take CWIL to the next level and intensifY their influence around the college, as well as in the community, White said. 
Contact Alison Nickerson at Nickll08@saintmarys.edu 

my yard, that's my business, not the city's. I pay property taxes." 
Notre Dame did not take a position on the case because the University was not directly involved, according to University spokesman Dennis Brown. He said, however, that Notre Dame has ample parking on campus to accommodate football fans. 
"There is more than enough parking available on campus for any and all who would come for a Notre Dame football game," Brown said. "There's plenty of parking available." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at 
athagard@nd.edu 
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
United States, beating out Ivy League schools and other top­notch institutions such as Stanford and Duke. 
"In contributing financially, that helps keep the tuition lower than it would normally be, which then provides financial aid for those students, many of whom are minority, who cannot afford the place," Saracino said. "It's a very symbiotic relation­ship." 
Saracino said that, for as long as universities have existed, so have preferential admissions processes -for those who could pay, before financial aid; for athletes; for legacies; for the children of faculty and staff and other groups. 
"It's really unfortunate that the group that has benefited from some kind of preferential consideration for the shortest period of time was the group that was being attacked," Saracino said of the Michigan case. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 

Specia.l Student Offer 
Shrlrnp .Fried Rice fOr Only 9~ Gran Egg RofJ .for Free· 
·~~s~h .Ar•l~·· l.).t~1e-r· >~f C.r..rsfu~:::rMz'f'·'~S. C.~h-O:~(:e C't:f Dti"1r.-ot· 'l::::O.,~~b<t''l'·~-~-;~·,t·~ b•Jtxy 
Tel: (574.) 2?-1-01: 25 
Delicious Chinese Food!!! 





TODAY 
Old School 
@lOpm in Debartolo JOJ 


Acoustic Cafe 
Now in the Basement of LaFortune 9pm-Midnight 
Coming Up This Week: 
Friday: $1 movies on Old School Debartolo 101 @ Bpm& 10:30pm Saturday: Comedy Hypnotist Dale K ~Vashington Hall @9pn1 (It's FREE!!!) 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 4, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER \VIRE SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Support for U.S. fades in Europe 
BHUSSELS. Belgium -t\ftcr the Iraq war, support for U.S. global leadership has faded badly in European nations, most dramatical­ly in Germany and France which strenuously opposed the war, according to a survey rnl<Htsnd Thursday. 
l'rnsidnnt Bush's standing has just about evaporat<~d in Germany where his approval rating is 16 percent -down from 36 pcr­c<~nt in 2002 -and where public opinion incrnasingly questions American leadership, said the Trans-Atlantic Trends 2003 survey. 
"The (;ermany that never sought to choose lwtwP<~n l·:urope and the United States has now <~xpressed an unambiguous preference for Europ<•." it said. 
New SARS surveillance launched 
BELliNG -Tracking both rumors and real­ity, the World llealth Organization announced plans Wmlnesday to test a new SAHS surveil­lance system next week in the regions of China that were hardest hit by the disease. 
llnalth specialists want such surveillance in place in case SAHS. which ebbed in June. n~turns in the cold weather of coming months. 
With a four-week trial run of the system, WIIO hopes to see China detecting more sus­pected SAHS cases -even if those cases don't turn out to be the disease -in the lwlief' that many false alarms demonstrate lwtter nwdical vigilance. 
WIIO officials in Beijing have said they worn concerned that China, unlikn other aiTected countries, has had very few SAilS­related false alarms, or "noise." That sug­gests less information is flowing in or being madn public. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Immigrant drivers' bill sent to Davis 
SACHAMENTO. Calif. -A bill giving an esti­mated 2 million undocumented immigrants the ability to drive lngally is on its way to Gov. Gray Davis after two days of legislative debate that showPd tlw dePp political'ril'ts over illegal immi­gration. 
Opponents of the bill, approved 23-15 by the Senatn on Wednesday and 43-30 by the Assembly late TuPsday, alleged it would help terrorisL'i, while supportors accused iL'i critics of racism. 
Although he has twice vetoed earlier versions of the bill. Davis has said he intends to sign this one, which returns the state to its pre-1994 practice of giving drivers' licenses to California rnsidenL'i without verilying that they are in the country legally. 
Davis aides have said the governor wanted to sign the bill all along, and that state law PnforePnwnt oflicials have grown more com­liwtable with it. 
Many among California's growing Hispanic population have embraced the bill. and some critics say Davis changed his mind to pander to llispanic v<Mrs for their support in the Oct. 7 rncall election. 
One state senator. Hepublican Dennis llollingsworth, said the bill would increase the nation's security risks "for a crass political pur­pose. to save a failed governor." 
Arnold Schwarzeneggcr, the actor turned Hnpubliean candidate li>r governor in the recall plection. said in a statement that he opposes the bill. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man pleads guilty to causing crash 
FHANKLIN -A man pleaded guilty Wednesday to causing the crash that killed a state legislator four months ago. 
Alan Wickliff. 32, pleaded guilty in Johnson Superior Court to drunken driving charges for the death of state Hep. Boland Stine. 
Wickliff's guilty pleas to a charge of caus­ing a death while driving drunk with a prior conviction and two marijuana possession charges were made without a plea agree­ment with prosecutors. 
IRAQ 

U.S. gives up control of south Iraq 
Associated Press 
BABYLON -The top 
U.S. commander in Iraq on Wednesday symbolical­ly marked the transfer of control over the south­central part of the country to an international force led by Poland, hailing the handover as a sign of the international community's commitment to Iraq. 
In Baghdad, the interim Governing Council swore in members of the newly appointed 25-mcmber Cabinet that will begin taking over many of the day-to-day duties of gov­erning the country from the U.S.-led Coalition Provisional Authority. 
While military control was ceremoniously passed to the Poles, the handover of the holy city of Najaf was delayed at least two weeks after the car bomb­ing Friday outside the Imam Ali shrine that killed between 85 and 125 peo­ple, including leading Shiite cleric, Ayatollah Mohammed Baqir al­Hakim. 
Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez said the delay was appro­priate and the U.S. Marines were needed in the area for a while longer. point to complete the "It's indeed a historic Latvia to Mongolia. Four 
The U.S.-led coalition transfer of authority." moment. It's a moment other countries arc pro­will review the situation in He said there were also where the international viding logistical support. Najaf about mid-month, some equipment shortages community has stepped up Maj. Gen. Andrzej Sanchez said, after which for the Spanish brigade and turned a nine-nation Tyszkiewicz, commander it is hoped control of the which would take some coalition into a 30-nation of the international force, city will be handed over to days to overcome. coalition which sends an said his troops will not be a Spanish brigade taking The Polish military, unmistakable message," occupiers. part in the international which is leading a 9,500-Sanchez told scores of "Even though we have force. strong international force troops from the countries different uniforms and dif­
"It's absolutely clear to a in central Iraq, also cited taking part in the interna-ferent flags, we are uni­military commander that delays in training peace­tional force at an fied by one purpose. That the most vulnerable peri­keepers. amphitheater near purpose is to help the od is when he is in a peri­Sanchez said the trans­Babylon. Iraqi people wipe out the od of transition," he told fer of authority delivered a Seventeen countries are traces of Saddam reporters after the cere­message that the U.S.-led providing troops to the Hussein's monstrous dicta­mony. "We will reassess force occupying Iraq was international force for the torship and build a new the situation in about two 11. broad-based 30-nation south-central part of the basis of peaceful exis­weeks.... We hope at that coalition. country ranging from tence." 

JAPAN 

Paraplegic reaches summit of Fuji 
spun him around several times to cel­of three brothers Hcilly was climbing
Associated Press 
ebrate the success. with. "We're a very close family and 
ATOP MOUNT FUJI -Ari American Reilly reached the 12,385-foot peak it's great to be able to do this togeth­student who lost the US(! of his legs in a day earlier than expected. He ran er." a car accident as a teenager reached into several problems along the way, Heilly, a student at Oregon State the peak of Mount Fuji on Thursday, however, including a trail ranger who University in Corvallis. said he hoped the first successful climb of its kind. refused to let him pass for eight the climb would serve as an example 
Keegan Heilly, 22, climbed Japan's hours, loose gravel that had his tires of what those with disabilities are highest peak in three days, using a spinning rpuch of the way. and a bro­capable of accomplishing. four-wheeled, custom-made mountain ken steering device that needed to be "I just wanted to be able to show bike powered by an arm driven cen­repaired. people what's out there. I wanted to ter crank. "We were ready for an even harder show them what I can do and I hope 
''I'm very. very tired, but I'm over­climb," said John Nelson. Heilly's some people will be inspired by me." joyed," Heilly said as he reached the uncle and an experienced mountain Heilly, originally from Soldotna, summit. "It's awesome. It took a lot of climbing guide. "We were prepared Alaska, turns a crank to propel his work, but I feel very privileged to be for emergencies. We had medical kits, arm-powered, "Scarab" climbing here." harnesses -we were very ready for apparatus, which is made of titanium 
A round of cheers rang across Fuji's this climb." tubing. The $35.000 machine is rock and ash strewn crater as Reilly Nelson said he hopes Heilly's next designed to roll over boulders and reached the top and stopped by a summit will be Mt. Rainier in even climb steps. small wooden Japanese style-shrine, Washington state. They also aim to Since losing the usc of his legs in a where climbers otTer prayers for good scale Aconcagua. the tallest peak in 1996 car accident, Heilly has climbed luck and prosperity. llis eight-mem­South America at 22,835-feet. Colorado's Mount Elbert at 14,435 ber support team then lifted him and "I feel especially privileged to do feet and California's Mount Shasta at his climbing device into the air and this as a family," said Levi Heilly, one 14,162 feet. 

Thursday, September 4, 2003 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
RA 
continued from page 1 
in Springfield, Ill. Pope. one of two finalists for the schol­arship, tried to rearrange his interview; however, the Rotary Club said this was impossible. 
Pope said Kirk informed him the morning-long train­ing sessions he would miss would not make him a better RA, but that there was a zero tolerance policy for missing training. 
Kirk maintained the orien­tation was necessary, say­ing, "RA training is critically important to serve [the dorm]." 
Throughout his attempts to reschedule his training, Pope said he reiterated to Student Affairs officials his commitment to serving Sorin Hall and t h e 
Lottery 
continued from page 1 
ing the student's AFS ID into the system. Ebersol and his staff then had to docu­ment all of the information they obtained from students and their entire lottery process for the University. 
Several students were confused when the ticket line was cut off at the card swipe machine at 6:07p.m., and not the inside door of Reekers as they were led to believe. 
"I take responsibility for the errors that occurred, but we moved forward from last year with accommodat­ing more people," Ebersol said. "We realize it needs to get better and we are working to improve it." 
This was the second largest football ticket lottery at Notre Dame, the first being last year's Florida State game and this year's attendance surpassed the average by almost 200. 
Ebersol said he has already spoken with OIT to improve the system for the Purdue and Boston College football ticket lottery. 
The 148 winners of the lottery were announced in today's paper and each win­ner will receive the oppor­tunity to purchase two tick­ets. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.equ 

Affairs officials of his deci­sion to attend the interview when asked repeatedly about his intentions. Pope said officials informed him 
to resign if he planned to miss training. 
"I did pur­posely opt not to tell them a direct answer because I did not want them to preemptively fire me" Pope said. "I wanted to fulfill as much of my commitment as possible and he expected. 
Kirk declined to comment on specific circumstances, saying only that one RA resigned and another was fired. 
Kirk said situations arise every year where RAs have conflicts and have to recon­sider being an RA or where RAs are replaced during the year. 
Pope said the replacement RAs for Sorin -Stephen Merjavy and Steve Morrow­did not arrive until well into RA orientation. 
Though Kirk denied to comment on the two replacement RAs. he did say that when RAs are replaced, depending on the situtation, they will work with the existing hall staff and other arrangements are made for their training. 
Hallahan said 
his office and 
following an orientation breakfast where he and other members of the Sorin Hall staff learned that Craig also faced a similar situa­

"I wanted to fulfill my commitment to Sarin and Notre Dame as much as I could, and I told {Kirk] that I was roo percent committed to serving Sarin this year." 
Doug Pope Former Sorin RA 
was still working not to get of its four RAs. 
tion. Pope said he entered his con­versation with Kirk thinking his situa­tion may 
h a v e 
changed, as Sorin now faced the possi­bility of losing two 

interview. Student Senate
"I did purposely opt not to tell "RA training is criti­
University He said fire him in tend to as an RA. them a direct answer because met with because he cally important to research the 
"I want­I did not want them to the pre­believed serve {the dorm]. " RA incidents. 
ed to ful­senters of resigning Hallahan said
preemptively fire me. I
fill my the ses­would show he there were a commit­wanted to fulfill as much of was not com-Bill Kirk handful of RAs
sions he 
ment to my commitment as possible w 0 u l d mitted to Associate Vice President who had sched-Sorin and miss, but Sorin. Kirk for Residence Life uling conflicts 
fired." However, Pope said Kirk 
Pope said he arrived for wanted a direct answer RA orientation hopeful that regarding his decision. Pope he could remain an RA and 
said he would attend the s t i I I 
interview and attend the the University would have to 
and was still working not to 
N o t r e then fired him.
was later 
Dame as get fired" informed Though Pope much as I b y did not win the scholarship, could, and Doug Pope University he said he does not regret I told officials his decision. Pope moved
Former Sorin RA
[Kirk] that that there off-campus with Craig and ! was 100 former Sorin resident and
was no percent committed to serv­replacement training and current student body presi­ing Sorin this year," Pope his personal meetings would dent Pat Hallahan, saying he said. not compensate for the looks forward to the rest of Pope admitted he did not training he would miss. his senior year -though it directly inform Student Pope said he met with Kirk will be different from what 

with Ann. y 
THR DOCUMENT COMPANY 
e Officer ...:,.,.;)\1SF613< Corporation 


XERl1. 
Come listen to Anne Mulcahy, chairman and chief executive officer of Xerox Corporation, speak about the Xerox turnarbund and return to profitability. Anne is credited with bringing Xerox back from the brir1k of bankruptcy and .is considered one of the rising stars in cMporate America. 
Mulcahy will touch on the challenges of transfonning a major corporation ... from 
restructuring, refinancing, cost cutting, sales, prices and new products and services. Of 
particulat· interest \\~11 be Anne's comments on the future ofXerox, the challenge of women 
executives in business, ethics and corporate governance in America, and of course 
u:; '\t?:'tti: 

at Xerox for Domers. Experience firsthand Aune's straightforward approach 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!~~~~~~'J!IIt[,Qitm!WilM®I~rgized employees during the turnaround while making tough decisions. 
Xerox is a partner with Notre Dame Athletics with astrong brand and a vision for helping Notre Dan1e students. Throughout its difficult times, Xerox continued to support scholarship 
grants and employment opportunities for Notre Dame student~. The company has $15.8 
billion ln revenues With 65,000 employees worldwide and ranks number 116 in the Fortune 
500. Xerox is building a bright future around it'\ customer tor.used and employee-centered ::ore values, augmented hy passion for innovation, speed and adaptability. 
with the orien­tation because of the MCAT. 
He said he knew of at least one RA, who would have been a second year RA, who opted to forgo being an RA this year in order to take the MCAT. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes1@nd.edu 

Thursday, September 4, 2003 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

9,568.46 +45.19
jones 
/.&.. 

···~·· Same: Composill! Vohone: 2.048 175 1,637,709,056 
AMEX 982.81 +4.57 NASDAQ 1,852.90 +11.42 NYSE 676.26 +1.89 S&PSOO 1,026.27 +4.28 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +3.32%  +0.65  20.24  
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)  +3.82%  +1.04  28 30  
ORACLE SYSTEMS (ORCL)  +2.76%  +0.37  13.76  
NASDAQ TRUST 100 (QQQ)  -0.06%  -0 02  33.85  
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) +2.18%  +0.09  4.08  



IN BRIEF 
Zippo cranks out 400 millionth lighter 
I'ITTSBUHCII -The Zippo Manufacturing 
Co. isn't selling as many lighters as 
McDonald's does hamburgers-"billions and 
billions." But work1~rs at the cigarette lighter 
plant on Wednesday nonetheless paused to 
cPlebrate production of the company's 400 
millionth lighter. 
1:ounded in I 9:12. the company took 10 
yPars to produce its first million lighters ­
lwcoming a staple of Americana when Zippos 
w1~re issued to U.S. soldinrs during World War 
II -and 37 years to hit the 100 million mark. 
The 300 millionth Zippo lighter was pro­duced on April 15. I<J96. That means the company in Bradford. about 130 miles north­east of Pittsburgh, has cranked out 100 mil­lion additional lighters in slightly more than seven years. 
Although America is becoming less smoker friendly, collectors and smokers in overseas rnark1~ts continue to fuel demand for Zippos, perhaps best known for the distinctive click made by the lids of their brass-and-stainless sll~el cases. 
GM, Asian post hefty auto sales 
DETHOIT-General Motors Corp. and sev­eral Asian rivals posted hefty sales in August. the strongest month so far this year and one in which foreign automakers continued to make gains on Detroit's Big Three. 
August's seasonally adjusted annual sales pace of 19 million vehicles was the highest since October 2001. Despite blistering sales rates in July and August, GM. Ford Motor Co. and DairnlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Group have seen their total sales fall 5 percent so far this year, according to sales results released Wednesday 
Conversely, their Asian competitors are up 3 percent through August. and European brands are up 1 percent. 

Elderly targeted with investment scam 
WASIIINGTON -Often living on fixed incomes and sometimes desperate about money, older investors arc being targeted with complex investment scams promising huge returns as the stock market churns and health care costs climb, state securities regulators say. 
The North American Securities Administrators Association is alerting seniors to the dangers of investment fraud and urging them to take control of their finances. The group, which represents state and provincial securities regulators in the United States, Canada and Mexico, was announcing Thursday new investor education programs and a senior investor resource center on its Web site. 
The regulators "are deeply concerned that a pnrfect storm for investment fraud is brewing and our nation's 35 million seniors are most at risk," said Christine Bruenn. the group's presi­dent, who also is Maine's securities administra­tor. "To a senior living on a fixed income, no amount or money lost is too small and could mean the dill'crence between a secure and dig­nified retirement or a life of uncertainty and despair." 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
Page 7 

Ex-CEO pleads innocent in Okla. 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY ­Former WorldCorn chief executive Bernie Ebbers is free on $50,000 bail as his attorneys and prosecutors debate the legal merit of charges that he violated Oklahoma securities laws. 
Ebbers, 62, pleaded inno­cent to the first charges brought against the man who presided during the telephone company's $11 billion accounting scandal. A pretrial conference was set for Oct. 30. 
Ebbers had no comment Wednesday after leaving an Oklahoma County court­house, but his attorney, Heid Weingarten, said the charges against his client were "wildly insuflicicnt." 
"When we get to court, all allegations, wild specula­tion, the political rneandcr­ings of the commentators, the hysterical rants of the editorial pages, nothing like that will be sullicient. It will be evidence and only evi­dence that will count," Weingarten said. 
lie said speculation about what Ebbers "should have known or might have known will not replace competent evidence." 
Debbie Paz, assistant Oklahoma attorney general, said Weingarten is incorrect in saying the state lacks evi­charges," he said. worried that the Oklahoma prosecutor." dence. WorldCom, now known as case may disrupt their own Dennis said the informa­
"Come to the trial, you MCI, also was charged in investigation. tion in the Oklahoma corn­can see the evidence," she the Oklahoma complaint, It also has drawn criti­plaint is vague and "barely said. which alleges that the com­cism from the corporate ties Mr. Ebbers at all to the 
Attorney General Drew pany's falsified profit world. events." Edmondson was not in the reports caused Oklahoma Warren Dennis, a partner Edmondson said the furor courtroom Wednesday and investors to lose millions, in the corporate gover­caused by the Oklahoma would not comment on the including a $64 million hit nance and defense group of charges is surprising, con­extent of the state's evi­taken by state pension Proskauer Rose LLP, a large sidering the WorldCorn dence. funds. national law firm with scandal affected all 50 
"But we feel it is sufficient Edmondson's decision to offices in New York and states and was described by to prove guilty beyond a press state charges against Washington, saw the a federal judge as the most reasonable doubt or we WorldCom and Ebbers has arraignment as "a perp massive accounting fraud would not have filed the upset federal authorities walk" and "publicity for the in U.S. history. 

Kids back to school, prescription drugs rise 
need in the market," said Dr. Gary "A lot of parents just don't want to
Associated Press 
Tollefson, vice president medical­use stimulants for their children, " 
NEW YORK -For many parents, neuroscience of Lilly Research said Dr. Charles Gist, a child psychia­the back-to-school buying includes Laboratories. trist in Little Rock, Ark. not just books, binders and knap­Market-leader Concerta's prescrip­Stimulants increase the body's pro­sacks -but also medicine for treat­tion share fell to 22.7 percent in June duction of dopamine, a chemical nec­ing a child's chronically short atten­from 26 percent in January, accord­essary for concentration. Strattera tion span and hyperactivity. ing to IMS.. Adderall XR, the second instead blocks cells from reabsorbing 
Drug prescriptions typically rise in most popular drug has a 20.9 per­norepinephrine, another chemical the fall as teachers notice a pattern cent share, down from 22.6 percent. considered important in regulating of inattention, impulsivity and frenet­Still, doctors are uncertain attention; more norepinephrine thus ic behavior among some students. Strattera will ultimately prove as remains in the brain. This year, one pharmaceutical com­effective as stimulants, which for Bert Hazlett, an industry analyst pany is touting a new drug of choice now remain the benchmark treat­with Suntrust Robinson Humphrey, for attention deficit disorder or the ment for attention deficit and hyper­attributes some of Strattera's rapid related attention-deficit/ hyperactivi­activity. growth in sales to Lilly's expertise in ty disorder. Concerta's manufacturer, McNeil marketing drugs for the central nerv­
Eli Lilly & Co.'s product, Strattera, Consumer & Specialty ous system, gleaned by years of pro­is winning praise from some doctors Pharmaceuticals, said it didn't moting Prozac, its blockbuster anti­and parents because it is not a stimu­change its marketing plans because depressant. lant, a class of drug that can be of Strattera. Strattera is a key pillar in strength­addictive. Other popular treatments, "Parents are very pleased with the ening Lilly's sales and earnings, such as Ritalin, are all stimulants. results from Concerta," said Michelle which plummeted when it lost the 
Strattera was introduced by Brennan, vice president of sales and Prozac patent in August 2001. January and by June had quickly marketing at McNeil, a division of In the second quarter, Strattera grabbed 12 percent of a prescription Johnson & Johnson. "Eighty percent posted $74.8 million in sales. That market totaling nearly $2 billion in of patients response to stimulants." strong showing prompted Hazlett to yearly sales, according to IMS Health, Doctors say parents are drawn to raise his 2003 revenue projection to a pharmaceutical research and con­Strattera because its side effects are $340 million from between $150 to sulting firm. That exceeded some more mild than other drugs, which $175 million. He now believes the analysts expectations. can cause weight loss, irritability and drug's sales potential exceeds $1 bil­
"Clearly we are meeting an unmet sleeplessness. lion. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 4, 2003 
Recall candidates, tninus Sch-warzenegger, hold first debate 
Bustamente justifies funding from Indian tribe 
Arnold skips debate, gets 
Associated Press 

WALNUT CREEK, Calif. -In the first debate of California's recall election, candidates vying to oust Gov. Gray Davis attacked front-runner Cruz Bustamante for accepting Indian casino money and connected actor Arnold Schwarzenegger to an adviser's unpopular remarks on property taxes. 
The skirmish came after a relaxed Gov. Gray Davis told a separate forum with reporters and voters that the recall effort had been an awakening and that he would fight to keep his job and repair the state's problems. 
Bustamante, the Democratic lieutenant governor who leads the most recent poll, was criti­cized for taking advantage of a loophole in campaign finance law that allowed a tribe to pledge $2 million to his financial­ly struggling campaign. 
Columnist Arianna Huffington, an independent, said Bustamante had made a mock­ery of campaign finance laws, which allowed him to circumvent new contribution limits by accepting the bulk of the money in an old campaign account. 
"This is nothing but legalized bribery," Huffington said. "Tell me how you really feel," Bustamante replied. 
He went on to say that he has been a longtime supporter of tribes and was proud of the sup­port he had received. 
Five candidates participated in the debate: Bustamante, Candidates qualified for the Huffington, state Sen. Tom debate by receiving at least 4 McClintock, former baseball percent support in either a commissioner Peter Ueberroth recent poll or the last statewide and the Green Party's Peter vote. Camejo. Schwarzenegger opted out of 
Huffington and Camejo teamed the debate, choosing instead to up to link Schwarzenegger to deliver a speech before support­remarks his billionainJ adviser ers and college students in which 
Warren  Buffett  the actor said he  
made that Proposition 13 might need to be  "It's like the Oakland Raiders  wants to give back to the state where he has earned  
reworked. Proposition 13 is the voter­approved initia­ saying to Tampa Bay, 'We know you beat us, but we  millions of dollars. Schwarzenegger has agreed to par­ticipate in only  
tive that property hikes.  limits tax  want to play the Super Bowl again.'"  one debate, on Sept. 24. Questions for that  
Schwarzenegger  debate  will  be  
has said he wouldn't touch  Gray Davis California governor  provided ahead of time -unlike  

the law, and has tried to distance himself from Buffett's state­ments. 
Camejo said that Schwarzenegger shut Buffett up, but he said he did voters a favor. "I say give him a microphone," Buffett said. 
Bustamante also said the pop­ular tax initiative should be retooled for commercial proper­ty, but Republicans McClintock and Ueberroth -who were in lockstep on a number of issues -said they would not touch the tax formula. 
The debate is the first of three scheduled so far in advance of the Oct. 7 vote. 
Wed n e s d a·y 's 
debate. That deci­sion has drawn criticism from Republicans and Democrats alike. 
During his brief question-and­ansWer session, Davis said he would rather have raised taxes on the wealthy than to have increased fees on college stu­dents and he repeated claims that the recall was a right-wing effort to rewrite history after Republicans lost the fall election last year. 
"It's like the Oakland Raiders saying to Tampa Bay, 'We know you beat us, but we want to play the Super Bowl again,"' Davis said. 

egged at speech at university 
Associated Press 

LONG BEACH, Calif. ­Arnold Schwarzenegger was a no-show at the initial debate of California's recall election Wednesday and delivered what was billed as his first major campaign speech, getting pelted with an egg as he waded through a crowd at a college campus. 
Unfazed when the egg hit his left shoulder, the action hero peeled off his coat and went ahead with a 15-minute speech in which he asserted that he is running for gover­nor to give something back to a state responsible for his success. 
"You have such a fantastic life, Arnold, you make mil­lions of dollars to do movies and all those kinds of things, why do you want to do this?" Schwarzenegger asked rhetorically. 
"And you know something, because everything that I've gotten -my career, my money, my family -every­thing that I've gotten and achieved is because of California," he said to cheers at California State University, Long Beach. 
Schwarzenegger said he wasn't bothered by the egging. "This guy owes me bacon now," he joked later. "I mean there's no two ways about it because, I mean, you can't just havP. eggs without bacon. But this is all part of. you know, the free speech." 
Several opponents from La Raza Student Association heckled Schwarzenegger at the speech for his past sup­port of Proposition 187, which sought to deny services to illegal immigrants. They held a sign saying "Hasta Ia vista Latinos," but supporters drowned out the hecklers with chants of "Arnold. Arnold. Arnold." 
Schwarzenegger's address came hours before the debate that featured five other can­didates in the race to recall Democratic Gov. Gray Davis. who was given 30 minutes at the outset to make his case. Schwarzenegger. a Republican, did not attend and has agreed to participate in only one debate, on Sept. 24. 
Political observers say Schwarzenegger's absence in the first debate could hurt him. 
"He's going to get beaten up for a while" for skipping the debate, said GOP strategist Allan Hoffenblum. "It's not that he's not going to debate, but he's going to do it at his own time." 

~rhe WALL ST.RE.ET and FINANCIAL SERVICES FORUM 
Thursda~,September. 4~ 2003 Mendoza College ot Business 
.Jordan Auditorium ,/""""~vi--~..-:-~·~~~.....~.:·:~;....,_.,......~:....-.:...:.......... 
/,r/-Th~s is fU! exciting \vav to~~-~~o.....,,,,
5:00-6:00 Financial Services Panel 
( !ea".'a~t opfXJrtUnlt:les ln , )
6:15~7:451nvestrnent Banking Pane~ 
' findnce and on VVaH Street! ./l
7:45-8:45 Roundtable Discussions & Hors D'oe.uvres will be ·.,""'""-~.---... ·-~~~....--··-""' 
served 

F. . .. . 
.... Jnancta~ ~ Servi~o.e 
:w:s . ;WXPQ;.s:~· .. ······· .vv~. 
fnvestrnent B ; :ni(n .
. ............M__._...... a .. J. g
Bank One Bayview Capital f\1anagernent
Lincoln Financial Group Credit Suisse ,Ffrst Boston
Strong Financial fvleUon Financial Corporation
\NeUs Fargo 
Shamrock, Capital Advisors US Bancorp Piper Jaffrey William Bfq,tr tt c."""'.m.· p··.a·•,n· H
........... Uf ~..V .. J 
NUMEROUS ADDITIONAL EMPLOYERS WILL JO,IN US FOR THE ROUNDTABLES . Please bring Student ID Sponsored by The Careor Center and MBA CtH'e~r Developrncnt Center 
Thursday, September 4, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
AUSTRIA 



Annan urges U.S. to accept treaty banning w-eapons testing 
A..sociated Press 
VIENNA-U.N. Secretary­General Kofi Annan and other diplomats appealed to the United States and other holdout nations Wednesday to ratify an international treaty banning nuclear weapons tests, saying the agreement would help the world achieve peace. 
The Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty is considered a critical clement in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons. since a testing ban makes developing such arms almost impossible. 
"The entry into force of [the treaty] would be a victory for the cause of peace," Annan said in prepared remarks. "It cannot come too soon." 
A dozen countries -includ­ing the United States -have declined to ratify the measure. 
U.S. 
senators who voted against the treaty in 1999 argued that ratifying it would've threatened national security by closing off 

U.S. 
options to test. 


President Bush, who also opposed the treaty, has pledged to continue long-standing U.S. policy not to conduct nuclear tests. However, the administra­tion is considering developing smaller-scale nuclear weapons. 
The Clinton administration led negotiations to convert a testing moratorium into a per­manent treaty in 1996, only to have the Senate reject it three years later. 
The Bush administration did not send a representative to 

Faith & Transformation 

Thee. 340K. 1 credit. S/U Rev. David BurreJJ, C.S.C. 
Mondays 
September 8, 15, 22, 29, 
and October 6, 13 
Time: 7:00p.m. -9:05p.m. 
Location: DeBartolo 204 
One-Credit Courses 
Fall2003 
ojfered I~J' the Department of Theology in coopemtion with the Office of Campus Ministry 

Thee. 340A/01. 1 credit. S/U 
Dr. lawrence Cunnjngham 
Sundays

Mary 
September 14, 21, 28 
October 5, 12
Thee. 340N/01. 1 credit. S/U 
Time: 6:00p.m. * 8:30p.m.
Dr. Timothy Matovina 
Location: Coleman-Morse 330Mondays October 27 November 3, 10, 17 December 1, 8 Time: 6:00p.m. -8:05p.m. Location: 0 Shaughnessy 106 
For further injoJrmation, contact Dorotlt)' Anderson in tlte Theology Departmmt, 631-7811. Syllabi for the courses can be obtcfined at the Theology Dept., 130 Malloy Halt. 
Wednesday's opening session of a conference on the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. 
"I believe it's clear that from the direction of the Bush administration, they would be happy for the [test ban treaty] to go away," said Rose Gottemoeller. a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. 
"The question is: Can they take the political heat for killing the treaty, with everything else they have on their platter?" 

The U.S. position jeopardizes the treaty itself. As one of 44 countries with nuclear power or research facilities listed in an annex to the treaty, the Americans must ratify the docu­ment or it will not take effect. 
The other holdouts are China, Colombia, Congo, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan and Vietnam. 
The meeting came at a time of worldwide concern over North Korea and Iran. 
Amtrak w-ill receive $1.35 billion subsidy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Amtrak would get $1.35 billion in fed­eral subsidies next year under a bill approved Wednesday by a Senate subcommittee that gives the railroad more money than President Bush wants but less than Amtrak officials have said they need. 
The cash-strapped carrier has said $1.8 billion is neces­sary to retain existing levels of service, but critics want Amtrak to first drop money­losing lines and make other changes. Bush proposed only $900 million, the same amount included in a bill the House plans to consider this week, so Amtrak officials expressed relief at the Senate figure. 

"Amtrak is encouraged" by the Senate bill and will "look to Congress to provide an ade­quate level to fulfill our needs," said Amtrak spokesman Clifford Black. 
The bill would defer repay­ment, for an additional year, of a $100 million federal loan Amtrak received last summer. 
Separately, the Hepublican­led Senate rejected Democratic efforts to boost spending for disabled stu­dents, schools near military bases and llispanic youngsters as it worked slowly through a bill providing $137.6 billion for schools, health and labor programs for the budget year beginning Oct. 1. 


Judge tosses charge against DEA agent 
Associated Pross 
NEW YOHK -A federal judge on Wednesday threw out a manslaughter case against a Drug EnforcemPnt 

AnENTION: FIRST YEAR STUDENTS! 
Please consider serving as student hosts lor the OHice ol Undergraduate Admissions! 
Share vour Notre Dame experiences bv welcoming prospective students into vour residence halls! 
II interested, please email: hosting@nd.edu 
Administration agent who 
fatally shot an un&rmed drug 
suspect in the back, calling it 
an "ill-advised prosecution." 
The charge had outraged 
DEA officials. who said the vet­
eran agent acted in self­
defense last year while strug­
gling with a dangerous suspect. 
The suspect, Egbert Dewgard, 
was carrying more than six 
pounds of cocaine before he 
was killed. authorities said. 
The agent, Jude Tanella, 
"demonstrated restraint. sound 
judgment and courage in the 
proper exercise of his sworn 
duty to protect the public," U.S. 
District Judge Nicholas 
Garaufis wrote in his decision. 
District Attorney Charles 
Hynes said he was "surprised 
at the gratuitous nature" of the 
ruling, and planned to appeal. 
Garaufis had previously ruled the case should be heard in federal court. There -unlike state court -the agent's lawyers were allowed to argue he was immune from criminal charges because the shooting was the result of his federal duties. 
Prosecutors countered that deadly force was "inappropri­ate" because Dewgard was a suspect in a nonviolent crime, unarmed and trying to flee when he was shot May 1, 2002. 
Garaufis said the prosecu­tors' case was a "fanciful jour­ney" based on "remarkable assertions." 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 4, 2003 

Anti-abortion activist executed for tnurder 
Associated Press 

STARKE. Fla. -Paul Hill, a former minister who said he murdered an abortion doctor and his bodyguard to save the lives of unborn babies, was executed Wednesday by injec­tion. He was the first person put to death in the United States for anti-abortion vio­lence. 
Hill, 49, was condemned for the July 29, 1994, shooting deaths of Dr. John Bayard Britton and his bodyguard, retired Air Force Lt. Col. James Herman Barrett, and the wounding of Barrett's wife out­side the Ladies Center in Pensacola. 
As he has since the slaying, Hill showed no remorse and urged abortion foes to use whatever means to protect the unborn. 
"If you believe abortion is a lethal force, you should oppose the force and do what you have to do to stop it," Hili said as laid strapped to a gurney in the execution chamber. "May God help you to protect the unborn as you would want to be pro­tected." 
Hill was pronounced dead at 
6:08 p.m., Gov. Jeb Bush's office said. 
Death penalty opponents and others had urged Bush to halt the execution, some of them warning Hill's death would make him a martyr and unleash more violence against abortion clinics. The governor said he would not be "bullied" into stopping the execution. 
Florida abortion clinics and police were on heightened alert for reprisals. Several officials connected to the case received threatening letters last week, accompanied by rif1e bullets. 
"Paul Hill is a dangerous psy­chopath," said Marti McKenzie, spokeswoman for Dr. James S. Pendergraft, who runs clinics in Orlando, Ocala, Tampa and Fort Lauderdale. 
Outside Florida State Prison, extra law enforcement officers, explosives-sniffing dogs and undercover officers were in place to prevent protests from getting out of hand. About 50 abortion and death penalty foes quickly left following the execu­tion as rain fell and lighting struck near the prison. 
Hill, a former Presbyterian minister, had final visits with family members and his reli­gious adviser stayed with him until just before the execution. 
Since losing his automatic appeals, Hill has not fought his execution and insisted up to the day before his death that he would be forgiven by God for killing to save the unborn. 
"I expect a great reward in heaven," he said in an inter­view Tuesday, during which he was cheerful, often smiling. "I am looking forward to glory." 
Fringe elements of the anti­abortion movement that con­done clinic violence have invit­ed attacks on Web sites that proclaim Hill as a martyr. Members of the mainstream anti-abortion movement have denounced the calls for vio­lence. 
Most abortion clinics in Florida reached by The Associated Press on Wednesday declined comment. 
Court prevents FCC rule application 
Federal appeals court rejects allowing monopolization of media 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -A federal appeals court Wednesday issued an emergency stay delaying new Federal Communications Commission rules that would allow a single company to own newspapers and broadcast outlets in the same city. 
The 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the community­radio advocates who sued would suffer irreparable harm if the new rules were allowed to go into effect as scheduled Thursday. 
The new media ownership rules, which the FCC approved in June on a party-line, 3-2 vote, also would allow a single company to own TV stations reaching 45 percent of the nation's viewers. 
Smaller broadcasters and network affili­ates are con­

cerned the "The ruling recognizes monopolize new rules will 
what I hope most of the the industry
allow the net­more," Spear

Senate recognizes: 
works to gob­said. 
ble up more These rules are 

An FCC 
stations and 

inappropriate." spokesman
limit local con­

said the 
trol of pro­agency was

Byron Dorgan 
gramming. 

disappointedSupporters say U.S. senator 
by the deci­
the changes 

sion and will help would continue to defend the 
broadcasters compete in a 

new rules in court. In a hear­
market changed by cable tele­ing earlier Wednesday, FCC 

vision, satellite broadcasts and attorneys had argued that the the Internet. 
rules could go into effect as The House, over the objec­scheduled without any long­tions of the Bush administra­
term damage to the groups
tion, voted overwhelmingly in fighting it. 

July to block the FCC rules. When the case will be heard The Senate plans to take up was unclear. The appeals court the issue next week. has yet to rule on motions to The rules were challenged in move the case to another 
court by the Prometheus Radio Project, a Philadelphia-based coalition of media access groups that campaigns for greater radio access and helps groups seeking to establish low-power radio stations. 
"Given the magnitude of this matter and the public's interest in reaching the proper resolu­tion, a stay is warranted pend­ing thorough and efficient judi­cial review," a three-judge panel of the appeals court wrote in its brief opinion. The judges did not comment on the merits of the complaint. 
An attorney for the Prometheus Project, Samuel L. Spear, praised the decision. He said his clients believe their ability to broadcast will be hurt by the growth of media con­glomerates. 
The FCC decision "just allows the big media companies to 
grow bigger 
and to 
venue, such as Washington. D.C. 
Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., who, along with Mississippi Republican Trent Lott has been leading a group of senators trying to undo all the FCC changes, said the court's ruling "will give a boost to our efforts." 
"The ruling recognizes what I hope most of the Senate rec­ognizes: These rules are inap­propriate," Dorgan said in an interview. 
Blair Levin, a former FCC official who is an analyst with the Legg Mason investment firm, said the stay probably will have little immediate impact because congressi9.nal opposition to the looser owner­ship rules led media compa­nies to put most of their plans on hold. 
The ownership rules also face other challenges. 
The National Association of Broadcasters wants fewer restrictions on media owner­ship. The influential industry group filed an appeal last month to block changes to how radio markets are defined and overturn rules that still prevent TV station mergers in some smaller markets. 
Critics of easing ownership restrictions had asked the FCC to suspend the rules while the agency studied their impact on communities. FCC Chairman Michael Powell, one of the three Republicans who backed the new rules, had said that although the commission is examining ways to promote local programming, that issue should be addressed separately from the ownership rules. 

The ND Dept. of Music presents 
The Murasaki Duo 
Eric Kutz, cello Miko Kominami, piano 

· Featuring the World Premiere of Concert Duo by NO Prof. Ethan Haimo 
Lecture/Recital Concert "How to Listen to Sunday, Sept. 7, 2003 Concert Duo" 2:00 pm, Annen berg Aud. Friday, Sept. 5, 2003 Snite Museum 
3:30 pm, Annenberg Audit. Works by Haimo, Stravi Snite Museum and Grieg 

:e•r.' ,-l,,, •:
1
I 

Bookmaker's Pub &Sports Bar [formerlv Coach's J 
Completelv Remodeled 2046 So. Bend Ave. 574-272-1766 
Opening Sept. 411:00 AM New owners 
Great food -Great fun-You bell 


STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training sessions in September. 
If you did not attend a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services last year, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 7th_, and on Sunday, September 21st at 6:30pm in Room 102 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The sessions will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen. 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467. 
page 11

Thursday, September 4, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-' ., 


Dillon Pep Rally goos 



Tonight! South Ouad. 7Pm 





OE§tRVERONLINE
www.ndsmcobse!'ller.com 
POUCIES 

The first time I did it I was 18. I was nervous, of course, and my palms were sweaty. The room was almost completely dark. I'm sure my technique was terrible, but, despite the fact that it was a life 
Peter Wicks 

changing expe­rience, I really don't remember 
An 

much about my 
Englishman

performance. I 
Abroad

just remember the laughter. 
If. when I first decided to try stand­up comedy, I had any idea how many times I would be asked in future years what prompted me to do it, I would have kept a detailed record of my mental state. In fact, as my first performance approached, the image of the stage expanded to fill my men­tal horizon; I could think of nothing after the show. For several weeks afterwards I could think about noth­ing before it. 
I simply have no recollection at all of what was going through my mind when I signed up to perform at Oxford's Burton Taylor Theatre. But I have no problem remembering why I got on stage the next time, and every time after that. 
Like nicotine, the laughter of st1·angers is addictive from the first taste. Except that you don't so much taste the crowd's laughter as feel it, just as the bass shakes your whole body when you stand near the speak­ers at a rock concert. 
Richard Lewis once called stand-up a legal drug, but that is only half right. There is no real skill involved in getting high from drugs. You just inhale, inject, swallow or snort and then wait for the effects to take you. All it takes is money and a certain degree of indifference 'towards your future health. Stand-up isn't like that. 
You have to make the audience laugh, and that requires talent, and even for the most talented comedian there are no guarantees. 
Professional comedians will report that sometimes a joke that has reli­ably induced mass hysteria in audi­ences around the country for months will one day simply, inexplicably, fail to get a response. Suddenly, the comedian is on stage, feeling alone, abject, alone, humiliated and so very, very alone. We've all had the dream in which we arrive at high school only to discover that we are naked. This experience is worse and come­dians have a name for it. We call it "death." 
So, why take the risk? It's hard to explain the feeling you get when your 

routine goes well. In "It's the possibility of "Are you any good," 
trying to explain, one failure, the possibility an inquiry which faces the danger of puts me in the awk­
that things could go
saying things that are ward position of 
disturbingly close to wrong that makes it so having to choose cliches normally asso­exhilerating when they whether I would ciated with extreme rather sound arro­
go right."
sports. But I'll take the risk: it's the possi­bility of failure, the possibility that things could go wrong at any moment, that makes it so exhilarat­ing when they go right. Besides, in extreme sports you can only die once. 
But for me, and I suspect for most comedians, what really makes the stage irresistable is the wonderful feeling of connection that comes from discovering, again and again, that the things you find funny other people find funny too. That's why the account of what motivates comedians that I like best of all is the one given by Bill Hicks in an interview shortly before his death: "I thought the whole point of it was to make you feel unalone." I don't know whether when Hicks said "you" he was talking about the comedian or the audience. I like that it could have been either one. 

Sometimes strangers approach me after a show to tell me that they enjoyed the performance. I've always been thrilled by this, except after one gig in New Jersey when someone said to me "Hey man. that was great, your accent makes you really funny." I had worked hard on my routine, not my accent, and I couldn't help thinking that his compliment was somewhat diluted by the fact that there are approximately 60 million other people to whom it could equal­ly apply. 
When people find out that I do stand-up, they often have questions 
about it. By far the 
most common is 

gant or masochis­tic. I usually get out of the dilemma by feigning a seizure. 
I am telling you all this as an in vi­tation. This semester I will be host­ing. along with Michael Bradt. a series of stand-up shows at the new Legends club. We have some experi­enced performers lined up for the shows, but I will also be running workshops for anyone who would like to perform but has never done it before. If that's you, let me know. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
News Graphics 
OBSERVER POLL
Andrew Thagard . Mik~ .Harkins Joe Trombello Sports Meghanne Downes Joe Hettler ·· 
Viewpoint Pat Leonard How many games will the Irish win during Erin Fox Mark Zavodnyik this football season? Illustrator Scene Katie Knorr KC Kenney 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is laughter." 
Mark Twain writer 

'i-HE ()BSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 4, 2003 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Be grateful for food 
In rnspons1~ to Kamaria Porter's Sept. 2 column "An Unhappy Day for Labor," I want to emphasize her mention of the dining hall as a crucial plan~ to practice social justice. Whenever I work on thn South Dining 1!all dish line, I am ashamed of the slwor quantity of food WI) throw away. Good fortune and pros­p!~rity shouldn't be flaunted so vulgarly. parlictllarly at a univer­sity that is eonrwclPd by the universal Church to the universal poor. 
I know tlwro aro a lot of reasons food is wasted, but none are I'Xcusabln. Sometimes. admittedly. it's hard to answer the eter­nal qtwstion, "pizza. roast. stir-fry or pasta?" without getting sonw of Pach, sitting down and examining them free from the intense jostling and prnssure. 
llowcvPr. our unusually quick wits and high SAT scores should aid us in this intPIIectual chaliPnge. Of course, it is also possibiP to take a bite and immediately discover that your rhocolute pudding has an uncanny flavor of lima beans ... so don't serve up a quart to begin with. 
Maylw WP rolled our eyes when our mothers nagged us to cl('an our plates, but it is definitely an insult to the starving to art like the crazed. happily vomiting banquetnrs of the crum­bling Homan Empire instead of inoll'ensive people eating dinner. UnfortunatPiy. this does not exaggerate our extravagance­come cheek it out sometime. 
In addition to being basically a taunt to the undernourished, wasting food is an affront, subtly but truly, to a whole slew of otlwr pnoph~. Food doesn't materialize magically. Well-loved land is alt1~red, farmers struggle, animals die, laborers sweat in finlds and factories to prod ucc commodities for a noble purpose and that purpose is not to keep the dumpster people in busi­rwss. They want to feed us; that's their vocation, so let's eat. 
It isn't ol'ten that we can make a radical difference without paining oursPlvns. Additional steps are simple too, such as par­ticipating in Wednesday Lunch Fast to benefit the hungry. And ewn if that isn't a concern at this Catholic university, we should lislPn to our deeply sufl'ering wallets. Less food wasted means Food Services buys less which means less increase in room and board. Amen to that. right'! 
Erin Meyers sophomore Welsh FaMily Hall Sept. 3 
Questioning ticket distribution 
As a self-proclaimed Notre Dame super fan, I considered it my duty to try and get tickets to the Michigan game. After striking out with friends that go to Michigan, I was pretty happy when I learned Tuesday night that there would be a ticket lottery Wednesday afternoon. I thought that this was short notice, but that I'd definitely be in line. 
After reading the Wednesday edition of The Observer. I became somewhat confused. An ad said that the 
only at Reekers. 
So I got in line behind South Dining llall right at 3 p.rn. Now one of the new twtsts on this year's ticket lottery was that a per­son could carry as many !D's as they wanted; as opposed to evuy other event that I can remem­ber at Notre Dame where a person could only carry two to six ms. 
So throughom this afternoon, dozens of people would jllst walk up to the line, give their lD to a friend, and leave despite the fact that hundreds of us had been waiting there for hours. Around 5 p.m. one of the workers came outside to notify us that the lottery would be shutting its doors at 
6:07 p.m. due to NCAA rules stating that a ticket lottery can only last for 3 hours. 
Since I was standing about 3 feet from the door into Hecker's, I figured that I could make it 3 feet in an hour. So the minutes slowly ticked away and it was suddenly 6 p.m. All of a sudden, we started hearing from people ahead of us in line that the doors wouldn't be shutting at 6:07, the actual lottery would be shutting down. We figured this had to be a misunderstanding. 
But sure enough, 6:07 rolled around and as I 
GUEST COLUMN 
Hitler and country music? 
Adolph I Iitler had Joseph Goebbels to sway the opinion of the masses. Israel has the American media. The U.S. government has no need of a propaganda minister -they have country mtL<>ic. 
If anyone listens to today's country music long cmough, thny might be led Jared Vaughn to bdievn that we live in a country that never makes 
The Oklahoma
mL'>takes. 
State Daily
Om~ whose every action 
O'Collegian
is guidnd by the Iland of (;oct. 
Toby Keith would have us blow up every nation whose people held thoughts or beliefs contrary to the "American way." 
Wn should then all go to the bar and liquor up our troops and horses, but only after we put a hoot up someone's arse. 
!low politically and intnlleetually giftnd a man to sing sueh a song! 
I'm sure that Toby's years of study and research has led him to his findings and beliefs on such topics. 
Darryl Worley asks if we've forgotten bin Laden. Worley's pro-war anthem attempts to remind w; about 9-11 (which is not wholly bad) and alludes to a connection between the al Qaeda attacks on our country and the potential lor Iraq to attack us. 
I low did he come up with that? Perhaps he caught a CNN blurb about a possible connection bl~tween the two. Maybe one of his good repub­lican buddies (pro-Bush, pro-war, anti-reality) told Darryl. with some assuredness, that Iraq and the a! Qaeda were connected and a preemp­tive strike should be enacted before they (Iraq) get a chance to bomb us. 
Any semi-educated person who believes in doing re!>earch from sources other than CNN, Fox NBws -the biggest joke in "media" -or their local paper might be led a little closer to the truth. 
For example, one might only look at the state­ment bin Laden made about Hussein's religious practices. Bin Laden said Hussein was a bad Muslim. That's about the equivalent ofsaying, "I hate Baptists!" here in Oklahoma. 
What kind of reaction would a public figure garner from such a statement andhow would the followers of said targeted person or group respond to the person who had said such things? 
Well, it is highly doubtful that any of them would be good buddies and plotanother coun­try's demise. 
Granted, this is only one example though many others exist. 
I'm not suggesting that freedom of speech be suspended. I'm saying that if someone (especially celebrities) is going to say something potentially politically inflaming, they should at least be well­informed. 
What makes celebrities think they understand politics ofany kind? 
Consider Sean Penn's faux-political ramblings. lie's generally too high to even know what day of the week it is. How can anyone take him serious­ly? 
How about the Dixie Chicks? Where do they get off saying that they are embarrassed (though they really might be) that the president of our country is from Texas without showing some sort of backup? They presented no reason to hold the convictions that they do. 
Unless a band or any other celebrity has some form of political background, they should keep quiet lest they influence the equally stupid ofour society. 
This column first appeared Sept. 3 in The Oklahoma State Daily O'Collegian and appears here courtesy ofU-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are tlwse of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lottery would be in Heckers '11 ticket lottery is couldn't even get entered into while the In Brief section on supposed to give everybody the lottery. page 2, claimed it would be at While I'm still extremely
an equal chance, not just

North Dining Hall. I went to frustrated, life goes on. But North after my 1:55 p.m. class reward the people who got there arc just a few questions and after waiting in line for 10 there early with the IDs from that remain. Why, despite the minutes, learned that it was fact that the Michigan game
every person in their dorm. " 

went to give my two IDs to the lady scanning them, she told me that the ticket lottery was over. I told her. "There has to be a mistake. just scan them. I've been waiting outside for thrnP hours." 
Things started getting uglier from there, as about a hundred people that had made it inside began screaming at the workers, demanding an explanation. I was one of about 50 people that 
stayed until 6:30p.m. to corn­
plain and figure out how we 
will probably be our biggest 
road game of the year, was there only one person accepting and scanning IDs? For last year's Florida State ticket lottery, there were three separate lines. 
Why suddenly allow a student to give a stack of 60 IDs to their friend already in line when every Notre Dame event that I can remember only allowed a student to carry two IDs, six at the most? I could let some of these things slide if this was a "first come, first serve" ticket giveaway. Last week I missed out on Purdue tickets because I didn't get to the line at 6 a.m. like my buddies did. 
But a ticket lottery is supposed to give every­body an equal chance, not just reward the peo­ple who got there early with the IDs from every person in their dorm. I'm no expert at ticket dis­tribution, but there has got to be a better way than this. 
Justin Feeney sentor Knon Hall Sept. 4 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



'THE QgsERVER 
CENE

page 14 
Thursday, September 4, 2003 
Putting a humble man on a pedestal 
Rich Mullins' new biography shares a life dedicated to sharing his gift of music and his love ofan awesome God 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Writer 

Rich Mullins is a name that most know and nearly everyone recognizes as famil­iar. Whether heard in passing conversa­tion, on the radio or at church, the name Rich Mullins is one that is heard all over the country, even all over the world. 
Rich Mullins is known for many things, but above all he is known for his work as a contemporary Christian singer and songwriter. In his biography, Rich Mullins, His Life and Legacy: An Arrow Pointing to Heaven, by James Bryan Smith, a long-time friend of Mullins, the life of Rich Mullins is laid out in an hon­est and sincere narrative. Mullins is known for his immensely popular songs (including "Awesome God," "The Love of God," "That Where I Am, There You May Also Be"), but this guide on Mullins' life aids in viewing the deeper and touching person that Rich Mullins truly was in his entirety. 
James Bryan Smith, a good friend whom Rich rented a room and lived with for over two years, is credited for pen­ning this book. Smith's writing is mediocre at best. The story of Rich Mullins is more than enough to make the novel flow fluidly; the most difficult parts of the novel to get through are Smith's often excessively long commentaries. Smith makes it clear throughout the book that, above all things, Mullins was a humble man who was the first to pro­claim himself a sinner. As such, the per­sistent reverent and admiring tone that Smith utilizes to describe Mullins is almost inappropriate for the biography. From the true stories of Rich's life and the many quotations from him through­out the book, it becomes apparent that, in reality, Mullins probably would not have wished for this book to be written about him in such a manner. Above all else, Mullins was humble, and Smith's style of writing in this biography places Mullins up on a very high pedestal, the very place that Mullins would have likely wished to avoid. That being said, it is important to point out the difficult task it would be to write a book about the life and views of Rich Mullins without him ending up on a pedestal in the reader's mind by the completion of the biography. 
Although the actual writing of the biography is lacking, the book itself is extremely engaging. The book basically tracks the life of Rich Mullins beginning with his childhood in Virginia and Indiana and ending with his death in a tragic car accident in 1997. The novel is biographical, but also is very much a Christian-based reading as it shares many of Mullins' Christian philosophies and opinions throughout the novel. Rich was ecumenical in the highest sense of the word. While growing up Protestant, he loved going to church. At one time, he almost became Catholic, but decided against it in an attempt to remain truly ecumenical and focus sincerely on Jesus. Mullins was famous for "burning peo­
ples' sacred cows" 
when he would per­
form and various dif­
ferent types of church­
es. 
As a child, Mullins 
was a bit of an outcast, 
and after failed 
attempts at athleti­
cism, he accepted his 
gift of music. He began 
performing in church­
es and for small gath­
. erings and eventually 
began a band called 
Zion, of which he was 
one of the four mem­
bers. Mullins weht 
through many phases 
in his life and eventu­
ally moved to an 
Indian reservation in 
the Southwest where 
he began a group 
called the Kid 
Brothers of St. Frank. 
·This group was based 
on many of the teach­
ings of St. Francis, 
whom Mullins was a 
great admirer of and 
very interested in. 
Mullins and the other 
members of the Kid 
3rothers dedicated 
their lives to service 
and praye~ 
Throughout the book, 
Mullins' life journey is 
depicted and accom­
panied by entertain­
ing stories of the truly redemptive life of Rich Mullins. He always felt that he was not worthy of the awesome love that God provided him with, and that he, like everyone else, was a sinner. The beauty of Rich Mullins was that he embraced his sin­fulness and then turned and gave it all back to God. He never claimed to have any of the answers; he simply pointed people directly toward God as their answer, remaining, as clichr as it may ne, a true "arrow pointing towards heaven." 
This biography does not fit neatly into any one subject matter; it covers so many of the aspects of an ordinary man's life who did extraordinary things with his God-given tal­ents. The story of Mullins is inspiring even at its lowest points. Mullins was a man, not a myth, and he never hoped or wanted to be known as anything more than simply a man. He had an incredible way of re111ly being able to break down the character of Jesus as human, just as Mullins was and we all are humans. The human aspect of Jesus is one that many people, when they begin to really focus on it, aren't very c'omfortable with. This view of Jesus fas­cinated Mullins, inspiring him and work­ing through him to all of the people he touched through his example and life. Whether people think "Awesome God" is the greatest or the most annoying con­temporary Christian song in existence, this book should be read. It is interest­ing, inspiring and, at times, hilarious. Mullins was many things in his life. Above all else, he was a messenger for a power he never felt worthy to serve, and by living as such, showed many people, and continues to show many people today, the correct way to direct your life: up. 



Contact Becca Saunders at bsaunders@nd.edu. 

·--~----­
"" 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE ­
Thursday, September 4, 2003 
Page 15 
Faber's racy idea of Sugar 
Michel Faber writes a scandalous novel from the viewpoint of a Victorian London "working girl" called Sugar. 
By MOlLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Wrirer 
After a long school year consisting of what seems like endless reading, most students throw in the literary towel over the summer and try to forget that thny exist (a similar policy is held with regard to du Lac). Though it is an understandable situation, students can miss out on reading books which might not appear on a school assigned reading list and whose literary merit is somewhat on the sketchy side. 
Contrary to popular opinion, not every novel read during the summer or outside of the classroom has to be by Danielle Steele or John Grisham in order to be scandalously good. 
The Crimson Petal and the White, by Michel Faber, is well-written enough to avoid being insulting or childish and still deals with subject matter capable of making Jackie Collins blust-.. 
The book chronicles the rise of a prostitute in Victorian London from the scum of the gutter to the fringes of respectability, but this doesn't mean that it skimps on the good parts. With the right blend of scandal, atmosphere and character, this book will bring back your desire to read just when your textbooks had made you question the merits of being literate. 
When the protagonist of a book is named Sugar, you can feel fairly cer­tain that it. won't show up on one of your academic reading lists or in a Core discussion this semester. 
Faber quickly squashes the stereo­typical view of Victorian London as a realm composed entirely of eloquent gentlemen and socially graceful women in his book. Whores with few inhibitions and the lecherous men who keep them in business dominate the landscape of the novel, and this pic­turesque backdrop sets the scene for the story of Sugar, the quintessential "hooker with a heart of gold," whu certainly is no Julia Hoberts. 
Sugar is an author who has devoted her life to composing a novel about the realities of prostitution and the evils of men, in which her protagonist perpetrates acts of violence against the very men who have caused her life so much pain. ller writing allows her an outlet for her emotions without interfering with her ability to earn her livelihood, but, like most diaries or pieces of writing that cling to closely to the truth, it eventually gets her into trouble. 
The grim reality of life on the street, not only for prostitutes but other des­titute individuals as well, contrasts with the fa«;ade of beauty that the extreme upper echelon of wealth resides in. Sugar's ability to survive 
and adapt in both the slums and the mansions makes her an extremely interesting char­acter that would have made Darwin proud. The con­trasts between grim redlity and constructed fanta­sy, as well as between chastity and unabashed sexuality, makes the novel difficult to predict and even harder to put down. 
Sugar's rise from the oppres­sion of living in the gutter to the different but equally repressive arena of respectability begins when she meets a sexually and economically frustrated busi­nessman named William Hackham. The only reason William is in line to take over his family's perfume company results from the fact that his older brother. IIenry, passed on the opportunity to spend time fur-thering his spiritual life. 


On top of his economic woes, William Hackham's wife, Agnes, is mentally unsound and begins to lose her ability to hide it from polite socie­ty. (Agnes' outbursts of insane impro­priety are just as interesting as any of Sugar's "business" activities.) 
Sugar begins her assent above the other girls in her profession because of her uncanny knack for industrial business, as well as her proficiency in business of other kinds. William slow­ly comes to depend on Sugar as an advisor, confidante and lover, but she grows wary of her loss of independ­ence and street sense that results from her love of William and his luxu­rious lifestyle. 
Sugar eventually gains more r6spectability as she becomes the gov­erness to the Rackham's daughter, Sophie, but her meteoric rise up the social ladder comes to an abrupt halt as she finds herself emotionally entan­gled with all three members of the 
... 

Rackham family and must make a choice about where her loyalties lie. 
The Crimson Petal and the White provides interesting insight into the lives of prostitutes and their reasons for joining such a stigmatized profes­sion. It also permits insight into tan­gled web of deciphering between sex and love. The difl"iculties in eradicat­­ing prostitution are explored, and with that, it looks at human culture's fasci­nation with prostitutes. 
The book may not always paint a pretty picture, but it is a deeply absorbing story with enough scandal and intrigue to keep one reading until the last page has been turned. It's a fairly hefty tome but worth the time required to read it. Don't let required reading stamp out your desire to enjoy other books, especially trashy, scan­dalous novels about prostitutes in the back allies of history. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu. 
If you think you're a hip cat, then you need to get out on the Scene! 
Email Sarah at scene@nd.edu or call1-4540. 
~ 
I 
I I 
Thursday, September 4, 2003

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
-
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Angry Alou releases his fury against Cardinals 
Then, in May 2002, he did it 
Associated Press 
again, breaking the middle finger of his right hand. 
CHICAGO -Moises Alou was angry when he arrived at Philadelphia 8, Montreal 3 Wrigley Field on Wednesday Kevin Millwood had already and took it out on the St. Louis lost his temper during the first Cardinals. inning. If he didn't keep his 
Alou had a career-high five emotions in check, hits, including a go-ahead sin­Philadelphia could have fallen gle in the eighth inning that way behind. capped a comeback from a "After I got out of that six-run deficit and led the inning, I still wasn't very Chicago Cubs over the happy," Millwood said. "I had Cardinals 8-7. to calm myself down to where 
"Against St. Louis, right in I was going to go out and pitch the middle of a pennant race, and try and give us a chance for me to come up clutch and to win the game." get the game-winning hit was Millwood did, backed by a awesome," he said. "It was a home run and two RBis by Jim huge game. Down 6-0 this Thome as the Phillies beat the team really showed a lot of Montreal Expos Wednesday heart." for their fifth win in six 
Before the game, Alou said games. he was still upset over an Philadelphia, which opens a umpire's call that the Cubs felt four-game series with the cost them the second game of Mets on Thursday, remained Tuesday's doubleheader. A tied with Florida in the NL bases-loaded drive down the wild-card race line by Alou was called foul -Montreal, which took an even though a photo appeared early lead on Wil Cordero's to show it hit the line -and three-run homer, lost its sixth the Cubs lost 2-0. straight following a five-game 
Alou then went out and winning streak and dropped drove in four runs to lead the five games back of the Phillies 
..,-. Cubs to a big win in a tension­and Marlins. The Expos are filled game that included a 25-47 on the road. shouting match between man­agers and the two starting San Francisco 7, Colorado 6 pitchers hitting each other Even four homers couldn't with pitches. save the Colorado Rockies 
from matching a club record Marlins handed the ball to sixth, and Tike Redman sin­New York 9, Atlanta 3 with their lOth straight road San Diego 12, Arizona 0 Josh Beckett. And the right­gled in the eight h. 
Jorge Velandia's impressive loss. Already eliminated from the hander did the rest. show at the plate Wednesday Pinch-runner Eric Young playoff race, the San Diego Beckett pitched shutout ball Milwaukee 9, Cincinnati 6 was a breakthrough for a man danced around a tag at the Padres were only too happy to into the eighth inning and Brady Clark hit a homer, whose past few seasons have plate and scored the winning continue the Arizona drove in a run as the Marlins triple and double and scored been plagued by injury. run in the ninth inning as the Diamondbacks' misery. remained tied for the NL wild­four runs as the Milwaukee 
Velandia hit a two-run triple San Francisco Giants defeated Gary Matthews Jr. hit a two­card lead after a victory over Brewers won for the 14th time and an RBI double a day after the swooning Rockies on run triple to highlight the the Pirates on Wednesday in 16 games, beating the being called up from the Wednesday. seven-run second inning as night. Cincinnati Reds 9-6 on minor leagues, and the New Young scored on a sacrifice the Padres won on Wednesday Beckett (7 -7) won for just Wednesday night.
York Mets beat Atlanta 9-3 fly by Edgardo Alfonzo. to sweep a two-game series the second time in seven Clark, 3-for-4 with two RB!s, Wednesday to complete their Colorado right fielder Larry and hand the NL West rival starts, allowing just three hits flied out to right in the bottom first sweep of the Braves since Walker, who has one-of the Diamondbacks their fifth over 7 2-3 innings. He retired of the eighth, missing his first 1995. game's best arms, threw off straight loss. 13 of his first 14 batters career cycle by just a single.
Velandia had surgery in line and Young scrambled to before giving up a one-out Richie Sexson had three RB!s November 2001 after breaking avoid a sweeping tag by catch­Florida 3, Pittsburgh 0 double to Carlos Rivera in the for the Brewers. his right hand when he was er Charles Johnson before div­Desperate to beat fifth. Russell Branyan hit his sev­
hit by a pitch in winter ball. ing headfirst to score. Pittsburgh, the Florida Jason Kendall singled in the enth home run for the Reds. 

-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r-m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Babysitter wanted for 2 kids. Car is  Mazda 90 Miata MX5, 48,500 miles,  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  
NOTICES  preferred. Please call Susan 271­9634.  5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue Cover, Custom Red.$9,900.  has space available for football/par­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­2726  PERSONALS  
258-0520.  full hot breakfast, $80-$115,  
Babysitter/playmate wanted for tod- Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Help! I need 2 tix to every ND home  Spring Break 2004 w/STS. America  
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT  dler,(8.30-1.30), flexible days if  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418­ football game.  s #1 Student Tour Operator Hiring  
PAY WWWWORKFORSTU- needed, in ND profs home, very  9487.  Please call 288-2877.  campus reps. Call for discounts  
DENTS.COM  close to campus. $7 an hour; own  FoR RENT  800-648-4849 or www.ststravel com  
car needed.  Clean 2-bdrm house, 1 .25 mi. to  NEED FS TIX FOR FAMILY WILL  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  Phone 287 8843, or 631 0456.  Furnished apt.close to ND. 1 bdrm,  ND. Desirable neighborhood.  TRADE 50YD LN 2NAVY, 2BYU,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
no smoking or pets. $425/mo. utili­ $550/mo + utilities.  OR 3 TOGETHER MS  not go it alone. If you or someone  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns  ties included. 255-1738.  574-233-1604.  TIX.  you love needs confidential support  
&Beach Trips on sale now!  Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for  289-1993  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
www.sunchase.com or  a few good men and women who  2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities.  Furnished 2 bdrm apt. for ND home  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  
call 1-800-SUNCHASE today!  wish to work in a FUN and fast  2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail.  games. 1.4 miles to NO. $595 per  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  more information, see our bi-weekly  
pace environment. A new store will  immediately. 273-4555.  weekend. 269-684-6409.  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  ad in The Observer.  
be opening up in early October. We  (574)232-0964.  
WANTED  have aggressive pay. Hrs from 11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  Privacy! One-bdrm home, 1026 Foster St., $590/mo.574-784-3275.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Spring Break 2004 with StudentCity.com and Maxim  
and mgmt available. Call Andy at  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­ LOWEST PRICES.  Magazine! Get hooked up with  
LEGENDS OF NOTRE DAME  574-277-0850 for interview.  1525  (574)251-1570.  Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as  
STUDENT SECURITY AND BOUNCERS NEEDED  FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1  TICKETS  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. Book early  
Thurs.,Fri.,& Sat. Nights plus foot­ball weekends Shilts: 8:30p-12:30a  FoR SALE  mile from ND. Garage, alarm sys-tern, A/C. Available lmmed.  ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL.  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME.  for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee!  
12:00a-4:30a.  $650/mo. Call 220-0499 or 614­ CHECK MY PRICES.  PLEASE CALL 674-6593.  To reserve online or view our Photo  
Multiple shifts all day on football  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  353-5889.  273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773­ Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com  
weekends (8:30a-4:30a) E-mail leg- FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  3911.  Selling ND vs Wash St. and other  or Call 1-888-SPRJNGBREAKI  
ends@nd.edu or call 631-2973 for  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY  2-bdrm house close to ND. 269­ home game football tix.  
more details.  REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED.  699-5841.  TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX  574-289-8048.  Old enough to know betta  
Positions available immediately.  $94,500. Email:  OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DJSCRE­ 
Williamson.1 @nd.edu  3-6 BDRM HOMES.AVAIL. NOW &  TION ASSUREO.  Pair of season football tix wanted.  Campus bi-weekly publication  
Need babysitter M,W,Th for 2nd  04/05.FURN.272-6306  654-8018.  233-3618  hasn't come out yet-sweet life,  
grade boy after school & evenings.  OAKHILL CONDO FORSALE! 2  buddy  
Reliable car needed (will need to  BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T  Private furnished condo for ND  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  Will trade 2 WSU, 2 MSU, 2 NAVY,  
take child to activities). Call 574­ LAST LONGI  home games. 1 mile from stadium.  -TOP DOLLAR PAID  or 2 BYU for your 2 FSU or 2 USC  good time charlie's-459 Zahm  
210-3142 lve name & no. Interviews  574.243.3911 OR 574.532.0956  sleeps 4. $595 per weekend call  AM-232-2378  tickets.  
done ASAP.  LEAVE MESSAGE1  273-6262  PM 288-2726  574-289-8048.  popcorn playa  
- 


Thursday, September 4, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.t@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu
Campus Ministry C-M 

Freshman 
Sophomore
Notre Dame Encounter 

Get involved, go on a retreat 
Road Trip
Retreat #48 
Retreat #77 
-

Applications available in Room 114 and 
Retreat Date: September 26-27 Retreat Date: September 26-28 September 26-270r October 3-5
online at campusministry. nd. edu 
Sign-up deadline: September 15 Sign-up deadline iHIS FRIDAY! Sign-up deadline: September 19 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 114 Coleman·Morse Center 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Catechist Information Session s:oo p.m. 
330 Coleman-Morse 
sunday 9.7 
RCIA-Info Session for Candidates & Sponsors 1:oo p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
Eucharistic Ministers' Workshop 
3:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Info Kick-off for Protestant Students 4:oo-6:oop.m. Coleman ·Morse lounge 
Lectors' Workshop 
8:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

new website 
Confirmation Information Night 7:oop.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
Campus Bible Study 7:oo-8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse 
lectors' Workshop 
8:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Ministrers' Workshop 1o:oo p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
W.!2dn~~siay_ 9.to 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse lounge 
For upcoming events, retreat applications, mass sched­
ules, pictures and daily reflections, check out the 
brand new Campus Ministry website at: 
campusministry.nd.edu 
mass schedule 
Twenty-third Sunday of Ordinary Time .. 
basilico of the sacred heart 
Saturday Vigil Mass 30 minutes after the game Rev. James F. Flanigan, c.s.c. 
45 minutes after the game (Stepan Center) Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
Sunday 1o:oo a.m. Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, c.s.c. 
11:45 p.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 

around carnpus {every Sunday) 
1:30 p.m. Spanish Mass 
Zahm Hall Chapel 
s:oo p.m. Law School Mass 
Law School Chapel 
7:00 p.m. MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

I experienced it and so did the Men of Zahm 
by Fr. Richard Warner, c.s.c. Director, Campus Ministry 

Last Satul'day, seven young men pronounced their perperual vows as Holy Cross religiou,,, and <m Sunday, 
thev were ordai.ned as deacons. lt1 fewer rhan six monrh.~, these new deacons will be ordained 3$ Holv Cros~ 
pri~sts. 1\s I participated in rhe M3$ses celebrating their final profe~ion and ordination 3$ deacons, I 
amid nor help but think about them and their commitment, and about rhe simation our Catholic ChuKh in the 
United States h;~s been experiencing for the past e.ighteen months. 

A relativ-ely few r u:nber of bishops and priests have caused grave scandal because of engaging in se.xuai 
misconduct with minors, often years ago, bur which is only coming to light now. Many Catholic pcopk remain 
tirm in rheir faith be.:a~.~-~e ir is so well grounded and probably bemuse the priests they have known have se.rved 
them fJirhfull}~ But I real~ that there are other faithful believers who are scandalized, and probably hJve 
di•tanced themselves from rhe Church. 

The primary pers,,ns who suffer moH from ~ual abuse are the victims themselves. But there are other 
significant ronsequences for all of us as well. 

We have many wonderful bishops and priests in our mum:ry, and numerous lay people who serve our 
Church generously and well. Millions uf fairh-flllcd beli~vers perform acts of charity and love thar are known to 
God alone. 

Our bishops have always been a voice tor developing, promoting and upholding publicly. mor-.t! positions 
which are ofi:e-!, ar odds with a process of~eculari:zatio11 which erodes our basic core values as a people. Some 
ex.ampb include their documents on war and peace, and on economic justice in the 1980's, their letter on 
homosexuality entitled '1\ll Our Children," and their opposition of welfare reform thar would lc:we too m;my 
poor people . .:specially single mmhers, without possibilities for a decem life. Today some bishops are hounded bv 
neg;ltil'e anide.1 in the press. Others appear to be so consumed with the scandal and its consequences that their 
voice has been muted at a critical moment in our historv. 

A~ a result, there has been le.ss guidance than our co~nrry needs with regard ro the new concept of a preemp· 
rive war, such as the one we are waging in Iraq and Afghanistan. At a time when the family structure is w1dc:r 
extr-aordinary stress, and same sex unions are all but equated to the sacrament of matrimony from a legal 
perspect:ive, our Church's guidance is absent. When citizens' rights deeply imbedded in our civic tr-Jdition and 
laws are under e:nreme pressure, no mor-o~l voice is raised to question the legal appropriateness of indefmite 
detention without ~·[urges being filed or combatant rights respected. A new ethnic profiling of people is under­
way, who often only thre-o~tenus because they look more like our enemies than they do like us, without a call t(>r 
l~girimate evenhandedness. And as a dehate rJges about how our senior citizens can receive the health care that 
they need and deserve, a moral and ethical perspective is nor part of the national deb;lte. 
We love our faith, our Church and the Christian Community we form at Notre Dame. I be!ic:ve we 
acknowledge our need for the Church's guidance so thar we can live our lives in conformity to rhe Gospd. We 
understand how many currents in our .~ocic:ty and culture are misguided, and will lead us uway from what we 
believe and profess as people of fJ.ith. 

We know that the Cadw!ic Church i.~ a major provider ofsocial services in our munrry and will be for years to rome. The Carbolic Church has always been and is today a leader in the moral education of young p~ople cl1mugh the Catholic School system, and is often best prepared to provide hope for inner-city youd1. Notre D,1me's Alliance for Catholic Education is rhe leading voice in tbis area. Through Caritas and Catholic Relief Se!·vi<:cs, the Catholic Church pmVide.s scores of milliom of dollars tor rhe needy poor in every coun uy; food, healrh care, housing, education. 
These aspects about the Church and its presence in our counrry and in the world are r~rdy mcutioned in the rhousands of column inches in important newspapers which have besmirched our Church daily and each one of u.~, visiting the sins of the few on the many. 
lr is Je.m~ Christ: who hrings hope and happiness and life to us and to all people. He assures us that no evil will ultimately prevail againsr rhe Church ti.Junded on the apostles, despite the weakne..~s and sinfulnes.• of his disciples, tor He is with us. The Church in our counrry today needs dis<:iple.l who will scand up for whar rhory­believe and who will act 011 dl(~it beliefs. 
Wirhin tbis comexc, seven young men pronounced rheir fmal vow.~ as Holy Cross religious on SarLJrday. lt was a very special moment. In years p3$t, when people pronow1ced their vows, rhere was always em.hu.,iastic :l.pplause. On Saturday, it w;~s truly overwhelming. The applause, including a standing ov-ation for these men. lasted fm a long time. If you doubt this, ask one of the t'i\'0 hundred young men from Zahm who were chcre to celebrate with their rector,Dan Parrish, who Wil$ professing fmal vows. 'W'11ac happened at rhe Basilica Sarurday was a11 enormous acr of faith, and an important 01nd uplifting moment for all of us: for the Catholic Church, for Holy Cross and for Notre Dame. •· 
Seven young men said "yes.'' They committed themselves to a life of apostolic servia:: for you, for me: and for all the people their lives will much for decades to come. 
Our Church today cannot aftord to lose one single vocation to religious life or to the priesthood beG!usc of the ..::risi;;. A vocation is not a concept. It is a c.UI to a faith-filled, energetic, idealisric young man or woman who wants to follow Jesus without reserve. Iftbi.!i is you, discern the call well. If you are called to be a rdigiou.1, become a re!igiou.~. If you are called to be a priest, become a priest. 
Our Church today cannot afford to lose one lay man or one lay woman who can serv.:-in the multiple ministries available to all the haprir,ed., whether through participation in rdigious education or the ministries surrounding the Eucharist or any other leadership opportunity. If this is you, discern rbe call well and do it. 
You ;md I have to redoubt~ our efforts ro live our lives according ro the Gospd and the life of Jesus Christ... to draw stren.gd1 from one another as we celebrate Eucharist together; to be people of the Beatitudes in the way we live; to continually seek to root sin out of out lives and to seek sacr-o~mental reconciliation wh.:n we sin. Many things in our life are beyond our control. Buc a firm decision about how we speak and act as a result ofour faith in Jesus is our decision al<me. 

1st: Isaiah 35: 4-7a 2nd: James 2: 1-5 Gospel: Mark 7: 31-37 
I 
I page 18 Thursday, September 4, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-
_,._ 
,::.-. 
·' 

Presents 
The Winning Michigan ootba/1 Game Ticket Lottery Numbers 
438511 438537 -438632 437959 438551 437955 437968 438573 437983 437960 438618 437994 438303 438625 438022 438622 437957 438023 438086 437958 438047 438299 437962 438089 438580 437980 438108 438247 437985 438114 438282 437993 438125 438265 438008 438152 438446 438115 438157 438485 438120 438170 438239 438176 438212 438197 438266 438232 438594 438248 438321 438034 438337 438336 438472 438420 438358 437966 438458 438377 438498 438535 438383 438213 438383 438574 438592 438515 438626 438393 438619 438132 438544 438367 438438 438629 438165 438596 438601 438448 438635 438121 438542 438480 438482 437979 438150 438576 438129 438587 438011 438226 438640 438429 438588 438012 437967 438084 438073 437956 438292 438082 437982 438302 438116 438009 438468 438138 438066 438049 438139 438096 438087 438153 438102 438149 438169 438224 438156 438202 438245 438217 438216 438274 438219 438255 438320 438279 438290 438350 438342 438313 438368 438347 438379 438376 438402 438407 438425 438451 438493 438530 438503 438570 438344 438507 438566 438506 438524 
brought to you by the student union board. 201 Iafortune. 
Thursday, September 4, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Farve and Hovan save talk for playing field 
Associ a ted Press 
(;[{J\1\N BAY. Wis. -When Chris !Iovan hung a replica of BrPtt Favre's grenn and gold No. 4 jnrs1~y in his locker this oll'sca­son for inspiration. Favre said Minnesota's star ddnnsivc tackle ought to get a lifn and a wife. 
llovan said the Green Bay quart1~rhack must b1~ going through a mid-life crisis to say that about him. 
The vnbal Pxchange was tanH· comparnd to last I>nn~mbPr, wlwn thn two crossed paths af'ter Gnwn Bay's 26-22 victory at l.ambnau Field and Favn~ mado an obscene gesture to llovan bdoro darting off through tho tunnnl. 
Both Favre and llovan are saying all the right things this woPk as the Vikings and Packers pn~pan· for thnir opener Sunday in c;mnn Bay. 
"This ganw's about two teams, not two nwn." said !Iovan. Favn~ couldn't havn said it bct­tt~r himself'. 
"I don't plan on talking going into this game. I plan on play­ing," Favre said. 
Aside from their postgame spat in D1~ccmber. the two have 1wvnr spoken to each other off tlw lkld. 
"''vn n1wer had the chance," llovan explained. "lie's been to Pro Bowls and I haven't. So, maybn one year I'll be able to s1~n him out there. But. the only tinw we get to talk is on the linld." 
And it's usually more H-rated than this. 
Favre said he considers Hovan 
among the best defenders in the 
NFL. 
"You have to account for a guy like Chris. Warren [Sapp]. I Brian I Urlacher, Derrick Brooks and so on," Favre said. "Now. for me. personally, I don't go up against !Iovan. But Dur oll'ensive linemen know it's a huge chal­lenge for them. lie's not the only player on their team. But he is a relentless player who never quits." 
Despitn all the happy talk this week, fresh in the minds of play­ers from both teams is the side­line scuffle that erupted last year when Darren Sharper needlessly returned a game-end­ing interception toward the end zone. zigzagging his way down­lield instead of falling down. 
Afterward, while Favre and Hovan were getting into it in the south end zone, several players were scufl1ing ncar the Vikings' bench in a brawl that resulted in six players being fined a total of $40,000. 
Given the bad blood. many faps arc wondering if Hound 2 between Favre and Hovan is coming Sunday. 
"We're going over to play a football game," Vikings coach Mike Tice said. "''m not Don King. We're not going over to have a boxing match." 
Favre, who has started 190 consecutive games. said he's not worried about taking a cheap shot from Hovan. 
"I would seriously doubt that he would ever go after someone intentionally," Favre said. 


1 ():()() a•"D t:o -:1. 2:3() pin. Sat:u..rd.ay 
i,n .TY..rcKenna T-Ta[l 
l.,.leLzse eTzl'er Lzcrlt'~ss LT1.e srreeT. Llzro6-lg.h. The .ifY.Eorr~s Ir~-Tz 
ETor & C'oLcL H1-1Qer l~oa...·r Beef; c~,.,ickeFI., .....~""c:'lfaLLs, Fre.I'ECIZ ToasT.., Eggs, ....~""aus,age,. PLz.,·Lries a11d IJ<Tore••• 
$ J 9. 95 +-T.a.x AduLrs $9_ 95 + '-LLK -C''ziLLLren Z2 a1'6.d 1-1-nder $2 fj·-orn each ac/.ult ancl $1 ti-onz each child tic:ket .s·uvporL·.v Lhe Ncn:re Danze Alunuzi /Jssociation ~· C-.<.>rrznzunit:v Service Progran-z 
Re.servat.ions are ·not req1...1'ired 
~l Spe>1'1.sored by: 
¥ •, :t:•':' ,·¥ ~<.-:" ll• ~0:;.: f::.O ¥ .•. ·~-:!(:~: ¥:v 
~4 il ..... ":·· ••. iif', ~: :.t ""' ~~·'• (,,,, 
"X·~-~~< ·w.·~~~:~ ~)'!.,is::, :'I'::~·~-~;.~-~·~.-~;;:;::.:$;.;;...~ 




NOW HIRING 
Servers Experience preferred. 
Summer's over! Could you use some extra cash? 
Applebee's to the rescut! Our Server positions are perfect with work shifts that fit your schedule. Stop by Applebee's tocksy and check out OlK fun and friendly staff Clfld amsome PART·TIME OPPORTUI'IITIESI 
Top-notdl Wages • Fkxible schedules • Fun A.tmospMI'e • ~nient l.o<:ation 
Please apply in person: APPLEBEE'S NEIGHBORHOOD GRILL & BAR 
3703 Portage Road, South Bend, IN 46628 
M
Nolgnbomood Grill • Bor
EOE 

www.applesauceinc.com 

page 20 Thursday, September 4, 2003
The Observer+ SPORTS 

TENNIS 
Two matches of 108 played at rainy U.S. Open 
would include having some suspended in progress Tuesday they were pushed to Thursday. -when we're going to play or
Associated Press 
women finish fourth-round night and four that never even Sugiyama was leading where we're going to play." 
NEW YORK-Here's an indi­cation of how desperate every­one is for tennis at the rain­soaked U.S. Open: The smat­tering of fans on hand for Lindsay Davenport's quarterfi­nal against Paola Suarez applauded the prematch coin toss. 
Alas, when the warmup fin­ished, the court was too wet, and the players walked off. 
They never got a chance to hit a shot, and by the evening, that was the case in all but two of Wednesday's 108 scheduled matches. 
Top-ranked Kim Clijsters took a 3-0 lead over No. 5 Amelie Mauresmo in their quarterfinal before it was stopped because of bad weath­er. Mauresmo had 10 unforced errors -one for each minute they played. 
Eventually, that match was postponed until Thursday along with all others except two fourth-round encounters organizers hoped to sneak in if the weather cleared: No. 4 Andy Roddick against Xavier Matisse, and No. 8 Rainer Schuettler against No. 12 Sjeng Schalken. Roddick and Matisse started playing on Arthur Ashe Stadium at about 9:15p.m. 
"This is a rolling calendar at this point, which is changing by the hour," said Arlen Kantarian, the U.S. Tennis Association's chief executive for professional tennis. "We continue to make our best effort to complete this tourna­ment on time. We are deter­mined to make the best of a very difficult situation." 
If Thursday is a washout, the men's final could be played next Monday, Kantarian said. The last time that happened at the U.S. Open was 1987; Goran Ivanisevic beat Patrick Rafter on a Monday to win the 2001 title at Wimbledon. 
A total of three matches were completed Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. 
"It hurts everyone. It hurts the players, it hurts the fans, it hurts the TV network, it hurts the sport," TV analyst John McEnroe said. 
The rain kept coming Wednesday night, with more in the forecast. The likelihood of finishing the event by Sunday grew slimmer, and Kantarian, tournament referee Brian Earley and other officials met with representatives of the ATP Tour, WTA Tour and TV broad­casters for 2 1/2 hours. 
They drew up a tentative cal­endar to complete the tourna­ment by Sunday, adding a night session Friday. The schedule matches Thursday afternoon, then play a quarterfinal Thursday night. And some men would have to play four match­es in four days. 
"If they actually played four matches in four days, in the fourth or even the third one, it would be impossible for them to be at their best," McEnroe said after trying to entertain the paying customers by hitting balls into the seats at Arthur Ashe Stadium. 
The Clijsters-Mauresmo match was supposed to start at 11 a.m., but they didn't hit a ball in anger until nearly three hours later. 
At the changeover after the third game, with a light mist falling, Earley came out to check the court. He and the chair umpire slid their feet along the white lines to see how slippery it was, while Mauresmo draped a towel over her shoulders, and Clijsters donned a jacket to try to stay warm. 
"It's almost completely stopped," Earley said to the chair umpire, holding his palms up to check for rain­drops. "Do you feel it? I feel just the tiniest mist." 
Then, a few minutes later, Earley said to both players: "If you go back to the locker room, can I get you fairly quickly? You can go into my office if you like. How quickly can you get out here? 1\vo minutes? Three minutes?'' 
Mauresmo and Clijsters both nodded, gathered their things and left the court, serenaded by boos, whistles and jeers from the few thousand fans on hand. 
At least they made it onto a court -and already are in the quarterfinals. 
So, too, is Andre Agassi, the only man with a spot in the final eight secured, because his match against Taylor Dent ended Tuesday night when Dent quit with a leg injury. Otherwise, there were three men's fourth-round matches started. 
The women still have two fourth-round matches to be completed: two-time major champion Mary Pierce vs. No. 7 Anastasia Myskina, and No. 15 Ai Sugiyama vs. No. 29 Francesca Schiavone. Those matches began Monday night, continued Tuesday night, were scheduled to resume Wednesday, but at 6:30 p.m., 

Schiavone 7-6 (5), 5-4, and Myskina was ahead of Pierce 7-6 (2), 2-0 when they were sent home Tuesday. 
"If the score is 2-all, or at the beginning of the match. it shouldn't be that frustrating. But it's at the end of the set, so it's hard to keep your concen­tration," Sugiyama said Wednesday. 
"We have no voice, of course 
Pierce was among the play­ers who took advantage of the three indoor practice courts that the U.S. Tennis Association made available Wednesday morning. 
Until then, those courts were being used for SmashZone, where fans can measure how fast they serve or play the role of sports broadcaster by calling action from a match on tape. 

We all learn from one another. The RCIA ~vet you achance to walk with someone as you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on tbh adventure offuith. 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz @ 631-3016 308 Coleman­Morse Center 
Cf1 

Find out more about: 
•The Sacraments of Initiation 
BAPTISM, EucHARIST & CoNFIRMATION: for unbaptized persons wanting to become amember of the Catholic Church. 
• FuLL CoMMUNION: 
for baptized persons seeking Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 

*Artist apOlogizes for compl~.l.!!.~k..of.lll.:!i.!i!:Y. .. 
~•• ,..._..A ____,,_..•• --•-·-· 
FlipSid@..& f:@JtU:PCIJ Jtl@@f;il1$j 
.Votre Dame-this thnrsf Gpm ou the first floor of DeBartalo. Someone will IJe there to llirett JJOH. 
nn 
I!OOD AIIID !ODA!I! 

SJKC: lues. Sepl fJ {next lues!I 8pm in Haggar hall HCC -£oolt for posters! 
Thursday, September 4, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Arrest vvarrant charged Bryant vvith false iinprisoninent 
Associated Press 
DENVIm -Authorities look­ing to arrest NHA star Kobe Bryant on a sexual assault charge also wanted to charge him with false imprisonment. aecording to a copy of the arrest warrant uns1~aled Wednesday. 
Thn handful of documents rellmsed by a judge eontain few details but provide a glimpse into how authorities put togeth­er th1dr case. 
Separately, a state judge rnjeewd a newspaper's request to release recordings of 911 calls made from the home of Bryant's accuser. saying they are "intensely personal" and could subject the woman to ''harassment and abuse." 
Bryant was charged with a single count of felony sexual assault alleging he raped an 1~rnployne at a Colorado resort where he was a guest June 30. 
Th1~ Los Angelos Lakers' guard has said the two had con­smlsual sex. An Oct. 9 prelimi­nary hearing will determine whether the case will go to trial. 
Whiln Bryant was only charged with sexual assault, the .July 3 arrest warrant said there was "probabl11 cause" Bryant was also guilty or false impris­onment. a misdemeanor pun­ishable by up to a year in jail. 
The· decision to charge Bryant with only the sexual assault count was made by Eagle County District Attorney Mark llurlberL He has not explained why he pressed only one charge. 
The prosecutor probably chose to drop that charge to avoid the risk of a conviction on false imprisonment rather than the more serious assault charge, Denver criminal defense attorney Dan Recht said. 
"The jury won't know it's a class 2 misdemeanor and won't even know it's a misdemeanor. False imprisonment has a seri­ous ring to it," Hecht said. 
Conviction on the sexual assault charge could bring a sentence of four years to life in prison or 20 years to life on pro­bation. 
There was no immediate response Wednesday to calls seeking comment from Bryant's attorneys, the district attorney and the Eagle County sheriff's ol'lice. 
Authorities have not said what allegedly happened in Bryant's. hotel suite. 
Meanwhile, the Vail Daily had asked local police for records about emergency responses to the woman's home for 12 months starting last July. The records include unspecified requests for medical help and a report of the alleged sexual assault. 
In denying the newspaper's request. District Judge Hichard llart said he agreed with police and a psychologist who filed an aflidavit at the woman's request that releasing the records would harm her and jeopardize her and her family's safety. 
The woman "has already experienced harassment, threats and abuse." Hart wrote. "The subject matter of the records is intensely personal and disclosure would likely present an unfair perception of the alleged victim, subjecting her to further harassment and abuse." 
Also unsealed Wednesday was Judge Russell G;anger's order allowing Bryant to leave Colorado on July 4 about a half­hour after he surrendered to authorities. 
Earlier this week. media organizations filed notice that they will appeal Judge Frederick Gannett's order to withhold from the public most of the detailed court records in the case. Prosecutors have said they will not appeal the order. Bryant's attorneys have not indicated their plans. 


Kobe Bryant and attorney Pamela Mackay attend an arraign­ment hearing at the Eagle County Justice Center. 
Have You Made Your Mark? 
Fall Break Seminars October 19-25,2003 Deadline: Sept. 4 

Appalachia Seminar 

Explore the rdit,rious, social, political and etwironmemal issues facing the t\ ppalachia region. (l'heo 361) 
Gospel of life Seminar 
lm'estigatc a variety of pro-lift issues (death penalty, euthana~ia, stem cdl research, abortion) in \\'asbington, D.C. wid1 Church, lq,,rislative, and non-governmental
-organizations. (fhco ' 368) 
.. Cultural Diversity Seminar Experience the divcsity of our narion through food, art and dialog with communitr leaders at sites throughout Chicago. (fheo 362/Soc 362/TTPS 362) 
Washington Seminar 
ivlett with catholic public policy organizations, activists and government leaders as we study hvw Christians art called to live and work in the world.(Thco 363/POLS 333\X:) 
The Gullah Seminar 
Examines the rich history and culture of South Carolina's Gull~h people, many of \vhom arc descendants of slaves brought over from West Africa. (AFAM 368/CSC 355) 
Rosebud Reservation Global Health Initiative Seminar 
Immerse yourself in lK~althcare and be.1lthcare delivery on the Rosebud Native Americanrese.rvation in South Dakota. (fheo 368) 


SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
Applications available at the Center or online centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu 
Thursday, September 4, 2003 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Ortiz sends Boston to win with walk-off home run 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -David Ortiz homered in back-to-hack at­bats Wednesday night, includ­ing a solo shot in the lOth inning to give rhe Boston Red Sox a 5-4 victory over the Chicago White Sox. 
Ortiz finished with four RB!s, matching his career and sea­son highs. Manny Ramirez went 2-for-4 with a run scored in his first game back in the lineup after being benched. 
The victory put Boston three games behind the AL East­leading Yankees, who lost to Toronto on Wednesday. The two teams have a three-game series in New York this week­end. The Red Sox also pulled even with Seattle in the wild­card race. 
Jose Valentin hit a solo homer, but it wasn't enough to keep the White Sox from drop­ping into a tie with Minnesota for the AL Central lead. Chicago has lost four of its last six. 
Ortiz hit a two-run homer off of Scott Sullivan in the eighth, giving Boston a 4-3 lead. Valentin quickly tied it again with a leadoff homer in the bottom of the eighth. 
Ortiz came up again in the 1Oth, and this time. he gave Boston the lead for good with a solo shot to left off of Tom Gordon (6-6). 
Toronto 4, New York 3 
Josh Phelps hit a two-run homer and Eric Hinske hit a go-ahead sacrifice fly in the seventh inning as the Toronto Blue Jays rallied from a three­run deficit to beat the New York Yankees. 
Phelps hit a two-run homer in the fourth off Mike Mussina in the fourth that cut New York's lead to 3-2. Phelps has homered in four of his last five games. 
Bobby Kielty hit a tying sac­rifice fly in the sixth. After Vernon Wells singled off Antonio Osuna (2-5) in the sev­enth, Myers doubled off Gabe White. Phelps was intentional­ly walked and Hinske hit his sacrifice fly. 
Jason Kershner (1-3) pitched two innings for his first major league win, and Aquilino Lopez got the last out for his eighth save in 10 chances. 
New York's AL·East lead was cut to three games over sec­ond-place Boston. 
Greg Myers went 3-for-4 for the Blue Jays, who have won the first two games of the three-game series. 
·Jason Giambi ended the longest hitless stretch of his career at 25 at-bats when he his 36th homer in the fourth off Kelvim Escobar. One uatter later, Jorge Posada hit his 27th homer for a 3-0 lead. 
Aaron Boone had doubled in the third and scored on Karim Garcia's RBI single. 
Mussina hit two batters and gave up a single that loaded the bases in the fifth, but Carlos Delgado struck out. Toronto loaded the bases again in the sixth before Kielty hit his sacrifice fly. 
Minnesota 6, Anaheim 5 
The throw was there. All Bengie Molina had to do was tag Dustan Mohr. 
But with a shove of his shoulder, Mohr broke two bones above Molina's left wrist and sent the ball rolling away as two runs scored. The Minnesota Twins escaped Wednesday with a critical win over the Anaheim Angels. 
Talk about bang-bang plays. And Molina was charged with one tough error. 
"We've seen how Bengie stays in there tough on those plays," said closer Troy Percival, who allowed Stewart's hit. "It just didn't work out this time. He had the ball, and I think (Mohr) just got him at a really bad angle." 
Molina, who didn't speak to reporters, needed help getting dressed in the clubhouse after the game. 
Mohr said Molina had the plate covered. 
"He's a pretty big guy. I was trying to hit him hard enough for the ball to come out," Mohr said. "It's unfortunate that he was injured." 
Minnesota, the defending AL Central champion, moved into a tie with Chicago for the divi­sion lead, one game ahead of Kansas City. It's the first time the Twins have held a share of 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 8, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 
the lead since after games of June 30, when they led by a half-game. 
Percival (0-5), who hadn't given up an earned run in his previous 37 innings against the Twins, walked Justin Morneau with two outs and Mohr pinch ran. 
Stewart followed with a hard shot down the left-field line, his third hit of the game. Garrett Anderson's throw home beat Mohr, but the colli­sion knocked the ball loose. Stewart, who never stopped running, came around as the ball rolled down the first-base line. 
Baltimore 9, Oakland 0 
On a night in which several streaks ended, almost nothing went right for the Oakland Athletics. 
Rodrigo Lopez pitched a seven-hitter, and the Baltimore Orioles battered Tim Hudson on Wednesday in a victory that snapped the Athletics' tO­game winning streak. 
"I hope we got it all out of our system," A's manager Ken Macha said. "We've been play­ing great ball, and we played a poor game tonight." 
Oakland committed a sea­son-high five errors, and Hudson (14-5) was pulled after allowing five runs and eight hits in three innings -his shortest stint of the year. 
"It was just one of those nights, man: Bad," Hudson said. 
The right-hander had won seven straight decisions and five starts in a row. It was the first time in 18 starts that he failed to pitch at least six innings. 
"You don't see Tim Hudson on the mound without his good stuff very often, and tonight was one of those nights," Baltimore manager Mike Hargrove said. "When he did throw a good pitch, we hit it." 
Detroit 6, Cleveland 5 (11 
Innings) 
Shane Halter and Carlos Pena both thought they were going to end up as the goats of yet another loss for the Detroit Tigers. · 
Instead, they were the stars. 
Pena struck out in his first three at-bats before hitting a go-ahead homer in the eighth inning, while Halter made a defensive mistake to let the Cleveland Indians tie the game, then hit a game-winning home run in the 11th. 
"We were both having rough nights, but we were able to make big plays," Pena said. "I don't care what our record might be -we're going to enjoy nights like tonight." 
Halter homered off Jose Santiago (1-2) on the second pitch of the inning, making a winner of Jamie Walker (4-3), who got the final two outs in the top of the inning. Detroit improved to 2-11 in extra innings. 
"I was at the plate thinking that, if we lost, it was going to be my fault," Halter said. "Instead. I hit a walk-off homer, which is something you dream about. I don't think I've ever hit one before, not at any level." 

Tampa Bay 7, Seattle 0 
Doug Waecnter celebrated his mother's birthday in grand fashion. 
Waechter became the first Tampa Bay pitcher to throw a shutout in his first major league start, leading the Devil Rays over the Seattle Mariners Wednesday night with a two­hitter. 
The 22-year old right-hander allowed singles to Hey Sanchez in the third inning and Dan Wilson in the sixth. He struck out seven and walked two, stopping Seattle's four-game winning streak. 
Kansas City 3, Texas 1 
Rookie Jimmy Gobbie pitched seven solid innings as the Kansas City Royals snapped a four-game losing streak with a victory over the Texas Rangers on Wednesday night. 
Mike Sweeney, Joe Randa and Carlos Beltran each had RBis in a three-run fourth to help the Royals move within one game of both Chicago and Minnesota for the AL Central lead. 
Gobble (3-3) allowed one run and four hits, struck out six and walked two after being called up from Triple-A Omaha on Tuesday to join the expand­ed roster. He had five starts for the Royals in August, winning his first two before struggling. 
Curtis Leskanic gave up one hit in a scoreless eighth, and Mike MacDougal got the final three outs for his 27th save in 35 chances as Kansas City sal­vaged the finale of the three­game series. The Royals had won the first six games against the Rangers before this series. 
Rangers starter John Thomson (12-12), seeking his sixth victory in seven deci­sions, gave up three runs and four hits in seven innings. He struck out eight and walked one. 

·­
Thursday, September 4, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
BASEBALL

NHL 
Rangers' goalie to retire Thursday 
Latin players to 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -New York Hangers goalie Mike Hichter will ollicially retire Thursday. nearly 10 months after he was side­lined with a second concussion. 
Hichtcr spent his entire 14­year NIIL career with the Hangers. The popular goalie led the team to the Stanley Cup in 1994 -the Hangers' first NHL title since 1940 -and leaves with more than a dozen club records. 
His record was 301-258-73, and he holds team marks for most games in net at 666, and most minutes played at 38,185. 
The Hangers called a Thursday news conference, and a hockey source who spoke to The Associated Press on condi­tion of anonymity confirmed Wednesday it was to announce Richter's retirement. 
be drug tested
Richter. who turns 37 later 
The commissioner's office has been testing minor leaguers in the United States since 2001,

Habitat for 
but decided to expand its pro­gram following a series of arti­cles in The Washington Post. which first reported baseball's decision Wednesday. 
The Post reported in June

Humanity 
that many prospects in the Dominican Republic had inject­ed animal drugs. including steroids. Major league teams

General Meeting 
this month. was kneed in the head during a game against the 
Associated Press 

Edmonton Oilers on Nov. 5, 2002 -the final win of his 
NEW YORK -Players in

career. The hit came after Latin America with minor
Richter missed the final nine league contracts will be testedgames from the previous season for drugs by major league base­with a skull fracture. 
ball starting next year. 
"There was enough out there in terms of issues people had raised to us that the prudent thing to do from our perspec­tive was to spend the money and find out if we have a prob­lem," Rob Manfred, executive vice president for labor rela­tions in the commissioner's office, said Wednesday. 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -When Andy Roddick and Xavier Malisse walked out Wednesday night for their rain-delayed U.S. Open

All new and returning mem hers! 
match, they wiped the soles of their shoes on a white towel

Tonight, Sept. 4, 8 p.m. 
placed near the entrance to the court.

Center for Social Concerns 
It was like a welcome mat, greeting two players who actu­ally were able to play tennis on a third straight day of showers 

Can't 1nake it? Visit www.nd.edul----habitat 
and schedule shuffling at 
U.S. OPEN 

Roddick and Malisse beat weather at Open 

s ...a ••s, Meci.J."U.ans, Larges, XL, XXL are aa• a,.ai.Iab•e 
These  shirts  will  be  
available  exclusively  for  
students  so  bring your  ID  
to  the  Bookstore  on  
Thursday, 5pm  and  buy  
''The Shirt~"  2003.  

run  academies  in  the  
Dominican  Hepublic  and  
Venezuela,  signing many  

prospects to minor league con­tracts. 
"The real winners today arc the children of families of Latin America," said Fernando Mateo, president of Hispanics Across America. "Young players in the Dominican Hepublic and across Latin America will now enjoy the safeguards against dangerous steroids that they deserve." 
Players with minor league contracts undergo up to three random tests per year under baseball's policy. 
There is a different policy for players with major league con­tracts, who are represented by the Major League Baseball Players Association. 
Under a drug-testing agree­ment that began this year ­the first covering the major leagues since 1985 -each player was given two announced tests. 
Flushing Meadows. 
Powered by a dominating serve. the No. 4-seeded Hoddick beat Malisse 6-3. 6-4. 7-6 (5) in a match that ended after mid­night to reach the U.S. Open quarterfinals for the third straight year. Hoddick has won 16 straight matches. the longest streak of 2003. 
"''m happy to get through. I don't have to worry about the weather tomorrow," Hoddick said. "I didn't think we were going to get on the court tonight." 
Indeed, of the more than 100 matches scheduled for Wednesday, that was the only one completed, making for a grand total of four in the books since Monday. Hoddick and Andre Agassi are the only men who have quarterfinal berths secured, meaning they are the only ones in the draw who will get Friday off. 
Just two other matches even got under way Wednesday. before being postponed until Thursday. 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 4, 2003 
NBA 

Rick Carlisle signs four-year deal with Pacers 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -A week ago, Rick Carlisle was content to spend the upcoming NBA season in a television studio. 
On Wednesday, he jumped back into coaching. 
Carlisle ended a week of specu­lation by signing a four-year con­tract with the Indiana Pacers, the same team that bypassed him in favor of Isiah Thomas three years ago. 
Carlisle was the only person new Pacers president Larry Bird considered for the job. 
"I was probably two or three days from taking ESPN's offer before Larry called me with this opportunity," he said. 
Carlisle didn't hesitate to give Bird an answer. The only snag was contract negotiations. 
Bird, Carlisle and Pacers CEO Donnie Walsh all declined com­ment on how much the deal was worth. 
But Bird indicated Carlisle agreed to a contract worth less than the going rate for an experi­enced NBA coach, at least initial­ly, because the Pacers still owe Thomas $5 million for this sea­son. Thomas was fired Aug. 27. 
The Detroit Pistons owe Carlisle $2 million after firing him in June. 
"It would never have happened if he didn't help us out in a big way," Bird said. 
Carlisle replaces Thomas, who was 131-115 in three seasons. The Pacers reached the playoffs all three years under Thomas, a Hall of Farner who spent his entire 13-year playing career with the Pistons, but also had three straight first-round playoff exits. 
Wednesday's news conference announcing the hiring of Bird's longtime friend, former team­mate in Boston and former assis­tant with the Pacers was in stark contrast to the one in July when Bird was introduced as team president and he and Thomas walked off the stage glaring at each other. 
Instead, Carlisle and Bird joked, shook hands and seemed to enjoy sharing the spotlight. 
"Donnie wanted me to go to charm school and Larry wanted me to go to a Dale Carnegie course," Carlisle joked. "I told him I'd gone to a Dale Carnegie course in lOth grade. He didn't believe me." 
Carlisle turned the 45-minute session into his version of the Oscars, thanking everyone from his former players in Detroit to the Pistons front office to ESPN executives to the ·Pacers owners and front office. 
He spent two seasons in 
Detroit, winning the NBA's 2001­02 coach of the year award, and leading the Pistons last season to their first Eastern Conference finals since 1991. 
While his 100-64 record and postseason success weren't enough to keep him employed in Detroit, Carlisle's track record and relationship with Bird were enough to win him the Pacers job. 
"I like this roster very much," Carlisle said. "I had opportunities to get involved again, but I declined. This was a job, that when it came up, you had to take it." 
"He's very serious about his work, and I think he'll do a fine job," Bird said of Carlisle. "I expect no problems at all." 
Carlisle's first task with the Pacers will be patching up a rela­tionship with All-Star forward Jermaine O'Neal, the team's leading scorer and rebounder who in July signed a seven-year contract to stay in Indiana. 
Last week, O'Neal said he would not have resigned if he knew Thomas would not return. 
"I had a very nice conversation with Jermaine Saturday,". Carlisle said. "I told Jermaine, I understood what Isiah Thomas meant to him as a coach, mentor and friend and I told him in no way would I try to replace that." 


New Pacers head coach Rick Carlisle and team president Larry Bird answer questions at a press conference Wednesday. 
WE ROCK...DO YOU? This Weekend @ Legends 
THURSDAY 

9 p.m.  Sudsbury Sh Campu  
es and the Riding Xpress pus Band  
9 p.m.  ::· ....: }.·oval Opus Cincinnati's Favori .  
SA  Ten M.ile Ti =San Fran  
Danci 12 a.m.  

Mountain Bike -Brian South Sweatshirt-Emily Weisbecker Polo Shirt -Kyle Marks T -Shirt -Mark Basola 
ng for a Job? 
Student Security and 
Bouncer~~eded ~liih@? 
E-maillegw&' @nd.edu for details or d-2973. 
ze Winners! 
Polo Shirt -Josephine Kim T-shirt-Tara Makowski 


OUND THE NATION 
Page 25 CoAI\.PIUD FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, September 4, 2003 
team 
New York 
Boston 
Toronto Ballimore 
Tampa Bay 
team 
Chicago Sox. Minnesota Kansas City Cleveland 
Detroit 
team 
Oakland Seattle Anaheim 
Texas 
team 

• Atlanta Philadulphia Florida Montreal NY Mels 
team 
Houston 
St.louis 
Chicago 
Pllt5burgh Milwaukee Cincinnati 
San Franci$CO 
Los Angeles 
Aritona 
Colorado 
San Diego 


around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Cardinals at Cubs 8 p.m., FOXCH 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Southern Mississippi at Alabama­Birmingham 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 

Jets at Redskins 8 p.m., ABC 
NFL 

Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y.­Lawyer Milloy agreed to sign with the Buffalo Bills on Wednesday, a day after being cut by the New England Patriots. 
The move adds more drama to an already ­intriguing season-opener the Bills host the Patriots on Sunday. Besides Milloy, Buffalo quarterback Drew Bledsoe was a star in New England. 
Milloy significantly upgrades a young Buffalo defensive backfield and could provide insight into the Patriots' plans as the Bills prepare for New 
Milloy was expected to join the team for his first practice on Thursday. 
Coach Gregg Williams said he would have to first speak with Milloy before determining whether he would be ready to play Sunday. 
Milloy was released by the Patriots for salary-cap reasons on Tuesday. The move created a stir, in part because Milloy was a team leader and had started 106 consecutive games in his seven NFL seasons. 
Adding the bonus to his $4.4 million salary for this season, Milloy was to count $5.25 million against New 

The Bills, projected to have $4 million of room under the cap, were one of a handful of team that had made offers to sign the player. 
Terms of Milloy's new deal were not immediately available. 
Milloy led the Patriots in tackles in 2001, when New England won the Super Bowl, and recorded 100 or more tackles five times. Last year he had no sacks. no forced fumbles and no interceptions. His 91 tack­les were the fewest he'd tallied since becoming a full-time starter. 
He's the latest addition to that was bolstered last spring by the additions of linebackers Takeo Spikes and Jeff Posey and tackle Sam Adams. Together, they improve a unit that gave up 25 points a game, and managed a league-low 19 turnovers and 31 sacks. 
Buffalo's current starters at safety are Coy Wire, who's coming off an encouraging rookie season, and Pierson Prioleau, a four-year veteran who was a first-time starter last season. Neither recorded an interception last year. 
Bills president Tom Donahoe denied specula­tion that Milloy might have 

IN BRIEF 
Holmes si~ns extension with Chiefs 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Running back Priest Holmes, who has led the NFL in yards from scrimmage the 
past two seasons, agreed to a four­year contract extension with the Kansas City Chiefs on Wednesday. 
Holmes had indicated he might not play in the season opener on Sunday if a new deal was not worked out. 
When asked if he would now be paid as the best running back in foot­ball, Holmes smiled and said, "Let's just say that I am a happy man." 
He had been scheduled to make a base salary of about $2.5 million in each of the three years remaining on his contract -unquestionably below market value for a player who had 4,440 yards from scrimmage the past two seasons and was selected the NFL's most valuable offensive player for 2002. 
He missed the last two games of last season with a hip injury that required surgery in February. But general manager Carl Peterson said Wednesday he was satisfied the hip had fully healed. 
Molina to mess the rest of the seaon MINNEAPOLIS -Anaheim catcher Bengie Molina broke two bones above his left wrist in the game-end­ing play of Wednesday's 5-4 loss to Minnesota and will miss the rest of the season. With Anaheim leading 5-4, Shannon Stewart hit a hard shot down the left-field line. Garrett Anderson's throw home beat pinch­runner Dustan Mohr, but Mohr low­ered his shoulder and collided with Molina's glove, knocking the ball loose. Molina, whose wrist snapped back on the play, was on the ground for several moments before teammates helped him to his feet. X-rays revealed the a broken radius and 

ulna above his left wrist. 
Ramirez returns to lineup for Red Sox CHICAGO -Manny Hamirez is back where he's supposed to be, bat­ting cleanup for the Boston Hed Sox. A day after manager Grady Little benched his slugger in a thinly veiled punishment for his recent antics. Ramirez was back in Boston's lineup Wednesday night. "I just want to make a statement that Manny Hamirez is back in the lineup tonight in left field, and he's back out there because we feel like that's the best chance we've got to win tonight," Little said before Boston's game against the Chicago White Sox. "That's the way we're going to approach every single game the rest of the way." Little claimed he wasn't punishing his slugger by benching him Tuesday. but the message was clear. 
Thursday, September 4, 2003

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
Carpenter 
continued from page 28 
seemed natural for her to play for the Irish. 
"Notre Dame is a legacy in my family," said Carpenter, who had two cousins, an uncle, and a brother that graduated from Notre Dame. "I basically was one of those kids who grew up with ND, and I've wanted to go here ever since I could walk and talk." 
She played sparingly early in her Notre Dame career, seeing action in 10 games as a fresh­man before playing in two-thirds of the team's games as a sopho­more. She recorded one goal each year while playing primari­ly as a midfielder. 
"We found out about Kim through one of our summer camps," said Waldrum. "We really liked her after getting to know her that week. We thought it would take some time for her to develop, but she's been a con­stant for the team even when she didn't play a lot of minutes." 
Carpenter saw her role increase dramatically as a junior as she played in all 21 games, including 20 starts at a multitude of different positions in the defense and midfield. This was due partly to her versatility and to the rash of injuries sustained by other members of the squad. From that point, she became a very consistent contributor for the Irish. 
That developmental period has helped Carpenter become a team leader as a senior. Even as many of the injured players have returned, she has remained a fixture in the starting lineup through the first two games of the season. She also scored her first goal of the season in the season opening 9-1 win over Hartford. 
"I know I'm not the most tal­ented kid on the team and I know I never will be, but every day I step on the field ready to give 110 percent. I try to set a good example for our young kids by showing them that talent will only get them so far," said Carpenter. "It's heart and guts that will pull them all the way through, and eventually allow them to win championships." 
"She's always positive," said Waldrum, "and has really evolved into a leader. She's like a third captain for us. She can reach young players because she had to be patient and put her time in. She's become a phenom­enal asset, someone that we really could not do without." 
"Notre Dame soccer for me has been a dream come true," said Carpenter. "I always grew up saying to myself, 'I'm going to play soccer for the Irish,' but I never actually thought it would or could come true. I just reached out for my dream with all the passion and heart that I have. and somehow I got it. I consider myself blessed to be where I am, and for that reason, I will never take for granted the time that I spend in the Irish jer­sey." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles drop close match to Albion 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Spores Writer 
The Belles put themselves in a position to win, but just didn't have enough to get it done this time. 
Saint Mary's narrowly lost on the road to conference rival Albion in a five-game match Wednesday, 30-22, 25-30, 30­17, 22-30. 5-15. 
The Belles (0-2. 0-1 MIAA) came into the match with two players unable to play ­Michelle Turley was out with a foot injury and Anne Cusack had strep throat. 
A third player, Alison Shevik, played only the back row as she tried to overcome a minor ankle injury. 

Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek was impressed with her team's poise and determination to work through the adversity. 
"We had a lot of obstacles. to overcome that night," she said. "You name it -injuries, trans­portation problems ... but I was very happy with how the girls played as a team." 
Freshman outside hitter Kristen Playko had a phenome­nal individual performance, col­lecting 25 kills, the most on either team. She led the Belles' leader in digs with 17 and con­tributed three service aces. 
Middle hitter Elise Rupright led the team in blocks (four), and also added eight kills, three service aces and 14 digs. Libera Michelle Gary was second on the team with 15 digs, followed 
his offense doesn't fall prey to asymmetry. The Belles have
Victory 

sometimes been favoring one 
continued from page 28 side of the field for attacks over -------------theother. weekend. The Belles allowed "Right now, we need to work only two Taylor corner kicks as on the organization of our set opposed to four of their own. plays and utilize the outside 
"Being a freshmen in only her midfielders," Haring said. "We second full start, [Heline] made need to be able to switch the some big saves,'' Haring said. field more easily." "Culbertson, Carrie Orr, and Saint Mary's will work the Taylor played solid defense." next two days then take a 
Haring's main concern is that much-deserved weekend off. 
by Shevik with 14 and middle hitter Shelly Bender with 13 digs. 
Schroeder-Biek was pleased by what has been a theme so far for this year's Belles ­sharing the digs as a team ­and was equally pleased with how the team achieved several goals for the game. 
"One of our goals against Albion was to raise our attack percentage," she said. The Belles had an attack percentage of .128. "I can definitely tell looking at the numbers that we really improved in that depart­ment. It was a big improve­ment." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S 2, Taylor 1 
1st  2nd  Total  
SAINT MARY'S  2  0  2  
Taylor U.  0  1  1  

Scoring Summary SMC-Concannon. Jen (4), (Culbertson, Shannon; Irvin, Wendy) SMC-Concannon, Jen (4). (Noble, Katie) SAINT MARY'S-Saves 14 (Laura Heline 14) 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 


Friday, 9/5 -7:30PM 
Sunday, 9/7 -1:30 PM
Saturdav, 9/6 -7:30 PM 
,) 

#6 Women's Soccer 
#6 Women's Soccer
#3 Men's Soccer 
vs Arizona State 
vs Oklahoma
vs #6 St. John's 

Part ofthe Notre DameSoccer Classic 
Part ofthe Notre Dame Soccer Classic
mMaking History! 

Studen~ Admission FREE!
Students Admission FREE! 
Studen~ Admission FREE! 


•Famous Flying Dogs performing
•FREE Hand Clapper No~e 
•FREE Schedule Frisbees for
~fakers for Fkst250 Fans 
First 2~0 Fans 


Thursday, September 4, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

HENRI ARNOLDCLARE O'BRIEN 
JUMBLESCHOOL DAZE 

MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
DYPET 
[ J I 
C2003 Tribune Medi11 Servk::ea. Inc 
All Aighll Reaerved 
ROAPE 
± 


BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES RUMMRU 
tBYDOON 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer. as 
suggested by the above cartoon 

IIJ I I Ans: "[II I I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow)

I Jumbles: SCARF AWASH HAIRDO ANKLETYesterday's 
Answer: What the creatures of the deep called the winning player-A"CARD SHARK" 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 30 Musician's asset 54 Hosp. picture 
Sharing this birthday: Tom Watson, Mitzi Gaynor, Judith lvey. Damon
1 Biblical prophet 31 Old Ford model 55 37-Across extras 
m--+--+-+--
Wayans. lone Skye 

5 How the Lincoln 32 Martinique, e.g. 58 Wilson of Memorial laces 33 "What ?" "Shanghai Happy Birthday: Take advantage of your intuition by being receptive to Knights" things you would normally tum your back on. A greater understanding of the
9 Novelist Sholem 34 See 12-Down 
obscure will help you develop your goals. The more you learn about others. 
59 Sign of inactivity
13 Story that tops 37 Long-running the better the chance of success. Your numbers: 8. 14. 18, 25. 31. 40 all others B'way musical 60 Untrue seen by ARIES (March 21-April 19): Business opportunities will develop. However,
15 Backup singers, 61 Little League
couples? be sure not to let others railroad you into supplying the cash. You will have
often umps, often 
problems getting back money you loaned to someone. *** 
38 ·A_ sante!"

16_Cynwyd 62 Split TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Travel for the purpose of accomplishing (Philadelphia 39 "Um, I hate to personalities? unftnished projects. Don't let others get in your way. This is not a day that you suburb) interrupt ... " should waste your time on trivial matters. Your professionalism will count
63 Noggin17 Source of 40 John *** 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): You will have a problem with a client or
37-Across 41 Jail, slangily 
colleague if you try to convince him or her to think the same way you do. It's
DOWN
20 Classified letters 42 Bad-mouth best to listen and observe rather than push your own beliefs. * * 1 38-Down's CANCER (June 21-July 22): Spend time with friends that you don't see very
21 Snitched 43 Like certain 
longtime often. If it isn't possible to physically visit, then call and touch base You need 22 Caterpillar, lor shark fins pursuer to rekindle some of the connections that you've lost. * * * * one 45 500 letters? LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take care of pressing legal matters or concerns that 
2 Lazy 
involve large institutions or government agencies. You can resolve a greal deal 
23 Alphabet string 48 Rival of 
3 Blah, blah. blah if you are persistent in getting your way. Don't take no for an answer. *** 
14-Down lor24 Prefix with 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be honest about the way you feel Your partner 
center Marius's love 4 Boozy 
will be looking for a commitment, and you should be prepared to make one or 50 It may be direct move on. ****
25 Employee of 5 Like some 
38-Down or indirect: Abbr. cuisines LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be creative and get moving on those projects at work that need some special attention. Your attention to detail and efficiency 
51 Ballad ending?

27 Gumshoe 6 Cut_ (dance) 
will help you win points with the boss. **** 28 They get you 52 Fold 7 Contract 26 Art Deco 37 Sierra_ 47 Where 38-Down SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should follow your heart and your dreams. seats 53 Theater award necessity: Abbr. designer spent 19 years Look into activities that will bring you in contact with interesting people. You
38 37-Across hero 

need to expand your circle of friends and take on new challenges. **** 
8 "You missed ir 29 Fate 49 Light gases 
40 Artificial tooth SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you live with may feel totally
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Scrub neglected. If you can include him or her in your plans, do so. Be prepared to
31 Flee 41 Kind of lever 53 Rive; to the 
make changes to your personal papers concerning insurance premiums. ***
Seine1 0 Most perceptive 33 Charged item 43 Serum container 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You need to put some time aside to catch 11 Environmental 55 Towel holder up on overdue correspondence with friends and relatives. Limitations may
34 Earned 44 Some factory 
concern workers result if you become involved in the personal dilemmas of others. *** 35 Great Lakes 
56 Promgoer's 

AQllARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will get along well with colleagues if
rental

12 With 34-Across, tribe 45 Arab, e.g. you are willing to accept their ideas. Stan a small business. It's time to tum 
1982 A.L. r.b.i. 
your creative hobbies into a prosperous venture.****
36 Cleared up 46 Mother_ 57 Hold upleader 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will attract attention if you participate in 
groups or join a co-ed fitness club. You need to socialize more to realize your
14 Daughter of 
For answers, call 1-90Q-28!i-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a full potential **** credit card, 1-800-814-5554. · ...:-+~.;+;.~---.. 18 Speedy Birthday Baby: You have a creative mind and you certainly know how to 
~B~-:-1 25-Across 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
entertain a crowd. Your ability to dazzle, mesmerize and capture will always
..:..:..jll~~ 19 Namesakes of crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
be a valuable asset and lead to success.
Bert Bobbsey's Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
twin past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com -::i+-=+:+.:+:'::-1 25 Like Christmas 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, in Madrid? nytimes.com/leaminglxwords. 
---------------------------~----------------------------------------------



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________ _ Address ________________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
I I 
I 
--------------------------------------------------------~~ 

THE 0BSER\'ER 

PORTS
Thursday, September 4, 2003 
Page 28 
fOOTBALL 
Starting rotation 
Four tight ends could play Saturday 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Gary Godsey likely won't play Saturday against Washington State because of a knee injury, but the Irish have plenty of players ready to step in his place at the tight end position. 
Jared Clark and Billy Palmer will start against the Cougars, while Anthony Fasano and Marcus Freeman are also likely to see playing time. 
"You'll probably see a rotation of all four of those guys," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "We're going to try and keep those guys fresh and rotate them in." 
Godsey, who had 16 receptions last season, has seen limited practice since injuring his knee. Godsey's possible absence allows other tight ends a chance to play. 
"You're always concerned when you have an injury to a returning starter," Diedrick said. "But that also gives the next guy a great opportunity to step up and make some plays." 
Clark caught seven passes last season for 104 yards and played exceptionally well in the spring game, grabbing 2 passes for 47 yards and a two-point conversion. 
Diedrick said Clark has shown steady improvement since the spring practices. 
"His progress has been very satisfactory," Diedrick said. "He's improved a great deal with his blocking skills and he's been catch­ing the ball very consistently. " 
Clark. who converted from quarterback during the 2002 spring practices, has worked hard to become a solid tight end for Notre Dame. 

pretty incredible," Clark said. "You look at the young guys and remember how hard it was for you when you were young. I haven't made it yet. I'm still a long ways a way. but I think I'm getting there." 
Palmer should be opposite Clark and played in just over 81 minutes of football as well as making 97 special team appearances last season. He also caught one pass for four yards. This season, Palmer will step into a bigger role within the offense. 
''I'm just trying to go out there and get bet­ter every day in all aspects." Palmer said. ''I'm looking forward to Saturday and just getting on the field." 
The other two tight ends in the rotation will be guys that have yet to step on the field for a single college down. 
Fasano was a first team all-state New Jersey selection as a senior, grabbing 78 passes for 1,460 yards and 23 touchdowns as a senior. He has improved his route running and blocking abilities throughout spring and fall practice. 
Freeman was a two-time all state selection from Minnesota and had 16 catches for 400 yards as a senior. At 6-foot-4, 242 pounds, Freeman gives the Irish another big body at the position. 
Diedrick is somewhat concerned with the inexperience of Fasano and Freeman but said that will all change after the first few plays Saturday. 
"There is a concern [about their lack of experience]. but that won't last very long because after that first step they become vet­erans," Diedrick said. 
The Irish lost their top tight end recruit when freshman Greg Olsen trasnferred from the team last week. 
"When you look back on how much improvement you've made over the years, it's Contact Joe Hettler at jhenler@nd.edu 
SMC SocCER 
Belles set school record with win 
By ERIK POWERS Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's extended its season-opening winning streak with a 2-1 victory over Taylor University. The Belles became the frrst team in school history to open a season with three consecutive wins. 
Saint Mary's scored both of their goals in the first half. Junior Jen Concannon scored her fourth goal of the season to open the game's scoring. Sophomore defender Shannon Culbertson and senior forward Wendy Irvin both were credited with assists. Concannon added her fifth goal of the season later in the half off of an assist by junior midfielder Katie Noble. 
Taylor's only goal came early in the second half on a 32 yard free kick from straight away. Coach Peter Haring was pleased with his team's effort. 
"We're 3-0 right now," Haring said. "It's a great start. We're playing really well with our new concepts." 
Freshman Laura Heline con­tinued her strong play in goal. Heline had 14 saves behind a stellar defense. 
The Belles accomplished their goal of cutting down the number of opponents' corner kicks. Saint Mary's allowed 14 corner kicks in its first game versus the State University of New York Rockport over the 
see VICTORY/page 26 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Her heart beats for the sport 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
With all of the negative press surrounding scandals and other problems in college ath­letics, it is comforting to find examples of athletes that play sports for all of the right rea­sons. Notre Dame's women's soccer team has a model of that kind of athlete, namely sen­ior midfielder and defender Kim Carpenter. 
"Kim is every coaches' dream," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "She really epitomizes what a young player should be." 
Carpenter came to the Irish 


after a strong high school career and South Bend had been a flx­at Our Lady of Mercy High ture in her family for years, it School in Webster, N.Y. Considering that Notre Dame 
see CARPENTER/page 26 

en 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
NBA 
NHl 

MBA 
NFL
BASEBALL 

The Indiana Pacers 
Goalie Mike Richter 
Latin American base-

The arrest warrant in 
Packers' quarter-
Albion 3

;.-. u w 
hire former Detroit 
will announce his retire-
ball players with minor 

the Kobe Bryant case is 
back Brett Farve and

z Saint Mary's 2 
Pistons coach Rick 
ment after spending his 
league contracts are 
unsealed. 
Vikings' defensive end

a: ::5 
Carlisle to a four-year 
entire 14-year career 
now being drug tested. 
Chris Hovan have no

The Belles (0-2, 0-1) let 
with the New York

deal. 
words for each other

= 
c:C a close road match slip. 
Rangers. 
yet.

-= a. ti 
page 24 
page 23

en 
page 26 
page 23 

page 21 
page 19 







