
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jefferson may face charges 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES New• Ediror 
Michael Anderson, attor­ney f~Jr the plain tiff' in the civil sexual assault trial of fornwr Notre Dame football 
player Clifford Jefferson. said Wed­nesday that he intends to ask St. Joseph County 


I' r o s e -Jefferson c u t o r Michael Dvorak to consider filing criminal charges against Jefferson. 
sec JEFFERSON/page 6 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER25, 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Wall Street Journal honors COBA 
Business college ranked No. 31 in survey 
By KATHERINE GALES 
News Writer 
The Wall Street Journal has again recognized the excel­lence of the University's Med·oza College of Business, ranking it thirty-first among the nation's top business schools for the second consec­utive year. 
The school's grade of 61·. 90 out of a possible 100 points placed it in the thirty-first spot, between Stanford University and Southern Methodist University. Leading the pack was the Wha.rton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, with a score of 71.25. The article appeared in a special section of the Sept. 17 edition of the Journal. 
Carolyn Woo, Dean of the Business School. said the rankings were useful in "see-

ing what we need to do better -whether we are doing the job we want to do. Our goal is to improve what we do, and that usually leads to higher rankings, [which are] not our primary objective." Although the school's rank stayed the same, its score decreased slightly, from the score of 62.21 in 2002. 
According to the publica­
tion, the Wall Street Journal/Harris Interactive Business School Year 3 Survey was based on the online inter-
see COBA/ page 6 

'Coupling' to air on UPN network 

The cast of Coupling, seen here, will be appearing on the local UPN digital channel after WNDU refused to air the show. 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Mirroring the intemperate love lives of the singles it features, "Coupling" did some partner-swap­ping of its own Wednesday, when UI'N-a!liliate WSBT-DT agreed to air the controversial show rejected jw;t days ago by WNDU-TV 
WSBT-D'l: a second, digital chan­nel connected with CBS-affiliate WSBT. picked up the sitcom and will air it on Thursday nights at 10 
p.m. The fledgling station, founded in September, agreed to air the pro­gram in part to help fill the 22 hours of open airtime around the two hours provided by UPN, said Bob Johnson, the station's opera­tions and programming director. 
"'Coupling' sounded like a show compatible with the station's younger and edgier tone, so we thought it was a good fit," Johnson said. "But [the acquisition) probably would not have happened if we did­n't have the second channel to pro­gram." 
Johnson also said that the 10 p.m. time slot, amended from NBC's 8:30 p.m. airing, puts the show "out of family hour," when it will suit an older, more appropriate demo­graphic. 
WBST-DT received the rights to air the show after entering into direct negotiations with NBC, which previously released a statement addressing the controversy that said, "The show was reviewed by NBC Standards and Practices and was considered appropriate for broadcast on the network. It's unfortunate that not everyone will have the opportunity to make their own viewing decisions." 
Today, the network added, "We're thrilled that the viewers will have the opportunity to see 'Coupling."' 
Karl Kirbie, director of program­ming at WNDU, said the station was not surprised by WSBT-DT's acqui­sition. 
"We did know that NBC would offer ["Coupling") to other stations in town . . . and the show is more UPN's demographic," said Kirbie. "We still feel strongly that it does not belong on WNDU." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichacl@nd.edu 
Police report unclear on fight details 
University says it will not in<?estigate the incident 
By SHELIA FLYNN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame students and local residents involved in a Sept. 19 fight in downtown South Bend gave police conflicting reports of what provoked the incident, said South Bend Police Captain John Williams. 
A University spokesman also said the school does not plan to investigate the incident, which Irish Guard members say involved two Guardsmen. Meanwhile, the director of the marching band cautioned all band members Tuesday to avoid placing them­selves in precarious situations without specifically mentioning the Sept. 19 brawl. 
Williams. who said Monday he was unaware of a police report outlining the incident, said his staff located the report Tuesday. 
The report states that Patrolman Christopher Bartone responded to a call referencing a fight on East Wayne Street, Williams said. By the time Bortone arrived, the fight had been broken up. 
"All parties involved were very uncooperative, and the stories they were telling to me were not making sense," Bartone said in the report. "The stories I was getting were conflicting on both sides." 
The report said three Notre Dame students were injured in the brawl: John Raih, a member of the Irish Guard; Frank Krakowski, a member of the swim team; and senior Stephen Trautmann. Another Guard member, Drew Dewalt, said he was present but is not named in the police report. 
'They said they were just stand­ing on the corner when a black Mercedes pulled up, and these three guys got out and they started a fight," Williams said. 
The three Mishawaka residents involved in the confrontation were Jacob Fogle, Gregory Eller and Niv Taunaholo. 
"The three suspects said Stephen threw a piece of pizza on the hood of the black Mercedes," Williams said. 
The suspects said this angered them, and according to Williams, they stopped their car and addressed the Notre Dame stu­dents before a fight erupted. 
DeWalt, however, said tho attack was "unprovoked." 
"My impression was they were just looking to fight, and they found a reason, somehow," DeWalt said Monday. 
DeWalt said another car. filled with the suspects' friends, also stopped, and its occupants joined in the assault against the Notre Dame students. These additional assailants were not named in the report. 
No arrests were made and no charges have been illed. The report said that Trautmann 
see FIGHT/page 6 


More students taking double m.ajors 
said. "Given the light course load 
By CLAIRE HEININGER that it involved, I decided, why 
News Writer not boost my resume?" 
Devins' comprehensive 
Senior John Devins wants there approach is not unique. Facing to be no doubt about the qualifi-heightened competition in an cations behind his Notre Dame uncertain economy, rapidly-grow­diploma; not only is he on track to ing numbers of Notre Dame graduate from the University with undergraduate students are a double major in history and phi-·counting on the theoretical losophy, but he will also earn a advantage that comes with pur­minor in theology. suing a double major, minor, con­
'Tll admit that I tacked on the centration or some combination minor for the credentials," Devins of the three. Unfortunately, they may be making a big sacrifice in the process, said Ava Preacher, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
"It's really been a disappointing shift towards a 'check-it-off men­tality," Preacher said. "Especially during the last six years, we have seen a real explosion of students using minors, double majors, even triple majors as a credcn­tialing move." 
see MAJORS/page 4 

.------------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 25, 2003
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Stand-ins no better 
Ah, yes ... the powers-that-be at this University strike again! No longer satis­fied with dictating the lives of Notre Dame students, the fme administration has taken on a greater mission: control­ling the television viewing decisions Chad Sliker for all of Michiana. Instead of showing 
Ads Account

the new sitcom 
Executive

"Coupling," WNDU will treat its view­ers to the recently fllmed "Roastin' the Golden Boy," featur­ing former Notre Dame Heisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung. After the "roast," we'll be reintroduced to the hilarious reruns of the ABC-cancelled "Spin City." 
Apparently, WNDU feels the need to determine the "boundaries of good taste" and "community standards" for each resident of South Bend and Elkhart. As a fan of the British version of the comedy featured in the United States on BBC America, I will admit the show features an exorbitant number of sex jokes. Yet instead of letting television viewers express their distaste for the show by turning their televisions off for the half hour a week, WNDU feels the need to make the choice for them by not showing "Coupling" at all. The University's General Counsel claims it's not censorship. However, according to Black's Law Dictionary, to "censor" is "to officially inspect and delete material considered offensive." That's exactly what has happened here, for WNDU has inspected three episodes of "Coupling," judged it inappropriate for all local audi­ences. 
Comically, WNDU has replaced the racy, yet entirely fictional, "Coupling" with two programs featuring individuals known for their real-life sexual escapades. Notre Dame's own Paul Hornung was well known throughout his NFL career for his hard-drinking and womanizing ways. Just last year, Sports Illustrated ran a feature article on Hornung in which former teammates noted his ability to bring a different woman back to his hotel each night on the road. Fortunately, after the end of what I can only assume was a hilarious roast, Michiana residents can tune in to watch Charlie Sheen's "Spin City" char­acter lust after Heather Locklear. Just don't read old news clips on Sheen, because you might discover he was a frequent client of notorious Hollywood­Madam Heidi Fleiss's "dating service." I won't even touch Sheen's drug habits or Hornung's one-year suspension from football for gambling in this column. I will thank WNDU for deciding that "Coupling" is inappropriate for our com­munity standards and replacing it with such great role models as Hornung and Sheen. 
The University's General Counsel sup­ports claims that the WNDU decision to black out "Coupling" is not censorship because "there are lots of ways to see it." However, just because I can drive to Chicago or have someone back home tape each episode and mail it to me does not change the nature of the Board of Directors' decision. Of course, ifI can uncover an economical way to catch every NBC program without tuning into the censorship-crazy WNDU, I'll do it. Then I can fmally catch "Coupling" at its regular time, and I won't have to watch that creepy brother-sister news team. 
Contact Chad Silker at csilker@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HAVE YOU EVER BEEN TO BOAT CLUB? 




Molly Kealy  Dan Moore  Pedro Engel  
Freshman Lyons Hall  Freshman Morrissey Hall  Freshman Morrissey Hall  
"No, I don't have a fake /D."  "No, but I've been in a canoe."  "No, I can't . swim.  

Man Straps Eight Snakes to His Legs 
SYDNEY, Australia -A Swedish man tried to smuggle eight dangerous snakes into Australia by strapping them to his legs, customs officials said Wednesday. 
Justice Minister Chris Ellison said 28-year-old Per Johann Adolfsson arrived at Sydney airport from Thailand on Monday night. He was searched by customs officers who dis­covered the reptiles in packages strapped to his calves. 
The snakes included four deadly King Cobras ­
TODAY 0::: 





Shantha Ready  Janna Linder  Mike Ortiz  
Junior Lyons Hall  Junior McGlinn Hall  Freshman O'Neill Hall  
''I've never been inside, but it doesn't  "Yes, unfortunately on January  "No. Come sail away!"  

look too great in passing. 

Now they're getting an earful of attention. 
A basset hound whose grandfather gained fame as Biggles, the face of Hush Puppies shoes, has hit the limelight himself, making it into the new 2004 Guinness Book of World Records as the dog with the longest ears. 
Guinness, which will publish its new edition of the book Thursday, issued a photo of Mr. Jeffries, Biggles' grandson, on Wednesday, showing the dog standing there with a hangdog expression and raised ears that look like the wings a Boeing 7 4 7. 
which died during the nine-hour flight -and four non-venomous emer­ald tree boas. The surviv­ing snakes were handed over to the Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service. 
Ellison said the man has been charged with illegally importing animals and was refused bail during an appearance at Sydney's Waverley Local Court on Tuesday. 
Dog's 12-lnch Ears Are World's Largest 
LONDON -They drag into his food. Sometimes, he even trips over them. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LLI :::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
.... 
C( (,) 





0 

...I HIGH 64 HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 42 LOW LOW LOW 
48 
40 
65 51 
56 46 
24. 

IN BRIEF 
Cheer on the men's soccer team as they take on Bradley University today at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Snite Museum of Art is sponsoring Freshman Night at the Snite tonight at 7 p.m. Free foot and entertainment will be available, and a talk will be given by the museum director. 
Bring some friends and play some Drop-In Lacrosse tonight at Rolfs. Play begins at 8:30 
p.m. until 10:30 p.m. on Court 1. 
SUB is sponsoring a showing of "Anger Management" tonight at 10 p.m. in DeBartolo 
101. Tickets are $3. 
The Class of 2006 is sponsor­ing a Late Night Grill on the Fieldhouse Mall from 10 until 
11:30 p.m. 
The women's volleyball Team takes on Villanova Friday night at 7 p.m. in the JACC. 
Seamus Heaney, 1995 win­ner of the Nobel Prize for Literature will be giving a poetry reading cosponsored by the Keough Institute for Irish Studies and the Dever Program in Dante Studies. The reading takes place Friday at 8 p.m. in the McKenna Auditorium. 
Brown Couch will be giving a concert at Legends Saturday night beginning at 9 p.m. Show up for great music and danc­ing. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 
52 
LOW 
39 


Atlanta 84 I 63 Boston 73 I 58 Chicago 63 I 46 Denver 83 I 51 Houston 87 I 68 Los Angeles 77 I 62 Minneapolis 59 149 New York 76 I 59 Philadelphia 78 I 59 Phoenix 95 I 78 Seattle 72 153 St. Louis 70 I 45 Tampa 89 I 72 Washington 80 161 

Thursday, September 25, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

University denies it plans for a smoke-free campus 
By JOE HETTLER 
N~ws Writ~r 
Smokers across campus can breathe a sigh of relief. 
According to Trudy Diamond, personal assistant to associate vice president for residence life Bill Kirk, tho school does not have a smoke-free campus in its future plans, despite any indications of such a change in duLac. 
duLac states that students are permit­ted to smoke anywhere on campus, but not inside any campus building. It also says studenl'i may smoke in their dorm 
Pass it on. 
rooms ifall members ofthe room agree. 
Diamond also said that, while duLac can be interpreted to lead people to believe that the campus could be smoke­free in the near future, those inferences would be unwarranted and incorrect. 
Only 5.9 percent of students smoke three or more times a week at Notre Dame, which is significantly less than the national average of 24 percent at univer­sities, according to the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhetder@nd.edu 

Knowledge is power. 
STUDENT SENATE 

.Council reps approved 
By MAUREEN 
REYNOLDS 
Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate unani­mously approved three of four students Wednesday to represent the student body on the University's Academic Council this year. 
The students were select­ed by the Deans of their respective colleges before being approved by the 



Join us, and you'll find yourself in an erwironment where 
.. knowledge and learning are shared. An environment where you can expect to learn from your colleagues' ideas. And where they expect you to contribute your own. Don't let this opportunity pass you by. 
Quality In Everything We Do 
Senate. Meghan McCabe represents the College of Science, Willa Qian comes from the College of Business and Nicole Wykoff is a stu­dent in the College of Engineering. 
The fourth student repre· sentative from the College of Arts and Letters was appointed earlier by the Office of the Student Body President and already sits on the Academic Council. 
Senators questioned the students regarding their position on the issue of TCE publication before approv­ing them. They all expressed their eagerness to work on the issue with faculty and administrators and to con· vey student opinion on the issue. 

llowever, the representa­tives said they do not know when the issue will go before the Academic Council. The proposal must first be discussed by the Undergraduate Committee within the Academic Council before it can be put on the Council's agenda. 
Wykoff also commented on the reservations of facul· ty members to have the TCE's published for student use. She said this reluctance was apparent when the three representatives met with Academic Council members. 
"They realize that there definitely needs to be some­thing there to help )students) choose classes," she said. "It seems like it could be much more viable that they come up with an alternative to publishing TCE's." 
Senators also passed a resolution today requiring that the undergraduate rep· resentatives to the Academic Council submit a written report regarding the coun­cil's progress on the TCE issue, as well as other issues, within seven days of each Academic Council meeting. The purpose of this is to keep Senators abreast of proceedings within the Academic Council. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
The Senate unanimously approved two new Student Union Board members at their meeting today. Christian Palmer was approved as the new head operator for SUB, and Bridget Meecham assumes the role of concert program­mer. 

+ 
Student Body President Pat llallahan spoke on the Church in Africa Conference, which ended Wednesday and included a 


speech  by  Nigerian  
President  Olusegun  
Obasanjo.  

"It's these kind of issues that I think we should pay attention to. We have an obligation, I feel, to help those who don't have the opportunities that we have," llallahan said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 

-------------, 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursd~y, September 25, 2003 
Majors 
continued from page 1 
Students who believe that a second major will boost their chances of law school acceptance or an immediate post­graduation job offer may be in for a harsh awakening, Preacher said. 
"I can definitively say that law schools are not very impressed by a student whose double major does not reflect a truly complementary curriculum," she said. 
Preacher suggested that instead of look­ing at a minor or a double major as just another credential to list on an applica­tion, students should reexamine the idea of deeper intellectual development within their primary major. 
"Majors should not be approached as markers that you complete after taking the minimum amount of courses for four years." she said. "The whole idea of a major is to deepen and expand the breadth of your knowledge of a subject that you are seriously thinking about going into." 
For certain students genuinely interest­ed in two subjects, a double major can make sense, Preacher said. 
One such student is senior Linda Joseph, who supplemented her biology major with another in anthropology. 
"Since I'm going into medicine, I am also really interested in cultural and evolution­ary anthropology," Joseph said. "These disciplines have a definite connection to my primary biology major, and I would have graduated early without the anthro­pology courses." 
Except for students like Joseph, Preacher maintained that in most cases, double majors serve as unnecessary padding. 
"In truth, the same knowledge can be gained by taking courses across disci­plines," she said. 
The College of Arts and Letters did not offer double majors or even minors until recently, Preacher said. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
SMC freshman elections held 
other three classes, which By ANNELIESE made us happy because it's WOOLFORD always a little harder get­Saine Mary's Editor ting first-years acquainted 
with the system." 
A week of campaigning Haeberle is hopeful for a and the result of Tuesday's similar turn out today, as primary election proved students make their final successful for Monica choice between the two Lindblom/Kristen tickets. Bogdanowicz and Claudia Sharing the same last Toth/Ashley Toth as the two name, yet unrelated, Toth 
tickets  and  Toth  ask  
advance to a  freshmen  to  
run-off elec­tion today for Saint  "We're very pleased with the  "Vote TNT for dynamite repre­sentation." The  
Mary's  voter turn out. ,  running  mates  
freshman  met earlier this  
class presi­dent and vice presi­dent.  Nicole Haeberle elections commissioner  year in their freshmen orien­tation group. "One of our  

The tickets defeated four others in the primary election, with Lind bl om/B ogd an owic z earning 24 percent of votes and Toth/Toth earning 21 percent. Other tickets included Susan Mcllduff/Ashley Oberst with 19 percent of votes, Laela Tahmassebi/Caitlin Kelly with 16 percent, Amanda Shropshire/Irene Bayudah with 10 percent and Rosemary Walsh/Brittany Hartford with 8 percent. Abstained votes accounted for the remaining 3 per­cent. 
Roughly half of the class voted Tuesday, totaling 195 total votes. 
"We're very pleased with the voter turn out," said elections commissioner Nicole Haeberle. "It's simi­lar to what we get for the 
leaders told us 

to get involved in student government and we just thought it would be a good idea to run together because we have the same last name," Ashley Toth said. 
"We're not doing this for ourselves; we're doing it for the Class of 2007." she stresses. 
Included in their platform is the idea to open a Belles General store with a Starbucks, to establish a better relationship with Notre Dame freshmen through social and aca­demic functions, to contin­ue innovative and stylish class apparel and to create and maintain a line of com­munication between fresh­men and student govern­ment. 
Like their opponents, Lindblom and Bogdanowicz also see the importance of Appointments were given good class representation. to Bridget Gorman, Kristi 
"At this point, we don't Sobhani, Kathleen Kindt, even care who they vote Katie White, Ashley for, it's just the fact that Sanders, Chelsea Foote, they vote," Lindblom said. Megan Sosnowski, Lauren "We're in it to win, but Knisley and Katie Whalen. that's not our main con-Each will serve on the cern." board for the remainder of 
The two can­the 2003-2004 didates attend-academic ed high school "Our main goal is year. 
together and With nine
bonding and 
w e r e board posi­impressed by getting to know one tions filled, an the friendly another., additional and welcoming four remain atmosphere available.
Monica Lindblom 
presented by Typically, the 
the Saint Saint Mary's freshman president and Mary's Board class president vice president, of Governance once elected,
candidate 
at orientation. According to Lindblom, that is what attract'ed the two to run­ning together. 
Seen around campus in their rain ponchos and hats, they tell the freshman class, "We're always here for you rain or shine." 
Ideas on their platform range from organizing a freshman formal, to picnics and barbeques, to creating a themed T-shirt design for the class to carry on all four years. 
"Our main goal is bond­ing and getting to know one another," Lindblom said. "We really want to get everyone's point of view. There are a lot of interests between all of us." 
In addition to the two presidential tickets. Tuesday's election yielded nine students a position on the freshman class board. 
take applica­

tions and con­duct interviews for the open positions. 
Overall, Haeberle is con­fident in the leadership capabilities she has seen displayed by the class thus far. 
"All six cross officer tick­ets are extremely commit­ted and energetic women," she said. "It was a pleasure to work with all of them, and the class of 2007 has many great leaders that we look forward to working with in the future." 
The run-off election begins today at 12:01 a.m. and will continue through 
11:59 p.m. Voting will take place online, as it did for the primary election, with results announced Friday morning. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 


Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Dr. Jan1es Boyd 
Greenleaf Center for Servant Leadership 
.,. Servant Leadership: Principles for .Power Sharing" 

Fri4~Xt.S.,ptember 26 
·:-:-···.:.:-:...·-··.-··:···:·.···.... ·... 
12:00-1:15 p•.m. 
Jordan .Auditorium Mendoza Colle.ge ofBusiness 








ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 25, 2003 COA1PlUD FROM "fHE ()BSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Briton escapes Colombian captors 
SANTA MAHTA, Colombia-A British tourist kidnapped 12 days ago in the moun­tains with seven other foreigners escaped by sliding down a precipice and was fed by Indians before an army patrol found him Wednesday. 
Matthew Scott. 19. of London, evaded his captors during a forced walk through the thick jungles of the Sierra Nevada mountains, Gen. Carlos Alberto Ospina, commander of the Colombian army, told The Associated Press. 
An exhausted Scott said from a hospital bed at a military base in Santa Maria, "I haven't eaten hardly anything for the last 12 days." 
'Baghdad Bob' slams U.S. intel 
CAIHO, Egypt -Iraq's former information minister told an Arab television station Wednesday that U.S. attempts to target oust­ed Prnsident Saddam Hussein during the war worn far ofT target. 
Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf became infa­mous during the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq for hurling anti-American insults and outlandish claims of Iraqi military victories over the coalition. 
"All the bombing hit places where Saddam had never existed and their [U.S.] intelligence was a failure," al-Sahhaf said on Abu Dhabi Television, which was monitored in Cairo. 
Asked whether the remaining leadership would have announced his death if Saddam had been killed, al-Sahhaf said: "I think they would hide it." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Dean leads Dems in fundraising 
WASJIINGTON -Front-runner Howard Dean has broken former President Clinton's Democratic record for most money raised in a three-month burst, while new rival Wesley Clark is turning to some of Clinton's most loyal and effective fund-raisers to help him jump-start his presidential campaign. 
No Democrat is coming close to President Bush's fund raising, however. Bush is expect­ed to collect about $43 million by the time the third quarter ends next Tuesday, bringing his total this year to roughly $78 million, GOP officials said. 
Dave Matthews plays Central Park 
NEW YOHK -Tens of thousands of fans danced to the Dave Matthews Band at a free concert Wednesday night in Central Park to raise money for music programs in city public schools. 
The band opened with "Don't Drink the Water," a 10 top hit in 1998. The group has released a dozen albums and has had 10 top 10 singles. 
"So nice to run into you in the park here, the greatest park in the world, and the great­est city in world," Matthews said to wild applause before the band launched into "Crush," leading the crowd in a sing-along. 
lOCAL NEWS 
Troubled cop commits suicide 
VALPAHAISO, Ind. -A police officer who was facing disciplinary action for giving rides to two people who had been drinking com­mitted suicide, authorities said. 
Hobert Furst, 49, killed himself at his resi­dence in Valparaiso. Authorities discovered his body shortly before dawn Tuesday after a member of the police department tried to call him, Police Chief Walt Lamberson said. 
Furst, a 20-year veteran of the force, was found lying on his couch. Police foum! several open packages of anti-depressant medication nearby. They later found a suicide note in his squad car, but the contents of the letter were not made public. 
Lamberson informed Furst on Monday that he faced disciplinary action in connection with u May 10, 2002, incident in which Valparaiso officer Charles Schlesinger drove drunk and collided with another vehicle. 
IRAQ 

Violence strikes Iraqi cities 
Blasts rock Baghdad buses, Mosul sex theater; U.S. troops kill nine in raids 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Bombs rocked a teeming quarter of Baghdad and a sex-film theater in Mosul on Wednesday, reportedly killing at least three Iraqis and wounding dozens. In a string of ground clashes, the U.S. military said they killed nine Iraqis on one of the bloodiest days of com­bat in weeks. 
The nine deaths were all in the region around Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown. U.S. troops aborted two ambushes by anti-American forces, killing five Iraqis, and came under fire elsewhere in exchanges that left at least four Iraqis dead. 
The surge in attacks came as world leaders worked to find agreement in New York on how to restore stability to Iraq. 
Early Thursday, two sus­pected Iraqi resistance leaders accused of organ­izing and financing attacks against U.S. soldiers in the vicinity of Saddam Hussein's birthplace were arrested in raids. Their identities were not released. 
The arrests in Tikrit's affluent neighborhoods were part of an intensified campaign against people believed responsible for a series of deadly attacks against U.S. troops. 
In Baghdad, communist leader Hamid Majid Moussa said he and other members of the U.S.­appointed Iraqi Governing Council, want to move toward national sovereign­ty "as fast as we can." But council members refused to be drawn into the debate over a specific timetable. 
"We don't want to become involved in fruit­less discussions," said Moussa, one of four coun-cil representatives at a news conference. 


The debate among the United States and other governments over Iraq's future moved this week to 
U.N. headquarters in New York, where the Bush administration seeks a Security Council resolution encouraging other nations to contribute troops to the Iraq security force. 
In exchange, France and others, including Germany, want the resolution to give the United Nations a greater voice in the politi­cal transition in Iraq, and a speedy move, in "months, not years," to full Iraqi sovereignty -that is, to ending the American postwar occupation. 
Bush met with German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder on Wednesday in New York, and both said later they would work to resolve those differences. Schroeder renewed Germany's offer to help train Iraqi police, but reit­erated that Germany would send no troops here. 
More than five months after the ouster of Saddam's government, the troops who are here ­almost all Americans ­face a daily threat of homemade roadside bombs, mortar attacks and small-arms ambushes. 
For the first time Wednesday, U.S. soldiers in central Baghdad were seen deploying bomb-dis­posal robots, to check a suspicious object in an underpass. That proved harmless, but at about the same time three miles to the northwest, a bomb meant to catch a passing 
U.S.  motorized  patrol  
exploded instead  as two  
buses rolled by.  

The blast, in the old Tigris riverside district of Azamiyah, sent shrapnel ripping through the buses and caused one to crash into a tree. At least one Iraqi was killed and 18 were wounded, police and hospital officials reported. Five of the injured were in critical condition, hospital officials said. 
In the northern city of Mosul, a bomb exploded in a movie theater showing foreign sex films, and wit­nesses said two people were killed and seven wounded. Religious and political groups have warned cinema owners against showing such films after censorship ended fol­lowing the collapse of Saddam's regime. 
South of Tikrit, near the town of Balad, seven Iraqis attacked an oil pumping station guarded by troops of the U.S. 4th Infantry Division. The Americans called in an AC-130 gun­ship, whose heavy weapons fire killed at least three Iraqis, reported divi­sion spokeswoman Maj. Josslyn Aberle. A fourth was seriously wounded. 
In a second clash ncar Balad, a U.S. patrol killed three Iraqis waiting in ambush with small arms and rocket-propelled grenades, the military said. 
Another U.S. patrol in the same area opened !ire on three men trying to bury a homemade bomb ­a mortar shell that was probably to be triggered remotely -on a highway used by U.S. convoys. Two Iraqis were killed in the firefight, Aberle said. 
In a fourth firefight south of Tikrit, American soldiers came under fire, pursued the attackers to u house and killed one Iraqi, the military said. 
VATICAN 

Pope skips audience due to illness 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY -An increasingly frail Pope John Paul II missed his gen­eral audience Wednesday -a rare absence -because of a mild intestin­al problem, raising fresh concerns about his health just weeks before he presides at ceremonies marking his 25th anniversary as pope. 
The 83-year-old pontiff managed to address the crowd at the Vatican in an audio message, although he spoke with a weak voice and slurred his words-symptoms of the Parkinson's disease he has had for years. 
"I am sorry for not being with you," John Paul said. "I carry you all in my heart and I bless you with affection." 
The pontiff was to have traveled from his vacation home in Castel Gandolfo, south of Rome, to Vatican City to greet thousands of the faithful and tourists. But his doctors advised against the trip after he came down with a mild "intestinal indisposition" Thesday afternoon, the Vatican said in a statement. 
Cardinal Angelo Sodano, the Vatican secretary of state, spoke on his behalf at the audience, and clapped along with the crowd after John Paul delivered his brief remarks. Sodano asked people to pray that John Paul recovers quickly. 
"Viva il papa!" or "Long live the pope!" people in the crowd shouted. 
The Vatican said the disorder was "mild," and papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said John Paul would keep to his upcoming schedule. That includes moving back to the Vatican on Friday from Castel Gandolfo and meeting with the president of Philippines, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, on Saturday. 
The crowd in the Vatican auditori­um only heard the pope's remarks, but some satellite television stations broadcast his appearance. The pope -dressed in his usual white robe ­sat in a small chapel at Castel Gandolfo and occasionally glanced up as he spoke. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 25, 2003 
Jeffferson 
continued from page 1 
A jury in the civil trial awarded $1 million in dam­ages Tuesday to the former Saint Mary's student who alleged Jefferson raped her on March 22, 2001. 
Anderson recognized that the burden of proof is much lower in a civil trial compared to a criminal trial. However, he intends to forward information he has gathered and testimony from the civil trial to the pros­ecutor's office in about two weeks, recommending that criminal felony rape charges be filed against Jefferson. 
"[Dvorak] is a very fine pros­ecutor and whatever his deter­mination is, I will respect it," Anderson said. 
Dvorak's office did not return a phone call seeking comment. 
At the time of the 2001 inci­dent, Dvorak had not yet been elected prosecutor and former St. Joseph County Prosecutor Chris Toth was still in office. 

The woman said Jefferson raped and sexually assaulted her in his car outside of her dorm while she was intoxicat­ed as she passed in and out of consciousness. Jefferson had given the woman a ride back to the College after they talked at Benchwarmers Sports Lounge, a downtown South Bend bar. 
Jefferson said the sexual activity was consensual.He could not be reached for com­ment. 
The woman claimed she suf­fered emotional and psycho­logical problems after the inci­dent and has since transferred to a university closer to her Pittsburgh home. 
During testimony, the woman said she did not press criminal charges at the time because she was traumatized when she went to Memorial Hospital. Evidence was not saved from her examination. She also said she feared losing her scholarship because she was drinking underage. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl @nd.edu 

COBA 
continued from page 6 
views of 2,191 MBA recruiters from November 2002 to March 2003. The Journal "focuses on the opinions of recruiters who hire full-time business school graduates," and dealt with 18 3 schools in the United States and 73 institutions abroad. 
"[This poll] was tabu­lated from data which has a lot of noise," Woo said. "Recruiter polls, alumni responses, sam­ple sizes, which particu­lar person you're talking to ... this type of calibra­tion is not very accurate, but gives a general sense of where the school fits." 
Among rating criteria, most recruiters consid­ered communication and interpersonal skills, teamwork, analytical and problem-solving skills, and ethics to be "very 
important," the Journal said. 
In today's uncertain economy, a degree from a well-regarded business school gives graduates an advantage in the job hunt. 
"To be ranked is better than not being ranked," Woo said. "It's a good thing, but recruiters' knowledge is so much deeper than the polls." 
The Journal claims the poll is "the best objective source of information about U.S. business schools." 
"We focus on the best educational experience," Woo said. "The curricu­lum is good, our teaching is excellent and there are 
three things  we  stand  
for:  academic  rigor,  
implementation  skills  

and values. We know if we keep on doing a good job on those three things, the rest will follow." 
Contact Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Fight 
continued from page 1 
"had a large bump on his forehead," Raih "had a busted lip and nose" and Krakowski "had been punched in the face and had some of his teeth busted out," Williams said. 
Raih's injuries prevented him from marching with the Irish Guard Saturday. 
University spokesman Matt Storin said the administration is "obviously concerned about the injuries to one of our students." 
Band directors discussed the incident with Guard members Tuesday, but Storin said Notre Dame is not investi­gating the incident because it happened off campus and no criminal charges have been filed. 
Band director Kenneth Dye addressed the marching band Wednesday night in what some band members described as an uncommon speech. Although Dye did not specifical­ly mention the fight, he cautioned band members against being in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
Contact Shelia Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 


Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dante: 
).> Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 ~ Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Mfairs, 1-7819 ~ Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 ) John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 :> Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 > Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 

South Bend Community Resources: 
> Women's Care Center: 234-0363 ' Catholic Charities: 234-3111 

THE OBSERVER_ 






USINESS
Thursday, September 25, 2003 
page 7 
1

Jones 
.,~;,. 
1,102 

AMEX N4SDAQ 
NYSE 
S&P500 
bolster prices ahead of an expected decrease in
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
demand early next year. CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.92 -0.83 20.32 
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -3.57 -0.43 11.60 
Countries decided to lower MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -3.85 -1 .14 28.46 
its output ceiling to 24.5 million barrels starting in
INTEL CORP (INTC) -4.00 -1.16 27.78 
November. 

SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI\ -3.77 -0.08 1.94 
The 3.5 percent cut star­
tled the market, where oil 
futures jumped more thanIN BRIEF 
$1 a barrel. White House spokesman Scott McClellan, with
Credit card delinquencies fall 
President Bush in New 
WASHINGTON -After going up for a year, York, would not comment Jatn credit card payments edged down in the directly on the OPEC move last quarter. Delinquency rates for some other 
but said the economy
types of consumer loans moved higher, how­depends on stable oil sup­
ever, offering a mixed picture of how 
plies and prices.

Americans are handling their debt obliga­
One analyst said he 
tions. 
expected consumer pricesThe seasonally adjusted percentage of cred­for gasoline and heating oil it curd accounts 30 or more days past due to stay near current levels. 
dropped in the April-to-June quarter to 4.04 
OPEC pumps about a third pnrcent, down from a record high of 4.07 per­of the world's crude. 
cnnt in the first three months of this year, the 
The surprise decision 
Amnrican Bankers Association reported in its came after a meeting that quarterly survey released Wednesday. 
also saw Iraq's return to 
OPEC for the first time Tyson to ax 600 Ark. workers 
since the Saddam Hussein's IIOPE, Ark.-Tyson Foods Inc., the world's 
ouster, despite earlier largest meat company, will cut up to 600 jobs, 
objections from Venezuela. or about one-third of the work force, at its 
Although the market is chicken processing plant here, a company 
currently "well supplied," spokesman said Wednesday. 
OPEC is taking preventive Between 500 and 600 employees will lose 
action now to try to keep their jobs beginning Oct. 4, company 
prices stable before an spokesman Ed Nicholson said. 
expected dip in seasonal Tyson Foods will have other companies in 
demand in the first quarter Arkadelphia and Dardanelle do some of the 
of 2004, group spokesman labor-intensive operations that are now per­
Omar Ibrahim told a news formed by workers at the Ilope plant, 
conference at OPEC's Nicholson said. 
Vienna headquarters. At current output levels, Vivendi posts $723M loss 
OPEC predicts that the PAIUS -Vivendi Universal reported a nar­
daily supply of crude will rower loss for the first half of the year and 
outstrip demand by 2.5 stronger results in its media and telecommu­
million barrels by April. nications divisions Wednesday, in a sign of 
Iranian Oil Minister Bijan recovery al'tnr the French conglomerate came 
Namdar Zanganeh, speak­close to bankruptcy a year ago. 
ing earlier, called the cut a Vivendi lost 632 million euros ($723 million) 
possible "first step" and did in the January-June period, in contrast to a 
not rule out an additional loss of 12.:n billion euros in the first half of 
reduction later in the year. 2002. Last year's figure included an 11 billion 
"It is better that we start 1•uro impairment charge. Vivendi reached a 
before we witness a very preliminary deal in early September to merge 
bad situation in the mar­its Universal movie, cable and theme parks 
ket," he said before oil with General Electric Co.'s NBC as part of a 
ministers met privately to 
complex deal in which Vivendi gets $3.8 bil­lion cash and a debt reduction. Chairman Jean-Hene Fourtou said Wednesday he hoped the merger would be completed in the second quarter of 2004. 

Judge hangs up on do-not-call list 
FAA bill stalls over tower spat 
Associated Press 

WASJIINGTON -The revival of a two­
decade dispute that air traffic controllers had 
WASHINGTON -Hold the phone!
with the Heagan administration is now 
Consumers who thought they would
stalling passage of a four-year, $60 billion avi­
get a reprieve from telemarketing
ation spending bill. 
calls starting next week may have to
At issue today is the ability of the Federal 
wait longer for some peace and
Aviation Administration to let private opera­
quiet.

tors take over at government-run air traffic 
A federal judge in Oklahoma City
control towers. 
sided with telemarketers who sued
The Bush administration had threatened to 
to stop the Federal Trade 
v1~to the aviation bill if the measure docs not 
Commission's "do-not-call" list. The
explicitly give the FAA the power to convert 
FTC asked the court Wednesday to
69 towers, mostly at smaller airports. 
block the ruling and filed for an 
The FAA says current law already gives it 
appeal.

that authority, a conclusion opposed by the air 
More than 50 million phone num­
controllers. Their union sued the government 
bers have been submitted to the FTC 
in the mid-1990s, claiming the conversion of 
registry by people who don't want 
business solicitation calls. The list
government-run control towers is illegal. The 
was to take effect next Wednesday,
case is in federal court in Ohio. 
EPA OPEC General President Alvaro Sliva-Calderon attends a meeting of the oil cartel In VIenna. The organization announced a cut In oil production today, raising con­cerns that Increased energy prices might stall the economic recovery. 
approve the cut. 
OPEC wants independent, non-OPEC producers such as Russia to take "concrete measures" to restrain their own output, Ibrahim said, although the cartel is not making its cut conditional on that cooperation, as it did in December 2001. 
OPEC was widely expect­ed to keep its daily produc­tion ceiling at 25.4 million barrels. However, a recent slide in prices and OPEC's expectations of a surge in oil inventories among major importing countries have compounded its fears about a further softening of the market. 
Iraq's gradual return to the market also was a fac­tor. Zanganeh noted that a cut of 900,000 barrels would return OPEC's out-
and regulators and telemarketers said they weren't sure whether the judge's order would stop that from happening. 
The FTC said consumers can con­tinue signing up for the free service. "It's business as usual," spokes­woman Cathy MacFarlane said. 
Lawmakers from both parties quickly denounced the judge's deci­sion and pledged to pass legislation to clarify any questions about FTC authority to implement the list. 
"This is the goofiest decision that I've seen in a long time," said Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. "There is no question that Congress intended for the FTC to have this authority and will quickly make any correction that the court, in its arcane logic, deems put target to what it was until April, when the war in Iraq removed that country temporarily from the mar­ket. 
Iraq, a founding member of OPEC, participated in its policy discussions for the first time since the toppling ofSaddam. 
Iraq's new oil minister, Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum, took his place between counterparts from Kuwait and Iran at the U-shaped table in the OPEC Secretariat. 

Iraq was not seeking a production quota of its own. It now produces about 1.8 million barrels of oil a day-700,000 barrels less than on the eve of the war. It exports some 900,000 barrels a day, the Iraqi oil minister said earli­
necessary." 
Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass., added, "If this decision is not reversed quickly, I suspect the court­house in Oklahoma would want to add itself to the do-not-call database in order to protect itself from the millions of consumers who feel deeply about the right to be left alone.'' 
After the ruling, angry consunwrs posted the judge's ol'lice and home phone numbers on Web sites and encouraged people to call and corn­plain. 
Telemarketers who say the list would devastate their industry con­vinced U.S. District Judge Lee West that the FTC had overstepped its authority. 
er. 
"When Iraq returns to normal production, we will discuss with Iraq how to accommodate them.... Give them time, and then we will discuss this," OPEC President Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah said. 
OPEC wants to keep the price of its benchmark blend of crudes stable within a targeted range of $22-$28 a barrel. The benchmark price stood at $25.14 on Tuesday, the most recent day for which OPEC calculated it. 
Crude oil futures soarnd on reports about OPEC's planned decision. Contracts of U.S. light, sweet crude for November delivery rose $1.11 to settle at $28.24 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchang1~. 


Composite Volume 1,543,315.968 
999.70 •,,,, PtH4j / 1 ,843. 70 .. -58.02 
663.96 .. ;9~66 1,009.38 -19.65 
Associated Press 

VIENNA, Austria -The OPEC oil cartel made a pre-emptive cut of 900,000 barrels in its daily produc­tion target for crude Wednesday in an effort to 
MARKET RECAP 
OPEC cuts world oil output 
Energy ministers surprise markets, order 900,000 barrel-per-day reduction
Dow 9 425.51 -150.53 
Thursday, September 25, 2003 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

SMC student 
Lecture examines Hispanic Catholicism 
involvement 
. 


mcreases 
By EMILIE DESJARDINS 
NewsWrirer 

Student involvement on cam­
pus is constantly increasing at 
Saint Mary's College, said 
Georgeanna Rosenbush, director 
of student activities at the 
College. 

The number of registered clubs 
and organizations has jumped 
from 11 in 1983 to 80 this year, 
Rosenbush said. 

"Doing well in class is recog­
nized as being very important 
here at SMC, but even higher 
regarded is the integrated learn­
ing experience that comes from 
being actively involved on cam­
pus," Student Body President 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl said. 

Among the newest organiza­
tions are the Feminists United 
Club, God sisters, Campus Girl 
Scouts and the Bellezine, a maga­
zine created last year. 

"It is a forum of ideas and opin­
ions of students," said Emily 
Ford, an editor of the magazine, 
which publishes twice each 
semester. 

She said there was "a good 
turnout at the first meeting and a 
lot of interest." 

Involvement is also growing in 
campus organizations that have 
been around longer, such as 
Friends with Sisters, a program 
that strategically pairs students 
with nuns. 

"They can do a variety of activi­
ties together, including going for 
walks, attending Mass or per­
formances on Saint Mary's cam­
pus or just sharing stories and 
experiences in their room," said 
student coordinator Sarah 
Brown. 

Participation in athletics has 
also grown tremendously in the 
last few years. 

"I believe that if your program is structured with positive rein­forcement, good coaching, sup­port from the top, success in the classroom, and you are recruiting with that same vision, then your programs will begin to improve," said Linda Timm, who became athletic director in 1999. 
"Our team numbers are 
increasing, and we have taken 
huge strides in the last four years 
and we are now competitive 
across the board," Timm said. 
Saint Mary's crossed a huge boundary last spring when the golf team took fourth in the NCAA Division III Golf National Championship and junior golfer Stefanie Simmerman won SMC's first individual NCAA Championship. 
Intramural sports have also seen an increase from 50 to 800 participants since Timm's arrival four years ago and will be adding whiffie ball this spring. Although participation and ability are improving, Tunm wants to go fur­ther. 
"I have had a vision since I arrived here of packing our stands for home athletic events," Timm said. Some student-ath­letes think we are getting closer to this goal. 
"I think school spirit has greatly increased over the past four years, and this translates to bet­ter support for athletics," said senior softball player Marnie Walsh. "You can always improve, but I feel the turnout has been better this year." 
Contact Emilie DesJardins at desj4986@saintmarys.edu 
relational Christology of the Hispanic population. The community was not especially receptive to the Vatican IT call to make the church more Christocentric by removing statues of saints. Parishioners asked, "When was Jesus by himself in the Bible?" 
Since venerating saints on the same level as Jesus causes a theological problem, Matovina suggested this is perhaps an opportunity for evange­lization. 
'The purpose of this lecture series is not that there is one way [to wor­ship]. though," Matovina said. 'The many ways of being Catholic are mutually enriching." 
One particularly beautiful practice Matovina believes should be imple­mented into the English celebration is veneration as a grieving process on the evening of Good Friday. 
'The people accompany Jesus and 
nf rf'r£\~t ,..... ..Won.-:...........



with hope that Jesus and Mary will accompany them in their deepest suf­fering," he said. 
This practice is indicative of Hispanics' pull toward sharing direct­ly in the suffering of Christ. 
"It is not about trying to deny suf­fering," Matovina said. "It is about try­ing to embrace life as it is and hope there is something more." 
The concluding lecture of the series will be Tuesday, Sept. 30, with Rooemary Carbine, assistant profes­sor of Religious Studies at Holy Croos College in Massachusetts. She will speak on the topic "Breathing Lessons: An Introduction to Eastern Catholic Churches." 
Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for Spirituality, organized the lecture series. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at 
L-!11 .l.n"'7/A'I __ :_.____......., .... ...1 ... 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 

Timothy Matovina, associate pro­fessor oftheology at Notre Dame and director of the Cushwa Center for American Catholicism, spoke on the topic, "Guadalupe and the Crucified One: Hispanic Ways of Being Catholic," to continue Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality annual fall lec­ture series, 'There is more than one way to be Catholic." 
Matovina shared his experience of how the Hispanic culture practices the Catholic fu.ith. He said he became aware of one difference in religious expectations just from delivering lec­tures. 
"I got used to members of the audi­ence coming up to me and telling me how I had a good insight or had made 
!!Jit en-moth-inn' in .o. .............. , 
way," he said. "Hispanic audiences tend to tell me that I have touched their heart" 
Matovina noted the Hispanic emphasis on the crucifixion of Christ and the Vtrgin Mary, specifically Our Lady of Guadalupe. He also shared an offiervation that there is a differ­ence in the focus of spirituality. 
Matovina noticed this when he attended an English Mass and then a Spanish Mass in Texas on Easter Sunday. The difference became apparent when the English Mass clooed with the song, "Jesus Christ Is Risen Today," putting the emphasis on triumphant rejoicing. The Spanish Mass clooed with the song, 'We Are a People on the March," emphasizing that although Christ has risen and redemption is in sight, we are not there yet. 
In his time spent in San Antonio, 
1\lfqtr«m-..-. ....1""" ... .rt....."""'.... ~..J 1!_.,.,4-\... .... ~...:1 t'h.a 

Thursday, September 25, 2003 The Observer + NEWS page 9 



Oil industry wants changes 
Auociated Press 
WASHINGTON -While still pn~ssing the need for more drilling. the oil industry is now saying that conservation and grnater energy efficiency hold tlw biggest immediate poten­tial for preventing natural gas prices from skyrocketing. 
A report by a committee of oil and gas executives who advise the Energy Department says natural gas prices could average between $5 and $7 per 1,000 cubic feet for years to come without significant advances in energy efficiency. 
The spot price for natural gas Wednesday was $4.58 per 1,000 cubic feet, about 50 per­cent higher than a year ago. 
"Th11re has been a funda­mental shift in the natural gas supply-demand balance that has resulted in higher prices and volatility in recent years," the National Petroleum Council says in the report to bn released Thursday by Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham. 
"In the very near-term, reducing dnmand is the pri­mary means to keep the mar­ket in balance because of the lead times required to bring new supply to market," according to an 89-page exec­utive summary of the report obtained by The Associated Press. 
To cut consumption, the council recommends updating building codes and equipment standards and implementing rules that would encourage power providers to use their most efficient plants. 
Without significant advances in energy efficiency, the coun­try's annual demand will rise above 30 trillion cubic feet by 2025, up from about 23 tril­lion cubic feet today, the coun­cil says. But it adds that even with advances in conservation, North America's natural gas resources will be insufficient to meet demand in the long term. 
Production from traditional 
U.S. and Canadian basins has reached a plateau, the report says. noting that volume from North American natural gas fields is declining at an annual rate of more than 25 percent, requiring that many more wells to be drilled every year just to keep supplies steady. 
To address supply problems, the council wants the Bush administration to relax onshore and offshore drilling restrictions, and to encourage natural gas imports. 
The report comes when the nation's supply of natural gas is tight and the government is bracing consumers to expect higher home heating costs this winter. Many of the issues raised in the report are being debated by Congress as it attempts to pass broad energy legislation. 
Abraham asked the council in March 2002 to advise him on what industry and the gov­ernment could do to guarantee "adequate and reliable sup­plies" of natural gas. While a similar study was prepared in 1999, Abraham said substan­tial changes had occurred in natural gas markets since then and further analysis was needed. 
The issue added attention last spring when natural gas in storage dropped to its low­est level since the government began keeping records in 1976 
and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan warned that prolonged high 
prices  would  damage  the  
economy,  par:ticularly  the  
manufacturing sector.  

More than 60 million Americans heat their homes with natural gas, up from about 48 million in 1987, and 90 percent of all new power plants use this fuel, which has been embraced because it burns cleaner than coal and can be found domestically in large quantities. 
The report also argues that environmental laws requiring power companies to add expensive pollution controls when modernizing their plants only discourages investment in fuel-efficient technology. 
Another solution, the report says, is improving access to a growing global market in nat­ural gas through liquefied nat­ural gas, or LNG. 
It recommends a quicker permitting process for new LNG terminals, where tankers from around the world can bring the icy-cold fuel to be regasified and pumped into pipelines. There are just four such facilities nationwide. 
The council also wants moratoriums lifted on drilling off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts and more access to energy-rich lands in the Rocky Mountain region. It also endorses the proposal now before Congress, for a new natural gas pipeline from Alaska to the lower 48 states. 
The report's authors includ­ed Burlington Resources Inc. CEO Bobby Shackouls, Energy Undersecretary Robert Card and Exxon Mobil Corp. CEO Lee Raymond. 
Study Abroad Fair 


at Saint Mary's College Presented by the Center for Women's InterCttltural Leadership, and the Office oflntemational and InterCultural Learning 
Tuesday, September 30th, 4:00-6:00 p.m. in the WesfWing ofthe Noble FamilyDining Hall. 
Learn about any and every abroad program currently offered at Saint Mary's College, including academic year and summer programs. Plus, learn about the new programs to be announced this year. Additionally, speak to students who have previously studied abroad and listen to their exciting stories. 
Financial Aid will be available to answer questions regarding how to make the dream of studying abroad areality! 
Both Saint·Maryrs andNotre Dame students are welcome, especially the Class bf 2006 & 2007. 
Lecture criticizes IN environment 
By MATT SMEDBURG 
News Writer 

Betty Balanoff addressed the topic of "Environmental Justice in Northern Indiana" Wednesday in the Hesburgh Center auditori­um as part of a Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies lec­
tures  series  entitled  
"Environmental  Justice:  
Grassroots Voices.  

Balanoff is a retired historian who has organized efforts to increase responsibility by indus­trial sites in the industry-heavy South Shore area. I Ier organiza­tion, the Coalition for a Clean Environment (CCE). is currently engaged in work with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers, who are under contract to dredge the highly polluted Shipping Canal and manage the Confined Disposal Facility (CDF), both in East Chicago, Ind. 
The CCE aims to ensure that projects are planned and carried out with regard to good public health and 
sound policy for the future.  "It is imperative  the need for trained scientists  to  be  
Balanoff said  that we find safe  involved  in  such  
that four major industrial cities -Gary, East Chicago, Hammond and  and useful ways to both protect them and the industries themselves."  "urban environ­mentaiL'it" etlorts. She emphasized that "if the people who live in these  
Whiting ­ span  areas, who depend  
most of the pol­lution problem  Betty Balanoff  upon this industry for their livelihood.  
of  northern  historian  are  not  to  be  
Indiana. Each has its own par- destroyed by the waste which is  

ticular challenges: Gary, for being produced. it is imperative example, has a minority popula­that we find safe and useful ways tion of 95 percent which is suffer­to both protect them and the ing under the sharp decline in industries themselves." steel production, a historic staple She called on engineers to of the Gary economy. Whiting, develop safer equipment for haz­alternatively, is dominated by the ardous purposes, on chemists to BP-Amoco refinery. It has find ways to better monitor plant remained in better economic emissions, and on lawyers to help shape regarding pollution prob­defend the workers and citizens lems, which are primarily petro­often pitted against closely linked leum-related, as opposed to air­businesses and governments. borne toxins and sludge-dump­ing. Contact Matt Smedberg at 
Much of the campaigning done smedbcrg.l@nd.edu 
by the CCE and similar groups centers around the human toll of carelessness and corner-cutting when toxic chemicals are involved. 
Balanoff recounted her story of turning into a medical researcher when fighting to block the con­version of a sulphuric acid recy­cling plant within a few blocks of large numbers of low-income housing units into an incincera­tor for general toxic waste. 
She knew that cancer-report­ing methods were woefully inad­equate in her area, and so she and her task force gathered data on cancer incidence in the popu­lation immediately surrounding the plant, in the end demonstrat­ing an incidence of cancer more than three times the normal rate. 
She also mentioned instances of prohibitively rare forms of cancer striking repeatedly in areas exposed to certain toxins; multiple cases of a fonn of juve­nile brain cancer which has an incidence of only a few in the United States every year were reported subsequent to abuses by a chemical production plant. 
Balanoff stressed 


THE 0BSERVIR 





IEWPOINT
Page 10 Thursday, September 25, 2003 


Pop quiz: How is Jesus depicted in the Quran? 
(a) 
He is not mentioned at all. 

(b) 
He is praised as a high prophet. 


(c) He is criticized and Muhammad is lauded instead as being divine. 
(d) He is hailed as the Son of God. 
While many may think that the Quran bears no commonalities with Christianity and the Bible, we Andrew may be sur­DeBerryprised to learn that the Quran not only discuss­ND Changing es Jesus many Times times but also gives him a role of high honor, though only as a prophet. Who is the Islamic Jesus, and how are the Quran and the Bible related? 
Jesus is one in a succession of highly revered prophets, including Abraham and Moses, in the Quran. The Quran, which is broken into 114 Surahs (chapters) and verses, describes Jesus, miracles (5:110) and his special relationship as "the word" and "the spirit of God" (4:171). Muslims believe Christ was taken alive into heaven and will return at Judgement Day (4:159). 
The Quran also tells how the Lord silenced Zechariah as a sign that his wife would have a son even in their old age (19:2). The son's name in the Quran is Yahya; in the Gospel it is John the Baptist (Luke 1:5). 
Maryam (Mary) also has a special role in Islam. The Nineteenth Surah bears her name and describes how the Angel Gabriel announced her vir­gin birth of Jesus (19:16). 
While there are some initially striking similarities between the Quran and the Bible, they are fol­lowed by some stark differences. The main difference between Christianity and Islam is the belief in Jesus' divinity. Islamic belief is that God would never take a son (19;35). The Quran states explicitly that Jesus was not the Son of God and calls against the idea of Trinity (4:171). Also significant is the Quranic claim that Jesus was not crucified and that it was only made to appear so (4:157). 
The Quran also says that during his birth, Jesus talked to Mary to encourage her through the labor pains and told her to shake a palm tree to get dates for eating (19:22). 
Muslims believe that God's word was given intact to Jesus and the other prophets but that the Bible has been corrupted over time, whereas the Quran has remained the true word of God. 
The Quran itself was revealed through Muhammad. He was known as a very kind man who did not prac­tice idolatry like those in his city of Mecca. When reflecting one night in a cave at the age of 30, the Angel Gabriel appeared and commanded Muhammad, who was illiterate, to speak, saying "Recite in the name of your Lord who created mankind out of a mere bloodclot" (96:1). This was the first of many verses that were revealed to Muhammad until his death at age 63 in 632. 
The Quran actually seldom men­tions Muhammad. 
The conflict in the Middle 
Most knowl­ignorance cannot extinguish edge about East will end only when the hope to be found in Muhammad we bring our political building relationships. · has been Professor Joseph Amar noted
interactions to the per­
passed that there are many cultures 
through sonal, human level where Muslims and 
Hadith, tradi­tions or say­ings of Muhammad that are received as religious law and moral guidance. Muhammad is not attributed with divinity but is regarded as the seal of prophets, the last one to come until Hesurrection Day (33:40). 
In this discussion, one must be sure to include Judaism. Judaism, Christianity and Islam are regarded together as "the religions of the book." Despite their differences, the three faiths share many common virtues. 
Followers are to extend this com­passion to others. The 106th Surah directs believers to show neighborly charity, to care for the needy, and to feed the hungry. 
Islam places a special exclusivity on God, praising his oneness and power, and declaring His worthiness of believers and unhindered, peace­ful submission. Believers are to have 
OBSERVER POLL 

Are you in favor of a smoke-free campus, including outside buildings and on the quads? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
an intimate relationship with God in their heart. 
The Quran continuously praises God's compassion: "[with your spous­es] you may find serenity and dwell in tranquility, and He has set love and mercy between your hearts. Surely in this are signs for people who think and contemplate" (30:21). The 114 Surahs each open with. "In the name of God, the merciful, the compassionate." 
The recent academic convocation raised intellectual discussion about Middle Eastern and U.S. cultures. Our understanding of Islam is partic­ularly key as the world's second­largest faith with 1.5 billion, or 19.6 percent, of the world's population as followers. Search through an online Quran at http://www.princeton.edu./ %7Ehumcomp/qurans.html. 
Samuel Huntington, author of "The Clash of Civilizations?". suggests that conflict with the Middle East will end only when we bring our political 
interactions to the personal, 
human level. Our fear and 
Christians have lived togeth­

er in harmony. Ours should be no exception. 
Class of 2007. you in particular are in a special position to change our times. As a whole, your class is more knowledgeable about these issues than any in our school's history. 
Our generation is inheriting a world where globalization must be renewed by the touch of humanity. We must be daring enough in our faith to embrace relationships in a new, transforming way and to find the God that only others can show us. 
Andrew DeBerry is a fifth-year senior studying aerospace engineer­ing and minoring in Middle Eastern Studies. He can be reached at ade­berry@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Civilization is built on a number ofultimate principles ... respect for human life, the pun­ishment ofcrimes against property and per­sons, the equality ofall good citizens before the law ... or, in a word, justice. " 
Max Nordau Zionist statesman 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 25, 2003 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Debating president's speech 
Last year at this time, President George Bush deliv­ered a speech acclaimed even by the amnesic media as a powerful indictment of Iraq, and of the United Nations itself. 
Yesterday, the president outdid himself. Most major news edito­rials, and even the "stories" themselves, portray the president's speech as something ranging from "puz­zling" to outright "failure." 
It is dif­ficult to compre­hend how such important statements as the presi­dent made yesterday, could go unrec­ognized by so many. David Frum of the National Review probably provides the best answer: The press is "disap­pointed because Bush neither apologized to the United Nations ... nor pleaded for its support." 
Prejudiced disppointment is seemingly the only way the talking heads could have so spectacularly failed to grasp the import of Bush's words. David Frum got it: The presi­dent rejected outright any notion that he made the 
wrong decision when he invaded Iraq. He dis­pelled any suspi­cion that he may feel chided by events in Iraq and interna­tional oppo­sition. or that his 
willing­ness to carry on 
the war might be faltering. The war on terror­ism con­
tinues. Bush is undeterred in that con­viction. The editori­als variously 

describe the speech as "mild" or "perfunctory." Did 
they read it? Speaking of terrorists and suicide bombers who target relief workers and innocents, "have no place in any religious faith ... and they should have no friends in this chamber." He looked the General Assembly in the eye when he said that. 
"Between those who seek order and those who spread chaos ... there is no neutral ground. All governments that support terror are complicit in a war against civilization." He looked Syria, Iran, North Korea and France in the eyes when he said that. The presi­dent repeated almost verba­tim the words from his first war speech and his first State of the Union Address. You are either with us or against us. We have not wavered from the determination, to enforce the line which we have con­sciously drawn in the sand. 
The fact that most nations in the world. and all nations in the Middle East, refuse to stand squarely on our side or either side, only reinforces our determination to exact from them the consequences of their choices. "The former regimes of Afghanistan and Iraq knew these alternatives, and made their choices." Don't tell me that didn't stiff­en a few spines, or for those lacking, cause a distinct tin­gling. 
Despite all the criticism, all the opposition, the president remains resolute. Like it or no, that was a rousing speech. 
Padraic McDermott senior offcampus Sept. 24 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

U-WIRE 
Conservatism 
• 
growmg on campuses 
At long last: Liberals and conservatives achieving something 
together. While going about it in two entirely difl'erent man­
ners, conservatives and liberals alike are working to nurture 
conservatism on college campuses nationwide. 
Most people agree that universities are notoriously liberal. However, there are many campuses with such left-wing political cultures Nicole that they actually may be hurting their Markleln cause. Students who once thought that they were liberal before coming to school find themselves appearing to be The Wisconsin rather conservative in comparison to Badger Herald the other so-called liberals on campus. 
As one of my left-of-left friends said, "I consider myself pretty damn liberal, but the people on this campus are just fanatical." 
And so the backlash ensues. 
When moderate liberals come to campus, it may be hard for them to identify with supposedly like-minded classmates who have become extreme in their liberal views. It makes finding a niche in the campus political culture more difficult for these students. If they can't identify with other liberals, whom can they identify with? As a result, these students may begin to gravitate toward more conservative groups, sometimes even outright Republican organizations. 
However, these conservative groups have gone through a notable image transformation. 
College Republicans are no longer the loafer-wearing frater­nity jerks that they were once stereotyped to be. And, speak­ing for myself, I don't own a single string of pearls. 
More interestingly, campus conservatives have, overall, become more moderate. Almost any of these students would bristle at the stigmas of racism and homophobia that many liberals use to describe them. Their role models have changed from such extreme right wingers as Pat Buchanan to the more moderate conservatives like Dinesh D'Souza. In fact, this is one aspect that greatly attributes to the growth of groups like College Republicans, Young Americans for Freedom and Young Republican Professionals. 
Members of these groups, united in their opposition to the extreme liberals on their campuses, can be found on the entire conservative spectrum. 
Significantly, such clubs now include a strong delegation of women and pull most of their intense conservative support from the working class. 
For this reason, college conservatism is making a big appearance across the nation, even at such liberal strong­holds as Berkeley and our own alma mater. 
The conservative voice is starting to be heard ever more loudly as students start their own conservative newspapers and organize rallies and demonstrations on campuses. 
For instance, the conservative voice on the liberal campus of Bucknell University in Pennsylvania has gone from being non-existent to being heard loud and clear every day in the school's conservative paper, The Counterweight. What remains most important is attracting students that are willing to put the time and effort into getting their voice to be heard on campus, and an overwhelming number of students are saying that they are ready for the challenge. 
Take, for instance, our own UW-Madison College Republicans, which has consistently drawn 90-plus students to its meetings this year. One just doesn't see that happening in political clubs of other ideologies here. 
Likewise, the Berkeley College Republicans are enjoying a membership of 500 students. 
However, this increase in conservatism doesn't mean that students are necessarily calling themselves right wing or Republican. While college students are keeping a "liberal" or "Democrat" label, conservative ideas and policies are becom­ing increasingly popular among them. Many students' views on issues like taxes and affirmative action give them a more conservative identity. The fight for campus conservatives is not in convincing their peers to share their ideology. but rather to help them realize the fact that they already personi­fy it. 
No matter how you feel about it, the fact is that conser­vatism is growing and becoming much more visible on cam­puses nationwide. So, yes, you will still hear conservatives grumbling about the liberal universities that they attend. However, you are more likely to also see these students work­ing hard to demonstrate that there are, believe it or not, two sides to campus political culture. 
This column first appeared Sept. 24 in The Wisconsin Badger Herald and appears here courtesy of U-Wlre. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 25, 2003 
Late-night heavyweights s 
From Letterman to Lena, Scene offers the insomniacs 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 

The college circadian rhythm tends to be a bit out of whack, meaning that night no longer carries with it a respon­sibility of sleep. Without parental con­straints or curfews constantly looming, students tend to return to their inherent animal instincts and become nocturnal. 
• Suddenly, 2 a.m. seems like a reason­able, if not early, bedtime and pulling all-nighters is a badge of honor. Rarely does the real world acknowledge col­lege sleeping patterns, and this means that your vampiric ability to stay awake all night and sleep all day will be use­less when you don't have finals to cram for or parties to attend. What is there to do when the world sleeps? Aside from returning to the drudgery of study, not much. Fortunately, television has heard the cries of disgruntled college students and insomniacs everywhere and answered with quality, late-night programming and an increase in the number of witch­ing-hour talk shows. No longer is mid­night the entertainment monopoly of Johnny Carson; it has grown into a full­fledged comedy democracy composed of comic hosts such as Jay Leno, David Letterman, Jon Stewart, Conan O'Brien and Craig Kilborn. Considering this newfound variety of late-night enter­tainment, the fact that the human body does need a minimal amount of sleep to survive, and the unfortunate fact that most of these shows are on at the same time, it can be difficult to experience all of these late-night personalities, their special guests and their unique brand of risque late-night comedy. 
This article is a condensation of hours 

and hours of television, making it con­venient for the average watcher to either choose which late-night show to spend their precious time watching or be well-informed enough to pretend to be one of the other bleary-eyed, border­line insomniac college students when, in reality, you go to bed peacefully at 9 
p.m. every night. 

So where does one begin the journey into late-night talk shows? Is it really as simple as picking up the channel chang­er and proceeding to flip mindlessly? Well, only if someone has a great deal of time and patience. Late-night is no longer the simple, friendly landscape it once was; there is now a plethora of shows, on multiple channels, with end­less gimmicks, sidekicks and all sorts of flashy tricks to win Nielson ratings. 
Late-night talk shows have a long and sordid history, beginning with programs that were not much more than televised vaudeville routines. Steve Allen first used the format that is seen today, but the most famous innovator of night tele­vision was, of course, Johnny Carson. Whether the qu'ality has gone up or down from the era of Carson ·is some­thing few college students could really debate; most weren't alive during many of his broadcast years. It is very clear, though, that the late-night playing field has expanded greatly. 
Now it seems that anyone who's any­one either has a talk show on the air or has a cancelled one in his or her past. The typical format of Monologue, First Guest, Skit, Second Guest, Band, Finale is still used by most shows, but a few have worked to change it or have cho­sen an entirely new means of present­ing entertainment. 
The best way to evaluate the merit of 
these shows may be every college stu­dent's old friend, the frequent savior of essays, Compare-and­Contrast. For the sake of simplicity, and because there is only so long one can read about talk shows, we won't look at every late-night show. Only the biggest, best or at least most notorious makes the list:. "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno" on NBC, "Late Night with David Letterman" on CBS, "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" on Comedy Central, "The Late Late Show with Craig Kilborn" on CBS, and "Late Night with Conan O'Brien" on NBC. Tom Green was considered in this array of hosts, but his talk show, like so many before him, was can-celled. Jimmy Kimmel and Carson Daly both have their own late night shows as well, but they, like Tom Green, have yet to show their ability to survive in this cutthroat time slot. 
Before we start, here's a very brief description of each show/personality for those readers who may not have ever stayed up that late before. Jay Leno took over for Johnny Carson and has an impressive car collection and is famous for his large chin. David Letterman was unhappy that Leno got Johnny's old job, had a heart attack and is from Indianapolis, Ind. Jon Stewart, former stand-up comic who took over "The Daily Show" from Craig Kilborn, wa,s a professional tap dancer with the New Jersey Soft Shoe Club. Craig Kilborn left "The Daily Show" for his own epony­mous late-night show, played college basketball and was in the movie Old School. Conan O'Brien went to Harvard and wrote for both "Saturday Night Live" and "The Simpsons." Now that we know who these hosts are, we can begin to compare. 
The natural place to start the compar­isons may be at the beginning of each show: the opening monologue. This seg­ment lets the host make a few jokes, introduce his band and/or sidekick, mention the guests are for the evening, and then make a few more jokes. This round has to go to the heavyweights of late-night: Leno and Letterman. They have plenty of experience under their belts, and both have almost perfected the monologue format. They rarely deviate from the jokes-introductions­"go to commercial" format, but it works for them. The other hosts aren't quite in the same league, but they are by no means all failures. Conan doesn't quite have the ease of the other hosts, but he does win points for creativity and a like­able nature. Jon Stewart has the imped­iment of not really doing an "opening monologue" in the strictest sense, but instead presents the day's headlines, so he is, in a way, disqualified. Craig Kilborn is the late night greenhorn, so he hasn't quite mastered the subtle intricacies that differentiate the good opening monologue from, well, his own introductory speeches. 
Bandleaders are key for a late-night talk show because the host has to have an actual person to tell jokes to, and this person must be someone who is 
Late Night 

6:00-6:30  TheDe:  
with J~  
10:30-11:30  The To  
withJc  
Late S]  
David  
11:30-12:30  Late L«  
withe  

12:30-1:30 LateN Conan 

required to laugh at said jokes. Paul Shaffer, David Letterman's band leader, is possibly the most famous of the talk show musicians, but famous doesn't always equal the best. He causes very polar reactions in viewers; either you love him or you hate him. Leno's band leader, Kevin Eubanks, isn't particularly memorable, but he does fulfill the duties of the bandleader and that's all he really has to do. Conan O'Brien emerges as a player in this competition by virtue of the fact that his band leader: Max Weinberg, is a member of Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band. Conan is the only host with some band street credit in his corner, and he gets an added bonus in the fact that Max is funny. Jon Stewart and "The Daily Show" are, once again, left out from the 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, September 25, 2003 
Page 13 
1uared off to find best host 
co-mpare-and-contrast guide to after-hour talk shows 
TV Sho-ws 
ily Show Comedy n Stewart Central 
night Show 
NBC

yLeno 
ow with 
CBS

Letterman 
te Show 
CBSraig Kilborn 

ight with 
NBC

O'Brien 
competition because the show has no band. Some credit must be given to the program, though, because it has a cool theme song. It isn't a good sign when the leader of the band is not only not memorable but is not to be found on the Internet as well, so Craig Kilborn is not doing too well in the bandlcader catego­ry. In the case of the band leaders, it comes down to David Letterman and Conan O'Brien, with Letterman winning the most recognizable and O'Brien tak­ing the prize for best overall band leader. 
Special segments arc the meat and potatoes of the late-night talk show, as there has to be something slightly inter­esting to fill the gaps between the celebrity guests. Leno requests that viewers send in humorous news clip­pings, which he presents on the show. This works well, because the jokes basi­cally tell themselves, so everyone wins. Jay also has a segment where he asks simplistic, obvious questions and records the answers people on the street give. Funny, yes, but it is also a sad commentary on America's educa­tion system and the basic knowledge that the general population possesses. 
Letterman may possess one of the most notorious segments, his infamous Top Ten List, but he also has his weekly clips roasting daytime talk show thera­pist Dr. Phil and stupid human and pet tricks. Conan O'Brien has a surprising array of stupid, yet brilliant, segments, including Triumph the Comic Insult Dog, In the Year 2000, If They Mated, Clutch Cargo and Pimpbot 5000. Jon Stewart only really. has news segments on "The Daily Show," but with the dis­tinct difference marking it from real news of being intentionally funny. The news segments usually focus on some strange and obscure situation or indi­vidual and making their story sound eerily like the real news, and there are also daily segments like Lewis Bla::k's "Back on Black" or the "Moment of Zen." Kilborn's show has a segment entitled "5 Questions," which originated during his stint on "The Daily Show" in which he asks five random questions to his guests. He also reviews movie posters, and has a troupe of actors for skits that act as filler between guests. Looking at the shows in terms of their random skits, Leno and Letterman both have a solid repertoire, but Conan wins this round by virtue of the sheer num­ber of memorable skits and because he is not afraid to do stupid and juvenile things to himself or others on his show. Maybe that's what they teach you at Harvard. 
The final factor we'll look at is the· guests on each show. It isn't really effective to look at who has "better" guests, as celebrities are by their very nature media hounds and will go on anything if they have a movie to pro­mote, so instead we'll focus on the interview style of each host. Leno plays the personable, clean-cut host who 

Courtesy ot www.cbs.com Craig Kilborn, formerly of "The Dally Show," left Comedy Central to seek his for­tune as a late-late-night talk show host. His most famous bit Is "5 Questions." 
shies away from really controversial questions, but in a way that means the celebrities feel com fort­able on the s h 0 w . Letterman is equally per­sonable, but has a little more edge, so his questions are a little hit-and-miss. He has some truly memo­r a b l e moments with guests, including Madonna swearing on air, Drew Barrymore stripping and Farrah Fawcett ram­bling incoherently. In this respect, he has a huge advantage. Conan will do anything for a laugh, including trading clothes with a much smaller Roberto Begnini, but this can in a way distract from the guests themselves. Conan is the focus of his show, not his guests. Jon Stewart's interviews are smart and funny and are elevated from the typical banter of Hollywood in that he gets to talk about politics and gets actual politi­cians on the show. This may not always guarantee a laugh, but it is always fas­cinating and proves that some people who may appear to have no sense of humor are hilari­ous, like Former Senator Bob Dole. Craig Kilborn uses his "5 Questions" segment to his advantage, but his lower position on the late-night totem pole does limit his roster of big name stars, so he simply can't compete with the other hosts. Letterman and Stewart take the cake as far as guests, though; Letterman for his memorable past incidents and Stewart for the sheer variety of guests that differ­entiates his show from the others. 
In looking over this an-alysis, it becomes clear that Leno and Letterman are still at the top of the talk show food chain, but they have a few new 
boys, namely Conan O'Brien and Jon Stewart, nipping at their heels. Craig 


Kilborn must pay his dues in the late, late time slot before he can really be a competitor for the big-time ratings. Ultimately, though, the real choice is much simpler than picking between shows. It really boils down to: Is this worth missing sleep over? I only hope this analysis can help lead you to the right choice. Good luck, and good night. 
Contact Molly Griffin at 
mgriffin@nd.edu 

Thursday, September 25, 2003 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Cubs tnaintain Central lead with 8-0 drubbing of Reds 
Associated Press Philadelphia 6-5 Wednesday innings streak to 14. night to take a three-game lead In his previous start, the right­in the NL wild-card race with hander pitched a three-hit 
CINCINNATI -Sammy Sosa, only four games to go. shutout to beat Florida on Sept. Shawn Estes and the Chicago Phillies third baseman Placido 19. Cubs turned off the television Polanco scrambled to avoid Ortiz, who leads the NL in and kept themselves in control of being beaned by a broken bat on wins, walked four and struck out the NL Central. a run-scoring single. Florida's two. He also singled, drove in a 
Sosa tied Mickey Mantle for Jeff Conine homered for the sec­run and scored another. 1Oth place on the career home ond night in a row, Juan Atlanta's Rafael Furcal went 3­run list, Estes pitched a shutout Encarnacion also homered and for-4. He had an RBI single and and the Cubs rolled past the Reds Josh Beckett took a two-hit scored twice. Gary Sheffield, 8-0 Wednesday night to preserve shutout into the eighth inning. Andruw Jones and Robert Fick their one-game division lead. each drove in two runs. 
A few hours before the first Houston 2, San Francisco 1 pitch, Cubs players were The Houston Astros were on NY Mets 5, Pittsburgh 3 engrossed in the bank of TV sets the brink and they knew it. Then Steve Trachsel won his career­in the visitors' clubhouse. They Jose Vizcaino came up with a big high 16th game, helped by Timo muttered curses when second­hit that kept them from dropping Perez's three hits and two RBis, place Houston rallied for a 2-1 everi farther back in the NL as the New York Mets beat the victory over San Francisco, Central. Pittsburgh Pirates 5-3 on meaning Chicago would have to Vizcaino pinch hit in the sev­Wednesday night. win again to remain one game enth inning and singled home Trachsel (16-1 0) pitched six ahead. two runs to lead Houston over a solid innings, allowing two runs 
Atlanta outfielder Chipper Jones hits a double against the
Pressure? Not with thousands lineup of San Francisco substi­and six hits as the Mets won con­
Montreal Expos Thursday night. The Braves won 9-1.
of Cubs fans in the stands and tutes 2-1 Wednesday. secutive games for the first time the major leagues' most gener­"If we lost today, we were in since completing a three-game ous defense on the field. serious trouble, but we live to sweep of Atlanta on Sept. 3. innings and the St. Louis he was 2-0. 
Chicago took advantage of fight another day," Craig Biggio Trachsel, who lost to Montreal Cardinals staved ofT elimination Morris allowed three runs on three errors by the majors' worst said. "Obviously, that was a huge 1-0 in his previous start, struck with an 8-4 victory over seven hits in seven innings. He defense, fulfilling the first hit." out four and walked two in front Milwaukee on Wednesday night. struck out three, helping the requirement for a playoff con­Houston, which remained one of 22,134 at Shea Stadium, The Cardinals stayed 3 1/2 Cardinals go 13-3 -against tender -beat up on the down­game behind the division-leading which appeared to be half that games behind Chicago in the NL Milwaukee this season. trodden. The Cubs finish with Chicago Cubs, stopped a four­full. Central race with three games to Jason Isringhausen got five one more game in Cincinnati, game losing streak, which had Mike Stanton pitched the ninth go. The Cubs, who have four outs for his 20th save. and three at Wrigley Field tied a season high. A defeat for his fifth save in seven games left, beat Cincinnati 8-0. Scott Podsednik hit a solo against the lowly Pittsburgh would have dropped the Astros chances. St. Louis won for the seventh homer ofT St. Louis reliever Mike Pirates. two games back with four to Perez went 3-for-4 with two time in eight games. Milwaukee DeJean in the eighth, making it 
The Cubs haven't been alone in play. doubles for the Mets, who finished 31-50 at Miller Park, 6-4. first place this late in the season "This was huge for us. It was snapped an eight-game losing tying last season's mark for the Drew, who had three hits and since 1989, the last time they make or break for us," said Billy streak with a 1-0 win Tuesday worst home record in team histo­scored three times, hit an RBI won a division title. They haven't Wagner, who closed with a per­night and have won just three ry. double during a two-run ninth. been to the playoffs since they fect ninth for his 44th save in 47 times in their last 11 games. Fernando Vina was ejected for Matt Kinney (1 0-13) allowed went as the NL wild card in chances. New York got to Jeff D'Amico arguing a called third strike in five runs on seven hits in five 1998. (9-16) right away, taking a 1-0 the eighth inning. Cardinals innings. He walked four and 
Atlanta 9, Montreal 1 lead in the first on Mike Piazza's manager Tony La Russa, who struck out two. Florida 6, Philadelphia 5 Russ Ortiz allowed three hits in run-scoring groundout. Roger starts a two-game suspension Kinney is 0-4 in four career 
The Florida Marlins kept five scoreless innings to win his Cedeno hit a leadoff double and Friday for recent remarks about starts against the Cardinals. Last swinging, and by the middle of 21st game and Atlanta beat the went to third on Jay Bell's flyout umpire Jerry Crawford, came Thursday, he lost 13-0 when St. the game the Philadelphia Montreal Expos 9-1 Wednesday to center. Piazza followed with a out to get Vina away from plate Louis scored seven runs on 10 Phillies were literally ducking out night in the Braves' final home grounder to short that scored umpire Matt Hollowell. hits in 4 2-3 innings. of the way. game of the regular season. Cedeno. Morris (11~8) has dominated Drew gave the Cardinals a 5-3 
All that's left is the knockout Ortiz (21-7), who will be the the Brewers throughout his lead with a two-run homer in the punch from the Marlins. who Braves' starter Tuesday when St. Louis 8, Milwaukee 4 career, going 10-2 with a 2.37 fifth. Orlando Palmeiro walked held on during a harrowing Atlanta opens its first-round NL J.D. Drew homered, Matt ERA against them. In three starts and one out later, Drew hit his eighth inning and beat slumping playoff series, ran his scoreless Morris pitched seven solid against Milwaukee this season, 15th home run. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
3 bdrm home w/fenced yd, hrdwd  
floors. Very clean, quaint AppL incl.  
NOTICES  WANTED  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  last mo.  PERSONAL  
10-mo lease. 417 Napoleon. 1/2 miL  
from ND. Call 299-9428 Graduate  
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT  students,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU­ SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  faculty or staff.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
DENTS. COM  Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  you love needs confidential support  
a few good men and women who  NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­ or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  wish to work in a FUN and fast pace  ELED, FULLY EQUIPPED.  1525  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For  
SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS ALL  environment A new store will be opening up in early October. We  $94,500. Email: Williamson.1 @ nd.edu  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  TICKETS  more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  
THE FUN & ALL THE PROTEC- have aggressive pay. Hrs from  has space available for football/par- 
TION AMERICAN EXPRESS  11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers  Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to  en! wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  Spring"Break 2004 with  
WORLDWIDE GUARANTEED  and mgmt available.  ND. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage.  full hot breakfast, $80-$115,  StudentCity.com and Maxim  
BEST BUY 1 FREE TRIP FOR  $107,000. (574) 273-1666  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  ND FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL.  Magazine! Get hooked up with Free  
EVERY 10 PAID OR CA$H START- Call Andy at 574-277-0850 for inter- Toll Road, Exit #107,  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR  Trips, Cash and VIP status as a  
lNG WITH FIRST BOOKING MAKE  view.  IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUX­ TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of  
YOUR SPRING BREAK  
 URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build  1 -800-418-9487.  the hottest destinations. Book early  
EXXTREME EXXTREME VACA- Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO  your dream home next to  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS  
TIONS, INC. 1-800-336-2260  exper. required. All looks & ages.  Notre Dame. A limited number of  FREEDOM! Rent the best furnished  -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378  and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee!  
Earn $100-$300 a day.  home sites are available. For more  houses, prime locations, sec. sys- PM 288-2726  To reserve online or view our Photo  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com  terns, sand V-ball, wash/dry call  Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com  
&Beach Trips on sale now!  1-888-820-0167, ext U187.  Greg 233-9947  ND FOOTBAI,.L TICKETS FOR  or Call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!  
www.sunchase.com or call  CLASSIC '65" STUDEBAKER  SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288 ­ 
1-800-SUNCHASE today!  SOCCER & VOLLEYBALLREFER­ CRUISER RUNS GREAT! 83,000  B&B NEAR CAMPUS FOR IRISH  2726  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
EES-needed for south side elemen­ mi $3,900  HOME GAMES.  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica,  tary school, located near Scottsdale  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  campus reps. Call for discounts:  
banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads  Mall on Miami Street. $30.00 per  call: 289-9351  CALL (574)288-5377.  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
Music 4609 Grape Rd  soccer game  
Mish, IN 2775038  TOPSFIELD CONDO FOR SALE.  DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 7  (574)232 -0964.  A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s  
$25.00 per VB match. Call291­ NICELY DECORATED 2 BED­ HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR THE  Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips,  
4200.  ROOM. ALL MAJOR APPLIANCES.  2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. WELL  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Meals &Parties sunsplashtours.com  
LOST & FOUND  A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED  10 MINS FROM CAMPUS. $69,900 299-7078  MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS 2,4,6,8 & 10 BEDROOM  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  or 1800-426-7710  
2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties  HOUSES-STUDENT NEIGHBOR­ JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  TRUE CHAMPIONS NEVER GIVE  
2 free trps high commission sun­ Beautiful3 bedroom, 1-1/2 bath  HOODS-SECURITY SYSTEMS­ NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­ UP WHEN THE GOING GETS  
splashtours.com 1800-426-771 0  ranch with 1800 sq. ft. Great  MAINTENANCE STAFF 24  BALL GAME  TOUGH. GO IRISHIII  
Found on Edison Pkwy near Main  Oakmont Park subdivision, close to  HOURS-WASHERS/DRYERS  
St. & Meijers. Intra to 3E Business  Guitarist, Bassist, or Drummer for a  ND. Corner of Cleveland and  CALL TODAY-HOUSES ARE  PLEASE CALL 674-6593.  I'll get you Eh, Steve, if it's the last  
Book w/ CD, Lt. blue hard drive  punk band. Influences range from  Juniper. 53122 Oakmont Central,  GOING FAST CONTACT KRAMER  thing I dooooooool  
case w/ green/navy trim, IBM hard  Green Day to Boy Sets Fire.  $123,685. For more info, call Peggy  574-315-5032 or 574-234-2434  Just Between You And Me, ADire  
drive labeled Homework, lntro to  Weissert, Cressy & Everett, GMAC,  ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR  Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs  Randy Robitaille -the man, the  
Computers Book. Call255-2952.  Contact JB at 634-3751  at 574-235-4039.  2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR  ONLY PLEASE PH:277-1659  myth, the legend.  

Thursday, September 25, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 
ministry.l@nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu
Campus Ministry C-M 
introducing 

Our new & improved website 
campusministry.nd.edu 
events calendar • daily reflections • retreat applications • mass schedules 
wh t' h 
friday 9.26 
Freshman Retreat #48 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
NDE Retreat #77 Fatima Retreat Center 
Sophomore Road Trip Destination:Vnknown 
sunday 9.28 
RCIA-Session 1o:oo a.m.-11:30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
monday 9.29 
Reflections on Asian American Catholicism by the Most Reverend Bishop Ignatius Wang 
4:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium 
5:15 p.m. Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
· 
tuesday 9.Jo 
Catechist Formation Class 5:00p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
Campus Bible Study 7:oo p.m. -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #2 
7:00 p.m. -8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
wednesday 10.01 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 8:oop.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 1o:oo p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
notre dame welcomes 
First Asian American Catholic Bishop The Most Reverend Bishop Ignatius Wang 
Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of San Francisco 
IV\()_nday, September 29 Reflections on His Personal journey and Asian American Catholicism 4:00 p.m. Jordan Auditorium 
followed by Mass in the Basilica at 5:15p.m. 
mass schedule 
Twenty-sixth Sunday of Ordinary Time 
basilica of the arouad campus sacred heart (every Sunday) 
Saturday Vigil Mass 1:30 p.m. s:oo p.m. Spanish Mass Rev. John E. Conley, c.s.c. 
St. Edward's Hall Chapel 
Sunday 
s:oo p.m. 1o:oo a.m. (Red Mass) 
Law School Mass Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy, 
Law School Chapel 
Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
7:00 p.m. 
11:45 a.m. 
MBA Mass Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 
OFFICE HOURS: Monday through-Friday'S a;m. to 5 p.m. 
CM WELCOME CENTER (room 111): Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
. " _...~_.._J~__.-'11-....._____,_ ------____,_ .. ----_j
• 

considerations... 
Theology on Tap 
A Priest, a Prof and a Student \Vall< into a bar... 
by lauren Willoughby Intern, Campus Ministry 
Everyone on this campus has questions. We have questions about our futures, about issues affecting our world, and about our faith. We want to know about God, about what our Church teaches, and about how we can incorporate that into our lives. There are many places we can look for answers, but sometimes this isn't easy. In class, it can be difficult to bring up issues that have a personal significance for us. We can be intimidated by the formal setting, by others in the class, or by the pressure to meet a professors' expectations. Sometimes class lessons don't get "off track" enough to address the things that we really want to know. 
Now there is something new, something different-a chance to ask the questions that we want to ask in a comfortable environment. How many deep and meaningful conversations have we had while simply relaxing with friends? It is in these personal chats that we get to talk about what it is that is important to us and ask the questions we really w<lnt to know. This is the basis for Theology on Tap. 
Theology on Tap is the chance to bring together students to address r.he important 
questions in our lives.  
It takes theology out of the classrooms and  Theology on Tap  
brings it to a more casual environment  begins Wednesday, October 1 @ 10 p.m.  
(Legends!).  It is an  Topic: Relationships at Notre Dame  
opportunity to hear about issues that are  Location: Legends  

relevant to young adults' lives and talk about them from a Catholic perspective. The format is simple-some time for socializing, a short talk by a dynamic speaker, and some discussion and goqd conversation afterwards. It's a place to find "straight talk, hard facts, and real answers" to the questions that are on our minds. 
Starting next Wednesday, Theology on Tap will come to Legends. We'll bring in speakers who are passionate and knowledgeable about meaningful topics. They will give a short talk and then open it up for questions. This is the chance to ask the hard questions that we have. It's not a classroom or lecture so there isn't any pressure to have the right answers. We can just ask whatever it is that is on our minds. Nobody is keeping track of grades or comments; it's just an opportunity to talk about important Issues. 
At the end of the evening, the discussions continue among everyone there. The speaker's topic is a built-in conversation starter for talking to new people and learning from each other. There is no way that the subjects can be exhausted in an hour so the conversations can and should continue long after the speaker's microphone turns off. Theology on Tap provides the tools and foundation to think about important issues. It is up to each of us to continue to think about and discuss the questions that we have about our Church, our faith, and our lives. 
Theology on Tap kicks off next Wednesday, October 1, in the club side of Legends. Come join us for free soda and appetizers as we have an open and honest discussion about relationships. Meet fellow students in a relaxed setting as we talk about those issues that are important to us and together find the answers that we are looking for. 
Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st: Nm 11:25 -29 2nd: Jas 5:1-6 Gospel: Mk 9:39-43, 45, 47-48 
I 

~----~­ --~-­ -----·~----------,  
page 16  The Observer + SPORTS  Thursday, September 25, 2003  
NFL  

Holcomb's status uncertain, Couch is ready to go 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate has agreed to streamline the U.S. Olympic Committee in hopes of bringing more accountability to the scandal-ridden organization. 
Legislation, approved by voice vote Thesday night, would dra­matically scale back the USOC's governing structure and provides more congressional oversight. 
Instead of 124 members, the new USOC board of directors would have nine members, plus the U.S. delegates to the International Olympic Committee and a representative from the Olympic Assembly. · 
"I believe the reforms in our bill today are necessary adjust­ments that will return the focus of the United States Olympic Committee to our original intent, our American athletes," said Sen. Ted Stevens, R-AJaska. 
Since the 2000 Games in Sydney, the Olympic committee has had four chief executives and three presidents and endured a bribery scandal involving Salt Lake City's 2002 Winter Olympics bid. 

Sen. Ben Nighthorse Campbell, R-Colo., had been holding up the legislation to get assurances that the USOC would keep its head­quarters in Colorado Springs, Colo. The legislation now requires the USOC to remain in Colorado Springs until the full board. 
A House subcommittee, mean­while, approved a similar bill Wednesday. Like the Senate measure, the bill advanced by the House Energy and Commerce Committee's trade and consumer protection sub­committee would cut the USOC board of directors to nine mem­bers plus the U.S. delegates to the IOC. 

Mariposa, we know your birthday was Tuesday, but today is your boozeday. 
Happy 21st! 
Love Alpha Gamma Drunk, Christina, and the Staff of Goodtime Charlie's 
BOOKMAKER'S PUB 
SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST RESTAURANT AND SPORTS BAR Serving Lunch, Dinner, and Late Night Snacks 
GREAT FUN-GREAT FOOD-''YOU BET" LARGEST BIG SCREENS IN THE AREA 
MON: TUES: WED: THURS: 
FRI: SAT: 
SUN: 

Monday night football on 15 screens 
99¢ specials Give away night, including game tickets 32 oz specials ~ 
Jason Sapen (also plays with Blarnrno) at 8pm Pre-game warm up Game day on 15 screens with live 
WAOR remotes 
Randy Martin and Daryl Buchanan NFL Sunday ticket 

Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Kelly Holcomb shuffied along like an old man, not an NFL starter. 
Wearing protective braces on both ankles, bound by yards of tape for support, Cleveland's quarterback walked slowly onto the practice field Wednesday. 
He didn't appear ready to play Sunday against Cincinnati, but after waiting seven years for a starting gig, Holcomb's not about to let a broken right leg and sprained left ankle stop him. 
''I'm playing," Holcomb said before practice. "I mean, you have to think that way." 
Last Sunday, Holcomb refused to give in to the pain and rallied the Browns to a 13-12 win at San Francisco while playing with a hairline fracture in lower leg. 
"It feels a lot better than I thought it would," Holcomb said before practice. "But I've still got a lot of healing to do." 
Escorted by two trainers, Holcomb was the final player to emerge from the locker room for Wednesday's workout. He began jogging but stopped after a few strides. 
After sitting on the bench for almost an entire career, he doesn't want any time off. 
''I'm a firm believer that if you start some­thing, you finish it," said Holcomb, who was 12-of-14 on Cleveland's game-winning, 91-yard drive to beat the 49ers. "If I get out there, I'm going to do my darndest." 
Holcomb is listed as questionable, but coach Butch Davis hasn't ruled him out, saying: "Let's wait and see." 
Holcomb won Cleveland's starting job over Tim Couch this summer after seven pro sea­sons as a backup, and he's not about to switch roles again unless he has to. 
If Holcomb can play this week, he knows the Bengals (0-3) won't take it easy on him just because he's hurt. 
"This is a collision sport," he said. "It's like chumming the water, when sharks get around it, they're going to go after it. You're going to take some licks, you just want it to hold up. If it does get hit, you want it to be healed enough that it can take some punishment." 
The Browns didn't ask Holcomb to do any running in Wednesday's practice. During the first 20 minutes when reporters are permitted to watch, Holcomb stood to the side and played catch. 
Couch, Cleveland's four-year starter who led the Browns to eight wins last season, took the majority of snaps with the first-team offense. 
Davis wants to see how Holcomb responds to treatment over the next few days before decid­ing on a starter. It's possible he may not know until after pregame warmups Sunday. 
"I think it's important for him to go out and be able to move around, throw and plant and see if he has velocity on the ball," Davis said. "He has to be able to execute. Kelly is no differ­ent than anyone else. They have to be able to perform the duties on Sunday." 
There are already signs of change at quarter­back. 
While Holcomb was the last player on the field before practice, Couch was the last one off it after. As Davis spoke to the media about Holcomb's status, Couch stayed late and worked on passing drills. 
Following his performance Sunday, Holcomb was asked to rate his pain on a scale of 1 to 10 and gave it a 15. After two and a half days of treatment, Holcomb said the pain had sub­sided. 
Holcomb acknowledged that he was hurting badly at halftime Sunday when the Browns told Couch to get ready. So how was he was able to manage the pain? 
"Adrenaline, tape and prayer," he said. "It's one of those things you've got to block it out. You just got to tape it up, tape it tighter and go." 
Holcomb promises he won't take any unnec­essary risks and play Sunday if he's not com­pletely ready. That wouldn't be fair to his coaches or teammates, he said. 
Holcomb has already shown his toughness. So why would he risk further injury by taking the field? 
"To play," he said. "I just want to play." Couch, who has remained supportive, is cer­tain Holcomb will do the right thing. "Kelly will do what's best for the team," Couch said. 
"If he can't go out there and play the way he's capable of, then I'm sure he won't go. He's a tough guy. He has proved that and if there's a chance he can go out there and be effective then he'll go out and do that." 


.------------------------~----­
Thursday, September 25, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Poor second half dooms Mariners once again 
Associotcd Press Oakland 5, Texas 3 who became the fifth 20-game Before this homestand began. winner in the major leagues.
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Another outfielder Chris Singleton While Loaiza savors his land­
poor second half is likely to 
offered Jose Guillen a $100 bet: mark victory, Mike Mussina willleave the Seattle Mariners out of Who would get back onto the have to wait until next year forthe playoffs. 
field first? another shot at his. The WhiteJohn Lackey pitched a five-hit­Guillen didn't take it, but he Sox got to Mussina for eight runster and rookie Tom Gregorio had should have. in the sixth inning, spoiling hisa two-run single as the Anaheim Playing with a broken bone in second bid for his 200th careerAngels beat Seattle 4-0, pushing his left hand, Guillen hit a two­victory.
the Mariners to the brink of 
run homer and bunted home the Jason Giambi and Berniepostseason elimination. 
go-ahead run in his second start Williams homered in the second"We didn't play well coming back from the injury to lead the to give Mussina a 3-0 lead, anddown the stretch, and we didn't Oakland Athletics over the Texas if that might be
play well in the second half at it looked as 
Rangers 5-3 Wednesday. enough.
all." Seattle's John Olerud said. 
"He doesn't owe me anything," Frank Thomas and Carl
Seattle's seventh loss in 11 
Guillen said, smiling as usual. "I Everett hit RBI doubles offgames meant Boston clinched f!O 
think the bet was forgotten. I got Mussina in the sixth before thereworse than a tie for the AL wild­onto the field first. I win the bat­was even an out.
card berth. 
tle." Mussina gave up a season­For the Mariners to tie the Hed Singleton also was in there high eight runs and 11 hits in 5 Ge«y ImagesSox, they would have to sweep a 
Wednesday. getting two hits to 1-3 innings. John Olerud pops out In the seventh Inning against the Angels.
three game series from Oakland, 
break an 0-for-14 slump. The Mariners lost 4-0, their seventh loss In 11 games.
and Boston would have to lose 
Tim Hudson pitched seven
iL'i final fivn games. Baltimore 7, Boston 3
solid innings as A's manager Ken
The Mariners led Oakland by The Boston Bed Sox wasted no His solo homer in the 10th innings.
Macha rested most of his regu­
eight games in the AL West on time squandering their first inning Tuesday night gave Mike Bordick's HBI single in
lars, a day after Oakland
June 13. chance to clinch an AL playoff Boston a 6-5 win. the second tied it at 1.
clinched its second straight AL
Lackey (10-16) struck out four berth. Hentgen (7-8) allowed three Tampa Bay's Toby Hall dou­
West title. Chad Harville pitched
and walked two. Tony Batista hit a grand slam runs and six hits. bled in the sixth and came home
the ninth for his first major
Seattle's Gil Meche (15-13) in a seven-run first inning. and Baltimore pounced on John on Crawford's run-scoring dou­
league save.
pitched because Hyan Franklin Pat Hentgen pitched six strong Burkett (11-9) for seven hits and ble play.
The A's are headed to the play­
had a stiff neck Wednesday innings as the Baltimore Orioles seven runs -six of them Aquilino Lopez pitched three
offs for the fourth straight sea­
morning. Meche allowed three won Wednesday night. earned. He left after retiring just innings for his 14th save in 16 
son.
runs and six hits in five innings. Boston, which missed the play­one batter, the shortest start of chances, allowing a ninth-inning lie had pitched on Sunday, but offs the last three years, clinched his 14 major league seasons. homer to Huff. threw only 45 pitches. Chicago 9, New York 4 at least a tie for the wild card. 
"When I came in yesterday, When the last of the New York For the Red Sox to miss the 
Toronto 5, Tampa Bay 3 Minnesota 3, Cleveland 2
Frankie said, 'You know, you Yankees went down swinging, playoffs, they would have lose Kelvim Escobar tied a career­Michael Cuddyer hit amight have to pitch tomorrow.' Esteban Loaiza walked out of their final four games. and high with 10 strikeouts in what tiebreaking home run in theAnd I'm like, 'Oh, really? I've the dugout to a standing ovation, Seattle would have to sweep a might have been his last start for eighth inning and the AL Centralhad one day ofT,"' Meche said. his teammates waiting on the three-game series against Toronto, leading the Blue Jays champion Minnesota 1\vins wonGregorio singled with one out mound to congratulate him. Oakland, then beat Boston in a over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays their 11th straight game, beat­in the fourth after Scott Spiezio Seven months ago he was just tiebreaker playoff. 
5-3 Wednesday night. ing the Cleveland Indians 3-2reached on a fielder's choice, trying to land a job, a non-roster The Red Sox get another Escobar (13-9). eligible for Wednesday night.
Adam Kennedy doubled and invitee to spring training. Now chance to clinch Thursday night. 
free agency after this season, A day after clinching the divi­Wilson Delgado loaded the bases he's a 20-game winner, a mile­Boston's David Ortiz continued allowed two runs, eight hits and sion title, Minnesota won itswith a walk. They were the first stone even some of the best. his slugging with two homers, 
five walks in seven innings, team-record 13th in a row at
HBis of Gregorio's major league pitchers never reach. giving him three homers in 10 reaching double digits in strike­home. 
career. "It's really great," said Loaiza. pitches and 31 for the season. 
• 
outs for the fifth time this sea­Lew Ford, one of 14 rookies son. who started in this game, home­The 27-year-old right-hander, red and hit an HBI triple for 
who has been in the Toronto Minnesota. . organization since he was 16, Ben Broussard homered for
---­------------­
struck out seven in the first Cleveland, which has lost 16 of
Why spend the winter months in South
• 
three innings. 21 games.~ 
Josh Phelps hit a go-ahead Jesse Orosco (1-0) pitched
Bend when you could be studying in... 
two-run double in the sixth one-third of an inning for the 
-. 
inning for the Blue Jays. victory. Eddie Guardado pitchedAthens Doug Waechter (3-2) allowed the ninth for his 41st save in 44 
. five runs and five hits in six-plus chances.
Berlin 
Pueblo 
• Brazil Santiago 
' ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
h ~ University Resources : 
Cairo Shanghai • 
•
• for Gay, Lesbian, & • 
• Bisexual Students
Monterrey Tokyo . • ••
• . 
8 Moscow . • ••
:~~~~
• 

" • • . •• • 
• The Standing Committee on Gay and •
8 Application deadline for Spring '04 is 8 • •
Lesbian StudentNeeds\9 Oct. 1, 2003 • • (Confidential information, education, and resources) ••
•

• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude.. CSC, 1-5550, or student
• .•
• members (.ree web sr'te.for student contact info.) 
•

\J *Tokyo application deadline September 26th • • 
•

.. • it Office of Campus Ministry •• • (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students •
\J No foreign language requirements for Athens, • • •
• and their friends; pertinent library resources in •fQl Cairo or Tokyo • •• 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) •• Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3l@nd.edu 
• 

8 • •• University Counseling Center •
ea. Visit International Study Programs • .. 
•• (Individual counseling) ••
•

~ 152 Hurley Building • C01ttact,· Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu • ~ .~_pp_li_C_(ltions Available www/nd.edu/-intistud : · •• • •• • 
• For more infonnation, check out our web site: bttp;//www.nd.edu/-scclsnl .
• • 
•

------------------.. 
~········································~·····: 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 25, 2003 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Big East will add four teams in 2005 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE -The Big East plans to invite four Conference USA teams to join the league in 2005, keeping the conference intact after defections of its two biggest football programs threat­ened to split it in two. 
Cincinnati, DePaul, Louisville 

and Marquette will be invited in 
November, a source close to the 
expansion plans told The 
Associated Press on condition of 
anonymity Wednesday. : The additions of Cincinnati and 
Louisville would give the Big 
East the eight football teams it 
needs to keep its NCAA certifica­
tion in 2005. Marquette and 
DePaul will join for basketball 
and other sports. 
"We're being talked about," 

Louisville athletic director Tom 
Jurich said. "Is anything final­
ized? Absolutely not. If we do 
have the opportunity, it is some­
thing to look forward to. We 
have the utmost respect for the 
Big East." 
After Miami and Virginia Tech 

defected for the ACC in June, the 
Big East schools considered split­
ting into two conferences -one 
that plays football and one that 
doesn't. 
The next big question for the 

Big East is whether it will keep 
its automatic spot in the Bowl 
Championship Series. 
The Big East wanted to clear up its expansion plans before those talks begin so other confer­ences. bowls and television exec­utives would know what teams would be involved. 
Along with the expansion, the Big East is expected to increase the exit fees for schools so the conference isn't as threatened by expansion again. 
Conference USA will have to regroup after losing two more football schools. Army is also planning to depart, which would leave the conference with eight teams. 
"We have had numerous healthy discussions over the last 10 days about the future of our conference and have been devel­oping contingency plans," Conference USA commissioner Britton Banowsky said. Boston College, Connecticut, Pittsburgh, Rutgers, Syracuse and West Virginia will be the other foot­ball-playing Big East schools. UConn joins the conference for football next season, which is also Temple's last in the league. 
There has been no decision on how the conference will be aligned for basketball. Georgetown, Notre Dame, Providence, St. John's, Seton Hall and Villanova are the Big East basketball schools. The Irish are an independent in football. 
NFL 
Boston sent hom.e before practice 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -The San Diego Chargers sent wide receiver David Boston home before practice on Wednesday as a disciplinary measure. 
Boston was sent home after a morning meeting with coach Marty Schottenheimer. 
Schottenheimer was guard­ed in his comments about Boston, who signed a $47 mil­lion contract as a free agent in March. 
"David and I had a discus­sion and in the course of the discussion, thought we ought to have this day [off], and he's been excused for a matter that is not related to the med­ical part of it," Schottenheimer said. 
General manager A.J. Smith wouldn't be more specific, but did say that it wasn't one inci­dent that led to Boston being sent home, but rather, "it's several things." 
"Let's just say we've got some guidelines here to adhere to," Smith said. "And David wasn't meeting them to our expectations." 
Club officials planned to dis­cuss Boston's situations in meetings Wednesday night. 
"There is no suspension yet," said Smith, who expect­ed Boston back on Thursday. 
Mitch Frankel, Boston's 

agent, did not return phone messages Wednesday. 
Boston, a Pro Bowl selection with Arizona in 2001, has made nearly as much news off the field as on it since joining the Chargers. 
He raised eyebrows when skipping the Chargers' second game with a bruised heel, then was caught leaving the bench area before the end of the 37-13 loss to Denver. He also declined to join his team­mates in the locker room. 
Last Sunday he returned to action and caught six passes for 91 yards. But before the Chargers' 24-10 loss to Baltimore, he was involved in a shouting incident with injured wide receiver Reche Caldwell. 
Following that game, he declined to speak to reporters. 
It was Smith who signed Boston to a seven-year con­tract, which included a $4.55 million signing bonus and $550,000 in base salary this year. 
While with the Cardinals, Boston pleaded no contest to a charge of driving under the influence of drugs. Police said he tested positive for cocaine and marijuana. 
Schottenheimer expects Boston to play Sunday in Oakland. 




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 25, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Page 19 
Women's Soccer NSCAA ~§~! j 
te(ltn ·Ml;Qrd \ '-'' 1 North Carolina !HFD 2 NOTRE OAME 6·U·1., 3 Texas A&M &-M 4 UCLA 5+2 5 Florida 7-0-tt 6 Washington 5~1;2 .. 7 VIrginia 6-M 8 Pepperdlne 74+1L 9 West Virginia N·tl 10 Connettlcut 4+1·2 11 Ohio Stale IHH 12 Cal 3-0~3 13 Penn Statt1 14 Portland 15 Duke ·5-24 16 Taxas 4-4-tl 11 Colorado 6441 18 Santa Clara 3·2,3 19 Boston Collage 8-0-tt 20 Princeton 4•1H 21 Stanford a~~t 22 Auburn 5-H 23 Oenvar 6·1-tt 24 Purdua 6+f 25 California Polytechnic 8·1Hl ,.. 
Men's Soccer.NSCAAPoll i!: 
learn record prev;.rtfiik•··· 
1 
Maryland 7·0-0 1,.• ).'·• >
2 ...··· .
2 UCLA 5"14t 

3 Saint Loui~ IHHt 3 4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Southern Methodist 
10 Autgeri 
11 South carolina 
12 Oakland 

13 Brown 14 santa Barbara 
15 NOTRE DAME 
16 Wake Forest 
17 Seton ball 
18 VIrginia 
19 Tulsa 
20 Hartwlek 
21 coastal carolina 22 Wa~hlngton 
23 Akron 
24 Fairleigh Dlekinson 
25 Boston 


NOTRE DAME j1-2)at PURDUE (H}•.•. </·.•. •.·.··• \ WASHINGTON STATE (3c1} lltQregon••····..•. ··•·• / }
Indiana al MICHIQPJHiM) i.} .) 
Iowa at MICHIGAN STA,Tg(3~1)i\.• . ) PITTSBURGH (2·1) a!fexu A&M i\ USC (3-.Q) at CalifOrnia •····•·•. ·· .. ... i Ball Slate lit BOSTON COtlEGE(2·?f ..••.. FLORIDA STATE {H).at Duke ........ i >..·····.··•·•······•·••. NAVY (2·1) al Rutg.ers······•·•·• < Air Force a! BRIGHAM YOUNG l?s?} > . ..· STANFORD (2·0)atWa$hi111Jton ..•·····..···•·•·•.••·•· ..·...·· Toledo at SYRACUSE(m)•·• .·.· . 

around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE Cubs at Reds 1 p.m .• FSN White Sox at Royals 8 p.m., FSN 
GOLF Texas Open 5 p.m., ESPN 

COLLEGE fOOTBALL Nebraska at Southern Miss. 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

U.S. vs. Nigeria 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA -The lights dimmed as the video scoreboard started playing Allen Iverson's career high­lights. 
There he was being announced as Philadelphia's No. 1 draft pick, and later holding his MVP award. There he was celebrating victories, acting silly off the court and hug­ging former coach Larry Brown. 
The memories showed what makes Iverson so valuable and why the Sixers couldn't afford to lose him. Now, they won't have to worry about that. 
Iverson signed a four-year contract extension with the 76ers on Wednesday that will keep the three-time NBA scoring champion with them through the 2008-09 season. 
"I always wanted to be a Sixer. I always wanted to finish my career as a Sixer," Iverson said as the deal was announced at a special event for season ticket­holders at the Wachovia Center. 
Terms were not announced, but a team source, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said Tuesday the extension would pay Iverson $76.7 million over the four years. 
"Allen said he always wanted to be a Philadelphia 76er and, with this con­tract. we're telling him we always want him here as well," team president Billy King said. 

Iverson has one year plus an option remaining on his current deal, which will pay him more than $28 million over the next two years. The extension begins in 2005-06. 
Iverson and King signed the contract in front of nearly 200 wildly cheering fans. Iverson will be 33 when the deal expires and it means he will be the longest-tenured Sixer in team history. 
Iverson said he never 
thought about exploring free agency and wanted the deal done now so it would­n't be a distraction during the season. 
"You all didn't have a chance to make a big circus about it," Iverson joked with reporters. 
Iverson repeatedly credit­ed the fans for making him feel comfortable in Philadelphia. 
"You've always embraced me through my ups and downs," he said. 
Now Iverson wants to add the one thing missing in that highlight reel -a championship. 
"I want to be in those rafters one day," he said. 
IN BRIEF 

Cardinals manaJler, coach,
catcher suspen<fed after 
conflict with umP.ire at 
Houston last weekend 
NEW YOHK -St. Louis Cardinals catcher Mike Matheny. manager Tony La Hussa and pitching coach Dave Duncan were suspended and fined Wednesday for their con!1ict with an umpire last weekend dur­ing a game against the Astros. 
Bob Watson, baseball's vice presi­dent for discipline, gave Matheny a three-game penalty starting Friday for making contact with umpire Jerry Crawford and for remarks he made to the umpire. 
Matheny was ejected in the third inning of the Cardinals' 2-0 loss at Houston on Saturday. Moments later, Crawford pointed to the Cardinals' dugout and ejected Duncan. The coach was suspended for one game, next Sunday. 
La Russa was suspended for two 
games, starting Friday. for 
postgame  comments  about  
Crawford.  
Matheny  said  Crawford  was  

crowding and pushing him as he took his position to take pitches. 
"I was trying to make some catch­es on breaking balls, and as the ball was coming in I was getting shoved forward," Matheny said. 
La Hussa said last weekend that Crawford "made it a point to get us." 
"We've had problems with that umpire for how many years now?" La Russa said. "We had one inci­dent at home where he disrespect­ed our coaches. I·Ie's made it a point to get us. It's tough enough to win in this league. 
"Who knows if we would have won, but when you keep getting kicked in the guts like this guy did. ... He's going to get us worse the next time." 
Yankees secretary arrested 
after incident with club­
house security guard CHICAGO -New York Yankees traveling secretary David Szen was charged with misdemeanor battery Tuesday night as the team celebrat­ed its AL East title. 
Szen was arrested in the visiting clubhouse at U.S. Cellular Field for pushing a security guard, police spokeswoman Alice Casanova said early Wednesday. 
"During a verbal altercation the victim was pushed several times," Casanova said. 
Casanova said she didn't know what caused the dispute. Yankees spokesman Hick Cerrone declined comment. Szen, 51, was released on a personal recognizance bond. 
The Yankees beat the Chicago White Sox 7-0 Tuesday night, clinching their sixth straight AL East title. 

Thursday, September 25, 2003 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Badin set to face defending champion Pasquerilla East 

Fri. Sept. 26th at 7:00pm Sun. Sept. 28th at 2:00pm Volleyball vs. VIllanova Men's Soccer vs. Georgetown 
:·..:;..··..... . 
• First 250 Fan:~!~~t:~CChapStfckKoozi~.~~~ !!ri:::F• c:1l~4ttnttrl ttt;~:;;;; 

By ANDREW KIRKSEY, ANN 
LOUGHERY AND 
KATHERINE GALES 
Sports Writers 
The girls of Badin are looking for the 'W' over Pasquerilla East this Thursday as they enter into their third game of the football season. 
Badin's chances of coming out on top are complicated by the experience and reputation of defending champion Pasquerilla East. 
"[Pasquerilla East] is always a strong team," said quarterback Bridgett Meacham of the McGlinn Shamrocks. The Shamrocks upset Pasquerilla East last week, 21-20. 
Badin captain Jennifer Carter is looking forward to the game; she is confident in her team's ability to dominate PE defensively. 
Badin's defense held last week against two risky situations where their opponent Lyons started their drives inside of the red zone. Carter had three picks in that game. 
"This year has been one of the best for us," Carter said. 
In the midst of Badin's 1-1 record, Kortny Hall, second year grad student and one of the coaches for the team, is encour­aged by the solid defense that proved reliable in stopping Lyon's last week. 

"Jen Carter has been a stand out on defense," Hall said. "She made a lot of plays against Lewis and a lot of picks in the second game [Lyons]." 
Weakened only by an inconsis­tent offence, Hall believes that they're going to become more and more effective in the games to come. 
"We really want to get sus­tained drives," said Badin quar­terback Steph Heath. 
Heath believes that Badin's offensive advantage over PE is their player depth. 
Disappointed by their loss, but not deterred, PE captain Laura Wolohan is confident that her team can bring it together tomor­row. 
Although confident in her team's ability to mix things up on offense, and their show of defen­sive strength in their first game, she isn't making any predictions. 
"Most people you'd talk to would say that we'd win, but I'd rather show it then say it," said Wolohan. 
The game is being held at Riehle West field at 9 p.m. 
Howard vs. McGlinn 
Both teams have met adversity this season. 
The Howard Ducks are yet to win a game with an 0-2 record, while the McGlinn Shamrocks (2­
1) suffered their first loss this season to the Lewis Chicks. 
Players from both teams antici­pate an intense game Thursday. 
''I'm sure they put up a fight," said McGlinn running back Raquel Ferrer. "It's just about us starting out strong. We tend to come out scared and a little hesi­tant at the beginning." 
Ferrer cites a lack of intensity as one of the key obstacles the Shamrocks encountered in the game against Lewis Sunday. The game ended early under the mercy rule in a 19-0 win for the Chickens. However, Wednesday's practice in the rain should be the source of the Shamrocks' energy tomorrow, she said. 
The Ducks are also rebounding from a 6-0 loss to Pasquerilla East and looking to score their first touchdown this season. Howard co-captain Brin Anderson attributes this close game to a slight change in defen­sive strategy. 
"And once we put some points on the board, I feel that will give our team the motivation to come out on top," said Anderson. 
The Shamrock defense should expect to meet opposition from Ducks freshman safety Megan Marshall, who had multiple inter­ceptions against the Pasquerilla East Pyros on Sunday. 
Offensively, Callie Whalen, Renee Alessi and quarterback Sheena Ketchum should make significant contributions. 
"Our offense just needs to calm down and run the plays," she said. "It's all about getting it done. We have a lot of talent, we just need to do what we're told and be strong. 
"The defense has been good at putting the pressure on the other team's offense. It should be an interesting game." 
McGlinn and Howard will square off Thursday at Riehle West field at 7 p.m. 
Lewis vs. Lyons 
This week's rain has not dimin­ished the Lewis Chicks' anticipa­tion for their game against rival Lyons on Thursday evening. 
The Chicks enter the game at an undefeated 3-0, hoping to extend their winning streak to four games. Lyons, looking to post its first victory of the season, is prepared for the challenge. 
"It's been really tough for us because we started practicing really late in the season," said Lyons captain Lauren White. "With the weather lately, it's been really hard to get any practice in." 
The Chicks are fresh ofT a deci­sive Sunday victory against McGlinn. Despite the quick turn­around, sophomore defender Julia Burke said that "we use games as a learning experience." 
Lewis junior player Sheila Dawes concurred. "We make mistakes, but learn from them," she said. 
Not many mistakes. Badin post­ed six points against Lewis early in the season -the only six points scored on a solid defense. 
This defense looks to challenge a Lyons quarterback back from studying abroad, as well as Megan Hegan, a transfer from Dayton who White said is one of the team's best receivers. 
"We want to limit first downs and yards allowed," Dawes said. 
Lewis also boasts an explosive offense. Mimi Lundgren, Lynne McChrystal and Katy Clune are prime targets for standout quar­terback Erin Nasrallah. 
Lyons' two losses are to Badin and McGlinn in close games. Although the Chicks have beaten both opponents, they take noth­
-ing for granted. "As the season progresses, our team has improved," said Dawes. "We need to assume every other team improves also, or we're going to get beaten." Last year, Lyons and Lewis faced ofT in a close contest in the regular season's last game. Lyons got the playoff spot -Lewis was forced to wait for the next season. The game will be played this evening at 8 pm at Riehle West field. 
Contact Andrew Kirksey, Ann Loughery and Katherine Gales at akirksey@hcc-nd.edu, alougher@nd.edu and kgales@nd.edu 

help fight cancer
** FREE Admission to all games and matches for ND Students ** ** Visit und,com promo's ahd giveaway link** • Famous Daves BBQ to First 300 Fans 
Thursday, September 25, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Former Irish star Riley shines on the big stage 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sponss Wrir~r 
Huth Hiley is in a league of her own at Notre Dame. 
With her WNBA Finals MVP award, she became the first former Notre Dame student­athlete to be named a Finals MVP at both the college and professional levels. She won the 2001 NCAA Finals MVP when the Irish won the nation­al championship. Not even for­mer Irish quarterback and three-time Super Bowl MVP Joe Montana won both. He was not named MVP in the 1977 Irish national championship victory in the Cotton Bowl. 
Riley won the WNBA finals MVP award after scoring a career-high 27 points in the Detroit Shock's 83-7 8 over the Los Angeles Sparks. She stepped up in the big game, hitting 15-foot jump shots con­sistently and playing excep­tional defense on Sparks star Lisa Leslie. 
"It was a shock," Riley said. ''I'm on a team with three all­stars, and what makes us so good is that we are so bal­anced. They could have given the award to anybody." 
However, it was Riley who won the MVP, becoming the first woman to be named Finals MVP in both col­got the players that he wanted to win with-and win, he did. 
"I love playing for Coach Laimbeer and you couldn't ask for a better season than the way we ended up." 
Riley led a team with an average age of just under 25 years old, with the oldest play­er being 29. Riley attributed their success to new players that created a fresh look for 
the Shock. 
"It's an amaz­
ing feeling to be 
lege and the "/ love coming back on the team 
WNBA. Hailing that's considered
to campus ... it's like 
from the small the best in the 
town of Macy, my second home" world," Riley Ind., Riley has said. "We had a made it big both lot of young play­
Ruth Riley

in college and ers that were
WNBA star 

So, what does Ruth Riley do now? ''I'm running around ­everywhere," she said. 
For now, she is in South Bend. Yesterday, she spoke to current Notre Dame student­athletes at the Academic Honors Banquet. 
"I love coming back to cam­pus," Riley said. "It's like my second home." 
She maintains her Notre Dame ties with head coach Muffet McGraw. McGraw called Riley just before she stepped up on the podium to accept the MVP. Hiley was sure to e-mail her former coach later that evening. 
"[Coach McGraw] is great," Hiley said. She's a great resource basketball-wise, and I think that our relationship grew even more after I gradu­ated." 
Next stop for Riley is Hussia, where she will play for the WNBA Select team to take on different European countries in the Women's Basketball World Cup from Oct. 14-1 9. 
After that, who knows, as the tryouts for the USA women's national team will be in the winter. 
For Hiley, it is just another opportunity to excel in the game at with she has worked so hard. 
"I'm truly blessed," Riley said. "The success I've had here at Notre Dame and then to go on and do it at the pro­fessional level is a great accomplishment." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

FIRDAY SEPTEMBER 26TH • 8:00p.m. _ at Morris Performing Arts Center &loais South Bend, Indiana -·-·--· All Ages Admitted 
<horgv·by-phonv ~!' 574/llS-9190 or 800J5l7-641S or onlfnq ot wwoll.mo,rri"QntQr.org 
Pacific Coast Concerts 
l'llOl"lll.\' l'ltFSI'·XJ'S le\ SOl.Tlllll..'ifl 
HALLOWEEN COMES EARLY TO SOUTH BEND FIRST LOCAL APPEARANCE IN 28 YEARS 
now in her third year in the WNBA. 
Riley was coached by the for­mer Detroit Piston and Irish forward Bill Laimbeer. Laimbeer won two NBA Championships with the Pistons and took Notre Dame to the Final Four and Elite Eight in 1978 and 1979, respectively. 
"Bill's great," Riley said. "I get to throw him being a Domer in there to all my team­mates, especially those from Connecticut and other rival schools." 
Laimbeer can also be credit­ed for his determination in bringing a WNBA franchise to the city of Detroit. However, his efforts didn't end there, as he led the Shock to a title, after finishing with the worst record in the league last year. He revamped the lineup, and 
thrown together 
this year, and it's 
truly a great accomplishment for us." 
Riley once again stepped up when it counted, as her per­formance mirrored that of the 2001 NCAA Championship game, when she scored 28 points, missing only four shots, and pulled down 13 rebounds. In that game, she was head and shoulders above Purdue. 
However, she can't decide which championship trophy means more to her. 
"They're the same, but dif­ferent," Riley said. "At Notre Dame, you work with the same group of girls for four years, and it was such an amazing way to end your collegiate career. But, on the professional level, this was a new team and so it's an amazing accomplish­ment to be the best team in the· world." 
Tickets on sale This Fri(jay. ~ 0 A.M. at Morris Box Office Charge·by·pllone@ 574·235·9190 or 800·537·6415 or online al www.morriscenter.org 
Pacific Coast Concerts 

Argentina, Australia., Chile, Costa Rica~ Cuba, England, Ireland, Northern Ireland, New Zealand, & Scotland 
Scholarships Available 
11118nnadan Table 
TbursdaJ, Sallblmber 25, 2013 
11:00 a.•. -1:00 ILID. Great 1811· 81 lrSb&DibBBSSV 
Meet Representative Chris Bragdon 
800-858-0229 

~~ 

BUTlER UNIVERSiTY
www.ifsa-butler.org 
page 22 Thursday, September 25, 2003 
The Observer + SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Giving back to 
fellow students 
Offensive lineman Bob Morton volunteers as designated driver for students 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sporrs Writer 
Bob Morton is well known on the Notre Dame football team for his bright personal­ity and friendliness. Now, he wants the rest of the Notre Dame students to know how much he cares about them. 
Morton lay awake one night thinking about some­thing he could do to make sure every student that went out partying made it home at night. Eventually, he started giving out his phone number to people he had talked to three or four times, telling them to call him if they ever needed a ride back to cam­pus. 
"Notre Dame is a family," he said, "and I don't want anyone to not make it home at the end of 

a chance to see Burrell in action, and the Irish liked what they saw. 
"We're trying to strengthen our team, and there are a few things Quentin does very well," Willingham said. "He has excellent range. It's something he does very well that we need in the lineup. You're always trying to uti­lize your strengths and make yourself better." 
Quarterback won't change blockers 
Regardless of who starts at quarterback for Notre Dame Saturday, Zach Giles said the style of quarterback doesn't change how the linemen block. 
The linemen block the same for the more agile Carlyle Holiday as they do for Brady Quinn, a tra­ditional pock-
the night." 

"Notre Dame is a et passer. AU Morton. who that matters
family."
said the death is that the of Chad Sharon quarterback last academic Bob Morton has enough year had noth­
ltlsh offensive lineman time to throw 
ing to do with his plan, isn't quite sure what to do now, though. He thinks he'll take his proposal to PILLARS, a Notre Dame organization devoted to curbing alcohol abuse, and hopes it will expand to include several drivers. 
"When Chad Sharon died, I felt such a loss, and I didn't even know him," he said. "I don't ever want that to hap­pen again." 
Safety switch 
Quentin Burrell made a big impact in his first career col­lege start at free safety Saturday, intercepting a pass in the Notre Dame end zone and returning it 18 yards. 
The move shifted incum­bent Glenn Earl to strong safety and sent Garron Bible to the bench. 
A slew of injuries in fall camp forced Irish coaches to shuffle players around, and one of the players affected was Earl, who then learned how to play both free and strong safety. The injuries also gave the coaching staff the ball. 
"You have 

to give the quarterback as much time as he needs," he said. "You fight to get the ball off. He should have more than enough time no matter [what quarterback is in there)." 
Fresh Impact 
Five Notre Dame freshmen have seen playing time this year -defensive end Victor Abiamiri, wide receivers Chiriedum Ndukwe and Jeff Samardzija, defensive back Freddie Parrish and quarter­back Brady Quinn. Last year, only two true freshmen ­wide receivers Maurice Stovall and Rhema McKnight -logged significant playing time. 
When the quintet all played in Notre Dame's home open­er at Washington State, it marked the first time since 1999 when five freshmen played in a season opener. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
MEN's SoccER 
Irish getting ready to face Bradley 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soc­ce.r team continues its seven­game, September home stand with a non-league match ver­sus Bradley this Thursday at Alumni .Field. 
The Braves (4-4-0) have a 2­1 all-time series lead on the Irish, including a 3-2 victory over Notre Dame in Peoria, IlL last season. 
The Irish have scored four goals in their last five games, · including two in a 2-1 over­time victory over Fresno State. Notre Dame is 3-1-1 on the home stand, losing to Big East opponent St. John's 3-0 and tying non-conference but perennial foe Akron, 0-0. The other two victories came in two 1-0 wins over Indiana and West Virginia. 
Entering Thursday's game with a non-ranked opponent, coach Bobby Clark is confident his team will remain focused and play its own game. 
"This is a test. It's a mental test," Clark said. "None of the boys will underestimate that. We've played the last two years and they've been very hard games: Last year [Bradley) beat us, so I don't think anyone in our camp will be vaguely thinking it's going to be an easy game." 
Notre Dame climbed slightly in the polls following back-tp­back victories, coming in at No. 8 in Soccer America and No. 15 in the NSCAA poll rankings. 
The move up still does not mean a relaxing in tempo or style, as the Irish have a hard road ahead of them. 
"We watched some tape and we were very impressed with 

Abia01iri 
continued from page 24 
knew I had potential, but .I didn't really know how I stacked up against the other players," Abiamiri said. "If I came in and played my best, I knew I would have a chance." 
That's what he did. After struggling through fall camp and impressing coaches with his solid technique and will­ingness to learn, Abiamiri made his way onto the two­deep depth chart and started earning more repetitions in 
them," Clark said. "It'll be a tough one. They're good, but if we do things right, we can play with anyone in the coun­try." ' 
The potential of Notre Dame starters is starting to receive national recognition. 
After scoring the game-win­ning goal against Indiana and all but shutting off the left side of the field for opposing for­wards, junior defender Kevin Goldthwaite earned Big East defensive player of the week honors as well as a nomina­tion to the College Soccer News team of the week. Clark, however, prefers to view awards as team accomplish­ments. 
"Soccer is a team sport," he said. "Goldie got the award, but he got that award not just for what he did but for what his buddies have done as welL That award goes to all the boys in the back: to Kevin [Richards), to Jack [Stewart), to Greg Dalby and Chris 
practice. He saw playing time in Notre Dame's first two games, but admitted to a case of the butterflies when he found out he would be starting in place of a banged-up Tuck. 
"Victor's appearance is not just based on injury," Willingham said. "Victor has played very well when he arrived in our camp. He's shown himself to be a physical player, he's shown himself to be an intelligent player, and he's adapted very well to col­lege footbalL" 
Although Abiamiri initially cracked the starting lineup because of an injury, 
Sawyer. I think Kevin would be the first to second that." 
Notes 
Freshman midfielder Ryan Miller is in the infirmary with a torn ACL and could be out for the season. 
"He played against UAB and against Cal," Clark said. "The week before practice for St. John's he got hurt and we did­n't know what it was. Then we found out later it was a torn ACL. He could be out for the season. That's the way it goes sometimes." 
Clark says that because Miller only played two games, he still has four years left of eligibility, including a "med­ical year of eligibility" due to the injury. A player must play three or four games, Clark says, before counting as an official member of that sea­son's roster. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Willingham said that wouldn't be the last time he made a sig­nificant contribution for the Irish this season. The plan now is to rotate Abiamiri and Tuck in and out of the game as the season wears on. 
"You 'II see Victor on the football field a lot the next few years," defensive line coach Greg Mattison said, "as long as he continues doing what he's doing." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


Thursday, September 25, 2003 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI
FIVES 
That elusive nPerfectlt schedule ... 
Student Schedule HENRI ARNOLD 

re..,  f4HlC'l  
Cl.uo l . .,n.t:  ~nt<:>·t'  
s-olt  ~»:ltr~r«<luar." t!el>Ool  
K<>:l"rf •>:  Unde~Ntet Bc!~kelwe.aving  - 
C•l.l II  C0\\f' If•  Stt~  tH.l«  Cr  .....¥:.  lt'b...l  
IZ%  MUSS45 01  K.u~olle Perf.  3.0  Oui>Z3  M  11:00-0tJSeA  
69&9  ffi420  03  The~tre, Beet; It Socitty  3.0  The Sta'tl:  w  12;0~!/ef  
2003  810120  00  Allered Neuro. S~es  3.0  Corby's  T  10·.00-Z:OOA  
909()  PHY34S 01  Human Compimlocl Physics  4.0  The &_(ker  F~  u~oo.1:00A  
1234  0~00 00  Boozin'  0.5  lie4rtlillld  H  1UO·floor  

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MONED ± 
BOTOR 
j
I I r (J 
IDACROW± 
SUFFE:RE:D BY AN 
IMPATIE:NT DINE:R.

I rI J 
www.jumble.com

t-TIPOLE j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J rI I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

A"( I I I]"( I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: BATON WOMEN MOSQUE OBJECT Answer: What Junior's promise turned out to be when the driveway wasn't cleared -A"SNOW' JOB 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
Sharing this birthday: Will Smith, Heather Locklear, Barbara Wallefll, Michael Douglas, Juliet Prowse, Anson Williams 
Happy Birthday: Follow your intuition this year, and it will lead you in the right direction. Your creative search will bring enlightenment and satisfaction. Your passion ­to make your life better and to expand on your recent ideas and aspirations will bring you entertaining results. Your numbefll: 5, 8, 18, 25, 30, 35 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Ignore colleagues who appear to be running in circles. You have more than enough on your plate already. Don't make large purchases unless you have discussed your choice with your mace. *** TAURUS (Aprii20..May 20): Start making plans to go after your goals. You may want to look into travel destinations or coUTlles that will give you knowledge regarding your professional direction. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Health problem~ will flare up if you haven't bt.'cn taking proper care of yourself. Put some time aside to regenerate. You need som: time to think before you tackle the problems that arc causing stress. **** CANCER (June 2l·July 22): Your mood swings will push family memhc~ to a point of no return. Control your actions. Keep active by doing something you enjoy. You need a creative outlet. Sign up for interesting courses. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can inspire confidence in othefll and get them to help you accomplish your goals. Your channing manner will entice your mate and stabilize your relationship.***** VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-Sept. 22): You need an outlet for your frustrations. Children will push you to the limil Keep everyone busy so that they don't get in your way. You need some time to yollfllelf. *** LffiRA (Sept. 2.'l-Oct. 22): Don't get into heated discussions. Controversial subjects should be avoided at all costs. Bring work horre if it will help you get caught up. Pay attention to small but important details. * * * SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): Relatives may not be telling you the whole uuth about a situation facing the family. Use your perception and ability to ferret out secret information to get to the bottom of things. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should have saved a little cash for an unexpected emergency. Don't donate money, even if you believe in the organization in need. You have to take care of yollfllelf firsl ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll have trouble undeflltanding your partner's actions. Go over the events that led to your present situation. Misundeflltandings have made matters much worse than necessary.** AQUARIUS (jan. ID-Feb.l8): You'll be in the mood to enjoy all that life has to offer. Your positive attitude will draw othefll to your side. Don't move too quickly; savor the 
moment.**** PISCES (l<'cb.19·March 20): Mingle with those in high positions, and you will move up the career ladder much quicker. Your ideas are good, and if you present them to the right people, you can expect to get suppon. *** 
Birthday Baby: You arc dependable, hard-working and will suuggle to achieve your goals. You have strong convictions and will stand finn if anyone uies to force you to follow another set of rules. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site aJ www.eugeniala.11.mm 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Duck with a large white crest 5 Atkins diet 
count, briefly 10 Gillette product 14 Alto 15 "I Could Write 
_"(ROdgers 
and Hart song) 
16 Jacob who wrote "How the Other Half Lives" 
17 Not be childish 19 Private dining room? 20 Greek island or 
its capital 21 Wraps (up) 23 Prussian 
pronoun 24 Burn preventer 26 Neighborhood 
shindig 27 Folders, wastebaskets and such 211 Adriatic seaport 
30 No longer young 
31 "Forever Your Girl" hitmaker, 1989 
34 It may get you slapped 38 Very, affectedly 
39 Literal element of eight answers in this puzzle 
40 Arrange, as hair 
41 Cheerleader's maneuver 43 1974 title role 
lor Dustin Hoffman 44 October 31 
option 45 Super server 47 Revolution 48 For sale 50 Line of defense 53 Old-time 
marauder 54 Timber wolf 56 Orangish hues 58 Wild goings-on 60 Becomes 
discouraged 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


62 Stamp of approval? 63 Mower maker 64 Top spot 65 Train station 66 City near Oberhausen 67 Sweetie 
DOWN 1 Knocks heads (with) 2 _ Picchu (lncan site) 3 John with a wild wardrobe 4 Percussion instrument struck with a mallet 5 Olive oil dressing s_of Steel 
(video classic) 7 Swelter 8 One over 9 Twist 
10 lt may be twisted 11 Paints the town red 12 Symbol of Japan 13 Burden carriers 18 Sherpa's land 22 Charlie Brown utterance 26 Winchester, e.g. 28 Basic building unit 29 Huge success 30 "Shoot!" 
31 Flight coordinators: Abbr. 
32 It may be on a roll 
WILLSHORTZ 


33 Heroic action  46 Elect  52 Aromatic  
35 Unnamed  47G's  compound  
litigant  48 They're found  55 Part of many an  
36 Showy display  among the  antique shop  
37 Bug someone,  reeds  name  
e.g.  49 What counters  57 Nincompoop 
39 All-natural food  may count  
no· no  50 "It's _against  59 Chatter  
42 Rampart  time"  61 It comes before  
43 Hanger-on  51 Skin layer  long  

For answers, call 1-900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 


THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS 
Page 24

Thursday, September 25, 2003 
FOOTBALL 
-

To Victor go the spoils 
Freshman defensive lineman Abiamiri has provided an instant spark for the Irish 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
What does Victor Abiamiri have in common with former Irish players Anthony Weaver, Renaldo Wynn and Bryant Young? · 
All are defensive linemen. All started as true freshmen. And Weaver, Wynn and Young, who went on to start four years, all were NFL first-or second-round draft picks. " 
It's a standard Abiamiri hopes to live up to. 
"Notre Dame has had a won­derful tradition of making good players," he said. ''I'm still young. I hope I can listen to the older players and I hope it can happen. The rest is in God's hands." 
With the way Abiamiri has been playing lately, though, teams are going to take notice of him sooner rather than later. 
Making his first collegiate start against Michigan State in place of injured Justin Tuck, Abiamiri recorded eight tack­les -the second-most on the team, behind human tackle­eating linebacker Courtney Watson. Although Notre Dame lost, the Irish were impressed by Abiamiri's play at defensive end. 
"When he came out and played as well as he did." Tuck said, "he made plays that normal freshmen don't make." 
Were it not for a recruiting violation, though, Abiamiri might have followed his two older brothers to Maryland. But on the eve of national signing day last February, reports surfaced that a Maryland assistant coach had given Abiamiri $300. The sec­ondary violation cost the coach his job and Maryland its chance at landing the 6-foot­6, 245-pound lineman. 
Abiamiri went to Notre Dame believing Tyrone Willingham's philosophy that the best players would play. regardless of year. But he had no idea if he.'d even crack the playing field. 
"I knew I could be good, I 
see ABIAMIRI/page 22 
Is this a major conference call for the Irish? 
Atlantic Coast Conference, Big Ten reportedly approach Notre Dame about conference switch 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

The ACC and Big Ten are talking with Notre Dame to gauge the school's interest in becoming the 12th member of each conference, according to a report published Wednesday in the Charlotte Observer. 
The article, which attributed all information exclusively to unnamed sources, said ACC commissioner John Swofford has expressed a willingness to let the Irish join the league as a partial member within the next year or two. 
Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White has remained silent on the issue of Notre Dame's conference future since Miami and Virginia Tech announced it would join the Big East by June 2004, throw­ing the collegiate sports world into turmoil. 
Notre Dame is currently a 

member of the Big East in most sports with the notable excep­tion of football. Although the Irish are· one of only four Division I-A independent foot­ball teams, they play a limited schedule against Big East teams each year. 
But Notre Dame associate athletic director for media relations John Heisler said he had "no idea" if Notre Dame had been negotiating with the ACC. 
"Every day. there's another speculative story written, and given our relationship with the Big East, I think [White] has felt it's not appropriate or fair to guess or suggest or predict what's going to happen with any of this until we get to the point where something does happen," Heisler said. 
According to the sources cited in the Charlotte Observer, two different options are under discussion, which involve Notre Dame becoming a member of the ACC in all sports except football. One plan under dis­cussion, The Observer's sources say, is that the league wants Notre Dame to schedule a limited number of games against ACC schools each year. The other option involves Notre Dame becoming a full­fledged football member. 
The 'observer cited sources that said Notre Dame has also held talks with the 11-team Big Ten, a conference whose invi­tation the Irish rejected in Feb. 1999. But those sources said the Big Ten has not been push­ing the football angle as much as the ACC. 
It is advantageous for confer­ences to have 12 football teams because then they become eli­gible under NCAA legislation to hold a conference champi­onship game, which can gener­ate over $10 million in rev­enue. Ten-or 11-team confer­ences cannot hold champi­onship games, although the ACC has petitioned the NCAA to overturn the rule. 
"This probably fuels a lot of the speculation, but Kevin spends a lot of time with all of these commissioners" because they are part of the BCS, Heisler said. 
Heisler maintained that Notre Dame hadn't de-valued the importance of football independence. 
"I don't sense there's been any suggestion that we're pre­pared to do an about-face," he said. 
Notre Dame's television deal with NBC expires in 2005. the same year as the expiration of the Bowl Championship Series contract. Notre Dame is the only school outside the six major BCS conferences to have a separate agreement with the BCS, enabling Notre Dame's at­large selection. · 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
NCAA 
Irish grad. rates among Div.-1 best 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame ranks among the top 10 Division I-A institu­tions in five major student­athlete graduate rate cate­gories-overall. football. men, women and African­American -according to sta­tistics released this month by the NCAA. 
The federally mandated 2003 NCAA Graduation Rates Report, the 13th such survey issued by the association, cov­ers students who enrolled between 1993 and 1996 at Division I institutions. includ­ing 117 in Division I-A. The NCAA bases graduation rates on the raw percentage of stu­dent-athletes who entered an institution and graduated within six years. Students who leave or transfer, regard­less of academic standing, are considered non-graduates. 
Using the NCAA formula, Notre Dame graduated a four-year average of 87 per­cent of its student-athletes, third only to Duke and Northwestern Universities, both at 89 percent. The national average for Division I-A schools is 60 percent. 
Among student-athletes who completed all four years of athletic eligibility at Notre Dame, 99 percent earned their degrees. The national average was 83 percent. 
Notre Dame graduated 92 percent of all women compet­ing in varsity athletics. to rank second among peer institutions behind Northwestern at 98 percent. Among men, Notre Dame's 85 percent rate was second only to Duke at 88 percent. 
Notre Dame graduated 78 percent of its African­American student-athletes, ranking behind Rice, Stanford, Vanderbilt, Northwestern and Duke. 
Notre Dame football players graduated at an 81 percent rate to rank seventh national­ly behind Vanderbilt, Duke, Northwestern, Syracuse, Rice and Stanford. 
The NCAA recently present­ed an Academic Achievement Award to Notre Dame for its best-in-the-nation one-year graduation rate of 92 percent for all student-athletes who enrolled in 1996. 

U) MEtfS SOCCER 
INTERHAU.
WOMEN'S HOOPS 
MLB

NFL 
LLI 
Ruth Riley wins 

PE vs. Badin, Howard 
David Boston sent 
Seattle loses again to 
Chicago wins 8-0 over

1--
Co) Bradley at Notre 
WNBA Finals MVP, but 
vs. McGlinn, Lewis vs. 
home as a disciplinary 
Anaheim, shrinking 
Cincinnati to maintain a
z Dame 

still remembers her 
Lyons 
slim lead in NL Central.

action for breaking team 
their playoff hopes. 
a: ::5 
alma mater. 
c:s Thursday, 7 p.m. 
rules. 

The Irish look to keep
cc 

their win streak going. 
= a. =:. 
page 14

page 22 
page 21 
page 20 

page 18 
page 17
U) 

