.r------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------~ 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 2 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 27,2003 · 
Scully's post remains vacant 
Malloy temporarily assuming executive vice president duties 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
Nearly two months after Father Timothy Scully's resignation as executive vice president became effective, the position has yet to be filled. 
Scully announced May 2 that he intended to leave the administra­tive post, and the resignation took effect June 30. He did not state his reasons for the decision and the only comments from the University came in a statement largely outlining Scully's achieve­
ments. "The fruits of his dynamic deci­
sion-mak­ing and high stan­dards for perform­ance will continue to influence t h i s 

University Malloy long into the future," 
Patrick McCartan, chairman of the.Board of Trustees, said in the statement. 
"We respect the personal 
nature of the decision he has made to step down but look forward to a continu­ing rela­tionship with him as a member of the Board of Fellows 
and the Board of Trustees and as 
a valued member of the faculty." As executive vice president, Scully's duties included the administration of an annual oper­ating budget of more than $500 million, an endowment of more than $2.6 billion and a construc­tion program of $600 million. 

· While the position remains vacant, University President Father Edward Malloy is oversee­ing both his normal responsibili­ties and those normally per­formed by the executive vice pres­ident, University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Storin also said the choice of 
see SCULLY/page 13 
Severe weather disrupts campuses 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES News Editor 
A tornado warning for St. Joseph's County temporarily affected daily operations in the South Bend area Tuesday, including those at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Mike Hoffman, WNDU-TV's chief meteorologist, said that while the tor­nado sirens went off at approximately 

2:30 p.m. and 3:40, there were no confirmed reports of a tornado and he was unsure why the second siren sounded, as weather conditions at that time did not warrant an emer­gency. He said Emergency Management· may sound the alarm even if there is not a warning. 
"I surveyed [South Bend] from my chopper and in my opinion the dam­age was not from a tornado," Hoffman said. "It was a downburst south of South Bend and Mishawaka." 
Hoffman said there were confirmed 
see WEATHER/page 11 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Football 
rape trial begins 


TIM KACMAR!The Observer Former Irish safety Abram Elam enters the county courthouse Tuesday In South Bend. 
Observer Staff Report 
SOUTH BEND -The trial of Abram Elam-the first of four former football players accused of taking part in the rape of a woman at an off­campus house 17 months ago -began Tuesday with opening statements and tes­timony from the victim. 
Elam, a former Notre Dame safety, is the only one of the four not charged with rape. H~ is charged with conspiracy to commit rape and is accused of holding the then-20-year-old Notre Dame student down while the others attacked her. He is also charged with crimi­nal deviate conduct and sex­ual batterv. 

The woman told police she met the men at a bar, and they lured her to a house by saying there was a party 
see TRIAL/ page 12 

SMC continues with presidential search 
to stay on until a successor is By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD named. Saint Mary's Editor 
In early July, the Saint 
Mary's Board of Trustees hired 
The search for a successor to Korn/Ferry International to Saint Mary's President Marilou conduct a search for a quali­Eldred has progressed during fied candidate to fill the posi­the sum-tion. mer, main­
The firm was chosen based taining the on its notability and experi­search ence. said Colleen Ryan, a process Saint Mary's trustee and chair schedule of the Presidential Search instituted committee. Korn/Ferry last April. International demonstrates an 
T h e understanding of the College's College's needs and holds an impressive
Eldred

Presidential record of success in finding Search presidents for colleges and committee and Board of universities, she said. Trustees began the process Based out of offices in 40 after Eldred announced March countries. Korn/Ferry 5 that she intended to retire from her position. She agreed see SEARCH/page 12 


ND hikes ticket prices 
.~ 
ByWILLPUCKETT 
News Writer 
Many students were sur­
prised Tuesday by a $15 
increase when they purchased 
football tickets for the upcom­
ing season. 
The price jump, combined 
with that of last year, means 
that Notre Dame students now 
pay about $30 more for home 
game tickets than they did 
two years ago. 
Jim Fraleigh, assistant ath­
letic director for community relations and ticket opera­tions, said the increases are · part of the department's effort to expand student athlete 
scholarships. 
"Two years ago, the 
University approved funding 
all scholarships that are 
allowed by the NCAA," 
Fraleigh said. "As a result, in 

Increasing Football Ticket Prices 
$114 

Source: Observer Archives 

excess of 64 scholarships have been added, and a big portion of the ticket increase goes toward that." 
The University now funds 26 teams at the varsity level in NCAA sports. Prior to the decision, many Olympic sports did not have the maximum number of scholarships fund­ed. 
Student reaction to the tick­et price increase has been 
$144 

$129 



2002 2003 
MIKE HARKINS!The Observer 

mixed. 
"I didn't notice [the increase]. and I don't really think it's too much," sopho­more Pete Murphy said. 
"I think it's to help pro­grams, and it's to be expected with inflation and everything," said senior Mike Diamond. 
But not all students share this view. 
"I don't see why they hav.e 
see TICKETS/page 13 


Wednesday, August 27, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Reliving time abroad 
Everyone knows "that girl." 
She returns from studying abroad in a morphed, annoying, impossible-to-shut­up version of her former self. She insults America at every opportunity, spouting irritating theories of European superior­ity. She fmds her stories hilarious and worships her abroad pictures to the point that everyone she meets wants to knock her out with her own precious photo albums. 
I swore that I wouldn't be "her." Over the summer, I was pretty good. But I reserve the right to write one column about my abroad experience. 
Here it is. 
Before we left for Spai11, there was a mandatory meeting for all students preparing to study abroad. We were told that culture shock could hurtle us onto an emotional rollercoaster, possibly resulting in such undesirable effects as clinical depression or agoraphobia. 
I laughed. Maybe I shouldn't have. No one I know developed a fear of leaving the house, but every other bizarre occur­rence possible managed to happen last semester. 
One of my best friends and I discov­ered a dead body in the mountains of Spain. My flight almost landed directly on top of another plane. I lost my wallet, sustained three permanent scars and slept for 12 hours on the floor of a bro­ken-down train. One member of our pro­gram had his ACL tom in an unfortunate run-in with a bull 0 am not kidding). Another group was on a train that derailed and ran into a river after hitting a flock of sheep. People fell down steps, fell for each other, got tattoos and got pick-pocketed. Some rented stick-shift cars they didn't know how to drive, and others were nearly jailed by gun-toting Eastern European guards when they ran out of Czech currency. 
That's just an inkling of what went on. And it was great. 

I realized, over the summer, that we'll never get any of that back. Never again will we trip over cobblestones in the rain together, calling to the ever-present gimpy dog. We won't drink cafe con leche five times a day and beg for more tapas. Never again will we decide, at 4 a.m., that it's a good idea to lie on the sidewalk eating vending machine pizza. We probably won't escape to a mountain or the panoramic top floor of our school on a passing whim. And I miss that. 
What I will miss most, though, (and here I go with the cliches) is the people -the group of eccentric and amazing personalities that drove me crazy, kept me sane and became some of my best friends. 
Thanks for everything, tios. Jo. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In rhe Aug. 23 issue, a Black Hawk helicopter was mistakenly identified as an Apache helicopter in the caption on page 13. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a misrake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE OLSEN BROTHERS' DECISION TO TRANSFER? 






Steve Carroll David Kll Bob Prim Greg Coleman Mike Goolsby Bubba Gernerd 
Senior Junior Stadium Senior Senior Junior Off-campus Off-campus Usher O'Neill Hall Dillon Hall St. Ed's Hall 
"It's definitely a "It·s his loss. I "That's the way ..He'lllearn ..lt,s a big loss ..I wish we had loss to our don •t know why football from the best to the team. but the Olsen team, but I anyone would recruiting tight end in the we have enough twins. JJ think we can want to go to evolves. Too bad nation, Kellen talent to pick recover. JJ Miami or for the Olsens. Winslow. JJ up the loss of 
Virginia. •• they·u be 
missed.·· 


been deleted and will not be used again. 

Woman pleads guilty to attacking stripper 
WHEELING, Ill. -A woman has pleaded guilty to misdemeanor battery, admitting she attacked a stripper who failed to meet expecta­tions during her daugh­ter's bachelorette party. 
Jacqueline McMahon, 52, was sentenced to 30 days of court supervision and ordered to pay $2,500 restitution to the victim in a plea deal reached Monday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Smelly employee fuels hygiene policy 
MURFREESBORO, Tenn.­City officials say one smelly employee is responsible for a new policy that requires all city employees to smell nice when reporting for work. 
The Murfreesboro City Council adopted the good hygiene policy Thursday: 
"No employee shall have an odor generally offensive to others when reporting to work. An offensive body odor may result from a lack of good hygiene, from an exces­cologne or from other cause." 
sive application of a fra­grant aftershave or  
c::  TODAY  

Phone book cover 
features heroin flower 
CLERMONT, Fla. -Sprint Corp. is remaking phone books distributed in cen­tral Florida after learn­ing that the colorful cover art could be send­ing the wrong message. 
The phone book in south Lake County fea­tures the magenta petals of the opium-bearing poppy, the flower used to make heroin. 
Sprint spokeswoman Darcy Miller said the pic­ture was chosen from stock art for its color and attractiveness but has 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 
:::1: 
~ 
~ 

~ 
....J 
<
(,) 


0 
HIGH 80 HIGH 79

...I LOW· 67 LOW 59 

HIGH LOW 

88 69 

Greg and Chris.·· 
IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame juniors may pur­chase season football tickets today at the Stadium box office, across from the Joyce Center. Tickets are available for $144. 
Clubs a1.1d student organiza­tions interested in running a concession stand this fall must complete a training program. Sessions will be held today at 4 and 5:30p.m. 
Greg Pond's SISTAR Grant Project will be on display at the Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's. The display continues until Sept. 26. 
A special viewing of Groundhog Day will be shown on North Quad this evening. The movie begins at 9 p.m., weather permitting. 
The Graduate Student Union will host a picnic to welcome back all graduate students and celebrate the start of another academic year. The picnic will take place at the Fischer Grad Residences from 5:30 to 7 p.m. All graduate students and their families are invited to attend. 
On Thursday, Walsh Hall will present its annual Football Tutorial. The event takes place at the LaFortune ballroom from 8 to 9 p.m. It attempts to edu­cate the football illiterate in the rules of the sport. 
The sophomore class student government will host a late­night grill on Thursday from 10 to 11:30 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Peters's duties still cut 
Former Sarin rector remains inactive 
MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
Former Sorin rector Father Sam Peters is still prevented from public min­istry after he admitted in 
May to a n in a p­propri­a t e r e I a ­t i o n ­s h i p with an ad u l t 

Peters

female, s a i d Dick Nussbaum, attorney for the Congregation of the Holy Cross's Indiana Province. 
Nussbaum said Peters remains a priest and mem­ber of the Indiana Province, though he is not allowed to administer sacraments, practice pub­lic ministry and priestly other priestly duties. 
He did not provide con­tact information for Peters and said Peters was not in Indiana. 
Nussbaum said the Indiana Province deter­mines which priests are eligible to perform public ministry, but added that Peters is currently not undergoing the "extensive" process to defrock a priest, which involves both the province and the Vatican. 
Peters's future is yet to be determined by the province, and he could the­oretically be granted facul­ties, Nussbaum said. It is uncertain whether Peters will be able to resume pub­lic ministry. 
"It is pretty clear he won't [be allowed to per­form priestly duties] in the immediate future," Nussbaum said. 
In early May, the University abruptly fired Peters for what University spokesman Matt Sturin called an "inappropriate sexual relationship with an adult female." Sturin declined to comment in May on whether the woman was a student, say­ing the University would protect her identity. 
A member of the woman's family alerted University officials of the relationship. Within days, Peters admitted to the rela­tionship and was removed as rector of Sorin Hall, a post he had held since September 2001. The for­mer rector is banned from Notre Dame's campus. 
Sturin said in May that he did not know the length of the relationship, but that it was clear it had occurred 



GREAT 
~ 
NO 

LlMlT\ 
· Not \Ja\\d 
. ·mum for De\wer~. free Oe\\'Jer~. $7 .0~ M~er. Umited 1ime On\~. . Witn M~ Otner . . . . 

during the 2002-03 school year. 
A May statement from the Indiana Province apol­ogized for Peters's actions. 
"It will be important for him to re-examine his life priorities and his fidelity to them," the statement said. 
Peters told Notre Dame Magazine for a spring 2003 article on Holy Cross priests, ''I'm the happiest guy you've ever met who's poor, celibate and obedi­ent." 
Several Sorin residents said in May Peters fre­quently talked about how happy he was with his celibacy. 
The Vatican originally delayed Peters's ordination because, as a recovering alcoholic, he could not drink wine at the altar. In September 2001 he made his religious vows of pover­ty, chastity and obedience. A year later, the Vatican granted Peters a special dispensation and he was officially ordained a priest. 
Before becoming rector at Sorin, he served at St. Joseph High School and Christ the King Catholic Church in South Bend and St. Pius X in Granger. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
Boat Club lawsuits dismissed, postponed 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assisranr News Edicor 
Approximately 40 lawsuits filed against Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who were cited in the Jan. 24 Boat Club raid have been dis­missed and the remaining 150 trials have been postponed until Sept. 23. 
In April, Millennium Enterprises, the company that owns Boat Club, filed suits for $3,000 each against Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents cited in the raid. 
In his order granting the motion to dismiss the lawsuits, St. Joseph County Superior Court Magistrate Richard McCormick said Millennium Enterprises failed to show adequate legal precedent for its claim. McCormick said he did not agree with The Boat Club's argument that underage students admitted to the bar were responsible for damages the bar could incur as a result of the raid. 
South Bend attorney Ed Sullivan, who filed the motion to dismiss in June, said he realized the cited stu­dents broke the law, but did not believe they were solely responsible for any penalties the bar faces. "Even if the factual allegations are true, the law doesn't allow this type of claim," Sullivan said. 
In its brief to the court, Millen­nium Enterprises claimed that the "Defendant(s) knowingly made false statements ... of their age for pur­poses of inducing Plaintiff to allow 

MPUS SPEC 
ANY 

~~ded 
sua 
Fresh-baked bread 
strips with 3 kinds
of cheeses & 
garlic butter; 
topped with 
Parmesan 

NO 
& Roma 
Seasoning.
Served with 


Defendant to gain admission to defendant's business establishment ... the Plaintiff has sustained dam­ages, expenses, losses, costs and attorney .fees due to the fraudulent actions of the Defendant." 
The Boat Club faced sanctions from the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission and was given the options of losing its liquor li~ense or paying a $5,000 fine and selhng to new owners. 
Sullivan said that several states do not allow this type of lawsuit. "We cited those other states in our brief to the court," he said. Sullivan believes that the other suits may be dismissed as well. "I think it's likely," he said. " That ruling can be applied to any case. The facts are identical.". 
Millennium Enterprises has until Sept. 2 to appeal the decision to_ the Indiana Court of Appeals. Sulhvan said he feels confident he would win any appeal. 
Boat Club attorney Mitch Heppenheimer did not return Observer phone calls seeking com­ment on the suits. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents who were cited for the Class C felony "Minor in a Tavern" paid court fines of $220.The Office of Residence Life and housing required cited Notre Dame students to com­plete 40 hours of community service. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
5! 

·''ili*:=t:;:::,:!@}j::~~
A 

··:;:::::::'HJJ:...L\)hft1&TI:~;\\ a side of Piua Sauce · & Ranch Dipping Sauce. 
free Delive $7 . . LIMIT! With kyOt~~r~~~~uL~' ~tordo;.tivery. Not Valid 
'· 'm1 e ,1me Only. 

~ ~/ftJ iiJ ACCEPTED HERE 
Must provide credit card information when ordering for delivery. 
Carryout & FREE Delivery 

Wednesday, August 27, 2003 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC ranks first in Midwest colleges 
"These rankings are well
By NATALIE BAILEY 

recognized by parents and stu­
News Writer 

dents, and are therefore an important third-party endorse­For the ninth time in the past ment of the College's success," 
10 years, "U.S. News and 

said Saint Mary's CollegeWorld Report" ranked Saint 
President Marilou Eldred. "The 
Mary's College was ranked the guidebook also brings greater

number one Midwest 

visibility to smaller institutions Comprehensive College offer­
like ours that are often viewed 
ing bachelor's degrees. 
as hidden treasures." 
The 109 colleges in this cate­Holding the top position for 

gory are institutions in the 

so long also leads to increased Midwest that focus on under­publicity for the college.
graduate education, but grant "Any college that consistent­fewer than 50 percent of their ly ranks in the top of its cate­degrees in liberal arts disci­gory is clearly an academicallyplines. In addition, compre­sound institution with a well­

hensive colleges include insti­established tradition of excel­

tutions where at least 10 per­lence," McDonald said. "When 

cent of the undergraduate 

you're number one nine out of 
degrees awarded are bache­
10 years, it isn't a fluke." 
lors'. 

Students find the ranking
"U.S. News" evaluates 

impressive but not necessarily
schools in six · a point of key areas: 
''These rankings are well persuasion. 
peer assess­

Freshman 
ment, gradua­recognized by parents 

Eileen Boyce 
tion and reten­and students, and are first heard tion rates, fac­
therefore an important of the rank­
ulty resources, 

ing at the
third-party endorsement 
student selec­

president's
tivity, financial ofthe College ·s success. •• address dur­resources and 
ing orienta­
alumni giving. 

tion week­
Marllou Eldred
Saint Mary's end. 


earned an president 

" T h e 
overall score Saint Mary's College 

ranking is 
of 100. rank­

great for the 
ing highly in 

school, but I 
average freshmen retention 

would never base my decision rate, average graduation rate, on a college just because of its 
alumni giving and student­

national ranking," she said. "I teacher ratio. 
came to Saint Mary's because "The faculty at Saint Mary's 
of the beautiful campus,
play a huge role," said Melanie friendly people and academics;McDonald, director of public I was not even aware of the

relations at Saint Mary's. 
report."
"They are a major reason for 

The College hopes the reportthe College's excellent reputa­
cultivates interest in high
tion, which is measured in the school women and pride in 

peer assessment category. 
current students. 
They also greatly influence 

"The ranking gives Saint 
Saint Mary's scores in the cate­Mary's students one more rea­

gories of graduation and 

son to be proud of themselves 
retention rates and faculty 

and of the college they have 
resources. Combined, these 

chosen to attend," McDonald three areas amount to 70 per­
said. 
cent of the total assessment." 
The College said it welcomes the recognition and publicity Contact Natalie Bailey at brought by the annual study. baill407@saintmarys.edu 

.----------·-·-----..... -·-·--·-..···-··-·-······-"· ··-·--·· -------, 

Kaplan representatives will be in O'Shaughnessy's Great Hall on Wednesday 8/27, Thursday 8/28, and Friday 8/29 from 9am -3pm to answer questions and accept enrollments for fall classes. 


KAPLAN~ 

1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.oom 

NO welcomes new rectors 
three rectors in four years, so I "I see my main role as one of By CLAIRE HEININGER know where they're coming providing leadership and direc­
News Writer 

from. Patience has to be the tion for the women of this dorm," name of the game when we're all Skinner said. "It is very impor­Four dorms welcome new rec­adjusting to one another," Eckert tant to me to get and keep the tors this year, including Sorin said. dorm more organized than last College, St. Edward's Hall, Eckert entered Moreau year, especially in terms of fol­McGlinn Hall and Zahm Hall. Seminary in the fall of 1995, lowing through with policies and 
The Otters graduating organizing hall functions." of Sorin are with a Skinner said her hall staff has now under Master of been extremely helpful in her the leader­Divinity adjustment to the job. ship of degree in Zahm Hall welcomes new rec­Father Jim ·2002. He tor Dan Parrish, who will be King, a 1981 w a s ordained a Holy Cross deacon Notre Dame ordained a Sunday. graduate. Holy Cross "This past week has been He was priest in amazing -I am so excited to be ordained as 2003. here at Zahm," he said. a Holy Cross McGlinn Parrish praised the strong priest in Hall is the presence of community that is 1988. King only female alive in the dorm, saying that he has served dorm to add believes Zahm's hall spirit to be as the direc­a new rector the best sense of family at Notre 
tor of voca­this year, Dame. tions for the welcoming "On top of social and athletic Congre­Beth Skinner activities, the freshmen paid a 3 gation of to the staff. a.m. candlelit visit to the ceme­Holy Cross Skinner, who tery to see Father Zahm's grave.
since 1997 

earned a We talked about how he lived his and will con-B.A. in life and how it's a call for us tr tinue to hold the position while Religious Studies from the live our lives -how Fr. Zah1n he serves as rector. University of California-Riverside, lives on through us." 
King was enthusiastic about his has completed all but her final Parrish graduated from the placement in Sorin, the first resi­exams toward a University of dence hall built at Notre Dame. 
Masters degree "We've inherited a lot of Portland in 
"We've inherited a lot of tradi­in Theology 1996 and
tradition here, and that's 
tion here, and that's quite a from Notre earned a plus," King said. "Our first week­Dame. quite a plus.·· Masters of end got rave reviews from par­She comes to Divinity degree ents and students alike." the University from Notre
Father Jim King
Father Tom Eckert, the new after serving for Dame in Mayrector of St. Edward's Hall, grad­ten years in the rector of 2003. uated from Notre Dame in 1995. diocese of San Sorin Hall During his time The fourth rector to head St. Bernardino, CA. as a seminari­Edward's Hall in the past three including two years as the an. Parrish volunteered at the years, he said he sympathizes Associate Director of the Office of Indiana State Prison, as well as in with the adjustments his upper­Small Faith Communities for the the Office of Campus Ministry. 
classmen residents have had to RENEW program. Skinner also make to each new rector's expec­served for the U.S. Army in tations. Germany as a drug and alcohol Contact Claire Heininger at 
"When I was a student, I had counselor. cheining@nd.edu 







UNIVERSITY OF 

NOTRE DAME 
Univen;ity Ubnuies 

Phase One of the Hesburgh Library renovation is complete; the Lower Level is now open to the public. We hope that you enjoy this st-a.te-ot:the-art library space for learning~ study1 and research. 
• 
\Vhkh hooks are being moved? AU bonks with call #s which begin with Q·Z (excluding TR) are being transferred to the Lower .Level. 

• 
The microfiche general coHection, the govermnent docu­ments microfiche collection, and books with the call # A, have alread.y been transferred and are, no\>v lQcated in the Lower l ..evet Other collections are being moved in a project that wiJt take bet-vv'een 9 and 12 months to complete. 

• 
During the shift, daily updates will be posted hy the First Floor elevators and at http://www.nd.edu/-renovate indicating which call #s are in transit. lfyou need assistance locating books in a call # range that is in transit> please contact the Circulation Desk. Books will be retrieved and available at the Circulation Desk within 24 hours. 


The University Libraries are doing everything possible to rninimize your inconvenience and \ve thank you for your patience during this process. 



Wednesday, August 27, 2003 CoN\P!LEo rn.o!\·1·rHE <)HsERVER \tVlRE sr:RvtcEs Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Cuba detainee attempts suicide 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -Another inmate at the U.S. detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. has tried to kill himself, bringing to 32 the number of detainees that have attempted suicide, the military said Tuesday. 
The detainee, one of about 660 from 42 countries being held on suspicion of links to Afghanistan's fallen Taliban regime or the al­Qaida terror network, was being treated by medics, Lt. Col. Pamela Har~said. 
"He is going to be looked at by mental health personnel more carefully, but physi­cally he's fine," Hart told The Associated Press in a telephone interview from the base in Cuba. 
Hart declined to say how the man tried to kill himself but most attempts have been with men trying to hang themselves with garments or sheets provided in their 8-by-6 foot metal cells. 
American claims coaster record 
BERLIN -. An American set a world record for roller-coaster riding Tuesday, surpassing his own mark of 147 hours after six days of careening rides in a German amusement park, organizers said. 
Richard Rodriguez, 43, followed Guinness Book of World Records rules requiring eight-hour periods of riding with no more than 15-minute breaks, the Holiday Park in the southwest German town of Hassloch said in a statement. 
Rodriguez, who teaches English at Loyola University in Chicago, used two roller-coasters at the amusement park in his record chase. For the purpose, one car on each ride was equipped with a small toi­let and with seat padding, so he could sleep while riding. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Two feared dead in plane crash 
YARMOUTH, Mass. -A commuter plane w i th j ust two p i lots a b oard crashe d Tuesday off Cape Cod after the crew report­ed an emergency and tried to return to the airport, authorities said. The pilots were presumed dead. 
Recovery efforts were suspended for the night at about 7:30p.m. without any bodies being recovered, said Mark Foley, a spokesman for the Yarmouth Fire Department. 
The Federal Aviation Administration said the Colgan Air crew declared an emergency shortly after takeoff and was returning to land when the crash occurred about 3 miles off the coast. The plane wa.s a Beechcraft 19000, a 19-seater, the FAA said. 
More pilots packing in-flight heat 
WASHINGTON -After a slow start in training pilots to carry guns, the govern­ment said Tuesday that it has filled its weekly classes and expects to arm all qual­ified pilots who volunteer within a year. 
An association of pilots says, however, that the government is discouraging volun­teers by insisting on psychological testing, requiring lockboxes to carry weapons and holding training at a single remote site. 
Fewer than 200 passenger airline pilots were trained and deputized to carry a weapon since Congress ordered the pro­gram in November. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana soldier killed in Iraq 
DENVER -A soldier from Indiana has died of injuries suffered in an auto accident in Iraq, the military said Tuesday. 
Spc. Honald D. Allen Jr., 22, was serving with the 502nd Personnel Service Battalion. 43rd Area Support Group, supporting the 4th Infantry Division, the Pentagon said. 
Allen was from Mitchell, Ind., about 30 miles south of Bloomington. 
Shuttle report blasts NASA 
Panel finds lax safety measures helped doom Columbia, seven cre1v members 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -NASA's 
overconfident manage­
ment and inattention to 
safety doomed Columbia 
every bit as much as the 
chunk of foam that struck 
the shuttle with deadly 
force, investigators con­
cluded Tuesday. Without 
drastic changes, they said, 
another disaster is likely. 
In a scathing 248-page 
report coming almost 
seven months to the day 
after the spacecraft disin­
tegrated over Texas, the 
Columbia Accident 
Investigation Board said 
the shuttle was not 
"inherently unsafe," but 
issued a series of recom­
mendations for a safe 
return to flight. 

"The board strongly 
believes that if these per­
sistent, systemic flaws are 
not resolved, the scene is 
set for another accident," 
the investigators wrote. 
They added: "NASA's 
blind spot is it believes it 
has a strong safety cul­
ture." 

The board said the 
space agency lacks "effec­
tive checks and balances, 
does not have an inde­
pendent safety program 
and has not demonstrated 
the characteristics of a 
learning organization." insulation and managers plish and will be internal­Some of the changes 
Board member John pressed ahead because of ly resisted," the report urged by the Columbia Barry put it this way: intense pressure from said. board -eliminate as "NASA had conflicting high up to stay on sched­"We know how hard it is much fuel-tank foam goals of cost, schedule· ule. Even shuttle man­for big organizations to shedding as possible, and safety. Unfortunately, agers said the rationale change," said retired toughen the vulnerable safety lost out." for continuing to launch Navy Adm. Harold thermal shielding on the 
NASA Administrator in the face of foam strikes Gehman, the board's wings, give astronauts Sean O'Keefe, prepared in was "lousy." chairman. inspection capabilities advance for the sharp In all, the Columbia NASA's vigilance after and repair kits -are criticism, pledged to make investigators issued 29 the 1986 Challenger needed before shuttle the necessary changes. recommendations to explosion lessened as the flights resume, Gehman 
"We are, all of us at NASA, six focusing on years went by, and the said. The culture issues NASA, a part of the solu­organizational change. recommendations by will take longer, he said. tion," he told space Dr. Jonathan Clark, a those investigators were Key members of agency employees. NASA flight surgeon forgotten or overlooked. Congress are promising 
And President Bush whose wife was Columbia So the Columbia investi­close scrutiny; the first declared, "Our journey in astronaut Dr. Laurel gators sought a deeper, round of hearings begins space will go on." Clark, said the report "hit broader analysis. next week. 
The board concluded right on the money" and Observed board member The board has done its that safety engineers used noted that changing the Sheila Widnall, a former job, "now it's time for us "sleight of hand" tactics space agency's culture Air Force secretary: "I to do ours," said Rep. Bart even before the Feb. 1 will be the real challenge. wanted to make sure that Gordon, D-Tenn., a mem­Columbia tragedy to play The board agreed. "The we were not just the sec­ber of the Space and down the frequency of changes we recommend ond report on a shelf to be Aeronautics strikes by fuel-tank foam will be difficult to accom-joined by a third report." Subcommittee. 

U.N. says Iranians have uranium 
known to The Associated Press by Separately, Salehi also said Iran
Associated Press 

diplomats who requested anonymity. was ready to negotiate an IAEA 
VIENNA. Austria-U.N. inspectors The United States has accused Iran request that it sign an additional found traces of highly enriched, of developing a clandestine nuclear agreement throwing open its nuclear weapons-grade uranium at an weapons program, violating the programs to more intrusive inspec­Iranian nuclear facility, a report by Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty bar­tions. the U.N. nuclear agency says. ring the spread of atomic weapons. Salehi said the offer, made Monday, 
Iran said Tuesday the traces came Iran has denied the allegations, indicates "for the first time ... that the with equipment purchased abroad insisting its programs are devoted government of Iran is ready to enter decades ago. only to generating electricity. negotiations into the additional proto­
The find heightened concerns that Ali-Akbar Salehi, Tehran's ambas­col." Tehran may be running a secret sador to the IAEA, said the equip­He said talks would likely begin nuclear weapons program. ment was "contaminated" with after two IAEA meetings next month, 
Agency inspectors found "particles" enriched uranium before it was pur­one on Sept. 8 by the agency's board of highly enriched uranium that could chased by Iran. of governors on the Iran report and be used in a weapons program at the Salehi told AP the equipment in another the week after when the full facility at Natanz, said the report pre­question was "brought many years IAEA assembly convenes. pared for a meeting of the U.N. ago from intermediaries" and so it IAEA spokesman Mark Gwozdecky agency's board Sept. 8 in Vienna. was impossible to name the countries called Iran's overture "a positive Contents of the report were made of origin. step." 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Thousands watch Mars at observatory 
when the lines were cut off 
By WILLIAM PUCKETT 
because of the higher-than­
News Wrirer 
expected turnout. Lines had been forming outside 
A once-in-a-lifetime event Nieuwland since 8:30, with occurred last Friday and the program beginning at Saturday nights, as the 9:30. Department of Physics' According to associate pro­Center for Astrophysics fessor Peter Garnavich, two opened the observatory on nights were originally sched­


top of Nieuwland Hall for Mars Nights at Notre Dame. The occasion? Mars is now closer than it has been for roughly 60,000 years, or will be 
for  another  
284.  
The  Center  

had expected few people to show up, but the turnout was far greater than they had antici­pated. 
"We were expecting a dis­mal turnout, but we were 
..The weather turned out to be really great, and we were able to see a lot. We were really happy with that, especially considering the number ofpeople who came." 
Peter Garnavlch associate professor of Astrophysics 
surprised by how many peo­ple came," said Suzanne Aleva, a senior administra­tive assistant who helped coordinate the event. 
In fact, 1,500 people were able to participate on Friday night, while 1,300 got to look through a telescope Saturday night. 
Both nights saw people turned away around 11:15, 
uled in case one night was too cloudy to use the telescopes. 
However, this proved not to be the case. 
"The weather turned out to really be great, and we were able to see a lot," Garnavich said. 
"We were really happy with that, espe­cially consider­ing the number of people who came." 
The observa­tory normally does not hold 
public programs, and Garnavich. 
"It turned out to be a real­ly incredible response to a unique event, and we saw it as a great opportunity," Garnavich said. 
Contact William Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 
Gov. Bush intervenes in feeding tube case 
Associated Press 
CLEARWATER, FLa. -Gov. Jeb Bush asked a judge Tuesday to delay setting a date for removal of a brain­damaged woman's feeding tube so that a guardian for her can be appointed. 
In a letter to state Circuit Judge George W. Greer, Bush asked that Terri Schiavo be kept alive until a court­appointed guardian can "inde­pendently investigate the cir­cumstances of this case and provide the court with an unbiased view that considers the best interests of Mrs. Schiavo." 
Schiavo has been in what doctors call a persistent vege­tative state since collapsing in 1990. Her heart stopped from what doctors believe was a potassium imbalance. Since Sunday, she has been hospi­talized with pneumonia and other problems. 
The 39-year-old woman has been at the center of a long legal battle between her par­ents, Bob and Mary Schindler, and her husband and legal guardian, Michael Schiavo. The parents want her kept alive; her husband says she 
never wanted to be kept alive artificially. 
Bush said his office has received 27,000 e-mails from people asking him to inter­vene in the case. 
Greer said he is bound by court rulings and probably will not delay the removal of the tube and is "not inclined" to appoint a guardian. 
"Frankly, I think I'm operat­ing under a mandate from the 2nd District Court of Appeal, and frankly I don't think I can stray from that mandate," Greer told The Associated Press. 
On Friday, the Florida Supreme Court refused to intervene in the case, clearing the way for Greer to set a date for removal of the feeding tube keeping her alive. 
Michael Schiavo called Bush's intervention "crazy," accusing the governor of bending to pressure from con­servatives who have taken up the e-mail campaign 
"This case has been in liti­gation for five years, and all of a sudden Gov. Bush wants to be involved?" Michael Schiavo said. "This isn't his concern, and he should stay out of it." 
Be a night owl. Write for Observer News. 
Call 1-5323. 
Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz... 

Crowded dorms squeeze students 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
For the third year in a row, Notre Dame students returned tQ campus to discov­er dormitories filled to capac­ity, and some freshmen assigned to live in West Quad and Mod Quad dorms found themselves settling into con­verted study lounges. 
This year, between 7 5 and 100 freshmen and transfer students were assigned makeshift rooms for the aca­demic year, said Jeff Shoup, the director of Residence Life and Housing. The added dorm rooms and fewer study areas also mean cramped quarters for all of the students who are living in these overcrowded dorms. 
"It's been a challenge, there's no doubt about that," Shoup said. "I think this is the most [students] we've had in lounges since Flanner and Grace [halls] went offline." 

The reason for the over­crowding, he said, is larger­than-expected class sizes both this year and two years ago. The class of 2007, with close The additional students to 2,000 students, and 2005, have posed a challenge for which entered with 2,038 stu­the Office of Residence Life dents, represent the two and Housing.largest classes in Notre Dame But Shoup said the situation 
history. is under control because 
Although the Office of newer dorms. including those Admissions has continued to on Mod and West quads, were accept approximately the built with study lounges 
same number of applicants designed to be converted into 
each year, more and more doubles if needed. students are choosing to The rooms may lack a sink, accept those invitations, said but they are equipped with 
James Riley, assistant direc­phone and Ethernet lines and tor of admissions. This year, carpet. "Those are nice for example, applicants rooms," said Keough Hall rec­accepted invitations for tor Father Peter Jarret. admission at a rate of 59 per­Some students, in fact, pre­
cent, he said. fer them to standard rooms. 
"It's really hit or miss whether people like the [con­verted] ·rooms." Shoup said. "Every year at room picks we have people who have lived in study lounges and want to live there again but we don't allow that situation." 
In the future, the University will likely d.ddress the prob­lem by reducing occupancy in older dorms and constructing new dorms around campus, Shoup said. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
~······~·. 
. .. "'-·'··--··"~"-··"--·--·--·· 


'l{ew literature course in c·hinese '!}jered6y !East ?lsian Lanauages &' Literatures 
Paf(, 2003 

3677 LLEA.J9Zt-UI: Cult:ural PerforQL"lnces in <:on-te.mnn.,..arv
C.hina .. r-. (:russ list: AN"rH 39zE l\IWF 9:3;-:ro:2~ Prof.Jo.nathan Noble 
This cvurse <1sks students to engage and aoal)'1:e different typ-es of ..cultur~l p~rfnr:n<.~nce~" in Chi~ fro~n the I98'?s to \he present d~..... How do we interpret the drvenaty and c:ompleXlt)" ot cultW"e.s m contemporary· china? Haw· is this diversity r~pr_c~~mcd (or '·performed") wirh.in and benveen different types of mediums, d~SC.ip~es, <lnd soc:;io-culruml activ-itie~? After es.t~blishing an un!fersta.nding of the h.1s.toncal ~·.onr:~n tor the period under discussion, the course \Vill cx.aminc d.iffcrcut type~ ~)f "cultural perfor~~flc(:s" within a broad range of ar{;as, indud.ing 11lm, td-';'t~on, ~ea~er, ach:'e-ruslng, the Internet., a':d p~•pu1ar mu~k. (.hUJ~~ ~nd lei::;\lf~ a~t.tVItles • ..>:t'ftlc'Qlar tssues to b~ examined t.n C(>njuncdon with the "cultural performances"" inc:;ludc _comm~r~l:~-~m :rod coru<~cri.."Dl, th<: :f()lc of the g<Jvcrrunt::nt, the state, an.J nattonallsm, tr<1<Jit:u>n and modcrmt:)", globalism and transuational.i.s1n, ~he r...rba~/nua.l c:tivid~, d01s:>, w~d gender. 'Inc course will al:ro provide a basic ln~;mducttoa ttl thcone~ of P:c.rfocmanc:e and pe.rfor.mativ:itv. Smdc:,nrs w.m v-i~w. ar~y.t;~, and dj.scus~ an an~y of"cu.t~ral perfo~ma.n_<~es" t~rough dif!ic-r¢nt med.i;t and ut•b?.C the ln~en1ct: as <ln tnterf.-qce tor collectmg vtc,vpomts tmm China and across the CJuru::'.ie Dia.'ipora to be applied to their own .rcsenn:h prot-ects. 
i ~l aJdil ion to providing it ~urreut ovt:TYitrw of the div~.1·s.ity of~ultun::s in Chiua :Uld the C'mtemporary h;~es ~mbcddcd ~i~, thi~ cou.r~c is ideal for stutl(:nts sc;ekiug t€1 explo-re t:he r<lie of culture across d1sctpl.i.ncs, mdudmg art:s and literatures, !ustorv, atlthropolog)', sociolOg)o', political scicnc~, medi.a srudie~, and business. · 
No privr knov.,kdge of Chinese language, c.:ultm:.e, •>r history i\i rc:quh·ed. 
East As.t&.n Langua~e.s & Literatures 'l(;_'i' O'Shilughne1o~y Hill 63t-llRn 



Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
Page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 9,340.45]ones ..$-;,"'}1:  +22.81  
AMEX  965~73 •..  +1.27  
.N4SDAQ  1,770.65  +6.34  

NYSE 656.08.....,....· . +1.40 S&P500 996.73 +3.02 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TRUST (QQQ) +0.09 +0.03 32.54 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.73 +0.47 27.71 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.63 +0.12 19.10 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.57 +0 07 12.44 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.26 +0.07 26.57 
IN BRIEF 
Justice Dept. blocks SBC move 
COLUMBUS, Ohio The Justice 
Department told federal regulators Tuesday it 
could not support SBC Communications Inc.'s 
application to enter the long-distance market 
in four Midwestern states. 
SBC, the second-largest of the nation's four 
regional Bell companies, asked federal regu­
lators last month for permission to offer long­
distance service in Ohio, Indiana. Illinois and 
Wisconsin. The move is opposed by potential 
competitors who say the local telephone giant 
is blocking competition for its services. 
SBC has been trying for years to offer long­
distance service in its service area, and 
approval from the Federal Communications 
Commission is ·the final hurdle. SBC already 
sells long distance in eight states, including 
California and Texas. 
Two suitors remain for Universal 
PARIS -Vivendi Universal on Tuesday nar­
rowed the field of bidders for its entertain­
ment assets to two -General Electric Co.'s 
NBC and an investor group led by former 
Seagram Co. chief executive Edgar Bronfman 
Jr. 
After a four-hour board meeting, the French 
media and utilities conglomerate said it would 
enter separate, in-depth talks with the "two 
strongest" bidders. In either case, a deal 
would leave Vivendi a "substantial minority 
interest" in a U.S. media company, the com­
pany said in a statement. 
The move excludes CBS and MTV owner 
Viacom Inc., which had expressed interest 
only in Vivendi's cable channels-USA, Sci-Fi 
and Trio. The other assets for sale include the 
Universal movie and TV studios and several 
theme parks. 
Amazon launches anti-spoof suits 
SEATTLE -Amazon.com Inc. has filed fed­
eral lawsuits against 11 e-mail marketers, 
contending they faked their e-mail addresses 
to appear as if the messages were sent by 
Amazon.com, the company said Tuesday. 
The suits, filed Monday and Tuesday in sev­eral U.S. district courts and in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice in Canada, seek injunctions to stop the alleged e-mail forger­ies as well as millions of dollars in punitive damages. 
The lawsuits are part of a broader effort by Amazon.com to stop e-mail "spoofing" of the company's name, the Seattle-based Internet retailer said in a statement. Spoofing is a practice in which outsiders send e-mail to consumers that purports to be from another company or person. 
H&R Block posts rare I Q gain 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. -H&R Block on Tuesday reported a first-quarter profit for only the second time in its history, largely due to strong performance in the company's financial services businesses. 
The Kansas City-based tax preparer report­ed earnings of $10.6 million, or 6 cents per share, in the quarter that ended July 31. beating the 1 cent per share consensus esti­mate of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. 
U.S. economy gains strength 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK 
Consumer confidence 
rebounded in August from 
a dip the previous month 
as thousands of house­
holds surveyed expressed 
a growing belief that bet­
ter times were ahead. a 
private research group 
said Tuesday. 

Meanwhile, the govern­
ment reported a surge in 
July for big-ticket items, 
and new-home sales 
dipped as rising mortgage 
rates turned off some 
house hunters, but still 
posted their second best 
month on record. 
Taken together, the readings "reflect that peo­ple are beginning to think the problems we're hav­ing now are temporary," said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis. 
"People aren't feeling really go.od about the economy but that doesn't stop them from taking advantage of bargains when they're offered and spending the money they have," Thayer said. 
The New York-based Conference Board said its Consumer Confidence Index rose to 81.3 in August, up 4.3 points from a revised 77.0 in July. thing from the housing at 997. 61.6 from 63.0. Analysts had expected a market to car sales. The Conference Board's Continued optimismreading of 79.6 this Tuesday's economic gauge of consumer conn­hinges on developments in month. reports came a day after dence has been on the the labor market, said 
Also Tuesday, the the National Association rise since posting steep Lynn Franco, director of Commerce Department of Realtors said sales of declines during the Iraq the Conference Board's reported that manufactur­previously owned homes war in February and consumer research center. ers saw demand for soared to an annual rate March. The index lurched Survey responses on "durable" goods -costly of 6 .. 12 million units in from a low of 61.4 in employment were mixed, products expected to last July-the best month on March to readings with the number of con­at least three years -record. between 81 to 8 3 from sumers reporting that jobs rose by a solid 1 percent The generally positive April to June, before are "hard to get" rising to in July. The figures, which reports failed to inspire dropping to 77 last month. 34.1 percent, up from were on target with ana­investors on Wall Street. Consumers surveyed by 32.7 percent in July. lysts' expectations, Major indexes spent most the Conference Board in Those claiming jobs were reflected broad-based of the day in negative ter-August were increasingly "plentiful" also rose, to gains from car~ and ritory, but ended the day optimistic about the econ­11.1 percent from 10.7 machinery to communica­with gains analysts attrib-omy over the next six percent. Looking ahead, tions equipment and com­uted to technical factors. months, though their 18 percent of consumers puters. The Dow Jones industrial assessment of current anticipate improvements 
Separately, July sales of average rose 23 points to conditions deteriorated in the job market. up from new homes fell 2. 9 per­9,340. The broader mar-for the fourth straight 1b.6 percent last month. cent, the department said, ket was also higher. The month. The group's The number expecting to but it remained the sec­Nasdaq composite index expectations index rose to see their own income rise ond-best month on record. rose 6 points to 1, 771. 94.4 in August from 86.3 jumped to 20.1 percent, 
Historically low interest The Standard & Poor's in July, while the present up from 15.9 percent in rates have boosted every-500 index was up 3 points situation index declined to July. 

CBO: Budget deficits to continue 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The federal government is in store for at least eight more years of budget deficits, including a record $480 billion shortfall in 2004, con­gressional budget analysts said Tuesday. 
The Congressional Budget Office also warned that the numbers will become more dire if the White House gets its way on tax cuts and Congress fails to rein in spending. 
They said the budget outlook "has worsened substantially" since its last review in March, when it put next year's deficit at $200 billion. Much of that is the result of subse­quent acts of Congress to cut taxes 
and increase spending for defense 
and the war in Iraq, it said. 
The CBO, a nonpartisan group, said the budget will edge back into the black in 2012 and 2013, but will record an accumulated deficit of almost $1.4 trillion in the 2004­2013 period. In March, it predicted a surplus of $891 billion in that· period. 
Democrats seized on the report as proof that the Bush administration policy of cutting taxes while demanding more for defense and homeland security was threatening the nation's economic viability. 
"I think this is a moral problem more than an economic problem," said Rep. John Spratt of South Carolina, top Democrat on the House Budget Committee. 
He said the administration was draining the government's ability to pay for Social Security and Medicare at a time when 77 million baby boomers are approaching retirement, while saddling future generations with repayment of a national debt that could double to $7 trillion by 2013. 
The White House and GOP lead­ers, however, argued that the deficit was manageable. only a small per­centage of an ever-larger national economy, and that they could reduce it by strengthening the econ­omy and holding down spending. 
page 8 Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 
Attorneys want less smoking . In movies 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Attorneys general from 24 states are asking the film industry to reduce the amount of smoking in films to prevent teens from taking up the habit. 
In a letter Tuesday, the attor­neys cited a June study from Dartmouth Medical School that said children who watch movies in which actors smoke heavily are three times more likely to smoke themselves than those exposed to less smoking on-screen. 
The letter to Motion Picture Association of America President Jack Valenti did not offer any spe­cific steps. 
"We're not saying any law has been broken," said Tom Dresslar, a spokesman for California Attorney General Bill Lockyer, one of the officials who signed the letter. "We're just asking out of a concern for the health of our kids that the industry do what it can to ensure that kids don't start smok­ing." 
MPAA spokesman Rich Taylor said Valenti had received the let­ter and would respond appropri­ately. 
"Smoking is, if you'll recall, a legal activity," he said when asked what the MPAA was cur­rently doing to reduce teen smok­ing. "That being said, he'll be reading carefully the letter and the study it references." 
Brendan McCormick, a spokesman for Philip Morris USA, said the major tobacco compa­nies agreed in the nationwide set­tlement signed in 1998 not to pay for product placement or to grant permission to films that want to feature their cigarettes. He declined to comment on the letter. 
The Dartmouth study involved 2,603 children who were between 10 and 14 at the start of the study in 1999 and had never smoked when they were recruit­ed. They were asked at the begin­ning of the study which movies they had seen from a list of 50 movies released between 1988 and 1999. 
Investigators counted the num­ber of times smoking was depict­ed and determined how many smoking incidents each of the adolescents had seen. Exposure was categorized into four groups, with the lowest level involving between zero and 531 occur­rences of smoking and the high­est involving between 1,665 and 5,308 incidents. 
Twenty-two of those exposed to the least on-screen smoking took up the habit, compared with 107 in the highest exposure group, a fivefold difference. However, after taking into account factors known to be linked with starting smok­ing, such as rebelliousness, the effect was reduced to a threefold difference. 

The letter was signed by the attorneys general of Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon. Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Washington and West Virginia, as well as the Northern Mariana Islands. 
All chocolates do not provide health benefits 
Associated Press 

After a sweaty health club workout, don't kid yourself that the candy bar in your gym bag is health food. Despite the recent buzz over the confec­tion's heart-protecting qualities, new research suggests that not all kinds of chocolate are bene­ficial. 
European researchers say eating milk chocolate, which is most commonly used in candy bars, does not raise antioxidant levels in the bloodstream. They found the same discouraging result among patients who drank milk while eating dark chocolate. 
The results suggest that milk and other dairy products some­how discourage the body's abil­ity to absorb the protective compounds in chocolate. Only subjects who ate dark chocolate showed a temporary increase in their antioxidant levels. 
Details of the study appear in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
"This puts in question the 
possible protective effects of (chocolate) milk shakes or ice cream or other dairy products," said co-author Alan Crozier of the University of Glasgow. 
Nor does Crozier endorse the idea that eating dark chocolate is healthier. It still contains plenty of fat and sugar. 
"Don't think by eating five or six bars a day you're doing yourself any good," he said. 
Cocoa beans contain plant chemicals called flavonoids, a kind of antioxidant polyphenol present in many fruits, vegeta­bles, tea and red wine. Some studies indicate flavonoids pro­tect the heart from damaging effects of unstable oxygen com­pounds called free radicals that, among other things. can damage blood vessels. 
A German study published Wednesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association suggests that eating dark chocolate can lower blood pressure. Other experiments show cocoa flavonoids may reduce harmful blood clotting properties and decrease low-density-lipoprotein (LDL). known as the "bad cholesterol." 
The JAMA study involved adults with untreated mild hypertension who ate 3-ounce chocolate bars daily for two weeks. Half of the patients got white chocolate, half got dark chocolate. 
Blood pressure remained pretty much unchanged in the group that ate white chocolate, which does not contain polyphenols. But after two weeks, systolic blood pressure -the top number -had dropped an average of five points in the dark-chocolate group. The lower, or diastolic, reading fell an average of almost two points. 
In 1998, a Harvard study of nearly 8,000 of its male gradu­ates determined that eating the equivalent of few bars of choco­late a month lowered the risk of death by 36 percent as com­pared to abstainers. 
In the latest experiments, which were conducted without industry funding, Crozier and researchers in Italy first deter­mined the antioxidant levels of dark chocolate and milk choco­late in the lab. Dark chocolate had twice as much, Crozier said, in part because milk chocolate contains only about half as much actual chocolate. 
The researchers then gave chocolate bars to seven women and five men who were between 25 and 35 years old. All of the participants were nonsmokers, had normal blood lipid levels, took no prescription drugs or vitamins and were not overweight. 
After they ate dark chocolate bars, the antioxidant potential measured in their blood increased an average of 18 per­cent and remained elevated for three hours. 
Lead author Mauro Serafini said the subjects' antioxidant potential did not rise noticeably when they consumed a glass of whole milk with the dark chocolate, or when they ate milk chocolate. He said it's pos­sible that antioxidants bind with milk proteins making absorption more difficult. 

:-•,·,•.-'Y'o•...•."J'.• V .....JV.-• .NY.YNo"oVoW.Vo ......._ ,....,..,..,.......<hVNi''V•'N.Vo"...V'o"oW• • o...-r.'V• o" W o o"o '' "•Wo i' ooo 'oYO'.Vo'o'oYo'~•'.V•'•'• ' ·.-. o'o'o'o"~o'o'o'•'""'•"o'o"o'o'o"o'o'.-,v.,·,-. o'o"O'........'•'•""''•'...Vo'o'.-.'o"o'o"o-.'o"o'o'.-.'o'o"o'o'o'o"oo' .,.,._._.,.,.,.,._.....,...,., .v,~·,·.-,-.-.·,·.-,·,·,·,·, o o'o'o"o'o"o'oo'o'<l'oYo'.-.r.'o'oVo"<h"o'o'•'o"o'o"o'o'o"o'-.'•'o'o"o'o"o'•'•'•"o"o'o'o'o'Vo'•-.···· ,.,.,._.,._.,.,•,•,;,.,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,·,•,·,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•.: 
! 
• 

The future relies on 
inventions from GE. 
GE's future relies 
on peopie like you. 
This past summer sc,me ot your classmates were already shaping the future through an internship at GE! Part of our Early Identification Program, a G E I nternsh i1J is one of the :11ost direct paths to our Leadership Programs. 
:! 

The future is our business. A:1d the way vve <:ee it, the future IS n p!nce tht:t i~ ativer: by 
idea~. The kind of idea:3 that make the world better than it was the dsy before. If you hsve tr,oze i<md:s of 1cens. we hope you ccr.t::lct u3. 
GECareers gec.nreers.com /notrecbrne 
For more info enuil us <::~t: GEN~e.com 
imagination at work • 

•(•••···.....................................
r-·;~;:;;~············l 

r····--······ ····-···········,:l P:~m~ ~: ~; Srs=~i ·~ 
:: Mata-ial~ :: 
:~>
r=tll f~<iiJ 
·...........•.'JI.IO.v....--...•. ···~-·-.·:
IFor more information on iriternships and full-time Leadership Programs·: chtkk'" .;..· ! out our website, or contact the GE ND Recruiting l&am at GENO@ge.com. '••. www.gecareers.com/notredam~ ,; 


....-................ ·..·. ·. .·..·...· · ..·.·.·...·.·.·.· ............·.. . ...·.· ·-.---.-------............•---·-.-...~............................ ..·.·...·..·.·.·,·...·· .........,....................................,.,w........-............................:......,..........,;,.,•,y,•,•,•,•,•,•.-.-................ ~.-.................... : .... ~.-.:: •••;.;•.••-.-:·.•.•.•.•.•.-.•,•,·:-................._.:: 

Wednesday, August 27, 2003 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 

Summer reading required for NO frosh 
Editor's note: This story original­ly ran in Saturday's issue of The Observer. Due to a production error it was truncated. The complete story appears below. 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
In between internships and real­ity television, the Oass of 2007 had another task to occupy their sum­mer vacation: required reading. 
For the first time, incoming Notre Dame freshmen completed assigned reading in preparation for an academic convocation titled "The United States and the Middle East: Do We Face a 'Clash of Civilizations?"' Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College did not require the assignment or a similar task for their freshman classes. 
Scott Appleby, professor ofhisto­ry and director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. will moderate the Sept. 23 convocation discussing Seyyed Hossein Nasr's book "The Heart Of Islam: Enduring Values for Humanity" and four supplemen­tary articles. 
Appleby said the reading requirement and convocation will introduce incoming freshman to how scholars analyze issues such as the tension between the United States and the Middle East. 
"The idea behind the summer reading requirement and academ­ic convocation was not to provide even one percent of the knowledge of the Middle East that professors ... provide in their courses -that would be impossible in so short an assignment," Appleby said. "Rather, the goal was to demon­strate how scholars think atiout such issues." 
First Year of Studies dean Eileen Kolman said the convocation marks a new academic tradition at Notre Dame. She and Appleby worked together to refine the idea, after which Joseph Amar, director of the program in Arabic and Middle Eastern Studies, and fellow colleagues Asma AfSaruddin and U Guo were invited to finalize the reading list. 
II 
~ 
11 
E 
a 
u 
t: 
0 
.11: 
t: 
a 
ra 
"Although they [Amar, 
Afsaruddin and Guo) did not 
choose the topic, their input cer­
tainly helped to refine our 
approach," Appleby said. 
"Additional faculty from other 
departments are being invited to 
participate in the convocation." 
Amar said that he learned of the 
convocation while viewing the 
First Year of Studies Web site and 
petitioned to include his depart­
ment in the convocation. 
"The faculty of the Program in Arabic and Middle East Studies are scholars in the cultures, histories, religions, and languages of the Middle East. We were anxious to make a contribution," Amar said. 
Amar said his department had some initial concerns with the approach of the convocation, and some suggestions they made were later included. But he said his department has not received infor­mation regarding the convocation's format or its participants and were not consulted to help select the convocation's theme. 
"Our single and most serious reservation had to do with the tone and approach. From our point of view, the tone was journalistic and provocative. We thought the topic deserved more serious thought than it had been given," Amar said. 
Kolman said consultations with other departments were some­what limited because of a time crunch. She said she is working with other departments to sponsor follow-up sessions and is encour­aging first-year instructors to dis­cuss topics relating to the reading and convocation in their classes if deemed appropriate. 
'The Convocation will be a start­ing point from which I hope many faculty and departments will raise additional questions and provide additional perspectives," she said. 
Appleby said he believes Kolman intends to repeat both the summer reading and convocation in the future, and that more departments and faculty members will be con­sulted. He also said the current theme incorporates numerous issues to which many departments in the University could contribute. 


"We think this year's program is a good start, but we surely will revise the consultative process if this is to become something of a Notre Dame tradition, as we hope," he said. 
Lara Flynn, an advisor in the First Year of Studies Office, agreed that the summer assignment should be continued. 
"It is my hope that, through this summer reading and convocation experience, students will become knowledgeable about the process of making an argument, forming an opinion and expressing them­selves in an academic atmosphere -a process that will be repeated several times at Notre Dame," she said. 
But at least one incoming fresh­man expressed mixed opinions about the summer reading requirement. 
"Although I find the topic of the academic convocation both perti­nent and interesting, I think the reading requirement was a bit stiff," Breen-Phillips freshman Catherine Provenzale said. ''I'm just not sure this particular book will hold the interest of a first-year student andlor adequately prepare them to intelligently discuss the dichotomies existing between our culture and that of Islam." 
Provenzale also said that, after finishing the book, she does not feel as comfortable with the mate­rial as she expected to be, although she said she had not yet read the supplementary articles. 
"I just hope I don't have to answer any questions and can just listen to what the speakers have to. say since I don't feel as well-versed on the subject as I'd like to be," she said. 
Still, Provenzale said she expects the assignment will be a worth­while educational experience. 
"I truly am looking forward to the convocation because the issues that will be discussed are so important at the present time," she said. 
Contact Joe Trombello jtrombel@nd.edu 

• Banking Convenience Wherever you go, on-campus or off, there's. sure to be a 1st Sou~ banking center or ATM to serve your needs. 
• 
FREE Checking Account No monthly fees. No minimum balance. no checkwriting limits. FU"St order of 50 checks FREE. 

• 
FREE ATt\IDebit Card 



Get money fast from our extensive network of AlMs. 
Use your debit card like a ched. wherever MasterCard8 
is accepted. 
• FREE Online Banking 

v~ ~r la1est transactions, get ~r balances. confirm which checks have deared ttrough lnfoSourceOnline at 1stsoun:.e.com. 
Saint Mary's Bankq carter IResouKe Cen1l!r ATMs i1side Ha8gar Colle8e Center • 235-2019 Hesburgh UbrarY (in the Pit) M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30 L..eMans Hall 
Inmates terrified defrocked priest 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
When defrocked priest John 

Geoghan went to prison for 
molesting a boy, he worried 
that his notoriety as a 
pedophile would make him a 
target for other inmates. 
He complained that inmates 

urinated and defecated on his 
pillow and tampered with his 
food. He told lawyers that 
guards called him Lucifer and 
Satan, and he did not go out­
side for more than a year for 
fear of being attacked. 
Geoghan was finally trans­

ferred in April to a protective­
custody unit, where he was 
locked in his cell for 21 hours 
a day. 
"He felt safe. Too bad he 

wasn't," said Leslie Walker, 
executive director of 
Massachusetts Correctional 
Legal Services, which provides 
legal assistance to inmates. 
"It's absolutely uncon­
scionable and outrageous," 
Walker said. 
Geoghan, 68, was strangled 
Saturday, allegedly by a fellow 
inmate. He was also beaten, 
his ribs were broken and a 
lung was punctured. 
Joseph Druce and Geoghan 
had been let out of their sepa­
rate cells to return their lunch 
trays. Druce followed Geoghan 
back into his cell and jammed 
the door to prevent guards 
from coming to Geoghan's res­
cue, investigators said. 
Inmate rights groups, priests and public officials called for an investigation into how Druce -who was serving a life sentence for a gay-bashing murder -was allowed to get near Geoghan, whose alleged molestation of about 150 chil­dren case triggered the sex scandal that has rocked the nation's Roman Catholic Church. 
Geoghan had served more than a year of his nine-to 10­year sentence. 
"His case was just so notori­ous and kept alive for so long, and he knew he was very vul­nerable," Walker said. "They failed to protect him, even though he was in protective custody." 
Gov. Mitt Romney called Geoghan's slaying "a failure of government." 
"Society and government has a primary responsibility to protect all of its citizens, whether they are in their homes or on the streets or eve~ in jail," Romney said. "In jail, we have a particular responsibility because these people are under our direct care." 
Prisoner rights lawyers on Tuesday quoted an inmate who was in the protective custody unit as saying he had warned prison officials twice that Geoghan was in danger, but was ignored. 
Jim Pingeon, litigation direc­tor of Massachusetts Correctional Legal Services, said there seemed to be a "cul­ture of indifference to the safe­ty of prisoners" in the unit. 
page 10 Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
GAZA STRIP 

Man killed in botched strike 
after treatment in a private to dismantle the armed groups
Associated Press 

clinic. -a key requirement of the An Israeli security official peace plan supposed to lead to GAZA CITY said Masoud was responsible Palestinian statehood by 2005. Israel's fierce campaign to for building crude rockets of Abbas, frustrated by the eliminate Palestinian militants the type regularly fired into unwillingness of Arafat to claimed a civilian victim when Israel and Jewish settlements yield control of Palestinian an elderly water-pipe vendor in Gaza -almost invariably security forces, has balked at died in a botched missile missing their targets. confronting the militants for strike in the Gaza Strip. The official, speaking on fear of civil war. He accused 
Israeli helicopters have condition of anonymity, said Israel of undermining limited killed seven Hamas militants Israel would continue its drive Palestinian efforts to rein in in two precision raids in Gaza against Hamas and other mili­the militants. since one of its activists blew tant groups and expressed "This brutal Israeli govern­
himself up "sorrow" for ment policy will only take us on a the death of back to the vicious cycle of Jerusalem "This brutal Israeli civilians. violence," Abbas said in a bus last The dead statement. "Israel must under­
government policy will 

week, killing man, Hassan stand there is no military solu­21 people. only take us back to the Hamlawi, had tion to the Palestinian-Israeli The vio­vicious cycle ofviolence. " been sitting conflict." 
lence has outside his The Bush administration, 
darkened water-pipe meanwhile, reiterated its call 
Mahmoud Abbas 

t h e shop when the for Arafat to loosen his grip. prospects Palestinian prime minister missiles hit "The security forces need to for a U.S.­nearby. Blood be consolidated under Prime backed stained the Minister Abbas and "road map" peace plan and sidewalk amid the scattered [Palestinian security chief highlighted the reluctance of plastic chairs in front of the Mohammed] Dahlan," White 
Palestinian Prime Minister store. House spokeswoman Claire Mahmoud Abbas to confront Crowds gathered at the Buchan said. the armed groups. scene, including Hamas sup­"Clearly, by blocking the 
In Tuesday's operation, an porters, chanted "Revenge, consolidation ... Arafat under­Israeli helicopter fired three revenge!" cuts the fight against terror­missiles at a car stuck in a 
Health Minister Kamal ism and further undermines traffic jam on a residential Sharafi said the hope of street just north of Gaza City. four of the t h e Three Hamas members were wounded "The security forces need Palestinian 
able to flee their car before were in criti­people for
to be consolidated under 
missiles struck it, witnesses cal condition, peace and a said. Doctors said the water­including an Prime Minister Abbas Palestinian pipe vendor was killed and 26 8-year-old and security chief state," she other bystanders were injured, girl. said.
Dahlan."
including five children. The Gaza The missile 
Shadi Tayan, who owns a operation strikes have bookstore in the area, said came hours Claire Buchan 
forced 

"the people in the car jumped after Israeli 
White House spokeswoman Hamas mem­
out and ran in two different 
soldiers bers into 
directions" after one rocket hit snatched two hiding. near the front of the white car. 
wounded Palestinians, one Hamas leaders were conspicu­After the men fled, two more involved in a suicide bombing, ously absent from funerals missiles hit. from their hospital beds in the Monday for four men killed 
Hamas sources said the car West Bank, where Israeli Sunday on Gaza's beach front. 

was carrying three of its men, troops have stepped up their Leaflets hung in mosquesincluding Khaled Masoud, the search for fugitives. throughout the Gaza Stripbrother of a Hamas military 
In the wake of the bus instructed Hamas activists to wing commander killed in an bombing, one of the worst sui­take precautions -such as Israeli raid in Gaza three cide attacks in three years of not traveling in groups, avoid­months ago. fighting, Israel says it has no ing use of their telephones,
The sources said Masoud choice but to hunt down mili­using makeup to disguise was wounded in the shoulder tants. Officials denounce themselves and staying off and face and was recovering Palestinian leaders for failing main streets. 


OurLowest Contact Lens Price Ever! 
ACUVUf2 
BRAND CONTACT LENSES 
DISPOSABLE CONTACTS 

a box* 


Contact Lens Specialists ..After Manufacterers' Rebate and Tavel Plus Carel. Fitting Bifocals, Colors, Toric, 1-Day & Morel 
LIBERIA 

Military: Rebels have initiated offensive 
Associated Press 
MONROVIA 

Liberia's army said rebels have overrun two towns in an apparent attempt to clear gov­ernment forces from the north despite a week-old peace deal, 
while  streams  of  refugees  
reportedly  fled  the  alleged  
advance.  

Army Gen. Benjamin Yeaten said the government was "left with no options but to be on the offensive," and appeal to peace­keepers. 
The alleged rebel offensive would come despite a peace deal meant to end 14 years of conflict in the country and would put the rebels within 65 miles of the capital from the north. 
Rather than reopening any siege on Monrovia, it appeared insurgents might be trying to rout government forces from the north, securing territory, ahead of an African peace force's pending deployment into the interior. 
While Monrovia has calmed since West African-led peace­keeping forces deployed in the capital nearly four weeks ago. skirmishes have persisted in the country's center, north and south. 
Yeaten said rebels had cap­tured the towns of Gbatala and Bong Mines, on a main, but dilapidated, road through the countryside. 
"We don't understand why these attacks are still going on but we are left with no options but to be on the offensive" and appeal to peacekeepers, Yeaten said in Monrovia. 
It is impossible to independ­ently confirm the accounts or to determine the extent of. any fighting. 
Humanitarian workers return­ing to Monrovia from an early venture into the unsecured north said there were large 
movements of people from the 
direction of the two towns. 
James Kerkula, a 29-year-old peddler recently returned from north of Monrovia, described the now routine sight of refugees with mattresses and other goods bundled on their heads. 
"People have bundles on their heads. but don't know where it's safe to go," he said "The atmos­phere in the entire region is confused -the rebels are in one town today, and in another the next day." 
Rebel officials referred ques­tions about fighting to their chairman, Sekou Conneh, who could not be reached for com­ment. 
Liberia's interior remains largely off-limit_s for West African peacekeepers· and aid groups alike, two weeks after warlord-president Charles Taylor resigned office and fled into exile. 
Rebels lifted a bloody siege of the capital upon Taylor's depar­ture. On Aug. 18, all sides signed a peace and power-shar­ing deal meant to end civil war and rebellion under Taylor. 
Since 1989, the conflicts have killed more than 150,000 peo­ple, and damaged virtually every city and town in once prosperous Liberia, a nation founded by freed American slaves. 
The West African peace force, now 1,500-strong, is believed to be waiting for arrival of troops from Ghana before starting to spread deeper into the country­side. It was not clear when the Ghana troops would arrive. or in what numbers. 
Some of the offensives are believed aimed at securing terri­tory before peacekeepers move in, or simply carried out for loot­ing. 
In Geneva, the World Health Organization expressed concern at the difficulty of coming to grips with epidemics raging amid the fighting. 
• 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 

The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Weather 
continued from page 1 

reports of 65-mph gusts. Other gusts may have blown at high­
er speeds. 
Most of the damage Hoffman said he saw were downed trees, though he did see one barn that was flattened and a business with its roof blown off. 
Though offi­cials at both schools said their campuses did not 
sustain serious damage, emer­gency sirens sounded at both, and administrators and stu­dents took cover in basements and inner hallways as a pre­
caution. 
When the first siren sounded people in build­ings were evacu­ated to a safer location within the building and security officers at both campuses advised individu­als not to !eave buildings until the warning ended. 
Kevin Cole, a from Dillon, was more business 
..Many other areas ofthe county were hit far harder than 
we were ... we were 
fiortunate., 
Dennis Brown University spokesman 
..We went to the basement and everyone seemed calm and there were a lot ofpeople down there. , 
Kevin Cole sophomore 
sophomore at a sopho­orientation 

meeting in the Mendoza College of Business when the sirens sounded. 
"We went to the basement and everyone seemed calm and there were a lot of people 
down there," Cole said. "A large group of people were 
Recent survey finds American
standing under a large glass window at the end of the spiral staircase which didn't seem too smart." 
teaching force lacks diversity
University spokesman Dennis 
Brown said the tornado warning 
Associated Press

interrupted but 
WASHINGTON
did not cancel 
Even as public school class­
classes and sus­
rooms get more diverse, the
pended opera-
teaching force remains over­
tions at Notre 
whelmingly white and has itsDame for approxi­
lowest share of men in 40
mately 45 min-years, a survey by the
utes. 

nation's largest teacher
Brown said a 
union finds. 

second tornado 
Only 10 percent of roughly 
siren at approxi­
3 million teachers are
mately 3:40 p.m. 
minorities, and just 21 per­
interrupted oper­cent are men, the National
ations again for about 15 min­utes. Though operations at the University resumed as normal later in the afternoon, the annual beginning-of-the-year Education Association report finds. Among students, almost 40 percent are minorities, and about half are 
male, according to govern­
picnic was moved 
ment figures.

from DeBartolo 
"It denies many young peo­
Quad indoors to 
ple the opportunity to have a
the Joyce Center. 

minority or a male as a role
"Many other 
model," said NEA President
areas of the 
Reg Weaver. "Many young
county were hit 
people come to school with­
far harder than 
out having a father at home,
we were," Brown 
and when they're able to
said. "We were 
have access to a male teacher
fortunate." 

as a father figure, it certainly 
College spokes­
bodes well for them _ and the
woman Melanie 
same thing with minorities." 

McDonald said 
Overall, students are most
Saint Mary's 
likely to be taught by a 15­
das and to give the public a 
glimpse inside the classroom. 
Updated every five years, the 
report draws its latest find­
ings from the 2000-01 school 
year. 
The NEA, the nation's 
largest union, represents 2. 7 
million teachers and other 
school employees. About 68 
percent of teachers belong to 
the NEA, the group's survey 
found. 
Low salaries relative to 
other professions have par­
ticularly turned off men and 
minorities, Weaver said. The 
average contract salary for 
teachers in 2001 was 
$43,262. 
The NEA and others are pursuing ways to improve teacher diversity, such as by improving college access for minorities and encouraging classroom aides to pursue teacher certifications. 
Male teachers made up about one-third of the teach­ing force in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, but their numbers slid through the 1990s and hit the low of 21 percent in 2001. 
Whites have accounted for about 90 percent of all teach­ers for the past three decades, including in 2001. Six percent of teachers were black and the rest were other races. 
From the union's perspec­
tive, the findings show the 
effort teachers give to their 
jobs. 
Teachers said they typically 
spent 50 hours a week on 
their duties and put up $443 
of their own money to help 
students during the school 
year. Fifty-seven percent hold 
at least a master's degree, 
and 77 percent took courses 
through their school districts 
during the year. 
Those teachers face rising expectations. Federal law requires that every teacher of a core academic subject must be highly qualified by the end of the 2005-06 school year. That includes a provision that teachers must prove their competence in every subject they teach. 
Six in 10 teachers said they would choose teaching again if they could go back to their college days and start over, but that number dipped in 2001 after rising steadily since 1981. 
The trend reflects growing frustration among teachers over working conditions and pressures to gear teaching toward standardized tests, Weaver said. 
The survey results, based on responses from a national­ly representative sample of 1,467 teachers, have a mar­gin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points. 

l 
~ 
4 
l ~ 
.j 
' 
I I I 
l 
l I 
I I I 
I I I I 
I I 
j 
I 
l 
' 
t, 
" 
Security did not report any damages, injuries or power outages and said the warning did not cause not a major dis­ruption on campus. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 



year veteran with a growing workload and slightly eroding interest in staying with the profession, the survey finds. 
The "Status of the American Public School Teacher," aims to help educa­tion groups shape their agen-
LePeep WelconteA Back ND StHdeHtA! 
Come visit our ne\vesr location in University Crossing next to Super Target or in Downtown South Bend across from the Hall of Fame. 
271-PEEP (Mishawaka) 288-PEEP (S.B.) 
M-F 6:30 arn -2 pm Weekends 7:00am-2 pm 
.­-·--­--­---­----­1 LePeepI Buy one entree get 2nd entree of1  . 1 I 1  
1 I  equal or lesser value free  I I  
I  I  

I 
exp. Oct 1, 20031
_____ ..

·-----------­
page 12 Wednesday, August 27, 2003
The Observer + NEWS 

Presidential Search Tirneline 
Search 
continued from page 1 
International is currently the world's leading executive search firm. Its consultants have placed over 200 presi­dents and chancellors of major colleges and universities throughout the world. 
The firm works closely with 
March: Eldred annow1ces her retirement 
October: Goal set
June: Presidential 
to propose candidates
search committee 
to BOG (Board of 
formed 
Ap 
committee formed 
;cember: Goal set 

July: Search firm 
the College's Presidential 
to study and oannounce 
Kom/Ferry

propose searchSearch committee, composed 
. resident-elect
~

International hired 
·---·· --·-···--------------­

process Saint Mary's and South Bend 
of members from both the 
MIKE HARKINSfThe Observer 

inform potential candidates and the college community as well as generate additional nominations. 
"(The Web site] serves stu­dents, faculty and alums that are able to come and see what we're doing," Ryan said. "Candidates looking at the school can come on, see the position specifications, get an overview of what the school is. ... It's just a great way to get our name out there." 
The site will be updated reg­ularly and will reveal the three final presidential candidates once they are named, said Ryan. 
For now, she is confident the search process will remain on schedule and is looking to the next step. 
"Now that we have candi­dates and when we identify the three to bring forward, we'll invite them to campus to meet faculty, staff and students so people can get an idea of who they are." 
The College's Board of Trustees retains its original goal to name a president-elect this December. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Trial 
continued from page 1 
there. She said she was raped repeatedly on March 28, 2002. 
Elam, receiver Lorenzo Crawford and safeties Donald Dykes and Justin Smith say they are innocent. Crawford, Dykes and Smith face rape charges. Like Elam, they also face charges of criminal devi­
ate conduct and sexual battery. 
The four w e r e expelled from Notre Dame for sexual mis­conduct. 
Elam is accused of holding the woman cap­tive in a bedroom against her will and fondling her while anoth­er man raped her. 
The victim admitted she slept in Smith's bed the level of c o e r c i ·o n requiring suppression of these state­ments," Chamblee wrote. 
Bill Kirk, associate vice president for residence life and housing. was in the courtroom lobby today and could be called to testi­fy in the trial. ResLife offi­cials did not return calls requesting comment on 
h 0 w 
Chamblee's 

communities. 
"This is an important transi­tion in the life of any institu­tion," said Nancy Cook, man­aging director of Korn/Ferry International's Philadelphia office in a July 7 press release. "At Saint Mary's, the next pres­ident will be in a position to build upon the momentum and successes begun under the leadership of President Eldred." 
Cook, who specializes in the recruitment of senior execu­tives for universities, health systems and other non-profit entities, is leading the Saint Mary's search until a presi­dent-elect is named. 
"She's been very aggressive for us and we're pleased with her work," Ryan said. "She is the product of an all-women's college as well, so she knows what we're looking for." 
Korn!Ferry International and the search committee posted a position advertisement in the Aug. 1 issue of "The Chronicle of Higher Education." 
The advertisement lists qual­ities and attitudes an ideal candidate should possess, in addition to providing back­ground information on the College and plans it holds for the future. The advertisement also states that "women and minorities are strongly encour­aged to apply." 
Source: Pres1den!lal Search Comm1ttee 
"That's a very standard pro­cedure," Ryan said. "It's an equal employment statement, so as a committee, we chose to put it at the bottom of our advertisement. It has in no way deterred men from applying for the job." 
Ryan said the committee is pleased with the response gen­erated from the Chronicle and will look into other publica­tions if future advertising is needed, but said she is pleased with the response generated so far. 
"The Chronicle was chosen because we get our best expo­sure from that magazine; it reaches a broader sector," she said. 
Steady candidate nomina­tions are also the result of a mailing sent to students, alum­nae, Saint Mary's "friends" and peer institutions. 
"The candidate pool looks good," Ryan said. "We're really encouraged." 
The search committee will discuss a second round of can­didates at its next meeting on Sept. 13. A goal is set to announce three presidential candidates to the Board of Trustees in October. 
The latest development in the presidential search is a website designed both to 

"The question ofthe pressure these men may have felt in trying to opt between remaining silent and making a statement ofany sort to try to save their opportunity at scholarship does not rise to the level of coercion requiring suppression ofthese statements., 
Roland Chamblee Jr. county judge 
the night of the alleged inci­dent. She told the court Tuesday she did not go to the hospital or report the rape until six days later because she was afraid. 
Her testimony was inter­rupted by the tornado warn­ing Tuesday afternoon and is expected to continue today. 
On Aug. 1, Judge Roland Chamblee Jr. ruled that statements made by the for­mer players during Res Life hearings can be used as evi­dence during the trial. The players said they believed these statements would remain confidential and said they felt they were forced to make statements in order to retain their scholarships at Notre Dame. 

Chamblee rejected this argument. 
"The question of the pres­sure these men may have felt in trying to opt between remaining silent and making a statement of any sort to try to save their opportunity at scholarship does not rise to 
ruling might change ResLife hearings in the future. Currently, ResLife hearings are conducted without attor­neys and students are often not specifically advised beforehand why the hearing is being held. 
Jury selection is scheduled to begin in Dykes' trial Sept. 
8. Crawford's trial is sched­uled to begin in October and Smith's in November. 
The Associated Press and WNDU contributed to this report. 



Try All The Winnin~arieties! 
0 a"lt
HOT POCKETS~ 5s~~vail~ble 
Br.lnd Stuffe<l S.mdt,;irht.><o ). ... " 
\l)lEANPOCKETStf ~artin's, Kroger 

Brand Stufit>d S.mdwiclles and other tine stores in your are.t (in the freezer section) 
(~CROISSANT POCKETS~ --;,. #'-. r--1­
t~r.md Smfh~l S.:md~·i•·h% ~1 V ~ 
~HOT POCKETS11 Br.tnd POT PIE EXPRESsn"' 
Brand Sanrlwkhes 

Go to -.nane,.authenfic.com to find a retaoler near you 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 page 13
The Observer + NEWS 

Scully 
continued from page 1 
Scully's successor has not yet been made. 
"One anticipates that we'll learn more at the next trustees meeting, which is in October," he said. 
At the Board of Trustees meet­ing May 2. a four-person commit­tee was scheduled to present a report on Scully's behavior, including a Jan. 16 confrontation with a news crew from the University-owned television sta­tion WNDU-TV. However, Scully issued his resigned before the report. which cleared Scully, was issued. 
WNDU cameraman Patrick Hartney said Scully grabbed reporter Bonnie Druker by the arm ·and angrily told them to move their van, which Scully said was parked in the wrong spot behind Fisher Hall. Hartney also said he smelled alcohol on Scully's breath, The news crew was on campus to cover a Mass for missing freshman Chad Sharon, whose body was later discovered in the St. Joseph River. 
Druker filed a report with Notre Dame Security Police but 
withdrew her com­plaint after Scully apolo­gized. 
A May 3 South Bend Tribune report said Scully's departure averted a possible cri­sis in the upper eche­

'Tm just delighted to be refocusing my energies fulltime on academic and pastoral pursuits. ,. 
Tim Scully fonner vice president 
the Institute for Educational Initiatives and the Alliance for Catholic Education, which he found­ed. He is not teaching courses this semester. 
''I'm just delighted to be refocusing my energies full­time on academ­
lon of the University's leadership, quoting unnamed sources in the University's administration. 
The article said a majority of high-level administrators ­including University President Father Edward Malloy-wanted Scully to leave the position. The Tribune also reported that anony­mous sources said Malloy was prepared to resign if Scully did not. 

While he did leave his adminis­trative post. Scully, a political sci­ence professor, will continue his work with the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, 
ic and pastoral pursuits," Scully said. "After a decade ofservice to the central administration, I was granted a sabbatical to re-engage my scholarship on political insti­tutions in Latin America." 
Scully said he was traveling this week but would return to campus within the next few days. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd.edu 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
The LaFortune Branch is the best place for: 
• 
Student account payments 

• 
Free checking! 


• 
Free Internet banking! 



Travel industry sees promising Increase• 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

A nation that largely stayed home between the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the war in Iraq got out of the house in July, a trend that's expected to continue this Labor Day weekend. 
Independence Hall saw a 48 percent jump in atten­dance last month over July 2002, and hotel occupancy was up 2.4 percent across the nation, the first signifi­cant increase this year. New York City and San Francisco both saw July occupancy rise more than 6 percent over 2002. Chicago was up 
5.7 percent, Philadelphia 
4.4 percent. 
AAA says it expects 33.4 million Americans to travel more than 50 miles from home this holiday weekend, the most since at least 1995. 
"Travel definitely has picked up," said Jennifer Busey, manager of Franklin Travel in Champaign, Ill. "The stock market goes up, people have a little more money, and they take a trip. It all goes together." 
Jan Freitag. an analyst at Smith Travel Research in Henderson, Tenn., said both leisure and business travel­ers are helping to fill hotels. Occupancy at resort loca­tions was up 3.4 percent last month over July 2002. he said. 
"This probably has some­thing to do with the fact people aren't going over­
seas," Freitag said. "Urban 
locations are also up, which 
to us is an indicator that 
people are traveling more 
on business." 
While room occupancy is 
up, room prices have been 
flat, Freitag said, meaning 
hotels are discounting 
prices to coax travelers to 
leave home. 
Tourists around the 
Liberty Bell in Philadelphia 
on Tuesday said prices 
influenced their travel deci­
sion. 
"The discounts," said Sherry Sherman, when asked why she, her two kids and husband chose to travel from New York City. The family bought discounted Amtrak tickets and got a free night at a hotel. "The whole package was very good," she said. 
Gas prices, at near record highs nationwide, have been pushed up in part because of steep demand. From July 19 to Aug. 15, Americans used 9.4 million barrels per day, the highest four-week period on record, said Doug Macintyre, an analyst for the federal Energy Information Administration. 
"If gasoline demand is up, that would lead to the con­clusion that either there's more cars or they're being driven more," he said. "The assumption is that maybe due to some of the poor weather people put off their vacations until the end of summer." 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
to raise prices for everything, all the time," said senior Matt Bauers. 
Fraleigh, however, said the athletic department does not receive any of the student activity fee paid by students, and it funds the maintenance of facilities such as Rockne 
Memorial, Rolf's Aquatic Center and Rolf's Recreation Center, as well as all the fields and courts on campus. 
"The athletic department is entirely self-funded," he said. "We do not get any of that activity fee money from the University, which is what many schools that have lower ticket prices do." 
Contact Will Puckett at wpuckett@nd.edu 

,· 
' 
'I 
,_. 
EXTENP£l> tfOU~ FOR THE. oAME. ROOM! ~ 



THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box Q. Noue Dl!me, IN 46556 024 South Dining H..tl, Notre Dame,lN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIFF Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Scott 8(odfuenrcr  Lor.i Lewalski ·  
AssT. MAN.\GlNG EDITOR  
Sheik fiyim  

NEWS EDITOIU Meghanne Downes 
VrEWPOJNT EDITOR: Teresa Frali~h 
SPORTS ED11UR: Joe Hettler ScENE EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SAINT MARrs EDITOR: Anneliese Woolford PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS Eorroru Mike Harkins · 
\ > Ao DUIGti ~AGE~ Tom Hai~~t 
< > W£3 At>t.UNISTilo\TOi Jas£ln Cree~ .· .·> >·.·. > .. · COmaou.EJU Mike Flanagan . 
CONTACT Us OfACE MANAGER & GEIIERAL INFO (.574) 63Fub7471 
(574) 631~6927 
AilVERSTISING 
{574)j)3J-~900 ~hsetvad@n(L~du 
. EDITOR IN CHIEF . . (574) 631~4542 ·.· ....·. MANAGING EOtTOif& AsSISTANJ MANAGING EDITOR (57~J uJid.HI obsme<e>nd.ed.u . . 8USIN£SS 0FRCE 
(574} 631-5313 ··• . .. . News DESK . .•.. . . (574) ~~l·S.~23 

>< ·.•..•·.·.· .••• ••··•·· .VI£WPOINT D£Si< .•. •····••·•· / < .·. ·•··· .. 
.... (574XMF?~Rr/6trrint.~!?~·e~~ 
(574){')~t-4:54J. ·... sportS~l@nd.cdu .. .• .. ....• ·.· ...•...·• ..•..... SCENE DESK . • . . ..· (514) flJh4540. scene;l@nd;e<ill· 
.. . . SAINT MARY'S DESK (5Y4) 6314324 · . smc.l@nd.~ii PHOTO OESl 
(!>?i~s~,!;8l6~EB A;~~i~~=f·············.••
(574) 631~8839 . 
onsiRVERONLINE 
www.ndsmeobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The bbserver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the . University ofNot!e Dame du Lac and S;tjnf Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverriSement:s; is ·. not governed by policies of the administtation ofeither institution~ The Dfue_rver reserves the right t9 ~:efuse · advertisement$ based i)n conrenr, · · ·•. .•• 
The newsisreported as accurately .md objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials representthe opinion of the rnajothy.oflhe Editor in C:hic:f. MAAaging Editor, AssiStatit Managing Editor and ciepartmenl: ediws. Commentaiies; 12ttcrs and columns present the vieW5 of the authors and oot n~ilytho~e ofThe ·. 
Observtt. . V"JeWpolnt space is av:a.ilabk to all readers. The flee exprc:~ion ofall opi.nkns through letter~ is ettrournged. ~{$ tothe Editonnusrbe $igned and mustmd~e conra.cr inforrnatioo. · · · · · · ·. · · 
~om ~Ygpdmr Obsm:erppjjci~ f~lii br­tliw&dttJ./lditor ill ChUfAndreuiS~p.• 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l1;C; ()~....,.,;;. Ml'$1~ l•~lt.puhli>ho<IM<>...by u,,.,o>;h.Mil•r~· ~"•R>~ .,_...... ~. >!'<';~ ii""""tip<;.,j ... l"h< Oh.<r,..r ;, $1\iii rw~ ~o:mi< )'W:SSH~>r.<>t<tumMr, ·.· . . . . . 
1,., QO....,,.~ p~P~he<l ~ l'O$TW.ST£R> . ·.·. · 
oz+ $ouoh0inl•m t!.U · Son<~ a.l~imi~tl<il:l$ w· NowLnm<.iN'16.>~m ... lh<~N<t · ·· ~ri<><i<.-.1 f'>'<~ f>Oid ., ~v-. P.O. Uo• Q .. 
>bd .d.:lioluoal ia.U~og ..m.:.... · · · 81~ Saum Dfl>i~~& H.U.. N..!« Dome, IN oi6~56,0m 
~OI=vc•inni"Ph«J~~....t v.a... "'l ~;~ <iJ!,bu.,;. .. 
m<rYcd: . 

Hurry up and wait 
The start of school has always been associated with stand­would still receive a ticket application (possibly through e­ing in long lines to fill out paperwork and perform other mail), but it would contain a unique passcode for their foot­administrative chores. While this tedious culture has been ball tickets. improved by conducting enrollment and vehicle registration Then, on enrollment Monday, students could get together online, one major activity still does not harness the power of with their friends and one person in the group would enter the Internet to perform administrative tasks: football ticket all the passcodes into the Web site, thus indicating their distribution. request to sit together. The lottery for seats would be con­
Before the current seniors arrived on campus as freshmen, ducted automatically, a computer would assign seats and students camped out all night with their friends for football students could pick up their tickets over the course of the tickets. Because of problems such as abusive next week at their convenience. Tickets could drinking, the administration halted this prac­O Th be paid for at that time or charged to a stu­
oserver
tice and is not likely to let it begin again. dent's accountjust like parking fees and books. Yet students must still go to the Stadium The current process for obtaining tickets is twice to obtain tickets. They must meet with highly inefficient and time-consuming, and only
Editorial 
the group of friends they want to sit with, or at adds frustration to a day in which students least get their IDs, and stand in line twice -on one day to already must accomplish other tasks, such as changing receive a lottery number and on another to purchase the classes and moving into dorms. The present system made tickets based on the results of the lottery. sense when students enrolled at the Joyce Center and then 
Off-campus and Saint Mary's students also have to wait in went to the Stadium to purchase football tickets. line to obtain their ticket application, which is mailed to Now, many administrative tasks, such as enrollment and Notre Dame students living on campus. buying parking passes, can be accomplished online. The 
Clearly, this process is not the fun, social event it used to ticket office should recognize that football ticket distribution be. no longer holds the fun and excitement of past years. It A Web-based system would nearly eliminate the need to should replace the present inefficient system in favor of an stand in line and the confusion that accompanies it. Students online one that would work better for students. 
The Notre Dame experience 
Tom Petty is blaring from the speak­ers of my Toyota Camry as I drive along the flat Indiana landscape. Farms are everywhere but yet I don't see many farmers tending to their fields. The heat must have drove 
David Barrett
them indoors. 
The heat of August is never 

more prevalent. Notre Bum 
than it is right now. The sun is beating down on the countryside and I see waves of heat rising off the pavement in front of me. I give silent thanks for the quality air conditioner that Toyota has provid­ed and turn up the radio as I begin to sing to "Free Falling." 
It's not long before the fields of corn and tobacco turn into gray city build­ings and busy intersections. The more I drive the taller the buildings get and the Mom and Pop shops give way to shopping malls and fast food restau­rants. South Bend hasn't changed much in the three months that I've been away. It's still the same. But even if it had, I don't think I'd notice. It's not why I'm here. I have bigger fish to fry. 
I see St. Joseph High School in front of me on the left and begin to get excited. I'm almost there. Taking a right at the stoplight, I drive alongside the golf course and look ahead to see the Dome and the Basilica rise above the trees. The sky is vibrantly blue against the deep green of the trees. The sun has yet to let up its intensity giving the Golden Dome a brilliance that makes it seem as though two suns are in the sky. Everything that had been drab and gray is now green and lush. Past the smiling and warm secu­rity guard, I pass through campus slowly, taking everything in as if it. was all new to me. The grass is so healthy it could almost pass off as being blue and everyone that I see is smiling. Yes, I smile and think to myself, Notre Dame has never looked so good. 
This is the beginning of my fourth year at Notre Dame. Four years is a lifetime to some, but nothing of the sort to me, especially here. I look back at myself and the kid that came here three years ago and I see a little sprout that had no clue about what he wanted or who he wanted to be. I knew Notre Dame was great, but when I been dying to get out of since fresh­men year of high school. You can invent or reinvent yourself under the Dome and the world you've always planned to conquer is at your finger­tips. Here, the world is yours for the taking . 
Notre Dame is a place where people say "God bless you" and mean it. It's a place where it doesn't matter if you've ever met a person before, but because you're a Domer you consider him or her family. It's a place where you can go to a foreign country and alumni will take it upon themselves to look 
you up and take you 
out to a five-course 

walked on campus 40 You can invent or rein­dinner. It's a place pounds lighter and vent yourselfunder the where people who 
scared half to death, I usually don't see the
Dome and the world 
had no idea that with­better part of any­in a month or so, I you.>ve always planned to thing before noon would neglect to call conquer is at your wake up early to get Kentucky home and ready for football 
fingertips.

beg to get back to games. It's a place 
campus every time I was away. 
Now, I look at myself and realize that besides the 40 pounds, nothing's changed much. I'm still scared but not because of the anxiety I had about making friends or because in a year I'll be thrown into a job market that has seen better days. I'm scared because I don't want to leave. I'm not ready to leave. I'm not ready for it to be over. Please don't make me leave. 
You know, I envy you freshmen, not because of the science, math and for­eign language requirements that I barely made it through, but I envy you because you have four whole years left in the greatest place I've ever known. 
You have four and in some cases five years at Notre Dame, a place where you can break the mold that you've where people go out 
of their way to help you even if you've done nothing to warrant such kindness. So, in effect, why would I want to leave? 
But for us seniors, all is not lost. If you think about it, we have a quarter of our entire Notre Dame experience left to do with as we please. So let's make it a good one because we're going to remember it for the rest of our lives. 
David Barrett is a senior econimcs and philosophy major. His column appears every other Wednesday. he can be contacted at dbarret1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
News Graphics Andrew Thagard Mike Harkins 

How often do you plan to visit Legends, the
Oaire Heininger Sports Matt Bramanti Joe Hettler .18-and-over nightclub for students? Viewpoint Matt Lozar Teresa Fralish Pat Leonard 
Vote at www.ndsmcobserver.com by 
Illustrator Scene Pat Quill Sarah Vabulas Thursday at 5 p.m. 
... 
. :"' 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tommorrow. " 
anonymous 

A reflection about teaching 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Remember lessons ·learned abroad 
I write to you as assistant provost for International Studies, as a professor of French here at Notre Dame and as former director of the study abroad program in Angers. France. I appeal to all stu­dents with an important message about being a citizen in our pres­ent international situation. 
As most of you know from your own experience, living abroad from day to day can be exciting, liberating and tiring. It is difficult to live in a state of suspended identity. It is difficult to learn. let alone master, another country's complex and traditional rules of speech, conduct and manners. It is difficult to represent the United States in a world that has become increasingly polarized as of late­torn by competing political realities and an economy that is ever more dependent on international cooperation. It is difficult to be alone and far from home. Studying abroad forces you to react to cultural differences carefully and with cautious respect. It is a means to self-impose a certain kind of heightened awareness on your mind. . 
But what happens when you come home? I want to remind you of the responsibility you have to keep your eyes open to the interna­tional scene here in the United States. Our nation needs citizens who are aware of the complexities of international politics. We need a citizenry who makes the effort to understand other kinds of moral, social and economic realities. Our nation needs a citizenry who speaks more than one language, a people sensitive to differ­ence and curious to learn how other people think. We need new leaders for the future, who will bring an active engagement in the world's changing reality. Continue your foreign language studies. Keep informed about what is going on in Europe, Asia, South America and Africa. Seek out opportunities to meet and talk to peo­ple from cultures other than your own. Compare, reflect and let their words sink in. Don't let what happened last year on this cam­pus repeat itself. 
What happened last year? We were some 43 Americans living in France, and despite all the ugly rhetoric of Anti-Americanism in France that was propagated by the American media, all of us who lived in Angers in 2002-03 felt an outstanding level of sympathy. friendship and support from our French hosts. On the other hand, one of our friends, a young French student, traveled from Angers to Notre Dame in January 2003 to do a linguistic internship as part of a new exchange agreement with the Universite Catholique de l'Ouest. But within weeks of her arrival on campus, she was verbal­ly attacked by hostile Notre Dame students. Inflamed by their right­eousness. these men threatened our friend, and made her fear for her safety on campus. Those of us in Angers were shocked. embar­rassed and saddened to learn of this attack. It remains to be seen if any other French students will follow in her steps, given that bad experience. 
Shame on you, the perpetrators of this attack, and on all those who witnessed it in silence. I exhort you all to end such boorish behavior on our campus, and in our country. Remember the lessons you learned while studying abroad. Offer our international guests a civil welcome, just as you were welcomed in their countries. You owe it to all of us, and to Notre Dame. 
Julia Douthwaite Assistant Provost for International Studies Norre Dame French professor Aug. 26, 2003 
You could be a professor of 20th century French literature interested in the psychologi­cal and emotional qualities of certain fictional characters and what these tell us about the human condition. Or you might be a historian of philosophy weighing the impact of Platonic Alexander and Aristotelian 
Hahn 

thought on the devel­opment of pre-classical 
Guest

science. Then again, you might be a profes­Columnist sor of engineering on the verge of finding a novel way to develop light. nano-fiber enhanced materials of greater tensile strength than steel. Or you could be a physi­cist, gazing at the cosmos intent to find con­vincing evidence that the universe has been expanding much more rapidly than classical theory would predict. 
You've just sent two articles for submission to a prestigious journal in the field. Your sum­mer is now over and the beginning of a new academic year stands before you. With it comes the task of teaching an elementary course in the general area of your scholarly expertise. One fine and sparkling autumn day you step into your classroom and -as on so many occasions before -ycu are ready to begin. Sitting before you are several dozen sophomores just back from the summer. Having set­tled into their dorms, they are excited about the upcoming football sea­son and look forward to the weekend's concert by the Dave Matthews Band. 
, Their passions are light years removed from yours. 
You begin a conversation whose purpose is to draw your students in ­draw them into an appropriate­ly careful, but increasingly cen­tral way. into the 
·fabric, the tex­ture. the meaning and relevance of your subject. You need to build a bridge. You -architect and engineer-draw up the blueprints and set a timetable. You organize the materials, tools and machinery and get them hauled to the scene. You put in place plans to test components of the structure. The construction commences. Together you lay the foundations. Girders and trusses swing into place. The members of your team shape the planks. first tentatively and soon more confidently. They inspect the beams and begin to get an understanding of the tensions and compressions in the struc­ture. Your goal at the end of the day is for your students to have an understanding of the nuts and bolts and the central themes of your subject and a sense of its beauty and its utili­ty. 
The specific strategies will depend on your course and its message. They are the details where the challenges reside. Which parts of your subject do you emphasize in your pre­sentations and which texts and readings will you ask the students to absorb? How do you make sure that your students pursue these with energy? Are your students getting the message that you wish to convey? What are the key concepts? How well are they grasped? How will technical expertise in the narrower sense grow alongside an under­standing of the larger fabric? Are you sensi­tive to the increased sophistication of the unfolding story and the involvement of the students with it? Drifting attention is unavoid­able, so how do you mix lecture, discussion and student presentation? How do you struc­ture the students' activity outside of class? Some subjects require constant contact if they are to be captured effectively. For these. sub­
. ject matter and student minds should rub against each other like the two rotating discs in the clutch of a car. How do you achieve this? Your conversation needs to mix the rou­tine and the difficult. It needs to inspire confi­dence as well as wonderment. You want your students to grapple and grasp, to reflect and react and to think and rethink. You need to inject into the conversation an element of who you are and what you are about. How else can it connect and be engaging? These questions present significant chal­lenges, and your responses to them call for very careful reflection. Your starting point seems easy enough. You select appropriate and stimulating materials. you assess the backgrounds and abilities of your students and you articulate the goals and purposes of your journey together as convincingly as you possibly can. You pay attention to the various points that the Teacher Course Evaluations aim to gauge. A number of issues will require careful reflection and the insights of those of your colleagues who have weighed them with engagement. Technology might assist you. Wouldn't a discussion about the cardiovas­cular system profit from an animation of the expanding and contracting ventricles, the · inhaling and exhaling lungs and the rushing fluids? If a pic­ture is worth a thousand words. isn't a moving picture worth a million? Might a PowerPoint pres­entation help you to organize the flow and pace of the discussion? Or a pre-class WebCT quiz draw your stu­dents into the material of an upcoming class? On the other side of this tech­nological coin, however, lies an obligation to limit "face to screen" and to nurture "face to face." If your interaction with your students con­veys an ongoing sense that you care deeply about their learning, you will enhance their experience and yours. To paraphrase a recent reminiscence of Amar Bose of stereo speaker fame about his teaching at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology: "If they know that you care and if they can reach the,solution of problem three after they have understood the approach to problem two, then your students will not only meet your expectations, they will exceed them." If your students rise to the challenge of being able to absorb sophisticat­ed materials, analyze and organize these and if they rise again to present them articulately, confidently and effectively to the critical audi­ence that they themselves will have become, then they and you will have succeeded. 
Alexander Hahn is a professor ofmathe­matics and the director ofthe Kaneb Center. He can be contacted at hahn.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
--· ------------------­
-----~-­

-------·----------------· 

THE 0 BSERVER_ 



E Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
page 16 
Viruses infect 
indOW! 
Viruses sweep across the Internet infecting personal computer networks as they continue to be passed along by users unfam; 
By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Editor 
Throughout the past few weeks, viruses new and old have continuous­ly spread across the Internet all over the world. These viruses are bringing down entire networks at a time, including Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, causing frustration and anxi­ety for both the computer savvy and the not-so-computer savvy alike. 
On Aug. 11, Microsoft began inves­tigating a worm reported by Microsoft Product Support Services, a service developed to keep Microsoft and its programmers in touch with users and the problems that most commonly occur due to holes left in the programming of software. This worm became known as the Blaster Worm, and made headline news, scaring many Windows users. Later a variant of Blaster began to circulate through the Web in a similar way, becoming known as the Nachi Worm. 
These two viruses exploit a security issue that was addressed by Microsoft in Security Bulletin MS03-026. This issue concerns a vulnerability in the Remote Procedure Call (RPC), a func­tion in the script that makes Windows 200.0, Windows XP Professional and Home editions. Microsoft announced the problem and released a patch for the hole so that users could beat the virus before it even began to spread. 
However, this required people to update their computers using a Microsoft Web site called Windows Update, and not all users heard about the patch, or simply chose to ignore the download. 
The Blaster Worm, or W32.Blaster.Worm, locates the IP address of a computer, or essentially the social security number of any computer that has ever surfed the web, and infects it. Whenever a com­puter logs onto an Internet Service Provider, or an ISP, it is issued an IP address that can be found from any­where in the world to identify where the computer is located and where on the web it visits. By simply being logged onto a network, a computer can be located and infected. Blaster is not earned, and the only way to keep it from infecting a computer is to make sure the patch has been downloaded onto the computer, clos­ing the hole in the code yielding the file worthless. 
Symptoms of the virus include a warning message of having about thirty seconds to shut down all pro­grams before the computer restarts, the computer simply restarting, or having a program called msblast.exe found running in the Processes tab of Windows Task Manager, a program 
4

opened by pressing the keys controValt/delete simultaneously. The viruses infect the following Microsoft products run on personal 
computers, or PCs: Micros oft Windows NT 4.0, Microsoft Windows 2000, Microsoft Windows XP Professional and Home Editions, and Microsoft Windows Server 2003. Users of Windows Millennium (Windows Me). Windows 98, Windows 98 Second Edition (SE). and Windows 95 were not affected by the issue. However, these products are no longer supported. Users of these products are strongly encouraged to upgrade to later versions. 
During scans on the evening of Aug. 25, the director of student computing at Saint Mary's, Kathy Hausmann, discovered about 30 computers belonging to students that had not been patched despite incessant efforts by Information Technology to download the free patch, and was able to positively identify the owners of 21 computers. ResNet downloaded a tool, which was recommended on the national ResNet listserv, to scan the subnets in ResNet for computers running Windows 2000 or Windows XP that had not been patched. Many schools and other organizations with large networks are doing much the same to track who can send the virus to other users. 
In an e,.mail to employees of IT, Hausmann said she would send the students an e-mail message she drafted explaining that their comput­er has not been patched, their com­puter needs to be patched for without 
This s_ystem is shutting down. Please save all work inprogress and log off. Anyunsaved changes will be lost This shutdown was initiated byNT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM 

Time before shutdown: 00:00:21 
r Message --«<«X_____x_x1 
I Windows must now restart because the I 
I Remote Procedure Call (R PC] service ~ 
j terminated unexpectedly I 
I ! I ~ 
:r1l____ ___________j 


.com 

When this message appears on a computer screen, it Is the main indication of the Blaster Worm infection, yielding the user unable to complete any tasks before the computer resets. 

the patch their comput­er is most likely infect­ed, and that if they are infected, they are con­tributing to the network problems Saint Mary's is having on campus. She is also including the instructions for cleaning the virus, while directing them to Fixit. a service of ResNet for students who are having com­puter problems, if they find it difficult to install the patch. The Web address for Fixit is fixit.saintmarys.edu. If deemed appropriate, a Residential Computer Consultant, or an RCC, will be dispatched to aid the student in fixing the problem. But before posting a problem report form, students should attempt to resolve the problem on their own with the directions provided in an email sent out last week and on a webpage made specifically to aid students in the removal of the worm found from the ResNet page at the Saint Mary's home page. 
Microsoft provides the patch found on the front page of the Microsoft main site, alon·g with further information for users who are more interested in what exactly the virus targets. Along with a detailed, technical description, Microsoft published directions on how to scan a computer to find the virus, how to remove it if found, and how to prevent the computer from receiving viruses of the similar char­acteristics from making it into the file system of a PC. 
These directions include installa­tion of virus scanning software, implementing a firewall, or a way to prevent traffic th-at is for the most part unwanted and potentially harm­ful to the computer and/or network, ensuring that a computer remains updated on virus protection files to protect it in the future, and finally, removing the infected files from the computer. 
To update the Windows operating system with all necessary files, visit the Microsoft Windows Update web­site via the main address: http://v4. windowsupdate. microsoft. co m/enldefault.asp. 
Most viruses are sent through rouge emails, ones that users don't even realize are sent from their computers and email accounts to addresses of people found in address books and the cache of a computer's temporary Internet file folder. 
The latest of these type of cmails is called SoBig.F, a virus designed to bring down the Internet as a whole with sending so many emails out a one time, that networks and servers crash all over the world. SoBig.F is part of a series of viruses known as SoBig; SoBig.G is expected to come out in the next few weeks, but com­puter programmers are already working to overcome the virus before its release in order to prevent a dis­astrous situation. 
Much to the chagrin of Apple Corporation, there are· no known viruses made for Macintosh's most recent operating system, Mac OS X. Each time a new virus is announced, Apple uses it as an advertising cam­paign for PC users to switch to Macs. Macs tend to have a more stable operating system, but despite this, more users choose to stick with PCs when purchasing new computers. 
Viruses like Blaster, Nachi and SoBig are merely examples of viruses that make their way onto the Web on a daily basis, infecting millions, while even managing to puncture through new security features in the newest operating systerms. With advance~ in technology, the race to design the best virus continues, as well as efforts to bring down large corpora­tions merely for the amusement of the people who wrote the program. 
Viruses are an everyday part of computing, but ways to cope and pre­vent viruses do exist. Users should become more responsible and knowl­edgeable in order to prevent the has­sles that come along with owning an infected file on a network. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
--lllliiiiiillllllllillliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiililiiiiiiiilll.........llllllilil_______________..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..,;;,;,;;;;;--.---.-________-=..-=-....;;;;;.;...=::....:===~ ,=,,--=---=---­
THE OBSERVER 
E

Wednesday, August 27, 2003 


Page 17 

·s and bringing down iliar with technology 

Graphics courtesy o1 Microsoft.com Windows 2000 and Windows XP are being hit hard with viruses made specifi­cally to target the many users that depend on the system to run computers. 
Apple's iTunes music store allows users· to buy legal music 
By TOSHA SMITH Scene Wri rer 

As college students began classes during past years, Morpheus, Kazaa, Napster, WinMX and other file-sharing software programs became a part of most students' computers. These pro­grams provided a way for students -to download numerous music, television and movie files onto their personal computers free of charge. Initially, it was a way to preview music; however, with the development of high speed connections and better computers, these programs became a common convenience, encouraging users to download songs instead of buying music. 
Major record labels representing 

Photo courtesy of Apple. com 

several genres of music began to 
The Apple iPod features the ability to
protest the actions of these copyright violators. The Recording Industry hold up to 7500 digital music files. 
Association of America has begun to target computer users who download music experience with the introduction or share copyrighted files. of the iPod, an MP3 player and storage 
In light of these actions, computer device. This device is lighter than two companies are now developing pro­CO's and less than two inches thick. grams that provide the ability to legal­The iPod is available in 10 GB, 15 GB ly download music files to a computer and 30 GB models. The highest model for a small fee. One such program that holds up to 7,500 songs, which would has boomed since it was introduced is allow a user to play one new song a iTunes Music Store, a creation of the day for the next 20 years. In addition Apple Corporation. This program to providing organized play lists. the allows a user to surf for high quality iPod can be synchronized with either music files online, sample them and an Apple or IBM personal computer then download songs of their choice and serve as a calendar, alarm clock onto their computer. The cost of each and mini hard-drive to transport files song is $.99. Music lovers can also to and from other computers. download entire COs, allowing them to Prices for iPods began $299. view the CD lining online and giving Additionally, Apple offers student dis­them the rights to the song. This way, counts of $30 off any iPod and up to users can play the music on several $200 dollars off an iPod purchased personal computers without violating with an Apple computer. any copyright laws. 
Apple's marketing and design team Contact Tosha Smith at enhanced the digital downloading tsmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Photo courtesy of Apple.com 

Apple's iMac computer features the !Tunes music store as a feature for empha­sizing reasons behind purchasing a Mac running Mac's OS X operating system. 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 

Cordero leads improbable comeback over Phillies 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Wil Cordero and the Montreal Expos improved their wild-card hopes with an improbable victory. 
Cordero hit a pair of two-run doubles as Montreal rallied from an eight-run deficit and beat the Philadelphia Phillies 14-10 Tuesday night. 
"He's done a terrific job the last two weeks or so coming up with big, big, big hits," Expos manager Frank Robinson said. 
Montreal fell behind 8-0 after five innings, and were trailing 10-4 before scoring seven runs in the seventh, highlighted by Cordero and Jose Vidro's two-run doubles. 
"How exciting was that game?'' Vidro said. "We came back -unbelievable, one of the most exciting games I've played since I've been in the big leagues." 
The Expos won their third straight and moved within two games of Philadelphia and Florida for the NL wild card. 
"It's unreal. You see it hap­perring but you don't believe it," Robinson said. "That was a great win for this ballclub, this organization, and for the fans and for this city. It's just a great win and it's what we really need to do." 
Ricky Ledee had his first two-homer game and drove in four runs, and Mike Lieberthal had three hits and two RBis for the Phillies, who have lost four 

1' 
straight and are 1-7 on a sea­son-high 13-game road trip. 
"It's devastating, there's no question about it, but it's not like there's two games left," Phillies manager Larry Bowa said. "We just didn't get the job done tonight. There's no excuses." 
Cubs 7, Cardinals 4 
A six-run inning was overkill for the Chicago Cubs, consider­ing Mark Prior was on the mound. 
Prior allowed three hits in eight sharp innings, and Randall Simon and Aramis 

Phlllles' relief pitcher Mike Williams walks back to the mound Ramirez hit back-to-hack home after giving up a game-tying double to the Expos' Wll Cordero. runs in the pivotal third as the 

Cubs defeated the St. Louis Cardinals 7-4 Tuesday night. 
''I'm not trying to go out and strike out 10 guys, I'm not try­ing to put up a shutout every time," Prior said. "My job is. to keep them from scoring as many runs as we do, and that's the bottom line." 
The Cubs won for only the third time in 14 games at Busch Stadium the last two seasons, and moved a half­game ahead of the Cardinals for second in the tight NL Central and a half-game behind Houston. It was the first of eight games in 11 days between the rivals. 
White Sox 13, Yankees 2 
The long fly ball by Frank Thomas settled into the glove of left fielder Dave Dellucci ­after it clanked high off the foul pole, way up near the upper deck. 
It was a huge grand slam for Thomas off Roger Clemens, and a big win for the Chicago White against the New York Yankees. 
Magglio Ordonez followed with another long home run off the front of the center-field bleachers as the White Sox beat up the Yankees 13-2 Tuesday night in a matchup of division leaders. 
"It's very big," Thomas said. "Everybody's harping on how bad we are on the road." 
Ordonez and Paul Konerko homered twice, and Joe Crede also connected for Chicago, which hit six homers in a game for the second time this season. 
Blue Jays 12, Red Sox 9 
Vernon Wells kept the Toronto Blue Jays in it with his glove and put them ahead for good with his bat. 
Wells made a sensational catch in the seventh inning, then hit an RBI double that keyed a five-run eighth inning as the· Blue Jays ended Boston's five-game winning streak, beating the Red Sox 12-9 Tuesday night. 
"He's one of the best players in the league," Toronto man­ager Carlos Tosca said. "And it's going to be that way for a long, long time. The things he does offensively at his age are well above average and that play he made in the field was tremendous." 
Down 12-7. the Red Sox ral­lied for one run in the eighth and loaded the bases with two outs. But Manny Ramirez struck out against rookie Aquilino Lopez. 
"When Manny came up with a chance to tie it, you always think of the worst," Wells said. "Luckily, we were able to get out of it." Kevin Millar hit an inside-the-park homer in the ninth for Boston. The Red Sox missed a chance to move up on New York, which lost to Chicago 13-2 but held its five­game lead in the AL East. 
"That was a tough way to lose," Red Sox manager Grady Little said. "It's admirable that we kept coming back, but it's a shame that it got away from us in the eighth inning." 
Astros 18, Dodgers 4 
Odalis Perez was puzzled by his performance. To the Houston Astros, however, the whole game made sense. 
"It was our night, plain and simple, the stars were aligned," Brad Ausmus said. "I guess we were just supposed to win this game and score a lot of runs, but they still have a great pitching staff." 
The Astros came within one run of matching the highest­scoring game in franchise histo­ry, roughing up Perez and rout­ing the Los Angeles Dodgers 18­4 Tuesday night. 
Houston last scored 19 runs in 1999. Its previous top run total this season was 13 on May 7 against Pittsburgh. 
Jeff Kent homered and drove in five runs and Jeff Bagwell also homered. 
Kent, who went 3-for-4, and pinch-hitter Jason Lane each delivered three-run doubles. Ausmus tripled and doubled, dri­ving in four runs and scoring three. 
"We did a lot of things right and got a lot of big hits. Everybody was swinging the bats really well," Craig Biggio said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Child care for two lovely daughters 
(ages 5 and 9 months). Mom works NOTICES Wed and Thurs evenings; Dad (ND 
Theo prof) needs help with kids and PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT dinner prep. Preferred hours. 3-8 PAY WWW.WORKFORSTU-pm, but negotiable Open to teams DENTS. COM of friends to cover different times. 
Pay: $8/hr plus dinner. Close to STUDENT WORK. $11.50 base-campus. Contact: 288-6732 or appt. Flex.pt hrs. Cust.svcJsales Whitmore.1 @nd.edu 
No D-T-D/No Telemkt Fun work schollinterns. cond. apply. work Wanted· Exceptionally dependable w/other students 574·282·2357 babysitter with own car for 2 girls www.earnparttime.com ages 7 and 5 on Tues. and Wed. 
from 2pm til 7:30pm Sitter will pick girls up from school and transport to our home, both located by U.P. 
WANTED 
Mall. $6.00/hour. Call Laurie at 574­
271-0389. WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICK­ETS TOP DOLLAR PAID (574)232­
0964 FoR SALE 
Do you miss your family pet? PET REFUGE, a no-kill shelter just 10 FOR SALE NO FOOTBALL TICK-minutes from campus, urgently ETS LOWEST PRICES (574)251­needs VOLUNTEERS and FOS-1570 
TEAS for its CATS and DOGS. Please call 256..()886, email web-FURNITURE FOR SALE: master@petrefuge.com, or visit Couch,loveseat,2 end tables,2 

1997 MERCURY GRAN MARQUIS EXCELLENT CONDITION, LOADED GREAT CONDITION ONE OWNER $5,500 (WHOLE· SALE PRICE) 282-2228 
Octagon multi-use poker table with hard top, $25 Antiqued green din­ing set, includes dropleaf table w1th three extra leaves, 4 chairs, china cabinet and buffet, $200. 2 reclining chairs, 1 gold & 1 tan, $25 each. Yamaha organ with pull down top & bench, $150 42" round oak coffee table, $100. Sleeper sofa, $30. Winged chair (floral), $25. Desk w1th 7 drawers, $10. Green lamp table, $5. Microwave oven, $10. Toaster oven, $15. Call 272· 
1784. 

Mazda 90 Miata MX5, 48,500 miles, 5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue Cover,Custom Red,$9,900 258· 0520. 
FOR RENT 
One bedroom apt. in home on a 2-bdrm house close to ND. 269­lake. 10 min drive from ND. 699-5841. Furnished, parking. PERSONAL Postgrad students only. No ciga­rettes, no alcohol, no party, no pet. 
TICKETS

$400/mo. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do (574)277-0189. not go it alone. If you or someone Depos1t & References required. NO FOOTBALL you love needs confidential support 
BUY & SELL. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Furnished apt.close to NO. 1 bdrm. CHECK MY PRICES. Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For no smoking or pets. $425/mo. utili-273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-more information, see our bi-weekly ties included. 773-3911. ad in The Observer. 
255-1738. 

TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX Spring Break 2004 with 2-bdrm apts. $435/mo plus utilities. OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES StudentCity.com and Maxim 2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail. DISCRETION ASSURED Magazine! Get hooked up with immediately. 273-4555. 654-8018. Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as 
a Campus Rep! Choose from 15 of Bed& Breakfast within walking dis-NO FOOTBALL TICKETS the hottest destinations Book early tance of ND Former Moose Krause WflNTED for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS House. TOP DOLLAR PAID and 150o/o Lowest Price Guarantee! Rooms available for Washington AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 To reserve online or view our Photo State, FSU, BYU. $130/night. 232-Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com 9750 NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOf3 or Caii1-888-SPRINGBREAK! 
SALE AM -232-2378 PM · 288· 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO 2726 Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM s #1 Student Tour Operator Hiring MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-Help! I need 2 tix to every ND home campus reps. Call for discounts: 1525 football game Please call 288-800-648-4849 or ww ststravel com 
2877. 

www.petrefuge.com. lamps,beige-western-style,$400 Immediate occupancy: 2 bd, 1.5 FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1 Deuce Dub Five. holla back 282-1979,5:30p.m.-10:30p. m bath apt, ale, new kitchen, full base-mile from NO. Garage, alarm sys-TRADE (2) Wash. St. OR (2) 
Tutor for a 5th/8th grader. Mon-ment, private large rear deck. $630 tern, A/C. Florida St. for (2) USC. USC Tix Busted. Thurs 2 hrs. daily. Paid weekly. Call For sale: 8 ft couch almost new. mo. In student neighborhood, walk Available lmmed. must be together Sarang ASAP. Hm 574-272-Floral print. Can deliver to campus. to Corby s and Boat Club $650/mo. Face-value trade. Call Rachael Last time I checkPd J-Cap had 1 003/Wk57 4-24 7-0242. . -$300 cash. CaJI1-5766 , -· ...•.... • Call Larry 289-0262. Call220-o499 or 614-353-5889. 634-o830. game like Jere ... 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Righty shipped to 
Class A, lefty 
Orosco designated for assignment 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Jeff Weaver and Jesse Orosco, standing in adjacent lockers, packed up· their equipment bags Tuesday. Weaver plans to return to the New York Yankees next week. Orosco does not. 
Carefully manipulating their roster to get ready for the postseason, the Yankees optioned Weaver to Class A Tampa of the Florida State League and designated Orosco for assignment. The moves cleared space for left-handers Gabe White, activated from the disabled list, and Felix Heredia, who reported one day after he was claimed on waivers from Cincinnati. 
"It's hard for me to compre­hend and understand," Weaver said. "Hopefully, this will be the change that I need." 
New York plans to make at least one more change by Sunday, the deadline for post­season roster eligibility. Jose Contreras is likely to be optioned to the minors and 
infielder  Erick  Almonte  
recalled  from  Triple-A  
Columbus, moves that would  

allow the Yankees to carry just 10 pitchers on their postsea­son roster. 
Contreras and Weaver would be recalled from the minors on Monday, when active rosters expand to 40, and both would be eligible for postseason play because New York has two pitchers on the disabled list. 

Weaver has struggled since the Yankees acquired him from Detroit in July last year. He is 7-9 with a 5.85 ERA this season, lost his spot in the rotation last week when Contreras was activated and gave up a home run Monday night in relief against to Baltimore's Larry Bigbie. 
"Maybe 10 years from now I'll say 2003 is the year that built me as a pitcher and a person," Weaver said. 
Orosco, at 46 the oldest play­er in the major leagues, had a 
10.38 ERA in 15 games since the Yankees acquired him from San Diego on July 22. 
"The toughest one was Jesse," Yankees manager Joe Torre said of the moves. 
Orosco has pitched in 1,244 games, the most in major league history. He made his big league debut in 1979 under Torre. 
! I III: I i t j  Need a job this fall? The Development Phone Center is hiring! 20STUDENT·CALI.ER POSITIONS · AVAilABLE ·.. Toaa'\1' :wit:Li Au~ust27tHCalla#umnt paren~$ iinc$frierids on beha.Jf ·· .·.::·:-:···:>-·:--::,.::~:·:-::·--·-:.:.:·.:::-·-·:::'­:··· :>}~'·--:-·:--.·--:--­-:-·:·.-:· -::.·. ofNcffe Oam~~$ ..Ann4¢1Purtd. ....· .. ThYI'$·~.A.u;qst 2Sf:ft . .·.·...·.·.·. ·. . JQ;9Q; t.lrt1 tq ~~QQ Pill •··· . NO EXPERIENCE NEC~SSA.IO' > . ·Wtter~~<•···•••·· ····32~ ~,t1t;~ ~au <>_••.••.•.... ·...··••· •·• •••• GREAlENVIRONMENl•· ..·. : .. ._. :-·-: _.· :: ·-: .._ ..-.: :-:-.-.-·---.·.­.. :--:.­-' ..·' . ' : :-.-:-· _.· :• EVENING HOI,JRS ··:···" PAlO TRAINING . • MERIT PAY INCREASES :?···•···.~~1.~nao~ Questions? Call Jill Donnelly or Annle Geory at 631·8426. . Make money, win prizes, and build your resume. Apply Today! Impacting students Enabling futures  

Giles traded to Padres for two players, cash 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Brian Giles, 
one of the NL's most produc­
tive players for five seasons, 
was dealt Tuesday to the San 
Diego Padres in a long­
rumored trade that further 
depletes the talent-thin 
Pittsburgh Pirates. 
In an uncommon late-season 
deal involving a name player 
going from one non-contender 
to another, the Pirates get 
promising left-handed starter 
Oliver Perez, minor league 
outfielder Jason Bay and a 
player to be named. 
After acquiring Giles, the last-place Padres sent All-Sta!" outfielder Randell White tfl the Kansas City Royals r·c,: bvo minor league pitchers. 
"Over our last 10 oi J] games, we've been pounc:!~d by left-handed pitchers late in the game," Kansas City general manager Allard Baird said. 'This certainly gives us anoth­er option." 
Giles, a San Diego native, has averaged 35 homers and 100-plus RBis since being traded by Cleveland before the 1999 season. He is hitting .299 with 16 homers and 70 RBis this season despite sitting out a month with a knee injury. 
The Pirates, headed for an 11th consecutive losing sea­son, are rebuilding from the ground up with younger and lower-priced players. 
"There's a lot of disappoint­ment -and satisfaction," the 32-year-old Giles said. "It's disappointing because when I signed here, I wanted to play for a championship club here, but it just didn't work out. ... But I'm excited to go back and play in my hometown." 
The Pirates have dealt their top starting pitcher (Jeff Suppan), two best relievers (Mike Williams and Scott Sauerbeck), two most produc­tive position players (Aramis Ramirez and Giles) and center fielder Kenny Lofton since mid-July. The trades came after owner Kevin McClatchy revealed losses of as much as 
$30 million since PNC Park 
opened in 2001. 
That's why the Pirates ini­tially tried to include catcher Jason Kendall in the Giles trade. Kendall has $42 million remaining on his $60 million. six-year contract, and the Padres wanted the Pirates to pay about half that. 
"What was worrisome from 
our standpoint was taking on 
that salary," Padres general 

manager Kevin Towers said. 
"Once we were able to sepa­
rate the two, we were able to 
agree." 
Kendall, Giles' best friend with the Pirates, declined to comment on Giles' departure or his own status. He appar­ently was under the impres­sion he would be included in tl.e deal. 
"Obviously, he wanted to come to San Diego with me," Giles said. "Unfortunately it didn't go through the way we thought it was going to go through. From my understand­ing, they are still interested in Jason." 
White was hitting .278 with 18 homers and 66 RBis, and now joins a team contending for the AL Central title. 
White, scheduled to arrive in Kansas City on Wednesday, could spell either Ibanez or center fielder Carlos Beltran. 
"I still haven't decided where I'm going to use him yet," manager Tony Pena said. ''I've still got a game to worry about tonight." 
The Padres got left-hander Chris Tierney and right-hander Brian Sanches for White. San Diego also will send some cash to Kansas City, but will save some money on White's salary that it can apply to Giles, who will earn a little more than $1 million the rest of the season. 
General manager Dave Littlefield said the Pirates didn't wait until the offseason to trade Giles because the offer was so attractive. 
"We felt this was the trade that made the most sense and acquired the most talent," 
J.itf.lf:\f'jp]rJ <::::~irl 

-Suzanne's Floral 
Welcome Back Students! 
Large Selection ofRoses Daily Deliveries to Campus Students & Staff recieve 
10°/o discount In business since 1984 
www.suzannesfloral.com 
Located at Corner 800-224-2695 of Edison & Ironwood 574-288-7551 
-~--------------------------------------------~ 
page 20 Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Buckeyes hope to overcome loss of Clarett 
...... team that went 7-6 last season . Associated Press "It was a tough situation on all of us," Gilbertson said. "It 
COLUMBUS. Ohio -Ohio wasn't easy. I think our people State beginning the defense of have rallied around each other its national title should have and I'm pleased with what I been the biggest story heading see." into Saturday night's game in Gilbertson inherits a team Columbus. that has plenty of offensive tal­
Instead. it might rank as low ent, led by quarterback Cody as third. Pickett and receiver Reggie After tumultuous offseasons, Williams. 
the second-ranked Buckeyes Offense was never the biggest and No. 17 Washington should strength for Ohio State last be looking forward to opening year. It certainly won't be this their 2003 campaigns at Ohio year, especially without Clarett. Stadium Clarett even though rushed for 
..It was a tough situation

both do so 1,237 yards
for all of us. It wasn't and 16 touch­
without key members of easy. I think our people downs last their teams. s e a s o n
have rallied around each 

Ohio State despite miss­
other and I'm pleased ing all of
may have to survive half of with what I see." three games 
its season and parts of 
without star two others 
Keith Gilbertson

running back with injuries. Maurice Washington coach He set numer­Clarett. who ous school would have records. and been a Heisman Trophy seemed on his favorite after a dazzling fresh­way to becoming the first fresh­man year. man to win the Heisman before 
But at least Clarett figures to missing significant time in the be back with the Buckeyes at second half of the season with some point. It seems doubtful injuries. that Rick Neuheisel ever will at This year, his time missed 
expect to be able to run the Buckeyes' upset of Miami in the back Bradlee Van Pelt led a
Washington. will come in the first half. 

ball, even if Clarett isn't doing national championship game. decisive 84-yard scoring driveNeuheisel was fired by athlet­Ohio State suspended Clarett the running. 
will look to Michael Jenkins. that was capped by his 23-yardic director Barbara Hedges for for "multiple games" after hold­
"Our tailback position has to run.
who had 1,076 receiving yardsbreaking NCAA gambling rules ing him out of most of the pre­

be able to do it all," Ohio State 

last season. Entering his senior season,by participating in neighbor­season workouts because of eli­coach Jim Tressel said. "And Defensively, the Buckeyes Van Pelt poses many problemshood pools during the past two gibility questions. His father the thing that you have to must replace five starters who for any defense, according toNCAA basketball tournaments. told USA Today that the sus­understand is the quarterback's moved on to the NFL from a Colorado junior defensive line­Neuheisel, who maintained pension will be six games. three not going to check behind him unit that alJowed just 12.2 man Matt McChesney. 
that he didn't know he was for violating NCAA rules for dri­to see who's in the game at tail­points during the regular sea­"He's a good player and he's
breaking rules. has not gone ving a borrowed car from a 
back and not check to this play son before shutting down the going to make plays,"away quietly. He is suing the dealership and three more for or that play. It's all built into high-powered Hurricanes in the McChesney said. "You just can'tschool and the NCAA. alleging academic reasons. 
your game plan. So, you know, Fiesta Bowl. hold everybody to nothing, but
breach of contract by the school A six-game suspension would and accusing NCAA officials of bring Clarett back for the final whoever's at tailback's got to That defense will be tested by we definitely need to contain 
defamation, conspiracy and six games of the season. be able to do it all." a Washington offense that aver­him. He keeps it most of the aged more than 420 yards of time on the option. We've got to 
wrongfully interfering with his Without Clarett, the Buckeyes Krenzel improved to 15-1 as a stop him."
job. will have to lean on quarter­starter following last season's offense last season, including Keith Gilbertson took over for back Craig Krenzel and their 14-0 campaign. Krenzel, who 346.2 passing. The Buffaloes didn't do that 
Neuheisel and is in charge of a excellent defense. And they The keys are Pickett and last season. and Van Pelt
scored two touchdowns in the 

Williams, who should be one of wound up accounting for 242 of the most potent tandems in the the Rams' 320 total yards. Pac-1 0 this year. Pickett threw passing for 168 and rushing for for 4,458 yards and 28 touch­74. downs last season, while "That's the kind of guy he is. Williams caught 94 passes for He took it over and ran right 1,454 yards and 11 TDs. down our throats." said 
"Washington has great team Colorado defensive coordinator speed. They have outstanding Vince Okruch. "That's a tribute athletes," Tressel said. to him, not only as a physical "Everyone likes to start by talk­player. but the mental tough­ing about their offensive side, ness he possesses." because you have the marquee Colorado coach Gary Barnett guys in the quarterback and the isn't sounding confident that great receiver." his team's opening-day losing 
Williams will probably be streak will end Saturday. defended by Chris Gamble, Ohio "We've got a lot of work to 
,; 
/ State's two-way star. do," Barnett said following last Ohio State leads the all-time week's scrimmage. "The kids series 6-3. The Buckeyes. know it, the coaches know it. whose 14-game winning streak Right now, we're not a very is the longest in the nation, sharp team." have won 24 straight home Joel Klatt, a 21-year-old openers. sophomore walk-on. will be Barnett's starting quarter­Buffalos looks to end streak back, and has already estab­Colorado hopes to end a lished himself as the team's streak of four consecutive sea­unquestioned leader. accord­
ing to the coach.
son-opening losses when it 
"I have a great deal of confi­kicks off the campaign against dence in Klatt being the guy,"Colorado State at Invesco Field. 
Barnett said. "[He] just exudesThere was a time when the 
confidence and he exudes
Rams. ranked 23rd in the AP leadership."
preseason poll. would get intim­
That intangible may proveidated playing their more 
crucial for the Buffs. who rely
famous in-state rivals. 
more on their running game.
However, four wins over 
which has been ranked amongColorado in the last five years is the nation's top 10 the last twoevidence that they no longer years.
feel like the state's second 
"We want Joel to run our 
team. 
offense and be effective with 
Three of Colorado's opening 
it," Barnett said. "Don't turn 
game defeats since 1999 have 
the ball over and let the 

come at the hands of the Rams, offense do their thing. As he 
including last year's 19-14 set­matures and gets better he back at Invesco on Aug. 31, can become the center of the when Colorado State quarter-offense." 


Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Raiders awarded $34.2 million 

Oakland receives 
compensation, while 
much less than 
anticipated 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO -AI Davis and his Oakland Raiders were awarded $34.2 million Tuesday by a jury that found Oakland coliseum officials failed to deliver on promises of sold-out stadiums in luring the team back from Los Angeles. 
The verdict in the Iawsuit was far less than the $570 mil­lion to $833 million the Raiders sought to compensate for weak ticket sales and the declining value of the franchise. 
Jurors said they calculated the award based on the team's losses on ticket sales, interest on that money and local TV rights. 
Both sides promised to appeal the verdict -reached 
The Career Center 

after more than 10 days of deliberations. 
The jury heard nearly four months of testimony from 45 witnesses and had more than 600 pieces of evidence to con­sider. · 
After the verdict was read. Raiders lawyer Roger Dreyer said he was disappointed with 
the award, but hours later he said the decision was a vindi­cation for the team. 
"The jury has deter­mined that the Raiders were lied to, that the pub­lic was lied to, and that they 
waned,

"The jury has 
team's stadi­determined that the um was shak­
Raiders were lied to, that en by an 
earthquake

the public was lied to, 
and a deal 

and that they were collapsed to deceived." build a new stadium. The deal
Roger Dreyer 

gave the Raiders lawyer Raiders a $53 
were deceived," Dreyer said. 
It was not immediately clear where the coliseum would get the money to pay the award because the coliseum commis­sion, a nonprofit corporation, 

SENIOR ''KICK-OFF'' 
Thursday, August 28, 7:00pm@ Stepan Center 
AttendanceMandatory StudentlD. Required 

Career Center Services 

• 
Job Search Strategies 


• 
Sign up for Mock Interviews 

• 
Learn more about Graduate School • "City Tot1rs" 

• 
Learn about upcoming workshops and ev·ents 

• 
Meet Career Counselors representing··yotlr major 




Sponsored by Progressive Auto Insurance 
jobs.progresslve.com 
t:f 

~ponsored by:___ ___ __
T_h_e_C_ar_e_e_r_C-en-t-er-,-248-Fl_an_n_e_r--Pb-on_e_:-63-1--52-00 W_e_b_si_te_:_eareere_en_t-er_.n_d._e_d~ 
has no assets, said defense lawyer James Brosnahan. 
"The Raiders have known that all along," Brosnahan said. "It's really a hollow victo­ry." 
The case dates to 1995 when Davis, the legendary Raiders owner, maneuvered to get his team out of Southern California after revenues the 
million loan. 
$10 million 

for a training complex and 
$100 million to renovate the 
coliseum, which is shared with 
the Oakland Athletics. 
Oakland-Alameda County 
Coliseum, its chief negotiator 
Ed DeSilva and the now­
defunct Arthur Andersen 
accounting firm were accused 
of intentionally misleading the 
team with its promises of 
sold-out games. 
The jury ruled the coliseum 
acted negligently, but said 
none of the defendants inten­
tionally misrepresented ticket 
sales. 

The coliseum's lawyer said 
any box office flop should be 
partly blamed on high ticket 
prices and the Raiders' poor 
performance on the field upon 
their return to Oakland. 
The Raiders are one of the 
most storied franchises in the 
NFL, from their days as an 
AFL power in the 1960s to 
their return to dominance in 
the last three years. 
During that time. Davis' lengthy career has been marked by a bruising style of play on the field and an aggressive business approach that has made the organiza­tion the most litigious in the NFL. 
The coliseum suit was simi­lar to one the Raiders lost two years ago in Los Angeles. Davis claimed the NFL owed him $1.2 billion for spiking the deal to build a new stadi­um at the Hollywood Park race track. 
A judge ordered a new trial because of juror misconduct, but the NFL is appealing. 
PREP 

COURSES 
FOR THE MATH SECTIONS OF THE 
GMAT&GRE 
For schedule and registration infor­mation visit: 
mathprepcourse.com 
\ ' 
\ ~ ' \ 
\\ ' \ \ ) ', \ 
~ ~ ) 
q 
n 
n \\ ~ 
\ 
\ 
) 
q ~ ~ 
~­
~ \ 
t 
I > 
~ 
: ) ~ :~ 
I I I I 
,,. 
page 22 Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
USA BASKETBALL 


Americans avenge loss in 94-86 win over Argentina 
O'Neal scores 22 points, plays solid defense 
professional players in interna­missed a 3-pointer, and Iverson 
Associated Press 

tional tournaments. all three of went to the line with l :07 left the losses coming last summer. and made one of two. Another SAN JUAN. Puerto Rico With a contingent of missed 3 by Nocioni from the Argentina couldn't do it again, Argentinian fans singing "Don't same spot was followed by two not with Jermaine O'Neal taking forget what happened last made free throws by Tim a huge first step on the road to time," the teams played an Duncan to make it 92-83, and redemption. intense four quarters. Argentina got no closer than six 
With an improved United The score was tied 7 4-7 4 with the rest of the way. States team showing greater 6 1/2 minutes left before the The second round continues degrees of poise and talent U.S. team closed the game by Wednesday and Thursday down the stretch. the scoring 20 of the final 32 points. before the semifinals are held Americans avenged a ground­"The thrill comes from watch­Saturday. Three berths in the breaking defeat of a year ago by ing this group continue to Athens Olympics are at stake. defeating Argentina 94-86 mature," said U.S. assistant "If we have to play them Tuesday in the second round of coach Gregg Popovich. who also again, it'll be a great game,"the Tournament of the was an assistant on last sum­U.S. coach Larry Brown said. Americas. mer's U.S. team. "I still think "We were very fortunate to win, 
Fittingly for the U.S. team, the about that once or twice a week. that's obvious." star was O'Neal -one of only We just won an NBA champi­Duncan picked up his fourth two U.S. players held over from onship [in San Antonio]. and I foul with 8:54 left and went to last summer's team that fin­probably think about [losing to the bench for the next two min­ished a disappointing sixth at Argentina. Yugoslavia and utes, nearly picking up his fifth the World Championships. Spain] as much or more than I shortly after he returned. But no 
O'Neal scored 22 points and do about the NBA championship call was made after Duncan made one of the biggest plays of because I'm a sick coach and I defended a shot by Luis Scola,
the game at the defensive end, think about those things. and he raced downcourt and fed blocking a shot by Fabricio "It's not about redemption or O'Neal for an alley-oop dunk Oberto with 1:13 left -a play anything else. They won that and a 78-74 lead. 
that led to a fast-break dunk by thing, you can't take that away. It was 81-77 when Iverson 
Vince Carter off a pass from That hurt will be there forever. stole the ball and raced in Allen Iverson for an 89-83 lead. This is a new deal," Popovich uncontested. But he missed a It was the only missed shot for said. layup, which Ginobili then recip­
Oberto, who finished 8-for-9. Tim Duncan scored 19 points, rocated at the other end by"Regardless of what happens, playing most of the fourth quar­missing a reverse. I'm always going to be marked ter with four fouls, Iverson had A 3-pointer by Iverson late in 
in the record books as being on 13. and Carter and Mike Bibby the shot clock gave the the first [U.S.] team to lose using scored 11 apiece. O'Neal had a Americans an 85-79 lead, and a NBA players," O'Neal said. team-high 10 rebounds. missed 3 by Ginobili was fol­
"That doesn't matter to me any­Oberto had 17 points. and lowed by two foul shots from 
more. My goal now. and I think Manu Ginobili and Andres O'Neal with 3:11 left. the only way I can see redemp­Nocioni added 16 each for There were 12 lead changestion. is to win the gold medal in Argentina. in the first quarter. which ended the Olympics." "We played great. We almost with the Americans ahead 27­
The United States remained beat them, so we have to be 23. The U.S. team had a 7-0 run 
undefeated in this Olympic qual­very optimistic for the rest of to open the second quarter.ifying tournament and improved the tournament," Ginobili said. holding Argentina scoreless for to 22-0 in qualifiers. The Following O'Neal's block and the first 4 1/2 minutes to take a 
Americans are 64-3 when using Carter's dunk. Andres Nocioni 34-23 lead. 

?few literature course in Cfiinese '?[fered by !East ?l.sian Lanauages &' Literatures 
Paf4 2003 


J617' LLEA 39::. 01: Cultural Perfonnances in Contemporary 
China 

Cro&:s list: ANTII3y~E M~'F 9:3:1-Io:2s Prn:f.Joaat:han Noble 
This. co-urse asks stutknr$ to t-ngn.ge and anai)7.C differetlt' types _of "c.ultuml penormam.:e!>" in China from the x<;So:s. to r:he pr(:sent d~Y: H~w do ~e tnf-e.r~ret t?e div~n~it'f and compl~~ty of culru~es. in contemporary <;hma? HO\\o· 1s. thj.s div7rs1ty r~:presenteJ (or ~performed") w1thm ami between ddterent types of ~edn:lms, daciplincs and socio-cultural a.t;tivitiel>? Aft~l' establishing an unden;randmg ~>t the histo-rk;d ~ontext for the period wtdcr discussion, the cours~ ,.,.ill ~mine ?Hfc::~cnt rype~ ~)f "£ultural perfor~nces" withm 01 broad r<1nge ot a~as. mdudmg _1~1m. te-kvtSmn, tltcarc-.r, adve.rnsmg, r.he lnten:et, a~d pop~1M ~u~1c, ?ance an!llel!IU~e acth'iues_ Particular iJ>sues to btl exammed m conJunct:ton Wlth the cultural pertbrmaru:e~,. indu<k 4-:ommerd~tsm :tnd con::;~ens.m, the role nfrhc gov<:.rrun~nt, th.c state, ami nationalism, traditwn and modcnury, globali.S;:m and tr-ansnatton.~h~1.~l. the urban/rural divide, class, and gende-r. n~c c~u:rse ~'~ a.L~ provtdc.a b_..~stc inrroduction to theories of performance and pedormaa•ltty·. Stl_Jdcnrs w1ll_ <v·u:-..v, analy~c and di~uss an array of""cuh:ural pe.formances" through ditferenr metha ami ucil.i:1e ~he Intero¢t <lS an interface for colk.cting ""iewpoints from China and across 
rhe Chinel>e Di~P'Jra ro be appl-ied m their own research projects. 
Jn addition ro pro\:iding a I;UTTent ovt!~:it;W of.the dive.r~t:y nf ( ~ltur~"!' in C_hi~<i ~nd the .:ontempou..cy ll!~S. e.-nbcdded "."'tt~~· thi~ cour~e til 1deal to~ stud~nts s~eklu¥ to C'li:plo:rc: the wlc: of cultur~ ~oss _d1scsplines? mdu~sng arcs an~ litenturcs, hlstol}. anthropology, Si)<:101ogy, poliu~al s.cse.nce, med1a stu<.he~, and busmess. 
No prior knowledge ofChinese language, culnu:e, or h1story i~ re(1uired. 
East ~Wl Lang>.Iages & Literatures l(); O'~hllugh.t\e~')" Hill 63s-8~T~ 


Wednesday, August 27, 2003 page 23 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NFL 
Romanowski apologizes for fight with teammate 
Raider could face serious charges for incident 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -Two days 
after Bill Romanowski seriously 
injured teammate Marcus 
Williams during a fight in prac­
tice, the Oakland Raiders' con­
troversial linebacker was 
remorseful and apologetic. 
"I hold myself accountable," 
Romanowski said of his latest 
episode of bad behavior. "It was 
a classless move by me." 
An apology might not be 
enough for Williams, whose eye 
socket was broken in the fight. 
The reserve tight end was placed 
on injured reserve Tuesday ­
and he hasn't ruled out legal 
action, according to his agent, 
Lee Kolligian. 
"Is there any excuse for poten­tially ending ~ player's football career?" Kolligian asked. "He's kind of waiting to sec the extent of the damage.... We'd rather not [sue], but if it comes down that this man has lost his football career as a result of this incident, then I would hope we can get some compensation." 
Romanowski ripped off Williams' helmet and punched the reserve tight end in the face, breaking his left orbital bone and chipping his tooth. The fight came at the end of a running play during a 9-on-7 drill Sunday. 
Williams, a second-year pro who played mostly on special teams last season, was taken to a local hospital for a series of tests. He saw an eye specialist Monday and was told to rest at home for a week until the swelling goes down, but Williams still has dou­ble vision. 
While trimming their roster Tuesday, the Raiders placed Williams on injured reserve, end­ing his season. 
"He's a little scared, if any­thing," Kolligian said. "Essentially he's going to have no film, no playing time to show to market himself to another team next year, ifthat's necessary." 
Romanowski was suspended from Monday's practice and fined an undisclosed amount by the team·, but he was back in Alameda on Tuesday. 
Romanowski said he had spoken 
with Williams since the incident. 
"I made my apologies," 
Romanowski said. "I said what I 
had to say to him. I pretty much 
told everybody what I had to say. 
You can try to make excuses, but 
there's no excuses. It just won't 
happen again." 
Romanowski also apologized to 
the rest of the team prior to 
Tuesday's practice. Afterward, 
some Raiders players seemed 
almost indifferent toward the 
matter. 
"I don't see it as a big prob­lem," linebacker Eric Johnson said. "It's just something that happened. Bill is a part of the family, and so is Marcus. Brothers fight all the time." 
NFL spokeswoman Leslie Hammond said the league won't get involved in what it considers a team matter, leaving any disci­pline to the Raiders. 
Romanowski has a history of on-field altercations during his 16-year NFL career -most notably for spitting on 49ers receiver J.J. Stokes. He has been fmed several times by the league. 
He has had off-field troubles as well. Romanowski was acquitted in July 2001 on charges of ille­gally obtaining a prescription diet drug in 1998, and related charges against his wife, Julie, also were dropped. 
He signed with Oakland before last season, and he fmished sec­ond on the team in tackles while helping the Raiders to their first Super Bowl appearance since 1983. His influence on Oakland's defense has been praised, and he hadn't been in any trouble with the Raiders until this incident. 
"Everybody knew what they were getting when he (Romanowski) came here,"guard Frank Middleton said. "As long as it doesn't happen again, it'll be fine." 
Romanowski, who spoke with coach Bill Callahan on Monday night, denied having an anger pr·oblem. 
"I've never really had problems controlling my temper," Romanowski said. "I am an intense guy on the football field, and sometimes I get carried away. I got carried away two 

days ago. I'm just going to make 
the situation right from this point 
forward. Can I move forward? I 
have no choice. 
"The punishment is not about 
a fine or about missing practice. 
It's about what you learn as a 
person. You've got to look at 
yourself in the mirror and say, 'I 
screwed up.' There's two rea­
sons I play this game: One is my 
love and respect I have for the 
game, two is to win the Super 
Bowl, and I can't do it without 
(teammates). I let my teammates 
down, and I apologized to them." 
Callahan didn't speak to 
reporters on Tuesday, even 
though the Raiders made several 
cuts and roster moves. 
McGahee to miss time 
Willis McGahee will miss at 
least the first six weeks of the 
season after the Buffalo Bills 
placed the first-round draft pick 
on the reserve non-football 
injury list Tuesday. 
The move was expected. The 
former Miami star running back 
continues to recover after tearing 
three ligaments in his left knee 
the Hurricanes loss to Ohio State 
in the Fiesta Bowl last January. 
Under NFL rules, McGahee could begin practicing between the end of week six and the end of week nine of the season. The Bills would then have a three­week window to determine whether to activate McGahee or sit him out for the rest of the sea­son. 
"This was totally expected and par for the course," said McGahee's agent, Drew Rosenhaus. "And it's essentially on schedule with what the Bills said right along, that Willis can come back for the second half of the season." 
Rosenhaus added that he's confident McGahee will be ready to play at midseason. Under the terms of the contract, Rosenhaus said that McGahee will also con­tinue to be paid by the Bills while on the reserve list, and that the move will not affect his client's bonus and incentive clauses. 
McGahee had not yet begun practicing with the Bills since joining the team two weeks ago after shminl! a heavilv incentive 
Get Involved in Irish 
0 
Athletics! 
The Sports Information Office is looking for student assistant workers for the 2003-04 school year. if you are interested, please co~e to an informational meeting on Thursday, August 28 at 7:30p.m. in the Sports Information Office (located at the Joyce Center second floor inside Gate 2) or call Bernie at 1-7516. 

laden five-year contract poten­tially worth $15.3 million. 
Upon arrival, McGahee was immediately placed on the active non-football injury list. He has since been limited to individual running drills and catching pass­es in a stationary position on the sideline. 
In other moves, the Bills released third-year linebacker Brandon Spoon, second-year receiver Andre Rone and run­ning back De'Mond Parker. 
Seahawks DT out for season 
Seattle Seahawks defensive tackle Chad Eaton, who has had two operations on his right knee since May, was placed on injured reserve Tuesday, suggesting his season is over. 
Coach Mike Holmgren, though, said he couldn't rule out Eaton's return. 
"There are options we have at the club's disposal, if Chad's will­ing to do some things, "Holmgren said. "We just have to see. It would be premature to talk aboui any right now. Let's just see how it goes." 
The Seahawks apparently are considering reaching an injury settlement with Eaton, which would make him a free agent. He could re-sign with Seattle when he is healthy and return to the lineup this season. 
The risk, of course, is having another team sign Eaton after the injury settlement. 
Eaton is a proven run-stopper who started every game the past two years after joining the Seahawks as a free agent. He had spent the previous five sea­sons with New England after one year on the practice squad in Cleveland. 
Eaton, who played college foot­ball at Washington State, was entering his eighth NFL season. 
· He wasn't at team headquarters Tuesday. He had surgery in May to remove bone chips from his knee, an operation a team spokesman said wasn't per­formed by Seahawks doctors. His second surgery, on Aug. 10, was done by team doctors during training camp. At the time, it was characterized as an effort to reduce continued swelling. Eaton was expected to miss one month. Last season, the 6-foot-5, 303­pound Eaton recovered three fumbles and recorded a sack while leading Seattle's defensive linemen with 73 tackles. He was an emotional leader on the line. "It's my 11th year. I'm no longer shocked by anything," linebacker Chad Brown said. "Players will see things from a ... player's perspective. The coach's job is to detach from the emotion and try to get the best players on the team. So apparently, he made that decision." The position is expected to be filled by Norman Hand, obtained from New Orleans in a draft-day trade this year, and fourth-year veteran Cedric Woodard. 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
NFL 

Pace ends holdout, rejoins Rams line 
bit. I don't know how much." 
Associated Press 

The Rams open the season 
ST. LOUIS -The St. Louis Sept. 7 against the Giants in Rams' offensive line got a big New York. Pace doesn't boost Tuesday when left tackle know what type of shapeOrlando Pace ended his hold­he'll be in then. out, signing a one-year con­"We'll have to wait until tract as the team's franchise we get there," Pace said. player. "I'm going to work through
The 6-foot-7, 320-pound Pace it. It's really just gettingsigned for the franchise tender myself in shape and ready to offer of $5.73 play."million. 
The Rams ''I'm just "J think it's important to believe with glad to have Pace in the
get in a little bit and mix

him in here," lineup, theycoach Mike it up." 
have the 
Martz said. "I makings of know that for 
Mike Martz one of the 
players that NFL's best
Rams coach 

~ business
\ offensive ) aspect is very lines. Pace is ) ) \ difficult, and as a coach you joined by offseason acquisi­can't draw any conclusions. tions Dave Wohlabaugh at "He's got to do what he's got center and Kyle Turley at to do, but once he's here he's right tackle, along with ours, and that stuff is all aside guards Adam Timmerman now." and Andy McCollum. Pace, the top pick in the 1997 Last season, the line took draft, has been voted to the Pro much of the blame as the Bowl in four of his six seasons. Rams started 0-5 on their Injuries last season limited him way to a disappointing 7-9 to 10 games, but he still made season. Quarterbacks Kurt the Pro Bowl. Warner, Jamie Martin and 
Pace practiced with the Rams Marc Bulger all were injured on Tuesday. Martz said he last season. in part because reported in good condition and of the line's inability to stop would play Thursday when St. the pass rush. 
Louis hosts Kansas City in the The Rams and Pace had preseason finale. been at a contract stalemate 
"I think it's important to get since February, when the 
in a little bit and mix it up," team designated Pace its 
Martz said. "I say just a little franchise player. 

II 
r
',
' 

Natural selection. 
How smart is this: All the textbooks you need for up to 60% off retail prices. And all you have to 

do is go to half.com and type in the book titles, or ISBN numbers. Then let nature take its course. 
Jy;tfcom~
~~~ydirf· 

Same textbooks. Smarter prices. 
•Average retail p.1t;e of a new collegtt t&Ktbook $73 basad on 2002 ~aT a trom Follett Corp, Assoctated PrtiSS, 1/27.()3 Avftt age HG.If com coll~ge textbook prw:tt s.J6 based on Site stattsttcs, January Z003 Copyngh1 2003 Half com Inc All nght1 reserved Half com and the Half com logo are trademarks of Half com. Inc I'Bav and the oAay logo are regt!tered trademarks of eBay, Inc 


Wednesday, August 27, 2003 page 25
The Observer+ SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Southern Cal faces first test without Reisman passer 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Southern California finds out this week­end just how much Heisman Trophy winning-quarterback Carson Palmer will be missed. 
The eighth-ranked Trojans open the season Saturday at No. 6 Auburn with a quarter­back who has yet to throw a college pass -redshirt sopho­more Jeff Leinart. 
The change "is about as dras­tic as you can get," USC coach Pete Carroll 

said Tuesday. 
"Hopefully ··[Jeff Leinart] is a bright beginning his we are able kid who knows our sys­third year at to transition tem very well ... He's usc. 
"What we

with a .young 
been around the whole 
want to have

guy." Leinart evolution ofit and has happen is to have our start­
watched shown that he knows 
ing quarter­

Palmer lead 
what's going on. Now he back again

the Trojans 
to an 11-2 has to settle into a game benefit from 
the system and

record last and carry that out.,, 
the· players

season, and a 
around him,"

No. 4 final 
Pete Carroll Carroll. said.

ranking in 
" C a r s o n
coach

the AP poll. 
Carroll hopes Leinart's a quick learner. 
"He's a bright kid who knows our system very well," the coach said. "He's been around the whole evolution of it and has shown that he knows what's going on. Now he has to settle into a game and carry that out." 
Leinart, among the nation's top high school quarterbacks out of Mater Dei H.S. in Santa Ana, is eager to play. 
"Oh man, it's going to be fun," the 6-foot-5. 220-pounder said. "It's going to be a tough game, a tough crowd." 
Leinart played briefly last year. getting into three games but not throwing a pass. throw a pass. His last pass was dur­ing a California-Florida high school all-star contest in more than two years. 
"I feel like I haven't played for forever," he said. Like Carroll, Leinart is 
Palmer had a 
marvelous year and really benefited from the system and the players around him." 
Tackle Shaun Cody said USC's defense hopes it can take some pressure off Leinart. 
"We have to take a leader­ship role. We have a young quarterback filling some big shoes," said Cody, who missed the second half of last season with a knee injury. 

The Trojans return 14 starters from a team that won its final eight games, including a 38-17 rout of Iowa in the Orange Bowl. 
Palmer is the only missing star, though. The Trojans also lost tailbacks Justin Fargas, Sultan McCullough and Malaefou MacKenzie, along with two-time All-American safety Troy Polamalu. 
Hershel Dennis, who rushed for 198 yards on 49 carries last fall, will start at tailback, with freshmen Reggie Bush, LenDale White and Chauncey Washington the backups. 
"The freshman class has 
really given us great depth and we have an opportunity to pre­pare them for the future," Carroll said. ''And the same aspects we're hopeful for, we're also concerned with ­the young guys. It's different playing on your home field, as opposed to going to Auburn for the first game." 



t 
,r ) 
'' 
'' 
·~ 
~)) 
1~ 

' ) ) ) . 
) ' 
>" 
) 
), 
) 
I 
> 
> 
> 
I 
f 
.1'"'
) 
) 
) 
I' ) 
I. 
I 
I 

I I, I I 
around the dial 

I 
I 
1, ' PRO TENNIS 
U.S. Open 11 a.m., 7 p.m., USA 
NFL Chicago at New England 7 p.m., CBS 
MLB Chicago Cubs at St. Louis 6 p.m., ESPN Baltimore at Oakland 6 p.m., ESPN2

I 
I; 
I 
TRACK AND FIELD World Championships 1:30 p.m., ESPN2 


page 26 COlvtPILED FRO/\\ T'HE OBSERVER \VlRE SERVICES Wednesday, August 27,2003 
PRO TENNIS 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK-It's getting a bit lonely out there for Andre Agassi. 
One by one, the genera­tion of American stars who grew up playing junior ten­nis against each other in the 1980s and collected Grand Slam singles titles together for more than a decade is calling it quits. 
Michael Chang lost his final match as a pro Tuesday at the U.S. Open 
in  a  far  more  muted  
farewell  than  Pete  
Sampras'  retirement  

announcement the night before. Jim Courier, the first of the ol' gang to stop, called Chang's match from the TV booth. 
And Agassi? He isn't done ~et, not by a long shot. · 
Still calibrating points perfectly, lacing lines with hit-it-as-soon-as-possible groundstrokes, the 33­year-old Agassi began his run as the oldest top-seed­ed player in the Open era by beating Alex Corretja 6­1, 6-2, 6-2 in the first round. 
"It's a weird feeling. You just sort of expect to leave the dance with the ones you came with. When they decide that it's time for them, it's a sad feeling," Agassi said. 
''I'm certainly proud to 
still be doing this, this long and at this level." 
While Sampras waited a year after his last match ­beating Agassi in the 2002 
U.S. Open final -to tell the world he was finished, Chang has been on a farewell tour since the beginning of the season and made. clear the Open would be it for him. 
And unlike the half-hour tribute to Sampras replete with a choir and speeches, there was no big celebra­tion of Chang's career Tuesday, although the U.S. Tennis Association has 
talked  with  him  about  
doing  something  next  
week.  

Only a few thousand fans were on hand for the start of his match against No. 15-seeded Fernando Gonzalez. but, as always, Chang gave it his all. 
"On court, it would be nice to be able to be remembered as a person that gave his best -win. lose or draw," said Chang, whose career highlight was winning the 1989 French Open at age 17. "It's going to be tough leaving tennis." 
He had his chances against Gonzalez. and pro­duced a few top-notch shots, but in the end suc­cumbed to the Chilean's all-out power game 6-3, 7­5, 5-7, 6-4. 

IN BRIEF 
Colbrunn out for season 
SEATTLE -Mariners reserve infielder Greg Colbrunn needs a sec­ond surgery on his injured right wrist and will miss the rest of the season. 
Colbrunn had surgery July 15 to repair torn cartilage in his wrist. With the next operation, doctors will try to repair an injured tendon. No date was scheduled for the surgery. 
Colbrunn was injured in June when he dived into a base while on a minor league rehabilitation assignment. At the time, he was on the disabled list because of a strained muscle on his right side. 
In 22 games for the Mariners, he hit .278 with three homers and seven RBis. He signed a two-year contract in January after hitting .333 with 10 homers and 27 RBis in 7 2 games last season at Arizona. 
"The second half of the year is where you might use him more. but we can't look back," manager Bob Melvin said. "I feel bad for him. He wants to be here and he wants to 
help. He's just had an unfortunate injury that's cost him most of the sea­son." Vizquel returns to diamond 
CLEVELAND -Omar Vizquel is not sure if his surgically repaired right knee will hold up, but he wants to find out. 
The Cleveland Indians' nine-time Gold Glove shortstop was activated from the 15-day disabled list Tuesday and immediately went into the starting lineup against the Detroit Tigers. 
"We don't know biologically how it is going to react," Vizquel said. "I don't feel 100 percent right now, but I feel good enough to play with a brace on the knee." 
Vizquel got hurt sliding into home plate June 6 at Arizona. He had surgery June 12 and while he was recovering from that operation, doctors found another tear in his knee. 
He decided against having more surgery-for now. 
"A lot depends on how it reacts this month," Vizquel said. "If it keeps swelling up, then we have to think about what needs to be done to make it better. I hope everything will be OK and I'm ready to play all the way next year." 
Vizquel was batting .255 w~th two homers and 18 RBls in 59 games before getting hurt. The 36-year-old is signed through next season and has a mutual option on his contract with the Indians for 2005. 
"The injury is there," he said. "The doctors said I can't do any more damage by playing and now it is about seeing how much pain I have when I do. And to see how much it swells up." 
Vizquel said he will wear a brace during games as a precaution and hope fully discard it after two weeks. 
"Omar says he feels good, but has moments of soreness," manager Eric Wedge said. "We'll take it day by day." 
• 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 page 27
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NO SOFTBALL 
Offense quieted late in backbreaking loss to Michigan 
Wolverines' Marissa Young strikes out 14 batters in victory 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
It was a real Jekyll-and­Hyde game -an offensive explosion for two innings, and then a pitcher's duel for the last five. Unfortunately, it was the Irish who came up short in the final score. 
On May 17, Notre Dame's 2002-03 season came to an end with a 5-3 loss to Michigan in the NCAA Region VII Tournament. The Irish ended the season with a final record of38-17. 
Michigan continued on in leapt out to the lead early in the tournament to face the game. The bottom of the California in the regional first inning began with two championship, losing 1-0 to Notre Dame errors before the Bears. California would Melinda Moulden hit a three­advance to the national cham­run home run to give pionship Michigan a 3­game, losing 0 lead. 1-0 to UCLA. "I think we've been on The lead 
"I think was short-
the bubble ofthe College 
we've been lived, howev­
World Series for three­
on the bubble er, as the of the College straight years now." Irish came World Series right back to for three tie it up in the
Deanna Gumpf
straight top of the sec­years now," coach ond with a said coach three-run Deanna home run Gumpf. "We want to maybe from left fielder Liz go in a new direction next Hartmann. year and do what we can to "That's how we were all reach that next step." year," Gumpf said. "We got 
It was the Wolverines who ourselves out of tough jams all year. Our girls really ners on first and second. fought, but they just didn't Hartmann came to the plate have enough to get it done to face Michigan pitcher this time." Marissa Young, who threw 
Notre Dame got its leadoff the first pitch of the at-bat 
runner  on  out  of  the  
base in the inning when first baseman  "We got ourselves out of tough jams all year. Our  zone before the coaching staff came  
Lisa Mattison hit a single up the middle and was  girls really fought, but they just didn't have enough time to get it  out to settle her down. Young set­tled down a  
replaced  by  done this time."  bit too much,  
pinch  runner  as  Hartmann  
S a r a Schoonaert. Designated  Deanna Gumpf coach  took the very next pitch and connect- 

hitter Megan Ruthrauff struck out on four pitches for the first out of the inning, but catcher Malorie Lenn drew a four-pitch walk to put run­

"It's pretty simple. When I need them, they're there:' 
FREE CHECKING FOR STUDENTS 
GET A FREE BACKPACK WHEN YOU OPEN AN ACCOUNT ONLINE OR AT A BRANCH LISTED BELOW 
Srop hy or call these University ofNotre: Dame lo(;arions or vi\ir NarionaiCity.com/stu<knt. 
South l:.knd Ccntr;ll. 110 N. Lafaycnc, 574-237-4733 Clay. 17977 Clevdand Rd., 574~237~4685 :VkKinky Soc:h P-cnJ, 2121 E. ~kKinley, 574~LF-4670 

• 
Convenient access to National City ATMs and branches whether you're at heme, ~chool, or on the road 

• 
No minimum balance 


• Unlimited tran~actions 
• 
No CheckCard transaction fees 

• 
Free Online Banking -check balances daily 


and transfer funds between accounts 
• Free Online Bill Payment 
NationalCity. 
Some promotional offers may not apply. k:;counts inactive for more than 180 days convert to Regular Checking with applicable tees assessed. Online Bill Payment requires Online Banking. Image does not depict an actual customer. Gift offer applies only to new Free Checking for Students accounts opened with money not currently on deposit at the National City branches listed above or online at NationalCity.com. Limit one gift per household. We reserve the right to substitute an item of similar value. 
Menrber FDIC. ©2003, National City Corporation'!> 
ed with a 
bomb to left 

field to tie the game at three 
runs apiece. 
Right fielder Nicole deFau 
continued the rally by lacing 
a double ~o left-center with 
one out. 
Young came back to strike 
out centerfielder Megan Ciolli, 
and forced second baseman 
Alexis Madrid to ground out 
to the pitcher to end the Irish 
threat. 
The Wolverines continued 
the offensive barrage in the 
bottom of the second, scoring 
two runs off Irish starter 
Heather Booth. 
Those were all the runs 
Michigan would need, as the 
game suddenly evolved into a 
pitching duel. 
Booth would only give up one hit in the final five innings, and Young would give up zero. Young pitched an incredible game for the Wolverines, striking out 14 batters in seven innings of work, including striking out the side in the top of the sev­enth inning. 
"We were hitting pretty well off her in the early innings," Gumpf said of Young's pitch­ing. 
"I felt that she did a good job of finding the girls' weak­nesses and keeping our hit­ters off balance. She seemed to get better the longer she pitched," she said. 
At the same time, the Irish head coach was proud of her own starting pitcher, not just for the game but also for the whole season. 
"I was impressed with Heather the entire season," Gumpf said. "She was forced into a difficult. situation but showed some real maturity. I think she'll get better and better over the years." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

CALL 
"A-FRIEND" 
DRIVER TUTORING 
(574) 250-2761 
INDIVIDUAL TRAINING tNTERNATtONAL PEOPLE Free Pick-up atYour location 

Leara to Drive with '1A... F/liENDn 
..... ,.. ...... llllltllll««411•·--
TRANSPORTAnON SERVICE 
Will Transport YOU, FAM!lY & FRIENDS r~ and from .&.ir~ I Otr.~ Oestr.~on5 Will Deliver Items frvm Store& & Storage 
Depend on "'A-FRIEND" www.afrnd.com 
-
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 

page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS 
ND BASEBALL 
Irish unable to re-create miracle CWS finish of 2002 
off his 8-for-11 tournament, Cal-State Fullerton. With theBy CHRIS FEDERICO for which he was named Big score tied 3-3 in the top of the 
Sporrs Writer 
East Tournament MVP, with a ninth, the Titans used a two­2-for-3 performance against out double to score the go­
After Notre Dame's first the Scarlet Knights. ahead run and hold on for the College World Series appear­Third baseman Matt victory. ance in nearly 50 years in the Edwards was also dominant at Then trying to play catch-up summer of 2002, the bar of the plate, going 3-for-4 with with the Titans, the Irish expectations for future Irish three RBis and a run scored. staved off elimination with a baseball teams was set First baseman Joe Thaman, 6-3 victory to knock out San remarkably high for a north­who experienced an offensive Diego. The surprising Laird ern school. explosion in the post season, again pitched a strong game 
Even though the Irish were added his own 3-for-4, three for Notre Dame, working 8.2 unable to attain their goal of RBI, one run performance in innings and allowing only one returning to Omaha, Neb.. for the victory. earned run. the College World Series, they But earning the conference But the victory would be the made an impressive showing title was not enough to con­last of the season for the Irish, in the NCAA Tournament in vince the NCAA selection com­who finished the year 45-18, 2003 before being eliminated mittee to grant Notre Dame a as they were eliminated from in the NCAA Regionals by Cal­host site for the tournament. the tournament in an 8-1 loss State Fullerton. In fact. the Irish were sent all at the hands of the Titans. 
The Irish began the NCAA the way to California to take Second baseman Steve post season on a winning note on No. 7 Cal-State Fullerton. Sollmann finished the year as by capturing the Big East In the opening game of the the leading hitter for the Irish Tournament title in regional, Notre Dame belted with a .384 batting average. Bridgewater, N. J .. after fin­out 17 hits to knock off He also paced the team in ishing only third during the Arizona 13-5. Again, Edwards, runs scored for the year, with regular season. The feat Sanchez and Thaman com­67. Edwards was just behind marked the first time a team bined for most of the offensive Sollmann at .376, but led repeated as Big East firepower, as the trio went a Notre Dame in RBis and Tournament champion since collective 7 -for-11 with six RBI hom eruns with 6 9 and 8. St. John's did it in 1986. and six runs scored. respectively. 
To capture the title, the Irish The Irish also used a solid Right-handed pitcher Chris knocked off Big East rival pitching performance from Niese} was named Big East Rutgers 11-3 in the champi­Ryan Kalita, who worked eight Pitcher of the Year, as he fin­onship game. Senior pitcher innings and allowed four ished the season 9-1 with a Matt Laird -starting his first earned runs in the winning 2.65 ERA and 87 strikeouts in game in over three years -effort to improve to 7-1 on the 98.1 innings pitched. worked a complete game, season. allowing only two earned runs In their second game, the 
-
for the victory. Irish ran into trouble with Contact Chris Federico at Catcher Javi Lopez capped Regional host and No. 1 seed cfederic@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S 
BASKETBALL 
Preseason 
list honors 
Batteast 
Special to The Observer 
Silver Hawks vs. Dayton: First Pitch: 7:00pm Notre Dame junior forward 
Student ID Night
Jacqueline Batteast is one of 35 
Bring your student ID to the Coveleski stadium
players who were named to the 
2003-04 State Farm Wade 
box office and receive box seats for just $3.00. 
Trophy Preseason Watch List, 
That's a savings of $4.00 per seat! Pepsi
which was unveiled recently by 
Pennant night-FREE to the first ~ ,ooo fans.
the Women's Basketball Coaches Association. 
2003 playoff tickets are on sale now. Call 
Based on a vote of committee 

(574) 235-9988 to order your tickets today!
members which include lead­ing coaches, journalists and 

~~' t~,.-•. ~t.~:l ~;~4~ !.V 
_./ }

basketball administrators, 
' l ·j·]:·::~ lJ.~~?:.r.. '1tirt. t~i Wll) 1< ,
~·­

~ S'!rt.:;i 1!:~ tl' 
/l.-/t;!~~;,. FirotK :~;2-:I;;'HI l·' ~~ ; 
,.~ these 35 players are consid­
-
1'••-_:·

ered the top candidates for the 
~·:~~::..~~=t: :;:.. !;:. I'I:Ott·; ;•y~ .•~,,~~ 1:; -~~ ./
~h );~j.W:. \:¥fl;s.;~Jt:;;{ ~ U)
State Farm Wade Trophy. 
.-.. : _:· / 

~ 5.4>:-f.•:f:jlC·. .~blJ:: ~;-~:~
which will be presented to the 
}"'/
Ntmn"<!"lll{;DN 1

most outstanding female colle­
/

~ !}:!·~ !'::t.~ i:.-::: r.~,:r: :f:vf.t tc"t=-i~-:7.:1~i '>M'/.'f 1-U 
·'

giate basketball player at the 
II: ~.:;:~..s,~~:' tr. r.~nh>h: ~~~~ w 
ll ;ilXi.{~,)! ~:ii:1><i>::<. 'li.:W ~n 1i .I.;.<;..~;~;"t o.m. rf~~$ :_·s.~~ ...~i,~} !f -~~ /'
conclusion of the 20003-04 
season. 
u _:;~ S:-:!i:!Lll:. i.:.Jp;k;i:st:.,;{ 1:':;, m \ i l' t!;~ !2:.";: :;..:::. I0\'l." lti:'t ~<"i~ 1~' l~' lfllt w~ (
It marks the second time in 

l ~ ,.~~ ~-!~ :;\n:. ~~~:-:j':t ~~J:;:~ r:::, 1-1' 
./.i ·....'1., 

~:!"1. ·~;:',"!( Tr:~ ~1>
the last two weeks that 
If: ~::~~;~~r.~ 
\

tr "x~, <{, f ,:a. .~rr$k ·:~ M~~ s.;; l;l~
,..., Batteast has been named a preseason candidate for 
~e~JM *~~ !11 H {-~·~·~=~~~r::. ~'l!i;.: ~ -~·J
national player-of-the-year 
l~ <:W ~i~;;>::. "f\,;4 !'r'.! 1-:>R• 1,; m l~ .,.:.Sl; ~~~~!!:. "''";· il 1;: i~! ~I 5-1{; ~.J.~-~~41:. ~l$}> i~:) 1-l\:H;c ~ w 
honors. Back on Aug. 13, she 
was one of 30 players selected 
?; s, 1><-i.·.f.~"' ~-~~;~:~:"4 :.x;~:: Th tl.> 
to the 2003-04 John R. Wooden 
Women's Award Preseason All­

't.~·.t"~, =~:'! : }.f:l;~ jl !4~ 
America Team. 
rut
Batteast is a two-time all-Big 

?I 7<".1) 1!-':1) f·:t i:oJ~:{~·:( rr.Nt-.'1' -~ ~1~
East Conference selection who 
ri<'1 IIJI/) 

started all 32 games for the 
Registration

Irish last season, leading the 
!i~n "'""~>r--"'t"''n; ~.,,,

team in scoring, rebounding 
~~ rt:r: 'kr~. ~:~~": h!r~:£:.n rr..,::.." ~ 
0 ;­

i:tt.\~'·"~'{~.,.~1~:1~':-11:-..~~ :..1>:t.low;.ft? :.:c-'!~~ ,.N::~'!'~;v>...:.,.,..
and blocked shots. She also 
;.:

r.;:lit~.;:!)u W-!s ~;;;: ;:S~~lO:~ !~ N.::;~-~ k':"~·c.:c;.(1 J.S 1'..~-.: li,•:·!·:f\"J:t."
ranked among the top 15 in the 
~:-J.:-t:«"t! ·> 1:: d4.::~ :.~t:~=·~U~\. =~~;:...\);~-: t<-"4-,.. :rt: »l:~!-l 1i·~$~·:"'1n ~ ~-2-t ;nS~ ra.-i ~>S•~ ~ *"t' ~li~);I'J!~ 't: f~:.~ ·~ ::.;.:i~:~ i~•r;:.~.s~)
Big east in those categories, as 
·~~<en~: ~·a~t.'l::;,.~.t$ =~::tsaJ~ ~ ~~ tcts:« ~J~~~~

well as stea:Is and double-dou­
• ~( tl~:-:.1~..:;: :-:;~ ~-::~· ~ ft,tO:-.-.:·l'r. r(. th:-:: ~«<-. 

bles. She has 800 points by the 
end of her sophomore season. 


ANDY KENNNThe Observer 

Irish pitcher Martin Vergara throws a pitch during a game last season. Notre Dame won the Big East tourney In the spring. 
tllit .u: l!tm t-t:-o• 1 1 ~-:: ~-!~;. ..:. 

• 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 page 29 
The Observer + SPORTS 

QB 
continued from page 32 
he wouldn't see the light of day 
standing behind center. Abram 
Elam, another member of the 
2000 class, switched positions 
even earlier, becoming a safety a 
few days after he arrived at Notre 
Dame before he got expelled in 
2002 as an alleged participant in 
a gang rape incident. 
Saturday, Chris Olsen joined the ranks of quarterbacks to leave Notre Dame. The cause? A rela­tionship with Notre Dame coach­es that T}'rone Willingham described tersely with a "no com­ment." 1\vo days later, Olsen's younger brother Greg-regarded by one recruiting analyst as the best tight end recruit in two years and a much bigger asset to the Irish than Chris -also opted to leave Notre Dame, saying one of the big reasons he initially came to Notre Dame was because his brother also attended the University. 
For those of you keeping score at home, that's four position changes and three transfers. 
So what. the Irish have left are Holiday, the clear-cut starter who was knocked out of three games last year and didn't play another, Quinn, a top freshman prospect who attended his first college class yesterday, and Pat Dillingham, who threw one touch­down and seven interceptions as a backup last year. 
And because DilliD.gham wasn't initially offered a scholarship when he arrived at Notre Dame two years ago, Holiday and Quinn are the only two Irish quarter­backs to arrive in the past seven years who haven't changed posi­tions or transfer. Yet. 
Why have so few stuck around? 

To understand the spotlight that shines on a Notre Dame quarter­back. stand with the media on a day a new starting quarterback is named and watch reporters flock to the new anointed savior like teenage boys to Anna Kournikova pictures. Then watch the old starter walk past unchallenged by the media, less popular than an ex-girlfriend. 
To see the pressure a Notre Dame quarterback is under, check Internet message boards that double as ion microscopes when it comes to magnifying weaknesses. Holiday's e-mail box was flooded with well-wishers when he was first named starter 
two years ago, but now he hears 
people doubt his passing ability. 
To hear why so few have lasted 
as a Notre Dame quarterback, lis­
ten to the praise that surrounds 
Quinn even though he has yet to 
play a down. At one time, Holiday 
was the quarterback who 
received all that praise. Then he 
snapped on his chinstrap. 
But there are other aspects to 
the quarterback position ­
aspects that make 8-year-olds 
dream of becoming the fifth Irish 
quarterback to win a Heisman 
Trophy. Joe Montana and Tony 
Rice earned their places in Irish 
lore by leading their team to leg­
endary comebacks and national 
championships, and countless 
other quarterbacks dream of 
accomplishing the same things. 
So when coaches couldn't guar­antee LoVecchio last spring he would start, he bolted for Indiana and a chance to start over. It's not hard to wonder if Chris Olsen left Notre Dame in favor of VIrginia for a similar reason. 
No spotlight, no glory. But the flip side of the equation is this: no spotlight, no blame. 
When you're the Irish quarter­back -as Holiday can attest ­your every move becomes ana­lyzed. If an offense struggles, like Notre Dame's l08th-ranked unit last year did, the quarterback gets blamed. Never mind the receivers who forget to adjust their route to take advantage ofa blitz, or the offensive linemen whose blown assignment knocks a quarterback out of the game. 
It's why some think, with untested yet highly-touted fresh­men Brady Quinn waiting in the wings, that J-Ioliday might be des­tined for a position change soon. Forget the fact that the option­turned-passing quarterback showed dramatic improvement throwing the ball in spring prac­tice. If the offense stinks, so must the quarterback. 
But by the same token, ifthe offense excels, the quarterback gets most of the credit. 
That black-and-white judgment process is far from fair. It's not for everyone. 
And maybe that's why so few can stay. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. 


-------------------------------------------------------------·--------
Universitv Hair Stvlist 

Open M-Th 9-9 Fri 9-7 Sat 9-4 
University Hair Stylist welcomes you to our full service unisex salon celebrating our 25th year on campus! Located in the lower level of LaFortune, our 11 stylists offer great hair care at reasonable prices. We also stock your favorite hair care products such as American Crew, Paul Mitchell, Head Games, Ice, and Biolage. 
Freshmen--$2 offyour first haircut! (through Oct. 1) 

Appointments Recommended but Walk-ins Welcome ·----------------------------------------------------------------------· 
Champ 
continued from page 32 
ing golfer and softball player. 
But before her junior seasons, 
Simmerman decided to focus 
on just golf and finished her 
high school career as a four­
year letterwinner in the sport. 
Few schools recruited 
Simmerman as much as Saint 
Mary's, who called her nearly 
every week. When the decision 
came for colleges, the choice 
was easy for Simmerman. 
"Other coaches weren't so 
into me, but I really didn't 
mind because I knew Saint 
Mary's was where I wanted to 
be," Simmerman said. 
Realistic goals 
Simmerman shot an opening 
round 76 to stay within two 
shots of the leader on the first 
day of the tournament. She tied 
for the lead heading into the 
third round after firing a 82 on 
a windy day that caused most 
players' scores to soar 
upwards. On day three, 
Simmerman took control of the 
leaderboard by shooting a 77 
and held on to win the title 
with a final round 80 at the 
Golf Courses at Lawsonia. 
The amazing aspect of Simmerman's victory was the way she played leading up to the tournament. Throughout her entire spring season, Simmerman said she hadn't played up to her standards and felt a top 20 finish at the cham­pionship would be a successful weekend. 
"I had kind of struggled through the spring a little bit, so I wasn't expecting great things at nationals," Simmerman said. "I was just hoping to play my game and then see what would happen." 
Simmerman worked with her coach, Mark Hamilton, in the weeks before the tournament. She practiced whenever she could, staying on the course before and after class. So when the tournament arrived, Simmerman's game was well tuned and the better competi­tion made her concentrate more and step up her play 
"The quality of the competi­tion was part of [the improve­ment]," Simmerman said. "It helped me focus more on what I needed to get done. If some­one had a good shot, it made me want to make my better and get closer to the hole." 

After shooting the first round 76, Simmerman's goal of just shooting well turned to winning the entire tournament. 
"I couldn't have been more satisfied with that first round," Simmerman said. "It was the best round of my college career. Everything was working ... After the first day I was thinking, 'Alright, you have a chance at this."' 

The shot 
Simmerman entered the final 

round leading by two strokes. 
But throughout the entire 
fourth day, Simmerman had no 
clue how her closest competi­
tion was performing. Several 
times, Simmerman asked her 
coach what the scores were for 
the other competitors. But 
Hamilton never told her what 
the scores were. He just told 
her to stay focused on her 
game and that she was doing 
just fine. 
"I called my coach on 13 or 14 and asked him, 'How I'm doing [against everyone else]?' He just said 'Just keep going, you're doing fine' and then he'd drive off," Simmerman said. 
When she stepped to the tee­box on No. 18, Simmerman knew her lead couldn't be more than two or three strokes and that her nearest competitors still had several holes to play. 
"At this point, I'm nervous about other people's scores and where I'm at," Simmerman said. 
Her drive went straight down the fairway, but the second shot was put in a bunker about 90 yards from the green. With the tournament possibly on the line, Simmerman turned to her coach for advice. 
"[The third] shot was all [Hamilton]. Coach told me to do this and do this and I just went through the motion and did it," Simmerman said. "I remember looking up and seeing my dad across the green and he put his arms up in the arm and yelled, 
'Yeah!'" 
The shot had landed within 

18 feet of the hole. 
Hamilton couldn't say enough 

about Simmerman's clutch 
shot. 
"It really sewed it up for her because anything could have happened on that (third) shot," ­said Hamilton. "It was a shot Tiger Woods himself would have been proud to hit." 
Simmerman putted for par and finished her tournament. A little while later she clinched her national championship by four strokes. 
"That was my shot of the tournament," Simmerman said. 
Repeat champion 
With one national title under her belt, the Saint Mary's jun­ior knows there will be more pressure this year. But she's ready for the challenge and remains humble despite all her success. 
"Hopefully, we can win the conference championship again as a team," Simmerman said. "I haven't set that many goals because I don't want to put that pressure on me. Coach said he could see me as Div. III Player of the Year and he asked me what I thought about that. l said, 'Yeah, we'll see what hap­pens."' 
Simmerman and the Belles will begin their quest for another conference champi­onship this weekend at the Ferris State Invitational. 
They'll aim for another team title in the fall and then again in the spring at the national level. And they'll do so led by their own national champion ­for the first time in school his­tory. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Olsens 
continued from page 32 
Chris told the Associated Press he left because, "I felt like I was possibly not the guy they were looking for in the future and I respect that." 
Neither Chris nor Greg could be reached for comment. 
Chris Olsen Sr. also said that the relationship between Chris and the coaching staff was not an issue in the decision to transfer. However, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said he would not comment on the relationship between Chris and Greg and the Notre Dame coaching staff. He did say that the team would move forward without the two players. 
Notre Dame offensive coordina­tor Bill Diedrick said he was "extremely disappointed" that 
not selected a backup for Holiday yet. 
At tight end, fifth-year senior Gary Godsey is battling a leg injury. Jared Clark and Billy Palmer are the most likely to see action this season at tight end, with a number of players backing them up, including sophomores Anthony Fasano and Marcus Freeman. 
Chris was a first-team all-state quarterback in New Jersey, throwing for 1,824 yards and 24 touchdowns as a senior. He also lead his team to a 31-4 record as a starter and participated in the 
U.S. Army All-American Bowl. 
Greg was a. USA Today first team All-American selection and caught 38 passes for 703 yards and 14 touchdowns. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Chris and Greg were transfer­ring, but the situation was in the past now. He also said that he was comfortable with Chris as the No~ 2 quarterback and that Greg may have played this sea­son. 
"I think [Greg] could have made some contributions, but that's past history now," Diedrick said. 
Chris Olsen Sr. said that Greg has shown strong interest in the University of Miami (Fla.). but had not enrolled at the school as of Monday. Miami recruited Greg out of high school and even offered him a place on the team during Greg's sophomore year of high school when the Hurricanes were coached by Butch Davis. 
The loss of Chris gives Notre Dame three quarterbacks ­starter Carlyle Holiday, junior Pat Dillingham and freshman Brady Quinn. Diedrick said that he has 
' 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS 
MENS SOCCER 
Exhibition matches showcase Irish offense and fitness 
Irish emerge with a win and a tie from preseason schedule 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
The games might not count, but that doesn't mean they're insignificant. 
The 12th-ranked Irish com­peted in a pair of exhibition matches recently, defeating No. 11 Saint Louis 2-0 Saturday on the road and tying Michigan 1­
. · 1 Monday night at home. In Saturday's game, the Irish were led by forward Justin Detter. who had three points and was a factor in both goals 
for his team. He got Notre Dame on the board in the 49th minute with a 12-yard shot that beat Saint Louis goalkeeper 
· · · Martin Hutton. Detter would later assist on the second goal of the game, as forward Devon Prescod picked a free ball out of a scramble in front of the net and shot it into 
the goal. 
Prescod and Detter were the offensive forces for the Irish in that game, accounting for seven of Notre Dame's 10 shots on goal. Irish goalkeeper Chris
.. 
Sawyer needed to make only two saves to preserve the shutout. 
The game was played before a crowd of 5,008 at Saint Louis' Robert R. Hermann Stadium, the second-largest men's soc­cer crowd in the stadium's his­tory. 
Monday, the Irish hoped to use their momentum to take care of an unranked Michigan and impress the crowd of over 1,500 who came out to watch the exhibition at Alumni Field. 
Early in the first period, it looked like it might be another easy win for the Irish, with the home team putting pressure on the Michigan defense with a series of great runs and a few shots which just missed the tar­get. 
Notre Dame finally took advantage of their offensive dominance in the 20th minute of the first half when Prescod scored his second goal in as many games. 
Midfielder Greg Martin drib­bled the ball up the left side of the field, and then made a nice pass to Prescod in traffic, who then lobbed a shot past Michigan goalkeeper Peter Dzubay. Midfielder Jack Stewart was also awarded an assist on the play. 
Michigan's best chance in the first half came with about ten minutes to play when Wolverine forward Kevin Robinson got off a hard shot which was blocked by Irish defenseman Ben Crouse . Sawyer came diving out to col­lect the rebound, which set off a loud cheer by the student section as the Irish were able to maintain their slim 1-0 lead going into halftime. 
The lead didn't last long. Just two minutes into the second half, Michigan scored the equalizer as speedy forward Jeff Mirmelstein dribbled around two Irish defensemen and then shot the ball through another Irish player's legs and past a diving Sawyer. 
It was Michigan who had most of the pressure early in the second half, playing with a much more physical edge and seemingly catching the Irish off guard with play from quick for­wards like Mirmelstein. 
"I think [Michigan's physical play] might have caught us at the start of the half," said coach Bobby Clark. "I thought we were trying to push the game later in the half, though, and they were only playing for the tie." 
Rough play resulted in sever­al yellow cards for both Michigan and Notre Dame play­ers, but no ejections or serious injuries. Irish midfielder Martin Goldthwaite went down in the 24th minute after a collision. 
Each team had one last chance to score the go-ahead goal late in the half. In the 38th minute, Michigan goalkeeper Joe Zawacki dropped a save, but was able to pounce on the rebound before two Notre Dame forwards could get to the ball. 
In the 44th minute, Michigan midfielder Mike White came in 


NEED A JOB FOR THE 03-04 ACADEMIC YEAR 

they'll come back and we can give them some more next time." 
The Irish open up the regular season Friday against Alabama-Birmingham in open­ing round action of the adidas/IU Credit Union Classic in Bloomington, Ind. Notre Dame opens regular season play at home Saturday, Sept. 9, against Big East-rival St. John's. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
STMARY'S HOLY CROSS 371--7273 
from the right side and took advantage of a tired Irish defense to face Sawyer one-on­one. White got off a hard shot, but Sawyer was able to dive to block the shot, and White sent the rebound attempt just wide of the net. 
"[Sawyer] comes out with a lot of big saves," Clark said. "That was a real opportunity [for Michigan]." 
Despite outshooting the Wolverines 15-9, the Irish were unable to come up with another goal and the game ended in a tie. Sawyer made three saves for the Irish, and Prescod was the leading scorer with two points. 
"I really thought our guys looked the fitter team," Clark said. "It's nice to win them all, but at the end of the day they really don't count. We got a few of our freshmen in this game, and I think a few more players got a bit more confident tonight. 
"The crowd was terrific," he added. "I wish we'd been able to give them more goals. Maybe 
NOTRE DAME 
Z:'l1l-llll7f'll 

•
' 




Welc=ome Back Students Fac=ulty & Staff 

Free Delivery 
·----------· 

I LATE NIGHT I r-----------• 
:one Large One: : SPECIAL : 1 Topping for 1 
I AFTER 10 pm I I $8.99 I I or I
: 2 Orders of Bread sticks: 

I I 1 and 2 Liter Coke 1 1 2 Large One 1 
1 Product 1 • Toppings 1 
I . I 

I $14.99 I
I $ 7.97 1 I I 
·-----------· ·-----------· 
Offers expire 10-28-03 
Mon-Thu 12-12 
Fr, Sat 11 am-3am 
Sun 12pm-1 am 

Visa, Mastercard 
·-----------..
I I 
•One Large One. : Topping, : 1 Breadsticks 
1 

1 and a 2 Liter 1 
: Coke Product : 
I $12.99 I 
I I 
·-----------· 
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 
page 31
The Observer+ TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  32 "Saturday Night  62 Falls on the  
1 Agent Mulder's  Fever" music  border  
show, with "The"  35 Rat Pack cohort  64 Winter cap  
7 Garment that  of Frank  feature  
may have  36 Tennessee  65 War of 1812  
advertising  team, for short  hero Stephen  
13 Chef's collection  37 Queen mother, e.g.  66 Like porn 67 Shutterbugs'  
15 Pythagorean  39 Pasta with  settings  
pockets 
16 High-spirited horse 17 Get off at the terminal  41 On the road -42 Disarrange 44 The Dow, e.g.  DOWN 1 Dental pictures 2 Wild  
18 Starchy tuber 19 Hammer features 21 Mortise's  45 Big fat mouth 46 Nixon bested him 48 Director Van  3 Start of a boast from Caesar 4 P.M. William Gladstone's party: Abbr.  
partner 22 It rides on runners 24 Hurler's stat.  Sant 49 Ginger_ 50 ·_we forget"  5 Heroic saga 6 Part of S.W.A.K. 7 Everyday article  
25"  the season  54 Autocrats of old  8 Kind of tank  
"  57 One of David's  9 Bagel centers  
26 Acting through  compositions  10 Farsi-speaking  
the skin  59 Poke fun at  land  
29 Gun, as an  60 Event for  11 University of  32 Make-or-break  46 Sell  54 Prehistoric  
engine  scullers  Nevada locale  time  aggressively  predator, for  
12 Some feds  33 Corn Belt state  47 Analgesic's  short  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  14 Percussion  34 Cashless deal  promise  55 Burn a bit  
instrument in a combo 20 Suffix with soft or hard  36 Record albums, to collectors 38 Down Under birds 40 Contend (for)  48 Some corruption 51 Poetic Muse 52 Flapjack topper: Var.  56 Taj Mahal site 57 Mushy food 58 PC alternatives 61 Little bit  
23 What spots on 1-Down show  43 Relaxing spots  53 Skiers' lifts  63 Gangster's gun  
25 Singer Turner  
27 Yule quaff  For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.  
28 Everglades  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday  
29 Crucifix  crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  
30 Macpherson of  Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000  
"Sirens"  past puzzles, nytimes.cornidiversions ($19.95 a year).  
31 Auto engine  Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network,  
type  nytimes .com/learn ing/xwords.  



JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
EJYTT 
j
I (I
C2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reaerved. 
DAAHE j
I I r [] 
~ CLOPIE 
IJ I j
www jurrble.com 
TELKIN 
I (I [J 
HENRI ARNOLD 
MIKE ARGIRION --­
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

TO l I I I J"[ I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) BAKED DIVIDE INSIST

Yesterday's I Jumbles: SCOU A Answer: What she felt like when her hair was cut too short -"DIS-TRESSED" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 26 -To order, send your name, Jlddress and $5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 6068G-4330. 
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jackie Chan, Francis Ford Coppola, Billie Holiday, Russell Crowe Happy Birthday: You will have the courage and desire necessary to reach your goals. There is nothing too difficult for you to take on this year. You will master whatever is necessary to lead you in a positive direction no matter what you face. Your numbers are 4, 15, 18, 23, 36, 42 ARIES (March 21-April19): Travel will lead to all sorts of possibilities that could tum out to be quite lucrative. Keep an open mind and don't be afr.tid to pursue unfamiliar territory. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have to stop waffling and start doing what you have always wanted to do. Get serious about your professional goals and make satisfying career changes.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be emotional if things don't go according to plan, and you will discover that you aren't quite as in control as you'd like to be. Take a step back and you will find concrete answers. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Secret affairs will lead to your demise. Rumors will run rampant and affect your reputation professionally and personally. Do not make a poor choice today. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You must stabilize your position if you want to become a leader. Make sure that your motives regarding your generosity are for the right reason. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Try to work on creative endeavors and avoid too much interaction with others. If you are confrontational you can expect to face strong opposition. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stick to your objectives and talk to those who can help further your cause. This is a great day to deal with people who can offer you knowledge and wisdom. Listen carefully. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This can be a difficult day if you have to deal with legal or health issues. Talk to someone in a position of authority. Your all-or-nothing attitude may cost you dearly. *** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You must be careful how you handle a loved one. Misunderstandings will lead to tension. Communicate openly and honestly. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take the initiative and ask your peers to pitch in. This is not the time to consider making a career move. Sit tight and do your best.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb: 18): Travel, entertainment and spending time with people-and groups that interest you will give you a new lease on life. You deserve a little pampering. ***** _ PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep your thoughts to yourself today. Don't expect the people you live with to understand what you're going through. Listen to close friends who have insight into your latest predicament. ** Birthday Baby: You will be positive and progressive throughout your life. You will stand up for others and will be quick to respond when necessary. You will always know what is best for you. Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE  .. •  

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip_______ 


THE OBSER\'ER 

p
Wednesday, August 27, 2003 

Page 32 
SMC GOLF 

Rewriting history 
Simmerman wins Saint Mary's first national title 
national championship -individual year of high school. By JOE HETTLER 
or team -in school history. Sports Editor 
"It was very exciting. I'm glad I got 
Growing up
Saint Mary's name out there. 
Simmerman grew up with three
The license plate on the back of Hopefully it'll bring some recruit-s in loves -golf, Notre Dame and Saint
Saint Mary's golfer Stefanie and help us become better in the. 
Mary's. Her mother was a Belles
Simmerman's 2003 Toyota Four future," Simmerman said. Runner says SMCGOLF-a mini pro­Simmerman's championship was graduate and her father attended 
motion of sorts for a school that has­news across the country. She was Notre Dame. She remembers watch­n't seen much athletic success in its quoted in numerous papers, from ing Irish football games at home with her parents and even traveling to see
160-year history. her hometown in Arizona to After the four-day D-II~ national USAToday. and she also became a games in person with her family. Her father introduced her to the
golf championship tournament in finalist for the D-Ill Female Athlete Wisconsin last May, Simmerman did of Year. She was easily the most game of golf, often taking her to the 
......-_. 
more to promote Saint Mary's athlet­known athlete in Saint Mary's history course when he played with his bud­ics than any person ever before. The and put the Belles on the map dies. By the time Simmerman attend­
then sophomore shot a 23-over 315 nationally in Div.II sports. ed high school, she was an outstand­to win the D-III national title by four And all.this from a girl who didn't strokes and give the Belles their first focus solely on golf until her junior see ~HAMP/page 29 

FOOTBALL 

Olsen brothers leave team within days of each other 

Chris enrolls at Virginia, Greg may land at Mian1i 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
Greg Olsen, a freshman tight end on the football team, asked for his release from the Monday morning and will transfer to another school, two days after older brother Chris left the Irish to enroll at the University of Virginia, father Chris Olsen Sr. confirmed Monday afternoon. 
Both brothers were highly­recruited out of high school, with Chris Olsen being a top 15 quar­terback recruit and Greg being the top tight end recruit in the nation, according to many publi­cations. 
Chris Olsen Sr. said that Chris called him last week and told his dad that he had four years left to play football and Notre Dame may not be the place for him. After debating for another day, Chris decided to transfer to Virginia, a school that had recruited him heavily out of high school. Under NCAA rules, the sophomore must sit out one year, and then he will have three years of eligibility remaining. 
Chris Olsen Sr. said that Greg, a freshman who had yet to take one class at Notre Dame, then made his decision to change schools in part because his older brother had left. 
"One of the reasons [for Greg transferring] was the fact that Chris left . [Notre Dame] wasn't the right place," Chris Olsen Sr. said. 
see OLSENS/page 29 


Irish lose another QB, have kept only two in past 7 years 
To understand what makes the Notre Dame quarterback position so unique, go find Carlyle Holiday and Brady Quinn, the only two scholarship quarterback recruits on the team. 
Their presence in Notre Dame, Ind. alone is enough tes­tament to the difficulty of wearing a red jersey 


and a goldhelmet in  Andrew Soukup  
practice.  
Holiday and  
Quinn are the only  Sports Wriler  
players  
since 1997  

who entered Notre Dame as quarterbacks and haven't changes positions or transferred. 
Zak Kustok transferred to Northwestern. Arnaz Battle played quarterback for two sea­sons before a broken wrist prompted a switch to receiver. Battle's broken wrist gave Gary Godsey two games at quarter­back, but his ineffectiveness paved the way for a position change to tight end. Matt LoVecchio-Holiday's classmate -took over as a freshman for Godsey. but transferred two and a half years later to Indiana. Jared Clark, one of the other members of the 2000 freshman class, switched to tight end last spring when it became apparent 
see QB/pagc 29 



BASEBALL 

MENS SOCCER
SOFTBAll 
The Irish won the Big East Tournament last spring, but Another successful season ends for the Irish a 
lost in the NCAA regional. The team battled Cal State 
step away from the College World Series as 
The Irish defeated St. Louis in an exhibition 2-0,Ftillerton, but lost two to the eventual regional champs. 
Michigan ended the team's season. 
then tied Michigan 1-1. The team starts its regular season next week. 
page 28 page 27 page 30 
·i.'·· ' ( 







