
' 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Elarn convicted of sexual battery 

Former football player found not guilty of two more serious charges; sentencing Oct. 7 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER and 
MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Writers 
SOUTH BEND -A jury of seven men and five women convicted former Notre Dame safety Abram Elam of sexual battery Saturday, but acquitted him of the two more serious felonies, conspiracy to commit rape and criminal deviate conduct. following over nine hours of jury delib­eration. 
Judge Roland Chamblee scheduled a sentenc­ing hearing for Oct. 7 after Elam completes a required interview with the probation depart­ment. 
Above, defense 
Mark Lenyo, Elam's attorney, said he was dis­
attorney AJark
appointed on the conviction for sexual battery but 
Lenyo responds to
happy with the overall ruling. 

"We are pleased the jury found Mr. Elam not Saturday's verdict. guilty on the two more serious charges. It indi­Left, special prosecu­cates the jury didn't believe everything the accus­
tor Maureen Devlin 
er had stated that [occurred] that evening," said 
answers questions
Mark Lenyo, Elam's attorney. 

from the press. 
•
PHOTOS 
TAKEN BY 
TIM KACMAR 


Students give Legends positive review 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
Students of all ages filled Legends to capacity Saturday, at times forming a line outside the door that stretched nearly to the end of the parking lot. 
"I think it's really awesome," said Cavanaugh junior Julie Rombaut as she sampled menu items in the club area. "They did a really good job with it." 
The doors opened at 2 p.m. to a line of waiting students, and students con­tinued to come throughout the after­noon and evening, surpassing 2,000 patrons by 9:30 p.m., said general manager Belinda Deeds. 
Students were asked to show their school IDs at the door, and those over the age of 21 needed proof of age to obtain a bracelet allowing entry into the Ale House Pub and the other bar area, adjacent to the dance floor. 
"We've been giving out a lot of wrist­bands," said Welsh Family sophomore and Legends staff worker Claudia Gonzalez. 
She said she applied for the job because she believed it would become a popular on-campus destination. 
"I wanted to be a part of something that a lot of students are going to come and enjoy," she said. "It's a good estab­lishment." 
And Saturday's patrons expressed overwhelming approval of the spot. Legends provided free food samples, including items such as three-tiered burgers, buffalo wings, quesadillas and various desserts. Students were charged for alcoholic beverages. 
'1 definitely approve the 22 drafts," sad Drew Shula, an off-campus senior who called Legends "classier" than most of the other local bars and clubs. 
"I think it's cool to be able to hang out with all the classes," Shula said. Many other students echoed the opinion. 
"As a person who's 21 already, I think it's a good place to come with my friends who aren't yet," Cavanaugh senior Katie Welch said. 
Refreshments were .not the only attraction Saturday. A moonwalk, bungee run and other entertainment were set up in the parking lot in front of the building, and various raffles were held. Students registered for the raffies while waiting on line to enter, 
see LEGENDS/page 3 

A large crowd of students enjoys the new Legends dance floor at the club's grand opening Saturday night. 
Trial brings out criticism of University's disciplinary process 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
News Writer 
SOUTH BEND -The University's discipli­nary process came under harsh review from both the victim and the prosecuting attorney during the trial of Abram Elam. 
During her testimony, the victim said she was told by associate vice president of resi­dence life Bill Kirk not to report the rape to the police, an account Kirk disputed Friday when he was recalled to the stand by the defense. Kirk said he "absolutely did not" tell the alleged victim not to contact the police with her story. 
"I know I did not dissuade her from report­ing the incident to the police. That is not my practice or policy. I did not do that; it would have unethical and inappropriate," said Kirk. 
During Devlin's cross-examination, Kirk said it was possible that he told the victim it might be easier if she solely went through the University's disciplinary process. 
"I think dealing with [the incident] in the University forum is easier than in this public forum ... this is a stressful setting for me and everyone involved. But I would not say that to her in an effort for her not to pursue [legal action]," J(jrk said. 
Devlin asked Kirk if he had taken notes during his conversation with the victim that would prove this statement. Kirk said that he 
see DISCIPLINE/page 4 
Elam was charged following a March 28, 2002 incident at teammate Justin Smith's off-campus house that also involved former players Lorenzo Crawford and Donald Dykes. All three will go on trial later this year; Dykes' trial is the next to begin, on Sept. 8. 
Special prosecutor Maureen Devlin said that while she was disappointed Elam was not con-
see VERDICTIpage 4 

Water main 
break disrupts SMCcampus 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Just when Saint Mary's faculty, staff and stu­dents thought nothing more extreme than Tuesday's severe weather could disrupt the first week of classes, disaster struck the cam­pus once again. 
The pipe that carries water to three Saint Mary's facilities burst Friday morning, leaving much of the campus without water and air conditioning. 
The cause of the water main break was a construction mishap at the location of the new student center. 
"The demolition contractor demolishing the old dining hall hooked a 10-inch water main with his Caterpillar backhoe and tore a hole in it," said John DeLee, director of facilities. "That's one of the primary water mains on campus, so we had to shut that down, which shut off water to McCandless, Angela and the library. Because it was such a big leak, the whole campus had a pressure reduction." 
DeLee said the main, which he estimated to have contained over 150,000 gallons of water, flooded, but was contained in the excavation of the old dining hall. 
The campus-wide pressure reduction caused toilets in many buildings to run contin­uously. Maintenance employees were forced to manually reset each one. 
"The maintenance guy came to my door and did soru.ething to the toilet." said senior Jani 
see WATER/page 4 
---~--------------------------------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Ambiguous rape, definite victims 
The word "rape"-in our society, our justice system, our media world ­is nearly synonymous with "ambiguity." 
Unlike other crimes, such as murder or burglary, rape cases are almost never clear-cut. A fine line exists between an offense and a human behavior, and that fine line makes it very pos­sible to turn a case into a he­said/she-said fias­co. Very often, there is no sub­stantial evidence, and questions arise about whether or not there even is a victim. And "vic­tim" is very often another ambiguous catch-phrase in a rape trial, as the defense claims a man is being victim­ized by false accusations while the prosecution fumes that the woman is a victim of a violent and horrific crime. 
But no one ever talks about the other victims permanently scarred by rape trials -and they are there, behind the scenes. 
The victim's father and Abram Elam's parents and step-father spent five days sitting in a court room, listen­ing to graphic, detailed accounts of the incident. At various points throughout the trial, the woman's father shook physically, covering his face with his hands as rape counselors attempted to comfor(him. Elam's parents read the Bible during the trial and his mother often sat bent over, with her head in her hands. 
Elam's father and mother, who have already lost two children to gunshot wounds in separate incidents, had to hear their son -a hometown hero and remarkable success story, up to this point -pronounced guilty of sexual battery. They didn't lose him to guns, but they may lose him to jail. 
The parents, almost never discussed, will never recover. They will always wonder how this could have happened, why this happened and what they could have done to prevent it. 
And then there are the jurors. They knew that their verdict could forever brand the woman a liar or the man a sex offender. Their decisions, they knew, would dictate the fate of not just the defendant, but also the alleged vic­tim. And that is probably what prompt­ed the tears that several jurors shed when the verdicts were read. Their faces fallen, they emerged from delib­erations emotionally shaken. 
During the hype of a rape trial, these victims are not usually considered. The weight of the final decision on the par­ents, the jurors -the pain the families feel -these aspects do not necessarily make headlines. But these are the results of rape, the crime, and rape, the accusation. Rape may be ambigu­ous in nature and difficult to prove, but, in the end, it doesn't matter. The victims, without a doubt, are there. And they are numerous. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, 1 please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

Monday, September 1, 2003
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU FEEL ABOUT HAVING CLASS ON LABOR DAY? 

Adam Kaufmann Matt O'Meara Paul Critser Melissa de Ia Rosa David Farley Vanessa Garcia 
Junior Junior Junior Junior Freshman Junior Off-campus Alumni Hall Offcampus Welsh Family Knott Hall University of Indiana 
..Just because "It sucks . , "It's the most (see above) "It's a federal 

we have class doesn't mean I have to go. ·· 

Commuter vehicle to replace shuttles In space 
WASHINGTON -In just five years, astronauts may journey to the International Space Station in a stripped-down four­seater instead of the mam­moth -and aging ­space shuttle. 
In effect, NASA hopes to commute to orbit in a sleek sedan instead of an 18­wheeler. 
NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe announced plans for the Orbital Space Plane before space shuttle Columbia came apart over Texas and killed seven astronauts on Feb. 1. But the tragedy has added a powerful incentive to find a cheaper, simpler and more dependable way to ferry astronauts between 
TODAY 0: 
LLI 
::1: 
' . ~ ' 
~ 
t
LLI 
3: . . ..... 
~ 
(.) 0 





"Sucks to be
ridiculous thing holiday, yet we , 
,, you.
ever. are better than the nation, so we work.·· 

MICHAEL GIORDANO!The Observer 
Four Sorln residents camp out In front of the Eck VIsitors' Center In hopes of obtaining a few coveted tickets to Notre Dame's Sept. 27 football game at Purdue. 
OFFBEAT 

entrepreneurs, have spent the past seven years trying to find the balance. Last week, they started produc­tion on a carbonated milk­based drink called Refreshing Power Milk ­RPM -and they already have orders coming in from school districts. 
Mary Ann Clark, a regis­tered nurse, said she was pained to see children drinking cola and shun­ning milk when she worked in schools so she decided to do something about it. 
"If you take water and add carbon dioxide to make soda, why can't you do that with milk?" she asked. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
the space station and Earth. 
It's a plan applauded by the Columbia Accident Investigation Board, which chided the nation for not already having a new spacecraft in production. 
Eventually, NASA hopes to build a next generation shuttle, a more dependable heavy-lift cargo carrier to replace Columbia's three surviving sister ships. But it may be more than a decade before such a craft gets serious consideration. 
Milk becomes bubbly 

MILLFORD, N.Y. Adding bubbles to milk is tricky. Pump in too many, and it foams over. Add too few and why bother. 
George and Mary Ann Clark, husband-and-wife 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

.... HIGH 71 HIGH 68 HIGH 76 HIGH 79 LOW 60 LOW 59 LOW 60 LOW 55 IN BRIEF 
Concession stand training will be held today in the Montgomery Theater of the LaFortune Student Center from 4 to 5:30 p.m. Attendance is required for all students planning to handle food at concession stands this semester. 
A dance commissioner training session is recom­mended to help residence hall dance commissioners plan their events. The session will be held today in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall, from 6 to 7 p.m. 
Wednesday is the last day that Notre Dame students will be able to make changes to their fall 2003 class schedules. Saint Mary's stu­dents have until today to add classes to their schedules. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theater will present On the Waterfront Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The screen­ing is part of the department's annual NDCinema film pro­gram. 
The Student Union Board will present the first of its weekly on-campus movies this weekend with Old School,"which will be shown in 101 DeBartolo Hall, on Thursday at 10 p.m. and Friday and Saturday at 10:30 p.m. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will play Arizona State Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRJDAY 

HIGH 75 HIGH 76 LOW 49 LOW 52 
Atlanta 89 I 71 Boston 72 I 59 Chicago 68 I 62 Denver 81 I 57 Houston 88 /73 Los Angeles 85 I 67 Minneapolis 82 I 60 New York 74 I 64 Philadelphia 71 I 64 Phoenix 107 /83 Seattle 80 I 58 St. Louis 78 I 65 Tampa 90 I 74 Washington 77 I 68 

Monday, September 1, 2003 page 3 
The Observer + NEWS 


Elam takes stand in defense of rape accusations 

with $200 toward food. The freshman Chau Nguyen. "I think law students, three of whom men, the student body did make Notre Dame Porn squad also per­I'll hang out here a lot because were the first people in line to a strong showing and responded

Legends 
formed. I'm really into music." get in at 2 p.m. very positively. 
continued from page 1 
and the same registration cards were used to tabulate the atten­dance of each dorm. DORM won the attendance contest and will be given a free party at Legends, 
During the evening, the Ryan Adcock Band and The Samples performed. DJ music began at midnight and continued until 4 a.m. 
"I think it's great that they [The Samples] came here," said Welsh 
Beth Silker, a 2nd-year law stu­dent and Double Domer, said Legends "doesn't even" compare with the former Alumni-Senior Club. 
"It's so much better," she said of Legends, sitting with a table of 
"We felt that it was really important that the law school really make a strong showing at this afternoon's events." said Kyle Biebesheimer, one of the trio. 
From law students to fresh­
"It just kind of captures the aura of Notre Dame -the whole 'Legends,' thing," said O'Neill freshman Dan Allen. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at 
sflynn2@nd.edu 

Have You Made Your Mark? 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 19-25, 2003 Deadline: Sept. 4 


Appalachia Seminar Cultural Diversity Seminar The Gullah Seminar I~xplore the religious, social, political Experience the Jivcsity of our Examines rhc rich historr and culture and em·ironmenral issues facing rhe narion through food, art and dialog of South Carolina's Gullah people, .\ppalachia rc1,rion. (I'hco 361) with communin· leaders at sites mam· of whom arc dc!'ccndants of 
throughout Chicago. slm·cs brought over from \\.'est 

' SOCIAL

Gospel of life Seminar (rheo 362/Soc 162/IIPS 162) Africa. (AFi\M 168/CSC 35)) lm-cstigatc a varier~· of pro-life CONCERNS issues (death penalty, euthanasia, Washington Seminar Rosebud Reservation Global stem cdl resL·arch, abortion) in .\kct with catholic public policy Health Initiative Seminar \\'ashingron, D.C. \\ith Church, organizations, activists and Immerse voursclf in healthcarc and Applications available 
c 

legislatiYe, and non-gon.·rnmcntal goYernmenr leaders as \\·e study how hcalthrare deliverv on the Ro!'ebmJ at the Center or online orgnniz:nions. (Theo :168) ( :hri5tians arc called to li\·e and \\urk :\atin· American reservation in centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu in the worlJ.(rhco .%.1/POLS 1B\\) South Dakota. (fheo .16H) 
l----~------~------~---~---------__j 
---------------' 
By SCOTT 
BRODFUEHRER and 
MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Wri£ers 
SOUTH BEND -Former Notre Dame safety Abram Elam took the stand in his own defense Friday and acknowledged that he fondled his accuser and three of his teammates had sex with her. but maintained that the acts were consensual. 
During his testimony, Elam admitted to fondling the woman while she was kissing his former teammate Justin Smith in the basement of his off-campus house on Warrick Street. Smith had invited the woman to his house after they danced with each other at the State Theatre in South Bend during the early morn­ing hours of March 28, 2002. 
Elam claimed he had gone to Smith's house with Lorenzo Crawford after spending the evening at the State Theatre. Elam said he was good friends with Smith and often spent time at his house. 
Following the initial inci­dent in the basement. Elam said he went upstairs to Smith's bedroom to locate a condom. 
"I thought [the victim] was feeling for me," said Elam, who was found guilty Saturday on a charge of sexu­al battery but not guilty on the more severe charges of sexual deviate conduct and conspiracy to commit rape. 
He said that while he was searching for the condom, he heard someone come upstairs and he hid in Smith's closet so he would not be discovered. 
Elam said Smith and the woman entered the room and began to kiss, at which point Elam testified he came out of his hiding place and said he probably touched the woman's hips and legs. Then, he said the woman asked him if he had a girlfriend and he eventually left the room. He said he then put his ear to the door and later heard some­one come to the door, prompting him to hold it 
closed because he said he did 
not want the two to know he 
had been eavesdropping on 
them. 
"I grabbed and held the doorknob. I didn't hear any­one on the other end. I held it for a couple seconds, I felt a tug ... I dashed off to the room across from Justin," Elam said. 
Elam said he later returned to the room and saw Crawford, Smith and the woman engaging in sexual activity. 
The woman testified these acts were not consensual, while the football players contended it was. 
Elam said he came back into the room wearing his shorts, but removed them while he was in the room. He said Smith eventually got up and may have left the room. At that time, he said he exchanged words with the woman. "to ask her about having sex." He said the woman refused and again asked, "Don't you have a girl­friend?" 

Thursday, Dykes and Smith testified that the woman specifically said no to Elam's request, citing the fact that he had a girlfriend. 
Elam said Smith and Crawford again began to engage in sexual activity with the woman and he removed his shorts and began to fondle her. He denied, however, the woman's claim that he put his fingers inside her at any point during the incident. 
During cross-examination. special prosecutor Maureen Devlin asked Elam if the woman gave him permission to touch her. Elam responded that the woman neither gave him permission to touch her nor told him not to touch her. 
"I don't approve of the con­duct performed that night ... I am embarrassed for all that I have lost. I ask God for for­giveness," Elam said. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu and Meghanne Downes at mdownes1@nd.edu. 
Monday, September 1, 2003

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Discipline 
continued from page 1 
did not, prompting the prosecu­tor to ask why he would not take notes, given his training as an attorney. 
"I would not normally take notes in the presence of a stu­dent ... I am trained as an attor­ney, but my role as a support person is to get her the resources she needs," Kirk said. 
Kirk said it was possible he could have other notes from the case, but these would have been turned over to the General Counsel's office. Devlin then asked Kirk to provide her with any notes that he turned over to the General Counsel, a request Kirk said he would fulfill. 
However, following the end of the trial Saturday, Devlin said she did not receive these notes. 
"I haven't heard a word from 

Verdict 
continued from page 1 
victed on all counts, the jury's conviction of him vindicated the accuser and proved her story. 
"We think the evidence did show he was guilty of [all of the) counts, but we had 12 people from the community who heard the evidence, listened to it very carefully, deliberated for a long time, and we got I think the right verdict based on that," Devlin said. 
Devlin, who will also be prose­cuting the cases of the other accused former players, declined to comment on how this ruling would effect those trials. 
Following the jury's verdict, Lenyo said he was uncertain whether he would ask Chamblee to reduce the Class-D felony sexu­al battery charge to a Class-A misdemeanor. 
If the judge sentences Elam under the felony charge, he could receive a jail term of up to three years and a fme of up to $10,000. Should the charge be reduced to a misdemeanor, the maximum sentence is one year in prison or a $5,000 fine. 
The jury heard over 60 hours of testimony during the trial, in which attorneys each depicted the essential events of the night as being either gang rape or consen­sual group sex. 
The prosecution's case against Elam was largely based on the victim's testimony, the testimony from the case's lead investigator and testimony from the three other former football players charged in the incident, who were granted immunity for this case. The prosecution attempted to show that the victim did not con­sent to the sexual activity and was overpowered by the football play­ers and saw that it would have been fruitless to fight back against them or seek help. 
The prosecutor said that the victim told Elam no, but he kept returning to the room where the rape was occurring. 
"He's right there in the middle of it and he comes back and comes back," Devlin said. 
She said that even though the victim danced seductively with Justin Smith at the State Theatre before the incident occurred, that did not give him permission to have sex with her. 
"She can dance with [SmithJ as close as she waats, but the minute he lays a hand on her, no means no," Devlin said. 
Devlin also minimized the fact that the victim did not immediate­ly seck help after the rape was finished. 
"What is she supposed to do? 

[Notre Dame]." Devlin said. 
Defense attorney Mark Lenyo capitalized on the disagreement between Kirk and the victim over the advice that was given regarding contacting the police when he asked the jury who was more credible. 
"The victim said Bill Kirk told her, 'Don't go to the cops, don't go to the police.' But Bill Kirk said he directed her to a portion of du Lac [dealing with support services for sex offense victims)," Lenyo said in his closing argu­ment. 
Thursday, lead investigator Detective Steve Metcalfe of the St. Joseph County Police Department also testified that a search warrant uncovered a copy of the woman's statement to Notre Dame officials at Smith's house. 
Devlin said advance knowl­edge of the victim's claims could have allowed Smith to destroy physical evidence mentioned in the account. 
But University spokesman Matt Starin said giving the alleged victim's statement to the accused parties is a normal part of the campus disciplinary process. 
"We only give the statement to law enforcement ifa subpoena is issued, although the victim could give the statement to law enforcement," Starin said. "Our process is our process. If there had been indictments made dur­ing that time, the process would have been halted." 
In an April 8, 2002 interview of the victim by the St. Joseph County Police, she said she felt betrayed by the way she was treated by the University. 
"It makes me feel like they say, 'We will help you out,' but they don't care about me," the victim said. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 


Water 
continued from page 1 
Burns. "He seemed kind of fran­tic which made me more nerv­ous." 
The water main break caused the shutdown of several campus database systems. The discon­nected databases did not directly affect students and faculty. 
"Our air conditioner is a water-based system, so when the water went off, our air con­ditioning and cooling stopped working," said Keith Fowlkes, director of Information Technology. "In order to keep our systems from overheating and getting damaged, we brought down some of our cen­tral database systems and left core switches for campus net­works and our electronic mail server." 
The office of Information 
Technology sent an e-mail mes­sage to students, faculty and stafl' alerting them of the situa­tion. 
"It was such a fast and furious process; we didn't have a lot of lead-time," Fowlkes said. 
Fowlkes said he plans to dis­cuss with the College's mainte­nance department the possibility of a back-up air conditioning system. 
Access to the Internet, shared diamond network and telecom­munications was maintained, and all technology systems were restored at 1:15 p.m. Campus water and air conditioning was restored at 4 p.m. 
"The contractors knew where the line was," DeLee said. "All we can do is caution them not to get too close to the lines and we have to depend on them to do their work properly." 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 
Where is the manual for what a rape victim is supposed to do? Why do we think we know what a person is supposed to do," Devlin said. 
The defense stated that the sex­ual acts were consensual. 
"You have heard countless per­sonal, embarrassing details. The conduct is regretful from all peo­ple participating in it ... while shocking, the conduct was con­sensual, not illegal conduct," Lenyo said. 
The defense also pointed out inconsistencies between the vic­tim's story and the way a rape victim might be expected to act ­the fact that she voluntarily went to Smith's bedroom to set an alarm clock, that she spent the night at her attacker's house, sleeping in the same bed as him, that she removed her tampon prior to the incident and that she did not shower until the following day. 
The defense also provided testi­mony from two people who were in the house during the incident and did not hear any screaming or unusual noises, although one of the witnesses was intoxicated that night. 
Lenyo said that the police inves­tigation was flawed because of inexperienced investigators and it neglected to explore pertinent information, only speaking to Smith's roommate, who was in the house at the time of the inci­dent, for five minutes on the tele­phone. 
He also provided reasons why the victim might want to fabricate the fact that she had been raped, such as morning -after regret and concern for her reputation at Notre Dame. 
The defense attempted to point out inconsistencies in reports the victim made to various officials. However, the prosecution said these inconsistent reports did not necessarily represent an inconsis­tency in the victim's story and that the jury should believe her initial testimony. 
"You must consider whether what you heard was a true incon­sistent account by [the victim] ... you had a chance to hear her," Devlin said. 
The prosecutor concluded her argument by saying that Elam had lost his status as a football player and should be convicted of the crime he committed. 
"She said no and Abram Elam should feel sorry. What he did was illegal and immoral," she said. "It doesn't matter anymore that you are a Notre Dame foot­ball player," she added, looking at 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at 
sbrodfue@nd.edu and 
Meghanne Downes at 
mdownes 1 @nd.edu 





eridging the Ga, 
MSPS .Interrace Forum September 3, 2003 5:30P.M. 



5:30pm to 7:30pm • :Nednesday. Sept. 3rd • Coleman-Morse Sign up for CM retreats and activities • Dessert vviH be provided 



Monday, September 1, 2003 COlv\PllED FRObA .THE ()HSERVER \·VUU: SERVICES Page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russian sub sinks, killing 9 sailors 
MOSCOW -Russia's defense minister 
blamed the sinking of a derelict nuclear sub­
marine on a national trait of carelessness 
and ordered a temporary halt Sunday to the 
towing of decommissioned subs. 
The announcement raised the prospect of further delays in efforts to dispose of more than 100 rotting ships and their reactors. which have been a concern to environmen­talists. 
The K-159 submarine sank Saturday in the Barents Sea as it was being towed to an Arctic scrapyard where its reactors were to be removed and dismantled. Nine of the 10 sailors aboard died. 
"There were definitely elements of this frivolous Russian reliance on chance, that everything will work out," Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov said from a ship monitoring search operations. 
The sub went down in a storm, apparently after rough seas ripped off the pontoons that had been attached to it for towing. 
Official: British dossier unrealistic 
ATHENS. Greece -A British intelligence dossier "did not correspond to reality" by sug­gesting Saddam Hussein's regime could deploy weapons of mass destruction within 45 minutes, the chief U.N. weapons inspector said in an interview published Sunday. 
Dimitris Perricos said in Sunday's Eleftherotypia newspaper that inspections found no evidence supporting American and British accusations that Saddam possessed an arsenal capable of widespread death and damage. 
'There is no doubt that the phrase of 'within 45 minutes' that was included in the British report did not correspond to reality," Perricos was quoted as saying. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Voters can't name Dem. candidates 
Most voters haven't started paying atten­tion to the Democratic presidential race, says a poll released on Labor Day weekend -the campaign's traditional start~ng point. 
Two-thirds of voters -including two­thirds of Democrats -were unable to name any of the Democratic candidates for presi­dent, said the CBS News poll out Sunday. 
Joe Lieberman, Dick Gephardt and Howard Dean topped the field in the poll, with rela­tively low numbers that suggest the race remains wide open. 
John Kerry, a Massachusetts senator. was at 5 percent after being in double digits in national polls most of the year. Kerry will try to spark his campaign this week with the for­mal announcement of his candidacy. 
Jimena heads for Hawaiian islands 
HONOLULU -Hurricane Jimena plowed across the Pacific with 100 mph wind Sunday, heading for a glancing blow on the Big Island of Hawaii \Yith high wind, strong surf and heavy rain. 
The hurricane, about 300 miles southeast of Hilo at 5 p.m. EDT Sunday, was moving westward about 20 mph, the National Weather Service said. The hurricane was slat­ed to pass just south of the Big Island late Sunday night until late Monday morning. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Doctor forbidden from practicing 
INDIANAPOLIS -A physician convicted 35 years ago of kidnapping and burying a woman alive has been barred by a state licensing board from practicing medicine in Indiana. 
Gary Steven Krist's probationary license, granted by the Indiana Medical Licensing Board in 2001, was suspended in March. 
The board voted unanimously to revoke the license because of information that was not known when it originally was gt·anted. board member William H. Beeson said. 

Shiites protest assassination 
FBI to investigate Najaf car bombing that killed 125, including Shiite cleric 
Associated Press 
NAJAF, Iraq -Vowing revenge and beating their chests,. more than 300,000 Shiites marched Sunday behind the rose­strewn coffin of a beloved cleric assassinated in a 

car  bombing.  The  FBI  
said  it  would join  the  
investigation  into  the  

Najaf bombing, which killed 125 people. 
Iraqi police said the bomb that exploded after noon prayers Friday at the vast Imam Ali mosque contalned the equivalent of 1,650 pounds of TNT. 
In Washington, FBI spokesman John lannarelli said the bureau will join the investigation in Najaf. 
He said the bureau will provide forensic analysis of the evidence and said it was still working out what other assistance the FBI, which has agents assigned to the region, would provide. 
The call for the FBI to join the investigation rep­resented a shift after U.S. authorities had taken a hands-off approach -out of deference to the sacredness of the mosque. which houses the tomb of the Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law. Ali. Iraqi police say 19 suspects arrested so far may have links to al-Qaida. 

Many Shiites have blamed Saddam Hussein loyalists for the blast, but it has also stoked anger at the U.S. occupation forces among some faithful, who say the Americans have not provided security since Saddam's fall. 
With a 11 0-mile march from Baghdad to the holy city of Najaf, Shiites hon­ored Ayatollah Mohammad Baqir al­Hakim, a moderate cleric and once-exiled opponent of Saddam Hussein. A three-day mourning peri­od began early Sunday with services at the al­Kadhimiya shrine in the capital. 

Marchers followed a flatbed truck carrying a sym b o lie coffin: Authorities said they found only the cleric's hand, watch, wedding band and pen in the wreckage of the enor­mous blast. 
Halfway along the route, at Karbala, the sec­ond-holiest Shiite city after Najaf, 3,000 mourn­ers gathered at a shrine to await the procession. They prayed, beat drums and flagellated them­selves with chains as the ayatollah's coffin and the huge procession neared. His funeral is planned for Tuesday in N aj af, his birthplace. 
"Our revenge will be severe on the killers," read one of the many banners carried by 
mourners. Red and white 
roses were laid on the 
coffin and a large portrait 
of al-Hakim placed in 
front of it. 

The U.S.-led Coalition Provisional Authority said Najaf Governor Haider Mehadi asked the FBI to join Iraqi police in the investigation and that the American investigators would be traveling to Najaf shortly. 
FBI agents are leading the investigations into both the Aug. 7 bombing of the Jordanian embassy in Baghdad and attack on the U.N. headquarters 12 days later. 
Iraqi police told The Associated Press they have arrested 19 men ­.many of them foreigners and all with admitted links to al-Qaida -in connection with the blast. 
I I 
i 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I l 
l 
I 
In Najaf, Maj. Rick Hall, spokesman for the 1st Battalion, 7th Marines said the death toll now stood at 125 with 142 wounded, some seriously. He also said the Marine transfer of the south-cen­tral territory around Najaf to an international force led by Poland, set for this week, had been put on hold. 
"We now want to stay here and assist as much as possible," Hall said. 
He said U_S. forces had two men in custody that were handed to them by Iraqi authorities. "We are questioning them, but we are leaning toward releasing them," Hall said, adding that the involvement of al-Qaida members in the Friday explosion was "an option we are looking at." 

Bush to address unions on Labor Day 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The nation cele­brates Labor Day this year with an estimated 9 million Americans on the unemployment rolls -700,000 more than on this holiday last year, when President Bush went to a union work­ers picnic and said he was encouraged about job gro\\th. but "not satisfied." 
This year, the president is marking Labor Day in Richfield, Ohio, where he will address members of the International Union of Operating Engineers and their families. Later in the week, Bush is to give economic speeches in Kansas City, Mo., and Indianapolis. 
In north-central Ohio, the president planned to push his agenda to create jobs. 
The nation's unemployment rate hit a nine-year high of 6.4 percent in June but then edged down to 6.2 per­cent in July, a possible signal that the economy may be on a comeback. That improvement. however, partly reflect­ed the fact that 500,000 discouraged workers gave up looking for a job and left the labor market. 
The economy grew at a solid 3.1 percent annual rate in the second quarter of the year, a better perform­ance than the government thought just a month ago. Consumers ratch­eted up their spending in July by the largest amount in four months. And manufacturers saw demand for big-ticket products rise for the second straight month in July. 
"Now we must build on this progress and make sure that the economy creates enough new jobs for American workers," Bush said ·in his weekend radio address. 
While labor leaders acknowledge some positive economic reports, they also point to the nation's 6.2 percent unemployment rate in July and the 
2.7 million net jobs that have been lost in the economy since the recession began in March 2001. 
"The single most important issue on the minds of Ohioans right now is the economy," Denny White, chairman of the Ohio Democratic Party, said in a letter to Bush last week. 
page 6 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Monday, September I, 2003 





IIIJTREDII.E 

Tuesdav, September 2 
1:00 PM -9:00 PM Jovce Center Fieldhouse 
(ENTER THROUGH GATE 3) 

Academic Competition Club Accounting Association, NO Adworks Alpha Epsilon Delta Amer. Cancer Society Club of NO Amer. Chemical Society, NO Ch. Amer. lnst. of Aero. & Astronautics Amer. Institute of Arch. Students Amer. Institute of Chern. Eng. Amer. Society of Civil Engineers Amer. Society of Mech. Eng. Amnesty International Notre Dame Anime Club of Notre Dame Arts & Letters Student Adv. Council Asian American Association of NO Asian International Society Bagpipe Band, U. of Notre Dame Ballet Folklorico Azul Y Oro Ballroom Dance Club, ND/SMC Baptist Collegiate Ministry Best Buddies Beta Alpha Psi Biology Club, Notre Dame Black Cultural Arts Council Bowling Club, Notre Dame Boxing Club, Notre Dame Women's Brazil Club Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit Campus Girl Scouts, ND/SMC Caribbean Student Organization Celebration Choir, U. of Notre Dame Center for the Homeless 
Children's Group, ND/SMC Chess Club, Notre Dame Children of Mary Chorale, Notre Dame Circle K, Notre Dame Class of 2005 Climbing Club, Notre Dame Club Coordination Council College Republicans, Notre Dame Comm. Alliance to Serve Hispanics Computer Apps Honor Society Computer Club, Notre Dame Cora Primavera de Nuestra Senora Cricket Club, Notre Dame Cycling Club, Notre Dame Dome Designs Dome Yearbook Equestrian Team, ND/SMC Experiential Learning Council Farley Hall Players Field Hockey Club, Notre Dame Figure Skating Club, Notre Dame Filipino Amer. Stud. Org.of NO First Aid Services Team, NO Flip Side Fly-Fishing Club Food share Forum on Biomedical Ethics, NO German Club, Notre Dame Guam Club Gymnastics Club, ND/SMC Habitat for Humanity, Notre Dame Handbell Choir, The Notre Dame Harmonia Hawaii Club-Na Pua Kai 'Ewalu Health Occ. Students of America Helpful Undergraduate Students Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation 
Alumni Association Humor Artists of NO Ice Hockey Team, Women's NO India Association of Notre Dame Investment Club of NO duLac Irish Dance Club, The Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Irish Gardens Joint Engineering Council, ND Juggler, The Juggling Club, The Notre Dame Junior Mental Health Assoc. of NO Knights of Columbus, NO Council Knights of the Immaculata, NO Korean Student Association La Alianza League of Black Business Students Life Uncommon Linux Users Group, Notre Dame Logan Recreation Club Management Club Management Info. Syst. Club, NO Marketing Club, NO Undergrad. Martial Arts Institute, Notre Dame Mexican American Engineers and 
Scientist Society Minority Pre-Medical Society Mock Trial Association Model United Nations Club, NO Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Myst. Science Theater 3000 Club NAACP, NO National Soc. of Black Engineers Native American Student 
Association of Notre Dame NO for Animals NDesign Neighborhood Study Help Program Notre Dame Bands Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Co. Operation Smile Student Org. Pakistan Association of Notre Dame Pasquerillc. East Musical Company Philosophy Club, Notre Dame Polish Club, Notre Dame PomPon Squad, U. of Notre Dame Pre-Dental Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club of the U. of NO Progressive Student Alliance Psychology Club, Notre Dame Ranger Challenge Team (AROTC) Right to Life, Notre Dame Rowing Club, Notre Dame Running Club, Women's Russian Club Sailing Club, ND/SMC Saint Edward's Hall Players Scholastic Magazine Science Business Club, NO Shirt Project, The Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulois 
Chapter) Ski Club/Team, Notre Dame Society of Auto. Engineers, NO Society of Physics Students, NO Society of Women Engineers, NO Sociology Club, Notre Dame Sarin Rifle Team-Army ROTC Spanish Club, U. of Notre Dame Special Friends Club of Notre Dame Squash Club Student Alumni Relations Group Student Broadcasting of NO (NDTV) Student Government Student lnt'l Business Council Student Players, The Notre Dame Student Union Board Students for Environmental Action Super Sibs Swing Club Teamwork for Tomorrow of NO Toastmasters International, NO Trident Naval Society Troop Notre Dame Ultimate Club, Notre Dame University Young Life Viet. Student Assoc. of NO Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, NO Volleyball Club, Men's Wabruda, The Water Polo Club, Men's Water Polo Club, Women's Women's Resource Center World Hunger Coalition World Taekwondo Fed. Club WSND-FM WVFI 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Cancer Society American Red Cross Big Brothers/Big Sisters Boys & Girls' Club of St. Joe Co. Broadway Christian Parish Catholic Charities Center for Social Concerns Center for the Homeless College Football Hall of Fame Oismas House of Michiana El Campito Day Care Center Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Humane Society of St. Joe Co. Indiana Legal Services, Inc.-SB La Casa de Amistad La Salle Council Boy Scouts Life Treatment Centers, Inc. Logan Center Next Stop College Northern lnd ian a Center for History REAL Services, Inc. Reins of Life, Inc. Robinson Community Learning Ctr. S-0-S of Madison Center SB Juvinile Correctional Facility Southern Care, Inc. Twenty-First Century Scholars Urban League of SB St Joe Co. Urban Youth Services of YMCA Women's Care Center YWCA/St. Joe Cty. 
ACE 
Admissions Office 
Athletics 
Campus Ministry 
Career Center 
Cong. of the Sisters of the H. Cross 
Educational Talent Search 
Institute for Educational Initiatives 
Legends 
RecSports 
Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student needs 
Student Activities 

Check out the Activities Night website at http://www.nd.edu!-sao!an/index.htm for updated information, table assignments and more. 
OTRE DAME ACTIVITIES NIGHT IS COORDINATED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE AND COSPONSORED WITH RECSPORTS IN COLLABORATION 
WITH THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AND CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, September 1, 2003 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

9,415.82 +41.61
jones 
,.,::':ti:::­Same: i,12i 223 

AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P500 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
IN BRIEF 
ATA offers $300 million note trade 
INDIANAPOLIS -American Trans Air's 
parent company offered bondholders a note 
swap worth $300 million and renegotiated 
its aircraft leases just weeks after warning 
it would not be able to meet debt obliga­
tions. 
Indianapolis-based ATA Holdings Corp. on 
Friday proposed a swap covering $175 mil­
lion in 10.5 percent notes due in late 2004 
and $125 million in 9.625 percent notes due 
in 2005. 
In the 10.5 percent note swap, each 
$1.000 in principal would be traded for 
$940 in new 11 percent notes due in 2009 
and a cash consideration of $60. 
In the 9.625 percent note swap, each 
$1,000 in principal would be traded for 
$960 in new 10.125 percent notes due in 
2010 and a cash consideration of $40. 
The offer expires Sept. 26. ATA said its outstanding debt stood at $507.8 million as of June 30. 
Conesco sells GM Building for $1.4 B 
NEW YORK -Conseco Inc. has agreed to sell the General Motors Building in midtown Manhattan to a New York developer in what a newspaper reported was the largest deal ever for a U.S. skyscraper. 
Macklowc Properties agreed to pay $1.4 billion for the 50-story trophy building overlooking Central Park. The New York Times reported Saturday. 
Representatives for both sides previously confirmed the deal to The Associated Press but declined to comment on the specifics of the agreement. 
The GM Building originally served as a showroom for General Motors cars and later as a toy showroom for FAO Schwartz. Its tenants include Bank of America, Estee Lauder, the CBS-TV studios and Wei!, Gotshal & Manges. 
Conseco, a Carmel, Ind.-based insurer, paid $878 million in partnership with Donald Trump to buy the white marble tower at Fifth Avenue between 58th and 59th streets in 1998. 
Trump filed a $1 billion lawsuit against Conseco in February 2002, saying the com­pany breached its contract to sell him its interest in the building. 
Dollar plummets to low against yen 
NEW YOHK -The dollar fell to three­month lows against the yen Friday and its lowest IPvel against the euro in a week, as investors sold the U.S. currency on news that Japan didn't take action to weaken the yen in 1\ugust. 
HowevPr. the swift surge in the Japanese currr•ncy may have been too much for Japanese authorities. as dealers at .Japanese banks in London said they saw the Bank of' Japan buying dollars around 117 yen. then 116.40 yen. on the way to its ('Ventual slid(• to 116.13 yen .Strategists view 115 yen as the critical level that would be defended by massive intervention. 



Meijer, Target get 'freaky' 
Back-to-school 
time big business for area retailers 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
SOUTH BEND -For many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, trips to discount retail stores have become part of the back-to-school rou­tine at the end of August -right up there with the opening Mass, bookstore runs and Rally in the Alley at Turtle Creek Apartments. 
Back-to-school shopping is undeniably big business for area retailers, espe­cially giants Meijer and Target, who rank the two­week period surrounding the start of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's with the holiday season as the busiest times of the year. 
Tim Corbett, director of the Meijer on Grape Road, said his store sees a 33 percent increase in sales during this time. 
"For those departments that are impacted, it cer­tainly ranks up there with the holidays," he said. 

Stephanie Anglin, Popular stores like Meijer see an annual Increase In customers when students Target's regional execu­
return to South Bend each fall. 
tive director. said it is against company policy to year that we can sell even 1, and the store starts tomers to go online in the provide specific data on more." planning displays and store and order items that store sales. She said, how­Top-selling items at product positioning in may not be available on­ever. that Target ranks a Meijer and Target include March and April, Corbett hand. The items are then store's business level for plastic products like space said. Nationwide, the com­shipped to the student's back-to-school time using crates and boxes designed panies drum up back-to­residence. a three-fold scale. The to fit under beds, along school business by high­Meijer makes a special scale places stores in cate­with typical school sup­lighting popular items in effort to ensure that stu­gories, including "not plies like paper, pens and the six weeks of advertis­dents and their parents affected," "freaky" and pencils. Dorm necessities ing prior to the event, are having fun, Corbett "super-freaky," depending like futons, rugs. mini­Anglin said. said. The store sets up an on how much traffic it refrigerators and bedding The retailers also try to outdoor tent stocked with attracts. Anglin said the materials are also popu­make shopping as conve­games, food and prizes. recently-opened lar, Corbett and Anglin nient as possible once cus­This year's grand prize Mishawaka Super Target said. tomers enter the store. was a Pepsi vending is classified as a "freaky" "Students like anything Both Meijer and Target machine, won by a Notre store. She anticipates, that's hip and trendy," place popular items Dame off-campus senior. however, that the store Anglin said. toward the front of the "We really try to pull it will earn the "super­Both stores begin the store and use displays to off as a carnival or festi­freaky" designation next back-to-school planning attract shoppers' atten­val," Corbett said. year. process months in tion. 
"We're a brand-new advance. Meijer begins Target also integrates store," she said. "We just ordering products for the technology into the Contact Andrew Thagard at kind of learned from this end of August around Jan. process. allowing cus-athagrd@nd.edu 


Colo. investigates United's practices 
ly return a call from The Associated renegotiate the carrier's lease under 
Associated Press 

Press on Saturday. An airline itsChapter 11 bankruptcy filing. 
DENVER -The Colorado attorney spokesman told the newspaper that One factor in the talks is Frontier's general is investigating whether United is willing to work with request to take over lesser-used some United Airlines practices are Salazar's office. United gates. Frontier has said it stifling competition in the state, a Salazar declined comment to The may expand elsewhere if it cannot newspaper reported. AP through a spokesman Saturday. get more gates in Denver. 
Ken Salazar is examining con­United Express is the only carrier If United and the airport cannot tracts between United and its connecting many Colorado commu­agree on a lease that would free up regional United Express partners to nities to Denver. and some residents the gates, the airport might have to determine whether the deals limit of Alamosa, Pueblo, Durango, expand the A Concourse to accom­competitive air service from smaller Montrose and Grand Junction have modate Frontier and drop plans for Colorado cities into Denver, The complained about a lack of competi­United's commuter-jet terminal, city Denver Post reported in Sunday's tion in air service. Aviation experts officials have said. editions. said it isn't clear whether small Salazar said he has been con­
Salazar also said his office is con­towns could support a second air­cerned with United's market power cerned that a plan to build a new line. at DIA since he took office in 1999. regional-jet terminal for United at United is the dominant carrier at Salazar said his office is closing an Denver International Airport might DIA. followed by Denver-based low­inquiry into possible predatory pric­perpetuate a "monopoly over fare carrier Frontier Airlines. ing by United, and there was not regional air service." The regional terminal is part of enough evidence to show United 
United officials did not immediate-talks between United and DIA to engaged in unlawful pricing. 

p 
THE OBSER\'ER 

Monday, September 1, 2003
Page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O.. Box Q. Notre Dame, 1N 465)6 . 
014 South Dining H~l. Notre Dame, 1N 465>6 EDIT()I{ IN CHU!F .Andrew Soukup 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Scott Brodfuehrer Lori Lewahki 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR Sheila Flynn NEWS EDlTOR~ ·Meghanne Downes VrEWPOJNT EDITOR:.· Tt!resa Fralish SroRTS EonuR:. Joe Hetder · 
Scl:NE EDITOI{: Sarah Vabli!M SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR; Anndihe Woolford PHOTO EDITOR: TimKacmar GRAPHICS EDITOR: ·Mike Harkins AoVElmSlNG MANAGER: Maura Ceneddla AD DESIGN MANAGER; Tom I-Iaigbt SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOlt: Jason Creek CONTROlLER:. Mike Flanagan· 
CONTACT US 0FACE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) ~~r:747:1 ; . ; .(574)@3J·t>9.7t . 
AnVEIISTISING 

{~74l ~31-69Q() ubsecVild@nd.e~h,t ·· . . EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) G3I·'4542.. MANAGING EonOR &ASSISTANT MANAGING EottOR (57<}) 631"4541 •. obs.[ll~nd,edu 
BuStN£SS·0FACE . (574)$3P5313 .·. NEW! DESK 

··(574)6Jlf~~43 ~h$~~,t~M~~du . ··•.· 
. . . ·•· ...•...·..·.VI£WI'01NT Dt:SK . . . ) ; . ; . ; · ..· 
...(504)·.63:t-~~~Rtsy6~~r~~~··~z~~·~~~·············~·············
.. (174) 6Jf·.f5.4J sp(trt$,I@nd;edu < •·•· .. 
; . • ... ·........StiNE DESK·....... .••....•......:·.. ·.· ... 
(51.1) fi~)S454()> s~rte. i~n4.e<tu.• ..•..·. 
.• ·.. . . •. . SAINT MARY'S DESI( < 
(514) &3Hi:'Z"L···· ~m¢.J@nct.eau······.·. · 
. . . PHOTO Om 
(514) 63P8767 ·. photo@nd-~du 
SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574} 631-:883:9 
THt . . 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmtobserver.com 
Pouc1rs 

The Observer is tl~ independent, daily.rit-IN'spaper published1n print and online by the ~tu<k!lts o(ttie Univet$it}' 6fNOtte DameduLa¢ an4Silintl\-faijs •.. · College. Editorial t<lf;il:~t.jti¢1udillg .adver~nts, is not gov~rnedby poliCieSofthe adminutr:ation M either· institU.tion.·TheObse£ver rese£Vesthe rightto r~ruse · advertisements based 9ncol)tent. . .· . 
Th~ news ineported a$ ~curinety and ob~ctivdy .as possible.{)nsigned editoriali represent·i:he opinion of the maj6dtfofthe Editotin Chief; M~g Edi!Or, Assismnr Managing Edii:<if and departrridR ed.ii:ors. Commentaries, lettef5 and columns present the viewli ofthe authors and not oecessari:ly:tho.se ofTik Observer. 
V.iewj'Oint.!ipace is av:Uiable to all readers. The free expressionofall opinions throu~hletten is encouraged, Letters to the Edit6r rnwt be signed and muSt indu.de 
conracrinformation. · 
Qf«itions rigardiliiObstrVrrpulicifs. ihOild br direcud w Editor in CJmfAndrewSoukup: 
POST 0FFICEINFORMATION 

1nc Obscn•i(ti~l>$$~HQIIo) Is~~ Mond.ty <!>rough ~;i¢-y """'l'' 4•ci>>g
•._!K>d ...,.Q<>Jifocti<><l<, /l.~rip<i<>'I..,U.<()i,g,.,.,ir ${00fQf;eiil<;.~"""' )1<>1'< JS5 for 011< ..,ru,,, 
Th.: Ob;Q,.cc ;,. put.llol,c.l '"' · l'()SIWSI'!ill. 024 $<,orb PiniAK H.U . ~;J~.,.;,,..;iiO~,..., 
N<><,.. Lhm~. EN oi~S%-1>77ll .J'II<:Qt;,.,,,,, "'ri<><&;ll f'»"J!I: p.id '" N<>tt<D.rot . 00, JIQ~Q .... ""d ~J.iitlao.J ro.llio; ofB.u. · OH.Soutlo Dini"' lt.JI •. 
Not~ o...ru:, IN 46~54-om 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Meghan Martin Chris Federico Joe Trombello Pat Leonard 
Kevin Allen Joe Lindsley Meghanne Downes Scene Viewpoint Sarah Vabulas Dolores Diaz Illustrator Graphics Katie Knorr Mike Harkins 
·· 
•• .·. .· ·• 

Where's the outrage? 
Having uniquely irregular and unshakable sleeping problems is no Swiss picnic. I'm awake at the wrong times: I'm asleep at the wrong times. It's all wrong. 
But it forces you into solitude, 
BJ Strew 

into reflection­if not into Reekers for a 
Straight, No

meatball sub ­
Chaser

only before 4 a.m., that is. 
What is the focus of all this reflection? It's the whole of American politics. And these days, in light of who's running the show from Pennsylvania Avenue, I'm now acutely aware that politics is more than show business for ugly peo­ple. 
Nowadays, it's show business for those of "the neoconservative persua­sion." All right, it's more than that, but recently, it does seem dangerously one-sided. Media bias swings undeni­ably right: think FOX, Limbaugh, O'Reilly, Clear Channel, WSJ, Hoover, Cato and so on. With the media so openly slanted, it is no wonder that the question isn't being asked: "Where's the outrage?" 
That was a rallying cry of the right during Zippergate. But in the halluci­natory three-ring circus we call the Reagan, I mean, the Bush administra­tion, there are heaps of issues that merit far more fury than a president's sex life. How about unchecked media consolidation, erosion of civil liberties, Weaponsgate, harmful environmental deregulation and Ann Coulter. for starters? Perhaps foremost among the countless concerns, though, is econom­ic inequality here in the United States. 
So call me a class warrior. Name­calling is the quick way, the hard right sidelines, the grim reality. Funny how often it's an upper-class, right-winger who plays the class-warfare card, too. However, students at a first-tier uni­versity, with a claim to some measure of sympathy, should find it a bit harder to turn their backs on the truth. 
The truth is bleak. The U.N.'s Gini Index places the United States as fourth in the world in income inequali­ty. Not only is inequality waxing, but mobility is waning. Not only is the economy faltering, but the Bush administration is sparing no effort to hide what should be public, nonparti­san facts about the extent to which it is faltering. President George Bush seems to be making war on the work­ing class, upholding trends already working against them. 

Exhibit A: That slick new tax-cut plan. Warren Buffet, showing scruples uncommon among moguls, denounced the plan. It's because, rather than despite, the "main beneficiaries" are people like him-that is, the world's second richest man. But that's how Bush prefers it. The rich get richer and the poor get poorer. 
While inequality has risen, mobility -the mainstay of the so-called American Dream-has fallen, accord­ing to economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The effect is social stratifica­tion. In other "the worst fiscal crisis since World War II." The economy's in a worse state than Bush's septum. Everyone knows this. · 
But does everyone know that, trying to cover up mass layoffs, the Bush administration stopped issuing its monthly Bureau of Labor Statistics report on mass layoffs last year, until the Washington Post called them on it, and the report was reinstated? The would-be beneficiary-Bush-Cheney '04. 
Or that, in both 2001 and 2002, until the threat of litigation forced them to publish it, the Department of Labor kept roughly 50,000 agricultural "guest workers" in the H2A Program from receiving a better minimum wage by withholding the report that would allow an increase? The would-be ben­eficiary: big agricultural firms. 
This is the tip of the iceberg. Misdirection and pandering to Big Business is business as usual for the Bush administration. The rich are first 
priority. Worse still. the 
chances of an about­

words, the rich "Misdirection and face on Bush's policies stay richer and the approach the chances
pandering to Big Business 
poor stay poorer. of Anne Coulter speak­
is business as usual for 
Tax cuts do not ing without distorting equal prosperity the Bush administration. , the positions of and 
for everyone. 

We don't need tax cuts -we need tax reform. The lopsided Bush plan aims to relieve the wealthy and deepen the deficit indefi­nitely. His plan to end the dividend tax heavily favors the highest income class. In fact, in a telling contrast. tax cuts for the rich trump requested edu­cation spending 50 times over. Now that the earned-income tax credit, which has long helped buoy the work­ing poor above the poverty line, is under attack. President Bush sees fit to sit back as the EITC courts extinction at the hands of right-wing lawmakers. All of this during a moribund economy. 
Our economy just finished its sixth consecutive month of job losses. Poverty is increasing for the first time in a decade. The National Governors Association claims states that are in 
slandering less than 
two groups of people. 
With the chasm widening between the rich and poor, with an economy rolling downhill faster than the White House would have us believe. with policies consistently favoring the rich, with the government's eye distressing­ly blind to the hardships of the work­ing class and with President Bush as putative ring-leader, isn't it high time we ask ourselves, seriously: Where's the outrage? 
BJ Strew: Sometimes he's sad. some­times he's glad, but he's always bad, bad. superbad BJ Strew. And mad at Bush. Contact him at wstrew@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
How many games will the Irish win during 
"'Politics is not the art ofthe possible.
this football season? 
It consists in choosing between the disas­trous and the unpalatable. " Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
John Kenneth Galbraith

www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
economist 



Now is the time 
to act 
Throughout the past two years President George Bush and his advisers have seasoned their ser­mons on foreign policy with calls for "moral clarity." Yet Bush's ful­minations have been anything but clear. 
In 
Stephen Beale

September 2002. Bush declared that 
Brown Daily

because Iraq 
!Jerald

and al Qaeda were "equal­ly bad, equal­ly as evil, and equally as destruc­tive" that "you can't distinguish between al-Qaeda and Saddam when you talk about the war on terror." 
This fall, the Republican Party has a chance to renew its commit­ment to moral clarity and to take the offensive in the culture war. This window of opportunity applies to two issues: homosexual­ity and abortion. 
Conservatives have adopted two diametrically different strategies for each. Regarding gay rights, Republicans favor a radically con­frontational approach: A pre-emp­tive Constitutional amendment that .would prevent courts from nationalizing gay marriage. 
The second strategy calls for an ambitious incrementalism that would eventually nullify Hoe v. Wade. Two bills implement the latter approac:h. The first is the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act. Passed by the Senate in March and the llolise in June, the act must make one final stop at a House and Senate conference committee before it reaches the president's desk. 
The measure would outlaw the heinous practice of partial birth abortion, in which a baby is par­tially delivered until only the head remains in the womb. Then "doc­tors" insert scissors into the brain and removn the contents. 
Most of these abortions are per­formed in lhe fifth and sixth months of pregnancy-the point at which a premature baby is viable outside of the womb. In Kansas, the only state that requires separate recording of partial birth abortions, abortion doctors reported in 1999 that they performed 182 partial birth abor­tions on babies that were "viable." 
The only thing that separates partial birth abortion from out­right old-fashioned infanticide is a couple of' inches of skin. Surely one does not need a degree in moral philosophy to recognize the absurdity of this procedure. 
The operation recalls the half­blind justice described in the parable of Solomon and the two harlots in First Kings, chapter 3. Tlw two women both give birth to babies, but one of' them dies. In her moment of despair. the dis­traught mother switches their babies. The mother of the surviv­ing child recognizes vvhat has hap­pened and appeals her case to King Solomon. 
Solomon. in his wisdom, calls for a sword and suggests they split the baby between themselves. The mothPr of' the living son objects. urging Solomon to giv1~ the baby to the other woman; only then did Solomon discover which of the two was telling the truth. A similar mentality governs those who wish to do all in their power to ensure a woman's right to choose yet can­not bring themselves to cross the imaginary line dividing abortion and infanticide. 
Few pro-choice partisans would directly defend partial abortion. Instead. most fear that bans on the practice will further erode women's abortion rights in gener­al -a classic slippery slope argument. Yet such a position is equally problematic. It is morally indefensible to sacrifice the lives of innocents for the liberties of others. Extremism in defense of liberty is indeed a vice. 
At the heart of the new pro-life push is the Unborn Victims of Violence Act which has received exceptional attention due to the Laci Peterson case. For its June 9 issue, Newsweek dedicated a fea­ture story to the "war over fetal rights." The story begins with the case of Tracy Marciniak. who questioned her support for abor­tion rights after her estranged husband punched her in the stom­ach, killing her baby. The article, however, emphasizes that many pro-choice groups face a dilemma: They ardently wish to punish hus­bands and boyfriends whose vio­lence prematurely terminates pregnancies wanted by mothers, yet worry that fetal rights may infringe upon a woman's right to end her pregnancy. So apparently it is acceptable for a mother to abort her baby, but it is not per­missible for the father to do the same. Again, modern liberals make the woman's choice and her feelings central to the debate. 
The conservative positions on all three issues-partial birth abor­tion, the status of unborn victims of violence and gay marriage­enjoy the support of significant majorities of Americans. The above Newsweek article noted that 56 percent of the public "say prosecutors should bring separate murder charges against someone who kills a fetus still in the womb, whether it is viable or not." 
Other polls are even more encouraging. On June 4, The Atlanta Journal and Constitution reported that another survey revealed that as many as 84 per­cent of Americans view Conner Peterson as "a separate and dis­tinct victim" of the homicide. Likewise. 70 percent approve of a partial birth abortion ban. Even on the issue of gay marriage, Americans arc leaning to the right. The national Wirthlin poll released in March revealed that 62 percent defined marriage as the union ur a man and a woman. Clearly. now is the time for the moral majority to act and reclaim its leadership of American public discourse. 
This column first appeared Aug. 29 in The Brown Daily Herald and appears here courtesy of U-Wire. 
The tJiews expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




Listen up, freshmen 
Well, freshmen, you've finished your frrst full week at Notre Dame. I'm sure you've already begun to figure things out and have had a lot offun. Like during orientation, when you sang "You've Lost That Lovin Feeling" to the girls. of Pangborn. Or when. ~ou sa~g . "You've Lost That Lovin' Feeling" to the ladies of Lewis. And that great renditiOn of You ve Lost That Lovin Feeling" in front of Badin? That was awesome. 
It's funny to be on the other side now. This year I'm an RA in Dillon, where I first awkwardly moved in three years ago. I remem-Greg Ruehlman ber how much my first RA helped me to adjust, and I think it's my job to do the same. at least when I have time off from my primary job here: modeling underwear for the Bookstore catalogs (4-1576, 
EtCetera,

ladies). But why stop at just my section? I've decided to share some 
Whatever

advice to help all you freshmen adapt. 
When my orientation started. I was overcome with a deep sense of anxiety -not to mention indigestion, because I ate a lot of . . JuJuBees on the trip here. All I'd heard from Notre Dame students durmg my high school visit was "homework this," "responsibility that" and "GWAAAACK!" At least that's what some really drunk guy said as he vomited on my host student's carpet. 
I noticed that starting college was a lot like starting first grade because there's so much uncertainty and excitement. The big difference is that here the teachers aren't so under­standing when you fingerpaint in class or wet your pants. Sadly, I learned both ofthese les­sons the hard way. Don't make the same mistakes. 
A big question mark for me was fitting in. You see, I was always more of the intellectual~ type in high school. And by "intellectual type," what I really mean is "gigantic dork." But what you'll fmd is that. by and large, these labels disappear, and you'll be accepted as you are. 
Another great thing about college is newfound free time and fast Internet. My ro~mmate and I spent lots of time downloading Wesley Willis songs. For those of you who don t know about Wesley Willis, he was ·a musical genius who died a few weeks ago. And by. )enius" I mean a paranoid-schizophrenic, 350-pound homeless man who shouted profamt1es over a pre-programmed keyboard beat. He wrote such classics as "I Whupped Batman's Ass." "Freak-Out Hell Bus" and "Cut the Mullet." 
I think homework is the biggest difficulty at Notre Dame. Sometimes it simply be~omes overwhelming. For me. papers were the worst. Fortunately, I developed a successful solu­tion for dealing with that 10-page paper due in the morning: 
Step 1: Come up with original, engaging thesis; develop it into coherent, cogent argument. 
Step 2: Erase everything you've written. It's terrible. 
Step 3: Find hammer and hit yourself over head with it until you pass out. 
You v.·ill probably miss your family very much. Call as often as you can. But no matter how many times you do call, things just won't quite be the same anymore. "I love you" doesn't have much effect when it's said after shamelessly begging for money and awkward­ly explaining that you've ruined 5 pairs of your underwear in Dillon Hall's dishwasher try­ing to save some money on laundry. , 
My advice is to·expect the unexpected. My freshman year. some.one told me they d s~en my picture in Sports Illustrated. At first I doubted, but then I saw It myself. every m~n s dream come true: half of my face. visible to the left of the basketball net at the JACC. I couldn't help but think of the song "One Moment in Time." I ~lso thought ~~o~t the song "Holy Crap, I'm in Sports Illustrated," which I will have to wnte someday 1f It IS not a real 
song already. . . . . . . This newfound celebrity had its pros and cons. lmagme the added mtu:mdat~on for m.y Bookstore Basketball team when you've been in Sports Illustrated. But smce I m a ternble basketball player anyway. we lost and the only ankles I was spraining.with m~ mov~s were my own. Unfortunately there was one big Sports Illustrated setback. 1hey decided tor some bizarre reason not to publish my follow-up. a "Speedo Pic.torial" in the 2001 Swimsui~ Issue. I've never felt so crushed. A $40 bikini wax down the dram. I spent two weeks drowrung my sorrows in Haagen-Dazs. . • . Now, I'm not saying you'll be in a famous magazme. ~ut there s a wonder~ul kind of ran­domness about college. Embrace it. Be yourself and enJOY the heck out of thiS year. Who knows where you'll end up and what crazy adventures you'll have. Maybe someday you can write a stupid column about them, just like me. 
Greg Ruehlman is a senior English and theology major. His column appears every other Monday lie can be contacted at gruehlma@nd.edu. 


page 10 Monday, September 1, 2003 


·... ··~?-:·:·. 
·~ 

TIM KACMARfThe Observer 
TIM KACMARfThe Observer 

Adam Gardner plays the guitar for Guster. He pleases the crowd with his talent, but is also a heartbreaker with his recent marriage to his college sweetheart. 



Home Sweet Dome 
Well. we're back. Our summers of "freedom" have come to an end and it is back to life in what we like to call "the bubble." Most people would probably agree with me that it is a 
relief to be back to  
school. No more  
summer jobs,  
internships, or par­ 
ents.  
Now don't get me  
wrong, summer is  
also a great time to  
relax, enjoy good  
food, and have fun  
Emily Howald with your friends,  
but it's nice to be  
back to the life of  Assistant Scene  
the weekly routine. It's back to the foot- d E itor  
ball craziness, the  

loathing of homework. the occasional beer or ten, and the excitement of being with our friends we now consid­er family. It's all starting once again. 
I don't know about you, but for me, returning to school always gives me little jitters in my stomach. Of course mine usually come while I am doing my back to school shopping-and no I don't mean for news pens, but for new clothes and fun 
It's back ·to the football 
little things for my I just hope it does­room. craziness, the loathing of n't lead you to the To some the jitters nearest bar. or in
homework, the occasional 
might come when my case, shopping
beerorten, and the
you see the Golden mall. Dome from the excitement ofbeing with highway or to oth­
our friends we now Emily Howald, a 
ers when they see junior marketing
consider family. It's all 
the opposite sex major and journal­with a new tan and starting once again. ism minor, spends 
tight shirt. We all have our new atti­tudes about school, we convince ourselves that this year will be different, more organized maybe (?), and that we will actually prepare throughout the semester as all of our teachers preach, and we will no longer {gasp) go out during the week once school gets going ... yeah right. These goals last about as long as the cleanliness of a pair of new running shoes, but hey, it's fun to dream, right? 
The new school year brings new beginnings for all of us. What's great about summer is that it is long enough to forget past grudges and bad habits, but short enough to pick up where we left off. They say anoth­er year older; another year wiser ­but, well, whatever way you look at it, it's just another year. We can take it for whatever we want. Some people will try to set new GPA's, some will try to set new drinking records, some will find butterflies in a new pair of shoes, some with a new schedule (whoever you people are -maybe your goal should be to try to rub off on the rest of us). 
No matter how you approach the new year, it should be seen by all of us as an open opportunity to do what­ever you want-a clean slate. This is college; these are supposed to be the best years of our lives, so let go of the inhibitions or whatever has held you back in the past, and make the silly, or ridiculous, or even (God forbid) driven goals that you want and run with it-I know I plan to. So "go con­
fidently in the direc­
tions of your 
dreams." 
far too much time at the mall. When not shopping, she can 

usually be found watching mindless teen movies that offer escapes from reality or chasing around her room­mate-that girl on a motorized cart with a broken leg. She can offer no advice on relationships, so just don't ask, but ifyou have any questions on clothes, email her at ehowald@nd. edu. 


Guster and Th 
By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Ediror 

So what is it like to live the life of a rock star, traveling from city to city, playing concerts for thousands of peo­ple? Guster took a few moments to talk about how they spent their day (and nights). as they drove from New York City to South Bend to play at "The Show." 
Thursday -8:30 p.m. -Guster ioads up the van in New York City to depart for Notre Dame, the first stop on their tour. They sleep for most of the trip after making friends with their new bus driver, Sarge, who named the band's new bus "Combat Situation." 
Friday -9:30 a.m. -The band arrives in South Bend and explores a little bit l.!sing bicycles, but spends a majority of time organizing and unpacking as the tour begins. 
12:52 p.m. -Brian Rosenworcel, the percussionist, says after he spoke with Sarge about the new bus and its name, he politely nodded and accepted the ne\v bus into his life. Shortly there­after, he writes a post to the band's Road Journal for the Web site. 
3:00 p.m. -Rosenworcel steps out of the dressing room backstage in the Joyce Center and says the band has just been hanging out and getting ready for their sound check and the show. 
3:20 p.m. -News that The Black Eyed Peas are going to be late arrives. Their flights were cancelled and they are to arrive on a bus at about 6:15 
p.m. from Chicago. Meanwhile, Guster's sound crew is busy setting up for the sound check, while the band sits in the dressing room or on the bus. The crew sets the light settings for the show, tunes all the guitars and Rosenworcel's percussion instruments 
The Black Eyed Pea~ performing for the a 

Guster members Adam Gardner, Joe Pisapia, Br Show" at the Joyce Center something to scream 
and plays a recording of some songs to 
test the speakers. 
3:30 p.m. -Guster meanders out onto the stage for the official sound check. They start with "Lost in Amsterdam" followed by a couple of the other songs from their newest CD. 

Ryan Miller, the lead vocalist and guitarist for Guster, is also the oldest of the bunch and the most energetic and enthusiastic for the crowd. 

Monday, September 1, 2003 Page 11 


~s and Guster rocked the Joyce Center Arena Friday 11ight ~nnual event, "The Show," attracting over 4,ooo students 

Keep it Together. The guys struggle to get the right sound in their earpieces, but joke around with the sound crew to make it m..>re jovial and goofy. Adam Gardner, Hyan Miller and Brian Hosenworcel discuss what songs sound good and what needs to be worked on some more to please the crowd better. They tweak songs, both new and old, to find the right tempo. 
Miller then announces that he wants to play "Say it to My Face" just for practice since he wants to "try to learn how to play it on this tour, but most likely will not play it tonight." Despite ad111itting they are still learning to play the song live, they sound very good. 
When they rehearse, they are just like big kids on the stage, excited and searching for perfection to please the crowd. 
4:07 p.m. -They wrap up the sound check, and have a meeting on final thoughts about how everything sounds. 
4:15 p.m. -Guster's stage crew con­tinues to set up the stage by moving the band's things to the back to prepare for The Black Eyed Peas -although they still have not arrived. 
4:32 p.m. -Gardner contes out from backstage to talk with the sound and light guys before leaving to grab some­thing to eat. 
4:45 p.m. -Joe Pisapia, the fourth member of the band. or "the band ren­aissance man," comes out to talk. He "helps to fill in the blanks" by playing guitar, keyb..>ard, bass, banjo, and the lap steel. Pisapia hails from a band called Joe, Marc's brother, who opened for Guster when they played at Notre 
Dame in 2000. Guster asked Pisapia tc join the band after his band took a break. 
When asked what the band had been doing all day, Pisapia admits that the bus was "a world of geekdom," with lots of "eating and a lot of comput­er geekery." 
The band is excited about playing Notre Dame again. "Tonight W<l.'re all very excited to get back in the swing of play­ing nightly. We grow 30 much as a band when we an'1 on tour. Tonight is · special because it is the first part of a four­month tour," Pisapia said. 

Pisapia also comments about the set list for the tour. "It will be a good blend of a lot of the new stuff and a lot of the Guster favorites. A lot of the new stuff; we're excited about doing. It will be challenging and fun, epic, orchestral pieces. But our set list varies day to day, depending on what area we're in. We change in just in case people travel with us. It's different every night with us." 
6:45 p.m. -The Black Eyed Peas finally make it to South Bend and pre­pare for the show. 
7:35 p.m. -The doors open and stu­dents rush in to secure front row seats or as close as possible. About 15 min­utes later, the floor is packed and stu­dents begin to fill the seats. 
8:00 p.m. -The arena's seats are almost completely full and students are still coming in. 
8:05 p.m. -The Black Eyed Peas take the stage, filing out one-by-one with the drummer, keyboardist, and a synthesizer playing music to bring them out. They come out jumping around with tons of energy, and the crowd is screaming despite the fact that most of the students came to see Guster. BEP exemplifies hip-hop at its truest, expressing themselves through their lyrics, as well as their ability to partake in freestyle rap and break­dancing. 
9:07 p.m. -The Black Eyed Peas end their set with their chart-topping hit, "Where is da love?" which brings the whole crowd into the show. Passion exudes from every member of the band as well as the audience. Not even a 
min11te after leaving the stage, the band comes back out for their 15­minute encore, which involves a-saxo­phone competing against a guitar for the sweetest-sounding solos before a trumpet steps in to take the limelight. 
• 9:31 p.m. -A restless crowd begins to cheer for Guster to come out and play. The half-hour intermission seems too hard to handle for the Notre Dame Guster fans. 
9:50 p.m. -The crowd picks up on the sounds coming from the speakers; most. if not all, Notre Dame students recognize that part of the movie Rudy was heard, so they begin to chant "Rudy; Rudy, Rudy" as the band climbs out of the darkness. 
The band immediately begins the 
show with high-energy songs most of 
the audience is familiar with. Miller 
invites the crowd to sing along. 
Throughout the whole show, the 
crowd remains in awe of Guster, excit­
ed to be listening to a band frequently 
heard in their dorm rooms and apart­
ments. On request, Miller asks the band 
to play "Rocketship," saying "Do you 
mind if we go on an adventure? We 
have no idea what's going to happen, 
OK?" 
1U::W p.m.-Guster is about halfway through their set, but both the crowd and the band are into it quite a bit as the band takes the time to jam out like they are known for in most of their concerts. During "Medicine," an older Guster song, they feature Pisapia by adding some 80s flare to the song with three guitar solos. The crowd erupts following each, cheering Pisapia for the amazing work of his fingers. In the song following, Rl•senworcel has the opportunity to show off his talents as a percussionist with a killer drum solo, leaving the crowd only to madly cheer for the exhibition. 
11:05 p.m. Guster exits the stage, but the crowd knows they will return and cheers for tr.em. 
11:07 p.m. Guster returns to the stage to play three m<Jre songs before setting the audience "free to go to Rally in the Alley," Miller said. 
11:22 p.m. Guster leaves a stunned, yet enthusi­astic crowd to depart the Joyce Center Arena for other evening activities. 
Tai Romero, coordi­nator for "The Show", said, "There is no final count for o.ttendance, but it is over 4,000 people. Over 1,000 bought tickets at the door." 
"The Show" was a great event, and it 
seemed that most students thoroughly 
enjoyed themselves. 
"I think it was phenomenal. I couldn't 

see empty seats when it started. I was · very impressed with all our student vol­unteers. I wasn't all me. It wasn't any me. It was everybody else pulling 
together," said Romero. 
The band seemed to have a great 

time there, too. "I thought it went very 
well. The crowd was great. It was defi­
nitely a party atmosphere, especially 
with Rally in the Alley tonight. I can't 
wait to go to Rally," Gardner said. 
Some students said they savv The 

Black Eyed Peas and Guster at Rally in 
the Alley later Friday night. 
"It was great to kick ofT the tour with 

a great night. The Black Eyed Peas 
overcame all those obstacles of can­
celled flights to do a great job. But I'm 
really excited for Rally in the Alley," 
Pisapia said. 
Saturday-2:00 a.m.-Guster climbs 

on their tour bus, "Combat Situation," 
guided by Sarge, to head for Chicago to 
fly to Oakland for a concert the next 
night. 
The Black Eyed Peas performed well 

and were full of energy the entirety of 
their set. It helped keep the crowd 
interested despite the unfamiliarity 
with their songs. Guster stole the show, 
however, with fans singing nothing but 
praises about the performance. 
Guster's reputation of being amazing 
live held true for "The Show" and this 
tour promises to be one Guster fans 
will not want to miss. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

Monday, September 1, 2003

page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Clemens reaches milestone in Yanks' win 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Roger Clemens walked off to a standing ova­tion and came out for a curtain call, tipping his cap and \vav­ing to fans who saw what may 
have been his last pitch  at  
Fenway Park.  
"It  was  very special,"  he  

said. ''It gave me the opportu­nity to say thank you." 
And it gave Boston fans, who often booed Clemens after he left Boston following the 1996 season. a chance to show appreciation Pven though the New York Yankees were on their vvay to an 8-4 v\"in Sunday over the Red Sox. 
"It was Pxciting and that's what it should have been." Jason Giambi said. "The rea­son ·why they boo him is because they miss him. And Boston fans are just like New York fans. They love great players." 
The victory was the 1OOth for Clemens at Fenway Park, where he \vore the home uni­form from 1984-96, compiling a 192-111 mark for Boston. He plans to retire after this sea­son and could pitch again in Boston, where he is 100-55 in 199 regular-season starts, only if the teams meet in the play­off's. 
The \vin Loosted the Yankees to a five-game lead over the Red Sox in the AL East, although they lost Derek Jeter, probably for at least three games. with a rib cage injury. 
White Sox 6, Tigers 1 
faced with the go-ahead run on second base and frank Thomas and Magglio Ordonez coming up for Chicago in the eighth inning, Detroit manager Alan Trammell had some diffi­cult decisions to make. 
Trammell chose to intention­ally walk Thomas and pii.ch to Ordonez. who hit a tiebreaking single in the White Sox's 6-1 victory over the Tigers. 
"Pick your poison -Frank Thomas or Magglio Ordonez," Trammell said. "That's just like with Boston, it's either Nomar Garciaparraor Manny Hamirez." 
With the victory, Esteban Loaiza became the AL's first 18-game winner. Loaiza (18-6) allowed one run and four hits, struck out eight and one walk in eight innings. 
Chicago leads the AL Central by 1.5 games over Minnesota and Kansas City. 

Angels 7, Royals 4 
Fur one of the fevv times this season,the Kansas City Royals couldn't come up with a clutch hit. 
Scott Spiezio and Garret Anderson each homered and drove in two runs, leading the Anaheim Angels past Kansas City 7-4 Sunday in what was supposed to be the first game of a doubleheader. 
After a delay of 2 hours, 2 minutes, the second game was called because of rain. a club­record sixth rainout this sea­son for the Royals during one of the worst droughts in this region in decades. 
The doubleheader was scheduled to make up a gamr that \vas rained out Saturday night. 
Nv makeup date was announced, although Sept. 29, the day after the end of the regular season, seerr,ed logical because the teams do not have a common off day the rest of the year. 

Marlins 5, Expos 3 
Florida manager Jack McKeon wanted several play­ers to step up and fill the void left by the injury to All-Star third baseman Mike Lowell. 
He got it Sunday. 
Derrek Lee hit a three-ru,l 
homer and Mark Redman won for the first time in four starts as the Marlins beat the Montreal Expos 5-3. 
"We needed some of these guys to pick each other up," McKeon said. "Hopefully we can get five or six of them pounding away at oncP." 
Lowell, the team's cleanup hitter and clubhouse leader, broke a bone in his hand when he was hit by a fastball from Montreal's Hector Almonte on Saturday. 
He saw a hand specialist Sunday, but the prognosis did­n't char.ge: He's out for the rest of the regular season. 
"They can win without one guy," Lowell said. "They know that, and we saw it today." 
Nonetheless, McKeon said the Marlins were trying to 
make  a  trade  to  replace  
Lowell, and wan ted  to do it  
soon.  
The  deadliue  for  addiug  

players to the roster and hav­ing them eligible for the post­season is midnight Monday. Any player added after then wouldn't be eligible for the playoffs. 
The Marlins are iied with Philadelphia atcp the NatJonal League wild-card race. 
The Expos, meal1whilf~. con­tinued to strugglt: on the road, falling to 4-17 away from home sin~·e tt~ .-\ll-St:tr break and dropping three games behind the Phillies and Marlins. 

Phillies 4, Mets 1 
N e v e r m i nd a n o -i: i tt e r, Vicente Padilla gave the Philadelphia Phi!lies all they really needed -another victo­ry. 
Padilla held the Mets hitless for ~ix innings and Jim Thome homered as Philadelphia com­pleted a three-game sweep of ~ew York with a 4-1 victory Sunday.. 

Roger Clernens waves to the crowd after being taken out in the sev~.1th inning. Clemens got his 100th win at Fenway Park Sunday. 
The Phillies, tied with infield single leading off the Florida for the NL wild-card seventh, injured his left ankle lead. finished 4-9 on a four­trying to break up a game­city road trip. Philadelphia had ending double play. lost six in a row coming into Heyes seemed to catch his the series. spikes in the dirt as he slid nto 
"After the road trip we've second. had, to be able to sweep three lie writhed in pain on the games here was really tremen­infield while fans and team­dous," Thome said. mates watched in a hushed 
Mets rookie Jose Reyes, who Shea Stadium. X-rays did not broke up the no-hit bid with an reveal a fracture 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. AI cLmifleds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves chc righr ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
PART-TIME WORK EXCELLENT PAY WWW WORKFORSTU­DENTS.COM 
STUDENT WORK. S11 50 base­appt. Flex pt hrs Cust.svc/sales No D·T-0/No Telemkt Fun worK schol/interns. cond. apply. work w/other students 574-282-2357 wwwearnparttime .com 
Black lab I belgian shepherd pup­ptes. Ten weeks old. Four females left www.petsconnectorg or call 233·3190 
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 

WANTED 
Wanted: Exceptionally dependable babysitter with own car for 2 girls ages 7 and 5 on Tues. and Wed. from 2pm til 7:30pm. Sitter will pick girls up from school and transport to our home, both located by U.P Mall SS.OO/hour. Call Laune at 574­271-0389 
Need babys1tter MW,Th tor 2nd grade boy after school & evenings. Reliable car needed (will need to take child to activities). Call574·210-3142 lve name & no Interviews done ASAP wanted:D.J. For Saturday Nights 9­3 For Local Nite Club Call 287­7379. 
Babysitter/playmate wanted tor tod­dler,(8.30·1 30). flexible days tf needed, in NO profs home, very close to campus S7 an hour; own car needed. Phone 287 8843, or 631 0456. 
SUMMER RENTAL WANTED Retired Arizona couple looking to renVsub-lease apt/home lor sum­mer of 2004 Call 574-289·8800. 
FoR SALE 
FURNITURE FOR SALE Couch,loveseat,2 end tables,2 lamps,beige-western··Style,$400. 282-1979, 5:30pm -10:30p m 
Octagon multi-use poker table with hard top, S25. Antiqued green dining set, includes dropleaf table with three extra leaves, 4 chairs, ch1na cabinet and buffet, $200. 2 reclining chairs, 1 gold ~ 1 tan, $25 each. Yamaha organ with pull down top & bench, $150. 42" round oak coffee table, S1 00. Sleeper sofa, S30. Winged chair (floral), $25 Desk wtth 7 drawers, $10. Green lamp table. S5 Microwave oven, $10. Toaster oven, $15. Call 272-1784 
. '· ',, . 
Mazda 90 Miata MX5, 48,500 miles. 5-speed,Hard&Soft Top, Tonnoue Cover.Custom Red,!:i9.900. 258­0520. 
1997 MERCURY GRAN MARQUIS EXCELLENT CONDITION, LOADED GREAT CONDITION ONE OWNER $5,500 (WHOLE­SALE PRICE) 282-2228 
Walk to NO, 3 BR, 2 Bath, 1500 SF, HUGE Garage, New Roof, A!C, Furnace, Carpet & Ki,chen. 1719 Dorwood Dr 5119,900. (574)233­9947 
OAKHILL CONDO FORSALEt 2 BEDROOMS, 2 FLOORS WON T LAST LONGt 574.243.3911 OR 574.532.0956 LEAVE MESSAGE1 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMODELED, FULLY EQUIPPED. $94,500. Email Williamson.1 @ nd edu 

FoR RENT 

2-bdrm house close to ND 269­
699·5841. 

3-6 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL NOW & 04/05.FURN 272-6306 
2-bdrm apts $435/mo plus utilities. 
2-story, 4 bdrm, 2 full baths. Avail. 
immediately 273-4555 Private furnished cvndo for ND r.ome games. ~ mile from stadium. sleeps 4. $595 per weekend call 273-6262 
One bedroom apt. in home on a lake. 10 min. drive from ND. Furnished, palking. Postgrad stu­dents only No cigarettes, no alco· hoi. no party, no pet $400/mo ;574)277-0189 Df'posit & References required 
Furnished ..ipl.close to ND. 1 bdrm, 
r.o smoki.1g or pets $425/mo utili­tieS ;ncluded 255-1738 
Bed&Breakfast within walking dis­tance of NC' Former Moose Krause House. Rooms avatlable for Washin~ton State, FSU, BYU.$130/night. 232-9750 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO C~MPUS MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL COM 272­1525 
FOR RENT: 3-bedroom home 1 m1le from NO. Garage, alarm sys· tern, A/C. Available lmmed. $650/mo. Call 220-0499 or 614­
353-5889. 



TICKETS 
ND FOOTBALL -BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. 

TOP$$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES. DISCRE­TION ASSURED 654-8018. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­!::D -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232­2378 PM 288-2726 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232-2378 PM · 288-2726 
help! I neec;l 2 tix to every NO home football game Please call 288­
2877 • 

TRADE (2) Wash. St OR (2) Florida St. for (2) USC. USC Tix must be together Face-value trade Call Rachael 634-0830 
NEED FS TIX FOR FAMILY WILL TRADE 50YD LN 2NAVY, 2BYU. OR 3 TOGETHER MS TIX 289·1993 
WANTED NO FOOTBALL TIX 
TOP DOLLAR PAID. 
(574)232·0964 
FOR SALE NO FOOTBALL TIX 
LOWEST PRICES. 
(574)251-1570. 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL 674-6593 
Please sell me your extra ND foot­
ball tix. 574-289·8048 Thank you 
Selling ND vs Wash St. and other home game football tix 574·289· 8048. 
Pa1r of season football tix wanted 233-3618 
PERSONALS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone It you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr Mary Louise Gude.CSC, at 1·7819 For more 1nformation, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Spnng Break 2004 w/STS. America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for d1scounts 800-648-4849 or www ststravel com 
Bmgo. Meg · fisticuffs 
"I .. uhh. didn't know I.. couldn't do that" 
Ben Wallace blocks the shot, outlets to Jason Kidd Kidd leads the fast break and dishes to Manu Ginobli, who goes HARD to the paint for the one-handed slam 
Section Marino what? 
E-A·G·L-E-S 
And I have new sheets 
Who doesn't know Ray? Seriously 

Monday, September 1, 2003 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

CSC -General Information 21st Century Scholars AIDS Awareness/SWA:f AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Assist American Cancer Society Amnesty International Arnold Air Society Big Brothers/Big Sisters Big Brothers/Big Sisters Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph 
C.A.R.E. -Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Campus Girl Scouts Center for Basic I .earning Skills Center for Homeless Children's Group Center for the Homeless Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH) Children's Dispensary Robinson Community Learning Center Experiential Learning Council 

···~ 
f. CSC -Social Concerns Seminars 
t{ 
CSC -Urban Plunge CSC -Summer Service Program 


-:;. 
'J.: 
CSC -Senior Transitions Program 
CSC -Lead Tutors Program 
CSC-Internatio!lal SSP 
CSC -Appalachia Break Seminar 
Circle K 

Community Resource Center 
Council for Fun and Learn 
Dismas of Michiana 
ETAN@ND 
Foodshare 

Global Health Initiative 
Habitat for Humanity 

Health Works! Kids' Museum 
Healthy Communities Initiative 
High O'Brian Youth Foundation Alumni Assoc. 
Humane Society of St. Joseph County 
Indiana Legal Services, Inc. 
Knights of Columbus 

La Casa de Amistad, Inc. 
Notre Dame Lifewater 
Best Buddies 
Logan Center 
Super Sibs Logan Recreation Club 

Life Treatment Centers ....
Lunch P.A.C.K. Ms. Wizard Day Neighborhood Study Help Pax Christi Progressive Student Alliance Refugee and Immigration Services Reins of Life NO Right To Life St. Joseph's Clinic Chapin Street Clinic Community Outreach St. Vincent De Paul Society S-0-S South Bend Community Schools South Bend Dream Center Special Friends SEA -Students for Environmental Action Teamwork for Tomorrow Trident Naval Society United Religious Community Univ. Young Life Women's Resource Center 
for more information see: http://www.nd.edu/ ~sao/ 





OUNDTHE 
ATION
. 
page 14 colvtPILED rRoM ,rHE OnsERVER \Vl RE SlRvicrs Monday, September 1, 2003 

Major teague Baseball 
American League East team record last 10 GB New York 83·52 5·5 
Boston 7&-58 7:-3 Toronto 67·69 fi:.-5 !lattimore 61-75 2~8 Tampa Bay 53-82 2-8 
team Chicago Kansas mty MiflR!tiiJfa 
Cleveland 
Oetr{)it 


around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Red Sox at Phillies 1:05 p.m., ESPN2 Braves at Mets 1:10 p.m., TBS Giants at Diamondbacks 4 p.m., ESPN Expos at Marlins 4 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL East Carolina at Cincinnati Noon, ESPN TCU at Tulane 8 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 7 p.m., USA 
WoMENS SoccER Costa Rica vs. USA 11 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


AssociOited Press and would remain ing he said started right pita! after consulting with overnight. after his home run. Conte. 
PHOENIX Barry Team spokesman Jim San Francisco trainer Bobby Bonds died Aug. Bonds was hospitalized Moorehead said the slug­Stan Conte said Bonds' 23 at age 57 after being Sunday night because of ger was still "likely" to heart rate was between ill for nearly a year with exhaustion following his play Monday in Phoenix. 150-160 beats per minute lung cancer and a brain father's death. Bonds, 39, homered off after the home run -a tumor. 
Bonds was scratched Randy Johnson in the normal adult heart rate Barry Bonds missed the from San Francisco's line­fourth inning of the ranges' from 60-100 beats next six games. lie was up just minutes before Giants' 2-1 win Saturday, per minute. also on the bereavement Sunday night's game his first game back fol­The slugger was in the list Aug. 14-18 to spend against the Arizona lowing the death of his original lineup Sunday time with his father.' Diamondbacks, one day father. night, but the Giants Bonds' homer Saturday after he left a game Overwhelmed by emo­announced minutes was his 40th this season because of an accelerated tion, hov·ever, Bonds before the game that and the 653rd of his heart rate. came out in the eighth Jeffrey Hammonds would career, moving him within 
The Giants said Bonds inning because of heart replace Bonds in left field seven of his godfather, was taken to a nearby palpitations, lightheaded­and bat fourth. Willie Mays, for third on hospital as a precaution ness and trouble breath-Bonds went to the hos-the all-time list. 
IN BRIEF 

O'Donnell, Winters among Flanagan. \Vaived as the Colts trimmed their NFL verterans cut Edwards made a remarkable roster to the !\FL limit of 53. 
N.\SIIVILLE -Neil O'Donndl. comeback from a severe knee injury Indianapolis cut two draf"t picks­Frank Winters and Hobert Edwards to play for Miami last season. He was linebacker Keyon Whiteside, a fifth­were among the NFL veterans cut second in Comeback Player of the rounder, and tackle Makoa FrPitas, 
Year voting behind Pittsburgh quar­a sixth-rounder -along with Brett
Sunday as teams trimmed rosters to the season-limit of 53. terback Tommy Maddox. Conway, who battled Vanderjagt for The release of O'Donnell by Edwards' career was in serious the kicking job this summer. Tennessee was a surprise because it jeopardy after he shredded his left "Our overall feeling is that Mike is left the Titans without a veteran knee in a beach football game at the an outstanding kicker," coach Tony backup to quarterback Steve McNair. 1999 Pro Bowl. A former first-round Dungy said. "lie's kicked \Veil in But the Titans needed the salary cap draft choice by New England, practice, he's kicked well in the space because of shortages they must Edwards rushed 20 times for 107 past and we didn't sec any decline fill at other positions. yards and had 18 receptions and in his ability." Oddly, the Titans released scored two touchdowns in 2002 with The Colts brought in Conway to 
O'Donnell in February to get under a dislocated shoulder. see if he had a stronger leg on kick­the salary cap. After the 13-year vet­offs. eran visited Minnesota, New Orleans Vanderjagt remains with But when Vandcrjagt spoke dur­and Miami, Tennessee re-signed Colts as rosters trimmed ing the preseason, he said he did 
O'Donnell in late June. INDIANAPOLIS -Kicker Mike not believe his job was in jeopardy. 
Winters, who was entering his 17th Vanderjagt kept his job with the That hadn't been tht~ case a few NFL season, joined the Green Bay Indianapolis Colts on Sunday. months previously. Packers as a free agent in 1992 and Two veteran safeties did not. In February, VandPrjagt had said ranked fifth among active NFL play­Hich Coady was traded to St. he was "concernnd" the Colts would ers in games played, 231. lie played Louis for a conditional seventh­cut him after he and thre('-timc Pro in all 16 games at center in 2002 round pick and last year's starter at Bowl quartl'rback PPyton Manning after injury forced out Mike strong safety, David Gibson. was feuded publicly. 
Monday, September 1, 2003 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
Seniors 

Applying for the Rhodes, Marshall, or Mitchell Scholarships 
This information session will attempt to answer all ofyour application questions and discuss the procedures necessary for securing the university's nomination regarding these great awards. 
Monday, Sept. 1st in 118 O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7:00 
Ifyou are unable to attend, please contact the Fellowship Office (fellows@nd.edu) ifyou have any questions. 
Scholarship Questions? Visit our website at www.nd.edu/scholarship for information on a variety of different awards. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Krause leaving Irish squad 
Observer Staff Report 
Then there were three. 

Basketball player Jill Krause decided late last week that she would not continue playing bas­ketball for the Irish. making her the third person from the six­member recruiting class of 2005 to quit the team. Allison Bustamante and Kelsey Wicks also quit McGraw's team in the past two years. Bustamante left because of homesickness, while Wicks quit for unspecified rea­sons. That leaves Teresa Borton, Katy Flecky and Jacqueline Batteast still on the team from that class. 
Krause played in 20 games last season for Notre Dame, averaging 3.5 minutes and 0.4 points per game. 
McGraw said she will miss Krause. 
"Jill is an amazing person with a tremendous heart and spirit," McGraw said. "We appreciate all she contributed to our team, both on and off the court over the past two years. We wish her the best as she continues working towards her degree here at Notre Dame." 
Krause is the granddaughter of legendary Notre Dame figure Edward "Moose" Krause. 
lUI .&(tilts AliT. MUSIC, HIM.I'IIUTUDIIJifiiY •ooooooooooooooooooooooooooou••ouoooooooooooooooooooooo••nooooo•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••H••nO•••••••••••••••••••·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••,:_••••••••••••••••••••·••oooooooooOoooooooooo••••--•••••••••••"•'"" """"'"""""'""'"'""""'""''""000 ""''"'""•'''"'"0 ""'''""""" FOR 5DAYS DNl Yl Monday-Friday, September 1-5 LAFO -Notra nama Room LaFortuna Studant Cantar 9:3Uam-5pm VIsit: Us At: beyond1:he\Nall_coDJ  a: 8 CD '< = = f 8 : I ::::::::::::s CD IS =  

Monday, Seprember 1, 2003
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fight hard, still drop season opener 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER Sports Writer 
The Belles opened their regu­lar season with a three-set loss to the Maple Leafs of Goshen College, following a scrimmage with the University of Chicago at the SMC Triangular Saturday 
I 
afternoon. 
! 
Despite losing to Goshen in three straight sets, Saint Mary's (0-1) fought with a team-oriented ~ attack far different from what 
I 
coaches have seen from the
I 
Belles in previous years. 
~ 
I "It was nice to have four play­
I ers in double-digits for digs," Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Sick said. "In years past, it's often been one or two people who have the bulk of our digs." 

The Belles kept it close, but lost 24-30, 28-30, 24-30. ''I'm very excited to have come. 
D-backs 
continued from page 20 
safety, and Earl moved back to his regular position. 
And that describes the turmoil in just half of the secondary. Two-year starter Vontez Duff is firmly entrenched at one corner­back position, but fifth-year sen­ior Jason Beckstrom and Preston Jackson are waging a fierce battle for the other start­ing slot. 
When will the coaches name the starters for Saturday's game against Washington State? Walters hopes to have made a decision by the time game­preparatory practices begin Tuesday, but even he doesn't yet know which players will stand out. 
"It's been difficult for [the players)." head coach· Tyrone Willingham said. "But they place the team first. Those guys are competing to see if they can help us out." · 
That's why Walters often tells out as strong as we did," Schroeder-Biek said. "We had really good defense, but our hit­ting percentage (0.087) was not as high as it could be. 
"It wasn't so much our errors, though. Goshen was very scrap­py, and it was difficult for us to get a kill because they were playing such good defense." 
Freshman outside hitter Kristen Playko had 12 digs and was the Saint Mary's leader in kills with 10, and freshman set­ter Lauren Temple had 33 assists and sLx service aces. 
Team captains Aliscn Shevik and Ellise Rupright each had 10 digs, and sophomore transfer Michelle Turley got off to a fast start with her new team by lead­ing the Belles with 13 digs. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
his charges that coaches are watching every action on the practice field to try to distin­guish the starters. 
The ultimate goal is to attempL to mimic the chemistry between the secondary that helped last year's starters intercept 14 pass­es and record 244 tackles. 
"Those guys fed off each other and believed in each other," Walters said. 
But as some players say, it has been a difficult quest to dupli­

QUOTES & FACTS
cate that chemistry this fall with 

"Europe's the mayonnaise, but America
the multitude of injuries and 

The Nanovic Institute supplies the good old lobster."
uncertainty at many of the posi­N_r Ifor European Studies

tions. -D.H. Lawrence (1885-1930), British attthor "Ideally, you'd look to your _-_ www.nd.edu/-nanovic
II
right and left and know who was going to be there," Earl said. 

·------------------------------------· 

,I \) 
I
1

~ I I 
: I 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
I

1 
l 
: I 
' 
: 
I I I I 1 I 
: 
: 
: 
I I I 

"There hasn't been a constant 
I
thing." 
I
What Walters said he is look­ing for is the best combination of : players, not necessarily the best 
I 
athletes. But he quickly adds that all the preseason shuffling : has generated some much-need­I ed depth in the secondary. If one I defender goes down, another qualified player is able to take : 
! I 

his place. If the uft'~nse calls an audible, the players can easily change their assignments rather than their places on the !ield. 
The four players competing for a starting spot offer a variety of strengths. Beckstrom gives the Irish an experienced fifth­year cornerback who sat out last season while recovering from a torn bicep. Jackson played a sig­nificant amount as the team's fifth defensive back last year. Bible started two games last season for an injured Sapp and can J:lay either safety position. And Burrell possesses little game experience but a playmak­ing potential that has Irish coaches excited. 
"When it's this close. whatever you do, the coaches are looking at it," Walters said. "You look to see how they play together, if you get great communication, and if they perform smoothly and with enthusiasm. 
"All will contribute. It's who we start that we have to figure out." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Have you thought about teaching Religion and 
becoming a Catechist? 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
* Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? 
*Can you give one-two hours ofyour tinte each week? *Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? *Wouldyou like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? 
* Would you like to work towards catechist certification? 
If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, come find out more about being a Religion Teacher or Retreat Team Leader 
Important Information Meeting: Thursday, September 4 5:00-6:00 P.M. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
I I 
: 
: I 
I 
: I -i 
! I 
;;;.
.. 
•: 
I 
1 
I I 
: 1 
I 
: 
I I 
-· 
I 
: 1 : 
I I I I 1 
-.
I 
: : : 
I . 
' 
I I 
!...f.alL·!C!~1,!..2!:§.:!tl!...~iJig.lliii'-t•,ti:t1.:Z!~~---i 
Monday, September 1, 2003 page 17
The Observer+ SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Goals easy to come by for Irish in openers 
But weekend ends on sour note as Irish lose All-American Candace Chap1nan and midfielder Randi Scheller for season 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum said that he liked where his team stood heading into their opening weekend against Hartford and Wake Forest. The team showed why Waldrum's optimism was deserved by dominating its opponents in two opening wins. 
The Irish, who won 9-1 over Hartford Friday in their opener, returned to shut out the D e m o n Deacons 3-0 on Sunday to go undefeat­

Chapman
ed in Connecticut's adidas Classic. 
Notre Dame received numer­ous strong efforts in both games, headlined by junior 

Mary Boland's hat trick in the decisive victory over Hartford. Boland added another goal against Hartford, while senior forward Amy Warner had two goals and three assists and classmate Amanda Guertin added two goals and two assists for the week-
The Irish won the two games while still suffering from some of the injuries that plagued them last season. The Irish found out before this weekend that junior All-American Candace Chapman will be lost for the season with a torn ACL, while senior Randi Scheller had surgery to correct a nag­ging hip injury that will also sideline her for the year. 


Against Hartford, the Irish scored early and often. Boland started the scoring with a goal off of her own missed shot after a cross from Warner in the sev­enth minute. Warner and Boland struck again nine min­utes later, with Boland's second goal giving the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
Midway through the first half the Irish cashed in again, as 




"It's pretty simple. When I need them, they're there~' 
FREE CHECKING FOR STUDENTS 
GET A FREE BACKPACK WHEN YOU OPEN AN ACCOUNT ONLINE OR AT A BRANCH LISTED BELOW 

Stop by or call rhese University of Notre Dame locations or visi r NarionalCity.com/student. 
South Bend Central, 110 N. Lafayette, 574-237-4733 Clay, 17977 Cleveland Rd., 574-237-4685 .\1cKinley South BenJ, 2121 E. McKinley, "574-237-4670 
• 
Convenient aCless to National City ATMs and branches whether you're c:t home, school, or on the road 

• 
No rnin;rnurn baiJnce 

• 
Unlimited transactions 


• 
No Check.Card transaction fees 

• 
Free Online Banking-check balances daily and transfer funds between accounts 

• 
Free Online Bill Payment 


National~ 
Some promotional offers may not apply. Accounts inactive for more than 180 days convert to Regular Checking with applicable tees assessed. Online Bill Payment requires Online Banking. Image does not depict an actual customer. Gift offer applies only to new Free Checking for Students accounts opened with money not currently on deposit at the National City branches listed above or online at NationaiCity.com. Limit one gift per household. We reserve the right to substitute an item of similar value. 
Member FDIC. ©2003, National City Corporation~ 
senior Kim Carpenter rebound­ed a near-miss by sophomore Annie Schefter. Another rebound goal from sophomore Maggie Manning pushed the lead to 4-0 two minutes later. 
Hartford avoided the shutout with a goal in the 42nd minute, but the Irish restored a four­goal lead when Guertin con­verted a penalty kick after Warner was taken down on a breakaway. Guertin, Manning, Boland, and Warner all added goals in the second half, while Schefter added her second assist. 
Notre Dame again created numerous opportunities against Wake Forest. The Irish tallied 20 shots, with many near misses in addition to their three goals. Freshman Jill Krivacek gave the Irish a 1-0 lead with her goal in the final minute of the first half. Warner began the sequence with a pass to freshman mid­fielder Jen Buczkowski, who moved the ball to the left end­line, where Krivacek gave the Irish the lead. 
The Irish added two more goals in the second half, with Boland scoring her fourth goal of the weekend on a rebound from a shot by Guertin. Warner capped the scoring in the final minute with her sec­ond goal of the season. 
Goalkeeper Erika Bohn had an outstanding weekend in net for the Irish, giving up only one goal. Defenders Melissa Tancredi, Gudrun Gunnarsdottir, Kim Lorenzen, Lizzie Reed, and Christie Shaner all had solid weekends in the back for the Irish, who yielded only one goal in two games. 
Next up for the Irish is the Notre Dame Classic. which begins Sept. 5 and has the Irish hosting Arizona State and Oklahoma at Alumni Field. 
. NOTRE DAME 3, Wake Forest 0 at CONNECTICUT Sunday 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  1  2  3  
Wake Forest  0  0  0  

Scoring Summary l\'D-Jill Krivacek (1), 44:34 (Jen Buczkowski, Amy Warner) ND-Mary Boland (4). 64:13 (Amanda Guertin) ND-Warner (2). 89:50 
NOTRE DAME -Saves 6 (Erika Bohn 5), Shots 20 (Warner 7), Corner kicks 6, Fouls 12 
Wake Forest -Saves 7 (Kenna Healy 7), Shots 8 (Melanie Schneider 2). Corner kicks 3. Fouls 11 
NOTRE DAME 9, Hartford 1 at CONNECTICUT Friday 1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 5 4 9 Hartford 1 0 1 
Scoring Summary ND-Mary Boland (1). 6:32 (Amy 

Warner) ND-Boland(2),15:19 (Warner) ND-Kim Carpenter (1). 27 01 (Annie 
Schefter} ND-Maggie Manning !lJ. 28:55 HART-Hilde Bakke (1}. 41:47 

(Jeanette Akerlund. Erin Mucha) NU-Amanda Guertin ( ll. 43:09 (PK) ND-Guertin (2). 50:36 (Boland) ND-~1anni.ng (2). 58:07 (Guertin) '\!U-Boland (3), 71:55 (Katie 
Thorlakson. Schefter) ND-\\'arner (1). 80:58 NOTRE DAME -Saves 4 (Erika Bohn 
3}, Shots 24 (Guertin 6). Corner kicks 5. Fouls 8 
Hartford -Saves 5 (Heather Hinton 5). Shots 7 (Susanne Nilsson 3). Corner kicks 2, Fouls 10 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

-.-......., ·-· ....... , ' • ~~ l":.:r............'0 ""-._._-~-.r •-• .... 'l ,':"' ........... ,_~ ~.. ~ .. "'• ...... ... 
page 18 


Observer File Photo 

Senior forward Devon Prescod scored both the game-tying and ' ' game-winning goal against California this weekend. 

\ 
Delay 
continued from page 20 
however, netted a game-tying goal at th~ 80:07 mark and the game-winner 1:10 into the second overtime to beat the Golden Bears. Justin Detter and Kevin Goldthwaite assist­ed on the goals, respectively. 
Clark spread credit around for both goals. 
"Both goals were team goals," he said. "Justin and Kevin both made great passes on great team plays, and Devon happened to be the man with the ball at the end. There 
I 
were some nice combina­
I I 
tions."
: ~ I 
I 
I 
I I 
. 
. 
I ~ 
.. The Irish controlled play in the majority of both games. They out shot both opponents (13-8 against Cal) and played solid defense all weekend which includes holding th~ 
\ i 
Golden Bears to zero shots in
' 

the two overtime periods. 
Without a loss and still near the top of the polls after the first weekend, Clark can be nothing but pleased. 
"This was a good start, a very solid start," he said. "Both teams were excellent teams, but we clearly out shot both teams and carried the play in both games. We domi­nated and looked really strong, as welL In th& Cal got leauers;1ii) from the sen­iors and played a lot of boys who had an impact on both games." 
~  game,  we  got behind,  and  
that's always  a  good  test. We  
I  

The irish host their regular season opener at Alumni Field against No. 5 St. John's at 7:30 
p.m. Saturday. 
NOTRE DAME U. Alabama­Birmingham 0 at Bloomington, Ind. 
1st  2nd lOT 20T Total  
1\D  0  0  0  0  0  
UAB  0  0  0  0  0  

Scorin~; Summary None. 
NOTRE DAME -Saves 3 (Chris Sawyer 3). Shots 18 (Nate Norman 3), Corner Kicks 9, Fouls 20 
UAB -Saves 9 (Alberto Robles 9). Shots 10 (Leandro de Oliveira 3), Corner Kicks 2. Fouls 19 
NOTRE DAME 2, California 1 at Bloomington, Ind. 1st 2nd lOT 20T Total ND 0 1 0 1 2 
CAL 010 01 
Scoring Summary CAL-Acosta, Carl (1), 47:42 ND-Prescod, Devon (1), 80:07 (Detter, 
Justin) ND-Prescod, Otlvon (1), 84:35 (Goldthwaite, Kevin) 
!'.iOTRE DAME-Saves 3 {Olris Sawyer 3). Shots 13 (Prescod 5), Corner Kicks 6, Fouls 10 
CAL-Saves 5 {Brian W;J.lker 5), Shots 8 (Acosta 4). Corner Kicks 2, Fouls 13 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS 
.<·;::::::::::· 
Buy -SELL -TRADE ::m}>) ..... 
$$A;::E~~;:;;;~;~E $$p

:l ; 
~ ~ CASH PAID TODAY FOR TICKETS 
'J ) 
.., ! 
lllI . CALL PREFERRED TICKETS NOW 
I . 234-5650 

Cheerleading Tryo:ut ND Freshman Women 
• 
0 Three pzy$itiott$. if'lail:abJe .• Fidl .Semester cn:ly. 

• 
0 Cheer Experience Requiree:t { 'ru:~llb~lng Helpfi.l=~ : 0 Jt1y~ Genter,. Gyrn 2:. StJpti 3 ai 6:00 p.m. 



.. 
: 0 Tryout trums ne@d to :be rompteted ny~ Se:pt 2, PiCk these u:p at reception d~s~. abt:-v-e Gate 3 of tho Joy<ce Center Co:m:ptete & ~eaite '~tl rece~iooJ$... 

,r 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 1, 2003 
only .122 the next three games.
Volleyball 
Leading the way for the continued from page 20 Irish was middle blocker 
Lauren Brewster (17 kills, the way on offense with 16 .483 attack percentage). kills ar.d onlv two errors Kelbley (12 kills) and Loomis (.424 hitting ·percentage). (1 0 kills). Loomis finished with 14 kills "We were a little disap­with a .522 hitting percent­pointed," Loomis said. "You age. never want to lose. but we 
Arizona was unable to can take a lot from this loss." match the Irish offensive However, there was no attack, as they registered shame in losing to the Waves, only eight kills in the first who currently carry the high­game. est ranking in the history of 
The defense of the Irish, led their program. Pcpperdine by Jessica Kinder (10 digs) avenged last year's loss to and ~eg Henican (1 0 digs), Notre Dame in the champi­also shone, as the Irish onship game of the Golden notched D o m e nine blocks Invitational. as a team. "We came in with "We just 
C o a c h couldn't turn
confidence, but we broke 
Deb Brown it around in
down. But we fought 
saw the our favor," Irish win hard and came bock ... We Loomis said. their sea­Hovvever,
knew we could do it." 
son opener after the loss, f'o r the the Irish 1 3 t h Emily Loomis rebounded 
straight outside hitter against y e a r . Eastern llowevPr, Washington. Saturday's match presented After pulling off a marathon another challenge for the first ga:ne vict(Jry, 37-35, Irish as they faced the Waves Notre Dame prevailed in four of No. 5 Pepperdine, who games (37-35, 25-30, 30-22, proved too much for the Irish, 30-21). as they defeated Notre Dame "We carne in with confi­in four games (27-30, 30-22, dence, but we br.:>ke down," 30-15, 30-23}. Loomis said. "But, we fought Despite a hot start in the hard and came back ... We opening game, the Irish were knew we could do it." unable to maintain the Once again Loomis led the charge. Irish with 18 kills. Katie Neff "Too many pieces broke was right behind her with 15 down after the first game," kills. Loomis said. "We didn't back Loomis also dominated at each other up like the first the net with five blocks, game." including two solos. The Irish The Irish attack ~tarted the had ten blocks as a team. first game with 17 kills and The Irish hope to continue only two errors, good for a the momentum this weekend scorching .469 hitting per­at the Longhorn Classic in centage. Austin, Texas, in which they However, they couldn't sus­will compete against Houston tain the momentum, hitting University and Texas 
University. 

It will be the second of' three tournaments the team pl.ays in this season, as the Irish soon after \Viii host the Shamrock Invitational from Sept.12to14. 
NOTRE DAME 3, Arizona 1 at Malibu. Calif. Friday 
:'o;OTRE DAME 30 2S :w 30 Arizona 1s 30 20 2(1 
:\OTHE DAME -Kills 6 I (l.aurPn KPlbiPy 16). Assists 50 (KristPn Kindl'r 2(,). Digs H (:\IPg llt-niran. .lPssira KindPr 1(}). Blocks ') (KPihlt>y (,). llitting JWI'l'Pllt-. agt' .:t~4 (KPibh•v 424). ArPs 6 (Jpssica Kindt>r 2) · 
I'Ppperdine -KiUs 4/l 1Kim (;lw;s 1'J). A~sists 40 (StPphaniP Butkus :H,). Digs 46 Ut>ImifN /\lwrnathv II), Blocks 7 (Joh•np Killough. Butkus 4J. Hitting pPl'CPntagP .100 (~h·ghan Cumpston .250). /\cps 10 (HrP !.add 5) 
Pepperdine 3, NOTHE DAME 1 at Malibu, Calif. Sunday 
i\'OTRE DAME 30 22 15 23 PeppPrdine 27 :~o 30 30 
:"\OTRE DAI\IE -Kills 4/l (Laurpn Brt>wster 17), A~sists 44 (KristPn KindPr 26). Digs 34 (\1Pg llenican Ul. Blorks 9 (Emily Loomis 4), Hitting pt'ITPntagP .2011 (Laurl'n Kelblpy 3011). i\rps 2 (Kt>lly Hurrt>ll, .lPssica KindPr 1) 
Pepperdine -Kills 70 ( KatiP Wilkins 21). Assists 62 (Melissa \1t>hlhorn 55). Digs 45 (Kristin Shultz 12), Blocks 7 (Lyndsey Hache 3), Hitting IH'l'Cl'ntagP .320 (Sophia \1ilo .444). Aces 7 (llachP 3] 
NOTRE DAME 3, Eastern Washington 1 at Malibu, Calif. 
:\:OTRE DAME 37 25 30 :{0 EASTERN WASil. .~5 30 22 21 
1\0TRE DAME -Kills 67 (Emily Loomis 18). Assists 59 (Kristen Kindt'r 29). Digs 48 (Meg IIPnican 10). Blocks 3 (Loomb 2), Hitting pereentage .222 (Loomis .412). Aces 6 (Jessica Kinder. LaurPn Kl'lblev 3) 
Eastern Washington -Kills 64 (l\iegan Kitterman 13). Assists 50 tJessit' Wright 23). Digs 51 (Sara Heilly 13]. Blocks 3 (Lindsay Page 2). flitting perrPntage .165 (Courtney Bush .750], Acps 3 (Lizzy :'.IPllor 
2) . • 
Contact Heather van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Seniors 
Applying for the Fulbright Scholarship 
This information session will attempt to answer all ofyour application questions and discuss the procedures necessary for securing the university's nomination regarding this great award. 
Wednesday, Sept. 3rd in 118 O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7:00 
Ifyou are unable to attend, please contact the Fellowship Office (fellows@nd.edu) ifyou have any questions. 
Scholarship Questions? Visit our website at www.nd.edu/scholarship for information on a variety of different awards. 
·, 
_, '" 
I. 
,. 


Monday, September 1, 2003 page 19
The Observer+l.ODAY 
------------------------------~------------------------------------------­
SCHOOL DAZE 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

FIVES 

Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILL SHORTZ 
37 _-Soviet 47 Sometime 55 Shouts to a 
!.---~-:!-~~~ 

relations matador 
48 Walk like a two­38 R.E.M.'s "The 

year-old 56 ActressLove" Gardner
50 Clinton or Bush,
41 Excitement in 
collegiately

the air 57 Spider's work 51 TV actress
45 Do business 

58 To and
Susanwith 

46 Iroquois 52 Arrange in 58 Victoria's Secret confederate different sacks purchase 
For answers, call 1 -900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords lor young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ____________ State _____ Zip________ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
~IE. 
Ur.scramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary word~. 
SUMIC 
[J I 
C2003 T rlbune Media Services. Inc All Rights R&erved 
DOFOL 
j
I I r 
YAIMDS 
1 
rJ 
www.ju'l'lble.com
tPHORTY I
IJ I I I 
Print ~J here: 
Saturday's I Jumbles: DECRY 
Answer: When the wildcatters struck oil, they ended up-FILTHY, RICH 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
Sharing tm birthday: Glcria Estefan, I.ily Tomlin, Rocky Marciano, Barry Gibb, Cooway 
Twitty 

-
Happy Birthday: Hesitation will be your cbwnfall Thke iiTIIID:Iiate action when an 
cppct1l!nity arises and yoo'll prosper throughout ti-e year ahead Learn to take advantage of 
tha;e who are interested and willing to help you achieve your gools, and you will be satisfied 
with your success. Yournlllllh:rs: 3, 14, 27,35, 39,44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): rhl't listen to everything you hear. Upsetting news about 
your lover may not be true. Don't get angry. Go directly to the source to find out exactly 
what's going oo. *** 
'L\URUS (April ~May 20): Yoo can make your mark ifyou're willing to put all your 
energy into your professional gools. Alack of attention to loved ones will cause upset*** 
GEMINI (May 21-JWie 20): Make plans to socialize. Yoo will want to be where the actioo 
is. Trnvel should be oo your mind Investment deals will be good ifyou act quickly. Pamper 
yOW'Self and you'll feel great *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Runily membel'.> will be diffiUilt to handle. Try to WJderstand 
their point of view. Talk to them not at trem financial limitations will result ifyou take 
unnecessary chances. **** 
LEO (July 2J. Aug. 22): Direct your energy into learning. Sign up f<r courses <r seminars 
that will aid you in getting a better pa;itioo oc at least taking cootrol ofyour life. You will meet potential mates in the (l'OCeSS. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Yoo need to sperxl tin-e with tha;e dependent on you fcr 
advice. Open and hooest group communication \.Viii solve a lot ofthe problems you and your 
mare are facing. * * * * * 
LffiRA(Sept2.l-Oct.22): Youcanget ahead if you play your cards right Yourtu;s will 
appreciate your w<Yk and your ability to meet your deadline. You will receive rewards foc your past gocd actioos.*** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.~Nov. 21): Your competitive drive 'kill enable yoo to focge ahead Take oo a challenge that will tring satisfactioo and a pat on the rock. You can make a difference if you lend a relping hand to children. *** 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Ik 21): You'll be upset with fuends and relatives who try to ruck you into a ccmer. Your sclcllle is hectic, and yoo can't really take time to sit cbwn and explain your intentioos.*** 
-
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Friends oc relatives may try to intelfere in your persooal life, but ifyou care about your mate, you will not allow this to happen. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. ~Feb. 18): Make changes to yow horn: that yoo've been thinking about You need to cker yOW'Self and the rest ofyour family. Tunes have been tough. but making small (.:hanges will be imprnant** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You mll51 refiain from U<;ing errotional blackmail oo your mate, oc you may not have ooe foc too moch looger. This is n<X the tin-e to disagree with employ~ oc spend rn:ney you <bl't have. * * * * 
Birthday Baby: Yoo are so eager to please that you will capture the healls oftha;e you -­encounter. You are loyal. coofident and well~ all qualities that will help you succeed througrout tife. Yoo will always get what you deserve. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialastcom 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT THE: SHOWE:f< TUI<NE:D INTO WHEN SHE: TOOK 

-
TOO MUCH TIME:. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A 

r x x x r J 
(Answers. tomorrow) 
HEFTY SPLICE HITHER 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Actress Thompson of 
TV's "Family" 5 Ace or jack 9 How to sing, 
ideally 14 Israeli airline 15 Baseball's Matty 
or Moises 16 Ethiopia's _ 
Selassie 17 Bugs bugs him 19 "Mine!" 20 1991 Madonna 
hit 21 Czech-born 
actor Herbert 22 Discharge 23 Plummeted 28 Tierra 
Fuego 29 Goethe character who makes a pact 
with the devil 30 Rock's Bon _ 31 "Vive le !" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

33 Words of praise 35 Uncomplicated 
kind of question 39 Pupil 40 Expatriate 42 String after A 43 Ache (for) 44 "Silly" birds 46 Fold-up bed 49 Narrative 51 Popular clog 
clearer 53 Wild wild West 54 Like some 
vamps 56 Horrible 59 Title hero of a 
Melville story 60 "La Traviata" composer 61 Repetitive learning method 62 "I've Got _ in 
Kalamazoo" 63 "Humble" place 64 Years in Spain 65 Marvin of 
Motown 
DOWN 1 Get really steamed 2 Assert without proof 3 Woman hoping for a knight in shining armor 4 Baldwin and 
Guinness 5 Lunch site 6 Barnard 
graduate 7 Endured, as a 
hurricane 8 It fizzles 9 Cry of terror 
10 Country-singing mother 11 Medic's bag 
12-Lilly (Fortune 500 company) 
13 "Is it soup _?" 18 Groove 21 Beatles album after "Hey Jude" 24 Georgia and Ukraine, once: Abbr. 25 Cast a ballot 
27 Mile or 
kilometer: Abbr 29 Wangle 31 Longtime CBS/ 
NBC newsman 32 Bobby of the Bruins 34 Tampa Bay footballer, for 
short 35 Slangy assents 36 Discharge 


I
I 
l ~ 
d 
) 
I 
l 
l''

I, I 



I I I 
!II 1.; 
f ~ 
'/' ' 
r~ 
' t' 
' 
.. 
, I 
~: f 
Monday, September 1, 2003 
page 20 

FOOTBALL 
Safety valves 
Versatile members of Notre Dame defensive backfield rotate within system 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Eli Whitney would have been proud of Trent Walters. 
Had Whitney, who created the concept of interchangeable parts, seen how Walters, who coaches the Irish secondary, shuffles Irish defensive backs around the field, he might have smiled. 
But Walters wasn't smiling when he was forced to shuffle players around earlier in the preseason after a series of injuries left the Irish with a tem­porary depth problem at safety. 
The Irish coach, however, believes the constant shuffling may help strengthen an Irish secondary that lost consensus All-American cornerback Shane Walton and strong safety Gerome Sapp to graduation. 
"It goes straight to the philos­ophy of interchangeable parts," Walters said. "We want our guys to be able lo play a num­
.her of positions." 
If that desire was only a dream before fall camp began, it became a reality when Garron Bible, Sapp's heir apparent, was sidelined with an injury. So Walters moved Glenn Earl from free safety, where the hard-hit­ter started all 13 games for the Irish last year, to strong safety. Meanwhile, Quentin Burrell moved in to replace Bibie at free safety until he, too, was briefly sidelined with an injury. Bible came back to play strong 
see D-BACKS/pagc 16 


WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Irish stun No. 10 Wildcats 
New rotation with two setters defeats 'Zona 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Teams can only hope to start the season by playing well. The Irish took this a step further to knock off No. 10 Arizona in their season opener Friday night. 
The Irish upended the Wildcats in four games (30-18, 28-30, 30-20, 30­
26) at the Four Points Sheraton 
Classic in Malibu, Calff. 
"It was so much fun," outside hitter Emily Loomis said. "We just brought a lot of energy to the match, and it paid off." 
The Irish took advantage of their new 6-2 rotation that utilizes two set­ters to come away with a .324 hitting percentage. The Wildcats hit a mere .100 on the match. 
Kristen Kinder and Kelly Burrell led the attack with 43 assists, 26 for Kinder and 17 for Burrell. Neither committed a handling error. 
"Everyone worked hard through the match, and it showed," Loomis said. "We really came together, and that is why we were so successful." 
Middle blocker Lauren Kelbley led 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 18 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Lightning start on the road 
By PAT LEONARD Sporrs Wrirer 
At 31:24 in Bloomington, Ind., the clock stopped. 
Heavy rain and lightning halted a match on Friday between No. 3 Notre Dame and No. 20 Alabama­Birmingham. The teams resumed play after a delay, but each squad had lost a step in the wait. 
Still, the Irish escaped that game in a scoreless tie and later defeated No. 11 California, 2-1. in double overtime Saturday to finish the first weekend of the regular season with a record of 1-0-1. 
Notre Dame out shot Birmingham 18-10 in the first game of the Notre Darrie adidas/IU Credit Union Classic. 
Birmingham goalie Alberto Hobles made nine saves and five in the first half. Still, the break in action slowed the Irish momentum. 
"We lost our edge a little bit due to the delay," coach Bobby Clark said. "We started sharply, but with the delay, it became a. very long evening, which was unfortunate for both teams." 
Irish keeper Chris Sawyer made three saves in the game and reserve midfielder Nate Norman led the team with three shots. 
. The win over California came as a result of two timely goals by forward Devon Prescod. Cal's Carl Acosta tal­lied first on a head ball at the 2:42 mark of the second half. Prescod, 
see DELAY/page 18 
SMC VOllEYBAll  WOMENS SOCCER  
Saint Mary'sGoshen  24 28 30 30  24 30  Notre Dame 3 Wake Forest 0  
The Belles dropped their regular-season opener in straight sets to the Maple Leafs.  Notre Dame 9 Hartford 1  
The Irish win, but lose two key starters to injury.  
page 16  page 17  


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Junior guard Jill Krause has decided not to return to the team, according to a special Observer Staff Report. . 
Krause played in 20 games last season for Notre Dame, averaging 3.5 minutes and 0.4 points per game. She is the granddaughter of legendary Notre Dame figure Edward "Moose" Krause. 
page 15 

-





