
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 64 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2003 
SMC holds Madrigal Dinners 

By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
For the next three nights, Hegina Hall will be trans­formed into a medieval festi­val. 
Saint Mary's will host ·its 31st annual Madrigal Dinners today, Saturday and Sunday. The dinner usually lasts about two hours and includes vari­ous forms of entertainment, with singers, actors, jugglers, musicians, and a large meal. 
The performers include stu­dents from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, along with Notre Dame alumni and students from other area schools. This year's program will present 22 singers who are students in the South Bend area. 
Nancy Menk, Saint Mary's music professor and choir director, said that the choir has been working hard. 
"We have about 10 rehearsals, twice a week starting after October break. We start learning the notes, the music, and then gradually incorporate movement," she said. "I think the choir sounds better than ever this year." 
The singers will be perform­ing madrigal-style pieces and period carols along with many songs traditional to madrigal dinners, such as "The Boar's Head Carol," "The Holly and the Ivy," "We Wish You a Merry Christmas" and several wassails. 
Other performers at the din­ner include two trumpet play­ers, two jugglers, a Royal 

Consort of musicians and four actors. Saint Mary's professor Mark Abram-Copenhaver writes the script every year, which includes lines for a jester, a wench and a herald. He also plays the Master of the House, a medieval master of ceremonies. 
Sandy Rhein organizes the instrumental music and plays the harpsichord throughout the dinner. The Royal Consort is composed of students from the Andrews University Early Music Ensemble. They travel from Michigan each year to perform at the dinner. 
Notre Dame graduate Will Bennett travels from Virginia every year to juggle during the dinner. 
see MADRIGAL/page 3 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Business students 
send troops letters 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
For thousands of U.S. troops stationed in Iraq, the holidays can be a lonely time, but stu­dents from the Mendoza College of Business are working to change that situation. 
The Notre Dame Accounting Association is conducting a drive to send care packages to soldiers with connections to the University, including graduates and family members of stu­dents. 
NOAA vice president Mike Milligan said the drive allows 
students to give back to the mili­tary personnel who defend the nation. "We can show our appre­ciation for the sacrifices they're making for us," he said. 
Margot O'Brien, the accounting club's faculty 
advisor, sent an e-mail appeal to all undergraduates in the col­lege asking for their contribu­tions to the project. 
"These men and women are very far from their families and any kind of normalcy," O'Brien wrote. "Let's make their Christmas a little merrier." 
Suggested food items include simple snacks that will not melt, including beef jerky, cookies and chips. The NOAA is also looking for donations such as magazines, newspapers, DVDs and Christmas music that will help the troops feel connected to the United States. 
O'Brien also asked that stu­dents compose letters to the troops on various topics, rang­ing from Irish sports to current events to messages of gratitude. 

"We want to keep them up to date about things going on here in the U.S. and around the world," Milligan said. 
Members of the NOM will be collecting items and letters from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. today and Monday in the atrium of the 
..We want to keep them up to date. , 
Mike Milligan vice president of the Notre Dame Accounting Association 
Mendoza College. Milligan said the group also wel­comes monetary donations, which would allow fur­ther purchases for the care packages. The students will ship the items Tuesday, so they can be in the 

hands of American troops by Christmas. 
Milligan encouraged students and faculty members to be gen­erous in support of their coun­trymen. 
"Hopefully there will be enough for the troops to share," he said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

FYS plans to keep mailing midsemester grades home 
By MATTHEW SMEDBERG News Writer 
The First Year of Studies will continue mailing midsemester report cards to students' home addresses, said Eileen Kolman, First Year of Studies dean, despite the Registrar's decision this year to only post final grades for students on Irish link. 
"FYS collects and sends students their midsemester grades because freshman may not be as able to gauge their stand­ing in their classes," said Holly Martin, an advisor for first-year students. "The grades enable them to make sensible decisions about dropping classes and making their work habits better." 
Martin said that upperclassmen are assumed to be able to make those judg­ments, though professors have the option to give a student a deficiency report in serious circumstances. 
Martin said that freshmen advisors could not release grades to parents. 
Upperclassmen do not regularly receive midsemester grades. These stu­dents may, however, receive a deficiency report from the Hegistrar if their profes­sor judges by the middle of the semester that they an~ in serious danger of failing the course. Both freshmen midsemester grades and deficiency reports are mailed to the student, not to his or her parents. 
Freshman Kaitlin Shorrock said she was not concerned about her grades being mailed home. "I plan on ... print­ing out my final grades from Irishlink so they can see them too," she said. 
Student grades and educational records are addressed to students rather than parents for legal privacy reasons, said associate registrar Lora Spaulding. She added, however, that federal law requires that parents be able to submit a special request, in which they must show that the student is claimed as a dependent {ln their tax forms, to see stu­dent's grades. The request must be cleared by the registrar and the Office of the General Counsel before information will be released. 
The University sent an e-mail to stu­dents earlier this year announcing that grade reports could no longer be mailed. "The process was, in many ways, redun­dant," said Spaulding. "If a student needs a hard copy of his or her grades ... our office can provide that easily." 
Contact Matthew Smedberg at msmedber@nd.edu 
DIVERSITY DISCUSSION 

~------------------------................................................. 
Friday, December 5, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Where's the concern? 

In the two months since I arrived in Italy to study abroad for the year, I have been exposed to many cultur­al differences. But these differences from the United States go beyond the lack of huge shopping malls Claire Kelley or better ice cream and cof­fee. Photographer 
The most sadly obvious differ­ence to me this past month was the unified outpouring of public emotion as Italians mourned the 19 soldiers who were killed in Iraq Nov. 12-a stark contrast from the way the Bush administration tries to avoid the issue of the growing number of American causalities and seems desensitized to the value of human life. 
In November, the Italian people and politicians showed their grief at public ceremonies held to honor the dead -Italy's worst military loss since World War II. The bodies were brought to Rome and were placed in the Vittorio Emanuele monument in Piazza Venezia. 
Hundreds of thousands of people brought bouquets of flowers and waited in line in silence to pay their respects. Many of the shops and restaurants in Rome turned off their lights or closed during the duration of the funeral on Nov. 18, which was declared a national day of mourning. 
Outside Pascucci's, the sandwich bar where I eat lunch every day, Patrizia, the woman who works there, hung a multicolored pace flag (pace is the Italian word for peace), which has become an international sign of opposition to the Iraq war and all that it stands for. When I told her that I supported this gesture, she hugged me and I could see in her eyes the sadness of a citizen in a country that cares deeply about the horror of the fatalities of this war in Iraq. 
Around the world, while families of those who have died in Iraq suffer, the bubble of the Bush administra­tion remains completely removed not only from the pain of war but also the protests that are reflecting pub­lic opinion around the world. Bush avoids addressing reports of American deaths like those in the helicopter crash on Nov. 2 with brief public relations statements or he just says a few vague words about "free­dom'' or "combating evil" like he did during his Thanksgiving photo-op. 
What is our country coming to when our president not only gives false reasons for entering a war. but also tries to use simplistic rhetoric with little meaning behind it to justi­fy loss of human life? 
In Europe, as protests continue both in London and outside my win­dow here in Rome. I realize how lucky these people are to be able to express their emotion and opinion without the restriction and manipu­lation of their governments. The more I learn about the Bush admin­istration the more I realize that the saying is true -"If you're not out­raged, you're not paying attention." 
Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­cion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WILL JULIUS )ONES SET THE SINGLE SEASON RUSHING RECORD THIS WEEKEND? 

tackles the  can't have  
Orangemen. ••  someone named  
Vegas in the  
record books. ••  




Natasha Sarkisian  Daniel Lentz  Vljay Ramanan  Janice Ong  Cara Burditt  Theresa Kane  
sophomore off-campus  sophomore Alumni Hall  sophomore Alumni  freshman Pasquerilla West  freshman Pasqueriila West  freshman Pasqueriila West  
"Who's Julius Jones? ..  "/hope someone  "He has to because we  "No doubt.··  "Is Chris Thomas hot?..  "You betcha. ·•  


PAMELA LOCK/The Observer 

Students make Christmas cards In LaFortune Thursday evening. This project was sponsored by the sophomore class council. 
OFFBEAT 

Elementary School in this suburb east of Seattle, Lake Washington School District spokesman Peter Daniels said. 
She handed one cookie to her teacher. who took a bite. About half a dozen other students bit into cookies that apparently had been hit with overspray and -like the teacher -coughed at the bitter taste and strong odor and spat out the crumbs, Daniels said Wednesday. 
No injuries or illnesses were reported. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Lover faces charges for tongue bHing 
WICHITA, Kansas ­Young lovers can sometimes lose their heads, but a young man in Wichita lost part of his tongue, police said. 
Police were called to a loud fight about 9 p.m. Monday, at a home on the east side of the state's largest city. 
Officers gave this report: After the argument. the boyfriend tried to give the girlfriend a makeup kiss. Instead, she bit off a large part of his tongue. 
Police recovered the piece, and it was re-attached at a 
TODAY 
0: 

Wichita hospital. 
The young woman faces charges of aggravated bat­tery. Police said the boyfriend faces simple bat­tery charges. 
Student puts repellent on teacher's cookie 
SAMMAMISH, Wash. -A sixth grader sprayed non­poisonous dog repellent on a cookie intended for her teacher and has been expelled, officials say. 
The situation developed when the pupil brought some store-bought chocolate chip cookies to school Monday for a party at Elizabeth Blackwell 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 



IN BRIEF 
The NO Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will pres­ent Handel's Messiah today at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for reserved seats at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Head over to Carroll Hall tonight at 7 p.m. for the annual tree lighting ceremony and performance by the Glee Club. 
Classics professor Peter McQuillan will speak on "Native and Natural: Aspects of Right and Freedom" today at 3 p.m. in Flanner Hall room 424. 
The Irish music group Paddy's Racket will perform today at 10 p.m. at Legends. The Gaelic Society will offer dance lessons at 9 p.m. 
Come watch as The Not-So­Royal Shakespeare company performs "Much Ado About Nothing" today at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Tickets are $5 for students and $7 for adults. 
Spend the day in Chicago shopping for Christmas gifts. This trip is sponsored by Flipside and leaves Notre Dame at 9 a.m. Saturday. 
Come cheer on the men's basketball team as they take on Central Michigan Saturday at 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Compete in the NDExpress pool tournament today from 9 to 10 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
L&.l 
!;( % 

3: L&.l .... 
<C 
(.) 

0

_. HIGH 37 
LOW 28 


HIGH LOW 

38 21 

HIGH LOW 



Friday, December 5, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 



Our Lady of Guadalupe 
Tonight! 
Las Posadas 
· 7:00pm-9:0.0pm -Welsh Family Hall 24 hour lounge ,.... El Coro Primavera will lead us in song
•
--hot chocolate and churros for everyone! 
Sunday, .D~cember 7 



Spanish Mass ·and Guadalupe Presentation 
with Fr. J Steele, C.S. C. 

-Coleman-Morse student lounge 1:30pm--Mass and ::JUmNWiif: dancing from Ballet Folkl6rico 
3:OOpm --Presentation (in English) on the story and symbolism ofOur Lady of Guadalupe 
Christ the King Lutheran Church 17195 Cleveland Road .. South Bend (574) 272-4306 Sunday Worship and Communion 8:30AM ll:OOAM 6:00 PM .. Free Light Supper Afterwards Free Transportation fur ND!St Mary's studentS. ~Call Church 272-4306 or Call Checker Cab 288-1777 preferably by Saturday and at least one hour befure pick up.  
BlusiF MILKSHAKE MASS WITH FR. HESBURGHI .SUNDAY I DECEMBER 7TH Class Mass 9:00p.m. Howard Hall Chapel Milkshakes & Sundaes 10:00 p.m. Howard Half's Green Lounge . . -PlAY,EAT,UD UNITEAS AClASSI  




Daschle testifies in Janklow case 
S.D. representative is standing trial for manslaughter charge 
Associated Press 
FLANDREAU, S.D. -Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle joined another pillar of South Dakota politics in the courtroom Thursday as he testified at the manslaughter trial of Rep. Bill Janklow. 
The defense called Daschle to bolster its contention that Janklow, a diabetic, had not eaten the day he collided with a motor­cyclist. The defense contends a diabetic reaction caused Janklow to miss a stop sign before the deadly Aug. 16 crash. 
Daschle said he was on stage with Janklow for about an hour at a Korean War veterans event the day ofthe crash. 
"I didn't see him eat" or drink anything, Daschle said in his testi­mony, which lasted less than five minutes. 
The senator added that he and Janklow-the state's lone repre­sentative in the House -are friends. ··r think he's a very truth­ful person," Daschle said of the Republican. 
Janklow, 64, is charged with second-degree manslaughter, running a stop sign, reckless driv­ing and speeding in the crash that killed Randy Scott, 55, of Hardwick, Minn. 
Janklow faces a maximum 10 years in prison if convicted of the manslaughter charge. A guilty verdict would also prompt the House ethics committee to investi­gate. 
Three other people also testified Thursday they didn't see Janklow eat anything the day of the crash. 
Leslie Simdorn, a former Janklow intern, said Janklow did not eat any of the barbecue avail­able at the veterans event out of concern he may spill on his clothes. 
"He did ask [chief of staff Chris Braendlin] for a hot dog," said Simdorn, who said she did not see him eat one. Braendlin testified Wednesday that Janklow hadn't had anything to eat all day. 
Simdorn, and earlier Braendlin, said a heckler approached Janklow after the event and they exchanged words. Then Janklow went to his car without eating, Simdorn said. "He was pretty agi­tated." 
An emergency medical techni­cian said Janklow didn't appear to be suffering from low blood sugar after the accident, but he said Janklow did accept a Coke and some candy at the scene ­two items that diabetics do not usually take unless they are low on sugar. 
On Thursday, an accident reconstruction expert testified that Janklow was going 63 mph or 64 mph at the time of the crash -less than the Highway Patrol's estimate of 71 mph. 
Engineer Robert O'Shea said he used evidence from the state and information taken from an elec­tronic sensing device in the car­data that state troopers were not able to download. 
O'Shea also said the motorcy­clist could have been traveling 65 mph -faster than the 59 mph estimated by the Highway Patrol. 
Brady bill supporters regroup 
As.~ociated Press 

WASHINGTON -Veterans of the antigun wars gathered Thursday to mark the recent 10-year anniversary of former President Clinton's signing into law the Brady bill, which requires background checks of prospective gun buyers. 
"We had a huge need: gun deaths were high," said Sarah Brady, who became a leading gun-control advocate after her husband, then-White House press secretary James Brady, was shot in an assassi­nation attempt on former President Reagan in 1981. "We had a simple message: Keep guns out of the wrong hands." 
The federal law that man­dates background checks requires the National Instant Check System -the FBI background check system firearms dealers are required to use -to search all avail-
Madrigal 
continued from page 1 

Menk is not surprised by the level of dedication. Many in the community make the dinners a yearly tradition as well, she said. 
"Will Bennett is amazing ­he comes all the way from Virginia, every year, just to do this," Menk said. "Some businesses even use it for their holiday office parties for their employees. It's just a long-standing tradition in the town," Menk said. 
Although the music is gen-able databases. President Bush will put pres­
Since Clinton signed the sure on Republican leaders to Brady bill on Nov. 30, 1993, 1 bring the assault weapons million illegal gun buyers ban up for a vote. have been stopped from buy­Gun-control advocates also ing a gun at a gun store, want to fill loopholes in the according to the law. They want Brady Campaign. background
"We had a simple

Among those not checks to be allowed to pur­message: Keep imposed on the chase the guns sale of firearms
guns out ofthe 

were convicted by private col­
wrong hands." 

felons, fugitives lectors operating and drug at gun shows, addicts. Sarah Brady flea markets and While there other public
wife of James Brady 

was much to cel­places. Private ebrate for 400 collectors are guests, a re-emerging theme not affected by the Brady law. was that gun-control advo­Jim Brady, who uses a cates must prepare to fight wheelchair as a result of the the same old battles. shooting, recalled how tough 
The ban on assault weapons it was going up against the is set to expire in September National Rifle Association, 2004, and House Majority which he called the "evil Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas, empire," but when Clinton has said that he will not call signed the legislation, he gave for a vote on the renewal of it. real hope to victims of gun­Sarah Brady said she hopes related crimes. 
erally the main purpose of a madrigal dinner, the dinners also focus on the food itself. Food services employees set up the hall all day on Thursday and spend many hours preparing and serving the food. 
"The meal is served family­style, with prime rib, pota­toes, carrots, Waldorf salad, and cherries jubilee cheese­cake," Menk said. "We used to serve figgy pudding because it's a traditional madrigal dessert, but every­one hated it. Everyone loves the food." 
The food service workers, scene shop crew, music department office and madri­

gal singers prepare for the dinners the entire week, although most say they enjoy the preparations. 
"Our 10 rehearsals last an hour and a half, and during the actual week of the dinner we put in a lot of hours working on songs, lighting and placing -we don't dance, but we do move around a lot," junior Kathleen Douglass said. "Madrigal Dinners [are] a lot of hard work, but at the end of every performance night, I become more and more in the Christmas spirit." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, December 5, 2003
page4 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
NIGERIA 


Summit splits over Zimbabwe exclusion 
Associated Press 

ABUJA -A 52-nation sum­mit of Britain and its former colonies headed Thursday toward a split over Zimbabwe, which has been suspended from the group because of concern over human rights violations. 
The leaders of Britain and Canada insisted the body, known as the Commonwealth, stand firm. But African leaders showed strong signs of going the opposite direction -three of them insisting that the bloc should lift its year-old ban on Zimbabwe and its president, Robert Mugabe. 
Two countries, Malawi and Zambia, pledged to cam­
paign outright "/ would like to see President Pervez on Zimbabwe's all regimes that Musharraf's 
behalf when the removal of an
oppress their 
summit opens elected govern­
Friday. people change ... ment four years
"We don't ago in a blood-think isolation 
Tony Blair less coup. 
is the best way 
British prime minister ·British Prime
if you want change in any country," Mozambique President Joachim Chissano, who chairs the African Union, told reporters at the summit site, the Nigerian capital of Ahuja. 
Critics accuse Mugabe of numerous attacks on civil lib­erties and human rights ­including at-times violent crackdowns on the opposition and independent media. 
A government program to seize thousands of white­owned farms, coupled with erratic rains, have driven Zimbabwe's agriculture­based economy toward col­lapse. Cash, food, gasoline, medicine and other vital com­modities all are running short. 
The Commonwealth ouster came after Mugabe was accused of bullying and cheating his way to re-elec­tion in 2002. 
Hardening of an African­Western divide over Mugabe came as he presided over an annual conference Thursday of party loyalists at home, nearly a half continent away. 
Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and some other Pacific nations had threat­ened to boycott the summit if Mugabe showed, and confer­ence host President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria made clear last week .Mugabe was not welcome. 
The Commonwealth wields the prestige of inclusion, and the shame of exclusion, as its main instruments for change in member nations. 
Pakistan is the Commonwealth's other sus­
pended member, 
following 
Minister Tony Blair, heading to Nigeria, left no doubt he 
would  be  happy  to  see  
Mugabe out entirely.  
"I  would  like  to  see  all  

regimes that oppress their people change," Blair told reporters. "But you have got to accept the limits of what you can and cannot do." 
In the meantime, Blair said, world leaders and Zimbabwe's neighbors in par­ticular -have a responsibili­ty to press for reform. 
Ultimately, Blair said, "The key thing is to maintain the suspension of Zimbabwe from the Commonwealth -as that will send a strong signal of disapproval at what is hap­pening in Zimbabwe." 
Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien, meanwhile, rejected Mugabe's participa­tion in future summits unless "changes" occur and "nor­mality can be re-established." 
IRELAND 

Clergy child abuse detailed 
Associated Press 

DUBLIN -Roman Catholic 
bishops, releasing a damning 
report on their handling of 
child sex-abuse scandals, apol­
ogized Thursday and promised 
to improve systems for pro­
tecting children. 

The 332-page report, the fruit of two years of work by psychologists at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, detailed the damage the scan­dals have done to victims, the church and wider society in this overwhelmingly Catholic nation. 
"This study makes painful reading, not least for a bish­op," said Archbishop Sean Brady, president of the Irish Bishops Conference and leader of Ireland's 4 million Catholics. "It tells of mistakes made in responding to those who came to the church seeking sensitivi­ty and compassion." 
More than 100 Irish clergy have been convicted of sex offenses in the last decade. The scandals toppled a gov­ernment in 1994 after the Irish attorney-general delayed extradition of a priest wanted on sex abuse charges in neigh­boring Northern Ireland. 
A compensation tribunal formed earlier this year is expected to pay up to $700 million to thousands of claimants who allegedly suf­fered abuse in church-run schools, workhouses and orphanages from the 1940s to 1980s. The government agreed to foot most of the bill because it had ultimate responsibility for supervising the institu­tions. 
The report, which was com­missioned by the church, made 19 recommendations for pro­tecting children, handling complaints from alleged vic­tims, and training and sup­porting priests to prevent future abuse. 
Brady pledged that the church would pursue "the greatest possible protection for all children in the future." 
Researchers surveyed 1,081 citizens by telephone. They conducted face-to-face inter­views with seven victims of molestation and eight clergy­men convicted of sex-abuse crimes. 
They communicated by mail with scores of church officials, including 35 bishops -and concluded that church leaders were guilty of bad manage­ment. 
The report recommended that priests operate under a professional code of conduct and receive much more formal support and training through­out their careers, while bish­ops should be required to have professional management training. 
"Truly effective management by the church is absolutely necessary. The path to restora­tion of confidence has to be system­atic and transpar­
"For what has

ent," said an "In retrospect, author of the happened we are both those report, Prof. abused and their
truly sorry ...

Hannah McGee. family members "It is by necessity described a great going to be a slow John McAraevey sense of guilt process where bishop because they had 
trust, to be rein­stated, will have to be earned." 
The survey found that 77 percent think the church has­n't responded adequately to the scandals, although 72 per­cent also feel that priests have been "unfairly judged" in gen­eral. 
Overall satisfaction with thP church stood at 44 percent While 66 percent said the~ sought moral guidance fron the church, just 32 percent die on matters of sexual morality. 
The report said the scandal~ had dented people's faith in religious practice. Some 3E percent said they prayed or attended Mass less frequently, and 41 percent wouldn't auto­matically trust a newly arrived priest. 
Some 65 percent said they would be happy if their child became an altar .server, while 56 percent would be happy if their son wanted to become a priest. 
The findings had a margin of error of 3 percentage points. 

"Clearly in relation to cleri­cal sexual abuse we failed many young people over too long a period. For what has happened we are truly sorry," Bishop John McAreavey said at a press conference unveiling the report. . 
The report concluded that victims and priests both suf­fered because of the church hierarchy's incompetent man­agement. 
"Some [priests] reported attempts to conceal their iden­tity in public to avoid being identified as clergy as a conse­quence of the issue. They reported a loss of public credi­bility and trust and a sense of low morale. Fear of a false allegation of abuse was also a 
concern," the 
report's executive 
summary said. 

chosen to report the abuse to the church rather 
than civil· authorities. Many felt that other children may have been protected from abuse if they had chosen to report it to civil authorities instead," it said. 

Holy Cross College could make your wish come true. If you have a relative or friend who would like to be closer to you next year, tell them about Holy Cross Coll~ge-we're right next door to Notre 


Dame. They could complete our Associate of Arts curriculum, transfer, or pursue our Bachelor of Arts in Liberal Studies degree. Give us a call at 239-8400 or e-mail admissions@hcc-nd.edu. Freshmen and transfer applicants are currently being accepted for Spring and Fall admission. 
HOLY CROSS 

5=N2~.~~~!* 

P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-0308 574-239-8400 • FAX 574-239-8323 • www.hcc-nd.edu 



Friday, December 5, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

·Israel accuses Syria of terrorism 
JERUSALEM -Israel brushed off signs Syria is ready to resume peace talks, saying Thursday the Damascus government contin­ues to back militant groups like one Israel says was behind a suicide bombing attempt on a school. 
Soldiers and police caught the would-be Palestinian bombers in a West Bank mosque on Wednesday, the military said. Interrogation disclosed the target was a vocational high school in the northern Israeli town of Yokneam, the military said. It said the attackers were members of Islamic Jihad, whose leaders are in Syria. 
Had the attack been successfu,l, a senior army officer said Thursday, Israel would have considered taking military action against Syria. Israeli government officials declined to comment on the remarks. 
Polish prime minster in crash 
WARSAW, Poland -Prime Minister Leszek Miller was hospitalized with back injuries after his official helicopter crash landed Thursday in a forest on the way to Warsaw. 
Several government aides and six body­guards were also injured when the Soviet­made Mi-8 chopper with 15 people aboard went down near Pilawa, about 15 miles south of the capital, officials said. 
Miller was undergoing tests and would be hospitalized for about a week, said Grazyna Rydzewska, a doctor at Warsaw's Interior Ministry hospital. 
"The premier's condition is good," Rydzewska said. "He has two broken verte­brae but without dislocation or pressure. His condition does not raise any serious con­cerns." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bikers charged with racketeering 
LAS VEGAS -Dozens of Hells Angels motorcycle gang members have been indict­ed on racketeering and other charges stem­ming from a deadly casino brawl and other violent crimes in the West, authorities said Thursday. 
In Las Vegas, 42 Hells Angels members were indicted -on racketeering and firearms charges stemming from the 2002 brawl between the motorcycle gang and rival bik­ers at a Laughlin casino. 
Thirty-four of the men have been arrested and the others are being sought, U.S. Attorney Daniel Bogden said Thursday. 
A federal grand jury indicted them on Tuesday; the document was sealed until Thursday to allow authorities to make arrests. 
Cancer innovation announced 
SAN ANTONIO-A first-of-its-kind genetic test will soon be available to help women with breast cancer make one of their most crucial decisions: whether to undergo the rigors of chemotherapy. 
Genomic Health Inc., a Silicon Valley biotech company, said it has identified nearly two dozen genes that, taken together, can predict with a high degree of accuracy the likelihood that tumors will return in women whose breast cancer was caught at an early stage. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Democrats let tax reform slide 
INDIANAPOLIS -House Democrats allowed a property-tax reform bill to advance Thursday without additional tax breaks for homeowners and farmers, a move expected to bring the Legislature's mini-ses­sion to an end Friday. 
The House planned to approve the bill Friday and send it to Democratic Gov. Joe Kernan, who is expected to sign it into law. Although it was written by Republicans who control the Senate, it contains many provi­sions sought by both parties, including tighter controls on spending by local govern­ments. 

AFGHANISTAN 
Rumsfeld visits torn region 


Violence continues as defense secretary says he sees progress being made 
Associated Press 
MAZAR-E-SHARIF, 
Afghanistan -Defense 
Secretary Donald Rumsfeld 
took a ride Thursday on 
Afghanistan's bumpy road 
to recovery, finding modest 
signs of progress alongside 
grim reminders the country 
remains torn by violence 
and crammed with 
weaponry. 
Rival Afghan warlords, responsible for much of the violence, are disarming only slowly, according to a British military command­er, and there has been a ·Taliban resurgence two years after that group's rule ended. Suspected militants ambushed a convoy of gov­ernment census workers in the southwest on Thursday, killing one and wounding 
others. 
Rumsfeld, making his fourth trip to Afghanistan since the Taliban's fall, met for the first time with northern Afghanistan's two major warlords. welcoming them warmly. Afterward, he said he was satisfied they were moving toward disarmament of their rival armies -a step considered critical to extending the central government's 
authority beyond Kabul, the Airborne forces secure the scene where an ammunition loader burns after It was capital. · hit by an Improvised bomb or a land mine Thursday.
"Each of them has initiat­

ed that process," Rumsfeld have increased in southern Taliban relatively quickly. said. told reporters. "It's under and eastern Afghanistan, But the warlords are now Rumsfeld told Davis he way and that is a very good forcing U.N. and relief seen in Washington and could understand Dostum 's thing. At what pace it will agencies to cut back their Kabul as an impediment to reluctance to surrender the proceed I guess remains to work. unifying the country, which foundation of his power. be seen, but we're pleased Here in the poor and des­has yet to establish a "I don't think his position that they've agreed to do olate north, where the war national army or national is unreasonable," Rumsfeld so." tides first turned against police force. said. 
Underscoring the coun­the Taliban in November Col. Dickie Davis, the At a joint news confer­try's fragile security, even in 2001, Rumsfeld raced British comman'der of a ence later in Kabul with Kabul, a rocket exploded in through a dusty haze in a "provincial reconstruction Karzai, Rumsfeld said he a field near the U.S. caravan of SUVs to a British team" that is attempting to had made it clear to Embassy two hours after Army compound, where he use both civilian and mili­Dostum and Mohammed Rumsfeld met with met with Abdul Rashid tary tools to improve secu­that the United States sees President Hamid Karzai in Dostum and Atta rity and quell factional the disarmament and dis­another part of the city. No Mohammed, the two major rivalries, told Rumsfeld that banding of regional armies one was injured in the northern Afghanistan war­Dostum was "dragging his as "an important step for explosion, blamed on lords. feet." · this country" if it is to gain Taliban fighters or their Their collaboration with So far, Dostum has given political stability and pros­ally, renegade warlord U.S. special forces after the up the military units he perity to avoid becoming a Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. American invasion in trusts least, while maintain­haveri once again for ter­
Attacks by pro-Taliban October 2001 made it pos­ing most of his heavy rorist groups like Osama and pro-al-Qaida militants sible to dismantle the artillery and armor, Davis bin Laden's al-Qaida. 




U.S. prosecutor found murdered 
ATF, FBI, are united," U.S. Attorney Wednesday and reached a plea bar­
Associated Press 
Thomas DiBiagio said. "We will find gain on the drug charges at the end of 
BALTIMORE -A federal prosecutor out who did this and we are dedicated the day, said U.S. District Judge was found stabbed to death in a to bringing the person responsible for William D. Quarles Jr., who presided Pennsylvania creek Thursday after this tragedy to justice." over the case. The men entered their failing to show up at the trial of a rap­Luna was prosecuting Baltimore guilty pleas around noon Thursday. per and another man accused of deal­rapper Deon Lionnel Smith, 32, and Smith pleaded guilty to distribution ing heroin. Walter Oriley Poindexter, 28, who of heroin and possession of a weapon 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan P. were accused of dealing heroin and for the purposes of drug trafficking. Luna, 38, was discovered face-down running a violent drug ring from thei~ Poindexter pleaded guilty to distribu­in the water behind the parking lot of Stash House Records studio. Smith tion of heroin to a government wit­a well-drilling company in Lancaster record~d under the name Papi ness. County, Pa., about 70 miles from Jenkinz. Luna got a phone call at his home Baltimore, police said. A car was near Authorities did not say whether the Wednesday night and left the house the body, police said. two men are under suspicion in the about midnight, said a federal law 
"Let there be no doubt. Let there be slaying. They were behind bars at the enforcement official, speaking on con­no doubt that everyone in law time. dition of anonymity. His wife reported enforcement, local police, state police, Luna and the defense attorneys him missing, and the FBI later began the United States Marshals Service, negotiated through the afternoon looking for him. 
Friday, December 5, 2003
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
Penn State outraged by blackface 
Associated Press 

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -A black student organization at Penn State called on the chairman of the university's College Republicans to resign over photos on his personal Web site of a white man in blackface and another photo with a Ku Klux Klan refer­ence. 
Black Caucus president Tiffanie Lewis on Thursday said the pictures were inap­propriate for the leader of a student organization and urged the resignation of Brian Battaglia, chair of the College Republicans. 
"It's not an isolated incident. We believe that it's part of the contentious racial climate at Penn State," Lewis said. 
The pictures on Battaglia's Web site were among dozens of pictures from a Halloween party Battaglia hosted at his off-campus home. 
One shows a white man in blackface, with the caption: "Apparently Takkeem was released long enough to come to our party. We thank the local police department." The caption was a reference to Undergraduate Student Government vice president Takkeem Morgan, who paid a fine last month after pleading guilty to criminal mischief regarding a stolen bicycle. 
A second photo shows a white man wearing a pillow case as a hood with the cap­tion: "He took a break from cross burning to drink a cold one." 
Battaglia removed the pho­tos from his Web site Thursday, but said it wasn't because of the Black Caucus' request. He added that he might post them again. 
In a written statement, Battaglia decried the reaction as that of the "radical left." 
"Their viewpoints, which posit that any action or speech that gives discomfort to a vocal minority should be cause for censorship, persecu­tion, or demands for public apologies, are the greatest threat to liberty in our time." 
Penn State spokesman Bill Mahon, in an e-mail to Battaglia, called the photos "an embarrassment to the entire university," and said Battaglia and other College Republicans should apologize. 


FAO Schwartz files for bankruptcy 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-Unable to pump up holiday sales or find a buyer, the owner of FAO Schwarz toy stores filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protec­tion Thursday, less than eight months after emerging from an earlier bankruptcy. 
The announcement came three weeks before Christmas, and unless a buyer emerges soon, the chain -including the landmark store on New York's Fifth Avenue where shoppers are greeted by a giant teddy bear playing with blocks -may be hosting its last holiday rush. 
It's possible new investors can revive FAO Schwarz in some form, possibly trading on its cachet as a toy boutique for the affluent, but analysts said the toy stores begun by Frederick August Otto Schwarz in 1862 may simply cease to exist. 
"It wouldn't be the first time an iconic brand hasn't been able to survive changes in the mar-
stores and The Right Start chain of 38 stores will '"ft wouldn't be the 
continue through 

first time an iconic
Dec. 15, the com­pany said. FAO brand hasn't been said those busi­
able to survive 
nesses will be liq­
changes.,,
uidated if they can't be sold, and the Zany Brainy Sean McGowan business was 
toy analyst 
already being liq­uidated. Chris Byrne, an 

independent toy consultant and Macaulay Culkin. editor of Toy Report, said FAO Wal-Mart passed Toys "R" Us Schwarz once had its own niche, as the nation's largest toy seller tempting Americans with the in 1998 . 
'"' ..(•:·

•:0;.' v·
L t ::·.:: :: 
Satu.rdoty Dece:mbe.r 6 10 Mt .. 5 pnt
. 

S11nday December 7 11 am· 5 pm 
I"Aa You Wish" ~'Q:~ , :~G~~~~ 
-INCENSE. \ ·HAMMOCKS




mPorts ~ _.. 

I I ·CHP,NGE PURSES 
LOADS OF SiLVER &BEADED JEWELRY, SILVER RINGS f.ND TOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANG!NGS/BEDSFREf.DS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala · Bolivia · Peru -Mexico · Thailand -India 
LaFortune Room 108 Dec. 1-6 (Sat.) 10·5pm 

Proceeds from sales ofjewelry guarantee the loving hands of Guatemalan familie~ 3times their average salary, as v1ell as bnd5 for their edi.lcation. 
bankruptcy in April. But the com­pany reported an $18.8 million loss for the quarter ended Aug. 2 as sales kept sagging. 
The Fifth Avenue store is a tourist attraction, promi­nent as a location in movies including "Big," starring Tom Hanks, and "Home Alone 2," starring 
Texas executes man convicted of murder 
Inmate is second to be executed in as many days in Texas 
Associated Press 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas -A former mechanic with an extensive criminal record was executed Thursday night for fatally beating an 80-year-old woman he'd known since childhood. 
Ivan Murphy, 38, was the second convicted killer exe­
cuted in as many nights in Texas, and three more of the state's inmates are scheduled to die next week. Texas has exe­cuted 24 inmates this year, more than any other state. 
"This is a cele­bration of life, not death," Murphy said "Just howling in the trees, just wind in the trees. Without true remorse, it means noth­ing." 
Murphy smiled and nodded to friends who witnessed his execution but never acknowl­edged his victim's relatives. 
Prosecutors said Murphy and an accomplice went to Murphy's old neighborhood to rob Denning. 
According to Murphy's state­ment to police, she invited them in and offered him ice cream because she knew him. 

..I wasn't there. No way I can be associated with this crime. I know I 
got framed. ,, 
Ivan Murphy executed murder convict before his death Thursday 
"She died in her own chair in her own living room. It was horrible," said former Grayson County District Attorney Robert Jarvis. "They took either her cane and or a sawed-off shot­gun they brought with them and just beat her as she ketplace," said Sean McGowan, a toy analyst at Harris Nesbitt Gerard. 

FAO Inc., based in King of Prussia, said it was starting inventory clearance sales at its 142 FAO Schwarz, Zany Brainy and The Right Start stores nationally. 
Efforts announced last month to sell the 15 FAO Schwarz 
while strapped to the death chamber gurney. "Through Jesus Christ we have victory over death." 
He thanked Pope John Paul II and others for prayers, love and support. "I want to thank everybody around the world and Father. let your will be done." 

As the drugs began taking effect, he gasped several times. He was pronounced dead 10 minutes later. 
Murphy was condemned for the 1989 slaying of Lula Mae Denning at her home in Denison, about 70 miles north of Dallas and just south of the Texas-Oklahoma border. 
Denning's son Perry Denning said Murphy's com­ments were nothing but "reli­gious babble" because he never admitted he was guilty. 

finest imported toys from Europe. But other stores now carry many of the same games and gizmos, and discount stores often sell them for much less. 
"People have a warm feeling about FAO Schwarz, but not so warm that they are going to pay 20 percent more for toys," he said. 
FAO emerged from an earlier 
sat in her chair." The accomplice was sen­tenced to life in prison. 
Murphy insisted in a recent death-row ·interview that he was innocent. 
"I wasn't there," he said. "No way I can be associated with this crime. I know I got framed." 
Investigators found Murphy's fingerprint on the bowl that contained the ice cream. Jewelry taken from the victim. was linked to Murphy and traces of the woman's blood were found on his clothes. 
Murphy had convictions in Oklahoma on counts including theft and grand larceny. A week after Denning was killed, he was arrested in Hugo, Okla., on two counts of shooting with intent to kill. 



Friday, December 5, 2003 

page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
9
jones 9, 30.82 +57.40 
•.. Same: I'JcfWr): Composite Volume: 1,617 182 • 1,457,848,960 
AMEX  1,113.88  -3.29  
NASDAQ  1,968.80  +8.55  
NYS£:  6,153.90.  +11.12.  
s&PSOO  1,069.72  +4.99  
NIK!$fi(T'okyo)  ..  10~449.99  0.00  

FTSf IOO(London) 4,378.20 -13.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFl) +2.06 +0.53 26.20 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.92 +0.68 23.98 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +3.89 +0. 17 4.54 INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.60 +0.20 33.54 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.70 +0.09 12.99 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.54 -0.28 5 I .57 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.93 -0.41 43.69 5-YEARNOTE -1.42 -0.49 33.90 3-MONTH BILL -1.21 -0.11 9.0 I 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.16 31.26 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -0.60 404.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.525 86. I 5 
Exchan Rates 
YEN 108.4 EURO 0.8277 POUND 0.5816 
IN BRIEF 
Westar exec indicted on fraud 
WASHINGTON -The former chief execu­tive of Westar Energy Inc. was accused Thursday of plundering Kansas' largest elec­tric company of millions of dollars and using the money to renovate his mansion and buy a Ferrari while the utility nose-dived. 
A 40-count federal indictment charged David Wittig and former executive vice pres­ident Douglas Lake with conspiracy, fraud and other crimes. Wittig, 48, was convicted this year of bank fraud unrelated to Westar business. 
During their tenure from 1998 to 2002, Westar's debt soared to $3 billion and stock shares tumbled from a high of $44 to $9. 
"The indictment alleges that through theft, fraud and outright intimidation, Wittig and Lake concocted a scheme to loot the compa­ny of tens of millions of dollars," acting Deputy Attorney General James Corney said at a Justice Department news conference with the U.S. attorney for Kansas, Eric Melgren. 
U.S. works to cut off terrorist funds. 

BAGHDAD, Iraq-A spate of U.S. raids on Iraqi smugglers signals a new strategy to deny the guerrilla insurgency one of its chief recruiting assets: money. 
If U.S. military strategists are correct, in just over a month, the insurgency will face a financial crisis when old Iraqi dinar notes bearing the face of Saddam Hussein will be worthless. The military wants to deepen the crisis by launching raids on black marke­teers thought to be funding the guerrilla movement. 
"If we can stop the money, we can stop the insurgency," a coalition military official in Baghdad told The Associated Press, speaking on condition of anonymity. Because many strikes are carried out by hired attackers, he said Thursday, the United States is going after the "paymasters." 
The insurgency's need for funds was high­lighted by coordinated attacks in Samarra, where bands of guerrillas laid in wait at two banks awaiting the delivery of dinars -set­ting off firefights with U.S. troops that claimed dozens of Iraqi lives. 
Bush relents, repeals tariffs 
Decision eases internation trade tentions, disappoints domestic steel zvorkers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush on Thursday scrapped import tariffs he had imposed last year to help the battered 
U.S. steel industry, defus­ing a threatened trade war with Europe and Japan but creating political problems for Bush in such key bat­tleground states as Ohio and Pennsylvania. 
The president declared that the 21 months the steep tariffs had been in place had given the U.S. industry a chance to con­solidate and modernize and were no longer needed as a result of "changed economic circumstances." 
However, the decision prompted an angry response from the steel industry and its political supporters, who accused Bush of breaking a cam­paign promise and turning his back on an industry that was still in need of protection from unfair for­eign competition. 
Leo Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers of America, called the Bush's action "clear evidence of capitulating to European blackmail and a sorry betrayal of American steel­workers and their commu­nities." 
Sen. Robert Byrd, D­angered small manufactur­ucts. tional breathing room to W.Va., said the administra­ers and their workers in Japan, South Korea and get back on its feet." Rep. tion had "shattered any Michigan, Minnesota and other countries that had Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., said credibility it ever had witl1 Wisconsin, which account joined in a successful chal­Bush's action demonstrat­the steel industry in West for 37 electoral votes. lenge of the tariffs before ed a "callous disregard for Virginia and across the Adding to the political the World Trade the workers and the com­country." pressure, the .15-nation Organization had said they munities whose jobs and 
The steel tariffs carried European Union had would also drop their livelihoods have been deci­high political stakes in drawn up a $2.2 billion retaliation threats if the mated by unfair competi­Rust Belt and Midwestern retaliation list targeting a tariffs were eliminated. tion." Former Gen. Wesley states where the margin wide range of products "These sanctions ... were Clark said Bush needed to between Bush and from other key election there as a tool for compli­"listen to the 2.6 million Democrat AI Gore was slim states Bush is hoping to ance," said EU Trade manufacturing workers in 2000,. and where the win next year such as Commissioner Pascal who've lost their jobs" president is determined to Florida, California, Lamy. "They've complied while he has been in office. prevail in 2004. Louisiana and the and the sanctions will dis­However, Republican 
Bush scored points with Carolinas. appear." free-trade supporters and the sanctions in steel-pro­Within minutes of the Bush's action was criti­industries hurt by the steel ducing states such as president's announcement cized by Democrats cam­tariffs praised Bush's deci­Pennsylvania, Ohio and that the tariffs were to paigning for his job. sion, saying it had averted West Virginia -which expire at midnight Former Vermont Gov. a debilitating tit-for-tat hold 46 of the 270 elec­Thursday, the EU said it Howard Dean said that fight with some of toral votes at stake in was withdrawing its $2.2 despite Bush's claims "the America's biggest trading 2004. But the tariffs billion list of targeted prod-steel industry needs addi-partners. 


IRS scrutinzes compensation deals 
law," IRS Commissioner Mark use of fringe benefits such as private
Associated Press 
Everson said. jets and vacation homes. Golden 
WASHINGTON -The Internal The IRS started its inquiries this parachutes, or benefits packages Revenue Service is auditing two summer to find out whether compa­granted to executives when they leave dozen companies to make sure they nies were following the rules for a company, are under review. The IRS followed the rules for compensating fringe benefits and other forms of is examining deferred compensation executives, scrutinizing corporate paying top officers. The review came programs and stock options to make perks such as stock options and the as corporate bankruptcies exposed sure they are taxed appropriately. use of private jets and luxury apart­the lavish lifestyles of some execu­Also being studied are laws that cap ments. tives. deductible compensation at $1 mil­
The examinations will focus on The audits, geared toward compa­lion, arrangements that transfer com­more companies and possibly mean nies with $10 million or more in pensation among family members auditing the personal tax returns of assets, intensified this fall. The IRS, and employee leasing programs. some corporate leaders, said Keith which is not identifying the compa­Jones said the IRS views the audile; Jones, the agency's director of field nies, plans to use its findings from the part of the government effort to specialists. first batch of audits and expand the increase its oversight of corporate 
"Executive pay packages have investigations. America in the wake of a series of become much more complex. We're The agency identified eight areas of business and accounting scandals. taking a close look at these vehicles to scrutiny. The list includes rules "This is a corporate governance make sure they fully comply with the regarding the business and personal issue," Jones said. 

~~--~~~-~-----------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, December 5, 2003 
TV may have fueled Jackson arrest 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -More than a year ago, Michael Jackson let a television crew into his bizarre world for a 1V documentary he no doubt hoped would boost his fading career. 
Instead, "Living With Michael Jackson" may have triggered the child molestation case that threatens to destroy Jackson and his multimillion-dollar music empire. 
Exactly what happened is a matter of dispute, but inter­views with several sources close to Jackson and the accuser's family reveal one consistent thread: The documentary set in motion a series of events that led to the pop star's arrest last month. 
The TV special, broadcast worldwide last February to an audience of millions, offered images of Jackson's fairy-tale estate, Neverland, his lonely trips to Las Vegas and his lavish spending habits. It also showed him talking about sleepovers with children at Neverland and holding the hand of a cancer­stricken boy -the boy who is now Jackson's accuser. 
Those close to Jackson's defense team allege that around the time the TV special aired, the mother demanded a fee for her son's appearance. When Jackson refused, they say, the relationship between the family and Jackson soured. 
In an alternate version, those close to the mother's side say she did not ask for payment. Instead, they say Jackson began acting strangely just before the special aired, telling the family they were in danger and would have to pack their belongings and leave their home. 
According to this account, 
Newscom 
Singer Michael Jackson Is shown here after being booked on charges of child molestation. The aging star's troubles may have been triggered by a TV documentary airing last February. 
Jackson barred the family from Neverland, after which the mother hired an attorney -the same lawyer who had repre­sented a boy in a molestation claim against Jackson 10 years ago. 
The sources spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity but are in a position to know each side's version of events. 
Jackson attorney Mark Geragos called the latest accu­sations "the big lie" and said the singer denies molesting the boy, now 13. The Santa Barbara County district attorney's office said it expects to file formal charges the week of Dec. 15. 
Everyone is in agreement on one thing: Jackson's relation­ship with the boy began with a good deed. Jackson was told by 

Dinner starting at $6.45 222 Dixieway S., S.B. 574-272·7376 

of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
Handel's 



Messi 
' 

Tickets: ~· 
,;..: -'"~· 

$6 ReservedSe g. '·? $3 Seniors/Students 
LaFortune Box Office 
(574) 631-8128 
Jamie Masada, a comedy club owner who runs a camp for underprivileged children, that a child hospitalized with cancer wanted to meet him. 
Jackson, who supports many children's charities, obliged and formed a relationship with the boy and his mother. The boy vis­ited Neverland as his condition improved and gradually became part of Jackson~ large entourage. 
In the TV documentary, which was filmed over an eight-month period and aired in this country on ABC, Jackson defended his habit of letting children sleep in his bed as "sweet" and non-sex­ual. In one scene, the boy, his head sometimes resting on Jackson's shoulder, told the interviewer he had been a guest for sleepovers at Neverland. 
Flu season kicks off early; 11 dead 
than two dozen were in the
Associated Press 
intensive care unit, Dr. Jane 
FORT WORTH, Texas -Siegel said. Tissues are disappearing so rap­"Most of those children idly from teacher Irma Natoli's require IV fluids ... and most desk that she's resorted to have significant enough lung handing out paper towels to disease so they're on a ventila­sniffling seventh-and eighth­tor," she said. graders struggling with flu In a typical year 36.000 symptoms. Americans die from the influen­
"We've gone through boxes of za virus, but flu researchers them," said Natoli, who teaches expect a higher death toll this at Morningside International year. Academy, a Fort Worth school The flu season usually stretch­for sixth-through eighth­es from October to May, peaking graders. "They in December and are constantly January, but this going to the bath­year cases were 
..Most ofthose chil­
room for toilet reported in some paper and to dren require IV Western states as wash their fluids ... and most early as hands." September . 
... [are] on a
As a nasty flu Texas was the
ventilator.,,
outbreak spreads first state this sea-across the coun-son where the flu try, schools are Dr. Jane Siegel was considered reporting more widespread, the
Dallas doctor 

NOTRE DAME 
empty seats as parents keep chil­dren at home to recuperate or to protect them. 
The flu is being blamed for the deaths of at least six children in Colorado, three in Texas and one each in Oklahoma and New Mexico. 
Children are particularly sus­ceptible because their bodies have not previously been exposed to the virus that infects the nose, throat and lungs, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Children's Medical Center Dallas has seen more than 500 children with the flu since October. On Thursday more 
Better Ingredients .. Better Pizza.. 
CDC's most severe 
ranking. Nine 

other states ­Washington, Idaho, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, Arkansas, Tennessee and Pennsylvania -have since been classified as having widespread flu outbreaks. 
More than 6,300 flu cases have been reported in Colorado, more than in the previous two years combined. North Dakota has tallied 292 flu cases so far, compared to just two this time last year. 
Many states, including Texas, do not calculate the number of flu cases because they are not required to report such cases to the CDC. 
STMARY'S 
HOLY CROSS
271 .. 1177 LATI! 
271-7272



NIGHT SPECIAL 
~o'e
t....l3\• ' 
cat\~' eoS· ~e t\'J ~e Mon-Thu 11am-1am 
1l\t ~3 

~ov Fr-Sat 11 am-3am 

Sun 12pm-1am 



1 Large Topping 


$6.99 
after 9pm 

Free Delivery Visa, Mastercard 
.. 
Friday, December 5, 2003 page 9 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Public land grazing rules to be loosened 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush 
administration, departing 
from Clinton-era restrictions 
on managing rangeland, is 
proposing new rules aimed at 
helping livestock owners 
whose cattle range on public 
lands. 
The new rules would give the Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management two years, instead of one, to make grazing decisions need­ed to maintain healthy ranges, according to agency documents obtained Thursday by The Associated Press. 
"This proposal recognizes that ranching is crucial not only to the economies of Western rural communities, but also to the history, social fabric and cultural identity of these communities," Interior Secretary Gale Norton said in a prepared statement. 
Norton plans to announce the proposal in a speech Friday to a convention of live­stock owners in Albuquerque, 
N.M. She describes the pro­posal as an attempt to improve grazing manage­ment and help continue pub­Jic lands ranching in the rural West. 

"This proposed rule will help public lands ranchers stay on the land," Norton said in remarks prepared for her speech to the convention. "It will do that by creating a reg­ulatory framework that lets ranchers succeed based on sound business judgment and sustainable ranching prac­tices." But the Natura] Resources Defense Council, an environmental group, said Thursday that it expects the proposal to mark a return to practices that have allowed decades of overgrazing and other unsustainable grazing practices. The group said "the clear and short deadline of one year for action is the first step to halt grazing dam­age." 
The new rules also would require more studies and monitoring any time the Bureau of Land Management evaluates whether health standards for rangeland are being met and reward live­stock owners by letting them split ownership with the BLM for permanent improvements such as fences, welJs and pipelines. 
BLM Director Kathleen Clarke, whose agency man­ages 261 million acres, said in remarks prepared for Friday that the proposed changes are "a major step forward" toward better rangeland management and will "improve the agency's working relationships" with permit-holders. 
About 160 milJion of those acres are authorized for grazing by some 18,000 per­mit-and leaseholders, but what is grazed is typicalJy less because of drought, wild­fires and business decisions. 
"This proposed rule reflects our agency's commitment to continue livestock grazing as one of the legitimate uses of the public lands," Clarke said. 
Associated Press 
CHESAPEAKE, Va. 

Prosecutors complained 
Thursday that Lee Boyd 
Malva's lawyers have not pro­
duced enough evidence to sup­
port an insanity defense in the 
Washington sniper spree. 

Fairfax County Commonwealth's Attorney Robert F. Horan Jr. told the judge that he is contending with "an insanity defense that's like a puff of smoke." 
Prosecutors stopped short, however, of asking Circuit Judge Jane Marum Roush to disallow such a defense. 
Lawyers for the 18-year-old Malvo, on trial for his life in the shooting death of an FBI analyst, contend he was brain­washed and turned into a kilJer by John AlJen Muhammad. Muhammad, 42, was convicted last month in the case, and the jury recom­mended a death sentence. 
While the jury in Ma]vo's case was out of the courtroom, prosecutors said none of the mental health reports provided so far by the defense have said anything about Malvo being insane. 
Horan said one report con­cludes only that Malvo is "severely impaired in his abili­ty to determine right from wrong" -insufficient evidence for an insanity defense under Virginia Ia w. 
"He doesn't say he was insane. He says he was 'severely impaired,'" Horan said. 
Horan argued that letting Malvo's attorneys proceed with the insanity defense would let them introduce evidence aJlowed only in the sentencing 

Sniper defense questioned 

phase of the trial, should there be a guilty verdict. 
Defense attorney Craig Cooley responded that Virginia law does not define insanity but that he has experts pre­pared to say Malvo could not tell right from wrong. 
The judge said she expects to question many of the mental health experts outside the jury's presence to determine what their testimony will be before allowing the jury to hear it. 
Also Thursday, a clinical psy­chologist testified that Malva was cheerful during a daylong neuropsychological evaluation in August, a mood he called "really quite odd." 
"It was almost a goofy affect, if you will, which seemed quite out of step with the serious­ness of the situation," said David Schretlen, who teaches at Johns Hopkins University. 


Pataf!onia 

excl6Sively 

at~·

Sminute~ ~ 
from DUTPCST 
Camnus~ 
r Cold Weather Experts 
Cal1259·1.ooo for more details 

"My conclusion is that Mr. 
Malvo produced an abnormal 
neuropsychological examina­
tion." 

Schretlen said on cross­
examination that he found no 
evidence of psychosis. 

A forensic social worker tes­tified that Malvo was obsessed with racial inequality and insisted he be called "John Lee Muhammad" and be acknowl­edged as Muhammad's son. 
Malvo also defended Muhammad, said Carmeta Albarus, who has talked with Malvo in jail over about 70 hours since March. 
"He said, 'They want to use me to kill my dad,"' Albarus said.She said Malva's concern about racial inequality and injustice surprised her. Like Malvo, she also is originally from Jamaica, where she said racism is not a problem. 
Also Thursday, the judge ordered attorneys stop talking to the news media after The Washington Post published a letter written by Malvo months before the sniper spree that left 10 people dead in and around the nation's capital. 
The judge had refused to let defense attorneys show or read the letter to the jury, rul­ing it hearsay. 
Prosecutors told the judge thev did not leak the letter.
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW 
ACCEPTED FOR THE PRESIDENT OF THE 
STUDENT CAMPUS 

ORIENTATION COMMITTEE 
Responsibilities of the SCOC President include: 
.; ~ 

*To help promote ND's orientation ministry among the hall orientation 
e 
commissioners, campus orientation commissioners and hall orientation committee members. 
*To role model University expectations for orientation commissioners and hall orientation committee members. To assist with the hall and campus orientation committees. 
*To serve as peer educators to hall orientation commissioners and 
committee members. *To plan campus-wide orientation events for students and parents. *To assist in facilitating the hall orientation programs (i.e., ice breakers 
at mixers) during the fall semester. Ifyou are interested in applying as SCOC President, please stop by the Student Activities Office at315 LaFortune Student Center to pick up an application. The application deadline is December 8th. Interviews 'vill 
be held later in the week. 








halimar 
ce;a*J«ZI!I;IJ:.Ii~ 


{·.h~IC ,llfltlft,./"1 {~irt:O.·/;;,_:~ 
:.")0~ \V, \kKinky :\'d~n·,.~,. \·h~h.n1r·<1k<1. ~-~ ·4<:J~·4·S 
574-254-~)()7() Come Visit Mishawaka's Finest Indian Restaurant! 
Traditional Non-Vegetarian, Vegetarian, (Vegan entrees available upon request) and Seafood Entrees. 
DAILY LUNCH BUFFET! 
;-. ,• :-. :-.~··:·'· 
: :..;

Monday-Sunday 11:30 -2:30pm ; "*".
::..;.. ~­
::··.-:-:··;; 
·.;_... ;::;..··=:·; 



-




mH·>t! Ass>-ER.VER..•· ''1 
1. .. ~. v .........·...········· ....... >::::: 


Return purpose to Core program 
~~~Piilr~~'li~~~~~~~·· ······ 


The Bush-bashing bandwagon 
It's no secret that, for a large number of Americans voting in the Democratic pri­mary, this one's personal. Bush stole the 2000 election, he wants to destroy the envi­ronment, he only cares about oil, the tax cuts only help the rich, he doesn't 
Bill Rlnner .n 
care about our allies, he had no postwar strategy for 
A Voice of
Iraq and he lied to 
Reason
the American pub­lic the entire time. The list, while just a sampling of the trendy political attacks thrown about by pundits on the left, goes on. 
In many cases, unfortunately, hatred for the man himself clouds a levelheaded analy­sis of the issues. The pao-pao platter of criti­cisms is not necessarily mistaken but does require a greater explanation and discus­sion of the issues than one might find listen­ing to Rush Limbaugh or Michael Moore. 
For many, Bush was the worst president in history before he even took office. Already enraged over what they considered a rigged election, many Democrats developed a per­sonal disdain based on everything from his perceived lack of intelligence and Texas swagger to his ties with big business and the rotten oil industry. 
Over the last two years more have jumped on the bandwagon as Bush trampled their own personal objection of choice with hard­ly a look back. As a result, a crowd that once murmured "I don't agree with some things, but he's not that bad" changed its tune to "I fear for my children with Bush in power." 
Uke that of numerous conservatives dur­ing the Clinton years, the hatred-fueled mindset for many liberals has shifted from sensible to pathological. A comparison of haters of the last two presidents does not expose either group as superior in reason, particularly when Ointon and Bush regular­ly "stole" issues from the opposition. Look up "welfare reform" or "Medicare" ifyou don't believe me. 

The progress of the Democratic campaign for presidential nomination is a telling symptom of just how serious it has become. 
When many Democrats sat thinking about which senator who voted for the war would ultimately gain the nomination and chal­lenge the incumbent, the ex-governor from a tiny Northeastern state carried out a bril­liant grassroots campaign and now stands at the front of the pack. 
How can one account for the success thus far of Howard Dean, who has yet to offer a compelling policy proposal that will be polit­ically viable and stands little chance of breaking the Republican gridlock on the South? What about the man has Democrats believing again? 
To put it plainly, Dean is essentially the anti-Bush. His fortune to be the "Washington outsider" sheltered him from the wave of compliance with Bush that every other candidate must overcome, and he's taking full advantage at every step along the road. His vehement attacks on every aspect of Bush policy resonate with the Democratic core so profoundly that every other candidate must follow his lead. 
Dean has successfully framed every cam­paign issue presented to him as an opportu­nity to tell registered Democrats how every­thing Bush has done since his inauguration has been wrong, and how he'll do different­ly. And the crowd goes vvild. 
To be fair, Dean has made a number of proposals for how to run the country di1Ier­ently, even when his speeches remind view­ers of Captain Ahab's relentless hunt for the white whale. His passion alone is enough to match that of the Bush-haters, and the ensuing love affair is hardly an oddity. 
Ask yourself, ifyou're reading this and want nothing more than for Howard Dean to win the nomination and eventually send Bush back to Texas with hi'i tail between his legs: Were you initially attracted to his radi­cal idea of repealing every tax cut made by Bush WD~~Hl;s~~riq<;isW gfjJle~UIJ. 1 
generAlfWer&you swayed byDean~ hJter­native proposal for how to handle the situa­tion in the Middle East, or by his ardent opposition to the Iraq war itself? 
Now, after that moment of introspection, consider how a general election might shape up. Of all realistic candidates still in the race for the nomination, Dean is clearly the most left-leaning. He docs have a few token moderate stances under his belt. but the majority of his proposals make Bill Clinton look like his old rival Newt Gingrich. 
His policy stances may not matter to many ofthose who consider him the cure to Bush's plague, but the centrist 20 percent of the electorate that does not routinely side with one party and may still have unre­solved feelings towards the president will more than likely reject his unabashed liber­alism, and his message will fail to persuade southerners who favor a president with sim­ilar values instead of an outsider dangling a lure of free health care in front of them. 
While only a portion of the Democratic party actually hates Bush to the extent that they lack foresight into the eventual general election, independent thinkers on the left should strongly consider employing some political "strategery" when favoring a candi­date for the nomination. 
Bill Rinner is a junior economics major studying at the London School ofEconomics. /lis column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at wrinner@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
The University is considering changing the Core course. Which alternative do you prefer? 
A. Class based on classical text. 29% 
B. 1 semester class sophomore year. 13% 
C. 1 semester class sophomore year and a senior capstone class. 21% 
D. No core class. 37% 
*Poll is based on 114 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The President has only I 90 million bosses.,, 
Hubert Humphrey vice president 
P.(); ~JtQ; No~ oam~. IN 46.556 ·.. 024 South Pilling Hillt; N~ite Daine.1N <165$6 
EDITOR IN CJU!F · 

Andr~ Soukup .. @tt'''if&.~Gli~G EDIToR BuSINEss MANAGER. 
~' 
Loti~IU. 
(, 
( 
> . 
SPoRts EortOR; Joe Hetder . 

•. ·~Eblll)Jt; S;~rah V:lbulas .·•·· ··. · ··. ·SAINT MARY's Entfua: Anndie:SC:wobtford PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar . · · GRAPHICS EorroR: Mike Harkins .· ADVERTISING ~G.ER: Ma.Uia Genedella 

AD DEsiGN MAN.\GER: ·!om Haight .· SYsTEMS :ADMIJIIISTaA,lOR: Ted Bangeu < · 
., .• W.EB ADMI!III~RA.Toa: Jasoll ¢reek 
. .CoNTROlllR: Mike Fialli\gan 

·:··:··· . ·.· . . . . . ·· ..··. 
. . . . .. · .. 
Qymiom ~mtObiirvir}ip/icm ,hu,.Ufk · dirtcud ta ErlitPr irt C/ii4And~ Souftup. . . ....... 

:;:·:·:· 
-:-:-::-:·.·· 
·:::::::::::;:::;: 
.···:·:··:-:-:-:-: POST· OFFICE INFORMATION . • •.. <· .. 
···:-:-:-:-:.:-:-: 
•<•· ~01..c...., MI'S m 2-469o);. ~M-~or <~>.....P r&~or,.ap. d·'~ :·• •.~.....! ...-.~... pet~A~iip<i<>~ wJlt¢~~~~ $1()1l(<>t~~i'<:
>
•• •Jit;u>$~~ii>rC....:..rn~, .· . ····· ... . .
. . ..... ... 
...·· .. ~ ...

·.·.··.··.···.·.··.··.~.L.9l'.""",L:.::.~~....:.·....~·. ..·· ...·· .> •.. I'Q$T~a\_ ••.• • ..·· 
.....~,., n '-"•" • .,,... · . •Sc:>i<hd~<,.;t,,;;iq,fW.•: ... .... ~'"' o""""..IN<I/0~ • T:~~. • ...•· .·• ·. 
:~~~~oik:~D~ ..~!:~'t&.incM.JI<.••.·············•. 
·. • .~~o.a;m:;l~#~'-i);~m ••·..··· 

Tho ~r <. • "'""bc..,ftio<o~,.-;1 ~ ,\1 ~hortl~io~ · .
..........~.. . .. ... . . . . ... 

TODAY'S··STAFF 

News Teresa Fralish Will Puckett Megan O'Neil Viewpoint DoloresDfaz Illustrator Vanessa Saenz 
··Graphics·· Mike Harkins Sports Justin Schuver · Heather Van Hoegarden Matt Puglisi· ·Scene 
· Sarah Vabulas 
Among undergraduates at Notre Dame, horror stories abound about taking the University two-semester Core class, required for all Arts and Letters majors. Over the past few years. the Core class has earned a reputation among students as a pointless require­ment. 

Because of concerns expressed by students and faculty, the University is currently considering four proposals for changes to the Core program. One option would change Core to a one-semester sophomore year course based on readings chosen by the faculty member. A second proposal would 
OtJhe
keep Core as a two-semester course, with one soph­

userver 
omore year semester focused on general readings should be dropped in favor of a single semester, giv­and a semester during senior year focused more ing students more freedom to take other electives closely on students' interests. Others options would that they find more relevant. This change would also 

Editorial 
change the Core readings to classical texts only, or allow faculty members to choose their own reading lists, while maintaining the two-semester requirement. 
Originally, the Core program aimed to help students think more broadly about a range of topics and integrate ideas they learned in Arts and Letters classes in a discussion-based format. 
But somewhere in its history, the Core program has lost its focus. As a result, Core classes have earned a negative reputation among most students and many sophomores enter the class expecting to have a bad experience. They dread the year-long requirement and often view Core as a waste of two classes. Even some students who say they like the class admit they didn't learn anything. How is a program like this beneficial to students ifso many feel apathetic about it? 
The University should be corrunended for recognizing that the Core class needs reform, but specific changes are needed to make the class beneficial to students and faculty. In reforming the Core program, the University must combat student negativity by clearly defining the goals of Core. Because students do not understand the purpose of the class, they are confu..c;;ed about how to approach it and what to expect from it. To help promote a better attitude among students towards the Core course, the University must clari­ty the contribution that it believes Core could make to undergradu­ate education-and then make sure Core actually fulfills what its 

planners want it to do. 
Next, because many students view Core as waste of 
two classes, the current two-semester requirement 
reduce the strain on faculty, who contend that teach­ing Core takes time away from research and other teaching. And to make the Core classes themselves relevant, faculty should also be allowed to choose at least some of their own reading material. Then. students can take Core classes with professors who teach subject material in a student's realm of interest. At the same time, faculty must also be provided with clearer guidelines about how to teach the Core course to ensure the program's central focus­whatever that may be-remains. The majority of class time should be used for student discussion rather than lecture, and Core teach­ers must be able to stimulate discussion among their students rather than use the class as a personal soapbox. 
Arts and Letters officials often defend Core by saying it is essential to a liberal arts education. It therefore is ironic that a class designed to help students learn new perspectives is in desperate need of a fresh image itself. 

Solutions, not charity 
Back in Portland, Oregon, there is a billboard that always appears this time of year. 
It features the visage of a man with a grizzled beard, hunched over a bowl of soup. Since the particular not-for­profit organiza­John lnfranca tion that runs this ad accepts car donations it usu­Dissident ally features the Poetry clever motto "Help us Drive Away Hunger." 
I suppose the implication is that the man with the bowl of soup is having his hunger "driven" away. Somehow I doubt that, as he has been appearing in theseads for nearly four years now. 
On the streets I have heard this agency referred to as the "Jesus jail." 
For many, they are a last resort in the worst of winter and unfortunately, few homeless people they ''help" actu­ally transition off of the streets and into permanent housing. It seems more time is spent saving souls then solving deeper issues. Yet I often wonder how many who see that ad, or how many among those who respond to it, know this. 
Conventional wisdom says that one should not give money to individuals who seem homeless and beg on street corners. We are told they might use the money for alcohol, cigarettes or other vices. 
And so we succumb to one of the last acceptable prejudices, confident that we would be far wiser to give our money to some social service agency that feeds individuals living on the street. Or we think our money might be better spent providing toys at Christmas to children experiencing homeless ness. 
Both can be wonderful expressions of charity, but neither is a solution to the systemic issues that cause homeless­ness. 
In a cartoon I saw a number of years ago, one character was reading the newspaper and announced, "Did you hear there is a new program to feed the homeless?" The other responded, "When will people stop feeding the homeless and start building them homes?" 
In Portland there is a saying often heard on the street: "If you starve it's your own damn fault." If you time it right, you can eat seven meals a day on the street; I am sure this is not unique to Portland. 
Providing a meal is an obvious and comparatively easy way to respond to a clear consequence of poverty; it is not a solution. Solutions require far greater creativity. 
We live in a post-welfare reform world in which the burden of proof is on disadvantaged individuals to estab­lish themselves as worthy of any form of assistance. We are told those who are poor must begin to take responsi­bility for themselves, as if for the last few decades they have been attended to like the British monarchy. 
Amid all of this there are few demanding not-for-profit organization that have begun taking greater respon­sibility for working towards ending, rather than just treating, the social ills they are purporting to respond to. 

Part of this can be attributed to donors who feel content merely writing a check and sending it off to some agency that has been around for a while and does "good," instead deeply investigating the effectiveness of such agencies. 
What I am implying here is not that more not-for-profits should pursue the course many already have of modeling themselves after corporations, with intricate charts of organizational struc­ture and a "professional" approach that often becomes impersonal. This leads too many agencies to become mired in bureaucracy or in an outdated model that renders them unable to truly respond to the needs of those whom they are designed to serve. 
What I am suggesting is that we as individuals, as well as potential donors and volunteers, ask the deeper ques­tions of whether the agencies we sup­port are really addressing the issues and working to eliminate the problems they purport to be concerned with. 
If they are working with homeless individuals, these questions might include how many people they transi­tioned into permanent housing in the past year, how many they are still housing and what work they are doing to compel efforts to address the root causes of homelessness, namely, the lack of low income housing and gentri­fication. 
What relevance do these issues have 

for those of us immersed in higher edu­
cation? For many who will seek work 
in the social service field and for others 
who will one day be in a position to 
donate to such causes the interest is 
more long term. But for the hundreds 
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
dents who will be participating in the 
Urban Plunge and other programs this 
Christmas break, the concern is more 
timely. 
Anyone who volunteers or visits 

social service agencies should do so 
with a discerning eye; those agencies 
and the people whom they serve 
deserve nothing less. 
There are many effective and admirable agencies out their doing good work. There are also many that might be doing little more than keeping themselves employed. It is the duty of anyone truly concerned with respond­ing to a world filled with poverty and other social ills to learn how to distin­guish between the two. 
Eliminating homelessness, poverty and other injustices is simply too important a matter to leave in the hands of those without the vision to actively pursue doing so. 
John Infranca is a theology graduate student. His column appears every other friday. He can be contacted at jinfran 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Remembering Jack Powers 

Notre Dame lost a treasure last week (Nov. 28) when former American Studies professor John "Jack" Powers died. Powers was a passionate man. And his passion was intense for Notre Dame, jour­nalism and his students. · 
He came to the University as a freshman after serving in World War II and stayed in South Bend the rest of his days. He worked nearly four decades at The South Bend Tribune and taught into his seventies at his alma mater before retiring two years ago. 
His writing and editing class was a journalistic boot camp. This tough old man with a booming voice laid down the commandments of precise writing. We were never to write "over" when we meant "more than," label snow "the white stuff' or use the term "deci­mate" unless something had been cut by exactly one-tenth. 
And he had no patience for prose that was cliched, cluttered, wordy or vague, mocking, to our delight, both it and its authors. He broke our writing down, then showed us how to build it back up. 
But if Powers was part drill sergeant, he was also part grandfa­ther. He cared deeply about his students and made a point to get to know them well. He scheduled one-on-one lunch dates at LaFortune and loved bringing classes to his home for an end-of-the­year bash. 
He offered career advice and came to graduations and kept in touch with his students long after they'd finished his course. 
JJP, as he signed his notes, was an ardent women's basketball fan, a strong supporter of Saint Mary's and a vigorous defender of independent campus media. 
He was a defender of all good journalism, because he'd lived it for 40 years and knew what it could mean to a community. And he inspired dozens of students to follow in his footsteps. 
Powers only taught one small class a semester, and it's too bad more students didn't get to know him better. 
Those of us who did will never forget him. 
Erica Kratofil Michelle Krupa lim Logan Erin Piroutek Finn Pressly Shannon Ryan Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni Dec. 4 


Monologues are the wrong way to show women respect 
In her Dec. 2 column, Kamaria Porter speaks of the horrible rei;J.lity of violence against women, and introduces the planned V-Day celebrations that will include the "crowning event on our campus [that] will be a performance of the Vagina 
Monologues on Valentine's Day." 
Why must a Catholic college's education about violence against women include a showing of the Vagina Monologues as a "crowning event"? The Vagina Monologues is a one-woman mono­logue-show that includes sexually graphic material and content that is offensive to God and to a serious Catholic. 
In order to dis­cover for myself, from a first-hand source, what the past controversy has been about I read some of the lines in the play. 

Upon checking out a copy of the play, (since its Web site is justly blocked on our server). I found unbeliev­able lines that spoke of graphic lesbian sex, reduced women to mere objects, were littered with expletives and were offensive to me as a Christian. In fact, excerpts of the script cannot even be printed publicly in campus literature. 
Many people support this "crowning event" without realizing how vulgar and crude the content of it is. Aren't lines like the ones I saw, with which the entire script is littered, objectionable to Catholic teaching and morali­ty? The play is clearly against Catholic teach­ing found in the Catechism, which states, "sexuality is ordered to be the conjugal love of man and woman" and that "homosexual acts 
are intrinsically disordered." 
Shouldn't a university that wants to justifiably call itself "Catholic" support Catholic teaching and morality and forbid academic depart­
ments to show offensive, pornographic, explicit and disgusting plays 
in the name of "aca­
demic freedom" and education? With every freedom 
comes responsibili­ty, and a greater one to those uni­versities that wish to call themselves Catholic. 
Perhaps here at Notre Dame, one can ask herself whether Our Lady on the Dome would pro­mote the showing of a pornographic and moral­ly objectionable play. It is quite obvious that the answer to this question is "no." I urge the administration to put 
a halt to this "play" immediately. The 

means do not justify the end, and an end to 
violence against women must be promoted in 
a different way. 
John Sikorski freshman Stanford Hall Dec. 4 

~--~-­
page 12 Friday, December 5, 2003 



uch ado about Not-S 
Arrest, death and love mixed with hilarious plot twists fills the H 
By JONATHAN RETARTHA Scene Writer 
Guys hooking up their best friends with beautiful girls. Local authorities making arrests. People passing out thought to be dead. Fights to the death. No, this is not a preview of this weekend's round of Christmas SYRs, but rather the action taking place in the Hesburgh Center for International Peace Studies this weekend as Notre Dame's very own Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 
presents the classic comedy, "Much 
Ado About Nothing." The plot involves several storylines, intertwined with each other. The first deals with Claudio, a solider return­ing to Italy from battle with his fel­low soldiers Benedick and Don Pedro. They return to the estate of Leonato, a prominent figure in socie­ty. Claudio falls instantly in love with Leonato's daughter, Hero, but feels he is not worthy enough to gain her love. Don Pedro, the hopeless roman­tic, devises a plan to help Claudio gain the love of Hero at a masquer­
ade ball. Don Pedro's plan succeeds, and the two prepare to be mar­ried in a week's time. 
The second storyline revolves around Don John, the bastard broth­er of Don Pedro, who will do anything to ruin the wonderful romance his brother has created. With the help of his friend Borachio, Don John plans to end the 
· engagement by having Borachio sleep with Hero's serving woman, Margaret, in Hero's room in order to make Claudio and Don Pedro view it from afar and believe it is Hero who is being unfaithful. 
Finally, the third facet of the play centers on Benedick and Leonato's niece, Beatrice. The pair has a long history of being at odds with each other· and verbally abusing one another with their sharp wit. After the engagement of Claudio and Hero is arranged, Don Pedro plans to set up Benedick, a self pro­claimed bachelor for life, with Beatrice and make the two fall in love. 




Kalla Crowley as Hero walks hand in hand with senior Sean Nelson, who plays the lmfamous Don Pedro, as the two celebrate their engagement. 
What ensues is a hilar­ious tale of tricks and lies that is brought to life by the students in the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company, or NSR as they are com­monly called. The acting Company has been around for many years now, but in different waves of involvement. They have had spans of many strong years, and lengths of time when no 
performances  were  
staged  at  alL  The  
Company  has  been  
enjoying  seven  years  

now of very strong par­ticipation, receiving tal­ent from all years and studies. 
This is the first year in which a play from the past seven years is being repeated. In the past, they have put on such classics as "The Taming of the Shrew," "Hamlet," "II en r y IV," "0thello," "Romeo and Juliet," "The Comedy of Errors," "The Tempest," "Twelfth Night" and "Macbeth". 
The group is funded by Student Government as well as from private donations. On the aver­age, they receive between 80 to 100 stu­dents at tryouts for their fall and spring produc­tions, and for "Much Ado Ahout Nothing," they selected 18. What makes NSR so unique is that it is staged, directed, and acted by stu­dents. AnaMarie Ortiz serves as the director for this fall's production, with Ishira Kumar and Sarah Miller serving as Stage Managers. 
of Shakespeare's most complex comedies, because it involves many serious subplots and scenes. The performances by the students are incredible because of the way they all delve deep into their characters and provide each with a unique voice 
and personality. 
Mario Bird plays 

There are also stu­Shakespeare is famous Benedick, the suave dents involved bachelor who falls
for his witty one-liners,
behind the scenes hard for Beatrice,
and every other line 
with sound design, played by Krysta performance coach­delivered by Krysta Dennis. Bird pres­ing, set design, light­ents an incredible
Dennis reflects the Bard's 
ing, and choreogra­transformation in
love for language. Bird 
phy. Ortiz made the the two halves of the decision to design and Dennis bring incredi­play. In the first 
the production in a ble depth to these lead half, he is the swing­
way that does not ing single with a
roles, and the chemistry 
specify the time or sharp tongue, chan­place in which the between Benedick and neling Frank events of the play Sinatra, or another
Beatrice is undeniable. 
occur. Therefore, the sets are very simple, with two flats painted with trees and two as stone walls. The set design crew uses these few sets to their utmost potential, however. The flats painted as trees have cut out squares in them, so that when Beatrice and Benedick are forced to hide in order to overhear other characters talking about them, they are still visible and can participate in the scene with hys­terical facial expressions. The cos­tumes are also very traditional Shakespearean era outfits. In addi­tion, music from the era is played in between scenes and before the play begins. 
"Much Ado About Nothing," is one 
member of the Rat 

Pack. He is tricked into believing that Beatrice is secret­ly in love with him, and, once he falls for her, he turns into a reserved, quiet character who cannot even devise the wit to write a simple love letter. Dennis, on the other hand, plays the classic shrew in her love­hate relationship with Benedick. Shakespeare is famous for his witty one-liners, and every other line delivered by Dennis reflects the Bard's love for language. Bird and Dennis bring incredible depth to these lead roles, and the chemistry between Benedick and Beatrice is undeniable. 
Mike Dolson plays Claudio, who 
THE OBSERVER 
E

Friday, December 5, 2003 


Page 13 

r-Iesburgh Center this weekendfor 'Much Ado About Nothing' 

David Tull plays Don tric Dogberry, played maniacally by dents, 7$ for adults. John, the bitter brother Jeff Eyerman, deputizes the three. The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare of Don Pedro who sabo­Shakespeare constructed his plays Company's spring production will be tages the wedding not for the opera houses or concert "King Lear,., and will stage auditions plans. His character is halls, but for the masses of his day -shortly after Christmas break. In the most definitely a flat those who loved crude and sexual meantime. NSR is holding its first­one utilized as 'the bad humor, along with rollicking physical ever Shakespeare Scene Festival, guy' in the play. comedy. Ortiz has captured this where groups of students are wel­Therefore, he does not vision perfectly in providing hysteri­come to come with a scene from any undergo the types of cal slapstick comedy to these roles. Shakespeare play and tryout. changes in character The four watchmen are almost like Auditions are December 10 from 7 to that many of the leads cartoon characters as the fight with 11 p.m.. in 106 O'Shaughnessy Hall. undertake. However, each other and make a valiant while many flat charac­attempt to capture Borachio. Contact Jonathan Retartha at ters in plays can be for­Eyerman is as crazy and goofy as jretarth@nd.edu gotten or unused, Tull Jerry Lewis or Jim sets himself apart from Carrey in every single the other characters scene. These four roles with his own unique are absolute testaments style and attitude. What to the creativity and makes the role of Don vision of the director, as John demanding is that well as to the creativity the reasons for his bit­of the actors involved. terness are vague at For a program in such best. It is difficult to tell a small venue with a if anyone involved in the limited budget, truly the play has wronged him, acting defines "Much other than the fact that Ado About Nothing." his brother gets all the All of the students 
,glory. Tull's ability to involved have a focus, ·establish himself as the determination and love bad guy without any for Shakespeare that formal explanation is a makes their production credit to the skill in such a success. which he gets into his "Much Ado About character. Nothing," is a treat for 
Chez Brooks-DeVita anyone with any back­plays Don John's hench­ground in Shakespeare, man Borachio, and fits big or small. The cast the mold of a traditional delivers the lines clearly 
evil sidekick perfectly and acts in a way that with his low, menacing brings the language to voice. Brooks-DeVita life visually, even if the 
falls hopelessly in love with Hero, also adds depth to what is tradition­words are not easy to played by Kaila Crowley. Dolson ally a flat character by originally understand. presents another deep character that being sinister in his attempt to is forced to endure many emotional thwart the marriage plans, and then "Much Ado About waves. The first is in his whirlwind becoming remorseful when he hears Nothing" plays at the romance with Hero, in which he of Hero's apparent death due to Hesburgh Center for encompasses the classic giddiness grief. International Peace accompanying any romance of that Sean Nelson plays the role of Don Studies Friday and kind. Dolson's second challenge is to Pedro, the Cupid figure of the play. Saturday at 7:30. and display the incredi-He brings to the role Sunday at 2:30. Tickets ble pain experienced a sincerity that can be purchased at the by Claudio when he makes the audience LaFortune Box Office or believes he is seeing believe in the at the door. $5 for stu­his love being In a play filled with so friendships he has unfaithful the night with Claudio and
much mirth and trickery, 

before they are to be Benedick, and in his
Mike Dolson acts as ifhe

wed. This is espe­true desire to see cially difficult is performing in one of both of them happy. because the entire Andre Valdivia
Shakespeare's great 

scene of the appar­plays Leonato, the
tragedies.

ent betrayal takes father of Hero. place off stage, and Valdivia brings a is only recounted by great personal touch other characters. to the role by broad­Therefore, with no visual cues, ening the extremes that Leonato Dolson delivers an incredible per­must encompass in his character. In formance derived completely from the first half of the play, he is overtly the heart. As if that was not enough, jovial and a bit senile, and shows an Claudio is made to believe that Hero innocence that portrays him like a has died, and Dolson presents the grandfather figure. Once Hero has image of a broken, collapsed man been accused of betrayal, however, without using any words at all, as he Valdivia explodes in a stubborn rage weeps by the supposed grave of his that shocks the audience. He past love. In a play filled with so becomes furious over the accusations much mirth and trickery, Dolson acts and stubborn in his belief that as if he is performing in one of Claudio falsely accused Hero. Shakespeare's great tragedies in this Valdivia stands out in his emotional powerful scene. Crowley also has performance. great chemistry with Dolson, and is The most scene stealing roles, how­sincere in her love for Claudio, as ever, go to the watchmen of the town, 
well as in her desire to help bring played by AI Klein, Martin Schroeder, Senior Mario Bird plays the large role of Benedick, who talks with Claudio, Benedick and Beatrice together. and Connor Woods. The zany, eccen-played by junior Mike Dolson, about his problems with the women. 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, December 5, 2003 
NHL 




Prusek's 29 saves leads Senators over Lightning 
Associated Press Thursday night. Coyotes 3, Sabres 2 Ukrainian emigre Nikolai Branko Radivojevic scored 
TAMPA, Fla. -Martin Prusek Zherdev, the Blue Jackets' first­with 4:03 remaining and Brian made 29 saves for his third round draft pick who flew out of Boucher made 34 saves to help straight win, and Jason Spezza Russia on Sunday, scored his lift the Phoenix Coyotes to a vic­had two goals to lead the first NHL goal and had another tory over the Buffalo Sabres on Ottawa Senators to a 4-1 victory one disallowed. Thursday night. over the Tampa Bay Lightning Zherdev was met with a David Tanabe and Chris on Thursday night. standing ovation when he skat­Gratton also scored for the 

Prusek has allowed just two ed to the bench during a break Coyotes, who are unbeaten in goals in his three wins while fill­late in the game. their last four (3-0-1). "I ing in for Patrick Lalime, who is Rick Nash added his 17th goal J.P. Dumont and Daniel Briere 
I 
sidelined by the flu. for the Blue Jackets-matching each scored their ninth goal of ~. Bryan Smolinski and Antoine his total as a rookie last season. the season for Buffalo.
I 
I 
I Vermette also scored for Zherdev picked up the assist. The loss snapped the Sabres
il Ottawa. Nashville extended its fran­three-game home winning Dave Andreychuk scored for chise-record winning streak to streak and dropped them to 3-4 
the Lightning, who have lost six, and won for the fourth in their last seven games. three straight. Tampa Bay is straight time on the road. Briere's power play goal at winless in its last six games (0-The Predators are 10-2-0-0 in 11:52 of the third tied the score 
4-2) and has scored just six their last 12 games. at 2. goals in the span. They are one of the early sur­Gratton, who was acquiredPrusek stopped Shane Willis' prises in the NHL with a record from the Sabres in exchange for 
wrist shot from the low slot dur­of 14-10-1-0. The Predators did­Briere prior to the trade dead­ing a three-man rush in the final o't win their 14th game last sea­line in March, scored his fifth seconds of the second period. son until Jan. 18. goal of the year in the second 

Willis took a pass from Vincent period, just 1:15 after Dumont ~ Lecavalier, and his shot hit Maple Leafs 6, Bruins 0 tied the score at 1. Prusek in the upper body. The Toronto Maple Leafs have
:\ 
II 1\ Ottawa built a 13-3 advantage had plenty of players help keep Rangers 4, Islanders 2 .\ in shots in the first period as the their winning streak going . Brian Leetch and Anson·\ teams traded power-play goals. Ed Belfour made 25 saves in Carter scored during a five­:! Smolinski put the Senators recording his second shutout of minute power play in the second 
ahead 11:38, and Andreychuk the season and Toronto won its period and the New York:~ tied it at 13:36. seventh straight game, beating Rangers sent the New York the Rangers, when he took a Petr Nedved made a pass from Andreychuk, who has 615 the Boston Bruins Thursday Islanders to their seventh pass from Bobby Holik and fin­the right-wing boards across the 
career goals, snapped a 14-night. 

straight loss with a victory ished a two-on-one with 5:17 slot to Leetch, who wristed a 
game scoreless streak and "When you win seven in a 

Thursday night. left. shot from the left circle past the 
raised his career power-play row, you are getting contribu­Leetch also scored earlier in But the turning point carne glove of Rick DiPietro.goal total to 262. tions from different guys each the period to record his 24th 9:28 into the second when Peca has gone 12 games with­
Prusek made several strong night," Leafs defenseman Ken career two-goal game. He has Islanders captain Michael Peca out a goal and has been men­

saves in the first period, includ­Klee said. "When guys like [Joe) never had a hat trick. 

caught Rangers forward Jamie tioned in trade rumors.
ing two chances from close 

Nieuwendyk and [Mats) Sundin Mike Dunham made 37 saves, Lundmark with a leg-to-knee hit The Islanders have been range by Martin St. Louis. 
are out on the ice, you know allowing goals to Janne that knocked Lundmark out outscored 26-7 during their los­good things will happen." Niinimaa... and Alexei Yashin in with a sprained knee and sent ing streak, and have managed Predators 4, Blue Jackets 2 Nieuwendyk scored two the second half of the third peri­Peca to the dressing room with only five goals in six games. 1JJ 
Rem Murray, Scott Hartnell, power-play goals for the Maple od. a game misconduct. The Islanders closed within 3­Greg Johnson and Scott Walker Leafs, who are on their longest Dunham was helped by two The Rangers took advantage 2 when Yashin snapped in a scored goals, and Tomas Vokoun winnin~ streak since taking 10 Islanders goals being waved ofT when Leetch scored his second shot from the slot with 7:58 stopped 3 7 shots in the straight in 1993-94. because the whistle blew before of the game and fifth this season remaining. Nashville Predators' victory over Five of Toronto's seven victo­the puck entered the net. 55 seconds after Peca was sent Yashin hadn't scored in 12 the Columbus Blue Jackets on ries have come on the road. Martin Rucinsky sealed it for off. games. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

JUDAY LAKE HOME.ON BEAUTIFUL HOUSE FOR RENT: Two 'story house completely remod-LAKE.WALK TO CAMPUS. GILLIS 1803 Corby, eled 2003. NOTICES LOST &FOUND REALTY 272-6306 Wooded Estates, Ready for 2nd semester and 2004-TICKETS 
5 blocks from campus, 05 school year. WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski FOUND: Two gift cards from local 2000 FORD ESCORT, white, 2 3 large bedrooms, Off street parking includes motion &Beach Trips on sale now! department store. Call1-7471 or doors, stick shift, excellent condi-2 full bath, sensor light for security. Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$ www.sunchase.com or call stop in The lion, 60 000 miles washer and dryer, Four individually locked bedrooms, Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990 1-800-SUNCHASE today! Observer office in the basement of wgeist@nd.edu home totally remodeled, six blocks from Notre Dame, 
SOH. new appliances, bus stop in front of house, ***ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get Queen bed, desk, TV, DVD player, two car garage, furnished. surrounded by other student hous-
PERSONAL

12th trip free. Group discounts tor table, dresser, kitchen stuff, car, & Need 3-5 students ing, laundromat next door (dryclean­6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com more. 621 ($400 ea.) ing also), basement available for 

WANTED

or 800-838-8202. 8818 or ddyer1 @nd.edu for January. storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
Need 5 students etc., new furnace and central air, not go it alone. If you or someone #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in 1996 Land Rover Discovery. Fun ($400 ea.) for fall 231-8823 new kitchen including you love needs Acapulco now offers 3 destinations! Part time/Full time opportunity for car. $3500, or best offer. 621 8818 evenings. new stove and refrigerator, confidential support or assistance, Go Loco in honest, motivated, success minded or large living room for TV or entertain-please call Sr. Mary Louise Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get individual Exciting !-Commerce ddyer1 @nd.edu Large 5-6 bdrm home @ ND Ave & ing, free trash removal Gude,CSC, at crazy in Cabo--with BIANCHI-internet based business. Contact: SB Ave(908 SB Ave). Call289-4071. 1-7819. For more information, see ROSSI TOURS. Organize a group waynew54@ pronetglobal. com Walk to campus. our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
and travel for FREE. Book now Off street parking. MOVING TO CHICAGO? 
FoR RENT

before its too late! FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED. Recently updated. Live where your friends live! Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America Call 800-875-4525 or www.bian-Grad pref. Share great condo. Washer/Dryer. We ve got 3,000 apartments in s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring cirossi.com. Furnished, own bdlbth, 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO Lots of living space to spread out. Chicagos hottest neighborhoods: campus reps. 
huge closet. Study, fireplace, prkg, CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM Call Joe Crimmins: LAKEVIEW/GOLD COAST/ Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or READY TO MOVE IN TODAY! 2-walk to ND! $525 inc. util! 238-2368 MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-cell-57 4-514-0643 or LINCOLN PARK www.ststravel.com bedroom townhouse 10 minutes 1525 home-57 4-273-0002 Studios 
from campus. Approx. 1100 ROOMMATE WANTED-share spa-$695/mo. •••• IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW sq. ft. For more information cious turn. 2bd house w/female HOUSES FOR RENT DOMUS Clean 3 bdrm home near Corbys 1 BR from $895/mo. LUXURY VILLA COMMUNITY"*' call katrina at 252-4663 grad stud. Master PROPERTIES HAS THREE HOUS-Bar-East Bank District(327 Hill St). 2 BR from $1420/mo. Build your dream home 
bdlbth avail. 2 mi from campus on ES FOR RENT FOR THE 2004-Available June2004. Planned Property Management: next to Notre Dame. A limited num-Two story house completely remod-Ironwood. Rent $300 + util. 251-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. 614 S. Basement w/washer dryer. 1-866-4GREAT PADS ber of home sites are available. For eled 2003. Ready for 2nd semester 1802 ST.JOSEPH 8 BEDROOMS-214 S. Convenient to downtown fun. www.plannedproperty.com more info and 2004-05 school year. Off street STPETER 4 BEDRROMS-718 E. Walk or ride to campus. Mention this ad, and your go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
parking includes motion sensor light WASHINGTON ST. 2 BEDROOMS. On bus route. processing will be waived! for security. Four individually locked CALL KRAMER AT 234-2436 OR Contact Joe Crimmins@ Wrestle time. 

FoR SALE

bedrooms, six blocks from Notre 315-5032 cell-57 4-514-0643 or Room available for spring semester. 
Dame, bus stop in front of house, home-57 4-273-0002 Close to NO and rent is negotiable. Two one·loss teams. Oh yeah, surrounded by other student hous-LARGE, ONE-BEDROOM CONDO JAMISON (NEAR SOCCER FIELD) Male roommate preferred. Miami of Ohio and TCU. ing, laundromat next door (dryclean-FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. 1 BR, 1ST FLOOR, BASEMENT, 4 Bedroom house. Call 312-848-1509 if interested. ing also), basement available for NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-AVAIL. DEC 1, $695 1136 E Madison. And why pick Navy and UConn over 
storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, ELED.FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. (INCLUDES UTIL.), CONTACT Close to campus, 3-6 BDRM HOMES $165/PERSON ND for a bowl? Because ND needs 
etc., new furnace and central air, email: Williamson.1 @nd.edu BOB 607-723-7373, EMAIL: ample parking, AC, MO.,FURN. seven wins to be an at-large team, new kitchen including new stove rjhdds@ pronetisp. net huge yard. Contact Mike 272-6306 that's why. and refrigerator, larg\l living room COMPARE TEXTBOOK PRICES! (216) 408-0780 
for TV or entertaining, free trash Search 24 bookstores with 1 click! 3 BEDROOM, 2 BATH HOME, or Matt BULLARD HOME. Hettler, I want a rematch. This time removal. S&H calculated. MANY XTRAS. CLOSE TO NO (216) 408-0744 $650.MO. you're losing ... Call 289-4071. www.bookhq.com AND MALL. $1000/MO. 277-2176. if interested 272-6306 no really.. 
Friday, December 5, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Iverson scores 35 to help Sixers defeat Bulls 
Associated Press 
PHILADEPHIA Kirk 
Hinrich chased and pressured 
Allen Iverson all game, always 
with a hand up or trying to get 
him to run into a trap. 
Iverson got the message 
early. 
"I felt they were trying to get someone else to beat them," he said. 
But these are the Bulls and, 
new coach or not, things rarely 
go as planned. 
Iverson scored 35 points and sank the winning jumper with 4 7 seconds left, lifting the Philadelphia 76ers to an 83-82 win over the Chicago Bulls on Thursday night. 
Iverson, who scored 85 points his previous two games, took the pass from Eric Snow and dribbled down to the base­line where he made a fade­away with Hinrich's hand right in his face. 
"During my seven years here, I've seen him that shot a lot, so thank God he hit it tonight," Sixers coach Randy Ayers said. 
The Bulls had one last chance with 1.6 seconds left, but Linton· Johnson's inbounds pass, intended for Hinrich, knocked off the backboard instead, making Scott Skiles a loser for the first time as Bulls coach. Skiles had won in his Bulls' debut. 
Jamal Crawford led the Bulls with 22 points, Eddie Curry had .16oJI§Ji:n.t~ <Ulldul~~r~bPt,IJlAS and' Hinrich had 14 points. 
Hinrich and Iverson matched each other one quick step for another, with the tattooed vet­eran often frustrating the rookie out of Kansas. 
Iverson led the Sixers back from a halftime deficit with a 14-point third quarter, hitting a couple of jumpers over a flailing Hinrich. Hinrich was whistled for two fouls on Iverson, finally throwing his hands in the air and complain­ing to the Bulls' assistants. 
"I've never played a tougher guy, especially when he's hit­ting his jump shots," Hinrich said. "He just runs and runs and uses his picks. He's just 
really tough." 
Hinrich eventually settled 
down against Iverson in the 
fourth. 
The Bulls wiped out the 
Sixers' five-point lead with 3­
pointers by Hinrich and 
Crawford. Hinrich made anoth­
er 3-pointer later in the quar­
ter and finished 5-for-9 from 
the floor. 
Hinrich had a nice dish to 
Curry near the basket for a 
layup and an 82-79 lead with 
2:06 left. 
Aaron McKie hit a baseline jumper, making it 82-81 before Iverson went on to win it. 
Lakers 114, Mavericks 103 
Kobe Bryant scored 15 of his 
32 points in the third quarter, 
helping the Los Angeles Lakers 
cruise past the Dallas 
Mavericks Thursday for their 
eighth straight victory. 
The last four have been espe­
cially impressive. In addition to 
beating the Midwest Division­
leading Mavericks, the Lakers 
beat Eastern Conference-lead­
ing Indiana by 22 and reigning 
champion San Antonio twice 
by a total of 20 points. 
The Lakers' 46th win in their 
last 51 games against the Mavs 
gave Dallas its first loss at 
home, ending a 10-0 start. Los 
Angeles and Sacramento, both 
10-0, are the last teams 
unbeaten at home. 
Shaquille O'Neal had 25 
points and 19 rebouqds, and .GMYrrfcftYJ:cmzJ.w,filnl 7,:; )l1Jlqt~ ~pd eight assists. Karl Malene, who came an assist shy of a triple­
double last time against Dallas, 
had 11 points, nine rebounds 
and six assists. 

onlyat ~ g Sminutes ­


from CUTPCJST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 
Coii2S9·1ooo for more details 

Only A Few 4 and 5 Private Bedroom Apartments Left For The 2004-2005 School Year! 
For More Infonnation: Real Estate Management Co:oration POBox540 South Bend, IN 46624 
Telephone: 574-234-9923 Jblad@cbresb.com 

The Finest in Student Housing! 

Playing without Dirk Nowitzki (sprained ankle) for a fourth straight game, the Mavericks started by taking the first j urn per they could every time down court. They missed 10 of the first 11 shots and quickly found themselves down 14-2. 
The Lakers stretched it to 25-8 late in the first quarter and were hardly tested again. 
Steve Nash scored 12 of his season-high 30 points during a second-quarter rally that got Dallas within five, but Los Angeles was back in control by \lJtl;ftim~~ ._ ·B ryafl:t• t.<>:o k :9ve,r from there, nailing a 3-pointer then putting in a reverse layup after catching a teammate's blocked shot. 
Mavs coach Don Nelson was ejected midway through the third after picking up his sec­ond technical and didn't miss much. Bryant made that foul shot, then a 3-pointer on the ensuing possession and the Lakers quickly got the lead up to 18, The closest Dallas got after that was 104-96 with 

2:03 left 
Michael Finley overcame an 0-for-9 start to finish with 19 points for Dallas, while Antoine Walker had 24 points and 12 rebounds. Antawn Jamison had 15 points and 10 rebounds, and rookie Josh Howa+"d-had nine points and 14 rebounds. 
Despite trading for Walker and Jamison, the Mavericks still can't bridge the gap with the Lakers. Los Angeles won 105-93 in the first meeting, which was the season opener. They'll meet again next Friday at the Staples Center. Nowitzki could be back by then. 
Next up for Los Angeles is a home game against Utah, which likely will be an emo­tional game for Malone as he faces his former team for the first time. 
The only emotion for the Lakers this night was laughter, 
In the first quarter, O'Neal sent a layup by Walker flying into the seats. Finley got so flustered trying to get a shot around -O'Neal·that the ba-ll went over the top of the back­board. Howard shot the ball out of bounds when he found himself one-on-one with O'NeaL 


Saint Ma@s College 
NOTRE DAME INDIANA
o 

31st ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER S'I'.UDY PROGRAM 

i:t::l. ::F£i.s 1:C>-:ry-, 
~-u.si.:1:1ess, Se>~:ia.1 -w~:rk
.:Ecl--....:~..ca.ti.<>r:l., 

For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54l\1adclevn Hall, Room347 Saint Mary,s College Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (574} 284-4462 e-mail: dstefaoc@'.)Saintmarys.cdu Fax: European Summer Study Program (219) 284-4866 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 5, 2003 
MLB 
Bonds appears before grand jury 
An appearance before the grand jury, or being subpoe­naed to testify, does not mean an athlete is a target of the probe. 
Two people have been named so far as targets of the grand jury -BALCO founder Victor Conte, and Greg Anderson, Bonds' personal trainer. 
Bonds, 39, became a BALCO client just before his record-set­ting 2001 season and has praised Conte for giving him a personalized nutritional pro­gram. 
Anderson's home was raided by the Internal Revenue Service and a drug task force Sept. 5, two days after a similar raid at BALCO. 
Bonds weighed 185 pounds as a rookie in 1986 and now is a muscle bound 230. He holds the season record for home runs and is gaining on Hank Aaron's career mark. 
"Go look at the back of my bubble gum card," he said after winning a third straight MVP award last month. 
Bonds has praised Conte for giving him a personalized nutri­tional program. Bonds posed with Conte and Anderson for this past June's issue of Muscle & Fitness magazine and heaped praise on both. 


Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds appeared before a grand jury focusing on possible tax and drug violations by a California lab that supplied nutritional supplements to some of the nation's top athletes. 
The six-time National League MVP entered the grand jury room Thursday accompanied by attorney Mike Rains. 
Bonds has attributed his mus­cular development over the years to intense weight training, proper diet and a regimen of nutritional supplements. He repeatedly has denied using steroids and argues that his evolution as a home run hitter has been steady. 
Grand jurors were now able to ask the San Francisco Giants' slugger under oath whether his growth has been entirely natu­ral. The panel is looking into possible violations by the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative, or BALCO. 
Athletes that already have appeared before the grand jury include track star Marion Jones and her boyfriend, 100-meter world record-holder Tim Montgomery, four Oakland Raiders and Olympic champion swimmer Amy Van Dyken. 




Reds give Miley one-year contract 
Associated Press their manager earlier Thursday. 
CINCINNATI -Dave Miley's Miley's job will be trying to loyalty was rewarded put together the pieces of a Thursday when the Cincinnati team that lost 93 games in its 
New Course for Spring 2004-Register Now! 
"Women Leading: Is lt Different?" 
.{BA325& MBA525) 
1.5 Credits, Assigned Readings & Discussion· No Exams or Term Paper ·9 Lectures,Fridays 10:40 am -12:10 pm, beginning January 16th Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 
COURSE DESCRIPTION 
Thisti~elynew lecture series is designed for male and female students alike, examining the "truths and myths" about women in leadership positions. Aprestigious group of speakers will offer their perspectives and insights on what it's like to be a woman leader and what ifs like 
to work with and for one. 

Scheduled speakers include: 
• 
Dr. Paulette R. Gerkovich, Catalyst, Inc. 

• 
Dr. Jana Matthews} Boulder Quantum Ventures 

• 
Roxanne Martino, Harris Alternatives, LLC 

• 
Kathy Mendoza, formerly of Network Appliance 


• 
Danielle Boucree, entrepreneur 

• 
Sara Martinez Tucker, Hispanic Scholarship .Fund 

• 
Zein Nakash, SuperCiubs International 

• 
Muffett McGraw, Notre Dame Women's Basketball 


Visit www.nd.edu/-cbalwomenleading for more information. 
ENROLLMENT AND COURSE REQUIREMENTS 
Reds decided to ke~p him as their manager for at least one more season. 
The Reds gave Miley a one­year contract with a club option for another year, remov­ing the interim tag from his title. 
Miley, 41, replaced Bob Boone last July 28, when the Reds made an abrupt about­face in their first season at Great American Ball Park. General manager Jim Bowden also was fired, and the club went on a payroll-cutting spree of trading stars to contenders for minor leaguers. 
Miley, who has spent 24 years in the organization as a player, coach and minor league manager, led what was left of the club to a 22-35 record. He got high marks from players for guiding the clubhouse through a tough time. 
Miley was one of four candi­dates considered in a slow­moving search. First-year gen­eral manager Dan O'Brien also interviewed former Chicago White Sox manager Jerry Manuel, Pittsburgh Pirates director of player development Brian Graham and Tampa Bay Devil Rays bench coach John McLaren. 
The Reds are the last major league team to fill a managing vacancy. The Boston Red Sox introduced Terry Francona as first season in the new ball­park. The bullpen and the infield were decimated by the midseason trades, and injuries sidelined every starting out­fielder. 
The Reds are expected to slash their payroll, which was $57 million on opening day, as they rebuild around young pitchers acquired in the trades. 

"Women Leading: Is It Different?/' listed as BA-325 and MBA-525, is open to any Notre Dame or SaintMary's Student via DART. There are no prerequisites to enrollment. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detaiL 
You are expected to attend nine lectures,. complete assigned readings, and be prepared to engage speakers. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course with no more than one verified, excused absence to receive agrade of "Satisfactory.'' There are no examinations and no term paper requirements. 

Q
i~ua}•hr
l~J.. 

Diamonds 
~;,;.c,:,;.;_.;,;___,_............ 

! 
·•-•••••••••••••••••••••••••oaou•••' 
Jol1n M. Marshall's 
lncn:rp.m·ated 
W6~' 
Jewelers I Gentologist.s
Goldsmiths / Platimnnsmiths 
K~v Bank Building, Suite n.I01 South Bend, Ind1ana 46601 
287-1427 
_,.,-" 



/lf1e .

L,:!inceton

Review 
B.rtor Scon.<. 841tof Schoo/$. 

Hype1·Jearning MCAT 
• 
Expert instructors. 

• 
10 pt. score improvement-better than any competitor. 

• 
Over 4,000 pages of materials & 30 MCAT's worth of practice -all yours to keep. 


Classes start in January. Space is limited. 
800-2Review \V\Vw.PrincetonReview.com 

Friday, December 5, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB -






Francona hired as new Red Sox manager 
Anociated Press ketball star's aborted attempt 
to play baseball. 

BOSTON -Success-starved "I had a lot of experience, fans. prima donna players, early on, dealing with the swarms of media and bad biggest star," Francona said. karma that has surrounded his The Red Sox also interviewed new team since 1918 -Terry Los Angeles third-base coach Francona figures he's prepared Glenn Hoffman, Anaheim for just about everything a bench coach Joe Maddon and Boston manager can face. Texas first-base coach DeMario 
"Think about it for a second: Hale. But Francona was estab­I've been released from six lished as an early front-runner. teams. I've been fired as a and his hiring was delayed manager. I've got no hair. I've only by the team's pursuit of got a nose pitcher Curt that's three Schilling. sizes too big The Red Sox for my face. 'Tve got no hair. I've traded four and I grew up players to
got a nose that's three 

in a major Arizona for
sizes too big for my

league club­Schilling last 
house," face, and I grew up in week, but he Francona a major league wouldn't 
said. waive his no­
clubhouse. ·· 

"My skin's trade clause pretty thick. until signing a I'll be OK." Terry Francona new contract 
The Red Sox that guaran­
Red Sox manager

h i r e d tees him Francona on $37.5 million Thursday, over the next more than a month after let­three years. Schilling said one ting Grady Little go for failing incentive for him to sign in games. Getting fired didn't to get the last five outs Boston Boston was word that dampen his obvious enthusi­needed to vanquish the New Francona was "a slam dunk" asm or his belief that he could York Yankees and reach the to be the new manager. be a successful major league
World Series. Francona, 44, But he insisted that he did manager. 
was given a three-year deal not make Francona's hiring a "I always felt like if I put the with an option for a fourth; condition of the deal. and the players and the organizationfinancial terms were not dis­Red Sox didn't promise it. first and myself second, things closed. "I think Schill just wants to would work out," he told 
The son of a ballplayer, pitch opening day," Francona reporters. "And you know Francona played 10 seasons joked. "I love Schill. I don't what? I'm sitting here in front for five major league teams -think he's responsible for get­of you guys today. I feel like it's 
he signed with a sixth but ting me the job." worked out." never made it back to the Francona managed Schilling Little averaged 94 wins over majors -and was Michael over four losing seasons in two seasons and took the Red Jordan's manager at Double-A Philadelphia from 1997-2000, Sox to the playoffs this year for Birmingham during the bas-never winning more than 77 the first time since 1999. They 


,
• 


Some people just need one in order to get things done. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Now leasing allfloor plans for: Spring 2004 Summer 2004 2004-2005 schoolyear 


came back from a 2-0 deficit against Oakland, winning three in a row to take the best-of­five, first-round series and play the Yankees for the right to go to the World Series. 
Boston led New York S-2 in the seventh inning of the deci­sive seventh game, but Little opted to go with tiring ace Pedro Martinez instead of a recently rehabilitated bullpen. Martinez blew the lead, the Yankees won 6-5 on Aaron Boone's 11th-inning homer off Tim Wakefield and Little was let go after the season. 
Red Sox management insist­ed that Little's fate wasn't determined by one loss. Instead, the Boston brass had grown frustrated by his lack of preparation and willingness to wing it rather than trust the statistical analysis it thought was the solution to the team's 8 5 -year championship drought. 
Even Little's detractors said he was deft at handling a com­bustible clubhouse, dealing with Manny Ramirez when he called in sick for a key series and keeping Pedro Martinez happy and productive. Francona said he wasn't afraid to be a players' manager, but that he also knows he needs to lay down the law at times. 
"The players will know that I care about them more than anybody ever cared about them before. And they will know that I respect them, hopefully more than anybody's ever respected them before," he said. "But I will also ask more of them than anybody's ever asked of them before." 
Red Sox general manager Thea Epstein said Francona seemed to strike the right combination of clubhouse charmer and dugout tactician. 

Wqtre q)ame 
~University Club"' 
www.nd.edu/...-univclub 
presents 
The Company 
directed by Melanie Co1no 
In the Stadium Room ofUniversity Club Tuesday, December 17 at 7:OOPM Tickets: $12.50 Call: 63 I·4678 






OUNDTHE 
ATION 
page 18 COAt\PlLED FR0~1 ~l'HE 0HSERVER'S VVlRE SERVICES Friday, December 5, 2003 

around the dial 
COLLEGE WOMEN'S SOCCER Conneticut vs. Florida State noon, ESPN2 North Carolina vs. UCLA 2:30, ESPN2 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL SATURDAY NOTRE DAME at Syracuse 1 p.m., ABC Oregon State at USC 4:30p.m., ABC Oklahoma vs. Kansas State 8 p.m., ABC LSU vs. Georgia 8 p.m., CBS 
NBA 

San Antonio at Orlando 8 p.m., ESPN Minnesota at Sacramento10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The New York Yankees didn't take long to respond to Boston's latest challenge. 
Less than a week after the Red Sox upgraded their pitching staff, the Yankees added another ace to their collection, acquiring hard-throwing Javier Vazquez from the Montreal Expos on Thursday for first base­man Nick Johnson, out­fielder Juan Rivera and left-hander Randy Choate. 
Vazquez joins a starting rotation that already includes Mike Mussina, Jose Contreras, Jeff Weaver and possibly Andy· Pettitte, a free agent nego­tiating with the Yankees and Houston. 
Jon Lieber, coming off an elbow operation in August 2002, and David Wells, a free agent who had back surgery Tuesday, also are possibilities. 
The deal is contingent on all the players passing physicals -Vazquez will return from vacation in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands for his exam. 
Just last Friday, the Red Sox completed a deal for Curt Schilling, who joins Pedro Martinez and Derek Lowe in Boston's rotation. Last season, the Red Sox battled the Yankees until the 11th inning of Game 7 of the AL championship series. 
''I didn't think they were just going to sit there and stand pat," Red Sox gener­al manager Thco Epstein said. "With their resources and their ability to attract top talent, I knew they were going to spend it, and they're bringing in some good players .... We knew they were going to get someone. That's one of the reasons why it was impor­tant for us to kind of go out there first and try to build our club they way we want to" 
Vazquez fills one of the rotation slots that became uncertain with the retire­ment of Roger Clemens and the free-agent status of Pettitte and Wells. Vazquez went 13-12 with a 
3.24 ERA for the Expos last season, ranking third in the NL in strikeouts with 241 in 230 2-3 innings. 
Johnson, 25, has been a solid hitter with a keen eye for the strike zone, but he's been unusually brittle and could have difficulty staying healthy on the arti­ficial turf in Montreal and San Juan -where the Expos likely will again play 22 games. 
He hit .284 with 14 homers, 4 7 RBis and a .422 on-base percentage. 

IN BRIEF 
McNair, Kearse return to Titans' practice 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Tennessee defensive end Jevon Kearse prac­ticed for the first time since sprain­ing his left ankle Nov. 16, while receiver Drew Bennett participated in his first practice since straining a calf muscle on Oct. 26. 
Quarterback Steve McNair, who didn't practice at all last week, took some snaps as he split work with backup Billy Volek. He sat out the last drill with ice on his injured right calf. 
Coach Jeff Fisher said Kearse's progress from Wednesday was very encouraging because he was able to change direction while running with­out hurting himself. 
"If he doesn't have a setback as a result of what he did today. then he'll have a chance to play," Fisher said of Kearse. 
Bennett was the No. 2 starting receiver when he was hurt in the 
second half of a 30-17 victory at Jacksonville. Fisher said whether he plays Sunday against Indianapolis (9­
3) remains a big question. 
"We're concerned about Drew's ability to play a whole game right now, play a full-speed snap, so we don't know for a fact that he's going to be back," he said. 
FBI investigates NFL hate mail threats 
CLEVELAND -The FBI is investi­gating hate mail sent to black NFL players and other black men during the past year. 
A memo sent Nov. 18 to all NFL teams by the league's security department said all the threatening letters came from the same person and were postmarked Cleveland; Youngstown, Ohio; and Erie, Pa. 
"The memo went out to head coaches who were asked to share the information with security personnel and players," NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said Thursday. "The memo mentioned only six instances.... It's an ongoing FBI investigation." 
More than just football players were targeted. 
Special agent Robert Hawk of the FBI's Cleveland office said more than 30 "racially hateful letters" were sent to "high-profile people in their respective communities -profes­sional athletes, business leaders, civic leaders, community leaders or organizations." 
Hawk confirmed that six of the let­ters were sent to pro athletes. 
"The majority of the letters have been sent to high profile leaders in the communities," he said. 
Hawk said the contents of the let­ter "complain about the relationships between black men and white females." Hawk also said the letters direct black males to end relation­ships with white women "or they're going to be castrated, shot or set on fire." 

Friday, December 5, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to use mometum at this weekend's tournament 
from 1998-2001 and hasn't weekend's tournament. Positive 
By STEVE COYER 
shown any signs of letting up. contributions from the bench 
Sports Writer 
"We had a big win against allowed the Belles to dominate 
Andrews but we need to make the game even with star players 
The Belles enter this week­some improvements for this Emily Creachbaum and Katie end's Roundball Tournament weekend," Saint Mary's coach Boyce only playing five minutes with confidence running high Suzanne Bellina said. "We're each. and more importantly a chance going to face some difficult "We're going to be relying on to prove them-teams and our starters to play their hearts selves against we have to out," Bellina said. "We need some fierce oppo­be ready to everybody on the team to con­
"We're going to face 
nents. play our tribute if we want to win this 
some difficult teams
After an over­best." tournament." powering 77-26 and we have to be The Belles The first game of the tourna­victory against have looked ment is today at 6 p.m. when the 
ready to play our best ... 
Andrews ready to Belles face Illinois College. University this make a Washington University and week, the Belles Suzanne Bellina statement Calvin College play next at 8 (2-3) are ready to Belles coach ever since p.m. The championship game continue their their disap-will be played on Saturday at 3 dominance at pointing 0-2 p.m. home as they welcome start of the season. Wins against "This will be a turning point in Washington University (4-1), Manchester and Andrews have our season," Bellina said. "We Calvin College (2-2) and Illinois been encouraging for the team want to make a statement and College (0-4) for the tournament. but they're still searching for a this tournament is the place to 
The competition looks to be victory against a powerful oppo­do it." strong most notably from nation­nent. al powerhouse Washington Against Andrews, the Belles University. Washington won four rested their starters for most of Contact Steve Coyer at consecutive Division III titles the game in anticipation of this scoyer@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING 
Time off may pay dividends for Belles this weekend 
ready to go," PetcofT said. "It is a good important for the team as they will be Despite the weight of his team's oppo­
By DAN TAPETILLO 
sign of inner confi-contending for nents, Petcoff expects season best times 
Sports Writer 
dence." first place at the from every swimmer, especially from A newfound energy is lighting up the This confidence is "It gives the girls a bit of invitational. To standouts Caitlin Fitzpatrick, Megan pool for the Belles. especially important rehearsal ofthe attain this goal, Ramsey and Kelly Nelis. After a three-week break since their as the invitational will Saint Mary's will But, the highlight of the competition
championships, because it is 
last meet, Saint Mary's swimming coach be a test of what is to have to overcome will be the 800-yard freestyle relay dur­Greg Petcoff has seen a new intensity be expected at the an overnight meet. It will home favorite ing which the girls will have their sights and sense of camaraderie among the end of the season. prepare the girls to compete Lawrence on the meet record of 8 minutes, 14 sec­girls as the Gene Davis Invitational nears. "It gives the girls a University, who onds.
their best for more than one
With a loss to Albion before bit of rehearsal of the took second last This feat has become more likely as Thanksgiving break, Saint Mary's has championships day. n year. momentum is at a high among the girls. been anxious to prove themselves. because it is an Other chal-Petcoff anticipates the Belles will be Despite many strenuous workouts lead­overnight meet," lenges will come more of a force than other teams might
Greg Petcoff 
ing to this meet, the girls' drive has per­Petcoff said. "It will from Carthage expect.
Belles coach 
sisted through and even thrived on the prepare the girls to College, who "We will be a challenge for first place," hard work. compete their best for defeated the PetcofT said. "The team has become more energetic more than one day." Belles earlier this and this is a good indication of the team This consistency will be especially season, and Gustavus Agustus. Contact Dan Tapetalo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
Guess who is all grown .. . :,G ...··.·. 
. . . 
• IJIMII
. ' . ·. . . . . . . . 
up and . turning 21... 
WElCOME TO THE ClUB KIDDO! 
Mens Swimm1ng & iving Gol Game Satur~ay December 6th @ 6:30 PM 

Saturday December 6th @9:00 PMtill. Rolfs Aquatics Center till. Gate 1 0 of Joyce Center 
-Students don't forget to wear your Leprechaun Legion T -shirts!
... ~ .... 


-High-flying action from Extreme Team
-First 100 fans receive FREE Gold Games performing at halftime p~JECT
T-shirts sponsored byAeropostale Project Warmth: Bring your old winter coat~ WARMTH*FREE ADMISSION FOR ALL ND STUDENTS ceiue a coupon for 25% off a new coat at the bookstore. iReceive up-to-date promotional e-n1ails. Visit pron1os and giveaways link at www.und.com. Follow the instructions on the"BE THERE" Link 
-


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 4, 2003 
,, Win 
continued from page 24 
the first half. She also had seven assists and three steals. 
"It was fun. It's been a long time since I've hit that many out­side shots," Duffy said. "My teammates were looking for to get the ball, which is a little bit different, and I was able to knock them down." 
Duffy almost single-handedly kept the Irish ahead of Wisconsin in the first half by drilling four of six 3-pointers. Meanwhile, she continued to annoy Wisconsin's guards with her intensity on defense. 
"I think defensively when you're playing that hard it's easi­er to come down and execute on offense, which sounds funny," Duffy said. "When you're getting steals and rebounds, it's easier to come down and be in the flow offensively." 
In practices leading to the game, McGraw was worried about the height advantage Wisconsin had over her team. Early in the game, Wisconsin took advantage of their size by feeding the ball to 6-foot-5 cen­ter Emily Ashbaugh, who Scored eight of her team's first 11 points and left the Irish defense search­ing for answers. 
But the Irish held Ashbaugh to only one field goal for the 

I ' 
I ' remaining 14 minutes of the first I., 
half. The Badgers Ebba Geisha added nine first half points by knocking down 4-of-6 shots. 
Notre Dame took over the game in the second half by get­ting the ball into their post play­ers. Starting with LaVere's first six points of the second half, the Irish fed the ball to a high post player, who then passed inside to a player cutting to the low post. This high-low offense worked for much of the second half, as the Badgers struggled to stop easy scoring opportunities for Notre Dame. 

Forward Jacqueline Batteast added nine points and led the team with 10 rebounds, while playing more as a decoy then a scorer. She had four assists and found open teammates on numerous occasions. 
The Irish travel to Washington for a game Sunday against the Huskies. McGraw said her team is making great strides in prac­tice, which will help them during games. 
"I think we've been working really hard and we're starting to see the benefits of practicing hard and what it can do for us," McGraw said. 
Notes: 
+ 
Notre Dame's win over Wisconsin was the team's first victory against a Big Ten school since the 2001 national champi­onship game against Purdue. Since that game, the Irish have lost five times to Big Ten foes. 

+ 
Notre Dame improved to 42­2 since the 1994-95 season in non-conference home games. 

+ 
Wisconsin guard Kandace Evans had seven turnovers for the Badgers. The Irish had only 10 turnovers a team. 


Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Chris Quinn looks to drive against Mount St. Mary's. 
Cornette

l: 
I I continued from page 24 I· 
talked with Irish coach Mike Brey about using his versatilityr as an agile big man to his advantage-something the jun­
j. ior believes he hasn't done yet this season. 
~ 
) . For example, in Notre Dame's first three games, Cornette has
~: 
taken 15 3-pointers, but made 
just three of them. Last season, 
he took 19 all season. 
"My game has been one­dimensional lately," he said. ''I've been just hanging by the line shooting 3-pointers and that's not the player I want to be, that's not the type of game I have." 
Cornette said he's not afraid to hoist 3-pointers -he made 4-of-5 in an exhibition game this year -if he has an open look. But he also said he has to concentrate more on driving to the basket or penetrating and passing. 
"Coach still has confidence in my shot, I just have to pick and choose my spots," the 6-foot-9 forward said. "I've got the ver­satility where I can hang around the 3-point line, drive and finish the layup and rebound well. I think I can continue to do that more.... 

"You're still going to see me out by the 3-point line, but I won't be hanging there settling for a shot." 
Cornette hasn't and said he won't blame his shooting woes on his bum knee. He said his knee swelled up before Notre Dame's Dec. 5 exhibition and the pain started to become more unbearable. But in recent days, the swelling and pain decreased, leaving Cornette with a dull ache he says he can play through. 
However, that doesn't rule out the possibility of"knee surgery in the off-season. If the pain per­sists, Cornette anticipates hav­ing surgery to alleviate the pain before next year. 
He's just glad he doesn't have to miss any of this one. 
"I feel like I'm in rhythm now and I don't want to lose my touch with this team," he said. "Being out four weeks takes you out of a lot, and I didn't want to come back and still be shaky about what I was going to have to do." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Irish hope to continue winning ways 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The CCHA knows how good 
the Irish have been so far this 
season. Now, the rest of the 
college hockey world is tak­
ing notice as well. 
The No. 14 Irish take their 
six game unbeaten streak (4­
0-2) on the line as they travel 
to Western Michigan this 
weekend for their final two 
CCHA games of 2003. Notre 
Dame will not play another 
conference game until Jan. 9. 
Notre Dame enters the 
series with 16 points and tied 
for the CCHA lead with Ohio 
State. This is the latest in a 
season that the Irish have 
held the top position in the 
conference standings. 
"We've got a very, very tight focus now," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "We've got two games before Christmas. After the national develop­ment team game [Nov. 14] I told the team I needed the next 22 days from them. We've had great intensity, great focus and great prepa­ration. 
"Practice has been as good 
as I've ever seen since I've 
been here." 

The team's recent play has resulted in their first national ranking since Oct. 21, 2001. The Irish are currently ranked 14th in both the USA Today/American Hockey Magazine and the U.S. College Hockey Online polls. 
"When you start the year, certainly your goal is to have [high rankings and a high conference standing," Poulin said. "And when you get them, you can get afraid of how the team is going to react. {t's good to be nation­ally ranked because we're playing well. We've played our way into the national rankings. 
"We've earned every bit of it, and that's what's really important." 
Notre Dame (8-3-2, 7-3-2 in the CCHA) has played its way into the national rankings partly due to one of the best defenses in the country. Bolstered by the play of a senior-laden defense and ter­rific play from goaltenders David Brown, Morgan Cey and Rory Walsh, Notre Dame's 1.97 goals-against­average is tops in the CCHA and ranked third nationally. 
Two young cogs in Notre Dame's defense, freshmen defenseman Wes O'Neill and freshmen goaltender Brown, were ranked No. 1 and No. 2 among collegiate defensemen and goaltenders, respectively, in the recently-released Central Scouting Report for the 2004 NHL draft. 
Brown helped lead the Irish 
in a two-game sweep of .Northern Michigan last week­end, stopping 44-of-4 7 shots as Notre Dame won 5-1 and 4-2. He was rewarded for his efforts by being named the 
CCHA Rookie of the Week. 
Brown was also named 
Rookie of the Week for the 
weeks of Oct. .:.t 5 and Nov. 2. 
Special teams have also played a big role in Notre Dame's success this season, particularly on the penalty kill. The team has given up just six goals in 52 chances, including just one power-play goal on the road. 

"Te-ams build and thrive on the power play," .Poulin said. "This team we're playing this weekend has done very well on the power play, so it's important for us to be good 
with our kill.  .  .  
"When you kill  a  power  
play,  you  give  yourself  

momentum but you also take momentum away from them. That's why it's so important." 
Western Michigan (6-7-1-, 3-5-2) is led on offense by senior captain Dana Lattery, who has five points (three goals, two assists) in his last three games and currently has a five-game goal-scoring streak. 
The Broncos played three games last week, defeating Bowling Green 4-3 in over­time on Nov. 25 and splitting with Colgate over the week­end. Their most recent game 


TOPNOTCH TRAINING for REWARDING CAREERS ... in Biomedical Science 
Check out t.he 
PhD Graduate Program in CELL and MOLECULAR BIOLOGY 
College of Medicine at the University of Cincinnati 
http://cellbiology.uc.edu 
or ask Notre Dame alum Emily Deye Bosco! deyee@ucmail.uc.edu 
• 
Excellent research opportunities in world~class labs 

• 
Special strength in cancer biology 

• 
Opportunities to publish and attend nati_onal meetings 

• 
Close-knit, interactive atmosphere! 

• 
Generous stipend, full tuition, and health benefits 


was a 4-1 loss to Colgate last Saturday. 
Notre Dame travels to Kalamazoo to visit the Western Michigan Broncos this weekend. Face-off is set for 7:35p.m. Friday and 7:05 
p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
e1101~mous 
FLEECE 
Selection. 
Sminutes~~ 
{com DUTPDST 
Campus~
Cold Weather Experts 
Col1259·1ooo for more details 

--~~-----------------. 
-

Friday, December 4, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS Page 21 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
earn the conference's automatic 
bid. 
The Irish and the Cardinals are joined in the bracket by 15th­seeded No. 18 Illinois and unranked Murray State. By obtaining one of the 16 seeds, the Illini earned the right to host the regional. Notre Dame plays first at 6 p.m. Friday night, followed by Illinois/Murray State. 
The winners face ofT Saturday for the right to travel to Honolulu, Hawaii. 
Notre Dame is 11-12 in NCAA tournament action. and reached the Sweet Sixteen in 1994, 1995 and 1997. In 199 3, the Irish made an appearance in the quarterfi­nals. Last year, the Irish earned the 16th seed, hosting the first and second rounds before falling to Michigan State in round two. 
But this year Notre Dame has other plans. 
They have had a whole week to prepare for the Cardinals, and practice has focused on solely the Louisville game at hand. 
"Obviously at this level you have to play well,'' Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "The key for us is aggressive serving; we have to serve really tough because I really think that Louisville's weakness is in their passing, in their ball con­trol. So I think we need to take them out of system. But along with that, our block needs to be strong and our digging behind it needs to be good, too." 
In order to accomplish this, the Irish will look to senior sisters Jessica and Kristen Kinder. Jessica leads the team in aces (33), and is second in digs (3.25 per game). Kristen, a first team all-Big East selection, leads the offense, as she is one of the best at diversifying the potent offensive attack. 
As far as their nation-leading block ranking, the Irish look to two sophomore Laurens. Lauren 

Brewster leads the Irish, averag­
ing 1.81 blocks per game, while 
Lauren Kelbley averages 1.24 
blocks per game. 
Another key to the Irish's suc­
cess, libero Meg Henican, leads 
the Irish defense with 402 digs on 
the year 
Emily Loomis is a large part of the balanced Irish offense, as she leads them in kills, averaging 3.58 per game. Brewster, meanwhile, averages 3.52 and Kelbley aver­ages 3.28. All three were named to the All-Big East team. Kelbley and Brewster were named to the first team, while Loomis earned second-team honors. 
But that is over, and the Irish know they are in for a fight tonight against Louisville. "I think for sure that we go into the match and we know its going to be tough, we can't look past Louisville," Brown said. "We go in really focused, and really knowing what we need to do to win one match and the you take it from there." 
Because they only have one freshman, defensive specialist Danielle Herndon, the Irish bring NCAA experience that they didn't have last year with Kelbley and Brewster as freshmen. They are prepared to play some of the best teams early in the tournament, the first being Louisville. 
"I don't mind it, I really don't," Brown said. "We have to play at a high level, so we might as well do it early [in the tournament]." 
And, despite the fact that they have lost four of their last six matches, including their last two, the Irish are confident and ready to play again. 
"I think that it's an exciting time of year and you want to just look forward to everything," Brown said. "I think we all believe that the best is yet to come and we're excited about the way we've trained, and how we've prepared. Things are looking good, I think." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
"Notre Dame Federal Credit Union has a lot of great products and services. I love their free checking!" 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better . 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 



Free Checking! (It doesn't get better than free) 

s ors 

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL **SPRING BREAK** Book early and save $$! Live band & OJ, Hard body & Venus Swimwear contest, Suites up to 12 people, 3 pools, huge beachfront hot­tub, lazv river ride, water slide, Jet skis, parasail 
-


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duffy not playing like sophom.ore 
Someone forgot to tell Megan Duffy Thursday that she only made seven of 35 3-point attempts as a freshman one year ago. 
Oops. The sopho­more guard 

..,.----­knocked down six -of-1 0 3­pointers and had 25 points against Wisconsin to lead her team to an 82-64 victory, all the while 

showing the Sports Editor Badgers what a complete bas­ketball player looks like. She scored. She played suffocat­ing defense. She got steals and she lead her team on both ends of the court. 
Duffy didn't play like a young · sophomore, but more like an expe­i rienced senior against WISconsin 
.,last night. She wasn't looking to 
(score when the game started, but Jtook the open shots the Badgers 
··gave her. When Wisconsin stepped 
p their defense on Duffy, she sim­ly passed the ball inside or started all movement on the perimeter. arely did the guard force anything 
shot or pass -and she ended e game with just one turnover. 
he fact that Duffy poured in 25 points isn't what made her per­formance so outstanding. A lot of players can put up big points totals on any given night. 

~ What made Duffy's performance 
special were all the other things1she did well. In the second half, :. Duffy applied full-court pressure on 1i her opposing guard, but never let ·,her intensified defense affect her 
offense. 
With 13:36 left in the game. and her team up 59-43, Duffy dove into the Wisconsin bench in an attempt to deflect a pass. Not only did she 
_hit away the pass, but the ball bounced off the intended Wisconsin player's arm and went out of bounds to give Notre Dame posses­sion. 
After having the best scoring first half of her career by tallying 19 points, Duffy started the second half by dishing out an assist to for­ward Courtney LaVere in the first minute. A few seconds later, Duffy found LaVere again for another assist which gave the Irish a 43-34 lead. She also inbounded the ball to 
·a wide-open Jeneka Joyce who promptly knocked down a 3-point­er to increase the Irish edge to 71­
.52 later in the half. The defense, assists and scoring were all in a day's work for Duffy. 

I, 
I She worked hard in the offseason 
I ''lo improve bet llhooting and her overall skills. That work has already paid off in the first week of December thil season, as the Dayton, Ohio, native is not playing like the decent freshman she was a year ago. She's playing like a guard that is as good as nearly anyone in the nation. A guard that leads by example and makes any sacrifice necessary for her team. And a guard that will be turning heads in the Big East when confer­ence play begins in a few short weeks. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd. edu. 
"lt's better to 

For businesses of any size, please caii1-866-USC-4BIZ (1-866-827-4249). 
ar stores 

Elkhat wai-Mart 175 COU1ty Rd H6, (574) 2644494 
Visit one of our exclusive authorized 
Elkhat  Go Wireless-Kiosk., coooord Mall, Mishawaka 3701 S. Main St., (574) 875-4744  
Goshen  Wai-Mart 4024 Elkhat Rd., (574) 875-nSJ Mishawaka  
Merrilville  Go Wireless-Kiosk., 2109 SOOI:Iiace Mall, ste. 748 Mishawaka  

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 5, 2003 
'"NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. PURCHASE WILL NOT ENHANCE CHANCES OF WINNING. Only ~e-1 to legal residents of 10, IL, IN, lA, KS, MD. ME. MO, MN, NE NH, NC. OH, OK, OR. PA, SC, TN. TX. VT, VA. WA, WI, &WV. t8 or elder Entry (a) US Cellular custorrers Use your USC moo1le J11ooe ('Phooe') dunng an Entry Penod (Da1ly 700 am to 900 pm local bme) to make an ehg~e-call Ehg~e calls limted to 1ncooung calls to Phone (except forwarded calls) &outgJ1ng calls lrOOl Phooe while on USC Wireless neiWcrt to amollie Ci landhne phone or qJeratct, where calt1s an5Wered (except \JOICemOII) &ooes not exceed 3hrs QB. (b) Pnnt yoor name, ad:Jress. daytm1e J11ooe. 4-diQit number (usmg digts 0-9) & exact date & tme (hours. m111utes. seconds) dunng Entry Penod & mad to US Cenular Sweepstakes, PO. Box t443, YOung Amenca. MN 55594-t443 by postmark & entry-rece'JOO dates Enter as ofte-1 as you WISh, ooe entry pa-stamped EJlVelope Entry Pencxls t tt/1-ttfl/03, postmark tt/tD/03, recaved 11it4/03, craw1ng. 111t7/03 2 111S-t1/14AJ3, postmark 11/t7103, receved tt/21103, draWing tt/24103 3 t1f15-ttl2tl03. postmark t tt24103,recel\led ttt2MJ3, draw~ng 1211103 4 11 t22-11t28/03, postmark t211/03,recel\led 1215103, <taWing 12!a/03 5 11129-1215103, postmark 12/Ml3,rece1Ved 12112103, draw1ng t2/15/00 6 t2/6-t2/t2/03,postmark t2/tMXl,recel\led t2/tS'ro.craWing 121?2103 7 12/13-1211!l-tJ3,postmark 12122/ro,recel\led t2!2003,daWing 12t29f03 8 t2120-t2126/03,posbnark 12!2~ro.receved 1tm4.crawmg t/5104 Odds ol wmmng 1st Pnze deoe1ds on numba-ol ehg1~e entnes recewed tlal maldllhe randcrnly selected date &lime for that Entry Penod Odds of a.§peohc dale &bllle bang randcrnly selected 1352,800 Odds ol a 1st PriZe wmnEJ Wlnmng 1he Grand Pnze ttd,OOO Prizes. I Grand Pnze $20,000,000 paya~e as a40-year annu1ty 81 st PriZes. t per Entry Penod Chace of Hcrne Theater Package, A~ $4.700 D1gtal Enta-ta~nmenl Package, A~ $4.960 Mob1le Mad1ess Package, ARV $4,739 Cash $2,500 Subject to Officia Rules avalia~e at www usee oom ct ma~l SASE to Rules, PO f3a( 9443, Yoong Amroca. MN 55558-9443 t1t 2120104 Sp()'lsor U.S Cellular. 8410 West Bryn tv'awr. Ch1cago, IL 60631 
Airtime and phone offers valid on two-year consumer serv1ce agreements of $40 and higher •so% access d1scount valid for the hrst 6months of a two-year contract on plans of $40 and up Promobonal phone subJect 
to change Phone pncmg Includes a $30 matl~n rebate Customer 1s responsible for all sales taxes Otters may exp1re 11 you change ~ur calling plan N1ght and weekend 
· mmutes are val1d M·F 9pm to 559am and all day Saturday and Sunday N1ght and weekend mirutes are ava~able in local calling area only Roam1ng charges fees. surcharges and taxes may
1•888•BUY•USCC apply, 1nclud1ng aFederal and Other Regulatory Fee charge of$ 55 All semce agreements subfectlo an early terrmnat1on fee Acbva11on fee 1s $30 Other resinct1ons may apply See store for 
WIClellular.com deta1ls Lim1ted lime offer Offer val1d Ill illinois and Indiana only Not val1d 1n Rock Island or Henry Counbes nUlinois @2003 US CellularCorporahon 
IGranger 

215 E. Uliversity Dr, Ste. 150, (574) 271-Q290 
Go Wireless-Kiosk, Uliversity Mall, 6501 N. Grape Rd., Ste. 650, (574) 243-4855 
Wai-Mart, 316 lncian Ri~e, (574) 243-1520 
Premier, 514 w. McKinley, (574) 252-5820 
Ivalparaiso 
Schererville South Bend South Bend 

wai-Mart 2400 Mcrthland or, (219) 465-4286 
U'OOn Media Gr~. 7178 Main St, (219) 865-9608 
Premier, 117 N Main st, (574) 288-9450 
Premier, 4615 Mami Rd , (574) 299-2860 
•!
-

Friday, December 5, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

FIVES 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 In the shadows, perhaps 8 Some buzzers 15 It's beyond the 
three-mile limit 16 Japanese dish 17 Little sound 18 Call names 19 Affix 20 Buttonhole, in a 
way 21 1979 disaster 
area: Abbr. 22 Dipped 23 Rip Van 
Winkle's state 25_Ciub 26 Not difterente 28 Frontier justice 
Bean 28 Big wheel 30 Move, as diners 
in a restaurant 
32 Paunch 34 Gender bender 36 U.S.S. Arizona 
Memorial locale 39 Dry goods 
dealer, in Dover 43 Asserts 44 Be laid up 46 Catcher 47 "The Cosby 
Show" actor Richmond 48 Carpentry items 50 Makes see red 
51 They have strong ties: Abbr. 
52 Source of some strange visions 53 Draw 
55 Work on an open-and-shut case? 
57 Secure 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

58 Crew members 59 Wyoming's 
highest peak 60 "Glory be!" 61 Clytemnestra's 
slayer 
DOWN 1 "Baby, It's Cold Outside" songwriter 2 Draw atlention away from 3 They contain 
cones 4 Get serious 5 Author Dinesen 6 _ Circus (old 
Vatican area) · 7 Brazzi's YSoutl'l Pacific" co-atar 8 Fitting room comment 9 Later 10 Eurasian diving duck 11 Trash trackers: Abbr. 12 Dock 13 Catch in a net 14 Hit the spot 24 It's given without warning 25 Monkey business 27 Disraeli and others 29 Some breakers' 31 Cross-shaped character 
WILLSHORTZ 

33 "First Blood"  38 Some rodeo  48 Late bloomer  
director Kotcheff  participants  49lt may be  
40 Balcony barrier  used to play a  
35 Opposite of depresses  41 St. Anthony, notably  raga 52 Tibetan for  
36 Was able to fit something in  42 Takes exception to  Msuperior one• 54 River to  
37 Be due a  45 "Get a move  Donegal Bay  
refund, perhaps  on!"  56 Letter run  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscripti~ns: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nyt1mes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). Cr~words for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
JUMBLE 

JJ~ 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GHEED 
j
rJ r 

C2003 Trilune Madia Services. Inc. 
All Rights Raaerved. 
GLITH 
t 
IJ r 
www.jumble com
tLEEMOT I 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon . 
(Answers tomorrow) , 

DOWNY SOOTY ADAGIO ORIOLE Answer: Stressed in a penmanship class-DOING IT 'WRITE" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Little Richard, Margaret Cho, Frankie Muniz, Morgan Brittany, Jim Messina, Lanny Wadkins, Jose Carreras, Joan Didion 
Happy Birthday: Your outlook coupled with your knowledge wiU lead you in a positive, progressive direction. You will attract potential partners who can make a difference to your position in society. If you are quick to recognize an opportunity and to take action, the year ahead will be full of rewards and self­satisfaction. Your numbers: 5, 18, 21, 27, 32, 34 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You may have a problem with your lover if you forgot to do something you promised to do. Channel your energy into making things better, not worse. Don't get angry without due cause. "'** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You need to pick up some additional knowledge. Go to the source to get the most current information. You will be able to ask for a raise or put your name up for a promotion. *"'"'* GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Too much too fast. Take your time; you don't have to make decisions now. Don't let others push you into doing things you would rather not do. Blow-ups in your domestic scene are apparent. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should take some time out and re-evaluate your emotional situation. You may want to confide in someone you respect and trust who will give you a better understanding.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Moneymaking opportunities are present. Make your decision quickly if you don't want to miss out. Problems with equipment may set you back if you have neglected regular maintenance. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone around you may not want to do you a favor. Empty promises will lead to frustration. It is best to do things yourself rather than depend on someone else to pick up the slack. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Disharmony in your personal life will make it difficult for you to accomplish things. It is best to pamper yourself and not worry about what you are supposed to be working on. **"' SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Legal problems may surface if you forgot to tend to some small but important details. You will have to backtrack if you wish to clear these matters up once and for all. *** SAGI'ITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let someone take advantage of your good nature. You must not allow others to railroad you into spending money or making promises that you'd rather not be involved in. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may get your dander up due to a misunderstanding. Find out more information before you dedde to disown the party involved. Chances are you are wrong and owe an apology. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your deep need to learn all you can about something you have recently become interested in will lead you into a relentless search for truth. You may even question your own direction in life. 
*** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look into all the financial ventures presented to you today. One of them will be a real moneymaker. You should confine yourself to those deals where you don't have to rely on someone else. **** 
Birthday Baby: Your emotional sensitivity can influence the way you handle situations throughout your life. Honesty and integrity will be the key to making the right choices and avoiding mishaps. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q ­Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
I II 
I I 
I 
I I 


-~~--­
,, 

THE OBSERVER 
p
Friday, December 5, 2003 

Page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Dynamic Duo 
Sophomores Duffy and LaVere combine for 47 points against Badgers 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
When Wisconsin focused on containing Notre Dame's inside offense, guard Megan Duffy made them pay with her outside shooting. When the Badgers tried to shut down the Irish perimeter shooting, Courtney LaVere took over in the paint. 
The sopho­mores com­bined for 4 7 See Also points and 
"Duffy not
Notre Dame (3-3) played playing like outstanding 
sophomore"
defense en route to an 82-page 22 64 victory over Wisconsin (2-3) at the Joyce Center Thursday night. The win snapped a two-game losing streak for the Irish. 
"I was really pleased with our defensive intensity," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought our effort was tremendous. We had a great inside-outside game. Megan had a terrific first half and Courtney had a great second half. Offensively, for the rest of the 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

team, things weren't really going that well and these two picked up the slack." 
LaVere sparked a Notre Dame second half surge that saw the Irish push their lead to as many as 20, at 68-48, with 9:49 remaining. LaVere made her first three shots in the second half, all in the first minute, to extend Notre Dame's halftime lead of 36-29 to 41-32. 
McGraw had her team pres­sure the Badgers more in the second half and the Irish also started using more full court press. The moves worked, as Notre Dame outscored Wisconsin 46-35 in that half. 
"We wanted to pressure them more in the second half," McGraw said. "We primarily played man-to-man in the sec­ond half. We felt we just needed to come up and guard them and then we used the full court pressure." 
Duffy played outstanding throughout the game, offensive­ly and defensively, and sur­passed her previous career-high in points (14) by scoring 19 in 
see WIN/page 20 

Cornette hopes to shake off injury 
Men in first, women 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Bothered by a knee that caused nagging pain, Jordan Cornette crossed his fingers and went to the Irish training staff for a more thorough examina­tion. 
Cornette had knee surgery back in high school, and he wor­ried the Notre Dame trainers would recommend he have sur­gery again -meaning the jun­ior forward would have to spend at least a month on the sidelines to recover. But fortune was on Cornette's --and Notre Dame's -side. Although he'll have to wear a knee brace, Cornette will still be able to play for the Irish, including Saturday's home game against Central Michigan. 
"It's nagging, but it's to the point where I don't think it's going to be detrimental to my game," Cornette said. "I just have to get used to playing with the knee brace on, and it kind of masks a lot of the pain. Once I get comfortable with that, I should be fine." 
The Irish (2-1) will be looking 

(' 
;. 

HOCKEY 

Notre Dame at Western Michigan 
'i 
':/ ( Friday, 7:35 p.m. Saturday, 7:05 p.m. 
page 20 
'-. 
., 
' 
.; 

By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame men's and women's swimming teams each impressed in the opening day of the Notre Dame Invitational, with the men currently in first place and the women tied for third. 
The Irish men, who have 
682.50 points, were led by vic­tories by Jamie Lutkus in the 200-meter individual medley, and a win by the 200-meter freestyle team. Tim Randolph, Frank Krakowski, Tim Kegelman and Louis Cavadini combined to win the event in 1 minute, 22.41 seconds, just edging out Big East foe West Virginia's 1:22.66. 
Lutkus won his event with a time of 1:52.93, but was not to bounce back from their 71-58 three points before fouling out 
the only Irish swimmer to per­loss at No. 24 Marquette late in the game. 
form well, as the six top finish­Monday night. In that game, Since then, Cornette has 
ers were all members of the Cornette grabbed a team-high 
Notre Dame team. Dave 10 rebounds but only scored see CORNETTE/page 20 
Moisan gave Lutkus a battle, 
ND WOMEN'S VOU£YBALL 
Irish open NCAA tournament 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
It doesn't matter that it is arguably the toughest subregional in the country. It doesn't matter that three of the four teams are ranked nationally. 
All that matters is who wins the match at hand, because the loser goes home. 
The No. 21 Irish are set to take on No. 19 Louisville after finishing the regular season 23-6 last week­end with a 3-0 loss to No. 5 Stanford. Meanwhile, the Cardinals are coming off a 3-2 loss at the hands of Ball State, to finish their season 24-5. Louisville is 2-t 1 against Notre Dame all-time, the last match a 3-0 victory for the Irish. 
Notre Dame makes its 12th con­secutive NCAA appearance, by way of an at-large bid. Louisville, mean­while, makes its 14th tournament appearance, as they won the Conference USA tournament to 
. see NCAA/page 21 

third after first day 
finishing just behind his team­mate with a time of 1:52.49. 
The women's team was bol­stered by -Meghan Perry­Eaton's victory in the three­meter diving board, as the Irish collected 270 points on the day, good enough for a third place tie with Denison. After day one, Bowling Green is the leader with 401 points, followed by West Virginia with 272. 
Perry-Eaton continued her undefeated season with an easy win on the diving board, collecting 516.60 points. Her next closest opponent, New Mexico's Becca Barras, was second with 473.20. 
Despite having to compete with a squad depleted by ill­ness and academic commit­ments, the swimming team performed well, including a third place finish in the 200­meter freestyle relay. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL Roundball Classic 
Saint Mary's vs. Illinois College 

Belles look to build on big win over Andrews earlier this week. 
page 19 
SMC SWIMMING 
Gene Davis Invitational 
Saint Mary's looks to come off strong from a three-week hiatus. 
page 19 

The Boston Red Sox hire Terry Francona as manager, replacing Grady Little. 
page 17 

MLB 
San Francisco's Barry Bonds appeared before a grand jury focusing on possible drug viola­tions. 
page 16 
The Reds gave Dave Miley a one-year con,. tract after his efforts as interim manager last season. 
page 16 
_j 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­-
~-...~-.....____ 


I I 
I 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, December 5, 2003 
Jones deserves Irish rushing record 
Julius Jones could have taken the easy way out. 
When he was dismissed from Notre Dame for aca­demic reasons 
two sum­mers ago, he could have trans­ferred to another school where the 


expecta­tions  Chris Federico  
would  
have been lower.  Sports Writer  
He  
could  

have tried to jump early to the NFL through the supple­mental draft. 
Or he could have left foot­ball behind altogether, disap­pearing into the obscurity that is the land of disgraced and forgotten athletes. 
But Jones was determined not to let himself off the hook that easily. He felt he owed it to himself, his family and his Irish teammates to return to Notre Dame one day and reclaim his spot in the Irish backfield. 
"I think people have had an eye on me coming back to Notre Dame to see what I would do," said the Irish run­ning back about the high expectations surrounding his return to South Bend. 
Now 209· carries and 1,214 yards later, Jones stands only 223 yards shy of Notre Dame history and silencing his doubters once and for all ­that is the margin by which he trails the Notre Dame sin­gle season rushing record, set by Vagas Ferguson in 1979. 
Saturday in Notre Dame's last game of the season Joss at Purdue as the Irish dropped to 1-3 on the sea­son, a visibly frustrated Jones made his feelings known -he did not want to go out a loser, and he did not want his return to Notre Dame to be tainted in that way. 
He deserves it for those times this season when his 
hard running 
and determi­

against Most importantly, nation almost Syracuse, single-hand­
Jones deserves this 
Jones will edly kept the
Notre Dame record 
have that Irish in the mark in his as a reward and game: his 19­sights, and yard touch­
trophy for all he's
nobody down run deserves the accomplished in against record more his comeback Washington than the Irish State that put
with the Irish. 
fifth-year senior. 
He deserves it, because Irish fans need something to cheer about and remember from coach Tyrone Willingham's sopho­more season, when the Irish struggled to reach . 500 and failed to earn a bowl berth for the second time in three years. Jones breaking that record could be the lone bright spot in an otherwise dismal season that started tragically and finished with a little flicker of hope. 
He deserves it, because he kept his Irish teammates focused on winning when things had gotten their worst in the season. After a 23-10 the Irish on 
top for the 

first time, his record-breaking 262-yard day against Pittsburgh that sealed the Irish upset and his 221-yard, two-touchdown day that saved an embar­rassing loss to Navy and kept Notre Dame's 40-year win­ning streak over the Midshipmen alive. 
He deserves it for his fami­ly, for his mother and father that saw him through the toughest of times and for older brother and NFL run­ning back Thomas who kept him on the right track and saw through his return to Notre Dame. 
He deserves it, because everything he's accomplished this season, he's done with the utmost humility and respect for the program. When he wasn't getting many carries at the beginning of the season, he never criti­cized his coach's decisions, as he unselfishly waited for his turn to prove himself on the field. 
Most importantly, Jones deserves this Notre Dame record as a reward and tro­phy for all he's accomplished in his comeback with the Irish. After his dismissal, Jones realized his mistake and worked harder than ever to prove that he belonged as part of the Notre Dame fami­ly. 
"Yeah, I had something to prove," Jones said. "I had something to prove to every­body, that I could go to school here and play football here, and I think I've done that. When I get that degree, I think everything will be complete." 
Jones now has that chance to prove himself. He is on track to graduate from ND in the spring, and Saturday, he can secure his place along­side the family of ND football greats by surpassing Ferguson's 24-year old mark. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily of The Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
game hype 

Tyrone Willingham Irish head coach 
·Tm going to leave it all out on the field." 

Bob Morton Irish center 
·1ts not often. that you have a chance to playa team like Notre Dame. , ..We will see Syracuse·s best football team, and they will be playing their best football. , 

Julius Jones Irish running back 
·wefeel pretty good going into Syracuse; wejust have to play our brand of 
football. ,, 





Friday, December 5, 2003 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Thrown into the fire 
Six freshmen see the field for the Irish and gain valuable experience 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spons w·rirer 

No matter what they might have 
accomplished in high school, the 20 
freshmen on Notre Dame's roster had 
one thing in common in fall camp. 
They had no clue what was going on. 
The offensive players were handed a massive playbook and told to know it all. The defensive players were expected to guard much more physical offensive players than they faced in high school. And on top of that, there was this thing called college they had to get acclimated to. 
Playing was the last thing on their 
minds. Surviving was the first. 
"It's tough for everyone," wide receiver Chinedum Ndukwe said.. "You go from being the main dude to not playing so much." 
Yet as the Irish prepare for their final game of the season at Syracuse, a whop­ping six freshmen logged significant minutes during the 2003 campaign. By comparison, last year, only two freshmen cracked the playing field. 
The decision coaches make to give a freshman limited minutes now to help him gain experience at the cost of a year of eligibility is a difficult one. Yet Irish coach Tyrone Willingham believes the playing time the Notre Dame six -Ndukwe and fellow receiver Jeff Samardzija, quarterback Brady Quinn, defensive lineman Victor Abiamiri, offen­sive lineman Ryan Harris and safety Freddie Parrish -will greatly benefit the Irish in the future. 
"There's nothing like playing in the game, there's nothing like being a part of the team, having that buildup for a game and that preparation for a game," Willingham said, "that can help you going into next season." 
Different reasons 
Why a freshman ends up playing depends on a multitude of factors. Take Quinn, for example. He came to Notre Dame expecting to challenge for the backup quarterback job with Chris Olsen behind Carlyle Holiday. 
But when Olsen transferred, and Holiday's ineffectiveness hampered an already inept Irish offense, the coaching staff tabbed Quinn as the Irish starter for the rest of the season -just one of a handful of true freshmen across the nation to line up behind center this year. 
"I had no expectations of where I would be at the beginning of the year," he said. "I just had to take my role and 

BUG DAVISSON!The Observer Notre Dame offensive lineman Ryan Harris blocks against Navy. 
CHIp lVI>'-'"'"" 

Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn looks downfield at Boston College Oct. 
25. Quinn Is one of six Irish freshmen to see the field In 2003. 
deal with it." 

Then there's Harris. Most famous at the beginning of the year for appearing on an MTV reality television show, Harris expected he wouldn't see any playing time because his weight wasn't where the coaching staff wanted it to be. And anyway, freshman offensive linemen rarely play their first year. 
So imagine how surprised he was when the coaches told him the first college game 
he would play in -..There's nothing now mostly a special-teams against Pittsburgh -was like playing in extraordinaire. going to be a start. But the year of eligibility
the game, there ,s

"The coaches never told blown on what others might me [during recruiting] I nothing like being see as insignificant playing would play, and even a part ofthe team. ,, time is worth it, Ndukwe when I got here after says. camp, they said, 'We want "I don't regret it at all," he
Tyrone Willingham 

you to get bigger,"' said said. "I got valuable experi­Harris, who joined Brad Irish coach ence being out on that field, 
Williams and Mike 
Hosenthal as the only Irish 
freshmen to start on the offensive line. 
"But playing this year has been an unbe­
lievable experience for me." 
The coaches consider Abiamiri one of the year's best success stories. Forced to come to Notre Dame when a recruiting violation by a Maryland coach made him ineligible to become a Terrapin, Abiamiri entered Notre Dame as one of tht~ most highly-touted high school recruits the Irish landed. 
11~ had played sparingly earlier in the season, but when Justin Tuck couldn't play· against Michigan State, Abiamiri seamlessly stepped in and made seven tackles. Later, when Kyle Budinscak suf­fnred a season-ending injury, Abiamiri moved to the other end of the line and has started the last four games-joining current Baltimore Ravens defender Anthony Weaver as the only freshman to start on the defensive line since 1991. 
The early playing time has brought these players significant accolades. Hivals.com named Harris a freshman All-American and Abiamiri earned hon­orable mention freshman honors. Meanwhile Quinn, despite battling through growing pains at quarterback, solidified his grasp on the starting job and appears to be Notre Dame's quarter­back of the future. 
Scant playing time 

The flip side of starters Quinn, Abiamiri and Harris, however, is Samardzija, Ndukwe and Parrish. All three made their collegiate debuts at their respective positions in Notre Dame's season opening win against 
Washington State. But from there, they drifted off the playing field during regu­lar downs and mainly only entered the game as special teams players. 
Samardzija, for example, caught seven passes in Notre Dame's first four games but hasn't caught a ball since. Ndukwe caught one ball in Notre Dame's season opener, but had to wait nine games to catch his second pass. And Parrish, after seeing playing time as safe­ty against the Cougars, is 
and I learned the offense so 
much more than I would 
have if I had been on the scout team. I'm 
glad for this." 
That doesn't mean that it was easy to sit on the sidelines. Ndukwe often sought the counsel of senior receiver Omar Jenkins, who played as a freshman but never caught a pass, and safety Quentin Burrell, who never left the sidelines as a freshman, to help him adjust to the idea of not playing f'very day. 
"A lot of people start going through a stage where you start doubting your­self," Ndukwe said. "You really can't do that. A whole bunch of people have been there before you, and you just have to adapt yourself and keep doing what you're doing and wait until next year." 
Coaches' decision 
Playing a freshman could give the team an added boost at a key position, as it did when coaches started Harris at tackle, which allowed Dan Stevenson to move to his more natural guard position. All the offensive line did in Harris' first start was pave the way for Julius Jones' 262-yard school record day against Pittsburgh. 
Or it could end up that a player who coaches originally thought would play a lot, like Ndukwe, gets stuck behind more experienced players and is left on the special teams unit. 
It's a difficult decision coaches have to make every week. Should he play? Or should he save that year of eligibility? Or will he graduate in four years and maybe not want to play football any­more? 
"You start with the belief that this 
young person, if you're putting time into 
him, will have the ability to help the pro­
gram at that time," Willingham said. "Of 
course, there are a lot of adjustments 
that young people go through the first 
year in college that can influence that or 
change that as you go through thP year." 
But what the coaches won't do, at least 
at the beginning of the season, is tell 
freshmen they are or aren't going to 
play. There does comn a point where a 
coach might pull a player aside and tell . 
him he is going to sit out the entire year 
-but that point doesn't comP until at 
least midway through the season. After 
all, Harris didn't play until the fifth game 
of the season. 
"What I tried to do is maintain as 
much of an entire team focus about play­
ing as soon as possible," Willingham 
said, "because the one thing I don't want 
to do is have a freshman not develop in 
that first year because he says, 'I'm not 
going to play."' 
Future dividends 
Every freshman that played this year looks back on the season with some regret. Ndukwe wishes he could have played more. Quinn wishes he could have executed more. Harris wishes he could have won more. 
But nobody wishes they wouldn't have played at all. The game experience is too helpful. 
"There's not enough tape and tape recorders to tell you, there's not enough words to explain, not enough paper to write," Harris said. "In one game you learn so much and you continue to learn. It's something that's coming down to game experience. You can't practice for every single situation." 
The last time so many freshmen played in their inaugural college year was 1999, when five freshmen played in Notre Dame's season opener. Back then, that crew said they gained confidence by playing limited minutes, and three years later, Notre Dame started the season 8­0. 
The current crop of Irish freshmen believes they, too, can accomplish simi­lar success. 
"All of us are confident in our abilities next year, and next year, we want to start putting in the effort to get the national titles." Harris said. "Those of us who played have the experience." 
"1," Ndukwe added. "can't wait for the future." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

ANDY KENNA/The Observer 

Notre Dame defensive lineman Victor Ablamiri registers a sack at Pittsburgh. 
Friday, December 5, 2003
page 4 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 5-6 AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Tyrone Willingham second season at Notre Dame career record: 
59-45-1 
at Notre Dame: 
15-9 

Tyrone Willingham against 
head coach Syracuse: 0-0 
Roster 

Name Pos. HI. WI. YR Jared Clark TE 6-4 230 SR Freddie Parrish DB 6-1 195 FR Ryan Grant RB 6-1 211 JR Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 207 so Carlos Campbell CB 5-11 194 JR Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 214 SR Matt Krueger QB 5-10 180 SR Quentin Burrell FS 6-0 180 JR Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 186 SR Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 209 JR Brady Quinn QB 6-4 210 FR Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 199 JR Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 220 JR Nicholas Setta KIP 5-11 184 SR Gary Godsey TE 6-6 259 SR Preston Jackson CB 5-9 177 SR Rashon Powers-Neal FB 6-2 227 JR Stan Revelle QB 5-11 183 JR Geoffrey Price p 6-3 180 FR Ronnie Rodamer WR 6-4 211 SR Glenn Earl FS 6-1 205 SR 
D.J. Fitzpatrick K/P 6-1 192 JR Travis Thomas RB 6-1 200 FR Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 221 so Julius Jones RB 5-10 210 SR Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 190 FR Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 177 JR Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 224 so Garron Bible FS 5-10 197 SR UoneiBolen ss 6-0 206 JR Mike Profeta TB 5-11 208 SR Cole Laux FB 5-10 229 SR Tom Zbikowski DB 6-0 185 FR LaBrose Hedgemon DB 5-10 180 FR Mike Richardson DB 6-1 188 so Jake Carney DB 6-0 180 so Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 211 so Courtney Watson lLB 6-1 234 SR Vontez Duff CB 5-11 194 SR Ashley McConnell FB 6-0 240 FR Isaiah Gardner DB/RB 5-10 190 FR Matt Mitchell DB 5-9 184 so Brandon Hoyte ILB 6-0 226 JR David Bemenderfer ss 5-11 195 SR Nate Schomas WR 5-10 165 SR Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 243 SR Ambrose Wooden WR 6-1 190 FR Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 226 so Justin Tuck DE 6-5 246 JR Carl Gioia p 5-11 165 FR Corey Mays ILB 6-1 238 JR Mitchell Thomas LB 6-2 210 FR Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 250 SR [.)prek Curry lLB 6-3 228 SR Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 295 SR Jamie Ryan OT 6-5 290 so Joe Brockington LB 6-1 215 FR David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 271 so Zachary Giles c 6-3 281 )R Nick Borseti LB 6-1 205 FR Dwight Stephenson LB 6-3 237 FR Paul Jancha LS 6-1 245 so James Bent OL 6-2 253 so Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 288 SR Scott Raridon OT 6-7 300 so Casey Dunn OT/OG 6-4 255 JR Sean Milligan OG 6-4 291 SR Derek Landri NG 6-2 265 so Ryan Harris OL 6-5 270 FR Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 280 )R Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 301 SR David Kowalski oG 6-2 249 SR James Bonelli OG/OT 6-6 282 so Jeff Thompson ClOG 6-4 287 )R Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 309 JR Dan Stevenson OG 6-5 297 JR Chris Frome DE 6-5 264 so Bob Morton c 6-4 299 so Greg Pauly DT 6-6 291 SR John Sullivan OL 6-4 280 FR Brian Mattes OT 6-6 250 so Omar jenkins WR 6-2 204 SR Chinedum Ndukwe WR 6-3 190 FR Matt Shelton WR 5-1 172 JR jeff Samardzija WR 6-4 190 FR Mike O'Hara WR 5-10 174 so Rob Woods WR 6-2 205 so Billy Palmer TE 6-3 251 SR Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 242 so Patrick Nally TE 6-3 243 SR Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 253 so John Carlson TE 6-6 230 FR Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 283 JR Craig Cardillo K 6-0 165 so Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 270 SR Dan Santucci DE 6-5 270 so Victor Abiamiri DL 6-5 245 FR Travis Leitko DE 6-6 264 so Trevor Laws DL 6-2 290 FR Jason Sapp DE 6-3 256 SR 
NOTRE DAME 2003 Schedule  
Sept. 6 WASHINGTON ST.-W Sept. 13 at Michigan ­L Sept. 20 MICHIGAN ST. -L Sept. 27 at Purdue-L Oct. 11 at Pittsburgh -W Oct. 18 USC-L 0\% Oct. 25"*'at Boston College ­L Nov. 1 FLORIDA STATE -L Nov.8 NAVY-W Nov. 15 BYU-W Nov. 29 at Stanford -W Dec.6 at Syracuse  

NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 

RIGHT TACKLE &I-Hurls 
79-Mattes 
IS-Palmer 
88-Fasano 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS 
When the run is working·Even though their sched­for the Irish, Quinn can
LLI 
ule has let up some, 
be an effective quarter­
~ 
Willingham had the Irish back, as was seen against
<C 
believing they can win 
Stanford with the two
Q 
again. He can gain some long touchdown passes.
LLI 
momentum for next year On the season, he's only
0::: 
by running off four
1­
completed 46 percent ofstraight wins to end the
0 
his passes with eightseason with a victory
z 
touchdowns and 13 inter-over Syracuse. 
ceptions. 

Pasqualoni is one of the 
Anderson has been an winningest active 
efficient signal caller for coaches with his 134 

the Orangemen. He has career victories, but the 
thrown only five inter-Orangemen have strug­
ceptions in 283 attempts gled in the last few sea­
this season, and he has sons. With a loss to 
10 passing touchdowns. Notre Dame, his job as 
He has also been an the Syracuse head 
effective runner for 2.9 coach could be in jeop­
yards a carry and five ardy. 
touchdowns. 

These two teams are experiencing opposite 
Quinn has been too up-fates right now, as the 

and-down this season to Irish have run off three 
be a quarterback to be straight victories. while 
feared. He still needs a the Orange men have Iost 
lot of help from the run-their last three. 
ning game to be effec-Pasqualoni has been a 
tive. Anderson can hurt winner through th~ 
opponents through the years, but his team has 
air and on the ground. struggled of late. 
CORNERBACK 
25·Gregory28-Jackson 
FREE SAFETY 
20-Smlth 
21·Scott 
31-Prultl 
46·Brooks 

CORNERBACK 
SYRACUSE

11-Swltlellllerg 
29·Whltfield 
DEFENSE 


No. 
1 2 4 5 6 7 8 8 9 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 16 17 18 19 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 27 28 28 29 30 31 32 
33 
34 35 
36 
37 39 39 40 41 42 43 
44 
45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 54 55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 
62 64 65 66 68 69 70 71 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 84 85 87 88 88 
89 
90 91 92 93 95 97 98 99 
IRISH RUSHING 

Jories has been a force on · the ground for the Irish in the second half of the season. He has three 200-yard games and is 224 yards shy of setting the Notre Dame single season rushing record. The run blocking of the offensive line has really improved. 
The Orangemen have ben solid in their defense of the run this year. ranking 49th in the country in allowing 145 yards a game. Syracuse has only allowed 11 rushing touchdowns on the season and has held opponents to 3.8 yards a carry. 

If Notre Dame plays like it has in recent weeks. the Irish should have the edge here. Jones will have his work cut out for him to get the rush~ ing record, as Syracuse has allowed 224 yards once this year -to Virginia Tech. ' 
IRISH PASSING 
' Th~ pattern this year for the Irish is that their passing game has gone only as far as the running game has carried it. Last week, Notre Dame was effective with the pass as it dominated on the ground. The Irish receivers have struggled to catch passes at times. 
The Orangemen have struggled at times in defending the pass, as they yield 224.3 yards a game through the air. They have picked off 15 passes on the season, but they have also allowed 21 pa.,sing touchdowns. They rank 67th in the country in pass defense. 
The Notre Dame passing attack will not flourish on its own, as the Irish need 
~~m~~~ :~nair~~~~~ t~:cu11J1ha~~;:lr~~~ 
nerable through the sea­son, but it has also held teams like Miami to 80 yards passing this year. 


Notre Dame is hitting its stride at the end of Notre Dame will take its momentum from the the season -about 11 games too late. While Stanford win into their season finale. The team 
Julius Jones has a shot at setting a single-sea­wants to reach .500 and they'll get there
Irish 

son record, he won't get it. But when he plays behind another strong performance by Julius 
his final game in a Notre Dame uniform at Jones and a stingy defense. The Irish defense 
Syracuse, Jones -and the rest of the Irish -contains a decent Syracuse unit and the scor­
experts will walk walk off the field winners. ing explosion continues for the offense. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34 Syracuse 17 Syracuse 17
Andrew Soukup Editor in Chief 
Joe Hettler Sports Editor 
Friday, December 5, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

SyracuseOrangemen 
SYRACUSE 
.

OFFENSE . -­
TAILBACK 39-Reyes 
FULLBACK 

~oo ""~-:~L/!~......g:"""n-
LEFT TACKL~ 
71-Ttrry 
62-Caldwell 
LEFT GUARD 
75-Tarullo 
QUARTERBACK 60-0utten 5-Anderson 10-Patterson OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 

41-Cany 
48-Collins CORNERBACK 
34-llllf 6-Gampbell 

0RANGEMEN RUSHING 0RANGEMEN PASSING 
CORNERBACK 
24-Elllck 
15-Jackson 
FREE 
SAFETY 
8-lluiTIII 
2-Parish 
NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSE 

SYRACUSE 2003 Schedule 
Sept. 6 Sept. 13 Sept. 20 Sept. 27 Oct. 11 Oct. 18 Oct. 25 Nov. 8 Nov. 15 Nov. 22 Nov. 29 Dec.6 

at N. Carolina -W LOUISVILLE -L 
C. FLORIDA-W TOLEDO-W at Virginia Tech -L BOSTON COLL. -W at Pittsburgh-L TEMPLE-W at Miami-L 
WEST VIRGINIA -L at Rutgers -L NOTRE DAME 
SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
:z 
0 
-t 
:a 
ITI 
c 
l>
s: 
ITI 
CJ) 
-<
:a 
l> 
(") 
c: 
(/) ITI 


Paul Pasqualoni 12th season at Syracuse career record: 
134-70-1 
at Syracuse: 
100-53-1 
against Notre Dame: 0-0 

Paul Pasqualonl head coach 

Roster 
No. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 22 23 
24 
25 
26 28 29 
30 31 
32 
34 
35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 
52 
53 54 55 
56 
57 59 60 61 62 65 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 
76 
78 79 80 81 83 84 85 87 88 89 
90· 
91 92 93 \14 96 97 98 99 

Name 
. Damien Rhodes Johnnie Morant Tim Washington Terrell Lemon 
R.J. Anderson Nicholas Massaro Rashad Williams Darryl Kennedy Kyle Bell Perry Patterson Matt Hale Jared Jones Marcus Clayton Jamel Riddle Modibo Sidibe Xzavier Gaines Landel Bembo Troy Swittenburg Collin Barber Anthony Smith O'Neil Scott Diamond Ferri Alexander Ridore Jeremy Sellers Steve Gregory Justin Sujansky Tanard Jackson Thomas Whitfield Vincenzo Giruzzi Kellen Pruitt Todd Lisi Lenny Carter Greg Hanoian Reggie McCoy Ricky Krautman Breyone Evans Walter Reyes Joe Donnelly Lenny Cusumano Luke Cain Thump Belton Kelvin Smith · Cory Brooks Brendan Carney Stephen McDonald 
Pos. RB WR RB CB QB WR WR 
QB/FB WR QB QB WR CB WR CB QB WR 55 K FS FS 55 RB s CB PK DB CB LB LB ss DB FB DB PK FB RB TE TE LB FB LB LB P/K FB 

Christopher CaulderonRB 
Jameel Dumas Tony jenkins Jameel McClain Jeremy Snyder Jerry Mackey Adam Namoury Julian Pollard Rich Scanlon Carroll Madison Justin Outten Nick Romeo Brent Caldwell Chris Thorner Marvin McCall Chris Buda Quinn Ojinnaka Kader Drame Steve Franklin Jason Greene Cornelius Campbell Kevin Sampson Matt Tarullo Dave DeAmato Adam Terry Eugene Newsome Andre Fontenette Timothy Lane Shadeed Harris Brandon Darlington joseph Kowalewski Kevin Alexander Alex Shor Rotimi Paul James Wyche Kevin Kopko Tommy Harris Christian Ferrara Ryan LaCasse justin Opalmski Josh Thomas Lee Williams Louis Gachelin 
LB DT LB DB LB LB DE LB OL 
OG 
c 
OG OG 
OL 
c 
OT DT 
OG OG 
DT OT 
OG 
LS 
or 
OT WR WR DT TE TE CB TE WR DE 
LS 
LB DT DE DT DE DL DT 
Ht. Wt. YR 6-1 204 so 6-4 223 SR 5-9 208 so 5-10 168 so 6-1 231 SR 6-1 200 JR 5-6 165 so 6-1 231 SR 6-3 185 FR 6-4 247 so 6-4 220 FR 5-11 203 JR 5-8 180 FR 5-7 175 SR 5-10 177 JR 6-4 196 so 5-9 165 FR 5-9 204 JR 6-1 214 JR 6-0 182 so 6-0 200 JR 5-10 221 JR 5-6 179 JR 6-1 198 FR 5-11 187 so 5-9 191 JR 6-0 175 FR 5-9 190 so 6-3 220 FR 6-3 226 so 6-0 202 )R 5-10 170 FR 6-2 270 JR 6-1 190 FR 5-9 185 FR 6-0 240 FR 5-10 205 JR 6-3 253 SR 6-1 260 SR 6-0 233 so 6-0 245 SR 6-2 231 so 6-1 240 so 6-5 188 so 6-0 236 so 5-8 160 so_ 6-2 220 SR 6-3 270 FR 6-2 240 FR 6-0 195 JR 6-1 222 so 5-11 205 so 6-4 259 JR 6-1 243 SR 6-2 315 FR 6-1 281 so 6-1 300 SR 6-3 284 so 6-4 284 so 6-3 300 FR 6-2 304 SR 6-5 281 so 6-5 285 so 6-3 311 so 
-
6-5 310 so 6-4 272 FR 6-4 308 SR 6-5 318 JR 5-11 215 SR 6-8 314 jR 6-6 329 FR 6-2 232 JR 6-2 210 so 6-3 282 so 6-5 247 so 6-3 255 so 6-0 165 so 6-6 257 so 6-2 180 so 6-5 260 so 5-11 261 so 6-2 249 so 6-4 295 SR 6-2 260 so 6-3 265 FR 6-7 282 SR 6-2 235 FR 6-1 287 SR 

I ... . ·': Run defense has been a specialty of the Irish this season. Notre Dame ranks 25th in the country in that catego­ry, giving up only 116 yards a game on the ground. The Irish allow opponents Jess than three yards a earry.  •· Iftjuries and ·inexperience have plagued the Irish secondary this season. Duff was shaken up last week against Stanford, but he should be healthy for the Orangemen. The Irish rank 49h in passing defense, but they have only been able to inter­cept 10 passes this year.  Uu'ff almost broke another punt last week­end against the Cardinal. He averages 10.8 yards a pu.nt return and 21.6 per kick return. Fitzpatrick has struggled with kicking returns and the Irish rank 99th in the country this year in net punting.  The Irish are trying to build some momentum for 2004, and they can do that by beating Syracuse for their fourth consecu­tive win to end the sea­son. The Irish also have the added incentive of trying to help Jones set the Notre Dame single season rushing record.  
Reyes is one of the bet­ter rushers in the coun­try, averaging over 105 yards per game on the ground. Anderson also adds a threat to run the ball. The Orangemen mix in some option along with several other ·formations to keep the defense off balance.  Like Notre Dame's, the Syracuse passing attack has left much to be desired this year, ranking 92nd in the country with 177.7 yards per game. Morant is a dangerous receiver, pacing the Orangemen with 696 yards on 40 receptions.  The Syracuse punt return team has three touchdowns this year, and Clayton averages over 10 yards per return. Barber is 11-for­15 this year on field goals, but his long is only 42 and he is 1-for-3 from over 40 yards.  Syracuse is stumbling into the finish line in 2003, dropping their last three games. The most embarrassing of those being a 24-7 defeat at the hands of Hutgers last week. Pasqualoni will be fighting to save his job at Syracuse.  
The Orangemen have a good power running game and Reyes is one of ~~~~!!~! Notre Dame played one of the nation's premier option attacks already this year in Navy.  The Orangemen will like­ly look to run first ·t~ set up the pass. Anderson is the type of quarterback ::~~Yf;~~ct~;~:~~:~ utili~ the rtlnniug b<i~ as a receiver out of the backfield. This will likely be a pretty even match up.  Both teams have strug­gled on punting and punt Ei!f!£~ in Duff for Notre Dame and Morant and Clayton for Syracuse.  Neither the Irish nor the Orangemen will be bowl eligible in 2003, but they are finishing their respec­tive sea...,on's on much dif· ferent notes. The Irish are trying to end on a positive kick with four straight wins, but th~ Orangemen are trying to avoid four straight losses.  



Tyrone Willingham has this team focused on The Irish are playing their best football of the season one goal -winning the last four games and right now, even if their opponents have been subpar. But 
' building confidence for the Irish to take into if this same team started the season, the Irish would be 2004. It's going to be very difficult for Julius talking about a bowl in 2003. Willingham caught some Jones to get the record, but Willingham will flak last week for "running up the score," but he will not do everything he can to get him the mark. worry about what the critics say this weekend if Jones The defense will contain Syracuse's offense has a chance for the record. He'll come up about 75 and continue its recent dominance. yards short. however. 
Matt Lozar FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Associate Spons Editor Syracuse 20 Syracuse 17 
Chris Federico Sporis Writer 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, December 5, 2003 
Sizing up the Irish and the Orangemen 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE SYRACUSE'S 0FEENSE 
vs vs
AVERAGE PER GAME SYRACUSE'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
punt return yards gained punt return yards allowed 


yards per punt 

37.71 
punts blocked 

~ 2 

turnovers lost turnovers recovered 


24 

yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored 
points allowed 


KEY MATCHUP SYRACUSE NOTRE DAME RUSHING DEFENSE RUSHING OFFENSE 

During their current three-game winning streak, the Irish have returned to smashmouth football and run the ball right at their opponents. 
Establishing the running game early Saturday will allow the Irish to control the pace of the game and give Brady Quinn single coverage on the receivers. 
If the Orangemen stop the Irish running game and force Quinn to beat them, that takes the Irish away from their recent winning formula. 
by the numbers 
yards Julius Jones needs to set the Notre Dame all-time single season rushing record, 
224

currently held by Vagas Ferguson, set in 1979 
2 
losing seasons in the last four years for the Irish. A loss Saturday would be the first time in school his­tory the team has three losing seasons in five years 
years in between games between Notre Dame and Syracuse. The Orangemen defeated the 
4Q

****~*~~~***~~~~*~~~~~~~~~**~*~**~~~ 
~., ~.~ ~.~ ~~ ~., 7t' .,., ,,, ,, ~·"' 7f' ~., ~., ,,,,,7t' ,,, ,,,,,,"',,, J't' ,,, ,.,, ,.,, ~., "'" ,,, 7t"' ~·"' ~., ~., ,,,7t',,,7t' 
;_ ~ "Notable J..ish" ;. ~ 
llMonthlyllwa..dSponso..edby 1
"' Student Govel'uanent and Legends '" 
~~ ~v
1 7
" Teresa Hansen Christopher Heim '' ~:E-Ho~ne Town: Majo.. : ~E­~~£ Beaver, P A Architecture ~IL 
1" M • Yea.. : ' 1' 
~I£ aJO..: ~IL 
7t" Economics and Peace Studies Fifth-year, Class of '04 ''' ~I£ Year: Quote: ~tL 
7 

, "''" 1, Jun1'or, Class of '05 "Le gen ds I'1ve on · m the shadows, they ~'"' '' 7t" Quote: have left their stamp, and we do the 7t' ~I£ Never doubt that a small group same". ~~~ ~·" ,,,
~I£ of thoughtful, committed Backgl'ound: ~•"' 71" citizens can change the world. Chris submitted his watermark design 7t' ~1£ Indeed, it is the only thing that for the Legend's competition and was ''"' ~·" ever has" -Margaret Mead-later notified that his design had won ,,,
~I£ ~IL 
~i"-Backg.,ound: :. ··•··. the competition. His found his 7t' ~I£ Years ago, Teresa partnered ········•••· · inspiration for the design with the ~IL ~1" With Dr. Jim McGinnis of •·L that "Legends leave their mark". This 7•' ~I" The Institute for Peace and idea was transformed in a lighthearted ,,,
* 
~I£ Justice to create a novel venture that would serve to promote way. The logo is a ring of water left by a glass on table, with * ~I£ ~1" principles of peace and non-violence in all levels of the ubiquitous shamrock forming in the middle. I' ~:~ Education. During her junior year of high school, this initiative Chris has definitely left his mark on campus during his ~:~ 'IL took the initial form of Peace Camp for elementary school five years here, designing multiple tee-shirts for Morrissey Hall ~'£ 71' students in her area. Now, the expansion of that curriculum is and many student organizations, as well as the window etching 7 •" 
~IL ~£
7t' being used across the United States. Teresa has traveled to above the entrance to Morrissey. Chris contributes his time as ''" ~IL Kentucky, Illinois, and New Jersey to train students responsible the President of AIAS-ND, the campus chapter of the national ~'£ 71' for putting on some version of the Peace Camp. organization for Architecture students. I" ~:~ Today, Teresa is the Hall President of Badin and a While Chris thought that his design would be used only ~:E­~ILt' member of the CSC student advisory board VOICE. Service for a sign outside of Legends, he is surprised and honored to * 
has remained an important facet of Teresa's life, as she has see the widespread use of his watermark by Legends. ~:~ worked for the YWCA's Family Violence Prevention Program, ~:E­''~ through a summer service internship. and was a retreat leader , Ec-.., EN [) 57:' for the Sophomore Road Trip through Campus Ministry. This l ...t . ~J . ** ~~~ past summer Teresa worked with refugee boys and prisoners , · 1 t: '-.· ') 1· p l: l ) .\ \ f 1 ~·' through the Maryknoll Mission ofthe Faithful and the esc. \, . I ' l.. \.. . / \ ' ' ·-?"­
,,, • 
~ 

·~**~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~¥~~~~~~~~~¥~~~~~~~ 

Friday, December 5, 2003 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
-

Fourth straight win would do a lot for Irish 

By MATT LOZAR 
Associate Sports Edicor 
A win Saturday could go a very long way to making the 2004 season successful. 
Defeating Syracuse gives Notre Dame its fourth straight win to finish the 2003 season after starting a disappointing 2-6. The win brings the Irish back to even at 6-6 and will allow them to remember throughout the off-season that the last time they walked off the field, the Irish won. 
It's important not only for the players returning next year, but also for the seniors donning the blue and gold for the last time. 
"It'll be really big for the seniors to go out with a vic­tory," Notre Dame linebacker Courtney Watson said. "As far as next year, it's all about momentum going into the nextseason;headingintothe next season, with a win, it'll have a different feel for you." 
These seniors, like Watson. are the ones who bought into Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham's message of not giving up on this season and trying to get something posi­tive from all of their hard work when all that was left to play for was pride. 
The Irish, especially the young players with seasons ahead of them, easily could have mailed in the 2003 campaign after three embar­rassing losses by more than 30 points. But Willingham "We've got one more leg went to his seniors to lead and just want to let you this team and keep them know that things next year focused on what the head are going to be like what we coach has focused on since are doing now." day one -winning. It seems kind of backwards 
"l think it's pretty easy to that a team could be more focus when the goal is to successful after a 6-6 season win," Watson said. "This has than after a 10-3 year. Last always been a team that season, the Irish lost three of prides itself on winning ball­their last five games and games. Sometimes you can were embarrassed in their 
lose sight of that  last two. That  
during season  a bad when  "This has always  feeling with  stuck them  
things  aren't,  been a team that  throughout the  
going your way. "Inside, the  prides itself  off-season. But the task  
character of this  on wznnmg  at hand is for  
team just wants  ballgames. ,,  Notre Dame to  
to  win.  That's  finish its goal  
starting to come to the surface." Another char­ Courtney Watson Irish linebacker  of winning four straight to close the year  

acteristic from the 2002 season starting to show up is the scoring ability of the defense. At Stanford last weekend, the defense reached the end zone twice and continued its impressive play of late by holding the Cardinal to 20 yards rushing. 
It took 11 games for this defense to put points on the board, and it looks to build off that production not only at Syracuse, but next year as well. 
"It felt real good. If we could have started off earlier in the season, then who knows what could have been," Irish safety Quentin Burrell said. "We just need to keep moving forward and build on that. 
and complete 

the mission the coaches set out after the loss to Florida State. 
"We didn't get off to a good start. But the most reward­ing part has been the way that our guys have hung in there. They have never stopped working," Willingham said. "They have never stopped being focused on winning, and I think we've been fortunate that we've done that these last three ballgames and hope­fully we can continue to work and believe in our­selves and teammates and hopefully good things will happen." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Reyes leads diversified Orangemen offense 
Syracuse wlll show Notre Dame defense a number ofdifferent formations 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Syracuse running back Walter Reyes has over 1,000 yards rushing this season, and he's just one of the problems facing the Notre Dame defense when the Orangemen play the Irish in the Carrier Dome Saturday. 
"I think it's one of the most physical teams we've seen," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "Their full­back is a great blocker. They do a great job with their run­
ning game. They "He reminds me of hard to tell." 
set [up the Julius [Jones] a Reyes has offense] with the 1,158 rushing
little bit. He·s not 
run and the play­yards on the 
action passes. quite as fast, but it·s season and The quarterback hard to tell.,, averages 4.9 is mobile, yards a carry. extremely His 15 rush­
Kent Baer

mobile, so he ing touch­presents a prob­Irish defensive coordinator downs a Is o 
Anderson also has five rush­ing touchdowns. 
Anderson has played solidly for Syracuse, but clearly the focus of the. offense is Reyes. The junior, who is also the cousin of Ohio State tailbaek Maurice Clarett, has rushed for over 1,000 yards in his first two seasons as a starter. He is ranked eighth on Syracuse's all-time rushing list and is seventh in terms of receptions by a running back. 
"He's a heck of a baek," Baer said. "He reminds me of Julius [Jones] a little bit. He's ,not quite as fast, but it's 
lem with his abil­ity to scramble." "They're totally different than anything we've seen." 
The Orangemen (5-6) have one of the better rushing games in the country and use the fleet-footed play of quar­terback R.J. Anderson to keep opposing defenses off-balance. Anderson is the second-lead­ing rusher on the Orangemen and runs the option. He aver­ages a modest 177 yards a game passing but has thrown twice as many touchdowns (1 0) as interceptions (5). 
lead the team. 

The 5-foot-1 0, 209-pound running back was held to only 40 yards on 18 carries in Syracuse's 24-7 loss to Rutgers last weekend. 
But this week Baer expects Reyes and the Orangemen offense to play better against the Irish defense. Syracuse's offense has scored 34 points or more in a game five times this season. 
"Last week, it just looks like they couldn't get it rolling, and I don't know what happened because they're certainly explosive," Baer said. "They're going to be difficult just because of all the differ­ent things they can do." 
The Syracuse offense shows numerous formations, which is the main reason they cause problems for opponents' defenses. The Orangemen run the option, a two-baek set, and spread the field with four­­receiver formations. Notre Dame defensive lineman Darrell Campbell said the Irish must stay disciplined in their defensive assignments for the option and force Syracuse to throw the ball. 
"The game plan is still the same -stop the run and make them one-dimensional on the pass and get after them that way," Campbell said. "Basieally, they're an offense that incorporates so many dif­ferent formations you have to be very disciplined, especially if they have the option in that package." 
Baer said the best starting point was to limit Heyes' pro­duction, then focus on stop­ping Anderson and the pass­ing game. 
"We have to defend the run first and make sure [we're] sound against the option," Baer said. "The option puts you in bad positions. So I think that's where we start. You try to force them into as many passing situations as you can." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhetder@nd.edu 

~ -~ ---------------------------.1
r-­
1 I l I 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, December 5, 2003 
STUDENT APPRECIATION 

y 

DECEMBER 4&5 IOPM 
I, 
( 
I 
. I 

!, 
I 
~. 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbooltstore.com 
Store Hours 
I I 
8am-10pmI I I' 
i 
I I I I 
I STUDENT ID REQUIRED-NOTRE DAME, 
I 
I I 
I 
I HOLY CROSS AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS
I I. 
rI
I. I 
/
I I I 
I 
*expires 12/5/03. Excludes textbooks, CO's, DVD's, tapes, health &beauty items,I I lr I 
electronic items, class rings, computer hardware and software, and professionalI I I 
reference. In store only.
'
' 
' 
' 




