
VOL XXXVII NO. 73 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Missing student's parents visit campus today 
the FBI, conducted an exten­he would be heading back to community and other close tal employee, officials arc
• ND has no new 
sive investigation during the campus, Madison Center is far­friends of Sharon's, said Kirk. hopeful that with students backleads on Sharon's winter break involving neigh­ther away from Notre Dame Before and after the mass. on campus, new information disappearance borhood searches with tracking than the Corby Street party. Sharon's parents want to meet regarding Sharon's disappear­dogs, interviews, helicopter The officer told police that with students who know Chad ance will surface. While inves­searches and searches of the Sharon asked for directions to or may have any information tigators were able to talk with
By TERESA FRALISH 
St. Joseph River. "Over break the nearest convenience store regarding his disappearance. over 100 people during break 
A.ssiscant News Edi1or 
we've just been exhausting all and he directed Sharon to the Though the Sharons are confi­through phone calls and e-mail, 
the resources we have," said 7 -11 at the corner of Niles and dent in NDSP's handling of the NDSP hopes to talk to students 
Despite several University ini­Rex Rakow, director of NDSP. LaSalle Avenues. case and want students to talk that were unreachable over the tiatives during winter break, "We've gotten tremendous sup­However, 7-11 employees do to University officials, they are semester break. freshman Chad Sharon still port from other agencies." not recall seeing anyone also willing to talk with stu­"There lare] some people that remains missing. Sharon disappeared Dec. 12 matching Sharon's description dents themselves. we haven't gotten a hold of." 
On Jan. 3, University officials and Fisher Hall staff reported and Sharon did not appear on "That's our main reason for said Rakow. "We haven't found announced him missing when he did not the store's surveillance cam­coming," said Steve Sharon, anyone who saw Chad leaving a $25,000 return to the hall. The Fisher eras. said Rakow. Chad Sharon's father. "We the party." reward at a Hall freshman was last seen at Sharon's parents. Steve and would definitely like to talk to University officials are also press con­an off-campus party on Corby Jane Sharon, who until now the kids to see if we can't make trying to generate national ference for Boulevard around 2 a.m. when have remained in Pelican Lake, some sense out of this," he attention about Sharon's case credible he declined a ride back to cam­Wis., Sharon's hometown, plan said. by contacting programs that information pus and told his friends he to come to Notre Dame tonight In particular, Steve Sharon report on missing persons, said leading to would walk back to Notre to meet with investigators and said he hopes that if students University spokesman Matt Sharon's Dame. Sharon missed all of his students. Since Sharon's disap­who think their information is Storin. safe return final exams and did not return pearance, University officials insignificant will come forward "We have had contact with or verified home for Christmas or make have been in daily contact with it could possibly move the case 'America's Most Wanted,' communi-contact with his family or his parents. forward. which does some things on cation with him, said Bill Kirk, friends since his Dec. 12 disap­"We've been contacting them "Someone out there knows missing persons," said Storin. assistant vice president for pearance. each day," said Kirk. "I talk to something or has seen some­"'Good Morning America' has Student Affairs. Notre Dame Notre Dame police said a the Sharons every night." thing that would be very impor­shown interest in interviewing Security/Police also established security officer at Madison On Thursday, Sharon's par­tant to this investigation," he Mr. and Mrs. Sharon [and] we a tip I inc at 631-8000 where Center Hospital on Niles ents will meet with NDSP said. "They can get a hold of are actively working on that callers can leave anonymous Avenue who reported talking to detectives and investigators me day or night [and] I will talk but we don't have confirma­information about the disap­a young man closely matching during the day and attend a to anyone and everyone." tion." pearance of Sharon. Sharon's description at about 4 special mass for their only son Though the investigation has 
NDSP, in conjunction with a.m. on Dec. 12. at 10 p.m., which is primarily turned up few important leads Contact Teresa Fralish at state and local authorities and Though Sharon told friends intended for the Fisher Hall since speaking with the hospi-tfralish@nd.edu 

Irish fall on hard times at Gator Bow 1 
• Irish encounter roadblocks before and during game in Jacksonville 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
News Wri1er 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

Tyrone Willingham and Kevin White first publicly stood side by side as Notre Dame employees on Jan. 1, 2002. As Notre Dame fans finally celebrated the end of a scandal­filled, month-long coaching search, both the besieged athletic director and the new head coach expressed a common sense of optimism. 
Exactly 365 days later, Willingham and White once again stood side by side. This time, they weren't in a crowded press conference room, they were at the sight of a train wreck. And as they stared out at a wild celebration taking place in front of them, their expressions were once again similar yet anything but happy. 
Minutes earlier, North Carolina State had taken a knee to derail Notre Dame's hopes of winning its first bowl game in nine years. The Irish had already disappeared into their locker room for the second time since the game ended -they had to run back onto the field after most forgot the traditional raise-the-helmet salute to the Notre Dame faithful. the final mis­take in an erroneous performance. 
The most visible member of Notre Dame's football program and the man who hired him silently gazed at a throng of red-clad players rowdily accepting hardware for winning the Gator Bowl as the numbers 28 and 6 shone brightly from the scoreboard. 
The scene was vastly different from the one two months ago, when the Irish celebrated on the field of' Doak Campbell Stadium in Tallahassee, Fla. after knocking off Florida State. Then, Willingham was the coach jubi­lantly celebrating, not stoically staring. The win helped the Irish improve to 8-0, vaulted them 
see FOOTBALL/page 4 
Above, a North Carolina State player tackles Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday knocking him out of the game. 
At right, Notre Dame Athletic Director Kevin White and Coach Tyrone Willingham show expressions of disbelief following the game. 
. 
PHOTOS BY 


LISA VELTE 

. Investigation continues into Notre Dame football player injured in arrest 
By ANDREW SOUKUP News Writer 
Though Chad DeBolt was arrested nearly three weeks ago, Jacksonville police are still investigating the football player's alle­gation that police attacked him after his arrest. 
DeBolt, a senior in town for Notre Dame's 28-6 loss to North Carolina State in the Gator Bowl, was arrested Dec. 27 and charged with trespassing after po lice said he refused to leave a Jacksonville nightclub. 


But after DeBolt's book-DeBolt's team ing photo showed the photo senior with swollen eyes and bruises on his face, the Jacksonville Sheriff's Department launched an internal investigation into DeBolt's arrest. 
A police spokesman said DeBolt was not injured either during his arrest or when he was left at the county jail. DeBolt's 


According to a police booking photo report obtained by the Florida Times-Union, offi­cers used pepper spray and punched DeBolt in the back and the arms after he refused to 
leave the nightclub. He was uncooperative, intoxicated, yelling and cursing when arrested, the report said. 
As DeBolt tried to pull on his jail uniform, the report claimed he told police, "Don't anyone laugh, I'm the righting Irish." 
see DEBOLT/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Return to glory part 2 
After an incredible football season in which Notre Dame experienced a return to glory, the Notre Dame mens basketball team is having their own return to glory this year... 
Well OK, maybethey never had as Mike Harkins much glory as the football team. But Graphicsthis year, the 
Design 

mens hoops team is proving to be quite possibly the best mens team 
Notre Dame has ever had. 
After losing several key seniors from last year's NCAA Tournament squad, there were doubts about whether or not the team would recover and repeat last year's exciting season. However, it didn't take long for the team to drown all those doubts. It was a December to remember for the mens team with a record of 6-0, including three victories over top 10 teams in the course of a week. The great per­formance led Notre Dame to a ranking as high as 6th in the nation, the high­est ranking the Irish have achieved in 20 years. 
With the new and improved team. thanks in part to third-year coach Mike Brey, basketball games have become an wild and crazy experience. More and more students are attending games, and with the presence of the Leprechaun Legion, the Joyce Center is no longer a fun place to play for Notre Dame opponents. 
The new team drives us to make the journey out to the Joyce Center during the drury winter ofSouth Bend. The electricity in the Joyce Center is becoming closer and closer to that felt at a football game. The feeling of pride is apparent, in every Notre Dame bas­ketball fan who has cheered the team on for years, in every Notre Dame stu­dent, and in the players themselves, who have proven to everyone that Notre Dame basketball needs to be recogmzed as one of the top programs in the nation. 
Yet, after all this, the season is just beginning. This month. the Irish start conference play, and they will need our support more than ever. At least two more games are against top-10 opponents, and the rest of the confer­ence is no pushover. Notre Dame plays 15 games before most likely heading to the NCAA Tournament in March. Hoping for a spot in the Sweet 16 and even thinking about the Tournament may be looking too far ahead, but for the next two months, we as students can provide the extra energy the team needs in order to spark the team. 
After being away for three weeks during break, I couldn't wait to get back to South Bend to cheer on the basketball team along with the Leprechaun Legion. and I'm sure many of you felt the same way. If the team can keep their momentum, they may storm into the NCAA Tournament as one of the most feared opponents in the nation. 
Our football team responded to the excitement on campus, now it is our basketball team's turn to do the same. 
Go Irish. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsewer. Contact Mike Harkins at mharkins@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards icself as a professional publica­dcn and srrives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism ac all times. We do, however, recognize: that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
ND computer system hacked 
A hacker breached Notre Dame's com­puter syste~ dur­ing winter break. 
page 6 
WORLD& NATION 
Bush will talk with North Korea 
President Bush met with the Polish President and expressed hopes for a peaceful reso­lution. 


page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Shrimp spaghetti, Southwestern pasta sauce, apple turnover, pretzel sticks, walnut plum chicken breast, long grain and wild rice, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, cherry crisp, ched­dar-baked pollock, vegetable rice casse­role, Swiss oatmeal, scrambled eggs, sunshine French toast, hash browns 
Today's Dinner: Roast turkey breast, bread stuffing, brown sauce, turkey gravy, whipped potatoes, asparagus cuts and tips, cherry crisp, broccoli quiche. vegetables ratatouille, corn, fresh spinach, baked potato, hickory­smoked pork chops, applesauce 
BUSINESS NEWS 
KMart cuts jobs, closes stores 
KMart faces chapter 11 bank­ruptcy and cuts 186,000 jobs and 
closes  over  200  
stores.  
page 7  


VIEWPOINT 
ND still returned to glory 
A Letter to the Editor emphasizes that Notre Dame's Return to Glorv should not be diminished. 
page 13 
South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Linguine with veg­etables, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, winter-blend vegetables, boulangere potatoes, herb-baked pol­lock, wild rice with pine nuts. honey­orange glazed carrots, tangy grilled chicken, Szechuan vegetable noodles. Caribbean BBQ wings 
Today's Dinner: Cauliflower au gratin, zurn zum potato salad, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, parslied potatoes, lemon-baked perch, Jamaican jerked pork loin. bbq chick­en. steakhouse fries, beef and pepper casserole 
SCENE SPORTS 
Irish beat 

Scorsese and 
Spielberg 
Scarlet Knights 
Mens basketball

Scene compares 
two of the most 
beats Rutgers 68 ­

acclaimed direc­
57 behind Matt 

tors. 
Carroll's 25 points. 
page 14 
page 28 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Visitor taken to hospital 
A visitor at Columba Hall was taken to Memorial Hospital for treatment of a leg injury Monday. 

Student injured at the Rock 
A student sustained a sports injury while at the Rock on Monday and was taken to Memorial Hospital by NDSP for treatment. 

Speeder caught on Edison 
NDSP issued state citations for exceeding the posted speed limit and for operator never licensed on Edison Road Tuesday. 

Chair flames at Alumni 
NDFD extinguished the flames from a chair ablaze in Alumni Field on Monday. 
Compiled from NDSP crime blotter. 
. 
Michiana Medical Office Management Association Annual Seminar, McKrnna llall, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 

. 
IMHT Training Courses, McKenna Hall, all day. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Sign up for free massages, call Health Services 284-4805. 

. 
Mass at Church of Loretto. 7 a.m. 


. 
Uganda sister school meeting, Haggar Off-Campus Lounge, 5 p.m. 


Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
No menu was available. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


23 28 
14 21 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
Cl:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..J 
<( 
u 




.9 HIGH 17 HIGH 21 24 24 LOW 14 LOW 16 11 12 
HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
Atlanta 50 I 27 Boston 23 / 14 Chicago 20 / 14 Denver 41 / 13 Houston 64 / 49 Los Angeles 73 / 52 Minneapolis 20 / -2 New York 29 / 18 Philadelphia 40 / 22 Phoenix 76 / 51 Seattle 48 / 38 St. Louis 30 / 21 Tampa 66 / 45 Washington 35 / 19 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Notre Dame students can now enroll on the Web 

venient and user-friendly and Wednesday, Jan. 22 at 5 p.m.at that they were not going to miss https://was.nd.edu/reg-'enrolVsso. going to the Joyce Center, said Hahn. Hahn expects Web enrollment to be just as suc­cessful in Fall 2003. Contact Christina Cepero at 
All students must enroll by ccepero@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT 
FILM 
FESTIVAL 
'2 0 0 3 

•can JOU pleas~ cot tl)a !#@%! boommie out .,f n... framsf• 
HESBURGH LIBRARY CARE"\' AUDITORIUM 
7:30 & 9:45 P.M. S4.00 ADMISSION THUR, FRI, SAT & MON JANUARY 23, 24, 25 & 27 TICKETS ON SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER (WHILE THEY LAST) 
PRESENTED BV THE DEPARTMENT or FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE www.nd.edu/-ftt/studentlilmsshtml 
Signing

Meet 
Dorothy Drummond, Former President of the National Council for Geographic Education 
Thursday 
January 16th 
7:00 pn1 
in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
NcWs Writer 
This semester was the first time Notre Dame students enrolled via tho Internet and the last time they could enroll at the Joyce Center. 
Students must enroll at the beginning of each semester to inform the University that they intend to take the classes for which they registered. 
According to Kimberly Hahn, assistant registrar, Web enroll­ment for this spring has been extremely successful. As of Tuesday morning, 9,391 out of 11,070 students had enrolled. Hahn says, "We were very pleased with this number." 
Continuing students enroll by opening the enrollment e-mail !ink from the Office of the Hegistrar on any browser and then logging in and following the simple instructions. The new lrishlink service also allows students to change their addresses and privacy informa­tion without having to contact the registrar directly. 
Sophomore Melody Gonzalez said. "It was cool. I was glad I didn't have to walk all the way to the JACC in the snow." 
Enrollment is activated on the following business day. Students receive e-mails from the registrar informing them that they have enrolled success­fully, and they can also confirm it by checking the enrollment flag on their schedules in Irish link. 
Hahn said, "We want stu• dents to know that Irishlink is their way of doing business for themselves." 
In addition to enrolling, stu­dents can access their identifi• cation information. address, schedules, grades, financial aid information and register for courses on lrishlink. 
Students could enroll starting Jan. 6, a week before classes started. The extra week is par­ticularly helpful for students with financial assistance, because loan deferment, insur­ance, scholarship and financial aid award checks arc released once students are enrolled. 

Author 
Web enrollment also facili­tates the process for study abroad students because they can now enroll themselves from home or another locale rather than having to wait for the University to enroll them. 
Based on credit hours com­pleted, the Web enrollment page asks students if they plan to graduate, eliminating the confusion paper enrollment forms caused about graduation. It also asks seniors whether they intend to attend Commencement and how they would like their names to appear on their diplomas, elim­inating the paper graduation form. 
The Office of Information Technology's Application Technology Department began testing and developing the ser­vice in July 2002, and last fall, the Office of the Registrar offered Web enrollment on a trial basis to 400 students from Keough and Pangborn Halls and off campus. lt was success­f'u I and students gave mostly positive feedback, namely that Web enrollment was more con­

"A readable and important insight into what created today's Middle East tensions." 
-Senator Paul Simon 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
N THE ECK CENTER 
p~one:(574) 631-631', • www.ndbool151ore.com 
Open to the public • Convenient parking 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
Football 
continued from page 1 
to fourth in one national poll and sent opponents searching for answers. 
Three embarrassing losses and one narrow escape from 2­10 Navy later, the Irish were the ones asking the questions. Just what was the difference between the team that jumped as high as third in the BCS rank­ings and the team that finished the season 2-3, failed to score an offensive touchdown in its final two games and ended the season out ·of the Top 10 for a ninth consecutive year? 
"I don't know, and that's a good question," safety Gerome Sapp said. "We finished the games better in the beginning of the season rather than at the end of the season." 
Fans searching for the rea­sons behind the jolt in Jacksonville could point to the numerous off-the-field distrac­tions that hounded the Irish during Gator Bowl preparations. f<irst, offensive lineman Brennan Curtin and Jordan Black were kept off the team for what University officials stead­fastly called University issues. Then starting linebacker Courtney Watson suffered a leg injury in practice that kept him from playing against the Wolfpack. 
Things quickly went from bad to worse when the Irish arrived in Jacksonville. Special teams player Chad DeBolt was arrest­ed for trespassing in a Jacksonville club, newspapers across the country ran DeBolt's booking photo that showed the Irish senior with bruises around his eyes and cuts on his swollen face. DeBolt did not play in the Gator Bowl and police launched an internal investigation into his arrest. 
And that was just before the game. 
Less than 10 minutes into the contest, starting quarterback Carlyle Holiday re-injured the shoulder that plagued him earli­er in the season, knocking him out of the game. Notre Dame was flagged for four personal fouls, uncharacteristic of a team coached by a noted disciplinari­an. The Irish offense, the crowning embarrassment in a forgettable finale, never got in gear and failed even to score a touchdown on first-and-goal in garbage time against the sec­ond-string Wolfpack defense. 
Although Willingham claimed the off-the-field incidents had no impact on his team -"No," he curtly responded to a question asking him just that -other Irish players were not so sure. 
"You lose your starting quar­terback, your tackles, the off­the-field problems, it does do something," receiver Arnaz Battle said. "But you can't make excuses. We didn't get the job done today. I hope things die the hard way, and we'll had a great off-season." 
Future media guides will note the game was played at a neu­tral site, but witness at the scene of the crime know the truth. North Carolina State sold over 21,000 tickets through its athletic department. nearly dou­ble the 12,500 Notre Dame's ticket office sold. In ascene that brought back nightmares of Notre Dame's home loss to Nebraska two years ago, red­clad Wolfpack fans totally filled one half of 73,000-seat Alltel Stadium, and pockets of red could be seen scattered throughout the Notre Dame sec­tions. 
The bitter ending to a glorious start left outnumbered Irish fans shaking their heads on their way out of the stadium, their green shirts giving jeering North Carolina State fans an easy tar­get. "Return to glory? Wait 'till next year!" some shouted. 
But even as the Wolfpack cel­ebration raged throughout Jacksonville, the Irish refused to concede anything. As difficult as it might have been for fans to remember Notre Dame's sur­prising start, the Irish weren't willing to forget it anytime soon. 
"We can't take away what we did," cornerback Vontez Duff said. "We lost this bowl game, but you can't take away what we did. People counted us out at the beginning. You can't take away the joy we have for this season." 


Indeed, the Irish walked out of Jacksonville with a sense of pur­pose and direction for the future. Although the Gator Bowl came close to resembling the Fiesta Bowl debacle two years ago, players refused to draw a comparison. In Arizona, they pointed fingers. In Florida, they pointed toward the future. 
The difference? Their for­ward-looking, progress-thinking head coach who, less than a year before, ended his first team meeting with a PowerPoint slide that had one word on it: win. 
"It was still a very good sea­son," Willingham said. "I don't believe there are very many 10­win teams in the country at this time. 
"But at the same time," he continued, "for us to be the team that we'd like to be, then we've got to get accustomed to winning our last ball games, whether they be regular season games or bowl games. The word in our program that we spread is that championship teams win their last ball game. And that's the goal for our program." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

aJ!!.)t!!ld~,tf~.i'iE!J,((P:J!!!JS vfl 
-Tln1e Oul N&-W York. Fox TV 
Washington Hall 


return to Jacksonville for a attorneys and not comment­tion. In 1999, a 16-year-old Jan. 22 court appearance. ing on the case until after claimed police forced a con­
Notre Dame officials DeBolt's court appearance. fession out of him. And a fed­refused to comment on DeBolt, a 6-foot-2, 202-eral grand investigation the DeBolt's arrest. Irish head pound walk-on football player next year analyzed reports coach Tyrone Willingham also played lacrosse for Notre that officers were tipping off only said DeBolt did not break Dame. He had played in 11 drug dealers and possibly curfew. games with the Irish this sea­participating in murder and 
Attempts to contact DeBolt son, mostly on special teams, robbery. were unsuccessful. When con­and made one tackle. tacted by telephone. DeBolt's The case is not the first mother said the family was time Jacksonville authorities Contact Andrew Soukup at acting on the advice of its have been under investiga-asoukup@nd.edu 

Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
Tuesday, January 14, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 
OR 
Wednesday, January 22, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit 
www.. nd.edu/-stdntaff/AsstRector.html 
DeBolt 
continued from page I 
Attempts by The Observer to obtain a copy of the police report were unsuccessful. 
The Florida State Attorney's office decided Jan. 6 not to launch a formal investigation into DeBo\t's arrest. 
"Our conclusion was that 
insufficient evidence to sup­port DeBolt's claims and that a formal state attorney inves­tigation was not warranted," State Attorney Harry Shorstein said, adding the Jacksonville police internal investigation was still in process. 
DeBolt was released after spending 11 hours in jail and did not play in the Gator Bowl. He is scheduled to 

WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVlCES page 5 
Bush says N. Korea may receive aid if it disarms 
Associa1ed Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Adopting a more conciliato­ry stance, President Bush said Tuesday lie may revive a pro­posal for substantial econom­ic benclits for North Korea if it agrees to dismantle its nuclear weapons facilities. 
Tho administration had been prepared to make such an offer last year but wilh­drew it arter learning that the North Koreans had initiated a uranium-based nuclear weapons program. 
"We expect them not to develop nuclear weapons," Bush said. "And if they so choose to do so -their choice -then I will reconsid­er whether or not we'll start the bold initiative" that he 
said  he  discussed  with  
Secretary  of  State  Colin  
Powell last year.  

Bush said the initiative included food. leaving the impression that he was departing from long-standing policy of not linking assis­tance in that area to political developments. 
Later, White House officials said Bush was referring to an agriculture reform program for North Korea, which faces yet another year of severe food shortages. 
State Department spokesman Richard Boucher reaffirmed that food deliver­
ies will continue irrespective of political factors. Last year, the U.S. food contribution was 155,000 metric tons. 
The Bush administration gener.ally has been more accommodating toward North Korea lately. It remains com­mitted to the dismantling of the North's nuclear programs but has shown greater will­ingness than before about talking to Pyongyang. Bush's comments on Tuesday sug­gested good behavior will yield economic gain. 
On Monday, Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly said in South Korea that North Korea could get energy aid if it dismantled its nuclear weapons programs. 
The administration has con­sistently opposed opening negotiations with North Korea but Bush's remarks offered the clear possibility of a deal: 
U.S. assistance in exchange for denuclearization. 
The more benign posture should be well received in South Korea, where both the outgoing president and the president-elect believe that a policy of belligerence toward the North doesn't work. 
Speaking to reporters dur­ing a photo session with Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski, Bush said he is convinced the conflict will be resolved peacefully. 
The basis of his optimism 
was not clear. Pyongyang has given no indication of a will­ingness to back away from its nuclear programs. Indeed, since the uranium program was disclosed last October, it has threatened to revive a separate weapons program 


Associated P rcss 
UNITED NATIONS 

Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Tuesday he sees no reason for an attack on Iraq and is optimistic that war can be avoided if the international community maintains pressure on Saddam Hussein and inspectors do their job aggressively. 
Nonetheless, he said the United Nations is making plans to deal with an exodus of refugees and potential humanitarian crisis in the event of military action. U.N. experts arc also doing some "preliminary thinking" about a possible post-conflict political organization and administration 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Explosive found in Paris' Sacre Coeur: 
Police evacuated the Sacre Coeur basilica on Tuesday after an explosive device -but no detona­tor -was found inside, police said. The device, apparently homemade, consisted of bottles of cook­ing gas and gasoline taped together and concealed in a trash bag and a shopping bag, police said. 
North Korea threatens new options: 
China offered Tuesday to host talks between the United Stales and Norlh Korea in a bid to end their standoff. and the North warned it was running out of patience with Washington. threatening to exer­cise undelined "options." A vaguely worded state­ment from Pyongyang did not specify what options it was considering, but suggested the isolation com­munist nation was prepared to escalate the crisis over its drive to develop nuclear weapons. The White House welcomed diplomatic efforts but did not comment specifically on the China offer. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Prosecutors link teen to sniper attacks: 
Prosecutors looking to bring a death penalty case against 17-year-old sniper suspect John Lee Malvo said Tuesday that fingerprints on the mur­der weapon and other evidence link him to three slayings and a fourth attack that left a man criti­cally wounded. Prosecutor Robert Horan Jr. said Malva contacted police four times -in two notes and iwo phone calls -trying to extort more than $10 million in exchange for stopping the attacks in the Washington area lasl fall. 
Pills cited in mistaken Afghan bombing: 
Two U.S. pilots who mistakenly dropped a bomb that killed four Canadians in Afghanistan had been issued amphetamines before the mis­sion to stay awake, a defense lawyer argued Tuesday at the opening of a military hearing to determine whether they should be court-mar­tialed. 

that is plutonium-based. According to administration estimates, North Korea could have up to six nuclear weapons in a few months. 
North Korea withdrew from the landmark Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty last week. It also has threatened to resume long-range missile tests 
"'People say, 'Are you will­ing to talk to North Korea?"' Bush said. "'Of course we are. But what this nation won't do is be blackmailed." 
UNITED NATIONS 
Annan says he sees no credible reason for attack on Iraq 
in Iraq, he said. 
But Annan's message was upbeat. He said U.N. weapons inspectors were "just getting up to full speed" and there were no grounds yet for any military action. He also implicitly opposed any unilateral attack by the United States and Britain without Security Council authorization. 
The resolution adopted by the council on Nov. 8 which gave Iraq a last chance to get rid of all weapons of mass destruction requires council members to discuss any new Iraqi violations. 
If inspectors report that Iraq is not cooperating or that they have found weapons, Annan said he expects the coun­cit "to face up to its responsibility" and adopt a second resolution spelling out the "serious consequences" it threatened on Nov. 8 in case of Baghdad's failure to comply. 

"I do not think we are there yet," he said. "'So I really do not want to talk about war. Nor is the council talking about war." 
"I am both optimistic and hopeful that if we handle the situation right, and the pressure on the Iraqi leadership is main­tained and the inspectors continue to work as aggressively as they are doing, we may be able to disarm Iraq peacefully, without need to resort to war," Annan said. 
Arab leaders and some European lead­ers are delivering a message to Iraqi authorities that they must honor their obligations to the Security Council -and that means first and foremost filling in the "major gaps" in Iraq's 12,000-page decla­ration of its biological, chemical, nuclear and long-range missile programs, the sec­retary-general said. 
Chief U.N. inspectors Hans Blix and Mohamed EIBaradei will also be pressing for answers to the many outstanding questions about Iraq's weapons programs and for more "pro-active cooperation" when they visit Baghdad on Sunday and Monday, Annan said. 
Court hears debate on HMO limits: 
The Supreme Court wrangled Tuesday over whether states can push HMOs to enroll more doc­tors, giving patients broader choices in their own health care. About half the states have laws requir­ing managed care or insurance companies to accept health care providers -physicians, phar­macists or specialists like nurse practitioners. The providers agree to the insurer's reimbursement rates and contract terms. 
Md. Gov. ends death penalty moratorium: 
Maryland's death penalty moratorium will almost certainly be lifted after Republican Gov.-elect Robert Ehrlich takes office Wednesday, opening the way for the execution of as many as 12 inmates. All executions in Maryland were sus­pended last May by Democratic Gov. Parris Glendening, who did not seek re-election this fall. 


page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
Hacker breaches University computer systems 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Associate News Editor 
A hacker penetrated a cam­pus server during the Christmas break and could have obtained AFS IDs and passwords for hundreds of users. 
According to Gary Dobbins, director of Information Security for the Office of Information Technologies, a hacker modi­fied the Darwin server so that when a user entered his ID and password to authenticate to the server, that information was stored in a file accessible to the hacker instead of granting access to the server. Darwin is a general-purpose server that can be used to access or modify personal files, such as Web pages, and the breach to it occurred on Dec. 21. The breach harvested the pass­words of users using the AFS protocol to access the server until Dec. 29, when the intru­sion was detected. 
Although all users whose AFS IDs and passwords were in the file were notified via e-mail, Dobbins said he strongly rec­ommends anyone who used Darwin, which can be accessed through the addresses darwin.cc.nd.edu or darwin.helios.nd.edu, in the past change their password at the Web site http://www.nd.edu/password. 
The breach is stilJ under investigation, but went undis­covered for so long because of the Christmas break and the fact that OIT is in the middle of installing a new security client. TripWire, which will alert administrators to security breaches such as this one. Although the software was installed on Darwin at the time of the attack, it had not been fully implemented to alert administrators of the breach. However. the breach prompted OIT to speed the installation of the software. 

"It was as though the attacker knew that this was the most vulnerable time for our servers,'' said Dobbins. 
With the aid of TripWire, Dobbins said he does not antici­pate such a long delay between an attack and its discovery being repeated, although fur­ther attacks are unavoidable. 
"It's like an arms race -hack­ers are continually becoming more skilled and we are contin­ually updating our systems, and they will always be a step ahead of us," said Dobbins. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at sbrodfue@nd.edu 

Microsoft shares code 
Associauod Press 
SEATTLE 

Microsoft Corp. said Tuesday it will make its prized source code for its Windows operating system available to several governments and gov­ernmental agencies. as it tries to stern defections to competi­tors' software. 
The software company has already signed agreements with the Russian government and NATO to allow them to review for free the underlying programming instructions that Microsoft has long guarded as secret intellectual property. 
The decision will let govern­ments evaluate for themselves the security of the Windows platform, Microsoft said. It also will give them the techni­cal data they need to develop their own secure applications to work atop Windows. 
The announcement comes as government agencies in Japan, France, Germany, 
Office DEPOT 
What you need. What you need to know.­
GetOrg'!nized for the 
New Semester ... 


After Coupon Savings 
Reg. $3.99 
Office DEPOT 
MULTIPURPOSE PAPER 
• 20 lb, 90 bright. 500 sheets per ream 8-½" x 11'', RM 112·860 Limit one ream per customer. 
,------·-------------------------------------~
: s 3 OFF~~w~~~~,~~ie~~t~::~ii:t::,
• (112-860). P1esoot this coupon al time of ; purchase Limit ane coupon per 1 customer/otter. Quantities limited Valid for r in-stock imms only Offer expires 2115103. : an Office Depot Coupon redeemable in store only 
: Multipurpose Paper Ream 
I 
China and the United States are looking into or adopting competitors' software, includ­ing open-source Linux-based systems. Unlike Microsoft's proprietary software, the underlying code for open­source code software can be downloaded free, improved and redistributed. 
"It's a brilliant maneuver," said Michael Gartenberg, research director for Jupiter Research. "It gives them a huge (public relations) win. gives them a response back to the open-source folks and also provides the impetus that many of the government orga­nizations have been looking for to continue doing business with them." 
The "Government Security Program" is similar to Microsoft's "shared-source" program, introduced in 2001, in which it makes some of its source code available on a limited basis to clients and technology partners. 


~T-A~ 

MONHLY FREE Stylus 3-Pack APPOINTMENT BOOK 
374-792 See store for complete selection of colors and styles 

s9999 
Reg. 7.99 

PALM'" ZIRE'"
C,ifi-j!IH: 
·I . ­
HANDHELD
ACTIVE USE BINDER 

• Protective flip cover 
• Round ring 

• Keep important
1-½ 231-031 

Colors may vary by location. See store for complete selection 
2 for$4 ·,\ J 
~..::::· ,:l
• i 00 sheets • 8-½" x 5-½" ~·--=·" 

Intel's profit tops expectations 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Computer chip giant Intel Corp. injected some vigor into the listless technology indus­try Tuesday with fourth-quar­ter results that outstripped expectations. 
The Santa Clara-based com­pany earned $1 .05 biHion, or 16 cents per share, more than double its profit of $504 mil­lion, or 7 cents per share, at the same time in the previous year. A $75 million tax benefit generated by several Intel divestitures helped to fatten the 2002 profit. 
The earnings topped the consensus estimate of 14 cents per share among ana­lysts polled by Thomson First Call. 
The showing reflected much stronger demand for Intel's chips than management antic­ipated at the outset of the quarter. The company regis­tered fourth-quarter sales of $7 .16 billion, a 3 percent increase from $6.98 billion in the prior year. 

The revenue topped the con­sensus estimate of $6.9 bil­lion. 
Intel disclosed the results after the stock market closed Tuesday. The company's shares gained 41 cents to close at $17.79 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, then gained another 14 cents in extended trading. 
While pleased with the quarter, Intel management emphasized there still are no signs pointing to a high-tech revival. 
"We am doing all the right things. but what I can't tell you is when things will really start to pick up," Andy Bryant, Intel's chief financial officer, said in an interview. 
Still, Intel's pleasant sur­prise may help to deepen the conviction that the worst is over in high-tech, setting the stage for brighter times dur­
information secure 
• Rechargeable battery 
531-604 
r-------------------------------------------------~
:FREE Stylus 3-PK 
I  
:  With Purchase of  
:  aPalm™ Zire'"  
:  Handheld  
: 1 ,  Receive aStylus 3·PK_FREE witti purchase of aPalm· Zire· Handheld _(531-604) Present this coupon at time of purchase. L,m,t one coupon per customer/item. Quan11t1es l1m1ted. Valid for ,n-stock ,terns only Offer expi1es 2115,'03. Coupon redelll!1a!Jle in store only.  
I  I  

ing the second half of 2003. 
"That's about all we can hope for at this point," said industry analyst Eric Rothdeutsch of Friedman, Billings, Ramsey. 
With the business climate still shaky, Intel remained cautious about its prospects. The company said its first­quarter revenue will range between $6.5 billion and $7 billion. The consensus esti­mate of industry analysts had been $6.6 million. 
In another possible red Dag, Intel disclosed a dramatic reduction in its budget for capital expenditures. The company said its capital spending in 2003 will range between $3.5 billion and $3.9 billion, down from $4.7 billion in 2002. 
With the personal computer industry in a slump, Intel has been trying to broaden the appeal of its chips for cell phones and other high-tech gadgets. 
\. 

I I I
Graphite Gray 717-511 Indigo Blue 717-441 : Office DEPOT 9 Coupon Code 19489099 : Office DEPOT 9 (622-648) Coupon Code 38442876 :
White 405-321 Orchid 405·331 Ruby Red 717-481

L-------------------~----------------------~ ·--------·------·---------A-9 --------------··---· 
Prices and offers good to 1/3/03 through 2/15/03 (unless otherwise noted). Some products and offers may be available in store only. Quantities limited to in-stock items only. 



Wednesday, January 15, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Kmart closes stores, cuts jobs 
Market Watch January 14 
Dow Jones 

8,842.62 +56.64 
N4SDAQ 

1,460.99  +14.95  
S&P500  
931.66  +5.40  
AMEX  
830.80  +4.26  
NYSE  
5,233.66  1t  +24.45  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +2 .36 +0.41 17. 79 
b~~:t~j;:~ii:;i~£~{;;:~;:::~::~:i::11:f~l:i6(¾~-::;::::i:~~::d,i 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +l. 96 +0. 30 15. 58 1
i~Ii~ii~~!i~l!miiil:;i1i!ill!~!lllil;iilli!!iiiliillllili 
t-b\SDAQ-100 INDE (CID) +0. 52 +0 .14 27. 08 
IN BRIEF 
WorldCom CEO outlines new plan 
WorldCom Inc. chairman and CEO Michael D. Capellas, in a speech some ana­lysts described as a pep rally, told employ­ees Tuesday that the bankrupt phone car­rier will file a reorganization plan by April 15. 
In an hourlong broadcast to the telecom giant's 60,000 employees, Capellas out­lined a 100-day plan for WorldCom to emerge from the largest-ever U.S. bank­ruptcy and from the $9 billion accounting scandal that almost destroyed it. 
lie also told workers to expect that ~ome employees would be fired as the result of ongoing internal investigations into the company's massive accounting fraud. 
"Bad things have happened to us," said Capellas, who spoke from a WorldCom sales office in Orlando, Fla. "I know it will be tough. But we have the will to win." 
Capellas promised that WorldCom ­which filed for bankruptcy in July and is still being investigated by the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission -would act with "an outra­geous sense of urgency." 
Walmart considers buying Safeway 
The world's biggest retailer, U.S. giant Wal-Mart Stores, said Tuesday it may offer to buy Britain's fourth-largest supermar­ket chain, Safeway PLC, which already has two attracted two other suitors. 
"Wal-Mart is considering making an all cash offer Lo acquire Sal'cway," Wal-Mart's wholly owned British subsidiary, ASDA Group PLC, said in a statement. 
It gave no figure for the amount Wal­Mart is likely to offer, although ASDA chief executive Tony De Nunzio said the bid would be attractive and would be funded through cash reserves. 
lie said a bid price would likely emerge after talks with competition regulators. 
. Bankruptcy problems force layoffs and store closings 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 
Kmart Corp. announced Tuesday that it is closing 326 more stores and elim­inating 37,000 more jobs as part of a plan to get out of bankruptcy by the end of April. 
The discount chain that pioneered the blue-light special and introduced Martha Stewart styles to the masses will still have some 1,500 stores and 168,000 employees if the cutbacks are approved by a federal bankruptcy judge. But it will emerge from bankruptcy one-. third smaller than it was when it went in. 
"We don't want to remain in bankruptcy a day longer than neces­sary," chief executive James Adamson said. 
Kmart filed for Chapter 11 protection from its creditors a year ago after failing to compete with Wal-Mart's low prices and Target's hipper merchan­dise. It closed 283 stores and cut 22,000 jobs last year but still lost more counter, said employees open at least a year. Sales but itself to blame.

than $2 billion. 

were told the store will in November were down "Kmart just got fat andThe latest round of clos­close in 60 to 70 days. 17.2 percent from a year lazy, that's all I can say,"ings affects stores in 44 
Experts said the latest earlier, and December Johnson said as hestates and Puerto Rico. 
cutbacks may not be sales were off 5.7 percent. shopped at a Detroit-areaTexas will lose 54 stores enough. Kmart is closing under­Kmart. "They had thisand a distribution center. 
"I think they've got to performing stores and town, they had this stateFlorida will lose 24 stores, get beyond lean and those facing tough compe­and I think due to taking
California 19, North 

mean. They've got to get tition, and is also looking it for granted. they lostCarolina 18 and Georgia 
small, real small," said to shed unprofitable leas­it."
16. 

Anthony Sabino, associate es, which is easier while Kmart has troublesKmart said the closings professor of business at operating under bank­beyond its business plan. 
will result in a charge of St. John's University. ruptcy. Just before its bankrupt­$1.7 billion, most of which Arun Jain, a marketing The plan announced cy filing, Kmart began

will be recorded in the 

professor at the University Tuesday to emerge from receiving letters, purport­
fourth quarter of fiscal 

at Buffalo School of bankruptcy by April 30 is ing to be from employees,2002. 
Management, suggested months earlier than previ­that suggested wrongdo­
"We're all upset. I've 

Kmart needs to find some ously reported. ing at the company. The
been here since 1998. I 

way of distinguishing The company plans to letters led to an investiga­
helped build this store 

itself from the competi­file its reorganization plan tion by the FBI and the
up," employee Sharon 

tion. with the U.S. Bankruptcy Securities and ExchangeKnight said after learning "Wal-Mart and Target Court in Chicago next Commission into the way
her Detroit Kmart was 

are going to rip them up," week. A Jan. 28 hearing is Kmart was run under itsone of 13 in Michigan that Jain said. planned for the store clos­former management.
will be closed. "It's kind of Since filing for bank­ings. Kmart stock lost 9 cents,a tremendous loss to me." 

ruptcy, Kmart has seen Customer Ron Johnson, closing at 17 cents a share
Knight, who works 

declines in sales at stores 51, said Kmart has no one Tuesday.
behind the jewelry 


Car sales boost Dec. retail sales 
pers were more choosy when it came • For all of 2002, retail sales rose by
Associated Press 

to making other purchases during 3.4 percent, down from a 3.7 percent 
WASHINGTON the holiday season. gain in 2001. 
Brisk sales of automobiles offset Excluding sales at automobile deal­In December. the economy lost a lackluster holiday business for other erships, sales at other retail outlets whopping 101,000 jobs, leaving the merchants and gave a boost to retail were flat in December, compared unemployment rate stuck at an 
sales in December, the Commerce with a modest 0.3 percent gain in eight-year high of 6 percent. The Department reported Tuesday. November. stagnant job market and economic 
Retail sales went up 1.2 percent "While consumers were haggling uncertainties could make consumers from November, which had a 0.9 wil.h auto dealers, they weren't shop­more cautious, which would place an percent gain. But all of December's ping for other things," said econo­even greater burden on the strug­gain reflected a burst in automobile mist Ken Mayland. president of gling economy, economists said. sales, which jumped 5 percent, the Clearview Economics. "Spending is erratic," said Lynn biggest increase in more than a year. Consumer spending accounts for Reaser, chief economist at Banc of 
While free-financing deals and two-thirds of all economic activity in America Capital Management. 
other generous incentives motivated the United States. 1t has been the "Consumers will need to see gains in car buyers who flocked to automo­main force keeping the economy employment and income to support bile showrooms in December, shop-going. sizable gains in spending." 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THE OBSERVER 
IS CURRENTLY ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 
2003-2004 EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
APPLICANTS MUST SUBMIT BOTH A RESUME AND AN 8-PAGE MINIMUM PROPOSAL EXPLAINING THEIR INTEREST IN THE POSITION AND THEIR PLANS FOR RUNNING THE NEWSPAPER. 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE MONDAY, JANUARY 20. 
COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVER'S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
CONTACT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF JASON MCFARLEY AT 1-4S42 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bush: Time running out for Saddam Hussein 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush expressed impatience with Saddam Hussein on Tuesday and said "time is running out for him" to disarm. U.N. weapons inspec­lors planned for months more Df searches for hidden chemical and biological arms in Iraq. 
The extended hunt for evi­dence that the Iraqi president was defying the United Nations could complicate the timing of Bush's decision on whether to go to war. While Bush has said from the outset he would not be held hostage by the U.N. Security Council, he is looking for the widest possible consen­sus and the broadest coalition if he decides to attack. 
The inspectors' timetable stretches well beyond Jan. 27 when they are due to report on 60 days of searching for weapons of mass destruction and a missile program. 
Bush told reporters at the White House that he had not seen any evidence the Iraqi president was disarming under 

more than a decade of U .N. Security Council resolutions. 
"He must disarm." Rush said. 'Tm sick and tired of games and deceptions. And ihat's my view of timetables." 
But nearly four months after demanding ihe Securiiy Council threaten Iraq with force -and threatening to act alone if need be -Bush was not ready to attack. Ho is continuing, howev­er. to build up U.S. firepower in the Gulf region. The Navy's 3rd Fleet in California announced Tuesday that seven amphibious warships have received orders 


•Also flnd DVD's, CD's college & greek apparel, laptops, at prices lower than vour college bookstoreI 


Introducing 

I IB3unllll~n(O) WJlmi~§ 
1Call 631-2924 to reserve your 1 Superbowl pick-up order!* 
20 Piece Buffalo Wings ............................... $9. 99 · 
17" New York Style Cheese Pizza ............... $9.99 
17" New York Style Pepperoni Pizza ......... $10.99 
17" Gourmet Pan Meat Delight Pizza ....... $11.99 
2 Liter Coca Cola products $0.99 with whole pizza purchase. Limit one 2 Liter bottle per pizza. 
to depart their home port at San Diego on Friday. They will be carrying about 7,000 Marines from Camp Pendleton, Calif., and aboui 3,000 San Diego-based sailors. A similar­sized amphibious task force departed last weekend from ports in Virginia. Together they will give U.S. commanders in the Gulf region a variety of o!Tensive options. 
The chief U.N. weapons inspector, Hans Blix, mean­while, is describing the Jan. 27 report as an interim update. It would mark "the beginning of the inspection and monitoring process and not the end of it," Rlix said Monday. 
On Tuesday, the Swedish diplomat told The Associated Press the inspectors needed months to finish their searches. 
So far, the inspectors have not produced substantial evi­dence to support U.S. allega­tions Saddam has hidden caches of weapons of mass destruction and a missile pro­gram. 
But Blix, who will go to Baghdad on Sunday with Mohamed E!Baradei, the direc­

Midwest, Northeast suburbs are graying 
ing tasks. particularly in eco­nomically depressed areas. 
"Sometimes we sit and hold our heads and think, 'How is this all going to come togeth­er?"' Hilliard said. 
Many couples moved to the suburbs to raise families in the mid-20th century. When factories closed and the economies of industrial cities declined during the latter decades, younger people moved away. 
Many headed South and West, where jobs were more plentiful. And once their par­ents reached retirement age, many of them sought warmer weather and a better quality of life. They also moved South and West, to places like Sarasota, Fla., Phoenix and Las Vegas. 
About 35 million people 65 and older now live in America, roughly 12 percent of the pop­ulation. But nearly 30 percent of the people in the suburbs of Sarasota are 65 or over, the highest among the 102 most populous metropolitan areas in the nation, according to a Brookings Institution study of Census Bureau figures being released Wednesday. 
HOT SPRING BREAKS 
Discount Coupons up to $250 Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica & Bahamas packages with air. Our staffs 18th Spring Break 
1-800-328-7513 www.hotspringbreaks.com 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The face of suburbia is changing, especially in the industrial Northeast and Midwest. 
Younger families are moving out, leaving large populations of older residents and local officials who must try to meet the demand for services for the aging. 
For example, providing transportation for the elderly to visit doctors or senior cen­ters can be a major problem for a suburb, said Mary Ellen Walsh, director of the Amherst Center for S~nior Services in suburban Buffalo, N.Y., where 17 percent of all residents are senior citizens. 
"In the city you have access to public transportation, but in suburbs and rural areas, you don't, and that's a big issue because people are so spread out," Walsh safd Tuesday. 
Alice Hilliard, director of Eastern Area Adult Services in the Pittsburgh suburb of Wilkinsburg, Pa., said reach­ing out to older people who live in isolated areas and find­ing money and volunteers to help care for them are daunt­

sbarro· 


HUDDLE 
FOOD COURT 
Located in the Lafortune Student Center 
Cash, Domer _Dollars, and Flex Points accepted. 

•_Ji) I DomerDollars 1
*Guaranteed availability for orders received by Friday,January 24th. 
page 10 The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
MPAA spurns copyright plans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Hollywood spurned a high­stakes agreement disclosed Tuesday between leading music and technology companies aim­ing to protect copyrights on digi­tal movies and music without new government involvement. 
The unusual compromise, brokered among the music industry and some of the largest computer companies, lists seven "guiding principles" that the companies hope lawmakers will take into account as Congress develops future technology poli­cies. 
The agreement attempts to head off government interven­tion in the rising debate between Hollywood and Silicon Valley over what consumers can do with commercial music or movies they purchase. 
Under the agreement, tech­nology lobbyists will argue that record companies should be permitted to use hacker-style tactics to disrupt Internet down­loads of pirated music and movies. They will caution that such tactics must not be destructive to networks or to a user's computer data, and must not violate a person's privacy. 
They also will argue against efforts in Congress to amend 
U.S. laws to broaden the rights of consumers, such as explicitly permitting viewers to make backup copies of DVDs for per­sonal use or copy downloaded songs onto handheld listening devices. 
In exchange, the Recording 
Industry Association of America agreed to argue against govern­ment requirements to build locking controls into future gen­erations of entertainment . devices to make it more difficult for consumers to share music and movies. Technology compa­nies have complained that such controls are too expensive and 
complex. 
"What we're saying is, we 
don't need our heads banged 
together," said Hilary Rosen, 
chief executive for the music 
group. She said the agreement 
will help stem "needless legisla­
tive battles, silly rhetoric about 
what divides us and continuing 
disharmony In the public policy 
arena." 
The powerful movie, television 
and home video industry, repre­
sented by the Motion Picture 
Association of America, spurned 
the agreement. The MPM has 
aggressively supported new 
government requirements for 
built-in locking controls on new 
devices, such as DVD recorders. 
It is the primary supporter of 
a bill by Sen. Ernest Hollings, D­
S.C., that would prohibit the manufacture or distribution of "digital media devices" -such as handheld music players ­unless they include government­approved copy restriction tech­nology. The passage of Hollings' bill has been in doubt since the 2002 election, because Republican John McCain of Arizona replaced him as chair­man of the Senate Commerce Committee when the GOP won the majority in the Senate. 
The MPAA said that despite Tuesday's agreement, it was "not prepared to abandon the option of seeking technical pro­tection measures via the Congress or appropriate regula­tory agency, when necessary." It criticized the music industry for opposing such controls, saying that "no reasonable alternative course of action should be elimi­nated from consideration." 
The MPAA also complained Tuesday about promises by the music and technology compa­nies to participate in "construc­tive dialogue." It cited plans by the technology industry to spend $1 million over the next six months on a new organization, the Alliance for Digital Progress. A bid proposal for public-rela­tions companies said the group's ambition was to "counter Hollywood" on the debate over copyrights. 
Technology executives responded that they had sought a six-month "cease-fire" on any lobbying activity during a meet­ing with Hollywood executives in Chicago in September. 
"We thought it would be more productive without the motion­picture industry holding a leg­islative gun to our head," said Ken Kay of the Computer Systems Policy Project, which represents chief executives at IBM, Dell Computer Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co., among others. 

Palm. develops nevV handvVriting software 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Palm Inc. will dump its homegrown handwriting software for a system similar to one used on Microsoft handhelds, potentially easing a long-simmering legal dis­pute and making the machines easier for begin­ners. 
Palm announced Monday that devices shipped later this year will come with a new handwriting recognition system, called "Graffiti 2 powered by Jot." 
The Sunnyvale, Calif.­based company developed the new system with pro­grammers at Redwood S h o r e s -b a s e d Communication Intelligence Corp. 
The original Graffiti, still used on the majority of Palm handhelds, requires users to learn an alphabet developed specifically for entering data into a small screen. To write a "t," a user must write an upside-down "L." An "f" is the mirror image of that upside-down "L." 
The system, although effi­cient in its use of one-stroke letters, often infuriates new users. 
The new system will use two or more strokes for some 
letters, similar to natural handwriting. For example, "t" will be two crossbar strokes. 
"It's more natural, espe­cially for someone who's never picked up a hand­held," said Michael Higashi, a director of marketing at. PalmSource Inc., which builds Palm's operating sys­tem. "That's good because we see this market in its young state, and ... by removing that barrier, peo­ple can be immediately pro­ductive on a Palm handheld." Microsoft also uses a hand­writing system created by Communication Intelligence Corp. for its PocketPC hand­helds. 
Graffiti 2 may get Palm out of a six-year legal battle. Xerox sued Palm in 1997, claiming Palm derived Graffiti from a Xerox patent for computerized handwrit­ing. A federal judge dis­missed the case, but Xerox won a reversal. A federal appeals court heard the case Jan. 6 but has not yet issued a ruling. 
The lawsuit prompted Palm to seek alternative handwriting systems, but the company picked Graffiti 2 because people in focus groups liked it more than Palm's original, Palm spokeswoman Marlene Somsak said . 

[i1 00 (11 I  ..­.... , j ,; ,· I 'l ! t {" r -~ tll j ·r, I / r : i ; l ~/ l ' I I Ii J 1 r V  


AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, January 15, 2003 

-around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Northwestern at Indiana 7 p.m., Ch 11 Virginia at Duke 7 p.m., ESPN Cincinnati at St. Louis 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL HOCKEY 

Red Wings at Blackhawks 8:30 p.rn., FOX 
NBA BASKETBALL 

Mavericks at Kings 8:30 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS Australian Open 11 p.m., ESPN2 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


and shutters clicked, and city, New York. and to be addition makes it likely
Associated Press 

Matsui grinned widely, giv­able to play for the New York will lead the ing thumbs-ups. Yankees, the most beloved major leagues in runs once
NEW YORK 

With a uniform number team in the city, I am real­again.
Even the mayor showed like that, some Yankees' ly happy to be here. I want But Matsui wants to be up to greet Godzilla. 

fans might be expecting a to do everything I can to more than a ballplayer.
For Hideki Matsui's for­

double Joe DiMaggio. But help the Yankees win the "If I could somehow act
mal introduction to New 

the three-time MVP of World Series champi­as an ambassador betweenYork. he was given a news 
Japan's Central League onship." the two countries in terms
conference befitting a 

only has to hit enough to The 28-year-old Matsui of baseball," he said, "Ihead of state: Hundreds of please owner George probably will be a left would really be honored." 
reporters and dozens of 

Steinbrenner, who is pay­fielder for the Yankees, Torre looks at Matsui camera crews filled a hotel 
ing Japan's biggest base­adding a bat that has pro­and Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki
meeting room, Yankees 

ball star $21 million over duced .304 career average -the 2001 AL MVP ­manager Joe Torre inter­
the next three seasons. with 332 homers and 889 and says the influx of tal­rupted his Hawaiian vaca­On his first day in pin­RBIs in 1,268 games. He ent from Japan is improv­tion and Roger Clemens stripes, he gave all the has hit .300 or more in ing the level of play. 
came up from Texas. 

right answers. four straight seasons with "The game got better inAs he put on the famous "Today has been one of at least 36 homers and 95 1947, too, when a guy
pinstripes for the first 

the happiest days of my RBIs, and he's walked 100 named Jackie Hobinsontime, he turned around to 
life," he said. "To be able or more times in four of started changing things,"proudly display his usual to come to this beautiful the last five years, and his he said. 
No. 55. Flashes popped 
IN BRIEF 

Eli Manning to return to Ole star quarterback at Ole Miss from glamorous favorite of the crowds. 1968-70, before making his decision. "I played really well in the first set," 
Miss for senior season 

"I plan to be a good leader, so she said. "I didn't make a lot of mis­
Just like his big brother, Eli 

everybody needs to be ready to go to takes. But it was hard to stay focused Maµning is going to complete his col­work," Manning said Tuesday in a because there were not a lot of ral­lege career before heading to the 
statement released by the university. lies.
NFL. 

The final day for underclassmen to "It was a very slow serve, and a lotManning announced Tuesday he declare for the draft is Wednesday. of double faults. Sometimes it waswill return for his senior season at amazing. I just tried to stay focusedMississippi, instead of entering the on myself."
NFL draft. Henin-Hardenne crushes 
This tournament marked the firstThe 6-foot-4, 215-pound quarter­Kournikova 
time Kournikova, the 1997
back was expected to be a first-round Justine Henin-Hardenne breezed 
Wimbledon semifinalist, had
selection had he made himself avail­into the Australian Open's third advanced beyond the first round inable for April's draft. round Wednesday, unchallenged by five Grand Slam events. She has fall­Manning's brother, Peyton, made a former top-10 player Anna en to 42nd in the rankings from asimilar choice in 1997, when he chose Kournikova. 
high of No. 8 in 2001.
to return to Tennessee for his senior llenin-Hardenne, the Wimbledon Henin-Hardenne had won her three 
year. Peyton Manning ended up being runner-up in 2001 and a semifinalist 
previous meetings against
the first pick in the draft the next year last year, needed only 48 minutes to Kournikova, including a first-roundby the Indianapolis Colts. win 6-0, 6-1. 
match here last year, but each time
Heisman Trophy winner Carson Kournikova, coming back from an needed a set of 7-6 or 7-5.
Palmer of Southern California and ankle injury, served wildly or weakly, The 20-year-old Belgian player,Marshall's Byron Leftwich are expect­double faulted six times, missed most 
seeded fifth. next meets No. 32
ed to be the first two quarterbacks of her volley attempts and committed Katarina Srebotnik of Slovenia, a 6-1.
taken in this year's draft. 29 unforced errors. 

6-7 (4). 6-3 winner over France's
Manning indicated that he spoke Henin-Hardenne said she tried to Virginie Razzano. 
with Peyton and his father, Archie, a forget everything about Kournikova. a 
-

Wednesday, January l S, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 .._ 

I 

-

e 1verv 
¦ 

. 

over 300,000 New and USED textbooks 
. 

FREE shipping on 2or more items 

~II"'.: 
. 

convenient Online Book Buvback Program 
~ ~ 


.... 
.. 
I 
I 
I 
I I -i I 
I 
i 
I 
I I I I 
-
1 
I I 
-I
I 
_o-I 
I I I I
BARNES NOBLE 
I I I 
I
www.bn.com 
I 
I 
I 
I 
' I I 
I 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 ,... 
Hit on Holiday lands knockout punch 

By ANDREW SOUKUP Spom Writer 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

A sweep. A crunch. A groan. And Carlyle Holiday lay motionless on the Alltel Stadium grass. dragging Notre Dame's game plan to the ground with him -and 
50  minulcs  of  football  
remained to play.  
Almost as soon  as  North  

Carolina Stale defender Dan Burnette leaped into the air after making a key goal-line tackle. Irish backup quarter­back Pat Dillingham tugged on his chin straps and head­ed toward the offensive hud• die. 
Three interceptions. nine stitches and zero touch­downs later, there was Dillingham, still frantically trying to lead the Irish into the end zone against the sec­ond-string Wolfpack defense. 
Fittingly. the Irish turned the ball over on downs on the same 2-yard line on which Holiday had lain motionless three quarters earlier. 
"I wasn't expecting to play," Dillingham said. "You can be prepared, but you don't expect to play." 
Why should he have? After all. the Irish spent the 23 days before the Gator 
to turn the game around now.'" 
Never shy about proclaim­ing his ability to play, Holiday headed for the lock­er room. There, trainers found a shoulder injury simi­lar to the separated shoulder the Irish quarterback suf­fered against Michigan State. He returned to the field with about three min­utes left in the first half and tried to take a few snaps, but nothing felt good, and he couldn't even hand off to his left side. 
Even as the press box announcer said the chances of Holiday's return were "50-50." the Irish quarter­back walked out of the lock­er room at half'tirne minus his pads. 
"To be very honest. I think you're looking more at the eyes of the young man, and I don't think he was jumping to go back in," Diedrick said. "I think he would have gone back in, and I think he maybe wanted to, but he wasn't ready to go back in." 
That left Dillingham, well acquainted with the fickle­ness of playing Notre Dame quarterback. Replacing an injured Holiday four months ago, he threw a game-win­ning touchdown pass against Michigan State and led the 
Irish to a 
victory
"Anytime you lose a

13 o w 1 against preparing starting player. it puts a Stanford. 
for North position ofdifficulty on But a costly Carolina mistake
,, 
your success.

State by against devising an Boston offensive Tyrone WIiiingham College, attack that where a
Irish head coach 

would max­i m i z e Holiday's mobility. Dillingharn's role, if any, was minimal. 
But a jarring hit to a ten­der shoulder sent offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick scrambling for a backup plan -a. plan the Irish didn't have for a tenacious Wolfpack defense. 
"It was just a big hit," Burnette said. "When I hit him. l heard him groan, and when I looked down, and he was still on the ground, I thought like, 'OK. it's going 
Dillingham 
shovel pass was intercepted and returned for the deciding touchdown, tarnished Notre Dame's unbeaten record and transformed Dillingham from Rudy· II to Matt Lovecchio IL 
Yet against the Wolfpack, Dillingham never quit despite getting pummeled behind an offensive line playing without three starters and receiving little help from a rushing attack that only managed 86 yards. He finished the day 19-for-

LISA VELTE/The Observer Irish quarterback Pat Dillingham Is chased from the pocket by Wolfpack defensive tackle Alan Holloway. Dillingham entered the game to replace the Injured Carlyle Holiday. 
37 for 166 passing yards ­the most passes an Irish quarterback had attempted in a game this season -but failed to lead the Irish to the end zone. That left team­mates praising the former walk-on's grit while wonder­ing why the Irish hadn't been able to score an offen­sive touchdown in nine quar­ters. 
"Any time you lose a start­ing player, it puts a position of difficulty on your success," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "But we still had some play-makers out there. We did not make the plays, and [the Wolfpack) did some very good things." 
As the Irish flew out of Jacksonville, the questions that needed answers were as 

obvious as a banner hanging from the end of a plane. Do they trust the progress of the injury-prone Holiday, who showed solid development until the final two games of the season when he faced two top 20 defenses, enough to stick with him? Or do they start to look at others, from Dillingham to redshirt fresh­man Chris Olsen or highly-touted recruit Brady Quinn? 
"I think there's a lot of disappointment there at the tail end," Diedrick said. "But I think you also look at the excitement that you look for over winter ball. With that time, the quarterbacks can now go and improve." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Three Irish records set in solellln defeat 
Observer Staff Report 
If the Irish wanted conso­lation from their 28-6 Gator Bowl loss, it could involve a series of individual achieve­ments. 
In just his second year at the position. senior receiver Arnaz Battle finished the season with 50 catches, making him the fifth play­ers in school history to break the half-century mark and the first to do so sincli 1977. 
Battle's 10 catches in the Gator Bowl marked the sec­ond time he caught that many passes this season. 
Meanwhile, Hyan Grant amassed one of the quietest 1,llO0-yard seasons ever. llis season total of 1,085 places him 10th on Notre Dame's all-time list. 
One of the more dubious records was set by Joey 
Hildbold, who booted 78 punts this season. breaking Blair Kiel's 1982 season record by one kick. 
GIiiis done 
What appeared to be a serious yet often routine knee injury suffered last month has turned into a career-ending injury for offensive lineman Ryan Gillis. 
When Gillis underwent arthroscopic surgery a week after his injury, doc­tors realized that if the senior continued to play football, he might need a knee replacement by the time he was 25. So Gillis decided lo hang up his cleats for good. 
Gillis had a fifth-year of eligibility and was expected to compete for a starting position. Ile never saw sig­nificant playing time during his career, compiling a little more than 30 minutes of playing time this season as a backup guard. 
The marketing and psy­chology double-major is back at school working on his degree, and he plans to graduate next December. He also said he expects to have some role on the team in the fall -a role he will define after he talks to the coaching staff. 
Jones returning? 
A report last month in USA Today said former Irish tailback Julius Jones may be trying to return to Notre Dame. 
The report quotes Jones' older brother Thomas, who plays for the Arizona Cardinals, as saying Julius was considering returning to Notre Dame. 
.Jones was kicked off the 

team over the summer for 
academic  reasons.  He  
moved to Arizona to  live  
with  his  brother  and  

enrolled at Arizona State to preserve his eligibility. 
If Jones does return, he would have one season of eligibility remaining. 
Attempts to contact Jones were unsuccessful. 
Captains 

At the Notre Dame foot­ball banquet in December, the Irish voted on four cap­tains for the end of the sea­son. 
The foursome, cornerback Shane Walton, receiver Arnaz Battle, safety Gerome Sapp and offensive lineman Sean Mahan, served as game-day captains for the Gator Bowl. 
Walton was also voted the team's MVP at the awards banquet. 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  3  O  3  o  6  
N.C.Statc  0  21  o  7  28  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 3, N. C. State 0 Nicholas Sella 23-yard field goal with 4:12 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 52 yards, 6:40 elapsed 
Second quarter 
N. C. State 7, Notre Oame 3 
T. A. Mclendon 2-yard run with 14:03 remaining (Adam Kiker kick) Drive: 12 plays, 96 yards, 4:56 elapsed 
N. C. State 14. Notre Dame 3 
Mclendon 3-yard run with 5:02 remaining (Kiker kick) Drive: 11 plays, 76 yards, 4:51 elapsed 
N. C. State 21, Notre Dame 3 Jerricho Cotchery 9-yard pass from Philip Rivers with 1:16 remaining (Kiker kick) Drive: 6 plays, 48 yards, 2:51 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 6. N. C. State 21 
Setta 41-yard field goal with 4:05 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 39 yards, 4:05 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
N. C. State 28. Notre Dame 6 
Sean Berton 7-yard pass from Rivers with 
10:41 remaining (Kiker kick) Drive: 9 plays, 69 yards, 2:51 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
~i'r!!~s,~fll.~~17 
rushing yards 

86 
passing yards 
-200 
~255 
return yards 

71 
time of possession 
1~.,•1~p~~ltl~!-33:03
zzN.:Q;.$TATS. ~26.57 

38-86  rushes-yards  26-62  
23-44-3  comp-att-int  25-41-0  
4-120.8 0-0  punts-yards fumbles-lost  5-216 1-0  -­ 
9-90  penalties-yards  10-87  
23  first downs  20  

passing 

Dillingham Holiday Hildbold  19-37-3 Rivers 3-6-0 Peterson 1-1-0  23-37-0 2·3-0  
rushing  
....  
Grant  21·68 Mclendon  11-25  
Powers-Neal  5-6 Rivers  7-30  
McNair  4-8 Brown  7-21  
Battle  2-5 Berton  1-4  
Holiday  2-3  
Dillingham  4-(-15)  
receiving  ~,.  

Batlle Clark Jenkins Stovall Godsey Rodamer McKnight 
10·84  Cotchery  10-127  
4-41  Berton  5-40  
3-42  Mclendon  3-16  
3-25  Edwards  3-13  
1·5  Peterson  2-16  
1-5  Gray  1-24  
1-(·2)  Hicks  1-19  

tackling 

Hoyte  10  Maddox  10  
Goolsby  7  Thomas  10  
Tuck  6  Holt  8  
Sapp  6  Burnette  6  

AI,HE

North Carolina Scace 28, Notre Dame 6 vnSERVER Wednesday, January 15, 2003 

LISA VEL TE/The Observer 

Irish safety Glenn Earl, right, and linebacker Mike Goolsby tackle a North Carolina State ball carrier. 
CLOUDY DAY IN THE 
A tumultuous post season combined with injuries to several key Irish players including starting quarterback Carlyle Holiday proved too much for Notre Dame to overcome in a 28-6 Gator Bowl loss to North Carolina State. Wolfpack quarterback
SUNSHINE STATE 

Phillip Rivers earned MVP honors with his 228 yards passing and two touchdowns. Runningback T. A. McLendon had two rushing touchdowns for the Wolfpack. 

-
Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday stands on the sidelines with his Injured left arm In a sling during second half action at the Gator Bowl. 




Wednesday, January 15, 2003 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page l l 
Reality television rises high with strong ratings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Who needs highly paid actors'? A hunky construction 
Anyone interested in running for Student Body President and Vice President and has not picked up a petition needs to contact: 
Judicial Council President Danielle Ledesma 

at dledesma@nd.edu or call 631-7668 
by Friday to set up a meeting. 

THY KINGDOM COME! NO SECOND GULF WAR. NO MORE SANCTIONS. 

Join us today for a 12 Hour Prayar Vigil from 8am to 8pm, on South Quad between the Law School and Hayes-Healy. 
The Prayer Vigil wm cuacluda with Mas:s at 8:16pm in Dillon Hail. F:r. Michael Baxter. who has just returned from Iraq. wm be presiding. 
We are prayingfor the Iraqi dead and US GulfWar veterans. Together with the dead, through Jesus Christ, we are praying for an end to the sanc­tions and the bombing. 
worker, a love-starved former cheerleader and a hymn-singing teen-ager became stars in a landmark week for reallty tele­vision. 
Pax Christi Notre Dame paxchris@nd.edu 
Fox's "Joe Millionaire," ABC's "The Bachelorette" and CBS' "Star Search" all impressed television executives with their ratin s erformances last week. 

And the mood at the WB relate to. he said. 
"approached a level of giddi-As such shows proliferate, 
ness" over the ratings for new their grip on "reality" becomes 
shows "High School Reunion" more tenuous. 
and "Surreal Life," said the net-It was a big story three years 
work's entertainment president, ago when Fox's "Who Wants to 
Jordan Levin. Marry a Millionaire" turned into 
After years of searching for a farce. But when unsavory sto­
an alternative to sitcoms and ries came out about "Joe 
dramas, last week's results Millionaire" Evan Marriott ­
proved that reality shows have his past work modeling skimpy 
become a powerful new genre. underwear, for instance -the 
"It was time for a new idea public seemed to shrug. 
and this is ii," said Robert "Not only do they not care, 
Thompson, professor of media they expect that," Thompson 
and popular culture at Syracuse said. 
University. CBS President Leslie Moonves 
Meanwhile, interest in script-said he's trying to figure out the 
ed fare is fading. Of the 20 most limits to the public's taste for 
popular comedies or dramas these shows. 
last season, only three -"CSL His network's plans to revive 
Crime Scene Investigation," "The Beverly Hillbillies" with a 
"Will & Grace" and "The real-life family have run into 
Simpsons" -have a larger protests from a group repre­
audience this season than last. senting rural Americans, and 
"NYPD Blue" is about even. Moonves said he's not sure the 
"Joe Millionaire" was most network will go through with it. 
impressive in reality-show rat-"Everybody's looking for that 
ings. The cruel parody -in quick fix," he said. CBS is even 
which eligible women woo a looking for its own version of a 
construction worker who they dating show. 
mistakenly believe is a million-Reality shows aren't appeal­
aire -drew 18.6 million view-ing to networks in the long term 
ers to its premiere. because they don't form lasting 
Many wanted a second date: relationships with viewers thP. 
Monday night's second episode way a scripted show can, Levin 
was seen by 17.5 million, said. 
Nielsen Media Research said "I think you have to be very 
Tuesday. careful with reality program­
Hit-starved ABC struck gold ming because it can be very 
with "The Bachelorette," which seductive. but it can start to 
offered former cheerleader force you into a place where 
Trista Rehn her choice of eligi-you're juggling your schedule to 
ble men. Its audience of 17.4 satisfy a very short-term fix," he 
million beat NBC's competing said. 
drama, "The West Wing," by CBS won Nielsen's ratings 
nearly 4 million viewers. race last week, averaging 15.3 
In a nod to Fox's soon-to-million viewers in prime-time return "American Idol," CBS (9.9 rating, 16 share). NBC resurrected "Star Search" for averaged 12.8 million (8.4, 13), two episodes last week. Both Fox had 11.5 million (7.0, 11), landed among Nielsen's top 30 ABC had 8.6 million (5.5, 9), the prime-time shows. Big-voiced WB 4.2 million (2.6, 4), UPN 3.9 13-year-old Meaghan Markert million (2.4, 4) and Pax TV 1.2 impressed the judges with her million (0.9, 1). rendition of "Ave Maria." NBC's "Nightly News" won the 
The WB's "High School evening news ratings race. Reunion" follows a real-life high averaging 11.5 million viewers school class playing out person-(8.0 rating, 15 share). ABC's al dramas 10 years after gradu-"World News Tonight" was sec• ation, while "Surreal Life" takes ond, averaging 10.7 million fading stars like rapper viewers (7.5, 14) and the "CBS Hammer and puts them in the Evening News" had 9.1 million same house. (6.4, 12). 
"The ratings are high because A ratings point represents it's stupid and moronic," 1,067,000 households, or 1 per­Thompson said. "That's part of cent of the nation's estimated the fun of the whole thing. After 106.7 million TV homes. The 20 years of the age of irony, share is the percentage of in­why would it be surprising that use televisions tuned to a given a whole genre would arrive that show. we can both disdain and enjoy "The Bachelorette" had a at the same time'?" higher household rating but 
The shows also succeed fewer viewers than "Joe because they play off situations Millionaire," indicating house­-looking for love or wondering holds tuned to "The what happened to a high school Bachelorette" had fewer people friend -that everyone can watching. 
Wednesdays and Thursdays are student nights. Students receive 20% off meal price with student ID. 
Ut! 

Michiana's most unique dining experience. Located in the brewery at the Historic 100 Center in Mishawaka (574) 257-1792 www.1OOcenter.com 
... 
THE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF' 
Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengasc  Lori Lewalski  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR, Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kristin Ycmm Si'ORTii EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Loz.ar 
SCENE EDITOR, Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR, Katie McKenna SAINT MARY'S EDITOR• Sarah Ne.ror 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Crnsddla 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Ted Bangert WES ADMINISTRATOR• Scott Brodfuehrer 
CONTROLLER, Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FA.,::......................................................... ..631-6927 ADVERTISING ..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR\"'s.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObSttVcr (USPS 599140) is publi,hcd Monday rhrough Friday a~rduring txam and "Yaa.tion periods. A subscription ro The ObllCl"\·cr i, S100 for one academic ~S55foron<"semesr~. 
llit ObKtvcr ii 11\ffillshcd ac: POSTMA5'1'£R 
021 Smi1h Oinirig H'l!l 
Nmf!! 02me. IN 46<;56 The-Observ~ 
P.O.BoxQ f~iodical po1ragie paall u Noirre Dam" Norrc Dame, lN 46556-ll779 lnd ~diUon.J n1.U!iag officu. 
TI1e Ol!Krvcr i1 m<'mbcr of rhc k,ocllrnl Pr.,.,,,. A.11 reproduc,don rii;hu ~ 
t'"5dV<'d. 


Editor's Note: The words in this col­umn are interpretations of the author and not those ofMatt Frey directly. 
It's dark and cold, but somehow the pedals keep moving in response to my churning legs. They fight against Adam Cahill the oncoming wind and I strug­gle to keep the A Domer's bike balanced. 
Outlook 
This impossibly chilly Monday morning in January makes no promise of getting better, either. Everything is dark, the trees are bar­ren and even the Holy Mother seems to be cold on top of the Golden Dome. South Bend can't get much more depressing. The wind whips around me in a whirling howl, and the sleet makes it impossible to see clearly as I travel from O'Neill Hall across South Quad to the pool. This is miserable, especially at this early hour, but I'll get through it. I always have and I've made it through situations much worse than this before. 
l remember the ear infections and bronchitis that landed me in the hos­pital just over a month ago and the continuous complications with my health in recent years. Those were bad, but growing up I faced more. Those instances are hard to remem ­ber now, if not impossible, because I was so young. A part of me is thankful for the holes in the past that memory provides us. I'm so glad that I can't remember the things I've had to go through. The memories would just be something else I would have to over­come. But undoubtedly, I would. 
There are the countless surgeries to my hands where doctors mistakenly severed tendons to my fingers, leaving them .helpless. And of course I can't forget the amputation of my left leg below the knee. That must have been hard on my parents, just like every­thing else. Walking on a prosthesis hasn't been so bad though. Like everything, things are never as bad as they seem. 

But all of those thoughts fade away from my memory and into the dark Indiana landscape. It doesn't matter what I have to overcome now or what has happened in the past. I don't think about those thing now, there's no reason to be counterproductive by dwelling on them. Those things are the past and can't be helped. I am who I am, and no amount of good or bad luck can change that. I am get­ting the chance to do what I love ­attend Notre Dame, swim among their varsity mens swimming team and be a Special Olympics volunteer -and for the opportunity to do that, no one could be more thankful. 
And of course, I have goals to work toward. I'm not at practice everyday to be a cheerleader. But I think that 16 days in the summer of 2004 would be well spent in Athens, Greece as a part of the Paralympics. I came up short in 2000 at the Olympic Trials, not making the team because of an obscure point system, but I think I can do it. In fact, I know I can. 
The two American records that I set this past weekend just aren't enough, though. l want the gold. I'm swim­ming with a bunch of guys who are gracious enough to let me practice among them even if we all know I am not suited to keep the pace. No one says anything, but no one needs to. I know I can't keep up most of the time, but at least they let me try. The opportunity to try is all I can ask for. 
They will help me get the gold in Paralympics in 2004. They keep me going during the tough times and have even given me a customary team nickname. 
Yes, I say to myself as I pass the stadium, it is a good morning. 
I've got to get to practice as fast as I can so I can be cheerful for the team. Hopefully I will do some good by being a smiling face at 5:30 in the morning. I can't overdo it though. I have to remember that it's very early in the morning and there is a clear line between being friendly and being annoying. I want to do whatever I can, whenever I can. Those guys are so special to me; I just hope they can recognize that. Something tells me they can, though. 
I go to all their swim meets and announce at them. Some people even like the way I announce, even though I am incredibly biased towards my Notre Dame friends. But who can blame me? l love those guys and am incredibly proud of them. Hopefully I can make them just as proud of me. 
My name is Matt "Slappy" Frey, I am the voice of the men's Irish swim­ming team and I am living a dream. 
Adam Cahill is a junior history and American Studies major and can be reached at acahill@nd.edu. On behalf of the swim team he would like to thank Matt for subjecting us to his determination, perseverance and total selflessness. He is truly a Notre Dame man and we are very proud of him. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghanne Downes Laura Coristin Mike Chambliss Viewpoint Claire Kelley Kristin Yemm Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk 
Katie McVoy Christine Armstrong 
Scene 
Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Nellie \\Tilliams 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Race prejudice ... is a shadow over all ofus,
Have you changed your opinion of going off­

and the shadow is darkest over those who 
campus since Chad Sharon's disappearance? 

feel it least and allow its evil effects to go on. " 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Pearl S. Buck 
U.S. author 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Democrats' record on race deserves scrutiny 
Let the stem cell debate begin 
A few weeks back, someone solicited debate on the issue of cloning and use of human embryonic stem cells for therapeutic purposes. I'd like to extend this dialogue. 
/\ question was posed to me about the responsi­bility of a Catholic university if they have scien­tists using human embryonic stem cells in their research. As a Notre Dame alum and a part of its extended family, I'd like to offer a few thoughts from the perspective of a concerned molecular biologist. 
I think it is imperative that Notre Dame, as a leading Catholic university, give some thought to these issues, which may already have reared their head. My answer to the ques­tion posed was that the use of the allowed 70 or so cell lines, speak­ing from a Catholic perspective, seems, at the outset, benign. We did not isolate the cells, someone else did. The deed is done, we have what we have and may as well make use of it for the good of science. 1think many at this University feel this is a decision they can live with. 
I believe, though, that we have to be a little more for­ward-thinking about this. Scientifically speaking (from experience), anytime you manipu­late cells, you run a fairly high risk of creating mutations in the cell lines. These muta­tions, although appearing silent in your petri dish, may result in trading in one disease for another at the worst, or no cure at the very least when intro­duced into patients. This problem will also make meaningful characterization of the cell lines per­ilous. The cells will change over time in the labo­ratory, a fact acknowledged by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) committee examining the subject of human stem cell research. 
For this reason, 70 cell lines is not enough, and in fact, it is now becoming apparent to the scien­tists using these cell lines that there are problems. 
This means we need more cell lines. The question then becomes: Do we want to put ourselves in a position that, although we (or any Catholic univer­sity) are in the "clear" on cell isolation, we are, in effect, creating a demand for more cell lines by our continued use? Where will a scientist get more cell lines? How will the need be satisfied? Will we get to a point where the manufacture of 
embryos will be required for research to go on? How do we as Catholics view the dignity of human life? Forget about being Catholic for a minute, how do you feel about this.as a human being? Are we the equivalent of a scientific consum­able? I'm not, are you? For the detractors in the crowd, I am not unsympathetic to the 
people who could benefit. l have two immediate family members suffering from multiple sclero­
sis (MS) and juvenile diabetes who could. I understand the mandate of medicine to cure. But at what cost? 
As a scientist, I am all in favor of biomedical progress and encourage it. But in some things, just because we can 
does not mean we should. If we continue down this road, I fear we as humans will begin to 
lose our notion of our inherent dignity and value. We will reduce our worth to nothing more than a scientific reagent. Think about it. I would urge the University and its in-house ethicists to start this dia­logue. It is a moral imperative as a Catholic institution that you start to 
become informed and hear both sides of the issue because, if it hasn't already, it will touch you. 
Technology is moving rapidly and if we start thinking and talking, we won't be caught off guard and agree to something we will regret later simply because we were unprepared and unedu­cated. Let the debate begin. 
Julie Wilberding, Ph.D class of '98 Hagerstown, Md. Jan. l 

Disappointing 
end does not diminish 
return to glory 
Notre Dame prides itself on being a school of great tradition and community. One of the greatest examples of this is something that happens each Saturday in the fall, as the seconds tick away and the alma mater is played. The football team walks towards their class­mates with their gold helmets raised, no matter what the outcome, in a gesture of what it means to be part of this community. No other school has greater tradi­tion or a greater sense of respect among classmates. 
I remember Coach Willingham saying that no matter where Notre Dame traveled this season, he saw that the "sea of green" followed, and it was no different on New Year's Day in Jacksonville. Although Irish fans, students and alumni were outnumbered, we cheered loudly and with pride for our school and our football team. The minutes began to wind down and the stands began to empty, yet the student section remained, behind the band chanting "We are ND" as the final seconds ticked away. The alma mater had begun as most of the team walked straight into the locker room. Just five players came to the corner of the endzone, and among them only one senior, Jeff Faine. Ten min­utes later, as the student section had already started to file out, those five players were finally joined by the rest of the team. 
It seemed that in a matter of minutes tradition was forgotten and all of the great things that the football team had accomplished were, too. Tho team should be proud of everything they did this season. Few expected six wins, let alone 10. From day one, no one expected us to be in a bowl game at all, let alone the BCS hunt. Yet, despite the odds and everything the "experts" had to say before the season, Notre Dame did return to glory. And 60 minutes in January cannot undo that. We are still ND. 
Danny Pisaninello 
senior 
Morrissey Manor Jan. 14 

In the wake of Sen. Trent Lott's polit­ical assassination, I am amazed at yet another example of the bias and dou­ble standard exemplified by the media. 
First, I must make clear that I am in no way attempting to defend Sen. Lott's hurtful and offensive remarks. 
However, the media frenzy that ensued and statements by prominent opponents of Sen. Lott including for­mer President Bill Clinton and his wife Sen. Hillary Clinton trying to brand the entire Republican Party as racist, cross-burning bigots deeply troubles me. 
Yet there has been a deafening sound of silence over former President Clinton's awarding the Presidential Medal of Freedom (the highest honor a President can bestow upon an individ­ual) to his "mentor and friend" J. William l<ulbright, a rabid segregation­ist and one of 19 senators who issued "The Southern Manifesto," which con­demned the 1954 Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision ending segregation. Does this mean that Clinton too is a closet segregation­ist? 
Or furthermore. if all Republicans can be branded as racist by the words and actions of one man, can all Democrats be called liars and adulterers based on the Clinton years in the White House? 
Another exam­ple of this deaf­ening sound of silence by the media (and the left) is Sen. Robert Byrd of West Virginia using the infamous "N" word in an interview with Fox News not more than a year ago. 
Sadly however, this was not the first time he used it publicly; while on the floor of the Senate a few years ago he used the same racial epithet. Oh. I almost forgot to mention that Sen. Byrd is a former Ku 

.Klux Klan activist and now chairs the powerful Appropriations Committee (only until the new Senate con­venes). Why no outrage over these two instances of apparent hypocrisy? The answer is simple: the Washington Post's and CNN's of the media world don't want you to know the entire, unabridged truth. Heaven forbid we expose the southern Democratic Party's dirty little secret infatuation with racism and segregation in the past. Finally, I would like to commend Sen. Lott for his wise and admirable decision not to seek the leadership position of the Senate. His 
decision to step down was in the best interest of the Party, but, more impor­tantly, in the best interest of the American people. He realized that his actions had damaged his ability to lead the Senate effectively and with a fresh face, Bill Frist (a surgeon who volun­teers helping AIDS patients in Africa in his spare time) assuming the position of Majority leader, the country can move forward. 
Just another example of fallen Republican leaders -like Newt Gingrich and Bob Livingston -looking beyond personal ambition for the greater good of the nation. That's more than I can say for the other side -see Bill Clinton, Gary Condit and James Traficant. 
Call me old-fashioned, but I think most people value selflessness, duty and honor a little more than dishon­esty, unrestrained ambition and a shameless, unapologetic attitude toward one's actions and country. 
Michael Derocher 
sophomore Sc. Joe Hall Jan. 14 


O
THE
BSERVER 


Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
page 14 
a priest, but laier changed his mind
By COLLEEN BARRETT and MARIA 
and headed to film school at New
SMITH 
York University.
Scene Writer and Scene Editor 
Scorsese made his first directing effort in 1963 with a nine-minute 
The last month has seen the return 
short subject entitled "What's a Nice of Leonardo DiCaprio in two almost Girl Like You Doing in a Place Like 
simultaneous films by two of the 
This?" He made two more short films 
most acclaimed American film direc­before directing his firsi ftdl length
tors. Steven Spielberg and Martin 
feature, "Who's That Knocking At MyScorsese have both made names for 
Door," in 1969. 
themselves with countless innovative 
After teaching at N.Y.U., Scorsese films over the past several decades. 
produced "Street Scenes," a docu-· Their newest releases merit a look at mentary of the 1970 student protests
what brought them to where they are opposing the American invasion of today. 
Cambodia. He moved on to several editing projects, including
Martin Scorsese 
"Woodstock," "Medicine Ball 
Martin Scorsese has been hailed as Caravan," and "Elvis on Tour." 
one of the most masterful and inno­Scorsese produced "Mean Streets,"
vative film directors of his time. 
his first acknowledged masterpiece,
Directing acclaimed films such as 
in 1973. The film followed the dilem­
"Casino," "Taxi Driver," and 
mas of Charlie, a small-time hood in"Goodfellas," Scorsese has made his 
Little Italy too nice to succeed as a 
name not only through his use of 
bad-debt collector. The movie was unusual camera and shooting tech­the beginning of a running workingniques but through intriguing themes 
relationship between Scorsese and of religion and violence in modern 
Robert DeNiro. 
society. 
Scorsese's 1974 release "Alice
Scorsese grew up in Flushing, N.Y., 
Doesn't Live Here Anymore" starred 
in the 1940s. A child of Italian 
actress Ellen Burstyn, who won an American parents, Scorsese suffered 
Oscar for her role as a woman tryingfrom debilitating asthma. Unable to 
to support herself and her son after
play sports with other children, 
her husband's death.
Scorsese spent his time in movie the­
aters, developing an early love for on "Taxi Driver." The famous filmthe cinema. Raised as a Catholic, 
starred DeNiro and also Jodi Foster
Scorsese originally considered being 
as a young prostitute. The film 

Pholo courtesy ot www.imdb.com Daniel Day-Lewis and Leonardo Dicaprio play 1850s gangsters in Martin Scorsese's latest film, "Gangs of New York." 

Martin Scorsese an 
Scene looks at four decadE 
became both famous and infa­mous. "Taxi Driver" won the Palme d'Or at the 1976 Cannes Film Festival, bringing Scorsese wide recognition. Five years later, it inspired John mnkley's assassi­nation attempt on President Ronald Reagan. The man had become obsessed not only with the film but with Foster herself. 
"Raging Bull," Scorsese's next major hit, appeared in 1979. The film again starred DeNiro as boxer Jake LaMotta. The two . also worked toge.ther on "The King of Comedy" in 1983. 

Scorsese became contro­versial with his 1988 release "The Last Temptation of Christ." Many considered the film's portrayal of Christ's life blasphemous. The protests only boosted profits. In New York violence, also featuring 1990 Scorsese returned to mob life Daniel Day-Lewis in another starring 
and the streets of New York with role. "Goodfellas." Scorsese initially gained fame for While many of Scorsese's films his innovative filming techniques. 
were acclaimed for his unique use of Like all truly famous directors, he unique camera angles, voiceovers has maintained his reputation and antiheros, he produced more through the continued quality of his commercial hits as well. In 1991 at films. His characters have a reality the request of Universal Pictures and intensity only made possible Scorsese produced the classic thriller through his introspective film tech­"Cape Fear." niques. For example, his use of "The Age of Innocence"(l993). a voiceovers in "Goodfellas" lets view­
sharp contrast, featured Daniel Day­ers see not only the events but also Lewis and Michelle Pfieffer in an what goes through each character's adaptation of the Edith Wharton head at crucial moments. 
novel. The sheer diversity of Scorsese's Scorsese's most recent contribu­work makes the director remarkable. tions to the world of film include Few directors can successfully make "Bringing Out the Dead"(l999) and hit films out of immigrant life, mob "Gangs of New York"(2002). The warfare, classic literature and count­first stars Nicholas Cage as a men­less other topics. Innovative and tally exhausted paramedic. "Gangs ingenious, Martin Scorsese has 
of New York" reintroduces actor earned his fame as one of the best Leonardo DiCaprio in another tale of Hollywood directors. 

MARTIN~ 
19RQ
WHA\.~~~GIRL 
RAGIN~ULL LIKE YOU DOING IN A 
1a75 19A?.
PLACE LIKE THIS? TAXt'DRIVER 
THE KtNG oYCoMEDY 

19so 1970 1sao TH F 


RAIDERS OF THE TWILIG [wO~ 6R~ E.T. THE 1)iE 
1 :18 1Exn~r~ 2°RIAL 1 ~ 
STEVEN, 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, January 15, 2003 page 15 

d Steven Spielberg· 
s oflegendary feature films .,. 
tear of constant While many are familiar with plctely pertinent trivia. viewing, given Spielberg's latest and most stunning Spielberg does his best work Spielberg's movies, few realize that Spielberg behind the camera, but does not limit extensive direct­has been behind what the children of himself in terms of acting. Perhaps ing career. Born the 80s would call "the classics." He some would recognize the man in the Dec. 18, 1946, either directed or produced electric wheelchair in "Grnmlins" as Spielberg made "Gremlins," "American Tail," "Barry Spielberg himself. though he "Amblin '," his and the Hendersons," "The Land remained uncredited for the appear­first short fea­Before Time," "Honey I Shrunk the ance. He also featured as "Cook ture film, in Kids," and perhaps one of the County Clerk" in "Blues Brothers," 1969. He first favorites of all 20-somethings, "The and "The Popcorn Eating Man" in earned respect Goonies." "The Lost World: Jurassic Park" as a director in Spielberg's power in the movie (1997). One of his latest cameos 1969 with "Night industry increased when he formed shows him directing what becomes 
·Gallery," his tel­DreamWorks SKG in 1993. The studio the musical biography of Austin evision debut. produced the blockbuster hits Powers in "Goldmember" (2001). "Duel" (1971), "Twister" (1996), "Men in Black" Spielberg's trademarks include the his first feature (1997), "Deep Impact" (1998), and absent, reluctant or irresponsible length film made "The Mask of Zorro" (1998). He father, constant references to World for television, returned to directing in 1997 with War II or Disney, and repeated shots secured him the "Amistad," and in 1998 with the crit­of shooting stars. He has an affinity reputation of a ically acclaimed "Saving Private for animation that lead to the pro­man with unlim­Ryan." He recently directed duction of "Pinky and the Brain" and ited potential. "Artificial Intelligence: AI" (2001). "Shrek." He claims Richard Dreyfuss 
In 1974, and produced the television mini­as his alter ego, and is Drew Spielberg per­series "Band of Brothers" (2001). Berrymore's godfather. The Democrat manently gradu­which captured multiple awards. donated $100,000 to his political ated to feature Spielberg has featureq prominently party in 1996. Spielberg is also an films with "The in 2002, producing "Men in Black II," Eagle Scout. Spielberg himself seems Sugar land "Minority Report," and "Catch Me if to be as multi-faceted as the films he Express." His You Can." He received a star in the has produced and directed in the next effort in Hollywood Walk of Fame in January past four decades. 1975 changed 2003. Slated for 2005 is the next in the film industry. the series of Indiana Jones movies. "Jaws" estab­In the midst of compellation of Contact Colleen Barrett at lished the sum­some of Spielberg's most memorable Colleen.E.Barrett.42@nd.edu and mer months as films, one cannot help but leave Maria Smith at the most lucra­space for interesting and not com-Smith.525@nd.edu tive period of the year and began 
the shift toward 
big budget sum­
mer block­

busters.Steven Spielberg Spielberg is well known for his 
In Hollywood, Steven Spielberg's films that use impressive special name is synonymous with directing effects, such as "E.T." (1982). "Back and producing big budget, highly to the Future" (1985) and "Jurassic acclaimed movies. Park" (1993). Early critics of 
lfis eclectic resume as a director, Spielberg pointed out that his films, producer, screenwriter and actor has even the dramatic "The Color Purple" influenced all genres of the film (1985), demonstrated his craftsman­industry from comedy lo horror and ship and enormous skills on screen, science fiction to drama. Yet who but failed to merge substance with 
could imagine that the spectacular style. Many pointed out that his films, 
visual effects of "Jurassic Park" though visually beautiful, were hol­
might stem from a fascination with low at the center. 
the forlorn situation of Jimmy Spielberg silenced these critics in 
-
Stewart's "It's a Wonderful Life" 1993 with his masterpiececharacter, George Bailey? "Schindler's List." This powerful"Before I go off and direct a movie I true-life tale that takes place during always look at four films. They tend the Holocaust was the first time that to be: 'Seven Samurai,' 'Lawrence of Spielberg, an American Jew, had Arabia,' 'It's a Wonderful Life,' and dealt with his ethnicity on screen. 'The Searchers."' said Spielberg. The dark and wrenching film earned 
Spielberg's copies of those four Spielberg his greatest accolades and Photo courtesy ot www.imdb.com movies have probably been replaced two Academy Awards for Best Spielberg works with Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks In his latest release, numerous times due to the wear and Picture and Best Director. 

"Catch Me If You Can." 



~002 
CORSESE 

tr'ANGS OF NEW YORK 
INDIANA JONES MINORITY
SAVING PRIVATE
INDIANA JONES 
AND THE LAST ARTIFICIAL ~~~ 
AND THE TEMPLE INTELLIGENCE: . .. · e:.
f~~g (§5§~ 1§§a 2 ,_,,t.01. 1 ATCH EIF
fff~a u, .· • 
YouCAN 

PIELBERG 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
New Raptors silence Jordan, Wizards magic 
in the second half. Atkins. who passed back to 

Associated Press 
"We had zero energy. We just Barry. who missed a despera­were flat," coach Doug Collins tion try. 
WASHINGTON said. "It's about energy. It's "I was kind of backing up andA couple of pickups from the about will. It's about going and wasn't going into the shot,"

Mobile Revelers and North 
doing it. We just didn't do it. Barrv said. "But it shouldn'tCharleston Lowgators stunned 

"I don't want to disrespect come down to that. We let

Michael Jordan into silence. 
Toronto, but this has got to be them back into this." 

Hafer Alston and Damone 
more important to us than it Detroit led 51-43 at halftime.

Brown, both playing on 10-day wa.s to them. Yesterday, we The Miami victory came in its 
contracts from the National 
were talking about home-court first game back from a winless

Basketball Development 
advantage." five-game trip. The six consec­

League, scored 13 points 
The Wizards played without utive losses had all been byapiece, and Alston added 11 Jerry Stackhouse, who has a double digits, tying a franchiseassists as the Toronto Raptors pulled left groin. But that pales record.

upset the Washington Wizards 
in comparison to a lengthy "They had a rough trip, and

84-75 Tuesday night. 
Raptors injury brigade headed we knew they'd be up for this," 

The injury-ravaged Raptors 
by Vince Carter. Billups said. 

won their second in a row despite dressing just eight play­Heat 88, Pistons 85 Knicks 98, Bulls 86 ers -including 10-day signees Rookies Caron and Rasual With the struggling Chicago Alston from the Revelers. Butler showed there might be Bulls in town, the New York Brown from the Lowgators and better days ahead for the K.nicks were actually happy to Art Long, who was cut this sea­Miami Heat. play back-to-back games. son by Denver. Alston and Long Caron Butler scored 22 Allan Houston had 26 points were playing their third game points, Rasual Butler added 16 and Kurt Thomas added 24 with the Raptors; Brown joined and Miami survived some last­and 13 rebounds as the Knicks the team earlier Tuesday. minute jitters Tuesday to snap won 98-86 Tuesday night, 
"I don't think I've ever been a season-high six-game losing handing the Bulls their 17th in a position where guys don't streak by beating the Detroit straight road loss. eveu know each other, don't Pistons 88-85. Latrcll Sprewell added 16 know their tendencies or noth­Miami won despite missing points for the Knicks, who ing," said Antonio Davis, who six of eight free throws in the hadn't won the second of back­scored just 10 points and was final 1 :05. Detroit's Jon Barry to-back games in seven tries in early foul trouble. "We were was short with a fallaway 30-this season. Thomas had his drawing up plays as the game footer at the buzzer that would third straight double-double was going on, and the guys have forced an overtime. and his 12th of the season as didn't even know the plays. But Playing again without the Knicks didn't let the Bulls' we stuck together for 48 min­starters Eddie Jones and Travis young post players dominate 
utes and came up with a victo­Best, the Heat snapped like they did a night earlier in ry." Detroit's five-game road win­Chicago's 101-94 victory. Jerome Williams scored 14 ning streak. Jones has missed "I take pride in my defense, points and had a season-high six games and Best seven and when a guy outplays me as 20 rebounds, and Morris because of ankle sprains. and far as rebounding the ball, I Peterson had 21 points for the while both are day-to-day, take that to heart," Thomas Raptors, who had lost 12 they're expected to miss said. "This is one good thing straight before beating Wednesday night's game at about the schedule: When you 
go unchallenged. lined him for 18 games.
Minnesota and Washington have a home-and-home and a
Indiana. 

Marshall had a dunk, Rose The game marked the returnback-to-back. guy kicks your behind one
"We're doing it without two hit a 3-pointer and a jumper of former Buck GlennAlston, who made 6-of-10 night, you can come back the

of our key guys," center Brian and Crawford made a 3 to cut Robinson, but Atlanta's starshots, was hot enough to next night and kick his." 

Grant said. "It's giving the 

the lead to 89-79 with 5 :07 left forward missed his thirdengage Jordan in some trash Jalen Rose scored 23 points
young guys an opportunity to 

and the Knicks' reserves floun­straight game with an injuredtalk. and Danyell Marshall 22 for the
step up, and they did that 

dering. right elbow.
"We play in the summertime Bulls, who have not won on the
tonight." 

Crawford cut the lead to "I can't shoot outside the
together, and he would leave road since beating Boston in
Caron Butler shot 8-for-14 seven by blocking Ward's 3-paint," Robinson said beforeme open and I wouldn't hit my their opener Oct. 30. Jamal

and added eight rebounds and 

pointer and completing a 3-the game.
shots," said Alston, who earned Crawford added 15 points and
four assists in 44 minutes. 

point play with 3:34 left. But The Bucks trailed 58-57
the nickname "Skip to my Lou" helped Chicago cut the lead in
"With Eddie and Travis out, 

Houston hit a 3 to push the when Allen and Cassell took
playing street ball in New York. the fourth quarter.
he has been given a lot more lead back to 10 with 2: 17 left. over during a 14-0 run in the"I told him tonight: Tm hitting Chicago got just 13 points

opportunity," coach Pat Riley "There was more of a sense third period.

these shots now."' and 18 rebounds from centers
said. "Balls gravitate to him. I of urgency in this for us," Allen started the streak with

Jordan and the Wizards Tyson Chandler and Eddy
would have to say he's emerg­

couldn't have more Houston admitted of finally a cutter across the lane, then
been Curry and forward Marcus
ing a little more with the obvi­winning the latter of back-to­hit a pull-up 3-pointer. After aembarrassed. They had won Fizer. In Chicago's 101-94 win

ous responsibility." 

back games. "It was a mental basket by Cassell, Allen got asix of their previous seven, and Monday, the trio had 35 points
Rasual Butler sank two free challenge for us. It was a men­long rebound off a missed dunkon Monday they talked about and 27 rebounds.

throws with 17.7 seconds left 

tal thing, not a physical thing. I by Tim Thomas and sanksweeping this four-game home­Rookie Jay Williams went 0­
for the game's final points. But

stand and getting home-court for-7 from the field and had was just glad to see us be able another 3 from the left corner.
Anthony Carter, Vladimir

advantage for the playoffs. four turnovers, including three to do something, to do that and Cassell added a jumper and 
Stepania and Rasual Butler 

come through with a win."
Instead, they lost the first down late in the third quarter. two free throws for a 71-5 8
missed two free throws each 

one, prompting an unusually At the end of the period, the Bucks 97, Hawks 88 lead.
down the stretch, giving Detroit 

_ speedy locker room exit by point guard slammed his fist on The Milwaukee Bucks beat Shareef Abdur-Rahim led the 
twQ late chances to tie.

Jordan and most of his team­the scorer's table and put his the Atlanta Hawks 97-88 Hawks with 23 points. Jason 
"When you miss six free

mates. head in his hands. He did not Tuesday night behind 21 points Terry added 22, but the only
throws, you put yourself in

"No comment from me return to the game. each from Sam Cassell and Ray points he had after halftime
jeopardy," Riley said. "We get

tonight," Jordan said. "No com­"It sure wasn't happening for Allen, allaying coach George came on a 3-pointer with 1.5 
paralyzed as a young team, 

seconds left in the third quar­ment at all." me tonight," Williams said. "I Karl's fears -for at least one
and we wait for the game to

Jordan scored 22 points, but was horrible." night. ter that pulled the Hawks to 
end, and it isn't going to end

he was just 3-for-12 in the sec­Charlie Ward stole a pass Karl has always said that the 79-72. 
unless you make it end."

ond half and 1-for-6 in the from Crawford and hit a layup, one man he feared facing was Milwaukee opened the fourth 
After Detroit's Chauncey

fourth quarter. The Raptors and Houston hit a 3-pointer to his longtime assistant, Terry quarter on an 11-3 run for a 
Billups missed an open 3-point

"' -took the lead in the third quar­push the Knicks' lead to 85-65 Stotts, Atlanta's interim coach. 90-75 lead. 
try with five seconds left,

ter and gradually increased it with 10:05 to go. The Bucks' victory gave them Robinson received a standing
Rasual Butler missed two free

the rest of the game -and nei­Like the Bulls, though, who a a season-best three-game win­ovation when he walked out of 
throws, giving the Pistons the

ther Jordan nor anyone else on night earlier had their 20-point ning streak, which coincides the tunnel and another when 
ball again with 4.7 seconds to

the Wizards could respond. fourth-quarter lead cut to five, with Toni Kukoc's return from he was introduced. He hugged 
go. Barry inbounded to Chucky

They were outreboundod 29-14 the Knicks' advantage did not a thumb operation that side-Karl on his way to his bench. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds mw;t be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem wirhout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
1989 Toyota Corolla 4DR, 5 Speed 148 K, Runs good, $1,300 Call 277-3189 
PERSONAL 
Corby's is a very important part of life! Too bad work gets in the way sometimes. 
Hey girls-This is it! Last first day ot the semester. I think I feel a party com­ing on•! 
Roomate-Se llama llama says hi! Hi! 
Mer-We're marking the week of Feb. 24. After that, it's nothing but fun (espe­cially in the sun') Forget casting, let's start the cast party now! 
So, about those TPS reports. Did you get that memo? 

If carrots made you drunk, rabbits would be "messed" up! 
The other day I helped a friend of mine stay put. It's a lot easier than helping someone move. 
Yeah Red means where in the heck did you get that banana at? 
Hey, want to touch my book? 
Hey philo girls ­it's just not the same without 20th century. We need to work on that 


Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
...
NCAA WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Vols coach reaches 'Summitt' with win 800 
The Lady Vols slowly built a lead Khara Smith's 18 points and

fu•ociatcd Press and then went on an 18-0 run in Charlene Smith's 14. the first half. DePaul had trouble againstKNOXVILLE, Tenn. Reserve Brittany Jackson Tennessee's much bigger post
Pat Summitt became the first 
started it with two consecutive 3-players and couldn't get anycoach in womens college basket­
pointers. Loree Moore caught a good looks from beyond the arc. 

baII historv to win 800 career pass behind her, dribbled it The Blue Demons, outre­games when No. 5 Tennessee 
around her back and drove to bounded 49-26, played only two beat No. 25 DePaul 76-57 the basket and then Tye'sha players over 6-feet tall while the Tuesday night. Fluker capped the run on a put­Lady Vob had seven. 
Summitt is just the fourth back that gave Tennessee a 36-The Lady Vols increased their mens or womens coach in 
10 lead with 5:19 remaining record over DcPaul to 13-0 and Division I with 800 victories, before halftime. 

snapped the Blue Demon's five­

behind North Carolina's Dean The Lady Vols' lead didn't 
game winning streak. Smith, Kentucky's Adolph Rupp drop below 19 points the rest of Despite the lopsided score, the and Jim Phelan at Mount Saint 
the way. Lady Vols didn't hold back. 

Mary's. 
As the last seconds ticked Summitt continued to substitute Summitt's record stands at away. the fans rose to their feet players and yell out directions 800-161 in 29 seasons with six and chanted, "800, 800, 800!" 
and encouragement from the 

national championships, second When the game ended, bench. only to John Wooden's 10 titles 
Summitt walked over and Summitt was hired as a gradu­

atUCIA 
hugged DePaul coach Doug ate teaching assis tan t and 

Tennessee (12-3) didn't allow 
Bruno then hugged each player women's coach at Tennessee in for much suspense in whether as orange and white confetti 
197 4 at age 22. She earned her Summitt would have to wait for rained on the court. first career victory in the team's the next game to reach the mile­

Ashley Robinson led second game in January 1975. slonc. Tennessee in scoring with 12 It took Summitt nearly four After the Blue Demons (12-4) points while Shyra Ely had 11 years to reach her 100th win on 
tied it at 2 in the opening 
and Gwen Jackson added 10. Jan. 13, 1979, at North Carolina 

minute, it was all Tennessee. The Blue Demons were led by State. 
Tuesdays and Thursdays
Robinson 
3:30pm-5:30pm
Community 
Mondays and Wednesdays
Le:lrning Center 
Are you looking for a place to volun­
teer this semester? Do you want to 
work with kids? Well we have the 
perfect job for you!! The Robinson 
Community Leaming Center offers I­
on-I tutoring opportunities. No prior 
experience necessary. Federal Work 
study positions available! 
At 63 I -8750or vballdan@nd. 
edu Or Vinny at 631-9427 or vcarrasc@nd.edu 
No car? No Problem. We are 


on the ND/SMC shuttle route! 
1( 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY 
LEARNING CENTER 

-
ICON Sports 

Tennessee head coach Pat Summitt earned her 800th career victory when the No. 5 Vols defeated No. 25 DePaul Tuesday night, 76-57. 
~ ~ 
J.8ff 648 4849 
www.ststravel.com 
WINTER & SPRING 
¦REIK 
Pan;:ima City Ceach • S<Juth Padre Island• Vail Ste:,mboat • Daytona Beach• Breckenndge 
-

~ . ACA~ . JAMAICA BAHAMA& . FLOilOA 


OPENING NIGHT BASEBALL DINNER
e 

FEATURING 
~~sp~uL 
c'}['l'Jl§O C'll'BS G1vt j '1'M ']-[x']{'IYRY 
TUESDAY, FEB. 4TH 

-RELIVE THE INCREDIBLE WORLD SERIES RUN DOORS OPEN AT 6:00 PM -OPPORTUNITIES TO WIN BASEBALL MEMORABILIA -2003 IRISH BASEBALL POSTER AND MEDIA GUIDE 
CALL JEFF SCHMAL AT 631-3264 TO REGISTER ADULTS -$25 YOUTH/STUDENT -$15 
-
-page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
NHL 
Maple Leafs extinguish Flames 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

The Toronto Maple Leafs aren't bringing their road trou­bles back home. 
Mats Sundin scored the go­ahead goal with 7:59 left i.n the third period as the Maple Leafs extended their home unbeaten streak to 13 games with a 3-2 victory over the Calgary Flames on Tuesday night. 
The Maple Leafs, who man­aged just one shot in the first period, won despite being out­shot for tho 10th straight game and 13th in 14. Toronto lost its previous two road games -6-2 to Boston on Saturday and 5-1 to the New York Rangers on Monday. 
"It probably wasn't one of our best games, but a lot of times you struggle in the first part of a home game after a road trip," Sundin said. 
Nik Antropov had a goal and an assist for the Maple Leafs, 12-0-1 at home since losing 2-1
-
to Detroit on Nov. 16. "It was a big win because we had lost two in a row on the road," Antropov said. Ed Belfour made 31 saves, including several impressive stops. Belfour robbed Chris Clark of a goal with a pad save in the second and stopped Jarome Iginla on a breakaway late in the third. "Belfour made some huge stops -absolutely huge -and they came back and got the win," Iginla said. Craig Berube and Stephane Yelle scored for the Flames, who lost their fourth straight. Calgary blew a 2-1 third-period lead. 
Senators 7, Lightning 0 
Patrick Lalime made sure that there was nothing hut good news for the Ottawa Senators on Tuesday night. 
Lalime earned his third straight shutout, and Radek Bonk and Martin Havlat each scored twice to lead Ottawa to a victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning. 
A sold out Corel Centre crowd of 18,500 rose to team owner Rod Bryden's challenge to fill the seats and welcome the -financially troubled Senators home from a 3-1-0 road trip. Earlier in the day, Bryden filed an offer -backed by an unidentified New York-based corporation -to buy the bank­rupt hockey team and its arena. "That's great news," Lalime said. "It's nice for the fans to respond the way they did and I'm sure he's going to do all his -
best to keep the team here." Zdeno Chara, Petr Schastlivy and Chris Neil also scored for Ottawa, which moved to the top of the NHL standings with 62 points, one ahead of Dallas. "It's a great day," Neil said. "It's great to see the fan sup­port. It's key that we keep the team in Ottawa. It's a great hockey city and it's good that they came out to support us, and we had a solid effort to show them thanks for their sup­port coming to watch us play." Lalime made 17 saves for his fifth shutout of the season ­the 25th of his career. He extended his shutout streak to a team-record 180 minutes. 
Lalimc, who broke his own record of 149 minutes, 41 sec­onds set last season, had shutouts in Calgary and Edmonton to close out the trip after allowing six goals before being pulled in a 6-3 loss in Vancouver on Jan. 8. 
"It's not just one game that he's been great, he's been pret­ty good all season and I think he could deserve to play in the All­Star game," Havlat said. 
Lalimc stopped Vincent Lecavalier on a breakaway in the first period before making a scns<ottional glove save on a slap shot takenby former teammate Andre Roy 5:58 into the second. 
"I know Andre pretty well and he likes to shoot high, so I just stuck my glove out," Lalime said. 
Tampa Bay is winless in three (0-1-1-1) and has just one win in seven games. 
"I think we're pretty embar­rassed about our performance tonight," Roy said. "We're not going to be in the playoffs if we show up like this night after night." 
Bonk scored his ninth of the season on a power play 3:56 in. Chara made it 2-0 with his fourth at 12:15 of the second, and Schastlivy got his ninth with 13.8 seconds remaining in the period to put the Senators up by three. 
Sabres 1., WIid 0 
Lately, the Buffalo Sabres' only troubles have been on their balance sheets. On the ice, the team looks pretty good. 
Denis Hamel got his first point of the season with a third-peri­od goal and rookie Ryan Miller recorded his first shutout Tuesday night to give the Buffalo Sabres a victory over the Minnesota Wild. 
The Sabres, improving to 5-1 in 2003, have done an admirable job ignoring their organization's financial trou­bles. The franchise, which has been under the league's control since June, filed for bankruptcy Monday. 
"We can't do anything about it," Miller said. 'Tm looking at it as a positive, from the stand­point that there are a lot of financial situations that can be sorted out." 
Hamel, called up from Rochester of the AHL the day after Christmas, has played 12 games this season. He scored with 12:24 left in the game on a pass from the corner from Buffalo's leading scorer Miroslav Satan. 
"First thing for us is to go out and play hockey," Hamel said. 
They're performing well. One of the league's youngest teams, the Sabres outshot the Wild 27­22 and dictated the pace most of the game. 
"We should have six straight," coach Lindy Ruff said. "We've really been playing well." 
The Wild dropped to 1-3 on a six-game homestand, their longest of the season. 
"We needed a goal to get going," Minnesota coach Jacques Lemaire said. "The fans were waiting for that." 
They waited quietly. The clank Hamel's backhanded shot made against the right crossbar before sailing past Roloson into the net was audible high above the arena. 


You Can Have It All! 

Free Checking 




'0a 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

O
THE Wednesday, January 15, 2003 BSERVER North Carolina State 28, Notre Dame 6 
Wolfed dow-n 
North Carolina State's 21-point second quarter too much for Notre Dame to overcome in 28-6 Gator Bowl loss 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Spores Writer 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

A winter break that started 
bad ended even worse for 
Notre Dume with a 28-6 drub­
bing at the hands of North 
Carolina State in the Gator 
Bowl. 
The suspension of starting Lacklcs Brennan Curtin and Jordan Black. the season end­ing injury of starting linebacker Courtney Watson and the Jacksonville arrest of special teams player Chad DeBolt left the Irish with three black eyes and an injured knee before the team even took the field at Jacksonville's Alltel Stadium. 
And then there was the game. 
North Carolina State put up 21 second-quarter points and Wolfpack quarterback Philip Rivers went 23-for-37 for 228 yards and two touchdowns in leading his team to a 28-6 vic­tory over a listless Irish squad. 
"Their whole defense was very talented, and they played very hard," Irish center Jeff Faine said. "To be honest, we just didn't get it done. we kept shooting ourselves in the foot." 
As Faine put it, self-inflicted mistakes held the Irish back all afternoon. Notre Dame commit­ted nine penalties for 90 yards, including four personal fouls, turned the ball over three times and suffered injuries to quar­terback Carlyle Holiday, tight his left side, re-injuring the Notre Dame would have to your finger on. He played like dark shadow on the sour end of end Gary Godsey and line­shoulder he separated earlier settle for a 23-yard Nicholas a veteran." a Notre Dame season that backer Mike Goolsby. in the season against Michigan Setta field goal to end the 12-Irish backup Pat Dillingham began with such promise. After 
"We didn't play our style of State. The hit not only helped play, 52-yard drive. played three quarters plus in starting out 8-0 and climbing football in the first half." AH­lead to the North Carolina State On their next possession, the relief of the injured Holiday. as high as No. 3 in the BCS American corner-goal line Wolfpack drove 96 yards on 12 The sophomore was under fire rankings, the Irish dropped back Shane stand, but plays, capped by a two-yard T. most of the three of their Walton said. "We "Their quarterback it also A. Mclendon touchdown run day from the last live games
"It was still a very good 
lost our cool, and sidelined for the 7-3 North Carolina State Wolfpack pass and needed a
getting knocked out there

it showed. It felt Holiday for lead. rush. but he season. I don't believe last second like we were on at the goal line, there's t h e The Wolfpack would never remained in there are very many victory to our heels a little no question [that's big].,, remainder look back. the game defeat Navy.
ro-win teams in the 
bit in the first of the North Carolina State scored despite Notre Dame half." game, touchdowns on each of its next receiving sev­country." players and Before the Chuck Amato severely two possessions, the first com­eral hard hits coaches say wheels came off Wolfpack coach limiting ing on a 2-yard Mclendon run and a gash on they will not
Tyrone Wllllngham
in a three-touch­the offen-and the second on a 9-yard his chin that let the rough
Irish coach
down second sive game pass from Rivers to receiver required nine ending spoil 
quarter, it was actually the plan of the Irish. Jerricho Cotchery. stitches to an otherwise Irish who struck first in the "Their quarterback getting Rivers, who won MVP honors close up. successful 10­game. After holding North knocked out there at the goal in the game, was 13-for-15 "We just had to go forward." win season, however. Carolina State to three-and-out line, there's no question [that's during the first half, missing Faine said. "We had a quality "It was still a very good sea­on its first possession, the Irish big]," Wolfpack coach Chuck only his first and last passes of backup in Pat Dillingham, and son," Irish coach Tyrone 
moved the ball all the way to Amato said after the game. the period. you have to give credit to Pat, Willingham said. ''I don't the Wolfpack 2-yard line. "That's huge now. They have to "[Rivers] did a good job read­he kept his chin up." believe there are very many 10­
On second-and-goal from the play three quarters of the game ing our defense, making the Dillingham finished the day . win teams in the country at this 1-yard line, Holiday swept and more without their starting high percentage passes over 19-of-37 passing for 166 yards, time." around the right side and was quarterback, who had just the middle," Irish safety but with three costly intercep­hit hard by linebacker Dan improved and gotten better and Gerome Sapp said. "It's just tions. Contact Chris Federico at Burnette. Holiday fell hard on better as the season went on." one of those days you can't put The lop-sided loss casts a cfederic@nd.edu 

player of the game 

play of the game
stat of the game 
quote of the game 

Wolfpack quarterback Phlllp Rivers 
Wolfpack llne backer Dan Bumette's
17 

"We had a bad game today. but I 
hard tackle on Holiday on second and
The junior was 23-Jor-37 with 228 
number ofsnaps taken by Irish 

still think we had a wonderful 
,,

yards passing and two touchdowns 
goal at the 1.-yard line
quarterback Carlyle !loliday 
season. 

to earn Gator Bowl MVP honors. 
The tac/de not only helped stall Notre 
Dame's drive, but knocked Holiday
J.1,,'nen Holiday went down, much of 
Gerome Sapp 
from the ballgame.
the Irish game plan went with him. 
lrtsh safety 
-----_, ---------------­

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
report card 

D 
quarterbacks: After Holiday was injured, the Irish offense was stymied. 
The grit showed by Dillingham to 
remain in the game under heavy fire 
was admirable. 

C-
running backs: The Irish running backs did nothing to distinguish themselves, but that is largely 
because the Irish were playing 
catch-up through most of the game. 

B 
receivers: Battle had another solid day with 10 catches for 84 yards. Six dif­ferent receivers made catches for the 
Irish, as the team threw more passes than it had all year. 

F 
offensive line: A porous offensive line playing without three starters left one Irish quarterback wHh 9 stitches in 
his chin and caused another to be 
knocked out of the game. There was also little space for Irish backs to run. 

C-
defensive line: The Irish contained the Wolfpack running game, but only 
had one sack as Rivers often had 
ample time to deliver his passes. 

C linebackers: Hoyte led the Irish in tackles as Watson's replacement. Goolsby's+ 
injury in the fourth quarter left the 
wounded Irish corps further depleted. 
defensive backs: The Irish secondary had 
its second consecutive weak perfor­
mance as it had trouble adjusting to the Wolfpack scheme in allowing 255 pass­ing yards and two touchdowns. 

D+ 
A-
special teams: Duff almost broke one of his two punt returns for a touchdown. Setta made his two field goals, and 
Hildbold had a record-setting day with his 78th punt of the season. 

F 
coaching: The Irish were unprepared for North Carolina State's offense, as Notre Dame was defeated for the 
second consecutive game by a team to be more enthused and better pre­pared. 

1.52 overall: Notre Dame dropped its sixth straight bowl game. and the Irish looked unim­pressive for their second consecutive game. 
adding up the numbers 

interceptions by Wolfpack safety Rod 
3 

Johnson, three times his career total enter­ing lhe Gator Bowl 
9 quarters since Notre Dame last scored an offensive touchdown 
yards of the first North Carolina State scor­ing drive which spanned 12 plays 
96 

78 
punts Irish kicker Joey Hildbold has made this season, a school record. 
personal fouls assessed to the Irish during the Gator Bowl 
4 

13 
consecutive passes completed by Wolfpack quarterback Philip Rivers in the first half 
number of take kicks by the Irish all sea­
1 

son, the lone attempt coming in lhe fourth quarter against North Carolina State 
Above, Irish players salute the fans in Jacksonville by raising their hel­mets at the end of the game. Most players had to return to the field from the locker room after forgetting the teamfs traditional salute to the student section. At right, Irish receiver Ronnie Rodamer, left, and lf,efensive back Dwight Ellick con­sole each other after the tough loss. 
. 
PHOTOS BY LISA VELTE 

You gotta have heart 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
If Tony Bennett left his heart in San Francisco, the Irish must have forgotten theirs in Los Angeles after their 44-13 loss to USC. 
Not long after 
the soon-to-be Heisman Trophy winner Carson Palmer and the Trojans picked apart a listless Notre Dame defense for a school 

record 425 
Chris Federico
yards passing and 610 yards of total offense, Irish players 
Sports Writer 
began audition­ing for their part as the Tinman in the Wizard of Oz. 
The one-handed defeat relegated the Irish to the Gator Bowl, shat­tering their dreams of finishing their Cinderella sea.son with a BCS bowl berth. 
But after the game. it was obvi­ous the loss had sucked the wind out of the Irish like a solid right to the gut. 
It was obvious in the way the disheartened players sulked out of the Los Angeles Coliseum locker room. 

outhustled and outplayed the Irish in the Wolfpack's 28-6 victory, marking Notre Dame's sixth con­secutive bowl loss. 
It was obvious the Woifpack wanted it more than the lame Irish squad that merely appeared happy to be in Jacksonville for a New Year's holiday. 
It was obvious in the way North Carolina State stormed onto the field just before kickoff. 
It was obvious in the way the Wolfpack played off their N.C. State fans, who filled nearly three­fourths of Alltel Stadium to wit­ness what Wolfpack coach Chuck Amato later described as "one of the biggest victories in North Carolina State history" -no small claim for a coach who beat his for­mer team and national power Florida State just the game before. 
It was obvious in the way the North Carolina State players appeared to be having the time of their lives running Amato's sand­lot offense complete with trick plays and all, while the Irish appeared once again to be going through the motions on offense and laying back, waiting for big plays to happen on defense. 
But mainly, it was obvious in the 21 consecutive points Lhe Wolfpack scored in the second quarter that all but ripped what­the season 8-0, defeated such highly ranked teams as Michigan and Florida State and sparked talks of the program's 12th nation­al championship. 
It was not the same offense that had always managed to find that important score to secure the vic­tory as it so often did in those first eight games. 
It was not the same defense that flew around the field, wreaking havoc, causing turnovers and making big plays when the time was right as it so often did in those first eight games. 
In the post-game press confer­ence, Notre Dame coach Tyrone Willingham tried to pinpoint the cause of his team's tentative play. 
"The most disappointing thing is the loss, but I am mostly con­cerned with the manner in which we played," the first-year Irish coach said after the Gator Bowl. on the one-year anniversary of his hiring. "We didn't start the ball­game as agg· •ssively as I felt like we have tor e. You can't be a great footbaJ, team if you're on your heels, and that's how we started." 
It didn't seem like it was their heels that was the problem. It was the heart. 
37 
It was obvious in their half­ever remained of the hearts from Chris Federico can be reached al passes attempted by backup quarterback hearted post game comments. the Irish chests. 
cfederic@nd.edu. The views of this 
Pat Dillingham, more than any other Irish And. most importantly, it was The Irish team that reported to column are those of the author 
quarterback this season. obvious in the way that an up-and­Jacksonville for the Gator Bowl and are not necessarily those of coming North Carolina State squad was not the same one that started The Observer. 

Wednesday, January 15, 2003 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 


INTERFEST 

HOT INHERE 

lafortune ballroom 9-11 pm 
video~ametoumament
esday 

ice cream sundaes win an x-box and playstation 2 
sday
tafortune ballroom 9-12 cream ofthe crop BES 
ACOUSTICAFE
rise to the top 
3-D MOVIE: CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON 

debartolo 10110 pm $3 
fashionable 3-d glasses be afraid, be very afraid 

ND UNDERGROUND 
lafortune ballroom 8 pm 
first show in new series up and coming music groups tonight featuring millimeters mercury 

debartolo 101 8 &10:30 pm $3 
fashionable 3-d glasses be afraid, be very afraid 

3-D MOVIE: CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON 
' 
I 
.. II 
debartolo 101 8 &10:30 pm $3 
fashionable 3-d glasses be afraid, be very afraid 
3-D MOVIE: CREATUR 
R!~!llcKLAGOON 

CHICAGO HOCKEY TRIP 
bus leaves nd at noon and returns at 1 am 
cheer cheer for old notre dame (hockey that is) 
tickets $10 at lafortune info desk 
spend the day in chicago­

shop, visit museums, and eat to your little heart1s content 
-I I I I I 

I 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
r-

WOMENS SWIMMING 
Irish top Kansas in Acapulco fiesta 
"They are one of Lhe four top

By PAT LEONARD 
teams in our conference." 

Sports Writer 
At Trees Pool, Mcghan Perry­Eaton won both the one-meter 


The Notre Dame womens swimming team capped off a week of training in Acapulco, Mexico with a 129-69 victory over Kansas on Jan. 6. 
Winning eight of 10 events, the team captured its third straight victory in dual meet competition. The Irish overall record increases to 4-1-1. 
Freshman Christel Bouvron, a 2000 Singapore Olympian, con­tinued to impress with victories in the 200 freestyle (2:08.04) and the 100 butterfly (1:03.62). Junior Laurie 
and three-meter diving events with scores of 260.33 and 250.80, respectively. Garcia won the 200 butterfly (2:02.93) and 100 butterfly (55.95). Bouvron took second behind teammates Sarah Alwen and Garcia in the 200 freestyle 
(1:53.91) and 100 butterfly 
(57.72). respectively. The fresh­man would win in the match against Kansas. 
"Some of their kids had been shaved and rested since Thanksgiving to make cuts for 
tho Big

Musgrave won East," said
"This is the time ofyear

the 100 breast­
Wnathers. 

stroke in when kids need to focus a 
"When you

1:14.07. lot on what they are give teams 
The Irish 
rest it usually
doing, take care oflittle

have been gives youreceiving con­things in races." 
problems,tributions from but our girlsthe entire ros­
Balley Weathers did a good 

ter so far this job not let­
coach

season, and it 
continued against Kansas. 
Junior Lisa Garcia, who has been a top performer this sea­son, won the 200 individual medley with a time of 2:22.24. Sophomore Kelly Barton won the 400 freestyle (4:39.12). 
"When you have a deep team, it's easy to sit back and expect someone else will get the job done," said head coach Bailey Weathers. "But one thing that's great about this team is every swimmer wants to be the one to get the job done for us. Laurie and Christel gave two outstanding individual efforts [against Kansas]." 
The win in Acapulco was refreshing for the Irish, who left for winter break on a posi­tive note by defeating Big East opponent Pittsburgh at Trees Pool, 195-105, Dec. 7. 
"We expected Pittsburgh to be tougher," said Weathers. 
ting it bother 
them." 
Against Pittsburgh, the 400 freestyle medley relay team of Sarah Alwen. Danielle Hulick. Katie Eckholt and Heidi Hendrick also took first. In addition, Alwen won the 200 freestyle (1 :53.38), Hulick took the 100 backstroke (57:30), and Hendrick won the 100 freestyle 
(52.22) with Eckholt finishing a close second (52.49). 
With three meets remaining before the Big East champi­onships in Uniondale, N.Y .• coach Weathers said the focus now shifts to a more competi­tive week-to-week schedule. 
"This is the time of year when kids need to focus a lot on what they are doing, take care of lit­tle things in races," said Weathers. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Party-Subs Now!* Call 
mmm-mmmm 

DomerDollars I 
_J 
: ,'' .. ,. . ~. :-" ·. 
.. '\ 
•, 
I . 
" 
. "'. '.: 
'\. 


Wednesday, January 15, 2003 page 23
The Observer . SPORTS 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles looking to sting Hornets once again 
By HFATHER VAN HOEGARDEN and TREY 
WILLIAMS 
Sports Writers 
Kalamazoo will come into Wednesday's game against Saint Mary's looking for revenge against the underdog Belles. 
Kalamazoo was left with a bit­ter taste in its mouth the last time it left South Bend, as they were upset by a fired-up Saint Mary's squad that was honoring its seniors in the regular season 
--.· 
-: 
-
-
-E=.. 
VALUED 
home finale. to Alma. balanced Belles. Saint Mary's is 
"We know that every single Kalamazoo felt the effects of led by senior Shaun Russell (7 conference game is important, gradual.ion, as they lost last points per game in conference but we need to win all our year's MIAA Most Valuable games). and sophomores games at home," Bellina said. Player Niki Grubb. However, Maureen Bush (12 points per "The game against Kalamazoo she remains on the Kalamazoo game), and Katie Boyce (11 is huge because we beat them bench as an assistant coach. points per game). Sophomore last year on our Senior Day, and In her place, Amanda Emily Creachbaum looks to be they will want revenge." Weishuhn has stepped up nice­back to full strength after an ill­
Kalamazoo, usually one of the ly, scoring her 1,000th career ness limited her minutes the perennial conference con­point last week. Also, Lindsay last two games. tenders, is having a down year. Basler has played well, earning "Going on break was good for Despite starting 7-5, the MIAA Player of the Week hon­our team," coach Suzanne Hornets are only 1-1 in the ors earlier this season. Bellina said. "In our tourna­Michigan Intercollegiate However, the Hornets will be ment, we saw some [National Athletic Association after losing in for a battle against the well-Association of Intercollegiate 
Athletics] teams, and they were of higher caliber. Playing against them has helped to pre­pare us for conference play." 
The Belles look to improve upon their 5-8 overall record, and 1-1 record in conference play. They beat Olivet on the road, but lost to Hope at home on Jan. 11. The Belles place special emphasis on today's game, as they know that the Hornets will be hungry for a win. 
In action over the winter break, Saint Mary's had a limit­ed taste of holiday joy, as they struggled through five tough games including a tournament and two conference match ups. 
The Belles started on a posi­tive note at the Saint Xavier Tournament, with a 67-47 win over Calumet College of St. Joseph. They came on strong from the start, leading 36-15 at the end of the first half. 
Part of St. Mary's impressive scoring was the result of contri­bution from all positions. 
"Everybody on the team came ready to play from the start," said freshman guard Bridget Boyce. "Each player helped out in their own way, whether it was scoring, rebounds or 
SPONTANEOUSINNOVATIVEADMIRED 
We invite University of Notre Dame Juniors to a presentation about Summer Internship Opportunities 
Tuesday, January 21, 2003 7:00pm The Notre Dame Room at The Morris Inn 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer 

defense." 
Bridget Boyce was among the contributors, scoring 13 points and gathering four rebounds. Her scoring was second only to Creachbaum's 14 points. Freshman Anne Hogan strengthened the already relent­less Belle game with 12 points and five rebounds. 
Saint Mary's hit a kink in day two of the tournament with a 71-54 loss St. Xavier. The unbeatable scoring from the day before was stopped cold early in the first half, as Creachbaum was taken out of the game after suffering from heat exhaustion. 
Bush filled the gap left by Crcachbaum, putting up a team high 11 points and going 5-for-8 from the line. 
"We played with same intensi­ty," said Boyce "We just came up short." 
A broken Belle team took another defeat to St. Ambrose 66-52 in the final day of the tournament. 
The Belles ended the holidays with a win and a loss in confer­ence play. 
Saint Mary's used their versa­tility on the court to accumulate their signature numbers in a 64-53 win over Olivet College. The Belles then returned home, only to suffer a disheartening 90-73 loss to Hope College. 
The Belles hope to strengthen their weak defense in practice to avoid another situation like that of the Hope College match in which their rebounds were outnumbered 14-47. 
Saint Mary's and Kalamazoo tip off tonight at 7 :30 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden hvanhoeg@nd.edu and Trey Williams at twillia6@nd.edu 
Our advice about your next career move: be bullish 

ml.com/careers ~MerrillLynch 
© 2003 Merrill lynch & Co.• Inc. 
page 24 The Observer . sPORTS Wednesday, January l S, 2003 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Basketball sends Markwood to Maine 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Chris Markwood loved Notre Dame. But he left because he loved basket­ball more. 
Frustrated at his lack of playing time, the backup guard returned to
' . 
his home state to finish his college career. He transferred last month to the University of Maine. 
"He left with no hard feelings," said Torrian Jones, one of Markwood's closest friends on the team. "He made the decision he had to make, and he loves basketball." 
Markwood, who couldn't be reached for comment, had apparently been thinking about the decision to transfer for some time. He first confided in Jones a few weeks before final exams, and then made the decision during finals week. 
The 6-foot-4, 202-pound junior will have to sit out one full year before he can play again. 
Named Mr. Basketball in Maine his senior year of high school, Markwood's career at Notre Dame got off to a rough start. He underwent arthroscopic knee surgery during September of his freshman year and missed the entire season. 
Then, during his sophomore season, Markwood spent most of the season backing up freshman Chris Thomas. He only appeared in 18 games, aver­aging a little over five minutes an appearance, and never scored more than two points in a game. 
Things didn't get any better for Markwood this season. Freshman Chris Quinn saw increased playing time backing up Thomas, meaning Markwood played mostly in mop-up time. He appeared in six games, failed to score and played a total of 10 min­utes. 
"He loves the team, he loves the coach, he loves everybody here," Jones said. "But he loves basketball and he wasn't really happy. Game days were real rough for him, and he's going somewhere where he's more comfortable." 
Markwood is the second Notre Dame player to transfer in coach Mike Brey's three-year tenure. Ivan Kartelo left for Purdue two years ago. His departure leaves the Irish with 10 scholarship players on roster, not counting freshman Omari Peterkin, who is expected to sit out the entire season to preserve a year of eligibility. 
Before Markwood left, the players took their departing teammate for a going away dinner. He still stays in contact with his former teammates, most notably Jones. The two had planned to room together. 
''I've talked to him to see how things are going and to try to keep his spirits up," Jones said. "l still try to talk to him, but I don't want to talk to him too much to make him miss this place." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Basketball 
continued from page 28 
big as six points. 

But when Carroll buried a 3-pointer on a nifty pass from Cornette to break a 4 7 -4 7 tie with 9:36 remaining in the game, the crowd erupted into a deafening roar, and it was all lrish from then on. 
Since a loss tu Pittsburgh 11 days ago, the Irish have had trouble stopping physical Big East opponents from scoring inside. In the first half, Hutgcrs repeatedly dumped the ball inside for relatively easy baskets. 
After a halftime tongue-lashing from Brey, the Irish settled dovm, scoring the first seven points of the half and limiting the Knight's opportunities inside the paint. 
"We got to have a big guy who can guard a big guy one on one," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "Torin [Francis] and Tom [Timmermans] couldn't do that tonight. But we found a guy who could." 
While the lrish may still be searching for a weapon inside, they have already developed a deadly one from the free-thrown night. One of the best free-throw shooting teams in the Big East, the Irish shot 22-for-23 from the line against the Knights. 
"I don't think anybody in the league can dominate this team in this place," Rutgers coach Gary Waters said. "But for 30 or so minutes, everybody in this arena was scared." 
Notre Dame 93, Canisius 75 -Dec. 22 
Playing for the first time in over a week, the Irish showed little rust had accumulated on its high-powered offensive engine. 
All 11 Notre Dame players got into a game where the Irish were never challenged. Carroll paced the Irish with 25 points on 10­of-12 shooting. Close on his heels was Miller and his 23 points. Thomas tallied a double­double by scoring 17 points and recording 13 assists. 
Notre Dame 76, Vanderbilt 63 -Dec. 30 
The signs of an offensive slump started to appear against the Commodores. Although the Irish, for the most part, cruised to victory in their final 2002 game. they shot just 42.4 percent from the field. 
However, five Irish players tallied double­digit point totals. Thomas led the way with 19 points. followed by Carroll with 15, Francis with 11 and Miller with 10. Coming off the bench, Torrian Jones tallied 12 points. 
Notre Dame 55, Valparaiso 53 -Jan. 4 
Appearing in the United Center for the sec­ond time in as many years, the Irish barely escaped with a victory after a 3-point attempt at'the buzzer clanged off the rim. 
In setting a season-low point total, the Irish registered only 19 second-half points and allowed Valparaiso to make what should have been an easy victory into a nail-biter. 
Carroll again led the way for the Irish by scoring 14 points. Both Francis and Miller scored 12 points. 
Pittsburgh 72, Notre Dame 55 -Jan. 6 All season long. the Irish had been the team that buried teams in the second half. 
Against the fifth-ranked Panthers, Notre Dame found out what it was like to get domi­nated late in the game. 
Keyed by a 16-0 second-half run and domi­nating physical play inside, the Panthers turned a narrow Irish lead into a massive embarrassment. In Notre Dame's first Big East game of the year, Carroll's 31 points accounted for over half of the Irish points. 
The loss was Notre Dame's first since November, but couldn't knock the Irish out of· the Top 10. 
Notre Dame 74, Seton Hall 64 -Jan. 12 
With a little under a week to think about the loss to the Panthers, the Irish made sure they wouldn't lose another physical contest to the Pirates. The Irish took advantage of a massive disparity in free throws, shooting 29 shots from the charity stripe to Seton Hall's nine. 
Fresh off one of the worst games of his career, Thomas responded by scoring 22 points against Seton Hall. Carroll chipped in 19 points and Francis scored 10. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
LAST CHANCE TO REGISTER 
GLOBAL BUSINESS ETHICS -LECTURE SERIES 
(BA 311 & MBA 511 ) 

1.5 Credits, Assigned Readings & Discussion -No Exams or Term Paper 
9 Lectures, Mondays 3:00 -4:30 pm, beginning January 20th Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 
Join your friends and classmates for this timely new lecture series, examining important ethical issues in businesses with global operations. 
ENROLLMENT AND COURSE REQl/lREMENTS 

"Global Business Ethics: A Lecture Series," listed as BA-311 and MBA-511, is open to any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's Student via DART. There are no prerequisites to enrollment. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. 
You are expected to attend nine lectures and be prepared to discuss assigned readings. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course with no more than one verified, excused absence to receive a grade of "Satisfactory." There are no examinations and no term paper requirements. 
LECTURE SCHEDULE 
1/20  llltroduction & The Challenge ofGlobalization:  
Ethical Dime11sio11s  
Professors Thomas Klein, Georges Enderle &  
Patrick Murphy, University of Notre Dame  
1/27  Character and CA UX Principles: Huma11 Resource  
Management in an International Context  
T. Dean Maines, University of St. Thomas/  
Cummins Engine Company (ret.)  
2/10  Operating in a Corrupt Political Environment  
Fritz Heimann, Transparency International U.S.A.  
2/24  Human Rights and LDC Operations  
David Lowry, Freeport-McMoRan Mining  
Company  


3/3  Environmental Sustainability  
\Valt Riker & Robert Langert, McDonald's  
Corporation  
3/24  Corporate Excellence in the Post-Enron Era  
Prof. Lynn Sharp Paine, Harvard University  
4/7  Impact of World Religions and Traditional Cultures  
on Busi11ess Ethics  
Prof. Scott Appleby, University of Notre Dame  
4/14  Social Responsibility in a Multinational Corporation  
Klaus Leisinger, Novartis and Prof. Lee Tavis,  
University of Notre Dame  
4/28  Catholic Social Thought and International Business  
Prof. Maura Ryan, University of Notre Dame  

Wednesday, January 15, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish struggle to find rhythm 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Sports Editor 
Christmas break wasn't very merry for the Notre Dame womens basketball team. 
The Irish played stiff com­petition and came out of the break with a 4-3 record that put them at 10-4 overall after a 71-42 blowout win at St. Johns Tuesday night. 
The Irish were led by Jacqueline Batteast's 24 points, 11 rebounds and five assists, while Teresa Borton and Courtney LaVere had 19 points as the Irish outre­bounded the Hed storm 45­29. 
"I thought we did a nice job on the boards," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought we executed our offense pretty well." 
McGraw was also pleased with Notre Dame's free throw shooting. The Irish nailed 19-20 from the line. 
It was a good way for the Irish to shake off a tough break from classes. 
The biggest challenge for Notre Dame came against No. 5 Tennessee on Dec. 28. The Volunteers held the Irish to only 30.6 percent shooting from the floor and pressured Notre Dame's guards all game. The loss made Notre Dame 0-15 all­time against Tennessee with the Volunteers average mar­
gin  of  victory  being  22  
points.  
"Our goal  was  to  come  in  

here and compete," McGraw said. "I thought we did that. We didn't play well, and l think that's a tribute to their defense." 
Volunteer Gwen Jackson led Tennessee with 16 points, while the [rish were paced by freshman LaVere who had 17 points and 11 rebounds. Notre Dame's top two scorers, Batteast (16.1) and Alicia Ratay (13.1) were shut down all game, only scoring two and five points respectively on combined 2­20 shooting. 
Notre Dame was able to bounce back with a 7 5-68 win against Marquette Dec. 31 before facing No. 7 Purdue Jan. 4 on national television. Unfortunately for the Irish, they didn't play to their capabilities in a 71-54 loss at home. 
"We didn't have anyone out there with the exception of Courtney who was saying, 'lley, give me the ball and I can scorn,"' McGraw said. "When you have great lead­ership. you can get by with young talented players. We don't have a great leader and that's what our problem is. Most of this is my fault. I need to do a better job of figuring this whole thing out." 
Purdue used the same for­mula as Tennessee to win ­shut down Batteast and Ratay, and make someone else beat them. It worked again as Batteast scored 14, but only four when the game was within reach, while Ratay was held scoreless. 
Once again Lavere Jed the Irish on offense with 23 points, ten rebounds and three blocks, while La-Tania Severe added 10 points and six assists. 
"We played scared," McGraw said after the game, which marked Notre Dame's first home loss to a non-con­ference opponent since 1996. 
Notre Dame then traveled to face West Virginia and used an outstanding second half to beat the Mountaineers 66-59.The Irish trailed by as many as 14 before using an 18-2 run to get back into the game. Severe came up huge for Notre Dame, scoring 21 points, while Batteast added 12. 
But the Irish couldn't use thefr momentum from the We:,t Virginia when they came back to the Joyce cen­ter to face Miami Jan. 11, 
The Hurricanes' Tamara James scored 27, while teammate Chanivia Broussard added 16 points and eight rebounds in an 80­70 Miami victory. 
Miami won by forcing 29 turnovers and out rebound­ing Notre Dame 47-39. Teresa Borton's 13 points led the Irish, while Batteast added 12 points and 11 rebounds. 
It was the first Notre dame had lost back-to-back home games since the 1994-95 season. 
The Irish will face two more Big East foes in the next week, when they take on Rutgers at home Saturday and no. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 20, 
Both games are at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Faine 
continued from page 28 
led the Irish in minutes played each ofthc past two seasons. 
Faine may be leaving, but two other Irish football players still have a decision to make. 
Notre Dame linebacker and Butkus award finalist Courtney Watson also must decide between the NFL or another year at Notre Dame. 
Watson could not be reached for comment on whether or not he would go pro next season. 
The Sarasota. Florida native led the team in tackles heading into their Bowl game against North Carolina State, but did not play due to injury. Watson had season-high 15 tackles against Michigan State and also inter­cepted four passes for the Irish. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame kick­er Nicholas Setta has yet to decide where he will be playing next season. 
The senior has one year left of eligibility, but could elect to skip that year and declare for the draft. 
Setta. who drilled 14-of-25 
Johnson 
continued from page 28 
son. 

"We've had a lot of experience with having these type of chal­lenges happen to our team," Mainieri said. "So I would hope and really believe our players will respond in the same fashion they've responded every time before ... [I expect] another teammate will step in and take advantage of the opportunity and show what he is capable of doing." 
As a freshman last seasons, Johnson finished the year with field goals this season and was 35-of-54 during his career said it'd be a tough decision to pass over another year at Notre dame. 
'Tm just thinking about what would be best for me," Setta said, '"It'd be hard to pass up a year or school at Notre Dame and that's the basically the thing." 
Setta connected on his career-long 51-yard field goal during a 22-0 Irish over Maryland earlier this season, 
Setta has also made 87 con­secutive extra points, which is the second longest such streak in Notre Dame history. 
One reason why Setta might come back would be that he shouldn't face any career-end­ing injuircs as a kicker next sea­son for Notre Dame. 
"The NFL would hopefully always be there in case of injuries, but I don't really have to worry about that," Setta said. "So it's basically, 'Would you like to play another year of col­lege football?"' 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
9-5 record, a 3.46 ERA and had 86 strikeouts, He also started Notre Dame's opening game against Stanford in the World Series. 
Johnson said he believes the team will respond in a positive manner to his injury. 
"Last year a lot of people got injured and a lot of us were able to step up and play an important role on the team," Johnson said. "People are going to step in my position and we'll be fine like last year and I have no doubt we'll do just as well as we did last year." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Al I ENTION: 1\101 Hi! DAME EMPIOYEES FULL-TIME & PART-TIME Announcing Your Exclusive Employee Purchase Program THE X PLAN Did you know.....As an employee of Notre Dame, you are · automatically eligible for special pre-determined pricing from Ford Motor Company and its brands. This plan is called "X Plan". Ask for it when you buy or lease your next new Ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Volvo, Land Rover, Jaguar, or Mazda and receive manufacturer pricing below dealer invoice. Just bring in to the dealership proof of employment (paycheck stub or ID card) and announce you are an "X Plan" recipient. -•Only offered to Ford Motor Company suppliers and select partners •Special vehicle pricing is pre-determined by Ford Motor Company •X Plan visible on factory invoice-ask to see it •Jordan is a volume dealership-More $for your trade-in •Additional rebates available •Hassle-free -No negotiation necessary VOLVO Drive Safely THE JORDAN AUIOMOl1VE GROUP 1-SOG-837-1981  

FITNESS 
SPRING 
SCHEDULE 2003 SRC ACTIVITY ROOM 1 
4:15-5:15 Step II M/W/F $38 5:30-6:30 Pwr Step/Pump M/W/F $38 4:15-5:15 Cardio Box T/rh $27 5:30-6:30 Cardio Sculpt T/rh $27 
10:15-11 :00am Step II (ends 3/1} Sa $7 
11 :10-11 :40am Armsn'Abs (ends 3/1) Sa $5 4:15-5:30 Cardio Sculpt Su $14 5:40-6:00 All Abs Su $10 
SRC ACTIVITY ROOM 2 
12:15-12:45 Cardio Sculpt (ends 5/16)M/W/F $38 12:15-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 5/15) T/rh $26 4:05-5:05 Cardio Box M/W $27 7:15-8:30am Cardio Sculpt T/rh $34 4:15-5:15 Cardio Sculpt T/rh/Su $38 5:25-6:10 Flex n'Tone T/rh $27 
Lo Impact M/W $27 :30 Step I T/Th $27 
ATIC CENTER 
17 7:00-7:45pm Aquacise M/W $27 
REGISTRATION WHEN: Thursday, January 16, 7:30am WHERE: Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Classes are open to all ND students, staff, faculty, retirees and their spouses. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 14 class registrants. Classes begin the week of January 20 and unless noted, end the week of April 28. Please call 1-6100 with questions. 
Recycle The Observer 
page 26 Wednesday, January 15, 2003 
The Observer . SPORTS 

HOCKEY 
Lalonde trades shamrocks for maple leaves 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame forward Alex Lalonde left the team Dec. 20 to play major junior hockey in Canada. 
"We wish Alex all the best and we support him in his decision. I know it was a diffi­cult choice for him to make," head coach Dave Poulin said. "In speaking with his family and Alex at length, this was the choice that they made. I appreciate the effort he has given to the program the last year and a half." 
The Irish participated in a total of seven contests over the winter break, collecting a 2-3-2 record in those games. 
Notre Dame traveled to Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, home of the Stanley Cup champion Red Wings, to take on Wayne State in a match on Dec: 14. 
Behind two goals by sopho­more forward Yan Stastny and the game-winning goal by senior forward Connor Dunlop, the Irish were able to defeat non-conference foe Wayne State by a final score of 3-2. 
After losing Lalonde, the Irish traveled to Hanover, 
N.H. to take part in the Ledyard National Bank Tournament. On Dec. 28, the Irish took on host Dartmouth in a first-round matchup. 
Despite outshooting the Big Green 42-39 and not allowing a power play goal on three chances, the Irish fell to the home team by a score of 6-4. 
Dartmouth took a com­manding 4-0 lead in less than 2 5 minutes, but the Irish bat­tled back to make the score a respectable 5-4 before the Big Green sealed the game with an empty net goal. 
Senior forward John Wiegand scored two goals in the game, and junior defense­man Brett Lebda and junior forward Rob Globke each scored a goal in the losing effort. 
The following day, the Irish tied Vermont 3-3 in the tour­nament's consolation game. Sophomore forward Cory McLean, freshman forward Matt Amado and junior defenseman Tom Galvin each scored in the contest. 
Following the three holiday non-conference games, the Irish returned to CCHA play in impressive form, defeating the University of Nebraska­Omaha 5-3 in Omaha on Friday, Jan. 3. 
The Irish leapt ahead to a 3­0 lead on a goal by Stastny and two goals by CCHA-lead­ing goal scorer Globke. Two goals by UNO in the second period and a goal by Irish defenseman Galvin made the lead 4-2 heading into the third period. 
Sophomore Irish goaltender Morgan Cey came up large in the third period, as the Mavericks 17-3, only giving up one goal in that flurry, outshot Notre Dame. Senior forward John Wroblewski put the game away with a late empty net goal. 
The Mavericks were able to exact revenge on the Irish the following day, as Notre Dame lost by a count of 5-3. The Irish got on the scoreboard with two goals by Stastny and one by Wiegand. 
The Irish continued its long road trip, traveling to Big Rapids, Mich. to take on CCHA leader Ferris State. The 15th-ranked Bulldogs man­handled the Irish 6-3 on Jan. 10. 
Wroblewski scored two goals in the loss, and junior forward Aaron Gill added a tally for the Irish. 
Notre Dame was able to exact some revenge the fol­lowing day, achieving a 4-4 tie against Ferris State. 
Stastny, Dunlop, Wroblewski and McLean all scored for the visiting Irish, and goaltender Cey made 34 saves as Notre Dame was out­shot 38-28. 
Notre Dame returns to action Friday at home against Yale, before traveling to Chicago to face the Bulldogs again Saturday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuve@nd.edu 


2003-2004 

Resident Assistant Applications 
Available in the Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building through Friday, January 17, 2003 
Applications are also available for downloading and printing at 
http://www.nd.edu/~stdntaff/RAinfo.html 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
JJ~mIR 

Yesterday's j Jumbles: FRUIT HAVOC LEAVEN HOURLY Answer: Where the beekeeper found himself when his honey sales tripled -IN THE "CLOVER" 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD W{LLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 31 •Heroic 64 Arm bone 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Chad Lowe, Charo, Lloyd Bridges. Stanzas,· for 65 Mr. of 19th• 
Martin Luther King Jr.
1 Out of business 
one century fiction s Like lions 37 Rainbow: Prefix 66 Hanker (for) Happy Birthday: Clear up whatever matters are holding you back this year and prepare to start anew. You will be more open to socializing, csp..::cially if it will
10 Eyes 39 "Exodus· hero 67 Where the 
help you get ahead in your chosen field. This is the year to mix business with
_Ben Canaan

14 Singer Amos Rhone and the pleasure. Your numbers are 4, 23, 27, 35, 41, 46 40 TV's_ Gillis Sacme meet
15 Celebrity's 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Choose your friends wisely today. Don't wondc1
concern 41 Putting the 
about things •· be blunt and ask questions. Someone you respect will have 
squeeze on DOWN

16 Tide variety good solutions to any romantic troubles you have. **** 44 Nick at_ 1 Put aboard TAURUS (April 20-May 20): To make a financial decision based on your
17 Pg. in a ,.
45 Realm 2 Round dance emotional state will only lead to regrets. You will have what it takes tc
photocopier 
complete what you start, so focus on your work *** 
46 Trying 3 "Exodus" author

18 Kind of chart GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Talk is cheap, but if you say the wrong things.experience 4 Penny pinchers you may find yourself in trouble with someone you care about. It's probably
19 Paul feminizer 
48 Quit 5 Was sociable at best to bide your time, say little and only observe. ** 20 Thought a party CANCER (June 21-July 22): Check out some different lifestyles today. You
52 Siouan people 

may discover that you are ready for a change. Moving in a new direction will
favorably of 
6 • and the

53Con_ lift your spirits and give you added enthusiasm. *** 
22 Magnate Night Visitors" 
(lovingly) LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have 10 initiate change if you really wanl 7 Growing alliance something to happen. Renovation, redecorating or major moves are in order.
23 Like most 54 Gimcracks 
Opportunities to make a professional shift are present. **** 
N.B.A. stars aNew York
59 Kudrow of VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): It won't be smooth sailing today. You can expect
archbishop

24 Marzipan "Friends" to face some opposition. Have your game plan ready and don't get involved in
Edward

ingredient 60 Fictional other people's affairs. ** 
9 Vina_Mar 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Get involved in debate and competition today. You
25 "Prove it!" ringbearer 
10 Late bedtime are beginning to change your image in the eyes of others and your confidence 28 Learned one 61 Ridge on a 
is growing. *****
11 Like bell·
guitar neck 

Puule by Alan Arbesfald SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Social activities will lead to meeting someone
30 Leonardo da bottoms 
62 Map special. Your intellectual approach to life will fascinate those you encounter
Vinci's" and 35 Meter maid of 47 Caviar 54 Lacking plans
12 Conductor's 

Making a decision will give you a better emotional outlook. *** 
the Swan" 63 Extend song
wand 48 Designer 55 Mrs. Chaplin SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't lose sight of what it is you are 13 Be the opposite 36 It goes trom Lauren trying to do. Hold on to your money. Take your time when making decisions 
56 Paris taxi 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE of 4-Down stem to stern 49 Watson of that will lead to a commitment. ** ,.._
destination, 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on your priorities. Don't hesitate tc
"Gosford Park"

FOAMS C E S 21 " a Rock" 38 River that feeds maybe 
back away from a deal that appears to be faully. An opportunity to find oul I N L E T 0 G 0 (1966 hit) the Missouri 50 1960 Everly valuable information is forthcoming. *** 
57 He's seen late

Brothers hit AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. I8): Look for ways to make yourself the hest you
-=-t~.-:+Tt--:-1":r.t-:::1 22 Amalgam 42 Samovar 

51 Angry 58 Hockey great can he both physically and mentally. You will raise your popularity if you
24 lime in history 43 Was natural and 

Mikita speak up. Your ideas are much better than you give yourself credit for. 
25 Boo-boo unrestrained, 52 Closer to slangily retirement 60 Swelter 

*****
B 26 German "Mr." PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a closer look at who you are and what you 
0 y 27 Cartoon dog are doing. Stick to your own business today. ** For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a
...+.,.+-,+,K......,S.-t 28 Mideast land 

Birthday Baby: You will intrigue others with your cKpansivc views and you,
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

M A s 29 Situation ability to take a concept and blow it up into something worthwhile. You will
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday

favoring the set the pace and others will follow your lead.
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
0 G E T server 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Check oul Eugenia's Web Siles al aslroadvice.com, eugenialast.com.B A L ~::,+-,~ O R C H 32 Hard to find past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). wnet work.com. B R A -,,,+.,,+,,.+-.,-H O O H A 33 Awe-inspiring Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, e D G N D s E R G O T 34 Theater award nyt1mes.com/leaming/xwords. COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
---------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year ..D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 



PORTS 
Wednesday, January 15, 2003 

MENS BASKETBALL 
Irish win 12th straight at home 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Wrirer 
The last time Notre Oame lost a basketball game, they reeled off eight straight wins. 
The way they've played since a loss to Pittsburgh, they appear on pace to win another eight. 
Pla}ing in front of the student section for the first time since semester See Also break, the 
"Basketball Irish pulled sends Markwood 
away from Rutgers in the to Maine" final 10 min­
page24

utes to win their second straight game, 68-57. 
Jordan Cornette provided the defensive spark that galvanized the Irish late in the second half. Starting his second consecutive game, Cornette tallied eight points, seven rebounds and eight blocks in 33 minutes. 
'Tm speechless," said Matt Carroll, who finished with a game-high 25 points. "He was unbelievable. He would come in and steal the ball. block the shots, take the charge -he was the big difference in this game." 
Rutgers (8-6 overall, 0-2 Big East) hung close to Notre Dame (14-2 overall, 2-1 Big East) for most of the game. 
rallied to take a lead that got as 
Torrlan Jones dunks the ball during Notre Dame's 68-57 victory against Rutgers on Tuesday night. The was Notre Dame's 12th straight at home.
see BASKETBALL/page 24 


FOOTBALL 
Irish center chooses NFL draft 
was just too much higher than
. Setta, Watson 

the reward."still undecided on Faine sent a letier to the NFL futures asking where he would be pro­
jected to go in the April draft. After receiving the letter back,
By JOE HETTLER 

which told him he could be a Sports Editor 
second-round pick, Faine made his final decision. Had the let­
Jeff Faine could. have ter told him he would be a returned for a fifth year at third-round pick or lower, Notre Dame, but after weigh­Faine said he would have ing his options. the Irish center stayed at Notre Dame. just couldn't risk returning for The Sanford, Fla. native another year. received several accolades 
"It was a tough decision to before and after the 2002 sea­make," Faine said. "It was son. He was a preseason sec­tough to leave my teammates, ond-team All-American and it was tough to leave this pro­was a semifinalist for the gram, especially the way it's Lombardi Award and a finalist moving now and it's tough to for the Rimington Award. He leave the coaches. But I think started his last 34 games and all things weighing, the risk 
see FAINE/page 24 

BASEBALL 
Johnson out for season 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sporrs Editor 
Pitcher Grant Johnson was one of the biggest reasons why Notre Dame's baseball team reached the College World Series last season. But 
this season, the Irish will need some­one else to help lead them back to Omaha. 
Johnson underwent 

s h o u I d e r Johnson surgery Dec. 30 and will not pitch for Notre Dame during the upcoming sea­son. He will be in a sling for four more weeks before starting to throw lightly for the rest of the 
season. 
Doctors did say the sophomore should make a full recovery from the setback. 
"My first and foremost feelings are for Grant. My heart is bro­ken for the kid," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "Talking to our medical people, I am absolutely so confident that he'll be able to make a full recovery and not only a full recovery but return to pitching at the level that he's use to, if not better." 
Johnson said he is looking at his situation as something that can be overcome. 
"You just have to look at it as one of those things that's just a setback," Johnson said. "It's not one of those things that's going to be a career-ending thing." 
Johnson was named a Preseason All-American and Preseason Big East Conference pitcher of the year by College Baseball magazine. He was sup­posed to anchor an Irish pitching staff that returned almost every­one from last year. 
"[Last season] he was one of the top pitchers in the entire country," Mainieri said. "What he did last year for us was noth­ing short of remarkable. So it's a big blow to us, but it's not a dev­astating blow." 
Mainieri knows that his team has faced injuries in the past. particularly last season when the Irish lost several key players. That experience with adversity should help Notre Dame main­tain its excellence again this sea-
see JOHNSON/page 25 

.. 

HOCKEY 
Forward leaves for Canada 
Notre Dame finished break with a 2-3-2 record, but for­ward Alex Lalonde left the team. 
page 26 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame 71 St. John's 42 
The Irish finished up a dif­ficult stretch with a win against St. John's, leaving them with a 4-3 record over break. 
page 25 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Markwood heads to Maine 
Irish backup guard Chris Markwood has chosen love of basketball over love of the Irish. 
page 24 

SMC SWIMMING 
Kalamazoo at Saint Mary's 
Tonight, 7:30 p.m. 
The Belles are looking to upset the conference rival Hornets at home. 
page 23 
WOMENS SWIMMING 
Notre Dame 129 Kansas 69 
The Irish won eight of ten events on their way to victo­ry. 
page 22 










