
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Exec Cab, Senators make progress on resolution 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
Members of the Executive Cabinet and Student Senate made progress toward reach­ing a compromise regarding a proposal to create a collabo­rative body composed of all seven branches of student government that would con­solidate and redirect power within the student govern­
ment infrastructure. 
Sunday, the Student Senate voted 14-9 in favor of the res­olution, introduced by Student body president Pat Hallahan, but the resolution failed because two-thirds were needed for passage. Hallahan invited senators to Monday's Executive Cabinet meeting with the hope that Executive Cabinet could explain its desire to create this body and address Senate concerns. 
The original proposal called for a Council of Representatives to be empow­ered with deliberating issues related to the Collaboration Fund and Constitution of the Student Union -powers cur­rently held by the Student Senate. The Council. which intends to be an expanded form of the current Executive Cabinet. would consist" of the vice president, four class presidents, four senators, the Hall President's Council chair, the Student Union Board manager, the Club Coordination Council presi­dent, the Student Union Treasurer, the Judicial Council President, the off­campus president and the chief of staff for the Office of the Student Body Presj.dent. 
Hallahan will present a report to the University's Board of Trustees Thursday 


Spade show cost about $tOOK 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
Future programming for Student Union Board events will not significantly be affected by low turnout at the Oct. 4 David Spade event, said Cha~lie Ebersol Student Union Board president. 
Ebersol said the budget for the performance allowed a cushion for overall loss, and that the final cost was within the range speci­fied in SUB's yearly budget ­even though the final budget for 
the  Spade  show  was  not  
approved  by  the  Financial  
Management Board.  

The total cost for the event was approximately $100,000, Ebersol said. That figure accounted for a variety of fees, including the rental cost for the Joyce Center, which totaled about $15-20,000. The remaining expenditures included the speaker's fee for Spade, production costs, techni­cal rider and miscellaneous costs. 
Ebersol said SUB spent rough­ly $15,000 to $20,000 of its $234,000 annual budget to cover the money lost by the concert. SUB intended for the Spade con­cert to be one of the more costly events for the year and budgeted appropriately. 
"We knew the event would be expensive. This only affects one section [of SUB's budget]," Ebersol said. 
Total ticket sales for the Spade show were no more than 1.400, a figure well below what SUB had planned for, Ebersol said. And some people who bought tickets didn't even attend the show, he added. 
Ebersol said couldn't say for sure where the rest of the money to pay for the Spade show, which could be as much as $50,000, would come from because of the uncertainty regarding SUB's final budget for the year. What department that money will be drawn from won't be clear until the fiscal year ends in June, he added. However, the money SUB spent to cover the cost of the event came from a fund the organization uses to defray pro­gramming costs. 
"They will just have to always 
see SPADE/page 4 

that addresses multiple issues that student government is facing and the outcome of Sunday's meeting did not affect his overall report. 
Sarah J(eefer, Hall President's Council Chair and Executive Cabinet member, said there was a need to have a body that represents every branch of' student government in order to discuss and 
see CABINET/page 4 

Cheney's visit was a success 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
In his fundraising appearance 
at the Joyce Center last ·Thursday, Vice President Dick Cheney raised more than $200,000 for Congressman Chris Chocola's 2004 re-election cam­
paign. 
The success of Cheney's recent 
visit increased Chocola's cam­
paign fund substantially, advanc­
ing his total past the $500,000 
mark. 
More than a year before the 
election, Cheney's assistance has 
armed freshman Chocola to 
defend his highly contested seat 
and the Republican majority in 
Congress. 
The event was surprisingly 
lucrative for a fundraiser held 
during a non-election year. A 
non-election year appearance 
see CHENEY/page 4 

Vatican may prohibit female altar service 

By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Only nine years after the Vatican gave women permission to serve beside their male coun­terparts at the altar, a new pro­posal threatens to force them back into the crowd. 
.On Sept. 23, the Italian Catholic monthly, "Jesus," released advanced text of an article featur­ing excerpts from a draft docu­ment, or directive, written by the Vatican congregations for Divine Worship and the Sacraments and for the Doctrine of the Faith. Distributed on June 5, the docu­ment was an expansion on the papal encyclical published in April that cut down on abuses during Mass, specifically during Communion. 
According to reports, in addition to banning applause and dancing at Mass -both of which often occur at papal services -the doc­ument specified that the use of female altar servers should be avoided "unless there is a just pastoral cause," and that" "priests should never feel obliged to seek girls for this function." 
However, both the Catholic News Service, the media exten­sion of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB), and the National Catholic Reporter (NCR) stated that the directive was almost immediately sent back for revi­sions. 
"On June 29, the cardinals in charge of the two offices working on the document had a ·meeting and rejected it," said John Allen, Rome correspondent for the NCR. 
"The final version is expected by Christmas, and at least for now it says nothing on altar girls." 
Though the news of the propos­al's rejection is cause for much relief among female acolytes, the mere suggestion of restricting their use has stirred up controver­sy all over the United States and Western Europe, where the prac­tice has become commonplace. 
Since 1994, the USCCB has held that each individual bishop has the power to decide whether or not females within their diocese should be altar servers -a ver­dict based on the interpretation of 1983 Canon Law 230.2, said Sheila Garcia, USCCB Secretariat for Family, Laity, Women and Youth. To this date, very few dio­ceses across the country have pre­
see ALTAR/page 4 
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Confession 

I'm about to make a confession that could be considered scandalous, shock­ing or even blasphemous -at least on this campus. It's not something I've told many people, though that is obviously 
about t~ change, Amanda Michaels and believe me, my views have changed since Production then. With that Editor said, here it goes. I wasn't thrilled to be coming to Notre Dame. That's right. I got my letter on the day my family went out to get our Christmas tree last year, and in a moment that was made even more anti-climactic by the visible 'congratu­lations!' in the address window, I was accepted. I smiled, my mom cried, we bought a tree. I fulfilled the expecta­tions set for me by my friends, family and teachers, and was off to one of the fmest academic institutions in the country. I gave wary smiles to Notre Dame fanatics and half-heartedly afftrmed how excited I was, and how much I loved it. About 9,000 seniors across the country would kill to be in my position as a future Domer, but that didn't seem to matter. I still wasn't ecstatic. For a while, I blamed it on the fact that Notre Dame had never been my ultimate college goal. I was no legacy. I never wore a Notre Dame cheer leading outfit as a toddler and didn't write essays in elementary school about why Rudy wa.S my hero. I worked and stud­ied and joined every activity under the sun in high school because I was obses­sive and wanted to be the best, not because I thought they would improve my chances of getting in here. It's not until now, after two months at the most perfect university I could have chosen for myself. that I realize that it was that unfocused, break-neck pace that was the problem. In high school, my goals had been so far up in the heights of Olympus that I never saw them. On the 7:30a.m. to 9 
p.m. days I spent running from school to the newspaper to the theatre to the marching band, I was like a mouse in a maze, frantically trying to get to my reward but always seeming to turn the wrong way. 
So when graduation rolled by, after the glow from my five minutes of fame faded, I was left with nothing but a piece of pape·r and three months to think about what it meant. Was this really the fruit of my labor? A universi­ty shrouded in tradition, but still more tangible than any of my previous dreams had been -was it right for me? Was I reaching down? Reaching up? 
Was it all worth it? 

I see now that it was. I'm no big believer in destiny or kismet or Fate or what have you, but I can safely say that every hour spent suffering through Chemical Biology or sleeping on a cramped bus after a band competition helped bring me here today. I am so content and happy here, in part because I have chosen a different approach to college than I did to high school, but also because I know that I belong here, no matter what my doubts once were. 
So now, with clear conscience, I can go back home for fall break and reply honestly to anyone who asks, "Yes, I love it at Notre Dame, and no, I would­n't change my decision for anything." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd. edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessari­ly those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correc£ our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU USE FINDIT? 




IN BRIEF 
U.S. Court of Appeals Judge John Noonan Jr. will give the Erasmus lecture entitled :·out of Difficulties Comes Development" today from 5 to 7 
p.m. in the Court Room of the Law School. The lecture is spon­sored by the Erasmus Institute. 
Robert Frederick, manager of corporate responsibility at Ford Motor Company, will give a lec­ture on "Corporate Responsibility at Ford" as part of the Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series in Business Ethics. The lecture will take place tonight from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
The Student Union Board is presenting "Step Afrika! USA," a U.S. based percussive dance ensemble based in Washington, 
D.C. The company highlights the African-American fraternity and sorority art form of stepping and its links to dance traditions around the world. This group performs tonight from 8 to 10 
p.m. 
in Washington Hall. There is no admission charge. 

The campus' best comedians come together in the Campus Comedy Contest for a night of laughter to compete for the championship of campus come­dy. The competition will be held tomorrow night from 7 to 9 

p.m. 
in the LaFortune Ballroom. 


Come to Alumni to hear a faith-filled speech followed by mass in the chapel at the Alumni Hall Night of Faith from 9 to 11 p.m. Wednesday in the Alumni Hall Chapel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Cristina Fuji Senior Off-campus  Hope Feher Junior Lewis  Matt Searle Junior Off-campus  Paul McDonald Senior Off-campus  Sarah Lathroe Senior Off-campus  Paul Critser Junior Off~ campus  
"Not really, I have a Mac."  "No, I use Loseit."  "My brain doesn't work right now."  "I thought it didn't work anymore.  "Why isn't it working anymore.  ''I'll exercise my sth amendment right."  


CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer A Notre Dame student shows off his skateboarding skills Monday afternoon In front of O'Shaughnessy Hall. Students on both campuses took advantage of the unusual­ly warm fall weather to jog, bike and skateboard. 
OFFBEAT 
Agency Is selling land on 
the moon 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Now here's a gift that's really out of this world. A new real estate agency, Lunar Realty, based in the southern Australian city of Melbourne, opens its doors Tuesday selling one-acre blocks on the moon for 59 Australian dollars (US $40) and 10-acre "lifestyle" blocks for A$298 (US $202). 
Businessman Paul Jackson, 33, announced ·Monday he had bought the Australian rights to sell the land from Nevada-based entrepreneur Dennis Hope. 
Hope has been cashing in since 1980 on what he said was an apparent loophole in the 1967 United Nations Outer Space Treaty that barred nations from laying claim to the moon but said nothing about individuals. 
Hope registered a claim for the moon and planets with the United States, the Soviet government and the United Nations and, oper­ating as Lunar Embassy, has been selling plots of extraterrestrial real estate ever since. 
Court dismisses claim by barefoot man CINCINNATI -A federal 
appeals court has dis­missed a lawsuit by a man who sued the Columbus Metropolitan Library after he was asked to leave because he was barefoot. 

Robert Neinast said he­regularly goes barefoot, and his constitutional right to get information had been infringed by the poli­cy that he could not use the library without wear­ing shoes. 
The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals dis­agreed, reaffirming a lower court ruling. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 0: 
LLI ::1: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..I
c:c 
(.) 0 

..... HIGH 57 HIGH 45 HIGH 60 HIGH 59 HIGH 57 HIGH 
60 

LOW 40 LOW 36 LOW 36 LOW 36 LOW 40 LOW 
45 

Atlanta 77 I 53 Boston 65/ 53 Chicago 57 /38 Denver 65/ 38 Houston 83/ 55 Los Angeles 79 1 61 Minneapolis 58/ 38 New York 71 I 56 Philadelphia 71 I 53 Phoenix 96 I 72 Seattle 58 I 43 St. Louis 65 I 43 Tampa 89 171 Washington 71 154 
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Officers update list serve policy 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
Officers approved an updated version of the Student Government Association's offi­cial policy on mass emailing at Monday's Board of Governance meeting. The amendments carne amid widespread abuse of campus list serves at Saint Mary's. 
The revised edition restricts the use of class and residence hall list serves to the five main student boards at the College. Individual students are instead encouraged to utilize alternative sources of campus-wide com­munication. 
BOG had received several complaints from students about mass emailing. Individuals had reportedly been using the two main list serves on campus for personal reasons such as travel arrangements over f!lll break. The Student Handbook, explained Student Body President Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl. does not include any guidelines for mass emailing. It was necessary, therefore, for BOG to reinforce its stance on the issue. 
"We need a policy that we can stand behind," Jablonski-Diehl said. "At least for the time being, we arc responsible for enforcing the policy." 
One such alternative outlet for communication to which stu-

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

dents are directed by the policy is the Saint Mary's Virtual Village. Virtual Village can be accessed from any computer on campus. It provides a forum in which the student body can do everything from exchange foot­ball tickets to sell textbooks. Students can also hang hard copies of notices and requests at designated locations on campus. 
In one of the most significant changes to the existing policy, Board members voted to add a disclaimer to its reference to Virtual Village and bulletin boards. It states that, while the College provides sites for com­munication between students, the students themselves are responsible for all postings and subsequent transactions. SGA cannot insure any exchange between individuals. 
While board members easily approved the revision of the policy, debate ensued on the proper way to distribute and implement it. Several board members favored giving stu­dents a grace period in which to learn about the rules. 
"We need some sort of infor­mal warning," said Elections Commissioner Nicole Haeberle. "We are dealing largely with first year students who simply don't know." 
Others argued that the reper­cussions for violating the policy, which will include an incident report drafted by the judiciary board. should be implemented immediately. 
After a lengthy discussion, officers decided to provide a hard copy of the updated policy to each student, as well as con­tacted violators by email through the conclusion of this week. Following fall break, vio­lators will be cited and referred to the judiciary board. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
BOG voted unanimously to recognize Flipside as a Saint Mary's club. Flipside had previ­ously retained the status of an official club, but was placed on probation and then disbanded last year after failing to follow proper SGA procedure. As a Saint Mary's club, Flipside will receive an annual allowance under the BOG budget. 

+ 
Disney's summer hit "The Pirates of the Caribbean" will be shown tomorrow evening at 7 


p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. The movie is being sponsored by Student Activities Board as a midterm study break. Admission is free. 
+ Saint Mary's is celebrating Breast Cancer Awareness Week. RHA is sponsoring several events. Students are encour­aged to check their emails for dates and times and to wear their pink cancer awareness ribbons through Friday. · 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Leaves of absence for study abroad limited 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
Students dissatisfied with Notre Dame's study abroad offerings who are pursuing alternatives may find them­selves campus-bound if they are not careful. 
In a decision passed down by the Office of the Provost, the number of leaves of absence that the College of Arts and Letters grants to those going outside the University to study abroad has been reduced from 40 to 16. 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean for undergraduate studies in the College of Arts and Letters, cited budgetary concerns as a cause for the reduction. 
"A student who applies for one of these alternative pro­grams does not pay Notre Dame tuition," Preacher said. "So we'd like to have fewer students going abroad through other schools, unless they have an overriding academic need to do so. The University has always had the ability to say that a study abroad program was not more appropriate than its own." 
Those traveling to countries in Africa or East Asia, where Notre Dame's International Studies programs fall short, will be given priority for leave grants. Preacher also added that, in the past, all 40 leaves of absence were not used, so their further limitation was practical. 
Though the decision is said to affect each college, Douglass Hemphill, assistant professional specialist in the Office of the Dean of the Mendoza College of Business, said he was not aware of any such reduction. 
"To the best of my knowledge, we have not been given any kind of quota or limit or num­ber," said Hemphill. "The focus is on filling Notre Dame's [study abroad] programs." 
Sister Kathleen Cannon, asso­ciate dean of the College of Science, said that their limit is seven leaves of absence and has been so for years. 
"With our programs, we know what the numbers [of partici­pants] are and can plan accord­ingly. If we had no way of limit­ing those going outside of Notre Dame for study abroad, we would have no handle on what was [happening] on campus," said Cannon. 
Because of the rarity of alter­native study abroad partici­pants within the School of Architecture and the College of Engineering, the limit for each school has not been tested. 
For those who are affected by the cutbacks, Preacher suggest­ed investigating summer cours­es or some of the undersub­scribed programs within Notre Dame. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Sites Seeking Volunteers 
A companion and helper is needed for a woman who is physically and slightly men­tally handicapped. Contact Rose Anne at 287~3891 or 277-4341. 
The Dujarie House, located on Holy Cross College's campus, is looking for a volunteer to assist a retired religious member 1 or 2 hours a week. Contact Steve Kastner (skastner@hcc-nd.edu) at 287-1838. 

Roundtable Discussion with Fr. Chacour on Oct. 31 
Father Elias Chacour was born to Palestinian Christian parents in Upper Galilee in 1939 and has been working for peace in the Holy Land all his life. 
He founded the Mar Elias Educational Institutions {in lblilin, Galilee, Israel) as a means offostering dialogue, education, and reconciliation. He has written two books on the subject, "Blood Brothers" (1984) and "We Belong to the Land" (1990). He has been nominated three times for the Nobel Peace Prize (1986, 1989, 1994), and was honored with the World Methodist Peace Award and the Niwano Peace Prize. 
When: Friday, October, 31, 4-5 pm. 
Location: To Be Determined. 
To learn more , got to: www. twelvedaystojerusalem. orgl chacourlchacour. html 

Tutors, Mentors Needed for Children 
Monroe Primary Center is looking for tutors for grades 1-4 on Mondays-Thursdays from 2:30-3:45pm. Contact Mark T ulchinsky at 231­5831. 
Marquette Primary Cen­ter is looking for tutors for their LEAP and LEAP PLUS programs that run Monday­Thursday from 2:30-3:30pm. Contact Iris Thomas at 283­8395. 
Washington High School needs tutors for a new tutor­ing program for at risk stu­dents. Time slots are available throughout the day, Mon­day-Friday and after school from 3-5pm. Contact Linda Hopkins at 289-2532 or Rick Tomaszewski at 280-4033. 
A 16-year-old boy needs a male mentor to hang out with 1 or 2 times a month. Contact Diana Cotton at 234-5914. 
Individual Tutoring 
A 14-year-old boy with cerebral palsy needs a mentor. The commitment is 1 or 2 times a month. Contact Sandy Krowsky at 237-7863. 
An after school enrichment program is looking for tutors for children grades 1-4, Mondays-Thursdays from 3-5pm. Contact Martha Allen-Shabazz at 288-8418 or 234-9071 after 3pm. 
OneTime Opportunities 
St. Augustine's Soup Kitchen is looking for volunteers to help staff the kitchen and serve lunch to the impover­ished on South Bend's west side on Monday, Wednesday, or Friday from 10:30 am-12: 30 pm. Contact 234-6334. 

Seminars and Programs 
Take the Urban Plunge Immerse yourself in the realities of urban poverty. The Urban Plunge is a one-credit experiential learning course scheduled for a 48~hour period during winter break. 
Information Session Held at the CSC: Tuesday, October 28, 7:30-8:30 pm 
Hispanic Leadership Intern Program This is an eight-week immersion into the Latino com­munity of metropolitan Chicago. Intern with one of five community agencies. 
Application deadline is November 19. Contact Colleen Knight Santoni (knight.28@nd.edu) with questions. 
CHICAGO: City of Hope?! Qanuary 6-11, 2004) Come experience the gospel in action on the streets of Chicago! Meet with community organizers, labor organiz­ers, and faith-based organizations ~ho are working to make social change in Chicago's neighborhoods. 
Applications available online at the CSC or the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
Application deadline: October 13th, lOpm Contact Jay Caponigro (caponigro.2@nd.edu) for more information. 631-9423. 
International Summer Service Learning Program Learn more about the Center's eight week service-learning program in 12 devdoping countries. October 15, 28, & 29 6:30, at the CSC 
Applications available at the CSC or online at the CSC web site. Applications due Nov. 1. 

Tuesd~y, October 14, 2003 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 


Cheney 
continued from page 1 
need only raise half the funds of an election year event to be considered successful, Chocola told The South Bend Tribune. 
Prior to the election of 2002, Cheney visited the Joyce Center in a similar capacity and raised $250,000 for Chocola's first congressional race. 
President Bush visited South 


Altar 
continued from page 1 
vented women from serving. 
Though the language of the draft document was only mar­ginally more restrictive than current standards, many fear its appearance signals a possible shift toward conservatism with­in the Vatican. 
"There are apparently still many chauvinists in the Vatican who think that males are inher­ently superior to females in the eyes of God," said Father Richard McBrien, professor of theology and Crowley-O'Brien Chairman of Theology at Notre Dame. "[But the reversal of Vatican II] has already been established in many other ways over the past 25 years. This lat­est matter is merely a speck on the window pane in comparison with many other examples of reversals." 
Traditionalists have often argued that allowing women to be altar servers brings them one step too close to priesthood, and that the position should be used only to encourage boys to con­sider a vocation in the Church -a tradition that the directive reportedly aimed at reviving. However, this presented a prob­lem for the Vatican because, as Bend two months before the 2002 congressional election and generated $650,000 for Chocola and the Indiana Republican Party, propelling Chocola to victory. 

The Second Congressional District race is one of the most significant and expensive con­gressional battles in the coun­try. Candidate spending sur­passed $3.2 million in 2002. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
Garcia pointed out, Pope John Paul II has presided over Masses where women were servers. 
Kelly Hager, coordinator of servers at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and an altar serv­er herself said, "I do not serve because I want to be a priest. I serve because it's a personal choice to participate in liturgy in a way that I feel called to partic­ipate. I hardly think that any woman gets involved with the sole intent to try to become a priest." 
"Women will eventually be ordained as deaconesses, and then as priests," McBrien said, countering the directive's goals. "But those changes won't come about simply because girls are allowed to serve at the altar. There are far more powerful forces at work in the Church and in society at large that will bring about these changes sometime in the new ~entury." 
Though concern on campus over the implications of this directive is high, especially among females, Father Peter Rocca, rector of the Basilica, said that, in terms of pastoral application, the proposal would not have changed practices at the Basilica, and that female altar servers will always be needed. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


Spade 
continued from page 1 

break even [on future events]," said Erin Byrne, advisor for the Student Union Board and student programs coordinator. 
According to LaFortune opera­tions manager Matt Biergans, Student Activities printed 3,072 tickets and sold about 1,200 $20 student tickets at the Information Desk. Additional tickets were also sold Oct. 4 at the door of the Joyce Center. 
Ebersol attributed the low 

Cabinet 
continued from page 1 

approve issues, including those related to the budget and constitution, instead of the Student Senate approving issues related to and having a check on bodies other than itself. 
Seth O'Donnell. Club Coordination Council presi­dent and Executive Cabinet member, said, "We want to synthesize all the bylaws into one source." 
Senators raised concern that this would detract from the Senate's duties and said that the Student Senate typi­cally approves all resolutions from other student govern­ment bodies. 
Tai Romero, the Student Union Board programmer and an Executive· Cabinet mem­ber, said the changes would be beneficial for the effective­ness of student government and would not detract from the Student Senate's power. She pointed out that most of their time is spent research­ing issues and that they would have four votes on the attendance to the short time frame SUB had to publicize the event. 
"We had so little time to pro­gram it," he said. 
Because Oct. 4 was the first football bye week, SUB planned to host a major event for that week­end. Initially, programmers planned to include a Top 40 open­ing band for the Spade perform­ance, a proposal that was dropped from the budget shortly before the event took place, said Ebersol. 
The final contract for Spade's performance was signed Sept. 27, and was not approved by the Financial Management Board. 
Council. mittee, said following the 
Since Hallahan introduced Executive Cabinet meeting. "I the resolution before the was never asked by Pat. I Senate Wednesday, several approached Jeremy [Lao, stu­senators said they were in dent union vice president] favor of a con­because the solidated body [budget] was but were con­something over­
"We want to 
cerned that the sight was work­
synthesize all the 
Executive ing on, and he Cabinet did not bylaws into said there was consult them already a com­
one source. " 
when they mittee in decided to redis­Executive 
Seth O'Donnell 
tribute power Cabinet working within the Club Coordination on it." Student Council She said Lao Government and told her he would
president
create the put her on the e-Council. Others mail list for the questioned why there was an committee. However, the one urgent need to pass this reso­e-mail she did receive lution. regarding an upcoming meet­
Hallahan said senators ing gave tentative meeting were given the opportunity to details that were never later participate on the three com­confirmed. mittees -constitution, budget The meeting adjourned with and collaboration -that several senators acknowledg­worked together to compose ing that many of their con­the resolution. He said these cerns had been addressed senators were informed at a and Hallahan seemed hopeful Student Senate meeting and that his resolution, in a individually when Executive revised format,. would be dis­Cabinet first began discussing cussed at Wednesday's Senate the topic in September. meeting. 
Lewis senator Claire Berezowitz, who is the chair Contact Meghanne Downes at of the Senate's oversight com-mdownesl@nd.edu 
Initially, SUB submitted a budget, which was approved by the FMB, for the Spade event that included an opening act. Because the fmal contract was signed just before Spade came to Notre Dame. the FMB did not review the final budget, said Ebersol. 
Don Norton, president of the FMB, declined to comment on whether FMB would review the final budget although the event had already occurred, or if the budget would be available to stu­dents, as the Student Union Constitution mandates. 
Contact Teresa Fralsih at tfralish@nd.edu 
t•,.r.•rct•l
...."'""", 
flisp19Selllolionispo.1oiSIJaieJpooleinAmetiron Communities, a11<1lionallhao1or t<JU!ir~ ~moiNe ~by ri~ No1Klool Wown..lfur rhe At~ 0111! The SoiRe Moo font! in cooporotion wilh Al1l Midwest. 
In fXN111e;sh;p "ilh ·:·:·.,.-Sdillae;:,.,.,.; 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
NDPRESENTS: 
performing ROMEO AND JULIET an exclusive engagement at Washington Hall Thursday, October J6, 8p.m. 
TICKETS: $3 5 ND/SMC FAC/STAFF: $25 ND/SMC STUDENTS: $15 Coll574.631.8128 for tickets 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE sERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel destroys illegal border twmels 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Dozens of Israeli tanks entered the Rafah refugee camp on the Gaza-Egypt border before dawn Tuesday, the second large-scale invasion there this week, witnesses said. 
Israeli military sources confirmed that an operation was underway. They said it was a continuation of a three-day mission that began Friday, aimed at clearing away tunnels used by Palestinians to smuggle weapons from Egypt. 
Witnesses said two columns of armored vehi­cles entered the camp from two directions, heading for a different section of the camp. There were no immediate reports of casualties. 
In the first operation, eight Palestinians, including two children, were killed by Israeli gunliro in fierce exchanges. Palestinians said about 100 buildings were destroyed, leaving hundreds of families homeless. 
The Israeli military said that about 30 build­ings were knocked down, and three tunnels were found and blown up. However, the mili­tary said, about 10 tunnels were still in opera­tion. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Big Sur deaths believed suicides 
SALINAS, Calif. -Authorities said Monday they were investigating as suicides the deaths of two young women found at an oceanside resort with plastic garbage bags over their heads. 
Jacqueline Toves, 26, and Abigail Tapia, 27, left behind notes addressed to their fami­lies. said Monterey County Sheriff Mike Kanalakis. 
Authorities were awaiting toxicology reports to determine the exact cause of the deaths. 
The women had lived together in Long Beach and were found dead in a cabin Friday at the Gorda Springs Inn in the rugged Big Sur region. 
Penn. escapee turns himself in 
WILKES-BAHHE. Pa. -An escaped prison inmate charged with two murders and sus­pected of others surrendered to police at his home Monday night after three days on the run, a state police spokesman said. 
Hugo Selenski, who escaped Friday night from the Luzerne County Correctional Facility by climbing down a 60-foot rope of knotted bedsheets, was taken into custody at 
8:45 p.m., said Trooper Tom Kelly, spokesman for state police in Wyoming, Pa. Selenski, 30, was taken to the Wyoming station for processing on escape charges. 
Selenski and cellmate Scott Bolton climbed down a rope assembled from 12 prison-issue sheets. Bolton fell and was captured on a rooftop, critically injured. 
Selenski is charged with killing two people whose remains were exhumed from the yard of his home outside Wilkes-Barre. He also is a suspect in the deaths of three others whose bodies were also recovered from his proper­ty. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Disposal of nerve agent halted 
NliWPOHT. Ind.-A subcontractor hired to dispose of 300,000 gallons of a chemical cre­ated by the destruction of the deadly VX nerve agent has been ordered to end its work on the project. 
In a brief statement released Monday, the main contractor for the VX destruction proj­ect said it had directed Perma-Fix of Dayton, Ohio "to stop work on the subcontract" to dispose of the chemical hydrolysate. 
Parsons Engineering's statement also said Perma-Fix's Dayton site had been "eliminat­ed as an alternative" for disposing of the hydrolysate. 
FRANCE 


Muslim students' scarves spark debate 

Associated Press 
PARIS -A century ago, France pulled down the crucifixes hanging in its classrooms in a tri­umphant climax to its fight to separate the state from the powerful Roman Catholic Church. 
Today, battle lines are being drawn over another religious emblem, the Islamic head scarf, which some French see as a threat to their nation's core values and unity. 
A bitter debate over whether the head-covering can be worn in public schools, or by civil ser­vants, has festered for nearly 15 years and deep­ened as France's Muslim sons and daughters come of age. 

Some see it as a flag of Islamic militancy, or a sign of submission to men. Others see it as the start of a spiral into unknown ter­The issue isn't just the acted on complaints from While many schools toler­ritory that could transform humble head scarf. Both some Muslim pupils who ate them, they have led to France's definition of itself. Chirac and the prime min­wanted the ban enforced. conflicts, teachers' strikes 
France has a Muslim ister have voiced disap­Interior Minister Nicolas and court cases. population of 5 million -proval over other Muslim Sarkozy backed the expul­There are large Muslim almost 8 percent of its total demands that they see as sion, and Francois communities in neighbor­population -which is challenging basic tenets of Hollande, leader of the ing countries, from Britain becoming increasingly what it is to be French: opposition Socialist Party, to Belgium. Incidents assertive. France is becom­sexually segregated class~ agreed, saying: "The law involving scarves are usu­ing concerned for its hard­rooms, a school calendar must be applied. We're in ally settled quietly on the won secular underpin­that respects Muslim holy a secular country." local level, but in nings, a cornerstone of its days, and the refusal to Each yea~ there are September, Germany's constitution. take oral exams with pro­about 150 complaints highest court failed to 
So deep are these con­fessors of the opposite sex. involving head scarves, resolve the case of a cerns that President But it is the scarf that according to Hanifa Muslim woman who was Jacques Chirac established has captured center stage. Cherifi, the Education denied a state teaching job a commission in July to The level of debate Ministry's mediator who unless she doffed her study just where secular­racheted up with the intervenes in crisis situa­scarf. ism stands in a country expulsion this month of tions. Unresolved cases The court asked with the largest Muslim two sisters from the Henry lead to expulsion -fewer Germany's 16 states to population in Europe. Wallon high school in than 50 last year, Cherifi draft laws on scarves in 
"It is indeed the question Aubervilliers, a Paris sub­said. state institutions, and four of our national cohesion urb, for refusing to remove Even among Muslims of them quickly announced that is being posed," their scarves. there is disagreement over they would seek to legis­Chirac said in July. "We 'They were chased out of whether their religion late a ban. cannot remain passive." school like dogs," said mandates the scarf that in "The head scarf. after 
Prime Minister Jean­Laurent Levy, father of most cases covers hair, all, is not just folklore and Pierre Raffarin has threat­Lila, 18, and Alma, 16. He ears and sometimes fore­a mere symbol (but) a ened that if necessary he'll claimed fear of Islam is head and shoulders. But demonstration of an pass a law to impose secu­"eating away at French hundreds of girls defy the expression of faith," said larism. ''I'm not afraid of society." unwritten code forbidding Hesse state minister for Islam," he said last spring. Teachers said the school scarves in public schools. schools, Karin Wolff. 

Navy to limit peacetime sonar use 
A.ssociated Press 
SANTA MONICA, Calif. -The Navy has agreed to limit its peacetime use of a new sonar system designed to detect enemy submarines, but which may also harm marine mammals and fish, an environmentalist group said. 
The Natural Resources Defense Council, which sued the military on the issue, and the Navy reached a set­tlement last week in which the Navy agreed to use the new system only in specific areas along the eastern seaboard of Asia, according to docu­ments provided by the environmental group. 
The agreement must be approved by a federal magistrate to become permanent, but if implemented the deal would greatly restrict the Navy's original plan for the sonar system, which once was slated to be tested in most of the world's oceans. 
The Navy has not received final word of the agreement, but would comply, said Lt. Cmdr. Cappy Surette. 
"Whatever the final decision is, the Navy will uphold the law," Surette said from the Pentagon. 
Environmentalists say sonar sys­tems endanger marine mammals and fish, especially whales. They point to a different system the Navy used in 2000, when at least 16 whales and two dolphins beached themselves on islands in the Bahamas. Eight whales died and scientists found hemorrhag­ing around their brains and ear bones, which could have been caused by exposure to loud noise. 
"Oceans are an acoustic environ­ment, and the species that live there have an acute acoustic sense," Frederick O'Regan, president-of the International Fund for Animal Welfare, said in a conference call Monday. "If we interfere with these critical behaviors, we may be affect­ing not just individual animals, but entire populations." 
Last year the Natural Hesources Defense Council and other environ­mental groups sued the Navy over the new system, seeking to restrict its use. 
U.S. Magistrate Elizabeth Laporte later issued a preliminary injunction restricting usc of the system, and in a separate ruling ordered the environ­mentalists and the Navy to negotiate a final settlement. 
The new deal. which is the result of those negotiations, largely mirrors the restrictions imposed by Laporte's injunction. 
Since the injunction, the Navy has used the sonar system in restricted areas without harm to marine life, Surette said. It is designed to detect enemy diesel submarines at great dis­tances. 

Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Kucinich announces White House bid 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Democrat Dennis Kucinich, the liberal four-term congressman who has been steadfast in his opposition to the Iraq war, formally kicked off his presi­dential bid Monday with a harsh critique of U.S. foreign policy. 
"America cannot put its foot on the accelerator of war and advocate peace," the Ohio lawmaker, who favors a with­drawal of U.S. forces from Iraq, told several hundred cheering supporters in the chambers of the Cleveland City Council. 
His candidacy a long shot at best -Kucinich trails many of his rivals in fund raising and public opinion polls ­the White House hopeful used the announcement speech to . stress his anti-war stance, his opposition to international trade pacts and his support for a single-payer, universal health care plan. 
"Freedom bids us to free ourselves from the shackles of violence," he said. "When peace becomes innermost, it then becomes outermost in our communities and our nation." 
Kucinich said that if elected president, he would look for nonviolent ways to solve the world's problems. including the Israeli-Palestinian ten­sions in the Middle East. The self-described urban populist also said he would order a study of reparations for blacks whose ancestors were slaves. 

The Democratic candidate called for cutting the Pentagon budget by about 15 percent, arguing that it would free up billions of dollars without undermining national security. "It would instead enhance the economic securi­ty of our nation," he said. 
Kucinich, who has been campaigning for months, made the announcement in his native Cleveland, the first stop of a multistate tour that will include Michigan, New Hampshire, Wisconsin and Iowa. 
The kickoff speech at City Hall served as a reminder of Kucinich's political triumphs and bitter disappointments. Elected in 1977, the 31-year­old "boy mayor" guided a city that two years later became the first since the Depression to go into default. 
Kucinich faced death threats, and was forced to wear a bulletproof vest when he threw out the first ball at a Cleveland Indians game. 
He barely survived a recall election but lost his bid for re-election by a landslide. Then, in the 1990s, he made a political comeback, winning a state Senate seat and even­tually capturing a U.S. House seat in 1996. 
Nepalese star trades fa111e for security 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-For millions of Nepalese worldwide, Prem Raja Mahat's rich, mellow voice is an instant portal to an idyllic pic­ture of life and love beneath the vistas of the highest mountain range in the world. 
The Nepalese music superstar is currently crafting his 47th album -while working as a restaurant manager in Baltimore, where he makes about three times what he did as his country's version of Bruce Springsteen. 
Mahat abandoned fame and his homeland sexen years ago to protect his wife and four school­aged children from an insur­gency that has killed more than 7,000 people. Guerrillas inspired by the late Chinese revolution­ary leader Mao Zedong have fought since 1996 to replace Nepal's constitutional monarchy with a communist state. The government calls them terror­ists. 
"I miss Nepal, because they love me there. I miss being famous," Mahat said recently, sipping a frothy yogurt lassi and watching the early dinner crowd stroll past the Mughal Garden restaurant, where he earns about $3,000 a month. 
"But in my country there is fighting and death and poverty. That is why I left," he said. "Every parent in the world ... wants to do well for their chil­dren. I am no different." 
There are approximately 50,000 Nepalese in the United States, according to Krishna Aryal. first secretary at the Embassy of Nepal in Washington. 
Forty percent of Nepal's 23 million people live in grinding poverty, and tourism to Katmandu, the country's cultur­ally rich capital, and Mt. Everest, which straddles the Nepal-China border, has dropped because of the violence. The Himalayan kingdom lies between China and India. 
Todd Lewis, a professor of religion at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., who has lived in Nepal periodi­cally over the past 23 years, said Nepalese from all parts of socie­ty have left the country in search of better lives. 
"Having talent, even record­ing, doesn't necessarily get you anywhere financially in Nepal," Lewis said. "Even a modest, middle-class life here running a restaurant would still be vastly more lucrative than staying in Nepal and living off of one of the poorest communities in the world." 
Mahat, 42, is one of the most famous people to have left Nepal. While fans at home feel the loss, Nepalese in the United States revel in the handful of concerts he gives every year. 
When Mahat takes the stage, he usually carries a sarangi, a small stringed instrument that's played upright, like a miniature cello. He wears a high topi, the national cap of Nepal, and a brightly colored vest. His hit love song from 2002, "Hiunchulima Hiun," or "Snow in the Snowcapped Mountains," runs more than 20 minutes. 

"We call him the 'King of Folk Songs,"' said Ram Kharel, who hosts an American public access television show on Nepalese news and culture. "At every Nepalese event in America, even if he's not there, people sing his songs. He is that popular." 
Mahat originally came to the United States to visit friends. He decided to stay when he realized the opportunities his children would have here. Mahat plans to return once the violence sub­sides and his children are grown. In the meantime, he vis­its Nepal every year or so to record the songs he writes before his shift at the restau­rant. 
The important thing, he said, is that his children understand what he has given up -and why. 
"They thank me for bringing them here and giving them this opportunity," he said, flashing a wide, album-cover smile. "They understand my sacrifice, that I am giving up my name and good job -for them." 
For people who grew up idol­izing Mahat, seeing their hero toiling in an everyday job can be jarring. 
"We are a little sad because he is so famous in Nepal. It would be great for him to be singing rather than working in a restau­rant," said Roshanee Shrestha, who recently watched him bus tables and greet guests. She first heard Mahat's voice as a little girl, curled up in her home in the shadow of the snowcapped Himalayas. 



Law& • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
Octoher 15, 2003 
4:00 p.m., Law School Courtroom 

"Agenda-Setting and the Scope of Deliberative Democracy'' 
Presenter 

Paul J. Weithman 


Professor and Chair Department ofPhilosophy 
Commentator 
Patricia L. Bellia 


Associate Professor Law School 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9,764.38 +89.70 
]ones 
-· Same: •._. Composite Volume:
2,305 ISS . . . 1,032,32~992 

NASDAQ 1,933'75:3 +18,22 NYSE 5,940.75 +43.75 AMEX 1,023.69 +6.63 S&PSOO 1,045.35 +7.29 NIKKEl (Tokyo) 10,786.04 0.00 FTSE IOO(London)4,362.30 +51.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SIRIUSSATRADIO (SIR!) +10.14+0.21 2.28 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 3.54-0.13 3.54 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.41-0.05 12.28 INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.22 +0.37 30.80 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.45-0.13 28.78 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR OOND +0.15 +0.08 51.82 10-YEAR WI'E +0.16 +0.07 42.55 5-YEAR WI'E -0.03 -0.01 31.34 3-MCNI'H BILL 0.00 0.00 8.87 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) +0.07 32.06 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +1.60 375.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/~b.) +1.575 92.175 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 109 EURO 0.8546 POUND 0.6006 CANADIAN $ 1. 323 
IN BRIEF 

AK Steel talks "critical" for success 
MIDDLETOWN. Ohio-AK Steel Corp.'s talks with its unions about ways to make the company more competitive are critical to the steelmaker's future, a company spokesman and analyst said Monday. 
Pension and retiree health care expenses account for $40 of each ton of steel that AK Steel sells, putting the company at a disadvan­tage compared to newer companies with lower costs, industry analyst Charles Bradford said. 
llot-rolled steel, for example, currently sells for about $290 a ton on the spot market, Bradford said. AK Steel supplies that steel to auto, construction and appliance markets. 
"They absolutely have to do something," said Bradford. of Bradford Research/Soleil Securities in New York City. "The question is, what can they do to offset a $40-per-ton penalty?" 
McCoy said the company has begun talks with its unions. including the United Steelworkers and the Armco Employees Independent Federation. which represents hourly workers at the company's Middletown Works mill. All sides have agreed to keep the details private, he said. 

Microsoft to release security update 
WASIIINGTON -Stung by criticism over lax software security, Microsoft Corp. disclosed plans Thursday to update its flagship Windows operating systems early in 2004 to make con­sumers less vulnerable to hackers. 
Microsoft said the changes, announced by chief executive Steve Ballmer during a trade conference in New Orleans, will be offered free in the next "service pack" update to users of Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 software. 
The announcement was aimed at calming Microsoft customers increasingly irritated by the case with which hackers and others have broken into Windows computers. Adequately protecting an average personal computer can take far more time than many customers are willing to spend. 
BOLIVIA 





Natural gas deal sparks protests 
16 dead after martial law declared; president alleges foreign involvement 
Associated Press 
LA PAZ -Thousands took to the streets in the capital, chanting anti-gov­ernment slogans despite an announcement Monday by Bolivia's president that he will shelve controversial plans for natural gas exports. 
The plans to sell gas to the United States and Mexico had already pro­voked massive protests in which at least 16 people have been killed. 
But President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada's deci­sion to abandon the project was followed by criticism from his own vice presi­dent, demands that he resign, large demonstra­tions and a public trans­portation strike that virtu­ally paralyzed La Paz on Monday. 
"I cannot continue to support the situation we are living," Vice President Carlos Mesa said, urging the president to change his policies. However, Mesa said he will not resign. 
Development Minister Jorge Torres, however, did step down citing "insur­mountable differences" with the president. 

The embattled president President Jaime Paz people next to La Paz, sol­majority, which has fre­addressed the nation on Zamora, a close associate diers killed at least five quently led protests radio and television after to Sanchez de Lozada. No demonstrators, according against government meeting with top advisers one was injured and Paz to witnesses. The govern­attempts to privatize the and military leaders, amid was not at the house at the ment had earlier reported country's state industries, indications that his three­time. The presidential 11 deaths, bringing the argue the economic bene­year old government was palace, meanwhile, was total in that city to at least fits won't reach them. weakening. under heavy military 16. The government The president told an 
Sanchez de Lozada guard. declared martial law, send­early morning news con­vowed "to defeat the sedi­But for the most part, ing soldiers with automatic ference that he will pro­tion and restore order," Monday's marches weapons to patrol the mote a national dialogue and called the massive appeared peaceful. Radio streets. on the gas exports. protests, "a plot encour­stations were urging sol­Residents and human­"There will be no gas aged from abroad aimed at diers and police to use rights groups say the num­exports to new markets," destroying Bolivia and restraint. ber of victims is probably Sanchez de Lozada said .. staining our democracy "Do not shoot. Let's stop close to 20. He said the dialogue, in with blood." He did not the killing among The government had which his government will elaborate. Bolivians," the announcers estimated that revenues gather opinions from all 
As the president spoke, repeated. from the gas exports would sectors in the country, marches and sporadic Protesters were report­bring about $1.5 billion a should last until the end of clashes continued in La edly blocking roads in sev­year to Bolivia, South the year. Paz. Witnesses said eral areas in the country. America's poorest nation. Protest leaders said demonstrators threw rocks During weekend protests But union leaders and shelving the project won't at the residence of former in El Alto, a city of 750,000 the nation's poor Indian stop the demonstrations. 


W.Va. grocery union members strike 
said. "They ought to be providing for workers at those stores are affected. 
Associated Press 
the families that helped earn that In Missouri, about 10,000 United 

CHARLESTON -Grocery workers money." Food & Commercial Workers mem­at Kroger stores in West Virginia, The union represents about 3,300 bers have been on strike at the St. Ohio and Kentucky voted to strike at workers for the Cincinnati-based Louis area's three largest chain gro­midnight Monday -just days after chain in 37 stores in West Virginia, cers since last Tuesday. The 96 Kroger clerks walked out in five in Ohio and two in Kentucky. stores affected by the strike have Southern California. Kroger is West Virginia's fourth­hired temporary workers and cut 
More than 2,000 members of the largest employer, with about 5,100 back hours. The biggest sticking United Food & Commercial Workers employees statewide. points are medical costs and pay Local 400 approved a strike -"We ain't asking for all of it, just a raises. rejecting the company's contract fair shake," said Randy Atkins, who Kroger proposed an 8 percent, or offer, union officials said. works at a Kroger in Charleston. $9 million, increase for workers in 
A Kroger spokesman said the com­In Southern California, clerks at West Virginia, Kentucky and Ohio, in pany planned to close all 44 stores in Kroger's ·Ralphs and Pavilions, what it pays into a health and· wel­the three states at midnight Monday; Safeway Inc.'s Vons, and Albertsons fare fund administered by a third 
only its pharmacies will stay open. groceries went on strike late party. "The proposal doesn't provide Saturday. Replacement workers were An independent actuary deter­enough money to pay for our bene­hired there. More than 850 super­mined the fund needs an additional fits," union president Jim Lowthers markets and about 70,000 union $29 million. Lowthers said. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 




Greeting town and gown 
Oxford! Yup, we Darners have finally made it; after all of the planning, read­ing, shopping and flying, we are here and settled into our housing. How to describe Oxford to Notre Dame students ... that's the ques­tion. I'll try to break Geoff Johnston Oxford down into manageable, organ­ized chunks of infor­A Domer at mation. Oxford 
The town 
Darners have no relationship like that between the University and the city of Oxford. The University is dispersed throughout the city so that, between every College building, there are well­traveled roads, bridges and sidewalks. 
There are people everywhere. Europeans by the thousands line the sidewalks, dressed in fur, leather, long coats and boots, scurrying about from store to store, babbling in every human language. Buses rule the streets, careen­ing around turns and making sure that pedestrians know their place in the transportation food chain. Bicycles are ubiquitous and dangerous, scooters put­ter about, and souped up Vettes with huge exhausts drive by our. college win­dow at night, vibrating the whole flat with metallic bass. 
The city of Oxford is everywhere; there are merchants by the hundreds hawking their wares from 18th century shops, there are street performers and beggars, there are ambulances screaming with impossible volume down every road. The Town is loud, obnoxious, full of life. There is no parallel to the town at Notre Dame. Social life 
But what would Oxford be without its pubs? There are dozens of pubs, each with its own special clientele, some serv­ing primarily students and some serving the city in generaL The drinking age in England is 18, so students are every­where, drinking, eating and laughing. (Though from what I have seen, the argument that lowering the drinking age decreases the number of drunk students is false; there are plenty of students here who plan on leaving the pubs on a stretcher.) Pubs are the place to meet students in Oxford; random people will often sidle up to a half-filled table, no matter who else is sitting there. 
The food 
Well, British food, from what we have seen, is not very good. In fact, it is down­right awfuL Even in College, the food is bland, without a hint of spice (and I'm from the Midwest, where food is bland to begin with). But there are two bright spots: The many sandwich shops serve healthy, delicious lunches on-the-go, and the many ethnic restaurants around town serve spicy cuisine faithful to the culture. 
The gown 
The first thing one notices about the University is that it is old -very old. The buildings of beige Ashlar stone dominate certain sections of the city, with no rhyme or reason lo their placement. Amidst all of the shopping, yelling and eating, the University is at once invisible and overbearing. Watching over the walkers below, the buildings seem to be waiting, or perhaps meditating, oblivious to the action around them. But the cen­ter of undergraduate student life is the particular college where one eats, lives and studies. 
New College 
Each of the colleges that make up the University is a castle, with fortifications and battlements, guarded from the noise of the outside world by gardens of Day­Glo green grass and imposing, turreted towers. Inside the College walls, one enters a different and infinitely more tranquil world than the one outside. Passing through winding passageways of weathered stone, the sense of silence, of introspection, becomes more evident with each step. 
The New College Hall is similar to the one in Harry Potter: The walls lined with oak paneling, the paintings of College fel­lows watching meal after meal, the High Table standing above all of the benches and chairs. 

Completing the Old Schools Quad, the New College Chapel lies like a great ship docked in harbor, battered by age on the outside but immaculate within. Greeting visitors to Chapel stands a slightly larger than life-sized sculpture of Lazarus: His body seems to be slightly decomposed, emaciated beneath a wrap of bandages, but his head, which is much too large for his body, is turned at an impossible angle to face the altar. Behind the altar, there is an enormous wall filled to the very apex with delicate sculptures of saints, bishops and prophets. 
There are many gardens to graze in, and there are lively clubs to join and College bars to relax in, away from studying. 
Culture 

Here are a few of the invalid, sweeping and unfair generalizations I have made about the British. The British are more reserved and soft-spoken than Americans. When I first heard them con­verse, it sounded as if they were speak­ing in hushed, secretive tones about everything. Our manner of speaking, which is more a direct, in-your-face, get­to-the-point style, does not suit the British well. Also, the British eat much smaller meals than we Americans do (our portions per meal are probably dou­ble the size of theirs), but I haven't been to the local KFC, so I can't report on whether the American restaurants still super-size. They also don't exercise as much, unless you count the miles of walking they do, as few people own cars. There is so much more to say about Oxford, but those thoughts will have to wait for another day. 
Geoff Johnston is a junior studying at Oxford for the year. He can be contacted at gjohnsto@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



OBSERVER POLL 
Do you approve of student body president Pat Hallahan's proposal to transfer authority from Student Senate to a restructured Executive Cabinet? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"We must learn to live together as brothers or perish together as fools. " 
Martin Luther King, Jr. activist 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
page 9 
A dream overdue 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR Too much criticism for Quinn 
You know. I'm getting really tired of the constant criticism Brady Quinn receives every weekend. Everyone seems to focus on what he's doing wrong rather than every­thing he's doing right. 
Consider the first few games of the sea­son. He was only put in to make an attempt at cleaning up our senior quarterback's mess (meanwhile gaining some experience). 
Take Michigan State, for example. Ty puts him in with five or six minutes left in the game, we need two touchdowns, and Quinn is in a no huddle offense. This is tremen­dous pressure for even a seasoned quarter­back, let alone an 18-year-old freshman with virtually no college football experi­ence. How does Quinn respond? He march­es all the way down the field and scores. Yet no one gave him any credit. On the con­trary, they just said how he didn't do any­thing to help get the win. · 
Fast forward to Purdue, Brady's first start and full game. Their line averaged 26 starts per player versus our four starts per player. The result? Brady gets the tar kicked out of him for the entire game. We had no run­ning game at all, so he's forced to throw 60 times, completing 30 for 300 yards. And he did this while getting hit something like 18 times, 14 of which were knockdowns (I don't remember the exact stats), not to mention he was our leading rusher with almost 50 yards. One hell of a performance in my book and the stats book. 
Nevertheless, the reporters and newspa­pers (including our own) all said the same 
thing: "Different quarterback, same 
results." Granted, I was very disappointed 
in the loss, but I was also really excited 
about Brady Quinn's performance, as well 
as the future of our young team. 
Now go to last weekend. Jones' running game kicks into high gear, taking a huge load off Quinn's shoulders, we win, and everyone complains that Quinn didn't throw enough and didn't contribute to the win. It just so happens that our team was much more well-rounded than past games, so Quinn didn't have to do everything like he did against Purdue. This is a good thing. 
My God, people, just leave the kid alone. He's done an extraordinary job so far. Sure, he makes some rookie mistakes, but we can't expect him to come out of high school playing like Joe "The Comeback Kid" Montana. Besides, all those edges will be smoothed out soon enough. You know all the talk about the "West Coast offense" everyone is so sick of hearing? Well, Brady is the quintessential (no pun intended) West Coast quarterback that Coach Willingham has been waiting for. 
Sure, give criticism where criticism is due, but it's equally important to give credit where credit is due. So give the boy some credit. 
Dave Welch 
senior 
off-campus Oct. 13 
No more altar girls? 
I was sorry to see the frus­tration expressed in Anna Nussbaum's Oct. 10 letter. While this issue is open to legitimate debate, I'd like to offer reasons the Church might decide to disallow female altar servers (which, I should add, they haven't yet). 
The fact is, boys and girls are different. Girls are natural volunteers; they jump in and help wherever needed. It's hard to find an area of parish ministry that isn't mostly per­formed by women anymore, and more power to them. The unfortunate fallout is that reli­gion is often viewed as women's domain. All too com­mon is the Mass where the priest is the only prominent male, looking rather cowed by the overwhelming female presence. Hardly the image of an "alter Christus" whose example boys may want to fol­low. 
Having only altar boys pro­vides boys a way to serve that appeals to them. In parishes where girls serve, they often overtake that ministry, while the boys drop out of what becomes yet another girls' club. Giving the boys a chance to be boys at church is an opportunity to learn from the priest and each other about a faith of heroic sacrifice, a faith worth living and dying for and, yes, a faith even worth getting up earlier on Sunday for. 
Historically, altar serving has been a stepping stone in training for the priesthood, and the Church would like to return to that tradition. The results of this were shown by the Arlington, Va. diocese, which has only male altar servers, and is now among the top two U.S. dioceses for priestly vocations. 
Finally, I'd like to address a misconception the letter seems to imply. Our culture has misconstrued gender equality to consist of perform­ing the same tasks. This reflects a demeaning, utilitari­an view of the human person. Rather, we should understand that while men and women are intrinsically different, and thus serve Christ in different ways, the Church has always proclaimed their equal dignity. Remember that we uphold a woman as the highest created being uust look on top of the Dome). 
Emily Klejeski sophomore Pasqucrilla East Hall Oct. 13 

In his autobiography, Malcolm X states, "Many whites are even actually unaware of their own racism, until they face some test, and then their racism emerges in one form or anoth­er." 
From what I have 

Kamarla Porter

observed as an African American 
in all-white envi­
Breaking. the 

ronments during 
/Iabit

high school and 
here I not only 
agree with Malcolm X, but I also feel his words can be the 
first step in accepting our individual 
roles in the continuance of racism and creating a world of equity and justice for all peoples. 
One day last semester. I was walking to South Dining llall, a few yards in front of two white girls. I overheard their conversation about a friend, also white, and his troubles getting into his first choice college. Apparently this young man, with high test scores, good grades, and the usual exemplary extracurriculars was rejected from his dream school. One girl proffered, while her companion agreed, that if he had been a black male, or better yet a black female, his admission would be no problem. 
Ask yourself, in our world of sup­posed tolerance and political correct­ness, why would this girl make such prejudicial remarks within my-a black female's-earshot? Obviously she felt safe enough to express her opinions at that time because she prob­ably did not know any blacks were around. That girl and many other indi­viduals have candidly denounced blacks in my presence because they misjudged my fair complexion for whiteness. Instances like this illustrate our society's remaining racial bias and of the biggest impediments we face in 
how majority culture manages to hide our country and at Notre Dame to it from public view. reaching racial harmony and under­
In our environment, we have created standing. divergent definitions of ethnici-Some may feel the worst of ty and color. While ethnici­our racial past is behind ty is subjective, pertain­us, with the ing to how one views Reconstruction her or himself based Amendments, on ancestral ties "Brown v. Board and cultural of Education" backgrounds, and affirmative color is a much action provid­more complex ing legal and construction. institutional Judging by references to skin color or combat manner, peo­inequity. I ple objective­say, anyone ly assign who thinks racial quali­this is living fiers to others in a dream and interact world. As with them the ruling according to class -politi­these stereo­cians and busi­types. ness leaders ­
Thus, people discards manu­believe they can facturing jobs, out­avoid responsibility sources to foreign for harboring racist nations and assists the attitudes as long as they wealthy with preferential 
play nice in the company of minorities, and only express their true feelings within their own racial group. Americans think if they stay along the path of political correctness or preface their statements with the phrases like "Don't take this the wrong way... " or "Don't be offended, but..." they will never be called into question. Everyone shies from confrontation, unwilling to accept or speak truths about themselves and their communi­ties. This fear and its application of political correctness, is in my mind one tax cuts and deregulation, 
people of color are discarded to the ranks of the working poor, unem­ployed, incarcerated and impoverished. Blacks and Hispanics are the most fre­quent victims of environmental injus­tice, assigned to live and work in pol­luted urban neighborhoods. 
These issues even touch the splendid isolation of our University. According to the website Tolerance.org, there are five known hate organizations within spitting distance of Notre Dame in St. Joseph and Elkhart counties, including a Ku Klux Klan chapter in our own South Bend. In nearby Gary, public housing developers are building and relocating minority, mostly black, fami­lies into units constructed across the street from a known hazardous waste site. 
Our purpose as stewards of this country and our local communities is to leave conditions better than when we found them. We inherited a system of injustice which oppresses people of certain ethnicities and a cultural delu­sion of the "self-made" person. We need to discard these lies and tools of injustice created and perpetuated by the ruling classes and, on every social level, take a contemplative look at racial interactions and ideological con­structions. 
Individually, I challenge you to exam­ine your own ideas with intellectual honesty to pinpoint your own racial prejudices and then purge them. We all harbor stereotypes, and anyone who claims innocence is either lying or will­fully exists in a homogeneous fairy land. 
At Notre Dame, we need to not only create forums to debate racial topics, but also patronize them. Let's continue discussion of affirmative action, like at the panel discussion last week, and ini­tiate other instances where we can have constructive dialogue on issues of race and inequality. By coming togeth­er authentically, we can, after cen­turies of struggle, and build a racially harmonious society. 
Kamaria Porter is a sophomore histo­ry major. Contact her at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


THE 0BSER\'ER 





CENE 
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
page 10 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Charismatic Clooney excels in latest role 
ByJACK WATKINS 
Scene Movie Critic 
The most amazing thing about Intolerable Cruelty is not how good it is, but how bad it could have been. The film was originally se.t to star Hugh Grant and Tea Leoni, and Joe Dante was originally slated to direct it. Then Jeremy Irons and Heather Locklear were tabbed. Ron Howard was briefly in talks to direct. 
After going through various other permutations -involving Julia Roberts and Geoffrey Wright, among others -the final product somehow emerged as a Coen Brothers movie starring George Clooney and Catherine Zeta-Jones. 
The Coen broth-
Joel and 

sions and physical humor. 
Massey is a divorce attorney who becomes engaged in a complex duel with Marilyn Rexroth (Zeta-Jones). a beautiful and ruthless gold digger. Of course, the inevitable hilarity ensues, and the inevitable sparks fly. 
The Coen Brothers did not exactly write the script -they got on board the project and rewrote it to their tastes. It is likely that the basic plot of a romance between the rivals played by Clooney and Zeta-Jones was in the original script, but I find it impossible to believe that the far­cical supporting characters are any­thing but Coen inventions. 
Included here are a man with a strange obsession with trains, a strange concierge named Heinz, the 
Baron Krauss 


resembled scenes from David Lynch's Mulholland Drive. Lynch and Joel Coen tied for the Best Director award at Cannes in 2001 for Mulholland Drive and The Man Who Wasn't There, respectively, so it is likely that Coen wanted to tip his hat at Lynch. 
Ultimately. the movie excels 
because of its star's performance ­seeing a man get bitten by a poodle is not funny, but seeing George Clooney bitten by a poodle is hilari­ous, because he makes it funny. 
Contact Jack Watkins at jwatkinl @nd.edu 
ers, von Espy, a 
Ethan, are of "Intolerable Cruelty" senior law course the duo 
partner who responsible for seems to have some of the best no functioning films of the last vital organs, decade, including Director: Joel Coen and Ethan Coen and an asth­Fargo and The Big Writers: Robert Ramsey, Matthew Stone, matic assassin Lebowski, while John Romano, Joel Coen and Ethan Coen n a m e d Clooney and Zeta­Starring: George Clooney, Catherine Zeta­Wheezy Joe. Jones hold similar Jones, Geoffrey Rush and Billy Bob Thornton Such charac­
preeminence among modern sex symbols. 
Despite the impressive assembly of talent in this film, the show belongs to Clooney, who has seized the opportunity to complete his makeover as a modern-day Cary Grant. Clooney's Miles Massey is exactly the sort of character Grant played in his comedies -handsome, charismatic, highly energetic and prone to exaggerated facial expres­

ters allow Clooney to play the straight man in some scenes, while being the cut-up with Zeta-Jones. 
The Coen Brothers. always stu­dents of film history, have also filled this movie with various homages to past works. Most obvious. probably, is the continued parallelism between Clooney and Grant. Far more sur­prising were two sequences near the beginning of the film, which closely 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'The Rundown' trips over its own ambitions 
By ANNIE ROHRS Scene Movie Critic 
Director Peter Berg's The Rundown presents poor acting and poor script­ing in this combination action/comedy film that, in trying to be both, doesn't do either genre justice. 
Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson plays Beck, a tough guy from Los Angeles who is working off debts to his wealthy boss by doing his dirty work. His dream is to own his own restau­rant, but before he can attain that, Beck has to do one final job. He must travel to the Brazilian jungles to retrieve his boss' son, Travis, played by Sean William Scott. Travis is seek­ing a treasure that would make him rich and has gotten himself into some trouble he can't get out of on his own. 


It proves to be no easy task for Beck, as he is foiled at all angles -by Travis, who has no desire to return home, by the forces of nature, by Mariana (Rosario Dawson); who's after the treasure for her own rea­sons, and by Hatcher (Christopher Walken). a slave-driver who owns a gold mine and employs everyone in town. Once Hatcher discovers that Travis knows how to find this treas­ure, which is worth a huge fortune, he 
won't let Beck 
sided, much like a machine. He is never daunted by any enemy, regard­less of number, size or weapon. He single-handedly beats up the entire defensive line of an NFL team and fends off multiple attackers wielding guns, knives and whips, for the most part with no weapon of his own. Scott's Travis is a constant reminder of the sarcastic, wise-ass Stifler from the American Pie movies, a role that Scott can't seem to break out of. He adds much of the 
take Travis with­comedy to the
"The Rundown"
out a fight. fUm; however it 
The plot has 
just doesn't fit potential as an into the conflict action movie, smoothly. Stifler's but fails to pan jokes and attitude 
Director: Peter Berg

out. There are are very out of 
Writers: RJ. Stewart and James Vanderbilt
some strong place in a wild 
Starring: The Rock, Seann William Scott,
fight scenes and jungle in which he 
Christopher Walken and Rosario Dawson
interesting is running for his 
twists in the form of jungle rebels, seX..-crazed monkeys and hallucinogenic fruit. However, they can't save the movie from its foundering one-liners and misplaced humor. The movie is badly written, with the dialogue switching between extremely serious and extremely flippant. This clash, meant to add comic relief, is only distracting. The dialogue is unrealistic and the attempt to mix in humor with hard physical action falls short. 
The acting in the movie leaves much to be desired, as well. Johnson's Beck is stoic, unemotional and very one­
.life while desper­ately seeking a mysterious hidden treasure and fighting off Hatcher and his hit men. 
While the entire movie is oppressive­ly flawed, the ending· is the biggest let­down. All of the issues are resolved with almost ridiculous ease after so much conflict and struggle, and the conclusion ultimately leaves the audi­ence wondering what the point was. 
By trying too hard to be both, The Rundown fails to successfully take off as either an action or comedy film. 
Contact Annie Rohrs at arohrs@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
page II 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Tarantino hits his stride with 'Kill Bill' 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Movie Critic _ 
Kill Bill: Volume 1 has Quentin Tarantino's dirty little fingerprints all over it -the movie plays like a vanity piece. But not that that's bad, because if there's a director that deserves a vanity piece, it's Tarantino. Kill Bill is the fourth full-length feature he's directed. but he has already estab­lished himself as one of the great directors of American cinema. And Kill Bill proves to be a tour de force of his genius -his self-referential, isn't too concerned with plot; it's ·a simple revenge story told in a very stylized way. Revenge is the only motivation in the film. At first it seems odd to watch a film with no motivation. but therein lies one of Tarantino's annoyingly brilliant flour­ishes: By removing the reason for a story, he can focus on the telling of it. 
Kill Bill is a samurai movie. Well, it's a samurai movie seen through American eyes. Tarantino uses a lot of kitsch and cliche in the film. including an extended anime sequence for one of the character's back stories, which seems slightly insensitive at 
tongue-in-cheek first; by the
"Kill Bill: Volume 1"
genius-but genius 
end, however, nonetheless. it's apparent 
The film is about that Tarantino a woman known as isn't trying to The Bride (Uma make a samu­
Director: Quentin Tarantino

Thurman) who rai film, but
Writers: Quentin Tarantino and Uma
wakes up from give us a new
Thurman

being in a coma for interpretation
Starring: Uma Thurman, David Carradine,
four years after she of one.
Lucy Uu, Daryl Hannah and Vlvlca A. Fox 
was savagely beaten L i k e 

and left for dead at the altar by a shadowy underworld kingpin named Bill (David Carradine) and his four-person team of ruthless killers. the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad. The Bride, or Black Mamba, a codename by which she was once known, sets out for revenge on her former lover and his dirty-dealing henchwomen and henchman. 
But nevermind the plot. Kill Bill 

Tarantino's other features-Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown -Kill Bill is extremely violent. It has been called the most violent movie ever made, which is a debatable claim, but it is certainly one of {be most artfully vio­lent. 
Where Tarantino really shows off his genius is in the beautifully con­structed fight scenes with their preci­sion choreography, artful cinematog-
By KATIE WAGNER 
Scene Movie Critic 
School of Rock is a slightly above­average comedy. It is entertaining for people of all ages, but leading actor Jack Black's overly dramatic acting weakens the film. The child actors and the music are this movie's high points. 
The movie begins with struggling heavy metal guitarist Dewey Finn (Black) getting kicked out of his band due to his on-stage antics. This 
shatters his lifelong dream of win­ning the battle of the bands. To make things worse, Finn's room­mate's overbearing girlfriend demands that the jobless and broke Finn pay his long overdue rent. Finn almost gives up on his musical aspi­rations until he discovers a ploy to both pay his rent and continue play­ing rock. 
He takes a role as a long-term sub­stitute at a prestigious private ele­mentary school, impersonating his friend and roommate Ned Schneebly (Mike White). Despite his students' 
raphy and earth-shaking sound edit­ing. The fighters move with a 
Matrix/Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon superhuman grace, but unlike the slew of Matrix wannabes, Kill Bill manages to retain the drama of the fights without the physical laws of nature. The Bride, though a fierce warrior, does get hurt and leaves open the question whether she will live through the second volume of the film, which will be released in the­
• 
atres next February. 
Tarantino has really hit his stride with Kill Bill, and he knows it. Every second of the film is dripping with Tarantino's cocky, self-righteous and damned artistic personality. Kill Bill is a terrific film that quite perfectly demonstrates that Tarantino is truly a master of his craft. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.J@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 



Preppy kids rock in latest film 
obsession with academics and a lack of rock'n roll background, Finn is determined to convince them that rock is the most important thing in the world. Thanks to his passion, sense of humor and musical enter­taining ability, Black transforms these children into a group of rock musicians. The students initially challenge Finn's lack of schooling, but eventually they all appreciate and share his intense love of rock music. 
The diverse personalities of each fifth grade stu­dent make this 
goofy to be taken seriously. His pas­sion for rock was so over the top that he could have been diagnosed as insane even though he was being sincere. 
However, that no child or other character accused him of being ridiculous for his passion almost makes his intensely emotional behavior seem commendable. 
The overall message of this film ­that you should always follow your dreams -was satisfying. The underlying message -there are 
other measures 
of success 

-

movie seem beyond earning
"School of Rock" 
very similar to 
good grades in a true class­school -was room of nine­convincing and year-olds. Each thought-provok­child's unique­ing.
Director: Richard Unklater

ness of charac­The one hour
Writer: Mike White

ter brings a lot and 48 minutes
Starring: Jack Black, Joan Cusack, Mike
of humor to the of this PG-13 film.
White, Sarah Silverman, Joey Gaydos , Maryam
film. Many of ran very quickly.
Hassan, Kevin Clark and Rebecca Brown
the students The movie left 
have incredible musical talent, which makes the movie very enter­taining. 
Another strong point of the movie was the humor brought by the uptight private school principal's (Joan Cusak) surprising obsession with Stevie Nix. Black's acting was one of this film's weaknesses. He was funny. but not as funny as he was in Shallow Hal. 
Also on the downside, the speed with which Finn was able to change the opinions of the children about him was not realistic. Finn was too 
little room for 

yawning.' The school scenes were interesting and very animated, thanks to the child actors. The rock'n roll shows pic­tured were quite colorful and excit­ing. 
This film is certainly worth seeing, especially if you are a fan of classic heavy metal music, as long as you don't mind hearing a few cheesy lines and seeing a comedic perform­ance by Jack Black that is less than his best. 
Contact Katie Wager at kwagner@nd.cdu 
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 



Wakefield confuses Yankees, leads Red Sox to win 
Associated Press · clean game for baseball fans," the game Monday and no Varitek said. grounds crew personnel. The series continues at Fenway But the focus in this one was
BOSTON -No fists, just Park on Tuesday, originally a on the starters. 

knucklers. 

travel day. David Wells pitches Wakefield improved to 4-0 inTim Wakefield and the Boston for New York against Derek LCS play -he went 2-0 forRed Sox won this duel with a baf­Lowe in Game 5. Pittsburgh in 1992 againstfling pitch that floated and flut­
After Sunday's rainout, fans Atlanta. His eight strikeouts
tered past the New York Yankees had a festive time on the warm matched his season high, and hein a 3-2 win Monday night that autumn night, booing Yankees allowed just five hits.

knotted the AL championship 

catcher Jorge Posada, who "I think it had a little moreseries at two games apiece. 
screamed Saturday at Pedro depth tonight," Wakefield said.
Todd .Walker and Trot Nixon Martinez after the Boston pitcher "It was moving quite a bit in New 

hit solo homers for Boston's 

hit Karim Garcia with a pitch. York, but it didn't have as muchstruggling offense, and pinch-hit­Posada went 0-for-4 with two depth as it did today." 
ter Jason Varitek had a key RBI strikeouts, leaving seven runners While the Yankees had runnersgrounder in the seventh, speed­on base. in four of the first five innings,

ing to first to just avoid an 

They also chanted "We want Wakefield pitched out of trouble, inning-ending double play. 
Nelson," a reference to New York holding New York to 1-for-8 with Most significantly, there were reliever Jeff Nelson, involved in runners in scoring position andno more fights between the old Saturday's ninth-inning bullpen leaving the bases loaded in thefoes. 
scuffie. Nelson entered to boos in fifth, when Posada ended the
"I think it was kind of good to let everybody calm down," Nixon the eighth just after Felix inning with a flyout. Wakefield 
Heredia hit Walker in the shoul­then struck out the side in thesaid. "I think we all disrespected der. There was no hint of trouble sixth and retired the side in thethe game the other night." 
on this one -Walker went seventh on four pitches. 
AJter a one-day break caused directly to first base and said he "He's very unpredictable,"by a rainout, there was none of wasn't upset. Posada said. "It's a pitch that hethe brawling that marred Game Still, there was at least one dis­never knows what it's going to3 on Saturday. Relying on base­pute -but even then. it was do. The catcher doesn't know

ball's most mysterious pitch, 

resolved quickly and civilly. what it's going to do." 
Wakefield beat Mike Mussina for After Nelson's first pitch, While Boston's staff has beenthe second time in the series, Boston manager Grady Little led by Martinez in recent years.

which now must return to 

Yankee Stadium later this week. came out to talk to the umpires, Wakefield has taken the lead "Being rained out yesterday who then checked the pitcher's against New York. got everybody cooled down," belt and glove. But they didn't "Outstanding," Martinez said. 
with Walker's homer leading off who made a nice pickup at short­
Wakefield said. fmd anything against the rules. "He's our ace right now." 
the fourth, Nixon's starting the stop. Jeter threw to Soriano for Until the ninth, New York's "We had some indication that Wakefield threw 11 of 20 pitch­fifth and Varitek's RBI in the sev­the force, but Varitek just legged only run came home on Derek we saw a little something out es for balls in the first. After enth. it out. 
Jeter's fifth-inning double that hit there," Little said.. "We didn't Soriano walked leading off and Walker's homer was his fifth of "I thought that was the most third base. But after Scott know." Jeter singled, Jason Giambi hit a 
the se.ason, a record for Boston important play of the game,"
Williamson struck out Nick Nelson didn't mind. saying it scorcher to first that was caught players. Little said. Johnson leading off the ninth, probably was in retaliation for by Kevin Millar, who doubled up ''I'm more focused now than Mussina has allowed five pinch-hitter Ruben Sierra closed New York asking umpires to Jeter. After a walk to Bernie I've ever been in my life because homers in the two starts against
Williams, Posada took a called
New York within a run with a check Timlin in the opener. you're battling every at-bat, and Boston, is 0-3 in this year's play­homer, ending a streak of 19 1-3 "His ball moves a lot, my ball third strike. more specifically, every pitch," offs and is winless in his last six 
shutout innings for Boston's moves a lot. It didn't bother me," "I got lucky enough that Kevin Walker said. postseason sta·rts. He looked much-maligned bullpen. Nelson said. Millar was standing on the right Varitek -just 2-for-36 against frustrated after the game. 
Williamson, who had relieved There was extra security in the spot," Wakefield said. Mussina -didn't hit the ball as "I can only control 60 feet. 6 Mike Timlin to start the inning, Yankees bullpen following the Boston's offense, which led the far, but his run made the differ­inches," he said, staring down. then struck out David Dellucci Game 3 fight that involved a major leagues during the regular ence. With one out in the seventh "That's it. I'm doing my job the and Alfonso Soriano to earn the member of Boston's grounds season, has not scored more and the bases loaded following best I can. Other stuff has to be 
save. crew. There was a police officer than five runs in any postseason an intentional walk to Bill attended to by other people, not "It was nice to have a nice stationed there from the start of game. But the Red Sox made due Mueller, he grounded to Jeter, me." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edir all dassifieds· for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

VECTOR MKT. has many cust.  LARGE ONE·BEDROOM CONDO  Wanted Mens Football Tickets $$  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America  
LOST & FOUND  sales/service openings. Flex. sched. Excellent Pay.  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD- Pay Top Dollar$$ 1·866-808-0990  PERSONAL  s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps.  
No. Exp. Nece.  ELED.  BUY?SELL ND FOOTBALL TICK- Call for discounts: 800·648·4849 or  
workforstudents.com. 574-282-2357  FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. Email:  ETS> CASH PAID> 574-289·8048  www. ststravel.com  
Lost· Glasses, brown frames.  Williamson.1 @nd.edu  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Between 0 Shag and Welsh Fam or  2 GA TIX FOR USC/BO/  not go it alone. If you or someone  A 'Reality' Spring Break 2004s  
in 0 Shag. Wed night 1 0/8. It found, please call 4­ .WANTED  1995 Olds 98 Regency 3.8 V6 Engine, New Tires, 1 0 Disc CD  832-428-3937.  you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals &Parties  
1406.  Changer Runs Great,  Need 2 GA tix tor USC &FSU. Call  Louise Gude,CSC, at 1·7819.  sunsplashtours.com or  
front end damage-$600 neg.  276·8507. After 5 pm, 288-2877.  1800·426·7710  
- Part Time Professional Server  For more information, see our bi·  
NOTICES  Assistant, will train. Must be avail­able  574-271-1202  I have 2 USC tix tor sale; prefer to trade for FSU. 312-879·6256  weekly ad in The Observer.  EARN MONEY OVER FALL BREAK The Early Childhood Development  
Tues.-Sat. Evenings beginning at  Spring Break 2004 with  Center at Notre Dame and Saint  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  4:00pm. Apply in person: 24460 Adams Rd.,  TICKETS  Will trade 2 FSU tickets for 2 USC tickets 601-249-3417 or 601-248­ StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with  Marys College has employment opportunities over Fall Break  
South Bend (tar North West side) or  0368.  Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as  (October 20-24, 2003).  
GUITAR LESSONS harmonica,  call (574) 272-9220-ask tor Emily.  a Campus Repl Choose from 15 of  If you are available to work part time  
banjo &mandolin. Hoosierdads  ND FOOTBALL • BUY &SELL.  the hottest destinations. Book early  and are interested in spending time  
Music 4609 Grape Rd Mish, IN 2775038  Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages.  CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877·773-3911.  FoR RENT  tor FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee!  reading childrens books, building with blocks, and singing songs with  
Earn  children, please contact Thayer  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in  $100-$500 a day. 1-888·820-0167,  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED  To reserve online or view our Photo  Kramer at 631·3344 as soon as  
Acapulco is now offering 3 destina·  ext. U187  -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM·232·2378  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO  Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com  possible.  
tionsl Go Loco in  PM 288·2726  CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM  or Call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!  Have fun and get paid too!  
Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get  MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM  
Crazy in Cabo-all with BIANCHI· ROSSI TOURS.  FoR SALE  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM • 232-2378 PM -288·  272-1525  ADOPTION: irish, affectionate, child· less, stay-at-home mom and envi·  Quienes son las otras 23 chicas?  
Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALS!  2726  ronmentalist dad, dream of sharing  glycerine... wonderwall ... wanna hear  
Organize a group and travel tor  ND FOOTBALL HOUSING:  love with Caucasian or Hispanic  'em  
FREE.  IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX­ WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in  newborn through adoption.  
URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  nice neighborhood available tor  It's so depressing when crazy Bill  
Call for details. 800·875-4525 or  your dream home next to  (574)232.()964.  remaining ND football games. Six  Legal &confidential. Call Jacqueline  takes the money and walks away  
www.bianchi-rossi.com.  Notre Dame.  blocks from stadium.Sieeps 10.  and Allan toll free at 1·800-484·  with his award  
A limited number of home sites are  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6  6754, PIN: 8642  
..*ACT NOWIBook 11 people, get  available .  LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  cars. $1 ,200 per weekend. No pets.  Irish win, Browns win, Steelers,  
12th trip tree. Group discounts tor  
 #1 Spring Break Vacations! 11 0%  could the weekend be any better?  
6+  For more info go to:  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER,  {574) 231-8823 (evenings).  Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica,  
www.lrishCrossings.com  NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT- Acapulco, Bahamas,  Let's go Cubs  
www.springbreakdiscounts.com or  BALL GAME.  3 bdrm house, 2 full baths, 2-stall  Florida. Book Now &Receive Free  
800-838-8202.  1995 Honda Civic 2 door, black, 5­ PLEASE CALL 674-6593.  garage, all appliances, partially  Meals &Parties Campus Reps  58 years of history could come to an  
speed, 106,500 miles, $4,300 o.b.o.  turn., 2 miles from ND, $900/mo.  Wanted!  end tonight  
Vector/Cutco  SMC grad needs USC tix. Email  1-800-234-7007  
workforstudents.com/57 4-282-2357  call #234-4536  Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com  Call 298·3000.  endlesssummertours.com  Touchdown Browns!  


page 13
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS 


Siz~lene (Sizzlelini~ ­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 

A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B~-Iefie (Bellini)­

A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! · 

Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­
Visit us EVERYTuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 






THINKING OF TRAVELING ABROAD? WANT TO DO IT FOR FREE? 
Travel journalist Doug Lansky will tell you how! 
...and you could win a FREE Eurail Pass worth $888 at the event. 
OCTOBER 15, 7PM -WASHINGTON HALL 

co-spon:!iored b·y the Ncmov1c lmtltute for EYrt:>pean Sti.Jdfes and The Kellogg lnstlfvte for lntemotkmol Studies. 
brou the student union board. nd.ed 
NFL NEWS 




Dillon returns to 
practice Monday 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -Bengals run­ning back Corey Dillon returned to practice Monday after missing Cincinnati's last game with a strained groin. 
Dillon has been limited to one complete game this season. He hyperextended a knee in a pileup in Oakland in the second week of the season and strained his groin a week later. 
He started against Cleveland on Sept. 28, but had to leave the game because he couldn't cut. Coach Marvin Lewis then rested him during a loss at Buffalo, and Dillon didn't work out last week as the team was ofT. 
Lewis said it was too early to tell whether Dillon will be avail­able to play Sunday against Baltimore. 
"Everything looked fine," Lewis said. "Everybody worked today. It was good to have Corey out there." 
Dillon took handoffs, caught passes and ran some agility drills during the brief time that prac­tice was open to the media. 
"He did some things," backup Rudi Johnson said. "He didn't do everything, but what he did looked good." 
Dillon declined to talk to reporters after practice. 
McNabb fights through Injury 

PHILADELPIIIA -Donovan McNabb will remain the Eagles' starting quarterback despite a sprained right thumb that has limited his effectiveness. 
"He's working through the pain of that and should be fine," coach Andy Reid said Monday. 
McNabb struggled Sunday in a loss to Dallas, often overthrowing his targets. He was 11-for-26 for 126 yards, his lowest total in a mediocre season. 
McNabb, who was hurt Sept. 29 against Buffalo, played with wrapping around his thumb that extended to his wrist. 
"It's not an injury he can't play 
with," Heid said. 
Culpepper back as starter 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. 

Minnesota quarterback Daunte 
Culpepper will return to the 
starting lineup this weekend 
when the Vikings host Denver. 

Culpepper missed the Vikings' previous two games after break­ing three small bones -and par­tially fracturing a fourth -in his lower back Sept. 21 at Detroit. 
Gus Frerotte started in 
Culpepper's place in Minnesota's 
wins over San Francisco and 
Atlanta. Culpepper, who 
returned to practice Monday, got 
an extra week of rest because 
the Vikings were idle this past 
weekend. 

"He's good to go," coach Mike 
Tice said Monday. "He jumps 
right back in. He's the No. 1. Gus 
is back to being No.2." 
Brunell to have surgery 
JACKSONVILLE. Fla. 

Jaguars quarterback Mark 
Brunell had surgery Monday on 
his left elbow and will be out at 
least a few weeks. 

The surgery was done to allevi­
ate swelling on his throwing 
elbow. Coach Jack Del Rio said 
Monday it would be at least two 
or three weeks before Brunell 
could throw again. 

Brunell was injured Sept. 21 
when he slid on the artificial turf 
in Indianapolis. An abrasion on the elbow needed five stitches. 
Byron Lel'twich started his third straight game in Brunell's place Sunday against Miami. Leftwich was backed up by David Garrard, and Del Hio said he did­n't plan a roster move to acquire a third quarterback. 
Pennington could return soon 

HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -Jets coach Herman Edwards said Monday there is a "50-50" chance quarterback Chad Pennington will start against the Philadelphia Eagles on Oct. 26. 
Pennington, out since the pre­season with a broken and dislo­cated left wrist, will begin doing team drills this week at practice wearing a red, noncontact jersey. 
.. 
Edwards said there is no chance Pennington will start Sunday against Houston. 
Edwards said he will make that decision later this week, and also is trying to decide whether to make Pennington the backup before he starts a game. As of Monday, Pennington has not been cleared to play. 
Gold out for season 

DENVEH -Denver linebacker Ian Gold will miss the rest of the season after tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee. 
Gold was injured in the first quarter of Denver's 17-14 win Sunday against Pittsburgh while covering a punt. Broncos coach Mike Shanahan said Gold will have surgery after the swelling goes down, probably in a week or two. 
"It's really tough," Shanahan said Monday. "Any time you lose not only a great player, but a great leader and a great person, it's always tough." 
A hard hitter and one of the 
fastest linebackers in the league, 
Gold went to the Pro Bowl in 
2001. his second season, and 
replaced Bill Homanowski as a 
starter at outside linebacker last 
year. 

Gold was second on the team 
in tackles with 166 last season 
and he entered Sunday's game 
with 39, second to AI Wilson's 48. 
He also has two interceptions 
this year, including one for a 12­
yard touchdown in the opener 
against Cincinnati. 

"It's about as tough as it gets," 
defensive end Trevor Pryce said. 
"It's always tough when you lose 
somebody who plays hard and 
leaves everything on the line." 
Moulds could return this week 

ORCHARD PAHK. N.Y. ­
Buffalo receiver Eric Moulds 
could return to practice this 
week after missing the Bills' 30-3 
loss to the New York Jets 
because of a strained groin. 

Moulds didn't practice all last 
week but said Monday that he 
feels "a lot better." 

Coach Gregg Williams was 
cautious about Moulds' return. 

"We would hope that he would 
be able to get back out there 
sometime next week," he said. 

Moulds, Buffalo's leading 
receiver, was hurt when he fell 
awkwardly after making a catch 
that helped set up the Bills' win­
ning drive in a 22-16 victory over 
Cincinnati on Oct. 5. 

The Bills sorely missed him last 
weekend when they managed 
only 193 total yards. Backups 
Bobby Shaw and Josh Reed com­
bined for 100 yards receiving. 





OUND THE NATION 

around the dial 
Inside Notre Dame Football 3:30 p.m., FOXCH 22 
MLB PLAYOFFS Yankees at Red Sox 3:00 p.m., WSJV CH 6 Marlins at Cubs 7:00 p.m., WSJV CH 6 
POKER World Series 5:00p.m., ESPN2 
BIKING Mountain BikingWorld Cup 11 :30 p.m., FOXCH 22 

NCAA 

which are leaving the Big threw out a case against schools hope they can get
Associated Press 

East to join the ACC. the ACC on jurisdictional around the jurisdiction "We just got off a confer­grounds. issue.
HARTFORD, Conn. ­ence call," Blumenthal said "I suspect the same will "We are not required toOfficials from four Big East early Monday evening. "All happen to those of us who, show they are transactingfootball schools approved a 

lawsuit Monday against the presidents have author­by virtue of our rotation, business," Blumenthal said. Boston College, its athletic ized this lawsuit." happen to be officers," "If they have violated the 
director and four Atlantic The suit names Boston Ward said. "And I suspect -law and have damaged Coast Conference officials, College athletic director the people of Connecticut Connecticut or its citizens, state Attorney General Gene DeFilippo, ACC want their attorney general they can be sued." 
Richard Blumenthal said. Commissioner John to chase far more impor­Messages seeking com­
Swofford, ACC President tant issues." ment were left at the
The suit, to be filed Tuesday in Vernon Superior Carolyn Callahan, ACC Vice The case against the ACC homes and offices of the Court, alleges that the ACC President Donn Ward and was thrown out because other school and confer­
and Boston College con­ACC Treasurer Cecil Huey, attorneys could not prove ence officials. Hugh Keefe, spired to weaken the Big Blumenthal said. the conference did enough an attorney who represent­East. Boston College Connecticut, Rutgers, business in Connecticut to ed the ACC, did not return announced Sunday that it Pittsburgh and West warrant a state suit. By a page. would follow the University Virginia already are suing suing the conference direc­Miami and Virginia Tech of Miami and Virginia Tech, Miami. A judge last week tors as individuals, Big East join the ACC next year. 
IN BRIEF 
Three Redskin players out 
with injuries 
ASHBURN. Va. -Washington Redskins tight end Robert Royal has a broken bone in his right hip and will miss at least six weeks. 
Running back Trung Canidate and cornerback Fred Smoot also could miss next week's game at Buffalo. Canidate has a severe ankle sprain, while Smoot sprained his shoulder in Sunday's 35-13 Joss to Tampa Bay. 
Royal was injured trying to block Simeon Rice. Rice got past Royal, knocked the ball away from quarter­back Patrick Ramsey and recovered the fumble to end Washington's open­ing drive. It was the first of Rice's four sacks in the game. 
"It was kind of a fluke injury," coach Steve Spurrier said Monday. "He got all twisted around somehow." 
Spurrier said Royal could go on injured reserve for the second straight year. Royal was out last sea­son whilerehabilitating a sprained ankle. 

Army coach Todd Berry
fired over losing record 
WEST POINT, N.Y.-Army coach Todd Berry was fired Monday after compiling a 5-35 record over four years. 
"The Corp of Cadets and the fans of Army football deserve a competitive program that is representative of this great institution," said Lt. Gen. William Lennox Jr., superintendent of the U.S. Military Academy. 
Army (0-6) has just one win in its last 17 games and a school-record 12 losses in a row. The Black Knights are averaging 63.8 yards rushing per game to rank last in the nation and are the only team averaging under two yards per carry. 
South Florida, playing its inaugural Conference USA game last month, shut out Army 28-0 at Michie Stadium, marking the first time the Black Knights had been blanked at home since 1981. 
John Mumford, who served as the team's defensive line coach the past 
four seasons. was named interim coach. 
OSU linebacker Reynolds
suspended for choking 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Ohio State linebacker Robert Reynolds was sus­pended one game Monday for jam­ming his fingers into the throat of Wisconsin quarterback Jim Sorgi and choking him. 
Reynolds will miss the eighth­ranked Buckeyes' homecoming game Saturday against No. 9 Iowa at Ohio Stadium, coach Jim l'ressel said. 
Sorgi said he had difficulty talking and breathing after the injury in the third quarter of Wisconsin's 17-10 win Saturday night. He said he could­n't bark out the signals loud enough to be heard by the other players, keeping him from going back into the game. 
Reynolds issued a statement Sunday night through Ohio State, saying that he had apologized to Sorgi and Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez. 
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN's SoccER 
Irish hope to rebound against Vikings 

ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
Associate Sports Editor 
A trip across the state bor­der might be just what Notre Dame needs to rebound from a disappointing conference loss last weekend 
The Irish (7-2-3, 3-2-1 in the Big East) travel to Ohio to face the Vikings of Cleveland State in a non-conference matchup tonight. Notre Dame's last game was a disappointing 5-2 loss at home to Big East-oppo­rwnt and No. 25 Hutgcrs. 
Despite his team's defeat, Irish coach Bobby Clark is ktwping a positivn outlook on things. 
"Healistically, you're going to lose a few games each year." he said. ''I've always said that winning is a habit and losing is a habit. You just don't want to get in the habit of losing." 
The Irish can take some pos­itives out of the loss to the Scarlet Knights. Freshman Ian Etherington, who has provided solid play all year, finally got rewarded for his hard work with the first goal of his Irish career. Senior captain Greg Martin had the other tally for the Irish. 
Notre Dame came into the Hutgers game ranked fifth in the nation but figures to fall a little when the new polls come out. Just the same, however. the Irish are on the national radar, and it's important for the team to bounce back right away. 
"The nice thing is that we don't have to wait too long to show that we're still a very good team," Clark said. "If we had to wait a week or so to play again, that would be kind of annoying. 
"That's one of the positives of our situation, and I think the boys are looking forward to this game." 
Cleveland State (6-7) comes into tonight's game on its own downward swing. The Vikings are currently mired in a four­game losing streak, including two consecutive shutouts. Their last game was a 2-0 loss at home to Marshall Thursday. 
By far, the offensive leader for the Vikings is Stephen Ademolu. The junior forward from Windsor, Ont., leads the team with 23 points (10 goals and three assists). Forward Spencer Lappin is second on the team with 14 points (five goals and four assists). 
In goal, the Vikings rotate the trio of freshman Josh Cain and juniors Scott Deitz and Amir Kettani. Kettani has the most starts, with nine. but Cain has a better goals-against average (Cain has a 1.94 GAA to Kettani's 2.11). 
The Vikings have roughly matched their opponents goal­for-goal this season, scoring 24 goals while giving up 27. They have been out shot 185-142 in 13 games this year. 
Despite the fact the Vikings are a non-conference oppo­nent, Clark does not believe his team will lighten up on its intensity. 
"I think we'll be very solid Tuesday night," he said. "Anytime you're coming off a loss, you have to regroup. We've got to win all the games we can. 

"There will only be one league champion, and we have to be very conscious of at-large bids [for the postseason NCAA tournament] and get as good a record as possible." 
The Cleveland State game is the first in a four-game road trip in which the Irish will play three Big East matches. After facing the Vikings, the Irish will travel to Storrs, Conn. to meet Connecticut Saturday night. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@n.d.edu 


Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
SMC SocCER 

Winless Adrian gives Belles unexpected test 
Saint Mary's gains eighth win of season 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Editor 
It wasn't the kind of game Saint Mary's expected from lowly Adrian. 
The Belles played solid defense and recorded their fifth shutout of the year in a 2­0 win Saturday, but they couldn't dominate Adrian (0­12, 0-8 in the MIAA} the way they did when the teams first met last month. Saint Mary's won that game 7-0. 
"We played a strong game defensively but could not develop our rhythm within our attack," Belles coach Peter Haring said. "We had some good opportunities but were a tad slow to the ball while going to goal." 
The Belles also lost two players for their next game against rival Hope -one to a red card and another to injury. 
Sophomore defender Shannon Culbertson received a red card in the 72nd minute on a hard tackle of an Adrian player. The card will keep Culbertson out of the team's Saturday game against Hope. 
Senior striker Wendy Irvin injured her ankle during the beginning of the second half and could not return. She is listed as out for next week, as well. 
Saint Mary's got on the scoreboard when freshman 

Colleen Courtney fired a long chip shot from 35 yards out over the goalkeeper's head for an unassisted score in th·e 35th minute. It was the first goal of Courtney's collegiate career. 
Fellow freshman Carolyn Logan added the Belles second goal in the 68th minute, when she stole an Adrian pass and raced down the field to put the ball past the goaltender for another unassisted score ­Logan's fifth goaL of the sea­son. 
The win puts the Belles at 8­2-2 on the season and into sole possession of second place in the MIAA standings, two points behind leader Hope. The Flying Dutch are 7­1 in conference play, com­pared to the Belles 5-1-2 mark. The Belles will" have a chance to knock down Hope this weekend, but they will do so without two of their play­ers. 
"We have a big match against Hope next Saturday, and I will have to go to the drawing board and devise a plan to solve the key losses that we took [Saturday]," Haring said. "This coming week will be a test of this team's mental st'l"ength and their ability to come together to continue with our success thus far." 
The game is at home and starts at 10 a.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

528 (£. Colfax ?lve., Suite #2 South ~end, 1'1f46617 574/232;.1822 
312 W. C(eve(atu{%f. §ranaer, n..f46530 574/277-6693 

Cha01ps 
continued from page 20 
have struggled in athletics for much of the last few years. But the golf team's success, along with the success of several other sports, is beginning to put the College on the map. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles bounce back with wins 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles got a pair of much-needed wins this week­end on the road at the Tri­State University Triangular. 
Saint Mary's (14-10, 2-7 in MIAA} defeated host school Tri-State University Saturday with a score of 36-34, 30-24, 30-27. The Belles later knocked off University of Michigan -Dearborn by the score of 30-28, 30-24, 29-31, 30-18 to win the Tri-State Triangular. 
"During the whole day, I was happy with how our players maintained their poise," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "The officiating was not some of the best we've ever seen, but we were able to control the things we had to control to win." 
One of the factors contribut­ing to the Belles' tournament victory was a newfound offen­sive production by the middle attack. Middle hitter Elise Rupright led the team with 12 kills against Tri-State, and middle hitter Shelly Bender contributed 10 kills to the win over UMD. 
"Saint Mary's is near the pin­nacle of academics; it's always ranked high in the Midwest. And so the next logical step to increase its valu'e in the coun­try was athletics," Hamilton said. 
The Belles will now take some time off and begin team practice again in February. The team plans to travel to Pinehurst on spring break to face some of the best teams in the nation. Until then, Hamilton said the team will work out individually and pre­pare to take aim at the Division III national title next year. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


The team continued to get its usual production from out­side hitter Kristen Playko, as well, with the freshman col­lecting 18 kills and 19 digs against UMD and 11 kills and 15 digs against Tri-State. Classmate Ann Cusack had a solid day at the defensive spe­cialist position, collecting 42 total digs in the two matches. 
The Belles came into the Triangular on a three-game losing streak, including two conference losses. The wins Saturday came at a time when the team needed a momentum of change. 
"It was a real good boost for us to win this thing," Schroeder-Biek said. "I think we really played good team volleyball. The team really talked a lot better. 
"We need that kind of com­munication going into the home stretch. We're too good of a team to be where we are in the conference standings right now." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWl'i'HOMES 
"The Best Value Per Smdent'" 
..J~J~AII 
• 
415 Private Bedrooms 

• 
Fully Equipped Kitchens 



I)OOrPrp-' 
• 
· Washer & Dryer in Each Apartment Central Air Conditioning 

• 
ADT Security Systems 


• 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 


Open House Professionally Managed By: Wednesday, October 1511' Real Estate Management Corporation 424 North France:; Street, Apt 17 P.O. Box 540, 130 South Main Sireel, Ste 450 2-6p.m. South Bend, !N -16624 
October Special Jblnd@cbresb.com Free DVD player for all leases Signed by October 31, 2003! 
Reserve Yours Today! 574-234-9923 

---··-·······-·------·················--·-----------·--·------------­
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
Some Reasons Why You Should Join Our Community t 

• Over),000 SF of Living Space 
~r' 

• 
2 Bedrooms I 1 Bathroom -Double Vnnity Sinks 

• 
On -Site Laundry Facility 



5 Blocks from Campus

• ~~ 
(),..D"'

• On Route of"Transpo" Bus-Line 
,....

• 
Professionally Managed 


• 
24-Hour Emergency "On-Call" Maintenance 


Notre Dame Apartments Continues to Offer Quality Housing Opportunities and has Clearly Become The Best Value in Off-Campus Living~ 
Open House Thursday, October 16'h 835 North Notre Dame Avenue, Apt lA 2-6p.m. 
October Special Next year leases signed by October 31, 2003 will lock in current year rates! 
Reserve Yours Today! 574-234-9923 
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
CLUB SPORTS 
Water polo team finishes 2nd at Northwestern 
Special to The Observer game long. Despite another Chicago Saturday at Riehle 
strong defensive effort from Fields. Freshmen accounted 
The men's water polo club McCormick and Tagwerker, the for all the Irish scoring as traveled to Northwestern this Irish were overpowered in a 9-Mary Davis and Kaitlin Moran weekend for its final tune-up 3 loss. scored three goals each, with 
before the Conference The strong second-place Rebecca Mosca completing the 
Championships held at Notre showing should provide the scoring. Molly Fox, Alisa Dame Oct. 25-26. Playing in Irish with momentum heading Finelli and Katie Butler all their third tournament in as 
into the Conference recorded assists for the Irish. many weeks, the Irish made Championships, at Holfs Last week, the Irish openedfull use of their deep bench to Aquatics, Oct. 24-26, where fall play in Columbus, Ohio. succeed over the weekend. the team will attempt to quali­The Irish tied Indiana 1-1 in 
In their first game of the fy for Nationals hosted by the day's first action. Davis weekend. the Irish faced a stiff Texas A&M. scored for Notre Dame, with challenge from No. 7 Indiana. an assist from Butler.
Women's Ice Hockey
The solid play of goalies Scott The Irish next squared off
The women's ice hockey club 
Tagwerker and Devlin with host Ohio State and domi­
traveled out of the CCWHA this
McCormick frustrated the nated the Buckeyes 3-0. Fox
weekend to face a powerful
Hoosier shooters all game fired home the first goal, and
Robert Morris College squad in
long, while John Penilla's four Moran then scored a pair of
Chicago. In Friday's action.
goals led the Irish to an goals.
the Irish had a tough game
impressive 12-8 upset victory. The final game was a
and fell 10-1, with the only
Following the big win, the rematch with Indiana to deter­
Irish goal coming with 3 min­
strong play of the Irish contin­mine the tournament champi­
utes, 40 seconds remaining in
ued against a solid Iowa on. Like the first encounter,
the first period. Lizzy Coghill 
squad. Despite poor shooting this match also ended in a 1-1
scored with assists from
which plagued the team dur­tie. Butler scored the Irish
Annemarie Kennedy and
ing the entire game, the Irish goal, assisted by Rebecca
Emmy Venechuk. 

pulled out a close 9-7 victory Mosca.
On Saturday, the Irish fell .in 
thanks to a dominating 
a very tight rematch, 2-1.
defense effort by senior Jay Equestrian
Two starters returned to the
Deimel. The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
line-up -center Megan Mattia
In their third game of the Equestrian club claimed
and defenseman Tori Blainey.
day, the Irish overpowered Reserve High Point honors at
The Irish fell behind early in
Miami thanks to impressive both Saturday's and Sunday's
the first period but knotted the
play from the underclassmen shows at St. Mary's of the 
score at one on a power play
of the team. Sophomore Ryan Woods College in Terra Haute,
goal by sophomore Jacky
Downey and freshmen George Ind.
Kehler on a pass from Blainey.
lleidkamp and John Kelly each Scoring points in the follow­
Despite some amazing saves
netted goals as the Irish came ing events were: intermediate
by Anne Wenger in goal.
away with an easy 10-3 win. jump A, Julia Burke, 2nd;
Hobert Morris scored late in
The game left the Irish unde­intermediate jump B, Liz Bell
the third period to ice the
feated in pool play. qualifying 2nd, Chelsea Brown 5th; 
game.

them for the championship novice jump A, Lauren Ball, game on Sunday against No. 5 Women's Field Hockey 2nd, novice jump B, Andrea Michigan State. Unfortunately, The women's field hockey Oliverio, 1st; open flat B, the Irish could not solve the club continued its successful Kelsey Ostberg, 1st, Claire steady Michigan State defense fall campaign with a 7-0 victo­Freeman, 3rd; intermediate and struggled offensively all ry over the University of flat A, Bell, 6th; intermediate 
The Fourtb Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 
The Honorable John T. Noonan, Jr., 
Judge of the United.States Court ofAppeals for 
the Ninth Circuit, distinguished historian ofthe 
law and Christianity 

DEEPENING THE DOCTRINE: Eight Lectures on the Development ofCatholic Moral Teaching 
Tuesday October 14  Out ofDifficulties Comes Development  
Thursday October 16 I  The Test ofthe Teaching  

The lectures will begin at 5 p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. The series concludes October 16. 
flat B, Julia Burke, 3rd, 
Brown, 6th; novice flat A, Ball 
2nd, Catherine Linn, 6th, 
novice flat b, Oliverio, 2nd; 
advanced walk-trot-canter, 
Kristen LaSota, 1st and Lauren 
Croall, 6th. The Irish finished 
with 32 points. finishing sec­
ond to Purdue. 

On Sunday, Katie Baron. Freem and Ostberg finished 1st, 3rd and 4th in open fences; Brown, 6th in interme­diate fences, and Oliverio and Ball 1st and 6th in novice fences. In the flat competition, Freeman and Baron finished 4th and 6th in open, Burke and Brown 2u.d and 4th in intermediate and Oliverio, Ball and Katy Ryan, 1st. 4th and 6th in novic-e. In walk-trot­cantor, LaSota took 3rd, with Croall and Marta Ascadi earn­ing 4th in separate classes. 
Ultimate Frisbee 

The men's and women's ulti­mate frisbee squads competed at St. Olaf's Annual exit 69 Tournament at the National Sports Complex in Blaine, Minn. last weekend. The men's field of 29 teams was highlighted by the presence of three national powers ­Colorado, Carleton and the reigning national champions, Wisconsin. 
•The Irish entered Pool Play ranked fourth in their pool, and proceeded to sweep St. Olaf, 13-8, Northwestern, 13-7 and a stunning 13-10 win over Carleton. The Irish then defeated Steven's Point 13-11 in the Prequarters, the University of Chicago 13-5 in the quarterfinals and Madison X in the semifinals 13-10. In the finals, the Irish fell to the other Wisconsin squad, Madison Y, by a final count of 13-5. 
Stanford Hall junior Matthew Sullivan was dominant on defense dominance as he tal­lied 15 defensive stops over the weekend. Off-campus sen­iors Sean O'Neill, Tom Bemiller and David Hoffman spearheaded the offense, which peaked in the semifinals as Notre Dame only turned the disc over once on offensive points for a score. 
The women's squad also had a fine showing as it placed third in the event. The Irish opened with wins over St. Ben's, 13-2 and Macalester, 10-7, before dropping a game to Train Wreck, 13-5. In the quarterfinals, the Irish defeat­ed the Madison club, Hufflepuff. 10-7, before drop­ping the semifinals to power­house Carleton. 13-1. 
Senior co-captain Naomi Cordell and classmate Katie Twidwell sparked the team on offense and defense. Saint Mary's sophomore Amanda Schramm was outstanding in making the transition to the handler position. Freshman Rachel Meeks caught several scores in her first outing. 
"The team stepped up the level of intensity and pulled out some close matches," co­captain Jill Daugherty said. "We are starting to gel offen­sively and gain a lot of confi­dence." 
Salllng 

Twenty sailors from the Notre Dame sailing club com­peted in three regattas last weekend in a flurry of activity. Seth O'Donnell, Katie Bush, Dave Harmon, Liz Shelleby, Kate Kennedy and Kathy Monticello competed in Indianapolis in IUPUI's Last Call Regatta. Kennedy and Monticello placed second in the B division, while O'Donnell and Bush sailed very well in the A division. 
Katie Honey, Meghann Finerghty, Erin Elser, Halph Pantony, Katie Brandes, Dan Hyan and Mike Stephens sailed in the Cary-Price Memorial Intersectional hosted by the University of Michigan. Saturday was cold and windy with some very exciting rac­ing. Stephens and Elser raced in the A division, with Honey and Finerghty in the B divi­sion. As racing conditions changed through the day, Brandes crewed in the A divi­sion with Ryan and Honey later sailing in the B's. Pantony skippered with Finerghty as crew on Sunday in the B division. The Irish placed seventh overall with Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan claiming the top three spots for the Big 10, fol­lowed by Cornell. Ohio, Michigan State, Notre Dame and Miami (Ohio). 

Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
Interhall 
continued from page 20 
first controlled by St. Ed's with Sorin only having one possession the entire first half. St. Ed's put together a few long drives only to come up empty in the red zone. 
Sorin 's game winning touchdown came in the fourth quarter on a 35-yard touch­down pass from quarterback Colin O'Keefe to wide receiver Tom Doar. 
"Tom made a great adjust­ment on the play and was able to bring it into the end zone," O'Keefe said. 
Sarin's defense was able to hold on to the lead with an 
noticeable
interception by "They ran the ball 
was the coor­
cornerback Chris 
all over us in the 

dination
Paley that 
first half. but I between
clinched the 
brothers
game. think they got just 
Mitch and
The dominating 
as tired as we did. " 

Chad Knapke
force in the game 
as they took
was St. Ed's run­
primary
ning game that Colin O'Keefe 
responsibility
looked unstop­Sorln captain 
pable as it pound­ed away at Sarin's defense all day. St. Ed's went to its ground game on 24 plays and had two separate 70-yard drives in the first half. 
Each time St. Ed's threat­ened however, Sarin's. defense r.allied. forcing an intercep­tiOn to end the first drive and making a goal line stand on the second. 
Sorin's offense didn't see much time on the field throughout the game but then again most of the team was playing on both sides of the ball. Call it bad luck or just strange coincidence, but a large group of Sarin's starters weren't at the game. 
"We had three of our best players hurt today," O'Keefe said. "We even were missing one guy who got stuck in traf­fic on the way back from Chicago." 
To make things worse for Sorin, St. Ed's consistent rushing attack looked like it would wear down their undermanned team. 
"They ran the ball all over us in the first half but I think they got just as tired as we did," O'Keefe said. "We don't do a whole lot of conditioning during the week but somehow we stayed tough during the second half." 
The turning point in the game occurred at the end of the first half when St. Ed's failed to score after getting the ball first and goal at the 3. Sarin's defense held on three plays in a row and time ran out in the half before St. Ed's could get off a final play. 
Sarin's victory in their last regular season game puts them at 2-2. St.Ed's record now stands at 1-1-1 with one game left to play. The playoff situation for both teams will be decided by the games on Wednesday. 
Zahm 10, Fisher 7 
Wit.h the right players, in t~e nght place, at the right t111_1e. the Zahmbies played a skillful game to a victorious en?. Zahm won by a field goal this past Sunday, defeating Fisher 10-7, to put Zahm in possible contention for a play­off spot. 
"We had outstanding play from people who know how to pl~y foot?all," Zahm captain Mike Maimone said. "These guys stepped up and gave it everything they had." 
The win brings Zahm's record to 2-2 and closes its regular season play but puts the Green Wave back to a trailing 1-2 record with one game left against St. Ed's Wednesday. 
Zahm opened with the ball but quickly lost it on a fum­ble. The defense didn't back down however, holding the Fisher team behind the first­down line and forced the Green Wave to punt. 
Several long drives by quar­terback Casey Cullen started Fisher's second quarter more successfully, but Fisher lost the momentum after a third­down sack. 
The Zahm team energy as a whole exploded on its next 
ball posses­
sion.· Most 
for moving the ball into scor­ing territory. 
"Our defense stepped up, though we couldn't stop all the runs, but most of all, the offense's passing really game came to life," Zahm coach Joe Washington said. 
Zahm completed their touchdown drive with a pass to Mike Russell at the 15 and then Chad Knapke in the end zone. 
In the third quarter the Green Wave tried to make up the deficit with Andy Pfiester and Cullen running the ball, but the Zahmbie defense blocked a Fisher field goal attempt to end the quarter. 
Both teams were pushing at the end, playing fast but also sometimes clumsily. Zahm failed to make a first down against Fisher's aggressive defensive line. but regained the ball shortly after as the result of a Green Wave fum­ble. 
The offense made huge strides down the field, but then opted for the field goal. Kicker Zach Jara sent the ball through successfully for what turned about to be the game­winner. 
With just five minutes left on the clock, a revived Fisher offense then surprised its opponents with a rapid touch­down and extra-point comple­tion. 
Zahm scrambled to increase its lead but couldn't gain the needed yards. Fisher looked to try for a second touchdown in the last seconds but an interception by Zahm's Luke Dillon sealed the game for a Zahmbie triumph. 
"We lacked the intensity ... and once we had it at the end it came about because we had our backs to the wall, but it was too late," Fisher captain Tom Gorman said. 
After hopes of matching last season's opening loss turn­around with another three game winning streak. Fisher was surprised and dissatisfied by the outcome of the game. 
"We're disappointed we did­n't play at the level we should have," Gorman said. "As for next week, we're just looking to play better than we did and have some fun." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu, Steve Coyer at scoyer @nd.edu and Rachel Schiros at rschiros @nd.edu 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Keenan, Morrissey tie 12-12 
By KATERINE GALES, KATIE 
WAGNER and LAUREN 
OSTERHUS 
Sports Writer 

A closely played game ended anticlimactically Sunday after­noon, as the Keenan Knights tied the Morrissey Manorites 12-12. 
"We definitely didn't play as well as we should have " Morrissey quarterback Marty Mooney said. "We came out flat -this was a game we needed to 
win." 

Keenan appeared to be the supe~or team in the first quarter, scormg two easy touchdowns. Although the first drive of the game resulted in a punt to Morrissey, Keenan's Mark Munninghoff intercepted the ball for a 35-yard run that put the Knights first and goal on the Manor's 5. 
Quarterback Patrick Downey f?und Reed Langton on the goal !me for a touchdown by inches. Morrissey fought back to block the extra-point kick attempt. 
Langton would come through for the Knights again on the next Morrissey drive, blocking the punt and running it back for a touchdown. The extra point again f~ll short, as the Knights faked a kick and Downey's pass to the end zone was high. 
The Knights would not be in dangerous scoring territory again. Keenan started the second quarter with the ball on its own 13-yard line, then dropped six yards as the Manor defensive line forced a fumble. The punt on fourth and nine was blocked by Morrissey's Joe Dugan, who ran the ball back for the touchdown. 
In the second half, Mooney completed a twenty-yard pass to Dave Purcell for a touchdown. 
The extra-point was blocked, leaving the score at 12-12. 
Although the Manorites would put together several drives for the rest of the game, they would not be in close scoring range again. 
Keenan kept the defensive pressure on, as Brian Long sacked Mooney on his own 48­yard line for a loss of eight yards and Langton almost intercepted the next pass. 
Langton would later sack Mooney and end Morrissey's offense for the game. · 
However, Downey was unable to complete the long pass as time expired. 
Alumnl27, Keough 0 

Thanks to Alumni senior cor­nerback/wide receiver Cory Harkins three touchdowns and Alumni's dominate defense Keough (0-3) left the field Sunday defeated and scoreless, losing to Alumni 27-0. 
Keough's first possession ended quickly with an interception by Harkins. Alumni senior quarter­back Chris Cottingham completed a 14-yard touchdown pass to Harkins during Alumni's third possession to put the Dawgs on the board. 
After a touchdown pass from Cottingham to Chris Seponski and a field goal. Cottingham launched a 45-yard pass to a wide-open Harkins for another touchdown. Harkins scored Alumni's final touchdown off an interception and a 60-yard run by Harkins. 
"I feel I played well and I think our team did great," Harkins said "This was a must win for the playoffs." 
This win was especially exciting for Alumni (2-2). The team lost its last two games and was playing without six players due to injuries. 
"I think our defense leads the team, but finally our offense did what they had to and stepped it up," Seponski said. "By the end of the game, both sides of the ball were playing up to their poten­tial." 
Dillon 42, Stanford 0 

Dillon cruised by Stanford Sunday 42-0 behind a potent offensive attack and stringent defense that forced three inter­ceptions. 
The Big Red had six offensive touchdowns, as Stanford was unable to defend against Dillon's dominant running game. The Griffins also struggled to move the football throughout the game. 
Dillon's defense stopped Stanford at every turn. Ed Lira grabb~d two picks for the Big Red, With Robert McBride adding another interception. 
The defense positioned the ball well, providing scoring opportuni­ties on which the offense never failed to capitalize. 
Robert McBride, Ray Dennis, Dan Block and Ben Butwin all scored for Dillon, while Kevin McCarthy's had two more touch­downs in the incredible victory. 
Stanford seemed more focused on having a good time this season than on winning the league. This Sunday's contest was their last game, and although they lost, the Griffms remained upbeat. 
"I think we're defmitely the best 0-4 team out there," said tackle Matt Goulet. 
Although scoreless, the Stanford players never lost their spirit throughout the game, ardently supporting their team from the sideline. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu, Kaite Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu and Lauren Osterhus at losterhu@nd.edu 
International Study I*rograms 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

INNSBRUCK 
2003-2004 Academic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of · the program 
Question: "C:n 1 Really Spend a Year Away from Nl)?" Answer: It Was the Best Year ofMy .Life!" Tuesday, Octob~~i..4·:-·ioo3 216 DEBA-RTOLO 
4:30 Pl\11

................................_,________-'--______j 
Applications Available www/nd.edu!-intlstud 
Questions'?-Weber.l5@nd.edu 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2003 
Tuesday, October I 4, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

SCHOOL DAZE 

FIVES 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
JUMBLE 

JJ~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ESTUG 
j

I I r () 
Cl2003 Tribune Media SeiVk:ee, Inc. All Right& ReaeNed. 
NELLK 
I I I 
WABILE 
1 
rJ 
www.junille.com
tTENNIA 
t

J I I IJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRJON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WI-1.A-T IT TOOK FOR HIM TO ASK HE=R OUT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ms: 

A (I I I I I)"( I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: TWILL MINUS CATNIP QUAINT Answer: When she kept getting a busy signal, she called -IT QUITS 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Harry Anderson, Ralph Lauren, Roger Moore, Lillian 
Gish 

Happy Birthday: You will have some wonderful ideas this year, but if you are 
too quick to put your plans into motion you will fall short of your goals. This is 
not the year to take chances and certainly not a time to pursue your goals if you 
haven't prepared well for the task. You must slow down and plan your actions 
wisely and efficiently. Your numbers: 10, 19, 24, 28. 37,46 
ARIES (March 21-April I 9): Try to give others the benefit of the doubt today. It will be important that you keep busy. Don't start arguments in your domestic scene. You will be erratic and unpredictable. *-*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be creative in your work and you will get favorable response from employers. You can help a friend find a solution to a pressing personal problem by offering advice based on your own experiences. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Financial changes can be expected. Hidden assets or money that you didn't work for may be coming your way. Insurance surrenders, tax rebates or an inheritance may be forthcoming. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't overreact to personal situations that you cannot control. Visit with relatives who can help clear up your emotional confusion. Be careful not to nag about household chores. ** • LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your work should be your prime concern. You will be 
able to instigate important jobs if you are persuasive in your presentation. Make the changes you feel are necessary. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your high energy and competitive nature will put you in the driver's seat. Go after your goals and don't let others hold you back. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It is best to sit back and do your own thing. When family members need help let them ask. You will have trouble with loved ones if you get in the middle of an argument. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be looking into new avenues. Sign up for courses jf you are having a problem keeping a job. Financial problems are causing friction at home. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Relatives will be demanding if you let them. You must learn to say no if you wish to keep your sanity. Put your efforts into your professional goals. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get involved in worthwhile groups. Your mate will be demanding. Try to be understanding about his or her concerns, but don't give in to unreasonable requests.**** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should look into night courses that will enable you to change your professional direction. Expect to have a problem with a colleague who doesn't like the way you do things. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This is a great day to do things that you will find self-satisfying. You need to get out with friends or get into a hobby that will be stimulating. *** Birthday Baby: You love to be on stage. You're a born entertainer and a dramatic individual. You are in love with life and just want to enjoy all that it has to offer. You're not the best when it comes to saving money; however, you will experience a host of events, activities and circumstances throughout your life. Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Swiftly 6 Leading the pack 11 Programming 
problem 14 "M'A*S'H" clerk 15 Hawaiian hello 16 William Tell's 
canton 17 Subject of a parable of Jesus 19 New IBM hire, 
maybe 20_Victor 21 Play for a sap 22 Bridge 23 Take off the 
books 26 Squandered 28 Major work 29 "-had it!" 31 Rich tapestry 
32 A sib 33 Tankard filler 34 Set of principles 36 Conniving sort 38 ABC or XYZ 41 Serving on a 
spit 42 Bar bill 43 Comedian 
Olsen 44 Greet the day 46 Run smoothly 47 Level on the 
evolutionary ladder 48 Produce, as heat 51 Villain's epithet 53 Nile cobras 54 Long-jawed fish 55 Black cuckoo 56 Two liters, e.g.: Abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

57 Lewis Carroll poem 62 Big time 63 Encyclopedia section 64 Actor Milo 65 Sloppy digs 66 Barn dances 67 Whinny 
DOWN 1 Artist Jean 2 Something to 
try to shoot 3 Fuss 4 Core groups 5 Novelist Jong 6 J.F.K. overseer 7 Shed light on aMartini's partner 9 Pumps and 
clogs 10 Beachgoer's goal 11 Farm abundances 12 University of 
Illinois locale 13 Mel Ott's team 18 Telescope 
pioneer 22 Bit of mistletoe 23 Katharine of 
"The Graduate" 24 DeMille production, e.g. 25 "Boris Godunov," for one 

WILLSHORTZ 

27 Sir, in old India 40 Leathernecks' 52 Not achieved lunch
30 "Make" or 57 Shake up
"break" 44 Century plants 58 Pothook
33 Honey-colored 45 Vacation spot 
shape 34 Ides rebuke 46 Like some tea 59 Sorority letter 
35 Mine transport 47 Melodious 60 FraternitY party
37 Lets up 49 Playing marble staple
39 Away from the 50 Put off, as a wind motion 61 Derisive cry 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords lor young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
.' 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip.______ 
-

THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 14, 2003 
Page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Something to build on 
Victory at Pittsbrugh could be just what Irish need to get back on track 
By JOE HETTLER 

Sports Editor 
It might have only been one victory, but Saturday's dominating performance on the road against Pittsburgh could be the turning point for the Irish this season. 
After barely squeaking out a win over Washington State in its first game, Notre Dame dropped three straight games and fell to a measly 1-3. 
But Saturday may have turned the tides. 
to right guard. The mo-ve paid off as the Irish had a successful rushing attack. 
"I think everyone really kept their focus during the bye week," Molinaro said. "It's been really important not to listen to any outside voices. It's going to come. If we keep working hard it will come our way." 
Heading into the Pittsburgh game, arguably the weakest part of the team was the running game. But that unit can now build on the record-breaking rushing per­formance ofJulius Jones and the dominat­ing way it played on the rmal drive, when the Irish ran off the last nine minutes of the game. That 
"This game gave us a great momentum could stay with

"If there's a hole,
deal of confidence," Irish Notre Dame when it takes on 
quarterback Brady Quinn hit, ifthere's not a 
No. 5 USC next weekend at said. hole, make one. , home. 
The Irish defense complete­

"We had confidence in each ly shut down the Pittsburgh other," offensive lineman Bob
Bob Morton

offense. holding them to only Morton said, talking about the 
Irish center

17 5 total yards and the running backs and offensive 
offense gained 352 yards on the ground -the most by a Notre Dame team since 1999. 
"We've just never given up since the first week," offensive lineman Jim Molinaro said. "We've just kept moving forward. We knew we had to keep making progress and really build on what we accomplished [Saturday]." 
The bye week may have been the biggest factor in helping Notre Dame make such vast improvements. The week off gave the coaches a chance to move people around, like inserting freshman Ryan Harris into the right tackle spot and moving Dan Stevenson lineman. "Sometimes you 
bicker back and forth. But this time we just said, 'If there's a hole, hit it, if there's not a hole, make one.' 
The Irish must now look ahead to the Trojans, Boston College on the road and then a home game against Florida State. If Notre Dame can fmd a way to get through that stretch, they will have a good chance of finishing the season on a strong note, with games against Navy, BYU, Stanford and Syracuse to end the year. 
Contact Joe Hettler @ jhettler@nd.edu 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Knott destroys Carrol119-0 
By ANN LOUGHERY, STEVE 
COYER and RACHEL 
SCHIROS 
Sports Wrirers 

The two teams couldn't have been more different. 
The Carroll Vermin (1-2) suf­fered the most severe loss of their season 19-0 Sunday to the Knott Juggerknotts (2-1-1). Knott captain Drew Donovan described the win as "the best we've played all year." Donovan also believes Sunday's win will propel them to the playoffs after fall break. 
Knott scored early in the first quarter after senior Mike Pykosz caught a 20-yard pass 
from  quarterback  Ben  
Gilfillan.  Kicker  Eric  
Wooldridge  sent  the  ball  

through the uprights for the extra point to put the Juggs in the lead 7-0. 
"That really got us going," Donovan said of the touch­down. "From then on, we real. ly couldn't do anything wrong." 
On the following play, a penalty hindered the Vermin's offensive drive and ended the quarter. Several other penal­ties throughout the game limit­ed Carroll's opportunities for scoring. 
The Vermin began the sec­ond quarter in possession of the ball but soon relinquished it to the Juggs after a fourth down bungled punt attempt. Knott running back John Bisanz gained 15 yards rush­ing on the next two plays before the Juggs turned the ball over to the Vermin. 
Sophomore Alex Fergus soon intercepted a pass from Carroll quarterback Kory Wilmot to regain possession. Pykosz ran for 10 yards to put Knott 20 yards away from the end zone. 
After catching a five-yard pass from Gilfillan, Knott wide receiver Mike Peters ran for 10 yards into the end zone. Senior Dustin Beauchamp countered the offensive drive by blocking the Juggs' attempt for the extra point. 
Peters was additionally 
responsible for another touch­down at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Donovan cited Peters as a player that realized his potential during the game. 
"We really have to get him on the field as much as possi­ble," Donovan said. · 
It wasn't until the fourth quarter that the Vermin got their offense going. In the final minutes of the game, Wilmot rushed for 10 yards and passed for 15 to Butz and sophomore Dan Berkhout. 
"We abandoned our game plan early and never really got back on track until the fourth quarter," Butz said of the late offensive drive. "We lost as a team today." 
Carroll will face Siegfried Wednesday. Sorln 6, St. Ed's 0 
Usually there's strength in numbers but Sorin proved an exception to that saying as its 15 man squad pulled out a 6-0 victory Sunday over St.Ed's. 
The pace of the game was at 
see INTERHALL/page 18 
SMC GOLF 

Belles enjoy second straight MIAA title 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spores Edi cor 

Even after a tough first nine holes, the Saint Mary's golf team didn't lose confidence or the conference title. 
The Belles used consistent team play in the final 27 holes to fend off Albion by six strokes. Saint Mary's also won the overall standings for the season with a team average of 341 strokes per match. It was the second straight season the Belles dominated the MIAA conference. 
"We knew what we had to do," coach Mark Hamilton said. "We played consistent and we had the most consis­tent scores. There were no days really low, but no days really high either." 
After day one the Belles shot 342, good enough for a seven stroke lead over Albion. Hope, Saint Mary's stiffest competi­tion all season, struggled to a 
363. That high score all but locked up the overall season title for the Belles. So the team focused on putting away Albion on day two of the tournament. 
"We weren't so much focused on Hope as we were on Albion," Hamilton said. "But [Hope's] high score did take some of the pressure off." 
Stefanie Simmerman, the defending Division III national champion, finished the tourna­ment in fifth -tied with team­mate Julie Adams. Both had scores of 165. Simmerman also tied for co-medalist honors for the entire fall season with a 
82.8 average. Adams was only one stroke away from tying her teammate, as she ended the fall averaging an impressive 83 strokes per round. 
The championship is also positive for the entire Saint Mary's community. The Belles 
see CHAMPS/pagel6 
-SMC SOCCER CLUB SPORTS MEN'S SOCCER 
NFI. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL

Al PLAYOFFS
en 
w

ta-u Saint Mary's 2 
Notre Dame at 
Saint MaiY's 3 
Adrian 0 

The Notre Dame 
Cleveland State 

The Red Sox even the 
Tri-State

News and notes from 
men's water polo team 
7 p.m. Today 

series against New York 
around the league. 
a:~ 
takes second place in a 
behind the strong pitch-
Saint Mary's 3 

== 
The Belles record their 
weekend tournament at 
The Irish look to 
Michigan

ing of Tim Wakefield. 
"'­
fifth shutout of the sea-

Northwestern. 
rebound against Vkings. 
Dearborn 1 
son.

D.ti 
page 16 
page 17 
page 15 

page 13
page 14

en 
page 16 





