
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 38: ISSUE 29 

Do111er Run helps charity 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
A<.•ociate News Editor 
Fitnnss-minded students, faculty, staff and alumni will join together Saturday morn­ing to partidpate in the 21st annual campus Domnr Hun to raise money for Notre Dame's Prostate Awareness Cancer Edueation program. 
"It's been for different causes throughout the years," said organizer Bill Heagan, "always something dealing with eaneer. It used to be a fundraiser for breast cancer, and now for prostate cancer." 
According to the National Prostate Cancer Coalition, roughly 2Y,OOO American 
see RUN/page 4 
FRIDAY. OCTOBER3. 2003 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Boat Club still afloat 



Malloy delivers annual address 

Saint Mary's looks for a fight song 
By MICHELLE EGGERS 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Government Association will offer $250 to the College com­munity member who composes the best lyrics for the develop­ing school fight song. 
The campaign for the song, led by Athletic Commissioner Danielle Lerner, aims to unify the Saint Mary's community by incorporating academics, ath­letics and leadership into a common expression of identity. 

''I'm hoping to bring together not only the present four class­es of Saint Mary's, but the future and past classes, for unity of all Saint Mary's women," Lerner said. 
As liaison between athletics and student government, Lerner said her job is to encourage student support and involvement in athletics. When she first took office, she said she was surprised to learn that no light song existed. 
"There has been talk amongst students for a few years about wanting a fight song, but the interest to devel­op one always fell through," director of Student Activitins and Board of Governors advi­sor Georgeanna Hosenbush said. 
The development of th1~ song will benefit the entire commu­nity, not just athletics, Hosonbush said. Student lead­ership organizations oftnn trav­el to conferences whnre other schools chant their light song. Saint Mary's students will now be able to answer back. 
see SONG/page 4 

Archbishop of Chicago speaks 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Cardinal Francis George, the archbishop of Chicago, delivered a keynote address Thursday night to kick off an ecumenical conference entitled "Formation and Renewal." 
George said he appreciat­ed the invitation to speak at the conference, which runs through Saturday. "At Notre Dame, I see so many Chicago names and the results of so much Chicago money," he quipped. 
His remarks in McKenna Hall focused on "The Legacy of Pope John Paul II," speeifically how the pope has add res sed post-Enlightenment conflict between faith and reason. 
He decried modern secu­larism which he said looks at God as "a competitor, try­ing to restrain human free-is try." 


"lllis papacy hasl an image of a God who is pre­occupied with humanity. And if God is a humanist, then 
the  humanist  should  be  
godly," George said.  
In  spnaking  about  the  

see CARDINAL/page 8 

Malloy presents 10­year strategic planning report 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 
In his annual faculty address on Thursday, University President Father Edward Malloy presented the University's most recent 10­year strategic planning report, entitlnd "Notrn Dame 2010: Fullilling ttw Promise." 
Thn 2003 version of the decennial report highlights Notre Dame's "providential mission" to be one of the great universities of the world. which n~lates to the University's posi­tion as a great Catholic aca­demie institution, Malloy said. 
"We must take the next step and measurn our success by the highest standards in conso­nance with Catholic tradition," said Malloy. "The time has come to fulfill our potential of historic greatness." 
"Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise" proposes three essential goals for the University over the next decade: improvement in the relationship between teaching and research, emphasis of the centrality of community in edu­cating the "whole person" and the fostering of a pre-eminent center of Catholic intellectual life. 
Malloy said teaching and research are "two facets of the same academic reality." The University can maintain its suc­cessful programs in teaching and research by striving for innovation in teaching and forging for itself an acknowl­edged position among peer institutions in terms of both graduate programs and faculty 
see MALLOY/page 4 

Above and at left, the line forms to get into Boat Club Thursday night. Largely driven by upperclassmen, the bar is beginning to regain some of its former popularity.
•

PHOTOS BY TIM KACMAR 
By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 
They called it the ship that eould never sink. 
And despite hitting a large ke­berg last January, the Boat Club seems to be living up to that repu­tation judging from the throngs of studenl<> on board during rncent weekends. 
Though the Boat Club is afloat once again, them's a dillimmt ­that is, morn legal -crowd going sailing this year. 
"It's just as loud, just as hot. just as sweaty, and just as fun, but it's just all upperelc1ssmen there now," senior Arnie Wersching said. 
That's understandable, consid­ering 231 underage drinkers were cited in the Jan. 24 raid on the bar. 
Boat Club owner Mike McNeil' said his business declined drasti­cally alter thn bust. 
"Everybody thought I was closed," he said. But as people 
see BOAT/page 4 

dom." 
"And if God is a threat to our freedom. then he must be killed, because we kill for our freedom." George said. 
He praised the pope's lead­ership against secularism, saying "there are many rea­sons to be grateful to God for John Paul II and his min­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, October 3, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Justifying my choice 
I always have to defend myself when I discuss my choice college. Well, maybe not so much the col­lege, as the name Saint Mary's speaks for itself, but rather the demographic location of my Megan O'Neil 
choice of college. 
When home in southern Wire Editor California, people always give me the "are-you-insane?" look when I tell them I attend school in Indiana. The contorted facial expressions are accompanied with some of naive but truly sincere question such as "Do they have grocery stores out there?" or "Have you been cow tipping yet?" Hard-core Californians are more comfortable with crossing the boarder into Mexico than venturing past, say, Arizona. 
While I reside here in South Bend the response is not much better. My freshman orientation counselor asked me point-blank exactly what I thought I was doing here. Close friends still find it hard to believe that I would leave the warm weather and Hollywood atmosphere of LA. 
Really though, I don't think my decision is all that irrational. Yes, yo-yoing across the country with giant pieces of luggage can be wear­ing at times. And I admit that I have suffered from a bit of culture shock here and there. But being a Californian in this college communi­ty has proved to be incredibly fun. 
First. moving to the Midwest gave me an excuse to go shopping. With the assistance of my father's credit card, I reconstructed my wardrobe top to bottom. I finally had an excuse to purchase those adorable scarves and hats that are always in the J. Crew catalogues. I went from not having a sweater to my name, to sweating onto my flight four layers thick because my mother and I could not zip my suitcase shut. I bought my first pair of boots, and much to my friends' amusement, I wore them every day starting Oct. 1. just in case of a sudden snowstorm. 
Further, coming to Indiana gave me the opportunity to be introduced to an array of mid-western novel­ties. I marvel at the enormous size of Meijer every time I enter the superstore. In my first few weeks at school. I ate more custard than was healthy and am still unable to describe exactly how it is different from ice cream. I took my first freez­ing dive into Lake Michigan and made my first attempt at water ski­ing. 
The exchange has not been one sided. I was able to give my college friends their first taste of west coast life over spring break last March. I chauffeur them all around L.A. in my family's Volkswagen van. We hit up every tourist destination from "The Tonight Show" to the Sunset Strip. My friends excitement made places I found all too familiar fun again. 
So, next time you meet a student from California, don't question their intelligence, just ask them if they have tried a custard cone yet. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR PREDICTION FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME THIS WEEKEND? 

Alan Choo  Chloe Risto  Gabriel Rosanlo  Spencer Qulel  Tommy Forr  
Freshman O'Neill  Senior Off-Campus  Sophomore Morrissey  Senior Fisher  Freshman O'Neill  
"Who are we  "Really good!"  'Tm going to  "There's no way  "Better than  
playing?"  stick with 'em,  we can lose!"  Michigan."  





20 points over the Panthers!" 

SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 

On South Quad Thursday, engineering students execute one of their biggest proj­ects of the fall semester -launching objects to hit an exact target. This project takes weeks of preparation, and the students get only one chance to hit their tar­gets. 
OFFBEAT 

swung around and followed. 
"It was pretty lucky on my part and pretty stupid on his part for driving the truck around here," Francis said. 
He trailed the truck until the driver parked at a home and went inside. 
Francis, armed with a can of pepper spray, slipped into the truck and drove it away. 
"I knew the key gets stuck in the ignition. so I figured it would be in there. That's probably why it got stolen in the first place," Francis said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
U.K. dog sniffs out suspicious cash 
LONDON -A real pound pooch trained by police to sniff out banknotes helped authorities confiscate more than $39,000 in cash Thursday from a man at a London train station. 
The dog, one of 25 trained by British police to detect the scent of ink in bank notes, singled out a man carrying the 23,900 in British pounds at the Euston train station. authorities said. 
The man-whose identi­ty has not been released ­allegedly could not explain why he had the money. He was released but the cash was confiscated under the Proceeds of Crime Act. 
VIctim of theft steals his truck back 
CRESCENT CITY. Calif. ­When Joe Francis' truck was stolen, he didn't get mad. 
He just stole it back. 
Francis was upset when the truck vanished from outside his work Monday ­he didn't have insurance to replace it. 
Francis was on his way to Brookings. Ore.• to buy a new car Tuesday when he spotted the purloined truck headed the other way. He 


IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics & Culture invites stu­dents to join in exploring sources of moral and spiritu­al renewal, reform and for­mation available in a culture marked by the loss of mean­ing and direction. This con­ference takes place all day today in McKenna Hall. 
Enjoy lunch with Multicultural Student Programs and Services, co­sponsored by Johnson & Johnson today from noon to 
1:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Hear the greatest musical talent that Morrissey has to offer with the show Unplugged. The show takes place today from 4 to 6 p.m. at Morrissey Manor. 
Listen to music from Indian culture tonight with the Indian Association Classical Music Concert. Sponsored by the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, the concert takes place today from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. There will be an admission charge. 
SUB is sponsoring two showings of "The Matrix Reloaded" tonight at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 101. Admission is $3. 
Experience the hip-hop phenoms that are taking Ohio by storm. Ordinary Peoples are performing tonight from 9 to 11:30 p.m. at Legends. Doors open for the show at 8:30. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



HIGH 
62 

LOW 
41 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 






56 43 HIGH HIGH 41 35 LOW LOW 


Atlanta 70 I 49 Bos~on 59 I ~7 Chicago 55 I ~0 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 80 I 63 Los Angeles 74 I 60 Minneapolis 55 1 38 New York 60 I 50 Philadelphia 61 I 46 Phoemx 93 I 70 Seattle 72 I 52 St. Louis 62 I 49 Tampa 85 I 71 Washington 61 1 43 
Friday, October 3, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Campus-wide Fair to be held 
Students produce voter's guide 
Her first goal, she said, was to all the candidates contacted this
Saint Mary's class 
build an opportunity for her stu­year chose to be interviewed, publishes local dents to publish their work and those who did were very gracious, add to their professional portfo­students said. 
voting manual lios. The second was to provide a Last year, one student's assigned service to the voters of South Bend candidate left the interview and allow them to get to know abruptly and she was forced to
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
their own political candidates. pay for a large breakfast bill her-
News Writer 
Participant Laura self. In another Coristin described more serious inci­A group of Saint Mary's students herself as both "It is kind ofcool to dent, students dis­have created "The Citizen's excited and appre­do an assignment covered that a Toolkit," a voters' manual for the hensive when she candidate did not
for a class that 

upcoming local elections. was assigned to have a legal Students in Professor Susan interview South means something." address in South Baxter's journalism course com­Bend Mayor Bend, a require­piled the booklet, which follows Stephen Luecke for ment for someone
Laura Corlstln 

last year's inaugural edition. The the project. She said seeking public
student

Toolkit includes biographical she came away office. information and campaign goals from the interview, Members of the for candidates seeking eleven dif­however, impressed with the can­South Bend community have wel­ferent municipal positions, includ­didate's friendliness and dedica­comed the Toolkit warmly. ing those running in the South tion. When word of the resource got Bend and Mishawaka mayoral "It is kind of cool to do an out, voters began to request the races. assignment for a class that means guide specifically. 
As a result of the smaller-scale something," Coristin said. Last year, hard copies were dis­elections this year, the Toolkit will "Professor Baxter could have just tributed at the county clerk's only be available in an online given us another paper. And it is office, libraries, and Wal-Mart. A form. great to be able to go to an link to online version can be found 
Baxter said she created the idea employer and say 'Hey look, I on the Women's League of Voters for the project two years ago out have been published."' and the South Bend Tribune's Web of necessity. New to the area, she Most students in the class were sites. and her husband requested a vot­unfamiliar with the dynamics of Baxter calls the success of the ers' guide at the county clerk's local politics. Their work on the project a testament to Saint office, but were told that no such voters' guide, however, has Mary's and its students, and she resource was available although it changed that, and many said they said she plans to continue publish­was often requested. Baxter intend to keep an eye on their ing the guide annually. seized the chance to improve her assigned candidates on election­"I wasn't surprised with the students' writing and interviewing day. product last year, and what has skills, and expose them to the "I would say this project is good come in this year so far," Baxter world of public service. because it lets you get to know the said. "I wouldn't do this project 
"The beauty of all this," said politicians on a personal level," with a lesser group of students." Baxter, "is that it provides class­said student Lora Wilcomb. room discussion and teachable Overall, the production of the moments which you could not second Citizen's Toolkit has been Contact Megan O'Neil at invent." smoother than the f!I'St. While not onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writer 
In a showcase of Notre Dame's diversity of culture and talent, the third annual Campus-wide Fair will take place on North Quad from 1 to 5 p.m. Saturday, with enough music, dancing and free food to fill up the void of a football bye weekend. 
Sponsored by, among others, the Student Government, Student Union Board, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, Student Activities, Campus Ministry and the Oass of 2006, the Fair involves over 40 clubs of all interests from around campus, including multicultural, performance, and media groups. To allow the event to be cost-free for attendees, the Student Government allotted each group with $150 to cover their expens­es. 
Tessa Garcia, chair of the diversity division for the Office of the President, said, 'The goal of the fair is not only to celebrate our different heritages through the exposure of the cultural clubs, but also to reveal the tal­ents and diversity of other cam­pus clubs as well." 
The show will open with a series of free-styling performanc­es by children from within the community, which Teamwork for Tomorrow sponsored. Other fea­tured groups include the Hawaii Club, Irish Dancing Club, First Class Steppers, Swing Club, Undertones, Porn Squad, FASO and Student Broadcasting Oub. 
From its humble beginnings in the LaFortune Ballroom three years ago, the Campus-wide Fair has moved to North Quad to sat­isfy space and location concerns. 
"After the success of the flrst multicultural fair ... several stu­dent leaders wanted to expand it and allow the entire campus to see the cultural richness it embraces. North Quad is an excellent venue through which the cultural clubs can do a big event and share their culture with those who have never expe­rienced it," said Garcia. 
Besides being regaled with free entertainment and food, stu­dents will also be given the opportunity to win raffied prizes, such as gift certificates to Legends and tickets to see David Spade at the JACC that evening. The dorm with the highest atten­dance will also be rewarded for its efforts. 
"Held early in the year, during a football bye weekend, the Fair represents a taste of what each cultural club has to offer throughout the rest of the aca­demic year. It speaks a message of welcome," Garcia said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Friday, October 3, 2003 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Run 
continued from page 1 
men die each year from prostate cancer, and one in six are at a lifetime risk of developing the disease. 
The event, sponsored pri­marily by RecSports and the Alumni Association, is divided into three components: a six­mile run, a three-mile run and a two-mile walk. 
All three groups will begin and end near the quad in front of the Hesburgh Library and follow a course designed to highlight the most scenic aspects of campus. 
"The race begins at 11 a.m. Saturday, and it starts across the north gate of the Stadium," Reagan said. "Registration is right on the Library Mall. The finish line is right around there too-run­ners will end up running right towards Touchdown Jesus." 
Reagan and a committee of organizers have been working to put the race together since early September, after a plan­ning meeting this summer. 
A large part of the organiz­ing process, he said, was to design a new course for par­ticipants to follow. 
"It's kind of a unique course," organizer Bill Reagan said. "A lot of work 
goes into putting the course together itself. It winds all around campus ... Anyone who does the six-mile run is going to see a lot of campus and around the two lakes." 
Last year, the race boasted 156 participants, but Reagan said he would like to see that number increase this time around. 
''I'd like to double that, but I think people are kind of watching the weather," he said. "So anything we can do to encourage them to either sign up early at RecSports or come out that morning is really helpful." 
Reagan said organizers have tried to advertise the 

event through as many means possible that will attract a higher number of partici­pants. 
"Students are our target group to actually run in the race," he said. "We'll have six categories in both the 6-mile and 3-mile events. We have male and female undergrad, grads and staff/faculty cate­gories. We have a lot of grad students that participate. We had a lot of undergrad females last year and a lot of graduate males." 
Sponsorship of the event by local and on-campus busi­nesses has allowed organizers to donate all proceeds from the race to the P.A.C.E. pro­gram. 
Last year, Reagan estimat­ed, about $1,000 was donated to the charity, and this year he said he hopes the $8 race­day entry fee will attract new participants. 
Everyone who takes part in the event will receive a T­shirt and a pancake breakfast at the finish line. 
"adidas will furnish each winner with a pair of running shoes, too," Reagan said. "They get a plaque from RecSports and a certificate for a pair of new running shoes." 
Contact Megban Martin at mmartin@nd.edu 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
research Malloy said. 
"We will not grow substan­tially in size, but rather in qual­ity," Malloy said of the planned enhancement of doctoral and research programs. 
Notre Dame hopes to estab­lish a more comprehensive learning community by increas­ing diversity of both students and faculty. 
"We've got a long way yet to go, but I think we are making progress," Malloy said. 
"The University will strive to strengthen faith in students and to provide a "vibrant, healthy social and extracurricular life." 
He encouraged a "heightened sensitivity to cultural issues," while insisting upon the 
Song 
continued from page 1 
The first phase of the project is to generate lyrics through a competition open to the Saint Mary's community. Lerner said there is no specific length requirement for lyrics, but they should encompass the spirit of Saint Mary's and the integrity of women. 
"The lyrics should acknowl­edge the community as the Belles, as lately extra emphasis has been placed on that part of our identity," Lerner said. 
After the Nov. 1 deadline for submissions, the Board of Governors will narrow entries to two or three selections, based on the overall number of entries. They will post the final­ists on the online Prism system, where students will be able to vote for their favorite. The author of the winning entry will receive the $250 prize money sponsored by the BOG. 
Once the lyrics are finalized, a 

Tan like the Hollywood Stars! 
As Seen on GoOd Morning Atrieriea, ·· Regis and in People MagJ~Zine 
Tan in 20 minutes! 
Perfectfor upcoming 
SYR's and Formals! 
$5.00 discount with ' 
Student ID ! ! · · 
Now available in 
Mishawaka at 

KC'S AIRBRUSH TANNING 
World Gym Fitness Center Town & COuntry Shopping Ceriter 
255-4508 
for appointment .·. 

University's responsibility to restore trust within its commu­nity in the midst of scandals within the Church and chaos in economic and political spheres. 
He said Notre Dame has a responsibility to criticize and propose a "way to move for­ward." 
"There ought to be great con­versation at a great Catholic university," Malloy said as he urged the faculty to dismiss "jargon-ridden conversation" and embrace the depth of resources it possesses. 
Malloy said Nobel laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu was a model for faith-based intellec­tual conversation because he integrated faith, social issues and healing. 
"Ethics ought to inform all that we do," Malloy said. 
Contact Beth Erickson at eerickso@nd.edu 
separate competition will be held for the commissioning of music. Exact details of this com­petition are still undetermined. 
Rosenbush said they plan to unveil a recorded version of the fight song on March 19 at Midnight Madness. This record­ed version will then be incorpo­rated into various campus events. 
"This project is a wonderful idea," said Rosenbush. "It shows the growing pride developing for the school and the desire to share it with others." 
Contact Michelle Eggers at egge2272@saintmarys.edu 
Boat 
continued from page 1 
have realized that isn't the case, McNeff has seen a slow, gradual increase in revenue. 
As turnout has exceeded his expectations, McNeff has increased his stock behind the bar to avoid situations like the past two Thursdays, when stu­dents drank the Boat completely dry. McNeff said it took him two weeks to get adjusted to the renewed influx of customers. 
"The seniors came together and let each other know that we're still open and just as much fun. There's more security, but once you're in, it's still the same old Boat Club it always was," McNeffsaid. 
"And there are still the same specials," he added, alluding to the bar's infamous $1 pitchers. 
McNeff said several students have complimented him that the Boat Oub now feels like a senior bar. 
"This year I think people are more excited about it," senior Roxie Trevino said. "They're stoked because it's the same thing as freshman year except it's legal now. People are excited about the re-emergence of it." 
To deter those for whom boat­ing isn't legal, McNeff said he has stepped up his security. 
First, McNeff chose to do away with the stamp Boat Oub previ­ously used to mark patrons' hands upon entrance to the bar. Aware of students who would rub their stamp off on an under­age friend's hand to avert the bouncer, McNeff opted to use sented themselves to the bar as wristbands instead. A bouncer being 21 years of age. puts bands on all patrons' wrists Some of those students said -tightly-as they enter, and he they haven't returned to the Boat changes the type of wristband Oub because they don't want to distributed each night. risk more trouble after the frus­

Although McNeff used a video trating legal process they have camera the past few years to undergone. tape students as they show their A South Bend judge recently IDs to the bounc-dismissed 40 of er, he said he those suits, declar­now displays the ing that no legal
"It's 
monitor to prove precedent exists in
understandable to 
to incredulous Indiana for such lit­students that the be angry about it. igation and that camera actually underage students
But it's not about 
does work. could not be held
the legal issues. It's 
Bouncers also solely responsible consistently scan about being at the for damages the IDs at the door, Boat with your bar could incur as a and students result of the bust. 
buddies.,
wishing to enter Millennium must sign affi­Enterprises davits proclaim­Roxie Trevino appealed those ing they are suits and attempted 
student 
indeed 21 years of age. 
"There's technically not much more we can do at the door," McNeffsaid. 
With new security measures and an increasing student pres­ence, McNeff is more confident about the future of his business. 
'There's a lot ofloyalty. People are glad we're still around, and they've said they support us and understand everything we're going through," McNeffsaid. 
But not all former patrons were as understanding. 
1\vo hundred Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students cited in the Boat Oub raid are being sued by Millennium Enterprises, the company that owns the bar, for $3,000 each. The lawsuit claims students fraudulently misrepre­
to postpone the remainder until April. Other students were willing to overlook the lawsuits, though. 
Whether they come to dance to Bon Jovi, reclaim their cups championship title, imbibe cheap beer, or stick to the floor, a signif­icant number of students have chosen to make Boat Club part of their weekend routine. Whether the bar's lawsuits are ethical or not, some seniors say they just can't forsake their first love. 
"It's understandable to be angry about it," Trevino said. "But it's not about the legal issues. It's about being at the Boat with your buddies." 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 3, 2003 Co~\1PILED FROM .fl·lE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel will build settlement homes 
JEHUSALEM-Israel announced Thursday it would build 565 new homes in Jewish set­tlenwnts in the West Bank, violating a U.S.­backed peace plan and angering Palestinians already seething over plans to build a securi­ty barrier deep into the West Bank. 
The "road map" peace plan requires a freeze in construction in some 150 Jewish settlements throughout the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which Israel seized in the 1967 Middle East war. 
Ilowever, an Israeli official said Israel did not have any responsibility to meet its obli­gations until Palestinians crack down on mil­itant groups. 
"The road map is stalled as long as there is no action taken by the Palestinians to dis­mantle the terrorist infrastructure," said Zalman Shoval, an adviser to Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. 
When asked whether the U.S. government backed that interpretation, he said, "This is our understanding, the understanding that we have had all along, and we haven't changed it." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Feds expand probe on CIA leak 
WASIIINGTON -The federal investigation into the leak of a CIA oflicer's name expand­ed Thursday beyond the White House and the spy agency to other parts of the govern­nwnt with access to the ortlcer's classified identity. 
The Justice Department sent "do not destroy" letters to the Defense and State departments requesting preservation of phone logs, e-mails and other documents that could become evidence in the inquiry, senior law enforcement officials said. 
"We will cooperate fully," said State Department spokeswoman Susan Pittman. Two Defense Department officials said they had been told earlier to expect such a letter 
The goal for investigators is to cast as wide a net as possible for anyone who might have leaked the identity of Valerie Plame, a CIA operations oflicer who has served overseas. Plame is married to former Ambassador Joseph Wilson. who has accused the Bush administration of selective use of intelligence to exaggerate the threat from Iraq. 
Kidnapping charges abondoned 
SAlT LAKE CITY -Prosecutors dropped kidnapping charges Thursday against a cou­ple who 11ed Utah with their 12-year-old son to avoid court-ordered chemotherapy for the boy. 
In exchange, Daren and Barbara Jensen pleaded guilty to custodial interference. The couple will receive no jail time or fines under the deal. and the misdemeanor conviction will be erased in a year if they stay out of trouble with the law. 
The Jensens smiled as they entered their pleas. and Daren Jensen said afterward that they were "feeling great." The couple declined further comment, but their lawyer, Blake Nakamura, said they accepted respon­sibility for the custody count. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ball State student sues over injury 
MUNCIE. Ind. -A former Ball State University student left paralyzed when a foot­ball goal post fell on him is suing the post's manufacturer. 
The lawsuit filed in federal court in Indianapolis claims that Gilman Gear of Gilman. Conn.. was negligent in how it made the goal posts that snapped after Ball State fans climbed onto them after an upset victory over Toledo in October 2001. 
Andrew Bourne. now 23, of Liberty was paralyzed after the goal post fell on him. breaking his back. Bourne has been para­lyzed since then, said his attorney, Scott Montross. 
"All we want for [Gilman) to do is build goal posts that don't snap and that don't come crashing down on people," Montross told The Star Press. 
House votes to restict abortion 
Bill outlaws partial birth abortion, passes 281-142 
Associated Pcess 
WASHINGTON -The House voted decisively Thursday for the first ban of an abortion procedure since the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade ruling that women have a right to end their pregnancies. Strongly supported by President Bush. the bill could be on his desk for signature within days. 
The 281-142 vote culmi­
nated an eight-year drive 
by the Republican-led 
House to end the proce­
dure that abortion oppo­
nents call partial birth 
abortion. The Senate could 
take up the bill as early as 
Friday and send it to the 
president. 
Abortion rights groups. citing court rulings striking down similar state laws. say the legislation is unconstitutional and they will challenge it as soon as it becomes law. 
Doctors who knowingly violate the ban would be subject to up to two years in prison. The law would not affect women having the operation. 

The legislation bans a procedure, generally in the second or third trimester. in which a fetus is partially delivered before a doctor punctures the skull. The opposing sides differ on the medical necessity or the numbers of such abor­throughout a pregnancy." -was too vague. "What the law does is tions, but they agree the While the vote was main­Writers of the bill said prevent doctors from using bill will have far-reaching ly along party lines, four they had met the court's the safest medical proce­ramifications. Republicans voted against objections by tightening dures to terminate a preg­
"Abortion will stay the bill and 63 Democrats the definition and adding nancy as early as 12 legal," said House Majority supported it. findings to show the prac­weeks," she said. Leader Tom DeLay, R­The House has passed tice is never needed for Her group is one of sev­Texas, a strong supporter the bill on an almost annu­health reasons. eral that says it will file a of the restriction. But he al basis since Republicans "Partial birth abortion is lawsuit as soon as the bill added. "After a generation won control in 1995, but dangerous to women and is signed into law. The of bitter rhetoric, the President Clinton twice is never medically neces­National Abortion American people have vetoed it. saying it lacked sary to preserve a Federation. represented by turned away from the divi­an exception to protect the woman's health," said Rep. the American Civil sive politics of abortion health of the mother. Steve Chabot. R-Ohio, a Liberties Union. will also and embraced the inclu­The health factor was chief sponsor. Chabot said file suit and seek to block sive politics of life." also key to the Supreme the procedure is "akin to enforcement. 
"Don't ever forget, this is Court's 5-4 decision in infanticide." Kate Michelman, presi­about Roe v. Wade," said 2000 to overturn a similar But Nancy Northup, dent of NARAL Pro-Choice Rep. Nita Lowey, D-N.Y., Nebraska state ban. The president of the Center for America, said a key issue referring to the 1973 high court also ruled that Reproductive Rights, said is whether Bush, if he wins Supreme Court decision the Nebraska law was the bill is written so that a second term. will nomi­making abortion legal. "It's unconstitutional because any mid-or late-term nate judges to the about restricting access to its definition of partial abortion could be subject Supreme Court who are safe medical procedures birth -not a medical term to criminal charges. hostile to Roe v. Wade. 

No WMDs in Iraq, U.S. official reports 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Chief U.S. weapons searcher David Kay report­ed Thursday he had found no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, a finding that brought fresh congres­sional complaints about the Bush administration's prewar assertions of an imminent threat from Saddam Hussein. 
Kay, in a report to Congress. described evidence of a possible small-scale biological weapons effort, and said searchers had sub­stantial evidence of an Iraqi push to boost the range of its ballistic mis­siles beyond prohibited ranges. 
But his team had found only limit­ed evidence of any chemical weapons 

effort, he said, and there was almost no sign that a significant nuclear weapons project was under way. 
"We have not found at this point actual weapons," Kay said. "It does not mean we've concluded there are no actual weapons." 
"In addition to intent. we have found a large body of continuing activities and equipment that were not declared to the U.N. inspectors when they returned in November of last year," he said. 
He cautioned that the search was still under way and said he should know within six to nine months if there was more to be found. 
The lack of substantive findings so far brought immediate negative reactions from both Republicans and Democrats in Congress -and also seemed certain to raise new ques­tions among allies overseas about the Bush administration's justifica­tion for going to war. 
''I'm not pleased by what I heard today, but we should be willing to adopt a wait and sec attitude -and that's the only alternative we really have," said Sen. Pat Hoberts, H-Kan., the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., said of Kay's briefing: "There was talk about facilities that might. There was talk about intent. But there was not talk about weapons of mass destruc­tion.... There's nothing we can point to and they're asking for another six to nine months." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 3, 2003 
Habitat for Hmnanity founder to speak Sunday 
By MIKE CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 

The founder of Habitat for Humanity International will be visiting the Notre Dame campus chapter of the organization this weekend as 
"Millard Fuller has admirers of note,
the chapter 
including former

begins con­done as much to 
presidents
struction on its 

make the dream of 
Jimmy Cartertenth house in 

the South Bend homeownership a and Bill Clinton. "Millard Fuller
area. reality in our 
has done as
Michael 

country and 
much to makeFuller, who is 

throughout the the dream of
scheduled to speak Sunday at world as any living home ownership 
a reality in our
1:30 p.m. in the 

person." 
country and
Hesburgh 
throughout the
Library 

Bill Clinton world as any liv­
Auditorium, will 
ing person,"

talk about his former U.S. president 
own life as well as Habitat for Humanity in the South Bend area said Kevin McCormick, co-president of Habitat for Humanity's Notre Dame chapter. 
"He is going to speak about the work that organizations like ours have done to elimi­nate substandard housing in this area, and what work needs to be done in the future to help focus our lives on this cause," said McCormick. 
Fuller is well known for his early business success and his subsequent renunci­ation of wealth before founding the unusually suc­cessful house-building pro­gram. 
Since the founding of Habitat for Humanity 
International in 1976, Fuller has been the recipient of many accolades, including the Medal of Freedom, the Harry S. Truman Public Service Award and the Martin Luther King Jr. Humanitarian Award. He also has many outspoken 
Clinton has said 
of Fuller. 

The construction of the tenth house is a significant accomplishment for the Notre Dame chapter, which is among the top three col­lege chapters in the country. 
"These houses are fully funded, organized and built by students, which is very unique," said McCormick. 
The club will work throughout the year at a cost of $55,000 before dedicating the house to a single-mother with six children. 
"This is a huge occasion of celebration for Habitat for Humanity at Notre Dame," said chapter co-president Colin Dowdall. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 
Ethics education honored 
Wall Street Journal ranks Notre Dame in the top five for ethical graduates 
ByJOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 

A special section of the Sept. 17 edition of the Wall Street Journal ranked Notre Dame's MBA pro­gram among the nation's top five for producing ethical graduates. The program tied for fourth place in ethics while the Mendoza College of Business ranked 31st in a survey of nearly 2,200 MBA recruiters. 
Yale University came in first place in the Wall Street Journal poll of which graduate schools produced the most ethical stu­dents, followed by Brigham Young University and Dartmouth College. 
In the article, reporter Ronald Alsop interviewed Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business, regarding the pro­gram's position on ethics. 
"We must challenge students about how much their values are worth and develop an awareness in them of the ethical implica­tions of business decisions," Woo said in the article. 
As a Catholic University, Notre Dame has always focused on teaching ethics. 
According to Mendoza faculty, ethics have been integrated into the business curriculum since the 1970s, well before many other business colleges added ethics courses and requirements in response to recent corporate scandals. 
"Today many schools are adding ethics courses, but for Notre Dame, this is nothing new," said Oliver Williams, associate professor of management. Williams is currently serving as a visiting professor at two South African business schools in Cape Town -the University of Cape Town and Stellenebosch University -where he is helping to develop an ethics program. 
Georges Enderle, the Arthur F. and Mary J. O'Neil Professor of International Business Ethics, cited three chief objectives of the ethics component to Notre Dame's business school curricu­lum: to raise among students and faculty an awareness of ethics, to provide students with knowledge of ethical theories and concepts and to teach students to learn the "skills of moral judgment." 
"Today, ethical values in busi­ness are fundamental," he said. "It's not an easy thing, but we have to face that." 
Notre Dame's two-year MBA program requires its students to take several classes that focus on ethics. Students must take a 1.5 credit class entitled "Conceptual Foundations of Business Ethics" during their first semester, and at least two additional 1.5 credit classes on more specific ethics topics, such as "Marketing Ethics" or "International Business Ethics." 
Enderle says that this configu­ration ensures a common ethical component as well as more indi­vidual choice and depth. 
"We want to provide a solid foundation [in ethics] and a deep­er analysis," he said. 
Ethics classes frequently use case studies to analyze particular business problems in depth. 
Williams cited an example of ethical considerations with respect to agricultural subsidies in Europe, the United States and Asia, which deny poor countries a chance to become competitive in the industry. 
Proper consideration of ethics, Williams said, would search for ways to allow countries to become more competitive. In this way, ethics education at Notre Dame explores problems from institutional and systemic per­spectives instead of looking at ethics from only an individual point of view. 
"It is not enough to look at these issues [of ethics] on the personal level, as important as these are," Williams said. "We must be concerned with devising strategies which allow the world's poor to have a better life." 
Enderle said that Notre Dame's emphasis on ethics could create the possibility for greater interac­tion and dialogue between schol­ars across different colleges such as Arts and Letters and Science. 
"We have a unique opportuni­ty," he said. "There are many faculty working in applied ethics. This is a huge potential and we can and should do more." 
The strength of business ethics at Notre Dame does not mean that the college should rest on its laurels, he said. 
"We have a reputation of being strong in ethics," he said. "This is a recognition of what we have done but also a challenge for us that we do more in that direc­tion." 
In addition to its ethics require­ment, two on-campus centers, The Institute for Business Ethics Worldwide and the Center for Ethics and Religious Values, allow Notre Dame's business stu­dents and faculty greater expo­sure to ethical questions through their research and conference sponsorships. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

Afraid you'll be lonely? 
Fr. Tom Eckert, C.S.C., St. Ed's rector, with his family at final vows. 

Try loving everyone. 
www.nd.edu/~vocation 
Be Not Afraid! 

Friday, October 3, 2003 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN IPRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.54 -0.05 3.20 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.48 -0.29 11.40 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.04 -0.21 19.99 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.03 -0.01 28.62 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.07 -0.02 28.50 
Treasuries 3G-YEAR BOND +1.06 +0.52 49.38 10-YEAR NOTE +1.96 +0.77 40.09 5-YEARNOTE +2.45 +0.69 28.81 3-MONTH BILL +0.22 +0.02 9.12 
Commodities 

UGKTCRUDE +0.45 29.84 GOLD -1.30 383.70 PORKBEWES -0.475 54.70 
Exchange Rates YEN 111.0 EURO 0.8562 POUND 0.602 CANADIAN$ 1.341 
IN BRIEF 
Guidant names Lorell to position 
INDIANAPOLIS -Guidant Corp. said Thursday it has named Beverly Lorell to the newly created position of chief medical and technology oflicer, effective Nov. 1. 
Lorell is professor of medicine at Harvard 
University Medical School and the director 
of a heart failure program at Boston's Beth 
Israel Deaconess Medical Center. 
At Indianapolis-based Guidant, Lorell will help evaluate technologies, determine devel­opment priorities and influence the compa­ny's clinical research strategy. 
Guidant, a leading maker of defibrillators and pacemakers. also said Lorell will act as an advocate on public policy initiatives. 
She was also named vice president and a member of Guidant's management commit­tee. In addition, Lorell will join the board of Compass, Guidant's investing and business development group. 
Lorell will report to Ronald Dollens, presi­dent and chief executive officer of Guidant. 
Shares of Guidant closed Thursday at $47.89, down 14 cents on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Isabel heightens unemployment 
WASIIINGTON -More people submitted new claims for unemployment insurance last week as laid-off workers who were pre­vented from filing because of Hurricane Isabel applied for benefits. 
For the work week ending Sept. 27, new applications for jobless benefits rose by a seasonally adjusted 13,000 to a two-week high of 399,000, the Labor Department reported Thursday. New claims hit a high this year of 459,000 in the middle of April. While layoffs have eased somewhat, econo­mists said the current level of claims still points to a sluggish labor market. 
The unemployment rate, now at 6.1 per­cent. is expected to nudge up to 6.2 percent for September. The economy also is expect­ed to have lost around 25,000 jobs during that month, which would mark the eighth straight month of job losses. The govern­ment on Friday was releasing the employ­ment report for September. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

FDA targets counterfeit drugs 
New problems with counterfeit drugs force government to rework guidelines 
.. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 
government is considering 
major changes to fight the 
growing problem of coun­
terfeit drugs, including 
making manufacturers 
ship pills in single-serve 
sizes rather than bulk and 
add hidden transmitters or 
chemical tags to assure 
pharmacists the medica­
tions arc genuine. 
Technology alone will not solve the problem, the Food and Drug Administration warned, and some high-tech gadg­ets such as the transmit­ters are a few years from being ready for wide­spread use. 
Worse, it takes criminals only a year or two to crack and copy many anti-tam­pering measures such as holograms or special seals, according to the first report, released Thursday, of the FDA's new counter­feit task force. 

In addition to new tech­nology, the agency plans to try to tighten security in the complex supply chain from manufacturers to wholesalers and repack­agers before prescription medicines arrive in drug stores. But buying drugs over in January. Also, the FDA is working 
At every stop, there are the Internet can increase Atop the options list is a to get more states to follow gaps where fake drugs can the risk. and counterfeits recommendation to make Florida's lead in tightening sneak into the supply. are sneaking into regular drug companies start ship­licensing and other 
"This is where the dol­drugstores more often, too. ping in smaller "unit of requirements for drug lars are, this is where The FDA has investigated use" sizes -say 30 pills in wholesalers and distribu­organized crime is being about 20 counterfeit cases a blister pack instead of tors. attracted," FDA commis­a year since 2000, com­hundreds per shipment Among the other options sioner Mark McClellan pared with five a year in that smaller distributors are: said, adding that narcotics the 1990s. then rebottle. + requiring tamper-evi­traflickers now see faking One of the biggest cases Smaller sizes can make dent packaging for all prescription drugs as an came last spring, when it harder to sneak in fakes drugs. easy sideline. more than 150,000 bottles and could mean an end to + requiring drug packages 
"We know the drugs of the top cholesterol med­companies that repackage to bear anti-counterfeiting available in the United icine Lipitor were recalled. or rebottle large shipments technologies, such as hid­States today are among Consumers complaining of into patient-sized bottles. den radio frequency trans­the safest in the world," he a bitter taste alerted the Europe has adopted that mitters that pharmacists said. "To keep it that way, FDA that knockoffs from system, but only 20 per­can scan to be sure they we need to remain on overseas were mixed into cent of the U.S. drug sup­did not buy a fake drug. guard." the real version. ply is shipped as unit-of­+ until that technology 
When drugs are bought The report outlines use. The pharmaceutical arrives, requiring the from a regular licensed options that the FDA wants industry has mixed feel­drugs most prone to coun­pharmacy, the chances of the public as well as drug ings, and McClellan said he terfeiting to be closely getting a counterfeit are makers and sellers to com­wants more information on tracked by limiting the less than 1 percent, ment on before final rec­whether the approach number of times they are McClellan estimated. ommendations are issued would save money. sold in the supply chain. 

Indiana improving tech economy 
other states in six categories: educa­tech jobs are not expected to change
Associated Press 

tional attainment, scientists and engi­significantly by 2005. Indiana is 27th 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's high­neers in the work force, the number and 31st, respectively, in those cate­tech economy is gaining momentum of patents per worker, research-and­gories. but still has plenty of improvement to development investment, venture cap­Indiana should create a friendly make to boost its national standing, a ital and tech jobs in the state econo­environment for all high-tech compa­study found. my. nies, not just spend capital trying to 
"Indiana is making gains in technol­The study's authors expect Indiana attract certain businesses to the state, ogy and continues to do so in absolute to improve on its current ranking of Carter said. terms in terms of venture capital and 34th for educational attainment and "It's important we stay on track with 
work force development," said reach 21st by 2005. the 2002 tax reforms and that we not Cameron Carter, interim president Indiana also is projected to improve change things in midstream that cre­and chief executive officer of from 33rd to 27th by 2005 in the ate uncertainty," he said. TechPoint. "But it is not making the number of scientists and engineers. The summary scorecard was devel­gains it should in terms of compar­And Indiana's No. 36 ranking in ven­oped by William Sheldrake, senior isons with other states." ture capital is expected to improve to vice president of research and policy 
TechPoint. a nonprofit group repre­31st by 2005. analysis at Thomas P. Miller and senting Indiana's technology-related However, research and development Associates. It covers Indiana's current industries, released its report card on in the state are projected to decline, attainment and expected attainment the state's technology growth at the from 19th to 28th by 2005. by 2005 in the six areas, with the goal group's annual gathering Wednesday. The rankings for the number of of reaching the top quartile among all 
The report compares Indiana with patents per worker and the number of the states in each category. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 3, 2003 
Saint Mary's opens 
Mitchem speaks at SMC 
Women and Religion

new high-tech center 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Some of the most advanced computer technology availahre has found a home in the Husking Instructional Technology Resource Center, located in the lower level of Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
The Husking Center is the new home for the Instructional Technology Center, which was previously located in the library media center. The center was made possible through a gener­ous grant from the Husking Foundation Inc., in 
staff is currently

"The center has 
strengthen the voice of the

memory of Charles, 
looking into stu­
black woman, which will, in

Catherine and equipment that 
dent interest in 
turn, strengthen the black

Francis Husking. 
anyone would be the creation of a 
community.

"The center has 
Saint Mary's

envious of" 
The second goal is to cre­

equipment that 
campus televi­
ate a theology that is used as

anyone would be 
sion network. 
a tool to liberate all people

envious of," said Dan Mandell 
The ITRC 
regardless of race, gender or

Dan Mandell, cen­center coordinator employs a num­
ter coordinator. 
The center's equipment is comprised of state of the art computers specially equipped for video editing and a unique "Smart Board" which gives teachers access to a pro­jection and touch screen. It will also be home to a digital video productions class, which has not been offered in ten years. 
The center's video editing equipment is a scaled-down ver­sion of the equipment used at WNDU. It will be beneficial to those interested in communica­tion, mass marketing, and video editing. 
Unlike its adjacent computer center, Trumper, the Husking Center is not intended for stu­
ber of students to 

class. deepened her faith. 
"The intersection of race, It made the connection gender and class together between the study of theolo­shape African-American gy and its practice in her lifedents to accomplish simple tasks such as checking e-mail or typing a report. 
"The center is intended for students who need digital help for projects," said Mandell. 
Students who wish to use the aid of the resource center should make an appointment to meet with a staff member. Students working on a serious video project also have the option of loaning digital cam­eras. 
The center also has the resources to become a small broadcast studio. It houses a recording studio ideal for con­ducting inter­views. The ITRC 
Luncheon features 'Womanist Theology' 
By ASHLEY DYER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's annualWomen and Religion Luncheon was held Wednesday and high­lighted Stephanie Mitchem's presentation, entitled "Womanist Theology," which discussed the incorporation of black women's experi­ences and lives holistically within theology. 
Mitchem, who is from the University of Detroit Mercy, said the womanist theolo­gian's primary goal is to first 

women's Jives," Mitchem said. Womanist 
"The intersection of
theologians 
focus on expos­race, gender and ing and dissect­class together ing these 
shape African­
points, in hopes 
that key areas American women's of oppression lives." will gradually fade and even­
Stephanie Mitchem 
tually be elimi­nated. 
presenter 
Faith as well as hope, as a black woman. 
Mitchem said she feels as though she takes action through her work as a professor and the effect she makes while engaging students with dialogue. 
Making connec­tions between subject matter whether history, 

aid students and faculty with technological proj­ects. There are currently about 10 students who can help stu­dents and faculty with the cre­ation of websites and with Blackboard. These students are tech assistants whose computer expertise can aid people in a multitude of technological aspects. 
The Husking Instructional Technology Resource Center is a place where students can access the support and equipment they need to successfully create a technological work of art. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at 
kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Mitchem said, was also incorporated when defining womanist theology. 
Mitchem said she began developing her own insight into womanist theology while pursuing degrees in ethics, theology and history 
While reflecting on her own journey in developing her spirituality, Mitchem said she feels womanist theology has ethics, theology, ethnography or medicine and womanist theology liberates students she said. 
By liberating students, womanist theologians are taking steps towards achiev­ing their secondary goal in liberating everyone she said. 
Contact Ashley Dyer at 
dyer 1865@saintmarys.edu 
devotion to the rosary. In series dealing with "reflec­2002, the pope added five tion on the renewal and for­new "Luminous Mysteries" mation that lie at the heart to the rosary's existing 15 of the culture of life," sections. according to program litera­
He explained the pope's ture. devotion to prayer, saying, Philosophers, theologians, "His is a contemplative life. and other academics from 
Constantly, he's  around  the  
in touch with  country will be  
the Lord." George said the pope's  "We've brought a lot ofhigh-level,  in attendance. In addition, under­graduate and  
prayers  give  well respected  high school stu­ 
him "the courage we've seen." In his  academics. Each person adds their  dents will pres­ent papers. Senior Jennie  
nearly 25 years  own little bit of  Bradley,  who  
as  pope, John  expertise, and it  helped  coordi­ 
Paul II has made 102 trips to foreign  adds up to this awesome whole."  nate the confer­ence, said that past conferences  
countries and  have been suc­ 
survived a 1981 assassi­nation attempt.  Jennie Bradley student  cessful because of the people they drew.  
The  speech  "  W  e  '  v  e  
was  eerily  brought a lot of  

timely, as one of his fellow high-level, well respected cardinals, Austria's academics," Bradley said. Christoph Schoenborn, said "Each person adds their that the pope was near own little bit of expertise, death. and it adds up to this awe­
The conference, sponsored some whole." by the Center for Ethics and Culture at Notre Dame, is Contact Matt Bramanti at the first in a three-part mbramant@nd.edu 

Cardinal 
continued from page 1 
pope's dramatic and poetic writings, the cardinal focused on John Paul II's use of light as an allegory. One of the pope's poems includes the lines, "the ele­ment of light; brightness breathes from every side." 
George said the pope's fre­quent use of light imagery is manifested in John Paul II's push for increased public 


• 
!
~ 
! ® 
I~olf-'i--¥--9-~ 
! 

i!..._._________, 
John M~ Marshall's 
Incorporated 
l}l()fj 
,Jt.~welers / GemologistsGoldsmiths I Platinumsmiths 
Kt-;;r Bank Building, Suite n101 
South Bend, Induma 46HO1 
287-1427 

Friday, October 3, 2003 The Observer+ NEWS page 9 
IRAQ 
Enemy becoming tnore deadly 
U.S. commander: 40 U.S. soldiers wounded weekly 
As•ociatcd Press 
BAGHDAD -Between three and six American soldiers are killed and another 40 wound­ed every week in Iraq by an enemy that has become more lethal and sophisticated since the fall of Baghdad in April, the commander of coalition forces said Thursday. 
Nearly six months after the fall of Baghdad, U.S. soldiers are still facing 15-20 attacks a day, including roadside bombs, Lt. 
said of his sol­diers. ''I'm having sol­diers wounded at a rate of about 40 a week and getting killed anywhere from three to six soldiers a week." 
Most attacks occur in Baghdad and the surrounding Sunni Muslim stronghold to the west and north of the capi­tal, although it's unclear whether Iraqi or foreign forces account for the majori­ty. 
"The enemy has evolved -a little bit more lethal, a little more complex, a little more sophisticated, and in some cases, a little bit more tena­cious," Sanchez said. 
Since May 1, when President Bush declared the end of major combat operations, 90 American soldiers have been killed by hostile fire in a low­level, guerrilla-style insur­gency. A total of 317 Americans have died since the war began March 20, accord­ing to the Pentagon. 
"They're getting 
Gnn. Hicardo Sanchez said. attacked every day. I'm Seven to 10 
having soldiers ... 
attacks a day 
getting killed anywhere 
involve small groups of from three to six 
fighters. soldiers a week. " 
"They're getting 
Richard Sanchez 
attacked every day," Sanchez Army general 
0 n Wednesday alone, three Americans were killed: a soldier from the 1st Armored Division who was shot while on patrol in the al-Mansour district of Baghdad; a female soldier from the 4th 

Infantry Division who died when a roadside bomb explod­ed about 300 yards from the main U.S. base in Tikrit, Saddam's hometown; and another soldier from the 4th ID, who died after a rocket­propelled grenade attack on a convoy near Samara, 60 miles north of the Iraqi capital. 
While most wounded Americans are treated at two military hospitals in Iraq, those with more serious injuries are evacuated to the U.S. military hospital in Landstuhl, Germany. 
Landstuhl has been receiv­ing an average of 40 to 44 patients a day from Iraq, but only about 10 to 12 percent are classified as "battle injuries," said hospital spokes­woman Marie Shaw. 
Since the start of the war, the hospital has treated 6,684 patients -5,377 after May 1, she said. 
"What we don't see a lot of, though we see some, is gun­shot wounds," Shaw said. "We see a lot of shrapnel wounds, some amputations, some burns -mostly from individ­ual explosive devices." 
Sanchez blamed the increas­ingly sophisticated resistance on the addition of foreign fighters entering Iraq from Syria and northern Iran. 
"We believe there is in fact a foreign fighter element. There is a terrorist element focused on the coalition and interna­tional community in general and the Iraqi people to try to disrupt the progress being made," Sanchez said. 
Coalition officials are not discounting the possibility that Saddam Hussein may have a hand in coordinating the vio­lence, he said. 
"It's very clear there is local command and control. We still are not seeing the national command and control struc­ture," though there are some signs of regional coordination, Sanchez said. 

Millard Fuller 
Founder and President of.Habitat for Humanity 
A self-made millionaire at age 
29, Fuller decided to sell all of 
.his possessions, give the 
money to the poor and begin 
searching for practical ways to 
apply Christ's teachings. 
Fuller has eru:ned international recognition for his work advocating decent. affordable housing for all. 
!\>lore than 625,000 people now have safe, decent, affordable shelter b<.--causc ofHabitat's work around the world. 


Saturday, October 4, 1:30pnt 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsort.-d by NO Habitat for Humanity, Habitat for Humanity ofSt. Joe County, and the ND Alumni Association 
Weapons searchers re-exatnine findings 
Associated Press ing the summer doubted they were designed to function as 
U.S. weapons hunters are mobile laboratories, according re-examining the only discov­to the three military officers ery the Bush administration involved in the weapons hunt. has cited as evidence of an "There were some people illicit Iraqi weapons program who really believed they were -a pair of trailers the CIA for making hydrogen for said were laboratories for weather balloons. Almost no making biological weapons, one was certain they were senior military officers biological weapons," said one involved in the hunt told The senior-ranking military com­Associated Press. mander involved in the 
The two metal flatbeds search. "The trailers arc groat stocked with cooling equip­examples of dual-use but ment, a water tank, an air that's about it," the command­compressor and a battered er said. fermenter were first described Dual-usc items, which could by Iraqi defectors as part of a have either military or civilian weapons program. But that applications, long troubled assertion, challenged by some U.N. weapons inspectors who 
U.S. defense analysts, has tagged most such equipment become the latest prewar and kept it under monitoring intelligence called into ques­while they were in Iraq. tion. Defense officials in Baghdad 
In six months of searches, and Washington have said no biological, chemical or much of what weapons nuclear weapons have been inspectors have found so far is found to bolster the adminis­equipment and facilities with tration's central case for going dual-use capabilities. There is to war: to disarm Saddam no indication that any of those Hussein of suspected weapons materials or places arc new or of mass destruction. were unknown to U.N. inspec­
Although Bush administra­tors. tion officials continue to say One of the U.S. scientists publicly that the trailers were involved in the hunt, who part of a biological weapons spoke on condition of program, David Kay, the CIA anonymity, said some con­representative charged with ducting the search believe the leading the weapons search in Iraqis could have tried to pro-I r a q , duce biologi­acknowl-cal warfare e d g e d agents inside Thursday "There were some people the trailers 
that those who really believed they but not very 
findings are well.
were for making
"still very Also, it 
much being hydrogen for weather would have examined." been hard, if
balloons. Almost no one 
"We have not impossi­
was certain they were
not yet been ble, to hide 
able to cor­biological weapons. " the evidence. roborate the No traces of existence of anonymous military official anthrax or 
a mobile BW {biological weapons) production effort," Kay told a Congressional hearing. 
In fact, a re-examination of the trailers has been under way for several weeks in Iraq, led by a CIA representative, the senior military officers told AP, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Photographs of the trailers on the CIA Web site reveal few details but a more recent photo obtained by AP this week offers physical proof of the re-examination. The trail­ers, which were found in April and May, remain at Baghdad's airport, where the weapons teams are based and where the review is being conducted. 
In a paper issued May 28, the CIA called the trailers "the strongest evidence to date that Iraq was hiding a biological warfare program." But intelli­gence analysts from the State Department and the Defense Intelligence Agency have said they believe the trailers were probably used to fill hydrogen weather balloons. 
Kay said an investigation of the trailers has "yielded a number of explanations including hydrogen, missile propellant and BW production but technical limitations would prevent any of these processes from being ideally suited to these trailers." 
Military scientists who ana­lyzed the pair of trailers dur­
any other 
warfare 

agent have been found during more than a half-dozen tests on the trail­ers. 
Last month, Vice President Dick Cheney repeated the claim that the two trailers were "mobile biological facili­ties" that could have been used to make several biologi­cal agents, including small­pox. 
One of the central argu­ments used by the CIA to sup­port its initial findings is that one trailer had a fermentcr. Smallpox, however, isn't grown with a l'ermcnter and experts say it would be impos­sible to produce this specil'ic virus in a trailer. 
"There's no way that these particular labs could have been used to make smallpox," said Jonathan Tucker, a weapons expert at the Monterey Institute of International Studies who authored "Scourge," a recent book on smallpox. 
"Smallpox can only replicate inside cells, so you need a bioreactor, not a fermenter, which is a much more sophis­ticated piece of equipment." 
In addition, he said, small­pox would need to be grown in a maximum containment laboratory, "not in a trailer with canvas siding. If there had been a leak, it would have spread smallpox all over the country." 
page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 3, 2003 
PAKISTAN 

Pakistan conducts missile test 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD, -Pakistan successfully test fired a nuclear-capable, surface-to­surface missile early Friday, saying it was the first of sev­eral such tests to be conduct­ed over the next several days, the army said. 
The Hatf-III Ghaznavi reportedly has a range of 180 miles and can carry conven­tional and non-conventional weapons. 
It is considered a short­range missile, but could hit many important targets inside rival India. 
"We have successfully test­fired the Hatf-III," said army spokesman Gen. Shaukat Sultan. The army later released a statement saying that India and other neigh­boring countries were informed before the test, and that it was the first of "a series" to be conducted in coming days. 
COLOMBIA 

In New Delhi, the Indian ment said. "Pakistan will Defense Ministry had no maintain the pace of its own immediate comment on the missile development program Pakistani missile test. and conduct tests as per its 
Sultan would not say where technical needs." the test was conducted. Pakistan's last missile test 
The missile test came as came on March 26, when it Prime Minister Zafarullah fired off a short-range missile Khan Jamali shortly after India was visiting announced a similar the United test.
"We have

States, and In 1998, the two
successfully tested 

days after he countries conducted met with the Hatf-III., tit-for-tat nuclear President weapons tests, Bush. shocking the world
Shaukat Sultan 

India and and earning years of 
Pakistani general 

Pakistan sanctions. have fre-Relations between quently used Pakistan and India missile tests as a form of had appeared to be on the diplomatic muscle-flexing. mend after Indian Prime 
Pakistan, however, denied Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee the test was linked to politics. said in April that he sought 
"The timings of the tests peace talks, including over reflect Pakistan's determina­the issue of Kashmir tion not to engage in a tit-for­The two countries have tat syndrome to other tests in fought two of their three wars the region," an army state-over Kashmir. 
Priest negotiates for hostages 
Associated Press 

BOGOTA A Roman Catholic leader met Thursday with imprisoned commanders of Colombia's second-largest rebel group in an attempt to secure the release of four Israelis and three European hostages. 
The Rev. Dario Echeverri told The Associated Press he held several hours of talks at the high-security Itagui jail in northwest Colombia with Francisco Galan and Felipe Torres of the leftist National 
Liberation Army, or ELN. 

But Echeverri, who is also the secretary-general of the National Reconciliation 
Commission, declined to com­ment on the content of the discussions. Earlier this week, 
he accepted a formal govern­ment request to act as a medi­ator in the kidnappings. 
Gunmen seized eight back­packers -four Israelis, two Britons, a German and a Spaniard -from ancient jun­gle ruins in the Sierra Nevada mountains on Sept. 12. 
The ELN has said it carried 
out the abductions to raise 
awareness about the plight of 
impoverished villagers, but 
has not issued ransom 
demands. 
One of the British hostages, Matthew Scott, later escaped and has since being reunited with his family. 
Galan, speaking to the AP from the prison by mobile phone, also declined to pro­vide details. A senior com­mander of the ELN, Galan was captured more than a decade ago but retains influence with the Cuban-inspired group and has mediated in past kidnap­pings. 
~ 

~-"":i~ar\~D ·0~ 
~'-JL ~ 

He is serving a 30-year sen­tence for guerrilla-related activities. 
Thursday's meetings· came a day after the government's top peace negotiator also dis­cussed the fate of the hostages with Galan and Torres at the Itagui prison. Colombia is the world's kidnapping capital, with nearly 3,000 people taken hostage each year. Three U.S. military contractors and a for­mer presidential candidate are among those being held. 
· Announces the following introductory offers of.•• 

' 
·----··---~·----··----··----· 
1 $lS 1 1 $ 1 1 $69 1 1 1 I $79 I 1 1 26 1 1 Color, Cut & 1 1 $79 1 1 Highlights, I
1 
I MensCut IICut&Stylell Style II p,m,Cut&Stylell Cut&Style 1 One Process 
·----··---··----··----~·----· 
Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. 
You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide. and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING STYLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
Must be presented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
Jennifer -KJ -Kelly -Elena 
Not valid focsplral perms. Long oc tinted tmr add $10. No other dis­ATRIA SALON counts apply. Open some l.\'Veolngs. ATRIA Salcn reserves the rtght to 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 
refU!ie 5efVice to any dlent who<le hair condition Is unuearable. 
Comer of Edison 
OFFER EXPIRES 12-31-03 289-5080 


IN CONCERT! 
Special guest: Guitarist of the legendary MC 5Wayne Kramer &introducing Damnwells 
Thursday, Nov. 20 • 7:00pm Elco Performing Arts Center, Elkhart, IN 
Tickets go on sale Saturday, Oct. 11 at Elco Box Office or charge by phone: 574-293-4469 &at all ticket centers &at ticketmaster.com nCKOiiit'~ 

When did Switzerland join the European

QUOTES & FACTS 
Union? a. 1957 c. 1981 

The Nanovic Institute b. 1973 d. nt.'Vf.'Y for European Studies Email the Nanouic with your answer. First www.nd.edu/-nanovic correct response wins a t-shirtl 
A2sALON 
271.8804 
2039 South Bend Ave. Inside the Martin's Shopping Plaza next door to Sprint -Corner of Ironwood DR. and Ironwood 
thehaircolorXperts.com 
Now offering the following promotions Certain restrictions apply-Must present ad. 
~---------------l 
r----------·--·-------·1 
I WOMEN I I WOMEN i Haircut & Style ! Haircut & Highlights I
l 
jl 
$24.oo I $69.oo 
-----------------· l___________________j 
~----------------, r----------------1 
l--~~~:fut .-i ~-----~rii~ __
.I 

SOUTH KOREA 
N. Korea has fuel for atomic bombs 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea ­North Korea said Thursday it was using plutonium extracted from some 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods to make atomic bombs, alarming South Korea and other Asian countries that feared the assertion would jeopardize efforts to resolve the nuclear dispute peacefully. 
It was unclear whether the announcement was a sign North Korea has turned its back on the possibility of giv­ing up its nuclear capabilities, or was an attempt to gain leverage ahead of any talks on the matter. 
The North has made similar provocative statements since the nuclear crisis started a year ago, but has engaged in two rounds of talks involving 
U.S. officials in Beijing since then. 
"The [North] successfully fin­ished the reprocessing of some 8,000 spent fuel rods," an unidentified spokesman from the communist nation's Foreign Ministry said in the statement carried by its offi­cial news agency, KCNA. 
Later Thursday, the top U.N. envoy to the region met with a top North Korean diplomat and said North Korea is still committed to abandoning its nuclear weapons program if the United States promises not to attack. 
Maurice Strong met with Vice Foreign Minister Choe Su Hon for about 30 minutes at the United Nations. 
"He made it very clear that his government is committed to abandoning its nuclear weapons program, to subject­ing itself to internationally agreed inspections and verifi­cation procedures, and that their primary concern is their security," Strong said. 
Strong said, however, that Choe reiterated North Korea's stance that the United States' "hostile" posture means the North will continue with its nuclear program. 

Friday, October 3, 2003 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page II 
DNA sampling unconstitutional 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -In a move that could impact hun­dreds of criminal cases, a three-year-old law that requires federal prisoners and parolees to provide DNA sam­ples for an FBI database was declared unconstitutional Thursday by a federal appeals court. 
A three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that requiring blood samples for the database amounts to an illegal invasion of privacy because they are taken without legal suspicion that the convicts were involved in other crimes. 
The court said that is a viola­tion of inmates' Fourth Amendment rights against ille­gal searches. The samples "constitute suspicionless searches with the objective of furthering law enforcement purposes," Judge Stephen Heinhardt said. 
The San Francisco-based 9th Circuit is the most liberal and overturned federal appeals court in the country. The court's three-judge panels are known for several contentious rulings, including one that declared the Pledge of Allegiance unconstitutional in public schools and a decision last month that postponed California's recall election. That ruling was later over­turned by a larger 9th Circuit panel. 
The ruling could have a sweeping impact on criminal cases in California and other states. 
Blood samples taken from federal prisoners and those on 
Arnold admits to indiscretions 
Associated Press offended people," he said. 
From this point on, 

SAN DIEGO -Confronted Schwarzenegger said. he with fresh allegations that he would prove he is a "champi­groped women, Arnold on for the women." As he Schwarzenegger apologized made that pledge, the crowd Thursday for having interrupted him with cheers. "behaved badly sometimes" The admission came hours and pleaded with voters just after the Los Angeles Times days before California's reported the accusations of recall election for the chance six women who accused to show that he has changed. Schwarzenegger of sexually 
The admission came just as harassing and groping them the action hero appeared to over the past three decades. be picking up Three of the steam as the women told the 
front-runner "/ have behaved Times that to replace badly." Schwarzenegger Gov. Gray groped their Davis in breasts. One said
Arnold
Tuesday's his­he tried to take toric election. Schwarzenegger her bathing suit Some politi­gubenatorial off in a hotel ele­cal analysts candidate vator, and anoth­
predicted serious harm to Schwarzenegger, whose standing among women vot­ers was poor even before the latest furor. 
Taking the stage to chants of "Arnold, Arnold," Schwarzenegger immediately addressed the issue at a campaign event in San Diego to kick off the final leg of his campaign. 
"I have behaved badly sometimes. Yes, it is true that I was on rowdy movie sets and I have done things that were not right, which I thought then was playful but now I recognize that I er said he put his 
hand up her skirt and grabbed her buttocks. Still another said he pulled her on his lap and asked if she ever had a particular sex act performed on her. 
The Times, quoting two of the women by name and the rest anonymously, said the incidents occurred as far back as 1975 and as recently as 2000. 
"All is not forgiven. lie's got a pattern of this for 30 years, it just doesn't just go away." Karen Po mer, a spokeswoman for the women's group CodePink, said after the apology. 
supervised release have been used to convict hundreds of people, on crimes such as mur­der and rape. It was too early to say whether those convic­tions would survive, said Monica Knox, a deputy public defender of Los Angeles. 
Knox also said the decision, if it survives, could nullify state laws that require 
woman. 
It was not immediately clear whether the decision would apply retroactively, meaning that those who have given blood could have it withdrawn from the databank. 
The database was created as part of the federal DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination 
Act of 2000. 

the taking of Under the law,
"[DNA samplings]

blood from the FBI analyzes inmates and constitute the DNA results parolees. suspicion less and places them 
"Most states in a databank
searches. " 

have similar open to law laws," Knox said. enforcement "This could gut Stephen Reinhardt nationwide. those." The Justice
judge

The court cov­ers Arizona, California, Hawaii, Oregon, Idaho, Washington state, Montana, Nevada and Alaska. 
FBI spokesman Paul Bresson said the bureau's database holds roughly 1.4 million genetic profiles, most of which came from prisoners and parolees. The FBI does not track the number of samples in the database that match physi­cal evidence collected from unsolved crimes. 
But state Attorney General Bill Lockyer said that has hap­pened in California about 400 times, including one that led to the conviction of a man in the 1993 rape and murder of two San Diego youths. 
Scott Erskine, 40, was serv­ing a 70-year term on unrelat­ed rape charges when his blood matched semen taken from the 1993 crime scene. Last year, his blood also was linked to evidence taken from the 1989 rape and slaying of a Palm Beach County, Fla., 
Department did 
not have immedi­ate comment on the court's 2-1 decision Thursday. 
The case decided Thursday concerned Thomas Kincade, a California parolee previously convicted of bank robbery who refused to give a sample. A lower court judge had upheld the law. 
Knox said she expected legal battles on whether the ruling, if it survives appeals, would be applied differently to parolees and those still in prison. While Judge Reinhardt said the DNA law as was an unconstitutional Fourth Amendment breach, the case at hand dealt solely with a parolee. 
"I believe the opinion applies to prisoners, too," Knox said. "There will be more litigation on this, I'm sure." 
The 9th Circuit said the deci­sion in Kincade's case does not overturn rules that, for exam­ple, allow random drug testing of students who play school sports. 


Low Interest Auto Loans! (new or used: same rate) 

''The rates are competitive­but it's the customer service that will bring me back to Notre Dame Federal Credit Union." 
G 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You con bank on us 
to be better 
574/631···8222 • www.ndfcu.org 


USDA ignored outbreak warnings 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Agriculture Department ignored warnings from its own inspectors and failed to recognize that harmful bac­teria was becoming a prob­lem at a ConAgra Beef plant months before a food-poi­soning outbreak sickened 46 people, says an audit by the Agriculture Department's inspector general. 
In the report obtained by The Associated Press, the inspector general said the Agriculture Department's Food Safety and Inspection Service and ConAgra failed to keep harmful E. coli from contaminating hamburger meat at the Greeley, Colo., plant before recalling 19 million pounds of meat linked to the outbreak. 
According to the audit to be released Friday, records kept by federal inspectors and by ConAgra showed E. coli -a bacteria found in cattle feces -was a contin­uous problem at the plant from January 2001 until the summer of 2002. when ConAgra issued the recall. 
Although meat inspectors issued several warnings to ConAgra for failing to com­ply with meat safety require­ments, "FSIS took no deci­sive enforcement action," auditors said. "Instead, it continually allowed ConAgra to introduce superficial stop­
gap measures, such as increasing supervision or retraining an employee." 
Federal inspectors who checked meat at ConAgra repeatedly warned their managers about samples testing positive for E. coli, the auditors said, but "we could find no evidence that FSIS managers responded to the concerns raised." 
The audit also found the inspectors "did not perform their own tests and did not review other test results that were available to them," even though law requires them to. 
However, the auditors blamed some of the inspec­tors' shortcomings on loop­holes in the Agriculture Department's meat safety policies. 
For instance, the meat safety agency exempted processors like ConAgra from government testing of 
E. coli, leaving it up to the company to run tests for bacteria. Because of this, the company did not share some ol' its results with inspectors, the audit said. 
Inspectors did not ask to sec some of ConAgra's test results "because they deter­mined FSIS had no clear authority to review non­Government tests, even though they knew those tests showed the presence of the 
E. coli pathogen," auditors wrote. 
THE 0BSER\'ER 


IEWPOINT
Page 12 Friday, October 3, 2003 
Focus attention on eating disorders 

Valedictorians. Varsity athletes. Oass presidents. Service lead­Lecturers should be invited on a more regular basis, more semi­ers. Goal-oriented, ambitious, idealistic young adults. Notre nars should be held and more counselors should be hired. For a Dame attracts these students -the best and the brightest-and student who is brave enough to confront her problem and go to the campus is filled with such success stories, over-achievers and the Health Center, a two-week wait for a counseling appointment perfectionists. is a discouraging setback. 
Because of this drive to achieve and compete, the high inci­Rectors and hall staffS, as well, should be regularly instructed dence of eating disorders at Notre Dame is not surprising. Add in methods of identifying and treating eating disorders. Victims of bulimics to the list. Anorexics. Compulsive eaters. the diseases -which are mental and emotional, as Obsessive exercisers. The campus is full of them, well as physical-are often in a fragile mental 
O
Jhe

too. state, and the wrong handling of a situation or con­
oserver 
The diseases are a huge problem at the frontation could derail all efforts to help an individ­University, but the nature of that problem makes ual. The disorders must be approached and han­it hard to see and hard to fix. Eating disorders dled carefully, and training is an absolute necessity 
Editorial are private diseases; victims suffer in silence, and for those who attempt to do so. most on this campus are smart enough to hide tell-tale signs of Also, on a campus so heavily concerned with exercise and ath­their affiictions. Many don't want treatment; they are afraid, letics, more attention should be focused on informing students embarrassed or even proud of their abilities to exert such con­about the difference between healthy living and obsession. There trol. But they are suffering, and they are there, and they need is often a fine line between health consciousness and eating dis­help. orders, and lectures and seminars should address this issue. 
The University should be commended for its efforts to address Normal eating and exercise patterns should be clearly explained the problem, difficult as it is. The Health Center has hired more and encouraged. eating disorder specialists, speakers such as Jessica Weiner have University attempts to address the problem so far have been been invited to campus and multiple support groups exist. These admirable, but it must continue to be vigilant and increase its are steps in the right direction toward the treatment of eating efforts. A large number ofstudents battle mental, physical and disordered students, but the road will be a good deal longer. emotional wars every day when faced with an activity as normal 
The University needs to continue with and step up its efforts. as eating, and the University must fight to help them win. 
California needs a Republican 
Thanks to the surprising move to save provide a libertarian's dreamland in that. All their hopes lie in a miraculous face by the infamous 9th Circuit Court of return. If you want to regulate past the economic recovery in California in spite of Appeals, the gubernatorial melodrama point of positive productivity and also the hostile climate towards businesses. that surfaced in the most predictable of refuse the tide of globalization, then feel Color me skeptical, but the national eco­states shall contin-free to have your cake and eat it too while nomic recovery is not progressing fast ue as planned next the rest of us acknowledge the simple enough to rejuvenate California from its 
Bill Rlnner

week. tradeoffs that exist in the world. woes. Unfortunately, Now that sensible Californians with a A Republican governor is the only sensi­Californian voters vested interest in the flourishing of the ble alternative. Occasionally, historical cir­
A Voice of

may shoot them­state's economy have recalled the gover­cumstances are such that one party's poli­selves in the foot by Reason nor in hopes of replacing him with a more cies are essential for the path of the econo­dooming them­business-friendly candidate, one would my. During the Great Depression, Franklin selves to continued assume Democrats could find a sensible Roosevelt's massive welfare state helped democratic leadership. alternative-moderate, daresay. Nope, combat widespread unemployment after 
What brought the state into the fine bad idea. In fact, they not only oppose the Herbert Hoover's plans barely chipped mess it's in today? While virtually every recall, the lone candidate offered is Lt. away at the problem. Today in California, Democratic leader in the country would Governor Cruz Bustamante, whose politi­the land of fruits and nuts, a Republican prefer that we ignore the past few years of cal stances are so extreme that Darrell must take charge like a parent disciplining irresponsible policy and stick with their Issa, the man behind the recall, would a child to prove that even the best inten­party, catastrophic consequences may rather have a few more years ofDavis tions can spell disaster. ensue. Gray Davis, perhaps still swelling in instead of his second-in-command. The candidate himself does not particu­the campaign contributions that brought Bustamante's list of proposed methods to larly matter as long as he disrupts the him to power, pandered to anti-business improve California appear to have been firmly entrenched Democratic power base groups in a state already with the highest written by a defiant Davis, suggesting that in the state. The idea of Arnold tax rates in the nation, creating an atmos­the best way to combat the deficit surplus Schwarzenegger as governor makes many phere where businesses receive treatment would be to raise taxes on businesses. I'm cringe, but he has enough vision and similar to convicted felons and a budget sensing a trend here. If the Democrats suc­sound political advice to be viable alterna­crisis that would warrant IMF intervention ceed in distracting the voters from Davis' tive to Davis. ifCalifornia were a sovereign country. ineptitude and their power base remains, For at least a brief period of time, the 
The tree-hugging lobby had a field day then other states will enjoy the revenues road to socialism in California must take a as even businesses with normally strong brought by moved businesses, and unem­conservative detour, even ifit means environmental records faced penalties, ployment lines in California will lengthen. bringing the pseudo-intellectual, neo­and Davis increased regulations to rewrite A few trees will thrive with a slightly lower hippy, SUV-hating, Birkenstock wearing, the rules in ways that would make Mother level of pollution, and the minimum wage radical liberals along kicking and scream­Earth herself raise an eyebrow. Pro-union will look great for those lucky enough to ing. In five years, they'll all remember that groups reaped tremendous benefits and earn it. The left coast deserves better, even electing a movie star as governor is not mandated pay raises during a period when the hippies. such a bad idea after all. most businesses were cutting jobs at will. At this point, one must wonder what 
Absurdly high dividends taxes, a deflat­motivates California's Democrats beyond Bill Rinner is a junior economics major ed technology industry and a staggering purely ideological stubbornness. In a studying at the London School of national economy had employers under word, power. No one in the party can Economics, a university founded by mem­the knife, yet Davis' pandering made the stand the possibility of their strongest bers ofthe Socialist Party to advance their incision. fortress suddenly allowing the governor to political cause. His column appears every 
Ironically, the result is one many bleed­have an "R" next to his name. Such a other Friday. He can be contacted at wrin­ing-hearts decry: off-shoring of jobs to change could spell crisis when the time ner@nd. edu. countries in East Asia and Latin America comes for national elections and the leader The views expressed in this column are where foreign governments are so happy of the state decides to stump for the those ofthe author and not necessarily to see the businesses come their way they avowed enemy Republicans. Can't have those ofThe Observer. 
. : :. ;..: . :; :: . 
~ ;: : . 

: ; =... ·. .~ .=~ .; :· ·:
:: :· ·..: . :: .~·
l ~ll~l'll!l!:l:lll!!lll!llllllllillll!lllllllllllil 
. .. : .· : :: ': ~ ~. :: . : . . : ;. . .: :
;:: :: . : , .. :: ;:: : ... , :II'; : : ; 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
·:·,,~;f 
How much has the University's landscaping declined in the last four years? 


'The best minds are not in government. If any were, business would steal them away."
a. It has improved 26% 
b.There is no difference 35% 
c. It is worse 23% 

Ronald Reagan
d. It is extremely worse 16% 

president 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 28 resoonses. 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, October 3, 2003 page 13 
Electing the 'outsider' Schwarzenegger 
The latest California gubernatorial poll placed actor Arnold Schwarzenegger ahead of more than 130 candidates. Polling at 40 percent, Schwarzenegger outdis­tanced his nearest rival and the only promi­nent Democrat in the race, !Jeutenant Governor Cruz Bustamante, by 8 per­ccmtage points. It appears that his asser­tion as an out<>ider is capturing the fancy of California voters. 
Many have com­pared Schwarzenegger's political rise with the career of fellow actor Honald Heagan. They contend that both were political outsiders whose jump into the California gubernato­rial race launched their political activism. Nothing could be farther from the truth. 
Heagan's political expertise runs "llummers" over Schwarzenegger's politi­cal past. Heagan served as the union presi­dent of the Screen Actor's Guild and wrote a syndicated political column. Reagan, hav­ing once been a Democrat, converted to Barry Goldwater's conservative philosophy and used the phrase, "peace through strength," in a 1964 televised commercial for Goldwater. Beagan's strength emanated from his understanding of politics and his firm set of beliefs. 
Schwarzenegger has slyly decried the grasp of "special interests" on the state government. He broadly proclaims that he will cut excesses, not raise taxes and bring stability to the state government. He offers his "outsider" status as the solution to the state's ills. 
Political cycles are as regular as weather 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
cycles. A political party in office will eventu­ally lose favor with the public regardless of how well matters of state are run. Those cycles can last for decades when the public is content, or can change often when dis­content prevails. During turbulent times, while an outsider can be the rhetorical answer, the fact is that the outsider as an elected official can be a public disappoint­ment. 
Three factors determine how an outsider will perform in oflice -common sense instincts, campaign funding and political staff. Any candidate can rhyme a catch phrase into office, but will only survive if decisions in office are sound and executed by savvy staff. While ideology plays a role in all political administrations, it cannot play the preeminent role in every decision. Elected officials often become paralyzed when an ideology becomes a theology. 
Presidential history of the past fifty years is a good gauge of how well outsiders have fared in politics. A war-weary electorate chose General Eisenhower to end the American involvement in the Korean War and preside over the calm decade of the 1950s. Eisenhower's pragmatic principles were not skewed by a zealous ideology or staff. 
Watergate weary Americans turned to outsider and born-again Christian Jimmy Carter who promised to be truthful. Carter's hands-on work ethic overwhelmed him in the Oval Office. His "honest" rhetoric describing a national malaise served to demoralize the public. More importantly, his inexperienced inner circle clashed with fellow Democrats on Capitol Hill, creating an appearance of disharmony. 
An Iranian hostage, weary public turned to Ronald Reagan whose principles and rhetoric had been in place for two decades. Reagan's positive vision of the future con-

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rethink eating stereotypes 
When I was 12 years old, my Grandma felt it necessary to point out as I innocently walked through my own living room that I had "hefty legs." Now, I could blame my grandma lor my body image concerns, dieting and eating disorder that soon fol­lowed. But your grandma might have said the same tl1ing and you don't even remem­ber. 
"An eating disorder is just a symptom of a bigger confidence problem," I was quot­ed in yesterday's Observer. IIowever, after struggling for eight years with anorexia and bulimia, I can't say my eating disorder L<> jlL<>t a symptom of any one thing. If my problem had just been an issue with my hefty legs, I wouldn't have seen them as fat when I had starved my way down to 80 pounds ofbonP,s. Nor would I have kept throwing up my food when I realized it wasn't making them skinnier. If body image problems arc just about looking good, tl1an why do some supermodels tl1ink tl1ey arc fat? 
Although I was quoted as saying an eat­ing disorder is "really a reaction to societal pressures forcing us to strive for bodily perfection," it's not really that either. We make our own decisions about what to strive for. I do believe the narrow ideal of physical beauty promoted by television, print, fashion designers and our own lan­guage bTives men and women alike unreai­L-;tic standards for bodily "perfection." 
And. as Jessica Weiner explained WcdnP.sday, one would be hard pressed to find an eating disorder case not preceded by a diet from tlw $180 billion industry that sells lL'i back our own low self-esteem. llowcver, more complex issues, such as family dynamics, sexual abuse or other personal trauma can also trigger the dis­connection of mind from body, and desire for control of former over latter, that char­
acterizes eating disorders. 
An eating disorder exists because it serves a purpose. It outwardly appears that purpose is to lose weight. In reality, it pro­vides a mechanism for coping with feel­ings. The desire to "perfect" one's physique, the careful monitoring of food intake, the purging behavior or excessive exercise are methods for the sufferer to exert leon troll in his or her life when all else seems out of immediate control. For some, eating is a way of self-medicating or self-nurturing. In our fast-paced, work­driven society, these behaviors can even be the only way one can slow down to "take care" ofoneself, as twisted as that may sound. There is a reason not all eating dis­ordered people want to "fix" their problem: it somehow serves them and works for them. 
If we are really going to tackle this immense problem on campus, it is impera­tive we break down the stereotypes that my quotes may have seemed to perpetuate. If we are really going to help our girl­friends, brothers, friends and selves we've got to understand that the problem isn't just our desires to lose weight or look "cut." It is the deeper psychological concerns of which those desires are symptomatic. Eating disorders are not extreme diets, they are diseases of the soul, and until everyone sees them that way, the shame and stigma iliat surrounds them will keep sufferers silent and alone in their pain. 
Kelly Shaffer 
senior 
Breen-Phillips Hall resident assistant leader, Alife Uncommon Ocr. 2 

trasted with the Carter perspective. Reagan surrounded himself with the most experi­enced and savvy professional staff avail­able. While his conservative political appointees were the first in decades to infil­trate government ranks, only Oliver North let ideology overstep the bounds of 

their chance to judge Bill Clinton, held AI Gore responsible for Clinton's actions and voted for outsider George W. Bush. While many conservatives try to paint Clinton as a liberal, core Democrats opposed his moderate Southerner approach to traditional Republican issues like welfare reform, trade agreements and more state participation in federal pro­grams. Clinton staffers were politically pragmatic, but also opportunistic in fundraising. 
In the 1990s, campaign fundraising on 
both the state and federal levels reached new heights as runaway special interest excesses infiltrated both political parties. Today it remains a hindrance to the politi­cal process. Recently the president and Republican Party already broke all-time 
records for next year's election. In 
sider. Odds arc that without serious campaign fmance reform in California, Schwarzenegger will not be the outsider he purports to be today. 
Gary Caruso served as a public and legisilative affairs director in President Clinton 's administration. /lis column appears every other Friday. He can be con­tacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Studying abroad expands 
horizons 
In responding to Will McDonald's Oct. 2letter, I do not feel the need to state the great ben­efits ofstudying abroad. We, who have experienced it, those who want to, or those who unfortunately cannot because of one reason or another, already know the many gains and opportunities. Maybe the programs are over-rated, and too many people speak too highly of them, but I believe that this isn't so. Why would these programs be so compctitivP? Why do most students come back with a greater sense of themselves, life, and what is important to him or her? It is no wonder that we want to share this experience with everyone we meet. 
I spent last year in Innsbruck, Austria. I'll admit that I did not know what to expect when I got on that plane and flew 4,000 miles from home. At one point I did think I was crazy. I low could I miss an entire football season? Would I really have to speak German on my own, not just in a classroom setting? Being on campus was for me, as a freshman, my world, second home and unfortunately my "bubble." How could I leave a place this great? But, after the year I had, I can tell you that leaving the comfort of this "bubble" was a fulfilling, life-chang­ing experience. 
McDonald referenced Ralph Waldo Emerson in his letter and said that he thinks traveling to gain experiences is unfulfilling and hollow. I don't know if most people know this and I didn't until I looked it up, but Emerson, in his own life, traveled extensively and spent much ofhis time meeting new people in Europe. If he believed traveling is unfulfilling, he has that right too, since he spent much of his life in transit. I don't know ifyou have ever been abroad, but if you have not, I feel that you do not have the right to pass judgment on those of us who have been abroad or on the programs themselves. 
Many students haven't been here for as long as McDonald has. Some freshmen have been here for less than two months. They do not know of such programs, just as I didn't when I was in their position. If one of these articles has helped a person to broaden his or her hori­zons and study abroad, then I am glad that these articles are written and posted in the newspaper. McDonald can choose not to read them. 
McDonald has based most of his opinions of studying abroad on one program-London. I did not study there, and I do not know the programs details. However, I can tell you that while I was in Austria, my GPA did not increase. On the contrary, it decreased. I will not say that I did not "share in life's cup," because that would be lying, but I also got the chance to pray in St. Vitus in Prague, to watch Phantom of the Opera in Her Majesty's Theatre and to walk down the same streets that you are reading about in history books. 
I learned German skills that allow me to study texts and books by authors such as Goethe in their original languages. One thing that I ask myself is why someone would not want to share in such great experiences as these? You ask, "What else is out there and why can't you get it here at Notre Dame?" I can tell you that there is an entire world out there that you will eventually have to encounter when you leave the safety of this campus. 
Mary Ann Lucken 
jwuor 
off-cunpus 
Ocr.l 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Friday, October 3, 2003 
Ordinary music for the peoples 
Ordinary Peoples, a hip-hop group from Ohio, plays at Legends tonight 
By SARAH VABULAS Scene Editor 
Friday night at Legends promises to be a night full of energy and spunk. The Ohio hip-hop trio Ordinary Peoples will perform a two-hour set beginning at 9 
p.m. Ari "Scraps" Goldstein, the emcee of the group, Gerard Garrelts, who plays drums and dishes out samples, and Ben Levels, who plays the keyboard and does most of the vocals, make up the band Ordinary Peoples. A guitarist, Pat Edwards, recently joined Ordinary Peoples which the band hopes will add more flare to their style. 
Scraps and Garrelts met in 1998 dur­ing their sophomore year at Ohio State University, coining the name Ordinary Peoples. In 2001, Scraps graduated with a degree in communications and Garrelts graduated with a degree in electrical engineering. The group need­ed a keyboard player for some shows after establishing themselves. Ben Levels was the resolution to this predicament. He joined the band prior to a large run of shows through Ohio and made his place with Ordinary Peoples. 
"It was a learning process to find peo­ple to complete the sound we were going for," Scraps said. "We had a guy who played saxophone for O.A.R. and guitar for us, but he left after we decid­ed what was best. We are all about the future." 
Ordinary Peoples is based in Columbus, Ohio has traveled throughout much of the Eastern United States, play­ing various venues on and off college campuses, but their main audience remains mostly college students. 
The trio has been hoping to play Notre Dame for a while. "Notre Dame always seemed like a great place to perform. It's a great thing to have the opportunity to do play there," Levels, who handles most of the public relations, said. 
Levels has also contacted WVFI, the student-run Notre Dame radio station to see if they would play any Ordinary Peoples music. 
Ordinary Peoples has three CDs out, but Scraps said, "Urban Sprawl, our most recent, is the best representation of us. We don't really sell the other two anymore." 
The CD "Urban Sprawl" has a great sound with a lot of energy. Each track has a different feel for it, using many different instruments and methods in creating catchy music with potential. 
"We are an urban band with a hip­hop feel," Levels said. "We use different elements of our background and our music rules as urban rockadelic. We have a big hip-hip, reggae rock influ­ence." 
The band uses both acoustic and elec­tronic instruments to make their dis­tinct sound. 
"1 play a combination of acoustic and electronic drums. With the electronic drums, we have a lot of energy with a clear, crisp, banging sound," Garrelts said. "The computer runs live while running samples and loops to give out sound a lot more body. It helps to flat­ten up our sound a lot. I'm half-man, half-machine up there." 
Ordinary Peoples finds inspiration from all over for their music. "It is real­ly just random. Inspired by other music. We get inspiration from watching the news, watching everyday life," Scraps said. "My most recent purchase is the new OutKast album. But we also find inspiration from Pink Floyd, Bob Marley, the classics. Even Salt 'N' Pepa. The new thing is this emo hip-hop music." 
The name of the band, Ordinary Peoples, explains the band's view on their music. "We're tying to appeal to the masses," Garrelts said. "Something they can latch onto. Ordinary Peoples means just for the people." 
Ordinary Peoples is working hard to continue breaking out of the Midwest area. "We're getting a lot of national attention," Levels said. "We are on a soundtrack for a new movie coming out, 'Winter Break.'" 
Scraps has performed with the reggae and roots-rock jam band O.A.R., also from Ohio, on a regular basis. O.A.R. 


has become national known with albums quickly selling and concerts highly populated. His most recent tour with them was on their Spike Tour. 
Ordinary Peoples has been establish­ing relationships with all sorts of bands from all over to continue their venture into the mainstream music of young America. They are beginning to gain interest from various labels and compa­nies, pushing them to become a larger scale band. 
"It's a matter of deciding who we're going to go with," Scraps said. "We're trying to get on a national tour." 
Their current record label is GAB records, their independent label. Ordinary Peoples writes and produces the album on their own. "We do all the stuff ourselves," Scraps said. "We always seem to do just as much, if not more, on our own. We go that extra length to get it done." 
Levels admits that the band draws inspiration from all sorts of genres of music. "We are all into The Roots and Black-Eyed Peas. We also draw from Bob Marley," Levels said. "Those were the initial things. I also like listening to a lot of classic rock like Jimmy Hendrix, Pink Floyd, Simon and Garfunkel, The Doors and Peter Frampton. I'm drawing from the rock of the '60s and '70s." 
Ordinary Peoples tours mostly inde­pendently. Scraps and Garrelts splits up the duties of booking the shows. They have shows planned in Morgantown, W.V.., along with a slew of Ohio dates. Their biggest show will be at Ohio University. "We do a lot of stuff with fra­ternities and organizations," Levels said. 
They spent a week on tour with O.A.R. and have local bands they have linked up with occasionally, "It's just us doing our thing," said Scraps. "We're working on a New York show, but the place we and high energy. Our music is dance­able. Most of the songs people will hear and sing along. It's a fun time," Levels said. "It's an exciting thing. A big party. We play good music. We are a great, energetic band with music you can dance to." 
"We take [the show] to a different place. It has a good vibe. The music is cool. The music is accessible. We plan to get the crowd involved. There is an essence of hip-hop. We do spontaneous jams and vibe on the crowd. We freestyle. It's a fun show. It's a party." 
Ordinary Peoples plans to play songs from their newest album, but also play some new material not on an album yet. "We might even play a few covers. We're not sure what we'll do for this show. We might play some John Lennon, The Fugees, Snoop Dogg and OutKast," Levels said. "We will definitely include some freestyle both musically and lyri­cally. There is structure about it, but at the same time, we just let the spirit take over." 
The band loves to play for a lively crowd. Touring gives them a boost of energy and brings them joy. "My favorite thing ever is when we're play­ing a live show and the look on people's faces is that they are having the best time of their lives," Garrelts said. "They are just living in the moment." 
Ordinary Peoples will play at Legends tonight. Doors open at 8:30p.m. and the band goes on at 9 p.m. Admission is free for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. For further information about the band, visit the Ordinary Peoples official Web site at www.ordi­narypeoples.com. For more information about the show, or for a list of upcoming events atLegends, visit the Legends Web site at www.nd.edu/-legends. 

Photo courtesy of Ordinary Peoples used to play shut down, so we are find­Ordinary Peoples, an Ohio-based band, writes and producers their own albums ing a new place to play." Contact Sarah Vabulas at 
while booking their shows as they climb their way Into the music Industry. "The show is going to be energetic vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 

THE OBSERVER 

hiday, Octobe< 3, 2003 Page 15
cEN E 
==~================================================================= 
-

Keough hosts chariot race 
Keough Hall sponsors their 6th annual signature chariot race on Saturday 
Sweigart attributed the success to the 

By JONATHAN RETARTHA 
character of Keough's men. "Oor,guys 

A.~sistant Scene Editor 
get together, we put together a great 
event," he said. 

Arter a seemingly endless September Arguably the most popular event of filled with harder classes, later hours the day other than the races is the mud­and shorter wenkends than last year, the wrestling. In explaining the popularity of month of October has rolled in with a the event and why people should attend, few surprises. Who would have thought Flaherty was quick to note the key draw that the winter gear would have been of "girls rolling around in the mud." One dragged out so early, or that we'd still be of the only events of its kind, the mud watching Cubs baseball at this point? It wrestling otTers both men and women a is in uncertain times such as these that chance to prove their mettle against campus traditions take on a whole new their dorm mates. Flaherty goes on to meaning around campus, and this week­explain the event as "pretty much all end's Keough Chariot Hace promises to out, uncontrolled mayhem." live up to expectations. Promotion and media attention have 
The men of Keough Hall have been been huge for this weekend's festivities. working since the beginning of the This year, Sweigart notes, "publicity is school year to prepare for their signa­huge." ESPN has approached Keough ture nvent. Keough's two hall eo-presi­showing interest in filming the event. dents, Chris Dove and .Joe Sweigart, The event will be featured in the Sports sp1mrlwad the prnparations for the 6th Illustrated On Campus issue for this annual Chariot Hace. As leaders in the weekend. dorm, both rncognize the importance of It is no surprise that the event falls on the event in ostablishing a elose-knit a non-football weekend for the Irish. community in the dorm, and building a The Keough men plan to capitalize on solid mputation for tho dorm. the lack of activities this weekend, and 
Photo courtesy of Jimmy Flaherty 

"It.'s the lirs~).ig +:~vent of the year," hope to draw at least a thousand people 

The Wild Women from Walsh Hall join other dorms as they race to the finish line
Swciga.vH;t:rfl1'. We feol it sets the tone this weekend. Sweigart also adds that 
In last year's women's heat of the Keough Chariot Race.
for nur wholn year." the event has gained such popularity in Tlw planning phase is a daunting just six years beeause if offers the stu­process. "We hw;\ ~jjMlll~~lel's.-:"..a d~~ -~J; .c~~ to shcu-y,_.tb,c.~d-,.PJ:.UJilitJI_, leadership demands a positive attitude, clean." 
r-~-· ······ ~· !"~~Tf-,
dan1~n ~~ommissmn~r anrl a:~~~iJ coil'1-.e-1ipressed-lliioughout the f()6tmill"week•·il' and nobody has a better attitude than Cold weather and cheating aside, the missionnr." explained Keough treasurer ends on a weekend when they would Swiegart. men of Keough take much pride in their .Jimmy Flaherty. The social committee is probably be inside not doing much of "Mud wrestling in the cold can certain­hard work and effort that promise to in charge of all the daytime events, anything. "People want something to ly have advantages," said Sweigart. lie make this year's chariot race one of the which include the chariot raees from 11 do," Sweigart said. thinks very few people are concerned best ever. It is in collaborative dorm 
a.m. to 2 p.m., food and drinks from lie acknowledges that the event would about the effects of the weather, and efforts like the chariot race that Notre Subway and Papa John's, a performance be nothing without the great support by points out the abundant food and drink Dame's residence life tradition further from the Notre Dame Porn Squad at the dorms. 1\venty-six dorms have regis­as a way to warm up and get a good establishes its legacy, even thought the 
12:30 p.m., inflatable jousting tcmrna­tered chariots for the tournament. In meal on a day that dining hall food may event may not be a main stop on campus ments, and the ever-popular mud­addition to the other dorms, each of just not be worth the trip. tours this weekend. wrestling event. The Dance committee is Keough's seven sections will compete. While the atmosphere is one of fun In generating excitement and dorm in charge of organizing the Keough hall While the forecast on Saturday only and excitement the day before the event, spirit, the Keough men havo already dancn at the Oak Hoom Saturday calls for a small chance of scattered there is no doubt that each dorm is hun­achieved many of their goals to provide evening. Nevertheless, Sweigart proudly showers, the early cold snap inflicting gry to claim a victory from the Keough a great event to bring the campus com­notes that, "planning has been going Michiana serves to offer more of a con­men, who have dominated in the chariot munity together. No mattor which event really well." The hall officers are also cern to the planning committees. "There tournament in recent years. you come for, whether it be raeing your quick to recognize the contributions of will be fewer people in togas," Sweigart Flaherty is quick to offer some insight own chariot, living your American the freshmen in organizing this year's said, who recognizes that the cold may into Keough's winning tradition by say­Gladiators fantasy with the jousting event. deter people from attending. ing, "We find a way to win ... we always sticks, enjoying some good food or sim­
"Surprisingly. we've been very lucky," Nevertheless, he and his staff are con­end up winning." ply taking in the sights and sounds, Flaherty said. The freshmen have fident in drawing a great crowd and The other dorms, of course, cry foul there is something for everyone at this received praise for taking on some major having a great time. While events such every year in the ways that Keough finds Saturday's Keough Chariot Race. booking and planning responsibilities, as as jousting and racing will probably not their way to win. Flaherty recognizes the Willi as offering a great deal of help in be affected by the cold, the mud­claims of cheating, and is more than Contact Jonathan Retartha at preparing Keough's chariots. wrestling is a different story. But, strong assertive in proclaiming, "it's always jret:a.tth@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of Jimmy Flaherty Photo courtesy of Jimmy Flaherty 
A group of Keough men pause to think about the design for what they hope will Keough Hall co-president Joe Sweigart, chairperson for this year's Charlot Race, become a winning chariot In Saturday's race. assists In measuring the lumber fashioned to be a chariot In Saturday's race. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 3, 2003 
'-MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Pettite overpowers Twins as Yankees win 
Associated Press This win gave the Yankees the momentum heading into Game
NEW YORK -Now that's 
-3, but Minnesota has its home­
more like what New York fans field magic_ the Twins are 13-3expect from a postseason game all-time in postseason games at at Yankee Stadium. 
the noisy Metrodome. 
Andy Pettitte pitched another "Nobody in this clubhouse is 
gem under pressure, Jason 
disappointed. I think we're satis­Giambi turned the boos to fied, very satisfied," Hawkinscheers and the Yankees beat said.
the Minnesota Twins 4-1 Roger Clemens pitches
Thursday night to even their 
Saturday afternoon for New
best-of-five AL playoff series at York in what could be the final a game apiece. 
start of his Hall of Fame career.
After a sloppy loss during the Kyle Lohse goes for Minnesota. 
day in Game 1, the Yankees got Twins starter Brad Radke hittheir big ballpark in the Bronx 
Nick Johnson ­rocking with a 
stuck in an 0-for­three-run seventh 

"I don't think I can 22 slump -with a
inning that 1-2 pitch leading

snapped a t-all trust anybody 
off the seventh. 
tie. Alfonso 

more than I trust 
"Do anything toSoriano hit a go­Andy." get on toward the

ahead single off 
end of the game,"LaTroy Hawkins, Radke said. "Tip

and this time it Joe Torre 
your hat to him,Twins

was the Yankees manager took one for the
who made defen­team."
sive errors that 
Juan Rivera's
opened the door. 

sacrifice moved Johnson up, and
"Something about a night 
Hawkins, the winner in Game 1, 
game at Yankee Stadium, I 
entered to face Soriano. He sin­guess it comes alive out there," gled sharply to left for a 2-1 leadPettitte said. "I could sense it. I -Soriano's throwing error wasdon't usually get too emotional, one of several defensive miscues I was pretty emotional out there by New York on Tuesday. 
tonight It was a fun game." 

Derek Jeter followed with aYankees manager Joe Torre 
took no chances, bringing in chopper back to Hawkins. who Mariano Rivera to pitch the hurriedly threw high off first Athletics 5, Red Sox 1 best-of-five series by striking real and get me fired up for the 
baseman Doug Mientkiewicz's
final two innings for a save. Barry Zito got plenty of rest out nine over seven impressive game today." 
"When you take Andy Pettitte glove for an error that left run­and no relaxation on the night innings. Oakland sent bleary­Mission accomplished: The Cy out with the kind of courage he ners at second and third. before he dominated the Boston eyed Boston to the brink of Young winner's looping curve showed tonight, it would have Up came Giambi, who fanned Red Sox. playoff elimination with a 5-1 was in top form, and Boston's been tough to replace him with against Hawkins in Game 1 and While his Oakland teammates victory in Game 2. record-setting offense spent the anybody other than Rivera. ... I was booed loudly throughout the worked late for a 12-inning vic­The teams took the field for afternoon flailing at his best don't think I can trust anybody first two games. tory in the division series open­batting practice slightly more stuff. The A's didn't score again more than I trust Andy," Torre But he changed that in a New er, Zito was wide awake in bed. than 10 hours after Eric Chavez after an impressive second­said. York minute, grounding a hard He turned the radio on and off, scored the winning run in inning rally, but Zito and 
The victory came on the 25th single up the middle through a called his parents -anything Game 1 on Ramon Hernandez's relievers Chad Bradford and anniversary of one of the drawn-in infield for a 4-1 lead to stay occupied until the daring bases-loaded bunt. Keith Foulke easily made it Yankees' most famous wins _ that put the fans in a frenzy. Athletics were finished. "I think I pictured it pretty stand up. the day Bucky Dent homered at "I guess I went from zero to On Thursday, Zito had a well," Zito said. "But I still "Everybody was here early, Fenway Park to help beat hero real quick," Giambi said. spring in his step and a nasty came in the clubhouse and even though it was a really Boston in a one-game playoff "That's the great thing about dip in his curveball -and he watched the tape of the last tough night," said Hernandez, for the AL East title. this game." put the A's in command of the couple of guys. just to make it who had an RBI single. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Responsible Harter Heights teenag-TOPSFIELD CONDO FOR SALE. That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR 
~, 
er needed to walk 2 affectionate, NIGELY DECORATED 2 BED-has space available for football/par-SALE AM -232-2378 PM -288­
medium-size dogs in afternoons. ROOM. ALL MAJOR APPLIANCES. en! wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, 2726 References required. 287-3054. 10 MINS FROM CAMPUS. $69,900 full hot breakfast, $80-$115, 299-7078 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. I NEED GA TIXS.2726306 SEX IS NO BARRIER Jimmy Johns Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
Gourmet Sandwiches is looking for 1990 VW Jetta 127K Good condi-9487. 0964. not go it alone. If you or someone WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski a few good men and women who lion $1675.287-7928 you love needs confidential support &Beach Trips on sale nowl wish to work in a FUN and fast pace FREEDOMI Rent the best furnished FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary www.sunchase.com or call environment. A new store will Fully electric hospital bed, new mat-houses, prime locations, sec. sys-LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570. Louise Gude,CSC, at 1-7819. For 1·800-SUNCHASE today! be opening up in early October. We tress $350. Power Lift Lazy boy tems, sand V-ball, wash/dry call more information, see our bi-weekly 
have aggressive pay. Hrs from $250. Over bed tables $25. Student Greg 233-9947 JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, ad in The Observer.
-GUITAR LESSONS harmonica, 11am to 3am. In-shoppers, drivers desks $25. Pews $45. Call NEEDS TIX TOANY HOME FOOT-banjo & mandolin. Hoosierdads and mgmt available. Call Andy at evenings, 631-4969. DOMUS PROPERTIES HAS 7 BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America Music 4609 Grape Rd 574-277.0850 for interview. HOUSES AVAILABLE FOR THE 674-6593. s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring Mish, IN 2775038 Honda 97 Accord LX, 4 dr. auto, sil-2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR. WELL campus reps. 
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO ver-beige. excellent condition 86k. MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR Just Between You And Me, ADire Call for discounts: 800-648-4849 or #1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in exper. required. All looks & ages. mi.,keyless entry, remote start CAMPUS 2,4,6,8 & 10 BEDROOM Fan in NEED of 2 or 4 USC GAs www.ststravel.com Acapulco is now offering 3 destina-Earn $1 oo-$300 a day. 1-888-820-$7,600. 574-272-2931 HOUSES-STUDENT ONLY PLEASE tionsl Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in 0167, ext. U187. NEIGHBORHOODS-SECURITY PH:277-1659 A "Reality' Spring Break 2004s Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all 931suzu Trooper $3,610 and 99 SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE STAFF Hottest prices Book now. Free Trips, 
NOTICES PERSONALS 
'
I 
with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Honda Accord $10,650. John 231-24 HOURS-WASHERS/DRYERS SMC grad needs USC tix. Email Meals & Parties Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALSI 0420. CALL TODAY-HOUSES ARE Colleen: Eumachia13@aol.com sunsplashtours.com or 1800-426­
c Organize a group and travel for LOST & FOUND GOING FAST CONTACT KRAMER 7710
~ FREE. Call for details. 800-875-LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO 574-315-5032 or 574-234-2434 Wanted, 2 USC nckets, Gen Admin
' 4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com. Lost Silver and Gold Seiko watch. FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR okay, Contact Roger (310) 766-Two hot sexy wild women looking Reward if returned please call NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR 0990 for dates to the frolic. Call our pimp
~ 
'"ACT NOW!Book 11 people, get Anikka 634-1406. ELED.FULLY EQUIPPED. $84,900. at 4-2626. 12th trip free. Group discounts for Email: Williamson.1@ nd.edu Rent one of the best 5 bedroom Wanted Mens Football nckets $$ 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com homes left for 2004/5. Rent a 4-bed-Pay Top Dollar$$ Return to Glory Saturday for at least or 800-838-8202. room house and get the 3 bedroom 1-866-808-0990 one Deuce Dub resident... where
FoR SALE 
house next door for free. AN LAN will YOU be when he passes out? 
~-FoR RENT 
PROPERTIES 532-1896 BUY?SELL NO FOOTBALL TICK­

Two BR, 2 bath condo. One mile to ETS> CASH PAID> You know u like her when u sing.
WANTED 

ND. Clubhouse, pool, 2 car garage. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO 574-289-8048 $107,000. (574) 273-1666 CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM FYS for her second year... everyone
TICKETS

A SPRING BREAKER NEEDED MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272-Alumni family needs USC tickets for make sure you congratulate this 2004 Hottest Destinations & Parties IRISH CROSSINGS -A NEW LUX-1525 NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. reunion. Call Pat, class scheduling and math genius 2 free trps high commission sun-URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR 574-289-8048 
splashtours.com 1800-426-771 o your dream home next to 3 bdrm home w/lenced yd, hrdwd TOLL FREE 877-773-3911. Busted dude... 
Notre Dame. A limited number of floors. Very clean, quaint. Appl. incl. 2 ALUMS NEED 2-4 USC GAME TUTOR: Sixth grader. home sites are available. For more last mo.10-mo lease. 417 Napoleon. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED GAs TO TAKE 6-yr OLD SON TO Memo: Lock up your daughters, Homework. Transportation neces-info go to: 1/2 mil. from NO. Call299-9428 -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 GAME. dventrelle@yahoo.com moms. Benny Chains is comin' full sary. 231-1127 www.lrishCrossings.com Graduate students, faculty or staff. PM 288-2726 or 925-457-1057. force 
~­
Friday. October 3, 2003 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October 3, 2003 
I 
' ~ 'I ~ 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 
~ ~ 
I 
•I 
• ~ Miami survives big scare to beat W. Virginia
•
•
' 
•
' 
Associated Press over the middle. The tight end er," Berlin said. ' 
made a leaping catch for an 18-The Mountaineers had one MIAMI-Miami freshman Jon yard gain. final chance with five seconds to 
-
I 
Peattie was singing along with Berlin finished 37-of-54 for 352 play, but Sean Taylor intercepted the music playing in the Orange yards with a touchdown and two Rasheed Marshall's deep pass. Bowl, trying to stay calm. He had interceptions. Winslow caught 10 Taylor started to run, then 
to wait through three timeouts passes for 104 yards. dropped to a knee, jumped up
~ 
called by West Virginia as he set "Winslow's probably the best in and heaved the ball into the air . 
•I 
up again and again and again for the country," West Virginia coach Miami (5-0, 2-0 Big East) won 
~ 
the game-winning field goal. Rich Rodriguez said. "He made a its 37th straight regular season ~ Peattie then calmly kicked a great play and game and 
23-yard field goal with 11 sec­made it happen. remained unbeat­! onds remaining as the second­That's why he's en heading into a I ranked Hurricanes staved off an going to be playing showdown at No.
"We played badly, 

~ 
upset with a 22-20 victory over on Sundays." 6 Florida State
•~ but we won."
West Virginia on Thursday night. After Winslow's next Saturday. 
-
• "I never expected it," Peattie catch, Berlin com­Barely.' said. "But something I learned pleted three Eric Winston "You look back
' 
' 
~ when I came to college was that straight passes to Miami offensive tackle at all the national every kick counts, no matter how move the champions, and
~ 
short it is." Hurricanes into very seldom will
~ 
Peattie fmished with a school­field goal range. they never have to
I 
record five field goals, his biggest Then a pass interference call dodge a bullet," offensive tackle
•I 
coming after Miami drove 66 against West Virginia's Brian Eric Winston said. "We played two minutes remaining . a 20-19 lead. 
• 
-
yards with two minutes remain­King turned Peattie's final field badly, but we won. It's a lot bet­Wilson took a screen pass from It was the first third-down con­ing. Peattie's other field goals goal into a chip shot. ter than playing well and losing." Marshall on third-and-13, juked version of the game for West! were 22, 32, 43 and 30 yards. West Virginia spent all three of The Mountaineers (1-4, 0-1) Vince Wilfork behind the line of Virginia. Brock Berlin needed a fourth­its timeouts trying to rattle the were poised to pull off the scrimmage, broke a tackle and Wilson finished with 142 total! down completion to Kellen first-year player. But it didn't biggest upset in a season of then bowled over and jumped yards, 99 rushing and 43 receiv­' Winslow to keep the drive alive. work. He drilled the kick upsets when Quincy Wilson ran over safety Brandon ing. His last reception dampened 
• 
On fourth-and-13 from the between the uprights. around and over Miami's defense Meriweather at the 10 and a strong defensive performance! Miami 25, Berlin hit Winslow ''I'm glad we have a great kick-for a 33-yard touchdown with scored to give the Mountaineers for Miami. 

! 
' 
! ! ' Texas, KSU looking for a big win 
Associated Press Mississippi, and No. 25 Michigan against weak competition, to the State hosts Indiana. Longhorns it was a statement 
AUSTIN, Texas-Talk about The reality of a desperate situa-that they could save their season. crunch time for No. 13 Texas and tion is hard to escape, however "The loss was our reality No. 16 Kansas State. It's barely for both Texas and Kansas State. check," Williams said. October and their national cham­"Since each team has that one Kansas State may have a simi­pionship dreams are teetering. loss, two losses makes it tough to Jar leader stepping up. Starting 
The winner of Saturday's Big get into that national champi-quarterback Ell Roberson returns 12 opener remains an outside onship," Longhorns senior wide after missing two games with an contender for the national title if receiver Roy Williams said. injured left, non-throwing hand. it can run the table and win the After the loss to Arkansas, it Roberson sat out the 27-20 conference. The loser gets was Williams who had the brava-home loss to Marshall that sent pushed off the cliff. do to predict the Longhorns could the Wildcats tumbling out of the 
When the season began, both win the rest of their games. Top 10 and sparked criticism that teams had the swagger of poten­Williams gave up a chance in they were overrated. tial title winners. Stiff punches April to be a high draft choice in "They've got new hope," Brown from Arkansas and Marshall the NFL to chase a national title said. "Ell's back. He's their identi­wobbled their legs and damaged this year. After the loss, he seized ty." their reputation. the reins of leadership and chal-"We are going down there with 
While the college football world lenged his team to respond. a purpose, and that is to win a knows what's at stake for these Texas did that by outscoring football game," Roberson said. "I preseason powers, the Longhorns Rice and Thlane 111-25 over the just want to go out and help this (3-1) and Wildcats (4-1) are stick­next two games. Although some team accomplish what we set out ing to the mantra of one game at dismissed the scores as coming to accomplish." a time. 
"That's somebody else's per­ception," Wildcats coach Bill Snyder said of the win-or-else 
~,.~.~i0iJ
aura surrounding the game. "Those kinds of things (national championships) are way out there, way down the road." 
IBY·••-•---•r1d•t.I·•!•·D•I:I· 

Texas coach Mack Brown said 
-
AdaptW and tllre.ded by
the game would be hard fought 
liedem -SNburs

no matter what the records were. 
He scrambled to get his team refocused after their early loss and expects Snyder will have the Wildcats ready to play. 
"I just think we're going to see a great effort out of them," Brown said. "I think we'd see a great effort if they were unde­feated. I don't think it changes." 
In Saturday's other ranked games, No. 1 Oklahoma visits Iowa State, No. 4 Virginia Tech plays at Rutgers, No. 7 Tennessee goes to Auburn, No. 9 Michigan visits No. 23 Iowa, No. 10 Southern California plays at Arizona State, No. 11 Georgia hosts Alabama, No. 12 Nebraska plays Troy State, and No. 14 Washington State hosts Arizona. 
Also, No. 17 Northern Illinois hosts Ohio, No. 18 Washington visits UCLA, No. 20 TCU plays Army, No. 21 Minnesota goes to Northwestern, No. 22 Purdue hosts Illinois, No. 24 Florida plays 
• 
IT's A l7•M'JNTH COMMITMENT 


• 
YOU EARN ,, MONTHLY STIPEND WHILE AWAY 

• 
HEALTH IN URANCE IS PAID FOR 


• 
AT END Ot' SERVICE, YOU'RE GIVEN $6,ooo 

• 
UPON COMPLETION, YOU HAVE !•YR. ENHANCED HIRING STATUS FOR FEDERAL GOV'T JOBS 


Join us for a meeting where you will learn more 
about the Peace Corps: Tuesday, October 7, 6 ~ 8 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
Want to interview to join 
~co~ the Peace Corps? 
INTERVIEW ON CAMPUS OcT. 8 & 9· APPLY TO INTERVIEW THROUGH CAREER SERVICES' GO IRISH WEB SITE BY SEPT. Z5· AN APPLICATION 
WWW,peacecOrps.2QV MUST BE COMPLETED PRIOR TO INTERVIEW. 
e

Unmistakably Italian . ~ ~ Unbelievably Good · ~b 
·f Enjoy generous portions of contemporary <ta· Italian entrees and pastas like Salmone alia Griglia & Papa's signature Sizzlelini.lli 
::.. :~ .. 

:/ Family-Style Take Out meals are perfect for any large gathering. All portions serve 8-10 people. 
5110 Edison lakes Parkway 574-271·1692 

~:zo5J~
From Papa's Kitchen to Yours 

ReserJations A<<epled · www.qdi.com/papavinos/papavinos.htrn 





•
: 
l 
·-•• I•
OUND THE NATION :4 
l I 
Friday, October 3, 2003 CoMPILED FROM TH£ OBSERVER \VJRE SERVICES page 19 

team 
St. John$ Rutgers seton Hall 
Provlden~e 
Basion College Virginia Tech NOTRE DAM~ 
ConnecUcut West Vlrglna 
Villanova 
Georgetown 
Pittsburgh 
SyracuS41 
Northeast 
Syracuse 
Miami 
Conne~tlcut 
Sl. John's VIrginia Tech Boston College Provldance 
Mid-Atlantic 
VIllanova Rutgers Pitt,burgh NOTRE DAME 
We;t VIrginia 
Georgetown Seton Hall 
team 
NOTRE DAME Miami 
SyracuSQ 
VIrginia Tech PittsburghBoston College · · St. Jolin's ConnacUcut West VIrginia Seton Halt Rutgers Georuelwon 
VIllanova 

around the dial 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Oklahoma at Iowa State Sat.11 :25 p.m., TBS Illinois at Purdue Sat.3:30 p.m., ESPN Oregan at Utah Sat. 2 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 

Braves at Cubs 7 p.m., ESPN Giants at Marlins 3 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associared Press 
EAGLE. Colo. -In a set­back for Kobe Bryant, the judge in the rape case Thursday refused to force the basketball star's accus­er to testify at a prelimi­nary hearing and said the proceedings will probably be kept open to the public. 
The decision to keep the hearing open could prompt Bryant's defense team to waive the Oct. 9 proceed­ing and head straight to trial. Either way, Bryant still must appear next week for a bail hearing, Judge Frederick Gannett said. 
The judge also turned 

down defense requests to see the woman's medical records. She was treated earlier this year at a hospi­tal after police at the University of Northern Colorado, where she was a freshman, determined she was "a danger to herself." 
The defense request sug­gested that Bryant's attor­neys wanted to raise ques­tions about the woman's mental stability. 
Prosecutors and attor­neys for the woman and for hospitals argued that such records are protected under state and federal privacy laws. And Gannett said the issue should be decided by the presiding judge if the case goes to trial. 
Bryant's attorneys did not return calls for com­ment Thursday. 
Bryant was charged with felony sexual assault after the woman said he attacked her June 30 at the mountain resort where she worked and he was a guest. The Los Angeles Lakers' star has said the two had consensual sex. 
Prosecutors are expected to present key evidence at the hearing, including pho­tographs of what they say are injuries to the woman, a videotaped statement from her and an "electron­ically enhanced" statement from Bryant that supports much of what his accuser told investigators. 
However, Gannett said prosecutors plan to with­draw the video and audio statements if the prelimi­nary hearing remains open. 
A spokeswoman for the prosecution did not return a call for comment. 
The judge plans to meet with attorneys to decide whether parts of next week's hearing should be closed to preserve Bryant's right to a fair trial. Preliminary hearings determine whether there is enough evidence to put someone on trial. 
IN BRIEF 
Rose investigation to be 
publicized 
NEW YOHK -Details of the Pete Rose gambling investigation will be available to the public but not for several years. 
John Dowd, the lawyer who head­ed the probe that led to Hose's life­time ban from baseball, has donated boxes of materials on Rose to the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y. 
"It is some neat stuff," Jim Gates, library director of the Hall of Fame, said Thursday. 
Dowd sent the material to the Hall last winter, Gates said. But don't expect to be thumbing through the once-secret files anytime soon. 
"We're looking at several years before they are properly indexed, put in proper boxes and files and made available to researchers," Gates said. 
Leftwich starts Sunday after 
elbow injury JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Jaguars quarterback Byron Leftwich will 

start Sunday against San Diego, leav­ing a healthy Mark Brunell on the bench. 
For the second straight day. Leftwich said, he took the majority of the snaps with the first team during Thursday's practice. Brunell said he didn't take any. 
The left-handed Brunell is listed as questionable for Sunday with a cut on his left elbow. lie said the elbow is fine, however, and he looked good throwing in individual drills early in practice. 
"It's better than yesterday," said Brunell, who wore a small bandage on the elbow. "No problems whatso­ever." 
Clearly upset with the decision, Brunell gave no theories for why it was made. 
"You'll have to ask Jack," Brunell said. Del Rio respected Brunell's frustra­tion. ''I'm pleased with the way he's bat­tled and the way he's battling to 
come back from the injury," Del Hio said. "lie's been great working at it and trying to get back, but in my estimation, Byron gives us the best chance to win." 
Brunell,33, fi 63-54 as Jacksonville's starting quarterback, but only 19-30 since the start of the 2000 season. 
Astros players scheduled 
for surgery 
HOUSTON -Astros right-handnr Hoy Oswalt and outfielder Jason Lane arc set to have surgery next week for dill"erent ailments. 
Oswalt will undergo groin surgery next Wednesday in Philadelphia and Lane will have a hernia repaired in Massachusetts the following day, Houston general manager Gerry Hunsicker said Thursday. 
Oswalt, 26, was 10-5 with a 2.IJ7 ERA in 21 starts this season. lie spent extended time on the disabled list because of the groin injury. 
Lane, 26, hit .296 with four home runs and 10 HBI in 18 games. 
•
• 
• -t_ 
• MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE •
•
•
•
•
•
• 
Friday, October 3, 2003 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Dillon seeking revenge versus rival Alumni 
By RACHEL SCHIROS, BOB 
GRIFFIN and STEVE COYER 
Sports Writers 
"Whichever team wants it the most will win." 
So said Dillon captain J.T. Arseniadis, and likely when Alumni and Dillon square off this Sunday at the biggest game of their interhall sea­sons. the will to win will make all the difference. 
Last year Alumni handed the Big Red their only losses, once 
during the regu­"Alumni is our experienced lar season and biggest rival [and] upperclassmen. 
again in the play­We have seven 
we are looking for 
offs. Dillon over­seniors who are powered Keough revenge., our real captains for a season­and leaders ... A opening win last large group of
J.T. Arsenladls
week and thinks [us] has been 
Dillon captain 
that game is an playing together 
and eager for the challenge of meeting their "favorite" rivals on the turf. 
"Alumni is our biggest rival in the league [and] we are looking for revenge ... The teams know each other well and we both get pumped up ... This is always our tough­est game of the season, both physically and mentally. It means a lot to our two dorms," Arsenaidis said. 
The greatest strengths of the Alumni team right now are its 
defense and a 
solid group of 

indicator of the team's strength. 
"We have great skill players and our line has more depth than last year's team," Arseniadis said. 
Still. they recognize the dis­advantage of having played fewer real games than Alumni so far. 
On the other hand, while Alumni would be happy to have the same results against Dillon, they are frustrated to have again started their sea­son with a second-game loss to Morrissey. 
Regardless of the record each team brings to the field, both are dedicatedly preparing 
for four years," Alumni captain Larry Rooney said. 
Leading the team are seniors Chris Cottingham, Alex Roodhouse, Tom Kerestes, T J Strachota, Corey Harkins, John Wahoske and Chris Seponski. 
The Dawgs are satisfied with the quality of their play so far "except we know we can do better," said Rooney. In prac­tice they've focused on devel­oping the fundamentals and their unity as a whole team. 
A big loss for Dillon came in the form of a preseason knee­injury for defensive end/tight end Rick Hasty. The team looks to Ben Butwin and Kevin 
Notre Dame 
McCarthy to lead their attack and to Robert McBride, Dominic Eck and John Kelly as the backbone of the defense. 
The Big Red also credits its veteran leadership as an important asset. 
"We all have been in the sys­tem for a few years now and know what we're doing," Arsenaidis said. 
O'Neill vs. Keenan 
O'Neill and Keenan will take the field Sunday in what should be a very close football game between two teams look­ing to improve upon their sea­sons. O'Neill, who enters the contest at 1-1, and Keenan, who is a strong 1-0, will kick­off at 1 p.m. at the southern­most Stepan field. 
O'Neill showed signs of solid play in a 6-0 win over Stanford in which tough defense proved to be a helping factor. At the same time, they suffered a tough 28-0 loss to Alumni in their opening week. O'Neill is looking to improve their con­sistency in order to solidify their position as contenders in their league. 
"From a football standpoint, we are just looking to improve. We've made some mistakes. and we need to get points off turnovers," said captain John Enterline. 
"Our defense has been solid, and we are happy with last week's shutout," he added. "But we still need to work on better pass coverage. We need to create more points off 
Boston 
College 

. ······ ... . .. 
. . 
..,, '1... '~·.·~·~·· 

..., :, ········..·. ·.' .... AT 
Ticket Lottery 

Tuesday~ October 7th Legends 11 :30 am -5 pm One person can bring a maxlmum of 6 1o•s. Only open to Notre Dame students. Sponsored by SUB 
turnovers." 
The team has been very pleased with the play of its offensive line, including Mike O'Donnell and Mike Milligan. This strong offensive line will be crucial in continuing to move the ball effectively on the ground as well as through the air. 
"Our offensive line has really been great this year," Enterline said. 
Keenan has looked impres­sive in their opening game, beating Stanford 6-0 with help from an aggressive running attack. Tough defense and high intensity also proved to be factors in the win. 
Running back Alex Staffieri played especially well in Keenan's opening win, over­matching Stanford's run defense. This same aggressive running attack could be instru­mental in moving to 2-0. 
Both teams are eager to fur­ther the success they have had this year, and eliminate the mistakes that they have suf­fered. With solid play from both sides, this Sunday after­noon match-up could be espe­cially exciting. 
Stanford vs. Morrissey 
Morrissey and Stanford square off this Sunday in a critical game with playoff implications for both teams. 
The Manorites look to con­tinue their success this season after coming off a huge 9-0 victory over Alumni. The win last week put them at 2-0 on the season and has given the team a big confidence boost. 
The Griffins have struggled in their first two games, but their 0-2 record doesn't show the fact that the both games were decided by a margin of less than a touchdown. 
"We've been working hard in practice to step up our play and make it into the playoffs," said Stanford captain Dave Marques. 
The success of the Manorites in their first two games has in large part been due to their dominant defensive play. Lead by Brian Dinsmore and Jason Wise. Morrisey's defense has forced key turnovers and put pressure on opposing quarter­backs. 
Stanford likewise has had quality defensive play this year especially from safety Nick Befera who has anchored the defensive backs. On offense, Stanford will rely on quarter­back Rich Whitney to provide a spark for the rest of his team­mates. 
After getting off to a quick 2­0 start this year. Morrissey realizes that they need to stay focused on their final two games. 
"We're hoping not to have a letdown from the big win last Sunday over Alumni," said Morrissey captain Aaron Ronsheim. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu, Rachel Schiros at rschiros@nd.edu and Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 
october5, 2003 2:00p.m. 
,/)iitnnent~erg ~uditorium 
..,snite muse{lm ofart 
tickeU: 
$10gntetQiadmis<lon 
$8 NDISMC fm:ultystaff 
$6senio:t ddun.s 
$3stvde~~ts 
}.'#R'ihc'""'"'""c;f>oK•>ffkc, 15741631-8128 
pJon<~ murcrclass 
sarutdoy,.odo&..r4.,2003' 2-{)(Jp~ trnncnb«rg ~:~uditol'lum ~l$mlJISion Is frrc; rhcpublkh invited 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT AT BOOKMAKER'S PUB 
JASON SAPEN'S BACK! Friday, October 3, 9-12pm 
2046 South Bend Ave. 272-1766 

Friday, October 3, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Ducks looking to get back to winning ways 
Utah, led by former Notre Dame assistant coach Urban Meyer, hopes to hand Oregon its second straight loss 

Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -Utah coach Urban Meyer is still a little baflled when he looks at the final statistics from Oregon's embar­rassing loss to Washington State. 
Seven interceptions, two fum­bles and two blocked kicks in the 55-16 rout were just a run of unbnlinvable bad luck as far as Meyer is concerned. And he doesn't expect to see anything like it when the No. 19 Ducks (4­
1) visit the Utes (3-1) on Friday night. 
"That's just very uncharacter­istic," Meyer said. "Oregon is going to be 
Oregon. ''I'm a big believer in just last seven. 
They're a fast, shutting your mouth and The Ducks talented team. appeared to be
playing football. " 
I'd say a Top back among 1 0-talented the contenders team." Urban Meyer after the 
Fortunately Utah head coach Michigan win. 
game," Bellotti said. 
Just a week before, the Ducks had been celebrating after upsetting then-No. 3 Michigan 31-27, a win that pushed Oregon's ranking from No. 22 to No. 10. 
"I think we were still living it up from the Michigan and think­ing everybody was going to roll over for us. But that's not what happened," Oregon wide receiv­er Samie Parker said. "We've got to bounce back this week." 
After finishing the 2001 season at No. 2, the Ducks ended last season with a 7-6 record. Oregon lost its last four games and six of its 

for the Ducks, the wait between games wasn't as long as it could have been. The rare Friday night game gave Oregon one less day to try to forget what happened against the Cougars. 
It was so bad coach Mike Bellotti said he was filing the game tape where the Ducks felt it belonged -in the garbage. 
"When you have a game like this where unfortunately you commit so many turnovers and make so many mistakes, I don't think anybody could say there was one play that cost us the 
But that was 
before the 

drubbing at the hands of the Cougars. 
"We've got a lot of things to prove and show," Parker said. "This isn't the same team we had last year where we had loss after loss." 
Oregon hasn't played Utah since 2001, when Joey Harrington led the Ducks to a 24-10 win in Eugene. Paris Warren was a freshman receiver on that team and threw a 50­yard pitch pass for the Ducks, then transferred to Utah after the season. 
Boilermakers hoping to run against Illini 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYE1TE. Ind. -In Joe Tiller's offense, Purdue usu­ally passes first, runs second. 
Tiller may change tactics Saturday. 
lie has spent the past month hoping No. 22 Purdue could get its running game ofT the ground, and the Boilermakers may not have a better opportunity than in their Big Ten opener against Illinois. 
"If we were running the ball a little better, we might do that," 11ller said. 
Typically, Purdue's wide-open offense has succeeded or failed through the air. 
Drew Brees' accurate, efficient style carried the Boilermakers' to the 2000 Big Ten title and a Hose Bowl bid. 
A mistake-prone passing game in 2001 and 2002 led to mediocre records and quarter­back controversies. 
This season has been different. 
Kyle Orton shares the Big Ten lead with nine touchdown passes despite playing in one fewer game than any other conference starter and his one interception is the lowest among all starters. 
Yet the Boilermakers (3-1 J arc averaging just 224.2 yards pass­ing, their second-lowest total since Tiller's arrival. 
Orton doesn't mind because Purdue is winning. "''d take 23 points and no 
turnovers every week," he said. "That's a good game." 
But Tiller knows that Purdue needs a stronger running game if it's to challenge for a Big Ten title. 
The Boilermakers are averag­ing 149.8 yards per game, sev­enth in the league and nowhere near last year's average of 196.5, numbers that must improve sig­nificantly before upcoming trips to Wisconsin, Michigan and Ohio State. 
Illinois' struggles against the run should at least give Purdue a chance to remedy their ground . game. 
"If we're not going to be more physical, maybe we need to do some things to help them be more physical." Illinois coach Ron Turner said of his coaching staiT and defensive line. 
There's more good news for Purdue. 
Sophomore running back Jerod Void carried 17 times for 68 yards in a victory over Notre Dame last week and appeared on the verge of a breakout game. 
The Illini also arc dealing with other problems. 
They've lost three straight, two at home, and enter Saturday with the Big Ten's No. 9 rushing defense. 
Opponents are averaging more than 151 yards rushing each game and last week Wisconsin ripped Illinois for 307 yards and five touchdowns on 63 carries. 
Warren, who leads the Utes in receiving with 24 catches for 245 yards, doesn't attempt to hide his dislike for Oregon or how much he desires to beat his old team. But Meyer prevented his receiver from providing any bul­letin board material to the Ducks with a gag order this week. 
''I'm a big believer in just shut­ting your mouth and playing football," Meyer said. "All you ever say is great things about your opponent. That's the rule here at Utah." 

The rest of the Utes seem to have gotten the message. 
"I think they're going to be more dangerous," strong safety Dave Revill said. "I don't think that last week had any reflection of what they are. I think they're a really good team. I think they just had a little bit of bad luck last week." 
Friday is Utah's final non-con­ference game. The Utes opened Mountain West Conference play last week by upsetting defending MWC champion Colorado State 
: '1,111~ 
I I I 

I tlilN'S
I I 
-

28-21 on an 80-yard fumble return with 1:33 remaining. 
The Rams were well within field goal range before Arnold Parker came up with the big return. So instead of being 2-2 entering Friday night's game, the Utes have a chance at starting Meyer's first season at Utah 4-1 and doing it in front of a national television audience. 
"This is huge. This is once again an opportunity for us to showcase our program," Meyer said. 
They would've been there. I I 

I I I I I I I I I 


Be will I 
definitely : 
be there. : 
I I I

!lt71~1~1li~NI) I 
................ I 
Oct. 10-12 I 
I 

hog roast I game watch I ft~ats of strength I prayer I brotherhtHtd IJeadline Oct. 8th, llpplleation.~ at~aJJable at: 
www.nd.edu/"'"'krusseau 
C-M 


page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October 3, 2003 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Defending champion Siegfried determined 
Whv do Innocent Iivas need acamatanril 
Each cross on South Quad represents three unborn babies who will die todav in an abonion. 
Did you knoW? l311111b babies liB aach year fram aburtDJ.* This is nmrB than aD American caaualtiaa I the Rmlutionary War. tha 1M War, Wll'ld War I&11. thB llr8an w... VIOtnam. 1111 Parslan Gulf Wars comblDit 
Tba IIIIDJr of uniJarn babies who liB avery year fram abortltllls hiUhar than the number of Anu1cans who die annually from cancer l550J)IJII] and tram haart disaaul10il,IOOJ camlllnBd.** 
55% of woman Who have aiD1Ions are under 25.• 
Only 1~ Ifwtii1BI1 abortilqJ say they have beoo adVIsed mat II*IIIIJarn baby bas adefact and anty 1% say they bacame praunant bY rape or incest· 
Ill till Uult8d Statal t111ay t11ara n two nlliM cauplas~ to adoptt 
... ·=<~;: 

Riuhttelile Club Meeting: loadav. October&, 8PI NO Room latonune, 2nd floor 
• The Alan Guttmacher Institute •• DanielS. Greenberg in The Washington P~st. May 8, 1996, p. A25. tIssues Etc. by Dr. Jesn Garton 
TO 
By ANN LOUGHERY, 
KATHERINE GALES and 
ANDREW KIRKSEY 
Sports Writers 

Anything less than a win is unacceptable to Siegfried coach John Torgenson. 
The Siegfried Ramblers (2-0) will keep this mantra in mind as they face the Fisher Green Wave (0-1) this Sunday. 
Players from both teams anticipate an intense, hard­fought game. 
"We both have a high-pow­ered offense and good defense," said Fisher captain Tom Gorman. "I think it will be won by one big play or two, not by the offense moving up and down the field." 
Such was the case last year when the Green Wave met the Ramblers in the playoffs. Fisher lost 3-0 with a successful Siegfried field goal attempt. Sunday's game will pit essential­ly the same teams against each other, as both are comprised of mainly juniors and seniors. 
Although the Green Wave has significantly improved· from last year, Gorman said several facets of their tactics remain to be per­fected in the next few days of practice. 
"We're working on becoming a balanced offense and have been working on our running and passing. It's easier to have a good offense if we can have the defense guessing," he said. 
The game against Fisher will likely be "an uphill battle," according to Torgenson, despite their losing record. The Green Wave suffered close 3-0 loss to Sorin in Fisher's first game of the season. 
"They're the best team in our division. If we can beat them, we can make the playoffs," Torgenson said. "The guys are focused-you can tell. But you can never be too good, especial­ly playing Fisher." 
Players to watch include Siegfried quarterback Bill Bingle, wide receiver Jon Kaup and defensive tackle Vince Siciliano. Fisher standouts con­sist of running back Kameron Chappell, safety Lee Gettler and offensive lineman Mike Beach. 
The Green Wave and Ramblers are set to meet at lp.m. Sunday at the north Riehle field. 
Knott vs. St. Ed's 
The Juggs of Knott Hall are hoping to give the men of St. Ed's their first loss this week­end. 
Knott (1-1) struggled during an early-season loss to defend­ing champions and archrivals Siegfried. But they dominated Zahm last weekend, proving that they are not to be written off en route to a championship. 
St. Ed's squeaked by with a 6­0 victory over Carroll in their season opener. Freshman Luke Olsen intercepted a pass, and quarterback Chris Wagner scrambled for the game's only touchdown. 
This weekend's matchup could be a hard-fought defen­sive battle, as both teams con­sider their defenses a strong point. 
"Overall, our defensive line and our defensive backs are really good," said Knott senior captain Brian Schmutzler. 
Freshman Kevin Bradley of St. Ed's mentioned the linebackers on his team have really helped make a difference this year. 
"Our strength this year is our defense," he said. "Our defen­sive line is really good and we have good linebackers and some corners." 
Knott, however, boasts an offense ready to explode and put up points. According to Schmutzler, players to watch include quarterback Ben Gilfillan and running backs John Bisanz and Joe McCarthy. 
As for St. Ed's, "our offensive line could work on opening up some better holes for the run­ning backs to get through," Bradley said. However, this year could be St. Ed's breakout sea­son. 
St. Ed's has a chance to main­tain an undefeated record, but the Juggs are not to be taken lightly. 
"We just need to go out and do what we did against Zahm," Schmutzler said. 
The game will be Sunday at 2 
p.m. at the north Riehle Field. 
Zahm vs. Sorln 
The hour grows later in the men's interhall season, each team is jockeying to solidify their standings, and the men of Zahm and Sorin are preparing to battle on the north Riehle field this Sunday in a game that each team needs desperately to even have a shot at reaching the playoffs this season. 
Zahm captain Eric Tarnowski knows that with a 0-2 record there is great importance placed on overcoming the frus­tration experienced so far this season. 
"It's been rough, we came out slow," Tarnowski said. "This week we're working on execu­tion and fundamentals." 
According to Tarnowski, Zahm fell behind in their previ­ous game and simply ·weren't able to catch up. 
Sorin lost their last game 14­6, and although they tried mix­ing their plays with runs and · screens, it was too little too late. 
Tarnoski plans on coming out fired up on Sunday so that Zahm's dreams of bringing their solid defense together with an offense that can consistently gain yards is just one step on their way to the playoffs. 
"We have to pull out a win," said Tarnowski, "[This game] is kind of a must win for both teams." 
As for St. Ed's, "our offensive line could work on opening up some better holes for the run­ning backs to get through," Bradley said. However, this year could be St. Ed's breakout sea­son. 
St. Ed's has a chance to main­tain an undefeated record, but the Juggs are not to be taken lightly. 
"We just need to go out and do what we did against Zahm," Schmutzler said. 
The game is Sunday at 2 p.m. at the north Riehle field. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu, Katherine Gales at kgales@nd.edu and Andrew Kirksey at akirkse@nd.edu 


--~ 
• 
Friday, October 3, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE --" 
Frogs' receivers blow up in fourth Badin win 
By MATT PUGLISI, KEVIN 
O'NEILL AND LAUREN 
OSTERHUS 
Sports Writer 
Bullfrog receivers Uz Shappell and Erin Diminick each caught touchdowns and Laura Huarte picked ofT a pair of second-half passes as Badin (4-1) converted on each of its first two drives to shutout McGlinn (3-2) 13-0 and take over sole possession of sec­ond place. 
"Coming out early and scoring is always one of our big attack plans," Diminick said. "It really changes the momentum if you can score and then stop the other team." 
After shutting down the Shamrocks on a quick three­and-out to start the game, the Bullfrogs took over at the McGlinn 30-yard line and went to work. 
Converting a fourth-and-5 on a quarterback keeper, Badin set up a first-and-goal at the 19. 
Following a pair of incomple­tions and a 12-yard reverse by Meagan Charlebois, the Bullfrogs once again faced fourth down. However, for the second time in as many attempts, Badin converted as quarterback Erin Zachry rolled right and found Shappell in the end zone for what would be the winning score. 
Quarterback Stephanie Heath hit Molly Donnelly in the back of the end zone for the conversion and a 7-0 Bullfrog lead. 
Three Shamrock incomple­tions later, Badin used a 15­yard punt return by Huarte to start-ofT at the McGlinn 25-yard line. Following a trio of short completions, Heath alertly sensed her pocket collapsing, scrambled to her right and con­nected with Diminick for the touchdown and a 13-0 Bullfrog advantage with five minutes remaining in the first half. 
"I was originally running a post but I saw Steph scramble so I made a move to get by my girl," Diminick said. "She made an awesome throw and it just connected in the end zone." 
Lyons 19, Howard 0 
Quarterback Roxie Trevino threw for two touchdowns and ran for a third as Lyons ended its season with a 19-0 victory over Howard Thursday night at the west Riehle field. 
On a bitterly cold night, both teams struggled to find their oiTensive rhythm in the first half. 
"The cold was a factor, you could say that." said Ducks cap­tain Shannon Trevino. 
Neither team was able to mount much of an offensive drive until late in the first half when strong play from the Lyons defense forced a Howard punt from deep within Duck territory that gave the Lions the ball at the Howard 27 -yard line. From there, Roxie Trevino put togeth­er a 24-yard scramble that set up her first touchdown pass, a 3­yard strike to Allison Shenk to give Lyons a 6-0 lead. 

On the ensuing Howard pos­session, the Uons defense inter­cepted a pass from Ducks quar­terback Sheena Ketchum and returned it to the Howard 12­yard line. Trevino and the oiTense wasted no time cashing in the turnover, scoring on three plays with a 2-yard pass from Roxie Trevino to Jenni Delaney. 
Following the successful con­version, Lyons took a 13-0 lead into halftime. 
"Our timing in the passing game really came together tonight. We didn't start practic­ing until a week before the first game, so it took a little longer to get everything down." Roxie Trevino said. 
The second half saw Howard make a valiant eiTort to generate offense behind a strong running game and some innovative trick plays sent in by the coaching staff of Mike Flanagan, Mike DeMuniz and Eric Bilinski. 
1\vice the Ducks were able to mount long drives into Lyons ter­ritory but were unable to push the ball over the goal line to get on the scoreboard. On the sec­ond of these drives, facing a fourth-and-goal from the Lyons 17-yard line, Ketchum faded back and found a receiver over the middle near the goal line. However, a sure Lyons tackle stopped the play at the l-inch line, preserving the shutout for the defense. 
Lewis 18, Pasquerllla East 0 
No. 1 playoff seed Lewis shut down and shut out the Pasquerilla East Pyros as it con­tinued its march to the Stadium last night on the west Riehle field. 
The stellar Lewis defense caught three interceptions in the first half alone, all of which were converted into touchdowns by an equally impressive o!l'ense. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu, Kevin O'Neill at koneill4@nd.edu and Lauren Osterhus at losterhu@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles to compete in second Division I race of season 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sporu Writer 
The Saint Mary's cross country team has wounds to heal. The Belles. however, also have a race to run. 
IJOO' ....:..tlr,.....,_. 
OpmHouoo 
Wednesday, October 15'" 
424 North Frances Street, Apt 17 
2-6p.m. 
october Spe;;:ial Free DVD player for all leases Signed by October 31, 20031 

Before the team gets a much­needed break leading up to the MIAA Championships Nov. 1, it must run two important races. The first of the two races will happen this Saturday at the Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational at Loyola Chicago. And the team needs its top runners even though they're battling injuries. 
Freshmen Sara Otto and Katie White have been two of Saint Mary's best runners this season. But each is nursing injuries, with Otto hobbling on a bad toe and White fighting arch problems in 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOW NHOM ES _., 
"TheBestVaLePerStudent" ,.­

• 
4/5 Private Bedrooms 

• 
Fully Equipped Kitchens 

• 
Washer & Dryer in Each Apartment 


~ 
,_.

• 
Central Air Conditioning 

• 
ADT Security Systems 

• 
24~Hour Emergency Maintenance 


Professionally Managed By: Real Estate Management Corporation 
P.O. Box 540, 130 South Main Street, Ste 450 South Bend, IN 46624 
Jblad@cbresb.com 

R eser:ve YoursToday! 574-234-9923 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
San eREBS:I'lSW hyYou Shou:ti.Joh OurCanmunJty ..... 
• 
Over 1,000 SF of Living Space ~ 

• 
2 Bedrooms I I Bathroom-Double Vanity Sinks 

• 
On -Site Laundry Facility ._ .t --_-­

• 
5 Blocks from Campus ~y-_ t;t",_­

• 
On Route of"Transpo" Bus-Line II' ,. 

• 
Professionally Managed 8 

• 
24-Hour Emergency "On-Call" Maintenance 


Notre Dame Apartments Continues to Offer Quality Housing Opportunities and has Clearly Become The Best Value in OfT-Campus Living! 
Open House Thursday, October 16'• 835 North Notre Dame Avenue, Apt lA 2-6p.m. 
0 ctober Spe:::ial Next year leases signed by October 31, 2003 will lock in current year rates! 
Reser:veYoursToday! 574-234-9923 
her feet. 
Both freshmen will run Saturday, which possibly could endanger the team's season if they hurt themselves further. 
In addition to senior Jackie Bauters, Otto and White have fin­ished in the top three in all of the Belles' races thus far. A loss of either runner would have a dev­astating impact on the team. 
Last season at the same event, Saint Mary's finished in 21st place out of non-Division I teams and 28th overall. Bauters and Laura Ficker placed 171st and 180th, respectively. 
The Belles have already improved their performance this season in Division I races, plac­ing 16th at the National Catholic Invitational at Notre Dame. Saint Mary's has finished closer to the top in all of its other races, including a fifth-place finish in its first race and two sixth-place fin­ishes. 
Most recently in the MIAA Jamboree, the Belles saw results of a slow progression to top form. The top five runners in each varsity race count to the team's final score. In contrast to having just three runners place relatively high in its previous races, Saint Mary's saw junior Elizabeth Commers join the three usual leaders at 52nd place in the Jamboree. 
The Invitational is one of two races that will take place before the MIAA Championships. 
The Belles also have the Eagles Invitational at Benedictine University on Oct. 10. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pieonard@nd.edu 
8~ Aafo's Closetwe buy and sell the best in g~ntlyused brandname ~pare! and accessories. We1~~got great stufffromGAP,J.Crew, 4~tcrombie &Fitch, Dr. Martens, Lucky Brand, Express;Americ~ Eagle, and more ~i' ~t unbeli~v~l,eprice~ At elato1SCloset rt's 
··:::::;:;~::;:)>.. :::··. 
easy tq ~y~ money and look cool at the same 
··:······ 
M-F IOam-8pm Sat IOam-6pm Sun Noon-Spm 
-
..... 

Friday, October 3, 2003 

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Men 
continued from page 28 
well and lose, and sometimes you can play badly and win. We can sometimes criticize wins 
-more than losses." 
Junior defender Kevin Goldthwaite and senior for­wards Justin Detter and Devon Prescod had four shots on the night. 
Irish goalie Chris Sawyer made two saves. 
Notre Dame now heads to Pittsburgh to take on a Panthers squad that has a 3-1-3 all-time series lead on the Irish. Notre Dame's only win in the series came in a 3-0 victory at Alumni field in 1996. The Panthers have won the last two meetings, 3-2 and 1-0, respec­tively. 
"Syracuse was a tough game," Clark said. "Pittsburgh will be a different game altogether. We just take it one game at a time." 
Notre Dame faces Pittsburgh on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Cross 
continued from page 28 
to be led by junior Lauren King, sophomore Molly Huddle, senior Megan Johnson, and freshman Amy Cohleimer, who will all be running their first races of the season. Senior Katie Wales, sophomore Jean Marinangeli, sophomore Elizabeth Webster and junior Kerry Meagher, who took first place at the National Catholic two weeks ago, will also be among the varsity Irish runners. 
The Irish men, who were third last season at the Notre Dame Invitational, will be led by sophomore Tim Moore, senior Todd Mobley and freshman Kurt Benninger, who will all be participating in their first competition of the fall. Sophomore Caleb van Ort and junior Sean O'Donnell, who were second and third, respectively, at the National Catholic, will likely play major roles for the Irish. 
Both Irish squads are fresh off a win at the National Catholic Invitational, but today's competition will be a much more significant test for the Irish as both teams embark upon their mission to win the Big East Championships and to finish near the top at the National Championship meet. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
INFORMATION MEETING· "Angers, A. D ay 1n. th... e .L·rI•C" 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
fPlease join us__.;,h;;(J,·;;~...il..i~................__ trst or second ':.fneetin 

Tuesday~--0~-t~i~·~:..-.-,-,_2_0_0_3-----....1 
7:30PM '--------·---·--·---·--··!..!.~-..!:"!~~~-~!~!.!.~.............-...------....J 
Application Deadline: Dec.. 1 , 2003 A.cademic Year 2004-2005 Fall 2004 , Spring 2005 Applications available: www.nd.edu/--intlstud 
-
shots on goal. In addition, no team has  "West Virginia is very good and very athletic.  "Villanova is very blue collar and hardwork­ 
scored  more  They're close to  ing,"  said  
than one goal against the Irish this sea­ matching us athletically ... and are  Waldrum. "They don't really have any  
son, while the  very organized. ,,  stars,  but  
Irish are aver­ they're all solid.  
aging goals  four per  Randy Waldrum  They beat us at their place last  
game.  Irish coach  year and have a  
Still,  the  quality  pro­ 
Irish  know  gram."  

that West Virginia and Villanova Heading into the conference beat them last year, and they season, the Irish appear to have expect difficult games this sea­the scheduling advantage by son as well. playing their toughest oppo­

528 :E. Colfax ?lve., Suite #2 South -Bern{, 11Jf46617 
574/232·1822 

312 w. cCevefani%f. §rat¥Jer, 1'1f 46530 
574/277~6693 
nents at Alumni Field. 
Either way, the winner of this weekend's contest will have a huge advantage in the confer­ence standings. 
With that thought in mind, the Irish will be looking to get off to a good start as they look to re­establish themselves as the team to beat in the Big East and continue their march toward attaining one of the all-impor­tant top four seeds in the NCAA Tournament. 
"Every game is important for the NCAA seeding," said senior forward Amy Warner. "Plus these games are really impor­tant for the Big East. These games are important because ultimately we want to get one of the top four seeds so that we can host all the way until the Final Four." 

Notes 
+The Irish have only trailed once all season, for seven min­utes against Arizona State. The Irish eventually won 3-1. 
+ 
The Irish are undefeated after 10 games for the seventh time in program history, despite the program being less than 20 years old. 

+ 
Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn is 18-1-1 in her last twenty games. 

+ 
Senior Amanda Guertin's goal against Indiana State moved her into the top ten in Irish history in career goals (43). 


Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
Woinen 
continued from page 28 
The Irish have been impres­sive through 10 games this sea­son. They have scored 40 goals thus far, and have only allowed the opponents to take 26 
"West Virginia is very good and very athletic," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "They're close to matching us athletically, and like Stanford they are very organized and very difficult to break down defensively. 
Villanova, while not as highly regarded nationally as West Virginia, is also a very solid 
team. 


Friday, October 3, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Battle of the unbeatens as BP faces Cavanaugh 
By MIKE GILLOON, KEVIN 
O'NEILL and ANNE BRUSKY 
Sports Writers 
Cavanaugh and Breen­Phillips will square off Sunday in a matchup between two teams with spotless records. 
The Babes are 3-0-1 and are coming off a 13-0 win over Welsh Tuesday night. The Chaos is 4-0 and defeated Farley 12-0 in their last game. Neither team has given up many points this season and both squads are favorites going into the playoffs. 
The Babes are led by sopho­more quarterback Traci Kazmerski and senior wide receiver Kelly Deckelman on offense. According to Kazmerski, freshmen wide receivers Tara Johnson and Megan Ohlenfrost have been playing very well so far this year. She also said senior defensive lineman Mila Cheatom should make an impact. 
Kazmerski said her team has practiced well this week for Cavanaugh and did not do any­thing different than usual. 
"We are as confident as can be expected going up against a team like Cavanaugh," she said. "They are renowned to be the best team in our divi­sion but I like our chances if we can stop their running game and long passes." 
Cavanaugh sophomore mid­dle linebacker Kerri Bergen is also confident about her team's chances going into this game. 
"We are a pretty strong, deep team and we have plenty of good people on both sides of the ball," she said. 
The Chaos feature sopho­more quarterback Lisa Ruffer and senior wide receiver Jenny Nokes while junior Sara Gilloon is a strength on the offensive line. 
Defensively they are led by Bergen and senior linebacker Bridget Cerne. 
Bergen has been pleased with the way the Chaos have practiced all week. 
"We don't feel we have any major weaknesses on our team. We have been working on the basics and seeing what kind of game BP is going to play," she said. 
Pasquerllla West vs. Welsh 
The Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels and the Welsh Whirlwinds will both be look­ing to bounce back from disap­pointing results when the teams square off Sunday after­noon. 
The Purple Weasels, with a record of 1-1-2, are coming off of a disappointing 13-13 tie with Farley in which they allowed the game-tying points in the final seconds after com­mitting costly penalties to keep Farley in the game. 
"This is a big game for us." said captain Leslie Schmidt. 
Schmidt will lead the offense from the quarterback position and look to find receivers Heather Van Hoegarden and Maureen Spring. Schmidt will look to improve her passing efficiency to spark the offense, saying, "I need to be more con­sistent with my passes." The offense will look to shake a trend of poor early play and get off to a fast start against a tough Whirlwind defense. 
"We are looking to execute perfectly and get everything going early." Schmidt said. 
The solid Purple Weasel defense is Jed by pass-rushing specialist Gina LoPresto, and is coming off a game in which they intercepted three passes. They'll come up against a Welsh offense Jed by quarter­back Melissa Sands, a player whom Welsh captain Jamie McEldowney says has really stepped into the role with good success. 
McEldowney gave Pasquerilla West credit, say­ing, "PW is a good team. We're coming off of a tough loss, but we're going to put that behind us and move on." 
That tough loss was a 13-0 blanking at the hands of Breen-Phillips and has left the Whirlwinds, now at 3-2 on the season, looking to prove that they are still a strong con­tender in the Blue League. "We're a better team than how we played on Sunday," said McEldowney, "We're looking to pick ourselves up." 
McEldowney was firm in asserting that the Whirlwinds have no stars but win games on the strength of a total team effort. "Each game someone new steps up." she said. 
The game will take place at 2 p.m. Sunday on the West Quad fields. 

Walsh vs. Farley 
They may not have the best records in the league, but the Walsh Wild Women and Farley's Finest are both hun­gry for a win. 
The Wild Women (1-3) know they need to step up at Sunday's game if they want to make the playoffs and the Finest (0-3-1}, while most like­ly out of playoff contention, are hoping to end the season strong. 
With that in mind, both teams are coming out pre­pared to play a hard-fought, physical game. 
"We're going to go out there, give 100 percent, play our game and control the tempo," Walsh junior Amanda Borys said. "And I think we're going to win." 
Playing center and line­backer, Borys has been a dom­inant presence on both sides of the football thus far this sea­son. With quarterback Carrie Campbell, cornerback Mariana Klinger and a strong defensive line including Karla Bell and Mary Ellen Botta, Borys has her sights set on the Stadium. 
Walsh dropped a close game against Pangborn on Tuesday, giving the Phoxes their first win in four years, but the Wild Women are looking to rebound from the loss. 
"We got a really bad break last game," Borys said of the controversial pass interference call in the waning moments of the game. "I don't think it {Sunday's game) will be easy, but we're pretty confident." 
Farley is also fairly confident about the game although they don't believe Walsh's loss to Pangborn carries any signifi­cance. 
"It all comes down to game time, who comes out wanting to win it more" said Farley captain Angelina Zehrbach. "All that matters is if we go out there and play our best game possible." 
Farley has greatly improved over the past few weeks and, although they lost. their stellar performance against Cavanaugh last game makes the next two matchups look promising. 
"We want to win out. And not just win, but win by a lot," Zehrbach said. 
The Finest boast a talented defense and a strong tandem quarterback duo, not to men­tion what they believe is some of the best spirit in the league. 
"We love to get crazy and we're not afraid to get dirty," Zehrbach said. 
"We have some secret plays out there and little rituals we do if we accomplish certain things," he said. "We have a great time and we'll use it to our advantage. 
"Definitely be on the lookout for us." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at tmgilloon@nd.edu, Kevin O'Neill at koneill4@nd.edu and Anne Brwky at abrwky@nd.edu 
-

• ·Int Ca~e:!i~tE:u. 
Make Yourself Stand Outl Attend Company Presentational Immediate Application Deadlines for Top Notch CompanlesJ 
••Apply via Golnsh by logging on to http:/lcareercmter:mf.t<du Questions? Call the G~reer, U"nter 631-5200 
Application Deadlitres 

Johnson ~)~!!~!! 10/3 &10/6: BUS, SCI. ENG Target10/fi: AF, 1.. BllS, SCI 
William F. Gunie & Co 
10/G BUS 16 !;lc~s 
16 total upplicants. 
WeJis Fargo 10/6: BllS 
13 slot~ for 17 applicant:; Eli liDy 10/6 BUS. A&L SCI fNG 2G Interview~. amfl)nly !8 applicants 
A.G. l::dwards 'KJ/1 BUS fluor Dan~l. Inc 10/7 ENG 13 ~lots CJViJilable. ZERO ~tudl..'llts have appliE!d Uncoln Financial ~!017 A&!., SCI. BU~~. ENG 104 interview slots. 
Only 13 ;lppli<:<mts tl)ta!. 
ful.~~~-~ulting 
Group 10/7: f:NG 
AON Corporalioo 10/7: 
BUS SPX Corporation 10!'1: P~JS 16 •nterviL'w slot~ Wllh only 14 applicants. Nissan Motor Co 10/7 BUS. MI.. ENG. SCI 8 slut!; with 17 applicants. Newell Rubbermaid 1017: BUS, A&l. SCI, 

ENG 3!J interview slots for 43 Hpphcants Robert W. Baird 10/l:l: 
A&L Btl$'' 44 
applicar:ts for 52 interview ~lots. Raytheoo Co10/8: SCI. 
F.NG 

News America Marketing 10/8: A,:1,l, SCI. BUS. ENG Osram Sylvania P.~~ 10/8: ENG. BUS, Ml 39 interview slots for 25 appli<".ants American Management ~~~ns 10/8 A&L SCI. BUS. ENG 26 slots, 3-1 rE!SlJOlHS received Cochran, Caronia & Co 10/8: A&L. SCI. BUS, ENG 13 slots for 1f> applicants Navigant Consulting 10/8: A&l. BUS Carson Pirie Scott & Co iO/TI: A&l. SCI. BUS ?.G imc;,rvi•~w slots for 13 appli1;ants 
Kenesis Group 10/11: 
13US ONlY 3 ;~pplicant"> for 13 slots 
C.ompanv 
Rohm&Haas lnvitatkm Only KPMG Open to All Stix!E!ntS 
l~~r..N!!~ 
Invitation Only 
IJeioitte &Tol!Chc 
Open to All St!..'OOnts 
G~r.:!!!.~!$. 
Oj~~n to All Stooont!i 
General Electric 
Open to .~II Students 
Stryker Instruments Open to All StUdents 
f..~~! 
Open l<l All Sll.ldents Travelers Pr~dY. Firlilnct~ &IT Sll.Kicnts BP 
Open tel All StJx!E!ntS 
CarTier Corporation 
Open to All Students 
NGrthwe,'?!!lrrtM!:I!!:'!ll:! 
urc.Hoopjs Agency Open to All Students 
~ 
Open to all StudenL<> 
~~f.~.9..f.~!~~l~! 
Open wall Su1dmlLS 
CIA "Open HouseN 
Graduate StJ;dents 
~t&Young 0p!.~l to All Students 
iJate/llnJP,/!Pfff[jpf.! 
10/5/03 6:30·8:30prn 
Dooley Rm. LaFortune 
10/5/03 5:00-S:OOpm 
Monogram Rtr., JAC:C 
10/5/03 6:00·130prn Foster Rm, l.afilrturlf~ 1016/0:3 5:00-0:30prn Auditonum, CGf. 
R)/6103 I:00-9:00pm 
Mootgomery !'heater, lafun 
10/fJ/03 6 3D-8:30pm 
Notre Dame Rm. 1.\:crris Inn 
10/7/03 7:30-9:30prn 
Caf~ de Gn~~.ta. Gracn Hall 10/7/03 7:00·9:00pm Rm 216, Debartolo Hall 10/710:3 6:00·7:00pm Foster Rm, Larortune 10/7/03 6:30-B:OC~Jm Ak~rmi Rm. Morris Inn 
10/7/03 5:00-7:00pm 
Rm ;::oo. CCf 
i0/8/03 7:00-8:30pm 
Rm 119, Debartolo 
10/8/03 6:{.)()-7:30pm roster Rm, LaFortune 10/8/03 6:30· 7:30pm A:urnn: Rm, Morris Inn 
10/9/03 8:00-lO:OOpm Montgomery Theater, lafun 10/!J/03 6:00-B:OOpm Center Dining Arf'.a. CCf 
HAPPY 21st 
CARL! 

rscaring small children since 1982J 
Love. Pf 

631-5175 
A:udiHons wiD be held in the Annenberg Auditorium, basement of the Snite Museum of Art. 
:-:;. 
Please biin,g one prepared arja or song (from memory) andn1usic for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. · ·Opera performance dates are March 26 -27, 2004 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October 3, 2003 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles lose match, but gain some confidence 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 

-
Associate Sports Editor 

As strange as it sounds, there are times when a loss can mean more than a win. The Belles had such a loss Thursday night. 
Saint Mary's (1 0-7) fell to non-conference opponent Bethel at home by a score of 26-30, 28-30, 22-30. 
Despite losing in straight sets, the team's coach believes that a loss actually will help her team more in the long run than their two earlier wins against less-talented oppo­nents. 
"It was a good match," Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "I felt a lot better coming out of there with a loss than after our two earlier wins. 
"We definitely lifted our level of play." The Belles came into the 
match on a two-game winning streak, one against Olivet ­the worst team in the MIAA standings -and another against a less-talented Manchester team. 
Bethel was not the same cal­iber. Right away, Saint Mary's knew that they were facing one of their best opponents of the year. 
"This team was probably the best blockers we've seen so far," Schroeder-Biek said. "We didn't pass well so it was diffi­cult to get the middle estab­lished, and they really parked on our outside hitters." 
Outside hitter Kristen Playko led the team with 12 kills, a relatively low stat which was almost certainly affected by a stellar Bethel defense. 
Bethel wasn't the only team who could play defensively, though. 
"We were very. very scrappy out there on defense," Schroeder-Biek said. "The ball didn't go down without a fight." 
The Belles go on the road Saturday to begin the second half of their MIAA season. Saint Mary's will face Kalamazoo Saturday at 11 a.m. 
Earlier in the year. Saint Mary's dispatched Kalamazoo at home in five sets. one of the Belles' two conference wins this year. But just because they beat them once doesn't mean that Schroeder-Biek is expect­ing an easy encore. 
"When we beat [Kalamazoo] at home it was a really tough match," she said. "They've played really well since that loss; they've been competitive in every conference match. 
"I'm glad we had this match tonight because it really raised our level of play, which we'll need on Saturday." 
Contact Jwtin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SWIMMING 

Dennis Stark Relays this weekend 
By MATT LOZAR 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Friday. the Belles get a chance to swim with the best. 
The 2003 season gets kicked off at 6:30 p.m. with the Dennis Stark Relays. Besides Saint Mary's, the Notre Dame men's and women's teams will compete in the relays. With the Belles competing at the Division III level and the Irish women win­ning the past seven Big East Championships, the Belles use this meet to see what it is like to compete at the Division I level. 
"It gives us a bench mark; they are the class of the Big East." Saint Mary's coach Gregg Petcoff said. "Locally, they are the class probably in Indiana. It's nice to set up a mark to chase. 
"We'd love to say we compete with them, but we chase them." 
While competing with the Notre Dames of the world is a dream for Saint Mary's, this meet isn't about the Belles com­ing in last. Petcoff says his team can stay even with Division I programs like Illinois State and Valparaiso. 
In the 2002 Notre Dame Relays, the Belles finished fifth of six teams. 
With the calendar saying it's the beginning of October, the actual competition cycle of swimming is still a few weeks away from getting into full swing. Petcoff wants to use this meet to see how successful the preseason training has been. 
"It's kind of early to compete, but one of the reasons we like it is that it's only three to four weeks into the season," Petcoff said. "(Waiting] two months would be a lot of training. It's nice to have a meet. We want to be aggressive, find areas where we aren't ready to compete yet. I'd rather have mistakes here than at the [MIAA] champi­onships." 
In 2002. Megan Ramsey won the conference title in the tOO­meter butterfly. Ramsey's time earned her an NCAA provisional spot and allowed the then-junior to compete in the NCAA qualify­ing meet. Ramsey wasn't able to qualify for the NCAA Championships. but she is one of the seniors Petcoff is hoping will lead the talented freshman class. 
"We have a fairly talented group of freshmen to combine with a group that set team records throughout their careers," Petcoff said. ''I'm look­ing not only for leadership in the water. 
"We have Megan Ramsey who has an NCAA time, two [butter­fly] as freshmen trying to chase her down. We have Maureen record-holder." 
Petcoff and the Belles haven't been training for too long and aren't dying to compete in a meet. However, the Belles want to use this meet against tougher competition as a tune-up for their next meet at Carthage College. in which fellow MIAA conference member Hope College will be competing. 
"It's a nice little combination at this meet," Petcoff said. "We are going to try and go after one or two of these relays, and see how close are we to a very com­petitive time." 



· Dances · Graduation parties 
· Complete banquet and catering services 
· Tent parties 

Friday, October 3, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BIGEE 


-

[ J I 
C2003 Tribune Madia Servlcee, Inc. All Rights AaaeNad. 
EAZUG 
j
I I r [] ORPAND ± 
WHEN THE ANTS INVAD~D THEIR PICNIC., THE:Y--­
www.jumble.com

tGOYAVE t Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.
J rJ J 
1 
k 

rI I I I JHER "[ I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 
•

I Jumbles: ADMIT CREEK DAMPEN STICKYYesterday's 
Answer: What the doctor's diagnosis did to the hypochon­driac-MADE HIM SICK 
WILLSHORTZ 

35 Recovered 40 19791ilm 46 Around may be from a bad loosely based added to it stroke? on Janis 
49 Newbery­
Joplin's lila 
winning writer36 New arrival on 
Scott 
a reservation 41 Shade close to 
plum 50 John X's 37 Have in successor common with 42 Very poor, in a 
53 Land in S.A. 
way
38 Don't hold your 55 Norman with e breath 43 Service aces? club 
For answers, caii1-90Q-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing Ibis birthday: Dave Winfield, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Lindsey Buckingham, Gore Vidal, Chubby Checker, Tommy Lee 
Happy Birthday: Brace yourself and prepare for change. The more you try to keep things the way they are, the more difficult your life will become. Use your 
intuition, and you will stand a much better chance when it comes to making important decisions. Don't let your emotions interfere with your productivity. Your numbers: 8, 15, 19, 27, 30, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can get down to business if you pul your mind to il. Financial gains can be made if you don't dawdle. Remember, the early bird catches the wonn. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This will not be the day for hasty decisions. Your partner may push buttons that absolutely infuriate you. Shopping will cost you more than you bargained for. Set a budget and stick to it. * * * * GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will suffer from minor health problems if ­you have been pushing yourself past the limit. You need to spend some time regenerating. Pamper yourself and don't feel guilty about it. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Business partnerships will be beneficial. You can get involved in money-making ventures. Social activity should involve physical-fitness programs. You need to get yourself moving again. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be confused if you try to force issues with your partner. Opportunities to get into learning situations will be to your advantage. Don't allow family members or lovers to hold you back. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make changes if you are willing to upgrade or take on a challenge that will teach you as you work. You need to talk to those who can give you an objective view of your situation. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make money if you invest in bonds ,funds or property. Job prospects look favorable if you want to make professional 
moves.** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): New romantic encounters will develop through travel or friends. You may experience difficulties with older family members if 
they decide that they don't like the choices you're making. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have problems with co-workers or your boss. Try to complete your work without getting involved in the trivial problems that are going on around you. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend more time wilh friends. You should be asking for help if you need it. Someone you know would love to give you a helping hand. You don't have to be so independent. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have difficulties with family members. Don't let others in on your personal problems, or your partner is likely to feel betrayed. Your words could easily be twisted around. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Travel and adventure will lead you into romantic entanglements. You will attract members of the opposite sex readily. You can find fabulous buys if you frequent flea markets. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You're a real go-getter, always into something and definitely not easy to keep up with. You're involved in everything. Your interests will be vast, and your need to prove yourself relentless. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at www.eugenialast.com 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Vets 8 Suits 
15 Like some apartmants 18 Recommanded safety limit 
17 Crumbly 18 Swelling reducers 
19 Amender 
20 Free 
21ltems on a 46-Down, perhaps 
22 Big name In outdoor grills 
24 Word interpreted by Daniel 
25 Getty Center architect Richard 
27 Blazer, e.g. 
28 Transplanted, as a plant 
211 ·unsung, the noblest deed will die" poet 
31 Buffoonery 
33 Knocks the 
socks off 35 Not regular 39 Swabber 44 Grable's "The 
Dolly Sisters" co-star 45 Where to find porters 47 Writer Alexander 
48 •And Morning _with haste her lids": Emerson 

49 Like some number systems 51 Bavarian river 52 Sink 54 Go back 56 Controlled 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

57 Osgood Hall Law School locale 
58 By and large 
59 Thus spake Zarathustra 
60 Lifts, in a way 
61 What Alfred E. Neuman has 
DOWN 1 Many an exit 2 Rock singer? 3 Like some 
restaurants 4 Beat the drum 
for 5 Side in gray 6 Set to keep 
warm, perhaps 7 Metric 
measures 8 Earliest 9 Old Renault 
1 o Origin of man 11 Nutritive matter around a seed's embryo 12 Closely 
connected 
14 Soma stanzas 23 Barbershop
request 
26 Shower shower? 28 Slopes 
Ad catchword
32 
34 Numbers of places 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
-

Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, October 3, 2003 
Page 28 
MEN'S SOCCER 

-
Strong ties 
No.4 Irish dominate Orangemen, but don't pull out win in 1-1 draw 
Junior Notre Dame defender Kevin Goldthwaite shields the ball against Georgetown. Goldthwaite has been solid on the left side. 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer Senior defender Melissa Tancredi cuts past a North Texas player in a game earlier this week. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Challenge loon1s on w-eekend 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 

For their first seven years in the Big East, the women's soc­cer team was utterly dominant. The Irish seldom lost at all, and even if they did, they always managed to be there at the end -winning the Big East Tournament in their first seven years in the conference. 
Last year things changed. The Irish went only 3-3 in divi­sional games and did not even 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Men and women host invitational 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 

Both the Irish men's and women's cross country teams will see their first real compe­tition of the season today as they host the Notre Dame Invitational. After two meets against less talented teams, Notre Dame will face top teams such as Michigan and Duke as both Irish teams field all of their top runners for the first time this season. 
In the previous two races, both the men's and women's squads could afford to give 
their top runners a rest while focusing on developing the less experienced runners, particu­larly the freshmen. Essentially, the first two races were a warm-up for the season. 
Today, though, the Irish will get a better sense of where they stand among some of the nation's top teams as 19 ranked men's and women's squads will be running on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The No. 2 Irish women will face off against No. 20 Wake Forest, No. 25 Washington and No. 31 Duke. The Irish expect 
see CROSS/page 24 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

-· 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team dominated in ball control and in every statistical category, but the Irish could not capital­ize on chances and Thursday's game at Syracuse ended in a 1­1 tie. The Irish (6-1-3, 2-1-1) .. received a goal in the second half from junior defender Jack Stewart, his first of the season. Notre Dame out-shot Syracuse 22-10 and played up to par with its No. 4 national rank. "We played exceptionally well," coach Bobby Clark said. "We dominated most facets of the game, except perhaps the hardest -goals. But we out­shot them, out-cornered them. We actually played very well." Syracuse moves to 2-5-3 over­all and 0-2-2 in the Big East. Neither team scored in the first half. The Irish went into halftime with a 7-2 advantage in shots. "[Syracuse's] record doesn't show it, but they have a great team," Clark said. "They gave us some problems in the first half." Orangemen goalie Alim Karim gave the Irish the most prob­lems, making eight saves and keeping his team in the game. Stewart was the only Irish player to sneak one by Karim, heading a Chad Riley free kick 
into the net for a 1-0 lead at the 
73:40 mark. 
Riley is now just one assist away from tying for second on the all-time assist leaders list for Notre Dame. 
Later in the half, Syracuse forward Jeff Evans was dragged down in the box. The Orangemen tied the contest at 1-1 on Iiias Calaitzidis' penalty shot. 
The 20 minutes of overtime saw three shots from each squad and relatively even play, 
Notre Dame did not get the victory, but Clark and the Irish remain positive. 
"It would have been nice to get the three points [for a win], 
I 

but we just try to learn from every game," Clark said. "We still have to look and see what happened on the game tape." 
The Irish have six wins on the season so far. That number eas­ily could have been increased to nine if Notre Dame had made the final score reflect its domi­nant play in all three of its ties. 
The results of the game, how­ever, is not Clark's first concern. 
"We never talk winning or losing," he said. "We talk about how we play. Obviously it's a disappointment because we did enough but didn't finish the game. But sometimes you play 
see MENIpage 24 

qualify for the Big East Tournament. Two of those three losses came against the 
two teams the Irish face this see WOMEN/page 24 weekend -No. 5 West Virginia and Villanova. 
-


SMC SWIMMING  SMC VOI.LEYBAU  SMCXC  WOMEN'S INTERHAU  MEN'S INTERHAll  
Dennis Stark  Bethel defeats  Sean Earl  Badin 13  Siel!fried vs.  Dillon vs. Alumni  
Relays  Saint Mary's  Lakefront Invitational  McGlinn 0  Fisner  O'Neill vs.  
Friday, 6:30 p.m. The Belles kick off their season.  The Belles lost in straight sets Thursday.  Saturday Two freshmen lead  Lyons 19 Howard 0  Knott vs. St. Ed's Zahm vs. Sorin  Keenan Stanford vs.  
page 26  page 26  the Belles in Chicago. page 23  Lewis 18, PE 0 page 23  page 22  Morrissey  





