• 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Trustees to meet, consider Hallahan's report 
BOT convenes for fall meeting 
By SHEILA FLYNN 
News Writer 
The University's Board of Trustees will convene on campus today, tomor­row and Saturday for its triannual meeting to discuss and vote on policy issues within the University. 
The agenda for the closed meetings has not been publicized. but tradition and statements made by University offi­cials have highlighted various issues that will doubtlessly be discussed. 
Earlier in the year. Father David Tyson, provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of lloly Cross. said the Board will most likely hear a report addressing the appointment of a new executive vice president. Father Timothy Scully sub­mitted his resignation from the second­highest administrative post to the Board last May. 
"The Chair of the Board created an Ad Hoc Committee on Organization that is preparing a report for the full Board on structural issues in the Univer!)ity administration," Tyson said in a September e-mail interview. "It is my understanding that the position of exec­utive vice president will be included in the report." 
It is unclear, however, whether a new vice president will be named within the 
see BOARD/page 4 
Hallahan to address Board today 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Editor 
Student body president Pat Hallahan will address the Board of Trustees today where he plans to discuss expanding the role of the Campus Life Council to improve communication between stu­dents and the administration and faculty to more efficiently influence University policy. 
The report, "A New Attitude: Student Government and the Campus Life Council," suggests CLC's composition be changed to include the following mem­bers: student body president, class coun­cil president, Club Coordination Council president, Hall President Council presi-
John Paul II celebrates 25 years of papacy 
By MIKE CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
Today marks the 25th anniver­sary of Pope .John Paul IJ's tenure as the Bishop of Rome. 
Born Karol Wojtyla, John Paul II is the Church's first Polish pope and the first non-Italian pope since 1523. As the most traveled pontifl' in history. he has helped refocus the world's attention on the papacy as the center of Church leadership, while addressing moral and social issues across the globe. 
In his book Lives of the Popes, Notre Dame theology professor Father Hichard McBrien ranks John Paul II as the twelfth most historically important pope. Combining a liberal approach to 
• social justice with a conservative fidelity to Catholic orthodoxy, John Paul II has significantly influrmced the global community as well as the direction of the post-Vatican II Church. 
In the spirit of the second Vatican Council. John Paul II has concerned himself with the most pmssing issues of the contempo­rary world. lie has spoken out against such international issues as the nuclear arms race, capital punishment, consumerism, injus­
see POPE/page 4 marks the Pope's 25th In office. 

Freshman honored for community service 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's freshman Chrissi Egan knew an injustice when she saw one. 
While still a high school student, Egan said that she noticed the dif­ference between female sports and male sports in her home state of Kentucky, where she played softball. To combat the gender gap that she and her teammates witnessed, Egan decided to take matters in her own hands. Her actions led to a court decision that would ultimately affect the equity of high school sports throughout the state. 
In recognition of her efforts, Egan was one of 10 students to be awarded the Yoshiyama Award for Exemplary Service to Community. She was officially presented with a plaque com­memorating the event at the National Press Club in Washington. D.C. Thesday. 
Egan and the other nine hon­orees, who were chosen from among 500 national nominees, were additionally awarded $5,000 for their community awareness efforts. 
A Title IX activist in Washington heard of Egan's efforts and nomi­nated her. 
It was the details of discrimina­tion that tipped Egan off that something was amiss in Kentucky high school sports. 
"The girls would have to drive across the county to their games and practice fields, whereas the 
boys' fields were on campus," said Egan. 
Male high school teams were allowed to play without time lim­its, Egan said, while the female teams were restricted by an SO­minute on their games. Female coaches in Kentucky were paid less than their male counterparts, as well. 
Egan and her softball team­mates approached the principal of their high school and superin­
see EGAN/page 4 dent. Judicial Council president, Student Union Board manager. Student Union treasurer, four faculty members from the Faculty Senate, four rectors, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, vice president for Business Operations and associate provost. 
The Board of Trustees established the predecessor to the CLC, the Student Life Council. in 1968 as a legislative body under the University president that could implement campus policy unless vetoed by the president. In 1977. trustees decid­ed to revise the SLC, creating the CLC, which currently makes recommendations to the vice president for Student Affairs. 
Hallahan will present his report follow-
see HALLAHANIpage 6 

McCourt to deliver lecture 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 
Frank McCourt. winner of the Pulitzer Prize for his poignant autobiography "Angela's Ashes." will discuss his life experiences and share his literary expertise tonight when 
he delivers the 20th annual Red S m i t h Lecture in Journalism at Notre Dame. 
The lec­


ture. entitled McCourt 
" F r o m Copybook to Computer: What You Write on and How You Do It," will 
begin at 7:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Ubrary's Carey Auditorium, said Robert Schmuhl. director of the Notre Dame John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism. Ethics. and Democracy and professor of American Studies. 
"For a number of years, Frank McCourt has been known as a tremendous stylist, and the Hed Smith Lecture series has always emphasized good writing." Schmuhl said. "Much of his career has been devoted to teaching good writing, and recently he has been practicing many of these arts him­self." 
Such arts came to life in McCourt's critically acclaimed and popularly received memoirs, which include "Angela's Ashes," a narrative of his Depression-era Irish immigrant background. and '"Tis," which chronicles his return to America at the age of 19. 
"Angela's Ashes" achieved New York Times hardcover best-seller status and held the distinction for 117 weeks after its publication in January 1997. It quickly earned 
see MCCOURT/page 4 

r ­
Thursday, October 16, 2003

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Saycheese: grilled cheese 
We all go to the dining hall multi­ple times a day, and for the most part, we all leave with a generally full feeling in our stomachs. 
I live in O'Neill, so every point of reference toward food and whatnot is related to the 
South Dining Andrew Borys Hall. If you go to North, you might Ad Design as well just skip the rest of this article and get to the obvious high­light of The Observer -the "In Brief' section. But there are those days when you enter the dining hall, and be it the particular rotation for that day or it is breakfast-for-dinner day (serious­ly, if you want to eat breakfast, wake up earlier), nothing looks good. Well, I have the perfect solution for that-grilled cheese sandwich­es. Quite possibly, the most underrat­ed food in dining hall history, the grilled cheese, is often overlooked as people pass right from their chicken patties to the French fries. This is a shame, because the grilled cheese is like that guy in romantic comedies that everyone knows the girl should be with, and when she ends up with him every­thing ends happily. There is always a full tray with the lady working in the background, r_olling on the butter with her paint roller for a fresh batch. And some­times, if you are lucky, they have the grilled cheese with the wheat bread. I am not sure when this fits in the rotation, but it's like going on a date with an Olsen twin and finding out that her sister is coming too. Besides the reliability of the grilled cheese, its main bonus is its versatil­ity. Let me point out the dipping ability of the sandwich. It mixes well with your classical dips of ketchup, honey mustard and ranch dressing, but it does not stop there. The grilled cheese goes great with any soup, no matter what the flavor. It may not make "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy's" list as top eti­quette. but nothing beats dipping a grilled cheese in a warm tomato soup on a blistery South Bend winter day. Besides its obvious dipping quali­ties, the versatility of the grilled cheese does not stop there. You can put anything between those two pieces of heavily buttered bread and it will taste delicious, including ham­burgers, chicken tenders and/or hot dogs. It is not uncommon to see someone at our table having a grilled cheese dog for dinner. It's like a hot dog on steroids ­big, greasy steroids. So as you are sitting here reading this eating your hummus, do your­self a favor and go back in and find a lost piece of your childhood. Grab a grilled cheese, just like your mom made you -if she used a paint roller. 
Contact Andrew Borys at aborys 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expr.essed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE ARE YOU GOING FOR FALL BREAK THIS YEAR? 



Richard Paslewlcz Adam Kauf 
Sophomore Senior Alumni Hall Off-campus 
"Travel through "The great stq,te Europe with ofNebraska.,, 




Craig Shesky 
Sophomore 
O'Neill Hall 
'Tm going to go to the In 'n 'Out Burger, have some beers, a few laughs. and my troubles are over. 
Emmett Kearney 
Sophomore 
O'Neill Hall 
"I got a pretty nice little break planned: going to Home Depot, maybe Bed, Bath and Beyond. I don't know ifI'll have enough time. " 


Leo Colon 
Sophomore O'Neill Hall 
'Tmgoing to sleep, because I'm an arkie. ,, 
Gypsies.,, 

_,  HIGH  55  HIGH  50  HIGH  50  HIGH  59  HIGH  63  HIGH  67  
LOW  .37  LOW  37  LOW  30  LOW  38  LOW  45  LOW  52  
Atlanta  73 I 53 Boston 60 I 43 Chicago 58 I 38 Denver 68 I 39  Houston 80 I 60  Los Angeles 76 1 59 Minneapolis 52 134  

New York 61 I 48 Ph~ladelphia 62 I 46 Phoenix 91 I 66 Seattle 60 I 52 St. Louis 64 I 45 Tampa 85 I 66 Washington 64 147 
OFFBEAT 

Balkans ~t over Mother Theresa 
SKOPJE, Macedonia-Just 
about everyone in this city 
accepts that Mother Teresa 
was a good person. That's 
about all they agree on. 
As the late nun and Nobel 
Peace Prize laureate heads 
toward sainthood, a distinctive­
ly Balkan quarrel has broken 
out over bragging rights to her 
ancestry. The world knows her 
as Albanian. Or should that be 
Macedonian? Or Vlach? And 
what about Kosovo? 

Mother Teresa's message of 
borderless Christian love has 
run up against the historic frac­
tures that led to six months of 
TODAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::t: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( 
CJ 


0 

fighting in this Balkan country between ethnic Albanian insur­gents and Macedonian troops in 2001. The same forces are now sparring over an inscrip­tion to be placed on her statue. 
Tweens new target of toyllladet 
NEW YORK -Girls like eight-year-old Kelsie Templin are a challenge for the toy industry. 
Unlike boys in the 8-to-12 age group, who seem easy to please with video games and action toys, Kelsie and he.r peers are in a fuzzy, in-between stage. Kelsie, for example, likes 
TONIGHT FRIDAY 
to collect stuffed animals, but she also enjoys more grown-up activities like shopping at Oaire's Stores, creating picture frames for her room and listen­ing to tunes by pop star singers Christine Aguilera and Britney 
Spears. 
"I don't like action figure toys and babyish dolls," said Kelsie, who Jives in Pembroke Pines, Fla. 
This holiday season, toy makers and retailers are mak­ing a big effort to capture the hearts of girls like Kelsie, known in the industry as "tweens." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
SATURDAY 
IN BRIEF 
Sculptor Chakaia Booker will present a lecture at the Snit~ Museum of Art's Annenberg Auditorium tonight at 7:30p.m. 
The Evening of Prayer from Around the World series will present a celebration of Hindu prayer tonight from 7 to 7:45 
p.m. in room 330 of the Coleman-Morse Center. 
Irish author and Pulitzer Prize winner Frank McCourt will give a lecture today at 7:30 
p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The event, which is free to the pub­lic, is the 20th installment of the annual Red Smith Lectures. 
The Chicago Shakespeare Theater on Tour will present their rendition of William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet tonight at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $15 for students and $25 for faculty and staff. 
The Class of 2006 will spon­sor a late-night grill on the Fieldhouse Mall tonight from 9 to 10 p.m. The event is free and open to all students. 
{ron Sharpens Iron will pres­ent a concert entitled "For the Love" tonight in the LaFortune ballroom from 10 p.m. to mid­night. 
The marching band drumline will perform a midnight drum­mer circle in front of the Dome Friday at midnight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

~ 
Thursday, October 16, 2003 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SENATE 
Me111bers pass resolution creating Council of Representatives 
Measure approved by 18-1 vote 
said. 
Among the changes was the removal of the amendment stat­ing that the power to approve the budget would be given to the Executive Cabinet. Also, the reso­lution explicitly forms the Council of Representatives, something that the first resolution did not do. 
Bongiovanni said that this for­mal creation of the body came from the "changes of composition and purpose of the Executive Cabinet," including the new mem­bers and powers. 
Furthermore, the resolution now mandates that the Council of Representatives must present all Constitutional changes to the Senate prior to final approval by the Student Body President. The purpose of this requirement, according to Bongiovanni, is to have a formal requirement of communication between the Council of Representatives and the Senate. 
During the meeting, Keough senator Chuck Anthony called for another amendment to the reso­lution requiring the Senate to periodically review the Council of Representatives' powers and giv­ing Senators the authority to revoke any power of the Council of Hepresentatives by a three­fourths majority. 
Anthony said that the need for this amendment came from a "need for a check on the [Council 
airports/ 


By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associa[e News Ediwr' 
Senators passed a resolution forming the Council of Hepresentatives from the Executive Cabinet at the Student Senate meeting on Wednesday. The resolution. similar to the one that failed to pass at the Senate meeting on Sunday. calls for four Senators to sit on the council and. along with the Student Body Vice President, to be given voting nwmbc~rship. Also, the msolution transfers the power to amend the Student Union Constitution to this new body. 
Tho n~solution, which needed a two-thirds majority to pass, was approved by a vote of 18 to 1, with 3 abstnntions. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni presented the reso­lution at Wednesday's meeting, but she said after the meeting that it "came out of' Senate as a whole from discussions at the two previous Senate meetings and Monday's Executive Cabinet meet­ing." 
Bongiovanni told Senators dur­ing the meeting that the resolu­tion was changed from the origi­nal to reflect their concerns. 
"We took out things that Senators didn't feel comfortable with, and added some things to make the resolution better," she 
Co£1(,11 USA~ 
break ... the Senate will elect members for the Council, and we'll get started with any more constitutional planning. The first meeting [of the Council of Representatives] could be the Monday we get back from fall break, but it will probably be the week after that," Lao said. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
of Representatives]," even though, he continued, "It's not something we would need to use often, but only if [the council abused their powers]." 
However, Senators failed to pass this amendment by a vote of 11 to 10. 
Senators passed the resolution with the required two-thirds majority vote, and Bongiovanni said that this was a step towards 


(574) 254-5000 or 1-800-248-TRIP 
Transportation to O'Hare & Midway Airports Convenient • Affordable • Reliable www.coachusa.com Call for our daily schedule · j·«~ The way to go to the  

greater efficiency within student government. 
"We want to show that we're consolidating ourselves ... We're trying to mirror the Campus Ufe Council by forming an inclusive body," she said. 
Work on the Council of Representatives will start as soon as possible, said Student body vice president Jeremy Lao. 
"Once we get back from fall 

r-----­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 16, 2003 




Egan 
continued from page 1 
tendent of their school district with their concerns about the institutionalized gender dispari­ties they had noticed. 
Neither the principal nor the superintendent wished to be concerned with the situation, Egan said, so her family and three others took their cc;~.se to court. 
The case was settled with a consent agreement that would change things in Kentucky forev­er. As a result of Egan's efforts, the time limit on women's games was lifted and a sports complex was built for her school. Her determination also resulted in 
Pope 
continued from. page 1 
tice to the poor and destruction of the environment. 
Many consider John Paul II's steadfast support of the Polish Solidarity movement as having a significant role in the Soviet Union's collapse. 
While progressive in his pur­suit of social justice, John Paul II has sought to limit the imple­mentation of. liberal theology and doctrine within the Church. He has attempted to move away from conciliarism toward more centralized a·uthority in the Vatican. 
Throughout his pontificate, he 
has been strong in his opposi­
tion of women in the priesthood 
and relatively harsh in his 
reproof of non-traditional theo­
logical interpretations. · 
Father Richard Warner, direc­tor of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame, characterizes John Paul II as a remarkable man for a variety of reasons. 
"He's been a man whose suc­cess as a pope for so many years is as much due to his intelligence as to his prayerful spirit. He is a strong advocate of doctrinal adherence, while at the same time a strong advocate of humanism and for supporting the young people who love him," said Warner. 
Some of John Paul II's most noteworthy successes, he said, include his 1979 trip to Poland, his two addresses to the U.N. General Assembly in 1979 and 1995, his speeches to the Cuban people in 1998 and the succes­sion of World Youth Days from "1987 to 1997, in addition to growth of the Church world­
wide. 
"He has overseen tremendous 
growth of the Church in Asia 
and Africa," said Warner. 
In 1981, an assassination 
attempt in St. Peter's Square left 
John Paul II wounded by two 
bullets. The pope publicly for­
gave the shooter, Turkish-born 
Mehmet Ali Agca, three days 
after the shooting and credits 
his survival to the intervention 
of the Virgin Mary of Fatima, 
Portugal. In 2000, Agca was 
officially pardoned for the shoot­
ing by the Italian president. 
The last 11 years of John Paul 
II's office have been marked by 
his deteriorating health. 
Although weakened, the Pope 
has visited the United States as 
recently as 1999. In past 
months, concerns have been 
mounting about the Pope's 
physical frailty and inability to 
complete speeches, but Vatican 
officials insist that the 83 year­
old pontiff is able to continue his 
work and shows no signs of 
resigning. 
Wedenesday, the Pope kicked 
off the 25th anniversary cele-
MIOWEST 
IIATIOPlAl 
(~OO'IIIIOUH 
fO. 1"H~ Almi 

This presentation is port of Shakespeare in American Communities, anational theater touring initiative· sponsored by the Notional Endowment for the Arts and The Sollie Mae Fund in cooperotion with Arts Midwest. 
In PortflersLlip ..,1·th ···:rl''''"'·hllllu-I:::.,.,,,r\.,,}
1 'Ill' ; •.... -:···.. illlll .miRi.:.. ·:·:·:=·:.-:·:-.·:· 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
NDPRESENTS: 




c~ica~o akos~oa.ro t~uatur
ON TOUR 
performing ROMEO AND JULIET an exclusive engagement at Washington Hall Thursday, October 16, 8p.m. 
TICKETS: $3 5 
ND/SMC FAC/STAFF: $25 
ND/SMC STUDENTS: $15 
Call 574.631.8128 for tickets 
ing in the future," Egan said. "Everyone needs to help out everyone else." 
McCourt 

Contact Kelly Meehan at 
continued from page 1

kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
changes to Title VI and Title IX, equalizing pay for equal work among coaches. 
Because of her convictions, Egan said, she often faced harassment from students and coaches. 
"Male athletes would say things to me at lunch, and male teachers who were coaches would make comments to me in class," Egan said. 
Despite winning the award this year, Egan said that she plans on continuing to give back to the community. 
''I'd love to continue volunteer­

Board 
continued from page 1 
next few days. As opposed to the office of University President, which can be held only by a Holy Cross priest of the Indiana Province, the exec­utive vice president -which was the third-ranking position in the University when Scully held the post -can be a lay person. 
The Board is also slated to 

bration by addressing a crowd of 20,000 in St. Peter's Square. 
Special masses honoring Pope John Paul II will be celebrated today in the Basilica at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. 
Contact Mike Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu 
the National Book Critics' Circle Award and the Los Angeles Times Book Award as well as the Pulitzer Prize for biography. 
"Tis" also achieved a strong reception among critics and read­ers alike, attaining the position of best-selling nonfiction hardcover in the nation in November 2000. 
"Angela's Ashes" simultaneously occupied the same position for paperbacks for several weeks. 
hear proposals from Student Body President Pat Hallahan and to review a Faculty Senate resolution to review the Academic Articles. 
Other issues the Board may discuss include the endowment and University budget; the Board called for budget cuts last March as a result of losses to the endowment and the eco­nomic downturn. Construction on campus is another concern that may be raised. During the 2002-03 academic year, con­struction on most planned proj­ects was postponed because of funding shortages. A variety of other unspecified topics could possibly be discussed by mem­bers of the Board. 
The Board, composed of approximately 60 members, holds at least three regular meetings each academic year, one in the spring and one in the fall on campus and another at an off-campus location at another time during the year. · 
Contact Sheila Flynn at 
sflynn2@nd.edu 
Before writing his memoirs, McCourt taught writing at the prominent Stuyvesant High School in New York City for 17 years. He is currently writing a book about his teaching career. 
McCourt's talk will mark the 20th anniversary of the Red Smith Lecture in Journalism, which was first established in 1983 to honor 1927 Notre Dame graduate Walter "Red" Smith, famed sportswriter and New York Times columnist whose accomplishments included the 1976 Pulitzer Prize for distin­guished criticism. 
The Smith Lectureship is admin­istered by the John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy, and aims to attract speakers who represent the strongest writing and the highest standards in the journalism field. Previous lecturers have included James Kilpatrick, Art Buchwald, Ted Koppel and Jim Lehrer. 

Universal Press Syndicate plans to publish McCourt's lecture and distribute it to several thousand journalists and educators later this year. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 







ORLD &NATION 
Thursday, October 16, 2003 CoMPILED FROM Tt··IE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Aliev wins presidency in landslide 
BAKU. Azerbaijan -The son of ailing Azerbaijan President Geidar Aliev won elec­tions to succeed his father, according to pre­liminary results Thursday. But opposition leaders and observers charged there were widespread vote violations. 
Violence flared during Wednesday's vote with police clashing with protesters twice during an hours-long standoff in central Baku. 
With nr.arly two-thirds of Azerbaijan's 
5.111 districts reporting, Aliev's son, llham Aliev, had about 80 percent of the votes, according to preliminary results posted by the Central Election Commission. llis closest rival !sa c;ambar had about 11 percent, it said. 
If the trend continues. Alicv's victory mar­gin should easily be more than the 50 per­cent required to avoid a runoff. 
Bolivian protesters march on cities 
lA PAZ. Bolivia -Thousands of anti-gov­ernment demonstrators marched Wednesday in major cities around Bolivia to call on the president to resign, as popular resistance to the government spread in South America's poorest country. Two people were reported killed. 
About 1,000 miners clashed with govern­ment troops in the city of Patacmaya, 60 miles west of La Paz, killing two people and injuring nine others, radio and TV reports said. 
Independent Hadio Erbol and private broadcaster TV 21 said troops fired tear gas and live ammunition at the column of buses carrying marchers, who responded by toss­ing lit sticks of dynamite. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Storms, high winds rip apart Maine 
AUGUSTA, Maine -Thunderstorms accompanied by heavy rain and wind gusting to more than 60 mph knocked out power Wednesday to about 90,000 customers across the state. 
Gov. John Baldacci declared a state of emergency as the weather service posted a high wind warning through the night and a marine storm warning for coastal waters. State officials said wind could hamper power crews working to restore electricity. · 
Estimates of the power losses fluctuated through the day, but by mid-afternoon, Bangor Hydro Electric Co. was reporting about 20.000 customer outages and Central Maine Power about 70,000,. state officials said. 
Right-to-die case comes to an end 
PINELlAS PAHK. Fla. -The feeding tube keeping a severely brain-damaged woman alive was removed Wednesday, all but ending an epic, 10-year legal battle between her husband and her parents. 
Terri Schiavo, 39, had the tube removed at the Tampa Bay-area hospice where she has lived for several years, sa1d her father, Bob Schindler. 
Several right-to-die cases across the nation have been fought in the courts in recent years, but few, if any, have been this drawn­out and bitter. The tangled case has already been handled by 19 separate judges. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Racism makes school cancel play 
COLUMBUS, Ind. -Three adult actors plan to stage a reading of "To Kill a Mockingbird" after pressure from a civil rights group caused a city high school to can­cel a student production of the play. 
The play, which was to be performed at Columbus East lligh School, drew criticism from the city's branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People because of the racial slurs in its dia­logue. The school called off the play last week. 
Staten Island ferry crash kills 10 
New York City faces worst mass-transit accident in decades as ferry slams pier 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A Staten 
Island ferry slammed into 
a pier as it was docking 
Wednesday, killing at 
ol'f victims' limbs and 
sending passengers leap­
ing into the water, offi­
cials said. At least 34 peo­
ple were injured. 
The 310-foot ferry, car­rying about 1,500 passen­gers, plowed into the enormous wooden pilings on the Staten Island end of its run from Manhattan, reducing the front of the mighty boat to a mass of shattered planks, broken glass and twisted steel. 
The crash happened on a windswept afternoon, with gusts over 40 mph and the water in New York Harbor very choppy. 
"Everyone just jumped for their lives," rider Bob Carroll told TV station NY1. "It was like an absolute horror ... The whole side of the boat looked like an opener on a can." 
The ship's captain fled and was tracked down by police at his Staten Island home, said a high-ranking KAT 
Emergency vessels approach the Staten Island Ferry that crashed Into a pier on
police source, speaking on 
Staten Island yesterday. The cause of the accident Is unknown. 
condition of anonymity. The ferry's crew will be The cause of the crash screamed and dove for "There were numerous interviewed and tested for was not im~ediately cover as metal crunched injuries like fractures and drugs and alcohol, Mayor known, although into wood just before the lacerations," said Fire Michael Bloomberg said. Bloomberg suggested the start of the evening rush Department spokes­
At least 10 people were heavy wind as a possibili-hour, tearing girders, woman Maria Lamberti. killed and 34 injured, the ty. The National splintering planks and "There were a couple of mayor said, making it Transportation Safety ripping a huge hole in the people with amputations New York's worst mass­Board convened an acci-right side of the three--legs and arms." transit accident in at least dent investigation team, level, bright-orange ves-Victims also suffered a generation. Some bodies which will look at the sel, which has a capacity back and spinal injuries, were accidentally counted weather, among other of 6,000 passengers. chest pains, and twice, leading to an initial possible factors. "People who were sit-hypothermia from the report by city officials that "The ferry was coming ting there as the ferry water, which was about 14 people were dead. too fast," said witness docked were hit by the 62 degrees. 
Firefighters picked their William Gonzalez, who pilings that came through The five-mile trip way through the debris lives in a nearby apart-the side of the boat," the between Staten Island aboard the ship, the ment complex. "They had mayor said. and Manhattan normally Andrew J. Barberi, look­no control to stop the The pilings hit on the takes 25 minutes. A free ing for victims, and Coast boat." ferry's main deck, crash-ride on the Staten Island Guard divers searched the Commuters were ing into the windows that Ferry is one of the city's water. At least one body trapped in piles of debris ordinarily afford a post-most beloved attractions was recovered from the aboard the 22-year-old card view of the Statue of to New Yorkers and water. ferry, and victims Liberty. tourists alike. 
CHINA 

First Chinese space mission a success 
images broadcast by state television. about its space program, it offered fre­
Associated Press 

"The landing is successful," a China quent glimpses of Yang throughout the 
JIUQUAN -China's first astronaut Central Television correspondent said. trip and repeatedly said everything in space returned safely to Earth on The station released an image of the was going fine. Thursday when his craft touched capsule. The country's premier imme­The completion of the mission was down on time and as planned after 21 diately spoke to Lt. Col Yang Uwei and the crowning achievement of an 11­hours in orbit, the government said. offered his congratulations. year, military-linked manned space China's mission control declared the Shenzhou 5 landed at 6:28 a.m., the program promoted as a symbol of country's landmark debut flight "a government said. national prestige both at home and success." The government said his condition abroad. 
The craft carrying Yang Liwei was "good," and the Web site Helicopters and trucks rushed to touched down on the grasslands of Sina.com said he would undergo an retrieve Yang. Earlier reports said the Inner Mongolia in northern China as immediate physical exam. astronaut would be armed with knives planned at dawn Thursday, the official The landing came after a 21-hour and possibly a gun to protect himself Xinhua News Agency said. Minutes mission in which Shenzhou 5 orbited against wild animals and other threats later, he emerged from the capsule the Earth 14 times. Though the gov­in the Inner Mongolian grasslands and waved at rescuers, according to ernment has been very secretive where the ship was to touch down. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 16. 2003 

Dean leads Dem candidates in funds 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Record­breaking fund-raiser Howard Dean on Wednesday hinted at the potential to raise millions more for his Democratic pres­idential bid: Only 1 percent of his donors have given the maximum so far. 
Dean finished the fund-rais­ing quarter that ended Sept. 30 leading the Democratic field with nearly $15 million raised and about $12 million on hand. His rivals were bunched around $4 million or less, including Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry, who fell short of the $4.5 million to $5 million his campaign had esti­mated he'd raise, and new­comer Wesley Clark, who col­lected $3.5 million in his first two weeks in the race. 
Kerry spokesman Robert Gibbs said the earlier num­bers released by campaign officials were "simply a best­guess estimation." He noted Kerry has roughly $20 million in receipts for the year and said that exceeded the cam­paign's expectations. 
"It's clear John Kerry will have all the resources he needs to win the Democratic nomination," Gibbs said. 
Dean has raised about $25 million so far this year to take the lead in the Democratic money chase. About 99 per­cent of Dean's donors have yet to reach the $2,000 limit, meaning they can give again, campaign manager Joe Trippi said. 
Still, Dean's total represents just a fraction of President Bush's total of about $84 mil­lion. The president has $70 million in the bank -more than any Democrat has even raised. 
Dean, however, outpaced Bush over the last three months on the Internet, rais­ing $7.5 million to the presi­dent's $1.4 million. 
The rest of the nine-mem­ber Democratic field trailed Dean for the quarter. Kerry began October with about $7.8 million on hand. 
Clark drew roughly a third of his early money from California, New York, Texas and his home state of Arkansas. But in a sign of early. growing pains, he was missing legally required donor state and employer informa­tion for more than $1 million of his donations. 
Missouri Rep. Dick Gephardt raised $3.8 million, about the same as in the previous quar­ter. Sen. Joe Lieberman of Connecticut had been aiming for $4 million; North Carolina Sen. John Edwards was expected to report raising $2.5 million to $3 million; and Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich raised about $1.65 million. Carol Moseley Braun reported raising $125,410, but also had $113,918 in debt. 
Sena tors challenge 
Bush, seek Iraq loans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A handful of Democratic and Republican senators defied President Bush and sought agreement Wednesday on an amendment to make part of a $20.3 billion Iraqi aid plan a loan. 
The behind-the-scenes bipartisan effort came as the House and Senate debated similar $87 billion bills financ­ing U.S. military action and reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Bush has insisted that the $20.3 billion he wants to reconstruct Iraq's electric sys­tem, postal service and other economic and government institutions must be in the form of grants rather than loans. Making the money a loan would feed suspicions that the United States wants to control Iraq's huge oil reserves, the administration and its congressional allies said. 
To try snuffing out the move toward loans, Bush sent Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of State Colin Powell to lobby GOP senators at their weekly lunch. Even so. with record federal deficits making lawmakers wince over the amount of Iraqi aid, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R­Tenn., seemed less than cer­tain that the White House effort would succeed. 
''I'm not overly confident, but I think people will listen" to arguments about the need for grants, not loans, Frist said. 
Though details were still being completed, the biparti­san group of senators dis­cussed making about $10 bil­lion of the package a loan, but converting the money to grants if Saudi Arabia, Russia, France and other countries forgive 90 percent of tlul money they are owed by Iraq. That debt has been estimated to be as much as $200 billion, including war reparations owed by Saddam Hussein's government after its invasion of Kuwait in 1990. 
The senators were also con­sidering language turning the loans into grants for each dol­lar of aid pledged by donor countries meeting in Madrid next week. 
Sen. Ben Nelson, D-Neb., said he and other pro-loan senators hoped to have their 
· amendment ready by Thursday. He said the group still had to decide what entity in Iraq would receive the loan, since the country's government has been replaced by U.S. administrators. "The loan is there to give an incentive to the holders of pre­war debt to for~ve their loans, and then we will forgive ours," he said. Lawmakers and aides said the senators involved included Evan Bayh, D-Ind.; Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga.; Susan Collins, R-Maine; Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.; Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas; John Ensign, R-Nev.; and Olympia Snowe, R-Maine. 
particular members of the administration or faculty and the

Hallahan 
broader representation of univer­continued from page 1 sity opinion would allow for 
greater influence on University ing the board's meeting with the policy. Office of Student Affairs and "We feel students should be intends to utilize a majority of his involved in all aspects of presentation as a forum for dis­University policy as opposed to cussion of the suggested changes. just Student Affairs," Hallahan 
According to the report, the said, "whereas some think it's just CLC began the school year with enough we interact with CLC." the intent to make progress on According to the report, other 
issues concerning  members  
students and dis- w  e  r  e  
agreement ensued  "We will talk about how  against  an  
between council members. A com­mittee was then cre­ we are making ourselves more  expanded CLC, stating students  
ated to discuss the  efficient. "  should  not  
purpose and compo­ have direct  
sition of CLC due to the disagreement's effect on the coun­ Pat Hallahan Student Body President  access to administra­tors and  
cil's ability to work  what  con­ 

together. tact they do have should be limit­
The proposed suggestions for ed to the Office of Student Affairs. changes to the CLC were present­Hallahan said a larger CLC will ed to, but not voted on by, the foster more proactive dialogue members of the CLC and met between students and the admin­with mixed reactions, according istration and faculty and can only to the report. The report states promote efficiency. some believed this change would The Senate's decision allow for a more direct discussion Wednesday to create a Council of of ideas between students and Representatives, which will be representative of all student gov­ernment branches and have the power to change the Student Union constitution, will show trustees students want to be involved and change their gov­ernment to increase credibility Hallahan said. 
"We will talk about how we are making ourselves more efficient and I believe this will speak vol­umes," Hallahan said. 
This will be Hallahan's fourth Board of Trustees meeting, but the' first he will attend as student body president to present the for­mal report. Hallahan said he intends for Wednesday's report to be the second in a three-part series regarding issues related to student government and adminis­tration interactions. 
This report follows the May report where former student body president Libby Bishop talked about the problems and strengths within student govern­ment. Tentative plans for the next report include focusing on creat­ing an endowment for speakers and concerts to improve campus life. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl @nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Thursday, October 16, 2003 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9 8 
-9.93

Jones _.._, , 03.05 
up: Same: l)cMI'I: Composite Volume: 1,245 197 • 1,460,493,056 

NASDAQ 1,939.10 -4.09 NYSf 5,935.61 -24.67 AMEX 1,017.54 -6.09 S&PSOO 1,046.76 -2.72 
NIKKEl (Tokyo) 10,899.95 -32.87 FTSf IOO(london)4,368.80 +34.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.19 +0.68 31.76 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +4.78 +0.17 3.79 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) -5.92 -0.14 2.19 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.93+0.55 29.07 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) +3.35+0.70 21.60 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.74+0.39 52.96 10-YEAR NOTE +1.08+0.47 43.97 5-YEAR NOTE +2.05+0.66 32.93 3 MON'TIJ BILL +1.80+0.16 9.03 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.07 31.86 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.10 373.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.98 91.58 
Exchange Rates YEN 109.6 EURO 0.861 POUND 0.600 CANADIAN $ 1.329 


IN BRIEF 
Insurers agree to pay asbestos claims 
WASIIINGTON -Insurers and manufactur­ers on Wednesday struck a deal with Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist to split the cost of setting up a fund to pay asbestos claims, an agreement that could revive the stalled legis­lation. 
While the legislation cleared the Senate .Judiciary Committee earlier this year, the businesses and insurance companies expected to finance the asbestos claim fund balked at the cost and how they would divide their con­tributions. 
But at Frist's prodding, the insurers on Wednesday agreed to pay 46 percent of the fund, or about $47 billion, while the compa­nies that have been sued would pay 54 per­cent of the fund. or about $58 billion. A $10 billion contingency fund would also be set up by the defendants. 
"While many details still remain to be worked out. clearly this is a significant and meaningful step forward between two major parties to the larger asbestos negotiations," said Frist, H-Tenn. 
IRS cracks down on tax shelters 
WASHINGTON -The Internal Revenue Service won permission from a federal court Wednesday to force a Chicago law firm to reveal the names of taxpayers who invested in potentially abusive tax shelters. 
The action makes Sidley Austin Brown & Wood the second law firm targeted by the IRS this .year for a summons seeking information about unidentified taxpayers who invested in potentially illegal tax shelters. 
Legal documents filed in federal court show that the IRS seeks information from the firm's Chicago office about taxpayers who participat­ed in 13 tax transactions marketed or sold since 1996. 
The documents said some of the potentially abusive shelters were promoted in conjunction with major accounting firms. 
The documents further show the IRS is investigating the firm to determine whether it complied with laws that require tax advisers to register certain tax transactions that might be abusive shelters and keep lists of taxpayers who invest in those transactions. 

Banker fraud trial goes to jury 
Quattrone awaits his fate as jury deliberates obstruction, tampering charges 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -. The 
obstruction case against 
Frank Quattrone, an 
influential banker during 
the dot-com boom, went 
to a jury Wednesday with 
both sides offering differ­
ent takes on what 
Quattrone was thinking 
when he urged employees 
to destroy files. 
The government made a final argument to con­vince jurors Quattrone intended to block two federal investigations into how his bank, Credit Suisse First Boston, doled out shares of hot new stocks. 
But Quattrone's attor­ney urged the jurors not to believe arguments of prosecutors who are "try­ing to tap into the hatred and prejudice that people feel for corporate execu­tives these days." 
On Dec. 5, 2000, Quattrone forwarded an e-mail written by a sub­ordinate urging employ­ees to "catch up on file cleanup" and destroy some documents. Quattrone added his own strong endorsement. 
Quattrone contends he was merely following the bank's document reten­tion policy, which requires some document ment probes were hin­defense's insistence that "Ask yourself if that's destruction unless dered just that prosecutors were playing how an otherwise blame­employees know the Quattrone tried to do so. on hatred of corporate less, crime-free pillar of papers are sought in sub­"Success of the endeav­executives was insulting the community commits a poenas or are the subject or is not an element of to thejw. crime," defense attorney of lawsuits. the crime," Owen said "No matter how smart, John W. Keker said. "Is 
At the time, securities before turning the case or how busy, or how pow­that when a man goes off regulators and a federal over to the jury. erful, or how successful, the rails, in circum­grand jury were investi­Jurors sent the judge a no one stands above the stances like that, and gating whether CSFB note making several law," he said. decides that he's going to clients paid the bank ille­requests. including copies The endorsement e­commit a crime?" gal kickbacks so they of e-mails sent by CSFB mail by Quattrone was Quattrone, 47, is could get in on hot new lawyer David Brodsky, one of more than 200 he charged With obstruction stocks that virtually guar­who told Quattrone two sent and received that of justice and witness anteed instant profits. days before he sent the e­day, and part of a flurry tampering. 
U.S. District Judge mail in question that the he sent in the earlY­The charges carry up to Richard Owen told the probes were of "extreme evening -a time in 25 years in prison, jurors that to convict concern." which he also e-mailed although federal sentenc­Quattrone of obstruction, Prosecutor Steven jokes, notes on personal ing guidelines would like­they would not have to Peikin said in his closing finance and other work ly mean a far shorter conclude that govern-arguments that the matters. sentence if convicted. 

FCC approves SBC service expansion 
phone customers might mean new ever. 
Associated Press 

customer options in terms of bundles SBC argues that its service record 
WASHINGTON -The Federal instead of a drop in long-distance has improved and it has allowed Communications Commission on rates. competitors into the local phone Wednesday approved SBC "The benefit to consumers is that it market. Communications Inc.'s application to creates an incentive to AT&T and Ohio regulators said in June that offer long-distance service in Ohio, other companies to compete not only they would not oppose SBC's applica­Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin. on the basis of price, but on the basis tion. 
SBC, formerly known as Ameritech, of other services as well," Levin said. The San Antonio-based telephone had been pushing for years to offer The move has been opposed by giant had been locked out of the long-distance in these states, the last AT&T and other long-distance com­long-distance service market since pockets in the company's 13-state panies, who claim SBC has tried to the 1984 breakup of AT&T's telecom­service area without the service. thwart their attempts to enter the munications empire under federal Service will begin as early as Oct. 24. local phone business. Under federal antitrust law. 
SBC officials and market analysts law, SBC was required to open its In September, Michigan became said the move will mean better deals local market before being allowed to the ninth state where SBC is allowed on long-distance for customers enter the long-distance market. to provide long-distance and local because there will be more competi­The Justice Department told feder­telephone service. tion. al regulators in August that it could SBC, which acquired Ameritech in 
Blair Levin, an analyst with the not support SBC's request to offer 1999, is Ohio's largest local service Legg Mason investment firm in long-distance service for the same provider with more than 4 million Washington, said a better deal for reason. It didn't block the deal, how-phone lines. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 Thursday, October 16, 2003 
The Observer + NEWS 

EPA defends ads promoting Bush environmental plans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency is standing by its advertising from two weeks ago to promote President Bush's plan for reducing power plant pollution, despite House Democrats' charges that it was a serious misuse of public money. 
The ads promoting Bush's "Clear Skies" legislation may violate anti-lobbying laws, say Reps. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., John Dingell, D-Mich., and David Obey, D-Wis. But EPA spokeswoman Lisa Harrison insists the ads, which ran Sept. 26 to Oct. 2, were legal. 
"It's a moot point, because the ads have run their course," she said Wednesday. "We're not lobbying, because we're not advocating an action. We're educating people about the benefits of Clear Skies." 
EPA announced on Sept. 29 it was starting a national Spanish-language advertising campaign on the Hispanic Radio Network, timed to coin­cide with National Hispanic Heritage Month. The agency also took out a full-page color ad promoting Bush's plan in a Spanish-language newspaper in Dallas. 
Harrison said the ads were among 27 public service announcements that ran on the network's 160 affiliate stations, covering topics such as asth­ma, the Energy Star program, radon, school buses, drinking water -and Clear Skies. 
Bush's legislation, one of his top environmental priorities, has awaited action in Congress since its introduction in the House and Senate in July 2002 and again last February. 
The Democrats called the ad campaign "an inappropriate use of taxpayer dollars, quite possibly in violation of federal law" in a letter Tuesday to EPA Acting Administrator Marianne Horinko. 
"We also believe this action is unprecedented," they wrote, asking that EPA staff preserve any documents, including e­mails and computer files, relat­ed to the ad campaign. 
They said several laws and Congress' appropriations law for EPA, which bans the use of agency funds for "propaganda purposes," may have been vio­lated. Federal law also pro­hibits federal officials from campaigning on legislation before Congress. 
IRAN 

Inspectors visit Iran to check for nuclear weapons 
Associated Press  he said. "We visit sites that  speaking  on  condition  of  ElBaradei  said.  "The  key  gram is peaceful. For exam­ 
are relevant to  our work. If .  anonymity, identified that site  issue is the enrichment pro­ ple,  Iran will  provide  the  
TEHRAN  - U.N.  atomic  it's important to  us  to visit a  as  Kolahdouz, not far from  gram ­ to make sure we have  IAEA with a list of the import­ 
agency inspectors will visit  site, we will do so."  the Iranian capital.  seen all nuclear experiments  ed equipment it contends had  
any site considered necessary  The United States and its  The site  was  identified in  that have taken place in Iran,  been contaminated.  
to check Iran's claims that it  allies a_ccuse Iran of working  the  summer by the National  that  we  have  seen  all the  But ElBaradei suggested  
doesn't want to make nuclear  on a  secret nuclear weapons  Council of Resistance of Iran  nuclear material in Iran."  there  was  some  foot-drag­ 
weapons, the agency chief  program, while Tehran says it  as  the  alleged location of  If the agency's board of gov­ ging.  
said Thursday after arriving  is only interested in generat­ efforts to enrich uranium.  ernors finds next month that  "There has been increased  
in Tehran for key talks.  ing electricity..  They said centrifuge equip­ Iran has  not  answered all  cooperation, but again there  
International Atomic Energy  Earlier,  while  flying  to  ment there  was  reputedly  questions· about its nuclear  are  a  lot  of  outstanding  
Agency  chief  Mohamed  Frankfurt  meant to operate  program  by  Oct.  31, they  important issues that remain  
ElBaradei traveled to Iran to warn that an Oct. 31 deadline  f r o m Vienna for  "I think we need all the  as a supplement to the uranium  could refer the issue referred to the U.N. Security Council  ... we don't have much time left," he said.  
leaves the government little time to prove its claims. Two weeks ahead of the ultimatum -and the subse­ a connect­ing flight to Tehran, ElBaradei  information that we requested, and so far we have not received all  enrichment site, in Natanz. IAEA experts have a list of  for possible sanctions. Iran twice has confirmed in recent months that particles of weapons-grade enriched  Diplomats said documenta­tion was still lacking on the origin of the centrifuge parts Iraq said it imported. Without  
quent threat of possible U.N. Security Council sanctions - told AP that despite the  this information. "  several military  other sites  uranium were found in sepa­rate places in the country. But  that, the agency cannot com­pare isotope traces to estab­ 
there are "still outstanding issues to be resolved" before  outstanding questions,  Mohamed EIBaradei  they hope to visit, the officials  the government maintains its equipment was "contaminat­ lish whether the contamina­tion came from abroad, as  
suspicions  are  dispelled,  Tehran had  International Atomic Energy  c o n f i r m e d .  ed" by a previous owner.  Iran asserts.  
ElBaradei told The Associated Press after landing. ElBaradei said it wasn't too  increased cooperation with agency  Agency Chief  ElBaradei said he would not comment on his  Iran has signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which bans the spread of  "We are getting lists, but we still need to be receiving more information as to the origin of  
late for Iran to  assist U.N.  officials in recent weeks, per­ Iran probe before presenting  nuclear weapons.  this equipment," ElBaradei  
nuclear inspectors. He would  mitting inspectors visits to all  his report to the ·next board  Ali Akbar Salehi, Iran's sen­ said.  
not give details of ongoing  sites they requested, includ-·  meeting. The board convenes  ior delegate to the IAEA, said  ElBaradei he  was  going to  
inspections, but suggested reviews of both military and civilian facilities. "If it's civilian or military sites doesn't matter much,"  ing a military one. "We asked and we were allowed to go there," ElBaradei sa..W....­Officials close to the agency,  again on Nov. 20. "I think we need all the information that we request­ed, and so far we have not received all this information,"  earlier this month that Tehran and agency represen­tatives reached "total agree­ment" on measures to prove the country's nuclear pro- Tehran on request of the country's leaders. "It was their view that my visit there will move things forward," he said.  



, presents 
1 

"Catholicism and American Freedom: A History't 
By JohnT. McGreevy 
Saturday, October 25, 2003 9~00 a.m. 
McKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education 
NDPRESENTS: BALLET AT THE MORRIS 
11Rapt, lyric, gloriously unified" -NEW YORK MAGAZINE 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

DIRECT FROM THE KENNEDY CENTER 
THE SUZANNE FARRELL BALLET COMPANY 
Tuesday, October 28 7:30 PM 
Morris Performing Arts Center Call 57 4-235-9190 for tickets or visit www.morriscenter.org Family/Group discounts 
Sponsored by ~US. Cellular 

PDJIORIIINCAm CDmJ. *SOUlliiEND, IN 

-----------~---------------­
Thursday, Ocrober 16, 2003 page 9
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
PR9JECT Give away your coat•••and SHARE THE WARMTH. 


WARMTH 

The Center for Social Concerns is gearing up for another successful run of Project Warmth. Last year, over 4700 coats were received and distrib­uted to sites all across the country, including the Appalachia region, outreach facilities around the 
South Bend area, and many cities throughout 
the nation. 

EVERYONE can participate! Starting October 
6, collection sites spread all over campus will be eager to accept your coat donations. These 
sites include: 

Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Book­store* LaFortune Information Desk* RecSports 
* North Dining Hall * South Dining Hall * Cam­pus Ministry/Hesburgh· Library *All Residence Halls *St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Cen­ter* Other sites will soon be announced! 
In return for your coat donation, you will receive a coupon for 25°k off of any new coat of your choice from the Notre Dame Bookstore. Keep that Fighting Irish spirit and generosity alive while fighting for the rights and dignity of the poor. 
Hall Competition As Project Warmth heats up again, so do the prizes for the two dorms with the highest percentage of participation. The first place dQrnlwilt receiv~ $1000 and the second place dorm will win $500. Start energizing half spirit for this great cause! 
Sponsored by: 
St. Michael's Building

University of Notre Dame 
STIJDENT HAMMES BOOKSTORE Student Government .Laundcy Services ACTIVITIES 

r~----­
,  
I  
i I  Page 10  
I  
!  
~AGING EDI'l'Ok  
Scoit Bt<Odfuehrct- 
Assr. MANAGING Emma  
Sheila Flynn  · ·  


---~---~-­
-

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 16, 2003 


I am not boasting when I say that I dress better than I dance. It would be hard to imagine more damningly faint self-praise. The last time that I made an ill-advised foray onto a nightclub dancefloor, a 
Peter Wicks 
complete stranger wres­tled me to the 

floor and Englishman injected me Abroad with insulin. . My friends, many of whom had seen me dance on previous occasions, agreed that it was an understandable mistake, although it did have the unfortunate consequence that my blood-sugar level now goes through the roof whenever I hear even a few bars of "Come on Eileen." My experience with clothes has only been marginally better. In my mid-teens I used to dress in the abstract expressionist style. You .could have approximated my look at the age of 16 by going into a clothing store with a semi-automatic rifle, opening fire, and then wearing whichever items of clothing ended up with the most holes. Nowadays almost everything I wear is black. Some people wear black as an outward sign of inward angst, and a tortured yet profound spirituality. I do what I can to encourage such misapprehensions, but in my case the real reason is far more mundane. When it comes to the Elements of Style, I still haven't mas­tered anything beyond proposition 
1.1: black doesn't clash with black. 
Although personally I do neither, I think it's important to distinguish between dressing well and dressing fashionably. Dressing well need not be competitive, but for the fashion­able Gore Vidal's dictum applies: it is not enough to succeed, others must fail. 
The fashionably dressed wish both to be admired by the crowd and to 
stand out from it. This requires that 
their clothes be tantalizingly out of 
reach for most people. Good clothes 
may be expensive; fashionable 
clothes must be necessarily. A good 
test of whether you are motivated by 
the desire to be fashionable is to ask 
yourself before buying an item of 
clothing "Would I still want this if it 
cost significantly less?" 
The frenetic speed at which fash­. ions change is just as necessary as 
the expense of dressing fashionably 
-to which, of course, it contributes. 
Again the point is to guarantee that 
while many try to keep up with the 
trends, only an enviable few succeed. 
In the ninth century Charlemagne 
passed the sumptuary laws that 
decreed that a person must dress in 
accord with his place in the social 
hierarchy. Of course the hierarchy 
was much more static fashion. Of course, one cannot change ethnic group, but one's eth­nicity does affect one's ability to set trends in dress, speech, and music. In America the day of the WASP is long gone. These days major clothing brands test market amongst blacks in the inner cities. which reveals interesting things about both the nature of modern marketing and about the complex state of race rela­tions in this country. 

In most contexts the urge to be fashionable is a venial sin, but in the realm of opinion its effects are more serious. What disgusted many peo­ple, myself included, about the anti­war rhetoric of Hollywood celebrities was not the position they took, but the unshakable feeling that they were choosing their stance in the same spirit that they decided what to 
wear to the Oscars. 

than our own, but It,s important to But to be free from there is a long history the lure of fashion is a
distinguish between
of people going bank­difficult thing, and I rupt trying to dress dressing well and wouldn't be the first according to their sta­dressing fashionably. person to note that 
tion. I suspect that if 
Congress passed a law which obliged citizens to wear Star Trek style jump suits, color-coded according to tax bracket, a substan­tial minority of people would be secretly pleased. After all. such a system would have all the advan­tages of conspicuous consumption without the financial cost, not to mention the sheer effort of keeping track of which brands are in vogue. 
But fashionable dress signals more than just wealth. It is also a way of showing skill at anticipating trends, an enviable skill in a modern market economy. There is much money to be made by being ahead of the curve just as (and partly because) there is much money to be spent trying to get there. 
Clothing is just one arena in which the urge to be fashionable is made manifest. Cars, foods, jobs, even eth­nicities are subject to the whims of being anti-fashion can 

itself be an exercise in vanity, placing oneself above the multitudes. Similarly many people are too quick to congratulate them­selves on holding "unfashionable" opinions. 
The ideal must be to be not against fashion, but blissfully oblivious to it, a blessed state very difficult to achieve. Why even try? Well, per­haps the best reason to ignore the lure of fashion in clothing is as a training to ignore the same lure on matters of belief. But I would say that; I dress almost as badly as I dance. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in philosophy. his column appears every other Thursday. He can be con­tacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author. and not nec­essarily those of the Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you approve of student body president Pat Hallahan's proposal to transfer authority from Student Senate to a restructured Executive Cabinet? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There's never a newfashion but it,s old.,, 
Geoffrey Chaucer writer 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 16, 2003 page ll 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Clarifying life at Oxford 
This year, six juniors from Notre Dame are spending the year studying at the University of Oxford. While The Observer has chosen to run a col­umn written by one of these students, Geoff Johnston, there remain five others (Margaret Doig, Darren Luft. John Skakun, Alexandra Stewart and mel who arc also experiencing, well, life outside of the Dome. Moreover, the six of us have the opportunity to really understand the higher educa­tion system in another country and another culture. As the Notre Dame bubble can sometimes feel so small and isolated as to be almost claustro­phobic, I think there is some worth in sharing with our classmates our experiences in a school system so old and rich with history that it makes the yellow mud-bricks look like a joke. 
Unfortunately, Johnston's column failed in a number of ways to convey our experience justly. One of the advantages to studying abroad is to gain a greater understanding of and appreciation for other cultures and then to carry this knowledge home and enrich one's own society. This goal becomes dillicult to realize when the information imparted is quite sim­ply wrong. Although some of the students here have failed to extend us such a courtesy, I think it is only fair to the students of Oxford and the British culture to correct some of the misstatements in Jonston's column. 
First of all, his characterization of the British as rampant alcoholics is completely inaccurate. The students at this school have a very healthy drinking culture that is both social and mature. Alcohol is viewed here as a natural part of social society; in fact, most orientation activities for new freshmen involved unlimited free liquor. And instead of having uncon­trolled hinging, humiliating displays of public intoxication and eventual illness. the students here used their drinks as a tool to relax the social atmosphere. All of the pubs, clubs and bars have pleasant atmospheres with quality alcoholic beverages being consumed for pleasure, not drunk­enness. 
Also, everything you've heard about lousy food is true-at the dining hall. We've found plenty of excellent food in local sandwich shops, restaurants, and even many pubs. The greatest obstacles to edible food have been money and time. This most certainly is not a consumer cul­ture, as the complete lack of available food after 11 p.m. testifies. 
The food situation here illustrates a final point I would like to clarify, and that is the general fitness of the citizens of this country. The people here are all in incredibly good health. As far as I can see, this is the pri­mary result of three notable aspects of the society. First. the food por­tions here are incredibly small, almost unthinkable by American stan­dards. Second, the health care system as a whole is outstanding. 
Finally. they exercise quite a bit. The primary difference between here and the United States is the lack of interest in muscle bulk, hence the poor weight facilities. Everyone is not only fit, but they are extremely lean by our standards. While they are not nearly as serious about college athletics as in the United States, people enjoy running or playing any number of sports. 
Without a doubt, the school and the culture here is utter unlike that at Notre Dame. The dorm rooms. with our own bedroom and bathroom, make our Notre Dame rooms look like prison cells. Students here are given much greater freedom to make adult decisions, both in their aca­demic and social lives, and it works. The school is a part of a beautiful, interesting city and equally interesting country. 
Erin Blondel 
junior 
Oxford, England 
Oct. 15 

Security officer should 
not be paid 

Monday's news of the alleged actions of NDSP ollicer Tim Clark is hor­rific. A seven week old baby broken in numerous places, what could be worse'? llow about the University still paying this man even though he admitted to the abuse'? 
I am apallcd that this man is still on the payroll because in our recent past we have expelled four student athletes for only rumors of rape. We expelled them before they were even charged. Not only did the adminis­tration dismiss them before the charges were brought, the men main­tained their innocence the entire time. 
Not only did they claim their innocence, but none were found to be guilty of rape. How can our University be so quick to judge its students but overlook its employees'? Is it because they want to baby us and try to be our parents? If they tried to do that with their employees, no one would want to work for them. Or could it be that they knew that football players would get more press than a security guard? Whatever the answer is, I don't like it. The administration needs to be more consistent. 
Carrie Graf junior Farley Hall Oct. 15 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Approach gay community -with tolerance, respect 
This is a response to Charles Rice's Oct. 15 concerned that Rice does not understand the column. The Supreme Court's decision regard-meaning oflove and intimacy. To claim that ing Lawrence vs. Texas will hopefully act as a sexual acts between individuals who are gay milestone on the path to equality for individuals and lesbian are "intrinsically wrong" and "the who are gay and lesbian. While such an event inclination to them ... is disordered" just holds promise for further progress in the fight emphasizes Rice's ignorance and prejudiced for legalized same-sex marriages, sadly there thoughts. are still those who take privilege in demeaning To claim that homosexual acts are intrinsical­and discriminating against individuals who are ly wrong is an unwarranted opinion that is gay and lesbian. incongruent with the idea of love. 
Charles Rice emphasizes that "heterosex- If individuals love one another, it is in  
ual marriage is generally ordered  ----­ their every right to express that  
to the procreation of new per- love and intimacy towards one  
sons, to whose education  another. To deny the right of  
and upbringing the  someone to express their  
spouses legally and  affection for another  
socially commit them- person is not only  
selves. Same-sex cou­ abominable, but also  
pies can make no  inconsistent of what  
such commitment."  we value as love. As  
While obviously  for individuals who  
same-sex couples  are gay and lesbian  
may not procreate, it  as being disordered?  
is ridiculous to claim  Homosexuality is not a  
that same-sex couples  disorder. If you'd like to  
are unable to socially com- look it up in the DSM-IV. go  
mit themselves to raise and  right ahead.  
educate a child. A child should  Perhaps this homophobia is  
be raised in a nurturing and loving  created by the lack of interaction with  

environment regardless of whether or not it is individuals who are gay and lesbian. I wonder, fostered by a mother and a father, two moth-has Rice had any relationships or friendships ers, or two fathers. If the reason for marriage is with anyone who is gay or lesbian? Because to for the purpose of procreation, then my parents judge a group based solely on one aspect of should reconsider their reasoning for marriage. their lives without having interacted in any way 
My parents were not able to biologically have with anyone from the group reflects poorly a child, and so they decided to adopt me from upon the prejudiced person. Why is it that Rice Korea. Does this make us not a loving family? seemingly feels that it is his duty to make What about single parents who raise their chil-sweeping judgments upon a group he obviously dren with only one mother or one father? Are has had no experience with? I would hope that they not a real family because they lack a par-Rice would dedicate his time more usefully ent of the opposite sex? Why would we ever rather than finding ways to regularly demean deny a child in need a nurturing and loving other individuals who are different from him-home? Instead of allowing a same-sex couple self. to love and raise a child, we would rather keep the child in an orphanage, foster home or other Jess Reddinger detrimental circumstance? senior 
Regarding Rice's comment about "homosexu­Lyons Hall­al acts [as] a dead end with no future," I am Ocr. 15 
Support the Irish this weekend 
Throughout this lovely week of midterms, I've heard many discussing their excitement over leaving early for Fall Break. I would like to remind these people, in case they have forgotten, that we are playing USC Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. That's the big one here on campus, located right between DeBartolo Hall and the Joyce Center. 
I want to remind those freshmen or even upperclassmen who might be unacquainted with the significance of this matchup that this is the greatest and most storied rivalry in college football, one whose lore began with Knute Rockne taking his 1926 squad out to California and whose storied 78-year history has seen countless legendary players and games, from Notre Dame's Frank Starns' nearly decapitating Rodney Peete to Carson Palmer's shredding the Notre Dame defense last year. 
As if this were not enough, the Trojans are ranked fifth in the country right now. still holding on to national championship aspirations-aspirations that a hungry and revenge-minded Notre Dame team could squash with a monumental victory on Saturday. 
Where do you fit into this picture? For God's sake, it's USC week. Midterms are over and you cannot possibly have any academic work to do. If you don't practice this ritual each football Saturday already, go wild and immerse yourself fully in the Notre Dame football experience. Tailgate as if there were no tomorrow, even if you are an under­classman. Wake up early on Saturday and fight against the Monk-onian forces of repres­sion by experiencing the unparalleled joy of shotgunning a Keystone Light with 10 of your friends and a few enthusiastic alums in sight of the stadium on a crisp, beautiful fall day. 
If you already booked a flight home on Friday, skip it and stay for the game anyway, realizing that you can always catch a ride home with a trucker. Riding 10 hours in an 18-wheeler is more enjoyable than you might expect, anyhow. Once inside the stadium, scream for the Irish until you can't speak. Oh yeah, and look for me outside. I'll be that guy wearing the Kelly green shirt, holding a beer and taking attendance. 
Steve Mattingly junior O'Neill Hall Oct. 15 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 16, 2003 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Big Boi and Andre 3000 show skills as solo artists 
By KENYATTA STORIN 
Scene Music Critic 
Outkast's Big Boi and Andre 3000 
have been among the best in rap since the late 1990s, and are among a small group of elite rappers that have achieved both critical and commercial success. Unlike other duos in rap. like Mobb Deep or The Clipse, over time Big Boi and Andre have distinguished themselves as individuals under the name of Outkast. Big Boi is the more conventional street-smart hustler, while Andre is the flamboyant out-of­. this-world poet. Perhaps it is no sur­prise then that their latest and likely last installment together, Speakerboxxx/The Love Below, is a 
double-disc split into two solo albums. 
As many might expect, Big Boi's disc, 

Speakerboxxx. is the more convention­al of the two. Nonetheless, the album remains unique through its eclectic selection of experimental production, and Big Boi's ability to rap quickly and creatively. He fires out rapid rhymes on "Ghettomusick" in between intermit­tent slow seductive female vocals. suc­cessfully shifts between hard rhymes and a soothing chorus on the single. "The Way You Move," shows his politi­cal side on the more serious "War." and crafts clever sports allusions to family life on "The Rooster." A number of other tracks are assisted by a large array of guests. with well-known rap heavyweights like Jay-Z and Ludacris, as well as up-and-coming artists like Killer Mike and Konkrete. These guests generally hold up their end of the bar­gain, like in the fast-paced guitar and piano driven "Flip Flop Rock" with Jay-
z and Killer Mike. one of the album's best. The only real misgiving of the album is the inclusion of too many interludes in its second half, which disrupts its otherwise excellent flow. 
In contrast to Big Boi, Andre 3000's The Love Below is notably eccen­tric, drawing from jazz, pop, soul, funk, and hip-hop all at once. As a result, it is really anything but a hip-hop album. In fact, he does not rap until late into the fourth track. and rarely raps there after. Many listeners will be disappoint­ed by this decision to stash hip-hop away in the backseat, but if one is able to get over this and the over-the-top eccentricity of the album, a lot can be appreciated. Several critics have even regarded the work as a long lost Prince album of sorts. Andre produces the entire album, showing great range with svperb results. He dabbles in soul and electro-funk on the catchy "Hey Ya!," perhaps the best track on both albums. plays guitar in a duet with Norah Jones on "Take Off Your Cool," and even pro­duces a jazzy instrumental track, "My Favorite Things." Lyrically, the entire album is about love and women, and Andre unfortunately lacks the poetic creativity he has shown on previous Outkast albums. Despite the lack of substance, however, Andre shows a lot of emotion, and the album's overall sound has so much variety that its lyri­cal simplicity is not only much more forgiving, but almost a moot point. 
Many longtime Outkast fans will 


undoubtedly be dismayed by the thought of the group parting ways, and many more will be disappointed by Andre's lack of rapping. However, Big Boi's piece is still a top-notch hip-hop album, and, if given a chance, Andre's album is a work of art in its own right. Also, despite such discrepancies between the two, both artists still show elements of Outkast in their individual creations. It remains to be seen whether they will ever be able to dupli­cate the success they had as a pair, for Speakerboxxx lacks the razzle-dazzle of Andre, while The Love Below lacks the logic and direction of Big Boi. Nevertheless. the two show much potential as solo artists. and this is probably just the starting point of two great solo careers. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

ALBUM REVIEW 

Kings of Leon enter the spotlight with latest release 
By REBECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Music Critic 
Some bands spend years trying to get reviewed by top music magazines like "Rolling Stone" and "Spin," but for the band called Kings of Leon, this is not an issue. Not only is this up-and-coming garage-rock band being reviewed by these magazines, it is also featured as No. 2 in a list of the top 10 rising bands and its album was given four stars by "Rolling Stone." Spin magazine pro­claims, "Kings of Leon bash and pop like they've been rock stars for years." Sons and nephew of a southern Pentecostal minister. can the Kings of Leon possibly be deserving of all this press? The answer lies in one place, their second album Youth and Young Manhood, and it is an easy answer to find. 
Youth and Young Manhood 
Kings of Leon 
RCA Records 


Youth and Young Manhood was 
released on Aug. 19 in America and was· released prior to that in England. In England, the Kings of Leon rocked the charts and debuted at No. 5, and made it up to No. 3 by the third week out. The four-piece band (three broth­ers and their cousin) all with the last name Followill, range in age from 16 to . 22 are now touring the U.S. with not quite as an enthusiastic reaction as they found in England. However, they are by no means being overlooked 
either. 

The Kings of Leon definitely have a 
sound extremely unique to current rock 
and roll. The closest current compari­
son would be the Strokes with a little 
less melody and a bit heavier rock. 
Growing up on the Rolling Stones, Neil 
Young, and Bad Company, the group 
has a distinct sound that mixes rock, 
punk, jazz, and southern bluegrass 

beats. The almost scratchy vocals of C a I e b Followill 
o f t e n sounds as if he is mumbling through songs, but it is empha­sized just enough, w i t h changes in tone and intensity, to make the mumbling seem a conscious and artistic decision. Although at times the listener can hard­ly make out the lines, it works with the music. 
The first single from Youth and Young Manhood is an upbeat garage rock with a southern twist called "Molly's Chambers." Essentially, it's a song about "Just .another girl who wants to rule the world I at anytime." A girl that is easy for everyone to fall for, but not whose affections are easy to obtain in return. "You'll plead you'll get down on your knees," and then "You want it, she's got it I Molly's Chambers gonna change your mind." The song is very catchy and memorable, but a bit hard to understand at times. The music is great, as is the abrupt end of the song which leaves the listener hanging, per­haps as Molly herself seems to leave the victims of her love. 
Two other great songs on the album are the upbeat and southern rock­based "Red Morning Light" and 

"California Waiting." Another high point is "Holy Roller Novocaine," the name of their first album as well as their last song. "Holy Roller Novocaine" begins with a bass jazz beat and then jams into a punchy rock chorus. The song tells the story of passion in a rela­tionship crooning in the chorus, "Don't worry baby, you won't feel a thing I close your eyes ... Holy Roller Novocaine." 
That is. perhaps, the best advice one can have when approaching the Kings of Leon's Youth and Young Manhood. don't worry and close your eyes. These are not necessarily songs one sings along with, but the sound is not easily forgotten. Time will tell if Kings of Leon are deserving of their critical acclaim, but the band that is currently "kicking off a golden ear of southern garage rock" certainly deserves all of the attention they are receiving. 
Contact Rebecca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
THE 0BSER\1ER 
.. 
,. 

CENE
Thur~day, October 16, 2003 
Page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Songs About Jane, an album with music and message 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Music Crilic 
Maroon 5's Songs About Jane is one of those rare albums that manages to find a middle way between the age-old problem that plagues classic rock and pop songs alike: musicality versus accessibility. 
Take the opening lines from Led Zeppelin's famous rock anthem "Whole Lotta Love:" "You need coolin' I Baby, I'm not foolin' I I'm gonna send you back to schoolin'." 
You need coolin'? Send you back to schoolin'? What on earth does that mean and what on earth was Robert Plant smoking that made him think that those words have any sort of meaning outside 

By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Ediwr 
Paul Oakenfold can be heard inside dance clubs around the world. !lis hip techno music is some of the most pop­ular on the market. With the release of his newest double CD set, "Great Wall," Oakenfold has recreated some of his best work ever, pleasing his fans while bringing in new ones along the way. 
The first CD is classic Oakenfold: it starts a bit progressively and gradual­ly builds into a fine example of melod­ic trance. Dave Gahan's "Dirty Sticky his purple haze? But "Whole Lotta Love" is a standard because classic rock songs aren't as much about being coherent as they are about being musical. 
On the other hand, pop has the exact opposite problem. Take a look at the opening lyrics to Justin Timberlake's pop hit "Cry Me a River:" "You were my sun I You were my earth I But you didn't know all the ways I loved you, no I So you took a'chance I And made other plans I But I bet you didn't think your thing would come crashing down, no." 
The good thing is that these lyrics make sense, but the problem is they make sense to everyone. Anyone who's been in any kind of relationship and had someone leave them can relate to this dreck. And it's not like Justin's talking about any­thing spe­cific here. as is wit­nessed by his con­
s t a n t 
addressing of songs to a vaguely defined perfect woman who is apparently named "girl." 
It seems that music aficionados are left 
between a rock and hard place. Rock Frontman Adam Levine is able to throw 
lends itself to virtuoso musicality with obtuse and sometimes impene­trable meaning and pop revels in universal accessibility with novel, but ultimately vapid, musicality. But before music pundits declare, "Rock is rock, and pop is pop, and never the twain shall meet," they should give Maroon 5's Songs About Jane a couple spins in the old CD player. 
The first single off of Maroon 5's debut album, "Harder to Breathe," has been slowly creeping up the Billboard charts and may or may not crack the top 1 0; the second track, "This Love," is sure follow. The two singles are the most poppy on the album, showing ofT Maroon S's characteristic clean, crisp and upbeat sound. 
Songs About Jane 

Maroon 
Octane Records 


funky blues and hip hop sensibili­ties into the oth­erwise clean-cut tracks like "Through With You" and "Not Coming Home" and even the swirly, love­struck "Secret." But what really makes Songs About Jane 
stand out among the dregs of album re~ases is that it manages to be a cohesive album that feels like it's about something as well as fun to lis­ten to. 
Maroon 5 may not have revolu­tionized the music business overnight with the release of Songs About 

As much as the first two tracks stand out, Songs About Jane is tight 12-song album without any real letdowns. 
Songs About Jane also shows off Maroon 5's ability to play within the pop and rock genres. The album has an off­kilter feel to it that will keep listeners guessing at what's coming next. 
Jane, but they've managed to put togeth­er something fresh and new. Who knows? Maybe they'll eventually send Justin Timberlake back to schoolin'. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Paul Oakenfold, back in the mix 
Floors" may be sticky, but OJ Junkie XL fixes the tune with a fantastic remix. Even Madonna's "Hollywood" is masterfully re-worked by Oakenfold to be an instant trance hanger for this year. This disc reflects the Oakenfold fans learned to understand and take in, and is a trance-laced perpetual journey into Oakenfolds' underground dreamland. Ethereal melodies based upon intricate chains of sounds and beautiful harmony give life to every part of this side of the mix. 
The second CD, however, leaves much to be desired. Besides Ian Brown's "Fear" and the Patient Saints "lmperpetuem Mobila," the rest of what's being offered isn't very much, th·ere is not as much good melody on the sec­
ond  disc  as  
there  is  on  
the first.  

Many peo­ple have recently crit­i c i z e d Oakenfold for some of the paths he's chosen as an artist. Since 2000, fans have not really seen albums I i k e "Another World" or "Travelling," as living up to the previous unbreak­able, unbeatable mixes that showcase what Oakenfold does best as a per­former. 

Ibiza has some excellent tracks on this new release, but a majority of these songs are aimed in a new direc­tion, stepping out of traditional dance music that fans know Oakenfold to use. 
He has tried many new things such as remixing Radiohead tracks. He has also appeared on albums like the "Swordfish" soundtrack and "Bunka." which ended up not being Oakenfold fans were looking for. Those were not mix COs, nor were they intended to be, which is why many Oakenfold fans criticized the work. But it's important to respect Oakenfold for taking the directions he chooses. 
This latest album however brings Oakenfold the OJ back to life as the performer fans know him to be. As times change, sound changes, and this time around, he plays with some pro­gressive tracks that have the Oakenfold flavor back in them. 
Fans will glance at this album quick­ly and question its quality at first. They may even be reluctant to pur­chase after considering his previous few albums which were tougher to decipher than his usual mix CD. 
But his newest release is exactly thr. mix album that Oakenfold fans have been waiting for several y·ears to arrive. It is not a soundtrack, nor is it an independent project like "Bunka," but rather it is a mix CD showcasing his fantastic ability as a performer. That quality is exactly what fans will receive with this purchase. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

Thursday, October 16, 2003 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
.. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Red Sox force Martinez-Clemens rematch 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The resilient Boston Red Sox rallied just ii:I time. 
Trailing by two runs and nine outs from ending their season, they rebounded with a three­run seventh inning to beat the New York Yankees 9-6 Wednesday and set up a whop· per of a Game 7. 
David Ortiz tied it with a run­scoring single and Johnny Damon drove in the go-ahead run with a bases-loaded walk in the seventh inning that tied the AL championship series. 
That brings the series down to one game Thursday night, and it has all the makings of a classic: Roger Clemens versus Pedro Martinez, the central characters who set off fireworks and fights 

.. during Game 3 at Fenway Park. "Tomorrow should be an exciting day," Boston manager Grady Little said. Slumping Nomar Garciaparra had four hits, including a wind­blown triple that started the three-run seventh and atoned for an earlier error. Jason Varitek hit a third-inning homer off starter Andy Pettitte, and Trot Nixon added a two-run shot in the ninth off Gabe White as the Red Sox beat up New York for 16 hits and moved within one win of their first trip to the World Series since 1986. "I've never been around a club quite like this." Little said. "It typified our whole season." New York and Boston will play for the 26th time Thursday ­the most meetings ever between two teams in one year. It marks the first time the championship series in both leagues will go a full seven games in the same season. "We've just battled and fought against these guys all year." Varitek said. During the regular season, the 
Yankees edged Boston 10-9 in the series. 
"I guess it was supposed to come down to seven games," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "I don't know two clubs that are more evenly matched than we are." 
Homers by Jason "Giambi and Jorge Posada and a two-run double by Alfonso Soriano staked New York to a 6-4 lead. But reliever Jose Contreras couldn't hold it. 
A swirling 25 mph wind float­ed napkins across the field all game, and the conditions made it difficult for fielders on both teams, spinning line drives into twisting gappers. 
"It's all over the place," Giambi said after batting prac­tice. 
Boston, the top offense in the major leagues during the regu­lar season, had been hitting just .230 in the playoffs and hadn't scored more than five runs in 10 postseason games. But the Red Sox remembered back to the first round, when they fell behind Oakland 0-2 before win­ning three in a row to advance. 
Contreras relieved Pettitte to start the sixth and struck out the side, but he overthrew his pitches in the seventh and he wound up the loser. 
Garciaparra, who didn't get his first postseason RBI until Tuesday, hit a deep drive to cen­ter leading off the inning, and the ball gusted over Bernie Williams for a triple. Garciaparra came home when the wind sent left fielder Hideki Matsui's throw to third sailing on a hop into the seats for an error. 
"The one that Nomar hit looked like a routine fly ball," Torre said. 
Manny Ramirez hit a similar shot over Williams for a double. took third on a wild pitch and scored the tying run when Ortiz smashed a single off first base. 


Felix Heredia relieved with one out and two on, threw a wild pitch that moved up the runners, then threw a called third strike past Nixon. 
After an intentional walk to Varitek, Heredia walked Damon on four pitches -two of them close -forcing in the go-ahead run. 
"It looked like he had a couple of strikes that weren't called. but that's what you've got to deal with on a regular basis," Torre said of Heredia. 
Alan Embree, who struck out Giambi to help escape a big jam in the fifth, got the win. Scott Williamson, Boston's sixth pitch­er, got three outs for his third save of the series. 
Following the Game 3 fights at Fenway Park, security was increased as the series returned to Yankee Stadium. Two dozen police officers were in Monument Park, behind the bullpens, at start of the game. Fans greeted Ra)Jlirez, a central party in Saturday's confronta­tions, with the loudest boos. 
Giambi's first postseason homer for the Yankees, the third of his career, put New York ahead in the first. 
Pettitte breezed through two innings but got in trouble in the third, when Varitek led off with a long homer to left-his fourth of the postseason. 
A walk to Damon and a single by Walker put two men on for Garciaparra, who grounded to the hole at shortstop. But Derek Jeter made a fine backhanded pickup and threw to third for the force. Pettitte then walked Ramirez on four pitches and Ortiz lined a single just over a leaping Jeter, driving in two runs. Kevin Millar lofted a soft single to center for 4-1 lead. 
But Boston starter John Burkett, a 38-year-old who relies on offspeed pitches, could­n't get through the fourth. Posada and Matsui singled to put runners on the corners, and Nick Johnson hit a long liner to the right-center gap. The ball seemed to be held up by· the wind and hopped over the wall for an RBI ground-rule double. 
Aaron Boone grounded out sharply to shortstop on the next pitch to drive in Matsui and pull the Yankees within a run. Karim Garcia bounced the next pitch to shortstop, but Garciaparra let the ball bounce out of his glove. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

EARN MONEY OVER FALL  WOMENS GOR-TEX JACKETS,  STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE!  Wanted Mens Football nckets $$  A "Reality" Spring Break 2004s  
- NOTICES  BREAK. The Early Childhood Development Center at Notre Dame  NEW WITH TAGS, FOREST GREEN,SIZES SMALL AND  2,3,4,5 Bedroom Apartment and Townhouses available.  Pay Top Dollar $$ 1-866-808-0990  Hottest prices Book now.. Free Trips, Meals & Parties  
I NEED GA TIXS.2726306  and Saint Marys College has employment opportunities over Fall  LARGE. $60 EACH. GREAT FOR THE FOOTBALL GAMES. 574-289­ Excellent location to campus! Contact Rod Ludwig at 574-234­ 2 GA TIX FOR USC/B0/832-428­3937.  sunsplashtours.com or 1800·426· 7710  
Break (October 20-24,2003). If you  8048  9923 or  
WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski  are available to work part time and  Emaii:Riudwig@cbresb.com  Need 2 GA tix for USC & FSU. Call  ADOPTION:Irish, affectionate, child·  
&Beach Trips on sale now! www.sunchase com or call 1-800-SUNCHASE today!  are interested in spending time reading childrens books, building with blocks, and singing songs  GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO NO. 3BR-1.5 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM AM. NEW  4 Bedroom House for next semester and/or next year. 1136 E. Madison.  276-8507. After 5 pm, 288-2877. Will trade 2 FSU tickets for 2 USC  less, stay-at-home mom and envi­ronmentalist dad, dream of sharing love with Caucasian or Hispanic  
#1 SPRING BREAK COMPANY in Acapulco is now offering 3 destina­ with children, please contact Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 as soon as possible. Have fun and get paid too!  AC/SIDING,ROOF. MANY UPDATES.2 CAR GAR.$109,000. 574-272-1112.  Great for parties. Contact Mike (216) 408-0780 or Matt (216) 408­0744 if interested  tickets 601-249-3417 or 601·248­0368.  newborn through adoption. Legal & confidential. Call Jacqueline and Allan toll free at 1-800-484·  
!ions! Go Loco in Acapulco, Party in Vallarta, or get Crazy in Cabo-all  NEED 2 USC tix. Prefer trade for 2 Florida St. or BYU. Call ASAP 574­ 6754, PIN: 8642  
with BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS. Book by Oct 31-get FREE MEALSI Organize a group and travel for FREE. Call for details. 800-875­4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com.  FoR SALE IRISH CROSSINGS-A NEW LUX­URY VILLA COMMUNITY. Build your dream home next to Notre  FoR RENT 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS. MMMRENTALS.COM MMMRENTALS@AOL.COM 272­ TICKETS NO FOOTBALL-BUY & SELL. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911 OR TOLL FREE 877-773-3911.  634-0830. PERSONALS  #1 Spring Break Vacations! 110% Best Prices! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Book Now & Receive Free Meals & Parties Campus Reps Wanted! 1-800-234-7007  
...ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get  Dame. A limited number of home  1525  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  endlesssummertours.com  
12th trip free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800·838-8202. Vector/Cutco workforstudents.corn/574-282-2357  sites are available. For more info go to: www.lrishCrossings.com GEORGETOWN-CARRIAGE HILLS AREA. 2.7 Ml TO NO. 3BR~112 BA. FULL BSMT/FAM AM. NEW  2 Nice Bedrooms: 1 double, i two signle. Immediately East of the Campus for Game Weekends Only. $80 per person/per night. Call 272·0928  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED -TOP DOLLAR PAID AM-232-2378 PM 288-2726 NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE AM -232-2378 PM • 288­ not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary LouiseGude,CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  Happy birthday, Nick. From the basement of South Dining Hall. Go Fish. Billy goat, what?  
AC/SIDING. MANY UPDATES. 2 CAR GAR. $101,400. 574-272-1112  NO FOOTBALL HOUSING:  2726  Spring Break 2004 with  Big win for the BoSox.  
WANTED Part Time Professional Server Assistant, will train. Must be avail­able Tues.-Sat. Evenings beginning at 4:00pm. Apply in person: 24460 Adams Rd., South Bend (far North  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.$84,900. Emaii:Williamson.1 @nd.edu 1995 Olds 98 Regency 3.8 V6  Beautiful home (plus two tickets) in nice neighborhood available for remaining NO football games. Six blocks from stadium. Sleeps 10. Two baths, kitchen, laundry, parks 6 cars. $1 ,200 per weekend. No pets.  WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP DOLLAR PAID. (574)232­0964. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. LOWEST PRICES. (574)251-1570.  StudentCity.com and Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free Trips, Cash and VIP status as a Campus Repl Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve online or view our Photo  Even bigger win for section marino. Game was over before it started. Yeager knows he's in trouble. Playoffs?lll Playoffs?lll You play to win the game~  
West side) or call (574) 272-9220­ask for Emily.  Engine, New Tires, 1 0 Disc CD Changer Runs Great, front end damage·$600 neg. 574-271·1202  (574) 231-8823 (evenings). 3 bdrm house, 2 full baths, 2-stall  JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS TIX TO ANY HOME FOOT­BALL GAME. PLEASE CALL  Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or Caii1-888-SPRINGBREAK!  We talkin' 'bout practice ... not a game.  
Movie Extras/Models Needed. NO exper. required. All looks and ages. Earn $1 00-$500 a day. 1-888·820­0167, ext. U187  1995 Honda Civic 2 door, black, 5­speed, 106,500 miles, $4,300 o.b.o. call #234-4536  garage, all appliances, partially turn., 2 miles from NO, $900/mo. Call298·3000.  674-6593. SMC grad needs USC tix. Email Colleen: Eumachia13 @aol.com  Spring Break 2004 w/STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for discounts: 800·648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  Double tights. Wishbone. Wing-T. You know how we do. I'll be lonely for about a week...  

-----~--------­
~---------------------------~ 
Thursday, October 16, 2003 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Dungy requests replay review 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Tony Dungy thinks the NFL's replay system needs to be reviewed, and he believes the last two weeks have provided indis­putable evidence the system does not work. 
On Sunday. the Indianapolis Colts lost an interception bncause of a reversal, a deci­sion that still confounds Dungy. 
A we()k earlier. the Colts' miraculous comeback at Tampa Bay began with what tho league now describes as an illegal onside kick -a play Dungy believes could not even be challenged. 
Dungy wants answers. 
"I want to know how it can happen and how it can be pre­vented," he said Wednesday. "I understand that a mistake was made or whatever, but if we say this is the process, then how should it be followed?" 
Dungy, the easygoing, soft­spoken Colts coach, is a liaison to the NFL's competition com­mittoe and has been an out­spoken opponent of replay since his arrival in Indianapolis last year. 
The recent incidents have cPmented his position -and apparently that of the Colts, too. 
"J think that it's safe to say in March. when replay comes up to a vote, our stance will be obvious," team president Bill Polian said -during his weekly radio show. "We'll be propo­nents of the doing-away with a system that simply doesn't work." 
The current system gives coaches two challenges per game and requires conclusive evidence to overturn calls made on the field, something Dungy believes did not exist Sunday. 
If the call on the field is 
upheld, the challenging team 
loses a timeout. 
Dungy said replay was installed primarily to rectify what he called "gross" mis­takes on critical plays, but he believes it is not being used properly. 
He cited Sunday's play as an example. 
Colts defensive end Chad Bratzke picked off a Jake Delhomme pass, then had it ripped out by a Carolina play­er. Indianapolis' Haheem Brock fell on the loose ball, which was ruled a fumble on the field, at the Panthers 5. 
After reviewing the play, ref­eree Larry Nemmers announced Bratzke never had control and cailed it an incom­pletion. 
Dungy acknowledges the play did not dictate the out­come in the loss. but he was still upset three days later because he believes the replays were inconclusive. 


w.:~'v•~ heen rt~tu.ly for over 35 years-. 
On~ ·oi!s-<:'t''£ ln&rualotl istht ruk nitht:r ~han w tJX:tpt0nat l·lcly Cn.lS..'> (J..Jk~. O~tr das~s IJJe .snl>aU and tl:llim:rte~ .i>O J>tu.dent:!'< rt•;.:dw.tht• hi;g;h~ ltVd ci t~rMm~l at~:entl-tm.l'r~:~m ad-tdh'a~~:\i*. CHIng fa~ulty. ~udcnt~ ~an tarn an ;~att ofAnsm &u:hdor ·Of /m~ ~W"~ at Holy Ct:~. ~U:!;;, rilli:ldi...~ ltfu ~ ,gr~~ngw·lth tl~ addl'!.km d t..~l fifth H~!tlde:tlc.<: halL 
..... U)\"!~ 're ~;.MJking for adwnot' l~' h.cynor<.;*-l!ltirm.c M ~-~~~~ .;.-dk~.. wheK >J.Iittk (.me-vn~on(' iS' >ln int~:q;r11J [Nut oi our mlssi~;;~n and philo.S<.Jphy, gfiv~ lk)ly Cr.-o.ss C~::tlk~ a cdl ill; {5H}J:J9"'1;.~ ~)r ''i~l u~ <~.!; \-\'l.Wd~x:--r¥t~dta., 
HOLYCROSS COLLEGE:::l: 
~ ~-*~ ~~. t:n~ ~. 

NHL 
Bruins' Raycraft shuts out Stars 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Boston Bruins 
goaltender Andrew Raycraft 
was good, but he admitted that 
he also had a little luck on his 
side. 
Raycraft had 27 saves for his 
first career shutout, and Brian 
Rolston scored twice as the 
Bruins won for the first time this 
season, beating th~ Dallas Stars 
2-0 Wednesday night. 
"We dodged a bullet tonight 
against a hungry team and a 
talented group," Bruins coach 
Mike Sullivan said. 
The Stars hit the goalpost four 
times -twice by center Jason 
Arnott -and failed to capitalize 
on six power plays. 
"They worked the net and cre­ated some chances," said Haycroft, who raised his career record to 7-9-2. "We needed some breaks and we got them tonight." 
Rolston scored in the first 
period and then added an 
empty-net goal with 3.7 seconds 
remaining to provide all the 
offense for the Bruins, who were 
outshot 27-13. 
The Bruins, 0-6-3 in their last nine meetings with the Stars. killed four Dallas power plays in the third period. 
"We created a number of quality chances but we couldn't finish," Stars coach Dave Tippett said. "Sometimes that happens. He made some quality saves and we hit some posts. It was frus­trating. We did some good things but didn't get a win out of 
it... Marty Turco made 11 saves for the Stars. Dallas put on the pressure in the second period but Raycroft stopped all 15 shots to preserve the Bruins' one-goal lead. "We felt it was a matter of time before we scored but he played a great game," Stars defenseman Hichard Matvichuk said. "We're happy with our effort, but we're not happy with the loss." 
Coyotes 2, Panthers 1 
Sean Burke made sure the Coyotes would have their best 

AI Wire Photo 

Bruins' goalie Andrew Raycroft and Panthers' 0111 Jokinen watch the puck bounce away In a game last season. 
start since moving to Phoenix. 
Burke made 29 saves and Shane Doan and Hadoslav Suchy scored Wednesday night to lead the Coyotes to a 2-1 victory over the Florida Panthers. 
Phoenix, out of the playoffs last season, improved to 3-0 for the first time since the 1987-88 season when the franchise was the Winnipeg Jets. The Coyotes, who moved to Phoenix in 1996, opened this season with a 2-1 overtime victory over St. Louis and a 2-0 win against Anaheim. 
"As well as we're playing, Burkey has been our best player every night," Doan said. "The blue line is making smart deci­sions, but Burkey has been there to make the big save." 

Phoenix will be shooting for the first 4-0 start in franchise history Thursday night at Tampa Bay. 
'The first three games, we got good bounces, played well and capitalized at the right time.'' Burke said. "As a veteran play­er, I've seen a lot. We were only a goal away from this being a loss. We're not going to get too high about it. but we're enjoying it right now." 
Mike Van Hyn scored for Florida on a six-on-four after the Panthers pulled goalie Hoberto Luongo for an extra skater with 3:40 left. 
Florida (1-1-2) missed a chance to stay unbeatr.n after four games. 
ife Friday October 17th, @7:30pm 
# 2 \Voman 's Soccer vs. Conneticut Game @ Alumni F:ield 
•FREE 
Between the Buns Chili (while supplies last) 

•FREE 
bottle jersey with a Coke Product for first 250 fans! 

•Chance 
for 1 lucky ND student to win books for a seml":ster. 


~I\, )L ~ \I ,':'~ • ~·-')L ,_.,
(~;-··•··· .. ·. \:.~·· ·v t*-4·, . (_.~1 ~~~,
·-..,.;:1 '-"~ WH ,._:.;~ ~'f:~ <Ql . ., ·,:..cl .. ~· ,....;:, 

')L ,:.·­
~~\
·· ,O:J 


Hockey vs. Bowling Green
y

"Shake the Joyce" Friday October 17th, @7:30pm 
Enter through Gate 3 of the JACC 
•FREE 
milk jug noise makers · 

•Chance 
to win ND vs. USC Football tickets! 


*FREE admission for all ND students* **visit und.com promo',& and giveaway link 

--~-----------­
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 16,2003 ­
:_ -•
• •
• 

! ..•
•

I • I I 
' ­
' 

' 
I I I 
ARE YOU TURNING IN YOUR LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATION TODAY? 
IT'S DUE FRIDAY! 
If you don't get it in by Friday, remember that we'II accept applications on Monday, October 271h. 
Apply at 
www.nd.edu/~londonpr 153 HURLEY HALL 
Thursday, October 16, 2003 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Bryant defense presents 'compelling evidence' 
Associated l'ress 
EAGLE, Colo. Kobe Bryant's accuser showed up for her rape exam wearing panties containing another man's sperm. a startling discovery that defense lawyers called "compelling evidence" the NBA star is innocent. 
But Bryant's preliminary hearing ended Wednesday with prosecutors telling a judge there was "uncontradicted" evidence that the Los Angeles Lakers' guard raped the 19­year-old woman at a mountain resort. 
"lie held her by the back of the neck with his hand during sexual intercourse," prosecutor Greg Crittenden said. "lie lifted up her skirt. She said 'no.' He pulled down her underpants and she said 'no.' He penetrat­ed her from behind and she cried." 
Judge Frederick Gannett said he hoped to rule by Monday whether Bryant will have to stand trial on a sexual assault charge that could send him to prison for life. 
Gannett only has to find there is probable cause to believe Bryant raped the woman. something defense attorney Pamela Mackey told the judge prosecutors failed to prove because the woman told her story through a sheriff's detective. 
"She is not worthy of your belief," Mackey said. 
Eagle County District Attorney Mark Hur-lbert said, however. he was confident the judge would send the case to trial. 
"No prosecutor puts on their whole case at preliminary hearing," he said. "In this case you saw kind of a sanitized version." 
If the two-day preliminary hearing wasn't the entire pros­ecution case, it still contained graphic details about an encounter that began with the woman excited to meet the basketball superstar. escalated into consensual kissing and hugging, and ended with sex across the back of a chair. 

Prosecutors tried to portray Bryant as an arrogant athlete who held the woman down and raped her, concerned only that she might talk about the encounter. 
When it was the defense's turn to question the lead detec­tive in the case, Mackey tried to poke holes in the woman's story, raise doubts about whether she told Bryant "no" and show she had sex with someone else two days before the alleged assault June 30. 
"This is an extremely thin case based-mostly on hearsay," Mackey said. 
She wasted no time getting Detective Doug Winters to say that the yellow underwear the woman wore to her rape exam at a hospital the next day con­
• 
tained sperm from another man. along with Caucasian pubic hair. 
The 25-year-old Bryant, who is black, contends he had con­sensual sex with the woman. 
Winters said the woman told him she had consensual sex with another man on June 28 and used a condom, backing earlier defense suggestions she was sexually active before her encounter with Bryant. 
Winters also said two pairs of panties from the woman were tested -one from the night of June 30, the other the pair she wore to a hospital for an exam the next day. 
The latter pair contained blood and semen. Winters said. 
"The accuser arrived at the hospital wearing panties with someone else's semen and sperm in them. not that of Mr. Bryant, correct?" Mackey asked. 
"That's correct," Winters responded. 

Mackey suggested injuries found during the woman's exam could have come from having repeated sex, a con­tention she first made in court last week. 
The defense contends the tests on the underwear provide Bryant with "compelling evi­dence of innocence." 
Stan Goldman. a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. said the argument might be more of a public rela­tions move. 
"The defense may be spin­ning this more for the public than the court," he said. "It's impressive, but its negative public relations value for the prosecution is more significant than its legal value." 
Bryant sat stoically with his hands folded watching his attorney tear apart the prose­cution's version of the case. Occasionally. he leaned over and talked to his other lawyer, Hal Haddon. 

UPI Coach Bernie Bickerstaff gestures to players of his St. Louis Swarm team during the 2000 IBL Championship Series. 
NEED A JOB FOR THE 03~04 ACADEMIC YEAR 

Bickerstaff to be coach and generaln1anager of Bobcats 
Associated Press discuss the hires. head coach when the Wizards The Bobcats begin play in were struggling at the All-Star 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C. -Bernie 2004-05. They will replace the break. Bickerstaff will be the coach Hornets, who moved to New lie rallied the team to its and general manager of the Orleans last year after 14 sea­first playoff appearance in expansion Charlotte Bobcats. sons in Charlotte. nine years, but was fired in two team sources told The The 58-year-old Bickerstaff April 1999 after going 13-19 Associated Press on was an NBA head coach with after the NBA lockout. Wednesday. the Seattle SuperSonics (1985-Bickerstaff was one of five 
Bickerstaff. who spent parts 90). the Denver Nuggets candidates including of 10 seasons as an NBA (1994-96) and the Washington Brokaw-to interview for the coach and the past year as Wizards (1996-99). compiling general manager job. The general manager of the a record of 338-348 (.493). Bobcats also talked to Chris WNBA's Charlotte Sting, will He was NBA Coach of the Wallace of the Boston Celtics, be introduced at a Thursday Year for the 1986-87 season Walt Perrin of the Utah Jazz news conference, the sources after leading Seattle to the and Maurizio Ghcrardini of an said on condition of anonymi­Western Conference finals, Italian club team. ty. where the SuperSonics lost to The hiring ends a long wait­
Karl llicks. already a mem­the Los Angeles Lakers. ing period for the Bobcats, ber of the Bobcats' front office Bickerstaff began his NBA who couldn't make any moves and former executive director coaching . career in until Michael Jordan decided of the National Basketball Washington as an assistant in if he wanted to be part of the Dcveloprifental League. will be 1973. He was part of a staff team. named assistant general man­that Jed the then-Bullets into Jordan is a close friend of ager, the sources added. the playoffs 10 times, and the owner Bob Johnson, and was 
Gary Brokaw, former direc­NBA Finals three times. offered any role he wanted. tor of player personnel for the including the 1978 NBA cham­That prevented Tapscott from Orlando Magic, will hold the pionship. moving ahead with his general same role in Charlotte. He was also the president manager search. Brokaw had interviewed for and general manager in But Jordan decided last the general manager position. Denver from 1990 through month to pursue majority 

Charlotte vice president Ed 1997. ownership of his own team. Tapscott was not immediately He was Jured back to kicking off Tapscott's six-week available Wednesday night to Washington to become the search for a general manager. 
luisb Cuossings 
A~ upscale villa development within walking distance (one block east) of the Notre Dame campus. 
single-detached and duplex luxury villas with attached garages priced from $189,900 customizable floorplans owneF-occupied walk to campus, grocery store, retail stores, restaurants & bars very close to ND stadium, Joyce Center, & the new performing arts building located one block east directly across from tennis courts and sports fields quiet residential area with quick access to major roads, mall, & toll road enjoy a low-maintenance lifestyle including lawn care & snow removal 
city water and sewer low county property taxes semi-gated community a limited number of home sites are available on this 8.25 acre parcel 
the only development of its kind next to the University of Notre Dam-e 
Currently in the final development planning phase. . Construction to begin late Fall 2003. · · ,;_ First homes completed by Spring/Summer 2004. · 
For more information go to: www.lrishCrossings.com 
e~:::::;::;~::;~:;:::::::~=:::~t.z~==;;~~:;:!.~:=:=:;::::::::::;;:=:·~~:~;=::~.:::;~· 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 16, 2003 CoMPILED FROM Tn£ 0BSERVHts WIRE SERVtcEs Page 18 




MLB 



around the dial 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Clemson at N.C. State 7 p.m., ESpN 
MLB 
Boston Red Sox at New York Yankees 7 p.m., FOX 
NHL 
Chicago Blackhawks at Columbus Blue Jackets 7 p.m., FOX Sports 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Waiting ·'til next year will never, ever be so painful for the Chicago Cubs. 
Given one fmal chance to beat the demons of their past and the Marlins, the Cubs couldn't get it done. Kerry Wood failed to hold an early lead and Wrigley Field fell silent as Florida capped its stunning NLCS comeback with a 9-6 win in Game 7 Wednesday night. 
Destiny? Fate? The fan in Game 6? Whatever. The Cubs were unable to end their long, strange drought because MVP Ivan Rodriguez, Miguel Cabrera and these remarkably resilient Marlins won their third straight game to clinch the National League pen­nant. 
"Nobody expected us to be in the World Series," Rodriguez said. 
The Marlins will head off to face Boston or the New York Yall'kees in the World Series starting Saturday night. 
In a cruel twist to the Cubs' faithful, Florida will make its second Series trip in only 11 years of existence -Chicago has been absent since 1945, prompting the team's sad little motto of "Wait 'Til Next Year." 
"We didn't lose the pen­nant, the Marlins won it," Cubs manager Dusty Baker said. "We were close and the Marlins took it from us, it's as simple as that." 
Fittingly, Baker's 4-year­old son Darren added a fmal word when his dad was done talking. 
"The Cubs will win next year," the little boy said. 
Alex Gonzalez provided insurance with a two-run double to left-center field in the seventh inning for a 9-5 lead. The ball hopped up against the brick wall, cov­ered with ivy that has changeq colors to orange and red. 
That poison ivy will cer­tainly be tinged with tears, too. 
Even after being shut out in Game 5 by Josh Beckett, Sammy Sosa and the Cubs were in excellent position as they returned home. But aces Mark Prior and Wood lost on back-to-hack days for the first time this season and suddenly a sure thing had turned sour. 
"Those are two tough guys to beat, I'll tell you what," Beckett said. "We got a break. Things work out for a reason, I guess." 
The sellout crowd of 39,574 was without the infa­mous Steve Bartman -the fan who deflected a foul ball during the Marlins' eighth­inning rally in Game 6. 
IN BRIEF 
•

O'Neal misses Wednesday was the team's leading rusher during Indianapolis minor leaguegame with back injury the preseason. But he was released in team to Jieep manager INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers September and signed to the practice MILWAUKEE -Former Milwaukee forward Jermaine O'Neal was squad. Brewers star Cecil Cooper will manage 
scratched from Wednesday night's He was waived a second time before the club's Triple-A affiliate in preseason game against Denver with a the Colts' game against New Orleans Indianapolis again next season, the sore back. on Sept. 28. Allen said Wednesday he team announced Tuesday. 
O'Neal was injured in Tuesday's had been working out in Indianapolis Cooper, 53, made his managerial overtime loss to Chicago. Indiana since then, hoping for another chance. debut with the Indianapolis Indians coach Rick Carlisle said his star player Coach Tony Dungy said the Colts last season. The team finished with a was hurt when Chicago's Kendall Gill needed a running back because Ricky 64-78 record but went 45-44 over the inadvertently hit O'Neal in the back as Williams, the starter the last three last three months of the season. 
he went up for a shot. weeks, could miss two weeks with a ''I'm really looking forward to com­O'Neal was scheduled to have tests sprained right ankle. ing back for another season," Cooper Wednesday night and will be evaluat­Indianapolis is hopeful Edgerrin said. ''I'm excited for the opportunity 
ed this weekend by a back specialist, James, the NFL's rushing champ in to work with some of our top youngCarlisle said. 1999 and 2000, will return for the talent that will be coming to Houston game Oct. 26 after missing 
Indianapolis in 2004 and helping to
Colts re-sign RB Allen, cut the last three games. The Colts have a mold them into successful MajorOLNewton bye this week. League players." 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Newton, a rookie free agent, was Cooper came to the Brewers in a Colts re-signed running back Brian activated off the practice squad for trade with the Boston Red Sox after Allen Wednesday and waived offensive Sunday's game because the Colts' two the 1976 season. The former first linemen Jim Newton. starting tackles -Ryan Diem and baseman ranks among the Brewers' 
Allen was one of the Colts' three Tarik Glenn-were inactive. Newton leaders in nearly every offensive cate­sixth-round draft picks in 2002 and did not play Sunday against Carolina. gory. 

~--~----~---------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, October 16, 2003 
Fisher
,•.. 

continued from page 24 
defensive backs had good coverage. 
"We've been working on our passing game all year," Gorman said. "We had to start a freshman quarter­back, but he's really starting to step up." 
St. Ed's wide receiver Joe Pomerenke had a valiant effort in his team's loss with 82 yards on five receptions. 
The Green Wave needed only five plays to score on their opening drive. with Cullen completing passes of 23 and 40 yards before hand­ing off to running back Kameron Chappell for the touchdown. The two-point conversion failed. 
St. Ed's was forced to punt on its first possession of the game. and Fisher opened the lead to 12 points with a 13­yard touchdown pass to Gorman. Again. the conver­sion failed. 
St. Ed's got the ball back and drove down to the Fisher 25-yard line, but had to turn 
Fan 
continued from page 24 
inning. leading many to blame the Notre Dame gradu­ate for the loss. Bartman was escorted from his seat by Cubs officials for his own safety as fans hurled beers at him. with one saying "You cost us the World Series" and others saying "Kill him," according to the Associated Press. 
The Cubs lost 9-6 to the Marlins in Game 7 Wednesday and extended their World Series-less streak to 58 yoars. 
In a statement Wednesday, the ball over on downs. With time running out in the first half. the Green Wave engi­neered a seven-yard scoring drive that culminated in a 30-yard touchdown reception by Gorman. 
Fisher increased its lead to 20-0 by running for the two­point conversion. 
The Green Wave would score once more near the end of the third quarter, with running back Andy Pfiester scoring on a 1-yard touch­down run at the end of a seven-play drive. The two­point conversion was suc­cessful. 
St. Ed's made one last attempt to get on the score­board in the fourth quarter, driving down to the Fisher 26-yard line before again turning the ball over on downs. 
"We really played our hearts out," Pomerenke said. "We really had a good season and I think we showed some­thing to other teams this year." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Bartman, who coaches a youth baseball team in Chicago, apologized for trying to catch the ball and said he wouldn't have done so if he had known Alou was going for the ball, adding he was "truly sorry fr.om the bottom of this Cubs fan's heart. 
Bartman quickly became the butt of jokes nationwide, with Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich saying he would­n't pardon Bartman if he ever got accused of a crime and a Florida oceanfront resort offering him a free-three­month stay. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


RESERVED WEEKLY COURT TIME SCHEDULING MEETING 
Any organization wishing to request weekly basketball or volleyball court time at Stepan Center for the 2031-2004 academic year must attend: 
'Thursdayi October 30 4:00pm 
ltv:korrnt~giornery lrheaft 
You must have a representative present at the meeting to request your times. 
Weekly court time will begin Monday, November 3. 

For more information, contact Student Activities 631-6912. 


The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL 
Edwards on 'same page' 
Associated Press ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Braylon Edwards wants to do more than just win, catch passes and score touchdowns for Michigan. The junior receiver cares about his image. And that image has been in question since coach Lloyd Carr said, "Braylon Edwards and I are not on the same page," after the Wolverines' season-open­ing game. "I don't want to sit here and be like a victim. but I think some people are attacking my integrity," Edwards said. "And it's just not fair." After being benched for the first four offensive plays of the season. Edwards caught five passes for 78 yards and two touchdowns against Central Michigan. When Michigan beat Indiana three weeks ago, Edwards caught three passes for 42 yards and a TD after being relegated to watching from the sideline for most of the first half. "They don't need me to make plays." Edwards bris­tled after the game. Edwards said earlier this week it bothered him to know some thought of him as brash and arrogant because he wants to be known as "a good guy." "That's all I care about," he said. Edwards would be praised often if his accomplishments were more of a focus. He leads the Big Ten with seven receiving TDs. is tied for the conference lead with 43 receptions and his 575 yards receiving trail Big Ten leader Lee Evans of Wisconsin by just 21 yards. Edwards has caught at least three passes in 20 straight games. Edwards, the son of former Michigan running back Stanley Edwards, last year had 67 catches for 1,035 yards and 10 TDs to lead the Wolverines to a 10-win sea­
~ VON DUTCH ,\< SEVEN JEANS * BLUE 
~ 
lnsJlire Me 1 
528 X. Co(fax 'Ave., Suite #2 South '13end, 1'1f46617 574/232-1822 
312 W. C(eveGmi'Ri. §ranger, ~]'}(46530 574/277-6693 

son. 
The 6-foot-3, 205-pounder is. expected to add to his impressive statistics when No. 17 Michigan (5-2, 2-1 Big Ten) plays Illinois (1-6, 0-3) at home Saturday. 
Edwards could continue to brush off the media. Even so, he said he is determined to have his voice heard. In par­ticular, he said he does not want people to see him as tal­ented but troubled like the NFL's Terrell Owens and Randy Moss. 
"Those are two of the best receivers in the game. I wouldn't mind from that standpoint, but they've had some things gone wrong. on and off the field, and there's been a couple of situations where they're perceived as arrogant and selfish individu­als," Edwards said in his first extended interview this sea­son. "I can't be lumped into that category, because I'm not an arrogant and selfish indi­vidual and I wouldn't want to be perceived that way" 
Offensive tackle Tony Pape 
~ 
c:::: 
~ 
....... 
~ 
c.n 
* 
t'!1 
= 
~ 
I 
~ 
t't1 
r-c 
~ 
>= 
~ 
c.n 

said Edwards was forced by 
Carr to change his me-first 
attitude during preseason 
practices. 
"He's team-oriented now." 
Pape said. "He cares about 
how the team does and not 
about his individual perform­
ance. That's the greatest 
change that he's made. 
"He always wanted the 
team to win, but he would 
complain about not getting 
the ball." 
But Pape said it would be 
wrong to think of Edwards as 
a "bad person." 
"He's a great guy," Pape 
said. "He's not selfish, he just 
wants to make plays. He just 
needed to focus his energy in 
a different direction. 
"He never did anything 
tremendously bad, but just 
did a lot of little things that 
built up." 
Edwards said Carr's prob­
lems with him stemmed from 
being five minutes late to an 
8:30 a.m. team meeting in August. 
"Especially for a guy that just got No. 1, you can't make mistakes like that," Edwards said. 
Edwards wanted to wear No. 1 before this season, but wore No. 80 the past two years because Carr said he had to earn the right to wear the coveted Michigan jersey worn by former greats such as Anthony Carter and David Terrell. 
Unlike Terrell, who left Michigan after his junior sea­son and was drafted by Chicago, Edwards said he will play for the Wolverines as a senior because he wants to win a national championship and earn his degree and he loves Michigan football. 
He said his decision would not change if he was project­ed as a top 10 pick. 
Carr said he doesn't regret making his spat with Edwards public. 
"I think it was the only way he was going to get the mes­sage," Carr said. "I had tried to give him the message pri­vately. and he wasn't getting
it... When Carr was asked if he and Edwards were now on the same page. Carr paused for several seconds, then smiled. "Absolutely," he said. "It's great to be on the same page." 

Thursday, October 16, 2003 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
HOCKEY 

Simon cherishes memories of friend Snyder 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
One was from Shaker Heights, Ohio, an affluent sub­urb of Cleveland. The other was from Elmira, Ontario, a tiny Canadian town. 
One was a star on the ice for Notre Dame and was drafted in the fifth round of the 1997 National Hockey League Entry Draft by the Chicago Blackhawks. The other was a hard-nosed player in Canadian junior hockey who went undrafted by the NHL before the Atlanta Thrashers signed him as a free agent in 1999. 
Ben Simon and Dan Snyder came from different back­grounds, but they each shared a common love of hockey. Eventually joining as team­mates on the minor league Orlando Solar Bears and Chicago Wolves and the NHL's Atlanta Thrashers, they also formed a friendship. 
On Sept. 29, that friendship came to an abrupt end. 
That night, Dan Snyder was leaving a season-ticket holder event in Atlanta with team­mate Dany Heatley. Snyder had recently learned that he would be offered a roster spot on the Thrashers, while Heatley was one of the NHL's up-and-coming superstars, having led the Thrashers in points during the 2002-03 sea­son. 
While driving away from the event, Heatley's Ferrari crashed into a wall in the Buckhead area of Atlanta, throwing both players from the vehicle. The two were taken to nearby Grady Memorial Hospital, and Snyder was diag­nosed with a depressed skull fracture. 
Simon, who was in Orlando at training camp with the Nashville Predators (with whom he had signed as a free agent during the offseason), was shocked to hear the news. 
"I had just talked with him earlier that night on the phone," he said. 
The Predators were sched­uled to play a preseason game against the Thrashers in Atlanta Oct. 3, so Simon was able to talk to Snyder's family for a while. 
"They just looked like they were trying to hold together," Simon said. 
By the night of Oct. 5, Dan Snyder was dead, having never regained consciousness after the crash. 
Simon traveled to Elmira, Ont. last Saturday to attend Snyder's funeral, along with former friends and teammates, including Heatley. 
"It just didn't really seem real," Simon said. "I was almost waiting for 'Snydes' to jump out of the coffin and say 'Gotcha!' 
"He was one of my good bud­dies. and it's not something I'll ever want to go through again." . 
Although he is saddened by the loss of his friend, Simon doesn't blame Heatley. 
"Dapy's a real good kid who just made a mistake," he said. "It's just unfortunate that his mistake took another person's life. 


"He's going to have to live with this his whole life and it's just a real tragedy." 
On June 25, 2000, the Blackhawks traded Simon to the Thrashers. Simon would receive several call-ups to the Atlanta club, but spent most of his time with the Thrashers' minor-league affiliate in Orlando, and later, Chicago. 
A constant through those years was his teammate Dan Snyder. Simon and Snyder won a Turner Cup (the now-defunct Iqternational Hockey League championship) in 2001 with the Orlando Solar Bears and a Calder Cup (the American Hockey League championship) with the Chicago Wolves in 2002. 
Durfng the Wolves' playoff run, Simon and Snyder often played on the same line. 
Although Simon spent more time in the minor leagues than Snyder, the two were team­mates on the Thrashers for a few games in late 2003. In a 4­3 overtime win over the Buffalo Sabres on Feb. 17, Simon scored his first career NHL point on an assist. 
The player whose goal he assisted? Dan Snyder. 

"There's so many memories, probably-some you can't print," Simon said with a laugh. Growing more serious, he recounted the kind of per­son Snyder was both on and off the ice. 
"He was full of life, full of energy," Simon said. "He was the kind of guy you always wanted to play with and the kind of guy you never wanted to play against." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL GOLD LEAGUE 

One undefeated team to fall in Dillon-Keenan match up 
they're a running team so you the west Riehle field. 
By KATHERINE GALES and can never be too good at stop­CHRIS SINUTKO 

ping ... they'll keep running O'Neilll vs. Keough
Sports Writers 

until they score." Although this game might "We have a lot of backs and not mean much in the overall The Dillon football team a lot of motion," McCarthy standings of interhall football, looks to preserve its perfect said. "The misdirection keeps it will not affect the mindset record Thursday night as they the defense on their toes." and strategy of O'Neill and face the 2-0-1 Keenan Knights. Defensively, "our defensive Keough. Neither team can The Knights finished flat last backs are amazing -all veter­make the playoffs this year,
weekend against Morrissey, ans," he said. but they are still coming to allowing 12 unanswered points The Knights defense has play Thursday night at 8 p.m. and ending in a tie. allowed only 12 points this If O'Neill wins, they will be 
"Morrissey is one of the top season. They also have strong 2-2, but most of the tiebreak­teams here," said junior Reed players on both sides of the ers are against them. 
Langton, a Keenan running ball. "We're going to still try to back and defensive end who "Seniors Brian Long and play our game," said captainscored two touchdowns on Ryan Crochet really handle the John Enterline. "This season 
Sunday. "We came out ready to line," Langton said. "We have has been a little disappointing,play and showed we could a lot of freshmen this year, and and we want to end on a goodhang with the best teams in they've really stepped up. note with a win." 
the league." We're predominantly a fresh­Enterline said that this gameDillon, on the other hand, is man team." would come down to whoever coming off of a 42-0 demolition "Dillon and Keenan is a pret­executes and whoever is more of Stanford. ty big rivalry," he said. "We've physical. prise." field goal in a loss to Dillon. "I think we played very well both been traditionally good at O'Neill wants a little revenge Freshman quarterback Matt Despite their lack of offense, 
and consistently," said Kevin interhall football, so we both from last year's loss to Hughey has showed signs of the-Keough defense has been McCarthy, a junior who plays have some tradition. It's a big Keough. greatness and some key fresh­steady. They, however, have left tailback and wingback for game every year ... they "It would be a nice change if men on the offensive line have one flaw -they give up bigthe Big Red. "We're looking to always come ready to play." we pulled off the victory and really helped the team. plays in almost every game. 
take first seed, so it's impor­McCarthy agreed. beat our next door neighbors "This is great for the future These plays come at crucial tant to come into playoffs num­"We played [Keenan] this and rivals," Enterline said. of O'Neill football," Enterline junctures of the game and are ber one." exact same game last year -However, there is a bright said. very hard to overcome. 
It looks to be a battle on the 

the last game of the season," side for O'Neill. On the other side of the ball, Keough must play the fl#l four ground this weekend, as both he said. "We knocked them out "The freshmen this year this has not been a good year quarters and not give upteams cite the running game of the playoffs, so we know have been phenomenal," for Keough. They have been game-changing plays against as one of their strengths. they're looking to come and Enterline said. "They have outscored by a combined 52 O'Neill. 
"We have three good running get us. Every team guns for us really matured throughout the points in their first three backs that can take the ball and we have to take it one step season. The freshmen have games, and have not scored a Contact Katherine Gales at and get yards," Langton said. at a time." 
really produced this year, and touchdown this season. kgales@nd.edu and Chris 
"We need to stop [Dillon's] run; The game will be at 7 p.m. at this has been a pleasant sur-They have only managed a Sinutko at csinutko@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 16, 2003 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

adopt a strenuous lifting pro­this year where he comes off the gram and time to adjust to col­bench, but the Irish coaches are
Falls 
lege competition. harping on the freshman guard "The adjustment from his high about the importance of finding 
continued from page 24 
school level ... was almost a his shot when he is in the game. 
shock," Brey said. "He had never "A high school kid joining this idea who his top six are lifted weights before. Now, he's in program, he's thinking maybe I guards Chris Thomas, Torrian there and is one of the stronger should swing it," Brey said, "but I Jones and Chris Quinn and big guys. want him to hunt men Torin Francis, Tom "He's a little his shot." Timmermans and Jordan crueler, too." "They're pretty How exactly Cornette. Falls, on the Falls and Cornett
confident that ifthey
Based on how Notre Dame's other hand, fit with the rest of 
get me the ball and
fall practices have shaped up, came to Notre the Irish six will be Brey believes Falls and sopho­Dame expecting I'm open, I'll make determined during more Rick Cornett are on the to play a major the team's fall
it... 

verge of cracking Notre Dame's role. He just break trip to elite eight. wasn't as pre­Barbados. In Notre 
"Those six guys, if we had to pared for how Colin Falls Dame's three toss it up, we'll feel pretty good easily he would freshman guard scheduled exhibi­about that," Brey said. "It's a mesh with a tions there, Brey matter of who is going to join team that relied plans to tinker those six?" last year on 3-point shooting. around with a variety of' different 
Cornett's emergence as a piv­"I think [the team] knows I can lineups to find out which ones otal player for the Irish comes shoot the ball;" Falls said. are the most effective. after a season last year that he "They're pretty confident that if "Maybe you can get a Rick considered frustrating. He only they get me the ball and I'm Cornett and a Colin Falls some played in 12 games and aver­open, I'll make it." extended minutes," Brey said. aged just over five minutes and Yet Falls admits he doesn't "[After all], there's not a lot on 
2.5 points a game. quite know the Irish offense yet the table, so to speak." 
But part of his slow develop­and is still trying to figure out ment came from the 6-foot-8, exactly where he fits into Notre Contact Andrew Soukup at 255-pound forward's need to Dame's plans. He envisions a role asoukup@nd.edu 

Please join us for another evening of Hindu centering prayer, Thursday, October 16, 2003 330 Coleman-Morse 7-7:45 p.m. 
E."<jJerience another evening ofHindu prC!Jer and meditation as part ofa series e."<jJ/oring the beliefs and practices ofthe JJ)orld's greatfaith traditions: 

"An Evening of Prayer from Around the World" 
Sponsored by: 

Campus Ministry  Department of Theology  
lnternati01wl Studmt  Graduate Student Union  
Services and Activities  

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Peterkin quits Irish squad 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Omari Peterkin has quit the basketball team and withdrawn from the University for personal reasons, the school announced Wednesday. 
Peterkin, a 6-foot-8, 264­
pound forward from the Virgin Islands, sat out the entire 2002­03 campaign, a decision Irish coaches said was necessary to help him adjust to the college game more. 
But it seemed unlikely he would see significant playing time this year because he was playing behind Torin Francis, 

Thank you Michelle McCarthy Jackie Clark and Steve· Miller and the Sophomore Class 
for our football Parents' Night Out. It was a real Winner! r__ ~ 
~,>1' 

Your favorite kiiis on campus 
':'! ~ ;'l, 

and their parents at University Villag; ~ ~ ;!j 

GREAT FOOD -14 SCREENS 
Opens at 11 :00 a.m . {9:00a.m. on Football Saturdays) Thur 1 0/16 JASON SAPEN is back9pm-midnight 
Tom Timmermans, Jordan 
Cornette and Rick Cornett at the 
forward and center positions. 
"We support Omari's decision 
to withdraw from school and 
wish him the best in his future," 
Irish coach Mike Bn~y said in a 
statement. 
Colleges across the country 
waged a fierce recruiting war 
for Peterkin. who had slipped 
below the radar, in April 2002. 
Notre Dame beat out other top 
college programs in part 
because Peterkin was intrigued 
by Notre Dame's strong aca­
demic regimen. 
He was a member of the 2003 
Virgin Islands National Team 
that competed in the Olympic 
qualifying tournament this sum­
mer in Puerto Rico. llis best out­
ing came in the team's loss to 
the United States, when 
Peterkin scored two points and 
grabbed four rebounds in 11 
minutes of playing time. 
DeMatha honors Brey 
Brey has been chosen to 
receive a Distinguished Alumni 
Award from his alma mater 
DeMatha High School. 
The award is given to one 
alumnus every two years for 
accomplishments achieved since 
leaving the high school. 
Brey graduated from the high school in 1977 and was a two­year member of the varsity bas­ketball team coached by the leg­endary Morgan Wootten. After going to college, Brey returned five years later to serve as an assistant coach under Wootten. He spent five years as Wootten's assistant before accepting an assistant coaching job under Mike Krzyzewski in 1987. 
''I'm honored and flattered to receive this award," said Brey, who will be honored at an Oct. 26 dinner. "My experiences as a student, athlete and coach at DeMatha have prepared me and helped put me in position to be the head basketball coach at Notre Dame. I certainly have fond memories of DeMatha because it had such a great impact on my life." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 16, 2003 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Tancredi invaluable to success of No. 2 Irish 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
For most college athletes, playing in a foreign country, missing an entire season due to injury or changing positions would be a difficult challenge to overcome. Fewer yet would be able to conquer all three in time to become an All­American candidate. 
But that only begins to describe the importance of cen­tral back Melissa Tancredi to the women's soccer team. 
Tancredi came to Notre Dame from Ancaster, Ontario after being on the Canadian under-19 National Team. 
"My parents definitely fell in love with it," Tancredi said. "I didn't want to leave Canada at first but my visit really changed my mind. I had no idea that the soccer team here was this good." 
Tancredi's soccer career did not get off to a good start as she missed her entire freshman · season due to an ACL injury suffered during preseason. 
"It was very frustrating," Tancredi said. "But it was good at the same time because I did­n't really know what I was get­ting myself into. Just watching the team and how they play was good for me." 
She started to emerge as a forward in 2001, starting 10 games as a forward alongside classmates Amanda Guertin and Amy Warner. 
She was fifth on the team in scoring that season, finishing 
Harris 
continued from page 24 
But the Irish coaches have been more than pleased with Harris' progress and growth in the early part of the season. Even trying to manage a class schedule and the rigors of col­lege life, the freshman has added nearly 15 pounds and worked his way into the Irish system. 
"He added almost 15 pounds over the course of the first three 
speed and their
weeks of the sea­'1Ryan Harris} 
quickness. They
son," Denbrock knows how to play 
can also overpow­
said. "He contin­
with leverage, and er you. That's a
ued to develop 
pretty lethal com­
and grow and he knows how to 
bination when you
got in there with bend." 
put those guys
the good, big 
together that have
boys and mixed 
Mike Denbrock that ability."
it up and held his 
But Denbrock
offensive line coach 
own and did 
some really good things." 
Denbrock, who shares offen­sive line coaching duties with John McDonell but specializes in tackles and tight ends, is optimistic about Harris' future with the Irish and his potential for growth. 
"I look at him now, and you take a guy that's going through what he's going through and he's still been able to gain 10 or 15 pounds as a freshman while he's been on campus here," Denbrock said. "What's he going to be able to do over the course of the winter work­ing with [strength and condi­tioning] Coach [Mickey]. Marotti with that great program in the weight room? I think he's going to be much bigger than he is says he isn't wor­
ried that Harris' youth or lack of playing experi­ence will cost the Irish against USC. Instead, he feels Harris' strength and technique will help him to be successful against the Trojans. 
"I think the thing that Ryan has done that really helped him is that he knows how to play with leverage, and he knows how to bend," he said. "I can guarantee you that Ryan Harris leg presses a lot more than anybody on their defensive line weighs. Using your legs and blocking the right way, those things take care of them­selves." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
with four goals and four assists. 
Then as a junior, Tancredi was one of many Irish players affected by the rash of injuries suffered in the Irish defense. She was forced into the central defense early in the season against Hartford, and then became a fixture at central back later in the year before becoming a force at the posi­tion this season. 
"She's been phenomenal," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "It's been an ongoing process, but now she's finally comfortable with the move and with reading the game from the different position. She picked it up so quickly and has become a leader in the defense." 
"I really didn't want to change originally." Tancredi said. "Then at first it was OK because I figured I was doing it for the team. Then I eventually really started liking it. 

"Having been a forward, I definitely think I have an edge because I can anticipate where the forwards are going to go from past experience." 
Tancredi has led the defense through her physical style of play and her ability to win the ball in the air. She adds an added dimension by being able to attack from her defensive position. 
"She's got so many dimen­sions," Waldrum said. "She's a great defender with the ability to come forward into the attack. The opposition has a real tough time dealing with 
right now." 
Saturday, Harris and the rest of the offensive line will face a demanding task going against a very talented Trojan defen­sive line. The front four of defensive ends Kenechi Udeze and Omar Nazel and defensive tackles Shaun Cody and Mike Patterson bring an impressive combination of speed, strength and size to the line of scrim­mage. 
"They have absolutely out­standing guys up front, not only athletically," Denbrock said. "They can beat you with their 

that. 
"Opposing players fear her, and she has the ability to send a message with some of her tackles." 
Along with her stellar play this season has come an increased leadership role for Tancredi. 
"Along with the way she's played, she's got those leader­ship qualities," Waldrum said. "I think the other players have looked up to her ever since she got here, but she needed to have confidence in her own play before she could really become a leader." 
"She's goofy, a blast to be around, and a great competi­tor, but until this year she did­n't understand how much peo­ple on the team look up to her," Warner said. "This is the first year she's really taken advan­tage of that because her team­mates really see her as a leader." 
The rest of the Big East has noticed Tancredi's play as well, as she has been named Big East Defensive Player of the Week twice in a row. Over the team's last seven games, Tancredi has scored two goals along with four assists, in addi­tion to being the leader of a defense that has not allowed a goal in their last 584 minutes, including six consecutive shutouts. 
Her impact is not lost on her teammates, either. 
"If there's a center back in the country I wouldn't want to play against, it would be her," 
Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
• Bring your gear ready to practice 
• Practice will be run 
by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
• Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 

Warner said. "We talk about being second in the country in goals against average and in goals scored and I think they go hand in hand. 
"Part of the reason we do so well offensively is because we have to play against defenders like Tancredi ever_y day in practice." 
The Irish, now 14-0-1, face a stiff test against N 9. 14 Connecticut on Friday night, but Tancredi and the Irish feel the change in attitude from last year will continue to propel them through the rest of their schedule. 

"It's amazing how much con­fidence we have all the way from the freshmen to the sen­iors, in both ourselves and team," Tancredi said. It's a dif­ferent quality of play and the effort and intensity given in practice shows on the field." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 16, 2003 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN
ScHooL DAzE 

FIVES 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Dan and Brett's girlfriends are arriving today ... ...and you know what that means...  "'""orrow's Comic\On•  

HENRI ARNOLD ..
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
~[R
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PLUIT 
(IJ
C2003 Tribune Media Servlcaa, Inc All Rights Reserved. 
FRACT 
( J I t J 
WHEN THE VAN
tINKETT 

~'{116 Sl'Cf'PED FOR SP!:WING, THE
IIJ 
~SSENGt:RS SAID
www.jumble.com 


•
IT WAS--­
tMAJEST j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J ( I I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: ( 

I I I )THE"( I I I I I )" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: JULEP ADAGE REBUKE UNRULY Answer: Good at finding things before they are miss· ing-A BURGLAR 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  36 Short and thick  68 "On & On"  
1 Babushka  37 Ground cover  singer Erykah  
SOot-_  40 Slow outflow  69 Orchid products  
10 Tel  43 "Uialume" poet  70 Not smooth  
14 Nasty and then  44 Two of ten  71 Batter's bane  
some  
15 Knee-slapper  46 One in a black suit  72·" She Lovely" (Stevie  
16 Home to some Sargents, with "the"  48 Birdbrains 50 Sports officials  Wonder song) 73 Knots  
17 Fabled fall guy 19 Bioi. branch 20 •_ lazy river ..."(Bobby Darin lyric)  51 Airy melody 55 Composer Bruckner 57 Element in some batteries  DOWN 1 Downhiller's run 2 Ball up 3 Domestic  
21 Shoe decoration 22 Wheat variety  59 Let have  4 Emeritus: Abbr. 5 Jet off for  
23 Loafer, e.g.  61 Eastern Canadian  6 Buds  
25 Kind of a drag  Indian  7 Klutz's cry  
27 Dehydrated  64 Run up a phone  8 Sacred song  
28 1926 hit "Sleepy  bill  9 Doctor's lance  
Time  •  65 Homecoming  10 Was humiliated  
31 Hardly peppy 34 Indian beads  attendees 66 It's a wrap  ·11 Big sucker 12 " ... like  39 "Dragner signature  49 Kenyan's neighbor  59 Street fleet  
not!"  sound  52 "No more,  60 Mideast carrier  
41 "Killer" PC  ·thanks"  
~-:-+:,;+.;::+=-!  18 "I'll be a son of a gun" 24 Backed bench 26 Gave pills to 29 Make like  program 42 Shell holder? 45 Studies 47 The past, in the past  53 Network (with) 54 Spills 56 Frasier's brother 58 Shrewdness  62 Chili powder ingredient 63 Niagara Falls feature 67 Not to  

30 Kind of payment -------------------­
32 Nasdaq debut, 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
maybe: Abbr. 

credit card, 1-800-8t 4-5554. 33 Food additive Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
35 Holding Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000~.;;+~;;..! 37 Benchmark: past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).Abbr. 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, ~;;...L;.:.J,..=..J 38 ·so that's it!" nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the Web at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

Sharing this birthday: Tim Robbins, Suzanne Somers. Angela Lansbury, Oscar Wilde, Bob Weir, Linda Darnell 
Happy Birthday: You have what it takes to gain the respect and admiration you're looking for this year. The more you offer others, the greater gains you will make yourself. You have the opportunity to position yourself well if you take on all that you can and work hard to finish what you stan. Your creative talents will be recognized. Your numbers: 5, 13, 27, 32. 36. 40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Expect your mate to be ready for a good argument. Try to direct the situation into a passionate affair instead. Showing humor and refusing to get your back up will help. •• TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You will have to be careful while traveling. Traffic violations will detain you unduly. Make sure that all your transponation documents are in order. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be in the mood for love. Spend some time with your partner and let him or her know exactly how you feel and what your intentions are. You're ready to make personal changes. ••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Deception is apparent when dealing with family 0r children. You may want to put some energy into beautifying your living quaners. Make everyone pitch in and help. They'll be glad they did. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opponunities to take uips should please you. Visiting friends or relatives you don't see too often will leave you feeling good about yourself. Don't let some<me you live with stand in your way. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get back to those creative projects you left sitting on the shelf. Join forces with people who have the same creative interests as you. Someone who thinks they know everything is likely to oppose you. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 2.1-0ct. 22): You'll blow situations out of proponion if someone questions your abilities. If you get into a debate. you'll have regrets. You can bet that someone important will get wind of your dilemma. ** . SCORPIO (Oct. 2.1-Nov. 21): Don't argue with friends or relatives. You won't win in the long run. Be observant and hold on to your thoughts. You'll be able to use the information you acquire at a later date. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Secret affairs may be tempting, but they certainly won't be hot enough to make up For the problems they will cause in the long run. You need to hawe a little integrity when dealing with love. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Overindulgent friends will not be a wise choice. You are still a little confused regarding your emotional matters. Let your outlet be self-improvement. not escapism ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Consider traveling to counuies that will spark your interest From a cultural or philosophic point of view. Deal with relatives and in-laws who may have wrong perceptions. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Help others with their personal problems. Don't lend cash; just give good advice. Your interest in philosophy and the study of human nature is growing. **** 
Birthday Baby: You have what it takes, but you want it all. You are a wanderer looking for the fame and fonune that will bring you all the possessions you desire. You are in tune with nature and respect its boundaries. You can make a difference if you stand up for your beliefs. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's Web site at WW~<~eugenialast.com 
--------------------------------------~----------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 16, 2003 
Page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Making the first push 
Young Harris shows unusual maturity along offensive line 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Writer 

• 
Notre Dame running back Julius Jones' record-breaking 262-yard game was more than just an outstanding perform­ance by the Irish running back. In fact, it was due largely to the play of the Irish offensive line, which for the first time Saturday saw significant suc­cess in moving opposing defenses off the line. 
One key member of that line was freshman Ryan Harris, playing in his first collegiate game. The right tackle was a big part of Notre Dame's suc­cess running the ball against the Panthers. 
"He performed very well. I think to put a freshman in his first start in that situation against a highly ranked team, I think he performed very well," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "But again, he still has a lot of room to go, and he would be the first to say that." 
In fact, Harris has been the first to say just that, and he has been hasty to give himself too 

.­
much credit for his perform­ance and the performance of the offensive line last Saturday. "I feel like I played okay ­
nowhere near what I'm happy with, and I feel I can do a lot better, and I will get a lot bet­ter," Harris said. "It was my first game, and I feel I did okay. There is definitely room for improvement, and it will hap­pen." 
But even the fact that Harris could come in as a freshman and start along the offensive line -a position that requires both physical and mental matu­rity -is a testament to the youngster's ability. 
"He really has done a great job of developing. It was a process that started even back in fall camp," offensive line coach Mike Denbrock said. "He came in here with a special ability and showed a lot of maturity for a young guy." 
The biggest question about Harris at the beginning of the season had been his lack of size. Harris entered the year listed at 6-foot-5, 270-pounds, which is a little undersized for a Division I tackle. 
"The thing we worried about was that here's a guy that reported at 270 pounds," Denbrock said. "Can he hold up? Can he do it and be consis­tent and do the things you need him to do?" 
see HARRIS/page 22 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshman joins the rotation 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Colin Falls picked Notre Dame partly because he knew the Irish, with Matt Carroll graduat­ing, would need a sharpshooter. 
But he didn't expect to be on the receiving end of so many passes in practice so quickly. Now, the Irish want the fresh­man to get used to the fact that he'll be one of the team's most potent shooters. 
"I told him, 'You don't know how lucky you are. These guys know how to play with a guy like you,"' Brey said a week ago. "If they keep throwing it to you, they must have confidence in you to shoot the ball." 
In his three years at the helm of Notre Dame's basketball team, Mike Brey has almost always used an eight-man rota­tion. Sure, he'll rotate players with less experience into the rotation in less-important fall games and tinker with different lineups. But come Big East play, unless it's a blowout, usually only eight guys will get into the game. 
Right now, Brey has a good 
see FALLS/page 21 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Green Wave shuts out St. Ed's 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
So far, this season has been a disappointing one for Fisher. Wednesday night, they got the chance to take out a little frustration and perhaps have the chance to back into the playoffs with a 20-0 win over St. Ed's. 
Wide receiver Tom Gorman had two touchdowns and the Fisher defense held strong as the Green Wave posted the shutout. 

-
"This was a huge game for us," Gorman said. "We expected to play like this all year. It was good for us to come out and show people 
we can play like this." 
Despite starting a fresh­man at quarterback in Casey Cullen, the Green Wave were able to pick apart the St. Ed's passing defense, with Gorman carrying most of the load with 83 yards on three receptions. 
Cullen finished the game 7­for-15 with 163 yards. He also collected several key scrambles when the St. Ed's 


see FISHER/page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Interfering fan a Notre Dame grad 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Television cameras captured the image of That Fan reach­ing up to deflect a foul ball away from the glove of Cubs outfielder Moises Alou Tuesday. His face was broad­cast instantly across the nation, depicted on newspaper after newspaper and mocked on ESPN's SportsCenter, as everyone tried to pin the Cubs 8-3 loss on That Fan. 
Not until the Chicago Sun­Times named him in the paper's Wednesday editions did the sporting world learn that That Fan was a 26-year­old Notre Dame graduate. 
Steve Bartman, a self-

described lifelong Cubs fan, lived in Keenan Hall and grad­uated from Notre Dame in 1999 with a degree in finance. When he arrived at Wrigley Field Tuesday, he was employed as a consultant for Hewitt Associates. Bartman, on the advice of the company's human resources department, did not come to work Wednesday. 
Bartman became an infa­mous part of Cubs history when he reached up to try to catch a foul ball in the eighth inning of Tuesday's game when the Cubs led 3-0. He deflected the ball away from Alou and the Marlins went on to score eight runs in the 
see FAN/page 19 
en 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
MEN'S BASKETBAlL 

HOCKEY 
INTERHAU FOOTBALL 
MLB 
MLB 
1-u w 
Central back and All-
Sophomore forward 

Former Irish star Ben 
The Boston Red Sox

The Florida
Dillon at Keenan
z American candidate 
Omare Peterkin quit the 

Simon looks back on his 
Marlins advanced to 
forced tonight's
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
Melissa Tancredi has 
team and withdrew 

friendship with former 
American League cham­

the World Series
1:1: s 
Two undefeated teams bat-
battled hard to get 
from the university 

Atlanta Thrashers star 
Wednesday night 
pionship series game

= 
tie for seeding in the upcom­
= cc where she is today. 
Wednesday: 

Dan Snyder, who died 
with a 9-6 defeat of 
seven with a 9-6 victory
ing playoffs at west Riehle

in a Sept. 29 car crash. 
the Chicago Cubs. 
over the Yankees
field. 
Wednesday night. 
~ !ci 
en 
page 22 
page 21 

page 20 
page 18
page 20 
page 14 


