-----------~---------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma,y's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 99 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Prosecutor offers 2 options to Boat Club 
settlement," said Bauer. Though Bauer didn't know the "Obviously that's been going on for offered to other South B1md bars. 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Bauer said the two options pro­exact details, he estimated The sometime and tho word got out." such as Bridget McGuire's Filling 
fusistant News Editor 
vided to The Boat Club are either Boat Club would have about three . If the owners of The Boat Oub do Station and Finnigan's, in the wake having their liquor permit revoked weeks to make a decision on the not agrefl with Bauer's proposal. of police raids that yielded dozens 
A" a result of a late January raid or paying a $5,000 fine and selling w.·o options. The prosecutor noted they will have the option to appeal of underage citations. that Jed to 231 citaLions, The Boat I.heir permit. "The permit would be that owners of The Boat Club the settlement. "In South Bend I have done the Club must either lose its liquor held by the ATC for up to two would likely make the argument "Ifwc can't reach an agreement, same thing on at least two cases. license or sell the bar to new own­years," Bauer said. In the second that the bar was checking identifi­the case would have to be tried," All involved substantial and inordi­ers, said Indiana Alcohol and option, the bar could remain open cation, but Bauer said that would Bauer explained. "There is no way nate numbers of minors on the Tobacco Commission prosecutor but could not be run by anyone not be likely to change the pro­that I can summarily pull the per­premises," Bauer said. 'Tm trying Fred Bauer. connected to the current owners. posed settlement. mit." to be consistent." 
"I received the report last week The Boat Club owner Mike "You don't get that number of The prosecutor said that the set­(from the Indiana State Excise McNeff did not return Observer kids in one place if they know that tlement offered to The Boat Oub is Contact Teresa Fralish at l'oliccI and s1mt them a proposed phone calls. they [can't getJ in there," he said. similar to the ones that have been tfralish@ndedu 
Women boxers debut at the Bengal Bouts 

Group organizes Heartland petition 
By CAITLIN EARLY 
News Writer 
In an effort to generate support from a large cross-section of Notre Dame students. faculty and staff, student organizers of the Ileartland boycott have started a petition crunp,ugn. 
The group is upset over alleged discriminatory remarks mado to Notre Dame senior Kristine Hosario on Jan. 30 by a IlcarUand bouncer. Rosario, who is from Puerto Rico, said the bouncer told her that her identifi­cation could not bo accepted because it was not an American ID. Rosario also said the bouncer asked her for a passport and fur­ther discriminated against her. Rosario, who is 21, said she was ultimately denied access to the bar that night. 
As citizens of a U.S. common­wealth, Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens and have all the legal rights and privileges as those who live in the 50 states. 
The group of students protest­ing the alleged dLc;crimination will have tables set up in LaFortune until Friday to make the petition accessible to as many students a.c; possible. 
"We are using tables to vocalize the infonnation and to raise stu­dent awareness," said Shamus Rohn, a student organizer for the 
see HEARTIAND/page 4 
ND women will open the Bengal Boutsfor the first time 
By KATE NAGENGAST News Writer 
For the first time in more than 70 years of Notre Dame boxing history, women are ready to rum­ble. 
Beginning this weekend, 12 Notre Dame women will enter the ring in six exhibition boxing matches at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. They will spar in three unscored contests before the men's quarterfinal Bengal Bouts Sunday afternoon and three more before the semifinals Wednesday evening. Although the women's boxing club was founded in 1997, this will be the first time women spar in public at Notre Dame. 
"The club is fairly new and in the beginning it took awhile to establish a club before you could throw the girls in front of people," said Shelley Skiba, co-president of the club and a four-year mem­ber. "But I've always wanted to do thls." 
It was a proposal to RecSports written by Skiba and fellow co­president Laura Young that made public sparring possible for women this year. 
Young told The Observer in previous interviews that although the idea of public matches for women had seemed implausible to previous club presidents, their proposal for this year met little opposition. 
Skiba agreed and said that past captains had felt it would be "pushing their luck" for the women to request University resources for public fights. 
This year, however, Rich O'Leary, director of intramurals and club sports for the Athletic Department, said he was looking forward to the women's exhibi­tion matches. 
"I think we're anxious to see the progress the women have made in our boxing club," he said. 
Each of the 12 contenders was chosen from among more than 100 members of the women's 
see WOMEN/page 6 



ND backs UM achnission policy 
. ND files a brief in favor of affirmative action policy 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Writer 

Notre Dame and 37 other pri­vate colleges and universities tiled a brief' thlc, week to the U.S. Supreme Court in support of the University of Michigan's affirma­tive action policies. 
"We have a keen interest in the Supreme Court case because we strongly feel that we and other universities should be allowed to consider race as one of a number of faciors in deciding which stu­dents to admit," said Matt Storin, 
see AFFIRMATNE/page 4 
•···•·· ·•·· ·•··•·•··•··•··•·•··· i .. ·•· ;::'.:i:i,J).ii!(iii(!i;:::~icChlholl.c tftlhvmtyat 
., Amtrkt.t •·..·......>···· ··• .... \. ·.·... ··• 
l;•.1••·•••····•·.·fv1~~~~iljj::••·•·•••••••••••••··
t The UniwrsityofNcitre.Pa~e i The Urin-enifyoUJmn( . . he University of Rl:!ch~si.et · · ·· ·•· n Frmsi&--o 
,......-··:\ 

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, February 20, 2003 
INSIDE COLUMN 


It could 

be -w-orse 

For anyone who doesn't know me, I'm quick to vocalize my dislike for South Bend weather. As a native Floridian, I feel I've earned that right and it's 
a right I make use of pretty often. 
Freshman year, for example, I complained my way through a blizzard. Last year also provid­


ed me with Andrew opportunities to Thagard voice my dislike 
of tho region's 
weather with an Wire Editor 
ice storm and 
frequent days 
with wind chills in the zero and 
below range. 
I am. however, one to give credit when it's due. If, like me, you've been following the weather reports recently, you'll see that Indiana isn't such a bad place to be right now. 
Sure we've gotten our share of lake-effect snow, painful winds and sunless days but this doesn't even compare with what the East Coast is going through right now. 
It's scary but South Bend's gray, snowless skies are looking pretty good for the time being. 
Take New York City, for example. The city received over 20 inches of snow in the past few days from a blizzard. Washington D.C. tem­porarily closed its Baltimore­Washington and National airports after it got a record 28.2 inches of snow. Likewise, snow from the blizzard pummeled Philadelphia, forcing the city to cancel school. 
And here's one more reason to be glad you're not a Boston College Eagle: the city is buried under sev­eral feet of snow. Boston may have more cultural and nightlife oppor­tunities than South Bend, but at least we don't have to put on cross­country skis for the trek to class. 
Worse still, meteorologists antici­pate that the East Coast will receive rain in the next few days, which, coupled with the excessive snowfall, could cause flooding. 
Even warm, sunny Florida has been hurting recently. Several weeks ago a cold front moved in that set record lows in Orlando and produced snow flurries in the Daytona Beach area. 
When you look at the rest of the country, South Bend's gray skies, light snowfall and February tem­peratures seem downright temper­ate. 
Expect temperatures in the upper 30s and lower 40s this week and maybe even a little sunshine. Enjoy it while you can. Who knows where you'll be for spring break. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at atha­gard@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate approves new cheif of staff 
Members unani­mously approved Henry Scott as the new chief of staff Wednesday. 
page 6 

WORLD& NATION 
U.S. convicts first terrorism suspect 
Mounir el Motassadeg received the maxi­mum sentence Wednesday of 15 years. 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Blizzard strains state and local bud­gets 
Recent harsh snowstorms in the Northeast hurts state and local bud­gets already strained from nation wide state budget deficits. 
page 7 
SCENE 
Scene checks out the latest movies 
"Talk to Her" gets a thumbs up from reviewers, but "Daredevil" disap­points. 
page 15 
. 
Discussion with Tyrone Willingham "Football and Character" 

8:15 a.m. at tlrn Monogram Boom, Joyce Center 

. 
The Tempest, performed by Actors from the London Stage 

7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall 

. 
Bengal Bouts 6-10 p.m. at Joyce Center Fieldhouse 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
CWIL meeting 4 p.m. at Haggar 303 


. 
Careers in Business Dinner 


5:30 p.m. at North Wedge Hoom 

. 
Hcsidence Hall Association Meeting 


6:30 p.m. at Haggar 304 




WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Shrimp spaghetti, southwestern pasta sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, pretzel sticks, walnut plum chicken breast, long grain and wild rice, brown sauce, chicken gravy, whipped potatoes, green beans, cherry crisp, cheddar-baked pollock, vegetable rice casserole, baked pota­toes, cauliflower 
Today Dinner's: Shrimp spaghetti, southwestern pasta sauce, tomato pizza, pretzel sticks, apple turnover, roast turkey breast, bread stuffing, brown sauce, turkey gravy, whipped potatoes, asparagus cuts and tips, cher­ry crisp, broccoli quiche 

TODAY TONIGHT 
c:: 
I.LI
:c 
~ 
I.LI 
3: 
..J 
~ 
c( 
(.) 


South Dining Hall 
VIEWPOINT 
Carefully consider prospect of war 
English Professor Jacqueline Brogan says the United States and Iraq must work to end their war of words. 
page 11 

Today's Lunch: Linguine with veg­etables. Puerto Rican pasta sauce. sausage calzones, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, winter-blend vegetables, boulangere potatoes, herb­baked pollack, wild rice pilaf with pine nuts, honey-orange glazed carrots, scalloped corn casserole, tangy grilled chicken sandwich, steakhouse fries, soft pretzels, szechuan vegan noodles 
Today Dinner's: Amatriciana, sausage calzones, cauliflower au gratin, zum zum potato salad, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, parslied potatoes, rice valencienne, lemon­baked perch, Jamaican-jerked pork 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

-<..'.> 
* 

\@····
$®$;ti 


'•, /: *
***'* 

SPORTS 
Swimming teams head to New York 
The Big East swimming champi­onships begin today in Uniondale, N.Y. 
page 28 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Employee reports theft from 
Law School 
A university employee reported Tuesday morning the theft of a flower arrangement from the second floor of the Law School between 4:15 a.m. on Sunday and 8:30 a.m. on Monday. There are no suspects 
Student reports verbal 

confrontat10n 
A Notre Dane student reported Tuesday that a verbal altercation with another stu­dent occured on Saturday morning near Fisher Graduate Housing. 

NDSP tows student vehicle 
Police towed a student's vehicle Tuesday afternoon for a parking violation. 

Bike stolen near Loftus 
A Notre Dame student reported that her locked freestanding bike was taken from outside the Loftus Sports Center on Tuesday between 3:30 p.m. and 5:15 p.m. There are no suspects in the case. 
-complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta, spaghetti sauce. potato wedges, French fries, veggie burgers, chicken patties, chick­en noodle soup, salad bar 
Today's Dinner: Cake, pasta, spaghetti sauce, mashed potatoes, car­rots, broccoli, salad bar, French fries, pasta saute 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

~ 

..J 0 HIGH 40 HIGH 33 HIGH 45 HIGH 30 HIGH 20 HIGH 18 
In Wednesday•s article "Historian's lecture addresses LOW 33 LOW 30 LOW 30 LOW 12 LOW 0 LOW 8 Holocaust,' the speaker's name was misspelled. The correct spelling is Professor Robert Marrus. The Observer rergets this error, Atlanta 59 / 47 Boston 42 / 19 Chicago 44 I 32 Denver 50 / 26 Houston 65 / 59 Los Angeles 68 / 48 Minneapolis 40 / 30 New York 42 / 32 Philadelphia 44 / 30 Phoenix 68 / 47 Seattle 48 / 40 St. Louis 51 / 37 Tampa 78 I 67 Washington 48 / 27 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Kennedy discusses American success after World War II 
attack with air strikes set the slow economic production,
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
United States' war-fighting thereby avoiding the risk of 
News Writer 
pattern for the duration of dampening the civilian econ­the war and allowed America omy.The United States was suc­to spare lives but bring The direct effect of this 
cessfu I in winning World munitions to the front to decision, Kennedy said, was War II because of specific inflict damage, said Kennedy. that major events of the war,policy decisions regarding "Air power, if properly 
such as the D-Day landingsmilitary tactics and economic developed ... could over-fly 
in France on June 6, 1944,decisions made by U.S. lead­the traditional battlefield to 
were postponed. ers, said hit the indus­
Also, the reduced produc­D a v i d trial heart of 
allowed the wartime
"Air power. ifproperly tion 
Kennedy, a the enemy. 
economy to grow and
Stanford developed ... could over -We see the 
enabled Americans to bring
University of
fly the traditonal logic themselves out of the Great
history pro­American
battlefield to hit the Depression.
fessor and preferred 
Kennedy's third point con­
Pulitzer industrial heart ofthe fighting 
cerned the battle between
Prize-win­strategy to
economy." the Soviets and Nazis at
ning author. fight from
David Kennedy Stalingrad. "[It] proved one
Kennedy the air, to 
thing conclusively -that the
history professor

addressed develop 
Soviets would not be defcat­
the World weapons sys­
e d by a superior German
War II period tems that force in the field."
in his lecture could spare The victory of the SovietsWednesday titled "How the American lives and would at Stalingrad, Kennedy said,United States Won World take advan­
allowed the
War II." tage of 
United States
Kennedy set out to show American "[It] proved one thing 
to continue in
how America rebounded assets," said conclusiZJely -that the 
its war-fight­
after the most severe eco­Kennedy. 
Soviets would not be ing strategy of
nomic depression in the The sec­nation's history, the United ond decision defeated by a superior attack by air 
bombers: thus
States became one of the Kennedy German force in the 
strengthening
most powerful countrfos by discussed 
field.,. 

its position in According to Kennedy, sev­Donald the war. eral major decisions and Nelson, a David Kennedy 
the end of World War II. involved 
Kennedy events ensured that America civilian U.S. concluded by

Histpry professor

emerged as a major player in government saying that international affairs. official who these deliber­The first decision regarded oversaw the ate decisions the way the United States American economy as it by the United fought its enemies. shifted to wartime produc­States allowed a "contest of 
According to Kennedy, this tion. attrition in which America question was resolved on Nelson believed that the had the time to produce the Aug. 17, 1942, when a "pace of mobilization the technology needed" to win squadron of U.S. air bombers country was trying to the war. raided a train yard con­
reach ... was not feasible," trolled by the Nazis. said Kennedy. Nelson con­Contact Maureen Roynolds at The deliberate decision to mreynold@nd.edu.
vinced the government to 

ToP 1oReasons to live at Lafayette: 
1o. Only six blocks from campus. 
9. 24-hr emereencv maintenance. in case you need it. 
8. Stay cool in central air. 

7. Hide dirty dishes in vour dishwasher. 
6. Receive 2 Pizzas durina 1st semester finals week. 
5. Be aPart of aIona-standing tradition 
4. Have Your own washerI dryer 
3. Great manaeement team. 
2. All this-and rent still under $300 Per month Per Person 
1. You Don't Have To Share ABedroom!! 
***Ask about leasing promotions going on! 
574-234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 
Professionallv Manaeed bv Real Estate Management CorP. fHousina also available at Notre Dame APartmentsJ 

By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
The front rooms of the Student Union Board office were vandalized Wednesday afternoon, said Andrew Lam, student chief controller for SUB. 
According to Lam, several desks, couches and a stereo at the office were covered with red punch. In addition, flowers and cookies were ground into the office carpet. 
The office is located on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
Lam said the punch, cookies and flowers were left over from Sophomore Literary Festival activities held last week. "Somebody trashed our office," said Lam. "Punch was spilled all over some couches. As far as we know nothing was stolen." 
Lam said the desks will still be usable but all of the papers on the desks, which belong to SUB programmers, were ruined by the punch. Lam also said that the stereo and couch­es would still be usable. 

The mess created in the office was quickly cleaned up by Notre Dame janitors, said Lam. 
"Everybody is really grate­ful," Lam said. 
The mess was discovered in the afternoon by janitors, who then notified the SUB adviser, Brian Coughlin. Coughlin noti­fied Lam and others officers on the SUB. 
Lam said that the SUB has not yet notified Notre Dame Security Police about the van­dalism. He said the group would wait until Friday to con­tact NDSP and hoped that someone would come forward with information about who might have been involved with the vandalism. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu. 

r-
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 20, 2003 

STUDENT SENATE 

Bishop welcomes ne-w chief of staff 
office efficiently and work By MEGHANNE DOWNES towards accomplishing the Associate New• Ediror goals of the office in the remain­ing month and a half before Pat Hallahan, student body presi­
The Senate unanimously 

dent elect, is sworn in on Apr. 1. 
approved Henry Scott as chief of The Senate passed a resolu­staff Wednesday. 

tion to bestow the title of emeri­Scott, a sophomore from Sorin tus upon Hallahan for his dedi-
Hall. previ­
cation and hard
ously served 
work while he 

as assistant "His enthusiasm, 
served as chief

chief of staff dedication and 
of staff. 
in the Office 

professionalism
of the Student 

B o d y impressed me from the In other 
Senate News:

President. minute I started working "His enthu­
with him and I am . The Senate
siasm. dedi­

highly impressed with unanimously
cation and 
approved

professional­his management ability Donald Norton
i s m 

and he is well suited for 
as student
impressed me 

the position. " union treasurer
from the 
for 2003-04. 
minute I 
. The Senatestarted work­

Libby Bishop 
amended the
ing with him 

Student body president Constitution
and I am and now the
highly 

impressed Celebrating with his management ability Diversity Workshop will only be and he is well suited for the mandatory for new senators position," said Libby Bishop, elected in April. The 
student body president. Constitution formerly required 
Scott replaces Hallahan, who all senators to attend, including resigned last week due to a con­those elected in December for flict of policy positions with the spring semester. Bishop, specifically regarding hall dances. Contact Meghanne Downes at 
Scott said he will manage the mdownesl@nd.edu 



Michigan 
continued from page 1 
associate vice president for news and information. 
Michigan and its supporters are arguing that the 1978 Bakke decision, which declared quota systems unconstitutional in uni­versity admissions, set a legiti­mate precedent. 
Since it did not strike down the consideration of race in admissions but recognized the benefi1.s of diverse student bod­ies, the University says its poli­cies are still constitutional and necessary. 
Carnegie Mellon University initiated the amicus, or "friend of the court," brief. 
According to this brief, the institutions in support of Michigan, "do not suggest every college or university must con­sider race in the same way, or even at all, when selecting stu­dents for admission. They do suggest, however, that selective private colleges and universities cannot achieve meaningful diversity on their campuses without continuing to have that academic tool at their disposal." 
Carol Kaesebier, Notre Dame vice president and general counsel, who was involved with asserting the University's posi­tion in the brief, said it was important for the University to support Michigan's policies because institutions need diverse student bodies. In read­ing several drafts of the brief since January. she said Notre Dame evaluated specific crite­ria. 
"One, it's important to have a diverse community, and two. <!,S a private university it's very dn­ficult to accomplish that without any consideration at all of race and; three, race should be one of many factors that a university considers because we're looking at each candidate as an individ­ual and what they can bring to our community," Kaesebier said. 
The current undergraduate admissions policy for Michigan ranks students on a 150-point scale and -stipulates that appli­cants may receive up to 20 points for "membership in an underrepresented minority group, socioeconomic disadvan­tage, attendance at a predomi­nantly minority high school, ath­letics or at the Provost's discre­tion." 
In Michigan's law school. while there is no 20-point sys­tem, race is still considered as a factor in admissions. 
Michigan is being challenged in two separate cases that both attack its admissions policies. One case, Grutter v. Bollinger, involves its law school admis­sions policy and the other case, Gratz v. Bollinger, challenges the policy of Michigan's largest undergraduate school. the College of Literature, Science and the Arts. 
The cases were both filed in 1997 by Jennifer Gratz and Patrick Hamacher in the Gratz case and Barbara Grutter in the Grutter case. All three cases involved Michigan applicants who were not accepted into the University and are arguing that the Michigan policy discrimi­nates against them. They are being represented by the Center for Individual Rights. 
According to the Michigan news office, more than 60 briefs will be filed, representing over 300 organizations. Tuesday was the deadline for briefs. 
At this point. Storin said there is only speculation as to how the Michigan cases will affect other institutions. 
"No one knows what the extent of such a ruling might be and ideally we would like to help the University of Michigan win these two cases," he said. 
Pointing out the recent announcement by the Oflice of Undergraduate AdmL'>sions that it has received a record number of applicants, Storin said this could help Notre Dame's own efforts to achieve a more diverse student body. 
While Notre Dame is an aflir­mative action institution, assis­tant provost of admissions Dan Saracino said that its policy is not a quota system. However, with a student body that is 84 percent white and 16 percent minority, the University admis­sions officials and other admin­istrators say that using race as a factor in admissions would help to increase racial and ethnic diversity. 
"We at Notre Dame are not satisfied at this point that we've achieved the level of diversity that we'd like to achieve and we continue to work toward approving our numbers," Storin said. 
The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments April 1. At pre­sent, lower courts have ruled in favor of Michigan. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 

A Look Inside 
In light of Eating Disorders Awareness Week, it is important that we all acknowledge the sad reality that we are a society plagued with eating disorders and poor body image. We are a culture that worships thinness at any cost. The media is filled with images of thin models who look happy, successful, smart, and sexy. However, this is far from reality. The diet industry spends over 37 billion dollars yearly and the cosmetic industry spends over 20 billion dollars yearly to convince women and men that they need to be different from their natural state. The relentless bombardment from the media and advertising is highly detrimental to our health and well-being. Statistics show that 80% offourth grade girls have already dieted. An estimated JO percent of female college students suffer from a clinical or sub-clinical (borderline) eating disorder, of which over half suffer from bulimia nervosa. In a survey published in Psychology Today, 41 % of 
respondents said that they would give up five years of their life in order to be thin. 
On the flip side to our obsession with thinness is our disgust of fat. The media stereotypes overweight people as lazy, stupid, and lacking willpower. Despite our attempts to combat these fallacies, activists in the women's movement and size-acceptance field, along with eating disorders therapists and educators, have made little progress towards changing our culture's highly unrealistic and unhealthy standards ofbeauty and narrow gender roles. However, each of us as individuals can choose to rise above the cultural obsession and repression. As the UBWELL2 committee, we are dedicated to the physical, emotional, and spiritual health and well being of all the students and faculty. We challenge you to take a deep honest Jook at yourself. Are you promoting a healthy accepting environment or are your thoughts, comments, and behaviors contributing to the destruction of our society? Here are some things you might consider ... 
OR 
• Do I surround myself with people who are concerned with weight and • Do I surround myself with people who are positive and respectful of theirstrive for unhealthy standards ofbeauty? 
bodies? 

• Do I comment on what others or I eat? 
• Do I discourage self-criticism and competitiveness? 
• Do I talk about how I am on a diet or how I need to be on a diet? 
• Do I openly admire the appearance of someone who is overweight? 
• Do I boast to others when I miss a meal? 
• Do I encourage or admire self-acceptance and self-appreciation? 
• Do I make insensitive remarks about eating disorders? 
• Do I feel satisfied with my body, shape, and size? 
• Do I exercise solely for weight-loss? 
• Do I challenge myths about diet and weight? 
• Do I surround myself with media that promotes thinness? 
• Do I reject how the media stereotypes people according to weight?
• Do I directly or indirectly support the assumption that people should not be • Do I refuse to buy beauty or weight-loss magazines? 
overweight? 

• Do I eat healthfully and exercise moderately? 
• Do I refer to food as "good" or "bad"'? 
• Do I allow time for relaxation? 
• Do I express guilt about eating certain foods? 
• Do I realize that my actions and comments influence others? 
• Do rtell or laugh at "fat jokes"? 
• Do I embrace my own individuality and assert my own unique identity? 
• 
Do I assume that someone is doing well because he or she has lost weight? 

• 
Do I idolize people just for their physical appearance? ()


See UBWELL2 'sad in yesterday's Observer to • Do I judge people's bodies, especially in the dining hall? 
see what we will be doing this month to promote 
[1

• Do I use the mirror or scale as a measure of self-worth? 
a healthy lifestyle. If you or someone you know 
• Do I hold on to small clothes as a prompt for losing weight? 
is struggling with an eating disorder, services are available at the University's Counseling Center. 
Lil
UBWELL2@ND 
~Ill} 

-------· --·----­





WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 COMPILED FROM THE 0RSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
GERMANY 
Moroccan receives 15 years for involvement in 9 /11 
Auociatcd Press 
IIAMBURG 

A Moroccan received the maximum 15-year sentence Wednesday for helping the al­Qaida hijackers who carried out the Sept. 11 attacks -the first conviction anywhere of a sus­pect in the terror plot against the United States. 
Mounir el Motassadeq, 28, showed no emotion but occa­sionally shook his head or checked his watch as he lis­tcrncd to the verdict finding him guilty of more than 3,000 counts of accessory to murder. 
El Motassadeq helped pay tuition and rent for members of the Hamburg-based al-Qaida cell -allowing them to live as students as they plotted the attacks, prosecutors said. 
Judge Albrecht Mentz said el Motassadeq lied when he testi­fied he was unaware of the plot despite being close friends with suicide hijackers Mohamed Atta, Marwan al-Shehhi and other cell members. 
The defendant was "a cog that kept the machinery going," Mentz said. lie "belonged to this group since its inception.... He knew and approved the key ele­ments of the planned attacks." 
Sept. 11 victims' relatives who participated in the trial as co­plaintiffs -some offering emo­tional teslimony that Mentz said prompted him to impose the maximum sentence -praised the verdict. 
Joan Molinaro of New York City said she was "thrilled." 
"It's the first small victory we've had since 9/11," said Molinaro, whose firefighter son Carl was killed at the World Trade Center. '' I kind of feel like, 'OK, Carl, we got one,"' she said. "I think my son is smil­ing." 
Another New Yorker, Kathy Ashton -whose son Tommy was killed at the World Trade Center -called the 15-year sentence "a drop in the bucket, especially for a young man, but at least it's something." 
Interior Minister Otto Schily hailed the verdict as a "success in the light" against terror. "It is a warning lo all those who think they can toy with the idea or aligning themselves with ter­rorist networks." 
While suspects in the plot detained in the United States face possible death sentences if convicted, el Motassadeq's sen­tence -the maximum allowed under German law -translates into a minimum of 10 years with 15 months off for time served. 
Even defendants in Germany sentenced to life in prison gen­erally serve at most 15 years. 
El Motassadeq, a slight, 

bearded man who admitted tial, said it would appeal. receiving al-Qaida training in In addition to 3,066 counts of Afghanistan, denied the charges accessory to murder, el during his 3 1/2-month trial. Motassadeq was convicted of The defense, which had argued five counts of being an accesso­the evidence was circumstan-ry to attempted murder and an accessory to bodily injury ­charges introduced so five wounded survivors of the attacks, including a Navy officer at the Pentagon, could join the trial as co-plaintiffs. 

IRAN 
Plane crash kills 302 elite Revolutionary Guard soldiers 
A,socia1,d Press 
TEHRAN 

A military plane carrying 302 people, all members of the elite Revolutionary Guards, crashed in the mountains of southeastern Iran on Wednesday and all on board were killed, state-run media reported. 
The plane was en route from Zahedan, on the Pakistan border, to Kerman, about 500 miles southeast of Tehran, state-run Tehran television reported. 
It crashed in a mountainous area about 20 miles from its destination. The Russian-made Antonov airliner 
operated by Turkey's military lost contact with the control tower at 5:30 p.m. Wednesday, according to the reports. 
The official Islamic Republic News Agency said rescuers had reached the crash site and that all 302 people on board had been killed. 
It said the plane's passengers and crew were all members of the Revolutionary Guards. Earlier reports said 270 were aboard, but the latest media updates didn't explain the increase. 
State television and radio did not offer reasons for the crash and did not address the possibility of terrorism. 
There was heavy snowfall in many parts of Iran on Wednesday. including in Zahedan, which hadn't seen snow in three years. 

Tehran television quoted an anony­mous official as saying the forces had vis­ited the impoverished Sistan-Baluchestan province, of which Zahedan is the capital. for an "important mission." The Revolutionary Guards are seen as the defenders of Iran's Islamic regime. 
The government issued a statement offering condolences to the families of the victims, television and radio reports said. 
Iranians were preparing for an Islamic holiday on Thursday, the feast of Velayat, when Shiites believe Islam's prophet Mohammad appointed his son-in-law, Ali, as his successor. 
Wednesday's crash was the latest in a string of air disasters in Iran mostly involving Russian-built aircraft. 
A Ukrainian An-140 aircraft flew into a mountainside Dec. 23, 2002, while preparing to land at an airport near the central city of Isfahan. killing all the esti­mated 46 scientists aboard. 
In February 2002, a Hussian-made Tupolev Tu-154 airliner, carrying 119 people, smashed into snow-covered mountains not far from its destination of Khorramabad, 230 miles southwest of Tehran. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Gaza City battle kills I I Palestinians: 
Israeli Lanks and soldiers batllcd Palestinian mlli­tants in the streets or Gaza City before dawn Wednesday in violence that left 11 Palestinians dead, including a suicide bomber who tried to blow up a tank. Palestinians said. The Israeli forces said they were targeting Paleslinian metal workshops thal manufacture mortars and rockets. 
Turkey, U.S. fail to agree on deployment: 
Turkey and the United States failed again Wednesday to agree on the size of an economic aid package that would open the way for Turkey's par­liament to approve the deployment of tens of thou­sands of U.S. combat soldiers. Turkey has delayed a vote on the troops, saying a multibillion-dollar aid package must first be approved that would compen­sate Ankara for any losses during a war with Iraq. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 



Gephardt announces presidential run: 
Rep. Dick Gephardt, a 26-year veteran of Congress who failed to return Democrats to power in the House, announced his candidacy for presi­dent Wednesday with a broad attack on Bush administration policies he said "left us isolated in the world, and stranded here at home." Entering a crowded Democratic field. the Missouri lawmak­er promised to repeal Bush's tax cuts and use the savings to deliver health insurance to "everyone who works in America." 
Chicago Club owner may face charges: 
The owner of a nightclub where 21 people died in a stampede down a stairway could face fines and more than a year in jail for criminal contempt of cornt, offi­cials say. "This was a disaster that absolutely should never have happened," said Mayor Richard Daley. 
Police return to woman's home: 
Investigators will return to the home of missing pregnant woman Laci Peterson on Wednesday, a day after removing dozens of bags and boxes of potential evidence from the house. Police Detective Doug Hidenour downplayed the significance of Tuesday's search, saying the it was routine and did not unearth a big break in the case. The follow-up search came after police said they made unspecified new findings in the case. 

Feds announce plans for arming pilots: 
Commercial pilots who want to carry guns in the cockpit would have to undergo psychological and background checks before being selected for a five-day training pro­gram under a plan announced by the Transportation Security Administration. The first group of 48 pilots could begin training in a month, the agency said. 
Thursday, February 20, 2003

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



Women 
continued from page 1 
boxing club, which is one of the largest women's boxing programs in the country. Skiba said they were selected by club captains based primarily upon skill, pres­ence under pressure, seniority and dedication to the chm. 
Each match will last for two 1 minute, 45 second rounds -a total of 3 1/2 minutes of sparring. There will be no scoring, thus no winner or loser will be declared at the end of each fight. 
"I think [the women's fi~hts] will be a lot less brutal [than the men's] and more stylistically sound," said Skiba. "We're con­centrating on demonstrating our ability, not beating an opponent." 
"The guys are going after a jacket," Skiba added, referring to the coveted Bengal Bout champi­onship title male boxers vie for in a number of weight classes. 
"We expect to be scrutinized more closely than the guys. That's why we've been working so hard," she said. 
Sunday's fights begin at 1 p.rn. and will feature Theresa Pagana vs. Kerry Phillips. Jody Kahn vs. Christina Noetzel and Kim Dunn vs. Sara Sweeney. Wednesday's fights, featuring Lauren Conti vs. Skiba, Bethany Barker vs. Young, Amanda Borys vs. Sarah Ponko, begin at 7 p.m. 
This weekend's fights follow weeks ofwork. The women's box­ing club training regimen usually requires five or six two-hour practices per week which are broken into an hour of calisthen­ics, including 200 jumping jacks, a 3-mile run, 200 push-ups and 1,000 sit-ups. before an hour of training in footwork, stance and major punches like the jab and power. The second hour of prac­tice for the last two weeks, how­ever, has been dedicated to spar­ring. 
"There's not a reason for us not to fight in public," Skiba said. "I think we've all been surprised by how supportive everyone has been. But we work our butts off down there and it's a chance to showcase that talent. [The upcoming public sparring] has helped the morale of the club a lot." 
Skiba is also aware of the stig­mas attached with women fight­ing. She saw the first women's Golden Gloves tournament while studying abroad in Australia and remembers many cat-calls and inappropriate comments from the audience there. 
"There was heckling and we 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support &Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
Sr. Jean Lenz, 0.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 
,"  Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, I-7819  
'  Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163  
?  John Dillon, Campus :v!inistry, 1-7163  
l ·  Susan Stc1be-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336  
}.­ Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286  

South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 



don't want that," Skiba said of her expectations for this weekend's crowd. "But we want the crowd's support. We want them to get into 
it... 

O'Leary, likewise is interested to see how not only the audience but the women boxers will get into the upcoming fights. 
''I'm excited to see how the women will react and how the 
club  will  
react [after t h e s e bouts].  F I G H T SCHEDULE  
w h c t h e r  Sunday, Feb 23  
they'll take  
it  to  the  at 1-p.m  
next level,"  Theresa Pagana  vs.  
he said. Though a  Keny Phillips  
graduating  Jody Kahn vs.  
senior, like  Christina Noetzel  
many of the women  Kim dunn vs. Sara  
sparring  Sweeney­ 
Sunday and Wednesday,  Wednesday, Feb 26  
Skiba's  al 7 p.m  
intention is  Lauren Conti vs.  
for the club to take it to  Shelley Skiba  
"the  next  Bethany Barker vs.  
level" ­or, a full night  laura Young  
of  scored  Amanda Borys vs.  
women's  Sarah Ponko  
bouts next winter.  All fights will be  
She said.  held in Joyce center  
"  T  h  e  fieldhouse.  
women are  
really work­ Admission included  
ing together  in regular Bengal 
to showcase the club this  Bouts ticket  
year."  

Admission to the women's exhi­bition fights is included in the cost of Bengal Bouts tickets. The Bengal Bouts have been an annu­al men's boxing tournament since 1931 to raise money for the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu. 





Students consider civic responsibility 
By LINDA SKALSKI 
NewsWricer 

The fact that only 28 percent of 18-to-24 year olds voted in the 2000 elections spurred Bridget Purdue, Maura Kelly and Jesse Plorcs to organize three student dinner discus­sions on the link between direct service and civil engagement for young people. 
About 20 students partici­pated in the dialogues held Feb. 13, Tuesday and Wednesday and brainstormed ways to encourage youth involved in service to become more politically active, 
The purpose of these dia­logues was to bring students together and initiate conversa­tion that is not typically had over dinner, said Kelly. 
"The goal is not to come to an end, but to circulate ideas to effect change," she said. "What we hope is that one or two of the people there will later have a conversation with someone else or that they will think about things in a new 
. way." While the students had extensive experience in ser­vice activities, their civic involvement was minimal. Several students questioned what the term "civic engage­ment" meant. "It's funny because civic engagement is one of the most important ways to do real Christian service, but I really can't think of anything that I have done," said senior Andrew DeBerry. Students at the Tuesday din­ner cited apathy and a lack of 
ND 
~ 
Decorate your oI¥n pilloI¥ easel 
Friday, February 21, 2002 9:00pm 11:00pm in the LaFortune Student Center 
McNeill Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
self-confidence as major rea­sons for low student participa­tion in civic activities. 
"Young people feel na'ive and that their opinions will change," said Davin Costa. "So we are afraid to take a stance." 
The prevalence of this think­ing among Notre Dame stu­dents caused participants to question how a young, single mother from the working class might feel about political par­ticipation. "She probably feels unworthy of making a change," said Kelly. 
At the Tuesday dinner. the students discussed possible solutions for increasing civic engagement. The participants suggested empowering young people with knowledge of basic government activities, such as how a bill becomes a law and where to find the vot­ing record of politicians. 
"The information is there and available to us," said Teresa Hansen. "If we don't take advantage of it we are selling ourselves short." 
The overall consensus at the discussions was that the role of government in enacting social change is as essential as service activities. 
"Many students say that they do service because they feel that it is their responsibili­ty as people of faith to serve others. I would like to suggest that we have just as much of a responsibility as people of faith to be informed citizens who participate actively in our 
Contact Linda Skalski at Jska1ski@nd.edu. 



Thursday, February 20, 2003 COMPILED FH0M THE OBSEHVEH WIRE SEHVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch February 19 

DowJones 

8,000.60 • -40.55 

NASDAQ 

1,334.32 • -12.22 

S&P500 

845.13 • -6.04 
AAtJFX 

813.72 • -1.80 
NYSE 

4,763.45 ' -42.28 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0. 54 +0. 09 16. 80 




si:~seli~iiigl~!l!;~lltl;lli!!i:1!!1!!11il!!ll11111!:li!:III 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)-2. 59 -0. 09 3. 38 
1 


"' ·· 1ia;;::1!1IB~:i11~i:1
1~1111j~1111:111!!II' 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0. 67 -0 .17 25. 08 
IN BRIEF 
Wachovia, Prudential form unit: 
Experts were impressed but Wall Street didn't celebrate right away when Wachovia Corp. and Prudential Financial Inc. agreed Wednesday to combine their retail brokerage units, forming the nation's third-largest bro­kerage firm. 
The new firm will have $537 billion in assets. Executives with Wachovia, the nation's fourth-largest bank, and Prudential, told ana­lysts it would be based in Richmond, Va.; and be called Wachovia Securities. 
Under the agreement, Charlotte-based Wachovia will own 62 percent of the new firm and Prudential. based in Newark, N.J., will control 38 percent. Some 1,750 jobs will be eliminated and 131 offices will be closed by 2005, moves that will save $220 million, the companies said. 

Judge: IPO lawsuits can proceed: 
Thousands who say investment banks cheated them of billions of dollars by plotting to make Internet companies skyrocket in value when they went public cleared a legal hurdle when a judge refused to toss their claims. 
U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin said investors presented "a coherent scheme" in which the banks joined with Internet companies to defraud the public by hiding secret deals and analyst conflicts to artificially inflate new shares and deliver a payoff to insiders. The plaintiffs charged that the banking companies required their customers who wanted a piece of initial public offerings to pay undisclosed compensation and to engage in tie-in deals which guaranteed they would buy more stock on the open market. 
In her ruling, Scheindlin said she considered the claims and counterclaims made in more than 1,000 lawsuits filed in Manhattan from Jan. 11, 2001 through Dec. 6, 2001. Investors allege the value of their holdings plummeted as a result of the alleged fraud in connection with 309 initial public offerings of stock. including those of shares in theglobe.com, Global Crossing and MP3.com. 
Blizzard saps states' budgets 
• East Coast cities estimate storms will cost millions 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Backs aren't the only things hurling as residents of the Northeast shovel away mounds of snow left by the year's first blizzard. State and city budgets also arc strained. 
While the storm meant a pile of green for plow dri­vers, clearing away all the snow was a monumental headache for governments already wrestling with fiscal shortfalls. 
The storm, blamed for 53 deaths, finally headed out to sea after taking a parting shot at Boston, which got a record 27.5 inches by the time the snow stopped falling Tuesday morning. 
While the storm was gone, many schools remained closed Wednesday, includ­ing all Philadelphia public and parochial schools. because of snow-clogged and slippery streets and roads. 

But the trouble isn't over yet. Rain expected later this week combined with melt­ing snow has residents throughout the region time for us." said Peter a flood. Her 12-year-old braced for flooding. "We had a snow budget of Judge, a spokesman for the brother was still missing. 
The storm cost $15 million," said Jack Massachusetts Emergency Authorities warned of the Massachusetts between $7 Lettiere, New Jersey's act­Management Agency. "It danger of roofs collapsing million and $8 million in ing transportation commis­was sort of Murphy's Law in under the weight of snow. snow removal, bringing the sioner. "And we had spent reverse." New Jersey's death was state's total so far this year $30 million before this Twelve weather-related caused by a collapse and to at least $62 million. The storm even started." deaths were reported in one person was injured in state had budgeted only $16 Baltimore-Washington Pennsylvania, with two in Massachusetts when a million in fiscal 2003 for National Airport got 28.2 Illinois, seven in West warehouse fell in. Thirteen snow removal. inches, its highest on Virginia, six in Missouri, two poultry houses collapsed in 
New York Mayor Michael record, according to the in Virginia, eight in West Virginia, killing about Bloomberg estimated the National Weather Service. Maryland, four in New 325,000 chickens and storm would cost the city And it was the fourth-heavi­York, four in Iowa and one turkeys. $20 million -about $1 mil­est on record for New York each in Nebraska, Ohio, White Sulphur Springs, lion for each inch of snow. City -19.8 inches in New Jersey, Massachusetts W.Va., lost one of its Civic Maryland's State Highway Central Park. and Connecticut. The Center buildings, which held Administration was already The snowstorm could Maryland victims included offices and exercise class $14 million over budget have been worse, some four children killed by car­space. "The walls buckled before the President's Day state officials said, coming bon monoxide while sitting and the whole building was storm, which Gov. Robert as it did on a long holiday in snowbound vehicles. folding in on itself," said Ehrlich estimated had cost weekend when many busi­Three people died in Mayor Debbie Fogus. 
the state an additional $20 nesses were closed. Tennessee. including a 7-Many West Virginia resi­million to $30 million. "This has been one of year-old girl whose body dents are bracing for more 
The storm is expected to those storms where things was found Tuesday, two flooding as the snow melts cost cash-strapped New could go either way, and it's days after the car she was and heavy rain is likely later Jersey about $14 million. gone the right way every riding in was swept away by in the week. 






Oil price is highest since Gulf War 
year with very low stocks," said Oil traders have pushed prices
Associated Press 

Lawrence Goldstein, president of higher out of supply concerns and NEW YORK the New York-based Petroleum fear that a war in Iraq could spur The price of oil is nearing levels Industry Research Foundation. violence throughout the Middle not seen since 1990 as the U.S. pre­Since then, oil prices have jumped East, leading to attacks against oil pares for a potential war in Iraq at 19 percent -a trend Goldstein and export facilities in Saudi Arabia or a time when crude supplies are other oil analysts attribute to the Kuwait. The short-term loss of Iraqi extremely tight. increased likelihood of military oil is less of a concern to U.S. mar­
The March crude contract rose 20 action in Iraq. kets, traders said. cents Wednesday to finish the day at Retail fuel prices have also Key U.S. imports of Venezuelan $37.16 per barrel, a new 29-month soared. The average pump price of crude all but disappeared shortly peak. regular unleaded gasoline is now after a nationwide strike began in 
Oil futures on the New York $1.66 per gallon, 54 cents higher December. As domestic supplies Mercantile Exchange arc just a than a year ago, according to dwindled, many refiners lived hand­nickel shy of closing at their highest Energy Department statistics. A gal­to-mouth, producing heating oil and level since Oct. 16, 1990. lon of diesel averages $1.70, or 55 gasoline with whatever oil they 
"People have to understand that cents higher than last year, accord­could find without keeping any in we went into the beginning of this ing to the agency. reserve. 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 

page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
'The Bachelorette' choses firefighter 
Assoi;iated P cess 
Roses are red, violets are blue, 'The Bachelorette' is his­tory, and Charlie is, too. 
Proving a stuffed whale and treacly prose are the key to at least one girl's heart, televi­sion's most eligible bache­lorette, Trista Rehn. fell for Ryan. the sensitive firefighter who tickled her fancy with poems. 
Ryan Sutter, 27, of Vail, Colo., immediately dropped to his knees to ask the woman he'd known for six weeks to marry him. She said yes. 
Hunk Charlie Maher was sent away, no doubt disappointing Hehn's star-struck family. 
It was all the stuff of fairy tales, and ABC was certainly hoping Wednesday's last episode of 'The Bachelorette' was a happy ending in the rat­ings. too. 
The reality series has faded in appeal compared to Fox's juggernaut, 'Joe Millionaire,' which averaged nearly 35 mil­lion viewers Monday. But it still was ABC's most popular show last week. The network stretched the final episode of 'The Bachelorette' to two hours. and it unfolded like a 500-page Hallmark card. 
"The fact that I'm falling so hard for two guys at the same time is very stressful to me," said Rehn. the 29 -year -old physical therapist and former Miami Heat cheerleader, set­ting up Wednesday's cliflhang­er ending. 
It was stressful for Sutter and Maher, too, who awkwardly tried to divine Rehn's true feel­ings between nuzzles and kiss­es. 
One early hint it was a good night for Ryan: a quick camera shot showing her waking up clutching the stuffed whale he had bought for her earlier. 
Rehn took both men home to meet the folks in St. Louis, the yellow leaves on trees a reminder that Wednesday's episode was filmed months ago. The handsome, easygoing Maher made Rehn's mother and stepmother swoon; they all but asked to watch when Maher said he occasionally clipped his chest hairs with a buzzer. 
Sutter was more shy, but won points by privately asking Rehn's father if he could pro­pose to his daughter. 
Both men picked up sparkling engagement rings on Rehn's decision day. ready to spend the rest of their lives with a woman they'd courted on cam­era. 
Tears dropped from Rehn's eyes when she informed Maher that her heart belonged to someone else. Driven away in a limousine, he said he felt like he'd been hit by a bus. 
Instead, Sutter got the rose. 
'This day is a day I dreamed about my entire life," she said. "I see smiles and laughter, I see babies and grandbabies, I see comfort and safety. I see me in a white dress and I see it with you." 
Ryan replied that he loved Tri st~ "with every ounce of who I am. 
Time will tell if television's dating game will work. As Rehn moved inexorably toward her decision, ABC continually hyped Thursday's interview with the winning couple from last fall's 'The Bachelor.' 

Counhy singer PayCheck dies at 64 
Associated Press 
Country singer Johnny PayCheck, the hard -drinking hell -raiser best known for his 1977 working man's anthem "Take This Job and Shove It," has died at 64. 
Paycheck had been bedridden in a nursing home with emphy­sema and asthma. He died Tuesday, Grand Ole Opry spokeswoman Jessie Schmidt said. 
Specializing in earthy, plain­spoken songs, PayCheck record­ed 70 albums and had more than two dozen hit singles. His biggest hit was 'Take This Job and Shove It,' which inspired a movie by that name, and a title album that sold 2 million copies. 
His other hits included "Don't Take Her, She's All I Got," (which was revived 25 years later in 1996 by Tracy Byrd), 'Tm the Only Hell Mama Ever Raised," "Slide Off Your Satin Sheets," "Old Violin' and "You Can Have Her." 
"My music's always been about life. And situations. Situation comedies. situation life," he said in 1997. 
Several country artists said Wednesday that PayCheck will be missed. 
"I think he spoke to the blue collar American public," Terri Clark said. "He was a lifeline for real people who worked real jobs and who had to deal with life's hardships." 
John Michael Montgomery noted that Paycheck's death fol­lowed by a year that of Waylon Jennings, another country music veteran. 
"Those guys wo·rked their butts off," Montgomery said. "They did it at a time when country music was hard all the way around. It was hard touring, it was hard getting your records played." 
Early in his career, Paycheck played in George Jones' band, and the two later recorded an album called 'Double Trouble.' 
"But later in life we both mel­lowed," Jones said Wednesday. "The world will miss a great country singer and I will miss my friend." 
Born Donald Eugene Lytle on May 31, 1938, in Greenfield, Ohio, he took the name Johnny Paycheck in the mid-1960s about a decade after moving to Nashville to build a country music career. He began capital­izing the 'c' in PayChcck in the mid-1990s. 
Paycheck's career was inter­rupted from 1989 to 1991 when he served two years in prison for shooting a man in the head in an Ohio bar in 1985. 

Heartland 
continued from page 1 
petition. 

Attempts to gain comment from employees at Heartland were unsuccessful. 
Copies of the boycott lctLer have also been sent to resident assistants at Notre Dame to ensure that the petition is readily available to students in every dorm. 
The petition states that "Heartland's management has a civic and social responsibility to ensure that this type of behavior is not be repeated." It outlines the objectives for the boycott and stipulates three courses of action the Heartland management must take if the boycott is to be ended: that Heartland's representatives make a public apology to Rosario in The Observer and the South Bend Tribune, send the bouncer in question to cultural diversity training and make a donation to La Casa de Amistad or El Buen Vecino, local Hispanic service organizations. 
Members of the group hope the petition will successfully mobilize support from the Notre Dame community while the issue is still at the forefront of people's minds. Student organizers would like to secure at least 500 signa­tures on the petition before Rosario meets with Heartland management. which is expected to happen in the next week. 
"Sending Kristine to the meet­ing with 500 signatures makes a statement," said Rohn. 
While the petition campaign has its base on the Notre Dame campus, student organizers also want to involve the South Bend community by establishing con­tacts with the local chapters of the League of United Latin American Citizens and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Students have also discussed the possibility of persuading other local bars and clubs to host events similar to Heartland's col­lege night, which takes place each Thursday. 
Contact Caitlin Early at cearly@nd.edu 

2003 SPORTS BUSINESS FORUM 
Interested in a career in sports? 
The ND MBA Sports Business Club cordially invites you to join us as executives from the industry share trends, career advice and networking philosophies. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21st 
1:00pm -3:00pm Eck Visitor's Center Auditorium (located next to the bookstore) 
Q&A, Refreshments and Industry Insights Participants include: Chris Bevilacqua: Former Director of Global Negotiations and League Affairs at Nike Inc. and currently Co-Founder and Executive VP of College Sports Television (CSTV) which debuts with the ND-UConn game on Feb. 23rd Keith Melaragno: VP Customer Development, Pepsi Americas Alan Zucker: VP Athlete Marketing, IMG 

Thursday, February 20, 2003 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
IRAQ 


Saddam choses dignity over war 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

Saddam Hussein said Wednesday that Iraq doesn't want war wilh ihe United States, but peace cannot be kept at the expense of "our indepen­dence, our dignity" and free­dom. 
Speaking to a visiting delega­tion of Russian lawmakers, including Communist Party leader Cennady Zyuganov, the Iraqi president said that if the 
"We will not relinquish 

United States probably carries out its ourindependenc~ our introduce a throat to attack, new draft
dignity and our right to 

Iraq will "tri­resolution
live and act freely." 

umph over it, within days God willing." that will con­"Iraq doesn't tain a dead­
Saddam Hussein 

want war," line for

Iraqi president

Saddam said. 
But he added that peace "at any cost" was unacceptable. "We will not relinquish our inde­pendence, our dignity and our right to live and act freely." 
Saddam spoke as President Bush again urged the United Nations to threaten force to dis­arm Iraq. U.N. weapons inspec­tors, meanwhile, visited five sites involved in the manufac­turc of a missile that chief inspector Hans Blix said is pro­scribed. 
Bush, who is facing growing international opposition to a war, criticized the United Nations for not forcing a resolu­tion adopted after the 1991 Gulf War ordering Iraq to give up weapons of mass destruction. 
"If the United Nations can't enforce its own resolution -a resolution which, by the way, has been around for 12 years -it says something about its utility as we head into the future," he said. 
Huge anti-war demonstrations around the world as well as opposition by many U.S. allies have delayed U.S. and British plans to introduce a new Security Council resolution find­ing Iraq in violation of U.N. orders. 
On Wednesday. however, Britain's U.N. ambassador said 
his govern­
ment will 
Baghdad to 
show it is 
actively cooperating with weapons inspections. Ambassador Jeremy Greenstock told The Associated Press that he expect­ed debate on the text to extend past March 1, when Blix is to issue his next report. 
Meanwhile, Britain urged its citizens to leave Iraq immediate­ly, citing the risk of "terrorist action" and of being taken hostage by the Iraqi govern­ment. 
"If you are considering going to Iraq, you should be aware that British nationals were used as hostages during the 1990-91 crisis by the Iraqi regime, being held where their safety was at most risk," the advisory said Wednesday. 
The Foreign Office also urged Britons in Kuwait, the main springboard for a possible inva­sion of Iraq, to leave unless it was absolutely necessary for them to remain. lt also increased travel warnings for Israel and the Palestinian terri­tories. 
Humanitarian agencies have warned that war could bring great suffering to the Iraqi peo­ple by disrupting supplies of food, medicine and drinking water. 
However, Trade Minister Mohammed Mehdi Saleh told reporters that authorities have distributed six months' worth of food rations to Iraqi families so they can prepare for a long war. 
U.N. inspectors returned to Iraq in November after a four­year gap under a new, tougher Security Council resolution. The inspectors are trying to verify Iraq's claims that it no longer holds banned weapons. 
On Feb. 14, chief inspector Blix and Mohamed ElBaradei, head of the U.N. nuclear control agency, told the Security Council that they detected some improvement in cooperation on the part of Saddam's govern­ment. But Blix also said inspec­tors found that Iraq's AI Samoud 2 missile exceeded the permit­ted range of 94 miles and chas­tised Iraq for not giving a full accounting of chemical and bio­logical weapons programs. 
On Wednesday, inspectors vis­ited the al-Fida company, which is involved in the maintenance of AI Samoud launchers, the lbn al-Haytham company, which manufactures and assembles Al Samouds, and a factory that makes the rocket's components, 
U.N. spokesman Hiro Ueki said. 

IVORY COAST 
France meets stiff 



resistance by locals 
Associared Press 
Government and rebel lead­ers sought Wednesday to allay fears of a return to all-out war in Ivory Coast, even as about 1,000 loyalist youths protested France's efforts to end five months of conflict in its former colony. 
President Laurent Gbagbo met with the heads of the national army as well as French and West African peacekeeping forces and later told reporters he wanted lvorians "to stop seeing the French forces as supporters of rebel movements." 
His comments came only hours after young pro-govern­ment hard -liners gathered outside a French military base in the economic hub of Abidjan, shouting words of hatred over France's interven­tion in the conflict. 
Heavily armed lvorian para­military police stood guard at the rally, which went ahead despite an announcement by government officials that it would be postponed for securi­ty reasons. 
"We're not obliged to listen to the government," loyalist youth leader Ble Goude said, declining to call off the protest. 
"Villepin! Chirac! Attackers!" protesters chanted, denounc­ing French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin and President Jacques Chirac. 
Youth leaders in the govern­ment -controlled south repeatedly have expressed resentment at the 3.000 French troops deployed in Ivory Coast and have threat­ened to attack and burn French military vehicles patrolling the streets of Abidjan. 
France says its troops are protecting foreigners and try­ing to enforce cease-fires. 
Despite the threats of vi.o­lcnce, Gen. Emmanuel Beth, head of the French forces in Ivory Coast, said he wanted to "reassure and re-establish the confidence of the French com­munity and Ivorian people" that his troops were there to help promote peace. 
The sentiment was echoed by Ivorian army chief Gen. Mathias Doue. who insisted French forces do not pose a threat to Ivorians. 
"We are resolute in engaging in the process of the restora­tion of peace," Doue said after the meeting with Gbagbo. 
In the central insurgent stronghold of Bouake, rebel leader Guillaume Soro said, "We want to give peace a chance." He spoke upon his return from a regional tour, during which he met with the presidents of Nigeria, Ghana, Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso to seek diplomatic support for rebel demands. 
"The advice they gave us was to find political solutions to the crisis in Ivory Coast," said Soro, whose forces con­trol the northern half of the country. 



page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 20, 2003 
Boston archdiocese fails in attempt to end sex abuse cases 
those were "purely ecclesi­
Associated Prcss 
astical matters" not subject 
to judicial scrutiny. She also 
BOSTON rejected arguments that 
A judge refused to dismiss because a priest is a priest more than 400 sexual abuse 24 hours a day. church lawsuits Wednesday against supervisors can be held the Boston Archdiocese. liable for anything he does. 
rejecting arguments that the A spokesman for the arch­Constitution bars the courts diocese said church lawyersfrom interfering with church would not comment on the operations. decision until they had time 
Superior Court Judge to review it. "ln all of this, Constance we are still Sweeney's rul· committed
"In all ofthis, we are
ing clears the to a full, way for the still committed to a full, equitablelawsuits to and just
equitable andjust 
move forward. resolution
resolution for all cases
However, set­for all tlement talks against the archdiocese" c a s e s are under against the archdio­
w~e lawsuits Rev. Christopher Coyne 
cese," the 
allege church Boston archdiocese spokesman 
R e v 
officials were Christopher negligent in Coyne said. their supervi-Attorneysion of priests accused of Roderick MacLeish Jr .. 
molesting children. whose firm represents 270 
Church lawyers had alleged victims, said the argued that the court does decision "recognizes that the not have jurisdiction over Church merely by its status cases that involve the rela­as a religious institution -is 
tionship between a church not above and beyond the supervisor and a priest law." because that involves church Church documents policy, which is protected by released over the past yearthe First Amendment guar­show that church supervi­antee of freedom of religion. sors shuffled accused priests
But the judge disputed that from parish to parish. The Wednesday, saying: "The scandal rocked the nation's cases ... do not lure the fourth-largest diocese and 
court into involving itself in led to lawsuits across the 
church doctrine, faith. inter­country. More than 300 nal organization or disci­priests have since been sus­pline." pended or resigned. 
Sweeney made two excep­The archdiocese has said it tions: She dismissed claims mounted the legal challenge that church supervisors based on the separation of were negligent in their ordi­church and state to satisfy
nation of a priest or their its insurance companies that failure to remove a priest it had done everything possi­from the priesthood, saying ble to defend itself. 

......•..•...•......••.•........••••. ...•......
~ 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs is now 
.
• • 
ACCEPTING
• 
• THE STANDING 
. APPLICATIONS 
• COMMITTEE ON : GAY ANl1 LESBIAN 

for membership
• STUDENT NEEDS
. 
.. 
•
•
• If you want to be a part ofcreating:
•
. 
• Educational programming 
(NETWORK, Hall StaffTraining, and • Comm Unity) 
• Gatherings for students 
(Coffee at the CoMo) 
• New programs 
Please print an application from our Website: 

http;//www.nd.edu/~scglsn/applications.htm 
For more infonnation, contact Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 

Applications DUE FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 2003 . 

9 /11 aid fund rife with fraud 
Agency to reimburse residents people who are not telling the 
Assodami Press 

in all five boroughs for the pur­truth," said Jack Casale, a 
chase of air quality items, up to f'EMA investigator, during a 
NEW YORK about $1,500 per applicant. · day of visits to homes in 
A $100 million federal pro­Unlike other aid programs Queens, more than 10 miles gram to reimburse New created specifically to address east of the trade center. Yorkers for air conditioners, the Sept. 11 attack, the reim­Scientists and federal envi­filters, vacuums and other air­bursements came from an ronmental officials are still purifying tools after the World existing program. The program studying the effect of trade Trade Center collapse is rife is traditionally used to help center dust and the path it with fraud and abuse. govern­people with costs not covered took, but experts agree that the ment officials say. by other assistance programs, cloud hovered over lower 
As many as 90 percent of the but FEMA officials said they Manhattan and spread mostly more than 219,000 applica­have never encountered this south toward Brooklyn. tions for reimbursement were level of misuse in prior disas­Investigators have discovered filed by people not suffering ters. numerous cases where people from the effects of contaminat­The size and extent of the purchased FEMA-covered ed air, according to eslimates program have proven to be items, submitted the receipts to from federal officials. among its problems. get reimbursement checks and 
They say While many then returned the products to fraud has taken "We were trying to do the trade center the store, pocketing the cash. several forms. grants were Some receipts even appear to
right thing. Unfortunately 
Some people limited to have been forged, Gair said. have manipu­people took advantage of residents of Home visits have turned up lated the pro­that. so now we have I· o w e r residents who applied for air­gram to score a Manhattan, conditioner reimbursements
people way out in Queens 
free air condi­this program living in buildings with central tioner, while or upper Manhattan was open to air where the windows do not con artists have where there was no all New York even open. Other times, appli­posed as feder­City resi­cants who received checks for
potential for air quality 
al employees dents. hundreds of dollars' worth of and sold air­impacts" "We were reimbursed purchases could purifying items trying to do not produce the items when to residents. the right investigators visited their
Brad Gari
About $45.8 thing. homes; stores have reported
federal recovery officer
million has Unfortunately unusual numbers of people been paid out people took returning air conditioners, vac­so far, and advantage of uums and air purifiers. while many applications are that, so now we have people Local district attorneys say legitimate, officials said mil­way out in Queens or upper no applicants have been lions have been paid to people Manhattan where there was no charged in connection with the scamming the system. The gov­potential for air quality FEMA program, in part ernment is so concerned that it impacts," said Brad Gair. because it may be difficult to is sending a dozen teams of FEMA's trade center federal prove that someone taking inspectors daily to applicants' recovery officer. advantage of the system is homes to verify claims. As word spread about the breaking any laws. 
The government can turn ways to cheat the system, Gair The city Department of cases over to prosecutors -said, a program that was origi­Consumer Affairs is also inves­though none have brought nally budgeted at $15 million tigating but is concentrating on charges -or they can try to -and initially had trouble the wider scams run by people reclaim the money. The grants attracting applicants -turned who posed as FEMA employees were set up by the Federal into a $100 million monster. to sell air quality products at Emergency Management "We know we've come across inflated prices. 
r {• 

An invitation to study law at the national f university of the Catholic Church in America 
j"
11 
,i\.• 

. Located on a lovely, tree-lined campus in Washingron, D.C., minurcs by metro from Capitol_ 

~t1!i1\.'.~'i'w11 Hill and the Supreme Court, The Carbolic University of America school uf law is capable uf caking full advantage of ics ideal location in classroom instruction, for faculty appointment and ;:i!lucnce as well as smdcm extcrmhip and placement. As a university law school with over a cenrnry of scholarly achievement, we understand law to be an extension of man's search for knowledge of life's ultimate purpose, whether it be from philosophy, theology, politics or the liberal arts and sciences. UniCJuely ch,mered and founded upon the Catholic imellectual tradition, our faculty and students arc not ,ill of one faith, but are cnrirdy accepting of faith's importance co a well-conceived profe5sional and personal life. Here faith truly meets professional calling along ~·ich an appreciation of justice, truth, goodness and heauty. The law affects each, :is does the simple bur inescapable fuct rhar God is, as C. S. Lewis wrote, "the indwelling principle'' of them all. Receiving more than eleven applications for every spot, admission is competitive. Write today for information: The Catholic University of America, School of L1w, Office of Admissions, Washington, D.C. 20064 or aJmi,$iOn$@law.edu. On the lmernec www.law.edu . 
¦ 
Outranks virtually all orher leading law programs in rhe percentage of graduates pm.ming government :md public service; 

¦ 
Highly regarded specialty or institute progr-.ims in communications law, public policy, law and religion, and comparative and intcrn,uic,nal law; 

¦ 
Dcdic:ued, engaging and schol:uly teachers: 

¦ 
A community where ideas martcr and the ethical prevails over the technical and persons over thing.s; 

¦ 
Median LSAT score near rop qu:.mer of all h1w swdems n:uio11all)'-Financial aid increased by 75 percent. 


THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA 
Columbus School qfLaw 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 The Observer . NEWS 
FDA studies link to Ephedra 
Associat.cd Prrs• 
Food and Drug Administration investigators are looking into the possible link between ephedra and the death of a Haltimorc Orioles pitcher, says the agency's chief, who worries the dietary supple­ment may prove particularly risky for athletes. 
Determining ephedra's dan­ger and whether to heed calls to ban sales are priorities, FDA Commissioner Mark McClellan said in an interview Wednesday with The Associated Press. 
Ephedra, an herb commonly used for weight loss and body building, increases metabolic rate and speeds the heart rate, he noted. Add strenuous activi­ty, and "sports use is one area where l have got some particu­lar concerns." McClellan said. 
McClellan's boss, Health and lluman Services Secretary Tommy Thompson, convened a meeting of health officials to discuss ephedra on Wednesday. Asked what he thought of the herb, Thompson told reporters: "I wouldn't use ii. would you?" 
The comments came after a Florida medical examiner said Monday's heatstroke death of Orioles pitching prospect Steve Bechler, 23, may have been linked to an ephcdra-contain­ing supplement found in his locker. 
Toxicology tests to determine whether ephedrine, the herb's active ingredient, was in Bechler's body will not be available for at least two weeks. But Broward County, fla., medical examiner Dr. Joshua Perper, who inter­viewed the player's family and Orioles officials, said he was told Bechler took three pills of Xenadrine HFA-1 each morn­ing. 

Perper urged baseball offi­cials to ban use of the supple­ment, an action already taken by ihe International Olympic Committee. the National Football League and the National Collegiate Athletic Association. 
Xena.drilfe's maker, Cytodinc Technologies, said in a state­ment that two capsules a day is the recommended dose and that studies show the product is safe when used as directed. 
But ephedra long has been linked to heart attacks, strokes and other serious side effects · even at recommended doses and particularly if users have underlying heart trouble or certain other ailments. 
The FDA has reports of at least 100 deaths linked to use of the herbal supplements. A study published this month found U.S. poison control cen­ters reported 1.178 side effects among ephedra users last year alone, and critics have urged FDA to ban tho pills. 
Now Bechler's death is focus­ing public attf.rntion on ephedra again. 
Within a month, the FDA expects to receive a review of ephedra's risks from the Rand Corp., hired to take an indepen­dent look. 
Also, FDA investigators are talking with the Florida med­ical examiner and will scruti­nize the baseball player's toxi­cology tests, McClellan said. 
"We are going to get the reports, look at all this evi­dence and take appropriate action quickly," McClellan said. "If there is a health risk, we need to be on top of it," adding that sports use may ultimately prove the area of most concern. 
ls a ban possible? "That's something we definitely are considering," he said. 
Because ephedra is an herb, federal law allows over-the­counter sales with little over­sight to ensure safety. Only if the FDA proves a clear danger to public health can it curb sales. Manufacturers blocked an FDA attempt to restrict sales of certain doses four years ago by arguing the agency did not have enough proof. 
The Ephedra Education Council, an industry funded group, did not return calls seeking comment. Calling ephedra an important way to battle obesity, some manufac­turers have been lobbying Thompson to settle the contro­versy by ordering labels on ephedra that set dose limits and urge consumers to consult a doctor before taking it. 
Ephedra is one of the trickiest issues facing McClellan. Among other priorities he noted in out­lining his plans for the con­sumer-protection agency: 
. 
Increasing education to consumers on how to improve their health. He wants more clear nutrition advice on food labels, and is hunting ways to advise consumers on how to avoid dietary supplements that prove useless. "I'd rather the limited money people have to spend on their health go to something that really works," he said. 

. 
Improving patient safety, by better tracking and warning about risks of prescription drugs. 

. 
Improving anti-terrorism initiatives, including increased food security and encouraging wary drug companies to invest in better antidotes for chemical or biological attacks. 



Support for Estrada increases 
Lads ofComedy 


You c:m this Friday when the "Lads ofComedy"visit Notre Dame! 
Your Irish eyes will be smilingwhile your face laughs hysterically at tile "Lads ofComedy!" Amixture ofstand up comedy, characters and sketches all centered around the Irish American experience. It's a show for the Irish, about the Irish, by the Irish! Eve1ythingwill be covered from Catholic school, wakes, Notre Dame, and our families! 
Friday February 21, 9pm, Lafortune Ballroom 
Assodatcd Press 
Supporters of appeals court judicial nominee Miguel Estrada plan to run ads in several states represented by wavering Democrats in an effort to break a filibuster by Senate Democrats. 
"This is a very serious issue for our community and no politician can take this quiet­ly," Robert de Posada of The Latino Coalition said Wednesday, announcing plans for radio spots in Arkansas, Louisiana, Florida and the District of Columbia. 
If confirmed, Estrada would be the first Hispanic judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. 
Ads also were planned for Nebraska and North Carolina. A rally was held Wednesday in New York and more public were being orga­nized, including one in Miami. 
President Bush, who nomi­nated the Washington lawyer in May 2001, has accused Democrats of "shameful poli­tics" in holding up a confir­mation vote. Democrats say Estrada has not been forth­coming about his judicial phi­losophy and that too little is known about a man who would join an important appeals court viewed as a stepping stone to the Supreme Court. 
Democrats began a fili­buster on the nomination last week, before the Senate left for a recess. They plan to keep up their resistance 
seen her on campus? 
when the Senate returns next week. 
Republicans have the 51 votes needed to confirm Estrada but not the 60 votes to end a filibuster. Democrats said last week that 44 Democratic senators have agreed to keep the filibuster going. with Sens. John Breaux of Louisiana, Zell Miller of Georgia and Ben Nelson of Nebraska against the stalling tactic and Sen. Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas on the fence. 
Republicans said the ad campaigns would also be aimed at Democratic Sens. Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Bill Nelson of Florida. and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana. Estrada supporters say Landrieu reversed herself after appearing to support Estrada in a Spanish-lan­guage radio ad run during her recent re-election cam­paign. Landrieu has said the ad misinterpreted her neu­trality on the Estrada nomi­nation. 
Several major Hispanic groups, such as the League of Latin American Citizens and the National Hispanic Bar Association, back Estrada. Others, including the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, have voiced opposi­tion. 
Estrada's supporters, at a news conference, challenged Democratic complaints that too little was known of Estrada's legal record, pre­senting a 2-foot high stack of legal briefs involving Estrada. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, February 20, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocrc Dame, IN 4655G 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 4655G 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Lori Lcwalski  
AsST, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR, Helena Payne 
VrnwroINT EDITOR: Kristin Yemm SPORTS EDITORS: Joe Hettler, Matt Lozar 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smirh 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Ka.cmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Maura Ceneddla 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
Wu ADMINISTRATOR: Sco1t Brodfuehrer 
CONTROllER: Michael Flanagan 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISfNG.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews.1@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports .1@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. I@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEI! ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Vtsit our Web site at http://obmve-r.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advetcisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objeccively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qwrtions rq,arding Observerpo!ici~ should be direct­«1 to Editor in Chief fawn McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The-Ofucn,er (USPS 599 240} ir p1.1bU,hcd Monday lhroug:h F1wJay a.ccpt during c:um and va:ation periodt.Aiu.bscripcion m The Oh~C"T ll SlOO for onca.cadcmic. yur, S55 for one-5CTTICJter. 
The ObrM'T' ii pubhd1t"d 2t: POSTMAn-FR Ol4 S.:.11«h Dining Hill Send ilddrcu rorrcccion1 to: Norte Dame. IN 465S6 lbc Obs(rvcr 
P.O.llmQ Pcriodiul po,tagc p.Jd •t Notre D.unt: Nout DilmC', IN 465)6-onCJ =d ~-Wfoion,J mailing otlk'el, 
The OMl!f'Va-ti 3-M~b.tt r;f 1he Auod~tnt r~-AJl rcproducti<"tn ri,ghr, are 
~ 


I write this with the shared anxiety that many of us around the globe must be feeling about the possibility of a war between the United States and Iraq, a war which has been carefully construct­
ed over the last months by words-as indeed, almost all wars are ­with ramifica­tions that could well extend to the entire globe. 
I write as well with another level of anxiety, that anything I, as an individual might say, could itself be fraught with the kind of reductive rhetoric that I find I must not only critique but also criticize, of all supposed "sides" in this current pend­ing catastrophe. 
I am not a member of the govern­ment, nor a professor of political sci­ence, or history or economics, or anthropology -though I know that all of these branches of knowledge are finally inseparable and much needed at this moment. What I can offer here, with any credibility, is merely the per­spective from a professor ofliterature. And yet, I would like to say strongly and sincerely that the history of literature ­which in many ways reflects, anticipates and perhaps even encourages the politi­cal realities human beings have faced ­is very necessary here. 
While we hear daily from all supposed "sides" of this crisis old lines that say "we are right," and "you are evil," we are hearing a reductive rhetoric that was probably wrong all along, but which became known and recognized as hollow and out-worn at least by the mid years of that supposed "Great War." 
"The War to End All Wars" was rec­ognized by some of the earliest support­ers as nothing more than naive propa­ganda. The phrase was the same illogi­cal phrase used by the Greeks in the Peloponnesian Wars. And yet with some minimal advantages of technological "advancements," this history recorded by poets and politicians, by surviving civilians and soldiers, did seem at the beginning of World War I to support the age-old valorization of war as some-thing entwined with legitimate civiliza­tions. 


"Of men and war, I sing!" are the opening words of cherished epics. And so it continues, through the beginning of WWI, telling again that already worn­our tale that is its "dulce et decorum" ­sweet and fitting -to die for one's country. And yet by the end of that war, poets and soldiers who went willingly, even desiringly, into battle had realized the mass futility of such statements and adventures. Then-modern technological advances, which meant machine guns and bombings from airplanes. reduced supposed military valor already to the current clear state of being: we, all of us, are now obviously victims of aggres­sion, wherever it starts. And it starts with words, with reductive rhetoric more clearly now than ever -all saying "God is on my side," and "we" are good, and "you" are evil, with the conse­quences hidden all along that in actuali­ty other ethnic groups, other religions. women, children. animals, the earth itself are tragically plundered under the supposed legitimizing rhetoric of that old valorization of war. duty and nation­alist pride. 
That members of these three very large world religions, all of whom claim the same person. Abraham, as their father, could continue to "legitimize" a singular religion, race, gender or even anthropoid self as the single and right inheritors of this earth (and spiritual saving) is more than disturbing. That the crisis the world is ·witnessing now. from the supposed descendants of this same saving patriarch, in the singular geographical place they all finally call "home," is sickening. 
No matter what the convoluted histgry really is that has led to this early crisis in the 21st century, it seems clear to me that repeating already worn-out lines of rhetoric that polarize the world and its peoples can only end now in the great­est of shameful catastrophes. 
Wallace Stevens, a poet (but also a lawyer, who understood fully that we shape our world through words). said politics are a function of the imagina­tion. He meant by this that we construct any political state or reality first through our words. 
Imagining, for example, true equality, true sharing. true democracy, takes an enormous power of the imagination to envision community instead of war. 
He also said that "war is the periodic failure of politics." By that. he meant war happens again when we fall back into out-moded rhetoric and fail to envi­sion the world as we would like it to be -and could make it be. As he also says, "What we say of the future must portend," that the words we utter now will shape in reality the world we will know. 
And so here, I would like to end with an appeal to the larger realization of poets in the last century -that our old words of "God is on our side" -what­ever side we are looking at -should give way to the realization that such worn-out phrases from different nations or political stances will not heal the rift already created by those older words that we must, through a new collective imagination, realize that we are all truly not only a single human family, but deeply entwined with the rest of a spiri­tual creation we should not sacrifice and cannot sacrifice without sacrificing all of our selves. 
Such a realization requires new words, a meta-language perhaps, but one that legitimizes not a single nation, nor some way of life, nor those already in power, but that sanctifies. in cooper­ation, the totality of creation. As Stevens also said, "It is a world of words to the end of it," by which he meant the possi­bility of apocalypse or redemption. We need now, whether politicians or poets. whether workers of the material world or writers in the world, to ask for a new language of inclusion in this modern and threatened new century, one which could possibly reach across the world. ironically perhaps given our new global witnessing of satellites and instant com­munication, with the good news that we have chosen peace over pride, commu­nity over confrontation, spirituality over separateness, genuine godliness over greed. 
Jacqueline Vaught Brogan is a profes­sor in the department ofEnglish at Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Teresa Frailish Himanshu Kothari Andrew Thagard 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Joe Hettler Joe Lindsley Lisa Rcijula 
Scene 
Christie Boisen 
Lah Tech 
Chris Orenchuk 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Can academic departments justifiably restructure themsleves in a search for higher national rankings? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The man who reads nothing at all is better educated than the man that reads nothing but newspapers. " 
Thomas Jefferson president 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 page 13 
Redeeming work on and off the field 
What do Super Bowl XXI, Notre Dame's Law School, and a non-profit organization promoting responsible relationships have in common? 
llis name is Chris Godfrey. Standing at 6-foot-3 and 270­pounds, Godfrey was an offensive lineman for the New York 
Giants team that won SuperBowl XXI. Afterwards. he attended Notre Dame's Law School to pursue a project called Life Athletes which uses athletes to promote responsible relationships. 
Godfrey's siory begins at the University of Michigan, where he went to three Hose Bowls as a defensive lineman. He played another nine years as a professional. But 
that is where the story gets interesting. He was cut three times 
his first 12 months in the league from the Washington 
Hedskins, the New York Jets and then the Green Bay Packers. 
The bad news in Green Bay literally brought Godfrey to his 
knees, and he prayed, "Lord, I give up. I'll do whatever you 
want me to do, and go wherever you want me to go -you're 
the boss now." 
The depth of his prayer surprised Godfrey. He had only been going through the motions of his Catholic faith and unknowing­ly grew apart from God. This prayer was the beginning of a commitment that would shape his life for years to come. Later, the Packers coaching staff changed its mind and asked him to stay. This told Godfrey that his prayer wasn't just happen­stance and that God had a plan for him. Later at a team Bible Study after practice, a verse caught his attention, Matthew 
6:33: "Seek first the Kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you besides." This told him he needed to get his priorities straight. 
Godfrey's football adventure brought him to the Michigan Panthers in the USFL. He moved to the offensive line, and the team eventually won the championship. The next year, he joined the New York Giants and won the starting right guard spot. A couple years later, his team beat the Broncos in Super Bowl XXI. 
Instead of pursuing corporate sponsorships after the victory, Godfrey focused his prestige on promoting responsible living. He saw a lot of people being hurt by abortion, not only the chil­dren but also their parents who tried to cope with the loss and guilt. He resolved to combat this problem and was encouraged by Professor Charles Rice to enroll in Notre Dame's Law School. 
During his studies, Godfrey learned a firm basis for the law from such other professors as Ralph Mcinerny, Douglas Kmiec and the late Ed Murphy. He observes how often people reject Catholic thought as being merely religious and therefore irrele­vant. although in reality the Catholic faith is very reasonable. He quotes Pope John Paul's encyclical letter, Fides et Ratio, which says, "Faith and reason are like two wings on which the human spirit rises to the contemplation of truth." 
After completing his law studies in 1993, Godfrey started Life Athletes, which promotes the example of athletes who have taken the Life Athletes commitment: 
. 
I will try to do what is right, even when it is difficult. 

. 
I will give myself only to that special person I marry as my partner for life. 

. 
I will respect the lives of others, especially the unborn and the aged. 

. 
I will not quit or make excuses when I fail. I will try again. 


Since then over 300 professional and Olympic athletes have been involved. Notre Dame-based athletic leaders including Brian Boulac (assistant athletic director), Debbie Brown (vol­leyball coach), Steve Hendricks (volleyball coach), Mark Bavaro (Giants), Tom Carter (Bengals) and Anthony Johnson (Panthers). 
The athletes are living examples who encourage people to find happiness in love through marriage. Godfrey has met at least one child who has lived because of the curriculum he wrote called, "That's Where I Live: A Guide to Good Helationships." He is also particularly encouraged by support­ers who have had an abortion in the past but who now promote the Life Athlete Commitment. 
The perseverance Godfrey learned on the field has helped this work. He cites St. Paul's athletic metaphors as the Life Athletes' inspiration to set noble goals and to sacrifice to meet them. Married with six children, he credits his relationship with God for his being able to shoulder his many commitments. "Even when I fail, His grace keeps me going. I have peace and joy knowing I am doing something worthwhile with the time I have been given." 
Andrew DeBerr.!J is a senior engineering major. llis column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at adeber­ry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Andrew DeBerry 
ND Changing 
Times 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Can't buy me pants 
I would like to thank Terriss Conterato. Lauren Barkmeier, Bridget Gulling and Jacqueline Browder for their Wednesday Viewpoint articles, which made light of what can be a semi-depress­ing state of affairs on campus (gender relations and dating}. 
Although I disagree that baseball games or nicer pants will secure long lasting and soul-mate quality partners for everyone on cam­pus. I believe that the current structures we accept and live within every day at this University must be re-exam­ined and improved. The women and men of Notre Dame cannot afford to buy pants for each other; however neither can we afford to stand silent in what is a pressing con­cern for the school that boasts the fourth highest rate of on­campus living for undergraduates. 
The peculiar, somewhat precari­ous state of gender relations on Notre Dame's campus has been a concern of mine since I threw my first left shoe in a pile dur­ing a Frosh-0 "meet-a nice-Fisher-boy" activity. My initial apprehension of life between the sexes has since been renewed regularly (read on}. However, suggesting a co-ed dorm solution is not convincing to all. In my many conversations on the subject, students (men and women) have told me that single-sex dorms are good because they force individuals to break out and "be social." 
So, in a quest to be social, I played my part in the dark, crowded, midriff-baring freshman dorm parties, the half-blind, dogbook SYR dates and the 1950s summer-camp style Frosh-0 activ­ities. Not soon enough however, I grew tired of being some male dorm's groupie. I grew tired of trying so hard in something that had always 
Speak out against coming war 
The arguments in support of the coming war with Iraq in The Observer are getting more repulsive by the day. The pretense that the imminent war with Iraq will be anything more than imperialist conquest by a desperate super­power boils down to a cynical apology for open colonial brutality. 
Hitler. when selling the idea of the invasion of Poland to the German people, used the same method the Bush administration now uses to justify the subjugation of Iraq. People are told that the leadership in Iraq or Poland is incom­petent and tyrannical and that Iraqi or Polish industry could be put to better ends for every­one if it was seized. The Nazis promised equali­ty and freedom and a dismantling of the old political system in Poland but brought to Poland what we have already begun to bring to Iraq ­years of death, suffering and exploitation. 
The United States government, convulsing in sync with the death throes of a miserable econ­omy, is more than willing to send its youth as cannon fodder into a bloody conflict in an already desperate and war-ravaged nation for strategic or financial gain -regardless of pub­lic opinion. Last weekend, for instance, in a his­torically unprecedented display of international solidarity against war, over 10 million people lined streets in major cities in every continent around the world in opposition -Jews and Arabs even marched together in Tel Aviv. Bush, however, has made it clear he is not in the slightest concerned. 
A convincing rationale has yet to be concocted by the Bush administration for an invasion of Iraq. In fact, Powell's much-talked-up speech to the U.N. that supposedly "definitively demon­strated that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq" turned out to be poorly pla­giarized from an English graduate student's dis­course on Iraq from the early 1990s. 
The United States, in its casting about for a come naturally in my life. So, I stopped trying, ceased to be tired, and began to enjoy my life, sans close friends of the opposite sex. · 
But is this acceptable? Now I'm a cynical sophomore and what I've found to be true over and over again, is that the friends whom 1 cherish and love are not those I discov­
ered two nights out of the week while pounding down beers. No, they are my Howard Hall girlfriends. We 
spend time together every day. On accident. No trying. No awk­wardness. No drinking. Just 
getting to know each other again and again and better and better. Isn't this how all great "dating" or sexual relation­ships should begin, too? If not, 

then the sexual segregation of young people at Notre Dame is working wonderfully. That dating and healthy gender relations are the endangered inter­actions on campus does not surprise me in the least given the single-sex 
dorm environment. How we meet and inter­act with one another is an important issue, one that more students should be publicly question­ing. 
Whether or not the baseball and "better pants" solutions to Notre Dame's weirdness was serious or satirical, the problems still exist. And week­night sober dialogue between men and women won't happen with the extension or end of pari­etals either. Notre Dame must heed the consis­tent student request for on-campus, coed dorm housing options. What do you think? 
Martha Patrer 
sophomore Howard Hall Feb. 19 

reason to invade, also seeks to compare the 
already-demonized bin Laden to the Hussein 
administration. This is politics of amalgam ­
the two have little in common other than the 
color of their skin and their geographical loca­tion. These two main explanations failing, the only recourse of the Bush administration's pro­paganda engine is a circular Orwellian system of lies -which "fair and balanced" Fox News can efficiently rotate through in about a three­hour period. 
In addition, the U.N.'s opposition to the stam­pede of United States troops into the Persian Gulf should come as no surprise. Lenin aptly called the precursor to the U.N., the League of Nations, "the thieves' den." 
Much as the imperial powers met in Berlin in the late 19th century to carve up Africa, the major imperialist powers of the early 21st cen­tury meet in the U.N. to carve up the Third World. Not content with just a piece of the colo­nial pie, the United States administration and military, flags waving, has rushed ahead war plans and intends to seize the Middle East on its own. The European moralizing about U.S. belli­cosity should be transparent -it is merely rep­resentative of aggravated imperialist tensions across the Atlantic. 
I am disappointed that though opposition to the war enjoys popular support on this campus, it is rare that students or faculty respond defini­tively to the nationalist Viewpoints that appear repeatedly in The Observer. We should make clear that condemnations of those few students with the courage to speak up are rooted in defense of an impending war crime that the whole world will be able to see. 
Tom Seabaugh 
sophomore Keenan Hall Feb. 19 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, February 20, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Talk to Her' is poignant to perfection 
By BRIAN BIRCHER 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Talk to Her" begins with the raising of a red curtain, revealing two women dancing on a stage. The women appear to be blind and in pain as she moves across stage through a maze of chairs. In the audience are two men, currently through the hospital. Benigno notices him and does not hesitate to start up conversa­tion. 
A friendship begins between the two men. Benigno and Marco have something in common that unites them -both care for a woman who is in a coma. Benigno has been taking care of hls patient, Alicia (Leonor Watling), for four years. Benigno first noticed Alicia at the dance studio 

strangers, who across from his
"Talk to Her"

sit side by side as apartment before 
they take in the {"Hable Con Ella") her accident and performance. 
now cares solelyOne of the men, for her. His interest, Marco (Dario however, has devel­Grandinetti), a oped into a love writer in his Director: Pedro Almodovar that has onlyearly 40s. is Writer: Pedro Almodovar grown with her moved to tears. Staning: Javier Camara, Dario Grandinetti, time spent coma­The man sitting Leonor Walling, Rosario Flores, Geraldine tose. 
next to him, Chaplin, Mariola Fuentes Benigno (Javier Camara), a male nurse, notices these tears but does not say anything. 
Time passes and eventually Marco and Benigno's paths cross again, this time at the private clinic "El Bosque," where Benigno works. Marco ends up at the clinic because the woman he loves, Lydia (Rosario Flores), Spain's most famous female matador, has been gored by a bull and fallen into a coma. Marco resolves himself to stay by her side and do what lit­tle he can for her. While Marco is walking The story pro­
gresses at a steady 
rate and uses a few flashbacks to flesh out storylines and char­acters. These flashbacks do not feel forced or heavy-handed as they sometimes do in other movies, but provide insight at just the right points in the movie and add to our understanding of the characters and their motivations. 
At the heart of "Talk to Her" are the excellent performances, especially by the two male leads, Grandinetti and Camara. Camara plays Benigno with subtlety, creat­ing a seemingly simple and earnest charac-



ter. Grandinetti is also excellent as Marco, giving the character a sense of history that justifies the tears he sheds. These are believable and realistic characters, that while we may not identify with we can 
understand and empathize with. 
Despite the somewhat soap-opera plot, 
writer and director Pedro Almodovar has 
made an intelligent and thought-provoking 
film that examines a number of themes. 
For one, he questions the sources and 
boundaries of love. He also examines the 
nature of masculinity by portraying two 
characters who have no qualms with 
engaging in behavior typically seen as 
feminine: crying, cutting hair and doing 
nails. 

Almodovar has been nominated for an Oscar for Best Director. and rightly so. He creates a story in which a morally irrepre­hensible act is one that is at the same time understandable and poignant. He has made a moving story from complex and original material. 'Talk to Her" is a beauti­ful and touching story that will not leave the viewer's mind easily. 
Contact Brian Bircher at bircher. l@nd.edu 

Grandinetti gives Marco depth and a sense of history as one of many actors who give superb performances. His character evokes sympathy from the viewer with his tears for his beloved. 
Lydia (Rosario Flores), Spain's most famous female matador, Is gored by a bull and falls Into a coma. Her stay at a cJlnlc reunites Marco and Benigno, as the two men share their sorrow with one another. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, February 20, 2003 

MOVIE REVIEW 
'Daredevil' disappoints by playing it safe 
Murdock's love interest. Elektra (Jennifer

By ERIN ENGLISH Garner), who it conveniently appears as 
Scene Movie Critic an ass-kicking martial artist. Everything is 
done so fast and loosely that you end up 

Usually, when you frnd yourself rooting not caring about what happens to the for the villain or a movie, it means that characters at all. there is something incredibly wrong. It "Daredevil" fails to take a single dare means that you hate the hero and don't and prefers instead to set itself up for a want there to be sequel rather even a possibility of than giving a sequel. "Daredevil" audiences a ''Daredevil" is one movie worth of those movies 
the ticket price. where you pray Ben Affteck's that the villain will acting is flat 
come out on top Director: Mark Steven Johnson throughout and and save you from Writers: Bill Everett (II) and Brian devoid of any having to endure Helgeland charisma until another moment. Starring: Ben Affleck, Jennifer Garner, it is far too late 
Marvel took a Michael Clarke Duncan, Colin Farrell, to make his gamble by making Jon Favreau character lik­a movie from a cult able. Instead, 
comic book charac-he is outshined ter rather than one in every scene of their name that he shares, brand superheroes. Matt Murdock (Ben which is in fact, every scene. Despite the Affieck) is a lawyer by day and a vigilante fact that Daredevil is supposed to be a at night, with the typical twist -he is dark and conflicted figure, the movie fails blind. Hobbed of his sight as a child when to make it seem believable that he is tor­he was sprayed in the face with bio-haz­tured. ardous material. his other senses were Add on top of this the blatant overuse or amplified. including his sense of hearing. CGI special effects. The effects were distort­This provides him with a "radar sense" ed and out of proportion in many scenes. which allows him to navigate the rooftops Some were unnecessary and unbelievable, and rooms where he prowls. including animating a rose falling to the 
The plot of "Daredevil" centers on ground rather than simply filming it. This Murdock, beginning with a flashback of his gave "Daredevil" a rather cheap appear­childhood and the death of his father. We ance, despite the fact that it cost $80 mil­immediately zoom forward in time to lion. Murdock as lawyer and avenger, with little The highlights of the movie nearly all explanation as to how he became either or come when one of the villains is on cam­how a blind man could design a costume era. Michael Clark Duncan literally is the that ugly. Kingpin, despite the controversy in his 
From here, we are rushed yet again into casting, and dominants every scene he is the introductions of the main characters in. Elektra is as well played as possible, and fast-forwarded through a plot involving considering how poorly the part was writ­the murder of hotel mogul and father of ten for her. 



The assassin Bullseye (Colin Farrell) required for the ridiculous character he is steals the show; he is amusingly homicidal given and never fails to make you wish that and appealing at the same time. In fact, he was "Daredevil" instead. Bullseye is pretty much the only reason that you should go see the movie, if you go Contact Erin English at at all. Farrell is just as over the top as is eenglish@nd.edu 
-
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 20, 2003 
NBA 

With sore knee, Kobe scores 40 as Lakers defeat Jazz 
Derek Fisher scored 16 for the
Associated Press 
Lakers, who won less than 24 hours after beating Houston in
SALT LAKE CITY double overtime. 
A sore knee and exhaustion "If you lose a game likefrom playing two overtimes the tonight, then all that fighting wenight before weren't enough to did yesterday was pretty muchend Kobe Bryant's torrid scoring for nothing," Bryant said. 
run. 
Karl Malone led Utah with 25
Bryant scored 11 of Los 
points, but also was called for aAngeles· last 17 points and fin­key technical foul as the Jazzished with 40 as the Los Angeles tried to rally at the end. 
Lakers held off the Utah Jazz 93­After two straight jumpers by87 Wednesday. 
Bryant put Los Angeles up 80­Bryant has scored 40 or more 74, Malone was called for push­in seven straight games and has ing off on Robert Horry withat least 35 in his last 11. The 3:47 left. He had words for ref­Lakers have gone 9-2 during his eree Bue Hollins all the wayscoring binge. 
down the court and drew the"I don't really know what it 
technical after calling Hollins ais," Bryant said of what's driving name in front of the Jazz bench. 
him during the streak. "All this Horry hit both free throws tohas done is help us win games. 
give the Lakers an 83-7 4 lead,Maybe when I retire I can look 
and the Jazz never got closer
back and see what an accom­than five the rest of the way.
plishment it was." 
Bryant hit two more field goalsWhen he finally does look down the stretch. 
back, Bryant will find himself in good company. 
New Orleans 87, Washington 75
The last player to score 40 in 
The New Orleans Hornets
as many consecutive games was wanted redemption after a late­Michael Jordan, who did it in game collapse Tuesday night innine straight early in the 1986­Orlando, and Jamal Mashburn
87 season. Wilt Chamberlain 
decided he should provide it.
scored at least 40 in 14 consecu­Mashburn wrapped up a 24­tive games early in the 1961-62 point performance by hitting aseason. 
3-pointer and a pair of aggres­
Bryant, who scored 52 the 
sive runners in the lane as thenight before in a 106-99 double­
overtime win over Houston, Hornets scored on eight of nine decided just before tipoff to play possession down the stretch for with a sore right knee as the a victory over the Washington Lakers were without Shaquille Wizards on Wednesday night. O'Neal for a second straight "At the end of the game I real­night. ly want to take the shots ... it "Kobe was Kobe. He carried was pretty important and it pret­the load for two superstars ty much sealed the game at that tonight," said Rick Fox, who point," Mashburn said. "They've scored 11 for the Lakers. got the best player in the world Bryant was booed throughout (Michael Jordan) and he can still the night until the end, when the re-create some old highlights, so they can come back and you

sellout crowd of 19,911 realized rently holds the eighth and final and that's what we did tonight." 113-111. Wells and Chris Mills 
he was about to continue the don't want that to happen, espe­playoff spot in the Eastern scuffied, Wallace tried to chargecially not two nights in a row."

streak. With the crowd chanting Conference. Portland 125, Golden State 98 into the stands after a fan 
"KO-BE! KO-BE!" Bryant got his Michael Jordan scored 20 to David Wesley added 21 and Portland Tail Blazers defeated apparently threw a wad of gum 40th point on a free throw with lead Washington, but shot only 

George Lynch, who guarded the Golden State Warriors at him, and Mills reportedly
8.2 seconds left after the Jazz 8-of-23 in his first game since 

Jordan, scored a season-high 12. Wednesday night. blocked the Blazers' bus with his had no choice but to foul him. turning 40. Jerry Stackhouse, P.J. Brown had 13 rebounds, Portland bounded to a 76-49 car as the team was headed to 
"I never thought I'd hear that," returning from a strained left including two late in the fourth halftime lead, the most first-half the airport. Bryant said. "It felt like the groin that kept him out five quarter on either end of the points scored in the NBA this There was little outward fric­Staples Center out there." games, added 15 for the floor, and the Hornets finished season, en route to its third con­tion between the two teams 
Bryant finished 15-for-29 from Wizards. with a 51-35 rebounding advan­secutive win. The Blazers led by Wednesday night as the Blazers the floor and 4-of-6 on 3-point­"We missed a lot of easy shots; tage. as many as 33 points, and their jumped out to a 44-21 lead in ers. Most of his points came I know I missed a lot of easy Lynch said he felt more fortu­final point total was a season the first quarter, paced by Wells' from the outside because his shots," Jordan said. "We had our nate than triumphant about high. 18 points.knee was too sore to drive. chances, but unless you get it Jordan missing most of his shots. Golden State's Antawn Late in the quarter, DannyDespite being tightly guarded by done it doesn't matter." "He's a great scorer and if it Jamison, who played for just 16 Fortson was called for a flagrant Calbert Cheaney and Andrei After bloV\ing a 12-point lead wasn't for age he probably minutes, was scoreless as the foul after swatting back Wells as Kirilenko, Bryant kept hitting his in the final 5 minutes against the would have had his 50 tonight," Warriors lost their third straight. he went for a layup. Wells lay on shots. Magic a night earlier, New Lynch said. "It's just one of those Gilbert Arenas had 22 points. the court holding his face for
-. "He's the best player in the Orleans needed the victory both situations where you have to go It was the first meeting several moments before getting game right now. He's playing as for morale and to get some sepa­out and stay close to him and between the two teams since up to make both free throws. good of basketball as I've seen in ration in the standings between make him work, and if he makes Dec. 20, when a post-game After Wells accumulated 26 my career," Jazz guard Mark themselves (29-27) and them, he makes them, but if not, brawl broke out after Rasheed points in the first 15 minutes, he Jackson said. Washington (25-28), which cur-you hopefully get your rebounds Wallace's 16-foot jumper won it rested the rest of the half. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. 
-
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righc to edic all classifieds for comenr without issuing refunds, 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOCUS  Residential Instructors needed for  Walk to School.  
- NOTICES SPRING BREAK on South Padre  (the Fellowship of Catholic University Students) is seeking recent college graduates  WANTED Softball Officials Wanted.  developmentally disabled adults in Niles group home Flexible scheduling.  2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus.  PERSONAL  
Island, ranked #3 S.B. destination by the Travel Channel. South Padre Resort Rentals has  lor campus ministry positions nationwide.  Apply w/RecSports by Feb. 20th New ND officials earn 58.  Successful applicants must be compassionate and responsible  mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 www.mmmrentals.com  Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone.  
the best 1,2&3 bedroom condos. Great location and amenities, close to Mexico. Call B00-944-6818 Visit gosouthpadreisland.com  Six-week summer training in Montana with over 75 other recent college graduates; serve on campus in a team of 4;  More info email hadams@nd edu Officials Wanted.  Inquire at: 269 687.0875.  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUESTIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH OF NO  If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  
#1 Spring Break Vacations!  work one-on-one with students: help create and sustain Catholic  Apply w/RecSports by Clinic Dates:  FOR RENT  FOR 3-5 PEOPLE  For more information, see our  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida! Best Parties,  communities on college campuses.  Lacrosse Feb. 25 @ 7p RSRC.  Rooma for rent  2773097  bi-weekly ad in The Observer  
Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limitedll! 1·B00-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com  Contact FOCUS (970) 336-9881 www.focusonline.org  Floor Hockey Feb.25 @ Bp RSRC. Soccer Feb. 25@ 9p RSRC. More info email hadams@nd,edu  $250 month includes utilities. 272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com  4-bdrm, 2-bath home, close to campus. Clay Twp. 271-5144.  Kristina Barrios, youre the only girl my heart beats for, how I wish that you were mine.  

Thursday, February 20, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page I 7 
NBA 
Humphrey traded to Grizzlies in four-player deal 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO. Fla. 
Orlando and Memphis pulled off the first big trade before Thursday's NBA deadline, agrce­ing to a four-player deal Wednesday that sent Mike Miller and Ryan Humphrey from the Magic to the Grizzlies for rookies Drew Gooden and Gordan Giricek. 
The Grizzlies also received a first-round pick owed to Orlando by Sacramento and a second­round selection in 2004, while sending an undisclosed amount of cash to the Magic. 
Orlando is giving up its second­leading scorer, Miller, who was averaging 16.4 points as the sec­ond offensive option behind Tracy McGrady. The Magic never envi­sioned having to use Miller, a small forward, as their No. 2 scorer, but the chronic ankle injury that has sidelined Grant Hill indefinitely forced Miller into that role. 
Without Miller, the Magic are looking to both Gooden and Giricek to relieve some of the pressure on McGrady, the NBA's leading scorer. 
"We saw an opportunity to move a player we like very much in Mike Miller for two young play­ers that better fill our needs on this particular team," Orlando general manager John Gabriel said. 
Added Magic coach Doc Rivers: "This is a tough business and Mike was one of my favorites. He, however, was the only way we could improve our basketball team." 

Gooden, a 6-foot-10 power for­ward, was the fourth overall selection in last year's draft. The 6-foot-6 Giricek, a 25-year-old guard from Croatia. is regarded as a sharpshooter. 
Both players could soon start for the Magir,, Gabriel said. That would send to the bench Pat Garrity, a 3-point shooting spe­cialist who is sometimes taken advantage of by larger power for­wards. 
Gooden was averaging 12.1 points and 5.8 rebounds for the Grizzlies, but was not regarded as one of coach Hubie Brown's favorite players. His name had been coming up in trade rumors during recent days as the clock ticked down to Thursday's 3 p.m. EST deadline. 
Gooden appeared in 51 games, making 29 starts. Giricek averaged 11.2 points in 49 games, including 35 starts. 
Humphrey, a rookie power for­ward from Notre Dame, appeared in 35 games for Orlando and averaged 1.8 points. Undersized at 6-feet, 6-inches, he was shoot­ing only 27 percent from the field and lost Rivers' confidence early into the season. 
Miller was the NBA's Rookie of the Year in 2001, but he never established the consistency the Magic wanted. 




Close to campus! (Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way 
(574) 272-1441 
Fax# (574) 272-1461 


\ 


----.. -------------------­
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 20, 2003 
NCAA MENS BASKETBALL 

Jones leads Blue Devils to 26th straight honte victory 
• Duke hangs on for 75-70 victory over Maryland Asscx;iated Press DURHAM, N.C. Duke got Maryland in its com­fort zone and paid back the 13th-ranked Terrapins for its most lopsided loss of the season. Dahntay Jones scored 21 points and J.J. Redick added 17 as the eighth-ranked BJue Devils ran their winning streak in Cameron Indoor Stadium to 26 straight with a 75-70 victory Wednesday night. After a rough few weeks, Duke (18-4, 8-4) is tied with the defending national champion Terrapins (16-7, 8-4) for the Atlantic Coast Conference lead with four league games remain­ing. Wake Forest, which plays at Georgia Tech on Thursday night, is 7-3. The Terrapins beat Duke 87­72 on Jan. 18 by dominating the second half. But this time around it was the Blue Devils who closed the deal in the final minutes after leading 37-33 at halftime. Steve Blake missed a contest­ed 3-pointer with 2 seconds left that could have tied it for the Terrapins, but he threw up an air ball and Redick closed it out with two free throws. Shelden WiUiams also came up big for the Blue Devils. The  freshmen had three points in 13 minutes in the first meeting between the last two national champs, but Williams showed . Maryland's experienced big men early that he had matured. He finished with 13 points, 11 rebounds and six of Duke's sea­son-high 13 blocked shots. Tahj Holden led Maryland with a career-high 18 points, but Drew Nicholas. who scored 24 against Duke a month ago, was held to eight. Each team started slowly in the second half before Duke went up 67-57 v.ith 5:49 left as Redick made two long 3-point­ers and Jones had a three-point play in a span of 1:47. But the only team with a win­. ning ACC road record coming in would make one last stand, pulling within two with 3:18 remaining. Jones then made two free throws and Daniel Ewing nailed a 3-pointcr with 2 seconds left on the shot clock to give Duke a 73-66 lead. Duke was guarding a three­point lead in the final 45 sec­onds and tried to run the clock down. but Ewing lost it in the lane, setting up Blake's final shot that came up short. Maryland scored 90 points against No. 10 Wake Forest on Monday, but managed just 19 in the opening 10 minutes against Duke as the Blue Devils went on a 12-0 run to grab a 10-point lead. Jones had six of his 10 first­half points in the spurt, while  Williams added four. The Blue Devils missed eight straight 3-pointers to let the Terrapins back into it. Maryland used a 12-1 run for a 31-30 lead. However, Duke closed the half with a 14-footer by Jones and a 3-pointer by Reddick for a four-point lead in the 17th straight meeting in which both teams were ranked in the Top 25. Memphis 80, Loulsvllle 73 Louisville coach Rick Pitino went into their game with Memphis worried about the Tigers' 3-point shooting. He should have been more concerned about their rebound­ing. Antonio Burks scored 16 points and the Tigers outre­boundcd No. 4 Louisville 47-31 in the victory. Chris Massie had 12 points and 11 rebounds and Earl Barron also had 11 rebounds for the Tigers (17-5, 8-3 Conference USA), who won their sixth straight game. "They just took us to the woodshed on the glass," Pitino said. "They deserved the victo­ry. They beat the hell out of us." Reece Gaines scored 19 points on 5-of-18 shooting for the Cardinals (19-3, 9-2). who lost at home for the first time in 12 games this season. Gaines went 1-of-9 from 3-point range and the Cardinals, the best 3-point shooting team in Conference  USA, went 5-for-23 (22 per­of Grice's gaffe. cent). Burks missed a layup, Myles "We shot way too many 3s," rebounded and Erik Brown said Gaines, who hit a game­made two free throws with 35 winning 3-pointer in a victory at seconds left tu cut the lead to Marquette on Saturday. "I shot three. too many 3s that didn't go in. I Louisville got no closer. The thought they'd go in, hut they Tigers. the second-worst free didn't." throw shooting team in the con­Five players fouled out of the ference, went 5-of-6 from the tightly called game which had line over the final 20 seconds, 61 fouls called. including two by Grice. "Both teams "It was a fought like huge win,"''They just took us to thecrazy,"Memphis s a i d coach John woodshed on the glass. Memphis Calipari said. They deserved the guard Billy Massie fell Richmond,victory. They beat the awkwardly with the only 14:08 left in the hell out ofus. " Tiger to foul game. He 0 U t returned later, "EverybodyRick Pltlno but Ca1ipari said should beLouisville coachhe played with a proud of us. broken nose. We took Louisville for-away pretty ward Ellis Myles left in the sec­much everything they they ond half with a shoulder injury, wanted to do. We wanted to be but also returned for the final the aggressor." minutes. The Tigers rode an early 10-0 The Tigers led 7 4-67 with 50 run to a 13-7 lead. They built seconds left, when John Grice the first-half lead to seven and stepped to the free throw line. could have led by more, but He made the first, then made a missed eight of their first nine throat-slashing gesture, draw­free throws. ing a technical foul. Memphis outrebounded Calipari screamed at Grice, Louisville 19-12 and forced 10 while Simeon Naydenov hit the turnovers in the opening half, free throws for Louisville. but led only 35-31. Gaines added another one seven The teams were tied at 59-59, seconds later to draw Louisville but Grice made two free throws within five. and Barron rebounded a miss "He doesn't understand when by Myles and found Burks you do that throat thing, you downcourt for a breakaway don't look classy," Calipari said layup for a 63-59 lead.  
--,  

Questi<>11: 

want a backstage pass to 

Al1S\f\f81": 

Join the planning committee 
Informational meeting and applications available: When: FEBRUARY 26 Where: LAFORTUNE'S 
WEDNESDAY MONTGOMERY 
9:00 PM THEATER 
Questions: emaH tromero@nd.edu 
Thursday, February 20. 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bonds has quick surgery, can play again in a week 
The 38-year-old slugger is elbow.

. 10-minute 
not likely to swing a bat or play Bonds' teammates know he surgery goes as in left field for three or four will be ready to play soon. planned for 38-days, but "Barry's 
could prac­always been a

year-old star 
tice sooner. "/don't think anything is gamer," new 
Conte said center fielder

Associated Press going to stop him from 
Bonds' inci­Marquis sion was coming back and doing Grissom said. SCOTfSDALE. Ariz. about an inch what hes supposed to "He always Barry Bonds had a 10-long and that goes out and
do."

minutc operation on his left Bonds had wants to play elbow Wednesday to remove a three stitch­and he will do quarter-inch ball of scar tissue es. The sur­Marquis Grissom whatever he and suture from a previous rounding has to do to get
Bond's teammate 

surgery. area was ten­back on tho 
San Francisco Giants trainer der. field. I think of Stan Conte referred to the pro­Bonds had local anesthesia, him as a great competitor. You cedure, performed by local meaning his elbow was look at what he's done over the team orthopedist Dr. David numbed. He also was under course of his career and how Zeman, as a "bumpectomy." some sedation. There was a bad he wants to win that ring, I 
"It was uneventful, exactly as 30-minute recovery period for don't think anything is going to we planned," Conte said. "We Bonds before he was allowed to stop him from coming back and didn't have to dig into the (tri­go home, Conte said. doing what he's supposed to ceps) muscle The scar do. He's probably hurt half his or anything tissue was career, playing in pain. I don't else. It was irritating think he'II be out long."
"It was uneventful,

right below Bonds when Bonds lost in his first World the skin. The exactly as we planned ... he rested his Series last season when the key to the The key to the surgery elbow, not Anaheim Angels beat the surgery was when he Giants in seven games. Bonds
was we opened up the 

we opened up worked out, won his first batting title with a the skin and skin and it was right Conte said. .370 average and his record it was right there." Bonds com­fifth MVP award. there." plained of He was walked a major 
The five­tenderness to league record 198 times in
Stan Conte 

time NL MVP Conte after 2002. He hit .471 with four rested at Giants trainer arriving at home runs and six RBIs in the home after c a m p first World Series and was the opera-Tuesday. walked 13 times. tion, and was expected to do The pain stemmed from Bonds is ready to make some running and other cardio surgery in 1999, when doctors another run at a title, with work Thursday, the first day of repaired a tear in Bonds' left many new faces around him, full-squad workouts for the triceps and removed a bone including Grissom and right defending NL champions. spur from the back of his fielder Jose Cruz Jr. 



CHRISTMAS IN APRIL IS APPROACHING AGAIN! 
Date: Sat. April 12, 2003 Time: 7:15am -4:30pm 
Come be one of the 1,000+ volunteers! 
Sign-ups: Tuesday, Feb. 18, 11-2pm and 4-Spm, in LaFortune Wednesday, Feb. 19, 11-2pm in North Dining Hall Wednesday, Feb. 19, 4-Spm in LaFortune 
-
Thursday, Feb. 20, 11-2pm and 4-8pm, in LaFortune 
For sign-up sheets and more information regarding the event please visit our website at www.nd.edu/~cia or come to the sign-up locations. 
Thank you in advance for your help and participation. 
Your Christmas in April Steering Committee 
r­
-
AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, February 20, 2003
page 20 

-
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Wake Forest at Georgia Tech 7 p.rn., ESPN2 Charlotte at Marquette 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL HOCKEY 
Avalanche at Penguins 8 p.m., ESPN2 
BOXING 


Associated Press 
TUNICA, Miss. 
Mike Tyson was more eager to show off the new tattoo on his face than to show off what kind of shape he's in. 
The tattoo looked real enough, but Clifford Etienne's camp wasn't so sure about anything else. 
The circuslike atmos­phere surrounding Tyson moved Wednesday to the string of casinos along the Mississippi River, where the former heavyweight champion worked out behind closed doors before emerging to give the world a peek at his new tattoo. 

Tyson had a bewildered look on his face as he headed quickly toward an elevator and the sanctuary of his hotel room. 
His trainer said later that Tyson was discour­aged about his return to training after a week out of the gym, and still feeling the effects of flu-like symp­toms. 
"His mind seemed to be in the right place," trainer Freddie Roach said. 'Tm just worried about his body." 
A day after Tyson woke up and decided to fight, it was Etienne's turn to wake up and change his mind about getting into the ring. 
Etienne decided nearly $1 million was too much to pass up. 
'Tm a fighter, not a cow­ard," Etienne said. "I thought about it all night. I didn't work all these months to get in shape without going out and being able to do my thing." 
Etienne's manager, Les Bonano, said he doubted Tyson was ever sick and said he believed the for­mer heavyweight champi­on had been working out all along. The claims of ill­ness, he said, may have been just a ploy to make Etienne let his guard down. 
"I don't ever believe 
Tyson was sick," Bonano said. "I don't believe the training rumors." 
Tyson didn't arrive in Tunica until shortly before 3 a.m., after one of two jets chartered by his man­ager arrived from Las Vegas. Newspapers and television showed a man believed to be Tyson hid­ing his face with towels, but it wasn't him. 
Tyson actually flew in later, part of a plan to keep him from the expect­ed media barrage. 
"Ile had the worse plane," trainer Freddie Roach said. "He told me his plane didn't even have any food on it." 
IN BRIEF 

Tagliabue discusses hiring new plan to promote minority hiring. Congressman demands 
It requires teams to interview at ban of"ephedra drug of minorities in NFL 
least one minority candidate for A New York lawmaker called
When James Harris retired as an coaching vacancies. But the Detroit Wednesday for an immediate banNFL quarterback two decades ago, Lions were unable to get a minority to on sales of the diet drug ephedrano team would hire him as an assis­talk to them after it became clear they after the spring training death of atant coach. 

were ready to hire ex-San Francisco 23-year-old Baltimore Orioles pitch­Now he's one of the NFL's few top coach Steve Mariucci. 
black executives, the new vice presi­er. 
Lewis is uncertain about what more Hep. John Sweeney, R-Clifton
dent of player personnel for the 

can be done. Park, said ephedra, already banned
Jacksonville Jaguars. But Harris 

"Really, you cannot tell someone by the NCAA, the NFL, and the
thinks the league has work to do in minority hiring. who to hire," he said. "When I put International Olympic Committee, is 
together my staff, I wanted to hire too dangerous for athletes, 
"We're ·talking about African­

guys who I knew. You want to know Pitching prospect Steve BechlerAmericans, but we're also talking what kind of stress he's under and collapsed Sunday during a spring
about the best candidate to get the job," Harris said. "In some cases, how he handles stress." training workout in Fort Lauderdale Lewis and Harris both said they
where an African-American is the and died after his temperature best candidate, he's still not getting didn't blame candidates for not inter­soared to 108 degrees. The the job." viewing with Detroit. And Lewis didn't Broward County medical examiner 
Harris ate dinner Wednesday night blame Detroit president Matt Millen said Bechler was taking a product with commissioner Paul Tagliabue. for his quick decision on Mariucci. containing ephedrine, the active Among Tagliabue's other guests "You have a man who is fighting for ingredient in ephedra. were the NFL's three black head his job and he's got the right to hire "Baseball has nowhere to hide coaches: Tony Dungy of the Colts, his man," Lewis said. "But I don't anymore," said Sweeney. "How Herman Edwards of the Jets, and think someone should take the inter­many young men have to die before Marvin Lewis of the Bengals. view if they knew who Matt was going someone wises up and bans this 
Among the topics was the NFL's to hire." junk?" 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NCAA WOMENS BASKETBALL
SMC BASKETBALL 
Connecticut wins
Belles win in final home game 
. Victory puts end Shaun Hussell (15 points) kept 
victory within grasp while theto 12-game losing defense, led by 5-foot-2 guardstreak Katie Boyce and senior for­
ward Kristen Matha, put the pressure on the relentless

By TREY WILLIAMS Adrian offense.
Sports Writer 
Matha was a force to be reckoned with under the bas­The myth that says 13 is an ket as she totaled five unlucky number obviously rebounds, two assists and con­
doesn't apply to  tributed  
Belles basket- f  o  u  r  
ball. Senior mem­bers of Saint Mary's basket­ball said final goodbyes to the  "We're finally clicking. This is the moment this team has been working toward for a long time. "  points. Boyce, though small in stature, proved  
Angela Athletic  herself  
Center  in  an  Suzanne Bellina  worthy of  
enjoyable fash­ Belles coach  a  guard  

ion as the team snapped a would-be 13­game losing streak with acon­vincing 71-58 triumph over Adrian College Wednesday might. 
The Belles kept the Bulldogs on a short leash for most of the game, trailing them 25-22 at the end of the first half, but surged ahead with a 49-point second half. 
"We're finally clicking," coach Suzanne Bellina said'. "This is the moment this team has been working toward for a long time." 
The little pieces fell perfectly into place for the Belles as each team member con­tributed where she saw fit. Scoring leaders Emily Creachbaum, (16 points) and 
position, drawing numerous fouls by the Bulldogs and answered them by cashing on 58 percent of free throw shots. 
"We knew that we weren't executing on the important plays in the second half," said Boyce "We needed those hus­tle plays to turn the game around. I just stepped into a role where I thought I could help the team." 
Failure to execute took its toll on the Belles as the Bulldogs fought to keep the lead in the opening minutes of the second half, leading by as much as nine points with 
10:52 left on the clock. 
However, the Belles stepped up, limiting Adrian to a 39 percent shooting average and 
a mere 14 percent in 3-point 

64th straight game
shooting. "Even when we were down, 
we had this 'refuse to lose' mentality," said Creachbaum "Usually in that situation you kind of drag yourself along, but we were confident throughout because we knew we couldn't lose the last game on our home court. especially for the seniors." 
The Belles showed their energy when it counted, seal­ing the win with unbeatable accuracy late in the game and substituting in normally untapped resources. 
The crowd and bench was on its feet as Barbara Kierl, limited by a knee brace, sunk a 3-pointer from deep with only .6 seconds on the clock. 
"Barbara's basket was like the icing on the cake," said Boyce "The energy was high enough already but that just made it even better. I feel like we won a championship." 
The Belles will attempt to make that championship a reality as they head into next week's MIAA tournament. 
"We're definitely at a high point," said Bellina. "But now our focus to be on the next couple of games. The girls are in an 'upset' state of mind and I think they're capable of doing what they set their minds to." 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams.3l7@nd.edu 


Connecticut in an eight-point hole during the winning streak. UConn trailed 54-46
Hear the Experiences 

in the second half before 
CENTER FOR 
Jan. 4. Maria Conlon added 15 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
points for the Huskies, who held Miami to 32. 5 percent shooting for the game. UConn shot 59 percent in the second half and 52.6 percent for the game. 
"They came out strong, real aggressive on the boards with their defense and we didn't really handle it as well as we should have," Taurasi said. "I think we did a better job as the game went on." 
"We weren't concerned or afraid we were going to lose the game," she added. 
Miami shot just 1-of-14 from the field and committed eight turnovers during the 11-minute stretch when the Huskies rallied. 
"At the end of I.he first half and beginning of the second 
ofGang Members 
Center for Social Concerns 

half we couldn't get anything going," Miami coach Ferne Labati said. "We couldn't get a good shot." 
Taurasi finished 5-of-9
3:30PM 

from the floor and 9-of-10 
from the free throw line in 
leading ihe Huskies to their 
For more information please contact the 

31st straight win against Big East opponents and 45th
Center for Social Concerns at 1-9970 

Take the Opportunity to Open Your Mind 

straight during Big East reg­
ular-season and tournament 
games. 
UConn holds the women's 
record for consecutive wins 
and is 24 victories shy of 
tying the men's record of 88 
set by UCLA from 1971-74. 
UConn has not lost since a 
90-75 loss to eventual cham­
pion Notre Dame in the 2001 
Final Four. 
"We don't think about the 
streak," Taurasi said. "We 
don't even know what num­
ber it's on." 
UConn has won 17 straight 
over Miami since a 69-51 
loss in Coral Gables in 1993. 
The Huskies led 37-29 at 
halftime and have not trailed 
at halftime during the 
streak. 
Kansas State 66, Missouri 
56 
Megan Mahoney scored 21 
points and Kendra Wecker 
added 18 as No. 5 Kansas 
State held off a late rally to 
beat Missouri 66-56 
Wednesday night. 
Nicole Ohlde added 17 
points for Kansas State. 
Mahoney also had 12 
rebounds and was 7-of-10 
from the field. 
Wecker, the Big 12's lead­
ing scorer. made six of 18 
shots. She scored in double 
digits for the 39th straight 
game. 
Kansas State (24-2, 11-1 
Big 12) won its sixth straight 
and has won 19 of its last 20. 
The Wildcats also tied the 
series between the schools at 
31. 
After being down by as 
many as 20 early in the sec­
ond half. Missouri (13-10, 7­
5) used an 8-0 run to cut the lead to 51-43 with 7 :36 left. Reserves Angie Carter and Cherice Mack scored six of those points for Missouri. The Tigers held Kansas State without a field goal for 7: 14 until Ohlde scored with 2:30 left to put the Wildcats up 58-51. 
Kerensa Barr led Missouri 
with 17 points and Evan 
Unrau added 15. 
Kansas State capitalized on poor Missouri shooting early. The Wildcats made nine of their first 14 shots to take a 21-8 lead. Despite making just two of their next 14 dur­ing the next 10 minutes, Kansas State had a 34-17 advantage at halftime. The Tigers made eight of 28 shots in the half. 
Mahoney, who had 10 points in the game's first eight minutes, led all scorers in the first half with 13 points on 5-for-8 shooting. 
Missouri missed all eight of its 3-point attempts in the first half, while Kansas State was 5-of-9. Despite shooting 38 percent in the first half, the Wildcats outrebounded Missouri 24-17. 

Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, rla. 

In the first half against No. 
1 Connecticut, Miami did 
what only one other team 
had done during the Huskies' 
record winning streak. 
In the second half, the 
Hurricanes did what every 
other team has done -come 
up short. 
Diana Taurasi scored 19 
points, including 14 during a 
decisive 30-4 run, as top­
ranked Connecticut extended 
its women's NCAA-record 
winning streak to 64 games 
wiih a 81-60 victory over 
Miami on Wednesday night. 
The Huskies' run extended into the second half, erasing an eight-point deficit they faced with seven minutes remaining in the first half. The gap matched the largest the Huskies have faced at any point during their win­ning streak. 
"Because we've won so much and so many times we've made it look like it's easier than it really is, whenever the other team plays pretty well and we don't play as well as we can, the natural reaction is, 'What's wrong with Connecticut?"' UConn coach Geno Auriemma said. "Sometimes we're just nor­mal, you know. Sometimes we're just human. And the other guys were pretty good." 
Only Tennessee earlier this season managed to put 
page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 20, 2003 
Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 ministry.1@nd.edu www.nd.edu/~ministry
C-M Campus Ministry 

Notre Dame Encounter
• now 

Freshman Retreat #46
Get involved, go on a retreat 

Retreat #76
Retreat Date: Feb. 28-Mar. 1, 2003 


Sign-up deadline: February 24 Retreat Date: April 11-13, 2003 114 Coleman-Morse Center Sign-up Dates: February 24-March 7, 2003 
wh t' h 
[riday 2.21 
The Fr. Corby Retreat for ROTC Seniors 
Friday and Saturday Moreau Seminary 
El Encuentro con Nuestra Fe Retreat 
Friday through Sunday Five Pines, Michigan 
Gay, Lesbian and Bi~sexual Retreat 
Friday through Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Handbell and Celebration Choir Tour 
Friday through Sunday Detroit, Michigan 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:oo p.m. 
CoMo Student Lounge 
sunday2.23 
RCIA Session 
10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. CoMo Student Lounge 
. 
sunday ccont. J 
Sankofa Academy Open Discussion Group 
2:00-3:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse Center 
tuesday 2.2s 
Campus Bible Study 
roo -8:oo p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. 
St. Edward's Halt 
wednesday 2.26 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:oo p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Topic: Challenging Friendships 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Conversation with Sr. Sue about Vocation to Religious Life 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Pray for Peace. Work for Justice. 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
Every Friday • 5:15 p.m. • Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
mass schedule 

114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Pickup info & apps in CoMo room 114, Monday through Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. or the CM Welcome Center (room 111) Sunday through Thursday 4 p.m. to Midnight. 
considerations.... 
A Crazy Kind of Love 
Reluctant Saints & Citizens 
by Chandra Johnson 
Assistant to the President & Assistant Director, Cross Cultural Ministry 
I've been reading Donald Spoto's book, Reluctant Saint: The life of Francis ofAssisi, and there's 
a phrase in Chapter 5 that I can't get out of my mind. When speaking of Francis' self-inflicted 
penances and odd asceticism, Spoto writes that "..saints are in fact heroically in love, and like lovers, 
they sometimes become eccentric, and even overstep themselves; holiness does not preclude human­
ity, after all". I'm struck by this phrase because it helps me to understand why we oftentimes make 
saints out of crazy people. Maybe they're not crazy, after all. They're just in love -with God. 
Being in love makes you do odd things. Like talking on the telephone for hours at a time. Or 
being distracted all aay by the image of the one who makes you feel all sweet inside. Or replaying the 
moment you first met over and over in your mind. Maybe this is what Francis felt when, in 1205, he 
encountered Jesus at San Damiano and knew it was real. He felt all sweet inside and knew he had to 
share this sweetness with other people. He began doing crazy things and people saw in him what they 
didn't see in themselves: holy boldness and peace which surpassed all human understanding. 
If you walked through Lafortune last Tuesday at about noon, you would have heard horns 
honking (or maybe you thought someone let the ducks inside). As I stood at the elevator, someone handed me a horn that said, "Honk if you love Jesus! Come to Interfaith Christian Night Prayer." I remember thinking, "If I honk this horn, the hoards of people packed into LaFortune will notice me 
and think I'm drawing attention to myself." I 

grabbed the horn, thanked 
him and dashed into the 

As we hear daily talk of war, maybe 
now's the time to open ourselves to falling in love with God's love. It's risky business, though. Nobody wants to be perceived as a Jesus freak or national dissident. When we open ourselves to a "crazy kind of love" which promotes human dignity and equal­ity through open dialogue and considerate compromise, people will recognize the justice and tell the story. 
Seventh Sunday in Ordinary Time 

elevator. I stood there alone with this horn in my hand and suddenly I found myself slowly squeezing its rubber bulb. Honk ... honk. This display of affection was my private, demur response to loving Jesus. I honked the horn with nobody around. 
These are interesting times in our church and world as the human spirit is being tried and tested, and loyalties are being stretched in every imaginable direction. Looking for God in the midst of this global upheaval is a natural response to our fears. It may be time to honk for Jesus; to realign our contemporary Christian views with those of the early Christians who knew Jesus was in love with them and who.waited with bated breath for his return. As they waited, they retold the story of how he loved them. In a politically and spiritually tumultuous time, they loved him unconditionally regard­less of the chaos. Their faith was central, and they were confident of its potential for transformation and healing. As we hear daily talk of war and economic and political unrest around the world, maybe now's the time to open ourselves to falling in love with God's love. It's risky business, though. Nobody wants to be perceived as a Jesus freak or national dissident. When we open ourselves to a "crazy kind of love" which promotes human dignity and equality through open dialogue and consider­ate compromise, people will recognize the justice and tell the story. 
I looked for the Interfaith horn the other day and couldn't find it. I probably put it down some­where and someone picked it up. I hope so. Even more, I hope they follow the directions and honk, pray, sing and shout loudly for the love of Jesus. Like Francis, we're after the sweetness, the taste of God's affection in our lives. Once we're open to receiving it, we will be changed and so will the world. Once we master the sacredness and treasure of our common humanity, the holiness will come. 
And they'll know we are Christians by our love. 
basiUca of the sacred heart 
Saturday  Sunday  
5:00 p.m.  10:00 a.m.  
Rev. Samuel J. Peters, c.s.c.  Rev. Samuel J. Peters, c.s.c.  
11:45 a.m.  
Most Rev. John M. d'Arcy, D.D., S.T.D.  


around campus (every Sunday) 
1:30  p.m.  5:00  p.m.  
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  
Zahm Hall Chapel  Law School Chapel  

7:00 p.m. 
MBA Mass 
Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge 

·S,unday7s Scripture Readings 1st: Is 43: 18 -19, 21 -22, 24b -25 2nd: 2Cor 1: 18 -22 Gospel: Mark 2: 1 -12 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
two best scores for the 1­meter event. Miami. strong in

Mens 
past Championships, will look to Kyle Prandi and Miquel

continued from page 28 
Velazquez to perform well. Big East team the Irish have For the Irish, Fitzpatrick is competed against this season. ranked in the top three for At the Notre Dame Invitational both the 100 and 200 breast­in early December, the strokes. Junior Matt Obringer Mountaineers h a s placed third strong while the Irish "The competition doesn't times in came in first. the 100,
expect too much ofus. 
200 and

Mountaineer 
We're going to surprise 

senior Kleyton 5 0 0 F1·anca is a them." freestyles. standout and a M a t t returning winner Bertke 
Jason Fitzpatrick 

in the 200 free. a n d Other tough Irish swimmer Patrick 
teams this week-Davis are end will be C O n ­Boston College and Seton Hall. tenders in the 1,650 free, as is 
Tho Eagles come into the Doug Bauman in the 100 Championships on a roll, hav­backstroke. ing won seven of their last David Moisan and Tyler eight meets. Their top swim­Grenda also have good times mer in six events is sophomore in the 200 breaststroke. T i m Sophomore Frank 
Tu 11 y, w h o  "We'll go out and  Krakowski, Moisan and Lucas Wymore  
boasts  outperform the rest ofthe  rank near the top  
ti m CS that arc 13oston  teams in the Big East. We'll prove they're  in the 100 butter­fly, 400 IM and 200 butterfly  
College  wrong about us. "  respectively.  
d  u  a  1  Notre  Dame's  
m e e t records.  Jason Fitzpatrick  goal for the week­end is simple,  
F  o r  Irish swimmer  according  to  
S C t O n  Fitzpatrick.  
llall, the  "We'll  go  out  

2002-2003 season has been a and outperform the rest of the breakthrough. The team holds teams in the Big East," he a record of 11-3 overall, which said. "We'll prove they're is the first winning record in wrong about us." school history. 
In the diving competition, Georgetown's duo of Michael Contact Lisa Reijula at Kizer and Alan Fong has the lreiju1a@nd.edu 
ley relay (3:40.98). Reaching individual goals Hecking. Nixon. Katie can help achieve team
Womens 

Eckholt and Danielle Hulick goals. Sophomore Kristen 
continued from page 28 set a Big East conference Peterson, winner of the ------------record in the 200 free relay 2002 Most Improved Award Lisa Garcia. "We can't walk with a time of 1:32.01. given by coaches, made all­into it and take it for grant­While Hecking, Lloyd, and Big East last season for ed, [given the fact] we've Nixon arc gone, the pres­placing second in 100 and been six-time Big East ence of D'Olier, Eckholt and 200 backstroke events only champs." Hulick on this year's relay behind Becking. 
Weathers agrees. teams brings experience. Junior Marie Labusky also 
"The girls are confident in Other current swimmers holds the top two Notre terms of being h a v e Dame 200 IM records with able to swim a I s o times of 2:01.47 and
"The girls are
well, but it's p C r · 2:01.87 at Big East's last going to be a formed season.
confident in terms of pretty big being able to swim well. at a With senior captains Katie chailenge for h i g h Cadavini, Amy Deger and
but it's going to be a
us," he said. level at Heidi Hendrick leading the
pretty big 
The five-p a s t defending champions this time Big East challenge for us. " champi­weekend, Notre Dame Coach of the onships. hopes to walk away with its Year said Garcia seventh straight Big East
Bailey Weathers 
Pittsburgh, is a title. Virginia Tech Irish coach prime "The main thing we need and Rutgers exam -to do is go out and swim all present a pie. The individual races the best we similar threat to the junior honorable mention can and let the meet take defending champions. All-American for the 2001-care of itself," Weathers 
The Irish mark or 797 02 season finished runner­said. "If we are in a position points last season dwarfed up in the 100 and 200 but­to win the meet later in the a 672.5 first-place 2001 terfly in the Big East weekend then we can talk effort, but did not quite Championships last season about that when the time reach the 829.5 points the and holds the 200 butter11y comes." team amassed in 2000. Last record of 1:59.28, set at the "We arc going in very year's team, however, dom­NCAA Championships. confident," said Garcia. inated across the board The graduation of Nixon "We just need to depend on while showing special and others is an obvious each other as a team. Every strength in the relays. loss, but the Irish have girl's swim is going to mat­
Individual champions managed a 9-1-1 record ter." included Carrie Nixon in the and a No. 17 national rank­The championships open 50 freestyle, Kelly Hecking ing in their absence. Thursday with the 200 in the 100 and 200 back­"I think we do and have freestyle relay, the 500 stroke and Allison Lloyd in had for sever.al years a freestyle, the 400 medley the 200 breaststroke. group that works well relay, the 200 IM. the 50 
In the relays, Hecking, together," said Weathers. freestyle and the 1-meter Lloyd, Lisa D'Olier and "We usually put team goals diving. Nixon set Big East records ahead of individual goals in the 200 medley relay and I think that is really Contact Pat Leonard at 
(1:41.93) and the 400 med-important." pleonard@nd.edu 


-IT 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
presents 

Reflections from Returned Overseas Missioners 
Tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns! 
Missioners from several of the volunteer groups listed below will be sharing reflections from their experiences abroad. All are invited! 
Farm of the Child Comboni Lay Missionaries Honduras f ..A--\ Ghana 

~  
Volunteer Missionary  
Cap Corps  Movement  
Nicaragua  El Salvador  
Holy Cross Associates  Christian Brothers  
Chile  Peru  

in the league so they wouldn't have to face Connecticut until later in the tournament. 
But now, Notre Dame is focusing on playing Connecticut, then battling Pittsburgh at the Joyce Center Wednesday. Arter that, the Irish face Seton Hall at home and finish the season on the road against Syracuse March 4. 
Notes: 
. Alicia Hatay was named Big East Player of the Week for the week of Feb. 17. It was the third time in her career that Hatay received the award. Last week, the senior from Lake Zurich, Ill. averaged 24.5 points and seven rebounds per game, 
leading the Irish  to  wins  
over  St.  John's  and  
Providence.  

Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Irish 
continued from page 28 
we got a [seventh seed] and our RPI wasn't nearly as good as it is now. So if we can go into the Big East tournament and win a game or two and get to 19 wins ­although I think that 18 wins will get us in -but if we get to 19 or 20 wins, we'll get a better seed." 

Notre Dame is sixth in the Big East heading into their weekend game against Connecticut. But the Irish have a good shot at finishing the season fifth to earn the fifth seed in the conference tournament. Ir this happens, Notre Dame would face a No. 12 seed before likely facing Connecticut again in the second round if they advance. 
That's why the Irish might be better off finishing sixth 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold 
-25 Categories of Books 
-25.000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 
-Out-of-Print search service 
-Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 




page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS TENNIS 
Irish narrowly escape Spartans 
Wednesday Haddock tri­

By JOE LINDSLEY umphed 6-4, 7-6 (7-5). 7-2,
Spores Writer 
and the Irish earned the victo­ry.For the fifth time in eight "Luis is a really clutch play­

matches this season, it came er," Scott said. ''He's the guy 
down to the wire for the Irish. you want to have on the court And for the second time, when it comes to the [decid­
junior  Luis  i  n  g  1  
Haddock was  match,  
cast in the spotlight dur­ing the tense final minutes.  "I don't think any ofus expected it to come down to the third set ofthe final  because he'll do anything to bring  
Haddock responded, winning the deciding m a t c h  match, but that's the beauty ofcollege tennis."  home a win for us, and he did t h a t today."  
Wednesday at Michigan State and  Matt Scott Irish tri-captain  S C O t t had two victories  

leading the Irish to their third win in their past four matches. With the conquering of the 70th-ranked Spartans, No. 44 Notre Dame began to leave behind memories of its 0-4 start as the team improved to 3-5 for the spring season. 
"I don't think any of us expected it to come down to the third set of the final match, but that's the beauty of college tennis," junior tri-cap­tain Matt Scott said. "That's what makes it so exciting. It makes the win that much sweeter." 
The closing scenario Wednesday was reminiscent of Notre Dame's Jan. 31 home bout with Florida State, in which Haddock. an Irish tri­captain, was cast in the decid­ing match with the scored tied 3-3. Both Haddock and the Irish were defeated by the Seminoles then, but on 
for the 
Irish one in doubles play with sophomore Brent D'Amico and one in singles play. After Scott and D'Amico's 8-2 triumph at the No. 1 doubles flight, though, the Spartans claimed No. 2 and No. 3 doubles, and secured the first point of the match. Then, the Spartans' Goran Topalo defeated Irish senior Brian Farrell in 6-1 straight sets to put Michigan State up 2-0. Scott. ranked 119th in the nation, gave the Irish their first point of the match with his 6-2, 6-3 win over Chris Mitchell, but the Spartans'Cameron Marshall kept Michigan State ahead as he handed D' Amico his first singles loss of the spring. Then some new Irish players helped turn the tide for Notre Dame. 
Freshman Patrick Buchanan came through for Notre Dame as he registered a 6-4, 7-5 win over Eric Simonton. Junior Nicolas Lopez-Acevedo, a transfer from Bowling Green. tied up the match with his 6-1. 2-6, 6-4 defeat of Jimmy McGuire. Finally, with the match tied up, Haddock, ranked 72nd nationally, tri­umphed over Michigan State's Andy Formancyzk. 
While the Irish were a little surprised that the match was so close in the end, the team had expected some difficult play from the Spartans. 
"We expected a tough match," Scott said. "They're very competitive. They played very hard." 
The Irish have now defeated the Spartans 14 consecutive times. 
But more applicable for this season, Notre Dame is feeling it has recovered from the early season struggle 
"I think guys are getting more and more confident," Scott said. 
A primary concern for Notre Dame has been doubles play, and the young Irish squad is still trying to gain experience. Yet big lineup changes are not likely. 
"If we change [the lineup] too much it might not give guys a chance to settle in," Scott said. 
Saturday the Irish will face No. 40 Northwestern at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"We're expecting a battle," Scott said. "They have some very good players at the top of the lineup. It's a team that's good enough to beat us if we're not on top of our game." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 


CHIP MARKS/The Observer Junior tri-captain Matt Scott returns the ball at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Notre Dame defeated Michigan State 4-3 Wedn_esday. 
2002-03 Season f1 m, Television, and Theatre presents 
Actors _Frorn T11e London Stage 

Al;, ' The Tempest 
Thursday, February 20 ... 7:30 p.m.

Wednesday, February 19... 7:30 p.m 
Saturday, February 22... 7:30 p.m.
Friday, February 21 ... 7:30 p.m. 

Playing at Washington Hall• Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. 
The Actors residency ;s supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
r--------­
Thursday, February 20, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
BENGAL BOUTS 125-145 WEIGHT CLASS 
Four fights in 140-pound class include intrahall clash 
. No preliminary round fights for 125-pound class 
ByMAITLOZAR Spores Editor 
With only 12 boxers in the weight class, the iop four box• ers receive byes into the quar­terfinals, leaving the 140­pound division with only four preliminary fights tonight. 
Freshman Matt Connor fights junior Chip Marks in the matchup of the eight and nine seeds. The winner of that fight gets junior and top seed Tony Hollowell, who lost in the semifinals last year to eventu­al 135-pound champion T,J. D'Agostino. 
Moreau Seminary student Stephen Davidson faces junior Matt Welsh in another prelim­inary light. That winner draws fourth-seeded Joe Schmidlin in the quarterfinals. 
An intrahall fight between Dillon Hall residents senior Kevin Hool and freshman Edward Liva will take place in the bottom half of the 140­pound bracket. Hool lost in the first-round last year. The win­ner of the Hool-Liva fight will face senior Bill Wuest Sunday. 
The final preliminary fight is between junior Mark Pfizenmayer and sophomore Adrian Velez. That victor draws second seed Christopher Hoffman. 
145 pounds 
In the 145-pound division, top seed Luke Dillon looks to use his experience from his loss in tho quarterfinals to for­mer senior Matt Fumagalli and make a run at the title. 
Dillon dropped a narrow split decision to Fumagalli last year in the 135-pound divi­sion. The junior from Zahm will face Stephen Hill in the preliminaries. 
The winner of that bout will face the winner of junior Andrew Sylling and freshman John Piposar. 
Junior Joseph Shonkwiler draws Paul Harris in another preliminary bout. Shonkwiler lost in the first round last year. 
The winner of the Shonkwiler-Harris fight will 
get the winner of the Paul Robinson-Timothy Sims bout. 
In the other half of the bracket, senior Jeffrey Ham faces business graduate stu­dent Andrew Schoppe in the first round. The winner of that bout gets the winner of the fight between sophomore Timothy Huml and Jon Streit. Hurni won his first-round match last year. 
The last two preliminary round fights in the 145-pound weight class are between freshman Dayid DeBoer and Robert Murphy and law stu­dent John Vaglio and senior Hyan Duffey. 
125 pounds 
With only seven fighters in the 125-pound weight class, no preliminary round fights a.re necessary and their fights will begin Sunday with three quarterfinal round fights. Senior and defending champi­on Shawn Newberg received a bye into Wednesday's semifi­nal round. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 



Faculty Performance Series Featuring: 
fJ~7&S tJ"l ~LU&S 
Starring 

Students:Faculty: 

Michael Lee ~Mojo"
Hugh R. Page., Jr. 

Dave Pitt~Professor of the ~88 Fingers•
Blues" 

Brian Robinette
and ~Dean of ~Boom Boom•Boogie" 

Teddy Burgh 
~Cool for No
Max Johnson 

Reason"
~screamin Maxi" 

Thursday, February 20th From 9-11pm in the LaFortune Ballroom 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308. 




page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 20, 2003 
BENGAL BOUTS 150-165 WEIGHT CLASS 
150-pound class sports toughest field in preliminaries 
By LUKE BUSAM 
Sports Writer 
With no dominating captain and no byes granted to any fight­ers, the 150-pound weight class is arguably the most competitive class this year in Bengal Bouts. 
Juan Diego Vargas is fighting is his first Bengal Bouts this year, but this is not his first experience with the boxing. His performance in practice and in sparring earned him the No. 1 seed for his division. Vargas' excellent hooks and the ease with which he switches from head to body are evidence of his previous ring experience. Vargas, from Spain, fights Jonathan Lorenzo, an O'Neill junior from the Philippines, who is also partici­pating in his first Bengal Bouts. Lorenzo has wanted to fight in the Bouts since last April and looks forward to tonight's matchup. 
The second fight in this com­petitive division pits Steven Arevalo from Keough against Hans Biebl from Alumni. Both are sophomores who are partici­pating in their first Bengal Bouts this year. Biebl's nickname is "Blitzkrieg" and he says he is going to "step in the ring and show everyone what the light­ning war is all about." 
Zahm sophomore Christopher Koegel, also fighting in his first Bengal Bouts will face Ryan Rogers from Sorin. Rogers fought well as a freshman in last year's Bengal Bouts, beating Ted Volz in the preliminaries and losing a hard battle to last year's 145­pound champion, Jamar Tisby, in the quarterfinals. 
Craig Cardillo, a Stanford freshman will face an experi­enced fighter in his bout against left-hander Jon Pribaz. Pribaz, a junior from Alumni, is fighting in his third Bengal Bouts this year. Last year Pribaz beat Matt Pyle in the preliminaries but lost in the quarterfinals to Sam Fuller after knocking him down in the first round. 
Brandon Gasser, an Alumni junior, received good reviews in his sparring sessions. He brings several years of experience to this year's bouts. He lost a split decision to Daniel McCoy as a freshman in the preliminaries and advanced to the quarterfi­nals as a sophomore, where he lost a tough battle against Mike Melby in the 155-pound division. Gasser faces Luke McClellan. a Knott senior and a first-year boxer. 
Bobby Gorynski, a sophomore from St. Ed's faces Ryan Sienko. an O'Neill sophomore. It is both fighters' first year in Bengal Bouts. 
Dan Schnorr, a Keough sopho­more will battle Chase Heaton. a sophomore from Keenan. The winner of that fight will face either Matt Dowling or No. 2 seed Nathan Lohmeyer. 
Matt Dowling, sophomore from O'Neill, will face the experienced sophomore, Nathan Lohmeyer. Lohmeyer lost to Tisby, the 145­pound champ last year, in the semifinals of last year's bouts. Lohmeyer's plan this year is a simple one: "Go balls to the wall. all the way." 
lSSpounds 
While the 155-pound division also features no captain, Mike Melby an off-campus senior, is the favorite. Melby is a strong, experienced fighter with several years of training behind him. As a sophomore Melby advanced to the semifinals where he lost to the 160-pound champion Dennis Abdelnour. Last year, Melby advanced to the semifinals in the lighter 145-pound weight class, where he lost in a split decision to left-hander John Nowak. With six fights in the Bouts behind him, Melby is staying focused. 
"I'm going to fight hard and take each fight one at a time," said Melby. 
Melby fights Christopher Solis, a Fisher junior who has also had a bit of ring experience himself. Solis lost to Brendan Gasser last year in the first round of the tournament. 
Following Melby and Solis, Colin Kerrigan a Fisher sopho­more will fight Ted Maglione a Keenan freshman. Kerrigan fought in last year's bouts and lost a split decision to Julian Devoe. Kerrigan has improved this year. throwing harder and straighter in his sparring ses­sions. 


Mark Basola, a Keough fresh­man, will touch gloves with Ryan Morton, a sophomore form Sorin. Both are first year fighters. 

Notre Dame law student Jeff Christoforetti faces Galen Loughrey, a sophomore from Dillon. Loughrey fought well in his preliminary match last year against Mike Panzica and is one of the top seeded fighters in his division. 
Stephen Keppel, an off-campus senior, is making his return to the Bengal Bouts after going abroad last spring to London. As a sophomore, Keppel lost in the quarterfinals to Tom Pierce, who went on to win the 155-pound division that year. Pierce has also returned from London this year and is a senior captain. Keppel says he is excited to get back in the ring this year. 
"The captains have been really helpful and I'm excited to go out tomorrow night," Keppel said. 
Keppel's hooks and ability to slip past punches will aid him in his match against off-campus senior Colin Boylan. 
Nick Nanovic, a Dillon Hall junior will fight law student Michael Peters. Nanovic advanced to the 165-pound quarterfinals last year. 
Morrissey RA Cliff Arnold faces Brian Hansen, a sophomore from Alumni in the next bout of the night. 
The final fight in the 155­pound. division is a match betwewen two freshmen. Joe Campbell from Alumni will fight Greg Schaefer. Schaefer, who lives in Keough, fought well enough in sparring to earn the No. 2 seed for his weight class. 

160 pounds 

Keough Hall senior Rian Sweeney will fight Steve Tschanz, a junior from Alumni, to see who advances to meet Mark DeSp!inter in the quarterfi­nals. Splinter beat Chris Kitalong in the 160-pound. divi­sion last year and fights on Sunday. 
Off-campus senior Rick Ysasi is fighting in his first Bengal Bouts this year. Ile will fight sopho­more Todd White, who lives in Fisher. 
Sorin freshman Patrick Flaherty has drawn junior John Enterline in this year's bouts. Enterline, from O'Neill, lost in the quarterfinals last year to DeSplinter. This year Enterline is one of the strongest boxers in his weight class and is "looking to fight smart and put all the prac­tice and hard work to use." 
Another excellent 160-pound boxer is Bill Phillip, a junior from Sorin. Last year, Phillip fought in the 170-pound weight class, where he advanced to the quar­terfinals before losing in a brawl to Domingo Maynes. Phillip, the No. 3 in the 160-pound division, fights law student Ryan Dwyer tonight. 
Keith Fitzgerald, an off-cam­pus senior, will fight Kevin McCarthy, a Dillon Hall sopho­more fighting in his first Bengal Bouts. 
Jesse Shallcross and Alex Borowiecki will fight to see who moves on to face senior captain lost to Jon Nowak in the 155­pound quarterfinals last year. Shallcross says he's had one goal on his mind and that L'i to make it past the quarterfinals. However, Borowiecki, a fresh­man from Keough, currently stands in his way. 
165 pounds 
Keenan sophomore Mike Saroca fights Morrissey sopho­more Reid Hector for the honor of meeting junior captain Pat Dillon in the quarterfinals. Rector is staying focused on his first fight tonight. 
'Tm a little nervous. I'm hop­ing all the training will pay oIT," said Rector. 
The next fight in 165 pairs up two experienced boxers, neither of whom made it past the prelim­inaries last year. Chris Milliron a sophomore form Sorin lost to Matt Knust in the 170-pound weight class last year and Mike McDonald an off-campus senior lost to Matt Seidler in the 165­pound division last year. The winner of this fight will advance to meet Charlie Gough in the quarterfinals. 
Ross Bartels, a junior from O'Neill, will face Dillon junior Brent Burish. Burish fought in the 160-pound division last year and lost to Pat Dillon the in first round. As a freshman, Burish lost a tough match to Mark Criniti in the 175-pound class. 
" I hope to make it deeper into the tournament this year and possibly get a rematch with Dillon," said Burish. 

Tom Pierce in the quarterfinals. Contact Luke Busam at Shallcross, a Sorin sophomore lbusam@nd.edu 
.··································································-·········································· 
Domus 

PROPERTIES 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSES FORRENT 
FOR 2003-2004 2004-2005 
SCHOOL YEAR 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT domuskrametcom 
.
.
.
..
. 

OR CALL 574-315-5032 OR 574-234-2436 ASK FOR KRAMER 
.

•..•••.....................••.....•.....••....•••.............•......•••..•.•..........•.................•... 

Thursday, February 20, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLDCLARE O'BRIEN 
JUMBLESCHOOL DAZE 

MIKE ARGIR1ON ... 
JACK MONAHAN

HAPPY TOWN 
THl!ACCUMULATOR He didn't push his SHIYE:R ME TIMBERS! tray all the way in. 
, 



CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 26 Muckraker 61 Kind of doctor Tarbell 
62 Countenance

1 Prepares for a bout 63 even keel
27 Settings for some TV

6 Easter serving 64 Farm cry
dramas: Abbr. 10 A lot 65 Upholstery
28 Quip, part 2 fabric14 John Lennon's 32 Dignified

last million-66 Bump on a 
33 Federation

selling single branch 
34 Carryall

15 String puller 67 Hungary's lmre 
37 Top

16 Bibliophile's label 39 Match parts 68 ·+·site 
17 Apologize and 40 Brightest star in then some Aquila 
DOWN 

1B Commercial 43 Pizazz 1 Bandageprefix with bank 46 Quip, part 3 
2 Uproar19 819 furniture 
48 Top 3 Loan paymentretailer 

51 Souvenir from schedules: Abbr. 20 Start of a quip 
Aruba? 
4 Bombay royal by hockey 

52 English_

commentator 5 Ridicule Don Cherry 53 "I've had 
6 Life's founder 

about his enough" 7 Sri Lanka'sautobiography 55 Trash can, 
locale 22 Pain in the neck perhaps Puult by David J. Kahn
a_ system

23 Boy-girl 57 End of the quip 31 Eye protector 42 More than 49 Traitor's 9 Connecticut city dampens name 24 ·_So Easy" 60 P1ckable 32 Eskimo's catch 
that's home to ESPN 44 Author Simpson 50 Little one

34 Not subJect to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Traffic chart change 
45 How refunds 54 It's opened with ~.:..:+A~R.;..i 11 Institute of 35 "Heat" star, 1995 may be made a knife R E Nuclear Studies 
36 Place tor 47 More work 56 Island birdK S site shorthand 48 "Gangsta's 58 Faction
~~;;.+,-+.::-1 12 Mexican tree 
38 Play-_ 
Paradise"with large, rapper 59 Black41 Out of sortsedible seeds 
~;,,;,.;..;.i..,,..,f 13 Navigable channels For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or. with a credit card, 1 -800-814-5554. 
-:+.,.+:-t,,,.,+::-t 21 Series of 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaypostures, crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
basically Online subscriptions: Today's puz.zle and more than 2,00025 Go after past puzzles. nyt1mes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).

P U T _....__-i 29 Bnbe Crosswords tor young solvers The Learning Network, 
L E E 
nyt1mes.com/learning/xwords.

E D D ~-'-'-~--' 30 Dunderhead 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIFS BORN ON TillS DAY: David Caruso, Larry Fortensky, Belly While, Jim Caney, Janes Earl Joo:s 
Happy Birthday: You will work toward stabili7jng your life this year. Tie up kxise ends and slllrt new beginnings. Your creative ttlent wiU be at an all-time high. You will discover the inspiration you arc looking for. Your numbers arc 2, 7, 15, 21, 39, 44 
ARIFS (March 21-April 19): Keep your secrets to yourself today. Your reputation may be ruined if you have been involved in something that you arc not proud of. You'll mvetodoa linledamageaJ11nul. tt TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll look good in the eyes of others today. Take .> a powerful slance when it comes to your beliefs. Social activities and romance slntld be highliglm:I today. tttt GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Not everyone will be happy with the things you choose to do. Avoid discord by including others in your activities. You will pick up infonnation today that will enable you 10 advance professionally. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Love interests are present, however, the tunnoil you are experiencing is all-conswning. Pull yourself away from the stress and spend tirre enjoying yoorsel( ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel and communication should be on your agenda. Take a break from your regular routine. You don't have to be the center of attention 
all tre timc. "ktt VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make your rrove and speak your mind. If someone interests you, tell THEM. You will get the response you are looking for. This is a day tocelelnte. *tt--k LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Find your own little space, free from the disharmony that surrounds you. You have the ability to look at all sides of a situation and, given the right setting, you will find a solution to whatever is bothering you. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 2..l-Nov. 21): Be prepared to deal with people who are judgmental. Ifyou are prepared to clefeoo yourself, no ooe woo oppa;es you will stmd a crnoce. tttt* SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your help will be valued, so offer assistance to someone who is in dire need. Don't feel limited if you can't physically travel. Mental gains will be gratifying. *tt CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Deception is in the picture, so don't believe everything that you're told. Read between the lines and ask pertinent questions. Orn\ neglect to dJ yoorshare riIre wcrk rooay. tt AQUARIUS (Jan. ZO.Feb. 18): Your creative ideas will rise to the surface today The new friends you make today will be important to your future direction and 
acamplishrrms. ~ 

PISCES (Feb. 19-Mardl 20): The changes you make to yourself, your home or your life in general will lead to increased self-esteem. You'll have a better undei.tanding ofwhat you really want to do with your life. *"kk** 
Birthday Baby: You will be perceptive, energetic and always willing to take on mire than is required. You will be enlelprising, engaging and always gaining expcrit.'llCC. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGITT2003 UNIVERSALPRES.S SYNDICAIB 


PORTS 
Thursday, February 20, 2003 
BIG EAST SWIMMING CHAMPIONSHIPS 

Headed for stormy waters 
• Men are . Three-quarters of underdogs, but roster qualifies for hope to surprise conference tournament 
By LISA REIJUL\ By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Wrirer Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame mens swim­

There are 31 swimmers and
ming and diving team will be divers on the Notre Dame womens

playing the role of the underdog swimming roster.
at this season's Big East 

Twenty-five have qualified for theChampionships. The meet will be Big East championships this week­held Thursday through Saturday end. 
at the Nassau County Aquatics Following a conference restruc­Center in Uniondale, N.Y. 

turing three years ago, individual
The Irish will be looking to 

swimmers now must score below a
make a statement in a strong 

certain time to qualify for the cham­and competitive field. The team 
pionships. Previously. coaches
is aware of their underdog status 

picked the best 18 swimmers to
going into the Championships. 
travel.
"The competition doesn't "The Big East made a change

expect too much of us." senior 

across the board in sports and
Jason Fitzpatrick said. "We're 

reduced the field to improve thegoing to surprise them." 
quality of the meet," said Irish
The heavy favorite to win the coach Bailey Weathers. "It's muchmeet is No. 16 Pittsburgh. The better not having to pick."

Panthers are on a streak having 

The airfare may be more expen­recently achieved their highest 
sive for the Irish. but that is a smallnational ranking ever. Pittsburgh price to pay to have three-quartershas also won the last six straight 
of its roster at the Big East
Big East titles and seven in the 

Championships on Thursday
last 10 years. 

through Saturday in Uniondale, N.Y.
Returning for the Panthers this The team travels to Uniondale for year are four 2002 Big East indi­

the fifth consecutive season and
vidual winners: Mike Grube (50, returns as the favorite in its quest100 freestyle). Randy Gertenbach 

for a seventh straight champi­
{100, 200 breaststroke). Kenny 
onship.
Shelhorse (200 backstroke) and The key for Notre Dame, accord­Eric Limkemann (500 and 1,650 ing to players and coaches, is to stayfreestyle, 400 IM). 

calm and focused. The pressure willThe Irish faced the Panthers in 
be on the team that scored 797
Philadelphia Jan.18, losing 183­

points overall last season, 274.5
58. However, Notre Dame 

points more than a second place­defeated another Big East foe, Rutgers squad.
Villanova, at the same meet 168­

f "This year, Big East is going to be 
I 68. 
a tough meet for us," said juniorWest Virginia is the only other 
! see MENS/page 23 see WOMENS/page 23 
I
t ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame closing in on NCAA tournament berth 
Three of the Irish's final four ... We're getting a good string major asset. The rating takes nated teams rated between
. 18 wins should 

games are against teams of games where we're feeling several areas of a team's pro-51-100, compiling a 6-1get Irish in tourney ranked below them in the con­good about the file into record against these oppo­ference standings. The only way we're play­account, nents.
"We're in really good 
game Notre Dame will be the ing. We just want such as Notre Dame also has played By JOE HETTLER underdog in will be this to head into Big shape right now. Really, schedule well against teams that have Sports Editor Sunday when the Irish face East tournament right now, all we're strength poor RPI rankings. and this 
No.l Connecticut. feeling confident a n d also helps their overall chance
thinking about is playing 
McGraw said the team needs and good about record at achieving a berth in the
The magic number is 18. 
well ... 

to focus on one game at a time the way we're against Tournament.
Note Dame (15-8, 7-5) has and hopefully gain more confi­playing." ranked McGraw said this year's

four regular season games 

dence heading into the confer­The Irish have 0 p p O -team has a better RPI than
remaining and at least one Big Muffet McGraw 
ence tournament. won four of their nents. last year's and could have
East tournament game to 

-Irish head coach
"We"re in really good shape last five games. While the more wins after the Big Eastachieve 18 wins, which Irish right now," McGraw said. Notre Dame has team is 1-tournament is over.
coach Muffet McGraw thinks "Really, right now, all we're several factors working in its 6 against top 50 RPI ranked "Last year we were 18-9 andwill secure the team a berth in 


thinking about is playing well favor. Their RPI of 25 ls a
the NCAA Tournament. 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's 71 Adrian 58 
The Belles put an end to their 12­game losing streak in their final home game at the Angela Atheltic Facility. 
page 21 

MENS AND WOMENS SWIMMING 
Big East Championships 
Feb. 20-22 

Both the mens and womens teams are trav­eling to Uniondale, N.Y., to complete in the Big East championships this week. 
back page 
teams, Notre Dame has domi­
see IRISH/page 23 
MENS TENNIS 

Notre Dame 4 Michigan State 3 
The Irish win their third match in their past four contests as they narrowly defeat the Spartans.
• 

page 24 








