
Thursday, April 17, 2003 
Softball 
to face 

off 

in home 
game 
page20 
T11e Independent Newspaper Seroing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 133 



Four ND students break into Stadium 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
N~w, hiJtor 
Four studenl'i could face dis­c i pIi nary action from the University af'lcr thPy illegally 1:ntcr11d tho Stadium Wtid1wst.lay morning before IJl'ing caught by Notre IJame Security and St. JosPph County Police, a NDSI' spokesman said. 
St. Joseph County police arrest£!d Keenan sophomores Malthow Englehardt and Daniel l'arzialc early Wednesday morning 
after they, 
"{The officers were] 

and two oth,~rs stu­investigating a serious 
dents who 
incident." 

escaped from the 
Phll Johnson 

Stadium but weru later NDSP assistant director 
idcnlificd by 
NDSP, 
jumped the fence, entered the Stadium and ran towards the field, according tu a St. Joseph County Police report. 
NDSP did not release the names of the other two sus­pects. Phil Johnson, assistant director of NDSP, said no arrnsl,; were made in the inci­dent but addnd that the sus­pect<; were handcu!fod for olli­cer sa!'ety. 
"!The officers were! investi­gating a serious incident," Johnson said. "It's not uncom­mon to secure pt)ople until you can lake control of tho situa­tion." 
Johnson said no one was injurnd in the incident and he 
was unaware of any damage or vandalism inside Lhe Stadium. 
After NDSP discovered the students had illegally enternd the Stadium, a county police K­9 unit was brought into assist in the apprehension of the bur­glary suspects -a practice Johnson called standard when a large area needs to be searched. 
According to the county police report, county officer Mike Banicki found Englehardt and Parziale hiding behind an ice 
machine in the north­eac;t section of the Stadium and arrest­ed the pair without incident. Meanwhile, the police 
report said NDSP officer Paul Becker spotted a third suspect who jumped from the 2nd floor of'the north wall ofthe Stadium. Officers chased the suspect and lost him. 
It was not immediately clear how the fourth suspect left the Stadium. But Johnson said the two suspects, who were not caught in the Stadium, were later identified through an NDSP investigation. 
Johnson said NDSP had for­warded the to the Office of Residence Life, adding that the case will not be referred to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's otlice. 
see STADIUM/page 6 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Macaluso continues as leprechaun 

MICHELLE OTTO/The Observer Mike Macaluso, varsity leprechaun, gets the crowd rlled up at the Oct. 4 pep rally earller this school year. Macaluso wlll serve next year as the gold leprechaun, whlle John Bisanz wlll serve 
as the blue leprechaun. 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Editor 
University officials announced Tuesday that Mike Macaluso will continue to serve as the leprechaun for football and mens basket­ball games for the 2003-04 school years. 
Macaluso, who has served as the varsity leprechaun for the last year, was chosen over Olympic leprechaun John Bisanz. 


ROTC holds annual Pass in Review 
. Army, Navy and Air Force groups conduct honorary ceremony despite small protest 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Nc:ws Writer 
Students from the Army, Navy and t\ir Force HOTC units at Notre Dame con­duct!ld their annual Pass in Huview Wednesday after­noon in Loftus Sports Center. 
Speaking to the cadets and over 100 spnctators, Malloy tulkcd about war. peace and th1i role of HOTC students in the U.S. military. 
Jlfl called on the future ollicors to servo as examples of' Christian leadership in the armed forces. 
"We have tried to prepare you wtill hr.re ... to be able to 

Photo courtesy of Sarah McMahon ROTC members stand at attention In Wednesday's Pass In Review ceremony held Inside at the Loftus Sports Center. 
think about the big picture," Malloy said. "Peace docs not comc easily in a world that knows too much violence." 
lie also of'fc red a prayer for the students. who will be commissioned as officers upon graduation. 
"We pray that the leader­ship you provide in the mili­tary might contribute to the common good," Malloy said. 
Malloy discussed the sue­cessful service of recent 
see ROTC/page 6 

The two leprechaun posi­tions, formerly named varsity and Olympic leprechauns, are now called blue and gold lep­rechauns. 
Though the names have been changed, the respective responsibilities for the two positions will remain basical­ly the same, said Bisanz. Macaluso, the gold lep­rechaun, will work at football and mens basketball games. Bisanz, the blue leprechaun, will continue working at the rest of the University's 
sports. "Essentially nothing has changed," he said. 
The leprechaun name changes were a part of larger changes made to the cheer­leading program itself, of which the leprechauns are a part, said Macaluso. 
Because of those changes, officials offered Macaluso and Bisanz, who will both be seniors in the fall. the oppor­tunity to switch responsibili-
TRYOUTS/page 6 

SMC n1ay punish for illegal n1usic downloads 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
Assistant Saine Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students may face disciplinary action from the College as well as the Recording Industry of America as a result of illegal MP3 downloading, according to College officials. 
Awareness of the illegal activity came from several cease-and-desist letters from the RIAA that said multiple Saint Mary's students were illegally downloading or shar­ing MP3s. Students became aware of the action in an April 10 letter from Keith Fowlkes, director of Information Technology. 
The letter stated that "the College is required to contact the students that are offering copyrighted sound recordings for download, notify the stu­dents of the legal order, con­firm that the students have ceased sharing copyrighted nies, and report back to the 
RIAA that the students are 
now in compliance with the 
RIAA's request." 
Kathy Hausmann, coordi­nator of Student Computing, posted a letter to the student body on the HcsNet Web page that concerns multiple stu­dents offering copyrighted sound recordings for down­load through applications like KaZaA, Morpheus. WinMX, AudioGalaxy, iMesh and Gnutella. 
"So far, students the HIM contacted Saint Mary's about have as few as 202 songs available for download and as many as 976," Hausmann said. 
According to Hausmann, the HIAA cited multiple IP addresses. All students the technology department has met with so far have been using KaZaA. 
The letter also warned stu­d ents using their network 
see MUSIC/page 6 
Thursday, April 17, 2003
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 




What's your

passion? 
With Holy Week in full swing and the Passion story of Jesus echoing through churches across the world, I cannot help but reflect on the word "passion." 
What is pas­
Sarah Vabulas 
sion? Passion is a strong emotion involving intense Assistant feelings or convic­
Scene Editor 
tions. which also makes everyday events meaningful and worthwhile. Passion fuels our thoughts, actions and deepest desires. Without passion, what is left in the world? 
I imagine a world devoid of laugh­ter and happiness. A world without music and art. A world lacking every­thing creative and unique. A world missing any reason to live. 
So what then, makes me passion­ate? I'm passionate about people, both my friends and the people I never have a chance to meet. The massive collage of pictures on my dorm room wall testifies to this love. 
Music. I listen to music most wak­ing hours of my day. I'm addicted to buying CDs, l celebrate when my favorite bands release new albums and I'm always up for new music. 
Three words: Atlanta Braves base­ball. They have and always will be my team, so don't tell me how bad they are currently playing. I already know and I simply don't care. Yes, I do hate the Mets and the Yankees. 
I love computers. especially Web design. My computer dominates most of my free time. I am the proud owner of a dotcom address and unde­niably a geek. I've accepted and embraced my geekdom and even shared my skills with folks who wish they were as "cool" as me. 
James Bond films -in particular. when Sean Connery plays 007. British accents are the best and coupled with cheesy (Provolone or Swiss?), sleazy Bond girl names and high tech gad­gets and gizmos -not to mention beautiful cars -that make you wish you were a spy: who can't love 007? 
On a more serious note, my biggest passion is my faith -my Catholic faith. After all, it is the reason I left the amazing South for South Bend. No wait, scratch that, it was the awe­some Indiana weather. My faith is the reason I wake up and live my day. It is the source of all that I do or don't do. And if my passion for my faith isn't enough, then my passion for youth ministry certainly should be. After I graduate in 2006, I hope to be a youth minister for a dynamic Catholic high school youth program called Life Teen. 
Yes, I actually want to hang out with high schoolers. They are awe­some people with a lot to offer. I want to explore the wonders of God with them, while undoubtedly causing a little, okay a lot, of trouble along the way. 
I believe passion is a necessity of human life. It fuels my life. 
It is on that note then, that I ask you this: what are you passionate about? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Sarah Va hulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu. 

CLARIFICATION 
In Wednesday's Observer, ,he arriclc "Students con­sier religious life" stated rha, Notre Dame was the only place where an undergraduate student could also be a seminarian. However, Holy Trinity Seminary and rhe University of Dalla,, offer the same opporuntt:y. 


WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
The Student 
Senate backs Bishop's report 
The Student Senate unanimous­ly approved former Student Body President Libby Bishop's "Student Leadership" report topic for the spring Board of Trustees report. 
page 6 
\,\/ORLD& NATION 
Marines find terrorist camp 
A raid by U.S. marines led to the discovery of a ter­rorist camp south of Baghdad. 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. 
Evening Mass of tlw Lord's Suppor 5 p.m. at Sacred lleart Basilica 

. 
Baseball Doubleheatler vs. Pittsburgh 12 and 3 p.rn. at Fra!nk Eck Stadium 


4-6 p.m. at Ivy Field 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
World Trade CouncU Meeting 8 a.m. at Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Intcrcultural Floor Meeting 6 p.m. at Noble Family Dining Hall 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, Southern-fried chicken. au gratin potatoes, cherry crisp, baked Cajun Pollock, Italian rice pilaf, Italian-blend vegetables, Swiss oatmeal, bacon, scrambled eggs, but­termilk pancakes, home fries, sea nuggets, steakhouse fries, hushpuppies, vegetable lo-mein 

No dinner will be served. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
I.LI
:c 
~ 
I.LI 
== 
..J-z: 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 47 HIGH
..J 41 

BUSINESS NEWS 
U.S. totals cost of entire war 
The Pentagon reported the war has cost at least $20 billion and could cost an additional $20 billion. 
page 7 
South Dining Hall 
VIEWPOINT 
Leprechauns should not have final decision 
The Observer editorial states that the leprechaun selection committee should have chosen the leprechaun and not allowed final­ists Mike Macaluso and John Bisanz to decide. 
page 8 
SCENE 
"laurel Canyon" devoid of deep meaning 
Scene reviewer Chris Bannister gives this movie 
only  two  sham­ 
rocks.  
page 11  

. 
"War, Terrorism, and China's Place in the Global 

Picture" Student and faculty Discussion 2-3 p.m. at Ilesburgh Center Auditorium 


. 
Softball vs. Indiana University-Fort Wayne 



LOW 38 LOW 38 LOW 40 LOW 55 
SPORTS 
Saint Mary's tennis captain sacrifices for her team 
Senior Elisa Ryan puts her teammates before her own suc­cess. 
page 20 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Office produces trespass letter 
The Office of Residence Life issued a letter for trespassing in the Main Building Tuesday. 
Employee's car towed for violation 
An employee's car parked near the Post Office was towed Tuesday for a parking violation. 
Student loses cellular phone 
A student reported Tuesday the loss of his cel­lular phone at an off-campus location. 
Police issue speeding citation 
NDSP issued a ticket for excessive speed on Notre Dame Avenue on Tuesday. 
Injured student transported 
NDSP brought an injured student from LaFortune Student Center to St. Joseph's Medical Center for treatment Tuesday. 
Today's Lunch: Meatless baked ziti, toasted pretzel sticks, pasta primavera, steamed spinach. chicken and dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, teriyaki london broil, mashed red-skin garlic potatoes, Philly steak sandwich, steakhouse fries, onion rings, sweet and sour chicken, chicken and cheese chimichanga 
Today's Dinner: Roast beef hash, turkey broccoli bake, pork loin with apple, hot chunky applesauce, cherry crisp, baking powder biscuits, grilled vegetable plate, steakhouse fries, onion rings, BBQ cantonese chicken, chicken and cheese chimichanga 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 58 HIGH 65 
-compiled from the NIJSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Bean burritos, Spanish rice, pasta, Peking duck, broiled hamburgers, onion rings, chicken nuggets. macaroni and cheese, vegetable medley, meat lovers pizza. cheese pizza, sliced ham. sliced turkey breast, hummus. tomato rice soup, chicken cheddar loafer. 
Today's Dinner: Tofu teriyaki, brown rice pilaf, garbanzo bean patties, grilled chicken breast. whipped pota­toes, fried chicken, chicken Gravy, chefs vegetables. apple pie, assorted cakes 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 62 HIGH 53 LOW 45 LOW 33 
Atlanta 73 / 56 Boston 37 / 32 Chicago 42 / 35 Denver 65 / 39 Houston 86 / 64 Los Angeles 64 / 4 7 Minneapolis 42 / 30 New York 44 / 36 Philadelphia 50 / 40 Phoenix 75 / 53 Seattle 52 / 40 St. Louis 65 I 46 Tampa 83 / 65 Washington 56 / 45 



Thursday, April 17, 2003 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
University creates Chad 
Worn.en's Week promotes diversity 

Sharon n1emorial fund 
13y TERESA FRALISH 
A.m,ciare New, Editor 
To honor the memory or frnshman Chad Sharon. llrn Univ1irsity has helped to orga­nize the Chad Sharon Memorial Fund which aims to provide partial support f'or a Notre I>,unc undergraduate student. 
"I lalhd with the Sharons last wnPk. The hope is that we can 111ake it an nndow1id schol­arship," said Bill Kirk. assistant d iriictor of' StudPnt /\flairs. 
Kirk said that dnpnnding on how mud1 thn scholarship fund raises. it would nither support an nndowed scholarship or provide a set amount of funds to a specific number of North Damn students. 
Throughout tlw process, olli­cials have worked closely with St1•vn and .lane Sharon, Chad Sharon's parents. in making plans for the memorial fund. Whik exact plans for the f'unrl are still being worked out. the University has received about $20,000 for the fund so far, said Kirk. 
t\s part of an effort to support thr memorial fund, the Computer Science Club raised funds lor tlm memorial at their yearly spring computer pro­gramming contest, said Joe Lammcrsfold, one of the event's organizers. Because Sharon was a member of' the club and had a strong interest in com­puLcrs, the club wanted to sup­port the fund. 
''We decided that it would be good to havo a fundraiser," Larnnwrsfold said. 
After tlrn programming r,on­test, in which 15 teams or stu­dents competed to solve C++ problems the fastest. the club held a barbcque and collected money for the memorial fund. To date, the club has collected about $70 for the fund and hopes to raise more. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Senior Staff Writer 
Saint Mary's celebrated women from around the world this week through sponsoring the 
International Women's Week. 
The week, which was spon­sored by the Student Diversity Board and the Intcrcultural L i v i n g Community, included interna­ii on al dance lessons. interna­iio nal films, a presentation 
about Uganda and female genital mutilation. It concluded with an international women's celebra­tion Wednesday evening. 
"[The organizers] worked very hard to educate women on the adversities that face women around the world," said Annmarie Marquez, vice presi­dent of the SDB. 
Engligh professor Alexis 

"{The organizers] worked very hard to educate women on the adversities that face women around the world. " 
Annmarie Marquez Student Diversity Board vice president 
Brooks DeVita gave a presenta­tion Wednesday about Uganda and focused on the importance of the new Sister SchooVGodsisters student organization at the College. The Godsisters Program 
School/Godsistcrs Club helps fund scholarships for Ugandan 
women who want to attend S a i n t Mary's College in Uganda. 
A bake­sale held during the week benefited t h e Godsister program. 
S D B 
has embraced the Godsisters program, holding a bake sale Wednesday to raise funds for the program. 
Each $350 donated towards the scholarship fund provides a Ugandan woman with enough 
Cheese & 1 Topping 
Medium Pizza 
Cheese & 1 Topping 
* 
•• 
IE3 l3Ci ill ACCEPTED HERE 
Mu,l 11Mde c1edil card inlmmatioo wile• moeimg Im delivery FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimu For Delive , Not Valid Wtth An Other Offer. Limrted Time Onl , 
~~..4::-~Carryout & FREE Delivery 
52750 IN 933 Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
574-143-1111 
326 N. Ironwood Corner of Ironwood & McKinley 
574-143-1111 
"We would like to continue education women on international issues and would like to take this week to expand celebrating our differences. " 
Annmarie Marquez Student Diversity Board vice president 
w a s formed earlier this year to aid women in Uganda threatened by female genital mutilation. Mon e y raised by the Saint Mary's Sister funds for one year of schooling at Saint Mary's, which offers a three to four year study pro­gram. 
Jenalee Almes, one of thren student organizers. said she felt the week helped to promote diversity and an acceptance of other cultures at the College. Almes. along with Sara Mahoney and Nila Ahmad organized the week of events, an expansion of' last year's International Women's Day celebration. 
/\Imes said that the week-long celebration planned to educate women and increase awareness about international tics. 
"We would like to continue oducating women on intornation­al issues and would like to take this week to expand celebrating our differences," Marquez said. 
Along with International 
first place winner will receive $100 and the two second prize winners will receive $50 each. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
Women's Weck, SOB is also sponsor­ing a writing contest with the theme "Women: Thrive, Strive and Unite," 
Entries are due on April 24 and can include poet­ry, short sto­ries or essays. The 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 17, 2003 
STUDENT SENATE 
Metnbers back topic on student leadership 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS 
Ncws \'(/ri tcr 
The Student Senate unani­mously approved "Student Leadership" as the topic for for­mer Student Body President Libby Bishop's May report to the Board of Trustees. 
"This report will give an update on hall dances this semester [as requested by the Boartll, offer iin in-depth analy­sis ol' the structure and workings of' t.he Student Union and detail the findings of thf> Leadership taskforce of Campus Life Council," Bishop wrote in her let­ter to the Sfmate presenting her topic. She was unable to attend the Senate meeting in person. 
Senators also asked what information would be included in the report regarding in-hall dances. Jeremy Lao, student body vice president, said that Bishop would focus on statistical information. such as how many dances were held outside dorms, in other on-campus buildings or off-campus locations. 
The report will also include a list of problems residence halls faced this year because of the new dance policy, such as the lack of locations and insufficient funds. 
Senators expressed concern about whether or not they would know the contents of the report in advance. Because of this, Lao plans to ask Bishop to attend next week's meeting to answer senators' questions and present the information in her report. 
In her letter. Bishop indicated 
Tryouts 
continued from page 1 
that she chose in-hall dances as the primary topic of her report upon the Board of Trustees' request. 
Former Student Body Vice President Trip Foley, former Chief of Staff Henry Scott, Senior Class President ·Matt Smith, Senior Class Vice President Karen Lysaght and Kat Walsh, division head for the Office of the President. worked on the report with Bishop. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
The Senate unanimously approved McGlinn senator Becca Saunders and Farley senator Meghan I-lanzlik as the Financial l\fanagernent Board senate Representatives. The Financial Management Board oversees financial issues such as supervision of club budgets. 

. 
Members elected Sorin sena­tor Ryan Finlen as Senate Representative to the Advisory Council on Academic and Student Life. This council was created to improve intellectual life outside of the classrooms. Through the ACASL. students and administrators work togeth­er to improve student life. 

. 
Senators also unanimously approved three new positions on the Student Union Board. Rob Tenniswood was appointed director of publicity, Jimmy Flaherty was named the Ideas and Issues Programmer and Jelani McEwen-Torrence was appointed Multicultural Programmer for 2003-04. 


Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu 
agreed to stay with the tradi­tional system. "It would just create a lot of extra dialogue," said Bisanz. The cheerleading program 

OIT implements ~wireless network 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 

In response to new develop­ments in technology, Notre Dame's Office of Information Technologies has been installing wireless networking across campus over the past couple of years. 
The wireless fidelity system, abbreviated as "Wi-Fi," uses radio waves to establish net­work connections without users having to plug their computers into a wall jack. 
Dewitt Latimer, chief technol­ogy officer. said that "Wi-Fi" ­or wireless fidelity-allows areas on campus to be net­worked quickly and cost-effec­tively. 
"It's definitely not expensive," 1.aitmer said. "It's one of those high-yield investments." 
Latimer said that the net­working initiative has been tar­geted at high-traffic areas on campus, including the llesburgh Library, Heckers and Lafortune, which offer connec­tions to hundreds of users simultaneously. 
"We're hitiing those areas that give us the biggest bang for the buck," he said. 
Latimer said that some acad­emic buildings have wireless access. including sections of' the Mendoza College of Business, Riley (fall. Fitzpatrick and Cushing Halls and the Law School. 
He said that OIT has been working in close consultation with University deans to plan further expansion. 
"Deans can come to OJT and recommend areas [to install wireless]," Latimer said. "They know their buildings better than we do, and they know where people congregate." 
However, the deans have had some reservations about the wireless system. "There are concerns among faculty mem­bers that wireless could be a distraction," Klimek said. "We're being very sensitive to the faculty's thoughlc;." 
Despite those concerns, OlT is continuing to expand the wire­less system. Tom Klimek, man­ager of network services for OIT, said that about 80 access points or "hot spots" are cur­rently in place, with another 100 planned for deployment this summer. Each hot spot can accommodate about 25-40 users within about 300 feet of the antenna, Klimek said. 
He added that the expansion of the wireless system is intend­ed to extend coverage over a wider physical area, not just to increase capacity. "We haven't run into capacity issues," he said. 
Latimer said that Off is working quickly to increase the network's coverage area and projects that some 250 acr.Ass points will be installed every semester. "That's about how many our staff can put in," he said. 
Latimer also addresser! con­cerns that wireless networks do not provide an adequate level of security for potfmtially sensi­tive data. lie admitted that wireless syst,•ms are suscepti­ble to ha<.;king. but said that OIT has been working to pro­tect users· privacy and security 
"We're treating the wired and wireless infrastructure the same, as insecure," he said. "We usr, frncryption with any application that may transmit sensitive data." 
Ile also said that the OIT edu­catcs users on the system's benefits and drawbacks. ··we want to have ;L resource that helµs the user understand what wireless can and can't do," Latimer said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 

Hahn to head Kaneb Center 
Special to the Observer 

Alexander Hahn, a profes­sor of mathematics at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed director of the University's John A. Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. His appointment is effective with the fall 2003 semester. 
Founded in 1995 and locat­ed in DeBartolo Hall, the Kaneb Center assists Notre Dame faculty members as they reflect about their teach­ing and their interactions with students, and encourages the inclusion of innovative teach­ing technologies. 
Hahn succeeds Barbara Walvoord, who directed the center until 2000, and Tom Laughner, who has served as acting director. 
"Alex is a widely respected senior faculty member who, as leader of the Kaneb Center, will be able to work with departments and colleges, as well as individual faculty, to enhance teaching and learn­ing at Notre Dame," said Rev. John Jenkins, vice president and associate provost. "We arc very pleased to have him as the center's new direc­
tor. '"' Hahn earned his doctorate in mathematics from 1'.otre Dame in 1970 under the direction of Timothy O'Meara. the University's provost from 1978 to 1996. 
ties for some events. will undergo some reorgani­
"Initially we thought that zation for next year, although we could rotate that position. it is not clear now exactly They're both really good and what those changes will be. they're going to be seniors," "It came down from the said Jo Minton, head cheer-higher levels of the 1eading coach at the University that there needed University. to be some "We left changes in the
"It came down from the
[the final cheerleading
higher level ofthe
decision] program. This up to University that there is their way of them." solving it,"
needed to be some changes
The lep­s a i d
in the cheerleading 
rechauns Macaluso. receive program. This is their way The lep­points for 
ofsolving it.,, rechauns are 
their per­chosen by a formance panel and
Mike Macaluso
in various participate in 
compo­varsity leprechaun a four-stage nents of tryout process tho tryout that included process. Macaluso clearly a cheering at a mock pep won the highest number of rally, game and service situa­points and the two top scores tion and answering questions were not close. said Minton. from a media person and 
Though the nine-member panel members, said Minton. committee offered the two leprechauns the opportunity to switch events, Macaluso Contact Teresa Fralish at and Bisanz said they both tfralish@nd.edu 

2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR 
OFF CAlVIPUS HOUSING 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 

We have Town Houses and 2-Bedrooms available from as low as $280 per person per month! 
$280 per person/month! $280 per person/month! 
Can you really pass that up? Call us today for details! 
272-8124 www.trn1lecreeknd.com info@l.turtlecreeknd.com 
Happy Easter from The Observer! 

**we are now renting single one bedroom and studio's for 2003-2004** 
WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 17, 2003 COMPIUm FHOM T1rn ORSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
American raid uncovers terrorist training camp 
As•o~iatcd Press 
BAGIIDAD 

/\nwrican troops raided the homn of th(! mastermind of Saddam llussein 's biological wnapons lab on Wednesday and discov1\r1HI n sprawling. rocnntly abandoned terrnrist training camp south of' Baghdad as tlwy dug f'or sm:rnts from a d<•ad regime. 
With major coml.Jat over. the Bush administration lowerncl llw ll'rrorist lhrnat at homo to yt•llow, down a notch from its wartinw lnvPI of' orange. 
"T1·1-rorists and tyrants have now b!•f'n put on noticn, 1.h<'y can no long1n· reel safo hiding bPllind innocPnt lives," said l'rrsidPllt Hush. 
Inside Iraq, Army rorces (•xchang!•d l'irn with a small nurnb!•r of' di1•-hard paramili­tary fightnrs north of' Baghdad, llwn prornnd<'d to take out two surl'acr\-to-air missile systems and tliren anti-aircral'L guns left over from Saddam's military. J\nd Iraqis in Mosul said three r)('op!P w.-n• killed and at least 11 wourHlml by gunlire. but the cirrumstancns were murky. 
J\f'ler days of looting and mayh1\lll in Baghdad, J\nwricans armed newly nicruilr!d Iraqi police officers with handguns to help kenp ordf\r. And citiwns sought to 
pick up their normal Jive's. 
"The market is op,rn and products are available," said Tadamoun Al.Jdel-Aziz as she shopped with her son for eggs, bread and vegetables in the downtown lrkhcita Market. But with power only pat'tially restored and temperatures in the 90s, Baghdad residents bought three-foot blocks of ice. 
American commandos backed by about 40 Marines staged the raid on the resi­dence of Hahib Taha. dubbed "Dr. Germ" by United Nations weapons inspectors. Taha, a microbiologist, was in charge of Iraq's srcrl't biological labo­ralory, suspected of wcaponiz­ing i.lllthrax. 
Threr nwn nrnergrd l'rom the raid on her home with their hands up, and American troops removed several boxes of' docu­ments. Ifer whereabouts were unknown. 
Administration ol'licials said the desire to eliminate weapons of' mass destruction was one key reason for the war, although none has yet been l'ouncl. 
"We're really just in the early stages of that" search, Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks told reporters at a briefing at Central Command headquar­ters. 
The United Nations weapons inspectors also failed to find 

any banned weapons in prewar effort -even though the searches. Hans Blix, the chief United States has not invited inspector, is expected to the international team back appear before the U.N. Security into Iraq. Council next week to discuss-a A Marine spokesman, Cpl. possible resumption of the John Hoellwarth, said the ter-rorist training camp consisted of about 20 permanent build­in gs on 25 acres south of Baghdad, and was operated by the Palestine Liberation Front and the Iraqi government. 

ENGLAND 
WHO scientists confirtn virus as the cause of SARS 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Exp<'l"imcnts in monkeys have con­lirmPd tlrn identity of the virus that caus­t~s sevnrn acutfl respiratory syndrome, the World Ilealth Organization announced Wt>drwsday, an important step toward dnveloping nnw drugs to combat the dis­ease. 
It will also help scientists trace the evo­lution of' thP virus and could help them dnterminn whether it jumpPd from ani­mals to humans. and if so. from which animals. TesL'i am under way in pigs and poultry to see how susceptible those ani­mals are to SARS. 
SARS, which emerged in China in November, has sickened 3,293 people in 22 countries and killed 161. 
Scientists have now determined it is caused by a new member of the coron­avirus family, so named because a crown shape is seen when the viruses are inspected under a microscope. 
Scientists had been almost certain the new form of coronavirus first isolated from sick patients March 21 by the University of I long Kong was the cause of SARS. But they could not say for sure until they had satistied what is known as Koch's postulates -four scientific tests that verify whether a virus causes a cer­tain disease. 

"The Koch's postulates have been ful­filled, so we can now say for certain that the new coronavirus is the cause of SARS," said Dr. Klaus Stohr, a World Health Organization virologist who is coordinating the scientists' work. 
The first test requires that the virus be found in all the sick people, but not in healthy people. The second isolates the virus from a sick patient and shows that it multiplies in a lab dish. 
The third step uses the virus from the petri dish to make a lab animal sick with the same disease as that seen in humans. The final step requires isolating the S!\HS virus from the sick lab animal and show­ing it can grow in a petri dish. 
A team led by Dr. Albert Osterhaus, the director of virology at Erasmus Medical Centre in Hotterdam, Netherlands, car­ried out the final two verifying steps. 
Early in the hunt for the cause of SARS, scientists found a virus belonging to the pararnyxovirus family in some patients. It was later determined tlfat this was the human metapneumovirus, which is known to cause respiratory problems in children, the elderly and people with weak immune systems. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rescued POWs arrive in Germany: 
/\ smiling Army Spc. Shoshana .Johnson was carried out on a strl'tclwr !'rom a piano and taken for medical Pxaminations at a military hospital Wednesday night along with six other /\merican POWs who were rescued in Iraq. Tim snven wern brought on a C-141 transport aircraft l'rom Kuwait to this U.S. base, the latest stop on their return homn alter three weeks in Iraqi captivity. 
U.S., N. Korea, China to bold nuke talks: 
The United States and North Korea will try to resolve their six-month standoff over Pyongyang's suspected nuc!l~ar wl:apons program in talks arranged by China. 
U.S. and South Korean ollicials said Wednesday. The Beijing talks could happen as early as next week, olli­cials said . .Japanese media, citing unnamed sources, said tlwy would start April 23. In Washington. Secretary of State Colin l'owcll said the agreement to hold talks was good news but added that an early breakthrough was not in th,i olling. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Oregon murderer gets death penalty: 
A man described by prosecutors as a. con artist with a taste for the good life was sentenced to death Wednesday l'or killing his wif'e and three young children. Jurors. who began the penalty phase late Tuesday, deliberated for about five ho,1rs. The same jury earlier convicted Christian Longo. 29, for the murder of his son, 4-year-old Zachery, and 3-ycar-old daughter Sadie. Longo had previously pleaded guilty to killing his wife, MaryJane. 34, and 2-year-old daughter Madison. 
Priest apologized to accuser on tape: 
A former Homan Catholic priest on trial for allegedly raping a teenager in 1985 apologized to his accuser during a secretly recorded con­versation, saying he was drinking at the time. The tape was played during the second day of testimony in lhe trial of the Rev. George Robichaud, accused !ast year. 
Colorado enacts school voucher plan: 
Surrounded l.Jy hundreds uf cheering children, Gov. Bill Owens signed a law Wednesday establishing the first state school voucher program since the U.S. Supreme Court declared such programs constitu­tional last year. "We're going to literally open tile door of opportunity to thousands of' our children," the Republican governor told the crowd gathered on the Capitol steps. Beginning noxt year. Colorado's law will apply to children in kindf',garten through 12th grade who are eligible l'or free or reduced-cost school lunches. 
Bush urges U.N. to end Iraq sanctions: 
President Bush urged the United Nations Wednesday to lift sanctions that have choknd Iraq's economy for near­ly 13 years as he toured a lighter jet factory that Im said helped defeat "a ruthless enemy." Bush was careful not to declare the war over, and he cautioned that coalition forces still face serious risks. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 17, 2003 
ROTC 
continued from page l 
HOTC graduates and recog­
nized Dustin Ferrell, a 2000 
graduate serving in the 
Marine Corps, who was 
wounded in Iraq when his 
unit was ambushed by Iraqi 
forces. 
Ferrell was awarded the 
Purple Heart, ihe nation's 
oldest military decoration. 
At the Pass in Review. the 
cadets assembled in ranks in 
full dress uniforms by the 
branch of the military they 
were a part of. 
An honor guard led the 
parade, followed by the 
units' leaders who carried 
the American flag, Notre 
Dame flag and flags of the 
military branches and the 
ROTC battalions. The ROTC 
students then saluted Malloy 
as they marched past him. 
The Great Lakes Navy 
Band played the military 
branches' respective march­
es and finished the ceremo­
ny by playing the Notre 
Dame Victory March, as the 
cadets retreated in forma­
tion. 
Cadets said they appreci­
ate the opportunity the 
review provides to show off 
their military professional­
ism to their civilian superi­
ors. 
"It's the culmination of a 
great semester and an honor 
to have Father Malloy here," 
said Air Force cadet Mary 
Ann Mazzarini. 
"It's a celebration of the 
accomplishments everyone's 
done throughout the year," 
Army cadet Brooks Hartnett 
said. 
Father Peter Rocca, one of 
the ROTC chaplains who 
attended the event, praised 
the cadets' work as "recom­
mitm en t to serving their 
country in the best way pos­
sible." 
Nine members of Pax Christi protested the Pass in Review. Mike Griffin. Moreau seminarian and a member of Pax Christi and the Catholic Peace Fellowship, criticized the presence of ROTC at Notre Dame. 
"The question at Notre Dame is who's in charge of the ROTC -the Church or the Pentagon?" Griffin said. "At a Catholic school, the church, not the Pentagon, ought to be iin charge of what students earn." 
Sheila Payne, a Pax Christi member, also explained the group's presence at the review. 
"Pacifism is not passive," she said. "We don't believe nothing should be done, we just believe war should not be done." 
Tom Peeney, president of Pax Christi, called for an end to the ROTC program at Notre Dame. 
"We feel that ROTC doesn't have a place on this cam­pus," he said, adding. "We're incremental about these things." 
Army Master Sgt. Scott Shippy responded to Pax Christi's statements, saying, "If that's their belief and their opinion, they're enti­tled to that. No serviceman wants to see war, but if it comes to that everyone should be behind the troops. They should be praying for the servicemen." 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
Music 
continued from page 1 
access to share unauthorized 
distribution of copyrighted 
materials that they are at risk 
of being sued for copyright 
infringement. 
"The problem is significant enough that the RlAA is ask­ing $150,000 in damages per illegally downloaded copy­righted song across the board," Hausmann said. 
While officials said this activity does not come as a surprise to IT, it cannot track students in violation of the Saint Mary's network usage policy. 
However, the HIAA can track any download to an IP address and then report the address to the college net­work it operates under. IT can then trace the IP address to an individual and take action accordingly. 
While the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act does not allow the College to release names without a court order. stu­dents acting illegally can be contacted by IT. 
IT policy involves disabling the network connection in violation and notifying the student through e-mail. The student then must attend a meeting with the the Network and System Administrator, Hausmann and Fowlkes. Once all illegal sound files are removed or disabled from the student's computer, the IT will contact the RIAA and restore the student's network access. 
The RIAA has said is work­ing under the precedent set by Napster, a file sharing and downloading system that was forced to shutdowrt. 
According to the RIAA's Web site, the No Electronic Theft Law sets forth that sound recording infringe­ments (including by digital means) can be criminally prosecuted even where no monetary profit or commer­cial gain is derived from the infringing activity. 
Punishment in such instances includes up to three years in prison and/or $250,000 fines. The NET Act also extends the criminal statute of limitations for copy­right infringement from 3 to 5 years. 
. Additionally, the NET Act amended the definition of "commercial advantage or private financial gain" to include the receipt (or expec­tation of receipt) of anything of value, including receipt of other copyrighted works (as in MP3 trading). Punishment in such instances includes up to 5 years in prison and/or $250,000 fines. Individuals may also be civilly liable, regardless of whether the activity is for profit, for actual damages or lost profits. or for statutory damages up to $150,000 per work infringed, the minimum penalty is $750 per song. So far, the RIAA has sued Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Princeton University and Michigan Technological University, who have students operating Napster-like sys­tems on their networks. The RIAA also sent letters to col­leges and universities warn­ing them to halt smaller-scale activity under their networks. Hausmann said the RIAA is most likely targeting college and university networks because students are always signed on to the network, making them easier to track, 'and the connections tend to be faster, making download­ing and file sharing from these servers easier. 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
Leasing for 2003-2004 
• Town Houses • 2 bedrooms • 1 bedrooms • Studios 
Call 272-8124 for details "~~v_turt1ecreeknd. corn info@.turtlecre~k.nd.co1n


While students are required to agree to the Acceptable Use Policy which includes a statement prohibiting the use of applications such as Napster, Gnutella, iMesh and others designed for down­loading and sharing multime­dia files, Hausmann said many students are often caught surprised and remorseful by the conse­quences of their actions. 
"This is an education issue. People don't know that there is something wrong with doing this and we need to let them know," Hausmann said. 
Saint Mary's junior Erin McGinty was alarmed by the e-mail. 
"The prospect of being sued makes you really nervous," McGinty said. "I can sec the RIAA taking measures to pre­vent individuals from down­loading and sharing files, but they need to focus on future prevention, not on punish­ment of past actions. Downloading is so easy to do and I think most of the time students don't think that what they are doing is illegal." 
Contact Natalie Bailey at bail 1407@saintmarys.edu 
-
Stadiulll 
continued from page 1 
Englehardt. a member of the mens swim team, declined comment. Parziale said he has not yet with met ResLlfe, adding, "We've been asked not to publicize it lthe incident!." 
Laurie Muller, associate director of' Residence Llfe and Housing, said once HesLifc receives the case it will be reviewed and a decision will be made whether a confer­ence or a disciplinary hearing is necessary. A disciplinary hearing is generally used for more serious circumstances. 
Muller said the punishmnnt for trespassing in the Stadium included a wide range of' possibilities and depends on the circum­stances and whether the sus­pects had previous ResLife records. 
Johnson said trespassing offenses in the Stadium were not common, but added that they do occur on occasion. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes 1@nd.edu 


Proudly Presents 
The RecSpys 
"Notre Dame's annual campus sports awards" 
Categories include: 
Undergraduate Female of the Year Undergraduate Male ofthe Year Grad/Fae/Staff Female ofthe Year Grad/Fae/Staff Male of the Year Team ofthe Year Game of the Year Fans ofthe Year 
Voting ends April 25 www.recsports.nd.edu/recspys 
Th@lnkY@u 
Notre Dame, Saint Nlary's and Holy Cross Students 
CollegeAppreciation S~ctciall 
3games for $5 (including shoes) 
times: every night from 9to midnight 
B>@~(@lib B>@wll 
234-4167 
(By the Airport) 
O
THE BSERVER 

BUSINESS 
Thursday, April 17, 2003 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
U.S. has spent $20 billion on war 
Market Watch April 16 
Dow Jones 
• 
• Pentagon predicts

8,257.61 -144.75 
post~war costs may total $20
N4SDAQ 
ft 
billion more 

1,394.72 . +3.71 
Associated Press 
S&P500 
• 
WASlIINGTON The Iraq war has cost at least $20 billion and proba­

879.91 -I 0.90 
bly will consume that much or more in the next five months, the Pentagon's top
A.MEX 
• 
budget officer said Wednesday. 
. 
An additional $5 billion to $7 billion will be needed to pay for getting U.S. 

835.31 -4.53 
NYSE 
• 
troops from the Persian Gulf region to their home

4,932.60 -62.65 
bases, of'licials said. That process is just now begin­ning. 
Those totals do not

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
include the yet to be calcu­1ated sums for postwar reconstruction of Iraq, the 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +6.01 +1.0318.16 
Defense Department's comptroller said at a news

MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) . +ti26 ~/'3+2iiil 
conference. The United CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.65 +0.2213.56 
States is counting on con­
. . --·-·.. 
tributions from other coun­

SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -$, 90 +l:l.03 ~232 
tries to pay part of the ORACLE CORP {ORCL) +0.35 +0.0411.58 
rebuilding cost. 
Dov Zakheim said mili­tary operations in Iraq to date have cost about $10 billion to $12 billion. 

U.S. Navy physicians provide medical aid to a wounded Iraqi clvlllan. The 
Personnel costs have been 

Pentagon estimates Operation Iraqi Freedom has cost the U.S. $20 billion so far
about $6 billion and the

IN BRIEF 
and that continued U.S. presence may total an additional $20 billion. 
cost of munitions has been more than $3 billion. The At a separate news con­quarters operation into League of America. "I have
Altria's profit slips on cigarette sales 
figures include what it cost ference, Maj. Gen. Stanley Iraq soon, McChrystal said. every confidence that we Altria Group Inc.. parent of the world's largest 
to move 250,000 troops to McChrystal said that "Whether it will be locat­will find them. We're going cigarette company, said its profit slumped 7.6 
the Persian Gulf area. although major combat ed in Baghdad proper, I to need some help from the percent in the first quarter on weakness in its 
Between now and the was ended, there are still can't say," McChrystal said. Iraqi people. That is being l'hilip Morris USA unit as smokers switched to 
end of the federal budget some Iraqi towns that U.S. "But at some point, I think worked very hard right clwapnr brands and it spnnt more monny trying 
year on Sept. 30, the forces have not reached, as he transitions to the next now." Pentagon expects to spend including an area north of phase. he would probably Myers said he is not sur­
lo woo tlrnm back. 
about $20 billion more on Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's recommend and stand up prised that such weaponst\ltria still beat analysts' expectations by a military operations inside hometown. that kind of headquarters have not been found. 
penny a share. 
Iraq, officials said. McChrystal said the war's and put it right within "I don't know how long it But iL'> shares foll in trading Wednesday as the 
In human costs, the overall commander, Gen. Iraq." will take. They have been 
conglomerate, which also controls Kraft Foods, 
Pentagon said the war's Tommy Franks, is sending The military's top officer, hiding that stuff from said it had temporarily suspended its share buy­
official death toll rose to some U.S. forces home. He Gen. Richard Myers, said in inspectors now f'or 12 lrnck program due to problems in obtaining 
125, including a Marine did not mention any that a speech Wednesday that years," he said. linandng and thal "anti-American sentiment" cut 
corporal killed in a March had not been reported this U.S. forces in Iraq are now At his news conference, into cigarette sales in the Middle East. 
23 firefight near Nasiriyah, week, including the USS beginning to focus more on Zakheim explained how the Shams of Altria Group. which changed its 
Iraq. The Pentagon said it Kitty Hawk carrier battle hunting for weapons of Pentagon will use the $62.6 had identified the remains group, which left the mass destruction rather billion Congress has
name from Philip Morris Companies Inc. in 
of Cpl. Kemaphoom Persian Gulf Wednesday en than fighting. approved in supplemental.January. shml 75 cenL'>. or 23 percent. to close at 
Chanawongse. 22, of route to Japan. "Weapons of mass spending over the
$31.70 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Waterford. Conn .. who had The USS Constellation destruction, while impor­Pentagon's $364 billion f'orDavid J\dr.lman, who covers J\ltria for Morgan been listed as missing in battle group is due to leave tant, weren't as important the current budget year.
Stanley. said all consumer sector stocks traded 
action. There are now the Gulf this week. as winning the war. We Nearly all the new money is lower Wedrwsday. though he also suspected 
three Americans listed as Franks probably will had a priority to win a for the war in Iraq and the invllstors didn't likll tlm news about /\lLria cancel­
missing. move some sort of head-war." Myers told the Navy global light against terror. ing iL'> shan• repurchase program. "It's a visible thing that's unfortunate," Im said. 
----------=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=----~--~--=============­
Ex-WorldCom CFO faces charges 
Tlw governm<\nl filed new charges 
Glitch affects 800,000 student loans 
Wn<lnesday against former WorldCom exec­ulivn Scott Sullivan, accusing him of lying on 
"It is our error and we're sending out borrower's side were near tlw end of
financial statnmrnts to sncur11 $4.25 billion 
Associated Press 

letters apologizing for it," said deLaski. the term and realized that thnrc was a 
in credit !'or the company. 
The readjustment will affect borrow­mismatch between how much they Imel Sullivan was alre1uly charged with order­
RESTON,VJ\ ers with consolidated, or 10-year loans to pay and how much timn was left to ing WorldCom accountants to move opcrat­
J\ computer programming error has with variable rates -similar to pay," deLaski said. i 11 g C X pe 11 S (\ S O f'l' th Cl bO Ok S , Ill a k i 11 g the 
forced Sallie Mae, the nation's largest adjustable ralo mortgages. The spokeswoman said borrowers lP!Pcommunications giant appear prolitable 
provider of student loans. to increase The miscalculation will not impact the who are unable lo pay the extra when it was losing money. 
the monthly payments of 800,000 bor­other 6.2 million student loans owned amount added to their monthly pay­rowers. or managed by Sallie Mae, deLaski said. ments may apply for a loan extension. 
Ile has µrnviously pleaded innocent to the Letters informing the borrowers or She attributed the problem to an As a "good will gesturo," deLaski said 
initial chargns, which include securities 
the increase went out this week from "installation error" that resulted in the borrowers will receive credit from Sallie 
f'ruud and making fals11 financial tilings to 
company headquarters in Ileston, Va. entry of improper interest tables into Mae for any extra interest charged togov11rnm(int regulators. 
Sallie Mne spokeswoman Kathleen company computers. their accounlc;. She estimated the cost of 
Sullivan was chief financial officer at 
deLaski said Wednesday the company The mistake resulted in a payment the cre<lit will be $8 million. l\lississippi-has1\d WorldCom when investi­
expects 90 percent of the monthly schedule that didn't match the total The problem did not result in borrow­gators say Lht' company carried out a $9 bil­
increases to be $40 or loss. The average amount of principal and interest owed r,rs paying amounts that exceed tho lion acco1111ting fraud. the largnst in U.S. 
increase. she added, shm1Id be $25 per by the borrowers. terms of their original loan and intPrcst hi.~~o_ry. . . ..• ,n;tQn.th. ."TIJ.e people who noticed it on the agreement'>. she said . 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, April 17, 2003 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Andrew Soukup 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Scmc Brodfuehrer Lori L~walski 
NEWS EDITOR: Meghanne Downes 
Vll,."WPOINT EDITOR: K.rislin Yemm 
SPORTS EDITOR: Joe Hettler 
SCENE EmTOR: Maria Smith 
PHOTO EDITOR: Tim Kacmar 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkin• SAINT MARv'S EmTOR: Anneliese Woolford 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maura Cenedella AD DESIGN MANAGER: Tom Haight 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jason Creek 
CONTROLLER: Michael Fbnag:in 
SVSTfMS l\1ANAGEK: Ted Bangert 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO ....... ..631-7471 FAX................... ........................................631-6927 ADVERTISING................................. ....6.3 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEP........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS 0FPJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS.............. ...........................................631-5323 
observer .o bsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT..... .........................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS............................ ...........................631--4543 observer.spores. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.. ...... ...................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's..... ... .. .. ........................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER 0NUNE 
Visit our Weh site at http:llob,eroer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as ca.croons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is [I0t governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letcers is encouraged. Letrers to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Ediwr in Chief Andrew Soukup. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tl1e Ob~1,:~, tU!iP~ 59!J 240) ~ puhlii;hnl. Mund..y through hiJay accpt Juring e:,wn and vacariri11 pl-rind§. A rnh-.crip1ioll ro The Obinv~r i~ SI OU for one :a.cadctnk )'t'.U; ~5; ror URL' ..COIC~t!:r. 
rt,.: Ob~cr h r,uhli~hl-d ;n• \ll4 ::,Ol!th !)1nini Hall )c;nd ,1.!dn.:n ...orn:cO.un, 10: Notre O:ut1L', IN 46)5(, T~eO~rvcr l'.0.ll~Q l'i.:riuJicill pmng,.: r;..1d .u None; H.um: Nut,.: O.a.m..:. IN 46556-077'J .u1J addi1ic,n.il mJiling uffo:!:~. 
!"he Ohr.e·rvcr t~ .1 mrmhc'l" ofth<'.' AJ;;ik.:hted Pre;,~. All rt-pn,dm.:ti,n, rights uc 
[1,.~0'C,,.l. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Teresa Fralish Joe Trornbello Andrew Thagard 
Viewpoint 
Kun Hogaard 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Sports Bryan Kronk Heather Van Ilocgarden Matt Luzar 
Scene 
Christie Bolsen 
Lab Tech 
Michelle Otto 

Leprechauns should not have choice 
If the committee responsible for choos­have spent two years as an Olympic lep­ing the Notre Dame leprechaun ran the rechaun without ever getting to don the world, Kansas and Syracuse never would green uniform for a football game, gave have needed to step on a court to deter­the two a chance Lo work ouL some kind mine a national champion and George of deal. Bush and Al Gore wouldn't have needed The leprechaun is seen on national lawyers to figure out who won the 2000 television at football and basketball presidential election. games. His face is the 
They could have just most recognizable at talked it out amongst OJhe events from pep rallies to themselves. bowl games. He is more 
Ridiculous? Of course. than an ambassador for l3ut that's how the Notre Dame -he repre­
PJitorial
"selection" committee supposedly responsible for picking the man in btrccn wanted John Bisanz and Mike Macaluso to figure out who was going to be standing on the Notre Dame Stadium turf on Saturdays this fall. 
Following the rigorous tryout process, Macaluso, the current varsity lep­rechaun, and Bisanz, the current Olympic leprechaun, learned the results of the point system used to evaluate lep­rechaun candidates. The margin, accord­ing to the cheerleacling coach, wasn't close -Macaluso had won easily. 
But the committee, because both men are seniors and because Bisanz could sents its very essence. 

Yet had Bisanz and Macaluso decided to split mascot duties, that single identifiable face would have been split in two. 
That prompts questions like who would have played the role of the leprechaun on SportsCenter spots? Or at the pep rally before the biggest game of the sea­son? Or stood on tho sidelines al a bowl game or an NCAA Tournament site? 
Because the selection committee didn't decide, Macaluso and Bisanz had to. And because Macaluso had the job a year before and had left tryouts as the leader, he got the job. 
One might also question how much impact a tryout could have when there was a full year of games available for evaluation. Macaluso, for example, was often booed when he walked on the court and even dodged bouncy-balls students sent his way at one of the last football pep ra!Hes of the season. Bisanz, mean­while, had raw emotion that energized sparse crowds at some of the lowest­attended sporting events and didn't need T-shirts to get fans on their feet. 
Irish fans may blast Macaluso for lack­ing the energy of previous leprechauns. They should criticize the selection process that gave Macaluso a second straight year as the varsity leprechaun. 
Macaluso and Bisanz shouldn't have had to work out some arrangement that would determine who was going to serve as Notre Dame's mascot. N'ter all, the NCAA never gave the Irish a shot to play in the Final Four because. it took pity on senior Matt Carroll. 
If the committee truly believed Macaluso was the best candidate, they should have made it clear without leav­ing any room for discussion. But when the selection committee couldn't make a choice, they erred by giving the pair the choice. 
15 things I hate about Notre Dame 
So this is it: my last column. In the words ofthe man from Nazareth, "It is finished." 
I've been thinking a lot about what to say in my final column. I've decided that, rather than blather 
Marlayna
on about all the things that I'm Soenneker going to miss once I leave, I thought I'd 
Here We Go
talk a bit about the things I am not Again going to miss. So I present here, for your edification, my top 15 list of things I am not going to miss about Notre Dame. 
1) December. 
2) Each and every member of the Notre Dame Security/Police, particularly the ones that are mean to me when I try to get on campus. 
3) The nine hundred handicapped spots in the JACC parking lot. You'd think that we have frequent wheelchair conventions over there with the sheer number of handicap spots. 
4) January. 
5) The brother-sister McFadden news anchor team on Channel 16. 
6) Meeting people who pronounce my home state as "Or-e-GONE." Particularly the people who then argue with me when I tell them how it is actually pronounced. 
7) February. 
8) Local commercials. The South Bend area has definitely spawned the worst commercials I have ever seen. The 1-800­Safe-Auto commercials spring to mind. 
9) The geese and swans on the lakes. I am terrified of all birds larger than ducks. Ijust don't feel that birds should be that large. I also don't feel that they should have that large of beaks. 
10) March. 

11) Good-hearted people who write me serious responses to facetious columns. Allow me to take this moment to clarify ­at least 65 percent of what I've written in these pages has been sarcastic. (I'll give you a hint -I'm not even being serious right now) I appreciate people's willing­ness to let me know what they think, but it's sort of depressing to receive e-mails from people that utterly miss the point. 
12) Speaking of people who miss the point -I won't miss my parents' weekly responses to my columns either, which more often than not involve the words "Honey, I guess I just didn't get it." 
13) That time after Easter every year when it snows. 
14) The fact that the humidity is fre­quently higher than the temperature in August. 
15) Hesburgh library. There is some­thing about Hesburgh that sucks all the moisture out ofme. Every time I go the library to do research, after about ten minutes oflooking for journals, I am tired, confused, frequently hungry and always thirsty in a way that no amount of drinking fountain water can solve. The only way to solve the problem is to leave Hesburgh, at which point I magically become hydrated again. 
I've been trying to come up with some parting advice for everyone. So far the best advice I can come up with is that if you're not terribly happy on campus, try moving off. It's the best thing I ever did. 
I don't want to give the sappy, high­school yearbook advice about treasuring every moment and loving it all. I think lhat if we all took the time to appreciate every moment of our collegiate time, we'd probably get about half as much done as we do. The rest of our time would have to be spent appreciating. 
So here are my four pieces of advice. 
1) Be nice to the people who work in the dining hall, especially the students. After all, they handle your food before you see it. 
2) Do things that make you happy. Try to avoid things that do not make you happy. 
3) Don't be afraid to admit that some­times Notre Dame does not make you happy. 
If you arc a gung-ho Notre Dame per­son, that's great. But ifyou aren't, remember that it's okay not to be. Notre Dame isn't the real world and when you get to the real world, you'll find people like you. In the meantime, you'll have benefited by both learning more about who you arc and by learning how to sur­vive in a place where you are surrounded by people who aren't like you. 
4) Do not feed the squirrels -they will follow you. 
So, with that, I leave the pages ofThe Observer for good. Thanks to all the folks at The Observer who have put my column into print for six of the last seven semes­ters. Also, thanks for never putting in a picture of me, or in any way identifying me. I appreciate that I can still walk into The Observer's office and no one there knows who I am. 
So, as a departing senior, I leave the Observer Viewpoint pages to Joe Muto, the only columnist besides myself who I ever read. Take good care of them, Joe. Maybe the people who didn't get my columns can now start writing to you. 
Marlayrw Soenneker graduatedfrum Notre Dame in January but is continuing tu liue in the South Bend area until grad­uation in May. She can be contacted at msoennek@nd.edu. 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you agree with the decision to hold the ROTC Pass Review indoors again this year? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is hased on 192 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The more I study religions the more I am convinced that man never worshipped anything but himself" 
Sir Richard Francis Burton British explorer 
fl-IE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thur.day. April 17, 2003 page 9 
You've got (junk) mail 
Sonw p1,oplP b1,lil'W thal Llw lnWmet i8 tlw most sigriilicant tnrlmological brPak­through si111:P tlm invention of' tho (;utPllhl'rg pn,ss. Others S(\t' it as a cata­lyst quickening nur cu!turnl declinP. towards (;omorrah rrum a slourh to a Peter Wicks high Sl)l>l'U luw·. ,\s !'or 111ysPII', I suh­scribt• to 1willwr lit' HnylishmanLlws,-l'Xtn•nw vit•ws. 
i\/Jrocrcl

It SC'!'lllS to !llf' that 011 any soLnr and ba!a11<·Pd analysis it is plain that tlw lnt(•nwt is tirsl and forc­most. an instrum1•111 hir selling lobster. lnclt,!'d it is by l"ar tlw most sophisticated lobstn-sall's dcwicl' l111• world has 1w1,r 
known. 
\Vllt'II I rlwrk rny 1·-nmil 1,ach morning I invari11 bly !ind tlml any. P-mails from prn,­plc I know an· hurif•d amongst ]0 or more) unsolil"ill•ll ,,-mails offpring nw a smorl-{as­lmnl nf produrl'-i anrl snrvices in which l ltav<' 110 intpn•st. ThP most frnqtH'nt olfor­i11gs indudP implausibly bmwliccnt real l'Slall' dPab. mirarlP Wl'ighl loss plans and any numb£•r of lr1·atnwnts which promise lo 1L11g1111mt a variety or my body pari.'-i, including smm• parts l do not possess. 
I haw b1•cn n•rniving these unwanted e­mails l\ir a long tinw now. but it is only in rt\f"l'lll months that I havn started to rcctiivo an e-mail every morning which 
bears the legend, "re: Your 50 pounds ol' Lob1,ter". These e-mails originate from a company that promises me that I am absolutnly entitled to 50 pounds of absolutely free lobster with absolutely no st.rings attadwd, guarantmid. 
Thu slang term l'or electronic junk-mail is spam. the 1111mc being taken from a thoroughly unpleasant canned meat prod­uct which lasl'i tor an extrn()rdinarily long time. partly because it's loaded with preservatives and partly because no one in their right mind would eat it. In some rcspccL-, it's like a Twinkie, except tl1u.t a pig had to die to make it. 
The origins ol' the Internet can be traced to !\Hl'ANET, a communications system dcvelopPd by the Department of D·elcnse during Urn Cold War Lo ensure that in the event of' 11 nuclear attack which disablod civilian communications. military top brass would sLiH be able to access pictures or naked celebrities and exchange opin­ions about the most recent episode oJ'Star Trek. 
Al Gore never actually claimed to bave invented the Internet. He said that when he was in Congress he look the initiative in creating it, which was a rather self­aggrandizing way of referring to the fact that he was responsible for some legisla­tion which helped to turn the Internet into a revolutionary commercial force. And with the elnctronic commerce came the eloctronic junk mail, oflering all the annoyance of the real thing at a fraction of the ecological cost. 

All of which brings us back to my 50 pounds of lobster. Now I have been assuming that, despite the vigorous assur­ances to the contrary. if I were to elect to receive Lhc lobster l would incur some kind of hidden cost. Perhaps I would be required to send 50 pounds of lobster to three other people along with instructions that they should do the same. or maybe I would be charged $130 for shipping and handling. 
I have assumed that there must be some such catch because elementary economics tells me that any business which was in the habit of" sending 50 pounds of absolutflly free lobster to people who had absolutely not asked for it would absolute­ly go out of business, guaranteed. But that sort of thinking just shows how out of date J am. In the New Economy there has been no shortage of people willing to invest in companies which are no more likely to make a profit than they are to make an actual product. 
But the Internet has its benefits too. Speaking as a lifelong insomniac, the Internet Movie Database is a godsend. In the days before the Web I could stare at the ceiling !ilr hours while trying to rnmcmber the name of the actor who starrnd opposite James Belushi in Oliver Stone's (deservedly) little known TV minis­rrios Wild Palms. Now, thanks to the won­der of the Database I can find out in a few seconds that it was David Warner and use the time l have saved to read opinions about the show written by people who I don't know and who seem to be incapable of ending a sentence without using one or more exclamation marks. This is progress, of a sort. 
Just last week l !ik•d my taxes over the Internet. This proved much morn conve­nient than the old system. not least because if I had been using pen and papnr it is almost certain that at some point on the second day or my attempt to decipher the IHS's arcane instructions I would havn taken my pen anrl thrust it in to my own jugular. spilling lobster-red blood all over my returns. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. lie can be con­lacted at pwicks@nd.edu. Correspondents are advised to avoid any mention ofcrus­taceans in the subject headin,g oftheir e­mails. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A closer look at the people of the Middle East 
Ignorance comes ftom rulers 
Although John Lille's /\pril 11 col­unrn was not we!l-dPlivcred. I find it dislwarlening that thn responses it has garnered thus far have nol l'ocuscd on thP main point of it and. worse, yet, even criticiwd The Obsf•rvcr for publishing it. There is validity in the argument that the vast majority of the Middle Eastern com­munity, through no fault of their own, is ignorant. 
By vast majority. I mean the com­mor1 people of' the Middle East and not tho small 1wrC<\lltage of the edu­cawd upper-class who completely control the resources, education and opportunities of tlwse countries. It is this small pt1rcPntage that is to blanw, !"or 1.lwy haw usnd religion, foar and ninsorship to satisfy their gnwd and deprive the population of' cducalion and the opportunity for a bettPr lifo. In doing so, not only have tlwy betrnytid thr.ir own pcc1plc, they tuw<\ also tl11cr<ms1\d the progress or Wchnology and civilization in thnsc countri,~s. sonrnthing a nrnmber of' acad(\lllia such as !Jr. Bualuan knows. 
Unfi1rtunatP!y. tlw rulnrs also con­trol tlw media and look Lo the scape­goats 111' Isra.t!l and Llw Unit11d States to hl1111w 1hr llw condition of' their p(•opl1\. II' you bdii,ve thn !\nrnrican m<'dia dons not giv11 a very broad vi1•w of' the world, you should take a look at nrnllia within the Middle East Ew•n those who sep through this pro­pagamla still have nowhere to turn; no citizen of Syria without a penchant for being slcmed to death would pub­licly protest his government. 
/\!though I am for the war in Iraq, I would be infuriated to see no one opposing it. That would be a failure of democracy. and I'm glad the anti­war protesters have the courage to oppose the majority. Similarly. Lille's column. while inflammatory. has a good point. and to suggest that The Observer shouldn't have published it is lunacy. Censorship only leads to ignorance and if you want that you can go live in the Middle East. 
Though unfortunately Litle fails to realize this. being an "Arab" has absolutely nothing to do with the argument he makes. Many other eth­nicities have suffered enforced igno­rance at the hands of an oppressive government as well. America is living proof" that all people, regardless of" ethnicity, can succeed when given the education and opportunity. Were it not lilf the brilliant and hard working Arabs, Africans, Europeans and oth­ers who make up America. we would not b(• where we arc today. I hope for the sake of all of the great Middle Eastern people that America contin­ues to clean uµ the mess that a few grPndy leaders have created in that pm-t of tlrn worl<l. 
Chris Paolucci 
sophomore 
O'Neill hall 
April l'.i 

Terrorism is not a part ofIslam 
I was reading an article in The Observer, and I decided to express my point of view about the Middle East and the Arab commu­nity living there. Being Turkish has given me a chance to see the Middle Eastern world through a different perspective. I grew up in a city that is very close to the Turkish bor­ders ofSyria and Iraq. I have friends who are Turkish, Arab and Kurd. These people are "modern" people and aware of their religion. 
If you look at the Arab world in the Middle East, especially in Iraq and Iran, you see a world lacking both education and the ability to improve one's awareness of their country and the world. It is true that the Middle East Arabs don't know much about world issues. but it is not because they want to ignore what's happening. It is because they are taught things without the facts. These people are the victims of dictatorship, which bans them from having televisions. radios and for­eign publishing, so that they can be easily brainwashed and taught to hate the United States. 
It is wrong to blame Islam !'or acts ofter­rorism. Islam is not about putting women in black garments or having greasy. long­bearded men. It is definitely not about terror­ism. Islam is a religion which respects all kinds of people. Islam cannot be used "as a weapon," and it docs not promote the idea of building terrorist groups to kill people f'rom other religions. I find it wrong to see all Muslims as ignorant and violent. I am sure you are thinking that if Islam is not about ter­rorism, then why is this group of Muslims threatening innoceut people and trying to terrorize the world'' It is because these men arc misinterpreting their religion for their own benefits. They hate the United States because as they misinterpreted their religion, since the Middle Ages. Many countries in the Middle East have been improving according to the world's development after the Middle Ages. In my tenth grade history class. I saw a picture of the Afghan people in the l 91 Os, and I was surprised to see that these people were dressed in modern clothing. It is a fact that having leaders who enforced ideas of violation, oppression and terrorism forced their citizens to be involved in terrorist attacks or to be indifferent about what is happening in their own country. 
In high school, I was told not to judge peo­ple as ignorant or uneducated because of their physical appearances, what they believe or where they come from. I have seen a lot or people who dress in expensive clothing and have had a good education. These people try to show off their intelligence by making com­ments about countries in which they do not completely know the history, geography or the people. I believe that there are things that exist in this world that lead some people to become overly ambitious for bnnelits. 
It is a law of nature: there have always been bad people and good people. !\s human beings, we should show that we have brains by finding ways to deal with these bad people other than fighting or killing ourselves like animals. It is also a law of naturn that states once one starts killing. innoc1mt pmiplt• arn going to die. It does not maUnr if you have the most. developed technological wnapons. 
A country can only be saved by il'i own peoplo since it needs to bo f"ed by its own cul­ture, religion and traditions. People likn Saddam llussein and Osama bin I.adin go over the limi by killing people and planning to use nuclear weapons while they oppress their own people. It is in our hands to destroy these maniacs -not by using their way or 
they created for themselves a world full of violence. but by finding a humane solution. hate and dictatorship with strict rulHs. Since 
Want 10 write, edil or draw for Viewpoint? 
the United States is one the most powerful !sin Canturk countries. they reflect their hatred to freshman
Con1act Kristin at kvemm@nd.edu 

Americans. Pas'lucrilla Wcs1 The Middle East has not been like this Aprill l 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page] 0 Thursday, April 17, 2003 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Journey' is inspirational but incomplete 
By BJ STREW Scene Movie Critic 
After Frederick Douglass, it was all downhill for the chiasmus. 
~evertheless, amateur filmmaker Eric Saperston gives it the old college try. "Sometimes you take a trip, sometimes the trip takes you." What a wildly novel insight. Give us a break -a Deadhead who decides on a whim to endow his little vanity project (following the Grateful Dead, working in Aspen, filming it all) with some weight, that elusive element that might elevate it from little-vanity­project to serious-documentary? 
This is stale inspirational drivel in the vein of Lifetime movies and Deepak Chopra books. It lacks the focus that might have imbued the film with poignancy and, at least, pertinence. Instead it's a run-of-the-mill superficial musing on the meaning of life -oh, and with the truly original "journey" metaphor. Attempting to lend this hoary metaphor big-name credibility, Saperston invokes the sunny, all-American experi­ences of Jimmy Carter, a few Fortune 500 execs. insipid musicians and so on. 
Hendrik Hertzberg was right: Jimmy Carter is "a far better ex-President than he was a President." Let's not forget that the Nobel laureate toasted the Shah of Iran. hugged Brezhnev, was "best friends" with Marshal Tito, identified with Ceausescu's human rights views, lauded Kim II Sung and penned speeches for Arafat -the guy loves his dictators. Just who needs to dispense wisdom to our benighted Generation Y. 
Or, wait; maybe this apathetic genera­tion needs to hear from a soda magnate. The quondam Coke president, Donald Keough, who donated money for Keough Hall, delights viewers with perhaps the most riotously corny "wisdom" the film offers: "We're sort of brought up in our society to believe that being vulnerable is a sign of weakness -it's a sign of strength." Someone slap that gem on an AudioBook, and pronto1 
Seeing Saperston in Ken Kesey's old International Harvester bus, it is tempting to wish that the "trip" in question were less literal and more lysergic. Come on, it's Ken Kesey. But no. Saperston does some­thing far more heinous: using Kesey's "Are you on the bus?" motto to close a sales talk. It real­ly is excruciating to watch this director per­vert the Merry Prankster's words with 

Photo courtesy of www.joumey1ilm.net 
impunity. Thank God that 

Eric Saperston's journey, which was filled with famous faces and important people, included
at least the Dead escaped 

spending time with Jerry Garcia.
Saperston 's corrupting directorial hand. 

It might be charitable to describe viewers), he has a crew of two to coun­world. A cross-country trip from Atlanta Saperston's personality as grating, over­terbalance this. Well, almost. to Seattle, and all the viewer really hears bearing and just plain cheesy. And there In the end, "The Journey" feels incom­from are. to varying degrees, the rich and is a sense that he is not only conscious of plete. Not only is it relentlessly pre­famous? These people are neither the movie's inspirational aim, but certain dictable and trite, insightful nor that it will succeed and change people's but it's sunny and appealing, but lives. Put another way, Saperston exudes preachy to a fault. "The Journey" Saperston's a smug self-importance that belies the After all. subtlety 
own personal aims of the film. Luckily for him (and has no place in the quest, which self-help genre, ultimately which seems a bet­becomes co­

ter fit here than the documentary genre. Real docu­mentaries have grit and hold on to  Director: Eric Saperston Writer: Michael Greer and Eric Saperston Producer: Eric Saperston Editor: Michael Greer Starring: Eric Saperston  opted by the corporate machine, never larks about with the  
journalistic detach­ proletariat.  

ment by baring various angles on the And without doing that. this wannabe­issue at hand -assuming there are documentary sidesteps what it ought to issues at hand, which is debatable in this aim for: documenting reality. meandering rat's nest of a documentary. 
Saperston's decision to sip coffee with and interview "some of the most power­ful people in the world" leaves viewers Contact BJ Strew at with a pretty one-dimensional view of the wstrew@nd.edu 



Photo courtesy of www.Joumeyfilm.net 

Photo counesy ol www.joumeytilm.net 
Saperston and two others drove around the country In their trusty bus, camp­Saperston meets the Godfather of Soul, James Brown. Other musicians are also Ing out between Interviewing polltlclans, actors, businessmen and musicians. in the film, lncludlng Edwin McCain and a few of the Blowfish. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, April 17, 2003 page 11 
CINEMA MANIFESTOS 
'Laurel Canyon' lacks deep meaning 
T!w moviP thnatcr is a scary place. Tlwy turn down tlw lights, put up the prPUy picturl's and for al INtst 90 min­ul1!S or your life you agree to go pretty murh wlwn~ tlw dirnctor wants to take you. It's an nmo­
lio11al 1,xpPritmce. and som1iti11ws it PIHls up bl'iug just disappointing. Wilh "Laure! Canyon" such disaµpoint­ment turns to ang<'f wh1•11 tl1ti lights roml' up and you 


rca!i;w juSl !w~v youhav1! b1\nll manipu- Chris Bannister  
latPci.  
Tlw Iii m or1 tlw surfacp is Vl'ry Pngaging and  Cinema Manifestos  
s1•1·111s to lw dPt•p  
and tnP,Ulingl'ul.  

But, wlwn all is said a11d done. it 
IH•conws appan•nt that the whole 
pn!rnisc of lhf\ !ilm is exhausted a few 
111inut1\s into il. and. in reality, most of 
tlw major tlwnws arc just standard 
clicl11's on which we did not need to 
wastti our time. money or emotions. 
Tlw lilm cP11L1\rs on Sam (Christian Bal,!) and his new Jiancec Alex (Kate l!Pckinsalc) who move to Los Angeles !'or Sam to do his residency at a psychi­atric hospital and for Alex to finish her doctoral diss1•rtation. They plan to stay at the suppos1idly empty Laurel Canyon home of Sam's mom. Jane (Frances McDormand), who is one or the few rnd1rnming aspects in the film. Jane is an aging hippie record producer who slill hangs out with rock stars half her age, drinks and smokes pot constantly. McDormand seems to inhabit the weatlrnrnd rocker with such depth that viewers cannot help but be drawn to lrnr character. She is the free spirit that represents everything that the uptight Sam and Alex are not. All three get sluck together because, when Alex and Sam arrive, Jane is still at the house trying to linish the overdue record of tlrn band. fronted by her current young I.my-toy, Ian (Alessandro Nivola). Once these basic introductions are 
out of the way. the lilm pretty much sets its sights on playing out what is really a banal scenario. or course, for much of the movie the audi­ence feels like it is going to get anything but the standard cinema fare. Tho movie feels like it is arLbtic as Lhe camera m11an­ders ovor tho landscapes and its rock sound­track, and the sexy characters mope lhnir way from one nmo­tional disaster to the next. But really, this is just the same "uptight-academ­ic-gets-loosened­up-by-free-spirit" trope that has been played out ad nauseam. If you insert Queen Latifah for the rock stars you have "Bringing 


Sam (Christian Bale) and Alex (Kate Becklnsale) move to Los Angeles together, not knowing that their uptight lives are about to be turned upside down. 
Down the House." If you make the lilm with teenagers you have "She's All That." If you make Hugh Grant the sex­ual predator rock star you can have "Bridget Jones' Diary Part II." Really, why do all uptight people have to come from the east coast, Ivy League schools and live at country clubs? Is no one else neurotic in this world? And, why is it that the only way to be a free spirit is to be sexually promiscuous and do lots of drugs? Why can't anyone come up with any better ideas? 
But, in the cozy, dark theater, we agree to invest ourselves in this stupid rehashing, never questioning the actual ridiculousness of the set-up. We are led 

like lambs going in for lobotomies as 'Tm OK, you're OK" propaganda that Alex inevitably is drawn away from her many contemporary artists take up the boring thesis work into the "real" emo­vapidity behind these mantras and try tional world of sex, drugs and rock 'n to pass it off as postmodern art. roll. We watch as "Laurel her curiosity Canyon," after
"Laurel Canyon"
becomes sexual trudging through attraction. which 
the emotional leads her into a paces with the sexual triangle captive audience, with the Ian and does not so much
Director: Lisa Cholodenko
Jane. Just a conclude as runs
Writer: Lisa Cholodenko
reminder. Jane is out or gas. It feels 
Starring: Frances McDormand, Christian
the middle-aged like they had used
Bale, Kate Beckinsale, Natascha McElhone
mother of her up all the charac­
ters and situa­

tions. So. they throw in a couple awkward stabs at reconciliation, an ambiguous lirrn about not having control and a symbolic momcrnt in the pool ripped from "The Graduate" and tell us it's a meaningful ending. Because in the end the or world, it's not about concrete mes­sages, it's all about loosening up and seeing everything from different per­spectives. right'? 
Wrong! The problem is too many smart µeople have been duped into thinking that this is art. In our society, no one wants to tako stands 011 any­thing concrete. So, we think our art shouldn't fall into those hard st1•rco­types and take a stand. SupposcHlly, good art won't tie itself down to any­thing meaningful. But, in reality, art is precisely about meaning. If you don't have anything to say or actually consid­er don't waste my time. Postmod11rnism and notions of things having multiple meanings was never meant as license l'or people with rrn rnal point to pass their work as important. 
The views represented in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofthe Observer. Contact Chris Bannister at cbannist@nd.edu. 

fiancee! 

Regardless of how rocking or cool she is; the whole thing begins to smack of ridiculousness. Meanwhile, Sam gets into his own dubious relationship with an attractive fellow resi­dent. If' Alex's wanderings tend towards absurdity, Sam's relationship is just all too predictable with his infidelity borne out of one too many intimate conversations in the car outside the house after getting dropped off from work. While it seems obvious upon re11ection that the film is treading old paths, it is obviously eminently con­vinced of its own import and manages to almost trick the audience into thinking it has a statement. It's worth exam­ining why this is the case. It seems that this !'alls into the category of' a number of new artistic prntcnders who sub­stitute meaning for some feigned µoetic sense of chaos and meaningless. It is the artistic disease of our genera­tion. We live with such a sense of subjectivism and 
Thursday, April 17, 2003

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Odom leads Clippers to first victory over Blazers 

The Clippers led by eight tight fourth quart<'r

Associst~d Press 
points in the first quarter when The game was meaningless Portland shot :n percent. The by halftime, when Dallas' victo­LOS ANGELES Blazers improved to start the ry over San Antonio cost Lamar Odom had 24 points second quarter, using a 9-3 run Sacramento anv chance at and 13 rebounds and the Los to close within one. They tied home-court advantage in a 
Angeles Clippers defeated the game three times. but potential second-round meeting Portland 107-93 W0-dnesday couldn't take the lead and with the Mavericks. night. dropping the playoff­trailed 52-47 at halftime. Karl Malone, the NBA's sec­
bound Trail Blazers to sixth ond-leading career scorer, had place in the Western takers 117, Warriors 111 eight points in what might have Conference. Kobe Bryant scored 44 points been his final regular-season 
The loss means the Blazers as the Los Angeles Lakers game with Utah. Malone has will play Dallas in the first earned the fifth seed in the openly campaigned to join a round. Western Conference. Western Conference contender The Clippers arf'n 't going Shaquille O'Neal recorded his next season. 
anywhere. although they ended 46th double-double of the sea­another losing chapter with s on with 27 points and 12 Timberwolves 95, Grizzlies 87 their first victorv over Portland rebounds for the Lakers. who The Minnesota Timberwolves 
this season. Los Angeles won its will face fourth-seeded clinched home-court advantage final three games to finish 27-Minnesota in the first round of in the opening round of the 
55. The Clippers wound up 13th the playoffs. The Lakers have playoffs for the f'irst time in among 14 Western Conference won 11 of their last 13. their history with a victory over teams and last in the Pacific Gilbert Arenas scored 33 Memphis. Division. points l'or the Warriors. Mike Kevin Garnett had 19 points. 
Andre Miller added 19 points Dunleavy added a career-high 16 rebounds and eight assists as live Clippers scored in dou­21 points and Jason Richardson to lead Minnesota. which ended ble figures. Elton Brand had 18 finished with 19. J\ntawn the season 51-31 to take the points and 11 rebounds. Keyon Jamison had 15 points and 10 "IJ o. 4 spot in the Western Dooling added 16 points and rebounds. Conferenr.r. Marko Jaric had 13 points. The Minnesota has never made it 
team shot 56 percent. Sonics 84, Suns 70 to the second round of the play­
After letting Portland take a Ray Allen scored 19 as the offs, getting eliminated six one-point lead in the third Seattle SuperSonics topped the straight times. Garnett capped quarter, the Clippers dominated Phoenix Suns. a sensational regular season 
the final 12 minutes. The The Suns. looking ahead to with his league-leading 63rd 
Blazers got no closer than four the postseason, rested most of double-double. points before Los Angeles their starting lineup for a sec­Memphis was led by Stromile opened a double-digit lead for ond straight night. Only Arnare Swift and Pau Gasol with 18 as the Houston Rockets beat the one assist shy of his first triple­all of the final seven minutes. Stoudamire saw significant points each. Denver Nuggets. double. 
Bonzi Wells led Portland with playing time, finishing with 16 Houston won three straight IIarrington had 17 points and 19 points and Rasheed Wallace points and nine rebounds. Joe Mavericks 93, Spurs 72 and five of seven to close out 12 rebounds and Jermaine added 15 points. Scottie Pippen Johnson led Phoenix with 21 Dirk Nowitzki scored 25 the season but missed the play­O'Neal added 26 points and 10 was held to just three points on points. points to lead Dallas past San offs for the fourth straight year. rebounds, as the Indiana 1-of-9 shooting. Allen, who had scored more Antonio, giving the Mavericks Denver lost eight straight and Pacers secured third place in 
The Blazers missed several than 30 in three of the previous their first 60-win season. 14 of 17 to end its eighth con­the Eastern Conference with a shots that prevented them from four games, made 7 -of-17 from The victory ensured that secutive losing season. The 90-83 win over the New Jersey making a serious run in the the field. Brent Barry scored Dallas, the No. 3 seed in the Nuggets tied Cleveland for the Nets on Wednesday night. fourth. The Clippers were espe­14, Vladimir Radmanovic had Western Conference, will have worst record in the NBA and Jamaal Tinsley had 10 points 
a home-court advantage if it

cially effective from 3-point 12 and Calvin Booth added 10 will have an equal shot with the and 12 assists. Artest added 16 range, going 9-for-13 for the for the Sonics. reaches the second round of the Cavaliers at the top pick in this points and Reggie Miller 14 for game, including three long­playoffs. year's draft. the Pacers {48-34). range baskets in the fourth. Kings 95, Jazz 84 The Spurs clinched the top Both teams will have 225 The Nets clinched the Atlantic 
The Blazers used a 14-4 run, Chris Webber scored 15 seed in the conference on pingpong balls in the May 22 Division on Tuesday and rested 
Monday and played without

capped by Wells' flying dunk, points, and Bobby Jackson had lottery, with the winner expect­their starters for most of the 
starters Tim Duncan and

midway through the third quar­nine points in the fourth quar­ed to take Ohio high school game. Jason Kidd and Kenyon
Stephen Jackson, who were

ter to pull within one, 66-65. ter as the Sacramento Kings phenom LeBron James. Martin each scored 11 points in 
placed on the injured list

Wallace tied the game at 70 on beat the Utah Jazz in a low-key 21 minutes. Neither Kidd, Wednesday.
a 3-pointer and a basket by for­preview of their upcoming play­Pacers 90,. Nets 83 Martin. Jason Collins nor KerrySteve Smith, starting in place
mer Clipper Jeff Mcinnis gave off. Al Harrington raised his arms Kittles played in the second and 
of Jackson, led San Antonio

Portland a 72-71 lead, its first The Jazz and the Kings will in apparent celebration, his fourth quarters.
with 11 points.

since the game's opening begin their third playoff series eyes fixed on the rim waiting Anthony Johnson led the Nets minute. in five years this weekend in for Ron Artest's jumper to with 16 points and Aaron 
But the Clippers ran off six Sacramento. Both teams played Rockets 89, Nuggets 84 swish through for a milestone Williams added 14. straight points, capped by Eric the regular-season finale con­Steve Francis had 17 points moment. New Jersey's reserves gave Piatkowski's fast-break layup, servatively, with reserves get­and nine assists, and Yao Ming Instead, the ball clanked off the Pacers fits for most of the to end the third ahead 77-72. ting ample minutes into the had 13 points and 16 rebounds the rim and Harrington ended game. 
The Obs~rver accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds ;s 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Study Abroad with CEA. England, Italy, Spain, France, Australia Request a Free Catalog WWW GoW1thCEA.com 
3-6 BDRM HOMES. $195 PP/MO 272-6306 
Leaving town? We II buy your car. 574-243-0000. Dealmaker Auto Sales 52081 933 No. So Bend, IN 
Babysitter, May-Aug , 3 kids ages 2, 6, 8. 10-12 hrs./wk, 2 morn., 1 
eve. $7/hr. Robyn@ 271-3646. 
A BUSINESS MAN IS LOOKING TO BUY YOUR ND FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS. (TOP DOLLAR PAID)Discret1on Assured.Call:277­1659 Thank you 
Take Kaplan, Score Higher. LSAT­GRE-GMAT-MCAT-DAT NCLEX­OAT-PCAT Preparation Call 1-800-KAP-TEST 
WANTED 
Part Time Summer Employment Looking for Teachers & Student Advisors. Great pay, fun environment. Call 272­4135. Kaplan Test Prep. 
FOR SALE 
Ranch home, 3 bdrm, 1 5 bath, fire­place, full bsmt, 2 car alt garage, fenced yard, 1 mile from ND. 288-2001 
Oak Hill Condo. 574-243-2621 
JUDAY LAKE HOME ON LAKE. WALK TO ND. GILLIS REAL TY 272-6306 
Acura lntegra LS 1996 Red 60,000 miles, sun roof, CD player, power locks and windows $9850 or best offer. 287-4306 
FOR RENT 
Walk to School. 2-6 Bedroom homes 1/2 mile from campus. mmmrentals@aol.com 272­1525 www.mmmrentals.com 
Very nice 3 bdrm home Avail. June 1st for summer or fall East Race dist.near Corbys Pub & St. Joe Church Incl alarm syst,washerldryer. Can email picts. Call Joe Crimmins@ 273­0002(h)or 514-0643(cell)or JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com. $650/m negotiable. 
HOUSE AVAILABLE fum 4b2ba, walk to campus jo5225@aol.com 
2 BDRM House, NC, close to cam­pus. 269-699-5841 
1 bdrm apt summer sublease at Turtle Creek. Fully furnished, price negotiable dboudon@nd.edu 

DOMUS PROPERTIES-HAS 3 HOUSES LEFT FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS-STU­DENT NEIGHBORHOODS-SECU­RITY SYSTEMS-MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL-WAHSERS/DRYERS CALL TODAY-HOUSES GOING FAST!!I-CONTACT KRAMER (574) 315-2436-ALSO LEASING FOR 2004-2005 VISIT OUR WEBSITE 
@ WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM 
Student Rental House 3-4 or 5 per­son 2 story. 8 blocks from campus. New everything. Wired for comput­ers etc. Avail. Summer or Fall, 235· 3655 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA JUST NORTH 
OF ND 2773097 

house: 2-3-4 bedrooms; 234-9334; 800-966-8399 
Spring Semester 2004 only! 4 Bedroom, 2 Bath GOOD Student 
Area. Dave..243-5353 Two bedroom cottage in good stu­dent area. $350 per month. Dave 243-5353 

Newly remodeled house for rent. 4 bdrm, central air, fully carpeted, security system, off street parking, walk to school. Available immediately. Call 289­4074. 
TICKETS 
Extra grad ticket? Call 4-1613 David Belczyk 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned pregnancy? Don t go it alone If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For more information, see our bi­weekly ad m The Observer. 
f ... 
ADOPTION ALTERNATIVE. Are you pregnant and dont know what to do? Loving, open­hearted, financially stable woman would like to consider adopting a baby. Free counseling, living expenses and medical expenses. This can be a good thing for you and your baby. Discreet and legal Call 904·824-7006 
THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES· DAY. APRIL 30. 
Hey boys your CAKE says hi and it misses you! 
Lozar, ever sit in a chair before? 
Megs went to the St. Joseph County jail today and liked it 
If someone could explain why the door to the "biweekly" was covered in cardboard and the lights were on, when they're supposedly done pub­lishing tor the year ... 
scandalous (like the cake) 

Thursday, April 17, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NHL 
Mighty Ducks s"Weep Red Wings 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM. Calif. 

Steve Hucchin's goal at 6:53 of overtime gave the Anaheim Mighty Ducks a 3-2 victory Wednesday night for a four­game swoep of the Stanley Cup champion Dntroit Red Wings. 
J,•an-Scasli!'!n Giguere mad!'! :12 saves in the stunning sweep of the opening-round 'Western Con!hrPnc!'! series. 
The Heel Wings, Stanley Cup champions three or llie past six years, bncame just the second defending Cup winner to be swept Urn following season in a four-game opening series. 
In 1952, Detroit upset the 1951 champion Toronto Maple Lnafs and went on lo win the Cup. 
Bucchin scored his first goal of' tlw s1~rics with a one-limcr from HJ font affor defrnscman Keith Carney cnntcrml the puck f'rom bd1i11d Lim net. 
Jason Krog am! Paul Kariya scored the other goals for the Ducks, who had been swept out of the playoffs by Detroit in their only two previous trips to the posL~cason. 
Gigtll'rn gave up a game-tying goal lo Sergei Fcdorov with 2:15 left in regulation. and an earlier scorn to I ll'nrik Zettcrbcrg on a two-man breakaway at 13:23 of tlrn first period. 
Krog had scornd with 15:25 left in the third period to give /u1ahcim a 2-1 lead. 
Gigucrn stopped 165 of 171 shots in the four games. with the Ducks winning each time by one goal. He had a "J .24 goals­against average. 
The goals were the second of the series for both Krog and Kariya. Grog scored the game­tying goal late in the Ducks' 3-2 win in Came 2. Kariya had the game-winner in Anaheim's 2-1, Lriple-ovPrtime victory in the opening game. 
Flyers 3, Maple Leafs 2 (30T) 
The Philadelphia Flyers need­ed three overtimes to put a win­ner past Ed Belfour. 
Mark Hecchi scored his second goal of the game with 6:06 remaining in the third overtime period to give the Flyers a series­evening 3-2 victory Wednesday night over the Toronto Maple 
Leaf's. 
Bcllour made 72 saves before Hecchi's wrist shot from the l"accoff cirde hit the goalie's stick and barely trickled over the goal line as the Flyers evened the best-of-seven Eastern Conference playoff series a 2-2. Game 5 is Saturday night in Philadelphia. 
"Eddie Belfour battled tremen­dously hard. He was great tonight," Hecchi said. "l was just trying to get it on net." 
Jeremy Roenick also scored for the Flyers. 
"That was two hockey games," Hoenick said. "Eddie was awe­some. Eddie gave that team a chance to win the hockey game. They almost did, but we were very fortunate." 
Travis Green and Mats Sundin scored for the Leafs, who were without leading scorer Alexander Mogilny. Clipped under the jaw by a stick two nights earlier, Mogilny was advised by team doctors to sit one out. He'll be re-examined Thursday. 
The Flyers outshot the Leafs 75-38, setting a Philadelphia playoff record for most shots on goal. Belfour's total saves was one short of the playoff record New York's Kelly Hrudey set when the Islanders beat Washington in four overtimes in 1987. 
"The shots seem to be an incredible number," Toronto coach Pat Quinn said. "Eddie's a trooper, Ile put us in a position to win but we didn't do it." 
Toronto, which beat Philly in double overtime on Monday night, played its third-longest game in franchise history and longest since 1943. 
It was the second-longest game in Flyers history. 
'This was a must win for us," Philadelphia captain Keith Primeau said. "We're even instead of going home down 3­1." 
Philadelphia won despite going 0-for-8 on the power play, falling to 2-for-21 in the series. 
Michal Handzus almost won it for the Flyers in the first over­time, but his shot rolled over Belfour's pads and through the goal crease. 
Philadelphia goalie Roman Cechmanek made 36 saves. 
He robbed Darcy Tucker in the second overtime with a kick save. 

NBA 
Jordan ends career with loss to Sixers 
Associated Press 
PHIL.ADELPHIA 
Michael Jordan sat on the bench, smiling and joking with teammates as the sellout crowd chanted, "We want Mike! We want Mike!" 
Though he didn't want to go back in, Jordan wouldn't dis­appoint the fans in the final game of his NBA career. 
Jordan pulled off his warmups, received yet anoth­er lengthy ovation, went back on the court, and was pur­posely fouled by Eric Snow. Fittingly, Jordan made his final two shots -both free throws. 
One of the greatest players in NBA history, Jordan then exited for good with 1:44 remaining in the fourth quar­ter of Washington's 107-87 loss to Philadelphia on Wednesday night. 
Another standing ovation followed, this one including the coaches and other play­ers. Jordan flashed his famil­iar wide smile, waved to the crowd and took a seat on the bench one last time. 
"It's time to move on," Jordan said. "It's easier to accept that because physically I know it and feel it." 
Jordan finished with 15 points, four rebounds and 
four assists in 28 minutes ­drawing several adoring ova­tions from a Philly crowd notorious f'or its boorish behavior. 
The fans did boo. but only when they thought Jordan wasn't coming back into the game. He went to the bench with 4:13 left in third quarter, and didn't return until 2:35 remained in the game, 
With the Sixers ahead by 21 points and 9 1/2 minutes left, the chants of "We want Mike!" started. The chant grew loud­er as the period progressed with Jordan remaining snat­ed, and fans ignored the game to stand and stare at the Wizards' bench, wondering why Jordan wasn't playing. 
"The game didn't merit me going back in," Jordan said. "Obviously, they wanted to see me make a couple of bas­kets. That was very, very respectful." 
While the fans implored Jordan to return, Wizards coach Doug Collins pleaded with him. 
"Ile really didn't want to, but I said, 'Michael, please, you got to go out there, "' Collins said. 
Jordan's final points almost looked scripted, with Snow fouling him in the backcourt for no apparent reason except to send him to the line. 

4371 CLAS 121 Ancient Greece and Rome (Mazurek) An introduction to the major historical and cultural periods ofancient Greek and Roman civilization through close reading of texts central to the Classical Greek and Latin literary traditions. Topics to he considered include: concepts of the divine; heroism and virtue; concepts of gender; democracy, empire, and civic identity, The course aims to deepen students' appreciation for the Classical roots of their own social, intellectual, and religious lives. 
51124 CLAS 300 Greek Literature and Culture (McLaren) This course offers a survey (in translation) of some of the canonical works of ancient Greek litcrattJre in conjunction with a detailed examination ofthe cultural contexts within which they were produced, received and transmitted. Primary readings will cover a variety of genres in both poetry nod prose, and will range in date frnm the archaic to the imperial periods, a span of roughly one thousand years. Among those authors addressed will be Homer, Sappho, Aeschylus, Herodotus, Aristophanes, Plato, Theocritus, l'l11rnrch, Lucian and Longus. 
5030 CLAS 304 Age of Augustus (Krostcnko) By rnthlcssncss in war and sagacily in peace, JtJlius Caesar's adopted son Octavian rose to the summit of power in the Roman world, creating an Empire where there had been a Republic and inaugurating a fonn of government that would last, in many essentials, almost half a millennium. The purpose of this course is lo consider lhc historical events, cultural productions, social and political issues, and legacy nf the age of Augustus. Topics to be considered will include: the fall of the Rcrmblic; the Augustan architectural and literary program; artistic freedom under an autocracy: and the nature of empire. Readings will be lakcn from Cicero, Vergil, Livy, Horace, Ovid, Tibull,1s, Propcnius, and Suetonius. 
50J4 CI.AS 106 Homan History (Mazurek) This course introduces students to ancient Roman history by tracing the development of Roman civilization through the maJor political, religious and social inslitutions of the Roman Republic and Empire. M~jnr topics or study will inclttde: Rome's conquests in Europe and the Mediterranean; the careers of Julius Caesar and the Emrcror Allgusrus; Rome's treatment of foreign peoples and institutions (e.g. c,1rly Chmtian11y). 
5054 CLAS 3.15 llisfory or Ancirnf l\fodicine (Ladouceur) This cotJrsc will trncc the development of ancient medicine from the Neolithic period down lo the second century after Christ. The emphasis will be on three cultures, Egyplian, Greek, and Roman, lfow historians use the three main categories of evidence [ written documents, human remains and anistic representations] will be clearly illustrated. 

FALL 2003 COURSES 
5059 CLAS 358 Words and/of Power: The Theory and Practice of Persuasive Speech in Greece and Rome (Krostenko) 
The art of persuading one's fellow citizens occupied a prominent place bolh in Athenian democracy and in lhc Roman Republic. In both states the imponancc of rhetoric excited attempls to theorize ii that met with both acceptance and scorn, and in both stales rhetoric continued lo be practiced and theorized when the democratic and republican forms of government underwent radical transformations. In this course we will examine the theory and practice of ancient rhcloric and its relation lo its social and political context. We will examine, in pairs, actual speeches and contemporary or near-contemporary theoretical disquisilions beginning with the period of lhe Greek sophists and ending with that of Augustine. Our objectives will be to detcnninc whal visions of lhc self and of society arc implied by different rhetorical theories and practices; and to appreciale how the discontinuities between lhcory and practice illuminate the discontinuities of those visions. 
0107 CLAS 371 Gods, Heroes, Mysteries and Magic: Religion in the Ancient Greek World (Wood) 
Contrary to popular belief, the ancicnl Greeks were a strange bunch, Their slalucs were not really pristine white marble; their beliefs were hardly consislenlly ralionaL With this mindset as our starting point, in this course we will examine some literary (epic, hymns, tragedy, comedy), archaeological (temples, sanctuaries), and malerial (vase paintings, coins, volivcs, curse tablels) remains of the ancient Greek world to develop a picture of ils varied and unique religious beliefs and praclices. In addilion to this hislorical perspeclivc. this course will also take an anthropological and cultural approach to 1he study of Greek religion. We will consider anrhropological definitions of religion and read comparative material from other cultures. Finally, in articulating Greek religious hcliefs and practices, we will further consider how these institutions intersected wilh polilics, gender and class wilhin and among Greek city-states, focusing on ancient Athens for which we have the most thorough documentation. 
5039 CLAS 415 Romans & Christians (Bradley) This course will examine the early development of the Christian religion in its hislorical Rornnn context II will begin with a survey of the polilical, social, and administralive structures of lhe Roman Empire in the period from Augustus to Constantine, move to a study of the complexity and diversity of Roman religious life and culture (with special aucntion to Mystery Cults, e.g. thal of Isis), and then examine the development of the Jesus movemcnl and Rome's rcaclion lo ii. Particular topics lo be studied will include miracle-working and the practice of magic, the problem of the historical Jesus, the sectarian and subversive character of early Christianity, the issue or how persecution and martyrdom are lo be historically understood, and 1hc meaning of religious conversion in the polytheislic Roman world. Above all, the course will concentrate on lhc questions of how and why in historical terms a new religious system came to have such appeal thal Constantine chose to make himself lhc first Christian emperor of Rome. 
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS 
LANGUAGE COURSES:  /,atin  
4063/4241 CLLA 101 Beginning Latin (Sheerin, Schlegel)  
Greek  4045/4341 CLLA 103 Intermediate Latin (Wood, Woulers}  
4174 CLGR IOI Beginning Greek (Vacca)  5084 CLLA 350 Age of Cicero (Ladouceur)  
4080 CLGR 103 Intermediate Greek (McLaren}  5114 CLLA 420 Roman Epic: Vcrgil (Schlegel)  
5064 CLGR 350 Age of Herodotus (Vacca)  4724 CLLA 475 Intro to Christian Latin (Sheerin)  

AROUND THE NATION 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, April 17, 2003 
page 14 



around the dial 
STANLEY CUP PLAYOFFS Bruins at Devils 6:00 p.m., ESPN Oilers at Stars 6:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Royals at White Sox 1 p.m., FOXCH Reds at Cubs 1:20 p.m., WGN Royals at White Sox 7 p.m., FOXCH 
NFL 


Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. 
Linebacker Junior Seau joined the Miami Dolphins after passing a physical, completing a long-anticipat­ed trade with the San Diego Chargers. 
The Dolphins sent a con­ditional 2004 draft choice to San Diego in return for Seau, a 12-time Pro Bowl selection. 
"The truth is Junior Seau needed the Miami Dolphins more than the Miami Dolphins needed Junior Seau," Seau said. "This organization is doing every­thing possible to commit itself to winning a ring." 

Dolphins coach Dave Wannstedt lauded Seau's passion, talent and profes­sionalism as he introduced the new linebacker at a news conference . 
"It's a great day for the Dolphins, a very positive day for the Miami Dolphins," Wannstedt said. 
Seau flew from California to Miami on Tuesday after agreeing to a restructuring of his contract, which runs through 2005. The contract maneuvering addressed a $2. 7 million bonus Seau was due to receive Tuesday from the Chargers. 
The Chargers last month gave the 34-year-old Seau permission to seek a trade. 
Seau opened his remarks by paying tribute to former Chargers general manager John Butler, who died last week of lung cancer, and thanking the city of San Diego. 
"I want them to know I wish them well, until Oct. 27 ," Seau said, referring to the date when San Diego will play host to Miami in a Monday night game. 
Seau has spent his entire 13-year career with the Chargers, his hometown team. In Miami, he's expected to replace Derrick Rodgers at outside line­backer. 
The trade, which had been in the works for sever­al weeks. is the first major deal for the Dolphins since a dismal December col­lapse. The team had seven Pro Bowl players, including NFL rushing leader Ricky Williams and sack leader Jason Taylor, and still failed for the first time in six years to make the playoffs. 
Seau hasn't led the Chargers in tackles since 1999, and he started a career-low 13 games last season because of an ankle injury that required post­season surgery. But he was attractive to the Dolphins because they're in the mar­ket for better veteran lead­ership following a succes­sion of late-season failures. 
IN BRIEF 

Gardner named top player list on Wednesday just two days after Kanaan was injured in a crash with 6 feet or shorter missing the Nets' regular-season Scott Dixon during the IRL's Indy 
Arizona point guard and former home finale for personal reasons. Japan 300 on Sunday. Indiana Mr. Basketball Jason The Nots said Mutombo had a sore A two-hour, :35-minute operation Gardner has been honored as the top right wrist. He tore ligaments in the Tuesday night "went exceptionally mens college player 6 feet and wrist around Thanksgiving and well," surgeon Terry Trammell said. under. missed 56 games before returning to "He is feeling bettor and better." 
Gardner won the Frances Pomeroy action last month. Indy 500 practice begins May 4. Naismith Award, which is named foi· Mutombo can be placed on the Kanaan is wearing a cast with basketball inventor James Nets' postseason roster and be eligi­padding and next week will have a Naismith's daughter-in-law and pre­ble for the playoffs which start this brace put on the arm for a test drive 
sented by the Basketball Hall of weekend. in a go-kart, Andretti Green !lacing Fame. The Nets have not elaborated on spokeswoman Carol Wilkins said. The 5-foot-10 Gardner scored "The best-case scenario is for him to
Mutombo's personal problems. 
1,984 points during his four-year Guard Brandon Armstrong was be in a race car in three weeks, and career at Arizona, third in school that's based on a couple ot' it's: If he
activated from the injured list and 
history. The native of Indianapolis can tolerate the pain, if he can toler­
was with the team for the regular­averaged 4.6 assists while starting season finale at Indiana. ate the brace when driving the go­135 of 136 games. kart," Wilkins said. 
Gardner, who played at Kanaan released from hospi­A three-week recuperation would Indianapolis North Central, was Mr. tal after arm surgery mean the earliest Kanaan could begin Basketba11 in 1999. Tony Kanaan was released from the practicing for the Indy 500 is on May 
hospital Wednesday after surgery on 7, just three days before the start of" !'JE;tS .P¥,t Mutombo on his broken left arm and could be back qualifications. The three days of tirnt' lllJUrecfhst behind the wheel of his race car dur-trials. on May 10-11 and May 18, will 
New Jersey center Dikembc ing the first week of practice for the determine the 33-car starting lineup Mutombo was pla~~C\ 1,JIJ ,tl).e. ~njured, , lpcJ.1.p.napolis 500. . . . _.for the raceonN4Y.~5,.·. , .. , • , 
l •• ' . .' • , • • • ,. ,.' •• , ·• ' , , • , ~ • • 
Thursday, April 17, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles postpone game due to forecast 
By PAT LEONARD 
$pons Writer 
The Saint Mary's sol'tball tMm would like to gel back to lhnir winning ways of tho t'arly season. 
It would lwlp if lhuy could get a game in. 
Thn Bel Ins ( 14-10-1, 4-4 '111/\A) wcn1 scheduled lo play Calvin Collo~e Tuesday. 
Calvin (14-9, 3-3 MI/\A), the visiling team, dncided to post­pone Tuesday's game due to l'orccaslcd rain. The game was sclwdulcid for :J:30 p.m. at Saint Mary's. 
Tho game marks tlrn fourth canc,~l\ation in the past six games for coach Annu Wclsh's squad. 
N o w • th c Bcd I n s h o pc t o µlay and win a Joublnheader tomorrow against St. Mary's 
of the Woods. 
llowcvo,-, the Belles need clear weather to play and need consistent hitting and solid fielding io win. While the team has excelled in vari­ous aspects of the game in separate !(ames, the Belles have not been able to put together an all-around quali­ty performance in tho last six gamos. 
Welsh says her team needs to turn the season around right away before the playoffs become out of' reach. 
Due to the recent cancella­tions, Saint Mary's will play a busy schedule next week. The Belles will meet Marian Collt>ge on Tuesday, Calvin on April 23 and University of' St. Francis on Friday, April 25. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@ncl.edu 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
"MAY MOVE Our '03" NOTRE DAME & Sr. MARY'S 10AM -5PM flANNER CIRCLE 
Monday, May 5th -Saturday, May 10th Thursday, May 15 -Saturday, May 17th Monday, May 19th 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS 
Wednesday, May 7th· Saturday, May 10th 
WELSH FAMIIY HALL 
10-5 pm Monday -Saturday May 5th • 10th 
IN THE LOBBY Of LE MANS HALL 
Wednesday, May 7th -Friday, May 9th Friday, May 16th 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish travel separate ways 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

After finally getting to run together last week­end, the Notre Dame mon's and women's track team will split up once a~ain. 
Most of the runners will take a short trip to Indianapolis, but for the rest of the Irish sunny Walnut, Calif. awaits, with the Mt. San Antonio College Relays this weekend. 
While the nucleus of the Irish travels to California, the majority will compete in the Indy Invitational in Indianapolis on Saturday. 
Walnut's Mt. SAC Relays has been one of the premier meets during the outdoor season. It is well known worldwide as it attracts athletes from top universities, independent organizations, and around the world. 
The Relays, in their 45th year. will take place in Hilmer Lodge Stadium, which features a state-of­the-art track and field facility. The meet will fea­ture only the best; in order to compete. an athlete must meet qualifying standards for their event. 
On the women's side, Jennifer Handley and Molly Huddle look to make some noise in the 5,000-meter run. Handley is seeded 13th, with a time of 16:28.55, while Huddle is seeded 171.h in another bracket. Lauren King is the last distance runner for the women and will compete in the 1,500 meters, an event in which she took fifth last year. 
In the field, Jaime Volkmer is seeded eighth with a distance of 13-5 1/4 in the pole vault. Volkmer, who took seventh at the Mt. SAC Relays last year. also holds the school record in the pole vault. 
Stacey Cowan and Emily Loomis will compete in the high jump for the Irish. Cowan is seeded eighth (5-9 3/4), and Loomis is seeded 13th (5-10 1/2). 
Meanwhile, Tricia Floyd will compete in the 100-meter dash, as she is seeded sixth in Section 3 with a time of 11.68 seconds. This event will also see Ayesha Boyd, who -is seeded eighth, in Section 5 (11.61 seconds). Boyd looks to defend her title from last year's meet, as she won the 100 meters in 2002. 
Rounding out the sprints, Boyd (sixth seed, 22.3 seconds) and Kymia Love (eighth seed. 23.68 sec­onds), will compete in Section 2 .of the 200-meter 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

Eric Morrison leads the way for the lrlsh In an Indoor meet earller this season. 
dash for the Irish. The women also look to do some damage with their 4x100 meter relay team, seeded second in 
44.30 seconds and the 4x400 meter relay team, seeded sixth. Last year, these relays placed sec­ond and fourth. respectively. 
On the men's side, the Irish hope to get strong performances from Tim Moore and Indoor All­American Luke Watson in distance. Moore is seeded seventh in the 10,000 meters (29:40.23). while Watson is seeded 17th in the 5,000 meters (13:38.62). 
Selim Nurudeen looks to build on his success from last weekend, as he competes in the 110 meter hurdles, seeded fourth in section 3 (13.84). 
Roberto Garcia will compete in the 400-meter hurdles, as he is seeded eighth in section 1 with a time of 51.97. 
The Irish compete Thursday through Saturday in Walnut, Calif. The Indy Helays start at 10 a.m. Saturday morning. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@ncl.edu. 
FREE cshirrs co chc first 100 fzins FREE br zits from Beeween chc Buns served in the clubhouse fro111 5-7p1D FREE golf tees co earl~ f.]ns 

Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 
,"' Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, I-'1819 > Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 
, John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 > Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 
. Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 
South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 

···············································~·
Softball : University Resources continued from page 16 
for Gay, Lesbian, & 
Heather Booth's 6-0 record and 
Bisexual Students 
0.37 ERA in her last six appear­ances. 
"I think that is why we are win­ning ballgames, because we are getting consistent production," Gump!' said. "Defensively, Alexis 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Madrid and Andrea Loman have been phenomenal. Offensively, .. Lesbian Student Needs we are becoming a consistent ~ (Confidential information, education, and resources) one through nine hitting team. •••• Contact Sr. M.l. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student Heather Booth as really come members (see web sitefor student contact info.) 
into her mm in seeing the college game." The Mastodons are 14-15 on Office of Campus Ministry 
the season, having won four in a · (~ual retreat for gayf1esbian/questioning ~dents row and five of their last seven. -and their friends; pertinent library resources m Catcher Crystal Fisher leads the 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Mastodon offense with a .393 
.. Contact Fr. J. Steele, CSC. at Sreele.3 l@nd.edu
batting average, four home runs and 18 RBI. [UPU-Fort Wayne's pitching staff is a weak spot with University Counseling Center a team ER.A of 4.60. compared to ·(Iridividual counseling) Notre Dame's 2.56. • • •• •• •• ••• • •• Contact Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen 
Today's doubleheader is set to 
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
begin at 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn' 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
:__._._._ _L1-..!..!.!..!..1'. .~::.:• • • f • • • • ¦ • ¦ • • e • ¦ a • I• e • •I• • ¦ • ¦ • ~ ¦ • 
.. 
SOFTBALL -TODAY! VS. IUFW 4PMAND6PM 
Ivy Field 
*1ST100 FANS GET A MINI HELMET AND FREE PEANUTS! 
Thursday, April 17, 2003 
win for the team and our coach. But ifwc don't get first.

Ryan 
no one will think the season continued from page 20 was a disappointment. My 
freshman year we were third we're disappointed, but we're in the MIAA, and we were still confident and have an happier than the teams that incredible chance to win con­were first and second because ference." we had more fun together." 
Upon graduation, Ryan will In addition to her team­attend graduate school for a mates, Hyan cites her relation­master's in English. Her ship with Stevenson as a part future plans include possibly of what has made her experi­getting a Ph.D and becoming a ence on the Saint Mary's team professor of English. As for special. her tennis career at Saint "Our coach gives us so much Mary's, she considers the rela­more than technical instruc­tionships she has formed to be tion," said Ryan. "He's like a the most important. grandfather to me and he is 
"We spend so much time such a gentleman. For traveling -in the van and on Valentine's Day for the past spring break -that we get so l'our years he has bought a close," llyan said. "We're like rose for everybody. We see a family. We don't always get other teams and their coach­along, but I wouldn't trade it es. and he has a politeness for ~nything, we have so much that is wonderful tu see with a fun. group of girls." 
"She's the spirit of the Despite the recent def'cats team," said Stevenson. "She's and her nagging injury. Hyan free-spirited and livens up the remains committed to the atmosphere of the team. But team and relics on her low for she takes her tennis and her tennis to get her through the studies very seriously." rough days. 
Ryan has been on the "Tennis is a high priority for Dean's List at Saint Mary's me," Ryan said. "We all take several times and was named the time out of our day and the team's Most Dedicated out or our social lives to do Player for the 2002 season, as what we're doing. We all likf' well as serving as a co-cap­to go to tennis, the tennis part tain. This season. she holds a is wonderful and that's obvi­10-1 record at No. 5 singles ously why we're them. but and an 8-4 record with Cutler there is so much more to it." at No. 2 doubles. 
"It's been a different season Contact Lisa Reijula at for us," said Ryan. "I want to lreijula@nd.edu 
2003 Nieuwland 
Lectures in Applied Mathematics 
Arkadi Nemirovski 
Professor of lndustri1l Engineering and Management 
Ttchnion -Israel Institute ofltchnology 


Tuesday, April 22, 2003 -3:30 P.M. 129 DeBartolo Hall 
,;Beyond the Scope of Polynomial Time Optimization Algorithms: Simple Methods for Extremely Large-scale Convex Problems" 
Thursday, April 24, 2003 -3:30 P.M. 118 Nieuwland 
"Mathematics of Robust ....·~-~~ Convex Optimization" :--z..:-,::--,_ 
... 
=~~-­

., ,. .;•~)... . 
· •....,,;4 

laform1tion 1bout le,turu in th, Ni•uwl1nd Lectur1 Seri¦ & IA ~plied Malhematics may be found at http:/Jwww.nd.edu/...tam/JKt~tm ·,-.• 
• . '.• '..(,-,1 .-. 
'~'. 

W. LACROSSE VS. GEORGETOWN 
SAT. -NOON 
Moose Krause Field 
*1ST100 FANS GET FREE FAZOLl'S BREADSTICKS AND AN ND CUP! 
Thursday, April 17, 2003 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
BASEBALL 
Panthers, Pirates, rain await Irish over break 
By BRYAN KRONK Senior Staff Wr11cr 
;\ winning strnak must always start 
al Olli'. 
Unti,rtunaLPly lilr the Irish bmmball lna111, thcy'll lmvP to potPnlially dodge quitn a lhv raindrops Lo gnl there. 
With llH' l'on'ca.st calling for quill' a f'pw April showers, this wmikend's 111alchPs against Big East foes l'itlsburgh and SPton !lull at Eck Stadium Tl111r!-iday and Saturday. rPsp<'cliv1•ly, rnay wind up bning a WPl way f'or tlH' Irish lo spend a holi­day WPCkl'rHl in tlw dugout. 
llow11wr, should the weather hold out l'or the w,•ckcncl, tlrn !'anthers and l'irat1's pn·s1n1t a pair ol' potPntial probh•ms for tlw Irish. 
l'iW;burgh currPntly stands at 26­11 owrall (7-(, in tlw mg Hast), n-pn-­sPnling by far t.hf' tPam with llw bPst l'Pcord that llu Irish have l'acPd in a long tinw. while Seton llall (12-1 (1, 5­
7) has won tlirr'e of its last five ganws. i11clt1di11g knocking off Big 1-:ltsl pow<'rs ConnPcticul and Butg<ffs. 
In a wide-open Big Fast this year. anything is possible in trrrns of' any l<'alll lwing able to b(\at any other tl'am 011 a givm1 day. For example, Llw Irish, who an' currm1tly 7-I in tho rnnl"m·,•ncc. sulforcd their only con­fcrcnce loss of the year to date at Villanova, which sports a 2-10 con­fon•ncn rncord, good for the next to last spot. 
However, contrast that with Notre Dame's more recent sensational sweep of SL John's, which is tied for third place in the Big East with a 7-3 record. Given that the Panthers and Pirates arP both situated bctwern the Hed Storm and Wildcats, anything can happen in a highly-competitive Big East confcrcmce. 
I leading into tho week, Notre Dame and Pittsburgh each owned a .:n 5 
team batting averugc, while Seton 
I lall sil'> at .262. 
Tho Panthers and Pirates sit at l'ourth and lil'th in the conforcnce in pitc:hing, with 4.17 and 5.20 EHAs, well below the Irish, who have team avcragr, of 3.54. PilL,burgh's Bryan Spurner leads the team -and is seventh in the Big East -with a .391 batting awrage as of Monday. 
Matt Edwards and Stcwe Sollmann sat at ninth and 10th, respectively, with .383 and .380 avciragcs. 
Ilowovcr, whenovci· Big East Warns bash heads. it helps to expect the uncxpect1~cl. 
Even a pair of rainouts. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 


SOFIA BALLON/The Observer Javl Sanchez takes a swing during Tuesday's Irish loss to Eastern Michigan. The Irish hope to get back on the winning track this weekend, weather permitting. 
'.•.o/"/4::,Y~i,;'. 1;-._r,:,,,:;-;,:,:_~~:,-;.:,(!r,-z~•-.:l!"/2?.t"'/~.,;..,'J1:,,,:J:.r,,-_:r.e:.,'11';,-:-!f..'IIX6J'tl'YAP:'-1i-.'11"'...:,-.t~:.\".,/¼,1:¾t.Y/....;;..r,/,417:,,:_~?.-,."'IJ':-fitl.,-;,.:.~:.~:,.•,r.,·,.,;,.-; !I 

THE
GOT HOUSING? ~ 
f 

STRING CHEESE INCIDENT 
**Turtle Creek Apartments** t 

____rS-P ri o g s:: b e e ~ e 2 aQ.
f@ 
~
We have ALL STYLES (}jI
Available for 2003-04! -i 
as lovv as $280 per person! I 
Call 2 72-8124 , "'-'·vvvv.t urt1ecreekncL coin ~ in1o@turtlecreeknd.co1n ! 
.~.-.-. · • ._~:;, ,::!...-...t,.v,.,~ • .,•.: ;;, -~;..1,:.:.1,,.,-.;,,·,, ,~:..~. • ,;,.',;•~ ...~..;-:,.;::,"l":,.......~~·"P-:..;.~ri,i¾c'C,;;";1~;(,:.-;<..-o\•':'~-...~t.:.;;,,.:!;!7.(''.>'>!;~ ..... ,,.•,.,.'t'½ 
Attention Sophomores! 

Order your class ring now and have it ready when you return in thefall! 

Prices 


Thursday, April 17, 2003
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS GOLF 

Notre Dame proves to be the best choice for Lunke 
• Lunke looks to lead Irish to Big East Championship 
By ERIK POWERS 
Spores Writer 
Senior captain Brandon Lunke plays in his final Big East Championship this weekend when second-seeded Notre Dame 
h o s t s Georgetown. St. John's, Rutgers, Seton Hall and top­seeded Virginia Tech at the 

Warren Golf Lunke Course. A tournament victory would clinch a berth for the Irish in the NCAA Championships. A Big East Championship would be a fitting end to Lunke's long and successful career. "I began golfing at the age of three or four," Lunke said. "I would play at night with my dad and older brother. I started play­

_,;. 
ing competitively at the age of eight. I was in summer tourna­ments at the age of 10." 
Since then, golf has remained a game that Lunke excels at. During each of his four years in high school, Lunke was a mem­ber of the varsity golf team, selected as an all-city golfer in his hometown of San Antonio, and reached the state tourna­ment. Lunke also played on fifth­place team at the AJCA Justin Leonard Team Challenge. He shot a 64 in the first-round best ball. contributing to his team's first-round lead. As a reward, he and his team earned chance to play with Leonard. 
Texas, as well as several out­of-state universities, recruited Lunke during his senior year. He chose Notre Dame for both ath­letic and social reasons. 
"When I took my visit. I liked the place and people," Lunke said. "I wanted to get out of Texas, to make a fresh start in life. The team was in a rebuild­ing stage, and r thought that I could make a contribution." 
Lunke wanted to contribute to the team immediately, but his playing time was limited as a freshman. George Thomas, men's golf coach during Lunke's freshman and sophomore sea­sons. allowed Lunke to compete in only one tournament. Lunke excelled at that tournament, fin­ishing in a tic for 14th at the Treasure Coast Classic. But he still could not crack Thomas's top five. 
.. It was a little frustrating," Lunke said. "I felt that I could do well if given a chance. But Coach Thomas decided to use older, more experienced players." 
Lunke earned a place in Thomas's lineup the next year. As a sophomore, Lunke finished second among Irish golfers (39th overall) at the Legends of Indiana tournament, 61st overall at the Minnesota Invitational, tied for 23rd overall at the Wisconsin Invitational, and took 27th over­all at the Big East Championship. 
The Irish changed coaches for his junior season, hiring current coach John Jaskinski. Lunke's secs a big difference between Thomas and Jasinski. 
"Coach Thomas was a great guy. He knew a lot about the game," Lunke said. "(But] we wanted to become a top team in the countrv. Coach Jasinski was exactly what the team needed. He's a really good person." 
Jasinski decided that the Irish needed Lunke as well, and the junior played in nine of 12 tour­naments. Lunkc was at his best when he tied for 21st at the Tillinghast Invitational, tied for 29th at the Johnny Owens Invitational and tied for third at Michigan's Wolverine Invitational. 
This past fall, Lunke estab­lished himself as the team's senior leader. Lunke has partici­pated in more tour­naments 

Helping the team's six fresh­men, four of whom usually accompany Lunke on away tour­naments, is a full-time task. But Lunke enjoys the responsibility and is comfortable with being surrounded by the team's youth on road trips. 
"They're a pretty mature, good group of guys. It's been fun to sec the group developing," Lunke said. 'Tm the only senior 
and has met with more suc­ "They 're a pretty mature, good group ofguys. It's beenfun to  w h o ' s been com­peting all  
cess than any of his  see the group developing. "  f o u r years. I've  
upperclass­men peers. This dis­ Brandon Lunke golf captain  always been with a different  
tinction led  group  of  
to Jasinski  guys,  so  

selecting him team captain. we feel good with one another." Lunke understands that his Lunke's period as a captain responsibilities sometimes lie has given him time to reflect on outside the game of golf. his own maturity. Both he and 
"Being a captain in golf is not a his game have changed during sport where you can fire [the his time in college. team] up with emotion, but 'Tm a pretty good ball-striker. [instead you) lead by example," I've always hit big, but in college Lunke said. "]t's important that I everyone else is getting longer be there for the guys. I help out and longer [with their strokes)," the freshmen balance school, golf Lunke said. "My game has and social life." matured. I've learned a lot about my swing and myself. I feel that I've gotten better." 
After the golf" season is over, the future is an open fairway for Lunke. Lunke is a finance and history double major. But he might not enter the business world directly after graduation. 
"I might take a little time off in order to work on my game," Lunke said. "I might play golf for a while and give [a professional career] a shot. This is the time that I can do it." 
With the season almost over and graduation looming on the horizon, Lunke cannot believe that his time at Notre Dame is almost gone. He has mixed feel­ings over the end of his career. 
"It's amazing how fast it goes," Lunke said. "It's been happy at times, I've been upset with it at other times. Golf is interesting. It's not a team game. but in col­lege it's a team sport.·• 
The 24th Big East Championship runs from April 21st to 22nd at the Warren Golf course. The Irish begin the first 36 holes of the 54-hole tourna­ment Monday at 8:50 a.m. 
Contact Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 


HEY, NOTRE DAME, YOUR POT OF .::.•;,c.GOLD IS AT THE STATE LINE. 

Congratulations to the employees of the University of Notre Dame! Campbell Ford Lincoln Mercury has been authorized by Ford Motor Company to give you 
special savings on all new Ford, Lincoln and Mercury cars and trucks. It's called 
Ford X-Plan and to qualify all you need to be is an employee of The University of 
Notre Dame or a family member of one. It's a great opportunity to save even more 
on the largest selection of Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicles in Michiana, just 
minutes north of campus. Campbell Ford-Lincoln-Mercury. Always the right 
price right at the state line_ And now, right for the University of Notre Dame. 
0 
F!i!IDl!!u!s~lN 
1/2 mi. N. of the State Line/ Old 31 Nin Niles 269 684 8300 / Toll Free 888 FORD 999 • www.carsbycampbell.com 
Thursday, April 17, 2003 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

JUMBLESCHOOL DAZE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
Whal can I Anolher beer ~o about lor everyone this cough? He's 

-
VELOH 
"a pal 

±I I 

02003 Tribune Modi• Sorvk:os. Inc All Rights Reserved. 
DANAP 
I I [ J 
HAPPY TOWN 
MAl7E: BY THE

tTURSIM 
j 
POPULAR DOCTOR AT THE: FRIE:NDLY ~AR.
I I I
www.Jumble.;;;om 

REYJES 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

(II I I 
Mswer: 
rI I ) "[ I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: MAJOR FLUKE JAGGED GOSPELYesterday's Answer 
What the hunters did when they didn't bag any game birds -"GROUSED" 




CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Whal might have a person

1 Chickens 
spiMing?

aSubject for 34 "Doctor Who" Fermi 
airer 10 Chinese image 
37 Pop singer in a shrine 

Mann 14 Kind of box 
38 Sound heard 15 Mother of during a Castor and massage Pollux 
39 "Vive_!" 

16 Dr. Dre 41 Nitrous oxide, 
contemporary 

e.g. 17 Words from 
42 Like a stressful 
young George 
job?Washington? 

45 Through19 Collapsed 
46 Lalka 20 Sil (down) ingredients 
21 Petrol purchase 47 Charmingly odd 
22 Exultation 50 Precept 23 Some 52 Press tournaments 53 From the 25 Prince Edward, beginning: Lat. 
e.g. 55 In-line skating 

27 Director's cry gear 59 "Not returnable"
30 Penn State branch site 60 Outlaw's limit? 

52 Possible result of bankruptcy 63 The Phantom of the Opera 64 Something to go under 
65 Obedience school command 
66 Writer Isak Dinesen, e.g. 67 Costa de! Sol feature 
DOWN 
1 Bit of a cloud 
2 "American_· 
3 Catalan painter Joan 4 Victim of a drift net 5 Farm pen 6 French actor Delon 
7 libretti BRiver of Brandenburg 9 Dessert wine 
10 Shake a bit 
11 Seat of Marion 
County, Fla. 12 Evening hour 13 Mount 18 Graff of "Mr. 
Belvedere" 24 Japanese game 
figures 26 Wide, in a way 27 Like gossiping 
tongues 
28 Herbal "pet" 
29 Allen and Conway 
WILLSHORTZ 

PuuJt by C11hy MlllhllUMr 
30 For grades K 43Wild 51 Summon through 12 mentally
44 Like a 32 Lock maker 
bricks 54 Theda of silents 33 Unnecessary 
45 Engine type 56 Andrea Bocellipart piece47 Suppress
34 Esprit 48 Star bears 57 Sidetess wagon
35 Beethoven's birthplace 49 Catlike 58 1998 N.L. M.V.P.
36 Weeds 
50 Snake venom, 40 Voters' survey e.g. 61 Stun 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords tor young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: William Holden, John Oates. Sugar Ray Leonard, Harry Reasoner 
Happy Birthday: You will be highly creative and imaginative in all that you do. You will gain popularity and you'll receive help when you need it. Keep things in perspective and know what your limitations arc. Moderation will be the route to follow. Yournumbers are 6, 14, 22, 3 I. 37, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Prepare to take on more responsibilities than you have time for. It's a good thing that you arc speedy and can think standing up. Remember the early bird catches the worm. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You must not allow anyone to manipulate you. Your frustration will lead to a disastrous argument. Don't make a hasty decision that will affect your personal life. ** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): A quiet, restful day will help get you back on track. Stop putting off the things that arc good for you. You need to take belier care of yourself. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's all about you and your personal goals today Start by reassessing yourself and consider changes that will make you feel belier both physically and mentally. Social activity will lead lo some interesting connections.***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't neglect your family today. If you ignore the ones who love you, expect to face discord. Do what's best for everyone involved. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can gain support if you get together with friends. Try to be objective regardless of the situation. You can learn a lot by observing. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may be tempted to overspend today. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures. Check over your personal papers for possible changes. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You won't be seeing things too clearly today, especially at an emotional level. Check out your own actions before you accuse someone else of doing something wrong. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should try to keep things to yourself today. If you let a secret be known, it is likely to cause some problems for you later on.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Attend a function that will attract prominent people and you will meet someone who can help you further your goals. Your outgoing nature coupled with some innovative ideas will win you approval. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful that someone doesn't take credit for the things that you do. Be observant, reevaluate your present situation and set new goals. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can tum your dreams into a reality. Lei your imagination take over and you will discover how much you have to offer. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You will stand up for your rights and you will fight for whatever you believe in. You will have strong opinions and will never back down. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvicc.com, eugenialast.com, wnetwork.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2003 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

-

...------------------------------------------------­
PORTS 

Thursday, April 17, 2003 
SOFTBALL 

Irish look to continue April success over weekend 
ByMATTLOZAR Asxociate S pons Editor 
The month of April has always been nice to the lrish, but for the third straight year, it has been really nice. 
Having won 12 straight games in April, Notre Dame looks to extend that streak today, hosting IUPU-Fort Wayne in a non-conference doublehead• er. 
The Irish have won 76 percent of their games all­time in April. In 2001, the Irish compiled a perfect 23-0 record while last year the Irish went 24-1. According to Notre Dame coach Deanna Gumpf, the reasons for the success in April aren't too sur­prising. 
"It has been a good month in the past and so far so good this year," Gumpf said. "We have had a month and a half of games already. get to play at home and can play games consistently. In April we get some momentum." 
Prior to April, the Irish started the year with one of the country's most challenging schedules. For the second straight year, the Irish played the defending national champion in the month of February. During the first five weeks of the season, the Irish played five ranked teams. The rigorous schedule allows the Irish to see where they rank against the best in the country and leads to their impressive April records. 
"It helps tremendously. Everyone has their own opinion, but I think we get prepared for the rest of our year," Gumpf said. "Once we play the toughest teams in the country, we know what it takes to beat them." 
The formula during the current 12-game win­ning streak has been simple -receiving steady output from each of the three aspects of the game. 
On offense, shortstop Andria Bledsoe is the hottest of the Irish hitters with a .395 average, two home runs, 14 RBIs and three stolen bases over the past 12 games. Five other Notre Dame hitters join Bledsoe with an average of .300 or above during the winning streak. 
With the bats producing more than enough runs, the Irish pitching staff hasn't needed all of them. The staff has allowed 11 earned runs over the past 


12 games, led by Big East co-Pitcher of the Week CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Megan Ciolli slides into second base during a game against St. John's April 11.The Irish wlll look to continue see SOFTBALL/page 16 their success In April when they take on IUPU-Fort Wayne today. 
SMC TENNIS 

Ryan sacrifices personal success for her team 
By LISA REIJULA 
Sports Writer 
It may sound cliched, but there are some athletes who play not for individual glory or a perfect record, but because of their love for the game and their team­mates. 
Saint Mary's senior co-captain Elisa Ryan is one of those athletes. 
Ryan, a native of' St. Paul, I.Vlinn., has spent four seasons playing for the Saint Mary's tennis team. She grew up playing tennis with her father, who played for the Army. 
"My dad was sort of a coach for me, and my childhood was spent playing ten­nis," said Ryan. "My friend Charlie and I would play everyday on the clay courts in St. Paul." 
Enrolling at Saint Mary's in the fall of 1999, Ryan also played basketball her freshman year. In addition to the athletic opportunities Saint Mary's offered, she picked the school because it was rela­tively close to home and had a highly­regarded Home program. 
"I knew I would be able to get playing time on the tennis team, as opposed to being a practice player at a Division I or II school," said Ryan. "I immediately felt comfortable with everyone and the coach." 
After deciding to concentrate solely on tennis her sophomore year, Ryan won MIAA conference titles at both No. 6 sin­gles and No. 3 doubles. The next year, as a junior, she again won two conference championships, this time at No. 5 singles and No. 2 doubles. She is playing at those same spots this season as well. 

"She hates to lose," said Saint Mary's coach Dee Stevenson. "She's very tena­cious and never gives up." 
Proof of Ryan's determination was her three-set comeback victory in the Belles' match against Hope College on April 15. After dropping the first set, Ryan over­came two match points to take the sec­ond set and stay alive in the match. 
Comebacks are nothing new for Hyan, a right-hander who underwent her third wrist surgery this September, on her dominant hand. 
"This has been a physically painful season," said Ryan. "My doubles partner Uunior co-captain Kaitlin Cutler] and I have had a lot of injuries, but we love it so much that we get through it. She's gutted it out for me this season because I'm a senior." 
The Belles have lost two conference matches this season after not dropping a single contest the past two years. The Belles have relied on Hyan's leadership to stay confident. 
"The win is really not what it's about. but it's the effort that we all put into it," she said. "We're not used to losing and 
see RYAN/page 16 
u:, SMCSOFTSAU 
TRACK & FIELD BASEBALL MENS GOLF 

As the Big East Tournament
1--~ w Calvin at Saint Mary's Notre Dame at Indy, Mt. 

Pittsburgh, Seton Hall at 
approaches next week, senior captain Brandon Lunke hopes to end his 
postponed SAC Invitationals Notre Dame 

ccs 
c:, The Knights called off Tuesday's 

Irish career with a victory. match due to a forecast of inclement 
Weather permitting, the Irish will Runners travel to Indianapolis and 
California over the weekend. 

face off against the Panthers Thursday 
-
cc 
weather. 

and the Pirates Saturday. 
!i 
page 15 page 18page 17

page 15 








